The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from

University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

<*

&

t>

At all the Libraries.

A WOMAN'S FACE. By Florence Warden.

3 Vols.
IDLE TALES. By Mrs. Liddell.

1 Vol.

MISER FAREBROTHER. By B. L. Farjeon.

3 Vols.
FOR FREEDOM. By Tighe Hopkins.

2 Vols.
MIRACLE GOLD. By Richard Dowling.

3 Vols.

MARVEL. By the Author of "Molly Sawn.
3 Vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

a Grovel.

BY

JAMES Grant,

AUTHOR OF "THE ROMANCE OF WAR," ETC.

IN There VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK Street, COVENT Garden, LONDON.

1888.
[All Rights Reserved.]

Novello, Ewer & Co.,

London, W.

LOVE'S LABOUR WOK

v> •

CHAPTER I.

A LAWN TENNIS PARTY.

Is your friend Captain Lonsdale, with whom you

-4 danced so often this season — "

"Who danced so often with me! There is a

difference, Miss Tremayne."

"Well is he hereto-day?"

I think not. Do you know him ? "

Oh, so well ; I met Montague so often in Calcutta,
at the Government house, the race course, on the

Esplanade, and everywhere else."

"Montague!" thought Miss Talbot, over whose
soft face a shade of annoyance passed.

Considering that since the commencement of the
London season in question, Melanie Talbot had
been engaged to Montague Lonsdale, she had some
cause to . resent the free appropriation of his

VOL. I. B

Christian name by the brilliant and flighty Hilda
Tremayne, the enterprising daughter — the only and
spoiled one — of an Indian general, then on leave in
England.

Hilda, a garrison belle, but of a very superior
fashion, was well up in all military society, and was
decidedly popular at Aldershot, Folkestone, and other
red-coat circles within easy distance of London.

She and her friend, or acquaintance rather, were
two more than handsome girls, and were guests at
Chillington Park, a stately place on the Thames,
an hour or so distant by rail from town ; and both
were enjoying to the fullest extent a brilliant lawn
tennis party, given by the aunt of the latter, Mrs.
Chillington, a wealthy and fashionable widow, of
whom more anon, and whose social gatherings,
especially of this kind, were extremely popular.

Lawn tennis is essentially a jovial, a graceful,
and a friendly game, that brings into contact many
who otherwise might never meet or learn to know
each other, making (like the Scottish golf, for older
folks) all its votaries kin, at least for the time ; and
it is the one great game in which the youth of both

sexes can meet on almost equal terms, and in which
female play is almost equal to male in dexterity.

Few sights can surpass, in attraction, a tennis
lawn in the well-kept grounds attached to a stately
English house, such as Chillington — the courts duly
chalked on the smooth green sward, the netting
tightly " belayed," and the players of both sexes in
their piquante and bright-coloured costumes, arrayed
for the merry struggle, with a goodly number of
gossiping friends and chaperones, now too old to
handle a racquet or display their figures, seated on
benches and sofas under the broad and rustling
leafage of summer.

The dulcet sound of the English girls' voices,

their pure, happy laughter, is then mingled with

the music of the band, that adds zest to their

enjoyment without disturbing them, whilst the

sunny air is laden with the fragrance of the

season from parterre and border, where dark and

yellow wall-flowers, clumps of lavender-coloured

lucretia, patches of white candy tuft, clusters of

polyanthus, sheets of pansies and tulips of every

shade and hue are seen.

b2

At Chillington, to the bank of the river far
stretched the velvety lawn of emerald green,
shaded by tall and ancient trees ; where — till
August— the nightingale proved himself sleepless
by day as well as night, while the cows swung
their long tails in the soft breeze, till they
could be driven quietly home to be milked.

Liveried servants and other " helps " went
round with iced champagne cups, strawberries
and cream, or the inevitable five o'clock tea, all
the more enjoyable amid such a scene, and amid
so many sweet sounds in the warm open air and
on the fresh and fragrant grass. On the latter,
young fellows were lounging at the feet of girls on
rustic chairs, fanning themselves with their
racquets, and talking the usual common-places ;
and there, too, was more than one stately dowager
promenading slowly or seated amid the rose bushes,
talking scandal, perhaps, over dainty cups of tea
and dishes of bright-hued fruit. " To the dweller
in town," says an essayist, " lawn tennis as a rule
means lawn tennis, and nothing more ; the game,
the whole game, and nothing but the game ; and

lawn tennis has, perforce, to dispense with buttercups
and daisies, nut hatches, singing-birds, and
parterres of shimmering flowers. A good ground,
good balls, and good players suffice, for the object
is muscular, not aesthetic. Possibly some earnest
urban devotees of the game would regard the
proximity of tulips and wall-flowers as ' Punch's *
Nimrod regarded those ' stinking violets ' ; for
Englishmen soon learn to manage without the
elegances and luxuries of life, and to be satisfied
with a due supply of its necessities. In the front
rank of the latter, for the dwellers in our northern
climes, is exercise. Next to that is the need of
contending with someone about something."

But amid the delightful surroundings afforded by
Chillington Park, the joyous activity and grace of
the young girls put to shame the blase ,
and compelled more than one to forget
his inane drawl and that adopted manner which is
so suggestive of perpetual boredom and effeminate
weakness ; while even amid the crowd, many couples
could have their special tete-astute unknown to
chaperone — that tete-astute, when lips can form

tender words unheard by others, and " eyes look love
to eyes that speak again " ; for such gatherings are
excellent for the purpose, as two may isolate
themselves while the world surges closely round
them. They may be close together, and yet seem
practically far apart ; and on these occasions, topic
and tone, glance and manner, may wax perilously
confidential indeed.

Tired of playing, Melanie Talbot had taken a seaton
a rustic sofa, at a little distance from the
numerous party, and there she had been joined by
Miss Tremayne, who asked, in the most casual way
apparently, the question with which this chapter
opens.

The claim to a prior intimacy on the part of
Miss Tremayne, and so far away as India too, was
in itself displeasing to Melanie Talbot, who, however,
could not deny that Hilda was a striking figure in
her well-plumed hat and very piquante lawn tennis
costume.

She was tall, large, fair-skinned, and languishing,
with soft brown hair, and bright hazel eyes of
nearly the same tint as her hair, heavily lidded,

darkly-lashed, and ever varying in expression as
the spirit moved her. Perhaps a residence in India
affected her manner, for, like Byron's Dud, she
certainly was

Languishing and lazy,
Yet of a beauty that would drive you crazy ;

and in company was most attractive and chic — to
use that new French word for which there is no
equivalent in English.

But in the grace of her form, and the rare beauty
of her small patrician face, Melanie Talbot was in
no way her inferior, and fully surpassed her in that
most attractive beauty which lies less in feature
and complexion — expression, changing with every
emotion.

Her figure was slender, lithe, and perfect ; her
face had a pure profile, and her eyes were of that
grey-blue which runs black at times ; and her hair,
of darkest brown, formed glorious coils around a
most shapely head — yet so coiled by the deft
fingers of her aunt's maid, Mademoiselle Clochette,
as not to conceal its form. Melanie' s complexion
was brilliantly fair, colourless, in fact ; and her

curved lips were so scarlet that one might have
thought she touched them with crewe vermilla, yet
it" was the pure vermilion of nature.

In the land of lovely women, both girls were
beautiful.

And Captain Lonsdale never once spoke of me
to you?" said Miss Tremayne, after a pause,
during which she had been slowly fanning herself.

"No."

Strange ! " said the other, with a curl of her
handsome lip.

"Why strange?"

But for reasons of her own, this indolent beauty
only replied by a soft dreamy smile of wonderful
depth.

Her remarks, and others made before, though
too probably prompted by mere vanity, not unnaturally
rankled in the mind of Melanie, whom
Miss Tremayne sought to inspire with rivalry and
jealousy.

A rather awkward silence ensued, till it was
broken by a gentleman, who claimed the latter fora
new set. She rose and swept away with

smiling alacrity, and Melanie Talbot was left
alone ; but for a minute only, and a sigh of
annoyance escaped her when she saw her bete noir,
Sir Brisco Braybrooke, approaching.

Melanie Talbot (so named by her godmother, a
French lady, of Pondicherry), the penniless orphan
of a distinguished officer of H.M. Indian army,
had been for a season chaperoned by her widowed
aunt, Mrs. Chillington, of Chillington Park, the
wealthy, proud, and somewhat selfish bugbear of
the girl — a bugbear, because of her assumption
and high-handed interference. And now, the
tennis party we have described was, to Melanie,
the closing scene of her season and her " opportunities,"
of which, she had been candidly informed,
" it was her bounden duty to make the
most " ; and if Aunt Chillington knew aught about
Montague Lonsdale, and how dear he was to
Melanie, his existence was carefully ignored by
that worthy lady, whose hopes for her niece were
based on a wealthy marriage, her fortune being
her face, which had procured for her all that
remained of the elderly admirer who now advanced"

with mincing step to take the seat on the rustic
sofa just vacated by Miss Tremayne.

Erect, above the middle height, and inclined to
be stout, Sir Brisco, past his sixtieth year, was
certainly a suavely-mannered and pleasant-looking
man, somewhat regardless of appearance as to
costume, with a face expressive of strong will.
His grey eyebrows were bushy, while his hair
and moustache were white, coarse, stubbly, and
altogether disinclined to be smoothed or brushed.

Regarding Melanie admiringly, with a gleam in
his old crowns-footed eyes, he said :

A brilliant gathering, and most charming
day ! "

"About a hundred persons have made the same
original remark to me," replied Melanie, almost
pettishly.

Then I make the hundred-and-first ? "

"Yes," said she, colouring with annoyance at
her own ill-concealed discourtesy.

So brilliant indeed," continued the baronet,
ignoring it, " that we might fancy the times had
come again referred to by Sir Thomas Malory in

his black-letter book, which gives us an account of
King Arthur with his knights and ladies, all in
green, riding near London by the margin of the
Thames in search of bunches of white thorn
blossom. An American writer," he continued,
bending his old head nearer hers, " says we
English have no climate — only samples ; and
Talleyrand also asserted that we have no climate
only weather ; and yet, is not to-day lovely ? "

Melanie bowed, but it was evident that her
mature admirer did not intend to descant longer
on that safe topic, the weather, as he said, in his
most suave tone, whilst stooping still nearer
her :

Chillington, I believe, is famous for its arum
lilies. Shall we go into the conservatory close
by?"

"But then we should not hear the band in that
receptacle for ear-wigs."

"It is only playing one of those foreign noises
which we English, for lack of something of our
own, call music," said he, with a little air of
annoyance. " I knew you would be here, and

though I detest gatherings of this kind, I came inconsequence,
Miss Talbot."

lie saw a little colour sweep over her face,
leaving it paler than before ; but resumed, in a
very low voice —

"You know, so I need not repeat, the regard,
the love I have for you, Melanie. I must call you
Melanie," he added, as a gesture of impatience
escaped her.

She raised her eyes and looked at him ; but for
several secret reasons and terrors of her own yet to
be related, she gave no reply.

"Do you doubt my love for you?" he asked,
with his white moustache within an inch of her
lovely little ear.

"No, SirBrisco."

"How then?"

I doubt having any to give you in return for it."

This is hard to bear. It will come in time. I
have been abrupt perhaps ; but to see you so
sweeps all prudence away."

Surely this is a strange place for such
speeches — or such a conversation ! "

You declined the orthodox conservatory."

Orthodox — in novels."

And often in real life too, Melanie."

You have no right to call me by my Christian
name ! " said she, colouring now.

To him, when her aunt was not present, she was
usually defiant, quizzical, or cold. He thought
then that he would like to play Pygmalion to her
Galatea, only he was too old and too obese for the
part of the sculptor of Cyprus.

And you leave this tomorrow, Miss Talbot ? "
said he.

"Yes, Sir Erisco."

He paused, and then said,

I have so much to say again that I have said
before, I know ; but tell me, have you quite
reconsidered the offer I made you, with the full
consent of your aunt, Mrs. Chillington ? "

Yes, Sir Brisco."

And — and you may in time accept it ? Have I
any chance of success — any hope of winning you to
be my wife ? " he persisted.

Do not recur to that subject, Sir Brisco," said

the girl, bitterly, painfully, as she thought of how
shews circumstanced ; you do not know all ; I
cannot tell you all."

Her tone impressed him, for he was a proud
man. He drew hack a little, and his heart
throbbed with vague distrust. He had now proposed
twice to the girl, though his knowledge of
her family and her past was scanty. He only
knew that she was beautiful, perfectly ladylike, and
that the position of her aunt in society was irreproachable.


She was young, and he loved her with all the
curiously mingled emotions of a man of his years,
when much of the fatherly is apt to blend with the
lover — his hopes encouraged by a knowledge of
his great wealth, his superior position, and that
worship of the golden which he saw daily practised
in the circle amid which he moved.

I shall be content to wait — not a year," he
added, colouring as he thought of the years he
had attained to ; " but till I can win your love
at last."

It may not be — it cannot be ! " said Melanie,

in a tremulous voice, as she cast down her eyes
and felt her engagement ring tinder her glove —
not that she needed to gather coin-age or a power
of resistance therefrom. " And see, Sir Brisco,
people are approaching. Here comes Miss
Tremayne already."

Allow me," said Sir Brisco, offering his arm.

But Melanie ignored it. He bowed low and
turned almost sadly away, but not before he could
overhear Hilda say laughingly to a smart young
fellow in a gay tennis suit, who escorted her —

Of course, Miss Smith — or Smythe, as she
calls herself — is a goose ! If I have a supreme
horror in this world, it is to see a girl marrying a
man old enough to be her father. And for what ?
The sake of money ! "

AUNT Wellington.

The last carriages had rolled away through the

lodge gates, the guests were gone, the brilliant fete

was over, and visions of her Aunt Chillington's

animadversions and censures, uttered in clear

and shrill staccato English, and those of her

guardian, Uncle Grimshaw, in the background,

rose up to torture Melanie.

Better, she thought, 'any humiliating occupation,

if honest — teaching, telegraphy, companionship —

than undergoing the lectures of either ; but for

what was she fitted ?

She had been openly and selfishly warned by

i
both to " make good use of the opportunities "

her aunt's invitation afforded her, and one of

the ways in which she had done so was to decline

the proposal of the wealthy old baronet.

Thoroughly would Melanie have enjoyed her
season in London with Aunt Chillington but for
one feature in the picture — the baronet ; and even
the society of Montague Lonsdale was almost
unable to compensate her for the annoyance it
entailed.

She had revelled in the gay, wonderful streets ;
the sunny park ; the Eow, with its brilliant show
of fine equipages and beautiful women ; the four-in-hand
meet by the Serpentine, the trooping of
the colours at the Horse Guards ; the grand old
Abbey and ponderous St. Paul's ; the ladies'
gallery in the House, with its grotesque screen of
brass wire ; the opera and balls without number ;
and now all was over for her, and, like Cinderella,
she was going to a somewhat sordid home —
sordid, at least, as compared with Chillington
Park — where she knew she would be unwelcome ;
where Montague Lonsdale's advent would be
unwelcome too ; but where she hoped, at least,
to be beyond the ken of Sir Brisco Braybrooke
for a time — if only for a time.

Love is no love if it comes not at once," says

ii VOL. I. C

a poet, and in her first meeting with Montague
Lonsdale the whole tenor of her young life was
changed at once — and his too, for that matter,
for though he had seen and known many beautiful
and attractive women, the meeting with Melanie
was the first in which he had looked into a girl's
eyes and felt that magnetic influence which
rendered him almost unable to take his own
gaze away.

Even for the rich dresses, for street and Eow
and ball-room, she was indebted to her aunt, but
for her magnificent fans and bouquets to Captain
Lonsdale, Sir Brisco, and other admirers, some of
whom had even lost little bets to her at Ascot and
Goodwood, in the most graceful way imaginable —
bets which she blushed to win, though she saw
Hilda Tremayne and others do so without compunction.


The most rural of lanes— those lovely lanes
which are so peculiarly English — led from every
side to the fair white manor-house of Chillington,
on the summit of a grassy slope, where a few
ornamental deer might be seen grazing with the

sunlight falling on their sleek and dappled
coats.

Over a stately terrace, as a plateau, with carved
stone vases full of brilliant flowers, was the house,
with its peristyle of four Corinthian columns,
nearly forty feet in height, with a rich entablature
and pediment, in the tympanum of which were
the griffins' heads and three oysters, scalloped,
quarterly, being the arms of Alderman Chillington,
a city magnate of the early days of George III.,
the first founder of the family.

Evidences of wealth and luxury were apparent
on every hand. The house is famous for a saloon,
on the ceiling of which is an immense painting of
Aurora, copied from that of Guido in the Eespiglori
Palace ; a stuccoed dining-room, wherein Admirals
Cock and Repel had been feasted after the
bombardment of Havannah ; and for all manner
of handsome things in the guest-room, corridors,
and staircase ; and a wonderful blue drawing-room,
with curios, the collection of the Alderman's
descendants, who, in taste and education, surpassed
himself, of course.

c2

To the blue drawing-room, then, Melanie was
solemnly summoned by her Aunt Chillington,
after the guests had departed, and with a beating
heart the girl entered what was a species of torture
chamber to her.

There Aunt Chillington had seated herself, as
if in judgment on a throne, on a blue satin
ottoman in the very centre of the room, and was
slowly fanning herself and looking as grim as
Medusa, as she prepared to expound the law to
the shrinking Melanie. *

One of Mrs. Chillington's chief aims in life was
to be deemed the best dressed woman of her set.
She was tall, slender, and aristocratic in bearing,
and actually handsome, though past her sixtieth
year ; but the world had gone very easily and
luxuriously with her in her wifehood and widowhood.
She was inordinately proud of her birth asa
Talbot, and, as a supposed descendant of that
Richard de Talbot whom the Domesday Book
records as holding nine pieces of land from Walter
of Buckingham, was somewhat inclined to undervalue
the family into which she had married,

though for money. She was also proud of her
small hands and feet. Her eyes were keen and
dark. She had a well-bred face and a great
quantity of magnificently soft and silky white
hair.

With all her pride, she was cold, calculating,
and selfish.

The baronet, before leaving, had evidently reported
to her the bad success of his suit.

And so — so you have actually refused Sir
Brisco," said the old lady, eyeing her with a
steel-like glance, while her nether lip quivered
with indignation ; " refused him a second time
after all my trouble, care, expense, and
anxiety? "

Melanie was silent.

Answer me, dear ! "

We fear she pronounced the term of affection,
dear," sharply, after the usual manner of an
ill-tempered Englishwoman, when she means to
be remarkably incisive.

Yes, aunt."

If it is not too late, or too much beneath your

ambition — £20,000 a-year — I wish you would
-reconsider this act of insane and most outrageous
folly."

Melanie shook her head.

His settlements will be all that we can
desire."

"But — he is so old, aunt."

Old ! "

Too much so for my taste and years ; and if
good-natured, stupid, not chic enough — "

Not what enough ? Don't use that horrid
word, dear ! "

Surely I deserve something better at the
hands of Fate, and something tells me I shall get
it too," said the girl, nervously, and a trifle
defiantly. " Surely a girl, if marriageable at
eighteen, is able to please and judge for herself."


"But not if poor, miserably poor, as ( you are,"
was the stinging retort. " And, anyway, her
father and mother, or guardians, may not think
she is able to judge for herself."

"Why, aunt?"

"Because they have lived longer, got over all
the nonsense of life — "

And forgot that they married about the same
years themselves."

"Exactly; it is the way of the world; and
if you will have romance, be assured that Sir
Brisco loves you."

"Perhaps so — as much as such a ' Grandfather
Whitehead ' can ; but certainly I cannot be the
first love of his life," said Melanie, with irritation
quivering on her lip.

"The second, perhaps, and consequently the
best."

Melanie laughed almost scornfully at this
remark.

Remember what someone says — and what,
perhaps, he thinks," she said; and then, hoping,
but in vain, to make her aunt smile, she
sang —

First love is a pretty romance,

But not half so sweet as 'tis reckoned ;

And when one awakes from the trance,
There's a vast deal of love in the second.

And e'en should a second subside,

A lover should never despair ;
The world is uncommonly wide,

And the women uncommonly fair.

The poets their raptures may tell, .

Who have never been put to the test ;
A first love is al] very well,

But, believe me, the last one's the best.

"This spirit of banter is most unbecoming,
Melanie ! " said Mrs. Chillington, starting up
from the ottoman and fanning herself with angry-vigour.
" You are a most ungrateful girl ! "

Then poor Melanie, finding that her desperate
attempt at playfulness failed, felt her eyes suffuse
with tears.

"I am most grateful to you for all your great
kindness to me, aunt; for all your good wishes
and intentions regarding me, and those of my
Uncle Grimshaw too ; but — but," she added, as
the image of Montague Lonsdale rose before
her, " I cannot destroy my whole life, and that
of another too."

"Another! To whom do you refer?" asked
her aunt, sharply.

Blushing deeply for the word that had unwittingly
escaped, fear made the girl take refuge
in a little duplicity.

"My brother, poor Reggie, would think that
I sacrificed myself for his interests, and the
conviction would break his heart."

Fiddlestick ! You are aware that since
you came here to Chillington your Uncle Grim-shaw
— burdened as the poor man is with you
and that helpless creature Reggie — has been
compelled to take a smaller house and at a greater
distance from town, for economy. As for Reggie,
it would be well indeed if he were out of the
world."

Oh, aunt, aunt!" exclaimed Melanie, her
hot tears falling now. " Poor Reggie— so helpless,
so gentle, so gentlemanly, ever full of apologies for
the trouble he gives. How can you speak of
him thus?"

Mrs. Chillington coloured a little at the effect
of her remark, but said :

Why, girl, with Sir Brisco, apart from the
settlements, you might have a marriage that

would surpass any St. George's has ever seen
twelve bridesmaids, perhaps — the richest lace,
the richest satin, the Braybrooke diamonds, the
greatest wedding-cake — "

And the most indigestible ! "

Mockery again ! This affair is more serious
than you imagine, and that you will find it to
be when you go home tomorrow. What is to
become of you? You are as much unfitted to
be a governess as to submit to the humiliation
of being a companion ; and if you scout at such
an unexceptionable offer as that of Sir Brisco, I
repeat, what — as a penniless and dependent girl
is to become of you ? "

God alone knows ! " sighed Melanie wearily.

And with all the softness of her beauty, she
looked too statuesque, too calm and grand and
beautifully fair of complexion for either line of
life ; and, sooth to say, no lady with growing
up sons or younger brothers would have had her.

The girl bowed her head under her pitiless
aunt's bitter home truths, a prey to love, to grief,
perplexity, and sorest anxiety.

She shall marry him yet, or I shall have
clone with her for ever ! " thought Mrs. Chillington,
as she swept away to her room, in such a frame
of mind and undignified rage that she furiously
summoned her maid, Clochette, to apply a handkerchief
dipped in the inevitable compound of
Johann Maria Farina to her temples. And
mademoiselle hid one of M. Alphonse Daudet's
very naughty novels, in which she had been deep,
in her pocket, and hastened to attend her mistress.

Aunt Chillington had, of course, heard of the
Montague Lonsdale episode ; but, as yet, disdained
to make any reference thereto, though
she had evidently failed to cure her niece of "that
folly."

So, on the morrow, Melanie Talbot was to go
home betimes — home, where she knew, and too
well, that a second edition of all she had undergone
in the blue drawing-room — and perhaps in even
more bitter terms — awaited her at the hands of
Uncle Grimshaw.

THE TROUBLES OF MELANIE.

With the memory of a most frigid kiss and
many words of warning and reprehension from
Aunt Chillington, Melanie Talbot found herself
alone in a second-class carriage — for already
the declension of her beauty had begun — and
travelling homeward, on the Oxford line, between
those fertile meadows and pastures which, says
Gibson, in his continuation of Camden, are "the
greatest glory " of the county, and are watered by
almost innumerable crystal streamlets, the tributaries
of the Isis or Thames.

A soft smile overspread the girl's sweet face
as she read and re-read, in the luxury of being
alone and unnoticed, a letter received from her
lover just before leaving Chillington Park.

Among many other things that chiefly concerned

themselves, nearly and dearly, he mentioned : —
"I was told this evening by Hilda Treniayne "
(" he calls her 'Hilda!'" thought Melanie), "the
most atrocious flirt that exists " (" Oh, that
accounts for it. Won't I punish him ! ") " that
she met you at your aunt's ; but said you scarcely
knew me, darling. Good that — but wisely cautious
of you with her. A storm is brewing in Burma,
and I hear that ' ours ' will be about the first corps
detailed for service there ; but it will only be
1 a flash in the pan,' as our fathers used to say.
In a day or two I am going with Mus grave, of
the Hussars, to visit an old relation of his,
somewhere in the country. I understand your
Uncle Grimshaw has shifted his camp to a new
quarter. Let me know where, when you write
me to the 'Roy,' and your letter will be forwarded."

Melanie kissed his letter ere she finally consigned
it to the bosom of her dress ; but she could
not then foresee how much trouble this shifting of
her uncle's "camp," as Montague phrased it,
would bring about.

Aunt Chillington, her warnings and threats —

even her callous remark about the helpless Eeggie,
were forgotten for a time, as the train sped on
and on, and the girl sat fondly dreaming of her
lover, with her eyes of dark grey-blue half closed ;
of the time when her cheek last rested on his
breast, and his protecting arm was round her
happy, content with knowing that she belonged
to him, and that he belonged, to her — that in
the future they must be always together; glad
to be assured that his handsome dark eyes would
never smile on another as they smiled on her —
glad to think that no other woman would ever
caress his hair, or her lips be touched by those
that belonged to her, Melanie Talbot.

Poor as the home was to which she was going,
she felt that, in some respects, it might be a kind
of relief after all she had undergone in London and
at Chillington Park.

All the pleasure and luxury with which she
had been purposely surrounded had' a reverse
side to the picture they presented. All day long
she had been compelled to study Aunt Chillington,
who never thought of anyone but herself; to

attend to her whims and caprices, her wishes
and wants, which often drove poor little Clochette
wild. She was ever ordering things, not "because
she required, hut fancied, them ; spending money
in profusion, without considering for what ; sending
from her table the most recherche dishes, the most
expensive fruits, and even wines, on pretexts the
most silly ; and heedless of the thought that even
the crumbs from her table would have supplied the
desperate wants of many.

She was a Sybarite, who knew nothing of the
times of the poor and needy, and evidently thought
that all the world should drink from rare Bohemian
crystal, eat off plate or Dresden china, wear
priceless jewels, the softest of linen, the richest
of lace, of satin, of silk, and velvet.

Verily the lines of her life had fallen in soft
places !

What a strange world it is ! " thought Melanie,
as she contrasted her aunt's fortune and heart
with her own, and those of others who were dear
to her. " What a mystery and worry ! Does
everything go by the rule of contrary ? "

Melanie thought how much her Aunt Chilling-ton,
with all her wealth, could do and might have
done, to relieve Uncle Grimshaw of his grudgingly-borne
burden, and to further the prospects of their
orphan niece and nephews ; and yet she did
nothing beyond bringing her, Melanie, forward
once, in the hope that her undoubted beauty might
raise her a rich, perhaps titled, marriage, and take
her off their hands for life.

"I ought to be grateful, I suppose," thought
Melanie ; " but I am not."

The income of her Uncle Grimshaw was barely
sufficient for all — nothing more ; and left no
margin, beyond yearly expenses, for indulging
in visits to London, Brighton, or Scarborough,
where " eligibles " were supposed to be found ;
and thus, till the invitation referred to, in which
Melanie met her " fate," she had only shone in the
limited circle of a village, not far from the " Three
Shires Stone."

If he — naturally a cold and selfish man —
thought about her real interests at all, it was
only when he dreamed of the time when her

beauty should procure her a rich marriage of
any kind, and bring to her (and to himself too,
if possible) the only thing he really cared for
in this world — money !

Thus, on going to Chillington Park, Melanie
had vowed that, if opportunity were given, no .
childish visions of love, no dreams of romance,
should come between her and riches, could she win
them. She had known so much of comparative
poverty, with its deprivations, humiliations, and
attendant curses. And yet, in that vow, she
had belied her genuine and her generous nature ;
for in the society to which her aunt introduced
her, she had met one whom — as we have shown
she preferred to all the wealth and position
Sir Brisco Braybrooke was ready to lay at her
feet.

The past family history of Melanie was rather
a sad one.

Her father, a brave officer of the Bengal Infantry,
had fallen in a wretched and disastrous conflict
of the Bhotan War, at the storming of a hill-fort,
on the snowy slopes of the Himalayas. And

VOL. I. D

her. mother, young and delicate, did not survive
his death many months, and left Melanie with
two brothers to the care of their bachelor uncle,
Mr. Gideon Grimshaw, who had been "something"
in the city, but was now retired from
business; so 'Change and Birchinin Lane knew
him no more, and he vegetated on slender means
in a village of Oxfordshire, after many and serious
losses.

Money that had accrued to the orphans — not
much certainly — had been unwisely invested by
Mr. Grimshaw in a gold mine that, as is too
often the case, had no gold in it ; thus the
money slipped through his fingers, and he
kept his thumb upon that part of the family
history.

To more unwilling hands they could scarcely
have been trusted by their widowed mother, and
he had received them then, if not ungraciously,
at least without warmth and without affection.

He was a confirmed and " grumpy" old
bachelor, and abhorred all change or invasion
in the routine of his life ; yet, for his own credit,

he had given Melanie as excellent an education
as masters and governesses could bestow, and
after schooling her elder brother, Eeginald, till
he was old enough, he had sent him away to
sea in a ship of war, in his thirteenth year,
as a Naval Cadet. So the bonnie brown-eyed
boy bade a tender and loving adieu to the baby
brother, Dick, who was asleep in his cradle, and
to the sweet little orphan sister, who clung so
lovingly to his neck when he departed — a boy's
ardour mingling with a sense of desolation, of
loneliness, the memory of home and familiar faces
departed, we say, on his first voyage, towards
the eastern land, where the graves of his parents
lay ; and Uncle Grimshaw hoped he was rid of
him for ever at last !

But it was not so — though Eeggie rose to bea
sub-lieutenant — for a heavy fate was before the
poor lad.

He served with distinction, and was twice
wounded, with the Naval Brigade in the Egyptian
War, particularly at its conclusion, in the burning

Soudan, where exposure in the tentless erebus

d2

to the cold and baneful night dews gave him an
incurable disease in the thigh joint, and he was
invalided. He was "surveyed," as it is technically
called, at Malta, and transmitted to Haslar, where
he was — to use another naval technicality —
"discharged to shore," with orders to seek German
baths, pay doctors' bills, and keep himself as best
he might, without a farthing of half-pay, as there
is no such thing for a naval sub-lieutenant, though
Reggie had been acting-lieutenant of his ship
through death vacancies in action. And so he
was "discharged to shore" — sent back on Uncle
Grimshaw's hands, a helpless, hopeless creature,
condemned to spend his time between bed and
a bath-chair, to ruminate on his blighted life and
the glories of that profession of which John Bull
is so proud, but like the shabby dog he is, likes
to get cheap !

So Eeggie's helplessness and his sister's devotion
to him proved eventually a terrible lever in
all the operations of Uncle Grimshaw and Aunt
Chillington against " the contumacy " of poor
Melanie.

If, to a young man of spirit, the bread of utter
dependence is bitter enough, however kind the
hand that gives it, how bitter was it to the now
helpless naval officer !

THE SUB-LIEUTENANT.

On the first acceptance of his love and ring by

Melanie, Montague Lonsdale had at once, like a

man of honour, paid a visit to Mr. Gideon

Grimshaw, and stated his hopes and intentions,

and what the wishes of himself and Melanie

were.

In the interview that took place, the handsome

young soldier required all his honest and frank

confidence and all his bravery to aid his object, for

Mr. Grimshaw knew the wishes of Mrs. Chillington,

and that she had far other and more ambitious

views for Melanie than an alliance with a mere

captain of the line, who had only his pay and

Indian allowances," whatever they might mean.

Mrs. Chillington had written to him glowing
accounts of Melanie' s conquests, of the sensation

she had made and the evident triumphs that were
in store for her, as she seemed to inherit the
marvellous face and all the rare beauty and grace
of her mother. Thus, after letters to this purport,
the visit of Captain Lonsdale was a terrible disappointment
and source of disgust to the ex-city
man ; for a marriage like this meant the leaving of
her two brothers in perpetuity upon his, Uncle
Grimshaw's, hands.

The latter, a short, podgy, and thickset man,
had a high, bald, shining pate, with two tufts
of grizzled hair, rather like horns, which stood
stiffly above each ear, and these, when irritated,
which was not unfrequent, he was in the habit
of nervously twisting or rasping up with his
hands.

He had bushy white eyebrows, and his pale or
colourless eyes were keen and sharp and cold ; his
manner was blunt and unsympathetic, born of a
long life spent in narrow Bir chin Lane (of old called
Birch-overland), and Montague Lonsdale's cool
information that he loved, and had won the love of,
his beautiful niece, together with the asked for

consent to their betrothal, put a climax to his
disgust and annoyance.

"What are your means — your expectations;
everyone has something of that kind?" he
asked bluntly, peering at his visitor through his
gold-rimmed spectacles. "What do you live
upon?"

There is my pay," began Lonsdale, colouring.

Umph ! And your debts, I suppose ; but how
do you propose to keep a wife ? "

With my allowances, which will be ample,
when 1 get a staff appointment in India — "

When you get it ! " snapped Uncle Grimshaw.
"I think the proposed engagement little better than
utter lunacy ! " he added, rasping up his side tufts,
and rising from his chair to intimate that the
interview was over.

Thus, for a time, he declined to entertain the
idea of an engagement, and supposed that when
Montague Lonsdale was compelled to return to India
the affair "would blow over and be forgotten."

Meanwhile he wrote to Melanie a scolding letter
for entangling herself with "this penniless fellow,"

and another to Mrs. Chillington, urging her to
prolong their niece's visit to the Park ; but,
eventually finding that Captain Lonsdale was
quietly and steadily determined as ever, and that at
another interview he went over all the old arguments
again, he gave a grudging and unwilling half-promise
to tolerate the idea, nothing more, still hoping
that separation would effect a cure of this folly.

He had never been in love himself at any time,
and " couldn't understand what it meant."

As a sealed book to him had been the sentiments
of the author of " Venice Preserved " :

O, woman ! lovely woman ! Native made thee
To temper man ; we had been brutes without you.
Angels are painted fair to look like you :
There's in you all that we believe of heaven ;
Amazing brightness, purity and truth,
Eternal joy and everlasting love.

Uncle Grimshaw's new residence — Eose Cottage,
with its garden enclosed by a stone fence and
shaded by old beach trees — was in a part of Oxfordshire
comparatively strange to Melanie, and a few
miles further from London than his former one. It
was much smaller too, as he had urged pointedly in

his letters to her that retrenchment had become
now more than ever necessary.

Melanie's eye, womanlike, was speedily attracted,
on her return home, by the well-worn and carefully-darned
carpets, the faded curtains and cretonne
chair-covers, and by the general, but long familiar,
shabbiness of everything, especially after her recent
experiences at Chillington Park ; and the sense of
all this affected her keenly, like a species of heartache.


Her uncle was from home just then.

Absent ; thank heaven ! " thought she, as she
tossed aside her hat and travelling bag. " Then I
shall have no need to plead that glorious institution
of the British female — a headache."

But she was warmly welcomed by her brothers ;
by the poor cripple Eeggie, who occupied a sofa ina
corner, by blue-eyed and golden-haired Dick, a
sturdy and ruddy-checked boy in his twelfth year,
who had just returned from fishing in the Chigwell,
and by her friend and gossip, Amy Brendon, a
bright Hebe in her eighteenth year, who had come
from her father's vicarage at Stokencross — so-called

from a great wooden Calvary which stood there of
old — a young lady of whom we shall have something
to relate in the future.

Amy was petite in figure, but very perfect in the
beauty of her form and face. Her eyes were dark,
thoughtful, and soft, and her hair, thick and wavy,
was of a deep dark brown ; and clusters of freshly-gathered
red roses filled her childlike hands — for
childlike they were in their smallness and texture.

"Oh ! welcome, Melanie darling ! " she cried, as
the latter stooped to kiss the coral lips that were
sweet and red as the roses referred to. " You are
so tali, Melanie, that it were useless attempting
to reach your cheek, unless I stood on
a stool. But you have just come in time to help
me to arrange these roses for Reggio."

And she flitted about like a bird, with her deft
little fingers arranging the roses and maidenhair
ferns, while from her fresh young lips there came
a ringing silvery laugh, which evinced how heart-whole
the girl was yet, and how contented and
happy.

"Ah, Melanie," exclaimed Dick, as boy-like he

clung on to her hands, and tried to swing her
round, " I saw your Montague Lonsdale when he
came here and put Uncle Grimshaw in a wax!
Don't I wish I was like him — a full-gr,pwn captain.
What luck he has."

"I am glad you like him, Dick," said Melanie,
colouring with pleasure.

He has promised me a gun, and gave me a
cigar — oh, such a cigar — "

That made you sick as a dog," said Reggio,
parenthetically, in his corner, where he occupied a
couch.

And his visits put Uncle Grimshaw ' in a
wax,' as you elegantly phrase it, Dick?" said
Melanie.

Father ! He was awfully put out — I don't

know about what — and vented some of his anger on

me and poor Reggio."

You left the Park rather abruptly, Melanie,"

i
said the latter. " Did you quarrel with Aunt

Chillington before the season was ended ? "

No — but she interfered with me very much,

and urged upon me the attentions of — of men I did

not care about," said Melanie, and then she
paused, loth that any mortifying rumour should,
by any means or inadvertence, reach her fiance.
She had resolved to mention to no one the offer of
Sir Brisco, and her refusal thereof.

Well, I am glad you are back again,
Melanie," said Dick, who was thoughtful beyond
his boyish years. " There is no one here whose
attentions can be forced upon you, even by Uncle
Grimshaw."

And you were so admired, we hear?" said
Amy Brendon.

"I don't wonder at it — isn't she pretty?" said
Dick, nearly pulling down her back hair. " Reggie
predicted, and Uncle Grimshaw too, that you
would marry a duke, at least — if you chose."

The poor old furniture," murmured Melanie,
looking about her ; " how worn — how painfully
shabby it looks ! "

But I hope you are glad to be with us again ? "
said Dick.

Oh, yes — yes," exclaimed Melanie, kissing the
trio again in quick succession.

"Well, don't let Uncle Grimshaw hear your
criticisms," continued Dick, producing from his
pocket some peaches, which he had found in a
neighbour's garden. " He is always worrying
about something, and reminds me of the cruel one
in the ' Babes in the Wood,' who was told —

You must be father and mother both,

And uncle all in one ;
God knows what will become of them

When we are dead and gone.
And if you keep them carefully,

Then God will you reward ;
But if you otherwise should deal,

God will your deeds regard.

He is careful enough, but not of me, for of all the
stingy old — "

"Oh! hush, Dick," exclaimed Melanie, in a tone
of mingled amazement and alarm; "think, if he
should hear you ! And you, Amy, have been
acting as a sister to my two boys ? " she added,
again embracing her friend, and even Dick's
bob-tailed terrier, Bingo, came in for a share of
her caresses, as he hopped and yelped frantically
about her.

The expression of Amy's face often alternated
between dimpled mischief and mild seriousness.

Yes, Melanie," said the invalid from his couch,
while his eyes glistened. " Good Amy — kind little
soul — has acted as usual the part of — of sister tome
and to Dick. I know not what we should do
without her."

And as he spoke he turned restlessly on the couch
where he lay nearly all day, with his pain and
repining, his past brilliant memories and thoughts
of what might have been.

The waters of a great bitterness often overflowed
his heart ; but complaints were rare with him,
while his expressions of gratitude for kindness, and
apologies for trouble given, were touching, frequent,
and earnest.

Open-air sports, like balls and dancing, were out
the scheme of his life now ; yet he was sometimes
taken in his wheel-chair to tennis and garden
parties at Stokencross and elsewhere. And how, at
times, he loathed them ! To see little Amy
Brendon in her tennis costume, looking so pretty
and piquante, so lissom and active in figure, with

Tom, Dick, and Harry " hovering in admiration
about her, while he sat in his invalid chair,
"a d — ned perambulator" he thought it, and
looked enviously, hopelessly, and helplessly on !

k silent love for Amy was his sheet-anchor in
life now ; of that nothing could rob him, so long
as it was silent and concealed in his own troubled
breast. To speak of it might scare the girl with
terror, perhaps with dislike rather than pity for
him, and so end an intimacy that was full of
vague delight to him.

Yet what a contrast they were, in some respects !

Amy, the type of youth, and Hebe-like in her
health, bloom, and roundness of limb; her eyes
clear, bright, and sparkling ; her little figure
superb and elastic, her mere life a joy to her.

He, with fingers long, and lean, and blanched
now ; his fair dark aquiline features pinched, pale,
and worn with the frequent pain that rendered
his splendid hazel eyes unnaturally large and
keenly bright, creating for him, in all who knew
his sad story, a piteous attraction, to woman
especially. His dark, silky moustache, that curled

well upwards, gave an. additional expression to his
uncommonly fine face.

Thus Melanie's heart often grew sad and sore
as she watched the two, for she dearly loved her
lame but helpless sailor brother.

And yet amid the dreamy sense of happiness
Amy's society gave him, he built no castles in
the air — he could not! "What earthly castles
ever tower up in form so majestic, in curve and
spire, dome and battlements so grand and glorious,
as those ethereal ones of our own architecture ?
Earth, sky, and sea furnish no colours so bright
as those of which our castles shine in Hope's
sunlight." But in Eeginald Talbot's dreams of
love, no such castles rose, for he loved in silence,
without hope, without a future.

He could only anticipate the agony of seeing
her the bride of another, for bride of his she
could never, never be !

He had learned to love her when he first came
back from the Indian seas, and renewed the friendship
that began, as he was wont to say, "when
she wore her back hair in two tails, a white

VOL. I. E

pinafore and strap shoes, and sat in a high chair,
and love and marriage were myths compared to a
new doll and more pudding." And now, since he
had returned from the fatal Soudan, he struggled
with the newer-horn joy — the wild and thrilling
delight that had taken possession of his heart —
thrilling every nerve of his body when his eyes
met hers, when hand touched hand, even when
her' dress touched him in passing ; or when she
sang to him, and listened with interest and sweetness
to the little stories of his brief but ill-requited
sailor career ; and many a word and many a
glance of hers he treasured in his heart ; and,
indeed, lived on for days afterwards.

When they were together and she talked to him
alone, he was conscious of nothing but genuine
felicity, of a soft charm that enthralled and seemed
to wrap him round ; but how long would this sweet
intercourse last, he had often asked himself with
vague dismay? When a lover should come, and
with him the end.

Both girls, Melanie and Amy, had ever done
their best to cheer him in his great trouble, and

he felt gratitude and love for their goodness ; but
for which, and occasionally coaching the somewhat
erratic Dick in his unwelcome tasks, he more than
once thought he " might go melancholy mad."

So gentle Amy Brendon sang her sweetest
songs to him ; walked by his wheel-chair (while
Dick pulled or pushed it), by sunset and starlight,
through woodland paths, through lanes and
shrubberies, holding his soul, as it were, in thrall.

He yielded to the sunshine, to the glamour of
the present ; at times — but at times only — thinking
of the future, and how little all this could lead
to, and of his own despair — he, an object of pity —
of charity, a helpless cripple, on the grudgingly
given bounty of Uncle Grimshaw.

In that vague future could he expect that she
would sacrifice the world and all a fair young girl's
life to him ?

And now in the evening, after Melanie's return,

he and Amy sat amid the gloaming (as the Scots

call the after-glow of eve) playing chess in the

recess of a window — he rather affecting to do so,

being wholly intent on the sweet, soft face and •

e 2

UNlVEH,

downcast looks of his companion, and the lingering
motions of her slim little hands, for already the
twilight had so deepened that they, in their whiteness,
were more visible than were the ivory pieces,
the position of which it was almost difficult to
discern.

Through the open window came the odour of
stephanotis, mignonette, and roses from the cottage
garden, under the dewy elm branches. And erelong
Eeginald Talbot crept off to bed, happy and
radiant, with a rose-bud Amy had given him from
the bouquet at her bosom, to treasure carefully ina
glass near his pillow, as a relic her hand had
touched ; and with her soft good-night to mingle
with his dreams, if he had any, which was pretty
often the case with this helpless lover now.

Then, in secrecy and haste, ere Amy went home
to the Vicarage, escorted by Dick and his dog
Bingo, Melanie told her all about her love for,
and engagement to, Montague Lonsdale, but nota
word about the Baronet's offer; and her little
story— so full of deep and tender interest to herself
was barely concluded when she was summoned

to the presence of Uncle Grimshaw, who had just
returned ; and she knew that she had before hera
second edition of the last interview with her
Aunt Chillington.

UNCLE GRIMSHAW's THREAT.

Melanie heard the summons as if it were a kind
of knell, and all the situation flashed upon her.

She was home again — she had no other home —
to the new, the smaller and more economical house ;
and her heart smote her as she remembered the
temporarily forgotten angry and selfish vow she
had made when her Aunt Chillington's invitation
came, to accept any wealthy or advantageous offer
that came in her way ; and as she thought of
her uncle's innate selfishness, of his somewhat
hampered resources — of the " handful " she and
her brothers — especially the helpless Eeginald —
were to him, and all Sir Brisco Braybrooke's
£20,000 could do for them.

But then there was poor Montague — and she
loved him so !

"It seems but yesterday since I left you. for
London, and after all I have seen there," said
she, " how still the world seems to stand with
you here."

It always does in our house unless when uncle's
temper is up," grumbled Dick.

Melanie recalled an episode that occurred a day
or two before her aunt's welcome invitation came.
If her uncle had "not much," as he was fond of
asserting, he spent it largely on himself — on the
richest wines, a handsome saddle-horse, some
rare dogs, and, when in town, largely at his club.
Thus she had resented such remarks as the
following —

What are you complaining of now ? Why so
silent and moody, girl — eh?" he snorted. "Oh —
I need not ask, it is that eternal dance at the
Vicarage."

"Yes, uncle," said Melanie, softly; "why cannot
I go?"

Why cannot you go ? " he growled.

"Yes, dear uncle — I ask you so seldom for
money."

The seldom the better — money is out of the
question — it cost me hard to make the little I
have in Birchinin Lane ; so put this entertainment
out of your head ; I can't afford expensive dresses.
You have all the necessaries of life, girl."

And you deem me silly, grasping, if, like other
girls, I look for a very little more ? "

"I certainly do."

And he cut the matter short by draining his
glass of Pomery-Greno and quitting the dinner-table
for his sanctum, .where he smoked the most
expensive cigars and, from old form of habit,
conned the "money article "; while Melanie forced
back her tears and gave up all idea of Mrs.
Brendon's dance at the Vicarage.

Reginald writhed on his couch when he heard
her speak of the wished-for dress, and thought,
as he had hopelessly done many a time before,
what he might raise on the secret idols of his
heart, his Egyptian medals and epaulettes, the
poor remains of his loved naval uniform ; but
these would go but a small way to provide a
suitable dress for a young beauty like his sister.

Matters were thus when her aunt's invitation
came, and when Melanie, in the bitterness of her
heart, registered the vow in question — the vow that
the influence of Montague Lonsdale dissipated to
the winds.

Mrs. Chillington had written to her brother-in-law
such glowing accounts of the impression
Melanie had made in " society," of the conquests
that were certain to fall to her share, and finally
of the proposal of Sir Brisco, that already visions
of the time to come filled his mind — glowing and
comfortable visions when one, if not all three,
of the children committed to his care by his
dead sister would be off his hands, when his
purse might be occasionally replenished by his
affectionate niece, the nightmare " debt " scared
away, "the cripple Reggie " relegated to the
baronet's abode, and all things made pleasant —
hopes and visions that had been clouded by the
visit of Captain Lonsdale, whom he never doubted
that she would now " throw over," if she had a
grain of sense remaining.

He had an open letter in his hand, as Melanie

entered and gave him a kiss which he frigidly
endured, and then his eye glanced at her
over it, while his bald head seemed more shiny,
and his two grey side-tufts more stuck-up than
ever.

His fingers fumbled nervously about the buttons
of his vest till he found his gold-rimmed eyeglasses,
which he settled on his long thin nose,
and after affecting once more to glance at the
letter, he said :

Sir Brisco Braybrooke has proposed to you a
second time, as your Aunt Chillington informs
me?"

"Yes, uncle," replied the girl, with a sinking
heart.

And you — you — "

Declined his offer."

Declined ! Are you quite mad ? "

"No."

Perhaps not quite, but nearly so. What the —
why the — "

He paused, having no words wherewith to express
the rage that choked him.

Simply, dearest uncle — I do not love him."

Who wants you to love him ? We wish you to
marry him — that is all ! "

Without regard, uncle ? "

That will come in time, of course, I suppose."

I do not think so," said Melanie, in a low
voice, as she shrank back a little.

But you shall marry him ! " thundered her
uncle, striking the table with his clenched hand.

Or what, uncle?"

"I shall know the reason why!" he hissed
menacingly through his clenched teeth.

Melanie coloured with annoyance, but made no
reply.

He is wealthy, my girl," said her uncle in a
more moderate tone.

But he is deemed an old bore, uncle."

A bore — with £20,000 per annum? Ah — you
consider that detrimental Lonsdale more attractive,
I have no doubt?" said he, with what
he meant to be grim contempt.

"Well, uncle," replied Melanie, a little defiantly,
"between rich bores and pleasing 'detrimental,'

a poor girl, such as I, has a hard game
to play."

"Then play it well. He is a match, Sir
Brisco— "

Vulgarly, a catch, were nearer the truth,
uncle," interrupted Melanie, irritated at the
manner in which Lonsdale's name was introduced.

"And this so-called engagement of yours — "
began her uncle, with a withering glance.

"So-called," interrupted Melanie again. "Don't
speak of it so, uncle. I will not have it made
public property. I do not want people interfering,
advising, and meddling — "

Or congratulating you," said he, with a bitter
laugh. " Few who know our circumstances would
be mean enough to do that."

Uncle Grimshaw had not, even at first, been
disposed to do more than simply tolerate the idea
of Montague Lonsdale's intentions ; but now the
letter of Mrs. Chillington, telling him of Melanie' s
"disgraceful contumacy," and the necessity for
putting some pressure upon her in the matter of
Sir Brisco Braybrooke, made him almost savage.

The attentions of Sir Brisco are an honour to
our family," said he, loftily.

Then I wish he would turn them to Aunt
Chillington, and propose to her."

"Do not dare to trifle with me," said Mr.
Grimshaw, rasping up his side tufts and polishing
his bald head, as he walked up and down the
room. " This fancy of yours for an all but
penniless man must be conquered."

It cannot be," said Melanie softly, as her eyes
filled with tears.

Why— why?"

It is part of my existence."

"Stuff!"

Then, after an angry pause, he added,

"Well — if — through your contumacy, as your
Aunt Chillington very properly terms it, we are to
have this fellow Lonsdale on the tapis, and the
baronet hears of the matter, your chances will be
lost. In that event, I shall have nothing more to say
on the matter," he continued, in a tone which implied
he could say a great deal more if he chose. " You
are rash, foolish, headstrong, and utterly selfish."

Melanie felt all the humiliation of her position,
and sighed in silence.

I have been kind to you, I suppose .? " said he,
thinking that she was softening.

Oh, yes, Uncle Grimshaw," replied Melanie,
with a bitter smile, which he was not slow to detect.

Have treated you quite like a daughter
indeed ; but this kind of thing cannot go on
for ever — cannot go on for ever," he repeated,
vehemently, thinking only of "the handful" his
sister's orphans were, and not of their trust-money,
which had slipped through his fingers in
Birchinin Lane.

Cold and selfish to the heart's core, he felt no
soft or real regard for the beautiful girl cast by
hard fate on his hands ; and as for her brothers,
Dick was ever a worry, and the helpless " cripple "
a source of loathing rather than pity.

To refuse such an offer as that of Sir Brisco
seemed, in his estimation, conduct without parallel
in all the legends of children, especially nephews
and nieces, who have been poor, undutiful, and
ungrateful.

Love was very poor stuff indeed ! It never
occurred to him that anything so intensely absurd,
so utterly secondary, should come into competition
with £20,000 a year !

Beggars who owe their food and shelter to
others should not be so difficult to please," said he,
with intense bitterness and concentrated fury,
while his pale grey eyes — if grey they were — glittered
like icicles in the lamplight ; " and I shall
lessen the burden put upon me in one way," he
added, with reference to the pressure to be put
upon Melanie. " If, within a given time, you do
not marry Sir Brisco, and thus take off my hands
your brother Reginald, he shall go straight from
here to the ward of a common hospital ! "

And with this stinging threat, which filled her
affectionate heart with new terror and dismay, he
quitted the room, and furiously banged the door
behind him.

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.

The strange and bitter threat of her uncle and
guardian, for Mr. Grimshaw was both, concerning
her brother Eeggie made Melanie grave and unhappy.
It filled her with anxious thoughts.
With all his business training in Birchinin Lane,
she knew him to be a curious mixture of vanity,
selfishness, and meanness, and hoped the first-named
element might prevail.

Would he dare — would he be cruel enough to
put such a threat in execution ? Surely not !

Dick, observant and watchful, saw her preoccupation,
and mistaking the cause, said :

You must miss so much pleasure here —
sightseeing, balls, water and dinner parties —
flirtations, and — "

These are not in my way, Dick."

Not now, perhaps," said Dick, thinking of
Montague Lonsdale.

Uncle Grhnshaw has just said something very
cruel to me."

I don't think it is in his nature to say much
that is kind," replied the boy; "but I saw that
he did look wicked — just like a — like a trapped
weasel," he added, at a loss for a simile.

Over the latter Montague had gained an
advantage. He had openly and honourably
announced his engagement with Melanie, while
the baronet had made no movement as yet to
ingratiate himself in his favour, and had contented
himself by reporting his want of success to Mrs.
Chillington — which somewhat piqued Uncle
Grimshaw's vanity.

Dick, though as yet educated chiefly by Melanie,
for the sake of economy, was a genuine country
boy, as stated, in his twelfth year, and by nature
was a genuine lover of it. He knew the name,
the haunt, and habits of every bird, and where
their nests and where their eggs were to be
found ; he knew the trees, the wild flowers,

VOL. I. F

the grasses, and where the best fruit was to be
found in the season ; he knew the cresses in cool
deep brooks and the reeds that overhung them ;
and every secret of the sweet true life in the
country was known to the happy and heedless
boy, who, though his pockets were often minus
of coppers, yet had no care ; and who would lie
for hours on his back, with Bingo for a companion,
gazing at the flying clouds, in the shapes of which
he fashioned all sorts of things, at the rustling
leaves overhead, and listening to the wind that
sang, as music, through them.

He would linger thus in the woods and by
brook sides for hours, and yet know no vacant
time, though surly Uncle Grimshaw, who at the
same age had been an office boy in the city,
asserted that he had only the making of a gipsy
of a scamp — in him.

Two days had passed at Rose Cottage, and
Melanie had not received a letter from Montague
Lonsdale, who, she feared, must have written to
her old address, when she and her friend Amy,
and her two brothers, set off for a kind of quiet

little pic-nic in the woods — a favourite resort of
theirs — Dick, who was strong and sturdy for his
years, alternately pushing and dragging the wheel-chair
occupied by Reggio, and the basket containing
the sandwiches, cakes, sherry, tea-set, and
other requisites for. their simple entertainment.

The July afternoon — which was to bring forth
far more than the now merry quartette could
have anticipated — was hot ; so hot indeed that
the wayside flowers lowered their thirsty petals
beneath the rays of the unclouded sun as they
streamed on the parched grass from a sky blue
and serene, while the dusty roads, the hedgerows,
and copses seemed to quiver and vibrate in heat
and light.

Guided by Dick, who had already made himself

master of all the new locality, they reached a cool,

shaded, and seemingly, by the crop of grass that

grew upon its pathway, a perfectly unfrequented

lane, where the rays of the sun failed to penetrate,

so thick were the interwoven branches of the oaks

and elms overhead. On both sides of the narrow

way rose abrupt and grassy banks, studded with

f 2

bright-hued wild flowers, huge yellow-eyed and
white - fringed marguerites, the pink geranium
and convolvulus, mingling with meadow - sweet,
and overhung by great and bushy hedges that
seemed never to have known the woodman's
shears. T

A mossy and decayed gate barred further
progress into a deep and silent thicket that lay
beyond. A little runnel of clear water bubbled
under the long-leaved weeds that grew thereby.
It seemed just the spot whereon to pitch their
little camp, and light a fire to boil their little
tea-kettle ; though a large white board, newly
painted, standing vividly out amid the general
greenery, and nailed to a beech, bore, in black
letters, the ominous warning : —

Private Path. Trespassers in these woods
will be prosecuted. All dogs found within this
enclosure will be shot."

What are trespassers in this wild place ? "
asked Amy Brendon, gazing upwards at the board.

People such as us, of course," said Dick.

"An unpleasant notice," remarked Melanie,

pausing in the act of drawing the gloves off her
white and slender hands.

"Oh, don't mind it, we are on the right side
of that old gate yet," said Reginald Talbot.

The keeper and the proprietor are a couple
of surly old beasts — Argus and Erebus combined
regular cads ! " said Dick, viciously, as he had
already " come to grief " with them in his
rambles.

The cad is a man of title," said his brother.

What of that ? Even a king may be a cad,"
said Dick.

And what is his name ? " asked Melanie.

Sir Brisco Braybrooke."

Melanie felt herself grow pale, while her heart
palpitated, but not with pleasure, certainly.

And are these Ravensbourne woods ? " she
asked, after a pause.

"Yes."

Heavens ! Is our — is Rose Cottage so close to
them?"

"Yes — a hedge only divides our lands from
those of the aggressive baronet," said Dick,

grandiosely, as he deposited an armful of dry
sticks, and proceeded to light a fire, deftly
arranging a couple of stones whereon to poise
the kettle, with a skill that Eeginald said reminded
him of his shipmates up the Nile ; hut
ere Melanie could speak again, and while Amy,
with busy little hands, was unpacking the
luncheon basket and arranging the teacups —

Oh, the devil ! " exclaimed Dick, as a sharp,
vigorous, and joyous barking announced an
accession to this party, and, as if defying the
warning on the board, his terrier Bingo came
dashing obstreperously down the lane towards
them, and, having secretly followed their footsteps
through the woods, was driving before him in mad
career to the holes in a bank, a couple of white-tailed
rabbits.

Now, Bingo was a faithful, bob-tailed, and
sagacious, but eccentric, specimen of his breed,
who accompanied Dick in all his botanical,
ornithological, and piscatorial rambles ; and his
presence on the confines of Bavensbourne woods
was not desirable now, being dangerous, personally,

to himself, as any moment might find
him " covered " by the gun of that " old beast,"
the keeper, as Dick called him. Not many
days before this poor Bingo had come limping
home with part of a charge of No. 5 shot in
his off hind leg, given him by the keeper in
question, who resented his coming in quest of
the rabbits and hares ; hence, Dick's heart was
full of vengeance against this long - gartered
official.

So busy were the two girls with their culinary
operations, and so busy, too, was Dick in making
his dog fast with a piece of cord to a wheel of
Eeggie's bath-chair, that none of the party perceived
two gentlemen who had approached them
unseen. Both were clad in light tweed suits,
with caps to correspond. Each had a cigar in
his mouth, and with their arms resting on the
top of the low gate referred to, they were watching
the group, one with the deepest interest and the
other with something of amusement.

An exclamation escaped Amy, and then Melanie
looked up.

"Montague — Captain Lonsdale — you here!"
said she, in a low and startled voice.

Lonsdale, hy jingo ! " cried Dick, with unmixed
satisfaction.

"Mel— Miss Talbot— I did not know that Sir
Brisco's residence was so near yours when I came
here a couple of days ago, with my friend
Musgrave — allow me to introduce him," said
Lonsdale, unlatching the gate, and lifting his
cap as he advanced.

Melanie's too evident confusion was now covered
by Dick, whose terrier had got loose in a thicket,
whence a shrill squeak was instantly heard.

Oh, Melanie ! " he exclaimed in consternation,
"Bingo has pinned a rabbit, or something, d — n
it!"

"Dick! " she said, reprovingly.

Well — what's the row ? " asked Dick, tartly.

The devil will get you if you use such words."

Then he had better begin with Captain
Lonsdale."

"Why?"

I heard him say the same thing."

I

"When?"

The last time he left Uncle Grhnshaw,"
replied Dick, as, in terror of the keeper, he
plunged into the thicket, and quickly emerged
therefrom, carrying a dead hare by an ear, while
Bingo trotted in triumph behind him.

I must hide this somewhere or that beast
of a baronet will be down on Bingo for poaching,"
said Dick, as he produced another piece
of cord from that emporium, his trousers' pocket,
wherewith Reggie "hitched" the terrier, as he
nautical termed it, securely to a wheel of his
bath-chair.

And now to describe Montague Lonsdale, who
courteously and warmly greeted the little party.

With close-shorn hair of the darkest brown,
and eyes that were splendid, of a hazel so deep
that they looked quite black at times, a fine,
clearly cut, and slightly aquiline profile, a figure
above the ordinary height and well set up, he
looked the stereotyped style of a genuine English
gentleman, "with his white hands and well-bred
tranquillity, hard, but polished as fine steel,"

to use the words of a recent writer; and with
the expression in his features of one who had
faced and overcome much in his time, though
few would have thought so, from the serenity
of his manner and the composure of his bearing,
the result of habit, training, and society ; and
singling him out from among the many who
admired and hovered round her, during her
brief glimpse of life in London, Melanie had
soon learned to love him; he was so gentle,
and withal seemed to possess "that mingling
of force and tenderness, with a reserve of both,"
which, we are told, "is most enthralling to
womenkind."

While introductions and commonplaces were
being exchanged between his friend, Horace
Musgrave, of the Hussars, Miss Brendon, and
Eeginald, the unfortunate tenant of the wheel-chair,
he continued in a low voice :

i

I am on a visit to Horace's uncle, Sir Brisco

Braybrooke, who took quite a fancy to me at
his club. When I left town with them so abruptly,
I little thought that I was to have the joy of

being so near you and your new home, darling ;
but I fear that I shall not be very welcome
there."

"To Uncle Grimshaw — I fear not," murmured
Melanie, as her dark eyes of grey-blue clouded
for a moment, as she felt herself on the eve of
troublesome and vexatious complications.

Under approaching footsteps, dry branches and
fir cones were heard to crackle, and down the
wooded path to the gate came a tall, stout figure
in a rough grey Norfolk shooting-jacket, long
brown leather gaiters, a briar-root between his
white-moustached lips, a wide-awake, garnished
with hooks, flies, and lines, and an expression
of surprise twinkling in his eyes, under their
shaggy grey brows.

"Oh, the devil — the baronet ! " exclaimed Dick,
scurrying about to conceal the hare under some
long grass.

"My friend, Sir Brisco Braybrooke," said
Montague Lonsdale ; " Miss Talbot — "

"And I are old friends," said Sir Brisco, putting
his pipe in his pocket, and ceremoniously lifting

his old wide-awake, as he took her hand and
retained it in his a trifle longer than courtesy
required ; and Melanie now found herself face
to face with her accepted lover and the man
she had refused. "What is this," asked the
latter; "afternoon tea — at fresco? We are in
luck, Lonsdale. Do you live in this neighbourhood,
Miss Talbot."

"At Eose Cottage — yes."

"I heard that it had been lately let, but knew
not to whom. This is a most unexpected
pleasure ! "

To Melanie it certainly was not.

I fear we are trespassing," said she, at a loss
for a remark.

Trespassing — how can you say so ? "

This is jolly ! " thought Dick ; "I shall have
the run of the woods and moor. He is not half
a bad sort, this old baronet," he added aside
to Lonsdale, who said :

1 ' I have not forgotten my promise — you shall
have that gun."

And may I shoot here ? " exclaimed Dick.

When I give you permission — but not to have
dogs in the covers," said Sir Brisco.

What else could he say, with Melanie's soft
eyes upon him ? The baronet was a strict
preserver of his game, and had been for years
the terror of any poacher in Oxfordshire ; he
had succeeded in impressing on all — his neighbours
particularly — that he held his shootings for his
own delectation, and had ordered his keepers
to be merciless to all wandering dogs — hence the
charge of shot that had sent Bingo limping
home.

"Meantime, will you give us some tea?" said
Sir Brisco, laughing, as he saw that the kettle
was boiling vigorously now, under the superintendence
of Amy Brendon and the Hussar, who
was professing to assist her, while Dick acted
efficiently as " stoker," in procuring dry branches
for the fire.

The addition of these to the party, when cups
and saucers had been provided for only four,
caused much merriment, and took the " edge "
off any awkwardness that might have been felt

by Melanie and Sir Brisco, of whose secret — if
secret it could be called — Lonsdale was, as yet,
ignorant.

Melanie remembered the half-uttered hints of
Miss Tremayne, and when Sir Brisco was lingering
near her elder brother's chair, and talking to him
in a kindly and sympathetic manner, she could
not help asking her fiance if he knew that young
lady.

Know Hilda Tremayne ? Of course I do," said
he, laughing. " Half the fellows in the service
know Hilda. I knew her in India."

I met her at Chillington, and she spoke much
of you."

Flattering. She used my Christian name,
I have no doubt."

Quite appropriated you, in fact."

Girls of Hilda Tremayne's kind adopt that
style. She is now on a visit not far from here."

"Indeed!"

"Yes, she is at Oxford, with her uncle there,
a professor at Trinity."

He knew of this. How and when did he come

to know it ? was Melanie's suspicious thought.
She disdained to inquire; yet the circumstance,
or fact, though openly acknowledged, annoyed
and piqued her, for Miss Trernayne enjoyed
the reputation of being dangerous.

Though apparently occupied with Reginald
Talbot, when Sir Brisco saw Melanie with the
young officer, though he knew nothing of their
engagement, nor had the faintest suspicion that
they were more than ordinary acquaintances,
he felt a little, but irrepressible emotion of envy
and chagrin, as he thought of the gulf his own
sixty years and more opened between himself
and her.

It is Emerson who says that if we did not
find the reflection of ourselves in the eyes of
young people, we could not know, perhaps, that
the century clock had struck seventy instead of
twenty. Thus, though Sir Brisco felt himself
old, especially by comparison, he was by no means
disposed to flinch from the task — if task it was —
of winning Melanie, who just then looked so
charming in a well-fitted light summer dress,

which, being without shawl or jacket, displayed
the outline of her shapely bust and shoulders ; her
hair, of the richest brown, shaded by a most
piquante hat, while her long gloves being off,
revealed the whiteness of her slender hands and
tapering arms.

Considering what had passed between them
before at the lawn-tennis party and elsewhere,
there was something decidedly awkward in their
meeting again, under any circumstances. Both
felt this, but Melanie had all a woman's delicacy
and tact, and the baronet's mature years enabled
him to control his features and emotions better
than a younger man might have done, and this
imparted a certain coolness and confidence to the
bearing of Melanie.

So you have quite forgiven us for trespassing,

notwithstanding that terrible board, with its

threats about prosecution and being shot?" she

i
said, with a playful laugh.

"You have the right to roam over and use

at your pleasure every acre of Eavensbourne

Hall," said he, gallantly.

"Thanks."

Yes," he continued, in a low voice, " as Janissary
— after all, the right divine of beauty is the
only one a Briton ought to acknowledge, and
a pretty woman the only tyrant he is not authorised
to resist."

Melanie laughed again — as she sipped her tea —
but less easily ; his compliments and love-making
were always old-fashioned, too direct, and somewhat
on stilts.

And now, the Hussar having contrived to
appropriate Amy Brendon, the poor occupant
of the bath-chair was left for a little time to
himself. •

Horace Musgrave was slender, straight, and
certainly rather distinguished-looking, with a
decided light cavalry air about him. In face
he was regular-featured, deeply bronzed by the
Egyptian sun, close-shaven, with a heavy dark
moustache shading a well-cut mouth. Moreover,
he had earnest, honest, and handsome eyes,
with not an atom of the fashionable and cultivated
air of boredom, so often affected by the blase

VOL. I. G

English " softy." Horace was too genuine a
soldier for that, and contrived within a short space
to say some very pleasing things to little Amy,
occasioning a momentary lifting of her soft eyes
of hazel-grey, which filled him with a natural
desire to see them again; but now she dropped
them, busy, apparently, with a bouquet at her
breast.

I do so love flowers ! " said she.

What, or which, particularly? " he asked.

Rosebuds and lilies of the valley."

Amy Brendon was seldom called beautiful, but
there was a calm sweetness in her expressive
face ; and all who knew her loved her* for the
gentleness of her disposition, the goodness of her
heart, and the charm of her manner. Eeginald
Talbot doted on her, and more than doted, as
we have indicated ; he was so lonely and helpless,
she so kind, gentle, and sisterly, and, like Melanie,
sympathised with all his serious thoughts and
disappointed aspirations, and this helped him
to endure an existence of the hopeless monotony
of which he was often well nigh weary.

Musgrave regarded her admiringly. She was
graceful with a natural grace — having in every
action of her petite figure the bearing and
movement which are inborn and cannot be
acquired, and which are really a combination
of freedom and propriety — innocence and softness
of disposition.

Poor Reggio ! " thought she suddenly, while,
attracted by an almost reproachful expression in
his eyes, she again drew near him, followed by
Musgrave, who held out a hand, and said abruptly,
with a light smile :

Don't you remember me?"

"Musgrave of the Hussars — of course I do
now," said Reggio.

And you — you are the Lieutenant of the Ibis
gunboat."

"Whose life you saved at MacNeill's Serena."

"Yes — a devil of a bit of mismanagement that; I
wonder that one of us left the place alive. Well —
the world is a small place after all ! " added Mus-grave,
as they shook hands, and a bright expression
spread over the usually grave face of the invalid.

g2

"Have a cigar, ' r continued the Hussar, proffering
a handsome silver case; "we are fresco —
the ladies cannot object. You'll know the brand —
I get them straight from Havannah."

Thanks — I was in the serena with the Naval
Brigade," said young Talbot sadly.

And what occurred ? " asked Sir Brisco.

"When the square was forced, and the few

mounted vedettes burst through it for shelter,

there rolled behind them a human tide of yelling,

howling, and ferocious Arabs — a black mass,

picked out here and there by their flashing

weapons, accompanied by a strange sound, the

crackling of the branches and brushwood through

which they rushed upon us. Then came the wild

stampede of baggage animals— horses, camels, and

mules. I was at the edge of the square, and many

others were borne to the ground, while over us

swept the Arabs, hewing like fiends or madmen,

i
right and left ; with their long cross-hilted swords,

slashing at camels and men alike in that gory

shamble, from which there went up a shout of

agony and despair that might make a man wake in

his sleep for years to come, and which I hope may
haunt the useless bodies to whom we owed it all,"
continued Eeginald, his eyes sparkling as he
recalled that terrible scene. " The Arabs were
among us and over us like wild-fire, hamstringing
the baggage animals right and left — it was a
mighty wave of kicking, biting, and plunging
brutes, amid the dying and the dead, struggling to
escape. A camel was killed over me, and lying
there helpless, without a wound, I must have been
butchered by the Arabs, had not Musgrave, whose
horse was killed under him, rushed up, cut a
passage through the press with his sword, and
borne me into the Berkshire serena, where the
soldiers, taken by surprise, were fighting back to
back in their shirt sleeves ; and but for Musgrave I
must have perished, for I was doubly helpless, my
sword blade having been broken in my hand in
the first of the Arab rush."

What a scene it must have been ! " exclaimed
Sir Brisco.

Pandemonium broken loose would be a joke
compared to it," said Musgrave, laughing.

"How shall I — how shall we ever be able to
thank you ? " asked Melanie, as she laid her hands
on Musgrave's arm, while looking at him with
inexpressible sweetness in her eyes. " Reggie
never told us of this terrible episode till now."

He is a modest man, you see," replied Mus-grave,
smiling down at the speaker.

I was very different then, Musgrave, from
what I am now," said Talbot, somewhat mournfully.


I heard of your case, and your being invalided
home ; but you will get over all this, old fellow, I
hope."

Never — never ! " replied Reggie, and he shook
his head sadly — so sadly that Melanie felt her
heart wrung for him, and announced that now
they must return home.

"Have I your permission to call at Rose
Cottage?" asked Sir Brisco, in a low voice, and
with diffidence and hesitation.

I am at home in the afternoon generally,"
replied Melanie, growing somewhat pale with annoyance,
as she foresaw all that permission might

include ; " but," she added, " my uncle is in town
just now."

When he returns then, I shall leave a card —
we are neighbours, you know — though you deem
me but a mere acquaintance — after all," he added,
in a lower tone, which made her grow paler still,
while her eyes drooped.

"Come with Captain Lonsdale, he knows Uncle
Grimshaw," said Melanie, feeling a little desperate.
" And Eeggie will, I am sure, always be
glad to see you," she added to Musgrave ; " you
will have so much in common to talk about."

A covert glance, full of sweetest meaning, was
exchanged (unseen by others) between Melanie and
Montague Lonsdale, and the parties separated,
where the narrow wooded pathway joined the
high road, the Hussar dragging the wheel-chair of
Eeggie, Dick shoving behind, and Bingo in an
ecstasy of barking by his side. To the Royal
Hussar there was certainly a novelty in this new
work ; but it had in it that which someone describes
as "the delightful sense of doing or
playing at something, which survives with most

people from their childhood, and the indulgence
whereof seems, for a time, to hiring that childhood
back, with its inconsequence, enjoyment, and free
happiness." And when Uncle Grimshaw did
return, he heard of the rencontre with pleasure, and
rubbed his hands in the exuberance of his satisfaction.
But to Melanie, the joy that Lonsdale was
so near her was overclouded by the knowledge of
whose guest he was there.

HORACE Misgave.

Before breakfast time next day, two bouquets,
beautifully selected and made up, arrived at Eose
Cottage, where Amy was staying for a few days in
the absence of Mr. Grimshaw.

One was from Montague Lonsdale, with a lover-like
note for Melanie, and the other, which was
chiefly rosebuds and lily of the valley, was for
her friend, with the card of " Captain Horace
L. L. Musgrave, Royal Hussars " ; and Amy
coloured with pleasure, and not a little vanity,
to the roots of her thick dark hair, on finding
that the donor had remembered, that which
had almost been forgotten, that she had named
particularly these as her favourite flowers. So
trifles make the sum of human things.

L. L. — what do these letters stand for ? "

asked Amy ; but Melanie was too intent on
Lonsdale's note to hear her question.

But Amy could little foresee what pain and
trouble in the future these fatal initials were to
cost her !

The satisfaction of Uncle Grimshaw at the
expected visit of his neighbour, the baronet, was
somewhat clouded when he heard from Dick of
who was one of the guests at Eavensbourne.

The deuce ! " thought he. " Is that fellow
there ? Is not the world wide enough to keep
these two fools apart a little more ? Complications
are sure to come about, and if Sir Brisco
learns the footing on which this holiday captain
is with Melanie, all chance of him will be lost
for ever." ,

And he darted an angry look at his niece, who
now, with many a sigh — but not of repining —
had to consider again all the small economies,
the petty contrivances, and small shifts incident
to " genteel poverty," for such life was at *Bose
Cottage after all the expensive wants and tastes of
Uncle Grimshaw had been considered.

With regard to the affair of Melanie and
Captain Montague Lonsdale, the guardian uncle
was tolerably quiescent just now. He knew the
full extent which remained of that officer's leave
of absence— little more than a month now; he
had reckoned every day thereof, and hoped that
when Lonsdale departed for India, or Burma
or wherever he was bound, they would see the
last of him ; and then must come the time to
put the due pressure on Melanie, should she
still prove refractory. And in these views Mrs.
Chillington somewhat impatiently coincided.

Indeed, the note which came with the bouquet
contained a sentence which seemed somewhat
of a death-knell to poor Melanie. No quiet staff
appointments were to be had just then, and if
there were, he could not apply for one, as his
regiment was now under orders for foreign service
in Burma.

And even were it otherwise, and he could
marry her and take her out to share his
bungalow in some remote Indian cantonment,
to what might not the helpless Pieggie, and the

almost equally helpless Dick, who could not work
and must not want, be subjected by an uncle
so selfish, and annoyed that by such a marriage
she had lost Sir Brisco's wealth, and left the two
upon his hands.

The girl felt herself in a coil, another twist
of which seemed to close round her when, the
day after her uncle's return, Eose Cottage was
visited by Sir Brisco Braybrooke, though accompanied
by his two guests. Had he known all,
doubtless, he would have come alone.

Certainly Mr. Gideon Grimshaw, late of Birchinin
Lane, though affecting oddly, unsuitably, and at
second-hand, certain airs from those men he now
met at his club, was not precisely the kind of
friend or companion Sir Brisco would have
chosen ; but the end the latter had in view
made him warm, kind, and hospitable in his
manner, as to a neighbour whose society he was
resolved — and would be delighted — to cultivate.

On the other hand, Mr. Grimshaw was well
aware of the old baronet's £20,000 per annum,
which, with all the concomitants thereof, proved

quite enough to ensure almost servile favour and
fervour from him ; and now some of the baronet's
sunshine seemed to fall even on the unfortunate
Reginald, then — as usual when indoors — stretched
upon a couch.

If you are a reader, my young friend — "
began Sir Brisco, rising after the visit had become
too protracted for Melanie's patience.

I am — a great reader," replied the invalid ;
I have little else to occupy my time."

"Then the library at Eavensbourne — rather
a choice one — is heartily at your disposal."

Oh, thanks — so much."

•' And then, whenever she chooses, your sister,
Miss Talbot, can select for you when you cannot
come personally."

Melanie bowed coldly, and with a distinct shade
of annoyance, unseen by Sir Brisco, who departed
homewards with his morning-coat adorned by a
pretty button-hole — stephanotis and maidenhair
fern — given by Melanie, at his request ; and his
thoughts were so absurdly full of the fair donor
thereof that he could not help displaying it with

peculiar satisfaction to Montague Lonsdale, on
whom she had deemed it unwise to bestow another,
under her uncle's cold and glittering eyes.

Poor Sir Brisco had not the most remote
suspicion that there was more than the merest
acquaintanceship between Melanie and his guest
Lonsdale ; nor did he detect it in the future.
The couple kept it a profound secret so far as
their bearing in public was concerned, of course ;
and certainly for obvious reasons neither Aunt
Chillington nor Mr. Grimshaw were likely to
enlighten him in the matter ; and the latter,
until Lonsdale's departure from Eavensbourne,
at least, was not anxious that there should be
much visiting between that place and humble
Eose Cottage.

Eeginald Talbot remarked that Amy's deep
interest in Melanie' s lover was considerably
blended with another interest in his friend the
Hussar, many of whose simple remarks, little
compliments, and even mere commonplaces, she
repeated more than once, as if they seemed to
have impressed her.

With the sharpened intelligence peculiar to the
ailing, or the silent watcher, he was not slow
to observe too how Amy tenderly and lovingly,
with her quick little hands, disposed of Musgrave's
bouquet in a vase of water, as if wishing carefully
to preserve every leaf and flower thereof to the last.

When Horace Musgrave came again, after an
interval, with Lonsdale, on pretence of bringing
some book for him, he saw how Amy's colour
heightened and her manner changed, and felt
subtlety how he himself became a second figure
in the canvas of her picture; and how, though
she was never less kind, her friendly petting of
him ceased. He felt it all instinctively, and with
growing pain ; yet, what was he, to have the
place a lover would occupy in a young girl's heart ?

She became very silent after Musgrave's departure,
and seemed solely intent on fashioning
a mysterious affair in coloured silks for a charity
bazaar.

Reginald's eyes had a sad, yearning, and wistful
expression in them whenever they fell on the
downcast face of the girl, who seemed to have

enjoyed herself with an effort under his glance,
who he actually felt glad was going home to
Stokencross, though the distance was trifling,
and whom he startled by tossing impatiently
aside the hooks Musgrave had brought him.

You look tired, Reggie," said she, " and
yet—"

I have not been walking, you would say,"
he interrupted, glancing at his half-useless limbs.
'well, I am tired — tired in heart, in mind and
body ; even death would be a relief, I think, from
such a life as mine ! "

What has come to you, Reggie ? " whispered
Melanie, putting one arm round him caressingly.

Well," said he, with a forced smile, " I was
only thinking that you women are like mackerel,
as we used to say in the Ibis — fond of scarlet bait
yet they like blue sometimes."

The Hussars wear blue," said Dick, mischievously
; " don't I just wish I were an
Hussar ! "

Amy now grew pale as the boy spoke.

On the other hand, the bearing of Reginald

Talbot and Amy sorely exercised the mind of
Musgrave, who speedily detected something of
petulance in the former.

Can she — a creature so full of vitality, of
energy, and girlish beauty — think of binding
herself to an invalid — to the future and hopeless
life of a sick nurse ? It i| impossible ! " he
muttered, as he sucked viciously at his briar-root ;
in a year she would be eating her heart out."

Occupied by their own thoughts — Montague
Lonsdale of his impending departure, and his
hampered engagement with Melanie, with whom
he continued to have many a meeting now ; the
baronet of his — as yet baffled wishes in the same
quarter ; and Horace Musgrave in the ardour of
a grand passion, his first, let us hope, of that
kind, for Amy Brendon, they were not very lively
society for each other in such a huge barracks
as Eavensbourne Hall, till other friends came,
and the movements of the two military friends
could be less remarked.

Lonsdale was soon able to perceive that, although
Reginald Talbot and Musgrave must have had many

VOL. I. H

sympathies and topics in common concerning their
recent service in Egypt, the former did not affect
the society of the latterj^nuch ; but seemed rather
to avoid it.

And Reginald discovered incidentally, with many
a pang, that on several occasions when Amy did
not, as was her wont, appear at Rose Cottage,
the Hussar had ridden over to the Vicarage, and
had spent there many an hour or so with Dr.
Brendon, a bookish old gentleman, whose society
could scarcely be deemed the sole attraction of
such visits to a young cavalry officer !

What did it all mean ?

Only this, that a new and subtle sense of delight
had come over the hearts of Amy and of Musgrave,
who seemed a thoughtful, earnest, and good style
of young fellow ; and who, apart from the usual
bearing, polish, and air of the cavalry man, had
many good and sterling qualities of hedxi and heart.
Thus the simplicity, freshness, and innocence of
Amy, with her brightness and childlike espieglerie,
charmed him beyond any girl in the world he
moved in.

He seemed to feel his soul swell suddenly within
him when some chance word fell from her lips,
or when her bright dancing eyes, the colour of
which he could scarcely determine — unless they
were like dark purple pansies — met his, but coyly
now, for she knew he 'loved her, and their
expression became more yearning, childlike, and
soft ; while he was never weary of holding her
little white hands in his, caressingly, and telling
her how dear to him she had suddenly become.

All she had read of in novels and tales — all
the bright day dreams of a young girl's heart —
seemed achieved and summed up now ; all the
more so, that "Horace — dearest Horace," was
every way acceptable to her parents, and she
had not to play the double game allotted to poor
Melanie ; and though some brief separation from
Horace might come, she had none to fear then,
and all went merry with them.

To Amy it seemed, as Wordsworth says : —

He spoke of love, such love as spirits feel,
In words whose course is equable and pure ;

No fears to beat away, — no strife to heal, —
The past unsigned for, and the future sure.

h2

Yet there was nothing of the spiritual in Horace
Musgrave — a manly young fellow who rode straight
to hounds; was a prime bowler and oarsman; a
matchless round dancer, and was great at tent-begging,
polo, lemon slicing, tilting at the ring,
and many other things, which Amy was to see
in the time to come.

And yet, though to the world about him Horace
Musgrave seemed but a heedless young officer, he
brought her books to read that showed his taste
in literature, and opened up even to her a new
realm of romance and poetry. He could also
speak well ; of the wonders he had seen in the
land of the Sphinx ; and with more than a
tourist's eye of pictures and sculpture in Some
and elsewhere ; and of chivalry and heroism in
the olden time — though, sooth to say, that heroism
did not surpass much that he had witnessed and
undergone in the burning deserts of the Soudan.

But he found a new experience in Amy Brendon.
She was such a sweet little Desdemona, into whose
ears to pour the tales of much that he had seen,
and though, like most Englishmen, he disliked

talking about himself, and felt it safer to extol
the valour and adventures of his comrades, and
how many a Victoria cross they won, yet Amy,
for him, indulged in a species of hero-worship that
was very attractive indeed.

OF ALL THE Flowers OF FAIR ENGLAND.

Though well-used to the life of visiting in ordinary
English country houses — so delightful when the
party gathered is well-assorted — that at Ravens
would have bored — nay, perhaps did bore
Montague Lonsdale, whose only solace was his
suddenly discovered vicinity to' Eose Cottage, and
his meetings with Melanie, meetings preferred to
the visits grudgingly permitted by Mr. Grimshaw,
and which had to be indulged in with the caution
of two conspirators, for the eyes and suspicions
of bumpkins are keen, and go a long way indeed.

The circle at Eavensbourne was rather a heavy
one, as Sir Brisco Braybrooke, though popular
with a set of old " fogies," was much less so
with young men, for, though a confirmed bachelor

apparently, he had not an element of "fastness"
about him.

Writing of visits to country houses, Lord
Beaconsfield, .in one of his novels, asserts that
Sundays there are apt to degenerate into dull
walks and heavy meals, and that in some houses
there is a week of Sundays ; and so, unless you
can divide your whole time between eating and
walking, your occupation is gone. " The host,
with praiseworthy compassion, comes to your
assistance, constitutes himself a local guidance,
marches you through the gallery, into the library,
up and down the hall, up the staircase, and into
all sorts of odd corners, telling you of the subjects
of his old masters, nine out of ten of which
are preposterous copies, and narrating to you
the story of each of his obscure and ignoble
ancestors."

Family vanity not being a weakness of Sir
Brisco, he did not fall back upon that line ; but
he was somewhat vain of the Hall, and proud of
asserting that the little tributary of the Thames,
that ran thereby, was the true Eavensbourne

(and not the other in Pension Common), which
was discovered in the time of Caesar, when he
encamped his troops there, then in great need
of water. Observing that a raven frequently
alighted near the camp, and conjecturing that
it was for the purpose of quenching its thirst,
he desired the bird to be watched and the spot
noted. This was done and the result was as
Caesar anticipated. The object of the raven's
resort was the little runnel that trickled through
the dense underwood, where a supply was found
for the Woman legions, and from that circumstance
the runnel was named, in after years, the-even's
Bourne, or brook ; and to this legend Montague
Lonsdale had to listen more than once.

Another way of getting through the time, on a
country visit, is letter-writing, and the number of
letters guests write, or say they have to write,
when in other people's houses, is somewhat
remarkable ; but go into their rooms, and they
will probably be found immersed in Muche's last,
or asleep in an easy chair.

Luncheon would come, and in anticipation of

meeting with Melanie, Lonsdale's whole object
was how to steal away alone, for he was loth —
oh, sadly loth — to lose one of the few opportunities
that now remained to him ; for she, too,
like Uncle Grimshaw (but from a very different
point of view) was reckoning every day of his
leave of absence.

There were no lady visitors just then at Heavens
it being a bachelor's house; so, though
there were picture corridors, a billiard room, and
conservatories, there was no one to flirt with,
even for those who were that way disposed. There
was plenty of riding, of course ; but the cub-hunting
and shooting days had yet to come ;
and it seems a kind of habit in country houses,
that if you play at anything — cards, chess, or
billiards, those who neither ride, shoot, ramble,
nor flirt hang about one's game, look over one's
shoulder, taking a wonderful interest in every
stroke or move, till the boredom is over and the
pleasant visit " is ended.

So, at Eavensbourne, but for the vicinity of
Melanie, Lonsdale would have agreed with what

Madame de Steel said, that travelling is — " le plus
triste plaisir de la vie."

My poor darling, it is both heartless and
cruel of your uncle to threaten you with the
expulsion — for it is no less— of Eeginald from
his house, because you have engaged yourself tome,
Melanie," said Lonsdale, at one of the stolen
meetings referred to.

It was a lovely July evening — a sweet and calm
one ; they were under the beech trees in Ravens
Wood, and she was seated on a fallen, or
hewn down log, one end of which was half-hidden
by a luxuriant wild rose-bush that grew around it.
• Lonsdale looked intensely annoyed, and Melanie
looked sorrowful, ashamed perhaps of her unwise
admission, and sorely perplexed, as it was calculated
to fire his pride and sense of justice.

As he gazed on her now, in his loving eyes
she seemed like a bright-coloured vision to him
her dark eyes sparkling, her cheek slightly
flushed, the pale yellow plaiting of thick lace
that trimmed her light summer costume — one
that made her seem taller than she really was—

showing deep against the pure whiteness of her
slender throat and unloved hands.

"Cruel indeed," assented Melanie, after a pause,
"when we consider how poor Reggie is the victim
of circumstances, of unrequited service, and how
his terrible helplessness came upon him. Yet
times there are when uncle has threatened to
send him away T to some institution ; and then I
know not what I should do — what I should do,"
she repeated, clasping her hands ; " the shame
and humiliation of such a measure would break
the poor boy's heart, and how should I be without
poor helpless Eeggie, and he without me?"

Now it was that Lonsdale felt envious of Sir
Brisco's wealth, and thought sadly, that even if
Melanie became his wife, she could not take
Reggie about the world with her ; but he remained
silent for a time, and full of tender est sympathy
for the affectionate girl.

"Mr. Grimshaw — pardon me, Melanie — is a
hard-hearted old wretch ! " he exclaimed.

"Do not speak quite so disparagingly of him,"
urged the gentle Melanie; "consider, Montague,

there are three of us thrown on his hands, that
he is not rich now, and the little that he has — "

"He would rather spend upon himself."

Perhaps. It is natural, I suppose."

After another pause, Lonsdale said :

"I shall be a year away, Melanie; and by that
time my promotion in the regiment is certain."

"A year — a whole year — oh, what may not
happen in that time ! " said the girl, with a
broken voice.

Let us not think of it yet awhile, but be happy,
oh, my darling, while we may."

A silence ensued between them now. Nothing
was heard but the rustle of the leaves overhead
and faint sounds from the distant village, and
from rowers on the river ; and through a break
in the trees they could see the silver current of
the latter as it wound away between fields of
golden grain. i

You have not been at Rose Cottage for three
whole days," said Melanie.

Mr. Grimshaw is so uncordial — by Jove ! he is
barely civil to me. Why is he so ? "

Melanie knew too well why.

I would not, and should not endure him,"
said Lonsdale, almost bitterly, " but that you,
Melanie, are my hope, my life, my all ! Oh, how
I love you, my own ! "

He drew her to him, and kissed her tenderly,
softly, and then passionately ; but as he did so, a
little gasping cry of alarm escaped her, and she let
fall some wild roses she had gathered.

See ! " she exclaimed.

Crossing a meadow, leisurely, at some distance
from them, were Sir Brisco Braybrooke and her
Uncle Grimshaw, who had been ceremoniously
returning the visit of the former, by whom he was
being accompanied through the grounds towards
the private gate in the lane already referred to.

"It would have been well for you, Melanie, if
we had never, never met ! " said Lonsdale, in a
tone of sorrow, love and irritation curiously
mingled.

"Why?"

Your beauty must have won you a more wealthy,
if not a more worthy, love than such an unlucky

devil as I. You might have become independent of
Mr. Grimshaw, able to further the interests of your
brothers, and never have known — "

"What it was to have your love, Monti — oh,
dearest, do not speak of me in that mercenary
way," pleaded the girl, with quivering lips and
tears in her eyes. " I have never yet thought of
myself."

"Did he but know — did he but know all ! " she
thought, recalling the offers of Sir Brisco, and the
words he had uttered at Chillington Park. But
that was a mortifying secret, which she was resolved
her lover should never know.

They are coming this way — dear Monti, leave
me," said Melanie, imploringly and in haste.
"Why so?" he asked.
Oh, can you ask me?"
But your uncle knows of our engagement."
"And the other tiresome old man does not."
Sir Brisco — what does it matter ? "
"He will think it odd, our meeting thus and in
his woods — and Uncle Grimshaw I know would be
furious."

"Perhaps you are right, so good-bye till
tomorrow, my darling." And, greatly to the
relief of Melanie, he rose, left her, and dived into
the coppice, while Melanie fled like a startled fawn
towards a path that led to the cottage, while from
a vista between the trees, Montague Lonsdale
watched her light floating dress as long as he could
see it, and he sang softly to himself :

Of all the flowers of fair England,
The. fairest flower is she !

Then he leisurely scraped a match on the stem of a
bush, lit a cigar, and slowly joined the two
loiterers.

Had they seen the speedy parting ?

Surely not ; yet to Lonsdale it seemed that Mr.
Grimshaw, at least, was curiously piqued and
reserved in his manner towards him.

But what to me, my love — but what to me ?"

Love's Labour Lost.

Reginald Talbot felt just now that a kind of
change had come over the tenour of his life, and
that he was now more left to himself than was
wont to be the case. Melanie was often with
Lonsdale, or occupied in writing to him, and Amy
Brendon's visits to Eose Cottage were now paid at
longer intervals, and were more brief in their
duration, and his sad heart foreboded the reason
why.

In his solitude, his thoughts ever ran jOn sunny
days long gone — of his boyish career — of his ship
and his messmates; of hopes that were brilliant,
of passionate and heartfelt longings, of memories
that were regretful and sweet, of all that was now

and all that might have been but for the present
death in life that had come upon him !

In her he had always had a good and patient
listener to his yarns, and more especially in his
young brother Dick, who listened open-mouthed,
and was never weary of hearing how, when
becalmed in the tropics for days, the sea and sky
were like molten brass, with a cloudless burning
sun blazing overhead, in the light of which every
rope and spar seemed to twist like serpents, and if
a deck seam were touched, the pitch bubbled out of
it ; the crew naked to the waist, worn with the
hauling round of yards, and sick of box-hauling to
catch a breath of air, while with moistened finger,
the lieutenant of the watch tried to detect if there
was a current abroad ; or what was better suited
to Dick's taste, Eeginald's fight with a brown bear
on the coast of Japan, when he choked him by
thrusting a brandy bottle down his throat; or
better still, how the Ibis, with the Condor, and
other gunboats, lay off Fort Marabout at the
bombardment of Alexandria, throwing in shot and
shell after Seymour's signal flew from the

VOL. I.

Alexandra, and then, as at that other cannonade of
which Campbell sang —

Each gun,
From its adamantine lips,
Cast a death shade round the ships,
Like a hurricane eclipse
Of the sun !

Now this life was all over and done with ! and
now even Dick was generally absent, after rooks
and sparrows, with the little fowling piece which
Lonsdale had, as Melanie thought, unwisely given
him ; and he was always attended by bob-tailed
Bingo, for whom Sir Brisco's keepers were quietly
on the look-out.

Reginald found that he failed to interest Amy in
any way, as of old ; and so occupied was she with
the new thoughts that filled her heart with the
sunshine of love, that she failed, for a time at least,
to notice the change that had come over her invalid
friend.

Times there were, before that other came, when
she had seen his grave and handsome face light up
at her approach, or when it turned to hers, when
beneath the hopeless and imploring passion of his

handsome eyes, her own had more than once
drooped shyly and coyly, and while her heart
vibrated to his soft and alluring voice, it trembled
with a fear of the hopeless emotions she might be
exciting ; but even the fear of that was forgotten
now apparently.

You are very silent, Eeggie," said she one day,
as she brought him some choice flowers from the
Vicarage,

"Am I ? " he asked, curtly and strangely.

And not lively company to-day," said Amy,
with one of her sweetest smiles.

Perhaps."

No, indeed. Why so sad — why so silent ? "

Because I have been thinking — thinking too
much, it may be."

"Of what?"

"Of you, Amy," he replied, as an uncontrollable
emotion came over him.

Something pleasant, I hope," said she, playfully,
and yet with some dread in her mind.

It is, at all events, something. I — I know not
how to tell you," said he turning uneasily on his

i2

couch. " Something I never said to a woman
before, and am not likely ever to say to another'*
he added, slowly, tremulously, and then paused.

And this — ? " she murmured, tremulously
too, and feeling confusion in her heart.

Cannot be said now," exclaimed Reginald,
sinking back, and thinking. "I am mad to yield
to such ideas, and here he comes, as usual!" he
muttered bitterly, as Horace Musgrave came in,
with his bright smiling face, his well bred bearing
and his cavalry stride.

Unwelcome though the visitor was to him,
Eeginald was almost thankful for the interruption.

He dared not speak of love to her, he thought,
yet his eyes and heart were ever full of it. What
was he that he should venture to do so ? What
had he to offer or hope for but death, as a release
from everything ? And yet he loved her — Oh, God,
how he loved her ! To look upon her, to hear her
voice, to feel the touch of her gentle hands, to meet
her eyes, and to be sensible of her presence, the
perfume of her laces and of the flowers at her
breast and neck.

The hopeless love of the half-dead, he felt it to
be.

Soon after the arrival of Horace Musgrave,
whose health and strength, muscle and activity,
with his generally joyous though quiet bonhomie,
proved almost oppressive to the invalid sailor now,
Amy rose to return home, and the Hussar offered
to escort her.

As they passed through the garden, lingering fora
moment or two to pluck a flower, Eeginald, whose
couch was near an open window, heard Musgrave
say, while bending over his companion tenderly :

You are looking pale, Amy."

"Ami?"

Yes — it is the heat, perhaps."

Oh no, dear."

Amy and dear ! The words seemed to pierce
Eeginald Talbot's ear. No stranger had ever called
her by her Christian name before — and there washer
response. He almost ground his teeth. This
was but the beginning of the end, and he felt that
now each thought of her must be crushed down as
it arose.

Was this suddenly developed new state of affairs
reality or fancy ? Till now, Amy Brendon had
always seemed somehow to be his, in thought, and
without her the world would appear without forma
void !

Touching of hands and meeting of eyes — and
Amy's were always so starry and softly caressing
in expression — were forbidden now — the sweet
madness and the day-dreams that were born of it
were over, and for ever. Yet the temptation
remained or abode with him, and when he
whispered her name — Amy ! Amy ! — it seemed to
thrill through him with mingled sweetness and
pain.

She was gone — gone with the lover whom she
had accepted, and who was able to take his place
in the world and in the battle of life ; but a sense
of her presence still hovered about the poor fellow
a clear memory of her — the turn of her adorable
neck, the lovely outline of her cheek and tiny ear ;
the droop of her white lids and the tout ensemble
of her perfect, but petite figure, seemed to meet him
again and again as he turned listlessly and

restlessly on his couch by the open window, from
which he had last seen her, and with Horace
Musgrave !

Was he the same creature — he to whom in his
naval career the enjoyment of health and of
youthful strength had seemed the sum of life —
whose heart had bounded in wild and heedless
triumph, when at the bombardment of Alexandria,
the first salvoes of the opening cannonade shook
the hot air, when those monster guns, such as the
world had never seen before, belched forth fire,
smoke, and a tempest of iron, and a dense
sulphurous cloud shrouded fleet and fort, while the
din of battle deepened from Marabout to Eas-el-Tin,
and roaring rockets and pestilent Nordenfeldts
added to the stupendous din.

Why did he not fall then ?

Why had Musgrave saved his life and dragged
him from amid the bloody press of dead and
dying on that night of horrors in McNeill's
serena, when the broad band of electric light from
the distant gunboat, swept so weirdly across the
desert where the gashed and the weary lay side by

side, and an odour of blood filled all the dusty
air? Better a thousand times had it been to
have met his fate there, than live to be the
wretched creature he was to-day — a dependant on
old Grimshaw's grudgingly accorded bounty.

Melanie would have wept for him, but Time, the
consoler, would have dried her tears, and he would
have been but a sad and loving memory to her
now. Yet it was his doom to live and linger, for —
as Matthew Henry tells us — "Duties are ours —
events are God's."

"Beggie is sorely changed!" thought Amy, a
little time after this. It was no idle fancy of hers,
conceived one moment to fade out the next ; fqr
the alteration of his manner, and the increased
gravity of his handsome aquiline face, were remarkable
and unmistakable ; and yet, as it there
was magic in it, he felt a difficulty in guarding his
secret — in avoiding the hopeless and now perilous
subject that filled his whole heart, and made up
the sum of his narrow existence ; and thus, on
another occasion, when Amy found him alone, he
nearly revealed all.

Tell me, Reggie," said Amy, softly and rather
rashly, " what is the matter with you ? "

With me ? What do you mean ? " he asked
in turn, but without looking at her.

I mean that something seems to have come
between us — a cloud ; you are not as you used to
be, and will not even play chess with me. Are
you ill?"

"Am I ever likely to be otherwise — till death
comes ? " he asked, with petulant bitterness ;
otherwise, I am not aware of any cloud."

"You have some fancy — what is it?" said Amy,
colouring with consciousness; but he did not reply,
and seemed intent on watching the sky.

We used to be good friends — the best of
friends — why are we otherwise now?" asked the
girl sweetly and sorrowfully, but still young Talbot
remained silent.

She treats me like a child — rather than a
man ! " thought he bitterly, pursuing his own
repining ideas. •

The light began to break more fully upon her
now, and she shrunk from it nervously. This

poor fellow — the playmate of her childhood — the
brother of her dearest friend on earth — loved her,
hopelessly loved her !

A sob rose to her slender throat.

"Amy," he exclaimed, turning his large, sad,
and now weird-looking dark eyes upon her,
you are weeping ? "

I am not."

"There are tears in your eyes and in your voice,
dear Amy."

Are there ? " she faltered ; " surely not— well,
if so — it is because — because you are so cross with
me, and I grieve that it should be so."

Why ? "

"Because I love you so much."

Love me?" said he in a hollow voice.

"Yes — as the dearest of friends," she replied,
hastily; "as the kindest of brothers — yet you
have begun to avoid me."

Can a creature so helpless as I either seek or
avoid ? " he asked, tugging at his ,dark moustache.

A silence that was full of a great awkwardness
and a great pain fell upon them. The summer

gloaming was deepening in its golden light and
purple shadows; the roses in the garden loaded the
air with perfume; the elms and beeches that grew
thereby tossed their branches in the soft breeze of
the mist, and long ferns waved their fronds to and
fro, and the hour seemed full of whispers, as Amy
rose, and in some haste, to take her departure
for home — knowing who would meet her on the
way.

Oh, it cannot be, it must not be, that you love
me more than a friend — more than a brother ! "
wailed the girl, in her kind heart, as she withdrew;
"poor fellow — poor darling Reggie — that
would be too terrible ! "

To Reginald it soon became apparent that
Musgrave's visits to the Vicarage became more
frequent and protracted, and that there was no
necessity for visiting Rose Cottage if he sought to
see Amy.

It was evident too that his visits were not
distasteful to the vicar, and still less so to little
Amy, who, ere long — though she did her best to
conceal it — appeared with a rose-diamond ring on

her tiny engagement finger, a jewel that told oi
the old, old story, which seemeth ever new."

It is wicked to repine, I suppose," sighed poor
Eeginald Talbot ; " it is the duty of all to bear the
hand of Providence patiently — yet it has been laid
heavily on me," he added aloud. " I am shattered
wrecked— borne down for life ! "

And knowing such to be the case," snorted
Uncle Grimshaw, who could not repress a stinging
remark, " what has brought that girl Amy Bren-don
here — what can her object have been ? "

Object — in what, uncle ? "

Hanging about you — a wretched cripple."

reginald's fine face grew ghastly pale, and his
nether lip twitched convulsively. He almost
started up from his couch, and then sank
back upon it, helpless and trembling in every
limb.

"How can you speak thus cruelly, uncle,"
exclaimed Melanie, " when you know that our poor
Reggio is beyond all medical skill ? "

"if so," he responded bitterly, but in a low voice
she could alone hear, "then the best place for him

is Stokencross Churchyard, since you won't help
him in the only way you can ! "

His speech filled Melanie with anguish and
horror ; and just then, with his side tufts rasped
upwards like two horns, and the pale, angry
glance that shone in his colourless eyes, he looked,
to the girl's idea, something actually diabolical !

AT RAVEN Bourne HALL.

Almost daily beautiful bouquets of rare flowers
and baskets of the richest fruit the conservatories
and forcing-houses of Eavensbourne Hall could
furnish, under the care of an experienced Scottish
gardener, came from there to Eose Cottage for
Miss Talbot.

Of the fruit, Eeginald resolutely refused to
partake (though Dick had no scruples on the
subject), believing their acceptance a species
of treason to Montague Lonsdale, whose devoted
ally he was. But under her present circumstances
what could poor Melanie do ? To have declined
the gifts would have seemed churlish and ungracious,
and would have moreover exasperated
her Uncle Grimshaw.

The latter, in his intercourse with the baronet,

ignored her engagement to Lonsdale ; thus Sir
Brisco never suspected such a thing ; and meanwhile,
Melanie and her fiance had, outwardly, to
act the part of the merest acquaintances — a
state of matters that was certain to lead to
complications.

A formal invitation to dinner at the Hall
soon came now, and Melanie was forced by her
uncle to accept it. Indeed, she had no real reason,
outwardly, for refusing, but to her it was intensely
obnoxious, all the more so perhaps because
Montague Lonsdale was there, and that there
had been some close correspondence lately between
Eose Cottage and Chillington Park ; and this,
she knew, could only refer to designs against the
peace of herself and her fiance.

The invitation included Reginald and even Dick;
but both declined ; the former, because he could
not bring himself to see Amy (who was to be
present with her parents) and Musgrave together ;
and the latter because he and Bingo had lately
come to grief," and been in dire disgrace with
the Bavensbourne keepers, especially since he had

received that unlucky gift from Montague Lonsdale,
a fowling-piece, which Dick carried about loaded,
in a way that had nearly been the death of more
than one of Her Majesty's lieges.

Sir Brisco sent the carriage for Melanie and her
uncle, who appreciated this act of attention greatly,
while old Dr. and Mrs. Brendon, with their
daughter, were left to make their way as they
might to Bavensbourne Hall, which was undoubtedly
a place of beauty. The trim shrubberies,
the brilliant flower-beds, the rosaries, the emerald
lawn, the old fish-pond, guarded by a stone
balustrade, with graceful swans and white water-lilies
floating on its dark bosom, the stately
peacocks, with their resplendent tails spread
out in the sunshine on the paved terrace, the
stone vases, full of lovely flowers, and overall
on its knoll the stately facade of the Hall
itself, all seemed to speak of wealth, rank, and
luxury, which left far, far in the distance, the
straw-roofed bungalow of poor Montague Lonsdale,
in a remote Indian cantonment.

Ah ! " snorted Uncle Grimshaw, to whom

some such thoughts naturally occurred, while
he glared at Melanie and then surveyed again
the mansion, " this is indeed one of ' the ancestral
homes of England.' Here you may learn what
ancestral means. I feel, as an Englishman,
that for such a home as this one might struggle,
fight, and die — "

"But not sell one's self, uncle," interrupted
Melanie, quietly, and receiving, behind her fana
very dark look indeed.

From mending gloves, re-fashioning dresses,
plotting and planning to make a sovereign go
the length of two, the aspect of all around herat
Ravensbourne, where the carriage drew up
at the stately perron, and a powdered valet put
down the steps, certainly was a relief in one sense,
but no temptation, to Melanie Talbot.

With the assistance of a maid — she had not
been so attended since Chillington Park had seen
her under the hands of Mademoiselle Clochette —
she and Amy were laughingly putting some
finishing touches to their costumes in a dressing-room,
and the former had prettily adjusted in her

VOL. I. K

dark braids and collarette of lace some simple
almond scented blossoms and maiden-hair ferns,
to her own extreme satisfaction, when there came
a knock at the door, and another maid appeared
with a pretty little basket of pale cream roses,
with " Sir Brisco's compliments to Miss Talbot."

Pretty pointed that — none for me ! " said
Amy, laughing ; " but these will suit your dress
admirably. Shall I take out the sprays ? "

By no means," said Melanie, with unconcealed
annoyance ; "I prefer the flowers I have."

She had received them that morning from
Lonsdale.

Poor Sir Brisco ; he will expect you to wear
his roses."

For that reason, as you very well know,
I won't," replied the wilful beauty ; and when
they entered the drawing-room, a cloud came over
the baronet's smiling face on seeing that his floral
gift had been rejected or neglected.

The party was small, but silent; the dull
interval filled up by commonplaces, which precedes
a dinner, passed quickly, to the relief of Melanie,

and in due time the gong was sounded — its notes

low, dismal, and rumbling, swelled upon the air,

making the spacious rooms re-echo with a swell

that became almost melodious ; then it died away,

and as the butler dropped the beater, Sir Brisco

gave his arm to Mrs. Brendon (all moire antique

with white lace), while Melanie and Amy were

paired off with strangers, who bear no place in our

story, and two and two, like the animals entering

the ark, the guests filed into the dining-room.

The dinner was like any other in such an

establishment, and, thanks to the skill of the

chef, and the care of Mrs. Mopps, the housekeeper,

wa s all that could be desired ; but while it

proceeded, through all its routine of entrees and

courses, Melanie was unpleasantly aware of how

her uncle watched her and Lonsdale, though

they were seated apart ; and she could see his

bald head shining, with his side tufts stiffer

than ever, with the gleam of his spectacles and

the Mephistopheles smile behind them — a smile

that boded only greed and mischief.

Sir Brisco did the honours of his table well,

k2

and looked even younger than his years in evening
costume, the waiter-like garb of civilisation ; and
though his moustache was white as snow, his
eyes were clear as steel, bright and penetrating,
and his teeth (if natural) white and well-formed
as those of a man of five-and-twenty.

Though quiet, and too gentlemanly in manner
to excite remark by his attentions, there was
a subtle something in the bearing of his host
towards Melanie which, but for the man's years,
might have excited more alarm in the mind
of Montague Lonsdale ; yet there was sufficient
to pique and annoy him, knowing as he did
the accessories of wealth and position possessed
by the baronet, though he could little suspect
that the latter had — in the proposal he had made
the girl, though that proposal had been rejected —
a point officier — a basis for future operations.

In fact, the old baronet continued to absorb
her time and attention whenever he could do so ;
and his impatience to join the ladies in the
drawing-room, when they all sailed thither, was
all but obvious, when the gentlemen were left

over their wine and walnuts " ; and secretly,
he was excessively bored by the vicar, who loved
to linger over his glass of port and talk politics,
being as keen on the subjects of Church and State
as if he had lived in the days of Squire Western ;
and like a bluff Tory of the old school, more than
once asserted that he could never sympathise with
a working man's candidate, who had to take his
clothes out of his uncle's care before he could
address the unwashed electors."

Sir Brisco would rather have heard his military
guests even talking " shop " — Musgrave of horses,
and Lonsdale of military life in Bengal.

How proud you must be of such a beautiful
old residence as this, Sir Brisco," said Mr.
Grimshaw, occupied still by one idea, as he
looked up at the marquette designs of the
dome shaped ceiling ; "it must make you disdain
most other places."

"That would be an ignoble pride," replied
Sir Brisco, smiling and toying with his wineglass,
while thinking, too probably, of Rose
Cottage.

"But there is a certain proper pride, born
of and with a good name," continued Mr.
Grimshaw, bent on flattery.

Yes — the pride that honestly rejoices in an
honourable race and lineage ; and that, if properly
and modestly maintained, is very different from
the absurd pride of the parvenu."

And Sir Brisco was right. He could, though
he never did so before, afford to talk thus. His
title was a creation by King James, eight years
after the latter succeeded to the throne of England,
and the first of the family ranked after Bacon
of Redgrave, Primus Baronettorum Anglia ; but
held his lands under a charter of Henry VIII.,
by the not unusual tenor then of finding clean
straw for his majesty's bed when he, the English
Blue-beard, sojourned in that quarter.

With all this, Sir Brisco was a much more
humble and meek man than an obnoxious and
intrusive neighbour, who was the terror of evildoers
as a magistrate and landholder, a retired
soap-boiler, of Bow, who — whatever his past name
may have been — now came forth as 

(as snobs affect hyphens greatly) — bought
old portraits as family ones, stuck someone's creston
his carriage, and boasted of his " ancestors
who fought at 'Hastings with William of Orange."

When the gentlemen rejoined the ladies, Melanie,
on whom were now the eyes of her lover as well
as her uncle, found it more difficult to avoid the
baronet, and, in attempting to do so, could get
no aid from either Amy or Mrs. Brendon, who
were somewhat occupied with the intended of
the former — the handsome Hussar — who was
soon about to leave them for his regiment, and,
to her motherly heart, was, of course, an object
of deepest interest, to the despair of more than one
mild curate," for whom she would work no more
slippers or smoking caps in the future.

And Horace Musgrave was somewhat the
pattern man even of his "crack" regiment.
All women, the mess averred, fell in love with
him : the matrons for their daughters' sakes
the daughters because they could not help
it ; and he was fixed at last by little Amy
Brendon, the belle of Stokencross Vicarage.

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

What a joke it is ! " thought Lonsdale, ashe
saw now that Amy, absorbed in his friend,
no longer amused her companions by her witty
sallies and wild speeches, or attended to the
compliments and pretty nothings of her many
admirers ; yet she made a charming picture just
then, with her soft, dreamy eyes fixed on
Musgrave's sunburnt face; hers so brilliant in
its colouring, her thick, bronze hair shot with
gold in the sunlight ; her lips sweet and sensitive,
softening the clear outline of perfect and minute
features.

PIQUE AND SUSPICION.

On this July afternoon, the tall French windows
of the drawing-room were open, and the curtains
of fine lace were gently stirred by the warm
evening wind ; the plash of the fountains in the
rose-gardens below the terrace was heard, and
the last song of a few birds made music in the
still sunny air.

Ere long the last of the sunlight died away ;
the moonlight spread like a silvery veil over the
landscape, and the jets shot up by the fountains
showed crystal, while the stately trees beyond
the shrubberies threw weird but graceful shadows
on the sward.

Melanie, who had been almost compelled to
play, now drew on her gloves in haste and left
the piano, where both Lonsdale and Sir Brisco
had hung over her.

Till then she had rigidly kept her hands gloved,
but when she played, the latter had detected
Lonsdale's engagement ring on " the mystic
finger," and almost changed colour, though of
course he said nothing ; while surmising had
Mrs. Chillington and Mr. Grimshaw deceived
him, or was Melanie deceiving them all ?

She had seen the direction of his gaze, and
nervously advanced to a window, whither he
naturally followed her.

"What a lovely moonlight scene!" she exclaimed,
on looking out ; " is it not so ? But
then those who see the beautiful always cease to
appreciate it."

I am not one of those," said he, softly, yet
with a glance so full of point, that Melanie paled
a little.

With the tiny white flowers among her rich
dark hair, a brown and feathery fringe of which
curled in soft rings over her brow, her lovely
arms and neck gleaming white from amid some
delicate old lace, Melanie seemed sweeter and
fairer than ever woman looked before in the eyes

of her young lover and his elderly rival, who
was then thinking, in fancy, how she would look
with the Braybrooke diamonds sparkling on her
breast, her throat, and brow — the same magnificent
diamonds his great grandmother had worn
at Court, when, in the days of " Farmer George, 1 '
she had been a maid of honour to Queen Charlotte,
who, as usual with her, coveted the said gems
sorely.

As he whispered to her there in the twilight,
apart from the rest in that vast apartment, Sir
Brisco hoped to win her — almost passionately,
for his years — hoped, but not with the eagerness
of youth or with the dawn of love revealing that
life had something in store for him hitherto
unknown.

She was beautiful, poor, and, so far as her
uncle was concerned, helpless, he knew ; and he
never doubted that with time, patience, and
perseverance, his wealth and position would win
her for him in the end — a bride more beautiful
by far than Ravensbourne had ever seen before.

Had Melanie Talbot been an heiress, his hopes

had been less confident, certainly; but there were
depths in her nature to which Sir Brisco had
no clue.

More than once, taking advantage of the situation,
and while a young lady was afflicting all
present with one of those rapid songs in which
all words are detestable, and which are certainly
a peculiarity of " the British drawing-room,"
he endeavoured to recur to what had
passed at Mrs. Chillington's lawn-tennis party;
but of that Melanie was nervously conscious,
and tried with all her skill, but often vainly,
to change the subject, for, with the coolness born
of years and experience, the baronet was pretty
pointed.

Still you avoid me, or would seek to, Miss
Talbot ? " he continued.

"In what way, Sir Brisco?" she asked, using
her fan quickly, but unconsciously.

Fate, with you, is strangely against me."
Please don't be melodramatic — how ? "
Every hour — every moment — I spend in your
society, perhaps unwisely for my own peace, sees

me falling deeper into the gulf from which no
hand but yours can save me."

How white, alas ! in the moonlight, his moustache
looked as he said this into the girl's
unwilling ear. He did not speak in a heartbroken
accent, certainly ; he was too old, too
case-hardened " for that, but, to Melanie, it
was terrible to listen to all this sort of thing.
She, the promised wife of another, w T hose eyes
were actually then upon her, but who — unfortunate
fellow ! — was then button-holed by the vicar on
our Indian policy, and the treason that surrendered
Cawnpore after wee had captured it.

Melanie had in her heart an emotion of dire
provocation.

k ' I have tried to forget you," Sir Brisco continued,
" but I might as well try to live without
brains or without a heart."

Melanie, in her worry and annoyance, used her
fan till it ruffled the curls of her fringe.

Oh ! how easy it seemed to make love in this
fashion, and fluently, at sixty years and more !

Not thus boldly had Montague Lonsdale let

the story of his love for her escape him, on an
evening never to be forgotten, in a time of supreme
joy and triumph, when they had, half-mutely or
brokenly, exchanged the secrets of their hearts,
and each felt a thrill — a passion — that had been
without parallel for them before or since.

Melanie now felt that by her uncle, who had
dragged her to Eavensbourne Hall, she was placed
in a ' false and humiliating position, which compelled
her to listen to the baronet's addresses'
when her distinct refusal of his offers elsewhere
should have raised a barrier between them and
placed their intercourse in society on a different
basis.

She did not raise her face to that of Sir Brisco,
as she felt conscious that it wore an expression
of trouble and anger ; and thus he mistook the
cause that made her long, dark lashes droop —
almost rest on her pale cheeks. |

"Will you think of what I have said before?
Will you think of what I have said now ? "
continued Sir Brisco, as if he had been offering
her some lucrative or eligible situation. "Probably

t

not," he added, detecting the expression of her
face.

You are wrong, Sir Brisco — I shall think of
you, and think kindly, as long as I live."

Kindly — and nothing more ? "

Nothing more," replied Melanie, curtly now.

"Why— oh, why?"

Do, Sir Brisco, let this subject cease."

I will not take this as a final answer."

Nor did he.

When Melanie left • the Hall to return home,
Montague Lonsdale felt piqued and angry —
vaguely annoyed. Under the eyes of her uncle
and those of their host, he found that Melanie
was not more than calmly and studiously polite,
declining to be cloaked or assisted by him. She
thought that he would know the reason why ;
but he did not, and began to fear, or attribute
her apparent coldness of manner to some change,
some new influence, and he recalled unpleasantly
the " subtle something " he had detected in the
bearing of the baronet at dinner.

To make matters worse, the latter presented

her with a bouquet of grand Gloire de Dijon roses,
just as he handed her into the carriage, and she
was constrained to accept them.

How you must laugh at our poor specimens
of these at the cottage," said she.

Do not say so. At the cottage there is one
rose I covet more than all the rest," replied Sir
Brisco, in a low voice ; but still Lonsdale heard
him.

Musgrave drove the Vicarage party home in a
trap, and Lonsdale was left for an hour or two in
the smoking room, over brandy and soda and
cigars, with their host, who, under the influence
of what he had imbibed at dinner and after it,
waxed unwisely communicative, and rather gave
the young officer a glimpse of the carte du pays.

Speaking of Melanie with a knowing air, he
quoted Cymbeline, as to her manner :

Oh, dissembling courtesy ! How £ne this
tyrant can tickle where she wounds ! "

Then he actually expatiated on her beauty and
goodness, her devotion to her helpless brother and
so forth, to Lonsdale, who sucked his Havannah

and listened in half amused and half sulky
silence.

I never, till I met her," said Sir Brisco, " had
much inclination for ' the holy state,' as it is
called, but better late than never, if 'Barks is
willing' ' ; don't you think so ? Besides, I have
read that it is a fact that a married man has a
better prospect of a long career than a- bachelor,
and that one of the latter, when near his end,
had this fact so impressed upon him, that he
had a clause inserted in his marital settlement,
adding to his wife's allowance for every year he
survived — good idea that — eh ! And I shall
certainly do the same with Melanie Talbot."

Pleasant to hear all this ! " thought Montague
Lonsdale.

"Yes," continued the baronet, lying back in a
lounging-chair, and pursuing his own bright
thoughts, as he watched the concentric rings
from his cigar curling upward, " our greatest
happiness consists in the love we give to others,
rather, perhaps, than in the love that is given tous.
We are told by someone that it is a pleasant

VOL. I. L

and gracious thing to be loved, even if we cannot
love in return, and that, I believe, is her case as
yet."

"What is the old fool thinking of now ? "
almost escaped Lonsdale, as he gave his mustachios
a vicious twist.

I wonder that you have not been smitten in
that quarter ! " said Sir Brisco, with a hearty
laugh. " But of course, with India before you,
and all that sort of thing, you can't settle* down
yet."

Eventually, the confidences of the baronet
rather enraged him ; but as he had not Melanie's
permission to avow his engagement beyond her
own family circle, he was compelled to remain
silent ; but he writhed under the prospect of
leaving behind him, when he went to India,
such a wealthy and probable suitor, to be favoured
by the mal-influence of Uncle Grimshaw.

He had observed the protracted conversation
in the recess of the moonlit, window ; a conversation
from which he thought Melanie might
have broken away. And how confidentially they

seemed to be talking there. He knew but too
well her guardian's opposition to his suit, and
could well suspect his too probable view of favour
for another ; and if that other meant — as he
doubted not — was the wealthy master of Ravens-bourne,
the nervous brevity of Melanie's farewell
(though in reality born of caution and fear)
seemed in some way accounted for ; and so — and
so — by degrees, and assisted by pique and anger,
he formed quite an indictment against poor
Melanie, and found innumerable flaws in her
conduct, for which he would duly punish her on
the morrow !

The lingering in the moonlit window seemed
to assume exaggerated proportions, and then he
knew that " in courtship, one thing has such a
knack of leading to another," while, as if to spur
his chagrin, Sir Brisco began again :

Of one thing, as regards means, I know that I

am assured of the entire favour of her guardian

and Uncle Grimshaw — good style of fellow, old

Grimshaw, is not he ? An old city man, as he isis

sure to value good settlements — a glittering

l2

future, and all that sort of thing," added Sir
Brisco, giving a leisurely glance of satisfaction,
even at the luxurious appurtenances of his
smoking-room.

"D — n ! " muttered Lonsdale, under his moustache;
"I should declare myself, and give him
a crusher — a curdle — but for Melanie's wishes ! "

He was not silly enough to feel actual personal
jealousy of Sir Brisco as yet, but he was keenly
piqued and alarmed. Knowing how Melanie was
circumstanced at home — if a home Bose Cottage
could be called for her — aware of the secret, open,
and cruel pressure that Mr. Gideon Grimshaw was
quite capable of putting upon her, Montague
Lonsdale was now filled with genuine anxiety
at the prospect of the future — of leaving her
behind him for a year, perhaps, in England.

JEALOUSY.

Next day, as Sir Brisco had to go to town,
Lonsdale had promised to take Melanie for a row
on the river.

A night did not soothe away the annoyance — it
amounted to jealousy now — of Montague Lonsdale:
the " trifles light as air" had assumed absurdly
colossal proportions ; and, thinking chiefly of how
he could contrive to shorten his visit to Ravens-bourne
Hall, he set out to keep his appointment
with Melanie, at their usual place and hour,
but with very mingled emotions in his heart
indeed.

How often we exhaust ourselves arming for
battles we are never called upon to fight !

So the worrying thoughts of Lonsdale coursed
through his mind again and again, with provoking

iteration ; but either he came too early or Melanie
was detained (his watch, he was certain, was
correct, which it was not), anyway, she was not
there, and, in a gust of ill-usage and ill-temper,
mortified and heart sore, dreading he scarcely
knew what — all the more so, as but a few days of
his leave remained ere he would have to report
himself at his depot — to pique and disappoint
Melanie, if she should come after all, he took a
boat from Sir Brisco's private boat-house, shipped
the sculls, and shot away up the river.

He had now, he thought, a new and distinct
clue to the reason why his engagement with
Melanie had become so eminently distasteful to
her uncle.

Infirm of purpose, even in his anger, he paused
with his sculls suspended in the air twenty times,
as his heart relented towards her and then grew
hard again when he thought of Sir Brisco's
bouquet of Gloire de Dijon roses and his overnight
confidences, and in a really senseless fit of
anger he pulled away, and left the vicinity of the
Ravensbourne grounds far astern.

Could he only have known that, apart from
having no control over the gift of the bouquet or
the revelations of the wine-loosened tongue of the
old baronet, the nervous abruptness of the adieu
at the Hall had dwelt painfully in the mind of
Melanie, as in his own, that it had cost her tears
behind her veil as the carriage bore her home, and
that she longed now, with all her soul, to "talk it
all over ' ' with him !

The scenery of the river, beautiful everywhere
above the ugly locale of London, is varied at that
season by many features not generally seen at
others. Between Oxford and the village of haddington,
every pretty cottage and mansion is fully
tenanted, and strawberry feasts and flowers at
these and the quaint, old inns, where signboards
still swing above the mossy horse-troughs,
meet the eyes of those who row up stream or
down ; and every nook seems to swarm with
pilgrims of pleasure thrown forth by the mighty
city.

The picturesque old lock-houses, festooned with
roses, Virginia creeper, sweetly-scented syringe,

and other flowers, are there ; the abodes of smart
young fellows who long to be able only to sleep in
the summer air, and take their morning "tub" in
the white, foaming weir below.

So, with muscular arms stripped to the elbow,
his sunburned neck divested of collar and tie, his
broad straw hat girt by a floating white puggree
that he had worn many a time round his helmet
in Chorister, and many a march up country,
Montague Lonsdale sullenly and nervously pulled
up the stream, revenging himself the while by
supposing what Melanie might be thinking when
he failed to keep his tryst (if she kept hers), and
finding a species of grim but transient pleasure
in the soft breeze that waved the tall grass
and the sedgy flags by the river-side, and rustled
overhead the crisp foliage that was so clearly
mirrored down in the glassy surface below.

Here and there were merry little parties, with
children camped out and enjoying all the glory,
abandon, and independence of a long day's pic-nic ;
but, after a time, in a silent part of the river,
where the banks were starred with golden buttercups,

and where the voices of the haymakers
in the fields, the sound of the sharpened scythe,
the clank of the scull in the iron row-lock, or
the strokes of the hour tolled from the ivied
tower of some old Norman church alone broke
the stillness ; and then for rest and change he
pulled the boat into a deep and shadowy place,
where the leaves of the old oaks rustled overhead,
and he took a pull at his flask of brandy-and-water,
preparatory to going ashore to have a sprawl
on the long, scented grass — there to lie, cigar
in mouth, and gaze into the blue sky above,
and — if possible — let bitter thoughts and all "the
world go slide."

Meanwhile Melanie had been a little late in
arriving at their appointed place, for she had
been unavoidably detained in the performance
of an act of kindness to Reginald.

Remembering all that had passed on the preceding
night, with all a girl's natural desire to
please, she had left nothing undone to render
herself attractive in her simple toilette — a white
dress that clung about her (but all her dresses

had a way of clinging), and sleeves that fell back
from her snowy and taper arms, and, as she went
along, she gathered a few of the flowers which
she knew Lonsdale admired, and smiled as she
thought how pleased he would be with even such
a trifling gift from her hand, and of the loving
words with which .he would meet and greet
her.

How well she loved him, and how her heart
yearned for him ; and, like every other girl under
the same pleasant circumstances, she felt certain
that Heaven had designed and specially made
them for each other.

But when she reached the place of meeting he
was not there.

It was a beautiful spot, with the river flowing

on one side, and shady vistas through the coppice

of grand old trees on the other. She waited and

watched with growing anxiety and surprise, yet

l
he came not.

Could either of them have mistaken the time,

the place, or the way thereto ? Could she have

passed him ? Impossible !

Loth to return, to leave the loved spot without
a meeting and explanation, she waited and
watched, her fond heart heating anxiously, fora
longer period than she knew, till she looked
at her watch, and was astonished to find that
more than an hour and a half had fled, and
she was turning slowly, sadly, and lingeringly
away, when she heard sounds — voices —
sounds that seemed to turn her to stone.

The hush of health and anticipation left her
face ; her lips grew white and a kind of moan
escaped them. Why ?

She saw Montague Lonsdale in heating costume,
with neck and arms hare, his face hent over that
of a tall and handsome girl. Could she doubt
for a moment who that girl was ? Hilda
Tremayne — that notorious flirt * and coquette,
who had spoken of him hy his Christian name,
and boasted to her of their intimacy in India —
Hilda, with her bright golden-brown hair, her
long lashes and sleepy yet alluring hazel eyes, her
full red lips, her rounded cheeks, graceful and
voluptuous form.

He was bending over her, his hands, to all
appearances, caressingly among her hair, while
the boat in which they were seated drifted
swiftly with the downward tide and current, till
it was borne out of sight by a bend or reach of
the river.

This was a dreadful, a crushing revelation to
Melanie.

"Does he profess to love me, and yet meet
her ? He has duped me — betrayed me ! "
muttered Melanie. "Oh, can it be, as Aunt
Chillington says, that all men — soldiers especially
are alike ? "

All the terrible reputation of Hilda Tremayne
for coquetry rushed upon her memory. So
great was the shock that, for a time, all power
of thought, of sensation and volition, seemed
to leave her, and she stood as if frozen to
stone, and angry convictions rushed upon her,
with pain that amounted to agony and mortification.


Her slender hands were clasped in front of
her, the fingers interlaced, the white palms

turned outwards in that manner which certainly
tells of the extension of the mind within,
while her very features became hard and distorted
by the weight of her thoughts, as she bent her
steps slowly homeward.

There, ere long, her dejection, even her tears and
abstraction, were detected, and fiercely derided by
Uncle Grimshaw, who shrewdly suspected the
cause — that Lonsdale had resented the attentions
of the baronet, even as host. Confound his
military impudence to do so !

When taxed as to all this, Melanie could only
weep in silence, which her uncle took for assent.

"Well," said he, with a malevolent and triumphant
grin, " when you now see what a horrid
temper and jealous spirit this military spark of
yours has, and the foul duplicity of which he is
capable, perhaps you will come to your senses,
be inclined to ponder over my good advice, and
think better of the splendid future now opening
for you at Eavensbourne Hall — eh ? "

Sir Brisco might be my grandfather. I ama
girl," said Melanie, with a shiver of annoyance.

"And like too many girls, don't know your
own mind, or what is for your good. Twenty
thousand per annum, ye gods ! does not often
get a refusal — rather more than your beggarly
Anglo-indian fellow can offer ! " he continued,
bitterly and coarsely. " You have been mad, I
think, for your own interests, and most cruel to
your brothers. Anyway, just now, be as suave
as you can to Sir Brisco — keep him in good
temper."

Till Montague is gone, he means ! " thought
Melanie, with an emotion of scorn.

If I fail to do so ? " she asked aloud.

Fail ! Then you may find, as he will do,
that there are plenty of girls far prettier than
you, who will gladly give themselves in marriage
for £20,000 a year. I am sure he will make a
very indulgent and good-natured husband — moreover,
he mayn't live very long — not more than
ten years now, probably. Think of Eavensbourne
Hall, a house in Mayfair, a box at the opera,
carriages, horses, diamonds, and pin-money to any
amount, and compare all these with the old story

of love in a cottage, or worse still, a wretched
bungalow in a scorching Indian cantonment ! It
need not come to an engagement yet, only don't
snub Sir Brisco, I say."

Still the selfish line of ideas ! " thought poor
Melanie.

"But I must decline," she began.

If you do, we may then see what we shall
see — Dick beginning life as a shop-boy, and
Reginald ending it in a hospital ! " interrupted
Mr. Grimshaw, and darting a furious glance at
the latter, he turned on his heel and withdrew,
leaving the girl a prey to utter misery.

Dick misconstrued the cause of her grief; though
the latter got him off some of his tasks, German
especially, which he detested.

"Uncle .Grimshaw," said he, resenting her
tears, " so you have been at some of your old
games?"

"What old games?"

Nagging Melanie — what a fellow you are ! "

You are disrespectful, fellow ! "

"Yes," said Dick, stoutly.

"Sirrah?"

You remind me of the story of a highwayman,"
said Dick, coolly.

A highwayman ? " gasped Uncle Grimshaw,
thinking uneasily of the misplaced trust money.

Oh, Dick ! " exclaimed Melanie, in the greatest
alarm at this scene.

"Yes," continued Dick; "when requested hy a
poor girl, whom he was robbing, to desist, because
she was alone and helpless. ' That is the reason
I do it,' said the thief."

You young whelp ! " thundered Mr. Grimshaw.
I have a good mind to turn you out on the highroad
! "

That would be indicative of a bad mind,
surely," retorted Dick, as he vaulted out of the
window, followed by Bingo.

And this military friend of yours," said Mr.
Grimshaw, referring, in an irrepressible gust of
ill-humour, to Montague Lonsdale. " "Why is he
loafing about England at all just now ? "

Spending his hardly won year's leave," replied
Melanie, indignation mingling with her dejection.

You forget, or perhaps know not, that he was
at the battles of Handed Kiel and Candahar, and
that he won his Y.C. under Roberts in the fight
with the Ghazi at Gundimoolah."

Indeed ! " said Uncle Grimshaw, mockingly ;
how well you seem up in his biography."

Melanie blushed at her own energy, but her
eyes were suffused with angry tears.

A year's leave from India ! " snorted Uncle
Grimshaw — " a year's leave at the ratepayers'
expense. When I was at his age, in Birchinin
Lane, a week or a fortnight in the year, for a
run to Brighton or Eastbourne, was all the leave
ever accorded to me ! "

When left alone Melanie looked wistfully at her
engagement ring. What a bitter farce it seemed
just then, in her time of bitter depression, woe,
and mortification.

Should she take it off ? — no — not yet ; some
affectionate superstition of the heart withheld her
from doing so.

The new situation seemed incredible.

The light seemed to have gone out of her life.

VOL. I. M

See Montague and speedily she must ; but where ?
Surely he would write or come to Eose Cottage
without delay, unless — but when she attempted to
speculate further, her heart died within hera

long road full of pain."

A blight that seemed to have fallen upon the
hitherto calm and almost contented existence of
her helpless brother, now added greatly to the-misery
endured by Melanie, as she knew too well
the secret source thereof, and yet felt unwilling
to approach the subject, as it was one she was
unable to relieve or remove.

But it was impossible for her not to perceive
that now the dark eyes of Reggie wore at times
a strange and shadowy expression, as if his
thoughts she could not fathom, or dreamed of
things she knew not of and yet saw too plainly
for her own peace.

The heart is said to have a sun of its own, that

can shed light and beauty around it ; but his

seemed set for ever now.

m2

His old brotherly regard for Amy had become
a passion now ; but a passion of which he dared
not speak, from a bitter sense of its utter madness
and inutility.

Till Horace Musgrave came he had loved her
secretly, fondly, and fearlessly. It scarcely occurred
to him with much force that aught would come to
disunite them, to break the spell, or mar the sweetness
of their placid intercourse ; or that a time
would be when her songs were no longer to fall
on his ear, or the melody of her voice when she
read to or chatted with him.

Often when she and Musgrave were present, he
would start up as if he would leave them and shun
their society, but only started to sink back, helpless,
on the couch he occupied by day.

He wished to avoid her presence, and yet
welcomed her when she came, for his whole
existence seemed a paradox now. Amy came,
as was her wont, to sit and talk with him when
Melanie was absent or busy, but more seldom
now, and at longer intervals, and though his
usually grave countenance lighted up when he

saw her, his manner frequently lost its old sweetness
and became sad, fractious, even morose, even
when she hung over him as her playfellow of the
past, and stroked his dark hair as of old with
her soft, pretty, and childlike hand.

Then her breath would be on his cheek ; her
lips so near his own, and yet he dared not kiss
them — now especially.

Surely never since Tantalus in his agony of
thirst saw the impossible draught of water so
near him, and the cluster of luscious fruit that
the wind took beyond his reach, was there such a
pang as the helpless fellow felt then.

There was a pitiful ache in his heart, with a
sense of desolation now — utter desolation — unsatisfied
longing, yearning, and regret for the happiness
that others had, and that fate had denied to him ;
and he writhed in his wheel-chair, amid the sunshine
and flowers of the garden, when Amy came
to him in the evening after Melanie's bitter mortification,
and in his gloomy spirit he resented the
exuberance of her girlish happiness.

What would you have me say, Reggie ? " asked

Amy, who began to have, as we have said, a
nervous dread or sense of the emotions she was
exciting in the poor fellow's breast ; yet, with all
her pity, she was a little piqued by his churlish
responses.

"Say? I do not know. Of course you cannot
care for what I may think or feel, why should
you ? "

How can you speak to me thus ? " asked the
girl, softly, but reproachfully.

If you have made up your mind — "

To what ? " interrupted Amy, while the other's
gaze seemed fixed on distance.

"It would be wrong and worse than useless in
me to seek to alter your determination, or to make
you dissatisfied with what is, perhaps, for your
advantage."

Would you not advise me?" said Amy, blushing
painfully, as she knew to what he referred so
abruptly and mysteriously.

"I am neither father nor brother, nor relation
of any kind," said Eeginald, captiously; "so why
should I advise ? "

Nor even wish me well, dear Reggie ?"

You know, Amy, I would lay down my
miserable life for you ! "

Poor Reggie, I think you do care a little what
becomes of me."

More, perhaps, than you and many more care
what becomes of me — ' such a fine young fellow,
too ! ' as people say pityingly," he added, with a
bitter, bitter smile.

I know you don't mean the half of what you
say when you are in one of your captious moods,
my poor naughty boy," replied the girl, sweetly,
yet with a break in her voice.

I mean that I can be very little to you, where
love for another is concerned," said he, coldly and
half aside.

Amy changed colour, and feeling that they were
on perilous ground, became silent, and began to
think she must cease to visit the cottage at all ;
but then her very absence would excite remark.
Young Talbot became silent, too, amid his sad
convictions.

This man, Horace Musgrave, loved her. Then

home to the poor fellow's heart came, more keenly
than ever, the knowledge that he was about to lose
her through that love ; to lose her sweet society,
the joy of gazing on her soft face, of listening to
her voice ; that she would pass out of his life, that
this sort of thing " could not go on for ever, and
that another was seeking and winning — nay, had
sought and won — the place in her heart that he
could never hope to hold or attempt — poor wretch
that he was — to rival.

His existence was overshadowed ; the sun of his
little world was fading out.

I would not, even if I could, play the dog in the
manger," thought he. " What ! am I to play
Romeo to her Juliet — fool that I am ? What use
am I in life in any way ? — an encumbrance and
bore to all about me, save for Melanie. I cannot
even play a waiting game — waiting, for what ?
Everyone, it is said, makes or mars his own life ;
but how was mine marred ? By evil destiny ! "

Then would he dream and ponder, wildly, but
prayerfully. Could he but get well — if God in His
great goodness only granted him again health and

strength — he would go away to sea again, even asa
foremast-man, and look on home and her no
more.

But fate was adverse to him, and the crushing
fiat of the medical faculty was that never could he
escape from his helplessness — from the second
childhood that had come upon him.

Life is not for ever, that is one comfort ! " he
would often mutter.

He remained much at home now on his couch,
listlessly reading, or affecting to read, the hooks
that were sent to him from Kavensbourne Hall,
and declined to have his wheel-chair brought to
him, as usual, on the sunny days.

Once Amy observed that a pretty button-hole
she had prepared and given him had a bit of fern
substituted for it ! and that he was afterwards so
moody and absent that she had to repeat her
remarks, when he would start, and say :

"I beg your pardon — but what did you say tome
just now ? "

It used not to be thus with him or her ; but she
was not slow to guess the painful reason.

' Why did you throw away my poor little flower
the very flower you asked me for — and put a bit
of fern in its place ? " she asked.

I did not throw it away," said he, curtly.

"What then, Eeggie?"

If you must know, it lay next my heart till it
withered, then I locked its dead petals away in the
place where my commission lies, my mother's lock
of hair, my Egyptian medals, and the few such
treasures I possess."

To place a mere pretty bouquet in such a
repository was surely foolish, Eeggie ? " said
she, affecting to ignore all that his words so
distinctly implied ; but now that she was engaged,
the worst he could know was known — the death
of all his fond fancies ; and death he thought
was better than daily dying as he had been,
so he straightforwardly questioned her on the
subject.

"Yes — Horace has asked me to marry him,"
said Amy, looking down.

And — and you? "

Consented, dear Eeggie, of course. I love him

so," she replied, with a fond bright smile, and yet
nervously withal. "Don't you congratulate me ? "
she asked, after a pause.

He was silent and pale — frozen as it were, for a
moment or two.

"So it is a settled thing?" he asked, calmly,
but through his set teeth.

"Yes."

"And when is the— the happy day?" he asked
again, with the same strangely calm manner, ashe
produced his tobacco pouch.

Your hands tremble, Reggio — allow me to
make up your cigarette, as I so often do."

"Thanks."

He put it between his lips and tried to smoke,
forgetting to light it, after she had made it up for
him, deftly and prettily, as her slender fingers had
often done playfully in the past.

"You asked me something," said she, with
growing confusion.

Yes — when is the happy day to be ? "

"It is too soon to talk of that; I must have
time to think it over — plenty of time — before we

fix on anything. Oh ! how strange — how new it all
seems."

"Of course," said he, with a curious smile,
such events don't happen every day."

You must not ask me more just now, I have
so much to do — so much to think about " ; and
then she tripped away, relieved that the ice was
broken, that Beggie knew at last — knew the worst
now.

While he thought :

Oh, why am I spared to live ? Why did I not
perish at Suakim ? Why spared, as Carlyle has it,
to travel

A long, long road of pain, my dear,
A long road full of pain ! "

After this he courted solitude more than ever,
and would pass hours in silence, often with a book
to cloak it — a book that Melanie detected he held
sometimes upside down ; and her affectionate heart
was wrung with sorrow as she watched him.

Unless we can rouse him, Dick," said she to
her boy-brother, " he will get further than ever
from the chance, if any, of recovery. He seems

to become more melancholy and more gloomy
every day ! "

But in this reference to Reginald Talbot we are
anticipating another portion of our story — the
misunderstanding between Melanie and Lonsdale.

HOW IT CAME ABOUT.

We left Montague Lonsdale a mile or more above
the place where he was to have met Melanie,
stretched among the scented grass, with a cigar
between his teeth, his hands under his head, his
straw hat tilted well over his eyes, which were fixed
on the branches and blue sky above, and his heart
full of angry thoughts about the state of his love
affair.

The place was solitary, as it was above
Abingdon, with its old bridge and red-tiled houses,
and where the river becomes navigable by barges,
and he was in a silent nook of the stream, that
could at the worst only be identified with house-boats,
old lock-houses, and greenish water tumbling
over the mossy piles and sluices of an ancient weir,

or a humble thatcher's cottage, surrounded by tall
blue flowers and smothered under roses and
creepers.

Suddenly there was a sound close by him — an
exclamation — and the tall figure of a young lady
appeared by his side, Hilda Tremayne, in a most
becoming country costume of bright-coloured wool
crepe, a Zouave-shaped jacket, or bodice, a piquante
hat, and a large sunshade, which she twirled with
her well-gloved little hand as it rested on her
shoulder, and a smile full of coquettish surprise
and mischief in her clear bright hazel eyes, as she
recognised the lounger, who started at once to
his feet.

Lonsdale — you here and alone ! " she exclaimed,
with one of her flashing glances, from eyes that
were long lashed and heavily lidded.

As you see — and you ? " he inquired.

Oh — I am living at Oxford, with my uncle the
professor of Old Trinity. Is this boat yours ? "

Pro tern, it is."

My cousins were to have rowed me to Tokens
but the stupid boys have either mistaken the

time or the place, and I am left lamenting. Will
you? "

Eow you down stream— with pleasure," he
replied, yet with a sigh of annoyance, as he thought
of the other whom he had meant to row, and for
whose use he had arranged the dainty velvet
cushions in the stern.

Hilda Tremayne seated herself there at once ; he
shipped the sculls, and, sitting opposite to her,
pulled away from the shady creek.

You like Oxford, I doubt not ? " said he.

Oh, yes, the undergrads are great fun ; at times
I enjoy life there quite as much as I do in garrison.
I was so sorry that you were not at the Chillington
Park tennis party."

Why?"

Can you ask me why?" she queried, with a
glance that spoke a volume of witchery and pretended
pique. I

Well, it was a success, I suppose ? "

It was too utterly enjoyable ! Charming
from beginning to end. By the way, I met a
friend of yours there."

"A friend of mine ?"

Yes — cannot you guess who ?"

I know so many," replied Lonsdale, affecting
an air of indifference. " But whom do you mean ? "

Miss Talbot — she certainly is a strange girl ! "

"How?" asked Lonsdale, on whose ear the
laugh which accompanied Hilda's remark, though
clear and silvery, jarred a little.

Went the pace you know, with that old baronet
a man who might be her father twice over. But
then, he is so rich ! "

You met other friends at Chillington, I
presume ?" said Lonsdale, to change the subject.

Oh, several ; but I dislike — or don't care about
new friends and always turn lovingly to the old
ones. Do you ever think of what pleasant times
we have had together in India ? "

This was said softly, and with one of her most
effective glances ; but without effect, as Lonsdale,
while sculling vigorously, was just then looking
ahead over his shoulder. So, after a pause, Hilda
spoke again.

So your friend, Musgrave, is engaged to that

VOL. I. N

little chit, Amy Brendon. How strange of
him ! "

You know him ? "

Oh, yes. Horace is a lovely dancer; but as a
husband, must be most unsuited to her. It is all
very well just now for the little Brendon girl, but a
time will arrive when Horace may become like
other married men — cross and fidgety, will keep
her waiting for her ride or drive, vote waltzing
a bore, that t a ball gives a headache, call her milliner's
bill an outrage, and quote how economically
other men's wives dress."

"You are surely sarcastic, Miss Tremayne.
Horace could never turn out a man of that
kind."

Won't he ? Then he is different from most of
the married men I know."

"Don't you marry, Hilda," said Lonsdale,
laughing.

I shall not be in a hurry, believe me."

And Lonsdale, who knew how much that assertion
was worth, nearly laughed again.

Is Horace " — she was fond of calling men by

their Christian names — " going to bid good-bye to
the dear old Hussars ? "

'certainly not. He has no intention of selling
or resigning. Miss Brendon dotes on the service
as much as he does, and quite looks forward to all
the gaiety military society will procure for her after
her rather dull girlhood at Stokencross Vicarage."

Then she will lead him a dance, I expect."

•'How?"

Oh, a girl bred as she has been is sure to
become intoxicated with the new life, the new
scenes, and the so many unexceptionable men. You
know well enough what I mean."

"Not precisely," said Lonsdale, a little curtly; the
style of Hilda's prattle rather bored him just then.

She had now drawn off a glove, to show,
perhaps, the whiteness of her hand, and a very
beautiful hand it certainly was ; and a soft,
coy smile spread over her handsome face as she
trailed her fingers through the water. Then
she adroitly caught an oak leaf that was drifting
near, and, fashioning it into the shape of a tiny

boat, let it float away with the current, while

n2

Lonsdale paused in his rowing to draw breath fora
moment.

"How delightful it would be," said she, with
half-drooped eyelids, while a coquettish smile
spread over her face, "if one — if we — could thus
commit our fate to the flow of time ! "

All this had but one meaning — coquetry;
but Montague Lonsdale was slow to accept her
challenge now ; while Hilda believed that she
was about to have that which to her mind
was the greatest of all pleasures, the beginning
of a flirtation.

Is there any other time like that beginning,"
says someone, " when the knowledge creeps in
that you are singled out, that you are admired
most, that one other person is happy only when
near you ; that eyes are watching for your glance,
that a hand is waiting to touch your hand, when
every word has a sweet new meaning, every word
a bewildering significance ! "

But Hilda knew all this sort of thing well, and
had known it in more than one of the places where
the Queen's morning-drum beats.

White swans were sailing past ; the stream
looked beautiful with all its sylvan adjuncts, and
it charmed Lonsdale's artistic eye, for he said,
laughingly :

"This seems a place to make one forget the
world, and everything but the present hour."

Yes," added Hilda, dreamily, " time— place —
friends, trouble and all."

Suppose we were to wake from the dream
to find that hundreds of years had passed by
enchantment ! "

Would that matter so long as we were
together ? " said Hilda, with more than coquetry.

Oh, by Jove ! she is on dangerous topics
again ! " thought Lonsdale, and was about to
resume his sculls and shoot round a wooded
bend of the river, where a white skirt was seen
amid the foliage, when a cry from Hilda alarmed
him.

What is the matter ? " he asked.

Oh," she exclaimed, but in a low and breathless
voice ; "a wasp — a wasp among my hair —
take it out, please — take it out ! "

Allow me," said he, stooping over her.

His fingers had to search among her rich bright
hair, and the obnoxious insect was — after a little
time and trouble — extracted. This was the
episode so inopportunely witnessed by Melanie ;
and thus it was that all the misconception came
about !

IT CAN NEVER BE.

More of sorrow and disappointment, than of
anger, were in the tender heart of Melanie Talbot,
with a shrinking from a contemplation of the
dull, hopeless, and empty life that would be
before her now if Montague Lonsdale proved,
indeed, untrue. Yet, through the evening and
long hours of the night that followed the episode
on the river, no tears came to her relief, even
amid the crushing fears that the Circe wiles
of Hilda Tremayne might have parted them forever
; for, of Hilda, she had always had a half-contemptuous
dread, with much of entire doubt.

If it were so, death could not more effectually
separate her and Montague. And her future
now — what would it — what could it be? Cold

drops stood on the girl's white forehead at the
thought.

Yet a wild longing possessed her to see him
once again ; to tell him, even upbraidingly, what
she had seen and overheard ; perhaps to throw
her arms about him, and to kiss him once again ;
but, then came the horror — the bitter conviction —
that unless the episode could bear explanation,
he would value or require her love no longer, and
that another would stand between them then.

The dawn came in slowly, finely, and the warm
July morning crept on apace. The sunshine lay
over everything ; on the garden without, on the
equipage of the breakfast-table within, even on the
grim, set face of her uncle as he pored over his
correspondence ; and, by one quick glance at the
place where her cup and plate stood, Melanie
perceived that there was no letter lying therefor
her — neither by post nor messenger had one
come from Montague Lonsdale — and again her
heart died within her breast.

No letter — and she could reckon now the hours
within which he would have to depart and report

himself at the Brigade Office of the district to
which his regiment belonged, ere he started for
Bengal.

Uncle Grimshaw, meanwhile, was gloomily and
irritably opening several ominous-looking blue
envelopes, addressed in the typical scrawling
hand of trade, muttering as he did so, with
furtive and resentful glances at Melanie, whose
hands trembled among the cups and saucers :

Bills— bills— of course."

"What — uncle?" she asked, wearily, and
scarcely taking in his remark.

"Bills! Surely I spoke plainly enough!"
he snapped. " The expense even of this small
house is fast getting beyond me."

Melanie only sighed, as she turned to supply
the wants of her invalid brother, and felt and
knew all that the words and manner of her
guardian implied, and what was passing in
his mind, and almost injuring the relish with
which he despatched his kidneys and mushrooms.


But fresh annoyances from other quarters came,

and the successive visits of Sir Brisco Braybrooke
and her Aunt Chillington utterly precluded her
from attempting to seek the usual meeting-place,
and so the eventful day, to her, passed wearily and
anxiously on.

When Sir Brisco came with an unwished-for
tribute of rare flowers, Uncle Grimshaw discreetly
withdrew, on some feigned pretence, and Melanie
asked herself, as she had often done before :

When will he understand that, after having
rejected him, we cannot and ought not to meet
again ? "

But this troublesome and unsuitable old suitor
seemed to deem her a soft-headed girl, who,
with all her beauty, had neither mind nor will
of her own, and would, in the end, bend to
circumstances. However, Sir Brisco had now
made up his mind to get married. He had
already "broken the ice" by asking Melanie
to share his title and wealth, and at his years did
not care, perhaps, to risk the trouble of cultivating
another young lady.

Retaining the girl's hand in his — the very hand



that bore Montague's engagement ring, and
bending over her in a courteous and somewhat
fatherly way, he said :

"I do love you with a wild, crazy passion that
gives me no rest — no peace," said Sir Brisco,
in a low voice, talking from some book rather than
his calm old heart ; " and I would give my life
to have you — to win you — rather than see you
another's."

This sounded very like 'high saluting," but the
last word alarmed Melanie, and her eyes fell on
her ring, yet she ventured to ask :

"But if one could be happier with that other,
do you call your persistence love ? "

"What is it, then?"

Selfishness."

Come ! " he exclaimed, dropping her hand fora
moment ; " but is there another ? "

I have not said so," replied Melanie, as she
bit her nether lip in annoyance at her unwilling
question.

She had not yet had — and actually might never
have — any explanation from, or reconciliation with,

Montague Lonsdale ; and with this alarming dread
before her and the baronet's words in her ears, the
whole room seemed to dance round them, while
with aching eyes she saw, as through a mist, the
faded curtains, the patched carpet, the shabby
cretonne-covered chairs, and the general air of
genteel poverty that lay painfully over everything,
and which even all her art and taste failed to hide.

Natheless the bad progress of his suit as yet,
grey-haired Sir Brisco hoped that a time would
come when Melanie would be his ; but meanwhile
every effort towards more than the merest friendship
was baffled by her, and he seemed to be
perpetually undergoing the mortification of lost
opportunities.

On her part, she would have taken a higher and
more resolute stand, and resented his persistence,
but for the force of those fatal circumstances which
cast her and her two brothers so completely into
the power of her uncle and guardian ; thus,
as yet, she could do no more than miserably
temporise.

Melanie," said Sir Brisco, who knew the

situation well, as he rose to withdraw, " I have
plenty for us both, and for your brothers too.
Let my home be theirs as well as yours.
I have thought it all over many times ; all my
hope of happiness is in your hands. Say only the
word — one little word, yes."

But she shook her head despondently, and
replied :

I thank you — but it can never be ! "

And she had been compelled to listen to all
this and much more of the same kind, while
her eye wandered to the clock on the mantel-board,
and while Lonsdale was perhaps awaiting
her at their trysting-place, if he was not — oh, no —
surely not ! — with that other girl, who enjoyed the
odious reputation of 'leading men on," or it should
be " off," rather.

Barely had Sir Brisco gone, and Melanie
began to meditate a flight to the bank of the
river, when there alighted from her carriage,
at the pretty but humble entrance of Prose
Cottage, Mrs. Chillington, erect and stately,
bearing her sixty years as if they were but

forty, smooth skinned and bright-complexioned,
though her soft hair was white as new-falleth
snow, and having about her all " that Christian
charity which enables one to bear the sorrows
of others so well."

To Mrs. Chillington's critical eye, very commonplace
her somewhat coarse brother-in-law, Gideon
Grimshaw, looked, with his grizzled mutton-chop
whiskers, stick-up collar, stiff side-tufts of hair,
and his coat of the fashion of twenty years
ago (but he was always twenty years behind
the time) ; while, on the other hand, he thought
her a very selfish and vain old woman of the world,
which she really was.

She almost ignored both Eeginald and Dick ;
indeed she cordially detested the latter ever since
he had suggested she should "Bant"; and he,
fully reciprocating the sentiment, secretly encouraged
his ally, Bingo, to make free in more
ways than one with her trailing skirts of the richest
moire antique, though he was wont to aver that her
bearing to him always "made him feel about two
inches high only."

Aunt Chillington had evidently met the baronet,
for she had barely seated herself when she said to
Melanie :

So Sir Brisco has asked you again, child ? "

Yes, aunt."

Are you not glad — proud of his constancy,
courtesy, and persistence ? "

No ; it neither flatters nor gladdens me, under
all the circumstances."

"Why?" asked Mrs. Chillington, with a flash
of her keen, dark eyes.

Because I cannot marry him."

"Your uncle is very poor; he has nothing to
leave you. Have you ever thought of that, dear ? "
she asked, with asperity.

Melanie only sighed wearily, and said, " Could
you realise how all this worries me, you would
have some idea of how I must detest his name,
poor man ! "

Think of being Lady Braybrooke of Ravens
Hall — of the jewels — the dresses."

Douglas Ferrol says that Eve ate the apple in
order that she might dress," said Reginald, with a

quiet smile, and was only honoured by his aunt
with a brief stare.

"Dress! — by Jove! She didn't do so extravagantly,"
said Dick, with a grin.

Hear me, Melanie Talbot," resumed Mrs.
Chillington; " I am not to be fooled, nor is your
good and kind Uncle Grimshaw. I thought a
season in town, and at Chillington Park, with me,
would have opened your eyes to the ways of the
world, and made another girl of you, but I am
disappointed — grievously disappointed."

I am so sorry, dear aunt."

Sorry ! — stuff ! When does your old admirer —
the military interloper— take his departure ? "

Very — very soon, now," replied poor, hunted
Melanie, with a break in her voice, too crushed to
feel anger.

So much the better for everyone. What a
fool Sir Brisco is to have him at the. Hall, so
near this ; but, of course, good, easy man, he
knows nothing of your wicked folly — for wicked
I deem it ; and he acts in ignorance and in kindness
to his nephew's friend. But, Melanie, you

certainly do look much better than when you left
London."

"Of course, aunt, one does become rather 
after a hot season there, and the country agrees
so well with me."

Aunt Chillington smiled sourly, and tapped the
carpet with her little feet, of which she was very
vain, but did not know that for Melanie to see
Montague Lonsdale daily was better than all the
country air in the world.

"When left to your own reflections, and uninfluenced,"
said Mrs. Chillington, as some suspicion
of this perhaps did flash upon her at last, "you
will see what is for your own good. Think of the
endless gaieties of London to which you would have
access ; apart from the opera and theatre, the
state balls at Buckingham Palace, the new club
dances, the Buckingham teas, the cavalry polo
matches, botanic fetes, garden parties, and so
forth, to all of which a man of Sir Brisco's years
might not care to accompany you, and that, to
a young married woman, is a great consideration

now-a-days. Think, also, that should he pre-vol.
i. o

decease you, which, of course, is only in the order
of Nature, of the settlements and of that too lovely
Dower House overlooking the river. But all this
I have urged before, till weary."

"Aunt, it can never be."

How little Melanie could foresee the future !

Mrs. Chillington remained silent for half a
minute ; then she said with asperity — perhaps
disgust :

How fond you seem of being a beggar and
looking to a half-ruined uncle to provide for you."

The prosperous widow's scornful words drew
tears to the eyes of Melanie, who answered gently :

I have been used to poverty, to limited means,
aunt."

Used to it ! Wait till the worst presses on you
and your two useless brothers, and the struggle
for food comes vulgarly before you," continued this
pitiless woman.

"Send me from here; let me go away, let me
live my own life, let me have some right to choose
it. Why," asked Melanie, turning like the trodden
worm at last, " why should I be dependent on the

stern will of others ? I am a woman with the
right to work, and with a will of my own."

Mrs. Chillington held up her little white hands
in dismay.

She talks quite like those dreadful people, the
Socialists and Liberals who use dynamite, at the
Reformers' tree in Hyde Park ! " she exclaimed,
a little obtusely.

' Yes — she had better rant about all this on a
barrel at the street corner — harangue upon the
wrongs of her sex. I wash my hands of you all ! "
thundered Uncle Grimshaw, as he quitted the
room, choking with fury, and forgetting the resolution
to await in patience the result of Lonsdale's
absence.

Pang for my carriage, please," said Aunt
Chillington, rising coldly and frigidly, a request
to which Dick Talbot acceded with the greatest
alacrity, followed by Bingo.

Now Dick — curly-haired and blue-eyed Dick —

who always resented seeing his sister moved to

tears, set off with the faithful Bingo to inspect

the adjacent hedgerows, and the result of his

o2

inspection was, that for the second time Uncle
Grimshaw, after extinguishing his candle that
night and tucking himself cosily in bed, found
between the sheets thereof, mysteriously, and
greatly to his tribulation, rolled up like a spiny
and bristly ball, a very fair specimen of the
Echinus Terrestrial, otherwise known as hedgehog.

RECONCILED.

In justice to Montague Lonsdale, we must state
that his temporary irritation gave place to anxiety,
and next forenoon he hastened by the private path
through the woods, to call at the cottage ; but,
on finding from Dick who were visiting there in
succession, he retired, to avoid any unpleasant
complications.

The knowledge gained did not add to his good
humour. The baronet at the cottage already,
he thought — already, after his revelations and
suggestions the other night — and his own avowed
enemy, Mrs. Chillington, too. It looked like a
preconceived affair, and Lonsdale's heart, for a
time, grew hard again.

For the first time in his life, perhaps, his

favourite briar-root failed to soothe or comfort
his dejected spirits, and with a gesture of worry
he knocked out its contents on the stem of a tree,
and turned from his loved " Birds' eye " ; for there
are times when even good tobacco will fail to
soothe the smoker's tribulation, and with Montague
Lonsdale this was one of them. But under all
the circumstances, he deemed it better to see
Melanie than write to her, and hence it was that,
to her growing mistrust and grief, no letter came,
and with much of humiliation in her heart, on
the second day she sought their usual meeting-place.


Then, with fresh annoyance that she had come
first, and with a violent inclination to steal away,
hide herself and watch his approach, she sat,
angrily slipping her engagement ring up and down,
but never off, her slender finger, whilst over her
soft, sweet face there was an expression never
seen there before ; hot, crushed tears suffused her
eyes, and a little diamond brooch that Lonsdale
had given her in London sparkled in her bosom
with every long-drawn sigh.

Love," thought the girl, bitterly ; "I have
read of one who boasted of doing very well without
it for nineteen years, and I certainly do not
see why I, like that person, should not do without
it for ninety, if it comes to that ; for it seems tome
a gigantic heartache for nothing — a great deal
of trouble, and very small profit."

She heard steps, and in another moment Lons-
dale was by her side, looking provokingly handsome;
his deep hazel eyes full of soft light, and
clad in a tweed suit of the lightest grey, that
well became his dark complexion. He put an
arm round her, but she turned half aside, and
averted her quivering face, while her full white
eyelids drooped and lowered, till the shade of
their long dark fringes rested on her cheek ; but
her broad hat concealed much of all this, and all
Lonsdale's heart went out to her.

Melanie ? " said he, questioningly ; but she
averted her face yet more, and remained obstinately
silent, while seeming to writhe under his touch.

Melanie," said he again, "I go tomorrow —
are we to part in anger? Have you not one

word for rne to remember, till we meet again on
earth, or in heaven ? What does this mean ? "

Silence, sir, I know all," she replied.

All what, my dearest girl ? "

"Don't call me so," said she, with pretty
asperity, beating the turf with a shapely little
foot.

"Why?"

"Because I won't be called girl," she continued,
with petulant lips and still averted face ; " and
now I know too much."

"Of what?"

"Your meeting with Hilda Tremayne when you
should have met me. Did I not see you caressing
her hair, and hear her say how you might float
on the river there for hundreds of years in happiness,
provided you two were together ? Oh, it was
dreadful to hear her say that," added Melanie,
with a break in her voice. i

Will you listen to me ? " said Lonsdale, in dire
perplexity now, yet with a curious smile on his
face.

"No, I will not. What can you tell me more

than I heard — of what more than I saw ? No, I
will not listen."

"Yet you come here, my darling — "

To say all is over between us. I could have
forgiven anything but this — anything," she said,
weeping in abject misery now, and turning her
engagement ring round and round on her finger
nervously.

Dearest Melanie," began Lonsdale, who now
understood the scope of the scrape into which he
had fallen.

Nothing in this world is worth caring for or
grieving about," said she, with a heavy sob, belying
her own assertion.

"Why?"

Because nothing lasts long."

"It may last our time, and that, by Jove, is
quite enough for us."

"Nothing can sever two hearts, however loving,
like mistrust."

"What am I to say to you, Melanie?" asked
Lonsdale, conning over mentally the terms of his
necessary explanation.

Nothing but good-bye, I think."

"Is that all?" said he reproachfully, while
bending over her.

It contains the sorrow of a lifetime to me,"
replied the broken voice.

My darling do not say so ; your tears
wring my heart. You will think more gently
of the mistake into which 1 1 was fooled — fora
mistake it was — tomorrow, when — when I am
gone."

There is no tomorrow for you and me ; and
this is a just punishment on me for idolising you
so much, Montague."

In spite of all this he drew her to him,
caressingly, and, after a little time, succeeded in
explaining the whole affair — his own annoyance
and suspicions, the doubly-missed meeting, how
he fell in with Miss Tremayne ; and he eventually
succeeded in pacifying Melanie — but, for a time,
she ' was very resentful. She would not permit
him to adjust her bouquet of wild flowers, gathered
as she came along, take a thorn out of her finger,
or relieve her beautiful back hair of some bramble

leaves that had got among it. At last she looked
up at him, and, smiling coyly through her tears,
said :

And so it was all a horrid mistake, and you
really care only for me, and love me ? "

"As I never did before, or ever can love any girl
again ! "

He pressed her closer to him, and kissed her
brow, her hair, her eyes, and cheeks, again and
again.

At that moment there was a sound close by, a
sound as of dry twigs cracking, and then the odour
of a cigar was wafted through the dense and leafy
screen of shrubbery and underwood that grew
round the stems of the trees that overhung their
meeting-place beside the river.

Who the deuce ? " muttered Lonsdale, angrily ;
but the sound ceased, and both thought it must
be fancy. But fancy it was not ; someone had
been there — an eavesdropper — for, soon after,
Lonsdale's quick eye detected a half-smoked
cigar, as if tossed away in haste, still smouldering
among the long grass, and he thought

that he recognised the aroma and the brand
thereof.

The circumstance, however, was soon dismissed
from their minds, full as the latter were of a
subject nearer and dearer.

ig-

"And you go so soon now," said Melanie, nestling
her face in his neck.

"Ah! my own Melanie," he replied; "it is at
a time like this that I almost repent of being a
soldier, and wish that I had been trained to some
quiet, and even humdrum, business."

Like Uncle Grimshaw ? "

"Yes, even like Uncle Grimshaw — anything, if
honest, that would keep me at home and not
separate me from you; and yet I dearly love my
regiment and its past history. I love my brother
officers and comrades ; and dearly every way do I
love my profession, with all its high and glorious
concomitants ; yet it parts me from you, my
darling." |

He looked just then so sad, yet earnest, so
handsome, proud, and soldierly, that the girl's
heart glowed alike with love and admiration. He

loved, she knew, to grapple with difficulties, to
face perils, to play with death, as it were — his
Indian service had fully proved that ; and thus,
to her, he was worth ten thousand of the useless
fops, the lisping fools, "the white-handed glittering
youth" she had met in that artificial and vapid
circle called " society."

When Lonsdale, after a time, spoke a little
resentfully of the baronet's too evident admiration
of her, poor Melanie blushed painfully in her
consciousness that more than admiration was
in the mind of the former ; but she hesitated to
tell her lover of how matters really stood, and
of the offers that had been made her; loth to
send him away to the distant land he had to
serve in with the least cause for alarm or
anxiety in his heart. Yet the secret was very
nearly elicited from her — she was so candid
and open — when he said :

"During the whole of that visit — the little
dinner affair — you were quite monopolised by
Braybrooke. Musgrave's uncle," he added, a
little viciously, " and how could I, in my pique,

think aught else than that you were willing it
should be so."

Oh, Monti, this is ungenerous, unkind," said
Melanie, her eyes suffusing again.

"If it should be so," said Lonsdale, seeming,
to follow his own thoughts, while his gaze was
bent on the grass.

"What?"

That I may actually stand between you and
all the wealth — the position, too, that old Sir
Brisco can give you," he continued, still hovering
on dangerous ground.

Do not say such things, Montague," urged
Melanie, piteously, and trembling at her own
reticence.

I must—"

"Would you resign me?" she asked, with soft
reproach.

No — no, a thousand times no; But when
I consider the whole situation, my going so faraway
for probably a year, and leaving you in
the care of a man so cold and repellant as
your uncle, and a woman so ambitious as your

aunt — so scheming too, ray heart sinks within
me."

So did that of Melanie, whose thoughts and
fears, in some measure, echoed his own.

Sir Brisco is disposed to he kind to us," said
Melanie, a little evasively.

Sooth to say, I am tired of the game we have
ad to play here under his eyes, Melanie — hut
my part is nearly over now."

Yes ; I always feel that when he is present you
must not seem so fond of me as you are."

For dread of him ? " asked Lonsdale.

No— of Uncle Grimshaw."

"Fond of you, darling— how can I help it
whoever may he present ? " exclaimed Montague,
giving his moustache an angry twist upward.

I hope you remembered all that when you
had your hands among Hilda's shining hair ? "
said Melanie, with a pretty little moue.

Don't refer to that again ; could I leave the
wasp there to sting her ? "

The action stung my heart, I know."

Surely," said he, as he toyed caressingly

with the rings of her curling fringe, " you should
know the difference between a flirtation pour
passer le temps, even if we had engaged in it —
which we did not — and real love-making ? "
"Which Hilda would prefer, I doubt not."
Neither do . I," said Lonsdale, laughing. " I
don't know how many men she has had the
reputation of being engaged to — Vender, of the
King's Dragoon Guards ; Massey, of the Bengal
Lancers ; Tom Tatler, of the Kisses — she certainly
wears two engagement rings, anyhow, and is as
well-known in the service as the clock at the
Horse Guards. Besides, the last rumour is that
she is engaged, or as good as such, to a fellow
called Musgrave."

Any relation of Amy's friend, the Hussar ? "
I think not ; but perhaps he may be."
More was to be heard, and unpleasantly so, of
this rumour anon.

My time is so short now that we must not
quarrel again, my own pet, Melanie," said
Lonsdale, after a silent pause that had its own
eloquence.

The girl could not answer; a great lump rose
in her slender throat.

Their next meeting was to be a final, a last one ;.
and the hearts of both felt exceedingly heavy.

VOL. I.

Good-bye, SWEETHEART.

Uncle Grimshaw was just then disposed to be
severe upon H.M. Service.

What that empty-headed Hussar fellow can
see in your friend Amy Brendon, to look upon
her in the light of a wife, surpasses my comprehension,"
said he to Melanie.

She is very charming and pretty, uncle,"
urged the latter. ,

Pretty, perhaps ; penniless, certainly."

But he has enough, and to spare ; and also
has expectations."

I never knew a fellow without them," snorted
Mr. Grimshaw, thinking no doubt of Lonsdale.
"If he wanted a plaything he could buy a doll:
or a picture, if he merely wanted a pretty face

to look at. And what can she see in him ? " added
the old bachelor with a growl.

The one idea of her heart, no doubt ; and
people marry, uncle, to please themselves — not
to please others."

"Romantic stuff!" he responded, with an
angry glance that conveyed more than his words.

So Amy had now a splendid half-hoop of
diamonds on the tiniest third finger such a
grown girl could show, and she was always regarding
it, smilingly and lovingly.

"How soon may I put the plain one on?"
whispered Musgrave, as he bent over her.

Oh, Horace, I hope your people will like
me."

Can you doubt it? Trie mater is the kindest
woman in the world ; and as for the governor, he is
a dear old fellow, and you are quite a girl after his
own heart."

So everything seemed couleur de rose, just then,
at Stokencross Vicarage.

Before you met Captain Lonsdale," said Amy,

as she showed her ring to her friend, " did you

p2

ever draw in your mind a fanciful picture of what
you would wish your lover — your husband —
to be ? "

'eyes — often; most girls do, I suppose ; and
with you, no doubt, Horace Musgrave — "

Oh, far surpasses all that fancy painted of my
ideal," interrupted Amy, in her happiness and
enthusiasm, with a bright and loving smile in
her pure baby-like eyes. " How handsome he
must look on horseback in all his Hussar bravery,"
was her next girlish thought.

But Horace was on the wing now. His leave
was up as inexorably as that of Lonsdale, and he
had to rejoin his regiment in Dublin, and after

paying his adieus at the Vicarage he had a last


parting with Amy at the rose-embowered and

sequestered garden-gate, in the most orthodox

manner, while the half-hours chimed enviously

from the old church tower, till the hells sang

sweetly for evensong, as if warning them to make

haste, as time fled.

"Oh, Horace, how can you ? You know you

should not kiss me here, where people may see

you," exclaimed Amy, half ashamed of his caress,
and yet entirely happy withal ; " do let me go."

Not yet, if I know it. Why should I, little
one, when this is my last evening with you forever
so long ? "

But the clock struck again in the ancient tower,
and when the time came that he must inevitably
go, or miss his train, though she knew that she
would probably get a letter from him on the
morrow, reiterating all that he was saying then
and had said a hundred times before, little
impulsive Amy shed a torrent of tears.

"Why, Amy," expostulated Musgrave, "to
see you one might suppose that I was going to
Egypt again, or, like poor Lonsdale, had service
before me on the Eangoon Ever."

"It is so hard to part from those we love,"
said she ; " but we cannot expect life to be full
of roses always."

"But still, you are happy, darling, even amid
your tears?" said Horace, looking tenderly down
into the mignonne face he held caressingly between
his hands.

Happy indeed, Horace."

"And glad?"

Happy and glad, too, that we love each other
and are engaged. How strange, how empty life
must have been before I knew you."

At last they parted, but Amy was fated to shed
many a bitter tear and endure a long, long sorrow
ere she saw the dark and handsome face of Horace
Musgrave again.

And in fond anticipation of a letter some time
on the morrow, Amy fell asleep that night in the
delusive hope that she would dream of her Hussar
lover, his tender dark eyes, his soft earnest voice,
and the half-gallant, half-playful, and wholly loving
things he was wont to say to her ; while he strove
to kill the early hours anyhow, apparently
engrossed in the Graphic, the World, or Punch, &c,
cigar in mouth, as he lounged in the cabin of the
Dublin steamer while she ploughed Ijhe restless
Irish Sea and the lights of Castletown were fading
out ahead.

With Amy Brendon a new existence had begun
a romance, a life of self devotion to another ; the

turning point of her girlhood had been passed with
the acceptance of Horace Musgrave's love, and even
the consciousness of Eeginald Talbot's hopeless and
\ helpless passion for her could not quench, though
it certainly somewhat marred, the new-born joy.

Ere he left Kavensbourne, had Musgrave been less
occupied with her and his own affairs, he must
have perceived that which he did not, how anxious
Sir Brisco was to supply him with an aunt, in the
person of Amy's friend and gossip, Melanie Talbot.

Letters that duly came (for a time) announced
that the Hussar had rejoined his regiment, had
been at some vice-regal balls, varied by quelling
Irish street " shindies," and so forth ; but Reggie
never heard of him from Amy, and certainly made
no enquiries, though aware that, no doubt, they
corresponded daily.

He now saw more of her again ; she came about
Melanie almost daily, as of old, and though the
charm of her sister-like intercourse with the poor
invalid was broken or clouded, and never could be
what it was before, it had nearly all its old perils
for him.

How cross you look," she said to him one
day.

Well — one can't be very facetious when left
alone, and I have often been left so of late," he
replied.

By Melanie ? "

Yes — and you too, Amy."

She coloured, and as if to change the subject,
somewhat unwisely showed him some faded rose-leaves
that had come to her in a letter, she said,
but did not add from Dublin. Young Talbot
suspected as much, and, crumpling them up
contemptuously between his hot, thin fingers,
permitted them to float away on the wind. This
drew a rather petulant remark from Amy, the first
she had ever made to him, and it stung him deeply ;
all the more so that she did not come near the
cottage for some days.

At last she thought to make amends to him, for
his fault was small and excusable. Thus she
began softly :

I am so sorry for what I said to you, Eeggie."

When ? " he asked, with averted eyes.

About the rose leaves ; it was so childish — you
remember ? "

Yes. I never forget what you say to me," he
replied, with a tremor in his voice.

Oh, pray forget that, at all events."

"If I can, and you are actually sorry ? " he
asked, with a soft smile.

"I was in a temper, you know; and you
pardon me ? "

Oh, yes — yes."

Dear old Reggie ! " she exclaimed, patting his
hand.

His heart trembled with secret, but delusive,
happiness again.

You are looking so pretty just now," he
observed.

Don't natter me, Reggie."

I don't. It is a bad plan to flatter a girl, I
know ; but another will be trying the same thing
with you again."

"And when?"

When he comes back ; so I may as well have
my innings, as we say at cricket — or as I used to

say when I did play cricket," he added, as his
smile faded away.

Back ! — when will Horace come back ? "
thought Amy, for several days had now passed
without a letter from him.

But here we have anticipated another portion of
our story.

FOR LIFE, FOR DEATH.

Though the last man in England who would be
guilty of such an act intentionally, the eavesdropper
referred to had been the Baronet of
Eavensbourne, and he would have blushed —
blushed with pain, shame, and indignation, could
he have conceived the suspicions that hovered
in the mind. of Montague Lonsdale.

He had been passing in the direction of the
place — a very secluded one — where the lovers
were so fully engaged with each other ; but ere
he could withdraw, which he did softly, and in
haste, with -a malediction on his lips, and great
anger and annoyance in his heart, he had seen
and heard enough to convince him that all was
over with him just then ; that he had been

seriously fooled, as he thought, by all parties ;
and in great disgust he tossed away his cigar.

This is how the fox jumps, is it ? " he
muttered, when the new light to the opposition
or indifference of Melanie Talbot broke upon him ;
and I actually brought that fellow, Lonsdale,
down here with my nephew, into her immediate
vicinity ! Well, Burmahh will be further off than
Eavensbourne ! " he added, bitterly.

The cigar formed a species of clue to Montague
Lonsdale, while the changed bearing of his host
that evening at dinner, cloak it as the latter
might attempt to do, enraged him, convinced him
who the eavesdropper had been, and added to
his anxiety for the future of Melanie.

Sir Brisco's wonted suavity had gone ; he was
silent and abstracted over his wine and dessert;
the departure of his nephew, the gay Hussar,
would scarcely account for that ; but fits manner,
in spite of himself, was cold, curt, and dry ; and
the moment he left the table he betook himself
to writing angry letters to Mr. Grimshaw, and
his other ally, Mrs. Chillington, while, irritated

by the vague memory of bis recent boastful statements
(or were they revelations ? be pondered)
made to Lonsdale, be felt himself small — exceedingly
small, and, thank heaven ! he had not
been tempted to say more.

But neither of the new rivals ever mentioned
the affair to Melanie.

The breakfast next morning proved rather a
bore to both men — to the baronet especially.

So Horace has gone and left the Vicar's little
daughter lamenting," he remarked, incidentally.
Foolish fellow ! I wonder what the old folks
will think. Romantic little puss ! Who would
have thought of him — a Hussar — being bitten by
her, though the English nineteenth century heroin
his stand-up ' master ' is rather deplorable.
They carried on their love-making very quietly
openly, I think. Deuced bad form."

Lonsdale coloured and remembered the half-smoked
cigar.

But the girls of the present day do half the
proposing," added the baronet, a little viciously,
as he tugged his white moustache. " By the

way, you have to catch an early train, I believe
? "

Mid-day must be the train for me," replied
Lonsdale, who knew that he had to take a painful
leave of Melanie.

"Ah."

In his present mood the geniality — even the
hospitality of Sir Brisco had evaporated ; his
manner was, as we have said, cold, but calm,
and disapproving of "treachery," as he absurdly
deemed it.

Thanks for all your kindness to me," said
Lonsdale, after a time ; " ere we meet again I
shall hope to have won my spurs in Burmahh, and
return major."

"If you ever return at all, poor devil! " was
the angry thought of Sir Brisco.

So the end had come. Lonsdale was to go to
the burning East and leave Melanie behind him.
In the first few weeks that intervened between
their final separation they had not, perhaps,
thought much of it apparently ; the dark cloud
had its silver lining, when he returned home

again, and if he could not return she would join
him in India. They could but love and trust
through a vague term of pain and anxiety.

What might not happen ere all that came to
pass ?

How tenderly and deeply the poor girl loved
him ! They then saw only and felt only the
charm of their present joy ; each, to the other,
was the idol round which that joy centred.
They were never tired of looking into each other's
eyes— of listening to each other's voices ; feeling
a strong pity for all who did not love, and all
unthinking of when love may perhaps be "regarded
in the light of a curse rather than a
benefit to humanity, whose very weakness renders
it unfit to cope wisely with a passion that is so
absorbing, and at times so fatal ! "

Uncle Grimshaw thought them a pair of fools —
would it all last ? Aunt Chillington laughed
cynically and said "No," flattering herself that
she knew more of that phase of life than her
brother-in-law.

I know you would not mind narrow means —

almost poverty, on your own account, dearest,"
Montague Lonsdale had said, more than once ;
"but I know how unjust and hard a long engagement
is on a girl — especially a girl so lovely as
you, and with all the temptations that beauty
brings about her. But you will remember my
words and me — "

Remember — oh, Montague ! "

Will love me, and so, darling, as I cannot
give you up, I will strive to win and deserve you ;
and if my expectations are speedily realised, I
shall be back all the sooner."

"If I went with you to India," Melanie had
said, " instead of complying with the wish of
Uncle Grimshaw, he would, in revenge, send
Reggio to break his heart in some hospital and
drive poor Dick into the streets — so you see how
painfully — how horribly, I am situated."

So the morning of the day had come, on which
Lonsdale had, inexorably, to depart for the headquarters
of the district command to which his
regiment — Prince Albert's Light Infantry — belonged,
far away in the south-west of England,

but considerably nearer to the land where the
scene of its new operations would lie.

Looking around him, on the pretty garden with
its old, overshadowing trees, on the distant spires
of Stokencross, and other now familiar features
of the landscape, with that lingering and caressing
gaze we give to well-loved places we are
about to quit, perhaps for ever, and on which he
knew the gaze of Melanie would rest often when
he was gone, he paid his last visit to Rose
Cottage.

Fortunately, he thought, Uncle Grimshaw was
"not at home," but he paid his adieus to helpless
Reggie and curly-pated Dick, into whose hands
he slipped a sovereign or two ; after which he
hastened away to join Melanie.

He had won Dick's heart even more by cleverly
bandaging up Bingo's foresaw, which had been
badly crushed in a treacherous rabbit-trap that
lay concealed in the woods of the retired soap
boiler, against whom Dick vowed an aristocratic
vendetta ; and, as Lonsdale withdrew, the elder
brother's regret was mingled with something of
vol. i. Q

envy as he thought of the active career that lay
before the soldier, while glancing at his own
Naval sword and gold-laced belt that hung upon
the wall — the sword he never more would wield.

It was one of the first days of August now —
a day that Lonsdale and Melanie would never
forget.

The apples were ripening and reddening in
many a bee-haunted orchard in Essex ; and also
the hops — which there grew to the height of six
feet at times — were turning black and clustering
round the slender poles ; and the wheat was
yellowing up for the harvest.

"When it was gathered in barn and granary,
Montague would be far away from England and
her.

It was with a heavy heart indeed that Melanie
Talbot made her way to their accustomed place of
meeting, where, during the few | days of his
unexpected visit to Eavensbourne Hall, she had
so often sat with Lonsdale, and talked over their
present difficulties and dreamed over the future.

This would be the last — alas ! — the last of

these meetings. When and where would the
next be ? thought the affectionate girl, as she'
contemplated the empty desolation that was to
come.

Early though she was, Lonsdale was there
before her, and in silence clasped her to his
breast ; their emotion was too great for words
just then ; and the eavesdropper of yesterday
was utterly forgotten by him.

Melanie, love," said he, after a time, in a low,
caressing voice, " I feel now, indeed, how hard it
is to depart, knowing to what I leave you."

And Melanie clung to him in silence, faith
growing in her heart, sorrow and joy for a
space most strongly mingling there.

And, oh, my darling, how shall I live without
you ? " said the girl, in a voice like a whisper.

Our engagement will be concealed from all by
your uncle, I know ; thus when I am gone any
fool will be at liberty to address you."

Other than fools may do so, and who may

cause me great trouble," replied Melanie, thinking

of her chief bete no'xr — Sir Brisco.

Q2

Your aunt and uncle may worry you cruelly,
dear Melanie."

Let them do their worst," said she, with a
sickly smile through her tears, drawing confidence
from his caress, and casting up her
pretty head and slender white neck ; " and
their worst shall not separate us."

She did not then see all their worst could be.

At last they had to part. Eagerly and reverently
he covered her face with caresses — and
then came on —

A long, long kiss — a kiss of youth and love
And beauty, all concentrating like rays

Into one focus, kindled from above,
Such kisses as belong to early days.

All this is but the old, old story, and we must
hasten over it.

He held Melanie in his arms for the last time —
the last time. Never till his final hour would he
forget — he thought — how they stood thus for a
painfully brief space, her soft arms clinging to
his neck, and her quivering girlish lips pressed
to his, as wildly and as passionately as his own.

And then they parted, and went their way
without a word more.

So the supposed year of separation was begun !

With Melanie, all the pent-up misery of the
last few hours gave way on her return, the floodgates
of sorrow burst open ; she lost all self-control
for a time, and in the excess of her grief
cared nothing for what Uncle Grimshaw might
think or write to Mrs. Chillington.

Meanwhile, being made of sterner stuff, and
amid changing scenes and faces, Lonsdale, after
quitting the Hall and its master in a species
of dream, as he travelled downward, cigar in
mouth, in a corner of a smoking carriage, looked
like an everyday man of the world, untouched
by thought or care ; yet a vanished form was ever
before him.

Betimes he was in London. Midsummer was
past, when, in such streets as Oxford Street, and
others like it, the roar of vehicles, the touting
of 'bus conductors, the voices of newsboys, the
solicitations of ugly flower-girls, and all the
savagely unintelligible and unmelodious street

cries deaden the sense of hearing, while the
late sun, hidden by clouds and haze, renders the
air oppressive, and makes one think of brain-strokes,
more even than when it beats pitilessly
down on the white pavement, the glittering shops,
or the dust-powdered and dried foliage of the
parks and squares. In the shadowless heat,
amid which the mighty concourse of human
life rolls endlessly to and fro, the result of overdone
civilisation, and the greed and struggle
for existence it produces — amid all this roaring
vortex, could it be that but an hour or so ago
he had been with Melanie amid the sweet sylvan
solitude of Eavensbourne, where there were no
sounds but the hum of the bee in the wild
honeysuckle, the rustle of the old oak leaves,
and the lop-lop of the softly flowing river amid
its tall, wavy ridges ?

The first further steps of his long,' long journey
were before him still, and evening saw his
clanking train steaming out of the confusing
and astounding station at Waterloo, faster at
every moment over the ugly sea of roofs that

characterise the modern Babylon, away from
its broiling streets and polluted river, away into
the green country, where the grass rippled
pleasantly in the wind, and the sun shone
unshorn of its rays, pouring its golden light
on wide fields and green hedgerows, on farmyards
full of hay, on dark coppices, on sheets of water,
on cottages smothered in flowers and creepers,
and all the charming colour that goes to makeup
the sleepy and placid beauty of an English
landscape.

On swept the train, through Farnborough,
when his soldier's eye quickly detected the
Aldershot tents and the slopes that overlook
the Long Valley ; by Basingstoke, nestled in its
fertile open country ; Salisbury, with its slender
spire amid the plain ; Yeovil, and so forth.

Night came down, the light darkened from
amber to crimson, from crimson to gloom, and
under the rays of the silvery moon the features
of the fast-flying landscape looked ghostly at
times, and sweetly pretty at others, when the
trees cast their shadows on the white gleaming

surface of star-lit waters ; and Montague Lonsdale
thought of all he must inexorably look upon
ere again he saw the vanished face of Melanie
the Indian seas to be traversed, the banks of the
Rangoon Eiver, and the land of gilded pagodas
and pestilential marshes; but the knowledge
of her faith made his heart feel strong, if tender ;
and he thought softly of the words of Elizabeth
Barrett Browning, that unless we vow — " For life,
for death, oh, fear to call it loving."

THE P. AND O. LINER, PAGODA.

A few days afterwards saw Montague Lonsdale,
again weary with his own anxious thoughts, and
his journey by rail from the district headquarters
to Southampton, on board the great P. and 0.
liner, Pagoda, of above three thousand tons
burden.

With a brother officer, a favourite old chum
and Afghan comrade, Digby Montressor (of whom
more anon), he got to the ship about midnight,
posted a letter to Melanie, and after a cigar and
nightcap " in his little cabin, turned in at
once ; but to court sleep was difficult, as the
adjacent saloon was full of military passengers,
all jolly fellows, going to the front and Burmahh,
and all resolved to make a "wet" night, or
rather morning, of their last in old England.

Perhaps the chief topic of conversation was
the coming war in the Land of Rubies, and
as usual in such vessels, from the hour of deck-stabbing
in the early morn till the bugles sound
"lights out," when troops are on board, little
is heard on all sides but the strangely sounding
names of places in Hindustani, Afghan, or Pathan,
and of others in the Indies, where ere long the
Russians, leaving Herat, Candahar, and Cabal
in their rear, will be seeking to cross swords
with us.

Happy, and mostly heedless young fellows,
whose partings with those they might never
see again were past and over, a revulsion of
feeling had set in, and over their liquor they
found that

The chief end of hie is to live and be jolly.

Where are they going ? " asked a special
correspondent. " To the front ! " i was the invariable
reply ; but how, when, or where, these
young warriors neither know nor care. All they
are certain of is, that they are going to get
as near the enemy as possible, and that when

there they mean to fight. Meanwhile they
discuss, with a refreshing disregard of exact
history, politics, and even ethics, both the retrospect
and the prospect ; but turn the compass
as they will, the needle always points the same
way — they are going to the front. All our
soldiers on board are not griefs. There are
helmets which have seen service, and incertain
workmanlike baggage lie weapons that
have already flashed on Indian battlefields. Nota
few are, perhaps, old frontier men, and some
they are the oracles amongst us — know the
Khyber and Quetta more than by name only.
Their regiments have seen service along the
Africa troubled borders, or garrisoned that
advance-post at There Ali's end of the Nolan,
which his Highness of Cabal would give much
to hold to-day.

So amid much laughter and a babel of voices,
in which the talk was much of the Russian
seizure of Pul-i-Khotun and Penjdeh, and now
of Khojah-Saleh ; of Mongols, Shanwarris, and
Towokis ; of Umbeylo, the Kolem Valley, and

of the Rangoon River, with Minhlo, Manclalay,
Honos, and so forth, Montague Lonsdale. strove
to court sleep, as he did not feel, just then,
in the mood for such heedless and hilarious
society.

Bound to reach Calcutta in thirty-eight days,
the great ship Pagoda was above three thousand
tons burden, as stated ; but with all her splendour
of fitting-up — and the boasted luxuries of such
vessels — she was not without some of the discomforts
that attend these liners; thus, almost
everything being sacrificed to the saloon, which
few enter but at meal-time, the tiny cabins,
with sometimes four occupants in each, were little
to anyone's taste.

The passenger lay on a narrow shelf for a
sleeping place — its roof so low that it was almost
impossible to turn without knocking the head
against the planks above, while the, shelf itself
was so high up perhaps that a ladder was
necessary to reach it. There were pegs all round
hung with garments, and every chance of one's
basin and tumbler being used by others, while

nearly all toilettes were performed in public,
and delicate and refined ladies, to reach the
bath-room, had — in deshabille — to run the gauntlet
of the quizzing and critical male passengers,
stewards, and ship's officers.

In the haze of an early August morning, and
while the rays of the sun were still lingering
beyond the higher ground of the Isle of Wight,
the Pagoda, under half steam, dropped down
the great estuary named Southampton Water,
and Lonsdale, Montressor, and a few other young
officers — some of them looking seedy enough
after last night's work in the saloon, and nearly
all wearing the lightest of tweed suits, while some
had already — in anticipation of the terrible heat
of the Eed Sea — adopted white helmets with
puggarees — were smoking on the poop together ;
and now the exposure of edifices that form the
borough, with the spires of St. Michael and of
All Saints' were fading out on the port quarter,
with the raised causeway or promenade and all
its stately trees. And around the P. and 0. liner
was the opening fairway, studded with sails, and

streaked with foam and the stir of innumerable
steamers.

On the starboard side, after East Cowes was
past, rose the soft beauties of the Isle of Wight,
where the harvest fields were ready for the sickle ;
and already the first glimpse of the coming autumn
could be seen by the glass amid the openings
where the leaves had already fallen, and where the
breezes were not a-Maying now.

The woodlands were all flushed with the last
touches of summer, toned clown in places by those
of the coming autumn,

Half franked with spring, with summer half embroiled.

The great white cliffs, gashed by their chines,
stood up, shaded with grey and blue above the
sunny sea, and as the ship glided on, in quick
succession she passed Eye — who knows not
Eye ? — Littleton Point, and over the wide height
of Sundown Bay, overshadowed by high dark hills,
and sweeping in a beautiful curve from Franklin
to the Culver Rocks ; then came Vintner on its
commanding height, and even the Pagoda felt

the waters of the Channel curling under her
forefoot.

Lonsdale and Montressor, more reflective than
most of their companions, were thinking when
should they look on these most English scenes
again, and the former was feeling that ages
had apparently elapsed since he had parted from
Melanie in their lone and lovely trysting-place,
when a lady came on deck, with a soft white
knitted hood tied coquettish over her bright
sunny hair ; and she advanced smilingly towards
the group of officers, one faultless white hand
unloved, twirling the large sunshade that rested
on her shoulder, a bright smile in her beautiful,
but sleepily-lidded hazel eyes, and Lonsdale's heart
gave a leap of dismay on recognising Hilda
Tremayne. Hilda going out in the Pagoda
too!

Who can control circumstances— who among us
can be stronger than fate ?

"Evil will come of this!" thought Lonsdale.
"If Melanie hears that this girl is in the
same ship with me her old pique will be renewed ;

what will she think and what may not jealousy
prompt?"

And she did hear of it, as time will show.

Lonsdale had no leisure to reflect further.
Hilda swooped down upon him, and took his
half-proffered arm, as the ship just then gave
a lurch, and then she glanced at his companion
inquiringly.

Captain Montressor of Ours," said he, introducing
his brother officer, to whom Hilda gave
her hand ; and he knew her at once — who in the
service did not ?

Lonsdale led her to a seat, got a hassock for
her feet, and Hilda began her ceillades without
delay. .

Captain Lonsdale, I heard you were going
out in the Pagoda. Where have you been
lately?"

I might have been at Khartoum, but I haven't,"
replied Lonsdale, scarcely able to conceal his
chagrin ; " and you — are you going out again to
the land of the Deeper tree ? "

Oh, no ; only so far as Port Said — where I

shall take a return steamer — with papa, as I shall
not see him again for fully five years. Poor papa,
his command is far up country."

Lonsdale was rather relieved on discovering that
this irrepressible young lady was not going so far
as the mouth of the Hooghly, and thought he
would ignore the episode of her presence in his
letters — if it would be safe to do so.

"From Port Said I go back to England," said
Miss Tremayne, looking dreamily over the rolling
waters of the Channel.

"Would that I were going back with you," said
Lonsdale, thinking of Melanie.

The wish comes too late," replied Miss
Tremayne, with a flash through her half-closed
eyelids, affecting perhaps to misunderstand him.

"Why?"

I am going back to be married."

At last ! " said Lonsdale, ignoring the inference ;
but pardon me — what the deuce have I said?"

One of those things people had better leave
unsaid," replied the other, with a merry laugh ;
but I forgive you."

VOL. I. R

And I congratulate you. Who is the too
happy man, Haldane

who would resent your addressing me by
my Christian name."

Even as an old friend ? "

"Yes; so all you shall learn is that he is now
in Dublin."

In her extreme vanity, Hilda Tremayne was
scarcely aware that men too often addressed her
in a flippant kind of way, which she deemed rather
complimentary than otherwise.

When back in London," said she, after a
smiling pause, " I shall, of course, have no end
of shopping to do."

How I should like to be there and accompany
you ! "

Why? " she asked, with drooping eyelashes.

"Because I am anxious to know how expensive
a luxury a wife is."

You must look on the land of the white
elephant ere you can think of that now," she
replied, with something of pique.

True," said Lonsdale, as his transient smile

died away. "Object to my cigar?" he asked
after a pause.

Oh, not at all ; I rather like it. Oh, Captain
Lonsdale, I shall never forget our too delightful
row on the river that day above Stokencross."

Lonsdale did not respond ; he could not agree
with her, as it led to the only cloud that ever
came between himself and Melanie ; and he said :

Permit me to introduce to you young Dangers,
of the 8th."

That big boy, without a moustache ? "

He'll talk to you about India."

India — why, he can't know the difference
between a howdah and Hyderabad," said Hilda,
with a moue. "No, please; I would rather talk
to you, old friend ; and now take me to the
saloon, the breakfast bell has rung."

So Lonsdale began to, find, that despite all the

attractive young fellows who were on board, Miss

Tremayne was determined to adopt him as her

special cavalier ; and the circumstance that she

suspected him of being engaged to another lent

piquancy to this proceeding on her part, especially

r2

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

as he was a handsome fellow, a V.C. man, and
there were many ladies of various ages on board.

He was ungallant enough to hope that when the
Pagoda was fairly out into mid channel the mat de
mer might relieve him of this duty ; but Hilda had
been too often at sea, had yacht too much at
Cowes and elsewhere to suffer from that ; and
for a time — so far as her own sex was concerned
she had the poop and saloon nearly to herself,
and thus the attendance which he could not avoid
became more requisite than ever, amidst the
enforced idleness of lordship — the idleness that,
at times, promotes the keeping of diaries by those
who never kept them before, and in which they
had nothing now to insert ; and idleness, the
vapidity of which may be guessed at through the
reflection of the daily and hourly talk.

And when Lonsdale, after Malta was far astern,
ended a long, long letter to Melanie, inspired with
eloquence by his love of her, and all the tender
phraseology that passion could prompt, to be
finally dated and posted at the entrance to the
canal, he felt there was a kind of treason in his

nervous reticence in not trusting her with the
fact that the coquettish Hilda Tremayne was, at
that moment, seated opposite to him, writing, he
supposed, to her intended, poor devil !

While the coquettish and flirting Hilda could
very little have conceived that Lonsdale was then
inspired only by an intense longing to reach the
shores of Egypt, when he hoped to see the last
of her, she availed herself of his services as
cavalier on every available occasion ; but withall
her undoubted attractions and brilliance, he
felt himself far from gratified thereby, and remarked
that though she was a sort of queen
among the young subs and griefs who were going
out, Digby Montressor treated her with extreme
coldness ; and to Lonsdale's eye he appeared a
changed and soured man from the once bright and
happy fellow he had been. A secret seemed to
be weighing upon his mind, and to that his friend
hoped to find the key in time.

With all her coquettish appropriation of Lons-
dale, Hilda Tremayne was not so untrue to her
usual instincts as to omit attracting every other

man in the saloon, if possible, whether old or
young, married or otherwise. Thus a group was
generally about her — a group of whom she seemed
the sun and centre. And her letter to hex Chance
was no sooner closed, than she betook herself to
a game in which she was fond of indulging just
then — palmistry — the last fad society had taken
up ; and with the young subs, and their seniors
too, she was ever and anon examining their digits,
and professing to be great in the Lines of Life, the
Heretics or Plain of Mars, the Mounts of Venus,
the fingers under special planetary influence, and
in all the jargon of this new study — if a study it is
amid much banter and more incredulity.

The gentlemen, however, had not the slightest
objection to submit their hands to the manipulations
of so fair-fingered an amateur sibyl ; it
was rather a pleasant sensation to most of them,
if not to all, though some there were who resented
the harmless nonsense she uttered so glibly and
so archly.

Thus a morose old staff surgeon was actually
provoked, when in the hearing of his plain-looking

and rather jealous better half, whom he was
known to have married for her money, Hilda,
with a waggish expression in her languishing
hazel eyes, informed him that by his Mounts of
Venus he had betrayed more than one trusting
heart — the last through avarice.

She informed Danvers of the 8th, from other
mystic signs, that he would "marry an inexperienced
girl."

"Inexperienced in what?" he asked, caressing
an incipient fair moustache.

The ways of the world ; hence she will never
be so attractive to such as you as a woman
thereof."

But in matters of love, Miss Tremayne," began
Danvers —

Marriage is too important to be confused
with such," replied Hilda ; " and now, Captain
Montressor — oh ! — your hand does tell a strange
story."

Lonsdale remarked that his friend winced,
even amid the banter around him.

What does it tell ? " asked Montressor, coldly.

That a woman has dominated your career fora
time — "

"A safe assertion to most men of a certain age,
Miss Tremayne."

But— another— "

"Pardon me," said Montressor, as he withdrew
his hand in a manner that excited a laugh against
him, as if he thereby admitted there was something
in what she said.

You have certainly probed some secret, Miss
Tremayne," said Danvers.

To pooh-pooh this admits a home truth," said
Hilda, " and that the hand may express much, Mr.
Danvers."

A great deal by pressure — by a genuine
squeeze," replied the subaltern, flippantly.

By a glance I can tell you more."

"How?"

That your moral line is not a straight one."

"Please how am I to straighten it?" he asked,
simply, amid the laughter of the group.

"Why don't you take all this as a jest for as
much as it is worth ? " asked Lonsdale of his

friend, Montressor, whose face, he thought, was
still absurdly cloudy. " Many a gipsy has told
me more in the Long Valley, with my fortune to
boot."

There is no such theory as fortune," said Mon-treason;
" I agree with Cervantes, 'that nothing
happens here below of good or evil by chance, but
by the particular providence of heaven ' ; and this
makes good the proverb, ' that every man may
thank himself for his own fortune.' For my part,
I have been the maker of mine."

Then Lonsdale, who saw that his friend was
in one of his wayward moods, did not pursue the
subject.

IN THE SUEZ CANAL.

In due time the Pagoda reached Port Said, now a
flourishing town, but where, when in the April of
1859 M. de Lesseps landed with his band of
navigators to inaugurate his great maritime canal,
there was nothing but a desolate bank of sand
between the Mediterranean Sea and the swampy
shallows of Lake Menzaleh ; and then the illustrious
engineer selected the site of a city and port,
intended ultimately to rival those of Alexandria.

It is renowned for its Cafes-chantants and its
swindling roulette tables, and has all the aspects of
a French, rather than an Egyptian, town, with its
regularly laid-out streets and squares, quays,
hotels, and other adjuncts that are European ; and
though it lacked wholly the picturesqueness of the
towns and cities of the Delta and Nile Valley to

the eye of Lonsdale, he could not but remember
that to starboard of the steamer lay the land of the
Caliphs and the Arabian Nights, where once were
magic palaces, whose least decorations were
alabaster sofas overlaid with golden embroideries,
and floors of which the mosaics were diamonds,
rubies, and other precious stones.

And there, at Port Said, as he stood on the poop,
looking at the bustle and the wondrous scene
around him, all quivering and vibrating under a
scorching Egyptian sun, Lonsdale and his companions
could see, before a native cafe, three
Hawaii girls, clad in scarlet spangled jackets,
with loose thin trowsers of purple and gold, their
head-dresses of coins, their girdles of jingling beads
and amulets, languidly performing the Balance
Dance — every step and gesture of which was no
doubt as old as the days of the Pharaohs, and
traditionally handed down — their slender, girlish
forms palpitating, from their glossy tresses to their
pretty bare feet, always in dreamy and passionate
attitudes ; yet performed in this prosaic age for a
couple of francs and a bottle of Allsopp's pale ale.

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

But now Lonsdale, on going below for his
circulars, found himself suddenly face to face with
a fair performer of another kind.

A flirt to the last moment, when the time came
for Hilda Tremayne going ashore in her father's
temporary care, on encountering Lonsdale in the
after part of the empty saloon, as all else were on
deck, she approached him with something like
tears in her coquettish eyes, and certainly a break
in her musical voice, as she said —

Good bye, Captain Lonsdale — good bye,
Montague."

He took her preferred hand, but saw in a
moment that with a tender and sentimental gaze
in her eyes, she sought to lead him on — to lure
him — to a somewhat formal adieu ; and for the
moment a comical desire to take a little fun out of
the artful girl possessed him — but without a
thought of treason to Melanie Talbot. |

He put his head on one side sentimentally —
sighed a little, and kissed her hand ; and then with
a swift glance round to see that no other eyes were
upon her, she reclined her cheek upon his shoulder,

gave him a tender upward glance, and drooped her
full white eyelids.

Most young fellows in Lonsdale's place would
have kissed the sorrowful and departing Hilda ; but
he thought of Melanie, and omitted to do so even
in a spirit of fun. The situation, if it had its
charm was not accepted, though when a fair one
so reclines her head in expectancy, there is a
charm in its remaining thus until a salute is given
or an interruption takes place ; and whatever
Hilda thought of Lonsdale's proceedings, or rather
non-proceedings, he held her there in some
perplexity, till there was a rattle at the saloon door,
in the break of the poop, and a hoarse voice,
sounding above the medley of noises on deck,
cried —

Now then— any one here for shore ! "

And then with a pressure of the hand — a
pressure only — they parted.

But Lonsdale and Melanie had not quite heard
the last of Hilda Tremayne.

Thirty miles tether eastward saw the great liner
passing El Cantata and entering the Bitter Lakes,

and ere long her course was overlooked by the land
of the Koc, the fabulous monster bird of oriental
tales, and where, in the distance, could be seen the
caravans of camels laden with the riches of Araby
the Blest ! for Suez had been left astern — Suez
amid its desert, with all its huts and houses of
sun-dried bricks, its mosques and Greek Church —
and now .the Pagoda was ploughing the waves of
the Eed Sea, and Lonsdale had dispatched for
Europe the last letters he could send till he reached
the shores of India.

How long would it be now ere he could hear in
reply from Melanie ?

As the Pagoda steamed on amid the waters of
that remarkable sea, which is said to take its name
from the petroleum of a minute bright red plant?
according to Ehrenberg, who tells us that he saw
from Tor, near mount Sinai, the whole bay of which
that village is the port, scarlet as blood, the open
sea keeping its ordinary colour, while the wavelets
carried in shore at noon a purple matter and left it
on the sand, so that the whole bay was fringed by
red, which, on examination, proved to consist of

myriads of tiny fibres — the red trichodesmian —
though the water in which they floated was pure —
so, as the ship sped on her way, the porpoises
tumbling ahead, and occasionally the locusts blown
on board — Lonsdale and Montressor often trod the
deck together, especially by night, sometimes in
silence and sometimes communing together, for the
place was suggestive of reflection to every thoughtful
mind.

Wondrous, ever and anon, was the lurid, yet
ghastly, effect of the electric light as it was shot
from the ship's lofty foretop for three miles ahead
searching the Egyptian Sea as a warning to craft
that might be steaming westward ; while on the
port side towered Mount Sinai, where man was
brought face to face with his Maker, where a voice
came on the wings of the wind, and the inscribed
tablets of stone were seen in that time of wonder
and awe.

Bare and majestically towers Sinai above its
comrades of the mountain range, and when the
rays of the morning sun tip its summit with red
light, the sandy gorges beneath remain in purple

shadow, silent, calm, and still, untrodden even by
the wild goat ; and then — but it may be fancy — a
strange radiance seems to bathe the bare scalp that
has been revered for ages by Christian and Jew —
the peak of the mountain of God.

Sinai, once estimated as fifteen days' camel
journey from Suez, is brought much nearer now, in
these our prosaic days of steam.

That Digby Montressor was a changed man from
what Lonsdale had known him to be — changed in
mind, manner, and bearing, even in the expression
of his face — was very apparent, and a source of
mystery to him ; for Digby had once been the
active spirit of the mess-table, the prime mover
and leader in all regimental sports — cricket and
polo matches, balls and pic-nics, and so forth — a
general favourite, who had friends without number,
whose table was always littered with cards of
invitation, and who could command any amount of
shooting, fishing, and hunting at the houses of his
friends.

He was regular featured, with keen dark eyes, a
heavy brown moustache already tinged with grey,

and a well-formed head that was already becoming
bald ; yet Digby Montressor was not yet more than
thirty, and the general character of his face was
now alternately grave and set, or hunted and
irritated.

What has come to you, Digby, old fellow —
excuse my asking you ? " said Lonsdale to him more
than once ; " but somehow you seem sorely changed
since you and I parted a year ago at Southampton
on our return on leave together from India."

I am changed — soured— crushed, I admit, and
I may well be so."

And the cause ? "

A woman ! "

The old, old story."

But mine is somewhat new. I was all right
enough, perhaps, till I met my actual fate — as the
novels have it — in the form of a very beautiful and
attractive girl, to whom I was introduced at a
house to which Horace Musgrave, of the Hussars,
took me incidentally one day."

"Whose house ? " asked Lonsdale, casually.

That of a Mrs Chillington."

VOL. I. S

Of Chillington Park— up the river ? "
Yes. Do you know her ? " ,

"A little — whew! What a small place this
world is, after all," replied Lonsdale, over whom —
notwithstanding the awful heat of the Ee.d Sea,
through which the Pagoda was then steaming with
the light wind dead astern — there came a kind of
chill, a fear, he knew not of what, unless it was
that he intensely disliked the name of Melanie's
matchmaking aunt. " Tell me all about this — if
you care to do so."

I shall — but, old friend,' when we came back
together from Bengal, a year ago, there was a
secret in my life of which you knew nothing.
We are told by Cowper,

The darkest day

Lived till tomorrow will have passed away.

But it is not so with me, for other darks follow
each other; in grim succession — 'and will do so,
till the bitter end comes.' "

Then, after a pause, he carefully selected and
lighted the inevitable cigar, as if to gather comfort or
inspiration therefrom, and after a few whiffs said —

I was not always in my present regiment, as
you know; I belonged to a Lancer corps at first,
and when with it I was — married."

Married — what — you, Digby ! " exclaimed
Lqnsdale ; "we always thought you were a
bachelor. Well?"

I was married — better that I had been shot
in the Afghan passes — married before you knew
me, and that is the first portion of my secret."

END OF VOL. I.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

At all the Libraries.

A WOMAN'S FACE. By Florence Warden.

3 Vols.
IDLE TALES. By Mrs. Liddell.

1 Vol.

MISER FAREBROTHER. By B. L. Farjeon.

3 Vols. •
FOR FREEDOM. By Tighe Hopkins.

2 Vols.

MIRACLE COLD. By Richard Dowling.

3 Vols.

MARVEL. By the Author of "Molly Sawn.
3 Vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London,

a iRovci.

BY

JAMES Grant,

AUTHOR OF "the ROMANCE OF WAR," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON.

1888.
[All Bights Reserved.]

NovELLo, Ewer &. Co.,

London, W.

LOVE'S Labour WON

CHAPTER XXI.

THE PROGRESS OF A FOLLY.

As if he had a had of horror, or disgust of
what he had to relate, he began briefly the early
portion of his story, but became more discursive ashe
proceeded, as if to explain or palliate his own
folly, and we shall give it, not in his words, but
our own.

Soon after his appointment to a Lancer corps at
Maidstone, Digby Montressor found himself loitering
on a month's leave at Brighton, as he had
not, in the world, a near relation whom he cared
to visit.

An orphan from his early boyhood, he knew
little of life generally ; little, or nothing, of society,
that of ladies especially, and was thus naturally

VOL. II. B

shy, retiring, and ignorant of the world at I are ;
hence, perhaps, the pitfall that proved so fatal to
him, in the person of a more than attractive
young girl at Brighton — that .


They became acquainted very simply, when
sitting on the same sofa, or seat of the marine
parade at the house end. The wind had turned
her sunshade inside out, he re-arranged it for
her, but not without difficulty, and as he restored
it he noticed the fine form of her hand, although
gloved, the glitter of a handsome gold bracelet,
he felt the rustle of her dress against his arm,
the waft of some delicate perfume came towards
him, and he was sensible of a thanking smile
from a pair of beautiful eyes, with very long
lashes.

"I am very stupid and awkward," he muttered,
as he returned her sunshade, " and but little
used to talking to ladies."

It was an idiotic admission for any man to
make — a Lancer, perhaps, especially — and her
eyes twinkled with amusement.

The acknowledgment is quite refreshing,"
said she.

'how?"

"It is so novel."

Her hair— her soft curling fringe— was of rich
brown in the shade, but softened to golden shot
chestnut in the sunshine ; her eyes were of liquid
dark grey, softened by very exquisite lashes. She
was-pale, or colourless, and her little nose, though
intended perhaps to be Grecian, had somehow been
finished off in the pertest and prettiest of the
retrousse kind.

Yes," she resumed, after a pause, *' your
admission is a new experience to me, as you
are yourself."

Indeed ? " he queried.

I am never permitted to speak to gentlemen."

''By whom?"

My aunt and guardian."

But why? " he continued, gathering courage.

She thinks it wrong for young girls to know

gentlemen until they are married."

"And you—"

B 2

Will soon be so — too soon, I fear."

"Too soon?" said young Montressor, a little
perplexed by the confidential turn the conversation
had so suddenly taken. '^ How ? "

"Because I do not know the man I am to
marry," said she, with a little moue.

What riddle is this?" asked Digby, catching
the sunshade, which seemed on the point of being
reversed again.

I was engaged to him in my school-girl
days. He is in India just now — a cousin of
mine."

Engaged to him — by your own will ? "

No ; by our parents, who are since dead."

But you love him, of course ? "

No ; I simply hate him — there ! "

Her dark, grey eyes flashed through a suffusion
as she spoke, and our silly Lancer became deeply
interested.

In consequence of all this, aunt will not
allow me to go to a single dance, lawn-tennis
or garden party. I am not permitted even to
read a novel, except by stealth."

'* What a shame ! "

'' Horrible, is it not ? " she continued, kicking
the pebbles nth a tiny foot. ''My parents had
no right to consign me — a young girl — to such a
fate as this."

Very singularly, they met again at the same seat
next day, and on other days ; and Digby
Montressor became deeply interested in his new
acquaintance, all the more so that he twice
surprised her in tears.

Irene Beaufort, she told him, was her name.
How sweetly romantic it sounded then, though
something false and melodramatic seemed in it
afterwards ; but like most of men who are deluded
and spell-bound, through his eyes, his senses
and fancy, he made up, or out of Irene, all
he deemed essential in a pure, perfect, and
gracious girl.

Her costumes too were simple but effective ;
quiet certainly, and seemed to his eyes like her
bearing, perfect ; but she seemed very fond of
talking about herself, and once said : —

I might as well be a nun in a cloister—

indeed, I often think of becoming one to escape
this odious marriage. I do think I am intended
by nature for a religious life — don't you think
so — and that a veil and hood would become
me?" she added, with a demure but sweet and
waggish oeillade from the handsomest eyes he
had seen. *how rash I have been to tell all
this," she continued, as they idled about a
sequestered part of the beach ; *' to talk thus
to a stranger ; but, somehow, you have not seemed
to me like one, for I feel as if I had known you
long — had met you somewhere before. Can it be — "
Animal magnetism, you would say ? "
*swell — something of that kind, perhaps. I
have so seldom anyone to talk to, except my
deaf old Aunt Beaufort ; I am so unlike all the
other happy girls you see promenading on the
Parade, and flirting among the shingles. But
then, who ever heard of a girl with a nez retrousse
like mine being sentimental ? " she added, with
a silvery laugh.

Digby walked on with her, alike perplexed and
pleased, while wondering what she would ,say next.

'you belong to a changeable sex," said she,
drooping her soft eyes under the ardour of
his gaze, and then, with one of her sweetest
smiles, throwing at him an upward glance full
of brightness ; " but I never met anyone like you
before."

Whether this was meant as a compliment or not,
he took it for one, and bowed, whereon the
young lady laughed again, forgetting, perhaps, that
the statement was not in accordance with the
alleged tenor of her ways, and that she hinted
of magnetic currents, unsuspected and unknown,
and other occult twaddle, if such it is.

'* Then you do not care about this fellow in
India to whom you are engaged ? " asked Digby
for the tenth time.

Not at all ; how should I ? Moreover, he
looks hideous, in his photo."

Digby was fast becoming more entranced,
enthralled — '' besotted " the men would have
termed it. He and Irene 'did" the Aquarium
more than once, also the Pavilion, when there
was anything more than usually exciting on.

They went boating together. Once or twice she
failed to come to the accustomed seat, overlooking
that shining bay where never a ship is to
be seen, and he could scarcely have believed how
her absence could so completely change the aspect
of that gay marine parade, with all its stately
houses and giant hotels ; while, as if to add
to his pique and annoyance, on each of the
occasions a K.D. Guardsman, from the barracks
on the Lewes Eoad, in his frogged patrol jacket
and gold forage cap, trotted slowly past on a
flea-bitten mare. He knew him to be Val Silke,
a captain with the most leery eye, leery visage,
and worst reputation in many ways ; but to
connect his presence with her absence never
occurred to Digby in the most remote way.

"I have been indisposed," she urged on each
occasion, sadly ; " my Indian letters always worry
me — make me quite ill ; otherwise, do you think
I would have remained away — away from you,
who have come so pleasantly into my colourless
and uneventful life ? How rapidly we have become
intimate, we who knew nothing? of each other's

existence but a few days ago. All things happen
because One who is wiser than all the world
thinks they should be so," she added, with one
of those half-playful bursts of religious emotion
which he thought sat so prettily upon her. " But
I must not cant, like Aunt Beaufort. I hate
cant ! "

Digby could not help remarking — or was it
imagination? — that some men who passed them
in their promenades eyed her admiringly ; and
one — another K.D.G. — Bob D'Oyley — actually
perpetrated a half-palpable wink ! This was
intolerable !

Montressor grasped his riding switch, but a
touch of her little gloved hand arrested him and
soothed him, but did not allay his longing to
punch the heavy's head : and yet the infatuation
continued !

Bouquets, music, books, even fans and beautiful
boxes of gloves, were sent almost every day to
Mrs. Beaufort's rooms at How. He touched up
her sketches, he teased her pug, for which he
bought a silver collar and round bell ; he wound

up her wools ; he had, more than once, afternoon
tea, laid on a charming Chippendale table, with
a massive silver tray, cups of blue and gold Derby,
round an antique teapot that Queen Anne might
have been regaled from ere she usurped her
father's throne ; but he never saw the mysterious
and invalid aunt whose consent had to be won,
for all this philandering.

And in the eyes of Irene there was a dangerous
softness, in her unstudied attitudes a languor,
and in her voice a tenderness that stole over ibis
senses and bewildered him. But he had not come
to the point, and something was requisite if that
odious marriage with her Indian cousin was to be
escaped, a subject on which she became actually
hysterical.

They were still lingering over the Chippendale
table, when a servant entered, abruptly, or unexpectedly,
with a magnificent bouquet, tied with
nice white ribbons.

With Major D'Oyley's compliments to Miss
Beaufort," she said.

Digby Montressor became silent, sullen, even

stern ; while Irene became rather too rapturous,
he thought, over her gift.

How beautiful, how sweet, the stephanotis and
lily of the valley are ! He knows I dote on
stephanotis."

He— who ? "

Major D'Oyley."

'' Does he ? "

Yes ; how fresh they are ! " said she, putting
the bouquet under his nose ; but he drew back.

Are you not fond of flowers ? "

'' Yes ; but stephanotis I hate."

How very odd. Help me to dispose of them
in water."

*' In the gutter rather, if you will ; but in no
other way."

Digby was fairly angry now.

"How unkind of you," said Irene, pleadingly,
with suffused eyes. " Here are four pink rosebuds
; let me give you two — you know the
language of the flowers."

In a moment she adjusted two in his coat ; but
that evening he could have sworn he saw the other

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

two in the coat of D'Oyley at the theatre. He
felt no jealousy exactly of the latter; but the
expected return of Irene's cousin brought the
matter to a crisis.

Why should the whim— the wish of my dead
parents— fetter me now?" said Irene, in tears.
'' Why should it cast a shadow over me, and ruin
all my future ? "

'* Why, indeed. Throw prudence to the winds."

And what then ? "

"Marry me, darling!" he whispered, softly,
and drew her head upon his breast.

There is always a mischievous excitement and
triumph in taking a pretty girl away from another
man ; and this absurd emotion inspired Digby
Montressor at that moment, and so the end of it
all was that they were privately and irrevocably
wedded, after much apparent reluctance on the
part of Irene, and no small dread alike of her aunt
and the homecoming intended.

The former, a mysterious and perpetual invalid,
who had never been visible after the marriage,
abruptly took her departure from Brighton without

"beat of drum," and without even seeing Mon-tresses,
from whose eyes, now that the Rubicon
had been crossed, and his fate sealed, the enchanted
scales were soon to fall.

In less than a week the infatuated lad knew all
or nearly so ; that his wife was an inebriate,
and in spite of entreaties and warnings, received
the visits of Val Bilke, D'Oyley and other objectionable
men in his absence ; and when remonstrated
with, became abusive — actually coarse.

'you have no right to control me," she said,
defiantly ; *' I shall go where I will — do what I
choose."

Oh, Irene — surely I have a right — that of a
husband — the man who loves you."

'' Bah ! "

It was open war from that moment.

She had often become apparently hysterical,
when the pretended cousin — was his existence a
myth? — had been referred to; but her attacks of
hysteria were terribly accounted for now.

The once sweetly sorrowful eyes that seemed to
say — so thought weak Digby — it was almost a sin

to say he loved her, were changed in expression
now. Could it be in nature, that her soft face
with all its playful changes, her beautiful form so
full of grace and all that was alluring, could hide
a soul so subtle, so vile, so coarse and despicable ?

He had soon discovered that mentally and
morally she was profoundly his inferior; but
for her actual ignorance, intensely bad style, and
more than all for her fury and ravings when
crossed, he was in no way prepared. His first sensation
was a dumb, gnawing, grinding pain, of a
nature impossible to describe ; it seemed to affect
him in body and soul, and for hours he thought
he felt nothing else.

The agony of regret for his broken idol— his
suddenly shattered ideal — was almost less, after a
time, than the emotion of amazement at his own
rashness, blindness, and stupendous folly — the
result of his ignorance of society, of the world,
and of the female portion thereof in particular.

He had blighted and destroyed his young life at
its very outset.

With this conviction a great horror came upon

him, and he remembered to have read that
'' Death may take our dear ones and their places
may be filled up in our heart ; but never again
can life restore to us the broken hopes, the
shattered illusions of om youth's fond imaginings.
These things once slain, have perished for ever."

She mocked him at last, and treated him with
defiance and contempt.

Montressor heard her words as of those of someone
in a hollow place or far away. They sounded
at first vague, meaningless, and then stunning
and terrible. They cut into his heart like sword
blades, and for long after he never knew, in the
dim confusion of his soul, how he left her
presence.

But action was necessary. He settled an
income on her, and as his finances were thus
embarrassed, he exchanged from the Lancers into
the Infantry, and prepared for service abroad.

Ere he went, he offered her a good round sum
to go out to Canada, where she had relatives,
according to her own account. The money seemed
to tempt her ; she closed with his proposal — took

a mocking farewell of him, and the ship sailed in /
due time, but never reached the shores of America.

She foundered at sea, and among the list of
the drowned cabin passengers — with a heart that
thrilled to its core with great horror and greater
relief mingled — Montressor read the name of
his wife !

It was when our regiment was in South Africa,
engaged in the Zulu war, and forming a part of
Sir Evelyn Wood's column, that this intelligence
fatal he could not deem it — reached Digby
Montressor, and from that moment he became the
jolly and happy fellow the mess knew him to be
then, and afterwards on service and in India.

But the second portion of his story was an
equally disastrous one.

"but all was false and hollow!"

It was seven years after that time, and when the
dark episode of his early life had become like
the memory of a disagreeable dream, that Digby
Montressor, at one of Mrs. Chillington's brilliant
garden parties, was introduced by Horace Mus-grave,
of the Hussars, to Claire Richmond, the
only daughter of the good old Rector of Chillington,
a very handsome, but more than usually sweet
and attractive girl in her twenty second year ;
and with that chance meeting began the golde
summer of a new life to Digby.

They met again and again after that introduction,
at those places where " everyone meets everyone
else," and he soon learned to love her, but
calmly, ^dth delight — a new and joyous emotion,
all unlike the rash and headstrong passion — for

vol. II. c

mere passion it was — that wrecked his Hfe at
Brighton.

Digby Montressor, you have been a fool once,"
he said to himself ; " beware how you are so
again."

But it was impossible to look upon the pure
and winning face of Claire Richmond and be
either wary or wise ; and so it came to pass,
that before either knew quite what they were
about, there was exchanged between them the
mysterious glance — "that electric flash" — by
which eye understands eye, and through which
heart suddenly speaks to heart ; and to Digby
there opened a newer and more glorious happiness,
that seemed to compensate him for all the
misery and humiliation he had undergone in the
past, and before he had looked on the fields of
Ginghilovo and Ulundi.

In him Claire found a man of whom any woman
might be proud — a brave soldier, who had faced
death and suffering often in many ways, a polished
gentleman, and a thoughtful one, with a fully-developed,
formed, and experienced mind, a handsome

figure, a manly bearing, and calm well-cut
features; more than that, perhaps, one who loved
her ; and so, after the tale that was told in the
soft twilight garden of Chillington Rectory, Mon-treason
found himself an accepted suitor.

Never would he and she forget that twilight eve
in the gorgeous summer, under the dense shadow
of the aged trees, and near the still older rectory,
its fretted carvings, thatched roof, and lozenged
and mullions windows, crimsoned by the last
light — the warm after-glow — of the set sun ; amid
all the greenery and flowers that framed the
picturesque old edifice with an English beauty all
its own.

We shall not dwell longer on this event. The
language of love is pretty much the same all the
world over, and has been so, we presume, since
flowers and apples grew in Eden; thus few, we
believe, care to hear it — when not addressed to
themselves — as its vapid inanities, sweet little
iterations and imbecilities, are dear to lovers, and
to lovers only.

The father of Claire, though reluctant to lose

c 2

the apple of his eye, and that his one wee ewe
lamb should, leave him to become the wife of a
soldier, and to follow that soldier to distant lands
performed the ceremony in the beautiful old parish
church, which, if history told truth, was built by
William of Wykeham, and wherein William of
Orange, when flouting Bushes Park, and Horace
Walpole, when resident at Strawberry Hill, both
said their prayers, the former returning thanks to
the Dutchman's God for the massacre of Glencoe.

The wedding was over, the cake cut, the speeches
made, healths drunk, the rice and slippers thrown
after the departing carriage that bore away the
happy pair, not for a " spin " among the gay
places of the Continent, but to enjoy each other's
society amid the sylvan and sequestered scenery
of Lynmouth, and there, while wandering no doubt
hand in hand, forgetting all the external world,
in the richly-wooded combes near the Swiss-like
village where the hill streams of Devon roll down
over huge boulders like one long waterfall, and
the Valley of the Stones — that wonder of the West
of England — rises on each side, in its terrific

masses like the ruins of a Cyclopean palace, with
glimpses of the distant sea far down below, life
seemed to be as near perfection as it could well
be, and their honeymoon was indeed a sweet and
happy, if brief, bewildering dream — for a brief
dream it was fated to be.

Yet it was joyous, while it lasted, in a pretty
Devon cottage, under the friendly shadow of apple
bowers a century old — orchards where the sun's
rays, with many a freak, flickered among the thick
leaves, where the moss-grown branches spread out
broad and low, and where the birds and the honeybees
knew to find the sweetest apples, as many
a hole on the rosy or sun-browned sides of the
golden pippins evinced.

One evening the pair had returned from a long
ramble, in which Digby had guided Claire's pony
by the bridle through the Alpine gorge of Glendale,
where the sides of the echoing ravine are covered
by thick woods — the haunt of the wild deer of
Exmoor — and where all the white foaming torrents
of the hills unite near Oglethorpe ; and as the two
approached the cottage, which was their temporary

home, in the fulness and happiness of her heart
Claire was singing a little song, with a voice like a
silver bell — a song to which there were no listeners
but her husband and the birds, that, like themselves,
were seeking their nest — when, just as he
lifted her from her saddle, his valet said :

'' There is a lady waiting to see you, sir."

A lady — here ? " asked Digby.

Well, sir — a woman, anyway — seems rather
down on her luck, I think."

"Begging?"

Oh, no, sir ; seems rather a cut above that ;
but wishing to see you, or Mrs. Month ensor, very
particular indeed."

*' I shall see her myself," said Digby, taking out
his purse, and having no doubt it was a visit for
the purpose of charity ; while Claire hurried upstairs
to change her attire for dinner.

In the pretty little dining-room, where already
the table was laid for two — glittering with plate,
ivory, and crystal, and gay with freshly-gathered
flowers — stood a woman, meanly attired, pallid in
face, degraded in aspect, defiant and insolent in

bearing ; and the heart of Montressor — the heart
that had never quailed in breach or battle — died
within him on recognising Irene.

Had the sea given up its dead ? The room
swam round him, and his blood felt as if turned
to water.

The transient charms of face and person that
had once attracted Digby Montressor were gone
now. What a difference a few short years of such
a life as she must have led had made. There were
wrinkles now where dimples had been ; her face
seemed as if it had never worn a smile, unless it
were a Satanic or Saturnian one, and where the
faint roseleaf tint had once bloomed at times in
the usually colourless cheeks, a woe-begone pallor
alone existed now.

You cannot speak for joy, I suppose, even
though you have made a second selection ! " said
this mocking friend, eyeing him with intense
malevolence.

Montressor' s tongue certainly failed him fora
few seconds ; his bewilderment and dismay
were indescribable — the sense of sudden and dire

calamity, shame and destruction, enveloped him
like a dense dark cloud.

"Devil!" at last he gasped; "how did the
sea — how did Death spare you when that ship
perished ?"

For a very good reason. I didn't sail in her."
But your name was in the list of those — "
Who paid their passage money, and were thus
supposed to have embarked, which I never intended
to do."

"And since then?"

"I have been on 'the scoop' in London, living
on my wits after your money was spent ; and I
saw lately your marriage in the papers. I knew
then that you were home from India, and I traced
you here, and here I mean to remain. But you
don't seem a bit glad to see me — your own Irene,
of the happy days at Brighton. My arrival to take
my place and enforce my just rights will rather
scare your new madam, I fear ; but she must now
bundle about her business. However, talking is
dry work, and this is some prime sherry, I
suppose," she added, and filling a champagne

goblet to the brim from a decanter, she drained
it at a draught.

Claire now came tripping lightly into the room,
smiling and smoothing her sunny hair with her
white fairy fingers, and then adjusting some
flowers on her bosom, till something in the
aspect of the intruder, who stood face to face
with her, and more than all, something in the
horror-struck expression of Digby, appalled the
poor girl, and her smile died away. She grew
quite pale, and glanced inquiringly at her crushed
and maddened husband.

'claire — Claire ! " he exclaimed with outstretched
hands as the words seemed to force themselves
from him. "Oh, my own one — how I love
sou ! "

She drew back with a more startled expression
at this piteous and unexpected outburst.

Digby, what is it ; why do you look at me
thus? You are ill ! "'

No," he gasped, as he passed a hand across
his eyes ; " no — but full of horror."

"For what?"

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

'' For you— oh, my God ! "

'what does all this mean?" she asked, with
sudden terror and anguish.

'' It means that I am his first-married and
lawful wife, young woman; that I won't be paid
to keep my marriage dark any longer ; that I am
here, here I shall remain ; and that you may— nay,
must— clear out at once ! " said the intruder, with
a strange mocking laugh, and a glance of fullest
fury in her eyes, while that she was partially
inebriated was. but too apparent.

It was a terrible scene.

Montressor led Claire, who was passive in his
hands, to their apartment — theirs no longer now.
She glanced at him mutely, imploringly, with
white and palsied lips, that failed to utter the
questions that trembled on her tongue, while the
crushed aspect and deadly pallor of Montressor
more than appalled her, as they seemed to corroborate
the accusation brought against him ; and
for some minutes, to judge by Claire's eyes, a flood
of anguish, shame, horror — or was it contempt —
seemed to sweep over her soul.

"My poor Claire," said Digby, brokenly; "my
poor darling, what am I to say — how explain away
the dark secret of my life — the secret that now will
be the ruin of yours ? "

Then, in hurried but broken accents, he told
her of his act of youthful folly at Brighton ;
of the money he had paid to rid himself of
Irene Beaufort — if indeed such was her name;
of the departure and foundering of the ship
with all on board ; of his ignorance of the
deception she had practised upon him, after
he had sailed for India, believing himself then,
as when he had returned, a free man ; and now
now — after all — after all !

Even bribery, with all his fortune, would not
mend matters now.

Let us take time — let us consider what can be
done," he said with a groan.

"Oh, God in Heaven, what can be done?"
wailed Claire, as she lay sunk in a heap by her
bedside. "And what have I done— what sin
committed, that Fate so cruelly punishes me ? "
she added in bitterness of heart.

My poor Claire, this ling shall not come
between us," said he, wildly.

''Oh, papa, what a revelation this will be to
you ! " said Claire, in a broken voice, as her
thoughts fled home to her poor old lonely parent
in his sequestered rectory. But she said nothing
that was upbraiding to Montressor, for such from
her sweet lips would have broken his already
tortured heart.

Digby got the woman — his wife — to leave
the cottage and go to the village inn ; and how
that most terrible night was passed he never
precisely knew.

He dared not go near Claire, for now her
dismay at the sight of him, at the touch of
his hand, at his attempted caresses to soothe,
seemed to sting, to madden her.

Within a very short space her face seemed
to be greatly altered ; her lovely eyes wore a
wistful and dumbly-pained expression, and her
lips were pitiably pale and quivering with pain and
anxiety.

And I thought he loved me so ! " wailed the

girl in her heart ; but thought, in the words
of Milton, "that all was false and hollow."

How long she sat there Glaire never knew ;
it might have been one hour or ten hours ;
but all her faculties, mental and physical alike,
became now absorbed in one great effort — flight
to get away from Lynmouth and him.

She was slowly making up her mind to achieve
that, even though she felt frightened by the
prospect, but to remain now was impossible.

She had been tricked into a marriage — most
daringly tricked. To her, at times, it seemed
that all this calamity must be happening, not
to her, but to someone else, whose story she was
reading, or hearing.

The bride of a month returning to her father's
hearth and hitherto unsullied home ! What would
be thought — what said of her ? She was neither
wife nor widow ! How to face the world — society
that brutal, selfish, and unreasoning bugbear?
She was cut off from both for ever now.

While Digby was telegraphing to his solicitor
at Lincoln's Inn Fields, Claire, rising from the

bed on which she had thrown herself without
undressing, and where she had lain in speechless
misery, bathed her throbbing temples with scented
vinegar, gathered together a few jewels that were
strictly her own, put a certain sum in her purse,
clothed herself in a dark and plain costume, and
with a few necessary articles in a handbag, stole
away from the scene of her past happiness ; and
pausing only to take a tear-blurred and brief
farewell glance at the cottage, embosomed amid
its fragrant orchards, she went forth into the
darkness of the early morning ; and when Bigby
returned, all trace of her was lost, and he never
saw her face again.

After a long and painful search, after putting
the telegraph to work in every direction, after
writing and advertising till his heart grew sick
sand sore with direst apprehension, after all
manner of wild ideas about the waterfalls, torrents,
and cascades that abound in the vicinity of
Lynmouth, he had to give up all hope of
unravelling the mystery that covered the flight
or fate of Claire.

Mrs. Chillington had heard nothing of her since
her marriage. She remembered well that the
girl looked so pretty in her lawn tennis suit of
white flannel faced with light blue silk, with a
white and blue cap to match, set coquettishly
on one side of her sunny hair ; but that was all,
except that she wielded her racquet easily and
moved swiftly and gracefully. But now she drew
her pen through the names of Captain and Mrs.
Montressor in her visiting list, and straightway
thought no more about them.

Claire had not been to Chillington Rectory,
where her wretched story had preceded Digby's
visit, and broken the heart of the aged rector ;
and he found him dead.

Bead ! What must the poor old man have
thought of him ere mental agony crushed out his
true, gentle, and loving spirit ? And what must
Claire, wherever she was, think of him now ?

It was all too dreadful to ponder over. He felt
inclined to shoot himself and end it all — all so far
as this wretched world was concerned.

In time Digby's solicitors had discovered that

his first supposed wife was doubly a sham — she
was not and never had been named Irene Beaufort,
but was, in reality, ere she turned up at Brighton,
the runaway spouse of Mr. Tudor Chuckerbutty,
a comedian of very mediocre theatrical position,
who, for a due consideration, at once came forward
to assert his marital rights, and when too late,
apparently, to free Digby Montressor of all further
trouble.

So Claire had passed completely out of the life
of the latter, though not out of his tortured
memory, when he sailed with Lonsdale in the
Pagoda, to rejoin the regiment.

EVENTS AT ROSE COTTAGE.

Thank God he is gone," was the thought of Mr.
Gideon Grimshaw, as he pulled up his gill-like
shirt collar with satisfaction, on seeing the
departure of the Pagoda, P. and 0. liner, from
Southampton, announced in a morning paper.
I always feared that some confidences of his
might spoil all at Piavensbourne ; but he has
gone in silence, behaved like a trump) in that
respect, and now wee have the field and the baronet
to ourselves."

The 'ewe" referred to Mrs. Chillington ; but
both were rather mortified when, after an absence
from home of some days, Sir Brisco's letters to
them came to hand, and made them aware that
he knew fully of " Miss Talbot's engagement to,

VOL. II. D

or entanglement with — which you will — Captain
Lonsdale." So the worthy pair feared they might
have rather a dif&calt game to play in landing
so big a fish in their net for Melanie ; and Mrs.
Chillington, while exonerating the baronet from
any suspicion of espionage, was vehement and
bitter in her denunciation of what she termed
*' unseemly out-of-door philandering."

Melanie felt that it was terrible to have the
great and tender secret of her heart so roughly
dragged into the light of day by these two old
conspirators again and again; and she had a
particular dread of her Aunt Chillington coming
swoop down upon her, for that lady, with all
her stateliness, her magnificent white hair and
charming little feet and hands, had a great
strength of will and purpose, as her full, square
chin, and stern, straight-lipped mouth evinced.
She was a dame who thoroughly knew her own
mind, and always got her own way, by sheer dint
of dogged intention.

After what he had, so much to his own
annoyance and mortification, discovered. Sir

Brisco for a time purposely avoided Eose Cottage,
to let Melanie settle down and become composed,
and meanwhile, when September came, solaced
himself with cub-hunting.

Her mad infatuation for a young officer, who
had merely crossed her path, and had only
his good looks " and V.C. to recommend him,
would, he doubted not, die out, with absence
and separation ; and he never believed in the
theory that the latter made the heart grow
fonder.

At forty years of age a man takes a love trouble
badly, but at sixty it becomes, we should suppose,
a kind of quiet obstinacy to persist in
it.

Melanie was no longer worried now, after her
absences, when visiting or rambling, by seeing
Uncle Grimshaw confronting her, repeater in hd^nd,
with an ominous frown on his narrow brow and
a suspicious glare in his pale eyes.

With the departure of Montague Lonsdale, the

chief occupation of her life, latterly, was gone ;

and already she had begun to reckon the weary

D 2

days — days so piteously weary and vague — that
she must live without him.

"What have we done, Montague and I, that we
should have learned to love each other and then he
so rudely parted, it may be for life — for life,
perhaps ? " was often her aching thought.

Forget him ! They hoped she would, judging
by their own hearts ; but in memory his face was
ever before her, without the aid of photography;
his voice ever in her ears, and the fond hopes that
could end only with life, she thought, were high in
her soil; but nothing save these memories came
to her just then, amid the vacant greyness of
existence at Eose Cottage ; nor would she have
tidings of him till the steamer reached Port Said,
probably ; but to her joy she had letters from
headquarters, from Southampton, from Malta,
and from Egypt ; and then she could but read
them in succession over and over again, for she
knew that she should hear no more until he
reached the shores of India.

These letters were all duly delivered to her by
the postman, but now Uncle Grimshaw thought

of introducing a locked letter-bag for the cottage,
a bag of which he possessed the key, and with
what view we shall show.

After the Port Said letter, how flat, stale,
colourless, and unprofitable seemed the course of
daily life at Eose Cottage, now that he was faraway
to the stirring scenes of his military career
in the far east ; and it seemed as yet a vain task
to count the days of his absence, or reckon on the
time of his return.

His return ! How remote and far off that event
seemed to her. And so the grey life went on, with
its half seen clouds and breakers ahead.

Suddenly there came a day which she long
remembered. She had first been looking over her
housewife's books and knitting her pretty brows in
perplexity over long rows of figures, and then
assisting Dick with his French and German,
till he grew worried and she grew weary, when
Uncle Grimshaw, with a smile of unalloyed
malevolence shining in his colourless eyes and
rippling all over his usually complacent face,
said :

Who do you think has sailed with him in the
Pagoda?"

Him — do you mean Montague ? " asked
Melanie.

*' Captain Lonsdale — yes."

I have never thought or cared," said she,
wearily.

You do care."

"How'*

Miss Hilda Tremayne, a young lady of whose
proclivities, I believe, you are aware."

Who was your informant ? "

"Your Aunt Chillington — it is in the Morning
Post:'

Now, Uncle Grimshaw had never heard of Miss
Tremayne before ; but Mrs. Chillington had duly
informed him, from her knowledge, that these
tidings might be a trump card to play for mischief;
and they were not without a most unpleasant effect
upon Melanie.

Hilda Tremayne ! " she repeated in a breathless
voice, as her colour changed.

Did Lonsdale know when they parted that this

enterprising young lady was going to India with
him in the same ship ?

If so, why did he conceal his knowledge, and
why omit the fact in his last letter ?

To avoid annoying her, as prudence and confidence
suggested, if that was his real reason, which
Uncle Grimshaw was acute enough, by torturing
insinuation to render cloudy, vague, disquieting,
and vile.

'' If she is engaged to a Mr. Musgrave, what is
she doing on board that Indian steamer?" asked
Melanie, all ignorant that the fair Hilda only went
so far as Port Said.

Who told you she was engaged to anyone ? "

Montague Lonsdale."

'* Of course, to throw dust in your eyes, poor
fool ; or her marriage, as in many other instances,
may have been broken off. Any way, the name of
her father, the general, appears also among the
passengers."

Melanie became silent, and the strange coincidence
gave her food for much thought, especially
after she convinced herself — which she did — by

perusing the list of passengers in the Pagoda ; and
it was equally patent to her that Montagu
Lonsdale had never referred to the mysterious
presence of Hilda on board.

For a time it stung Melanie to the heart; but
still she hoped it might be explained away by his
next letter which she expected from the Point de
Galle. Meanwhile, however, the episode was one
out of which Uncle Grimshaw was artful enough to
make the most and worst, acting upon hints from
Chillington Park ; but ere long Melanie had more
pressing matters — growing troubles — nearer at
hand to occupy her mind.

She did not see much of her friend Amy Brendon
just now; doubtless the latter was full of her
own happiness and the progress of her love affair
with Horace Musgrave, and Melanie rather liked to
be alone.

Alone, that she might be free to frame excuses
for Lonsdale's silence in the matter of Hilda
Tremayne, that she might think of him uninterruptedly
as much as she chose, and look forward
with growing and happy confidence to the time of

his return ; but, also, how much had he inevitably
to pass through in the way of danger from the
risks of war and a most pestilential climate, ere
that day came.

Melanie seemed now to be no longer a girl, but a
woman ; one with an heritage of pain, with
something of humiliation and desolation in her
eyes at times, while striving to give all her
attention to the studies of Dick, to relieve Mr.
Grimshaw's pocket as much as possible ; and Dick,
feeling himself somewhat of a millionaire, with
Lonsdale's sovereigns, had invested in boxes of
gloves and perfumes for Melanie, in a fine meerschaum
for Eeggie, and a new and most resplendent
collar for Bingo, to whom he discovered Uncle
Grimshaw surreptitiously administering a most
vicious kick when the poor animal was merely
sitting on a mat outside the door, and scraping at
the latter with two little impatient paws, as rapidly
as they were wont to scratch into the holes of
rabbits and rats.

Dick had never forgotten who it was that sometime
before this had made away with all his rabbits

and white mice, and vowed vengeance. He despised
the adjunct of a hedgehog on this occasion, and
with no small skill contrived to introduce an entire
wasp's nest in close vicinity to his affectionate
uncle's bed, with a stinging result which that
personage was unlikely to forget to his dying day.

THE Despatch-box.

*' No letter for me, uncle — no letter for me ? "
again asked Melanie, with a haggard and anxious
expression of face, as Mr. Grimshaw, after investigating
the contents of his new institution, the
letter bag, or despatch-box, rather, carefully
locked it, and consigned the key to his pocket.

None, I regret to say," he replied with perfect
coolness, and then, spreading a napkin, applied
himself to his breakfast, beginning with a pate che
foie gras.

What can have happened ? " exclaimed
Melanie, looking about her with a bewildered air.

That which so often happens, especially with
soldiers and sailors," said Mr. Grimshaw, as a
malicious smile spread over his face and seemed to
ripple up to the summit of his bald, shining pate ;

*' Yoiir friend Captain Lonsdale has gone far away,
and, like most men of his kind, has many modes of
getting over that separation which you feel so hard
to endure. He has comrades, duties to attend
to, change of scene, amusements, pleasures — a
shining stream of life to float upon ; but you, and
women like you, who are compelled to stay at
home, must stifle all such thoughts' as impossible —
these regrets for selfish forgetfulness amid the
tame surroundings where, perhaps, you have once
been so happy — pursuing the same vapid occupations
and seeing the same persons, while the man
but we won't talk of him," said Mr. Grimshaw,
rasping up his horn-like side-tufts and feeling
rather pleased with his own eloquence, after
putting poor Lonsdale's last letter unopened into
the fire.

How can you say those things, uncle ? " asked
Melanie, with difficulty restraining her tears, and
reading a strange expression of mistrust in the
eyes of Beggie — mistrust of Mr. Grimshaw

'•' Absence is said to make the heart grow fonder,"
resumed the latter ; *' but I believe that enough of

it will tend to forgetfulness rather than deeper
regard."

How cruelly practical you are ! " said Melanie,
in a low voice.

If Lonsdale had written from the Point de Galle
his letter must have miscarried, she thought, and
she must now have patience till he reached
Calcutta.

Military men are, no doubt, very odd," said
Aunt Chillington, who had come to spend a few
days at the cottage, with a view of influencing
her niece. " We know not, but he may have a
wife already— like that wretch Montressor, of the
same regiment ! I daresay every man in it has a
couple at least," she added, as if referring to the
lY. Veteran Battalion, of famous memory.

Knowing the fatality of opposing her aunt in a
war of words, Melanie withdrew to write to
Lonsdale, pouring out all the sorrowful secrets of
her affectionate heart, asking him for a little
information about Hilda Tremayne, and describing
her own disappointment and anguish at not receiving
a letter from the Point de Galle ; and this missive

she pressed thrice to her Hps ere — with a prayer in
her heart — she dropped it into the fatal despatch-box,
which Uncle Grimshaw took especial care
should never carry it to the post at Stokencross.
And thus their correspondence was intercepted
both ways.

All the old arguments and advice were now
repeated to her, ad 7iauseum.

You throw aside the substance for the shadow
for a childish notion — a romantic preference," said
Mrs. Chillington, all her laces quivering like ruffled
feathers with indignation.

''My heart is Montague's," thought the poor,
worried girl, " and Montague's it shall be, even if
we never meet in this world again."

Wilful all her life ; obstinate from her cradle ! "
said Uncle Grimshaw, unjustly in his anger. "I
dare not think what will become of Melanie and
those brothers of hers if she disappoints us in
this matter."

'" It is atrocious, after all the time and money I
spent upon her last season," said Mrs. Chillington.

"Atrocious indeed."

*' She ought to know that now all girls marry for
an establishment ; they did so even in my time ;
and with money one can do so much."

Mrs. Chillington was charitable — so eminently
charitable. Was a subscription list to be formed,
a bazaar got up, a scheme for poor children, for
the daughters of clergymen, a charity hall to
clothe niggers — the old story — she always figured
as a lady patroness, after she had carefully
scanned, or ascertained, the names of those among
whom she was to rank in print. She was a great
believer in print.

The season is quite a thing of the past, in
town, of course," said Mrs. Chillington, in a
deeply aggrieved tone ; " but it is rather hard that
I should bury myself here for a week to advance
your interests, Melanie."

' And I fear, aunt, that after the opera, the
Lyceum, and so forth, you will find our penny
readings at Stokencross School very mild dissipation
indeed," replied Melanie, who felt provoked
amid her sorrow, as her two relatives were never
weary of ringing the changes on the brilliant

proposal of Sir Brisco, of its many temptations and
advantages, how Kavensbourne would be a home
for the helpless Eeggie if ought befell his uncle,
and how Dick's future prospects would be the kind
baronet's special care.

''A man like that— an old baronet, my dear—"

^'Old, indeed!"

I mean his title is old, he is a catch — he is not
likely to give another chance to a girl like you— one
of a broken-down and poverty-stricken family.
Twenty thousand pounds per annum ! Are you
mad?" asked Mrs Chillington, fanning herself
vigorously.

Melanie sighed with weariness of heart. How
often had she heard all these bitter things before ?

When will the time come," she thought, " when
parents and guardians will cease to interfere in any
fashion with the choice of husbands and wives,
enforcing their own real or pretended experience,
while talking of old heads on young shoulders,
and so forth ? A man, at least, is lucky ; he can
generally choose for himself."

Autumn was drawing on, and still the despatch-box

contained no letter for Melanie. What did it,
what could it mean, this most unaccountable
cessation in the correspondence of Montague
Lonsdale ?

In all that time she had heard nothing of him,
or from him, and she knew not how or when
to prosecute her enquiries. No answer had come
to her passionate, loving, and latterly reproachful
letters ; and yet she loved him as much as ever,
though growing weary and heartsick by that long
and unbroken silence.

Why does he not write to me ? " she often said
to her confidant, Eeggie. Has he ceased to care
for me ? Has he seen someone else ? Is he too
busy, too ill — oh no, no — not that ! Has he
repented of his engagement to a penniless girl,
who has only her love to give him ? "

But Eeggie had his own suspicions, and stoutly
declared that all these fears were groundless.

Why waste your thoughts — yom regret — upon
him ? " asked Uncle Grimshaw one morning, ashe
locked the despatch-box in angry haste. " Is
he not too contemptible for it ? Has he not

VOL. II. E

proved himself alike false, fickle, and indifferent?
Is he worth a tear ? "

But poor Melanie shed many more, and Reggio
writhed on his couch as he listened to their blatant
uncle ; and meanwhile she had many hopeless
days and half-sleepless nights. " We do well,"
says a writer, " to cover up and hide these sorrows
that all of us go through once, at least, in our
lives' — sorrows for which there is no cure, no
solace, no consolation, save in the gradual hardening
of our own hearts, and the healing touch of
that most merciful of all consolers whose name is
Time."

And as the weeks passed on, Mr. Grimshaw
could see, but with more anger than pity, that
the once faintly rose-tinted cheeks of Melanie
grew pale and wan ; that her sweet grey-violet
eyes began to wear a hopeless expression, while
a dark cloud of despair and suspense hung over
her head — the herald of a storm she could not,
dared not see.

Now that Lonsdale was gone — a species of
double separation accomplished — Mr. Grimshaw

and Mrs. Chillington advised Sir Brisco, when
with Melanie, to ignore all he knew of her love
affair, to forget it, as they hoped she would soon
do ; or to look upon it as girlish and romantic
folly ; to trust to silence, time, a sense of her own
interests, and so forth.

To do him justice, Sir Brisco Braybrooke was
neither cruel nor unreasonable; nay, much the
reverse, indeed. But he was too old to understand
a young girl's love ; and though he knew
not the actual pressure that was then put upon
Melanie, and was to be put still further, by the
cruel alternative they gave her, he thought :

Oh, it is all right ; all girls have first fancies,
and she will get over her silly one for that
Infantry fellow, poor Lonsdale, and all will be
jolly in the end."

"Be true to Montague, and do not let them

control you through me," said Eeggie to her ;

there is some trickery at work. Let them

browse upon the jigger as they please," he added,

sliding into his nautical phraseology, " and try to

bring you up with a round turn ; but I will go to a

E 2

hospital — yea, to the workhouse, or anywhere to
save you, dearest Melanie."

And as he spoke the poor fellow put his wasted
arms round her, and drew her sweet face caressingly
on his breast.

Inspired by a kind of superstition of the heart,
she frequently visited their late trysting place by
the river side, and in doing so, by recalling more
vividly the last words and last gaze of Lonsdale,
subjected herself to a species of loving self-torture ;
and there she would linger, conning over in
memory the details of their parting, watching the
majestic flow of the Thames, and remembering
as she did so the lines of the Scottish poetess,
Pisa Craig, as she tells us how

It glimmers

Through the stems of the beeches
Through the screen of the willows it shimmers,

In long winding reaches ;
Flowing so softly that scarcely

It seems to be flowing ;
But the reeds of the Httle low islands

Are bent to its going ;

And soft as the breath of a sleeper,

Its heaving and sighing,
In the caves where the fleets of white hies

At anchor are lying.

Then she would wring her slender hands, as she
thought of the cessation of letters and the chasm
that thus seemed to have yawned between the past
and the present, with the torturing advice of Aunt
Chillington :

'* Think only of Sir Brisco, for the sake of your
brothers and yourself; try to forget that other
man to whom you bound yourself, as he seems to
have forgotten you."

SIR BRISCO RETURNS TO THE CHARGE.

Books for Reginald, fruit and flowers for Melanie
the latter forced roses, the result of a first-class
Scottish gardener's skill, with tremulous
ferns, gardenias, sprays of crimson blossoms and
amelia — game for Uncle Grimshaw (now that
cubrhunting was over) were sent to Eose Cottage
with persistent frequency, accompanied by Sir
Brisco's cards. Invitations, too, came for Oxford
fetes, local balls, and so forth, which Melanie
resolutely declined, saying that she " would not
go into society while Lonsdale was away," thus
adding to what Mr. Grimshaw deemed indications
of insanity ; and he never spoke to her without
a covert sneer.

'* No gaiety or dissipation are powerful enough

to deaden the anxiety I endure at the absence
of all letters, uncle," she would urge.

And you will lead this life of seclusion and
eccentricity till you hear from Lonsdale?" asked
her uncle, with a vicious glance.

Yes, or he return."

** Then you are likely to lead it long enough,"
said he, as he thought of his despatch-box ;
and as he never omitted to attempt to make
mischief out of the presence of Hilda Tremayne
on board the Pagoda he added :

*' You had no letter from the Point de Galle.
But I should think he has most likely married
that girl ere now, on board ship, to push his way
on her father's staff. Think of the daily and
hourly opportunities, of the close attentions, real
and inferred, by being together, the propinquity,
and the great attractions of the girl herself.
Faugh, you are a fool ! Still, you will not give
him up ? "

No, uncle, we must wait."

"For what?"

Unless it is better times, I do not know,"

said the girl, huskily, as a kind of despair crept
into her heart.

And Uncle Grimshaw viciously rasped up his
side-tufts, as he thought of all that Melanie
deprived him of by her continued obstinacy, even
to such petty details as the dinners he would
enjoy at Eavensbourne Hall, the rare entrees or the
pate de foie gras, the sweetbreads and truffles, with
the Pompey Greco and '47 port — of which he
would " have the run " — were his dear niece
installed there, instead of her economical rechauffes
or cheap tinned viands from the " Stores," washed
down by the mildest of Medoc. Her selfish folly
was, he thought, truly infernal.

Eeginald, her brother, had written to his Soudan
comrade, Horace Musgrave, of the Hussars, at
Dublin, inquiring about their mutual friend
Lonsdale; but, though he had taken the precaution
to have his letter posted by Dick at
Stokencross, to the growing perplexity of Melanie
'^- and himself no reply ever came thereto

What could it all mean ? " thought brother
and sister, as they eyed each other blankly.

But time would surely unravel all.

When informed by Mrs. Cliillington that Captain
Lonsdale had ceased to write to Eose Cottage —
so she vaguely phrased it — Sir Brisco felt greatly
elated and encouraged to prosecute his suit,
while, in his own mind, he was just and generous
enough to revile bitterly the lover who could
act in a manner so cruel and unmanly.

Yet, when he looked into Melanie's dark blue
eyes, he felt a sincere envy of Montague Lonsdale,
who had seen all the love-light that could ever
illumine them ; and he knew that when she loved
it would be with all her heart and soul — with the
passion that he could never hope^to kindle ther.

"How fond she must be of him," said he to
Mr. Grimshaw. "And what a dreadful blow
it would be to her if anything happened to him
in Bm-mah."

Uncle Grimshaw made a grimace. He cared
little if the famous white elephant gobbled up the
captain at a mouthful.

With doubtful kindness, Sh Brisco could not
help saying, but uselessly :

Has your uncle heard from Captain Lonsdale
since he left us, Miss Talbot ? "

Not since he entered the Suez Canal," replied
Melanie, evasively, and with difficulty repressing
a choking sob; 'neither has Reggio, which is
strange ; they were such friends."

And to hide her growing emotion she seated
herself at the piano in nervous haste, and
proceeded, uninvited, to play — she knew not what
while Eeggie listened with, a heart that ached
for her.

But Melanie felt, at times, pure exasperation.

Sir Brisco presumed, she thought, upon her
helplessness, tip favour his admiration found
with her uncle and aunt, the only relations she
had to guide her, the absence of Lonsdale and
the hopeless position of her brother, the young
sailor. Her innate spirit and pride buoyed her
up, and would have done so still more but for
the mysterious and apparently unexplainable
silence of the absent one — the dreadful fact that
no replies came from him in reply to her most
urgent and piteous letters.

And when inspired by this emotion of exasperation,
Melanie's manner became nervous, and
she was inclined to resent tauntingly, but quietly,
the attentions of her elderly admirer, till even
he lost patience, and once or twice ventured to
retort.

Then said Melanie : "I am getting a little
tired of innuendoes, Sir Brisco ; what do they
mean ? "

That I am disappointed in you."

'ein what way?" she asked, sharply, yet
feared his answer, remembering the supposed
eavesdropping at the trysting place, and the
cigar seen by Lonsdale.

"I thought you different from other girls;
but I fear that you are somewhat of a coquette."

''I do not know by what right you call me
so, Sir Brisco."

He made no response, deeming silence safest ;
while Melanie thought whatever he had seen, or
been told, it was no business of his to take her
to task or interfere in her affairs; and he was
thinking, old as he was, how soft was her

loveliness, as she leant back in an old and faded
chintz-covered chair, her plain dark dress setting
off the dazzling whiteness of her slender throat
and dimpled arms, bare for some inches above the
wrist, while the red lingering light of the setting
sun seemed to concentrate itself upon her gleaming
brown hair and to touch her rounded cheeks with
a delicate rose tint.

"Oh, I wish he would turn his attention to
Aunt Chillington, if he is so anxious to win a
Talbot," was the girl's next thought.

Suddenly changing his tone and his tactics,.
as they were alone, he stooped his old grizzled
head close to hers, and said softly :

I will not — I cannot take your refusal,
Melanie. You know how I worship you, and
hope to make you so happy — so independent of
all the world."

Melanie did not answer Sir Brisco, who always
pained her when he adopted this softened tone
and manner ; neither did she resent, considering
his years, his use of her Christian name, as she
should have done in the case of a younger man.

You will never regret m}' offer, dear Melanie,"
he added, taking her right hand caressingly
between his two.

Her form trembled ; she shivered as if with
cold, yet her head and hands were burning hot,
and she was almost faint and giddy as she
thought of the whole cruel situation — Lonsdale's
strange conduct, the helplessness of Eeggie, her
uncle's threats towards him, and the hourly
sneers and domestic tyranny to herself and little
Dick.

Hopeless and helpless she felt herself, and
here was a refuge and a luxurious home offered
by one she knew well, and who told her daily
of his love, though she had none to offer in
return.

The thought flashed through her mind for a
second, but a second only, to be thrust aside
with intense dismay that it should have occurred
to her at all, and the next words of Sir Brisco
roused her energies — even her ire.

Upon my soul, Melanie," said he, regarding
her earnestly and commiserating, " I pity you."

But I won't be pitied, or married out of pity,
by you, Sir Brisco, or anyone ! " she exclaimed, with
a flash in her dark eyes. "In short," she added,
bringing all her courage to the sticking point,
knowing that she had no one to defend her or
advise her kindly — save poor Eeggie — "do not talk
to me of marriage again ; because, if you do, I shall
have to ask you plainly to cease visiting my uncle
or me."

Sir Brisco took up his hat, but laid it down
again, and still lingered irresolutely.

You cannot even like me ? '•' he said, reproachfully.


*' As a friend, oh yes."

But — as a husband, Melanie ? "

Never. You are a thousand times too good forme."


"Never?"

"You force me to speak plainly; rudely, perhaps,"
she added in a broken voice, while colouring painfully.


Timidly, as a young lover might have done, the
old man stood now drawing his riding-gloves on

and off, while Melanie bowed her cheek— wet with
tears of sheer vexation now — upon her white palm,
and bent her eyes upon the sorely faded carpet.
How sweetly soft he thought she looked.

*' And you can like me as a friend, Melanie ? "
he asked.

I have said so " ; and she gave him her left
hand in token thereof. He clasped it firmly, and
his grasp seemed so honest that she gathered a
little courage and comfort therefrom. And then
he bowed over it with old-fashioned courtesy,
inherited perhaps from his father, who had been
at Court when George III. was king, and Eliot
was defending the Rock of Gibraltar, and when
powdered wigs and small swords were worn. " I
shall ever esteem you as the best of friends — to
be more would but work misery for all."

I thank you, Melanie ; but find it difficult now,
after all I have said and all I have hoped, to slide
back into mere friendship ; but when you have
had time to reflect, perhaps you will not be so
cruel to me, and forgive the pain I may have
caused you."

I have nothing to forgive, Sir Brisco."

"And I — I have been happy in the mere fact
of knowing you, Melanie ; and let the worst come
to the worst, I hope you will never deprive me
of your friendship, and permit me to prove mine
by making you happy if at any time I can do
so."

And thinking that to urge more then would
be unwise, he kissed the hand he had retained
and bowed himself out, leaving Melanie sunk in
thought.

His reiterated offers thrust an idea upon her.
If she married him — suppose that idea— she could
not help speculating on the future, that future in
which Montague Lonsdale could have no part ;
and she shuddered.

She was barely twenty. Sir Brisco was over
sixty. When she was forty he would be an old
man, within five years of ninety, if spared —
wheeled about in an armchair like Eeggie, in
second childhood, fed on spoon diet, helpless,
toothless, too old even to be peevish ; and for
years before that she must have led the life of

a nurse. It was a dreadful forecast — a terrible
picture.

On the other hand, Sir Brisco viewed the case
less severely, and after a time ceased to feel
how acutely the youth and bloom of the two
girls, Melanie and Amy, had made him feel, at
first, the weight of;^his own-grey hairs and more
than sixty years.

Rubicund and white moustached, with thick
stubbly locks, his rather rotund outline contrasted
curiously in the eyes of the former with the tall,
military figure of him who was so far away, the
bronzed face, the clearly-cut profile and fine young
face, clean shaven all save the smart moustache,
the tender hazel eyes and closely-cropped dark
brown hair.

The privileged way in which Sir Brisco sometimes
dropped^in at Eose Cottage, even after this
important interview, proved a genuine source of
worry to Melanie, and she found the necessity of
avoiding him whenever she could do so, without
being too marked in manner. She marvelled
that a well-bred man should continue his visits

VOL. II. F

thus ; but she forgot her own power of subtle
fascination.

Amy Brendon, who, we have said, came much
seldom now, and whose Hvely little speeches,
quick, bright glances, and espegliere had proved
a new experience to Sir Brisco, a correctly-trained
man of the world, and had fascinated him greatly,
saw how changed Melanie had become, with an
almost entire avoidance of all confidence in her
as a friend, so far as Lonsdale was concerned ;
and how each day seemed to be passed in alternate
forced excitement or hopeless apathy, with a restless
uneasiness of eye and voice.

Of Lonsdale Melanie scarcely spoke, even if he
was casually alluded to. Thus, to Amy it seemed
as if Sir Brisco was sliding by adoption into his
place.

The neighbourhood soon became full of rumours,
though Melanie never heard them ; but of her new
engagement, if such existed, she never spoke, and
Amy, with all her love for her, felt a strange
difficulty in approaching the subject.

Forgive my question, dear," said Amy one day,

wreathing her arms round her and looking into
her sweet pale face, that expressed so much of
suffering about the eyes and corners of the lips,
but, Melanie, why are you so changed ? "

"Ami?"

Yes, my darling."

'ein face?"

** Yes ; in voice even ; in every way."

I don't wonder at that. So you, too, see it.
Amy?"

See it— am I blind ? "

Why speak of sorrows, dearest Amy, which
you can neither share, bear, nor relieve?" said
Melanie, whose keenly-wounded pride or self-esteem
made her conceal the matter of her
correspondence.

'' Sorrows— God knows I have my own," said
Amy, with a quivering face ; " but can't I help
you?"

No — no one can here. But you, Amy — you

talk of sorrows," said Melanie, regarding her little

face, once so sunny, with deep concern.

Then Amy laid her cheek on Melanie's breast,

flocked

her arms round her waist, and clinging to
her, wept bitterly ; for she, too, had a grief somewhat
similar, which she thought peculiarly all
her own, and to which we must devote the next
chapter.

AT THE VICARAGE.

We have said, a little way back, that some time
had then passed since Amy Brendon had heard
any tidings of Musgrave, then with his regiment
in Dublin. That, like his friend Lonsdale, Amy's
intended should have ceased to write, was a strange
coincidence, which would sorely have perplexed
and pained Melanie and roused the jealous indignation
of Eeggie ; but wounded self-esteem led to
reticence on these matters between even these two
fast friends ; so each girl 'had concealed from the
other the fact that they were in precisely the same
predicament — they received no letters from their
lovers — though one was only at Dublin while the
other was in Bengal.

Melanie's came, certainly, up to a certain time,

as we have shown the reader ; but the cause of
Amy's sorrow was yet to be discovered.

Like Melanie, a gloom that was quite perceptible
had fallen upon the once bright Amy Brendon.

"How Amy is changing. What can be the
matter with her ? " asked the keenly-observant
Eeggie one day as she left the cottage.

She is certainly not the happy girl she was
once."

*' Before that Hussar fellow came — no ! "

'* Do not play such sad airs, Amy," her mother
would sometimes say. '' What is that — it is sorely
depressing on a wet autumn day ? "

*'A Scottish dead march, mamma — 'The Flowers
of the Forest.' I really did not know what I was
playing."

"Why?"

** I was thinking."

You are always thinking ; too much, indeed,
child," her mother replied, sadly and a little
reproachfully.

The day was wet and stormy, and poor Amy,
to conceal the misery that preyed upon her heart,

and to avoid being talked to, was affecting to playa
melody ; but as her small hands wandered over
the keys of the piano, the sounds they produced
seemed like an accompaniment to the wind sobbing
through the rain, that drenched the vicarage
garden and tossed the branches of the sodden
trees to and fro above the buried dead of yesterday,
and of ages, that lay in Stokencross graveyard,
close by.

The adjacent church was a grey old edifice, with
a squat Norman tower added, a Saxon aisle and
arcaded apse of the days, perhaps, of St. Grimaldi,
in the ninth century ; and around it Dr. Brendon's
sheep cropped the grass, while before its loch-gate
were the ancient parish stocks, long unused,
mouldy, and half sunk in the earth.

How often did he call me ' darling ! ' " thought
Amy, as day followed day and no letter came.

But " that word ' darling ' comes so easily to
some men's lips," says the author of "A Grass
Country."

I don't see what he can have to wait for," said
her mother, gravely; "Horace has five thousand

pounds a year of maternal property, and may be a
baronet some day. He comes of the Musgraves,
of Scale Castle, in Cumberland."

Before his advent. Amy had been, with all her
girlish beauty and brightness ^of spirit, something
like the flowers of which Gray sung, that are
born to blush unseen " ; yet how happy she had
been but a few short weeks ago. Now, it seemed
as if ages had passed since she had parted from
Horace and heard from him, and when she could
little foresee the dark cloud that was to overshadow
her loving heart and her young life. What
a difference between then and now !

"Oh, Horace, why did you come here to make
me so miserable? Before I knew you I was
happy," Amy would think.

"My child!" moaned Mrs. Brendon, caressing
her, but with an angry and indignant^heart.

"Perhaps his father has been unable to settle
with him ; or I am not, after all, a girl after the
old gentleman's heart."

Do not humiliate yourself and us by such
speculations. Amy."

So far as postal and telegraphic arrangements
served, Dublin was " at the door," as the saying
is, compared with the land whither Montague
Lonsdale had gone ; and so, why was not this
cruel mystery unravelled for her ?

But her father, the vicar, with all his amiability,
was a proud man, and now took rather hard views
of mankind in general, and of soldiers in particular,
and was disposed to blame himself bitterly
for his own facility of disposition and for the
whole unhappy situation.

He had been somewhat too easy — too quiescent
in the matter ; but his girl was sensible, and
would get over it in time. The matter had better
be committed to oblivion ; it was a dispensation —
a lesson to her and to them in the future, though
a bitter one, doubtless, and so forth.

But, he would add through his set teeth, Captain
Horace L. L. Musgrave, who seemed to have been
simply amusing himself, was a finished rascal.

"My poor little girl," he said some days after,
stroking Amy's thicl^ dark hair ; " and you
actually care for that fellow still ?"

'' Oh yes, papa."

But why— now ? "

"I cannot help it. One cannot change — get
over a love like mine, as we do a bodily ailment."

"I am afraid he is one of those men of whom
we so often read and hear, who cannot be faithful
to any girl long."

Then how I wish I were such a girl as Hilda
Tremayne."

-Why?"

"One who can fall in and out of love as often
as she chooses ; and may be, as I have heard,
engaged to two men at once, one at Canterbury
and the other at Candahar."

No, my dear. Thank heaven that you are
what you are — a true, a good, and a pure-hearted
little pet," said the old vicar, caressing her fondly.

Would Horace ever fade out of her life ?

It seemed now better that it should be so —
better for her own peace.

It was early in August when Amy and Musgrave
had parted, and he left her to return to his
regiment and communicate with his family the

arrangements about their marriage. Two or
three letters had certainly reached her, but to
her two last there were no replies.

It was now October, and no sign came of his
promises, or that he even remembered her existence.
^Yb.a>i meant his passionate words, his
tender love-making, if this were the result ?

For all that time she had borne up against the
keen, the bitter, the growing conviction that she
had been cruelly fooled, deluded, after imagining
all sorts of reasons and excuses for his silence,
till her heart sickened and hope died in her
tender breast.

She was ever on the watch for letters — the
letters that never came.

One morning she saw from her window that the
postman had an unusual number for the vicarage
torture anew to her.

How slow he was in opening the gate and giving
them to the vicar, who was idling in the garden
before breakfast.

"Amy, how white you look," said he, as she
joined him in haste. " Have you been ill ? "

No, papa ; only sleepless, as usual."

My poor child."

The letters — the letters, papa ? "

There Ire none for you."

'none still!"

Still, my darling — my poor Amy. I must
go personally and see into this — see that scoundrel
after all."

Some peculiar emotion of pride prevented the
vicar from naturally making any inquiry of Sir
Brisco Braybrooke about the character or movements
of his nephew, the recreant Hussar ; and
being full, perhaps, of his own affairs, engagements,
and amusements, the vicar never spoke on
the subject of Amy's engagement, if, indeed, he
knew much about it ; and though not extraordinarily
meek, Dr. Brendon shrank from the
taunt of having perhaps attempted to entrap his
patron's nephew.

PRESSURE.

In the accounts of the troops detailed for the
Burmese Expedition, Melanie could find no trace
of Lonsdale's name; but then, in rank he was
only a unit in such a force ; and it never occurred
to her to examine an Army List. Indeed, she
could not have got one nearer than the library at
Eavensbourne Hall, the last place where she would
have ventured to seek it ; so she could but marvel
over his silence, till her heart grew sick and her
brain grew weary. ^

There seemed but two solutions — death or infidelity.


Yet she shrank in her soul from accepting
either. Lonsdale faithless ? Oh no ! While life
remained she was sure he would be true to her ;
and if dead — oh no, not that — great heaven !

The light of blessed hope still burned in the
sad heart of the girl.

But now cruel and systematic pressure was put
upon her by Uncle Grimshaw, who seemed to be
in earnest about the final removal of her brother
Eeginald, whom he more than once taunted as
being " one of the Queen's bad bargains."

"Knowing Eeggie's miserable story as you do,
and how he is a martyr to circumstances," she
said, with flashing eyes, and with difficulty restraining
her tears, " how can you be so rude — so
unjust, uncle ?"

Do not mind him, dear," said Reggio, gently.
The sooner we part the better. As sure as
Mother Carey's chickens bring the breeze, it will
come to that in the end."

*' I am glad you are fully prepared, young man,
as your sister declines to aid me in your support,"
remarked Uncle Grimshaw, with a malicious
twinkle in his white-lashed eyes ; and he somewhat
ostentatiously pursued his examination of
certain advertisements of '' A House for Cripples,"
''A Home for Incurables," 'ran Orthopoedic

Hospital," and so forth, filling the heart of
Melanie with shame, grief, and indignation.

It shall never come to that, Eeggie," said she,
with an arm round his neck. " I will take a
situation of some kind ; I shall work for you —
work my fingers to the bone rather than this
result should be — this cruel outrage come to

And are you to think of such a thing, Melanie,
while I lie idly here, unable to assist or protect
you?" exclaimed Reggie, writhing on his couch.
I would rather be sent from a grating to leeward,
with a couple of cold shot at my heels. The very
idea makes me miserable."

And what would you two poor boys do without
me ? " was the girl's next anxious thought.
Who would see to your meals, your socks, your
clothes, and all that sort of thing?"

''To escape this horrible marriage, which is
always thrust upon me, I would do anything, dear
Dr. Brendon," said Melanie, when she appealed
to the Rector ; " anything to preserve my — my
truth to Montague, and save Reggie from an

insult that is enough to make our parents' bones
turn in their graves. I have not been taught todo
any useful thing. I might be a lady's maid,
but who would take me ? "

'' Ay, who, indeed ? " snarled Uncle Grimshaw,
However, if you do not meet my views and Sir
Brisco's generous offers, Reggie goes straight to
a hospital, Dick in some capacity to the city, and
then I shall be rid of you all."

And Uncle Grimshaw turned away as if he felt
what someone terms " all the calm comfort resulting
from undisturbed gratification and an
approving conscience."

"I can surely be a telegraphs, if I learn,"
said poor Melanie, scarcely knowing what she
talked about ; "or something or other, if I alter
my hair, do away with my fringe, and wear
alpaca."

Why so humble ? " asked Eeggie.

Because governesses, I fear, is out of the
question with such as I am now-a-days. I am
not a Girton girl, and have neither medals nor
certificates"'

Nonsense, Melanie ; you must not speak
thus," said the luckless Eeggie, while his heart
swelled with many painful emotions. " Chained
here — chained and helpless — after all ; and all I
hoped to be ! '" moaned Eeggie, almost wringing
his wasted hands, while a glare shot from his
unnaturally bright eyes.

When Montague comes home, it may be too
late to do what I wish for you, darling Eeggie,"
said his sister, as she seated herself on a hassock
by his couch and twined her arms round him ;
so, meantime, something must be done. I shall
get a situation as companion perhaps, though, of
course, Aunt Chillington won't assist me ; and
then get another doctor for you. Fifty pounds or
so will procure better advice than ever Uncle
Grimshaw has had ; and, meanwhile, no time
shall be lost. I may bring some sunshine into
your life yet, Eeggie."

He smiled fondly and sadly.

"My dearest Melanie, I cannot think of your
stooping to toil and humiliation for me."

But think of that threatened other degra

VOL. II. G

dation — a hospital for you, my brave brother ; a
Talbot, too."

"Who will help your .plans? — not uncle, not
Aunt Chillington," said Eeggie, wearily.

Of course not ; but I shall ask everyone I
know to aid me," replied Melanie, cheerfully.
There was a kind of relief in talking about it.
"Good Mrs. Brendon, I am sure, will do her
utmost."

"It is a beastly shame, your having even to
think about it," said Dick ; " but wherever you go,
Melanie, I hope you will be treated as a lady."

Of course I shall be treated as a lady," replied
poor innocent Melanie, " especially when people
know what my object is."

But will Lonsdale like it ? " queried Dick.

"He must," replied Melanie, with quivering
lips.

Need he know till he comes back ? " said Dick,
whose views were rather practical.

Sore just then on the subject of Lonsdale,
Melanie sought to change the subject.

Take courage, Eeggie, and hear what this

book says of an ailment such as yours," said she.
*' ' Maladies which cannot be cured are the opprobrium
of medicine as an art. It should not,
however, be hastily assumed that cases which
cannot be cured must therefore be regarded as
beyond the hope of recovery. There is a wonderful
power of self-cure in the organism, and many
a sufferer condemned by the ' faculty ' has been
reprieved by Nature. It is desirable that this
should be borne in mind : first, hope is in itself a
great specific, and nothing so greatly tends to
destroy the natural chances of recovery as depression
produced by an adverse prognosis ;
second, it is a most irrational position to take up
that any malady is incurable.' "

Eeginald Talbot shook his head.

"Think of all that, Eeggie," said his sister,
closing the book. '' Take courage, dear ; if I can
pay for you, if I can get you cm^ed — "

I am past recovery," he interrupted her, sadly,

not peevishly — he never was peevish with Melanie.

'* I hope no hope ; the prognosis was adverse

enough for me, when I was put to the shore and

g2

struck off the books of the Ibis. It is all useless
now," he added, as the image of Amy Brendon
came before him. " And health, even life itself,
can be nothing to me."

"But for my sake, dear, dear Eeggie ! " replied
the girl softly and caressingly.

*for yours, yes, my sweet one," said the poor
young sailor, with a catch in his voice.

But an escape, or reprieve for a time from
Melanie's affectionate intention, and the result of
Uncle Grimshaw's threat, came to them from a
quarter they did not anticipate.

WHAT CAME OF IT.

Melanie felt that already, while repelling all Sir
Brisco's attentions, she had been compelled by the
force of circumstances beyond her control, and by
her uncle's influence, to suffer him to establish
a species of intimacy at the cottage that came
somewhat nearer to disloyalty to the absent
Lonsdale than she deemed just ; but she lived now
in hourly dread of her uncle's wrath and resolution
to bend her to his will, through the helplessness
of the poor brother she doted on with a love that
seemed alike motherly and sisterly.

She had read in novels innumerable — as who
has not? — of pressure put upon a young girl to
marry an old and obnoxious admirer for his wealth,
to save a father from bankruptcy or ruin, and so
forth ; but not before had she heard of the same

kind of pressure being put upon a sister. to save
a brave young brother, who had faithfully served
an ungrateful country, from the bitter mortification
of being thrust into a common hospital for
incurables.

From the indignant and somewhat communicative
Dick, when rambling in the woods with his
faithful Bingo, the baronet had gathered something
of what was on the tapis as regarded Eeggie ; and
in genuine pity for both, but more particularly for
Melanie, he at once kindly conceived the idea
of inviting the former to share the hospitality
of the hall.

A hope of winning, at least, the gratitude of
Melanie, might also have suggested and furthered
the thought ; and he at once proceeded to put it in
practice.

He visited the cottage at a time when, under the
threats of Mr. Grimshaw, a kind of crisis had
come in the affairs of Melanie and her brother,
the latter of whom he found in a very crushed
mood indeed, and seated alone on his couch ina
window, sadly watching the sinking sun as it

set redly beyond the now autumnal woods of
Eavensbourne.

*' In a brown study, Eeggie ! " said Sir Brisco,
seating himself by his side. "What are you doing
how are you now, my poor lad ? "

"At my usual occupation," replied the other,
with a sickly smile.

What may that be ? "

Counting the hours without a log-glass — the
days — the slow passing weeks."

"To what end, Eeggie?"

For the great night that puts an end to all
thought, all labour, all suffering and sorrow,"
replied Eeggie, with an irrepressible outburst as he
thought of his blasted hopes, in life, in love, and
in profession.

"Come, come, my poor fellow, you must not
give way thus," exclaimed Sir Brisco, cheerily,
as his eyes glistened with kindly sympathy and
he patted Eeggie on the shoulder ; " to rouse you
must now be my task. You accepted me as a
friend," said he, turning to Melanie, who entered
the room, " and even gave your hand in token

thereof. Let me now extend the friendship to
your brother and give him to me."

"To you?"

For a time; as long as he chooses. Let him
come to the hall; then he will have more and
freer air than in this small cottage under these
great trees — books and serials in plenty. He can
fish from his wheel-chair in the Bourne when he
chooses — be every way his own master, and my
own medical man shall give him the best
attention."

How good you are," faltered Melanie, as her
eyes filled with unshed tears.

"He is your brother and my friend," said Sir
Brisco ; " so we shall count the affair as settled."

Great was the gratitude of Melanie, for by this
Uncle Grimshaw was, pro tern, at all events,
relieved of an incumbrance, and the source of his
malign threats was removed, the pressure upon
herself relieved, and the necessity for seeking any
employment obviated ; so the invitation was
accepted, temporarily, of course ; but, so far as
Melanie was concerned, not without an afterthought

— a dread of what Montague Lonsdale
might thmk, or infer, when he came to hear of it,
as he was certain to do through some source, good
or evil.

Eavenshourne Hall, with all its luxuries, its
noble library, its trim shrubberies and brilliant
flower-beds, its fish-pond, where the white water-lilies
floated and the carp rose to the flies, and
beside which rose the stately terrace where the
peacock strutted to and fro ; and the edifice itself,
with heraldic devices blazoned on its windows,
and the substructure of which dated from the days
of "Elizabeth Boleyn" — as she is now pretty
generally named, for that dreadful reason which
few dare put in print — all proved a new and
delightful experience to Eeginald Talbot.

Its surroundings, too, were somewhat like a
fairy vision. There were banks, where, in summer,
pink and creamy roses grew, and there were long
grassy slopes, or terraces shaded by high hedges,
clipped like a dark green wall, through which
arches were cut, to afford vistas of close-mown
lawns and glassy pools, where spotless swans where

floating ; or of the park, with its far-famed
Kavensbourne deer crouching among the luxuriant
fern.

To Reggie the most pleasant place of all was
the silent and well-curtained library, with all its
glittering book shelves and its quaint, massive
tables, whereon every morning lay the daily
papers and illustrated periodicals, so necessary
and so dear in a country mansion now.

But amid the comfort, the kindness, and the
splendour which surrounded him, he pined erelong
to see his sister Melanie, whom no power
could have brought there, even to see him ; and,
of course, he knew well the reason why ; but he
enjoyed those days when Dick came to drag his
wheel-chair into the woods, and where they were
joined for a time by Melanie, with her work, for
Melanie's needle was seldom idle, and where
bob-tailed Bingo defied the keepers and was in
all his glory, digging madly with his paws into
a sandy rabbit hole, and so deeply that he left
only his hind-quarters visible.

With emotions of greater gratitude than ever.

Melanie heard that Sir Brisco had brought, from
London, medical skill of the highest kind for
Eeggie, regardless of all expense ; but, alas, it was
appealed to in vain, and the dictum of the doctors
at Malta, Haslar, and elsewhere, which arrested
his professional career, was more than confirmed,
and left him nothing to hope for. He could only
be resigned to his fate, and await the end in
patience.

In his own quiet way he enjoyed chiefly the
evenings in the conservatory, whither his chair
was wheeled by a valet of Sir Brisco' s, and where
he and the latter sat smoking and chatting for
hours, the baronet fancying he saw resemblances
of Melanie in his now thin but handsome features,
as he Im-ed him to forget the present in stories
of his past career, which, if short, had been a very
active one — stories of the Soudan and of the sea,
which latter are never without their charms to
landsmen.

*' Reggie is in comfort at the hall," thought
Melanie ; "so why need I look for any employment
? But the time may yet come."

Some weeks of i3eace, to her at least, passed
pleasantly on; but even that peace came to an
end; and Uncle Grimshaw, who had been in
correspondence with Sir Brisco at his club,
renewed, in all its weary sameness, the old
subject again, one morning when Melanie came
down to breakfast, looking so sweet and fair, her
smooth cheeks just touched with a faint wild-rose
bloom, her beautiful hair swept up from the white
nape of her slender neck, and with all the charms
about her of that freshness which bears the test of
daylight, that he might have spared her annoyance
; but the hard old man of Birchinin Lane was
inexorable.

'' The views of Sir Brisco and his prolonged
kindness to your useless brother have not been quite
purposeless," said he, one day ; " and he informs
me that he will call over again, formally — "

''To see whom?"

'' You."

Good heavens, uncle — again ! "

"Yes. And you know well with what object.
Marriage."

Again ; to mar his kindness by most
ungenerous and ungentlemanly persecution,"
exclaimed Melanie, full of resentment.

'' Harsh language, Melanie. He will do so at
my request and suggestion."

I thought as much. It is intolerable. How
often am I to say that I will not marry him ? "

'' Dare you still disobey me ? " he asked grimly,
but quietly.

Melanie bit her pink nether lip in silence. x\ll
her hard necessities and half-formed resolutions
were brought to the surface again.

Your brother cannot live always like a pauper
at the hall; and so, on returning here, he goes
straight to a home for incurables — I have
sworn it ! "

"Kind Sir Brisco will never permit that."
*' His patience may get worn out too ; and
he will not oppose me. Consider his wealth, his
high character, on one hand, your own wretched
prospects on the other. How many girls would
hump at the chance— to use a very plain phrase."
Do you suppose I have no feeling, no honour

no compunction, uncle, while on my finger I have
the ring — "

Of one you never hear from and may never
see again. But life is too short to discuss useless
problems ! " exclaimed Mr. Grimshaw, with intense
wrath, while he ground his teeth and his colourless
eyes actually flashed. " Cease this sentimental
absurdity of yours, please."

'' But I suffer, uncle," urged Melanie, interlacing
her slender fingers.

And do I not suffer ? " snarled Uncle
Grimshaw, as he attacked grilled chicken, after a
plate of curried prawns.

"How'"

Can you ask me how ? With the sordid
difficulties of circumscribed means — of a poverty-stricken
life."

'* It might be worse," was the thought of
Melanie, as she pondered on the very little he
spent on her, and of all, out of those " circumscribed
means," he spent upon himself — the luxuries of
his club in London, a saddle horse, and many other
items.

You live in a misery of your own creation,"
said he. " The silence of Captain Lonsdale — "

Will yet be fully explained."

Explained ?" repeated Uncle Grimshaw^, as he
winced perceptibly.

** When he returns, if not before that," replied
Melanie, confidently.

That may or may not be," said her uncle,
doggedly. "Meantime it looks very ill; and the
love of a good man, a true gentleman — a love like
that of Sir Brisco — any girl in England might be
proud to accept, yet you decline it."

I am not free."

A word of your own could free you. What
stands in your way ? "

My promise."

Fiddlestick ! The dream of a girl's folly— dead
and gone, I hope, long ago," thundered Uncle
Grimshaw. He turned away, afraid to trust
himself to say more, and lit an expensive cigar.

But just then he was following the bent of his
own wishes and doing injustice to Sir Brisco, who
was too generous and kind by nature to attempt to

trade upon the gratitude of Melanie for his
hospitality — to call it by its best name — to her
brother.

And yet the girl could not help reflecting that,
after being refused, for Sir Brisco to persist in
calling again and again at the cottage — even at
remote intervals — v^^as treating her, if not with
discourtesy, if not with humiliation, as if she had
been a wilful child that knew not its own mind.

DOUBT AND Fear.

In a preceding chapter we left Dr. Brendon, the
vicar of Stokencross, using somewhat sharp
language with reference to Horace Musgrave, and
threatening to proceed to the Emerald Isle, to see
that recreant young officer personally.

But he did not find it necessary, as the sequel
proved, either to travel thither or put his threats
in force.

With impetuous Amy, surprise at the mysterious
silence of her lover had soon given place in
succession to mortification, indignation, and
latterly dire alarm. The former emotion led her
to think of dismissing him, if possible, from her
thoughts ; but her engagement was too much a
settled fact for that yet ; and alarm, sorrow, and

VOL. II. H

disappointment grew and rankled side by side.
She had loved suddenly, too suddenly, perhaps,
as her mother suggested, and found she was
deceived; and that her idol, as her father, the
vicar, said, "was but one of clay, merest clay,
after all."

When they had first countenanced the engagement,
pending the dictum of Musgrave's " dear old
governor," as he called his father, it came upon
the white-haired vicar and his wife — but the
former more especially — as something of a shock,
a novelty, that this little Amy was no longer a
mere girl, but a woman, who would have to face
and take her share in all the troubles of life ; but
this, her sudden and cruel one, was alike unforeseen
and unanticipated.

As for Mrs. Brendon, forgetting her small
kindly interests in her neighbours and the poor,
her motherly heart, in her day-dreams of the
future, had been apt to fly off with visions of
matrimony for Amy on trifling occasions ; and
with much of the simplicity of those who lead calm,
uneventful, and secluded lives, she was not

surprised that Musgrave, one of the few eligible
young men who had seen her daughter — who she
thought closely resembled herself — should have
been led captive by her attractions at once.

All this sorrow, excitement, and speculation in
this little circle, with the now probable loss of a
son-in-law having £5,000 per annum, proved somewhat
oppressive to poor Dr. Brendon, who, previous
to getting the comfortable, old-fashioned living of
Stokencross, had dwelt contentedly in a remote
village of the Fen country, as a curate-in-charge
on less than £200 yearly, and whose mind had
always been occupied with thoughts of things
human and divine — the ailments of the soul rather
than those of the body : and thus the naturally
gentle old vicar felt alike crushed, enraged, and
humiliated, with an exceeding grief for his only
child Amy. He strove then, as ever, to console
himself with the words of Sir Henry Moncrieff,
who tells us that "It is humbling to think that
the strongest affections which have perplexed, or
agitated, or delighted us from our birth will, in a
few years, cease to have any existence on the

H 2

earth ; and that all the ardour which they have
kindled will be as completely extinguished and
forgotten as if they had never been."

The vicar was one of those simple-minded men
who deem all they meet as unsophisticated as
themselves ; but for such as this Hussar he had no
words.

*' Musgrave may have changed," said he, with a
bitter sigh. " The fancy of a man so young, amid
the temptations of garrison life, is apt to be soon
ensnared and misdirected."

A fancy, but not love," said Mrs. Brendon,
who was true to her early romantic instincts, and,
like the doctor, knew as much about garrison
life as of the unknown tongues. " Perhaps
he has been unable to face the opposition of his
father."

But ' a man shall leave his father and mother
and cleave unto his wife,' " said the vicar sententiously.
" The man has been amusing himself,
that is all."

If so, it was cruelty '' double distilled " ; for
with all her innate merriment and brightness.

little Amy Brendon was a girl who could not comprehend
even the mere rudiments of flirtation,
and Horace Musgrave had carried her far beyond
them.

Ai last there came a day which Amy never
forgot.

No letters had come from Horace in answer to
the many she wrote ; and to one almost despairing
and upbraiding letter she had posted with a prayer
and a sigh, she now, with some new confidence,
awaited a reply. It seemed impossible for any
man to omit doing so, if a grain of humanity
remained in his heart.

The clock in the old church tower near the
vicarage tolled the hour of four — four a.m.

It was an autumnal morning, and she could hear
the sighing of the wind as it swept through the
thinned foliage of the ancient trees that grew
thereby ; and the very sound made the girl sad and
thoughtful, recalling scriptural passages of her
father's sermons, telling that the time will come
when we too " shall fade as a leaf the wind has
taken away. All that thou hast shall fall down as

the leaf falleth from the vine," and that we shall
soon be "as the oaks when they cast their
leaves."

Most of the night she had been tossing restlessly
on her pillow, and her thick dark hair, rough and
unruly, rather than smooth or silky, was all
dishevelled and tumbled about her shoulders.

She must have dropped asleep after a time, for
the church clock awoke her from a feverish dream
to the knowledge that her brief term of half-consciousness
had not been much more than half-an-hour.


How weary in heart and worn in spirit she
felt. How sad, and dark, and long the time
seemed.

Four hours must yet elapse ere the post arrived
in that rather sequestered nook of Oxfordshire,
Horace must reply to that last appeal, and let her
know the worst — the very worst, whatever it
was.

Four hours — would they ever pass ?

What could his inattention mean ? Did it arise
from sickness, an accident, jealousy of some

imaginary person, of faithlessness on his own part
oh, not that — death itself were better.

Yes, pain, illness — even the last mentioned
catastrophe — were better to contemplate, she
thought, than the terrible doubt, the intangible
dread of — she knew not what — but a dread that
seemed to dry up the spring of her existence.

Day was stealing in at last, greyly, with all
its shadows reversed ; and half-dressed, she peeped
out into the morning mist.

An answer must come to-day. She had calculated
the time to a moment.

Six, seven, eight o'clock struck.

Another hour and the postman would certainly
come, slowly, deliberately, gossiping with each
friend he met, as all rural postmen do — perhaps
conning the contents of the post-cards, if any
there were.

At last he came in sight, and actually a little
before his usual time too. Then the whole
vicarage seemed to resound to the wild peal of
the door bell ; certainly Amy's overcharged heart
reverberated thereto.

She had felt too ill, too weary, to dress completely
and face the day; but now she sprang
from her bed, pushed back the thick rippling
hair from her threshing temples, and listened
with strained attention to the slow, provokingly
slow, steps of the approaching housemaid, with
her letters upon a salver.

There were four. Amy darted at them, glanced
at them, and saw in a moment that there was
not one of the four from Horace. Not one yet !

Oh, merciful heaven, what can have happened ! "
she wailed out the instant she was alone, and
her knees bent under her.

In her brief but hitherto happy life some fearful
crisis seemed close at hand now.

Was it some unaccountable jealousy, some
slander concerning poor Eeginald Talbot— oh no,
that was too absurd, too impossible now. Anyway,
her father must go to Dublin and unravel this
horrible mystery, or she would die.

Was it indeed falsehood, after all ?

Amy looked into her glass, and thought, " Can it
be that the poor little face which he so often vowed

was without peer — for him, at least — has no
charms for him now *? That all my little ways and
wild speeches, which he was wont to dote on as
the joy of his life — an idyllic life— are deemed
Rapid and are forgotten now ? "

LIGHT.

HsE father, the vicar, had heard but recently of
the dreadful catastrophe that had happened to
his old friend and Oxford chum, the Rector of
Chillington, through the marriage of his only
daughter Claire to Digby Montressor; how the
broken-hearted old man had been found dead in
his bed, and Claire had disappeared, none knew
how or where; and hence the anticipation of
some dire calamity grew strong in the vicar's
mind just then.

Descending to the breakfast-room, where as if in
mockery of her past night's misery, the autumnal
morning sun shone brightly, and where, round the
windows, the dewy monthly roses and the ivy
mingled. Amy found her father and mother sitting

with pale and disturbed faces before an untasted
meal.

The latter was in tears, the former grave, stern,
and j)i'e-occupied in visage, with a newspaper in
his hand, which trembled nervously.

Compose yourself, Amy, my child," said he ;
*but the strange silence of your lover is fully
and fearfully accounted for now."

"He is dead ! " gasped Amy, pressing her
hands upon her breast. " I knew it ! "

"No; would to heaven he were! We might
have mourned him in that instance."

"What then, papa?"

He is — married ! "

"Married?" Her voice became a whisper as
she repeated the word.

With wrinkled and still tremulous hands, the
vicar laid the paper before her ; and she read,
as if in letters of fire, the brief announcement : —

At Christ Church, Dublin, by the Eev. ,

H. L. Lincoln Musgrave, Esq., to Hilda, only
daughter of Lieut-general Tremayne, Bengal
Staff Corps."

His name, truly enough ; and hers, the
notorious coquette whom she remembered; and'
she remembered, too, with a flash of thought,
how his initials had struck and puzzled her when
his card came with her bouquet to Eose Cottage —
it seemed so long, long ago.

They had an awful significance now.

She slowly, yet deliberately, as one in a dream,
drew the rose-diamond ring from her engaged
finger and laid it on the table.

For a moment she struggled against the
benumbed sensation that crept over her faculties,
then the darkness of night seemed to descend
with oblivion upon her, and sinking on the floor
in a heai^, ^^^ fainted.

When she recovered it was only for a time —
to fall from one wild and heartrending paroxysm
of grief into another, for Amy was a nervous
creature, and one all impulse, who could take
neither joy nor sorrow in quietude or with
reason -

Oh, mamma, this is dreadful ! " she moaned,
as she nestled childlike in her mother's breast,



while a shiver shook her flora head to foot.
Dearest, I cannot bear it. I never wish to
hear of him again, of course"' she continued, ina
low and despairing voice. " I fear Melanie
already suspects Lonsdale. All men are alike.
Would that women were as false as they, and
had as little memory, too. And yet, mamma,
I love him still," she added wildly. "I cannot
help it — yet it is with a different love — still,
oh, my God, when he is the husband of another
one I should hate him. I know papa, how sad,
how wicked, how vile this confusion of thought
is — of right and wrong ; but I cannot yet conquer
myself."

Her once happy face looked strangely grey,
even to her mother's eyes ; her tender lips were
quivering like those of a child dien chided ; and
the hearts of her parents were torn with anguish
and indignation as they heard her.

Oh, Horace, Horace," she whispered to herself,
why did you teach me to lose you— why ? "

And hard indeed she found it to uproot that
love from her heart now Where where now the

tenderness and devotion that had filled his eyes and
thrilled in his voice when he bade her farewell
the farewell that was only to be for a little
time ?

She wept, and interlaced her slender fingers
in mortification and agony. At last her grief,
her excitement at least, wore itself out, and she
became quieter.

Thus, without warning, though after long dread
and suspicion, all her happiness in her first and
innocent girlish love was dashed to pieces, like
the crystal in the basket of Alnaschar ; the
brightness of joy was gone, and a cloud had
fallen on her young life, a cloud that might
never pass away.

Mentally, she was recalling over and over again
the words and looks of Horace Musgrave'when
she saw him last ; with the ever useless and
aching question — why had he deceived her, so
wantonly, so cruelly, when she believed him to
be so loving, so honourable, and true ?

Now, not until he was for ever out of her reach,
the husband of another — that odious, too odious.

Hilda Tremayne — did she know how much she
had loved, and how deeply she now despised
him.

The latter emotion was good ; the vicar knew
it would certainly kill or cure the first.

So a little time passed inexorably on.

One day, with dim and heavy eyes, she was
illuminating some pious scrolls for the decoration
of the village schoolroom, and seeking by this
manual occupation to keep her thoughts from
this ever-aching subject, when the post brought
to her father a letter, which he read and re-read
with blankest amazement pourtrayed in every
feature of his face.

From whom is your letter, papa ?" she asked,
just with the faintest interest.

From that — that— from Captain Musgrave ! "
he snapped out in a broken voice.

"Horace?"

'^ Don't call him so, Amy. Yes ; he is mad."

'papa!"

"Yes, must be; else, how dare he write this
to me ? After little preamble, he says, ' Weare

on our marriage-visit to Oxford, and I
shall do myself the pleasure of calling on you

and explaining without delay much that must

seem a mystery to Miss Brendon. To-morrow,

at noon, I trust will suit you.' "

The vicar tore the letter into minute shreds
and cast them in the fire.

To-morrow — at noon!" he muttered. " I shall
see him — face to face — certainly."

And as he muttered this he thought of how
he would crush the recreant under a torrent of
bitter reproaches, and felt, like the Vicar of
Wakefield — when his interview with Mr. Purcell
was at hand — that "it is easier to conceive than
describe the complicated sensations which are felt
from the pain of a recent injury and the pleasure
of approaching vengeance."

Horace Musgrave coming here — to Stokencross
again ? " said Mrs. Brendon, in utter bewilderment
at such consummate effrontery. " How dare he —
how dare he ? "

Well, if he has fooled our child once, he
cannot do so again," said the vicar, as he took

a huge pinch of snuff to soothe his nerves, but
did so without avail.

"But he is coming here — here, he wrote, to
explain all — all what — the heartless wretch ; oris
it to mock the ruin he has made ? "

To-morrow you should visit Melanie Talbot,
Amy, and be out of the way," said Dr. Brendon.
"Most cruelly have you suffered, my poor child;
and as for this man Musgrave, I cannot permit
you to look upon his face again."

I must, papa. I shall be brave. You will see
how brave I can be," said Amy.

You will only subject yourself to some unexampled
torture and useless mortification. It
must not be."

The anxiously-waited-for noon of the morrow
duly came, and Amy felt herself as if turned to
stone when an open carriage deposited a lady and
gentleman at the porch of the vicarage, and she
clutched the arm of her mother nervously and
averted her face, while her father started from his
armchair as the visitors were ushered in. Then
Amy, who felt as if the supreme moment of her

VOL. II. I

life had come, heard the laughing voice of Hilda,
who was the first to speak — uttering some well-bred
commonplace — she knew not what it was.

"Mr. Musgrave," said a voice, as if introducing
someone.

Amy looked up. A gentleman stood before hers
hat in hand, fair-haired, blue-eyed, with a tawny
moustache, and all unlike the Horace of her
terrible romance, who was dark in complexion and
eyes, and taller in stature.

Then who was this ?

My husband. Miss Brendon," said Hilda, with
a burst of purest laughter. " You thought that
your Horace had married me ? Not at all ; this
is his cousin, Harry Lyle Lincoln Musgrave. You
have been under some dreadful mistake, my dear
girl."

"A mistake, I hope," said Dr. Brendon,
motioning his visitors to be seated. "What have
you to tell me, sir ? " he added, sternly. " How
explain the unaccountable silence of Captain
Musgrave to my daughter's many letters ? "

That is easily done," said Mr. Harry Mus-grave,

gravely. '' My cousin, a few days after
rejoining his regiment at Dublin, met with a
terrible accident when riding in a garrison hurdle
race."

A little gasping cry escaped Amy.

We never heard of it," said her father, coldly.

Strange. It was reported in all the morning
papers we thought."

And this accident ? "

I shall never forget the stir and excitement
of the race as poor Horace, in yellow and black
colours, came powdering along, and, ahead of all
the field, went clearing hurdle after hurdle. ' He
is the finest fellow in all England ! ' the Hussars
were shouting as they tossed their caps in the air ;
and a magnificent horseman he was, riding ina
thoroughly artistic manner. At the close there
came an ugly water jump, just beyond the last
hurdle, nine yards from hindoo to hindfoot»
It is madness — rank madness. He'll never clear
both ! ' was the cry on all sides. His horse rose
like a bird ; he cleared hurdle and brook ; but just
as he landed on the other side his horse pitched

i2

forward, and he fell ; the horse fell too, and rolled
over him, giving him a crush that ended in
concussion of the brain and a double fracture of
the right arm. Thus he has been for fully three
months in the hands of the doctors, helpless asa
baby."

"But he is recovering now?" exclaimed Dr.
Brendon, his sympathy rising fast.

Yes, thank God. We knew nothing of his
engagement to Miss Brendon, as since that day
he has been nearer death than he will ever be, but
once, again. All unknown to him, a pile of
letters lay in his room, unopened and unanswered,
because, of course, while life lasted, no one in the
barracks felt at liberty to meddle with his private
correspondence. It was thought that everyone
mus know of the accident that had befallen him,
and so the weeks ran on. Horace will be able
to write you — may perhaps visit you — in about ten
days. Meantime, he urged Hilda and me, in
passing, to call and explain all to you and Miss
Brendon, to whom, certainly, much explanation
is due."



Amy was weeping heavily now* but her tears
were those of joy and hope, for a great load
of grief, disappointment, and humiliation had
been suddenly lifted from her soul, like a dark
curtain.

Amy, m her joy, now told all she had endured
to Melanie.

"So, too, will Montague's silence be explained intime,"
said the latter, confidently.

Hilda's marriage cards had already come to
Melanie, and great was her surprise at the
reception thereof, though Lonsdale had certainly
told her of that young lady's alleged engagement
to a Mr. Musgrave.

"What mystery is this, Uncle Grimshaw ? "
she asked. " You told me that Miss Tremayne
had gone out in the P. and 0. liner with Montague
Lonsdale, and here we find that she is married in
Dublin. Yet you said all that you could think of
to torture me."

"Did I?" said he, with a grimace. "Well,
I saw her name in the passenger list. Perhaps
there are two — "

Two General Tremaynes, each with an only
daughter named Hilda ? ' '

'* Yes ; why not ? " asked Uncle Grimshaw,
sulkily. "Two General Tremaynes only. How
many General Campbell are there always in
the Army List ?"

Glad now that she had not known where or how
to return her diamond ring, Amy replaced it on
her tiny finger, which, to her eyes, had seemed so
strange without it.

ON THE ESPLANADE.

So this is Bengal once more — the shores of
India ! " said Lonsdale to Montressor, as they
ascended the poop one morning, when the sea-breeze
had died away and the atmosphere was
hot and still.

It was about the end of the rainy season, and
the low island of Sangor was looming dimly on
the port bow of the Pagoda, as she steamed up
the Hooghly — or Hugh, as it is spelled now — but
slowly, as the entrance to that deltoid of the
Ganges is rendered extremely dangerous and
difficult by the many sandbanks which frequently
change their relative positions ; and as he gazed,
he thought, with an irrepressible glow of enthusiasm,
of the vast empire that lay beyond
that strip of level coast — the empire of which

Clive laid the solid foundation on the field of
Glassy, where Eyre Comte defeated Hyde, where
Cornwallis swept Mysore, where Wellesley won
Assay, and where Campbell and Outram — Outram
the Bayard of India, the lion-hearted conqueror
of Scinde — avenged so amply the horrors of the
Sepoy Revolt.

Sangor did not look inviting, no part of it
being above the reach of high spring tides, and
its only spontaneous vegetation being such as
grows in salt water — the Java fern, the Bukra
palm, and wonderful creepers ; but great fairs are
held there, though the district is sorely infested
by tigers. In the Island of Sangor proper, only
Hindoo fakirs live, and deem their sanctity increased
by their period of seclusion there. But
the river teems with crocodiles, and between them
in the water and the tigers on shore, the holy
men have often a bad time of it.

To Bigby Montre'ssor, who had been twice out
before, the scene was neither new nor interesting ;
but he told Lonsdale that in 1688, when the lowland
they looked on had been inundated, more

than two hundred thousand persons perished m a
few hours.

A railway has long been talked of, but the
waterway from the mouth of the Hooghly, or
the sand heads, as they are named, is ninety miles.

All the passengers were on deck, eagerly scouring
the scenery of the river as the Pagoda steamed
upward, and objects on shore became more and
more distinct, till, at Calcutta, the stream proves
no broader than the Thames at Gravesend.

After having had but glimpses of the land,
and for many many days seen nothing but the
ocean in its varied moods, the beautiful scenery
of the river, the deep hues and strange forms
of the tropical foliage, which in some places grew
too thickly to admit of human habitation, the
life with which the river itself teemed, the countless
small boats that studded it like insects, the
ships and steamers of all sizes and nations, with
the increasing number of houses, all more or ^ less
of a somewhat European aspect, all indicating
the propinquity to a large city, were full of renewed
interest to Lonsdale ; yet his mind had room for

other thoughts — thoughts of Melanie Talbot — then
so far, far away, and how this arrival in India
was but the first chapter in the story of their
separation.

In due time Lonsdale and his friend found
themselves amid the striking scenes and splendour
of the '' City of Palaces," and after landing at
Princess Ghaut, which is nearly opposite the great
citadel and spacious barracks of Fort William,
and reporting themselves at headquarters, they
took rooms at the chief hotel, the Great Eastern,
and, with General Tremayne and others, found
a welcome at the U.S. Club, 31 Chowringher, as
all Anglo-Bengalees know, and as Lonsdale knew,
as he had served in that part of the world before.

Chowringher is the British quarter, par
excellence, where the stately palatial edifices are
constructed entirely of brick, plastered over with
white cliunom, which presents a surface rivalling
the finest marble; but we must avoid " Guide
Book" matter, and adhere to our story.

At the U.S. Club, and elsewhere, nothing was
talked of then but the war with Burmahh and

the Bengal contingent therefor, which was fast
being completed in all its details, and of which
the regiment of Lonsdale and Montressor formed
a part.

Even with the knowledge of om previous wars
in the land of the white elephant, none could quite
foresee what the result, or what the amount of
actual fighting might he ; but all knew that there
were perils of a peculiar kind to face, in the
swampy and pestilential native of the country, and
from Assassins and bands of savage Dacoits.

All unaware as yet that the coming campaign
would be, if perilous, perhaps an inglorious one,
the two friends looked forward keenly to the work
before them, and with the enthusiasm natural to
their profession — Lonsdale with the earnest desire
that he might achieve or do something that would
enhance him in the estimation of the girl he
loved ; and Montressor in the desperate hope,
or heedlessness, that he might, with the sacrifice
of his life, forget that he had lost — but by no
fault of his own — Claire Richmond.

In the outward voyage, hurried as he had been

from port to port and place to place, Montague
Lonsdale did not know when a letter from Melanie
might overtake him, in answer to those he had
posted to her on every available occasion ; and
thus, amid the apparent silence of their love, he
could but close his eyes at times and dream,
or in fancy conjure up her slender figure amid
the flower-beds of Eose Cottage, or at their
meeting-place by the river, with all its flags and
water lilies floating in the sunshine, her violet
grey eyes sparkling under their long lashes;"^ then
her winning voice would come to his ear and her
hand seek his, till imagination seemed lost in
reality, and he Avould start from his reverie to
find himself on the busy and gay Esplanade of
Calcutta, or intent on some prosaic military duty,
going round the soldiers' messes, parading the
piquet, or visiting his sentries amid the groves
of trees and vast barrack squares of Fort William
that great fortress which was the work of Clive
after Glassy.

Amid the preparations for departure, he, Mon-treason,
Danvers (now aide-de-camp to General

Tremayne, temporarily), and others who had come
out in the Pagoda, had still sufficient leisure to
amuse themselves in Calcutta, and, as usual there,
the Esplanade was their favourite resort, as it
is with the inhabitants of all ranks, for air and
exercise, and where everyone sees everyone else.

From drowsy dawn, when the sun has got
to some height above the horizon, this level
plain between Fort William and the beautiful
city is crowded with Europeans, Eurasians, and
natives, who come to enjoy the cool air of the
morning ; and in the evenings it exhibits a grand
display of beauty and equipage, with every variety
and complexion of vehicle, from the dashing
carriage and pan — perhaps four — to the one-horse
chaise and palanquin of the Bengal ; and
adapted to the climate are the handsome uniforms
of officers of every arm of the service — Artillery,
Engineers, Light Cavalry, General Staff, and so
forth — often clustering like bees about the fair and
fresh new arrivals from Europe.

The latest civilisation of the Western world
is there, mingled with the most ancient civilisation

of the East. There may be seen men in turbans,
with flowing attire, with slavish-Hke servants
holding over them splendid umbrellas ; women,
clad in many colours, carrying children perched
upon the hip ; fakirs, with coarse hair hanging
to their feet, with an arm held upward till it
has become stiffened and withered like the branch
of a tree; and barefooted people with rings on
their toes.

The two friends had 'done" Garden Each,
with all its stately villas, and the botanic gardens ;
had passed the race-course and ridden to Belvedere,
which is the palace of the Lieutenant-governor,
close by where was fought the famous duel in 1777
between Warren Hastings and Sn P. Francis,
in which the latter was severely wounded, and
narrowly escaped with his life ; the Government
House, with its colossal gates and sphinxes — an
edifice in which they had been duly presented
to the representative of the Empress-queen, and
of the interior of which a writer says : *' any
adequate idea cannot be conveyed by words ; the
eye, not the ear, must be the medium of communication.

The marble hall, in particular,
brought to my mind many of the glowing descriptions
in the Arabian Tales of enchanted
castles, &c. Indeed, I could scarcely persuade
myself that I was not treading on magic ground
all the time I was wandering through it." Then
there was St. Paul's Cathedral, with all its
monuments to the brave men whose blood and
valour have won India for Britain, and its brother,
the Scottish Presbyterian Kirk, or, as the natives
curiously call it, the Lard Sahib Ka GirjaJt, which
was founded by Flora, Countess of London, on
St. Andrew's Day, 1815, and the great clock of
which cost 5,00i) rupees. And so, after all this,
one evening they had something of an adventure
when riding about the vast extent of the crowned
Esplanade.

Westward of the latter lies the ChowTingher
Pioad, where whilom miserable native huts were at
times found close by mansions of noble aspect.

The Esplanade was crowded with loungers,
Europeans and wealthy natives, in beautiful
carriages or on horseback ; the caparisoned

elephant, with the golden "umbrella, the decorated
palanquin, with liveried out-runners, the carhonchy
or hack-carriage of Bengal, and many a buggy,
and near the roadways, hoxivallahs, or native
hawkers, in their clean white muslin costumes —
plenty of warm light, colour, glittering and motion
all were there.

The little group of friends, of whom General
Tremayne was the centre, rode slowly through
the crowds, smoking and laughing, and eyeing
attentively all they passed, and among those on
whom appreciative glances fell were the graceful,
willowy, and slender Eurasian girls, with their
languishing black eyes and soft half-European
features. These find their greatest admirers
generally in young Europeans, and look upon
the young men of their own half-caste and colour
as beneath them. Danvers' eyeglass was never
idle ; but such men as Lonsdale and Montressor
had other thoughts — thoughts peculiarly their own
to occupy them, and rode slowly on, surveying
the carriages and other equipages, and the many
equestrians, male and female, that flitted past,

with apparent indifference. They had seen all
these in the same place many a time before.

Life seems to get more of a bore as one grows
older," was Montressor's frequent remark and
mood of mind.

Looking at him, Lonsd|ile thought what a
handsome fellow he was ; such good style, too ;
and how few could guess the secret that made him
so grave, and often cynical.

Danvers, and other young subs., were in the
highest spirits. Regrets for leaving home and
home circles were emotions of the past, and now
the novelty of being completely one's master —
the trammels of discipline withal — and utterly
beyond tutelage, of having life and avocation
before them, a handsome uniform to wear, an
approved position in society to maintain, and
always a good saddle-horse to ride, was vivid and
keen in every young fellow's breast.

I hope we may see the belle of Calcutta," said
Danvers. " She is a stunner, and is here every
evening, I believe."

Rather too grave, with all her beauty, for my

VOL. II. K

taste," said Cecil Travers, another fledgling of the
Bengal Staff Corps, though wearing the scarlet
tunic of the Governor-general's Body Guard, faced
with blue and richly-laced with gold, a corps
whose standards have many a 'trophy between
Ara " and " Sabraon." " But who is she ? " he
asked.

Miss— no, Mrs. — by Jove, I forget the name.
She acts as a companion, I believe, to the
Governor of Arracon's wife— Lady Tremayne."

Then the general here must know her."

If the general heard the observation, he remained
grimly silent.

She seems very young to be a widow," began
Charlie Dan^'fers again.

Yes ; and to be a mother too, as local gossip
adds. She has at least one child."

"Ah, that spoils your little romance," said
Lonsdale.

'' A grass widow, probably ? " suggested someone
else — a tall, blase-looking gunner with a
knowing smile. " Though she wears black always,
even in this hot climate."

''■Not at all' said Danvers ; " her husband was
killed in Egypt, I believe."

What regiment ? " queried the sceptic.

I don't kno^^ ; but she'll be my fate, I assure
you, Montressor," said Danvers, adopting a melodramatic
tone. " I felt that the moment I saw
her."

Montressor smiled sourly, but made no reply ;
but ere the chaffing subaltern could resume —

Don't talk like a fool, Danvers," said General
Tremayne, impatiently ; " you are in a state of
griffinage yet."

And have to get over the prickly heat, my
lad, ' ' added Montressor. ' ' You must, however, stick
to the lemon and soda brigade, and avoid brandy-pawnee
as you would the devil and all his works."

The lady concerning whom you jest is an

object of interest to all," said General Tremayne,

who, most unlike his daughter Hilda, was grave

in manner and somewhat stern in face. " She

has not been without offers since she came to

Calcutta with my sister-in-law, but has declined

even the most eligible."

k2' #

Why ? " asked Danvers.

No one knows why ; that is her affair. She
asserts, however, that she is not engaged."

Yet she told Yal Bilke—



Bilke of the King's Dragoon Guards ? " asked
Montressor, wincing at the name.

'' Yes — that honour bound her to another, and
eternally separated her from him or anyone else."

' It was scarcely good taste in him to repeat
that," said Montressor.

She referred to the dead fellow, her Egyptian
hero, no doubt."

Oh, that is mere bosh ! " exclaimed the
boyish Travers. 'all the world knows what
widows are, and how long such fancies are likely
to last, especially in a climate so sultry as this."

All this was destitute of interest to Lonsdale
and Montressor, save that the latter winced at the
name of the old Cavalry roue, Bilke. Each had a
fair face in his mind — a loved face that was far,
far away ; and that was enough for them to dream
and ponder over.

"It is a thousand pities to think of so fine a

girl having perhaps to spend the best years of her
Hfe in such a place as my brother's government,
Arracon," said General Tremayne ; ''a swampy
hole where the streets are built on piles, amid mud
and ooze — a concentration of shallow lakes,
streams, and morasses."

That she will never do, depend on it," said the
quizzical Artillery officer.

"Why?"

Because some fellow, lucky or unlucky, will
pick her up here, before Sir Hobart Tremayne
leaves us."

Were she less beautiful," said the general,
'people would not trouble or interest themselves
about her, young fellows especially ; but now, as
no one knows anything concerning her or her
antecedents, she has become a heroine of conjecture,
of no small amount of silly gossip, inconsequence
of her style, reticence of manner,
and supposed misfortunes."

"I do not knows whether they are supposed or
not," persisted young Travers ; " but old D'Oyley,
of the Dragoon Guards, is quite spooney upon her.

and gossip says she rather affects the gallant
colonel."

Gossip again ! " said the general, angrily, s

Colonel ? He was but a brevet-major when I
last saw him," observed Montressor to Lonsdale,
as he recalled with pain his Brighton experience
and the so-called " Irene Beaufort."

"Oh, he is full colonel in the army now, but
wild as ever," exclaimed Tr avers. " And now
about this girl — "

"I would rather not have any jests made about
her in my presence," said General Tremayne,
now with such unmistakable severity that even the
usually irrepressible Travers changed colour.

I beg pardon — if — " he began.

I only" hope that such a man as Colonel
D'Oyley will not annoy her in an}^ way by his
unwelcome attentions," said the general, quietly
interrupting the subaltern. " She appears to me,
apart from being most ladylike and highly-bred, to
be amiable, gentle, and uncomplaining, though ina
subordinate position, for which she was too
surely never intended."

Old Tremayne is surely spooney on her
himself," whispered Charlie Danvers to Travers.
"But, hy Jove, here she comes, with D'Oyley Blake
and ever so many fellows about her, as usual.
I suppose Yal gave her those magnificent gold
bangles she wears."

The group of officers about Lady Tremayne and
the beauty came riding slowly on, for a caparisoned
elephant, with golden rings on its tusks, came
lumbering along with a gilded howdah on its back,
wherein sat a fat and ghee-inflated native prince,
whose native runners strove to clear the way before
him.

Lonsdale had only time to perceive that the
lady of whom he had heard so much had a slight
and graceful figure, that strongly reminded him of
Melanie; that her riding-habit was of Holland
linen, prettily braided with black; that she wore
a hat with a large white feather round it, acting
as a kind of puggaree ; and that her veil was
tightly tied down, when, just as General Tremayne
raised his right hand to his solartopee, in salute
to her and his sister-in-law, th.^ horse of the

former seemed to stable, as if she had suddenly
relaxed her reins, and a low cry escaped her as she
sank forward on her saddle bow for a moment and
dropped her switch and a riding-gauntlet.

Quick as thought, Digby Montressor, anticipating
Colonel D'Oyley and even the much younger
Danvers, was out of his saddle, had picked up and
presented to her the switch and gauntlet, receiving
a bow, a word of thanks faintly uttered, and a
quick glance from two dark eyes, through a lace
veil.

He saw that her unloved hand was marvellously
white, slim, and perfect; then vaulted into his
saddle ; and he thought no more about it, as each
party passed on their way.

"A fortunate fellow, you. Captain Montressor,"
said Danvers ; " but this is just my luck — too late
for everything — came into the world five minutes
after my brother, and so lost a fine estate in the
Midlands. Her habit fits her like a glove; and
how bright, lithe, and girlish she seems. She is a
mystery. '

*' My sister-in-law, Lady Tremayne, gives a

reception tomorrow night, chiefly to the fellows
bound for Burmahh," said the general, with a good-natured
laugh. " Come with me, all of you who
have not received cards."

Most of the group muttered their assent and
thanks, and Danvers stroked his scarcely-perceptible
yellow moustache with an emotion of
gratification and anticipated conquest.

Perhaps the good-named general thought that
the best way to check the empty talk of these silly
lads was to introduce them to the lady in question ;
but an event — a most startling one — came to pass
that none of them could have foreseen.

But the general loved his daughter Hilda,
perhaps more than that gay young lady deserved,
and he viewed all the rest of the sex through that
love for her.

IN CHOWRINGHER.

Nv.xT evening Lonsdale, Montressor, and others
of the general's party were m Chowringher — the
Park Lane of Calcutta — and were received at the
entrance of Sir Hobart's residence by a whiskered
and moustached driven, or doorkeeper, with a
crimson turban on his head, ready to strike the
gong that announced the arrival of a guest.

The house was a stately" one, with chunom-
coated pillars, a splendid entablature round the
roof, on which were a number of crows, cawing and
picking, and a couple of enormous heron-like birds,
called " adjutants," with long thin legs and
stupendous beaks, sat drowsily. »

Guests were arriving fast, and crowding the
vast, spacious, and airy Anglo-Indian drawing-room,

which had wide and lofty ^Yindo^vs, with
green jalousies, or "Venetians," and, suspended
between the cross-beams, two large punkahs,
elaborately fashioned and gilded, nth deep fringes
and spans cut in them to clear the chandeliers, as
these formidable ventilators were swayed to and
fro by the ivalhihs, seated on their hams in the
verandahs without, yet their action failed to clear
the atmosphere, which was already steamy with
something of the unpleasant vapour exhaled from
a wet blanket stretched before a fire.

In the long double drawing-room there was
plenty of gilding and a variety of Chinese vases,
Burmese and Hindoo idols, artificial flowers and
alabaster pedestals, and rare English prints ^n
light frames. The rooms were brilliantly lighted,
and the jalousies that faced the verandahs were
open to the ground, and countless flowers were
there, in all their beauty and luxuriance. Musicians-were
turning over their music in a great muslin-curtained
alcove ; gay uniforms were flitting about ;
and Lady Tremayne. a pretty little woman — a
trifle rouged, which is all fair in India — was-rustling

to and fro among her guests, among whom
were many pretty European girls (scarcely a
Eurasian, of course), in charming dresses, and all
denizens of Garden Reach, or of Chowringher,
where the married aristocracy of the Presidency
dwell.

The military element prevailed over the Ces.,
who were there, as usual, in the black claw-hammer
coat and expansive shirt front of civilisation — the
same hideous evening costume that one now sees all
the world over, with the inevitable opera-hat and
button-hole.

Both Lonsdale and Montressor were acceptable
guests to Lady Tremayne, as both where men with
that indescribable air of perfect breeding which no
jDarvenu can counterfeit.

"Where is the beauty?" whispered Danvers to
Travers, as the two made their way slowly and
half aimlessly through the throng.

There she is, with old D'Oyley hanging over
her, trying, no doubt, to wean her from her fetish,
the Egyptian hero, with his usual elaborate
speeches, that, like those of Val Bilke, have done"

service wherever the Queen's morning trumpets,"
rej)Hed Cecil Travers, as they saw a rather bald-headed,
grizzled, and very hlase, elderly-looking
man, in the uniform of a Dragoon Guard regiment,
stooping over a young lady who was seated on an
ottoman in the recess of an open window. He had
an eyeglass screwed into his right eye — a knack of
his— and his habit of suddenly turning it on
anyone who approached was to some people
embarrassing ; to many rude.

She was dressed in a soft and clinging costume
of black, in contrast to which her slender neck and
rounded arms seemed as white as snow. She had
rich chestnut hair, with a soft curly fringe that
shone like gold when the light struck it, soft dark
eyes with long black lashes, a nose that was justa
little retrovsise rather than straight, a colourless
complexion ; and as she fanned herself her face
wore just then a restless, uneasy anxious, and
worried expression, which Charlie Danvers supposed
was due to annoyance at the attentions of her
mature Dragoon admirer, whom she seemed to
hear as if she heard him not.



"By Jove, she is perfect!" muttered young

Travers, as, with no small envy, he saw his chum
Charlie about to be introduced to her by Lady
Tremayne. " Perfect, even to her slender, arched,
and pretty little feet."

To a keener observer than the young Body
Guardsman, her face — a beautiful one certainly —
would have told of one whose life had known
misfortune keenly — of a painful past and of a
present in which, if there was much of calm, there
was little of peace.

Danvers, though his hair was straw-coloured —
yet carefully parted in the middle — though his
expressionless face was rather freckly, and he had
a pair of legs the thickest portion whereof of each
was the ankle, deemed himself rather an object of
interest. Like most empty-headed young men,
though a past-master in shooting, tennis, and polo,
he had an inexhaustible flow of small talk; but
somehow he had none now.

Buttoned up to the throat in a tight tunic — he
was on duty— with a gold sash across his left
shoulder, a ditto belt round this waist, he felt very

limp, and as he afterwards said, "all the go" was
fairly out of him ; and, as Lady Tremayne led him
forward to where her fair friend sat, he could only
gasp out a vague reply to some remark she
made.

"I leg your pardon, Mr. Danvers," said Lady
Tremayne ; " but I did not hear what you said."

Only that it is very — hot," said Danvers.

'' Of course ; but you are in India. What do
you think of it ?"

"That it would be all the better for being a little
colder."

The lady, who was thoroughly acclimatised, and
had been " stewed " for two years among the
swamps of Ai-bacon, laughed at his not very
original remark, and said :

"I must now introduce you as a recent arrival
to Mrs.-"

Danvers found himself face to face with the
beauty of whom all were talking ; but failed to
catch her name, as just then a sudden and
unexpected scene took place.

"Claire!" burst froid the lips of Montressor,

who at that moment approached. ''Clah-e!" he
repeated, in a low voice that was breathless and
husky with astonishment and joy.

The yomig beauty in black was Claire Richmond,
his lost wife, yet looking so pure, so pale, and
winning as ever — so much like her former self that
he could almost have been persuaded that the dire
episode of the so-called "Irene," and their subsequent
separation, were portions of a lastly, a
terrible dream, and that now a blessed wakening
and reality had come at last ; in this most
unexpected time, and place, and manner !

The bewilderment was on his side, but the
anguish on hers. Of his innocence she knew
nothing yet. "In moments of supreme excitement,"
it has been said, "we do not express
surprise much ; indeed, in the shaken state of our
senses we do not feel it at times."

Claire rose to her feet, trembling, and seemingly
about to sink, and sink she did when Montressor
drew near her, and she held up her hands
deprecatingly and entreatingly, as if to keep his
touch from her.

Their recognition was complete.

But the wild excitement of the moment, with the
heat of the room and of the climate, proved too
much for her tender system and overstrung nerves.
She reeled and fell back senseless into the arms of
Colonel D'Oyley, and ultimately, amid confusion
and dismay, Montressor had to leave her with the
Tremaynes, and await the events of the morrow.

"Odd, all this — deuced odd — when she is
engaged, they say, to Yal Bilke," he heard young
Travers say ; " and he taught her to play billiards
so well."

Sir Hobart became very stiff and pompous,
while Lady Tremayne assumed a more than
usually cold manner while she fanned herself
vehemently, and said to some who gathered round
her :

'this. affair has been shockingly mismanaged
and ill brought about."

Claire's outstretched hands and averted face
seemed to give Montressor a sensation like the
keen stab of a sword in his heart.

"Oh, Lonsdale," said ho, as they drove along

VOL. II. L

the Chowringher Eoad together and wheeled off
westward across the Esplanade towards Fort
William, " I am too cowardly to kill myself or
I should have resorted to the pistol long ago ! "

Cowardly ! You, Digby ? You, whose war
services occupy nearly half a page of ' Harte ! '
What a wild phrase to use," said his brother
officer.

Meanwhile, good-natured friends were busy with
the names of the luckless pair.

She had broken her father's heart ; she had runaway
from her husband with one of the Lancers,
and assumed the name of Mrs. Richmond to
impose upon the confiding Lady Tremayne. She
had been overtaken in the midst of an outrageous
flirtation with that roue Colonel D'Oyley, of the
King's Dragoon Guards; and all the world knew
what he was. Her sweetness was assumed ; her
beauty was skilful " making-up " ; her occasional
fits of sadness and depression were art ; her
fainting in the drawing-room was no doubt less
acting than a sign of guilt. And so poor Claire
was roughly handled by all— even by the men.

over their cigars and brandy-pawnee, in every
club-house, barrack-room, and bungalow.

What did she say when she held up her hands
at his approach ? " asked Travers.

' Don't touch me. Never do so again. Weare
strangers,' or something to that purpose,"
replied»some heedless fellow.

By Jove ; strange, don't you know."

Very strange."

''No doubt her poor devil of a hub thought so
too ; yet she and Bilke seemed to find each other's
company very entertaining."

The affair had been " shockingly mismanaged,"
Lonsdale certainly thought, and said so again and
again to Montressor.

There are few parts of Her Majesty's dominions

more addicted to tittle-tattle, love of gossip — or

gup, as it is named — if not deliberate scandal, than

British India, with all its vastness ; and now the

denizens of Chowringher had ample scope for the

eldest surmises at the sudden denouement, discoYeYj

and mutual recognition, of which Lady Tremayne's

drawing-room had so suddenly become the scene.

L 2

So society would talk, of course ; but it could
say nothing with certainty, and its most malicious
guesses fell short, perhaps, of the real painful
story.

SEQUEL TO THE Story OF Confessor.

Out of all this episode of Claire and Montressor we
might have woven a long story, though apart from
om own, and " piled up the agony," as the phrase
is ; but our narrative is not a romance.

The meeting came about thus : —

The veiled equestrian on the Esplanade was,
as the reader has no doubt surmised, Claire, who
had seen and recognised in an agony of dismay,
and love too, her husband — real or mock she
knew not still — though he knew her not ; and
a painful scene had taken place between her and
Lady Tremayne, whom she had accompanied as a
humble friend to India, at the villa on the
Chowringher Eoad.

Kind, but blundering, Lady Tremayne did not

quite understand the story of Claire, as the
latter, in her excitement related it, and only
in so far as she fondly anticipated a reconciliation
and res-union of those two hy her means. She wove
up quite a little romance, of which she was to bethe
good fairy, though she was certainly appalled
afterwards, when, subsequent to the scene we have
described, she heard the details of Claire's flight
in the night from Lynmouth.

Think of the future," Lady Tremayne had said,
with reference to the meeting on the Esplanade.

"What future have I?" Claire had responded.
He is here now, actually in Calcutta — the man to
whom I gave myself at the altar of my dear dead
father's church — dead through his crime and sin —
this man whom it is a sin for me to love or think
of ; and you tell me that tomorrow I shall see him
again — speak with him — our hands even may touch
again," she continued, wildly, as she wrung her
interlaced fingers. " No, no, no ; let me never see
him more ! " ,

i

"He is under immediate orders for Burmahh,
the general told me," urged Lady Tremayne.

'' Perhaps he can now explain all to me, if not to
you, Claire ; and I see the hand of God in this."

But the girl shook her head wearily and mournfully,
with her dark eyes fixed on seeming vacancy.

"My dear girl," resumed Lady Tremayne,
caressingly, " this misfortune, this strange and
cruel accusation, may, I repeat, be explained away."

It never can," sobbed Claire, " never. I heard
her dreadful accusation, to which he had not a word
to say, but acknowledged to me that the dark
secret of his life would be the ruin of mine. Those
were his words."

And he is coming tomorrow."

Montressor ? "

"Yes."

"Here— here?"

With my brother-in-law, the general. Depend
upon it, this is no mere chance."

"What then?" asked Claire, desperately.

Destiny"

To hunt me from your household and destroy
my peace, by what may prove a public expose ? "

Not if you command yourself and retain your

presence of mind. Destroy your peace, Claire ?
God, who rules our fate, would not be so cruel.
The wretched woman — an impostor, perhaps — "

She was no impostor. • Digby dared not call
her so."

She who wrought you so much evil may be dead;
her assertions may be explained. Oh, be patient,
be hopeful."

"But, oh, Lady Tremayne, think of what you
put u^Don me — the pain, the terror, of such an
interview before strangers."

Their presence will compel control ; and
consider — he is under orders for Burmahh," said
Lady Tremayne again, " and you may perhaps
meet no more."

Then it was that a wild longing to see Montressor
but once again struggled with Claire's sense of
delicacy, even her sense of propriety and just
resentment ; and she consented to appear,
promising to avoid all that might lead to the issue
of which all English folks have a genuine horror —
a scene ; but she fainted, as we have told, and the
guests departed in confusion and haste.

After a time, to Lady Tremayne's great relief,
her white Hps and eyeHds unclosed. She found
herself on a couch near an open window — open to
the dewey Indian night. There was the fragrance
of eau-de-cologne in the room, and of a restorative
which someone held to her lips. A gasping sigh
escaped her, and she gradually recovered, awakening
again to a painful reality, and wept as a child
might have done on the breast of her friend, hut
somewhat mistaken monitress.

A year to-night," said Claire, gazing with a
world of sadness on the wedding ring to which,
perhaps, she had no right, and for which even her
slender finger had grown too small, as she turned it
round, with a wistful expression in her eyes ; " a
year to-night since that awful one at Lynmouth.
How strange ! how passing strange ! So I must
cling to you. Dear Lady Tremayne, I think you
know now that I am one of those women of whom
De Quincy wrote— one to whom real and true female
friendship is more valuable than all the companionship
of the other sex can give. But, however," she
added, with a painful little hysterical laugh,

to-night has proved that I am utterly destitute of
self-possession or presence of mind."

Lady Tremayne regarded her anxiously, for in
her soft, pale face was the tired and worn expression
of one who thought life not worth living.

I am without a husband, yet married ; a girl,
Lady Tremayne, without a girl's best inheritance —
hope," said she, sadly ; and she drew off, as vanities,
the Delhi bangles her hostess had given her — not
Bilke, as gossip suggested.

Meanwhile, Montressor was equally a prey to
bitterness and grief, and felt himself involved in
fresh mazes of wonder and perplexity.

"Claire here! here in Calcutta!" he kept
repeating to himself, as if he could not believe the
evidence of his own senses. And both their minds
were full of the same theme.

That last night in the cottage in Lynmouth,
when the happy weeks of their newly-married life,
amid the wonderful scenery of the valley of the
rocks, by the fir clad Lyn Cliff, in view of the
sparkling sea and the dark ridges of Exmoor, came
abruptly to a close — the passionate appeals of

Claire — the terror, the dismay at the advent, the
apparent resurrection of the drowned woman, Irene
Beaufort, as she called herself — all seemed to rush
like a swift and agonising panorama before the eyes
and memory of both, to bewilder and confuse them.

But the sleepless night was passed ; morning
came. With the light and sunshine hope grew
apace in the breast of Montressor, who " chummed"
with Lonsdale in his quarters ; and with that hope
grew fear, lest Claire might have been lost to him,
under the influence of others ; and now only three
days remained ere he would have to sail for the
Rangoon Eiver.

Only three days !

Lonsdale's houseman, or butler, had perfumed
their dining-room with pastilles, or incense, burned
on a broad, flat dhooi kalsin of clay, and after a
gallop in the cool morning air, clad in a white
jacket, round the Esplanade, he had returned fresh
and invigorated to breakfast, in Indian fashion, on
coffee and a preparation of butter, green chills,
boiled rice, egg and fish, with cayenne at discretion;
while Montressor, pale, un slept, and full of anxious

thoughts, contented himself with a chestnut and
iced brandy and soda, and sat, ahiiost watch in
hand, waiting for the earliest moment when he
could present himself at SirHobart's house, on the
€howringher Road.

He was a prey to many anxious thoughts and
fears ; but to these he gave no utterance, even to
his old friend Montague Lonsdale, who regarded
him with eyes of sympathy.

In the events connected with his separation from
Claire, her father's death at Chillington, the
conviction that she had been cruelly tricked
and degraded, might she not have learned —
tutored herself — to loathe him and the very idea
of his existence ?

And how, if — believing that she was not his wife
she had yielded up her heart to the kindness, the
attentions, the love and tenderness of another?
And what if there were only truth in all the gossip
he had heard buzzed about her in club-house and
bungalow — the result of her beauty, her unprotected
and dependent position in the household of Lady
Tremayne ! So even now she might turn from him

as one who knew him not and cared not to know
him ; and with this painful idea there came before
him the recollection of how she stood when last he
saw her, with hands outspread and tremulous as if
in deprecation and fear, and face averted, it might
be, in horror.

But anon he knew that this marriage was a fact
indisputable ; and that the other was a falsehood
a delusion, an impossibility, and a snare. At last
the time came.

Now to be off to Tremayne's," said he, starting

All right. I'll accompany you there, at least,"
replied Lonsdale. " Qui hi ! "

'' Kya Iwoken, Sahib y — (" wdiat are master's
orders") — asked his native valet, with a low
salaam.

"The horses — quick ! "

Fort William, with all its bomb-proof barracks,
its mighty works guarded by mines and countermines,
its shady groves and deep ditch, was soon
far in the rear, and a sharp gallop brought the
friends to the pillared and chunom-plastered villa

on the Chorister Eoad, where Lonsdale left
Montressor to his own devices ; and much that
follows is plain narrative — the sequel to the story
of the latter.

By Sir Hobart, a fussy little man, and his
brother, the general, Avhom Montressor found there,
he was received with mortifying and frigid coolness,
the general wearing what Hilda used to term "his
court-martial face." But ignoring all that, and
beseeching their attention, he related his story
as we have told it elsewhere, and laid before
them the letters and exculpatory documents of
his solicitors in Lincoln's Inn Fields, proving that
his marriage with "Irene Beaufort," as she called
herself, was a snare, and that she was the runaway
wife of that personage with the grotesque
English name, Mr. Tudor Chuckerbutty, comedian,
who had asserted his marital rights, in receipt
of a due consideration, to which his signature and
those of Montressor' s solicitors, as witnesses, were
appended.

On this the clouds were dispersed, and the
manner of the general, and of the fussy little

governor of Arracon, thawed at once ; and after
a little delay Lady Tremayne entered with her
whom Montressor had begun to think might never
cross his path in this world again.

Claire, my darling, now you know all — all ! " '
he exclaimed, as tremulous in voice and limb with
joy, he held her at arm's length, that he might
gaze upon her face, after he had caught her wildly
to his breast, and covered it with passionate kisses
kisses from which she did not shrink, though
there was still a timid sense of half-forgotten fear
in her heart.

Her quivering lips were still white and voiceless;
she had undergone so much. She strove to becalm,
and in that calmness her face had something
that was indicative of power, of great endurance —
a strength of pm-pose it had never worn before.

I am now repaid, Claire, a thousandfold, for
all I have suffered. And you, my love?" asked
Montressor.

"Had no wish till now but to die," she replied,
,as her head fell on his breast.

Oh, let us forget all the misery of the past.

Oh, Claire," he whispered, "when I learned to love
you, in all the world yon were the first and only
woman for me — the soul of my soul, if I may use
such a term."

For how many sleepless nights and weary, weary
days had Digby's voice lingered in her ears, as
she had heard it last in that cottage at Monmouth,
when they parted, pale, haggard, and heartbroken
! "In a world where the real and the unreal
travel side by side, and the visible and invisible
blend within the consciousness," says a writer,
who would dare to assert what is possible or
impossible?"

Thus, strange as it may appear, sudden and
unexpected, Montressor and Claire found themselves
face to face and re-united, in Calcutta, so
many thousand miles from where they had parted
last, in that little lonely cottage in Devonshire.

With the memory of their brief honeymoon, then
so terribly broken and clouded, and when they
might have hoped to make up to each other for
all the sadness and misery of their apparently
hopeless separation, it was hard indeed to find

that the hour was almost at hand when Digby
would have to embark for that pestilential seat of
war in Bm-mah.

Without being actually guilty in any way, he,
poor fellow, seemed to feel or be impressed by a
keen conviction that he had much to atone for
to Claire, in the way of love, devotion, and tenderness
; and it was with a natural, but intense
reluctance and useless loathing of the service,
that he now looked forward to the voyage across
the Bay of Bengal and the subsequent protracted
operations, as they were sure, he thought, to be,
in the land of swamps and stockades, all of which
would separate them again in the flush of their
happy re-union.

On the night before they were to march,
Montague Lonsdale, when all was still in Fort
William, and nothing seemed to be stirring but
the sentries and the mosquitoes, wrote of all
these things to Melanie, and his soul seemed to
go forth to her wHli every word, as he sat there
alone in the solitude of his plain, bare, and half-empty
barrack-room. He told her of all his

VOL. II. M

impressions and experiences in Calcutta, of his
hopes for the future, lovingly and earnestly, ashe
knew she would dwell on every word he penned,
though perhaps his letter might never get beyond
that evil despatch-box of Uncle Grimshaw. But
he knew not of that ; he could only suspect as
much, as he did now.

He sent some farewell gifts, too— Burmese gold
bangles and a necklet — for Melanie ; a rare Indian
charm in jade— a hideous little god which would
ensure health and happiness to the owner, as the
Brahmin from whom he bought it averred — as a
gift for Reggio ; a gold whistle by which Dick
might summon Bingo ; there was a massive gold
coin for Uncle Grimshaw ; nor was Amy Brendon,
of whose strange story he knew nothing, forgotten
by Lonsdale. He made up the whole in a packet
with a prayer and a sigh, just as the boom of the
morning gun and the peal of the morning bugles
rang through the great fort together.

Just then he thought more of his friend Mon-treason
than himself. To the former, the few
short days before his separation from his young

wife and his departure had passed Hke a hurried
and feverish dream. All was so .terribly sudden;
but Claire bore up nobly when, by the light of
the almost level sun, amid dense crowds, the gleam
of arms, the crash of drums, the dark columns of
Sej)oys, the white-helmetted British Infantry, the
quaint Punjab Mountain Batteries, the glittering
staff, the tramp of hoofs and rumble of wheels,
the march of the departing columns began.

All seemed to whirl strangely, like a phantasmagoria,
before her eyes.

The grave, loving, and earnest face of Montressor
appeared at one moment to be close to her own,
the next to recede from her ; and then his tender
voice seemed to sound faint and far away, as her
senses were apparently reeling, and she feared an
illness was falling upon her.

'' Dear Lady Tremayne, you will guard my
darling for me, and keep her till my return,"
were his parting words.

Till his return. Poor Montressor !
A letter from Melanie, which Lonsdale had

fondly and desperately hoped might reach him

M 2

ere now, never came ; and he embarked for
Burmahh, little knowing that all she had dropped
into Uncle Grimshaw's despatch-box went straight
therefrom into the fire, unopened.

WHY WE WENT TO Burma.

Dire perplexity at the non-arrival of letters from
Melanie Talbot was the prevailing sentiment of
Lonsdale. Doubt of her, or dread of the elderly
baronet's influence, never occurred to him, and
he knew not, to the full extent, the cruel pressure
which her guardian, Mr. Grimshaw, could put
upon her with reference to that invalid brother,
on whom she doted. Neither had Lonsdale any
dread of illness, as in that case he knew that
Eeginald Talbot, even young Dick, or Amy
Brendon, would have written to him ; and the
suspicion that his correspondence was tampered
with, or intercepted, had not till of late occm-red
to his honourable mind.

Meanwhile, his friend Montressor was, as yet,
a man of but one thought — repentance for the

act of folly and simplicity of his earlier years —
which unwitting, but terrible error had wrought
so much sorrow and mischief to one he loved
better than himself.

They were together on board the headquarter
ship, in which were also Charlie Danvers and
Cecil Travers, on the staff; but aware of what
had transpired, these young fellows had relinquished
their tone of banter, and sooth to tell, they rather,
when they could, just then avoided the grave and
taciturn Montressor.

The latter and Lonsdale, like other company
officers, during the first few hours they were
on board, had not much time given them for
'morning" or reflection, as they were kept busy
enough by the Queen's regulations.

In fulfilling the latter, they had to see their
men '' told-off " to their berths, divided into
messes and watches, instructed in the proper
method of slinging their hammocks and rolling
up their bedding, that their knapsacks or valises,
arms, ammunition, and accoutrements were all
stowed in their proper places, necessaries served

out, hammocks and bedding numbered, the guard
or special-duty men, the cooking arrangements seen
to, notices issued, and a hundred other details
attended to, even to ventilation and washing places,
details of which the gentlemen in England, "who
livest home in ease," have not the slightest idea.

,A11 this was imperative, and served to kill time,
as the great trooper, leading the whole expedition,
steamed on and on into the Bay of Bengal. •
There the north-east monsoon, or periodical wind,
commences about the middle of October, and from
that time till the beginning of December the
navigation of the mighty gulf is dangerous.

More than once, dien Lonsdale looked at the
flying scud aloft, that boded coming rain, and
the green rolling sea below, ' there came to his
mind some of the yarns of the poor, stricken
lad, Melanie's brother, and with them a recollection
of his pale and worn, yet handsome features,
that so closely resembled her own.

On the second night after the sand heads of
the Hooghly had been left astern, Lonsdale was
'' military officer of the watch," and had to visit

hourly the sentries — who were armed with bayonets
only — and to see that no smoking or lights were
apparent, when there was a cry from the look-out
ahead that " something was in sight " on the
port-bow. The ship was steaming with the wind
aft, but slowly, thus she rolled heavily.

He ordered the " Watch-call " to be sounded
to call all to their stations for orders, with the
halt " for silence ; and the mysterious " something
" came slowly in sight, abeam. At sea,
every object that breaks the monotony of the
vast expanse of sea or sky attracts deep attention.

The sky was murky and stormy in aspect ; nota
star was visible. A long bank of black clouds
obscured the moon, but a narrow strip of her
silver light poured from behind it on the tumbling
ocean, and against the light the waves rose and
fell in sombre, opaque, and conical outlines,
while upon these was visible that which was at
first like a sea-monster, some ninety feet long,
but from which rose what was too evidently the
stump of a mast, about eight feet high, with
its gear a-wash.

"A wreck — derelict!" passed from lip to lip,
as the sombre outline of a half-submerged hull,
lifting slowly with the swell, wet and shining in
the weird half light of the veiled moon, became
distinctly visible — a source of danger to the craft
that came upon it unseen.

All regarded it with mournful interest, and
marvelled what was its story, from wherever it
had come, whither bound, and what was the fate
of its crew — the once lithe and active fellows who
had manned the riven deck, hung out aloft on
the square yards, while the bright sunshine or
the pale moon had filled the swelling hollows
of the sails — whose voices had responded to each
other cheerily, in the horde that one day " the
girls at home " would have hold of the tow-rope.

In her death throes the storm-riven ship surged
slowly, solemnly, eerily past, groaning in the heave
of the back-wash, while the hollow and ghastly
sob of the water could be heard as it rose and
fell in her hold. She had evidently drifted about
for many months, for to the black fragments of
rigging that hung down from her dead-eyes and

chain-plates, seaweed and barnacles were already
clinging and glittering wdtli a thousand phosphorescent
sparkles in the water alongside.

And so the unknown derelict, an object of
mystery, like a nameless and unknown corpse,
with all the human joys and interests, hopes and
passions of which she had been the centre, passed
on, or rather was passed by the towering white
trooper, fading out of sight, a sense of busy
and sombre speculation to all for a time.

To Lonsdale's memory came back the words
of one who wrote of a similar episode: — 'where
is the crew? their struggle has long been over —
they have gone down amid the roar of the tempest
their bones lie whitening in the caverns of the
deep. Silence and oblivion, like the waves, have
closed over them, and no one can tell the story
of their end. What sighs have been wafted after
that ship,, what prayers offered up at deserted
firesides of home. All that shall ever be known
is that she sailed from her port and was never
heard of more."

The bugle now pealed out on the night the

'retire," warning everyone off the upper deck but
the watch ; and the episode was over.

It was not anticipated that this third Burmese
war of ours, which was expected to be a species
of military promenade, would end in a series of
bloody and disastrous Dacoitie conflicts and skirmishes,
and would eventually cost us the life of
the gallant MacPherson, one of om most splendid
officers.

With the actual cause of the war our narrative
has little more to do than our soldiers had, as
they had but to obey their orders.

Suffice it to say that since the accession of
King Theebaw in October, 1878, he had continued
a series of insults and dangerous intrigues against
us, that could not fail to justify the Government
in annexing a country that had become a source of
peril and annoyance to our Indian Empire,
and whose outrages began with the ill-usage of
our people in Mandalay, some of whom were
tortured — drawn neck and heels together and
hung head downwards — for purposes of extortion.
His swordsmen boarded our steamers, carried off

the passengers of both sexes and all ages. Then
came the general slaughter of the entire royal
family, without provocation, on many successive
nights, in prison ; and the bodies were heaped up
in holes. Touching tales were told of women and
children pleading for life in vain, till their cries
ceased under the bludgeons or strangling fingers
of their drunken executioners. On Sunday, the
l()th of February, 1879 — according to the Hie
Book — " eight cart loads of bodies of Princes of
the Blood were conveyed out of the city by the
funeral gate and thrown into the river." One of
the Queen's maids of honour, a handsome girl, was
put to death on a false accusation, by means of
unparalleled atrocity, yet she received only seven
blows, and died though she was young and strong.
Ambassadors were put to the sword ; and bands
of men, whom Theebaw's oppression ruined, raided
all the villages on our frontiers.

In October, 1884, there occurred the slaughter
of Mandalay, in which 300 persons, many of them
British subjects, perished ; and the event is thus
described by an eye-witness : — .

The sequel to the massacre was as horrible as
that ghastly incident itself. Some of the heads
of the victims were stuck upon bamboos in the
cemetery, where the scene, when I visited it, was
appalling. The king gave orders that the dead
men were not to be buried for three days, so that
people might see what a terrible thing it was to
incur his displeasure ; and there were mutilated
bodies lying in ghastly and festering heaps, riddled
with shot and hacked to pieces past all recognition,
while a number of fiends in human shape were
actually chopping off arms and legs to save the
manacles and shackles. Not only that ; but the
dead and the dying had been carted off together,
and in some cases the quivering of a limb told that
the death agony was not yet over. When I visited
the cemetery the work of interment had begun,
and the dead men were being huddled, four or
five together, into shallow graves, with only a foot
of earth to cover them. The pigs and pariah dogs
had already been feasting on the slain, and their
banquet will be continued after the sextons have
withdrawn. In striking contrast to this horrible

picture, I saw little children playing about, all
unconscious of their terrible surroundings. Meanwhile,
the ruffian king and his court have been
holding high festival. He rewarded all those who
took part in the slaughter, the butcher who could
boast of the most victims receiving the richest
reward." (The Burmese Blue Book.)

Other butcheries followed, and meanwhile the
king hurried on his alliance with France, which
proposed to occupy Ara, and join hands with this
wretch who was half madman and whole demon.

In short, save Theebaw, no such awful moloch had
called himself king since the days of Heiiry VIII.

Our troops, officers and men alike, were full of
hearty good-will to punish — in the common cause
of humanity — this dreadful Theebaw; and this was
why we went to Burmahh, so for the time gossip,
pig sticking, and tiger-hunting stories gave place
to new interests in the land of the white elephant.

ON THE IRAWADDY.

The expedition for this purpose consisted of fully
11,000 men — ultimately, by July, increased to 24,184
men — led by Major-general Dalrymple Prendergast,
a veteran officer, who served in the Persian
campaign with Outram, in the wars of Central
India with Lord Strathnairn, was severely wounded
in the battles of Mundesore and Beta, won the
coveted Y.C., had his horse shot under him at
Eatghur, and was Field Engineer at the Conquest
of Abyssinia.

Among the troops proceeding to Burmahh in this
expedition were the Liverpool Eegiment (old 8th
foot) and the Eoyal Welsh Fusiliers, commanded
respectively by Colonels Andrew Le Messurier, a
Crimean veteran, and John Tilly, who had served

with the 23rd Fusiliers in the Indian Mutiny, and
been one of the captors of Lucknow. These
battalions were the backbone of the Bengal contingent,
while from Madras and elsewhere came the
2nd Battalions of the Eoyal Fusiliers, Bedfordshire,
Welsh Borderers, Middlesex and Hands, all Queen's
regiments.

Except the Blue Jackets of the Indian squadron,
all the rest were native troops, and all had orders
to concentrate at' Rangoon, where armed steamers
and flat-bottomed barges were to be ready for
transport service on the Irawaddy, and 40-pounder
guns — to batter the river forts — were to be placed
in cargo-boats.

Meanwhile, we heard that the Burmese were busy
constructing earthworks, and had a gunboat laying
down torpedoes at Minhla, and placing fire-rafts,
hulks, and chains across the river to bar our
passage.

The time given for the Burmese answer to the
British ultimatum was to expire on the 5th
November (Guy Fawkes' Day), and hostilities were
to commence on the 11th.

After the concentration at Rangoon, the expedition
was at once to ascend the Irawaddy and strike a
vigorous blow at the forces of the inhuman Theebaw
in the vicinity of Minhhi, which was expected to bethe
scene of the first conflict.

Theebaw' s reply was a long, unsatisfactory, and
hostile document, and he called upon all the loyal
Burmese to fight for the white elephant, their
country, and religion, offering to lead them in
person, and thus ensure victory ; while the
slaughter of the invaders was not to begin until
they crossed his frontiers.

In British Burmahh were already the 2nd
Battalion of Lonsdale's regiment, the ,13th, or
Somersetshire Light Infantry, and the Royal Scots
Fusiliers. • .

*'I made this voyage once before, with our 2nd
Battalion," said Montressor, as he and Lonsdale
trod the poop together, cigar in mouth ; '' and know
we shall see the uninviting shores of Burmahh
tomorrow. The. run from Calcutta to Eangoon is
about seven hundred and eighty miles, and the
first point we sight is the Agnada Lighthouse.

VOL. II. N

"What strange things have happened to me since I
saw it last ! " he added*

That evening the muddy state of the water
through which the tall white trooper cleft a way,
portended her approach to the shores of Burmahh.
This dark fluid proceeds from the chief mouth of
the Irawaddy, which has fourteen in all— not one
too many for a river a thousand miles in length —
the Nile of the land of the white elephant.

At that season it flows so rapidly that its current
would be too powerful for boats to stem, were it not
for the aid of the south-west monsoon, which sets
in the opposite direction. Assisted by the wind,
and constantly keeping within the eddies of the
banks, the Burmese craft use their sails, and
frequently achieve a more speedy passage at this
period — i.e., from June to September — than at any
other. But it was naturally supposed that the Ira-caddy
Flotilla Company, with its great fleet of fifty
double-decked river steamers, each towing a couple
or more rafts, would render us independent of all
local contingencies.

The rays of the rising sun next morning tipped

with a golden gleam the first point of land visible
on the port-bow, the Agiiada Lighthouse, perched
on a granite reef and marking the locality of a
dangerous cluster of rocks.

It rises near the mouth of the Irawaddy to the
height of one hundred and sixty feet, and has eight
alternative broad and deeply-painted streaks or
circular bands of black and white ; at the summit
it is all of the latter hue, and for a time the effects
of the sunshine on the water were beautiful.
Seaward, the way our ships had come, the waves
were blue, but tipped with fire as they rose and
fell : around the Aguada Beef they boiled like molten
silver, and far away towards Elephants Point — so
named from two famous trees which grew there,
and in form together resembled an elephant — they
rolled upon the yellow shore like liquid gold,
mingled with snow-white foam ; and there it is
usual to throw overboard a bottle, with particulars
of the voyage ; but in a Queen's ship no one
thought of doing that.

From the brilliantly-green and wonderfully-luxuriant
jungle there starts up, near the Point,,

N 2

the bright scarlet cone of a ruined pagoda.
' Guodoma certainly showed some wisdom in
selecting such a position for a shrine," says a
writer ; *' as if he had once showered down
commercial prosperity on the empire, and placed a
sentinel over it at the mouth of one of his rivers ;
which prosperity, on account of the misconduct of
his devotees, was, like the temple, hastening to
decay."

Taking advantage of the interest caused by the
land view, in a quiet corner a ship's steward, with
one or two more, was busy " bulling " a cask— which
had once held spirits — with a gallon or so of freshwater.


For what is this ? " asked Lonsdale, en passant.

To splice the mainstay, your honour," he
replied, saluting with one hand and wiping
his mouth with the back of the other, as the
produce of the cask — pretty fair grog now —
was quickly disposed of, ere the eyes of authority
detected it.

In due time the entrance to the Rangoon River
was reached — an estuary having low banks, but a

picturesque aspect, with mangroves over-arching
and drooping into the water, palmyra, and many
groves of other noble trees extending far inland.
The Eangoon flows into the Irawaddy, of which it
is the eastern branch.

As the prospect of active service, of war,
adventure, and achievement drew nearer now
every hour, the eyes of our soldiers lighted up,
and their faces, tanned or allowed by the Indian
sun, flushed ; while, thick as bees, they crowded
along the ship's sides, gazing on the strange and — '
to them — new land, as it rose from the shining
morning sea — the land where too many of them,
poor follows! were doomed to perish, amid
pestilence or under the weapons of treacherous
and savage Dacoits.

The trooper was now heading up the Eangoon
Eiver, and the land was rising a little to starboard.

Is it true," lisped Charlie Danvers, with the
inevitable glass screwed into his right eye, "that
the general has ordered the artillery to open on the
stockades and other works with red-hot shells ?
Tr avers says so''

*' That is very like Tr avers," replied an artillery
officer, quite gravely; "but the bursting powder
must be in, of course, before our shells are
heated."

Aw — aw — of course," said Danvers.

It was now well-known on board the squadron
that the blood steeped Theebaw intended to show
us that he was no degenerate successor of that
Alomfrea, who defeated the Peguan conqueror of
his country and founded its dynasty; or of that
other king of Burmahh, who when a missionary
asked his permission to make converts from
Buddhism, replied : " Convert as many as you can;
but off go their heads the moment after." So the
said missionary found little trouble in wanting the
caput of the converted.

Theebaw proclaimed that he was to unfurl the
Peacock Flag at the head of his troops, and
notwithstanding his awful massacres and mad
despotism, he seemed to be certainly popular with
one small section of his people, and vowed he would
treat them to the slaughter of certain British
subjects whom he had in his hands — detained

officers of the Irawaddy Flotilla — whose heads he
would hang upon trees, like so many cocoa-nuts.

He would arm about 30,000 men with rifles of
various kinds, some being venerable flint-locks,
warranted, perhaps, not to go off at all, or like some
of those with which our English Government arm
the British troops, as perilous to those who handle
them as to the enemy.

By this time he had cut the telegraph wires
between Eangoon and Mandalay, at Minhla. All
the troops for the expedition were to concentrate at
the first-named place and to advance boldly up the
Irawaddy, striking the initiative blow at Minhla.

CANTONED AT RANGOON.

The second battalion of Lonsdale's regiment —
Prince Albert's Somersetshire Light Infantry —
had, as stated, been stationed for some time
previous at Eangoon, then in a part of British
Burmahh ; thus he and Montressor soon found
themselves warmly welcomed by a circle of old
friends and comrades.

Lonsdale, proud of his corps — as what true
soldier is not — had often looked with ardour at its
colours as they floated out on the wind, covered
with honours won in other wars, and not, as
Ossian has it, against " the sons of feeble men,"
like the wretched Burmese of Theebaw ; and when
the embroidered silk, with the Sphinx and Mural
Crown, was of the old days ; when, on going into
action, the first orders were : ■

Gentlemen ! Unease the colours. Examine
sour flints and priming ! "

''Do not the old colours of a regiment," asks a
writer, "riddled with shot, tattered and stained
out of all their early beauty, bring to us a sigh of
loving tribute to the glories so present to the spirit
so little discernible now ? "

And colours they were, still of the old days, of
long service and veteran soldiers — not of the
weedy boys that die like flies when hardships
come — days of the " Old Eed Eag," that tells of
Britain's glory, and when the vile khoki, that
suggests only the garb of a comic, was unknown.

And now for a bit of unknown history.

This Somersetshire regiment, about which we
may have something to write, was raised by
Theophilus, seventh Earl of Huntingdon, in the
troublesome year 1685, for King James — the same
peer whose house, as a noted loyalist, was
searched by the Williamites in 1692, for papers
which he had burned ; but in whose stables were
found horses enough to mount a squadron of
cavalry, and who had been succeeded in the

memorable year of the Revolution by his son
Ferdinand Hastings. Then came the Earl of
Babylon, as Colonel in the truce of the Union ;
Stanhope Cotton in the year of Sheriffmuir ;
Harry Pulteney in the days of Dettingen and
Culloden ; and to these old memories it added
more recent glories won in every quarter of the
globe ; and it was perhaps the last corps in Her
Majesty's service to use the old flint-lock musket,
with which its soldiers, under the gallant Sir
Robert Sale, the veteran of Mallovelly, fought
their way through the Khyber Passes down to
Iclallabad in 1841 — Sale, the same splendid
soldier who, in the first Burmese war, had aided
the storming of the great bell shaped Dagon
Pagoda at Rangoon.

To Montague Lonsdale, the latter round edifice
was an object of wonderful interest, when he saw
it towering skyward to the height of three hundred
and fifty feet, and glittering in the sun — the largest
relic-shrine," as its name imparts, in all Indo-china,
and from its site, on the last spur of the
Pegu Roma range, visible for a vast distance

around, whither the clang of its mighty bell,
fourteen feet in height, can be sent.

From its summit he could see, as in a mass at
his feet, groves of banyan and cocoa-nut trees,
large open buildings, containing monstrous images
of Guadiana, some in sitting, some in sleeping
positions, surrounded by others of priests and
attendants in the act of worship ; others of
elephants, lions, angels, and demons, and of
objects altogether indescribable ; elsewhere,
swamps, rice flats, low bushes ; and away to
the north, dense jungle, with the river flowing
between, eight hundred yards in breadth and deep
enough for laden ships of twelve hundred tons.

Such was the new and strange locality in which
Lonsdale now found himself, with his comrades of
the old Somersetshire, and elaborate descriptions
of which he sent in more than one long letter to
Melanie.

More than once during the brief period of
in action at Eangoon he had tormenting dreams
of her, born, doubtless, of his waking thoughts —
at least, he could but infer so ; dreams of Melanie

at their old try sting place, under the great trees
beside the shining river on which the water-lilies
floated. She was not there with himself, he
thought, but with old Sir Brisco ; and once — he
never forgot that dream — he seemed to see Tokens
Church in the background, old, grey, and
half hidden among the foliage ; while amidst a
group, the faces of which were vague, changing,
and indistinct, under the aged loch gate, the
figures of these two stood distinctly forth, Melanie
pale as a lily, with her once brilliant violet eyes
clouded and dull, Sir Brisco looking bright and
triumphant, his arm round her, and his lips on
her cheek, as he drew back her veil — a bridal one,
apparently.

Then Lonsdale seemed to see the old, gloomy,
and damp vestry of the church, where a clergyman,
whose placid face looked strangely like that of
old Dr. Brendon, was surveying a marriage
register, which bore the signatures of " Brisca
Braybrooke and Melanie Talbot "talbot for the
last time !

Lonsdale started and awoke. Then he heard

the bugles, in the dark hoi* of the early morning,
sounding the 'turn out" and "Assembly," as
the advance was now to begin up the Irawaddy.

With Montressor he was now attached for
special service to the column detailed to initiate
the war at Minhla.

Montressor was quite a changed man now ; his
recent re-union with Claire had recalled into existence
all that was best within him, and filled his
life with enthusiasm and hope for their mutual
future.

After a year of poignant misery, I have had a
few hours of perfect happiness before we sailed,"
said he more than once to Lonsdale. " I will
carve out a name for myself that will make Claire
admire me as much as I know she loves me."

My poor Montressor," said Lonsdale, laughing
at the visions in which his friend indulged, " these
Burmese fellows in gilt paper helmets have certainly
not the mettle of the Mahdi's warriors ; but
their bullets may be quite as perilous as if fired
by actual heroes."

Is it not strange, Travers," lisped Danvers,

as these two made their way to the parade through
the streets of bungalows ; " strange to think that
there should have been such a list of wounded —
badly hit fellows— at Chowringher, and that the
seductive little widow should be his wife after
all ? "

A devil of a fiasco," commented Travers, as
they passed Montressor, who was all unconscious
that he was the cause of either envy or speculation.


We shall have seen some sharp work, I hope,
before tomorrow night," said he to Lonsdale, as
they threw aside their cigars and joined the parade
in the dark ; " ' tomorrow and tomorrow creep in
our petty space from day to day — ' "

True. And who can tell what it may bring
forth for some of us ? " interrupted Lonsdale,
whose recent dream haunted him uncomfortably.

THE Storming OF MINHLA.

The waning moon of the cool early morning was
tipping with its pale silvery light the wonderful
arabesque carvings of the great Shoe Dagon Pagoda
that towered above the soft shimmering mist
exhaled from marsh and stream, and from the
damp clumps of heaves mangroves that drooped
into both, when Lonsdale and Montressor left
their quarters in the cantonments at Rangoon to
join the river expedition against Minhla.

The thoughts of the former were still full of his
strange and unpleasant dream of Melanie Talbot,
and of that time in London when, amid the crush
of a prosaic West-end ballroom, there had come
into the hearts of both the one great dawn of
passion that can never return again, when each
was drawn to the other by an irresistible power,

though the word " love " had been unuttered; and
dien Melanie felt herself face to face with her own
heart, and knew, like Lonsdale, that she had met
her fate ; and then came the memory of their
parting hour.

In the morning wind the golden leaves attached
to the cornices of the* vast pagoda were moving,
and there, too, where tossing and ringing the
sweetly-toned bells that hang among the rich
golden work of those wonderful leaves, strange
features of a face, built in an age unknown, and
which, when viewed by moonlight, seems the
abode of magic and mystery, surrounded by
winged monsters with solemn countenances, tranquil
mien, and panting lips.

Thoughts of a more practical nature came to
Lonsdale when the dawai broke quickly on the
river and its wooded banks, and he reflected that
happen what might, as the flotilla steamed up the
muddy L'awaddy, the people at home, so many
thousand miles away, would know all about it —
who were the wounded and who were the slain —
ere, perhaps, twelve hours were over.

It was the morning of the 17th November when
the vessels with the Liverpool Eegiment — as the
old 8th, or King's, is now grotesquely named — the
21st and 25th Madras Native Infantry, both in
scarlet, the former faced with buff, the latter with
dark green, some sappers, and a Royal Artillery
mule battery, were landed at the village of
Patna, five miles below a fort, which was to be
carried by assault ; but the trouble of doing so
was obviated by the garrison " levanting " as soon
as our troops came in sight, after undergoing some
brilliant shelling, however.

A point was thus turned and won with ease, and
other troops came on — to wit, the 2nd and 11th
Bengal Infantry, under Colonels Baker and Norris,
and the 12th Madras ; and then the march began
inland, in the direction of Minhla, near which was
the most formidable defence and barrier of the
river, the Kuligon Fort, a mile below the town.

Being ordered to ride forward and reconnoitre,
Lonsdale, after some scouts had been fired on and
driven in, saw that it stood on an isolated hill,
about three hundred feet high, on a bend of the

VOL. II. o

river, and that its guns commanded a long and
straight reach of the latter.

The slope, which was defended by three lines of
earthworks faced with brick, was gentle, but there
were other defences, formed of huge teak logs
backed up by earth and brick ramparts, so solid as
to defy our artillery, and, as he reported to the
general, any attempt to carry them by assault
would occasion much loss of life.

More than two thousand men were supposed to
be crowded into these works at Kuligon, and by
his field glass, Lonsdale could see them in their
ranks — if ranks they could be called, as the
Burmese are alike without drill or discipline —
chewing betel, smoking and gesticulating wildly,
with their red pennons and gilt umbrellas ; all with
papier-mace helmets wobbling about on their
top-knots in a comically embarrassing manner ;
and all clad in gorgeous garments, bright red
tunics, blue trousers, and variegated facings, while
the booming of gongs, the clash of cymbals, and
the blare of doleful trumpets, all meant to inspire
courage, made up a hideous volume of sound.

On the Madras and Bengal columns forming a
junction, a village was approached, about a mile
and a-half from Minhla — which had a population
of about five thousand — and there the advanced
files of the 12th Madras Native Infantry opened
a fire upon some scattered horsemen.

Proceeding a little further through a jungly and
densely-wooded district, these files were suddenly
greeted by a heavy volley, the smoke of which,
with the hissing bullets, poured through the foliage
in front and filled the place with obscurity.

At this crisis, owing to the density of the jungle,
the ragged palengra leaves and cactus hedges, our
advancing force was in a long column, as if proceeding
through a narrow lane, the flanking parties
being quite invisible.

This fire was found to come chiefly from a village
on our left flank.

It must be carried at once ! " was the order of
the general.

On this duty Lonsdale dashed forward with

a party of the 12th — or old 8th Madras — Eegiment,.

and promptly drove out the enemy at the bayonets

2

point, but not before Major MacNeill, staff of&cer
with the force, was wounded, yet he gallantly kept
the field till hit again at the storming of a
pagoda.

In a hand-to-hand fight, the Burmese, who love
athletic sports, are both active and strong ; but
now their olive-complexioned faces were distorted
by rage and fear. "When their helmets fell off
their coarse black hair it was seen twisted into
top-knots, and their foreheads were mean and
narrow, when contrasted with their great cheekbones.


After the village was carried, and the Burmese,
all save the killed and wounded, had fled with the
cooking pots, choppers, and mats — which form the
field kit — another sharp, but ragged, volley smote
the head of the column from enemies hidden in the
jungle in front; but the Maccabees closed gallantly
up, briskly returning the fire ; and then the troops
found themselves face to face with one of those
fortifications formed by Motto, and other, Italian
engineers who served King Theebaw — a large and
strangely-palisade enclosure, containing many

pagodas, and flanked on two sides by a great tank
and an earthwork, twelve feet in height.

It was attacked on two points by the 11th
Bengal Infantry, under Drury and Stuart. The
latter went gallantly storming over the stockades,
but the first-named officer, Lieutenant Ashton
Drury, a fine young subaltern of the South Wales
Borderers (attached to the Bengal corps), fell
dead — the first officer killed in the new campaign
while Lieutenant Sellers, of the Inniskilleys,
similarly attached, was wounded, along with several
Sepoy.

Lonsdale, whom the Bengalees followed closely,
for, discipline apart, he had the air of a man born
to command, had a narrow escape in this wretched
jungle warfare, as a wounded Bm-mese, in his
death agony, half raising himself from the blood -
slippery grass, with his sharp dao, or chopper,
made a savage stab at him. A Bengal parried
the thrust with his rifle, and then blew out the
creature's brains.

Charlie Danvers also had an escape. Blinded
bv the smoke of some blazing bamboo houses, he

lost his way, and fell among some Burmese
skirmishers, but was too much of an Englishman
not to be equal to the occasion. He cut down two,
emptied his revolver among the rest, but stumbled
and fell, when a heap of others were piled over
him, killed and wounded, whose blood plastered
him from head to foot, to his great disgust.
Between gore and grime he presented a very
terrible appearance, and emerged from under them
with a very wry face, for Charlie was a natty and
vain young fellow — vain of the whiteness of his
hands, his straw-coloured moustache, and somewhat
vapid countenance.

The attack had lasted three-quarters of an hour,
during which the shot from rifled brass guns of the
Burmese rang incessantly through the dense leafy
jungle, shredding away the foliage into flakes, till
our storm hers swept over the place, and the village,
with all its painted pagodas, was given to the
flames; and amid a sheet of these the bamboo
houses burned fiercely, the roar of the conflagration
almost drowning the fiendish yells of the
Burmese.

Forward ! " was now the order, and the troops,
full of fervour, pressing over some open ground
beyond, advanced against the Fort of Minhla, into
which the Kathleen from the river was throwing
her shells with beautiful precision.

The works were girt by thick jungle, and full of
armed Burmese, over whose fantastic helmets,
eleven guns and two wall pieces, from the higher
ramparts, were pouring grape, despite which a
small party, led by Lieutenants Downes, of the
11th, Wilkinson, of the 12th, and other officers,
including Montressor, armed with his sword and
a brace of revolvers, as he was always terribly in
earnest about anything he undertook to do, reached
the foot of the slope, which was covered by one
very formidable piece of cannon. '' Waiting until
the gun at the head of the rampart had discharged
its periodical round of grape," wrote one who was
present, "these officers led their men to a most
gallant and successful assault. They met with
a sharp resistance at the top of the incline, and
poor Wilkinson had his skull cut through with a
dao, or heavy knife — a very dangerous wound. His

conduct, and that of Downes, who was conspicuously
to the front, deserves recognition. The
Burmese were quickly cut up in a terrible degree —
as they were massed together both on the rampart
and in the courtyard below — by the fire of our
breech-loaders, and as they rushed out to the riverbank
on the east they were met by a party under
Stuart, and suffered severely; in fact, very few
escaped alive. I suppose a hundred were killed
outright here, a number wounded, and one hundred
and fifty, or two hundred, made prisoners."

The Burmese commander here was a ruffian who
had been odiously zealous in the awful palace
massacres; and his troops were the King's marines,
whose helmets were surmounted by gilt anchors,
in lieu of the ordinary red-mouthed dragon of the
Line.

The Italians in Theebaw's service now exploded
a mine from the other side of the river, by which
the armed launch Kathleen had a narrow escape ;
but after a three-hours' conflict, Minhla was
ours.

The whole town, including the Governor's

palaces, perished in a conflagration cause;! by
the shells from the launch.

When the firing ceased, and the dead and
wounded were being reckoned and lists made up
for the general, Montressor and Lonsdale, on
meeting each other, shook hands in congratulation
that they had both escaped untouched ; but a
sadder sequel was in store for both ere long, when
under fire again.

HOME.

And now for a brief glance at what was then
passing at Rose Cottage and Ravensbourne Hall.

The days were drawing in, and the sombre
gloaming came early. Many of the former were
dull and sullen, with sleety showers ; and the wind
howled at night through the lofty and leafless trees
that overhung the cottage.

The swine were rooting in the desolate cornfields,
among the black, or brown, decaying stubble, and
the noisy ducks came, dirty and draggled, from
the muddy pools, that were half-choked with fallen
leaves.

It was towards the end of a genuine English
November, when the rain rained every day, and
frowsy fogs, like those of Holland, envelope all the
low-lying and ill-drained land.



The Thames was shorn of its sylvan beauty,
and the trysting place, on which the memory of
Lonsdale, then so far away amid the rice swamps
of the Rangoon River, dwelt so fondly, was no
longer a place of rich grass, sweet flowers, and
sunshine, hut one instinct with the deathly odour
of rotting sedge and slimy waterfall ; so Melanie
Talbot went near it no more ; it seemed so gloomy
and deserted, so indicative of present anxiety and
future hopelessness ; and if here and there a flower
lingered in the once pretty garden of the Cottage,
it seemed to stand, as someone says, above its dead
companions like a mourner over a grave, waiting
for Mother Earth to receive it also.

Her brother Reginald was still at the hall, where
all the medical skill brought— not without ulterior
views and hopes — by Sir Brisco, to bear upon his
ease, had failed to achieve any amendment thereof,
and where, now, his visit was drawing to a close.
He longed to be with Melanie, who never went
over to the hall, and he felt that in conscience
he could stay there no longer, even at the risk
of the old presume being put upon Melanie by

Mrs. Chillington and Uncle Grimsliaw; and where,
latterly, he had, of a necessity, been much left to
himself by Sir Brisco, after the pheasant shooting
began and the hunting season set in— as the
baronet was not so old or so obese as to relinquish
a little sporting, though strenuously advised to do
so by his medical man. Thus Eeggie had been
much left to his own thoughts, his unavailing
repining about Amy Brendon, to his books, and
the kindly care of old Mrs. Mopps, the housekeeper.


Dick's introduction of a wasp's nest into the
immediate vicinity of his amiable uncle's couch
had neither been forgotten nor forgiven by that
gentleman, who was quietly waiting for a time
to pay the boy off in revenge, and get rid of him ;
and ere long the occasion came.

Mr. Grimshaw's postal institution, the despatch-box,
had never yet produced one letter from Lons-
dale, in answer to the many that Melanie had
deposited therein, addressed to every available
point of his outward voyage ; and now, though
she had ceased to write, in sheer despair of she

knew not what, she never failed to scan the papers
for military news from India, and, latterly, from
Burmahh, and had seen full notices of the departure
of the Bengal column to join the army of General
Prendergast.

Then came tidings of the capture of Minhla, the
first brief despatch received at the India Office
from His Excellency the Viceroy, to the effect that
the barrier part of the river had been captured,
after three hours' conflict, with thirteen guns ;
that " the town had been accidentally burned
down, that a steam launch had been capsized,
and that the casualties would follow."

The casualties !

What a bitter pang those two words gave her
heart ! But how hopefully and proudly it beat
when, a day or two after, came fuller details,
that included a notice of how gallantly Captain
Montague Lonsdale, Y.C. (on special service with
the 12th Native Infantry), had reconnoitered the
enemy's works within rifle-shot, and at the head
of a detachment had stormed, at the point of the
bayonet, a fortified village on the right flank of

the position. Tidings with which, in a tumult of
thought, she rushed to the vicarage, to share with
her friend and gossip, little Amy Brendon.

Amy had become her own joyous, active, and
bright self again, with her thick rippling hair and
dark laughing eyes. With renewed lightness of
spirits, her naturally splendid health had come back
to her, and among her father's old parishioners she
had, as formerly, plenty of occupation whereby to
kill the time till Horace Musgrave should return
to Stokencross, as his letters — though his illness
was protracted — now assured her he was hourly
longing to do.

His kinsman's wife — the same kinsman whose
initials had created such confusion and consternation
— the fair and flirty Hilda, who had reduced
the art of coquetry to a science, as her spouse was
fast discovering now, had also assured her that
Horace was recovering certainly, but slowly, " he
had got such a deuce of a shaking and pounding
in that awful spill at the hurdle race " ; thus more
than the brief ten days he had allotted to himself
would have to elapse ere he was fairly on his legs

again, and fit for duty or travelling ; so, meanwhile,
the marriage was still delayed — a fact
ominous of disaster, as all old ladies alleged —
and Eeginald Talbot, sooth to say, cared not how
long the delay was ; yet thought, meanwhile, that
his emotions on the subject were somewhat akin
to those of the dog in the manger.

Then Amy, in the excess of her revulsion of
spirits, after discovering that her lover was true,
was tempted to be more than usually kind and
effusive in her bearing to the unfortunate young
sailor, when she met him abroad in his wheel
chair, among the shady lanes near the hall, and
this new manner of hers, all unconscious as she
was of it, seemed but to tantalise and torture —
though it did not deceive — him.

"Ah," said her mother, as one day, with fond
and caressing eyes, she watched Amy, while the
latter stood before a mirror over the mantel-board,
tilting her piquant hat backward and forward to
suit the light and shadow, or arrangement of her
rich, soft, curly fringe, '' I think the greatest
vocation a girl can have is to be a clergyman's

wife, and when I trained you, my little one, up
for it — or thought I did — "

'eyes, thought you did, mamma; but a Hussar
came, and there was an end of the vocation,"
interrupted the old vicar, laughingly.

The small, but happy, circle at the secluded
vicarage shared to the full the satisfaction and
pleasure with which Melanie had at last, even
through the prosaic medium of the public prints,
heard of her fiance, and the laudation his courage
had won.

Of the non-arrival of letters in answer to those
sent, mail after mail, by Melanie, Aunt Chillington,
when occasion offered, and Uncle Grimshaw in
particular, never ceased t6 make the most in
urging upon her the folly of deeming that her
engagement still existed, and to expatiate, as usual,
on the advantages offered by the proposal of Sir
Brisco ; and once, when compelled to listen to all
that her uncle could say, a gust of grief, dismay,
almost shame, but certainly mortification, shook
the unhappy girl.

*' Lonsdale," said Uncle Grimshaw, sneeringly,

knows, no doubt, ' The girl I left behind me,'
and has ridden — or rather sailed away — in this
instance, as in many others, and thought no more
about her. It is a way they have in the army,
I believe ; there sentimentality is wisely deemed
an absurdity."

After a pause, during which he eyed her grimly,
her uncle said :

I can never cease to condemn enough the
selfishness of this fellow, who lured you into a
promise to wait for him — him, and what more '/
What have you gained ? "

The love of a good and a brave man," replied
Melanie.

' And that is all you think of ! Will this love
pay rent and taxes and tradesmen's bills ? So,
how about money — the sinews of man, as your
precious Lonsdale will no doubt call it ? "

Her shoulders heaved ; her face was turned from
him and buried in the back of an easy-chair, and
one arm, white as snow and beautifully revealed
by a loose sleeve, an arm of rarest and tempting
form, rested in relief upon a dark velvet cushion ;

VOL. II. p

but he eyed her pitilessly — her beauty had no
effect on him — with a triumphant twinkle in his
sharp pale eyes, while rasping up his side-tufts,
which looked like Satanic horns, especially when
added to the expressions of his Saturnine visage.

But artfully ceasing to taunt now, he sought to
soothe, apparently.

Thus it is that I am anxious — more than ever
anxious, Melanie," he continued, " to see you
comfortably, happily, and even splendidly married
for the sake of your two brothers, as well as yourself.
My means are limited, my life uncertain ;
the offers of Sir Brisco we cannot hope to have
constantly repeated, and, in pique, he may marry
some one else."

I wish, oh I wdsli he would."

'' 1 don't ! He is devoted to you as yet."

*' He is awfully old, uncle, for me or any other girl. ' '

Not so very old, though his title is old enough

dates from King James," replied Uncle Grim-shaw,

a little irrelevantly, but hoping that she

was actually beginning to consider the matter.

"He is entirely devoted to you, I repeat, and

his settlements, as your aunt constantly says,
will be splendid ! "

Melanie shivered— winced, in fact — with disgust
at this selfish, but oft-repeated argument of her
two senior relations.

As the mistress of Eavensbourne Hall,"
resumed Mr. Grimshaw, eyeing her now through
his pince-nez, " you would hold the highest position
in the county, and more. Can you wonder then,
Melanie, that we are grieved you should reject
it ; and are justly exasperated with the cause —
a lover who has too evidently cast you off, forgotten
you, and ignores your many letters with contempt,
it may be with mockery and laughter, among his
licentious friends and ribald brother officers ? My
God, gu-1, have you no proper pride left, that touching
to such an evil shadow, and trifle with such
offers as those of Sir Brisco Braybrooke ? "

I do not trifle with them."

"Reject them, then, apparently."

"I do not reject them," replied Melanie,

unsteadily, as a cruel sense of her strange and

duteous position with regard to the absent and

p2

silent Lonsdale began, despite the wishes of her
heart, to force itself upon her.

Then what in heaven's name do you want ? "
Time ; only time to think," she answered.
Time ? You have had months now."
"Do not hurry me; do not say more," urged
the poor girl, desperately.

I would be the last man in the world to hurry
you in so serious a matter as this," continued
Uncle Grimshaw, conveniently affecting to forget
all his angry and bitter pressure in the past time,
while beginning to gather heart greatly at this
change, or new phase of bearing in Melanie ; " but
I am not ashamed to add that your worthy Aunt
Chillington and I will be heartily glad when we
find you asserting yourself — find you rising superior
to the cold and insulting neglect of one whom you
have trusted so unwisely and implicitly, and for
whom you were so foolishly relinquishing so much.
And how happy we shall be when the engagement
with Sir Brisco is duly announced and made public,
so that there can be no withdrawal, with honour,
on either hand."

A pause now ensued, a pause broken only by an
occasional bitter sigh on the part of Melanie, while
he anxiously waited for a reply, which she gave
him with an unsteady voice and a face that was
painfully 'drawn and pallid.

"Very well. Uncle Grimshaw, if 1 do not hear
by the next mail from Burmahh or Calcutta, it maybe
as you wish."

'only may?"

She attempted to say more, but her voice failed
her, and he was fain to be content with her
response, which he lost no time in communicating,
in a somewhat florid manner, to Sir Brisco.

Was Melanie yielding at last to conviction, or
under influence, even as dropping water wears
out the stone it falls on ?

A DISCOVERY.

Now when Uncle Grimshaw thought he had got
matters just as he wished them to he, and that he
held and hoped to play a winning card, it chanced
that on the very day after Melanie had permitted
him to wring from her the species of half-promise,
an unforeseen event occurred. *

The despatch-box had been brought, as usual, a
little before breakfast time, from the village postoffice,
and placed in the hands of Mr. Grimshaw,
who alone possessed the key thereof.

The Indian mail was due, but poor Melanie,
despite what she had said on the preceding day when
tortured by her uncle's taunts, having ceased to
hope for letters, seemed to take no interest in its
appearance, but busied herself with the coffee
equipage till her uncle drew forth an important'

looking packet, the size and address of which
seemed to puzzle him, and cause him to knit his
heavy, grizzled eyebrows ; and it certainly excited
the curiosity of herself and her brother Eeggie,
who had been wheeled over in his chair from the
hall that morning, and was most opportunely
present.

The packet was addressed to the latter as
"Lieutenant Eeginald Talbot, E.N.," which made
his hollow cheeks mantle with ]pleasure, as he
thought of the past time ; and it was, moreover,
enclosed in a large envelope inscribed "On Her
Majesty's Service."

Eeginald opened the unexpected packet, without
examining the Indian postal-marks thereon, and
the first object he drew forth was a long and bulky
letter addressed to Melanie — a letter which Lonsdale
had taken the precaution to put also in an orderly-room
envelope to baffle Uncle Grimshaw, whom he
had begun, but most unwillingly, to suspect at last,,

It was the letter he had written, half-despairingly,
in Fort William on the night before the embarkation
of the Bengal column, in which — with all his latest

news — he assured her of his unaltered affection,
his hopes and wishes for their mutual future, his
fears and anxiety for herself and her happiness at
home, amid all she had to contend with ; his sorrow
and dismay that he had never received even one
letter from her ; and Melanie read on and on, and
read and re-read the words again, forgetful of those
who watched her— forgetful of all but the loving
letter she held in her tremulous fingers, and
oblivious of the little gifts that accompanied it, as
Eeggie drew them forth — the Brahmin charm for
himself, the gold dog-whistle for Dick, the massive
gold coin for Uncle Grimshaw, the bangles and
necklet for Melanie herself, who, in her energy and
absorption began in a low and broken voice that
part of the letter which enumerated the many
missives he had posted at various points, and as
none of them had been returned to him by the
postal authorities, he concluded that they must
have reached their destination and been tampered
with there, and added that he was determined to
put the matter before Her Majesty's Postmaster-general.


Meanwhile, the face of Uncle Grimshaw, who
wiped his bald and shiny pate with a silken bandanna,
was a picture of confusion, as he found that he had
been thus unexpectedly baffled in his selfish hopes,
when they seemed to have been so near fruition ;
-that he had been thus discovered and confounded
in a series of acts that were actual felonies — the
suppression or destruction of letters. But Melanie,
absorbed in what she read, with eyes that were
brimming and blinded with tears of joy, did not
note his face ; but Eeggie did, and drew his deductions
therefrom.

So did even Dick, who joyously blew his gold
whistle repeatedly, and seemed to be wholly intent
on balancing a piece of toast on Bingo's nose,
while secretly considering where to procure another
hedgehog for his kind uncle's behoof, as the wasp's
nest had proved rather a troublesome affair for the
household generally.

The keen, dark, and searching eyes of Reggie
were turned upon his kinsman with a very unmistakable
expression of triumph, scorn, and inquiry
-combined.

"To me all this is incomprehensible — utterly
incomprehensible ! " exclaimed Mr. Grimshaw,
viciously rasping up his side-tufts, feeling, in his
desperation, a necessity for saying something.

So incomprehensible that it is a matter for the
police; don't you think so. Bingo ? " said Dick, ina
low voice, heedless of the savage glance darted
at him by his uncle, whose nerves he further upset
by a shrill and protracted blast on his new dog-whistle.


'what would you suggest, Reginald ? " asked
Mr. Grimshaw, in a rather broken voice, ignoring
the impudence of Dick, and thinking of the long
ears attributed to "little pitchers."

I would suggest the abolition of the despatch-box
; chuck it overboard ! " replied Eeggie, quite
coolly. " Also, that in future Melanie should post
her letters by hand."

Mr. Grimshaw felt keenly all this reply inferred,
and while his heart swelled with rancour at and
dislike if not positive hate of the speaker, he wished
himself, just then, at the North Pole, Jericho, or
any distant region.

He knew himself to be a double-traitor, and
covered in his own sight, and in the sight of all,
except his coadjutor, Mrs. Chillington, when they
met, and felt that he had lost all the little self-respect
he had possessed since he left the dingy
recesses of Birchinin Lane, where, like many others,
he had learned

That 'tis the noblest work ol man

To fill Ills pockets if he can ;
That broken faith and friends betrayed

Are nought compared with prosperous trade ;
That honors but an empty name,

And wealth is better far than fame.

Yet there was a necessity for assuming a pretty
bold front, if it was possible, now; and also
assuming a virtue, though he had it not.

"I do not understand your impertinent imputations,
sir! " said he, sharply, to Eeggie, whom he
now loathed more than ever. ''I have usually
played my part in the game of life well and
openly."

Yes ; but have won by tricks rather than by
honours, uncle," was the contemptuous reply.

You are an insolent beggar, and forget that you

'all three subsist upon my bounty ! " exclaimed Mr.
Grimshaw, oblivious just then of the money the
father of '' all three" had left to his care for them —
money squandered and gone — as he started from
the table and left the room, galled by a saucy " Houp
la ! " from Dick.

Accustomed though he had been for long to the
cruel and injurious taunts of his uncle, Reginald
Talbot remembered the epaulettes he had won and
worn, and his heart beat painfully with resentment
and sorrow at the utter helplessness of himself and
his patient sister. Just then it almost maddened
him.

We are a happy family — we are ! " shouted
Dick, tossing a slice of his uncle's toast to
Bingo.

However, a load of growing doubt and mortification
had been lifted from the heart of Melanie by
the discovery of that morning, and she felt thankful
that the institution of the despatch-box had proved
futile in the end ; . and that it would be used no
more, by her at least.

And now it seemed most strange that suspicion

of this systematic and continued treachery had •
never occurred to her before.

Though sorry to leave her just then, Eeggie
returned to the hall, where he was aware that he
had to keep his own counsel about the recent
denouement, with reference to his host, for whose
elation, caused by Mr. Grimshaw's last letter, he
could not account.

But, stung to the soul by what his uncle had
said to him, ere he left Eose Cottage young
Talbot said to that gentleman, when he sought
to excuse himself in the matter of Melanie's
correspondence :

'' Can any motive excuse a sin ? No, sir ; no
motive, however good — and this was not for good-can
excuse a lie, for a lie is always sinful in itself,
and every time you suppressed a letter you told a
falsehood in effect, and was thus guilty of it, and
worse ! "

Melanie's horror of her uncle was now intensified.
She had learned how systematically cruel he could
be, and had been, in witnessing, unmoved, her
anxiety, misery, occasional tears, and bitter

mortification at the non - arrival of letters,
which he had been pitilessly committing to the
flames.

What hope could she have of him — what faith
in him — for the future ? and yet, for the sake of
Eeggie and Dick, who were so helpless, she dared
not defy him openly.

She would leave Rose Cottage, and work at
anything for a stipend, however small, she thought
once more, as the old desire for freedom grew
strongly in her mind ; but would there be any
happiness in that freedom, when her two dear ones
were left behind her and to his mercy ?

Yet it was with a bright and happy expression
rippling all over her sweet face, that early the same
forenoon, Melanie, that not a moment might be lost,
took her way through the now damp* and dreary
November lanes to the village post-office, in order to
despatch with her own hand — as Reggie had suggested
— the letter which she had written swiftly,
lovingly, and full of explanations to Montague
Lonsdale ; and though she had tried earnestly to
keep the pages spotless and smooth, they were

blistered and blotted with the tears of affection that .
would fall in spite of her.

It may be weeks upon weeks before he gets it*'
sit thought, as with a prayer on her lips she
dropped it into the narrow slit, and heard it fall
into the box below — the first stage upon its long
long journey.

Then she turned away to seek her friends at the
vicarage, with — as we have said — a load of sorrow
lifted off her heart.

Full of her letter and her presents — the gold necklet
and bangles, which were beautifully chased —
Melanie hastened to show them — her newly-found
treasures — young girl-like to Amy, who, now that
her own anxieties were over, was merry and rosy as
ever, and in all the beauty of perfect health and
activity, with a sweet unselfish nature, but whose
life was just then — she alleged — made somewhat of
a burden to her, by her mother's advice and hints
on economy and future household management, as
if the wife of a Eoyal Hussar had to think of such
things ! But then, old Mrs. Brendon was a woman
of rigid economy, and was even then eking out a

winter mantle of black corded silk from a selection
of hat-bands and funeral scarves.

Certainly, with all her attractions, it was evident
that Amy would never become what is deemed a
fine lady," or shine among the stars of the London
firmament ; but Melanie, as she listened, envied Amy
that she had a mother to guide her — a mother she
could turn to in her troubles, when they came.

Ere Melanie, loth to leave the trio of kind and
affectionate friends, had ended a very protracted
visit to the vicarage, a catastrophe had occurred at
home between her Uncle Grimshaw and her brother
Dick, an event which her heart had long foreboded;
and now, since the expose of the despatch-box,
the mind of the former had become filled with a
greater amount of rancour, selfishness, and hatred
than ever.

PLANTAGENET PUGWASH, ESQ.

Reginald Talbot, we have said, had resolved to
keep his own counsel about all this recent affair on
his return to Eavensbourne Hall.

Now Dick, shove off, my boy," said he, lapsing
into his nautical phraseology and setting in motion
his self-propelling chair, which, in his moments of
cheerfulness, he was wont to aver made him almost
independent of limbs. "Yet, being excluded from
every kind of sport does isolate a poor devil so ! "
he would add.

And now, as Dick, with kindly good will, pushed
his chair from behind, with Bingo gambolling and
barking beside him, the brothers talked at intervals,
but in a disjointed manner, of the recent discovery
and of the affair of Melanie and the baronet, for

VOL. II. Q

Dick was a sharp little lad, and full of observation
beyond his years.

As he wheeled his helpless brother through the
green lanes, where the fallen spoil of autumn lay
thick and damp, the latter gave more than one
wistful glance at the little square tower of Tokens
then tipped with golden sunshine, for he
knew that the roof of Amy Brendon's abode was
close thereby.

Life is hard on some people," said he, pursuing
his own thoughts. "To me it seems difficult to
think that whatever is, is best, and to be thankful for
one's misery."

Things are never so bad that they might not be
worse, Eeggie," said Dick, philosophically; "think
of some poor folks."

With us they are bad enough, when we are at
that man's mercy ; but it does me no good to know
that others are wretched too — our dear Melanie,
especially. Well, well, I may soon be out of it. I
can see the sunshine through my hand — it has
grown so thin," he added, dropping it upon the
apron of his chair, as if the mere exertion of holding

it up proved too great for him. " It might be sad
watching one's decay, month by month, if one had
aught to Hve for."

"Don't talk in this fashion," entreated Dick;
you have Melanie and me."

Since Lonsdale's letter has come to hand I hope
she will have no more worry about Sir Brisco
now."

Sir Brisco is a kind old fellow ; but there can't
be much of the romantic about him. Why, he is
older than Uncle Grimshaw, whose head is as
smooth as a cricket-ball."

No," said Eeggie, with a smile ; " at his years,
as a man of the world, he must have got beyond all
illusions, and takes to love-making as he takes to
his dinner. But where are you steering to, Dick ?
This is not the nearest way to the hall."

Not quite ; but it is a rare place for hedgehogs""

replied Dick, who, intent on revenging their united

wrongs on their obnoxious relative, paused now and

then in his task of wheeling the chair to investigate

the borders of the path in search of one, though

Dick knew right well such were chiefly to be found at

q2

night, when they crawl about in search of food —
frogs, skies, and field-mice, when they can get
nothing better.

Keep Bingo to heel," said Eeggie. " I hope he
won't come to grief; the hares, and the rabbits,
too, are so thick hereabouts."

The little shower that fell this morning has
brought the rabbits from their burrows," replied
Dick, who knew all about their nature.

*•' Why the shower ? " asked his sailor brother.

It renders the herbage moist and tender, and
then they dote on blades and stalks of grass. Houp
la ! " cried Dick, " that wretched dog has pinned
one, and now he is after another."

"By Jove, if any of the keepers are about!"
began Eeggie, with some alarm.

A rabbit lay quivering, but dead, among the fallen
leaves close by, and meantime nothing was seen of
bob-tailed Bingo but his rear-quarters and short
hind-legs, his front members being buried in a sandy
hole, where he was busily engaged tearing out the
soil in search of a lively rabbit, which, by cunningly
slipping backward and forward, had contrived for a

brief space to elude his sharp teeth and gain a little
respite from destruction.

Dick shrilly blew the golden whistle, his recent
gift from Lonsdale. Half buried in the sand, Bingo
heard it not, but another did.

Squire Pugwash, by Jingo ! " exclaimed Dick,
with a little aspect of alarm, as there suddenly
stood before them, swelling with wrath and vulgar
importance, the wealthy city man, who had recently
purchased lands adjoining those of Eavensbourne
Hall, and had lost no time in making himself
obnoxious to peaceful Sir Brisco and everyone
else.

Squire Pugwash was a great preserver of game ;
not because he was " a shot" himself, but some of
the admirers of his daughter Aurora — or Miss
Haroarar, as he called her — were, or thought they
were ; but all kinds of game were scarce on his
estate, as his keeper, all unknown to him, was a
sleeping partner in an active firm of poachers,
who catered for the Leadenhall Market.

Feared and hated by the peasantry and the poor,
distrusted, yet scrupulously obeyed, by his tenants

and servants, the squire's aspect, like his wrath, was
alarming.

Squat in figure, over-fed and paunchy, with
sloping shoulders, a receding chin and nose of no
particular kind, he had those goggle and protruding
grey eyes said to belong to the cockney of three
descents, though a recent savant, Mr. James
Couthie, F.R.C.S., in his lecture on London degeneration,
is inclined to deny his existence.

He wore a pot-hat, a short black stout, with
large, loose, check trousers and drab-coloured
gaiters, and a huge stick-up collar, like that worn
by a celebrated statesman, and a resplendent
scarlet satin tie, with a brilliant pin.

Now the retired soap boiler had that morning,
for the first time, seen himself recorded in that
resplendent tome, " The County Families of the
United Kingdom," as : '' Pugwash, Plantagenet,
Esq., of Stokencross Priory, son of the. late Pugwash,
Esq., of Batter sea, by his wife, Angelina Wobbel ;
J.P., Del., and magistrate for the county "; and
swelling with the memory of all this, he came upon
^' those fellows poaching on his lands " — his lands —

he, a man of fabulous wealth, and ditto pedigree,
as many said.

Look 'ere, you fellows," he thundered in his
most bullying tone, *' do you know whose property
you're a-poaching and a-trespassing on ? "

Poaching, sir ? " exclaimed Eeginald Talbot, as
his hollow cheek crimsoned with anger, and he made
an involuntary start in his wheel-chair.

Yes ; especially this young willan, whom I
knows of, and his cur. I'll have it shot and send
you both to jail. If not for game, what was he
and that 'ere dog a-seeking under my 'edges ?
And as for that wheel-chair of yours, I believe it is
all a sham, and only a vehicle for carrying off game.
Look at these rabbits ! "

*' Rabbits are vermin ; don't heed, Reggie," said
Dick, scornfully. But his brother writhed under the
parvenu's injurious remarks, which galled him
more than those of his uncle had done.

"Who is this insolent fellow ? " he asked
Dick.

Fellow ? I'd have you know, sir — " began
the squire, in a thundering tone.

'who the devil is he?" asked Reggio, with
something of his quarter-deck tone.

"Old Pugwash, the soap boiler," replied Dick,
with a grin ; "isn't the old hunks in a wax ? "

Is not this a part of Eavensbourue Park, sir ?"
asked Eeggie, controlling his wrath.

*' It is not — but my land — mine, sir ! "

We did not know, and thought the path a
public one."

"It is private, as you will learn to your cost if I
catch you here again."

"Here is my card," said Eeggie, as his thin
hands trembled with uncontrollable emotion — the
conviction of his own utter helplessness.

The " squire " glanced superciliously at the bit of
paste-board and thrust it into his waistcoat pocket.

"Eose Cottage," he muttered; "Lieutenant,
En. — well, lieutenant or not, you aren't no gentleman,
and I shall appeal to the law after all," he
added, bullying more than ever.

He continued to bluster and storm with growing
fury and vulgarity, using many injurious taunts
and epithets.

But Dick sharply wheeled away the chair of his
brother, and both went off with an air of contempt
and defiance ; but, unfortunately for the former, he
had not heard the last of Plantagenet Pugwash,
Esquire, Justice of the Peace and Deputy-lieutenant
of the County.

RUN AWAY FROM HOME.

When, about two hours after, Dick returned
home, he saw, with some alarm, a couple of dead
rabbits — the same identical animals slain by Bingo
lying ominously on the table in the hall, and
found that his uncle had been the recipient of a
most threatening message from the squire, to
whom he looked up with no small respect and awe,
as the owner of great wealth and city influence,
and whose name was as a tower of strength when
measured by the standard of Birchinin Lane.

Now, Mr. Gideon Grimshaw only wanted an
excuse — " a hair to make a tether of" — for venting
upon poor Dick all the rage and spite which then
possessed him, so the whole episode came in
excellent time for his purpose, and turning up his

coat sleeves, assuming his most bullying air, and
armed with a heavy hunting whip, he lost no time
% in confronting the delinquent the moment he
entered the house.

His pale eyes glistened like those of a rattlesnake
with rage ; his teeth were set, and every
nerve and fibre were tingling as he glared at his
nephew, and said in a low and concentrated voice,
that sounded unpleasantly like a hiss :

"So, sir — so, sir! Not content with idleness,
and, under sour contumacious sister's advice,
declining to take such employment as I can find
you are fit for, in a shop or as an office boy, you
must fill up your leisure hours as a vulgar poacher
on the property of Mr. Pugwash, and degrade mein
the eyes of that gentleman ! "

Bingo only killed a couple of wretched rabbits,
uncle," urged Dick.

"For this the cur will be shot, or drowned!"
exclaimed Mr. Grimshaw, giving the terrier a
hearty kick. " Alio is to pay the licence for him —
you, a poacher ? "

Poacher ? " repeated Dick, filled with anger on

hearing Bingo's yell of pain. "Well, better be
even that than a thief."

A thief, you young rascal ? " •*

Yes ; who steals letters, and thereby commits a
felony, as Eeggie told me," replied Dick, who was a
brave boy, and his blood was up now.

Filled with rage that was no longer governable,
Mr. Grimshaw grasped him by the collar of his
jacket with one hand and uplifted the whip with
the other.

"Address me in that manner again, and by all
that is holy, I'll flog you within an inch of your
life ! "

Flog away ; you are coward enough to do it, I
dare say."

And he did lash him five or six times cruelly,
and just then Dick thought his uncle's side-tufts
made him look more like the devil than ever.

"Hah!" exclaimed the latter; "how do ^-ou
feel now?"

That I could take twice as much more," replied
Dick, trembling with rage and pain, yet bravely
repressing his tears.

Mr. Grimsliaw raised the ^Yllip again, but at that
mordent Bingo, who had been watching his
opportunity, caught him by the ancle with sharp
and vengeful teeth, tearing his flesh and his trousers
together, with a sharp and savage grip.

This served Jut to add fuel to Mr. Grimshaw's
fury, and he continued to lash away at the shrinking
and panting boy, till an old servant who had
nursed him, Bethia Barlow, a stout and active woman,
on hearing the noise rushed between them and without
ceremony grasped Mr. Grimshaw's right arm.

Master — master — hold your hand. How dare
you ? " she exclaimed.

Dare ? " questioned the other through his
clenched teeth.

Yes. What would his dead mother, your own
sister, think of all this ? "

Grimshaw, in the plenitude of his power and
swing of his fury just then, felt pitiless ; but old
Bethia contrived to drag Dick away, and with a
full sense of the part he had borne in the conflict,
Bingo prudently kept close to her skirts and beyond
the range of the hunting whip.

Dick was covered with discoloured welts and
weals. He smarted in every limb, and panted
rather than breathed, so severely had he been
handled ; but not even before old Bethia, who
kindly drew his head on her breast and stroked his
sunny hair, as she had often done in infancy,
would he let a tear be wrung from him, though his
young heart was swelling with rage and indignation.


I'll stand no more of this ! " said he, with a dry
sob in his throat. '' I am going away at last,
Bethia. I have thought over it many times. I'll
leave the house and never, never set foot in it
again."

No, no, no. Master Dick," exclaimed Bethia,
caressing him again.

''I shall, though ! " said the boy.

"Don't speak thus, dear Master Dick. Don't
say or think such a thing," continued the old
nurse, with tears in her eyes ; '* wait till Miss
Talbot — wait till your sister Melanie returns."

Poor Melanie ! " said Dick, with another
dry sob in his throat. '' But her return can

make no difference to me. I am going at last,
I say."

Won't you tell me where ? "

No, Bethia."

'why?"

Because I don't know myself. I only wish to
get away from here — away as far as possible,"
replied Dick, wilfully and wildly.

You will be lost, my poor boy."

Not at all," said Dick, sturdily. He had read
too many books by Captain Mayne Reid,
Gustave Aimard, and others, not to have perfect
confidence in himself, as all the boy heroes thereinafter
facing innumerable perils and adventures,
had always risen to fame and fortune. But,
withal, his affectionate heart was sore as he
thought of the gentle Melanie and poor helpless
Eeggie.

After a time, when he thought himself unwatched
and unseen, he took Bingo in his arms, as
if to protect his faithful four-footed friend from
further harm, and stole out of the house just as
evening began to close, to wander, as Bethia

thought he would do, till the dinner hour came.
But Dick Talbot had gone forth into the world —
the world alone !

And when the frugal meal was spread by old
Bethia, and Uncle Grimshaw, sullen as Ajax, took
his seat at the table, Melanie then learned all that
had occurred in her absence, and felt inexpressibly
shocked and concerned.

Still she thought that Dick must ere long
appear, and hour by hour she watched and waited.
The sun began to set — the dull and sombre sun of
the closing days of November, and yet there came
no sign of the absent boy, and when the night
shadows began to fall and deepen, Melanie thought
of the woods, the ponds and meres that were in the
vicinity of Eose Cottage, and a vague, unspeakable,
yet dreadful presentiment of impending evil — or
evil that might already have come to pass — crept
coldly over her.

An emotion of guilt, perhaps of shame, but
certainly not compunction, made Uncle Grimshaw
at that time rather avoid her, and Melanie threw
herself into an old and somewhat crazy basket

chair in the recess of a window, and resting an
elbow on the sill, looked out with far-away and
yearning gaze upon the fast darkening night and
black, tossing branches of the autumnal trees,
lonely, anxious, worn with tears and terror about
her brother — dear, droll Dick, who could have no
friend with him but his pet dog ; and to add to the
cheerless gloom, a genuine English drizzle was
beginning to fall.

Melanie at this juncture had no one of whom she
could seek counsel. Their uncle, their only
kinsman, was the cause of her present misery, and
old Bethia Barlow was helpless to suggest aught
but what was morbid or terrifying.

Often she started from her seat and hurried to
the entrance door, to listen and look forth into
another quarter, for it was a source of keen agony
to think that, under the circumstances, her darling
Dick, her winsome, blue-eyed, and golden-haired
brother, was now a wanderer, perhaps, in that
darkness and gathering rain ; and more than once
she was on the point of issuing forth to seek him in
person, and was only restrained by the strong

VOL. II. R

hand, near by, of Bethia Barlow, but not by the
sneers of Uncle Grimshaw as to w4io was to pay
the doctor's bills if she caught cold or fever.

So the silent night wore on.

Lonsdale's massive gold bangles— even his letter,
perhaps— were forgotten by her. Every few
minutes she looked at her watch, and every passing
sound — and few they are in the country— startled
her. She seemed to be enduring an eternity of
suspense.

My boy, my boy brother— my poor Dick ! " she
wailed in her heart.

She looked around her. Every object was
familiar, yet it spoke not of home. How sick she
felt of everything ; how she hated them ; and so
continued to stare out into the darkness with wide-open,
miserable eyes, only starting wildly when
once or twice the door-bell rang.

She passed a sleepless and restless night. The
wind rustled, or wailed rather, among the naked
branches of the trees, and whirled to and fro the
heaps of dead, brown leaves ; and she could see the
wild rabbits scudding about among the bushes,

scared by the red gleams of sheet lightning — for it
was a weird night indeed.

Was that the scraping, the whine of the terrier
Bingo? No, it was but the wind— always the wind.

Long before the lagging autumnal sun had
flushed with ruddy dan the wild, dark sky,
Melanie was up and about, but had no heart for
her daily tasks. Her morning pensioners, the
little birds, pecked forgotten against the windowpanes
for the crumbs she was wont to spread therefor
them regularly, and her white face and
tremulous hands and limbs evinced to Bethia the
terrible suspense of the night and morning.

The past day had been one of long and keen
excitement to Melanie Talbot. There was the
episode of the despatch-box, and the use for which
it had been too evidently adopted ; there was
Lonsdale's letter casting so much lurid light on
what had been so long an agonising mystery ; her
protracted visit to her chief friends at the vicarage ;
and, lastly, her dreadful anxiety about Dick,
consigned an infant to her care on their mother's
death-bed, when she herself was but a child.

2 R

Utter prostration and weariness had certainly made
the poor girl's eyes close for a few minutes, and
then, with a start, she had become more wakeful
than ever. Had Dick come home during the brief
interval and stolen softly to his room ? thrice she
went thither in the grey dawn, to find the chamber
empty and his bed slept in.

She thought that if aught serious had occurred to
Dick his terrier would have returned ; but Bethia
reminded her how often dogs had remained beside
their master even dien the latter— but no ! She
thrust aside the thought of peril, or worse, as too
horrible for adoption or contemplation.

Dick was certainly gone ; but souvenirs of him
remained on every hand, particularly his soiled and
tattered school-books, in many instances with
pencilled cartoons of Uncle Grimshaw on the fly-leaves,
his pi«c^-??e^ and side-tufts appearing
conspicuously therein.

She knew that Dick was penniless, and as the
day stole slowly on she looked wistfully at the table
when it was set out for each meal, her heart aching
as she thought of her boy and where, when, or by

^Yllom his necessary wants were being supplied, if
at all, for he might be hungry, faint, and famishing,
while, with all their household frugality, there was
food enough, and to S23are, at Eose Cottage.

The last depressing days, we have said, of a
dreary English autumn were passing then, and
winter was nigh — the days that seem, according to
brilliant English preachers, to by a presage of
death, when the winter has actually come. '' The
days are short and the nights long, the sun is low
and the lights are dim, the fruit is gathered and the
earth is at rest, the flowers are gone, the leaves are
fallen, the trees are bare and lift their stripped
arms like the bones of death, and everything seems
preaching to us of death."

So the night began to close again.

Adhere had that poor boy gone, out into the cold,
bleak world ? she asked herself again and again.

He would come back — he must come back ! Fora
second night Melanie did not undress, but lay on
her bed waiting and listening, alternately at door
and window, till the gusty autumnal night stole
away, and she knew nothing, had learned nothing,

but that her loving boy brother had fled from his
comfortless home, with a sore and bitter heart.

** Oh, what can have happened?" she cried, as
she wrung her interlaced fingers together.

Something must have happened," was the
consolation offered by old Bethia Barlow, who had
heard the tick of the Death-watch, of course, and
seen a robin beat its little breast against the
window as she went to bed.

A FRESH SORROW.

Two nights had elapsed now, and with the
morning of the second day there came a Httle hope
to Melanie — the sudden hope that Dick might have
taken refuge at the vicarage, with the Brendon's, or
at the hall, with Sir Brisco — but then, surely either
would have communicated with her on the subject.

The idea of the hall was repugnant to Melanie,
though Reggie was there already. But now she
could not rest until she had made inquiries at both
places ; and to her intense relief, that morning,
her uncle had betaken himself to town, so she
was left to her own devices and resources.

Dick had not been heard of at the vicarage,
whither she had first gone, exciting the alarm and
sympathy of the doctor's family; and now she
turned her steps towards the hall, clinging to the

horde that Eeggie might know something of his
brother's plans or whereabouts, and in her haste
and anxiety she traversed the nearest and private
path, heedless of the terrors of " Plantagenet Pug-wash,
Esquire," who had had placed there a new
and more portentous notice, threatening with condign
punishment all trespassers on his lands. In
order to pass the time, she thought of walking slowly,
but did not do so, and in the end she almost ran.

As she hurried on she thought what were the
aspirations of the baronet as regarded herself, when
compared with the absence of Dick ! The lesser
annoyance was completely swallowed up in this
new and unexpected misfortune.

She seemed to herself to be thinking, acting, and
speaking like one in a dream ; yet all was too
terribly plain to her. The hall was the last place
whither she would have gone personally to prosecute
her anxious inquiries ; but, as no other resource
was left her, as early as seemed consistent with
good-breeding she found herself taking her way
across the spacious and noble park.

Great diamond-like drops hung from every bush

and branch, where but a few brown leaves remained
to attest the lost summer's luxuriance. The startled
rabbits scudded across the sward before her as if
Bingo had been after them ; and the holly-berries,
heralds of the coming Christmas, hung in scarlet
clusters among the thick, dark, prickly leaves.

Before her now stood the masses of the hall,
which possessed all the charm of antiquity with
the luxuries of the present day, and far around
it spread the domain, with all its nooks and lovely
dingles where least expected.

Melanie's steps faltered and lingered, while a
transient blush, inspired by annoyance more than
any other emotion, crossed her pale cheek.

The great door of the hall stood open, a powdered
footman lounged against a pillar, and the open
space behind him revealed a vista like a conservatory,
so bright was it with hothouse flowers,
geraniums, orchids, and azaleas, interspersed with
white statues and vases of coloured marble.

She wished only to see her brother Eeggie, but
now, with something of a thrill and shock, she saw
Sir Brisco, clad in a rough tweed morning-suit, with

a weed-cutter in his hand, approaching her round the
outer terrace, throwing away his cigar as he did so.

Surprise and intense satisfaction were his first
emotions, for he felt just then unusual confidence
in the progress of his suite, as, in addition to Uncle
Grimshaw's letter, a recent conversation he had had
with Mrs. Chillington was fresh in his mind, and
every word of it was vividly recurring to his
memory as he saw Melanie.

You will surely take courage afresh, Sir
Brisco ? " Mrs. Chillington had said to him, tapping
his arm with her fan.

But there is this Lonsdale," he had replied,
questioningly.

That is over and ended, I doubt not."

*why?"

No woman ever cares long, or much, for a man
she is sure of."

Sir Brisco had not known what reply to make to
this strange speech.

** Lonsdale, pah ! " snorted Mrs. Chillington.
** His pay — I suppose he has nothing more — would
not keep my carriage and horses, let alone my

niece, Melanie. Besides, long engagements are
idiocy. Years would have to elapse ere these two
could get married, if ever; and between you and I,
Su* Brisco, I think engaged couples awfully stupid,
and bores in society. I married Chillington right
off in a month. A penniless officer — it is quite
like a bit of an old play ! — has no business to go
about the world luring pretty girls into long engagements."


Melanie is more than pretty ; she is lovely."

'especially after being under the hands of my
Clochette. But her face is her fortune."

The fortune of a princess. But then, good
looks run in her family."

Mrs. Chillington bowed.

And now when she realises his faithlessness —
no letters, you know. Sir Brisco — she will have
surely too much pride to go on loving him ; and
surely the prospect of going out to India the wife
of a poor subaltern, or captain, or whatever he is,
-can have no longer any charms for her."

You think so, Mrs. Chillington '? "

I do. India is excellent as an outlet for the

impecunious detrimental ; and Burial is still
better," she added, with a malevolent glitter in her
eye.

Now, Sir Brisco was an honourable man, and
when he heard her talk, as she often did, slightingly
and in a derogatory manner, of his younger rival
Lonsdale, he thought of the saying, " that the
people who take our characters away are the people
who do not know us." He knew that the remarks
of Mrs. Chillington, natheless her charming old
face, sweet voice, and masses of silver hair, were
generally coloured by malice, at least if she
disliked those of whom she spoke ; yet in this
instance he gathered courage from what she said.

A woman's anger is seldom wholly reasonable,"
says Rhoda Boughton, and Mrs. Chillington had
cultivated this theme so much that she had perhaps
come to think that Melanie had engaged herself to
a really dubious adventurer, for such she considered
poor Montague Lonsdale when contrasted with the
wealthy owner of Eavensbourne Hall, and had
repeatedly said, " Oh, if that wretch would only
die —or the Burmese kill him ! "

And perhaps she was nearer having her-wish
fulfilled, in some sort, then she thought. Opening
and shutting her fan viciously with her quick little
hands, she exclaimed :

"Why should Melanie be so different from my
sweet friend, Hilda Tremayne ? "

/' ^Tiat did Miss Tremayne do ? "

She loved, or thought so, a young fellow in the
EiHes, with all the affection of which her nature
was capable ; but he was not rich enough to give
her all the luxuries that, as a beauty, she required
and felt her due, so she cast him off and married
the more wealthy cousin of Horace Musgrave, as
you know, and won all the splendour for which she
had ever pined. Yet Hilda — she is a dear girl —
asserted coolly, ' I am not a flirt — no — my worst
enemies cannot accuse me of being so. I have
often won gloves and brooches at x\scot and buckingham,
and many a cheque for a button-hole at a
charitable bazaar, but what of ail that — I am no
flirt ! ' But she was a coquette, and a nice one too.
Now, as for Melanie, who can answer for the
caprices of a woman, and still more those of a

romantic girl ? I feel thankful that I have no
daughter to worry me, as girls are so certain to fall
in love with the wrong person at first."

The result of all this was that Sir Brisco gathered
great courage anew ; but the sudden appearance of
Melanie at the hall, and at an hour so early, if it
greatly enchanted, certainly puzzled him, while the
whole conversation referred to rushed upon his mind.

He could not prevail upon her to enter, even to
see her brother. She was in haste, she urged, and
must return home without delay.

Womanhood was asserting itself now in the
bearing of Melanie, and when Sir Brisco, in accosting
her, lifted his stalker-cap from his grizzled
head, he was fairly entranced by her pale beauty,
accustomed now though he was to it ; but though
encouraged by all that Mrs. Chillington had said
but yesterday, her manner disappointed and
bewildered him now.

"It was Eeggie I wished to see," said she,
nervously withdrawing her hand from his lingering
clasp. " How good — how good of you to be so
kind to him," she added, forcing back her tears;

'' but it was not about him I have come this morning
Dick, my Httle brother, Dick — "

'■'What of Dick?"

"Is he not with you?" she asked, her miserable
gaze fastened on his with something of
desperation in it.

With me — here at the hall — no."

Melanie now, to his consternation, sobbed
heavily, the long strain of the past hours finding
partial relief once more in a flood of tears.

"Good heavens, what is the matter?" asked
Sir Brisco, with genuine concern.

He then heard with surprise, but little more
emotion, of Dick's disappearance, of what had
brought it about ; and only believed that he was
"playing the truant," and that he would turnup
in the course of a day or so, when he had
spent all his money, ignorant that poor Dick was
penniless.

Don't be so alarmed, Melanie — Miss Talbot —
it is only a boyish freak," said Sir Brisco. " I
ran away from Eton myself — swam the river to
escape my tutor — he'll be all right, never fear."

But two nights' absence, Sir Brisco — two
nights ! "

"Trust to me, Melanie ; I shall see after him.
But where can the young rogue be hiding himself?"

Oh, find him, if possible, Sir Brisco. I love
my boy brother so, that my gratitude — "

She paused.

One who loves as you can do must be a sturdy
hater as well,'^ said he, smiling.

I know not; I never hated anyone," replied
Melanie, gently and truly.

"You hold my life — my happiness, certainly —
in your hands," said Sir Brisco, in a low and
earnest voice, as he thought of his recent conference
with her aunt ; but Melanie smiled bitterly,
with averted face, at the inflated love-making of
her elderly admirer.

Think, really, is there no hope for me now '? "
he urged.

"Why — now?" thought Melanie; but Sir
Brisco had an idea that there was, and that the
field was all but clear for him.

I do not seek to hurry you, IMelanie," said he,

bending over her ; " but it will go hard with me to
give up the hopes to which I have clung so long."

Oh, why speak to me again on this subject,
and at such a time ? Is it generous ? "

*' Pardon me, but I can help you in you' sorrow,
and may discover this foolish little rascal Dick;
yet, I will never give up hope, Melanie, till I see
you the — the wife of another."

Melanie wrung her hands ; irritation now
mingled with her bitter anxiety. She turned her back
for a moment, and thus gave Sir Brisco an opportunity
of noting the snowy nape of her neck, and thinking
how long her dark brown hair must be, by the
number of coils at the back of her shapely head.

In her helplessness, and knowing that if aught
serious had happened to Dick, Sir Brisco alone
would befriend her, she was compelled to hear
more of his tenderness, with a kind of stunned
sensation ; and totally declining his escort, she
turned away, thinking the while that her home,
never a very happy one, was broken and desolate
now, so she need not hasten thither. Yet she did
so, in the desperate hope that the missing boy

VOL. II. s

might have returned in the interim — a hope
dashed by old Bethia, who met her on the threshold
with a woeful shake of the head.

Noon passed on; around was a dreary prospect
of leafless branches and slanting wind-blown rain.
Was he out under all that, out alive or dead ?

Evening again drew on. Soon the sun would
set ; the western sky was growing crimson, the
birds were winging their way homeward, the
shades were falling, the rising wind shred away
the last of the lingering leaves, and the lap of the
river came from a distance.

Meanwhile, Sir Brisco was active, and — his
kindness of heart apart — anxious to win at least
the gratitude of Melanie, he had the roads scoured
and the woods searched by his keepers ; the police
stations referred to; but all in vain. No trace
of Dick could be found. Another day and night
of agony was passed by Melanie, unknown to
whom Sir Brisco had every pool and mere
searched, without discovering that which certainly
he had no wish to find.

The heart of the poor girl seemed to die within her ;

and now the disappearance of Dick compelled Eeggie,
not unwillingly now, to return to the cottage, as he
could not leave his sister alone in her misery.

And now, ere I go, Sir Brisco," said the grateful
young sailor, " permit me to thank j^ou^thank
you so much — for all your pitying kindness to mea
poor sheer-hulk! I have felt it inexpressibly
painful to have been for ever giving trouble."

My dear fellow — " began Sir Brisco.

You have done for me what the doctors have
failed to do — cheered my heart and raised my
spirits."

And now the bitter anxiety of Melanie was only
alleviated in some degree when a brief, schoolboy-like
scrawl came from the lost one, to the
following effect : —

'* I have gone to be a soldier, and Bingo too,
for Uncle Grimshaw is a beast and no mistake.
In the army I shall, of course, meet Montague
Lonsdale, and won't I tell him all about the old
skunk and his despatch-box. Perhaps he may
get me made a captain. Sergeant Hawley's
corporal, Mr. Gutters, tells me that he has

enlisted a. great many boys like me, and they are
all captains now. I was awfully hungry, when I
met the sergeant. Love-to Beggie and old
Bethia, in which Bingo joins me."

He concluded with many Loves and kisses to
Melanie, and at the end of the letter was a strange
smudge, evidently from the paw of Bingo, smeared
in ink.

This characteristic letter had neither date nor
address, and as rain had quite obliterated the postmark,
it gave no clue whatever to Dick's whereabouts
or the regiment he had joined.

In this new phase of distress, she missed some
of the sympathy" of her friends at the vicarage, for
now the preparations for Amy's marriage went on
apace, and all were very busy there ; so Melanie's
fresh sorrow was just then of secondary interest.
And nothing grated on her feelings more than the
hard-heartiness of her Uncle Grimshaw, who was
disposed to be actually jocular on the subject of
his " drum-boy nephew," as he termed Dick.

END OF VOL. II.

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333>8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAR



■^?m

L161— O-1096

m.

■MMm

A WOMAN'S FACE. By Florence Warden.

3 Vols.
IDLE TALES. By Mrs. Liddell.

1 Vol.

MISER FAREBROTHER. By B. L. Far.ieon.

3 Vols.
FOR FREEDOM. By Tighe Hopkins.

2 Vols.

MIRACLE GOLD. By Richard Dowling.

3 Vols.

MARVEL. By the Author of "Molly Baavn.
3 Vols.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London,

a move.

BY

JAMES GRANT,

Author OF "the ROMANCE OF WAR," ETC.


IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. in.

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON.

1888.
[All Rights Reserved']

NovELLo, Ewer & Co.

London, W.

LOVE'S LABOUR WON,

CHAPTER Xlii

THE FORTUNE OF WAR.

'We must now return to Montague Lonsdale and
his comrades, whom we left, five chapters back, in
the vicinity of Minhla, and who were now proceeding
up the river against the next formidable town,
My an Ryan.

The Calcutta mail had just brought Montressor
a letter from Claire. How Lonsdale envied him,
for no letter from Eose Cottage had yet come to
shed a little light upon his way; but the bugles
were sounding now for the troops to "fall in," and
Montressor, with all his affectionate anxiety, had
to pocket his half-read epistle for perusal at a more
fitting time.

As usual, the mail brought no letter for

VOL. III. B

Lonsdale. That one posted so surely and lovingly
by Melanie never reached him, by the course of
events at the capture of Ava, as we shall show erelong.


I wonder why hand grenades have gone out
of fashion. They would be of right good use in
the jungle here, or wherever we have bush fighting.
I have heard my father speak of bouquets of them,
quilted with fuses outward, being fired from the
mortars in his time," said Lonsdale, as he surveyed
the dense luxuriance of the teak forests and
their undergrowth that bordered the river, up
which the ships with the troops on board were
steaming steadily and merrily. And rumour
already whispered of a column being detailed for
the capture of the Ruby Mines.

The very name suggested much to excite
cupidity. Lonsdale thought of Melanie, and
whether it could be possible, in this most prosaic
age of the world, to achieve wealth by the effort of
an hour.

Who is there that has not dreamed of sudden
riches — sudden as those that fell to the lot of

Aladdin or Monte Christ ? He smiled to himself
as he thought of how love excited a vague emotion
of acquisitiveness, even in him. But " to become
rich suddenly, and without effort, by the result of
some splendid stroke of chance, has been a dream
with millions," we are told. " Such a method of
enriching the heroes of romance has been fashionable
since the days of Sinbad. It is one of the
stock devices of romance, simply and purely
because it chimes in with one of the stock dreams
human nature."

By the realisation of such a dream, the wealth
even of the owner of Ravensbourne Hall might be
far eclipsed, and the most greedy and ambitious
aspirations of Mr. Grimshaw and Mrs. Chillington
be more than satisfied.

But Mandalay, north-east of which lie the
hundred square miles of the far-famed Ruby
district — one regarded with much akin to fear and
veneration by the Burmese — was not just then
within the general's scheme of operations.

Theebaw, who had not as yet been deposed, wa

still *' Lord of the Rubies," and when he wished

b2

to impress on a visitor an idea of his vast wealth,
was wont to make him thrust his arms into the
great jars of rubies and sapphires, that stood in
his treasury like sacks of corn in a granary.
Humour made some of these stones to be of
fabulous size, equal indeed to that famous ruby
in exchange for which Kublai Khan offered a
magnificent city.

It was impossible for Lonsdale not to speculate
on what might occur if he was sent on the expedition
referred to. A few handfuls might give him
and Melanie all they wanted in the world. To her
they might bring a new life — a new existence withall
her love for him, and all she could ever have
longed for in her crushed and somewhat sordid girlhood,
with the power to aid the poor and the
suffering — that power she longed for most ; but
neither Montague Lonsdale nor Montressor were
fated, as the event proved, even to see the ruby
mines of King Theebaw.

A strong force of the enemy were said, and found
to be, at Myan Gyan, a town situated on the left
bank of the Irawaddy, and one of great importance,

as it is alleged to have extended for two miles along
the river bank.

It then contained many houses of priests and
gaudy temples, the scarlet and gilded pagodas of
which rose above the brilliant greenery of the surrounding
forests ; and it was famous in the wars of
the Burmese and Penguins, as it was distant only.
ninety miles from the capital.

About four in the afternoon of the 24th November
the flotilla came in sight of the town, which was
seen to crown a high bank — all the higher owing to
the state of the river at that season of the year —
and affording most favourable ground for the erection
of three long batteries, which, in European
hands, might have knocked the flotilla to pieces,
and could not have been searched out easily with
shell.

The country around is level and open, and overlooked
by an isolated hill, the secluded abode,
according to Burmese superstition, of dreadful
fiends and demons.

The royal troops in Myan Gyan mustered about
five thousand strong, and they held a number of

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

rifle-pits — probably the suggestion of their Italian
engineers — and some guns in battery on the plain
below the town, and therein their gilt umbrellas
and papier-mace helmets, adorned with the fire-vomiting
dragons and so forth, could be seen above
the earthworks when the Irawaddi, the Kathleen,
and the gunboats opened fire on the latter with
shells, the hoarse explosion and ghastly gleams of
which soon elicited dreadful yells and shrieks of
rage and dismay; and these increased after the
pestilent Nordenfeldts and Gardeners came into
action. But the Burmese seemed for a time
resolved to hold their ground.

Meanwhile, after partially silencing the defences
of the lower part of the town, the ships, after dusk
fell, steamed slowly past the long, entrenched
batteries, receiving and replying to their fire in quick
succession till anchoring to the north-westward,
from whence they could enfilade the whole line,
which they continued to do till far into the night.

Lonsdale and Charlie Danvers, on the bridge of
the Kathleen, smoked their cigarettes, heedless
whether their white helmets, tipped by the moonlight,

might afford marks for the Burmese riflemen,
and watched together the weird effects of the heavy
banks of sulphurous smoke, streaked everard anon
by the sharp and brilliant flashing of the great
guns and the red sparks of exploding shells, to both
of which the wonderfully clear radiance of the
oriental moon on the deep, shadowy grove and
the flowing river lent a most expressive accessory ;
while the flights through the air, or to grovel on in
terror on the shining water, of those immense
numbers of aquatic birds that hover near the
marshes, followed every booming discharge.

So passed the night of the 24th, and on the
following morning our troops were landed to
storm the positions under fire from the floating
batteries.

The whole of the long, wavy grass and dense
bushes by the river side seemed alive with musketry,
while deep and hoarse came the booming of our
64-pounders, the great shot of which at times went
humming over the batteries and trenches into the
open ground beyond.

The thin blue smoke of the adverse rifles and

cannons curled through and enveloped the drooping
mangroves that fringed the river bank, and rolled
along its surface, rising but slowly therefrom, as
the atmosphere was close, still, and heavy.

The Naval Brigade threw shells into the enemy's
earthworks with wonderful rapidity and precision ;
but a two hours' bombardment was required to
silence the fire from the latter, when the defenders
drew off into the jungle, after a severe loss in killed
and wounded, while, in that quarter, we had only
two Blue Jackets slightly hit ; but, hit by one of the
last shots that came from the fugitives flying into
the jungle, was the giddy young sub., Cecil Travers,
the handsome boy attached to the Governor's Body
Guards. He fell forward on his face, hit in the
heart, and never moved again.

The fire of our machine guns proved especially
destructive and terrible. Under it, entire groups of
Burmese, in shining helmets and gorgeous tunics of
flowered stuff, fell in heaps, from which, perhaps,
one or more might be seen to stagger up, or crawl
away in agony, only to sink and perish a little
further on.

On the flight of the enemy a detachment of the
Liverpool Eegiment, another of the 11th Bombay,
and a company of Sappers were left to form a
garrison in My an Gyan.

Wearied by the events of the day, Lonsdale was
returning to the flotilla, which had orders to proceed
slowly up the river.

Threading his way in the dusk, where the stems
of the ebony and banyan trees stood up in black
and opaque outlines against the red and purple
quarter of the sky where the sun had set, leaving a
flush, as of blood, upon the pools, the swamps, and
the currents of the Irawaddy — threading his way,
we say, among the dead and wounded, who strewed
all the vicinity of the enemy's works, a groan, a
voice he knew, arrested his steps ; and to his distress
and dismay he found that he had nearly
stumbled over the thoughtless and heedless young
lieutenant, Charlie Danvers, who, like his chum
Travers, was also on the general staff, and now lay
on his back dying of a mortal wound, with bells of
blood and foam oozing from his lips.

Yet he knew Lonsdale, and his eyes, sad and

weird in expression, rested anxiously, clingingly on
this face, as the former bent over him.

The lad seemed quite conscious, but unable to
speak.

Poor Charlie — my poor fellow ! " escaped
Lonsdale's lips unconsciously.

The dying lad, in whose breast the fragment of a
shell had lodged, driving the ribs into the lungs,
made more than one most painful effort to mutter
something that sounded like a farewell message to
someone ; so Lonsdale bent over him lower still to
catch the words, so terribly important now, but in
vain.

Then suddenly Charlie raised himself, as if by a
superhuman attempt, and while a smile, a wonderful
brightness, shone for a moment in his eyes and
on his face, he cried, in a strange and broken
voice :

*' Mother — mother here ! "

A visionary and well-loved face had hovered
before him for a moment — a moment of happy but
distempered fancy, and then he fell back dead.

Lonsdale lingered near him sadly for a moment

or two, and after reverently closing his eyes, turned
away in great sorrow. Prayers were not much in
his way; thus Byron's line occurred to him : —
All that we know is, nothing can be known.

But poor, thoughtless Charlie Danvers now knew
all.

The two young friends were gone ; two more lives
lost in that remote and almost obscure strife ; but
it was their fate and the fortune of war.

DACOITEE.

'forward" was still the word, and would be till
the capital was reached and the king humbled to
the dust.

The Burmese show their fighting qualities best,
or only, in the defence of stockades, which, as they
are well skilled in all manner of woodcraft, they
can erect with wonderful rapidity in the densest
jungle, and protect by almost impenetrable entanglements
; and these they can defend with a
tenacity and determination that better troops
might envy ; but no superiority of numbers will
tempt them to quit the shelter of such works and
trust to valour in the open ground.

To note briefly the events preceding a catastrophe
that occurred to Lonsdale, ending still more

seriously to his friend Montressor, we may
state, for the coherence of our narrative, that
during the advance to Mandalay, and before
the expedition reached Ava, Theebaw sent envoys
to obtain terms, which were specified by General
Prendergast to be — his unconditional surrender,
with his army, treasure, and kingdom at
large !

To this comprehensive demand an answer was to
be given on the following day.

As none was given, our troops took possession of
the defences of Ava, with all the batteries, rifle-pits,
and the ancient brick-walls which are fifteen
feet in height, the Burmese soldiers laying down
their arms as ours entered '' the City of Gems," as
the capital is named, though many of its houses
are mere huts thatched with grass. And by the
29th of November the savage Theebaw was a
prisoner, and the famous white elephant, with
nothing white about him save a couple of dirty
spots, was in our hands, together with the royal
family, or all that remained thereof after the
palace massacres ; and then the war was supposed

to be over — a war like most of those we wage now
since we have ceased apparently to cope with
Europeans — in which, if danger is great, the glory
small indeed.

Thus, on the night of the 29th, soon after the
king, who, like a craven, begged only that his
wretched life might be spared, was put on board
the flotilla for conveyance to India, the Dacoits
began their work with a will. So we have now
another tragedy to record.

Prior to the above events, our troops had reached
Mandalay, a few miles distant, where, as evening
fell, the scene was singularly beautiful.

On each side of the Irawaddy rose its banks,
covered with luxuriant foliage, amid which glittered
innumerable bell shaped pagodas and taper
spires of varied and fanciful outline, all delicately
carved and elaborately gilded, so that
they gleamed in the ruddy light of the setting
sun like disagree work studded with gigantic
jewels.

The first announcement of a treaty of peace was
a gorgeously-gilded barge of great beauty, with

fifty golclen-bladecl oars flashing in light, that
shot out from the Ava shore with a great white
pennon fluttering in the bow, and high above,
a cknnp of gilded umbrellas, that announced the
presence of officers of rank, bearing a message to
our general.

Anon, the river widened, and its eastern bank
sank low to level yellow sands and grassy inlets,
beyond which rose Mandalay, amid the Sham
Range of hills, that start abruptly to the height of
some thousand feet ; and from these it was that
the "Golden-footed King" came forth from his
palace and, veiling his hatred and loathing, gave
himself up to the British troops.

Though fighting with the Bm-mese regulars wa
ended, the warfare was still, we say, protracted by
the operations of the treacherous, savage, and
blood-thirsty Dacoits, an Indian name for those
who practise robbery as their hereditary privilege
or destiny ; and these wretches manifested all the
worst traits of the Burmese character, which
Captain Franklin describes in his "Notes" as
being abjectly servile to superiors, but when " in

power, rapacious and cruel ; in war, treacherous
and ferocious ; in their dealings, Litigious and
faithless ; in appetite, insatiable and avaricious ;
in habit, lazy ; and in their ideas, persons, houses,
and food, obscenely filthy, below anything that has
claims to humanity."

And these Dacoits inflicted the most dreadful
tortures that the most fertile oriental ingenuity
could suggest upon all who fell into their hands
alive.

In repelling and pursuing a party of them, who
had been practising dacoitee — i.e., looting — and
murdering in the vicinity of Mandalay Lonsdale
and Montressor, with a few men, had pushed along
a path, a mile or two in length, bordered on either
side by rather neatly-built houses or bungalows,
and little temples containing well-carved but
monstrously grotesque idols.

The houses had, in most instances, been pillaged.
Some of the inmates, hacked and gashed by many
wounds from the bayonet, but chiefly from the
sharp, crooked dao, lay in them, or about the
doorways, where piles of clothing, utensils, jars,

pans, hutch-boxes, water flagons, umbrellas, and
other spoil that had been abandoned in haste, lay
strewed about.

Here and there lay also a Dacoit, whom the
bullets of Lonsdale's party had overtaken, dead or
dying, and clad in the usual Bm-mese costume, a
double piece of cloth, about ten cubits long, loosely
wrapped about the body, over which was a sleeved
frock or tunic that reached to the knees, with a
turban-like head-dress.

The Dacoits retired through the jungle, firing
back a few parting shots at random as they
fled; but one of these struck down Montressor,.
piercing his chest in the vicinity of the heart,
inflicting a mortal wound. He sank heavily
down in great agony, and Lonsdale had only
time to press his hand and leave him in charge
of the only medical officer with the party, while
he hurried on with a few soldiers, full of vengeance,
in a hot and fierce, and as it proved
eventually, a vain pursuit, as among the jungle
and tall elephant grass the Dacoits successfully
eluded him.

VOL. III. c

As his party advanced he came upon a Burmese,
differently attired from the rest, in a brilliant
yellow costume of strange fashion. He was a man
of venerable aspect — a non-combatant apparently
who had been struck by a ball in the leg near
the door of a little temple, and now lay bleeding
helplessly, half in and half out of a pool of water,
where he would soon have perished had not
Lonsdale assisted him.

*' You are wasting time, Lonsdale," said an
officer. " What the deuce ! Surely we have enough
and to spare of Burmese ; one less in the world
won't matter."

But Lonsdale drew the aged sufferer forth, tied
up his bleeding limb with a handkerchief, gave
him a draught from his water-bottle, and passed
on, thinking no more on the subject, save that the
old man's glance of intense gratitude followed
him.

Conceiving that he had pursued the loiters far
enough, he recalled his advanced files and began
to return by one of the three parallel roads that
lead eastward from Mandalay, just as darkness was

closing and the jungles on either side were growing
dark and gloomy.

Full of anxiety for the fate of his old friend
and brother officer, he reached the narrow path
before referred to, and sought the place where
he left him, near the edge of a dense thicket,
where the medical officer was still beside him,
and after placing a great-coat, rolled up, 'under
his head and applying a pad and bandage to
stop the haemorrhage, was now, together with
the hospital sergeant, busy with another wounded
man, whose case seemed equally bad ; and
in answer to an inquiring glance from Lons-
dale, the doctor shook his head gloomily and
ominously.

Lonsdale thought it was all over with his
friend, who was lying there still and pale with
the awful calmness [of death about him — a smile
that seemed almost seraphic on his handsomely-cut,
but now blue, lips, and all the intense
quietude of man's last sleep on his closed eyelids;
and though Lonsdale deemed him gone "to
the shore that hath no shore beyond it, set inc

2

all the sea," roused by a sound, the dying man
opened his eyes.

"Montague," said he, feebly, "old fellow, are
you here *? "

Yes," replied Lonsdale.

"Tell me, please, exactly, what these medical
fellows think of me," he asked, in a broken voice,
with an interval between every word.

Think — they think that you are very much
injured."

"And won't pull through — oh — I understand.
Poor Claire— poor Claire ! Speak out, Lonsdale —
don't be afraid — but for her — but for her — I could
bear it, whatever it may be."

Lonsdale could not bring himself to tell what
was too evidently the case, and the dread verdict
the doctor's glance implied.

Speak, am I dying ? " Then, ere Lonsdale
could form a reply, Montressor said: "You will
return to Calcutta after this business is all over -
you will see Claire — tell her — tell her — I loved hera
thousand times better than man ever loved
woman ! "

At that moment there was a distant flash, and
then a report, and with it came the ping of a rifle
bullet — a bullet no one precisely knew from
whence; but it struck Digby Montressor on the
left temple, and killed him in a moment — yet
in that moment, strange to say, true to his
soldierly instincts, he had grasped the hilt of
his sword, and expired with his right hand within
it.

"Follow me!" cried Lonsdale, and he dashed
headlong into the jungle, before his soldiers could
quite realise the situation. While rushing after
him, some fixing their bayonets, and others
dropping cartridges into the blocks of their rifles,
they saw the flash of a revolver in front — then the
noise of a scuffle, and a cry was heard in the
gloom.

The soldiers went onward with a rush, but not a
trace was to be seen of Lonsdale, and a search discovered
nothing among the dense, leafy jungle, and
tall elephant grass, but a Burmese sabre — a
weapon without girard or hilt — with the blade and
grasp both covered with blood.

He seemed to have been spirited away — carried
off, no doubt, to be put to death by torture, at the
leisure and for the amusement of his merciless
captors.

A WANDERER.

When Dick Talbot, tingling with pain in every
limb, and with his young and impulsive heart filled
with rage, humiliation, and bitterness, left the
house of his Uncle Grimshaw, he had, at first, no
object in view but the vague one of putting as great
a distance between himself and that locality as
possible ; and with this intention he had walked
steadily forward, heedless in what direction he
went, though not without a certain desire of
ultimately making his way to London, where surely
*' something would turn up."

After a time, as he trod along, he kicked up the
dry and withered leaves that lay so plentifully in
the country lanes — where is the little boy that does
not love to kick up those gathered heaps and see

them career before the wind ? — but, anon, heavy
thoughts began to press upon him, especially when
the afternoon was past and evening began to
close.

Save the moan of the east wind, as it swept
through the bare trees, there was no sound when
the shadows began to deepen, and there seemed —
even to Dick's country eyes — something weird in
the swaying of the dark boughs against the gloomy
background of the sky; and save the robin, every
bird was silent now.

What was he to do ? — where was he to go ?
Back to Eose Cottage ? No — certainly, never ! He
paused and looked around him, after proceeding a
few miles. In the distance there loomed a
church tower darkly against the sombre gr^ sky.
He knew it was that of Woodstock, and that
London lay in another direction, so he paused
irresolutely.

From more than one thatched barn, he could
still hear the flop ! flop ! of the swung flail, or the
whining of the more newly invented threshing
machine ; he heard, too, the gruntle of the fat pigs

that waded knee deep amid the straw of a farmyard;
and through the windows, as he passed them,
he could see the red glances from many a cosy fire,
seeming all the redder and more cosy hy very
contrast with his own homeless condition and the
gloom of the fast coming night.

He knew that the hedgehogs and badgers were
hid in their holes, the frogs had buried themselves
in the mud of their ponds, and that the field mice
and squirrels were now shut up with their winter
stores, for the time was the last days of chill
November. In many respects Dick Talbot was a
very simple and essentially a country boy, unaccustomed
to the crowded streets, with their
taverns, busy shops, their strange and flaring
placarded advertisements of amusement and folly.
His friends had been the grand old trees by the
wayside ; the woods, the hedges, and all the
feathered tribes that built their nests therein ; he
knew the pools where the trout lurked under the
long bordering weeds ; and he knew every bird's
egg and every bird's habit, as if he were a trained
naturalist.

Bingo whined, as if enquiring the cause of their
wandering, and crept close to him.

"My dear old doggie!" exclaimed Dick,
caressing his only companion; '' Oh, if you could
only talk, Bingo, you would be a perfect "dog — and
what a chum for me ! I should want no one else."

Dogs and children — boys especially — take
naturally to each other. The dog never cares for
others of his species when he has his little master
or mistress with him ; thus he is alternately playmate,
guardian, and sometimes horse. Be he ever
so poor, a dog is a positive luxury to a boy who
enjoys his double position of patron and proprietor,
and as poor Dick was, just then, poor enough, ho
and Bingo were all the world to each other.

He now remembered the important part, that —
save a few pence — he had no money ; he seldom
had any, now that Montague Lonsdale was
gone.

He could not pay his fare to London, thus, to
reach' that supposed goal of fortune, he would have
to walk fifty miles and more.

Then again he thought —

"When I get there, what shall I — what can I
do?"

He shrunk with natural pride, shame, and
repugnance from the idea of making his wants
known to strangers, who would no doubt flout and
scorn him, but the coming night was likely to
prove a bitter one. The wind seemed to blow through
him, and he stooped his head against the blast,
while working his way aimlessly along a deep and
muddy road, for in November " The country ways
are full of mire," as Alexander Smith, a now
forgotten writer, says in one of his poems.

As yet there had not been any sharp frosts,
and flowers as tender as single dahlias were still
lingering in some sheltered places, but the gardens
were shorn of their beauty, and from the woodland
scenery even the colours of the autumnal
foliage had departed.

A cheerless drizzle had now begun to fall— the
same that Melanie was then watching anxiously
from a window ; and Dick, as he shivered, thought,
*seven the rabbits and the birds have homes, but
I have none ! "

He felt hungry, too ; but on discovering a piece
of biscuit in a pocket of his round-tailed Oxford
jacket, he had not the heart to eat it, for on seeing
his dog eyeing him wistfully, he gave it to the latter.

To pass the night on the open highway was
impossible, so Dick, on finding himself near some
haystacks, burrowed a place in one, for warmth
and shelter.

He thought sadly and lovingly of his gentle and
beautiful sister, who at that hour — if not busy with
him and his tasks — had usually her needle actively
employed; and in fancy he could see her soft,
shining, dark brown hair, and long dark lashes, by
the light of the shaded lamp, and — ugh ! — Uncle
Grimshaw, with his pince-nez balanced on his
nose, with his pale, shifty eyes conning the
'money article."

How lonely, grieved, and terrified Melanie must
be without him ! And Reggie too — helpless
Reggie ! How lonely he was himself, poor boy ;
as he thought of it all a few natural tears escaped
him ; and he drew Bingo, his only friend and
comrade, close to his side.

And when the dog, chilled with the rain, shivered
and whined, Dick thought vengefully of his Aunt
Chillington's pet poodle, which slept in a mother-of-pearl
basket, that was lined with blue satin,
stuffed with down, and had scented pockets round
it ; and which dined off macaroons and cream,
or chicken and meat, minced by the hands of his
pampered mistress, or her odious French maid,
Clochette.

At last Dick slept, and so passed the first night
after he ran away from '' home."

SERGEANT Hawley.

Stiff, sore, and for a time chilled to the marrow
in every bone, Dick Talbot awoke betimes next
morning, surprised that he did so without any
summons from old Bethia Barlow, and for some
moments could not remember how he came to be
in such a place, one so strange, and not in his
own little room which the kind hands of Melanie
had so prettily curtained and decorated for him, sofar
as her poor means went.

Then he crept forth, and, still resolved to return
no more to the abode of his Uncle Grimshaw and
the grinding life of taunting neglect and irritation
endured there at the hands of that repellant
relative, he turned his steps resolutely, if vaguely,
so far as purpose went, towards Woodstock.

He had no overcoat, and — ugh ! — how cold and

bitter the November atmosphere felt ; but his
spirits rose with locomotion. The sun shone
brightly, and the world, and all that's therein,
looked so much better by the light of day than the
gloom of a starless night.

As Dick trod on he felt strangely free — free,
unfettered, and untrammelled, and the lord of his
own person. But how long was that freedom to
last ? A livelihood was to be won somehow ; but
not like the newly fledged Claude Duvals and Boy
Brigands, of whom he had lately read so much in
penny literature.

Hitherto, under Uncle Grimshaw, he had fel
somewhat like a hunted creature — cornered — withall
the will, but not the power, to fight to desperation.
Now he felt that the future, and all therein,
must depend upon himself ; but the knowledge that
he had only a few pence in his pocket, given
secretly by Melanie, rather damped these valiant
resolutions.

Ere long he found himself entering Woodstock,
where the morning chimes, so pleasing and so
mellow, were being rung from the modern tower

added to the old Chantry church, founded in some
unwonted fit of fear or piety by the despicable
King John.

Skirted on the west by the Glynn, which
expands into a pretty sheet of water in Blenheim
Park, the streets are handsome and regular; but,
as the day was not a market one, they had all the
stillness and desertion peculiar to those of a small
country town. Few people were abroad, and —
save, perhaps, the glove-makers — few seemed to
have anything to do.

After lingering undecidedly under the piazzas of
the town hall, which, when used, are adopted as a
market-place, Dick bethought him of food, and
turning into a quiet little tavern, named "The
Cheques," which had a sanded tile floor and
quaint windows of the low kind projecting outward,
he asked for some bread and milk, which he
proceeded at once to share fraternally with his faithful,
four-footed companion, after making the latter
perform some of the little tricks for which he was
wont to reward him with biscuits and bones, heedless
of the only visitor who occupied a corner of the

ample and wainscotted, but exceedingly shabby,
coffee room.

Now, Bingo ! " cried Dick, holding out a morsel
of bread, "earn this."

Bingo rose up, turned thrice round upon his hind
feet, received the bread upon the tip of his impudent
black nose, tossed it up to arrest its descent by a
snap, deftly and with a laugh, for dogs do seem to
laugh to those who study their eyes and faces.

A tall infantry sergeant, on recruiting-service, as
the tri-coloured ribbons streaming from his forage
cap indicated, was having his " morning " or
matutinal pick-me-up of brandy and soda, with a
pipe, in, the corner of the coffee room referred to,
and was an observer of the performance ; and ashe
applauded it greatly, Dick made Bingo go
through several others, such as standing on his
head, feigning death, and so forth.

He placed bread before the dog and said, " on
trust"; whereupon Bingo remained still and without
moving a muscle, till told it was " paid for,"
when he took it with a snap ; and when sat upon a

chair, with his fore-paws on the table, again
VOL. III. n

remained thus motionless, till Dick uttered the
word " released," when he capered for joy and
again stood on his head.

These talents and this discipline seemed greatly
to impress the sergeant, who was a worthy-looking
elderly non-commissioned officer of an age, character,
and hearing seldom, if ever, seen in the
service now, for he had been — it would appear — in
the last China war, the medal for which was on his
breast with others, for he had been lately scorched
by the sun in Egypt, had borne his share in the
midnight rush on Tel-el-Kebir, and more than
one battle .by the Nile. His closely shorn
hair and thick moustache were thickly seamed
with grey, but he had a pleasant face and a kindly
manner.

After eyeing Dick closely for a time, he said
** Where do you come from, my boy ? "

*' Stokencross," replied Dick.

** And where are you going to ? "

Why do you ask ? "

"Because — excuse me — but I could see with half
an eye that you are on the tramp."

Going to — well, I don't know," replied Dick,
with a tone of sadness in his voice.

"Don't know, my little lad — that sounds badly.
What is' your name ? "

*' Dick— Richard Talbot."

Ah — and what are your father and mother ? "

"What do son mean?" asked Dick, irately.
"What trade is it?"

No — I think you're a cut above that," said the
sergeant, with a little smile, while slapping his
regimental pantaloons with his cane. " Well ? "
he added, inquiringly, with an eye to business.

They are dead — both dead — long ago, sir,"
said Dick, with a sudden sob in his throat, for
though he could barely recall their memory, he felt,
somehow, very lonely and desolate just then. " My
father was an officer, who served and died in India.

A subtle change came over the old sergeant's face
as he heard the boy.

Ah," said he, and he sipped the last of his grog,

while, as Dick spoke, he looked wistfully at him,

and there was in his heart that emotion which

Sterne describes the son of poor Lieutenant

d2

Lefevre feeling, when he first met Corporal Trin,
and, in his loneliness, saw, in a soldier, " a friend."

What was your father's regiment? " asked the
sergeant, in a kindly tone.

The 20th Bengal Infantry."

'' Oh — the old 8th Punjab," said the sergeant.
*' They were with us in the China war at Pekin, six-and-twenty
years .ago. By Jove ! how time runs
on ! How many fine fellows I have seen three
volleys fired over since then ; how many more
shovelled away without coffin or volley — buried
where they fell — buried in unconsecrated ground,
as the parsons say ; though the hearts of many of
these English lads would have consecrated Grand
Cairo."

The sergeant seemed to say this to himself, with
the nearest approach to a sigh, while mechanically
refilling his briar-root.

"Poor lad!" said he, after a pause, as the
sympathetic chord — the freemasonry of the Service
was struck ; '' why have you left home ? "

Because it wasn't much of a ' home ' ; I could
not remain longer. My uncle — "

'' Oh, d — net ! I had an uncle too. He turned
me into the streets to find a living anyhow ; so I
took the Queen's bright shilling in the Fusiliers,
and by the time I was your size was beating a-
drum under old Hope Grant at the storming of Pekin
and the looting of the Summer Palace. You don't
mean to go back, I suppose ? "

''No! "

•" That is right — but what do you mean to do? "

'become a soldier if you will take me," said
Dick, with a sadden glow in his boy's heart and a
bright flush on his fair soft cheek.

You are very young."

I shall grow older."

You are not an apprentice or anything oi that
kind, I hope?"

No — I am just past fourteen."

That will do — right as a trivet ; we cannot
enlist boys younger than that, by the Queen's
regulations."

Dick felt himself " in for it '" now, and rather
enjoyed the new importance of the situation,
though with the va^^uest ideas in the world of what

was before him, or of the life on which he was
about to enter.

He saw the mysterious letters T.K.W.F.R.L.W.O.
on the shoulder straps of the sergeant, according to
the new arrangements of the vast territorial muddle,
introduced into the unfortunate British Army by
Caldwell and Co., in lieu of the old single battalions,
with their '' numbers," of historic memory.

The mystic interpretation of this Cabals meant
that the sergeant, Hawksley by name, belonged to
"The Eoyal Western Fusilier Eegiment, Lord
Wolsey's Own," though Old Nick himself, or the
sharpest War Office clerk might not have discovered
the fact. This is no • exaggeration. Under the
same eccentric system, the old Second Foot have,
on their appointments T.R.W.S.R.T.Q. (The Eoyal
West Surrey Eegiment — The Queen's !)

The sergeant ordered breakfast, and invited
Dick, who, like a hungry boy, was nothing loth, to
share it with him.

Sergeant Hawksley was a non-commissioned
officer of the good old school, which seems to have
passed away for ever with the old trained soldiers

who were ever the backbone and central figures of
our service — that class of whom short service has
proved the. death-knell, and whose place the dirty,
soured, and discontented reserve man can never
fill.

The old sergeants taught the first rudiments of
discipline to the recruit, whose future home was to
be the regiment they were so proud of. and he was
initiated by them into all the art of barrack and
camp soldiery, with the mysteries of pipe-clay and
packing a kit, while imbibing something of the
veteran's religion — enthusiasm in the service, and
pride in his corps, whatever that corps was from
the 1st Royal Scots to the 109th, and a veneration
in whom he saw the ideal gentleman, foreseeing
■ nothing of the time when his country might reward
his life-long service with the usual shelter in the
workhouse, and a share in a pauper grave, after
thrilling the village boys by his yarns and

Shouldering this crutch to show how fields were won.

The mystic shilling is now, we believe, unnecessary
; but Dick had duly received it, and was

told that after having passed the doctor, he would
be taken before a justice of the peace for solemn
attestation. And here we may inform the reader,
with reference to Dick's tender age, that according
to Her Majesty's Regulations (Section XIX.) :
*' Boys of good character between the ages of
14 and 16 may be enlisted at the rate
of one boy for every 200 rank and file of the
establishment. . No boy, however, is to be
enlisted who does not, from his make and stature,
give fair promise of growth, and of becoming,
when he has attained the proper age, an effective
soldier."

To the practised eye of Sergeant Hawksley, Dick
promised all the above required, and felt his
position growing in importance, while already ■ .
speculating on the martial appearance he should
have, in the new unornamented tunic or slop
jersey of his regiment, with the many cabalistic
initials ; but breakfast was barely over before he
and Sergeant Hawksley had a rather unpleasant
accession to their society.

This was the arrival of Corporal Gutters, the

sergeant's second in command, with some half-dozen
or so more recruits, of whom he had
been in charge over night at some cheap lodging-house
in the slums of Woodstock.

THE R.W.F. REGIMENT.

This accession of company filled Dick with some
consternation and dismay. Unused, as yet, to
any discipline, and undeterred by the presence
or authority of Sergeant Hawksley, the recruits
were noisy, and as rough and brutal in manner
and language as any street Arabs could well be,
and, like too much of the material that now swell
our ranks, they were not from the agricultural
districts, but from the recesses of London — that
city of the slums — and in their dilapidated attire,
like their general aspect, betokened an early
struggle with work, crime, and misery.

Dick was instantly eyed over as a victim to
fleece or torment in some fashion, but to sundry
unmistakable hints, as to how glad they would

be "to drink his jolly good 'ealtli," he could make
no response.

However, some had a little money among them,
and early though the hour, they proceeded, as
they phrased it, " to liquor up, and have another
wet," as they were nearly all the result of the
public-house and street-corner system of recruiting
not of the good old and now forgotten system of
*' beating up " with drum and fife.

They perched their dirty persons on the tables
as freely as they did on the rickety chairs, with
pots of indifferent beer, adulterated stout, or
glasses of " dog's nose " before them, with foul
clay pipes stuck between their teeth, smoking
industriously thereat and still more fouling the
atmosphere with the odour of coarse tobacco ;
some singing, some swearing, and all disposed to
chaff each other in rough and unsavoury terms
so we must hasten over this portion of our
story.

Whether Corporal Gutters — baptised Albert
Edward, for the snobs of humble life imitate
those of the higher circle in the love of grand

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

names— also, of her Majesty's T.E.W.F.L.W.O.
Eegiment, was a non-commissioned officer of the
new school, we do not pretend to say, but only
know, that though barely twenty and past the
pacing-stick, he was a finished scamp and tyrant,
who, after being wanted by the police under
several aliases in his native Whitechapel, had
joined the corps as a "farewell recruit."

Cadaverous in visage, he was sandy-haired, and
like an old boy or premature man. His upper
lip, though of great length, was, like his acutely
receding chin, hairless, and would probably ever be
so. His cunning eyes were of a watery grey, swollen
and protruding like those of a pug dog, which
he strongly resembled. He had neither been well
developed nor well nourished, and his ill-shapen
legs were thickest at the ankles, and for a time
past he had been fleecing the "Johnnie Laws "
by the "Three-Card Trick," in which he excelled,
with other London street accomplishments.

He speedily fastened on Dick.

Who's precious cur is this ? " he asked,
snatching up Bingo — who, scared by the general

noise aud row, had kept close under his master's
chair — b}^ the nape of the neck, and swinging the
poor animal about in a way the latter seemed well
disposed to resist with his teeth.

"Put down the dog, jon fellow!" cried Dick,
filled with wrath and alarm.

Fellow ! Who do 3'ou call that, you d d

young wasp ? Your cur, is it ? " said* the corporal,
laughing, though insolent and irate. " It is clean
again the Queen's roots and regulations for recruits
to have dawns, and I'll toss this 'un into the
Glynn with a stone at its neck."

'Taint 'ars a bad 'un," interposed another
warrior of the Whitechapel type ; " he's worth
a fiver at least. Suppose, lads, we get a fiver
on this 'ere dawn, and has some jolly drinks all
round ? "

This proposal was greeted with a storm of
applause and much clanking of battered pots
upon the sloppy tables.

All right," said the stripling corporal. " I
knows a party at the Marlboro' Arms as will give
us the money."

Swelling with rage and alarm, Dick, who had
started to his feet on this, said :

'' Set down my dog, you insolent rascal."

"He's mad — he is," said the corporal, appealingly,
to his companions. '' Does you know who you're
a-speaking' to?" he asked of Dick, while his grasp
on the terrier tightened.

"Do you know who you are speaking to?" said
Dick.

"Blest if I do, or care."

"Well, I am a gentleman"'

This assertion was greeted, after the silence of a
moment or two,, with a roar of laughter that was
certainly genuine, and much dof&ng in mockery of
battered half-bullet hats ; but this only added to
the exasperation of Dick, who, before Sergeant
Hawksley could interfere, started forward and
confronted the dog stealer, for such he considered
him, amid cries of —

"Here's a rum go ! "

A gent — a gent— oh what a lark ! "

And much more to the same purpose.

Stand back, you d d young muff'" said the

corporal, " or I'll knock your two sanguinary eyes
into one ! "

Two may play at that game," cried Dick, who
was a fearless little gentleman, and clenching his
fists in a way that Reggie had taught him, he
rushed on Gutters and dealt him in quick succession
a couple of blows that, while nearly
knocking him down, compelled him to release
the dog and stand on his own defence.

This is a bout and lout mutiny," he cried,
with a fierce and filthy oath, and was rushing on
Dick, who must eventually have had the worst of
the brawl, when the strong hand of the sergeant
arrested him. "Let me go," cried Gutters, choking
with rage ; " I'll — I'll murder the young willan ! "

No you won't — he may hand you over to the
police for dog stealing, and it won't be the first
time, perhaps — silence; I order you to be quiet,"
said the sergeant, sternly, and the bully fell back
abashed.

But Dick had received several side-blows from
others who resented, perhaps, the respectability
of his appearance, and more than all, the inopportune

assertion that he was a "gentleman." He
felt his lips bleeding, and sought a docket for his
handkerchief; but it was gone — one of his new
English comrades, true to his old instincts, had
quietly appropriated it in the scuffle.

Sergeant Hawksley thought the best way to
keep the peace, for the present, would be to take
Dick away with him, and have a ramble together
in the town prior to taking him before a magistrate
for attestation; and for fear of another attack upon
his favourite, the poor boy carried Bingo in his
arms for a time, and was rewarded by having his
cheeks elaborately licked therefor.

Gutters will be your enemy for all this," said
the sergeant. " He is a bad lot — will smash you
up if he can. I would rather have lost twenty
guineas than have had this row happen."

But I will not associate with him," said Dick,
loftily. ■

The sergeant smiled, and then cast a hostile
glance at the terrier, though the innocent cause
of the disturbance. :

The worthy veteran then, after giving Dick a

glass of beer at the Bear Inn as they rambled
about, proceeded to give him a deal of sound
advice, concerning how he should comport himself
among such fellows as Gutters — "the fellows
of the new system" — after he joined the regiment,
otherwise, he would find life a pandemonium on
earth.

He also instructed him in all that he was to
reply to the magistrate — the many preliminaries,
as to his name, age, height, width of chest, birthplace,
parents, and so forth ; and that he was
to state his perfect willingness to serve in the
E.W.F.L.W.O. Eegiment for the term of six years
with the colours ; to be followed, at the end of that
period, with a similar term in the Army Reserve
on threepence per diem for the luxuries of life.

To all of this Dick listened with ideas that were
vague indeed ; he could not anticipate the future.
To a boy of his age, twelve years more seemed
a lifetime ; but his spirits rose again in the bright
sunshine, and under the kindly influence of the
sergeant, whom he deemed a protector and hero,
with his China and Egyptian medals.

VOL. III. E

There was sure to be a big war before long —
one of " the big wars that make ambition virtue "
thought Dick, and if he only fought like some
of the youthful heroes of whom he had read so
much lately, the British Government must,
in common gratitude, make him a general at
least, and what would Uncle Grimshaw think
then ?
• Of this future, Dick felt just then as sure as ever
Sancho did of his island.

In this mood he indited at the Bear his letter
to Melanie, and gave it to the sergeant to stamp
and post for him ; and as the former was in no
hurry to do this, because of subsequent events,
a long time elapsed before she received it.

After the preliminary of passing the doctor,
Dick found himself with the sergeant under
the piazzas of the town hall, where he regaled
himself, for the first time in his life, perhaps,
with a cheap cigar, supplied to him by Hawksley,
prior to presenting themselves before the sitting
magistrate, who, they were informed, was very
busy just then with some poaching cases, which

had made his worship very savage, as he was
a great game preserver.

So Dick assumed an air of nonchalance, and
sauntered to and fro with the dog close to his
heels, smoking his new cigar with doubtful
pleasure, and from which, ere long, he began to
feel unfortunate effects.

The market-place and all the houses seemed
to career after each other like the wooden horses
in a merry-ground. Dick felt most decidedly
sick, though ashamed to say so ; and a head-ache
came upon him as though his temples were
split open.

He threw away the fatal cigar ; but did so
too late, and a wild clutch that he made at
Bingo rendered matters worse. The mischief
was done. He heard the voice of the sergeant
saying :

Now is the time, young sir. Come along."

And mechanical Dick followed him — followed
him into a spacious room with lofty but plainly-glazed
windows, furnished with rows of seats

on three sides like pews in a church, with a raised

E 2

dais or platform on the fourth, in the centre
of which, under a gilded coat of the Royal Arms,
sat a solitary magistrate with an air of grotesque
dignity,, with a couple of helmetted constables
near him and an old and white-haired clerk at
a desk in front.

For what is this boy brought here ? " asked
the magistrate.

"Attestation, sir," replied the sergeant.

'' Look up, boy ! " said the former, in a voice
which, if awful, sounded strangely familiar to
Dick, who, to his consternation and disgust-even
amid his sickness and dire confusion —
found himself face to face with Plantagenet
Pugwash, Esquire, Justice of the Peace for the
County of Oxford, swelling on his perch, in all
the dignity of his vast stick-up collar, scarlet tie,
and brown sur tout, and, in short, surrounded ■ by
all the terrors of country civil despotism —
the last man in the world before whom Dick
talbot, under all the circumstances, could wish
to find himself.

DICK S Scrape.

Now, Mr. p. Pugwash was an Englishman of
a not uncommon kind ; and it was easier to
appeal to his ignorant prejudices and to his
passions than to his reason. Thus, after a grim
and triumphant stare of recognition, he began,
as a magistrate, his questions — per printed form
hut in a bullying and tyrannical manner,
sufficiently galling to a boy of spirit like Dick,
who, however, heard him as one in a dream,
and his voice failed him, while the four corners
of the justice-room seemed to be in quick pursuit
of each other.

Speak out, sir ! " thundered old Pugwash.

"The boy does not seem quite well, sir,"
suggested the sergeant.

The boy's either intoxicated or shamming,"
snarled Mr. Pugwash, twitching up his long shirt
collar.

Shamming — not a bit of it, your worship ;
the poor boy is only sick — "

Don't dictate to me, sir ! I says as he is
intoxicated. I did not think — I do not think
that anyone but this hardened young rascal would
have the effrontery to appear before me — before
me— in such a state as he is ! "

'i'll bring him again tomorrow, sir — he'll
be all right then, sir," said the sergeant, kindly,
the lad isn't used to smoking, certainly—"

"But he drinks— he has a brother, a shabby
sailor feller, and we know that all sailors, and
soldiers too, drink."

" So do many that consider themselves better,
yet ain't worth powder and shot," said the soldier
indignantly.

"I don't want your opinion, sergeant — silence,
sir ! Vigorous measures is necessary here —
I must indicate the law of the land."

"Just so, sir," said Sergeant Hawksley,

who thought with Mr. Bumble, that " the law
was a Has."

*' The prisoner is remanded in custody till
tomorrow," said Mr. P. Pugwash with a great
air ; ** he must be attested not later than twenty-four
hours after enlistment — don't the act say
so, clerk?"

Yes, your worship, unless the smart money
be paid," replied the seedy old clerk, who was
certainly one of an antiquated school, as he
added in a snivelling voice, "otherwise both
parties is criminally implicated — one for deserting,
and 'tother for aiding, abetting, and ■ conniving
at desertion."

Conniving at desertion — exactly so," said
Mr. Pugwash, who was densely ignorant of the
whole matter. " Demanded till tomorrow morning.
Call the next case."

remanded till tomorrow morning— and in
custody," wrote the clerk.

Custody, of course," snapped Mr. Pugwash.

Then Dick found himself transferred from his
friend, the sergeant, to the care of an unpleasantly

stolid-looking policeman of apparently colossal
proportions — a circumstance which dissipated the
fumes of his recent cigar at once.

After this you must keep your eye on him,
sergeant," said Mr. Pugwash, viciously, as a
Parthian shot; "he is a precious young wiper
and a poaching waggabone."

You're a " began Dick, furiously.

'' Silence, Talbot," cried the sergeant, and he
was dulled away

"And look here, constable," said the magistrate,
*' you had better have that dawn of his drowned or
destroyed ; it is a vicious cur." .

All right, your worship," was the response,
while Dick, clutching Bingo tightly and despairingly,
was lugged rather roughly away.

Now it chanced that in the constable Sergeant
Hawksley suddenly discovered an old comrade,
with whom he immediately fraternised, and to
whose kindly care he specially commended Dick,
for the worthy non-commissioned officer was
really interested in the homeless but spirited
lad who seemed to have no friend but his

dog, and was honestly concerned for the mistake
of which he knew himself to be the innocent cause.

Thus he told Dick to "keep up his pecker till
tomorrow," when he should see him again; meanwhile,
with some forethought, he made arrangements
about food for him, and went away, after
which poor Dick, feeling very lonely and miserable,
was confined in a small apartment — a kind of cell,
with a wooden bed and couple of blankets as
furniture, nothing more — wherein to pass the
entire day and following night as best he could ;
his only solace amid his new affliction being that
his dog was left with him, at least till the time
expired

Committed to his own reflections now, they took
a very darkened, bitter turn indeed, as the silent
and lonely hours of the day passed slowly — oh,
how slowly ! — on.

In his solitude he thought much over the whole
situation in which he found himself. His military
ardour was considerably cooled, if not crushed ;
his natural pride and sensitiveness had received
more than one most serious shock.

In the Western Fusiliers he would not, and
could not, associate with such repulsive fellows as
Corporal Gutters and his companions ; thus he
resolved if he could to avoid it ; that gallant
corps should not be favoured with his services
therein, nor would he undergo the fatal ceremony
of attestation therefor.

He remembered to have heard Montague
Lonsdale say, that at this very period many
good fellows who had failed to commit the
barbarisms of Chaucer to heart, and the most
obscure passages of Shakespeare to memory for
Exam, and had failed to get suitable employment
of any kind after years wasted in useless
study, had enlisted ; and that in one Hussar
regiment there was an entire troop) of Public
School and University men, who had pluckily
become troopers as their only opening in life ;
while in the ranks of the famous Black Watch
alone, there were no less than forty Scottish
gentlemen serving as privates ; so all corps,
thought Dick, could not be like H.M. Fusiliers,
with all the mystical letters.

An3diow, he should "levant."
-He would turn a clean. pair of heels to the whole
matter if possible, and just as the sun was setting
and darkness closing, he set about an examination
of the place in which he found himself, aided and
inspired by all that he had read in his tales of
boys' adventures by flood and field, and their
hair-breadth escapes from savages, pirates, man-eating
tigers, and demons too.

The narrow closet or cell — if such it was —
opened, he knew, off a corridor adjoining the
office or apartment occupied by the Inspector and
his constables, whose voices and heavy footsteps,
muffled by distance and closed doors, he could
hear from time to time.

Its ceiling was lofty, and it had a small window
somewhat high in the external wall, but above his
hermit-like couch, and thereby not inaccessible to
one who could climb deftly as a squirrel, like
Dick.

With boy-like agility he scrambled up, and
through the dirt-obscured panes saw that it was
only about thrice his own height from the ground

without, and overlooked a kind of meadow, beyond
which spread the open country ; while in the
immediate foreground were some leafless trees and
hedgerows, already becoming shrouded in the
rising, silvery haze of evening.

He found also that the window was engraved, but
secured by a screw, stiffened by rust, through upper
and lower sashes ; thus his place of sequestration
was certainly not one for prisoners of a desperate
class. Both sashes, if open, would make an
aperture so small that no fully-grown man of
moderate size could have escaped thereby ; but
Dick was a boy — young, supple, and slender — and
boys can achieve feats of agility in which a grenadier
would fail. So his spirits rose, and could he but
get the window, or even the lower half thereof, open
without noise or exciting an alarm, he resolved that
his place in Woodstock should be vacant in the
morning.

This desire was enhanced by a certainty that
once or twice he heard the voice of Corporal Gutters
in the constables' room.

The darkness fell completely, and Bingo whined

and crept close to him for companionship and
warmth. " Faith in a beloved superior is perhaps
the most beautiful and affecting of all the attributes
of a dog," says a writer; and certainly the little
terrier had the most sublime faith in Dick.

The latter could not bring himself to recline on,
or even use in any way, the blanket assigned for his
use. He was sharp enough to imagine, with great
disgust, what manner of inmate might have used it
last ; and now, boy like, his spirit rose higher as
the time for action came nearer.

But if his fingers proved unable to turn the old
screw and open the window, or if Bingo barked at
the attempt and raised an alarm — what then ?

Dick shrewdly expected that a final \dsit would
be paid him about or after nightfall. Then he
would be left completely to himself, and have about
fourteen hours of darkness and gloom in which to
make the attempt to escape from his prison withall
its abundant humiliations, and put as much
distance between it and himself as possible.

For the first time, perhaps, the degrading
sensation of being a prisoner came over the boy.

when, amid the darkness, he heard heavy steps in
the corridor without — a keys grating in the door-lock,
and saw a light stream like the long blade of a fiery
sword through the keyhole, as the door was opened,
and the colossal constable, in his glazed night-cape,
peeped in, muttered, '* all right, I see," — and again
left him to darkness and solitude.

Now ! " thought Dick, as he drew a long breath,
he would be solus now till morning, and ere then
he must have succeeded, or miserably failed.

For a time he sat still, and seemed to hear only
the pulsations of his heart. Alone — he was again
alone ! and thought and felt it to be a great
adventure, to baffle the insolent and pitiful Pug-wash,
to escape from the Western Fusiliers and all
connected therewith, and also to put the law and
its big myrmidons at defiance.

There was no moon, but the stars shone clearly
through the small window overhead. All was very
silent without — so still that Dick could hear once
or twice the clamour of a long string of aquatic
birds winging their way to the fenny and marshy
lands on the banks of the Glj^nne and Isis.

He clambered up to the window, and with bated
breath again looked through its cobwebby danes.
Darkness lay everywhere ; scarcely a light twinkled
on that side of the town, and a great stillness,
we have said, prevailed. He tried the screw,
clutching the knob with trembling fingers, and his
heart seemed to die away on finding that it was
immovable — fast as tight turning and old rust
could make it.

Perspiration bm-st upon his temples, and the
exultant visage of old Pugwash, wedged between his
stiff collars, came in fancy before him. "What was
he to do ? To smash the glasses would not avail
him and might only cause an alarm, and he had
been deprived of his pocket-knife, with which he
might have cut round the bolt.

Again he tried it, with all his strength and a
prayer on his lips.

It yielded — it moved at last ! Exultantly,
breathlessly, slowly, he tui-ned it round, till it came
forth and fell on the plank bed below. Then Dick
found that both sashes moved horizontally on
pivots ; he pushed open the lower one and felt the

chill air of the last night of November on his flushed
and heated face.

He peered forth. Around him all was still,
lonely, and silent, save the bark of a distant dog and
the clock in the old Chantry church tower striking
the hour of eleven.

The ground below looked far down — he could not
see it in the haze and obscurity, but judged
correctly that it gave a drop of about fifteen feet.

What if in dropping he broke a leg ? Well
—happen what might, the attempt must be made
now, though if Bingo barked in exultation on being
brought forth, all might be lost yet.

To muffle and break the fall of himself and his
dog, he threw out the blankets, letting them drop)
in a heap pretty close to the wall. Then he put the
terrier on the window-sill, and passing out feet
foremost, let himself down to his full length by one
arm and hand, clutching Bingo by the other, and
dropped deftly as a cat on the ground below — the
concussion being alike broken by the blankets and
the soft wet turf on which they lay.

Dick lighted on his feet, but fell prone on his

back, and though shaken, was only breathless for a
half-minute ; but not a bit the worse for the
adventure, and still grasping his dog to prevent it
from barking, he began his flight without the delay
of a second.

VOL. III.

THE WANDERER.

Crossing the open space, which he knew to be a
field, he vaulted over a low boundary wall, followed
closely by his dog, now barking wildly and joyously
with a full sense of freedom, and found himself ina
roadway which led off right and left — he knew
not to where, nor cared, so that in either direction
he got away from his present perilous locality.

Chancing it, he hurried on a little to the left,
and then, with a caution beyond his years, paused
and listened intently to learn whether his escape
had been discovered or if he was followed. Not a
sound — not a footfall broke the silence that reigned
around him. He looked sharply about also, but no
one was to be seen ; so Dick trod on, or ran rather,
until he became breathless.

The whole of the past few hours seemed a kind

of nightmare to Dick — a nightmare with only one
sympathetic figure in it, that of the kindly sergeant,
who he hoped might not get into a scrape through
his disappearance, as Dick's ideas of military law
were very cloudy ; but he felt high exultation at
the idea of baffling Mr. Pugwash, and also of
eluding for ever Corporal Gutters, whose visits to
the constable's room he never doubted had direct
reference to getting Bingo into his hands, for sale
or some other nefarious purpose.

Such a story of his adventures he would have to
tell Melanie and Eeggie.

But when should he see either again ? Tears
started to his eyes at this reflection ; he would not
return to his uncle's house, perhaps to find there a
warrant for his arrest, issued by the tyrannical
Pugwash — for Dick had a shrewd, but unpleasant
suspicion that by his flight, after taking the enigmatical
shilling of which he had heard so much, he
was somewhat of a deserter.

Anyway, he would return that coin, or the value

thereof, to Sergeant Hawksley, if he could ; and

then, he thought, the compact would be ended.

f2

Past houses and homes, the windows of which
were closed and dark, and the inmates of which
were sunk in sleep, Dick walked on — he knew not
whither. He felt cold — miserably so — and all the
more when the hours approached morning. He
knew not how many miles he had traversed, and
supposed they must be many ; yet he had not
placed a very great distance between himself and
Woodstock after all, as it eventually proved, for
after passing a mile or so beyond Carbury, a
little market town, he got into a network of lonely
lanes, that led him partially back in the direction
he had come from. High in the sky rode the
Queen of Night, "wading," as Scott describes it,
through fleecy clouds, peering down apparently at
the lonely wayfarer, between the bare, black hedgerows
of the deep old English lanes, and flooding
all the long white fields and quaint little paddocks
with silver.

He discovered an empty cattle-shed in the
sheltered corner of a paddock, and crept therein
for warmth and to escape the biting wind, which
had now become keen and frosty, to add to his

misery and enhance the conviction that all the
romance, of which he once had fancied himself
the hero, had evaporated.

No brilliant or racy adventure had come to Dick,
which, after all he had read of the wild peril and
daring faced by youthful heroes, was rather
disgusting to a boy of pluck and spirit; and his
teeth chattered as he sunk among a quantity of dry
straw m a corner, and being well nigh worn out,
dropped into an uneasy slumber.

When he awoke, the sun was shining brightly ina
blue and unclouded sky, and a frosty rime covered
all the landscape. There had been a slight fall of
snow in the night, and amid it the little footprints
of the robin, and the deeper investments of the
long-eared hare, were visible to the practised eye of
Dick as he came forth, shivering and reluctantly,
without wrapper or overcoat, and betook him again
to the highway, that was to lead him he knew not
where.

To cultivate a little warmth, he attempted to
run ; but his steps were staggering and uncertain
now. Anon he passed a little pond by the wayside.

It was overshadowed by some pollard willows — those
hideous features in the Dutch and English landscape
— but upon it was a group of children belonging
to an adjacent farm, sliding to and fro, happy,
joyous, full of frolic and life, with noise, laughter,
and apple-red cheeks ; and pausing for a minute
or two, Dick watched them wistfully, enviously.

Suddenly there was a mingled yell of terror — the
ice, which was slight and thin, cracked from end
to end. A little girl fell in, and the rest fled with
cries of terror and dismay, leaving her to her fate.

Amid the broken ice, the child rose and sank
again while the shrieks of a woman were heard :

Oh, my child — my poor child — she is under the
ice now, and I — I cannot swim ! "

But 1 can," cried Dick ; *' and I'll save her
too!"

Without the hesitation of a moment, he went
headlong into the chasm — for the pond was deep —
and the woman continued to shriek and shudder
and wring her hands as she saw Dick struggling
amid the broken ice and whirling water, grasp,
once, twice, and thrice, a dark object below the

surface, and then rise with his face cut by a sharp
fragment ; but after a third attempt he got the
little girl to land, and placed her, voiceless and all
but senseless with cold and terror, in the arms of
her mother, who, in the mental agony of the
moment, forgot to give the preserver a word of
thanks, but rolled her apron round the dripping
rescued child and bore her off towards the house.

Drenched, the icy water pouring from his clothes,
more cold and more miserable than ever, chilled to
the very marrow of his bones, the unfortunate
Dick Talbot looked wistfully, helplessly, and hopelessly
after her.

He was about to follow, and in the humility that
was born of loneliness and misery to seek for food
and warmth at the ruddy fire, the steady radiance
of which he saw streaming from a mullions
window on the frosty atmosphere and the bleak
waste of wintry fields, when his eye caught
the sight of something red upon the adjacent
highway.

Whether it was the coat of a soldier or aught
else, Dick never thought of waiting to see; but

thinking only of pursuit and re-capture, he glanced
wildly about him for a place of concealment.

Near the pond was a barn, above which was
evidently a spacious loft, to which a ladder gave
access. Staggering like a drunken man, he
scrambled up the ladder, cast it down after doing
so, and found himself in a dry and cosy place that
was piled nearly to the roof with straw, fodder for
the cattle below ; and there, after wringing, as best
he could, the water from his coat and trousers, he
burrowed, as he had done on the first night of his
flight, for warmth ; and then a faintness came over
him, the result of all he had undergone— anxiety,
weariness, dread, and lack of that sufficient repose
so necessary for the young; but now sleep — the
sole luxury of the poor and the toil-worn — induced
by comparative comfort, came upon Dick, and his
dog crept close beside him.

He must have lain thus for some hours.

When full consciousness returned, he knew not
what the time was, whether midnight or the early
winter morning ; but the short day had evidently
passed, and complete darkness set in.

He knew perfectly where he was, but lay still,
feeling, the while, every limb stiff and sore ; and it
was something like a miracle that fever did not
attack him. He was about to doze off again when
he was roused by the vehement yelping of Bingo,
whom he found affectionately licking his hands and
face ; and then the more furious barking of the
dog thoroughly aroused him.

A red hazy light flashed along the loft in which
he lay, showing the bare and cobwebby rafters
above, the piled straw below, and a couple of men
making their way towards him, one armed with a
double-barrelled gun and the other with a pitchfork.
The first, by his costume, appeared to be a farmer,
in shooting coat, ample waistcoat, and long gaiters,
fat, cosy, and well-to-do looking ; the other, a
shock-headed yokel in knee-breeches, hob-nailed
shoes, and the inevitable smock frock, which, as it
is the attire of the Norman peasants, probably
came into England with her conquerors.

'' Come, tumble up ! " cried the farmer, angrily.
** How many more of you are there among that
straw ? "

A great alarm fell upon Dick, and all his spirit
had departed now. Tears started to his eyes again,
as he thought of Melanie and his poor lame
brother, both so loving and tender.

'' Yes," he muttered ; "1 shall be murdered now,
I suppose, and no one will hear of it — how or
where."

Tumble up and toddle out, I say ! " cried
the farmer again, striking the butt end of his
gun on the floor. " You are one of those
rascally tramps that steal my hens and set my
barns a-fire by smoking among the hay and
straw. Off with you all, or I shall summon the
police ! "

All ? — 1 am here alone, sir," said Dick,
staggering up with difficulty, and half-blinded by
the glare of the lantern held before his eyes.

There ain't no more than this boy, Mr. Mopps,"
said the yokel, after peering about and prodding
the straw with his pitchfork.

Where do you come from — who are your friends,
you young warming ? "

"Oh, sir," said Dick, now almost incapable of

standing, ''do be kind, please, I have neither
father nor mother nor home."

This broke down the indignation of the farmer,
who of late had suffered much from the depredations
of " tramps," as he called them, who had
robbed his hen-roosts, and fired his hayricks more
than once b}^ the reckless use of lighted matches ;
but he was a kind-hearted man and saw that the
boy, if pale, sorely fagged, and " seedy " in aspect,
was a handsome one, with crisp golden hair, and
honest, fearless blue eyes."

Come down from this place and let us have a
look at you," said he, loth to become too pitiful
suddenly ; and Dick followed him from the loft,
down the ladder, into the keen air of the winter
evening, where he fell in a heap, half-lifeless on the
ground.

Wife ! wife ! look here ! " cried Farmer Mopps,
in great dismay, as he carried Dick into the
kitchen and set him in a chair near the fire.

'* Oh, mammy," cried a little girl, peeping
fearfully at him, " this is the boy — the boy who
pulled me out of the water ! "

And who ran away before I could thank him,"
exclaimed the farmer's wife'' So he is, John— the
same boy— door child, he looks like death."

Dang it," cried the farmer, " is this the case ?
Was it you that saved my little lass from the duck-pond
? "

But Dick was past responding; he could only
gasp an assent, while the smaller children gathered
round him in fear and wonder ; but the unwonted
warmth brought back circulation, life, and energy
to Dick quickly now, amid the many comforts of
the spacious farm kitchen.

Long before the present time the farm-house
had been a manor, and hence was huge, rambling,
straggling, and very quaint, but very comfortable.
There were spacious old wainscotted parlours,
where many a glass of old port had been drunk
to " the king over the water, and the confusion of
all Hanover rats," and where the squires of the
past had hung their swords, their whips, and
hunting gear ; but were now used as storage
rooms for bacon and apples, potatoes and lumber.

The family of Farmer Mopps, it would appear,

were just about to sup, when Bingo's barking had
sounded an alarm and drawn attention to the
supposed tramp in the straw-loft.

A fire blazed up the spacious chimney, which
was lined by old blue Delft tiles ; the red brick
floor was closely swept and slightly sanded, yet
not a footstep had marred its perfect cleanness
and neatness ; a snow-white cloth covered the
heavy oaken table, and thereon were tea and hot
cakes for the children, cold beef, pie, and a
tankard of brown October for the farmer. So erelong
Dick found himself in clover, thoroughly renovated,
and in the eyes of the old couple the little
hero of the house, as the saver of their eldest
daughter from the depths of the duck-pond.

On being questioned about himself, he became
unusually reserved for his years, and passing over
his military aspirations and the episode connected
therewith, he only stated that he had run away
from home in consequence of ill-treatment ; and
received the unpalatable advice that it was his
duty to return to that home at once, wherever it
was.

Burly Farmer Mopps was full of fun and jollity,
and sung merrily to his youngest child, who
crowed upon his knee. Among other ditties was
one which was painted on his huge ale tankard, a
vessel more than a hundred years old ; and he
carolled it out with great gusto : —

Let the wealthy and great
Roll in splendour and state,

I envy them not, I declare it ;
I own my own lamb.
My chickens and ham,

I shear my own fleece and I wear it.

I have lawns, I have bowers,
I have fruits and sweet flowers,

And the lark is my morning alarmer ;
So sing, jolly boys, now,
Here's God bless the plough,

"With long life and good luck to the farmer."

Meanwhile, Dick's four-footed companion crouched
by the genial fire — he had not seen one for sometime
past — and the children assiduously stuffed
him with cake and scraps of meat.

"A good dog!" said the farmer, approvingly.
I had just such a terrier once — a Scotch one he

was — and he went up a drain after a rat till he
got wedged in somehow, and had to be dug out by
the shovel. Foui' men were two hours at it ; and
he was never a hair the worse."

Betimes the household of Farmer Mopps, whose
sister-in-law was housekeeper at Eavensbourne
Hall, were all abed. A comfortable sleeping-place
was assigned to Dick, whom the farmer, after a
conference with his wife and with her earnest
concurrence, resolved to take to his friends on the
morrow, whether he desired it or not ; but others,
whose influence was unthought of then, were fated
to come into the affairs of the young wanderer,
for the early breakfast had scarcely been partaken
of next day when, to the consternation of all,
there appeared in the farm kitchen the smock-flocked
yokel, accompanied by Corporal Gutters
of the E.W.F.L.W.O. Eegiment, and a rural
constable.

The two former had met at a roadside tavern ;
and the corporal, on hearing the boor detailing,
with much exaggeration and horse-laughter, the
episode of the discovery in the loft, and that there

was a boy and a dog in the case, never doubted
who the wanderer was, and inspired by the hope of
£1 reward, had followed the trail at once.

My eye ! " he exclaimed on seeing Dick ; " you
do look like a ghost down on its luck."

Now, what may you want, my man ? " asked
Farmer Mopps, pausing with tankard in hand.

'' Only that 'ere young cove," replied the
corporal, eyeing with malice and triumph the
shrinking Dick.

Why— and for what ? "

Punishment ! He has bolted — muzzled —
deserted the Queen's service, that is all."

A deserter — this child!" exclaimed the
farmer's buxom wife, starting up.

'' Precisely. Child — he's one of the devil's hewn
kind, that's wot he is ; and he must come along
with us — double quick too ! " he added, with a
glance of appeal to the tall stolid-visaged
constable.

All the children now shrieked and yelled,
believing that Dick, and his dog too, were to be
done to death, as deserters.

Looked here," said the bluff farmer. *' I want
none of your larks, my young fellow. This is all
stuff; or if a little money — "

Money won't do nothing ! " said the stripling
corporal, adopting a bullying tone ; " he must go
into the custody of this 'ere constable till we gets a
suitable escort to 'headquarters."

And what may the penalty be for a boy like
this giving you the slip ? "

'changing, maybe; and too good for him,"
said the corporal with a grin, while the cries
of the children* were heard again, to his great
delight.

''I want none of your chaff, you young cad! "
said the farmer, assuming his hat and ample
great-coat. " Where is the boy to go ? " he asked,
turning to the constable.

Back to Woodstock, sir. It must bo as the
corporal says it."

Dick's heart sank. He thought of Mr. Plantagenet
Pugwash, and Pugwash only.

John," cried the farmer's wife, " have the
horse put to the dog-cart, go back with the boy

VOL. III. G

to the town, and see an end of this folly — for folly
it must he." she added, with a hostile glance at
Gutters.

So in ten minutes more Dick found himself,
like one in a dream, but comfortably tucked up ina
warm rug, being bowled back through the keen
frosty air to Woodstock, with Bingo between his
knees and the corporal and constable seated
behind him — a proximity to the civil power by no
means to the taste of the Whitechapel warrior.
Farmer Mopps drove rapidly, and Dick soon saw
the tower of the old Chantry church, and heard
its pretty peal of bells — saw again the streets, the
town hall with its piazza, and the place from
which he had effected his escape, as it seemed now,
in vain.

Now Dick had heard of terrible things being
done to deserters — and he was one ! He might be
shot perhaps — blown from a gun. "\Vhat had he
not read of in the tales of war and terror published
for the behoof of boys ?

He had seen an engraving— who has not seen it?
of a deserter who declined to have his eyes

blind-folded, on one knee before a dreadful platoon
of musketry, with his dog rearing against him, to
be shot also — just as Bingo would do in that
supreme moment ; and Dick almost wept as he
thought of his own demise in this fashion, before a
squad of the E.W.F.L.W.O. commanded by the
inexorable Corporal Gutters.

But few things in this world happen exactly in
the way we expect them to do.

The farmer asked to see a justice of the peace.
He was told that one was sitting in court now —
Pugwash, as Dick's " prophetic soul " feared — and
he was lugged, rather than conducted, by the
corporal into the justice room again, and lifting up
his eyes to the dreaded Bench, he saw, not the
grotesque and plebian-looking soap boiler, in the.
central chair thereof, but the gentlemanly presence,
suave and pleasant face of Sir Brisco Braybrooke,
with his bushy eyebrows and snow-white moustache.


"Dick!" he exclaimed; 'dick Talbot— what
the deuce is this ? Where is the charge-sheet—
what is the matter? Where have you

a 2

been hiding yourself all this time, you young
rogue ? "

For days and nights Dick had never had his
clothes off, and their sodden aspect gave him a
rather deplorable look just then.

His story was soon told.

Leave the matter to me," said the baronet.
Corporal, you may go ; but send here Sergeant
Hawksley. I shall arrange all this."

And so it was duly arranged by the influence,
advice, and money of Sir Brisco; and instead of
being handed over, as he feared, to the tender
mercies of Corporal Albert Edward Gutters, Dick
found himself being driven homeward that evening in
the well-hung carriage of the friendly baronet, who
laughed heartily at all his adventures and the
present end of his visions of military glory.

Great was the joy of Melanie at the sudden
restoration of the wanderer, her *lost boy," as she
called him ; but this new debt of gratitude to Sir
Brisco Braybrooke was a source of perplexity to
her, lessened, however, just then, by the fortunate
absence of her uncle, who would have made it a

reason for indulging in his usual taunts, advice,
and the urgence of his matrimonial views and
wishes.

You shall be a soldier yet, Dick, if you choose;
I will send you to Sandhurst as a cadet," were the
parting words of Sir Brisco.

Marriage BELLS.

The preparations for Amy Brendon's marriage had
meanwhile gone on apace. All was getting fast
ready now ; and her Hussar, Horace Musgrave,
looking handsome and more like a Hussar than
ever, even after his woeful 'smash up" in the
hurdle race, had come to Stokencross, accompanied
by his groomsman, one of the Prince's Own — with
a bracelet for the bride ; one of the most beautiful
Bond Street could furnish — and taken up his
quarters with his kinsman at Piavensbourne Hall.
There, too, had come the bright Hilda Tremayne,
with her — it is difficult to say — choice (she had
smiled on so many), whose initials had caused such
dismay to Amy in the past time.

So the wedding-day came at last ; a bright and
clear day, early in December. The whole village

of Stokencross was astir betimes ; and coloured
mottoes, garlands of false flowers and bright
streamers gave a picturesque appearance to the
little street overlooked by the ancient church on its
green knoll.

Amy had but two attendants, Melanie and Miss
Aurora Pugwash, judiciously invited to be a bridesmaid
by Mr. Brendon as the daughter of a very
wealthy parishioner, whose wedding gift far, far
eclipsed the poor offering of Melanie. But the
next marriage at which the latter officiated, she
hoped, would be her o^ia.

Her own !

How little could she then foresee, when, where,
and how she was to flgm-e as a bride.

The floral wealth of Sir Brisco's conservatories
had been lavished on the decoration of the old
village church, as his pineries and vineries had made
the elegance and luxury of the bridal breakfast.

Dick Talbot — marriages were of small importance
to him, save in so far as a huge piece of the
cake was concerned — had gone for a ramble in the
woods; and his brother Reginald was alone —

alone with all his own sad thoughts after a sleepless
and-v^eary night, for being incapable of all
exercise, repose came to him fitfully and in
snatches ; and on this morning, in one of these,
he had dreamt of Amy Brendon.

He heard her voice talking to him kindly and
pitifully, though he knew not the words she used.

He touched her thick dark hair with his thin,
wasted fingers, and played with the inqiiante fringe
that curled nearly to her bright and laughing eyes;
and ere her face began to fade away, he felt — yes,
actually seemed to feel — the touch of her lips, in a
farewell kiss, softly and glowingly upon his own ;
and he awoke with a start and a half-stifled cry, to
find it was her wedding morning.

And now, with the memory of that vivid and
tantalising dream keenly in his mind, he sat near
the open window, heedless of the frosty air,
reclining on his couch in his usual helplessness,
and listening for the passing sounds that came
from the distant village.

He reviewed his past life since he had known
her, especially since he had come home, a helpless

cripple, from the coast of Egypt, doomed to
beggary by the very Government for which he had
lost health and hope. He thought over the time
when he had rejoiced in her society and in the
light her beauty and her grave and winning
manner shed around him, till the blow struck his
heart, when Musgrave came and he knew that she
was engaged — was to be married.

How he felt none knew save himself. Better, he
thought, to have been struck blind — yea, stone
dead. He would have avoided her, after that news
came — avoided her society and escaped the world ;
but he was helpless as a child.

All the love of his heart had gone forth to her,
allured by her winning ways, her sisterly bearing
to him — for Amy never meant or imagined it could
be more. It was a perfect love, as he neither
hoped nor looked for any return. Her presence
to him had been as sunshine cast about
the gloom of his existence ; and in his silent
worship he would cheerfully have laid down his
life for Amy, if by doing so he could have
served her.

His emotions were expressed in the words of
Shelley's serenade, as he had often heard her
sing it : —

I arise from dreams of thee

In the first sweet sleep of night,
When the winds are breathing low

And the stars are shining bright.
I arise from dreams of thee,

And a spirit in my feet
Has led me — who knows how ? —

To thy chamber window, sweet.

lift me from the grass !

I die— I faint— I fail !
Let thy love in kisses rain

On my lips and eyelids pale.
My cheek is cold and white, alas !

My heart beats loud and fast,
Oh ! press it close to thine again,

Where it will break at last;

The blow he so long expected had fallen at last,
hind the girl he could only love in secret was lost
to him more than ever.

In his dumb despair he now realised to the full
how great and how futile that love had been.
Those two were together now ; ere long they would
pass side by side from the altar, where her father
had given her away ; and ere long the new-made

bridegroom would be worshipping the bright beauty
of her sunny little face, his arm encircling her
waist, and his kisses would be where his —
Eeginald's — had never been, on her brow, her
hair, her lips ; while he was here, on his couch,
crushed, lonely, desolate, and longing only for
death.

Suddenly the chimes rang out joyously and
merrily in the square, ivied tower of the village
church • but the sound brought no message of
gladness or peace to the ear of Eeginald Talbot.
It came rather like the muffled knell that announces
the hour of doom to the dying.

He made a wild essay, as if he w-ould start to
his feet — instinct with emotion, convulsed by an
inward struggle — only to sink back among his
cushions ; while the old and attached servant,
Bethia Barlow, ignorant of his thoughts, of all
he felt and end-ed, burst in exclaiming :

The joy bells — the marriage bells of Miss Amy
—bless her little heart. You hear them, Master
Eeginald," she added, as if he was still a boy,
as with clash paid clang the notes came upon the

frosty air through the open window, where she
had swept away the snow, that Melanie might feed
the robins as usual.

Intent only on listening to the wedding chimes
and the sound of cheering that came from the
village, she did not remark the changed appearance
of the unhappy young man, who looked, as he felt,
dying.

As he reclined back, with closed eyes, he hoped
the fiat had gone forth that would give peace to
his over-taxed heart, and, so far as this world
is concerned, oblivion to his soul.

A fit had come upon him — one from which he
was long in rallying ; and the dreadful announcement
that he " was gone " were the first tidings
that met Melanie on her return from the festivities
at the vicarage.

But Eeginald did not die," though left in a more
prostrate condition than ever ; and another shock
of misery now awaited the unfortunate Melanie.

EVIL TIDINGS.

[n the secliult3(l district where Eose Cottage is
situated there were no newspaper shops, with
startling posters, to announce the great events of
the time — even of the preceding day — at the
utmost confines of the earth ; thus Burmese news,
ike other news, came but slowly to the vicinity of
^tokencross. "

A day or two after Amy's marriage, and all the
transient excitement thereof, came one which
klelanie Talbot was never .to forget.

In the air there was a strange stillness, that
)oded something, she thought, by its actual calm-less
and sadness, and Melanie was just then impressed
by that emotion, when a paper, a day or
so old, was purposely left in her way by her Uncle

Grimshaw, and thereon, the first item that caught
her eye was news from Bm^mah !

'thank God!" had been Mr. Grimshaw's exclamation
when he read therein.

Melanie now felt her heart sinking in her breast,
and something prophetic of coming evil — a terrible
fear — fell over hear.

The writer, detailed briefly the capture of Myan
Gyan, the advance to Ava, and what we have
related elsewhere, with the subsequent fall of
Captain Montressor, and the too probable death,
after capture, of his friend Captain Montague
Lonsdale, in the jungle, after the operations had
concluded and the fighting was supposed to be
over.

As the bodies of some of Captain Lonsdale's
party were found floating in the river, and all dreadfully
mutilated, not a doubt remains," added the telegraphic
despatch, "of the fate of that gallant young
officer at the merciless hands into which he fell—
Dacoits of the worst type. The subsequent discovery
of his white helmet, battered out of all
shape and covered with blood, has been deemed by

the staff as ample corroboration of their worst
fears — another valuable life lost in this inglorious
war."

Twice, at least, she perused these awful tidings
and sat as if they had turned her into stone.

Melanie ! " said a-^roice — her uncle's.

A low wail answered him. Its very intensity
made him shiver, yet he had in his hand, crushed
up, a letter just received from Mrs. Chillington — a
brief but exulting one.

So, so, this is well," she wrote; "the wretch who
has stood so long between that fool Melanie and
wealth and rank is gone at last. End her nonsense
at once ; the girl can no longer have any excuse for
delay. How I shall enjoy the Crystal Palace site
to-night!"

Like one in a dream, Melanie smoothed out the
fatal paper with tremulous but tender hands, and
carefully folded it, like one who knew not what she
did.

In our lives, it is said, there are times — even
moments — so filled with emotion that they seem to
mark a turn in them — a turn we never, never

reach again ; and so it was " now with Melanie
Talbot.

Uncle Grimshaw was not one given to tenderness,
even in his best moments. He knew not how to
console, even when he wished to do so ; and in the
present instance he felt only intense satisfaction,
and continued to polish his bald head and twist up
his absurd side-tufts, while he betook him to
brandy and water, leaving Melanie to the care of
old Bethia, who had been a kind of mother to her
from childhood.

Passive, but faltering, she allowed the fatal
print to be taken from her hand, as she was
placed in a seat by the kind old woman, who
watched anxiously, with pain and wonder, the
great change that for a time had come over
her. Melanie was, as yet, tearless. The
slight colour had gone from her cheeks, the
light from her eyes, and for a time she seemed
more dead than alive as she sat drooping in an
easy chair.

One hand was pressed heavily against her left
side, as if a pain was there ; her breath came in

fitful gasps, and her head reclined on the breast of
Bethia, whose arms were around her.

Then the latter brought her some wine, and
insisted upon her swallowing it. She made no
effort to do so, and the glass rattled against her
teeth till, with a low cry, she burst into a passion
of tears.

A storm of sobs shook her slender frame, but
were a species of relief. Bethia was not sorry to
see the tears come — experience taught her that
anything was better than the stupefied and des-pausing
expression of that sad young face — the
fixed horror of the haggard eyes ; and when the
sobs grew fainter and less frequent, Melanie
reclined on the old woman's amj^le breast, like the
child she had been, and wept freely.

So passed the first dreadful day of sorrow, and
the night came, yet brought with it no relief from
care — no escape from thought.

Taken prisoner and put to death by Dacoits — no
trace of him found but his bloodstained helmet!
Dead, after deeming her, perhaps, false, her letters
having been intercepted, Melanie thought, as the

VOL. III. H

full force of all her misery rushed upon her life — a
cold dark wave beneath which she bowed her head.
Could she ever take up the prosaic duties of
life again — when that life, her heart, her soul, all
seemed to have left her ?

All that made existence worth having, worth
hoping for, was a failure now, and nothing remained
but a blank full of bitter and unavailing
sorrow. But no sorrow can last in its first
keenness, and in time she would realise that it
would inevitably and inexorably be, in the words of
Philips —

By Time subdued — what will not Time subdue !

In the freshness and poignancy of her grief, his
face, his figure, his eyes and voice came painfully,
vividly before her in memory now — again and again
more than ever, his expression when the first secret
of their hearts escaped them mutually, and when
she felt the tender touch, the clinging of the lip
that first gave her a knowledge of all a lover's kiss
contained.

How far from what she wished it to be, her
treasured photo seemed now ; but how inexpressibly

dear it was — dearer than ever was a holy rec to
the most pious devotee !

Save her brother Eeginald, now more helpless
than ever, there was no one to whom she could
tm-n for genuine sympathy. Her heart seemed
turned to stone, her brain was throbbing wildly —
hearing nothing more, seeing nothing more, conscious
only that a dreadful calamity had overtaken
her — feeling deprived of power or coherent thought.

Sir Brisco Braybrooke sent his cards of condolence.
This seemed a kind of mockery, yet it was
not so on his part, for he was by native a kindly
old man, and hearing of the depth of her grief
from the vicar and from Mr. Grimshaw he did not
intrude upon her at first. When he did call he
was somewhat shocked by the change in her
appearance.

"In time I may hope to cure all this now,"

thought the baronet, while looking into the sweet

pale face of Melanie, and listening to her low,

vague replies, that filled him with sorrow and

something of mortification, while she, sunk back in

an easy chair, strove to shut out his bluff honest

H 2

visage, with its husky grizzled eyebrows and white,
moustache, as that of one who sought to come
between her and the face of him who now lay cold
and mouldering in a distant grave and in a place
to her unknown.

You will think lightly of all this sort of thing
tomorrow," said Uncle Grimshaw, eyeing her
with a sardonic glance, when Sir Brisco had taken
his departure.

To-morrow — what difference can tomorrow
make to mie ? " asked Melanie.

Much, I hope."

How — in what way ? "

Because," said he, with an angry grin, for her
grief intensely bored and disgusted him, '* people
view things differently, and are always much more
sensible and amenable to reason in the morning
than at night."

"What brings him here? " murmured Melanie;
how can he come when his presence torments me
so!"

And yet yoti owe him much for his kindness,"
snarled Uncle Grimshaw.

For days and weeks after this, with eager and
haggard eyes, she sought and searched the public
prints with nervous avidity for further tidings of
Lonsdale — even for complete details, if such were
come — of his death ; but she sought in vain, for
nothing of the kind ever appeared.

His name seemed to have passed away, his
memory to be forgotten, and other men had taken
his place. It was inevitable —

For the fashion of this world passeth away.

THE POONGYEE.

Every hour," it is written, 'ewe are sowing the
seeds of character, which one day may astonish
even ourselves by blossoming forth in actions of
which we had not supposed ourselves capable."

So it was with Montague Lonsdale, who could
have little foreseen all he became by the course of
events, how patient and watchful, how wary, yet
resolute, how capable of enduring and facing out to
the bitter end, amid the barbarous people whose
captive he became, all that he had to encounter.

In the jungle he had been knocked down by a
blow from a clubbed musket ; then he was dragged
up, half senseless, with his face deluged in his own
blood, and carried 'off, partly blinded thereby, by
the Dacoits, for what purpose he knew not, helpless,
disarmed, incapable of resistance. Thus it

was that, save his battered helmet, no traces of him
was found by the searchers after the death of
Montressor.

That he was reserved for some barbarous and
protracted death — of ransom the Burmese Dacoits
never thought — he had not the slightest doubt.
His hands were tightly, painfully bound by a hemp
cord, which — that it might shrink and inexorably
tighten still more — was carefully and deliberately
wetted, a barbarity under which several of our men
died in the Chinese war, when their hands decayed
and mortified below the wrists.

Through a district where the long reed-like
elephant-grass grew to a vast height he was
dragged or driven in haste, while the cord which
fettered him began fast to occasion torture as it
shrank ; and his captors, true Burmese, though
men of small stature, seemed capable of enduring
great privations, being strong, wiry, active, and
muscular ; thus they urged him on without delay or
mercy.

In what we call bottom, these people are not
inferior to Englishmen," says a writer in the Bengal

Harvard, ' ■ and they resemble us in their love of
luxury and similar amusements. In true bravery,"
he adds — incorrectly, we think — " they take the
lead of all other Asiatics, as no one who has ever
had an opportunity of seeing them at Eangoon will
deny."

Lonsdale's captors mocked, grinned, and scowled
at him, while chewing the inevitablabetel nut, and
jabbered and talked about him evidently; but ignorance
of their language left him equally ignorant of
their intentions, his only wonder being that they
did not hack him to pieces and save themselves all
further trouble on the subject.

Whatever their intention, it was evidently upset
when they overtook two men bearing a third in a
species of palanquin, and who, on seeing Lonsdale,
uttered a shrill cry and issued an order in a
peremptory manner.

On this, the cord that cut his hands was cut
through by a sharp daly and not a moment too
soon, as he feared from the extreme torture he
endured that a little more of such fettering would
have nearly wrenched his wrists through, and

rendered him a cripple for life, or what was likely
to be left of it.

He now discovered that his protector was the
wounded man whom he had succoured a short
time before, and whose bleeding limb he had bound
up with a handkerchief — the strange-looking and
aged Bm-mese, who, by his yellow silk attire, he
now discovered to be a Poongyee, or species of
monk — a personage of whom we have more to
relate anon.

Not a word that he uttered could the luckless
Lonsdale understand ; but it was evident that the
old man recognised him, felt grateful for the
succour he had given, and made the Dacoits aware
that he was to be spared and protected. Thus
their menacing manner changed at once, under his
orders and influence, though their covert glances
betrayed hostility and baffled spite in the expression
of their narrow, almond-shaped black eyes and flat
olive visages, with huge cheek bones, narrow foreheads,
and coarse jetty hair, all of which were
indicative of the Hindu-Chinese type — for such the
Burmese are — a people described by Father

Sangermano in 1785 as "servile, slothful, brutish,
and false."

The undressed wound on his head occasioned
Lonsdale intense pain and no small anxiety, when
day began to break, and he . knew that in time it
would attain its tropical heat ; while his captors
were still proceeding — he knew not in what
direction, save that by the position of the sun
he supposed it must be inland, or to the eastward
of the Irawaddy, far from the welcome sight
of the smoky funnels of the river steamers — at
once so suggestive of Em-ope, of civilisation, and
of home.

By order of the Poongyee, some food — such as
rice and cold fowl, with achilles and pounded fish,
all taken, with other plunder, from a house they had
passed — was given to him when the whole party
halted to refresh, in a wild and lonely place amid
the jungle scenery.

Meanwhile, the poor old Poongyee, who lay in
the palanquin in agony, alternately fanning himself
and telling over his rosary made of large seeds
strung together, took only a little boiled rice,

served up on a green leaf, and washed down with
spring water.

The sun was rising over the leafy wilderness,
through which glimpses could he had of a misty
grey horizon, overhung hy clouds in masses full of
brilliant tints and in the immediate foreground,
where the halt was made, the lengthened shadows
lingered till the sunlight pierced them.

The Dacoits in whose hands Lonsdale now found
himself were twenty in number, and were Penguins,
who inhabit the lower valleys of the great river,
and a few Parens or wild tribesmen from the mountain
ranges ; and four or five there were whose
bright red cotton tunics and baggy blue trousers
showed that they were fugitives from the army of
King Theebaw, whose reign had now drawn to a
close.

Lonsdale knew enough of the Poongyees to be
aware that with their strict ideas — for in their
outward life and the observance of rules those of
Burmahh are more rigid than their brethren in
Siam — such companions would not be the choice of
the old man in the palanquin ; but none was left

him just then by the force of circumstances, and
they were in duty bound — after his accident from
the random shot — conveying him to his monastery,
where they arrived about nightfall three days after,
and departed, leaving Lonsdale's head on his
shoulders, but with evident reluctance.

However, he had not seen the last of them.

There he remained for some weeks, unable to
effect an escape with the least hope of safety or
success in making his way through paddy fields,
water cuts, forests and wild jungles infested by
savage animals and equally savage Dacoits. Without
weapons, a guide, and knowledge of the
language, it seemed impossible to reach the
Irawaddy, where alone his desire might be
accomplished.

He was ignorant now of all that was passing in
Burmahh, ignorant of the operations of our troops,
as to whether they were still in the land of the
white elephant or had returned to India, and of
anything subsequent to the surrender of King
Theebaw to General Prendergast, and that Bhamo
had fallen to the latter — Bhamo, the great town of

Pegu, where the yearly caravan from China arrives
laden with treasure, version, velvets, umbrellas,
and pheasants ; ignorant also of Lord Dufferin's
important proclamation, to the effect that " by
command of the Empress Queen, it is hereby
notified that the territories formerly governed by
King Theebaw will no longer be under his rule, but
have become part of Her Majesty's dominions, and
will, .during her Majesty's pleasure, be administered
by such officers as the Viceroy and Governor-general
of India from time to time may
appoint " — i.e., that Burmahh was annexed by
Great Britain, with its one hundred and fifty
thousand square miles of country and four million
of souls.

He was suffering meanwhile from his slowly
healing wound, and saw with no small anxiety' that
his patron and protector, the aged Poongyee, was
evidently sinking under the effect of his lacerated
limb, which medical skill of a Burmese kind could
not cure.

The monastery was rather untenanted just then.
Many Poongyees had fled to the hills of Pegu in

terror of the British invaders, and some who had
been found unworthy to be professed members of
the service of Buddha had been stripped of their
yellow garb, degraded and expelled, to resume a
secular course of life.

Built near a pyramidal temple dedicated to
Buddha, this monastery occupied the slope of a
hill above a minor tributary of the Irawaddy, and
though sick of his inactivity and apparently hopeless
detention there, Lonsdale could not, as yet,
complain of being either ill-lodged or ill-fed ; for it
was not then the three months of the Buddhist
Lent, and offerings of fruits, rice, ghee, flowers, and
so forth — apart from many other good things —
came freely in from the devout, but nothing of the
nature of flesh, as the strict religion of Buddha
forbids the sacrifice of animal life for food, *so far as
ecclesiastics especially are concerned.

The most humble of all God's creatures was the
poor Poongyee, who, in his spirit of gratitude, protected
Montague Lonsdale, whom he, no doubt,
would have sent to the British head-quarters had he
possessed the means of doing so with any hope of

safety. He set no store upon the life he was
evidently so soon to leave himself.

In the lives of these strange communities,
Lonsdale saw much that had been, of course,
hitherto quite unknown to him.

No priest ever kindles a fire, lest by so doing he
may deprive some animal of life ; hence he takes
the simple food, bestowed in charity, just as he
receives it from the giver. He is bound to procure
that food by " the labour of his feet " ; thus, in the
early morning, Lonsdale saw them, as soon as
they could 'distinguish on their hands," setting
forth from the monastery each with his sabeit or
wickerwork basket, with which, but in deepest
silence, he paused at each door to receive such
cooked food as the devout chose to accord; and — like
that of the Soeurs de Charity in Europe — the food thus
obtained was shared with the poor and necessitous.
In every convent is a zcn^a or reader, who is treated
with respect and awe. *' They are held," says a
recent writer, " in the highest respect by all ranks
of the people, from the Sovereign to the beggar in
the street. Their dress, their mode of life, their

renunciation of the world and its pleasures, draw on
them the admiration of the laity. When they
appear in public places they are the objects of the
greatest deference, and all people, whatever may be
their social position, give way before them. . . .
Throughout British and Upper Burmahh the respect
paid to the order is everywhere apparent, in the
liberality with which their wants are supplied, the
size and beauty of the dwellings built for them by
laymen, the respectful language in which they are
addressed, the submissive attitude of those who
appear before them, or in the pomp displayed on the
occasion of the solemn cremation of their mortal
remains after death."

So in the care of these people Lonsdale was "safe,
apparently, till Dacoits became rampant over all
the land between Eangoon and Bhamo. Yet his
impatience of the life he led grew stronger everyday
now that his wound was completely healed.

His .thoughts for ever rose on his brother officers,
on the regiment and what it might be doing, on the
deaths of poor Digby Montressor and other good
fellows, on the unfortunate Claire, now really a

widow in a distant land. More than all did his
thoughts, of course, run on Melanie and how she
might be situated. Had she heard of his capture —
it might be of his death !

All these surmises coursed through his mind
again and again, and knowing the malign stars
that reigned over her destiny, his soul rightly foreboded
the worst, and seemed to writhe within him,
in his wild and eager longing to procure arms and
quit his monotonous life among the Poongyees, not
one word of whose language could he understand.

His protector's hours seemed numbered, and the
latter was evidently sinking fast when there came
to the monastery a Poongyee or Piahoan, who had
once been in a Portuguese merchant's office in
Eangoon, and who, in trade, had frequently come
in contact with the British. Thus he had picked
up some of that gibberish known as 'pigeon
English," by means of which he made Lonsdale
aware of the progress of recent events ; and that
though Burmahh was supposed to be conquered, and
its king was departed, a great dacoitee was springing
up on every hand ; and that, weekly, fresh

VOL. III. I

troops, horse and foot, were pouring from Bengal
into the land of the rubies ; that hostile bands were
springing up everywhere, that his existence in the
monastery was known to some of these, and that if
the old Poongyee, who was an influential zara, died,
several were certain to come and demand that he —
Lonsdale — should be delivered up to them, and they
were certain to slay, perhaps impale him, with the
greatest barbarity.

With this intelligence to think of on one hand,
he knew, on the other, that in a country where
every man's hand was against him, and where his
race, European features, and complexion proclaimed
him the foe of all, his chances of ever being
free and in safety again were infinitesimally small.

LONSDALE S HOPE.

Lonsdale had barely time given him to consider
the alarming native of the intelligence he received
and to think over what he should do, whether to
trust to the course of events where he was, or seek
safety elsewhere ere it would be too late to attempt
anything, when, as a kind of crisis in his fate, the
booming of the great bell in the adjacent pagoda
announced that the aged Poongyee had died, or
returned, as the phrase is in Burmahh — where it is
deemed undignified or impious to say that a priest
ever dies — and immediately preparations began for
the disposal of his remains, according to the rites
of Buddha.

Every moment was of value now.

His chief protector in the monastery was gone,

and little doubt was entertained of its only gate

i2

being closely watched, lest he should attempt to
escape thereby.

Lonsdale thought of the days when for cramming
and high-pressure examinations he had, till his
head ached, studied Colonel Clergy's " Minor
Tactics" and Captain Demanded's 'questions and
Answers" thereon; but these in his present peril
gave him no more hint of how to escape it than
Chaucer, Burns, and Spenser, over whose absolutism
he had been compelled to eat his heart.

The Eangoon Eahoan or Poongyee informed him
that he was about forty miles from the eastern
bank of the Irawaddy — or Airavati as he called it
and that a rather wild and broken country lay
between it and the monastery, full of forests,
marshy paddy fields, and deep water cuts.

On this he ascended to the summit of the pagoda
—in which was enshrined in gold a single hair of
Buddha — a pyramidal edifice, sole three hundred
feet in height. Built of solid brick, it rose from a
spacious platform, and was surmounted by an
umbrella spire of iron tracery, so elaborately gilded
that it shone like a mass of fire in the sunlight.

and at times was the eagerly greeted object of
devout pilgrims from Indo-China, Siam, and Cambodia,
in the far peninsula beyond the Ganges.

From this lofty spire he had an extensive view
of the sounding country, but he chiefly bent his
gaze in the direction where he knew the great river
lay.

The country seemed silent and deserted as far ashe
could judge, save for a few flimsy huts, the
dwellings of pagoda slaves and those who were
professional beggars, if not worse.

Then, too, he was aware that in the dense jungle
and primeval teak forests were wild elephants,
which found their way thither from Pegu, the tiger »
the leopard, and the savage boar, while in the
marshes and deep grass lurked poisonous snakes.
Thus he had no ordinary risks to run ere he could
reach the river, if even then he could get on board
any of the flotilla or see a vestige of it, as the
expedition must now be far up the Irawaddy,
Bhamo alone being more than one hundred and
sixty miles above Ava.

These thoughts filled him almost with despair.

His mind was a species of chaos when he
descended from the summit of the great shrine and
returned to the place or room set apart for him
within a corner of the great brick walls that
surrounded the monastery, in which arrangements
for the solemn cremation of his late friend were in
full progress — preparations that occupied several
days, and which, as he was not present, fortunately
for himself, bear no part in our story, though we
may add that they were quite as repellant as those
used by the Egyptians of old, prior to the interment
of their dead.

About this time an alarm sounded one night
throughout the whole edifice.

Dacoits in no small force were menacing the great
gate in one quarter, demanding that the European
barbarian should be delivered up to them, while a
numerous band in another were discovered to
be secretly at work, digging under the walls,
with the intention of capturing whatever treasure
they could lay hands on, as they knew well, of
course, that many of the offerings of rich devotees
consisted of white umbrellas of precious stuffs, with

ornaments of gold and silver, slippers and pillows
covered with embroidery and precious stones,
together with vessels of several precious metals.

Humours of the vast wealth of this monastery
had spread far and wide, as many of its chief
devotees came from Pegu, where gold is found in
the sands of the rivers, so that it is supposed to bethe
Golden Chersonese of the Ancients, and there
is a mountain near the stream named Khyer-Tw^en,
where there are mines in which gold and silver,
rubies and sapphires are all wrought at the same
time.

With his heart beating wildly — all the more so
that he was without the smallest weapon by which
he could sell his life dearly, or revenge its loss by
the death of another, Montague Lonsdale looked
over the wall near the gate at the furious assassins
whom he knew were clamouring for him, and
thought that his fate had come at last.

It was an awful and bitter conviction for a brave
young fellow, full of spirits, life, and energy, to feel
that he was being thus entrapped, surrounded, run
to earth like a wild animal, and would inevitable

be done to a terrible death without hope of
mercy.

The roost active and conspicuous among them
was a Burmese of gigantic stature, deeply tattooed
and wearing a white frock, well quilted, as the
season was a cool one.

In the light of a torch, held by one of the
assailants, he could see their tawny visages
and floating dresses, their gleaming eyes and
bright weapons flashing like mirrors, their long
black hair unbound and floating, when, with the
energy of the action, their top-knots became loose.
One or two caught a sight of his fair European
face, and with frantic yells fired their pistols at it,
their visages seeming to become transfigured, as he
saw them for a moment, contracted with fiendish
malignity, and the almond-shaped black eyes flashing
as if with flame, their white teeth glistening
and set ; and then he shrunk down behind the wall,
over which the bullets were whistling, in utter doubt
what to do, when suddenly a volley of musketry
shook the darkened air, and the yells of the Dacoits
seemed to pierce the starry welkin.

For a moment a glow of hope rose in Lonsdale's
heart — the hope that a party of om' own troops had
come upon them ; but it was not so.

The tolling of the great alarm bell of the pagoda,
booming out sonorousl}^ on the night afar over wild
forests and rice-fields, scared those who were at
work with their shovels beneath the walls ; while
a rattling but ragged volley, flashing through the
gloom, was poured into the others, announcing
that they had been attacked by the armed followers
of a Woongyee, or great lord, who was a munificent
patron of the monastery, just as a great French
baron of the Middle Ages might have saved a
convent from being the prey of a Jacquerie.

The Dacoits were put to rout, and fled with sells
of rage and fear into the recesses of the woods,
leaving several killed and wounded behind them.

By dawn next morning Lonsdale went forth a
few yards from the gate to see the scene of the late
conflict, and there picked up, to his joy, a sharp
and deadly dal or Burmese dagger, and that which
was better, a six-chambered revolver, with six
unexplored cartridges in it.

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

Six Burmese lives to go ere mine is lost, I
hope !" he muttered sternly, yet with a laugh.

He saw that the revolver was a British Government
one, and thus serious doubts of its being
serviceable occurred to him — these weapons and
their ammunition, like our machine guns, so often
failed in action ; but the charges seemed all right,
and with a sigh of genuine gratitude he concealed
it and the dagger beneath his tunic.

But ere he turned to re-enter the gate he saw in
its immediate vicinity a very appalling sight, lout
one that was thoroughly Burmese in character.

Eight of those wretches who had been assailants
overnight had been taken, and by order of the
Woongyee, were fastened to a lofty Bamboo fence,
first by the hair of the head, the long coiled topknot
being unbound for that purpose, and then by
the throat, with their bare limbs stretched out as
far as they could be without dislocation, and thus,
with underjaw fallen, their eyes open and glazed,
and nude, all save a linen scarf, they hung in the
blaze of the morning sun, ripped open, with the
viscera dropping out, as a punishment for sacrilege.

Lonsdale had seen men too often battered,
gashed, and torn in many ways by shot and shell
in action ; but this appalling spectacle proved too
much for him and he turned a^Yay in horror.

However, an emotion of confidence came back to
him now with the knowledge that he was secretly
armed, and escape did not seem quite so hopeless.
He calculated that once safely free from the vicinity
of the monastery, wherein he was known to be
lurking, by travelling westward at the moderate
rate of fifteen miles a day, in less than three days
he might reach the river, feeding himself as best
he might on the way.

The obsequies of his late protector gave him
additional hope of escape if he could only get forth
into the open country among those who were to
drag and escort the funeral car, thus eluding the
watchful and sanguinary Dacoits.

The Rangoon Rahoan favoured, even suggested,
this idea, and gave him a blue cotton Burmese
frock, reaching to the knees, a sort of canine, with
loose sleeves to cover his uniform, and an ample
handkerchief of what the British call book-muslin.

to envelope his head and face partially in turban
fashion. He also gave him some food in a species
of wallet made of matting, to be ready for any
emergency.

So the eventful evening of the old Poongyee's
cremation came at last, for the bodies of all priests
and persons of rank are burned in that region,
while those of the lower classes and all who die
under the age of fifteen are buried or flung into
the river.

A stage twelve feet high was erected on a four-wheeled
carriage ornamented with paintings and
mirrors, and on the summit of this lay the
coffin, wherein the body was half visible, but
covered with gold-leaf umbrellas ; red banneret
on bamboo staves were stuck all about it, and
high over all rose an acute spiral pyramid of
split bamboo.

With several priests upon it chaunting a monotonous
dirge for the dead, the whole of the curious
structure was drawn from the monastery for a mile
or more, chiefly by women and boys, all shouting
and laughing, followed by a great band of spectators,

of whom Lonsdale — disguised as we have
described — was one ; and the brief twilight was
closing into night when the place for cremation
was reached, the tributary of the Irawaddv, which
was covered with gigantic lotus flowers floating on
its glassy surface.

There was no weeping or wailing, but there was
an exhibition of female dancing, which, to says the
least of it, was rather strange, for the costume oi
the Burmese dancers, while descending to the
ancles, is not closed by a front seam, so that like
the Spartan girls, if Euripides belie them not, a
great part of the limb is always exposed ; and
while the dance was in progress the resinous,
oiled, and perfumed wood was heaped up in piles
to form the funeral pyre.

At that juncture of the ceremony, when a whimsical
contest ensues by an adverse pulling at the
rear of the car, by a party who profess reluctance
to leave the precious remains, till those in front
prevail, Lonsdale, almost holding his breath
in the keenness of his excitement, quietly drew
aside and took his way into an adjacent wood,

heedless, or just then obvious, of what wild
Animals it might contain.

As he proceeded with quickening steps he could
hear upon the evening wind the booming of
barbaric drums, the tinkling of bells, and the
wailing of wind instruments mingling with the
haunting and shouting of the people.

Anon, a great and lurid glare shot athwart the
sky and flashed through the vistas of the wood as
if it came from a solid mountain of fire.

The night was clear, and the peculiarly rarefied
and transparent atmosphere rendered objects distinct
at a great distance; far into the recesses
of the leafy wilderness through which Lonsdale
took his way went the lurid glare of the flames,
and the grotesque shadows they formed out of the
strange trees and gigantic plants, till silence and
darkness began to close together around him and
he found himself alone and out in the night.

THE DEAD PAST.

Despite the sniffs and sneers of Uncle Grimshaw,
and of her fashionable aunt, Mrs. Chillington,
Melanie had adopted a dark — all but black — dress
and jet ornaments, as the only tribute her limited
means would allow her to pay to the memory
of her dead love, as she naturally deemed him
to be.

And now she seemed to leave the days of her
girlhood — neither careless nor quite happy days,
certainly— behind her, and endeavoured in vain to
probe her future.

"My poor Montague is lost to me," she said
once, in an irresistible burst of grief ; " but, thank
heaven, not for ever ! "

"Ah !" said Uncle Grimshaw, in perplexity, and
not without anger.

*' He has been faithful in his love to me, despite
the duplicity of others ; and I doubt not that when
we meet in the next world nothing shall part us."

Ah ! " said Uncle Grimshaw again, .v/ith a
shrug of his shoulders and a rasp up of his side-tufts
with both hands. *' But all that won't payday
and way in this."

"Ever one sordid idea," thought Melanie, drying
her tears, in very shame that he should see them.

The visits of her aunt, who came more frequently
now than before, were ever a source of
annoyance to her; she was so cold and hard, so
worldly and matter-of-fact, having not one iota
of womanly sympathy about her.

''So, so; this Captain Lonsdale is gone," she
said. " Can't you forget all about him now — as if
he had never existed — as if all this episode had
never happened in your life. It is easy enough, if
you will only make the effort."

'' Oh heaven, aunt ! Let me die — let me die, if
I cannot forget ! " wailed the girl.

Stuff ! People don't die of your illusory
ailment," was the harsh response of the old

woman of the world, whose sentiments beheld her
venerable beauty, her mass of silky white hair and
pretty little hands and feet. "What is done can't be
undone, and tears are useless, as well as unbecoming,
now. They soil the eyes and redden the nose."

Just what I often say," added Mr. Grimshaw.
*' There is no use in crying over spilled milk."

''A vulgar aphorism, but a very true one. Do
try to forget him, it is getting quite a long time
ago now ; and then, Burmahh is such a long way
off," said Mrs. Chillington, a little irrelevantly, but
with a well-bred smile.

I am glad we have licked the Burmese. As an
Englishman I am proud of that. My conscience,
I am."

The next best thing for one's peace of mind, to
having a good conscience, is to have none at all,"
said Eeggie, who, reclined in his usual corner, felt
deeply for his sister.

This remark made Uncle Grimshaw wince. He
thought of the missing trust-money of his dead
brother-in-law ; but of that his niece and nephew
knew nothing.

VOL. III. K

'sit is said that we shall now have rubies and
sapphires for a song," said Mrs. Chillington,
slowly fanning herself, despite the season, by mere
force of habit ; " but that will render them too
common for ordinary wear, and prisoners have
reported — "

The Burmese don't keep prisoners ; ain't they
cannibals?" interrupted Mr. Grimshaw, who, if
he was, as he boasted, intensely English, was also
intensely ignorant of the world at large, and hoped
by this time that the subjects of King Theebaw had
made a pleasant meal of Montague Lonsdale.

In all this affair there is one comfort for you,
Melanie," said he, after a pause.

*' One comfort — in what — how ? " she asked.

'well, that as your engagement to him was but
little known, if at all save to ourselves, you will be
spared all impertinent pity and speculation on the
subject, unless this ridiculous assumption of a
sombre dress and black ornaments induces them."

"Exactly so. I have said this till I am weary of
it," added Mrs. Chillington, who, as if weary of the
subject, summoned her carriage and drove over to

Eavensbourne Hall — to report progress, as Melanie's
heart foreboded.

Uncle, you do not and never will understand
me," she said, in a low, soft voice, after a long
pause.

Why ? " he asked, sharply.

Because I think when people grow old —
pardon me — to your years, at least, they seem to
become often benumbed and, I fear, incapable of
suffering."

"Do they?" he snarled. "I wish you had a
twinge of my gout, that's all."

"I shall never be happy again," said Melanie,
almost to herself, as her chin dropped on her
breast.

That remains to be proved. Do you think,
now, that if you learned to love another man you
would be wronging Captain Lonsdale ? "

Yes ; as much as if he had been my husband
in memory, I mean."

Had been — yes — that is in the past tense ; but
he never was your husband."

He would have been — but for fate."

K 2

*' Anyhow, you are not, and never were his wife ;
so you can't affect to be his widow." •

*' Save in heart — in sentiment."

Bosh. And this black dress is utter bosh,
too," exclaimed Uncle Grimshaw, departing in
anger. And so ended one of the many bitter
conversations to which she was now subjected.
Oh, how could they be so blunt, so coarse, so
utterly unfeeling to her at this lamentable juncture
of her life ?

She wrung her slender hands in anguish and
impatience, but was thankful to be left for a little
time in peace.

Never again should she see him — never again.
There could be no more stolen walks now in the
Eavensbourne woods, no more meetings at the
trysting-place .beside the river, where the old trees
cast a shadow on the floating water-lilies, with him
she loved, with him who heard all her troubles,
and in the sense of whose strong presence she had
felt so confident and safe.

She sat gazing out on the sombre evening
landscape with wide-open tearless eyes, thinking,

thinking, ever and always thinking, till her brain
seemed to reel with the monotonous iteration of
her own awful and miserable thoughts.

In the sky without, the lark looked like a dark
speck, and the thrush made its last evening music
amid the opening blossom of the blackthorn hedge
that would soon be green. Already the rooks were
cawing in the tall elm trees that overshadowed
Eose Cottage, and in some places the snow still
lingered where the early violets grew, while the
raven, with hungry eye, looked down on the
affrighted lambs in field and meadow.

How futile now seemed all Melanie's dreams in
the past — dreams of love and joy that could never
be realised.

AVhat was the helpless creature to do now?
This was about the very time when she had
expected him home, promoted. Or that she was
about to go to him in the distant East and be
married.

Uncle Grimshaw, though far from ill-pleased
at the turn her affairs had taken, still looked grim
indeed ; yet she had no other future, it would

seem, than he could give — no other home than he
chose to accord her, unless she left her equally-helpless
brother to his mercy and went forth into
the world to earn her bread.

She looked at Eeggie, and her heart felt ready to
burst when she thought of all the handsome young
sailor had been and what he was now.

Declining on his couch near the window, he
seemed more listless than ever, with a crimson
couvre-pied her industrious fingers had made
spread over him. He looked as if all that
remained of his youth and manhood had gone,
his hollow cheeks were-pale, his large brown
handsome eyes were more dilated than ever, more
sad and weary, his hands were thinner and his
voice more weak.

His future appalled her, more than that of the
heedless healthy Dick — far more than her own.

Where had Montague died — in city, in forest, or
the river ? * How had he met his death ? Like a
soldier — like a gentleman she could not doubt.
.Where was his grave, if he got one? His last
thoughts — doubtless, they were of her.

Hope had gone, so strength of mind began to
fail her.

Spring would come and go — summer with all its
bright loveliness would follow — brown autumn next
so days and weeks and months would follow each
other ; but he could come no more. He had
dropped out of her life— or rather the latter seemed
ended, so far as object was concerned.

Where Montague lay there was a heart — and
there her hopes were buried.

But Melanie forgot she was young, and that erelong
the realities of the world, would press themselves
upon her. Just yet, however, she felt
crushed, giddy, bewildered, till a kind of cold
despair took the place of her more passionate grief.

And when once again the cold pressure and the
threats of her two relatives were put upon her,
she clasped her interlaced fingers and exclaimed :

"What shall I do— oh, what shall I do ? "

Often did the words come to her white lips at
this crisis.

On one hand she knew that by her sacrifice of
self, Reggie would be free from her uncle's

uncomfortable home, and Dick have all his fondest
aspirations of being sent to Sandhurst fulfilled.
If not, she knew what was before them all — her
boys " especially, as she called them.

The gloom, the' weary disgust — the longing to
have done for ever with memory and thought, past
and present, even with existence itself, the great
longing for rest, were all strong in the mind of
Melanie now.

Would a time ever come, she asked herself,
when again she would smile, or laugh, or sing — or
even work as of old, and take an interest in anything
?

To Melanie, as yet, "the ghost of a dead past
was a reality — an undefinable and even mysterious
present."

WILL HE ESCAPE ?

Once more we change the scene.

From the banks of the muddy Thames to those
of the Irawaddy seems only an instantaneous feat
now, as in our time we surpass the boast of Puck
that he would put a girdle round the earth in forty
minutes.

Lonsdale calculated, we have said, that he might
within three days, or less, reach the eastern bank
of that great river, which is to the Bm-man empire
what the Ganges is to Bengal and the Nile to
Egypt; and be within hail of some of the river
steamers, if any were passing upward or downward
just then, an important doubt on which he rather
shrank from dwelling.

Full of the horrid aspect presented by the executed
Burmese near the monastery, and too well aware

that some such fate awaited himself if the Dacoits
caught him and had time to dispose of him in a
leisurely manner, he hurried on, anxious only at
first to get as far away as possible from the vicinity
of his late place of captivity.

It was difficult to think of such barbarities being
"done in a land where education had certainly made
good progress since last we fought them in 1852,
when half the male population are said to be able
to read and write, and when school-books are issued
in the vernacular, setting forth the elements of
mathematics, geography, astronomy, and human
physiology ; yet so it is.

He paused more than once to examine the edge
and hilt of the dal, and the charges in the revolver,
on which so much, to him, depended now; and
when darkness was fairly in, he found himself in a
locality famous for adventures in old romance, to
wit — the recesses of a forest.

It was of teak, a species of tree which frequently
attains the height of seventy feet, without a branch
or twig, and then throws out a roof of foliage so
solid and leafy as to exclude the rays of a noon-day

sun. There the darkness ^Yas dense then ; under
such an umbrageous canopy in mid-air not a
star was visible, nor could a ray of the most
brilliant planet penetrate ; but the surface underfoot
was clear of all brushwood ; though, in places
near the river, there grew jungle-grass more than
twenty feet in height. For years these vast teak
forests have supplied noble materials for the dockyards
of Eangoon, Madras, and Calcutta.

Around him was a solitude awful and oppressive.
Elephants, tigers, bears, and leopards abounded,
he knew, in the wild places of Burmahh ; but none,
as yet, disturbed him, and stretched among soft
moss and the dry dead leaves of the past season
he took his repose, and in the morning awoke to
find that he had slept — actually slept long and
soundly, and felt, though a little stiff, fresh and
ready to face anything.

Extremes of heat and cold are seldom felt in
Burmahh, and the seasons are generally regular.

The light of the uprisen sun failed to penetrate
the screen of interwoven foliage that spread above
him so far from the earth. Here and there he

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

could see a blue patch of sky — no more ; but far
as the eye could penetrate, on every side, spread
the mighty stems of the teak trees, rising in long,
long rows like stupendous cathedral aisles, all seen
by a species of subdued, yet clear and steady,
twilight.

Save an occasional ichneumon, or rat of Pharaoh,
gliding about among the dead leaves — scudding as
rabbits do at home— no living thing was visible.

Which way was he to turn his steps ?

The morning sun, he knew, was shining ; but
under that roof of horizontal greenery it was
impossible to know east from west, as there was
no shadow below it, the subdued light was so
uniform ; but after a long and careful consideration
he found more of it in one particular direction,
and conceiving that there the forest faust grow
thinner and be more open, he proceeded towards
it, and found his conjecture correct. He reached
the skirt of the teak wilderness, where the pepper,
the capsicum, turmeric, and ginger shrubs grew
wild, and saw before him an open and fertile
country, on the woody veritas and abandoned rice

fields of which the sin shone brightly, and guided
by its art he struck westward, by what seemed an
old and forgotten path that was nearly hidden now
by tall coarse grass and long flowering trailers.

The inhabitants — for the district was inhabited,
from many indications that Lonsdale saw — must
have fled, inspired by false terror of the British
troops on one hand, and real terror of the bloodthirsty
Dacoits on the other ; and as a proof of
their recent presence, after proceeding about two
miles, he came upon a zazal, or rest-house, of
comparatively recent construction — an edifice only
about forfeit in height, built of teak wood, with a
broad roof projecting all round it — and Lonsdale,
already somewhat weary with a march that was
toilsome, devious, and over very rough ground, ina
district strange and trackless, without guide or
certainty, among rocks, old water-cuts, and places
encumbered by the nutmeg, spikenard, and bamboo,
all growing wild together, crept therein, and was
fain to pass the second night of his freedom —
assured that in it he would be safe, at least, from
any of the four-footed denizens of the place.

For the second time, also, as he had to be
careful of his little store, he examined it, and
partook of what remained of the contents of the
sabeit given him by the Kahoan, consisting of a
piece of boiled goat's-flesh, with a few cherpathis
of dough, toasted before a fire, and a mouthful of
shumshei from a little china flask — the native
stimulant, which tastes strongly of cocoa-nut oil,
and has a greater odour of it.

When this food and refreshment was done,
there would be but a slender chance of his procuring
more, unless he reached our gunboats, or
British shelter of some kind on the river or the
land.

The next morning was somewhat advanced — the
hours he knew not, having long since been deprived
of his watch — when he again set forth, vaguely,
but resolutely, westward ; but he had not proceeded
far . from the sequestered zazal when he
heard sounds — voices — in his rear ; and while
shrinking down among some tall grass he could
see about fifteen or twenty armed Dacoits, among
them the gigantic fellow with the tattooed skin

and white quilted frock, coming leisurely along, in
Indian file, by the kind of path that led to the
rest-house, into which, with the hope of plunder,
they all went on their hands and knees ; and then
he stole swiftly away — away through the long grass
as fast as its tantalising attractiveness permitted
and his limbs could carry him.

To his eyes there seemed something almost
diabolical in the aspect of the tall Dacoit leader,
as he had never before seen tattooing, which the
Burmese generally use about the thighs alone,
according to some travellers ; but this man had it
over the most of his face and neck, in strange
concentric rings of black and blue— now the result
of lamp-black mixed with the gall of the mirza fish.
But Nicol Conti refers to the hideous custom sofar
back as 1425, when he states that all Burmese,
both men and women paj^nte or embroider their
skinner with ii'on pennes, putting indelible tincture
thereto."

Now the women never do it, and in complexion
many of them are as fair and delicate as
Europeans.

Just as Lonsdale had quitted that tedious and
exhausting mode of progression among the tall
coarse grass, amid which he saw more than one
poisonous snake in dangerous proximity to him,
and reached an angle in a narrow rocky path, by
ascending which he hoped to find a place of
concealment if necessary, an exultant shout
echoed through the little valley wherein the zazal
stood, and he knew that therein some traces of his
recent repast had been detected by the Dacoits,
who now proceeded to beat the bush, the grass,
and everything else, in evident search for him.

THE TATTOOED Burma.

Now for English pluck, and the muscular energy
born of out-door sorts in the cricket and hunting-fields,
and in handling the oar and the gun. All
were requisite for Lonsdale now.

Upward and onward he toiled, the path — for a
beaten path it was he pursued — though narrow
and half hidden by wild vines, laurel bushes, and
capsicum plants, leading him higher and higher
till the slope became the side of a lofty and rocky
hill, and exertion strung every nerve and fibre,,
and his breath grew thick and fast, while his heart
beat fiercely with rage and bitterness, but never
with despair or fear.

So on he toiled, keeping well ahead of them
their voices, and an occasional random shot
following him, for though they had not seen him

VOL. III. L

yet they were well assured of being upon his
trail.

They were not less than fifteen in number ; his
revolver shots were only six, and all these, if any,
might not be successful.

It was a time of supreme peril, and he conceived
that he was now somewhere within ten miles of
the Irawaddy.

A succession of wild yells that pierced the welkin
suddenly announced that they had obtained sight
of him, and this added spurs to his steps.

On one side the path was now bordered by a
sheer and terrible precipice, far down below which
he could see paddy and rice fields, intersected by
shining water cuts, with here and there a ruined
house, and in some places only gigantic guinea
grass, amid which great grey boulders lay, and
coarse-looking elks were grazing.

On the other side rose a wall of rock, without
cranny or crevice into which he could creep and
there sell his life as dearly as possible. In some
places these cliffs were bare, and reddened by the
splendour of a cloudless sun ; in others they were

shrouded by luxuriant and leafy screens of wild
vine, pagan fig trees, and fragrant flowers of the
most brilliant colours.

Eight, at least, of the pursuers were now upon
his track, and more than once their rifle shots,
making the rocks re-echo, were sent after him,
but went vide of the mark, as it was evident
that these Dacoits were unskilled in the use of
modern fire-arms and the mode of sighting them.

Now the narrow path, on reaching a point on
the face of these precipices, began to descend at
a steep angle, down which Lonsdale by one swift
backward glance saw the tattooed Dacoit and two
others, without taking time to fire, come rushing
with all their speed, assured of overtaking him at
last.

Just at a point where Lonsdale nearly lost his

life by the path taking an acute angle or turn to

the left, he shrunk close to a wall of rock unseen,

and with a gasp in his throat and a sigh of prayer

on his lips, at his own narrow escape — beheld, a

moment after, to his intense satisfaction, these

three leading Dacoits, unable to arrest the fierce

L 2

impetus with which they came bKndly rushing
clown the slope, fly headlong over the precipice in
quick succession, to be dashed out of all shape
among the boulders, or drowned in the water cuts
some hundred feet below.

They vanished through the air and from sight,
without a cry or a sound in falling.

Without having to fire one of his precious shots,
he had thus got rid of three ; but the others, seeing
their fate, came on more warily. One, who was
in advance of the rest, now came to the acute
angle of the path, but paused, rifle in hand, and
Lonsdale by one deadly thrust of the razor-edged
dal laid him at his feet, and sped on, haunted,
oftentimes, by the glare of the dying man's eyes
and his falling jaw, full of teeth, blackened by the
betel nut.

Now there were but four — all armed, however
with rifles.

Whether their ardour was damped or not,
Lonsdale could not tell ; but after a time their
voices ceased in his rear, and on listening intently
he could hear nothing of their footsteps ; and

supposing they had abandoned the pursuit, and
quite unconscious that they had made a detour
and were hastening to cut him off in front, he
proceeded more deism-ely. After obtaining, with
intense satisfaction, a glimpse of the broad and
blue Irawaddy some miles distant, he continued
to follow the path resolutely downward from the
rocks and precipices into a flat and level district,
covered with sand, jungle, and the inevitable
gigantic wild grass.

He had seen the Irawaddy, but without a vestige
of smoke from any passing steamer.

All trace of the path was lost now, but, guided
by the sun, now verging westward, beyond the
forests on the other side of the great river, he
continued to push on in the direction where he
knew the latter lay.

Noon was long since past now, and Lonsdale
believed that he was now safe from immediate
pursuit. But the Dacoits had never quite lost
sight of him; and thus, just as the red flush
of the farewell sun was deepening and crimsoning
the face of the blunt's from which he had descended,

and when he found himself among grass that was
fully ten feet high, a shot was fired at him from
the front and came perilously near.

There was an impossibility of seeing the man
who had delivered it. Lonsdale drew out his
revolver, and though he but detected the thin
blue smoke of the musket curling up amid the
greenery, he fired in that direction at a venture,
when a shrill yell of agony and a violent moving
of the tall reedy grass to and fro told him that
the shot had not been thrown away.

Another report rang out on the air, but further
off and from a different quarter, and a second
bullet, though almost fired at random, passed so
near Lonsdale's right cheek that it grazed, yet
did not break, the skin, and he felt as if the latter
had been scorched or seared by a hot iron.

Finding all quiet after this, and that he was no
more molested, he lay very still for hours, yet
listening intently for any passing or approaching
sound, and heard nothing save the hum of insect-life
among the long grass where he was compelled
to pass the night.

During the hours of the latter a heavy dew fell
and well-nigh drenched him ; and this, ultimately,
proved perhaps the worst enemy he encountered.

Cold and damp, and chilled to the bone, he set
warily forth again in the morning, guided only by
the direction of the rising sun. On leaving the
long grass behind and getting into the open,
sharply and keenly he surveyed the ground on
every side, but no human being was visible.

He felt intense thirst, but no hunger ; he felt also
a tremor in his limbs, a sensation of clamorous
fear about his heart, and a giddiness — unpleasant
symptoms for which he could not then account ;
while, like one in a dream, he pushed on resolutely,
but vaguely, towards the river, at a place, where for
about two miles inland from it, the whole district,
though deserted, was studded with pagodas of every
shape and size, and with images of Guadiana,
composed of that beautiful marble dug from the
mines of Amaropura — the "City of Immortals" —
equalled only by the finest in Italy, and thus
monopolised by the Government for effigies in
temples.

All about him were crumbling shrines and
neglected lotus tanks ; thus it was almost impossible
to move a step without treading upon or
encountering something deemed sacred there.

All this seemed like the fragment of a fantastic
dream to Lonsdale just then.

Then he passed near a few cottages having roofs
of grass thatch, gable ends of teak plank, with
the other walls of matting or woven bamboos,
their fireplaces wooden boxes lined with clay
placed in the verandahs, from the roof of one
of which he saw an empty child's cradle suspended
by cords.

The place had been abandoned by the people,
and then looted and partly burned by the Dacoits,
whose lawless hands were against all men, like
the Thugs and Pindarees of India in past times ;
and now before him he saw the broad waters
of the magnificent Irawaddy, rolling in all their
majesty, some two miles in breadth from bank
to bank, but not a vestige of our flotilla.

For all he knew, it might have left the waters
for ever.

He glanced about him now with a kind of
dumb despair, for aU his toil and peril had been
faced in vain, and he felt weak, weary, and
crushed by all the fierce excitement and tension
of the nerves he had undergone for so long —
for the last few days especially.

Near the deserted hamlet he saw three native
boats, which had doubtless belonged to the inhabitants,
moored near a rude jetty of stones
and bamboo poles.

Selecting the smallest of these he got onboard,
after pulling out the plugs of the other
two, that by scuttling them they could not be
available for pursuit ; and slashing through
the rope-painter by one cut of the dal, he
shoved off.

The craft was one of those graceful Burmese
boats that can only sail with the wind, owing
to being without any keel, and they usually
carry one square sail, and when the wind fails
they are poled along the bank. He contrived
to set the sail, which was of tough matting,
took the tiller, and speedily was out in the

mid stream, and went gently southward with the
current and the morning breeze, with only one
idea — that the nearer he was to Eangoon the
better, but at that point he was fully three
hundred miles above Eangoon.

Becoming too weary to steer, he lashed the
rudder in such a manner as to keep the sail full ;
and hours after that he was roused from a species
of waking doze by the welcome sounds of steam
blowing off, and then of more than one voice
hailing him in English.

Starting up, he found himself close by a gunboat.


She proved to be the Kathleen, and he was
speedily taken on board; but though restoratives
were given, he soon became delirious with fever
and insensible to all about him. In this state
he was conveyed to Eangoon, whither the
Kathleen was steaming with a melancholy freight
of sick men, and placed in a bungalow of the
cantonments there, where for weeks upon weeks
he lay hovering between life and death — "given
over " by the doctors, as the phrase is —

weeks that to him were fraught with fatality
at home.

"Poor fellow," said a shrewd Scotch surgeon.
Major Squills, "he can't last long— he is going
down the brae very fast now."

DESPERATION.

Of all we have detailed in these two preceding
chapters Melanie knew nothing, and too probably
would never know.

Meanwhile, at Eose Cottage, each day passed like
that which had gone before it — dull, empty, profitless
; nothing pleasant seemed ever to happen,
nothing at all ; but now, as a gloomy change, deep
sorrow had fallen on one, at least.

One thought was ever before her. Montague
Lonsdale was gone, in the bloom of his strength
and manhood, as she had seen briefly and coldly
recorded, without comment, in the public prints ;
and she had a long life before her, perhaps — a life
in which he could bear no part, save as a memory.

The doubt, that comes to all when the loved are
gone, that we have in any way failed them, was

strong in the heart of Melanie now ; while before
her floated the recurring memory of tender words
and caresses, of many sweet and graceful actions
on the part of her two brothers in her misery —
actions that knit the three together in affection at
this sorrowful crisis.

Melanie knew that Lonsdale was the last of his
race — the last of the old Constables of Cumberland.
She knew also that he had neither father nor
mother, nor other kindred to sorrow for him, hence
her own sorrow was all the deeper.

With all this on her mind, she had the hard
pressure of her uncle and aunt to undergo in their
views regarding her, for, as the former phrased it,
"now or never was the time to put on the screw ! "

Since the day of Amy's marriage, Eeggie had
become more helpless than ever, and his removal
somewhere from his uncle's roof seemed to have
become inevitable now, unless Melanie was ready
to sacrifice herself.

If life has no better promise than this, death
were preferable! " said she.

** Rubbish ! bosh ! " muttered Uncle Grimshaw.

*' It's hard enough," thought the girl, " to eat the
bread of dependence, without having it flung in
your face, as we three have."

And so, and so, a terrible conviction began to
press upon her now, through all her sorrow and
unavailing anxiety, that her fate would eventually
be a marriage with Sir Brisco, for the sake of the
two whose future seemed to depend upon it, and in
the hush of blind desperation, to save Reggie from
humiliation and to prosper Dick, she began to
school herself to face the future in any fashion her
Uncle Grimshaw and Aunt Chillington wished;
while in their eyes, voices, and hearts there was
neither compunction nor pity. So after weeks and
months of despondency on one side, of taunts and
sneers and bitter gloom on the other, Melanie, like
a hunted creature, at last consented.

She would hear the last appeal of Sir Brisco.

Uncle Grimshaw chuckled hideously and rubbed
his hands over each other in glee as he thought of
the settlements, which he knew would be noble;
and also, as he thought of the flesh-pots of Heavens
Hall. No more rechauffes of cold mutton,

with rice pudding and cheap Madeira — ugh ! And
then to think of Sir Brisco's rare old port— rare as
to its bouquet and after taste, in glasses of six to
the bottle.

Melanie only saw the net from which there was
no escape closing its meshes around her.

I must go through with it all — all to the bitter
end," she thought; 'there is no one else to care
for me now," she added, aloud, unconsciously.

'aright view," said Uncle Grimshaw, approvingly.
"Well," he added, looking at his watch,
' in an hour Sir Brisco will be here for your final
decision."

Terrified, perplexed, overwhelmed by grief and
chagrin — grief for Lonsdale, and chagrin for the
pitiful game she was compelled to play, an emotion
of desperation, we call it, stole over her as she
realised the fact that he was coming for a reply in
sixty minutes, and that, by the end of these sixty
minutes, the future of her young life would be
decided. Yes or no.

When Sir Brisco came, her aspect, as she gave
him her hand for a moment, chilled and mortified

him, as he was generously anxious to protect and
befriend her.

He noted her plain dark dress with its jet
ornaments, and knew why it was worn ; he noted
also her pallor and lassitude, but never doubted
that in time all that would pass away like a summer
cloud, could he but win her. Already he had said
again and again all that he had to say on the
subject ; but now, momentarily chagrined, he
paused.

** Then you will not have me, Melanie ? " he
asked, doubtfully.

Silent for a minute she remained, and then,
while trembling from head to foot, she replied in a
dry and husky voice — a whisper almost :

'* Yes — I will marry you."

'you will?"

She bowed her head in assent.

Just as I was beginning to lose all hope — Oh,
Melanie ! " he exclaimed with joy.

But say nothing more — more I could not
stand just now," she added, as she tottered to a
seat.

She had promised, she thought, but the worst
part was yet to come — the future, and Hke one
unconscious of what she did, she sat clasping and
unclasping a little jet bracelet on her slender whist.

Satisfied with his progress, after lingering a
little and hovering in a fatuous kind of way about
her, he kissed her hands with old-fashioned courtesy
and bowed himself out, feeling as if he trod on air
in his triumph ; and yet he was far from being a
vain man.

That evening a suite of diamonds — necklet, earrings,
and bracelets — came to Melanie, nestling
brightly in their blue velvet case. '' They are a
trifle, when compared with the Eavensbourne
diamonds, as you, my darling, will see, but they
are family relics, and have, for more than two
hundred years, been handed down from father to
son," said the note that accompanied the gift.

Melanie closed the case without touching any of
the jewels, and — as if to shield her from temptation
— placed upon her left wrist the gold bangle
sent to her by Lonsdale, his last and only gift
from the far east.

VOL. III. . M

She was certainly more composed when Sir
Brisco came next day and found her alone again,
doubly encouraged by her full promise and her
acceptance of his gifts.

*' Now you can have no reason for declining to
hear me, Melanie," said the baronet, softly and
earnestly, yet in a matter of fact way ; but Melanie,
who thought the word "now " referred to her recent
calamity, felt there were tears in her heart and
voice, while her soul sickened at the whole situation.

In one short sentence I can embody all I have
to say," he urged, stroking his snow-white moustache
; '' I love you, Melanie."

And I can make you no return."

Have you tried?" he asked, bending over her
as closely as he dared yet.

"No."

"But why"'

She was silent — thinking the fatal promise of
yesterday should content him.

I do not ask — I cannot expect for a time, at
least, a girl as young and beautiful as you to
return my passion, but you have promised to be

tiny ife — my darling wife ; friendship will grow
day by day till it ripens into love, Melanie, if not of
profound depth with you, at least such wifely
affection as you can bestow, and with that I may
well content me. I do not look for that wild love
enthusiasts dream of, or romancers seek to depict,"
he continued, caressing the moustache which was,
unfortunately, so white. " But it may — nay, must
console you, and record my worship of you, that
I can befriend those you love so much, and thus
smooth away the anxieties of your life."

She knew what he referred to, and, though her
breast heaved painfully, she could only hang her
head in assent ; then she said,

You mean to .be kind, Sir Brisco, yet your
words are repugnant to me."

' Repugnant — how ? ' '

They seem to bribe me."

"You wont tell me tomorrow that you have
changed your mind ? " he asked in alarm.

*' No — why should I change it now — and for
what?" she asked in turn, with a bitter smile.
Do leave me to my own thoughts," she urged.

M 2

''Be merciful, my sweet one," said Sir Brisco,
who certainly felt that all this kind of wooing was
strange ; " give me yom hand in mine ere I go."

Frankly enough she gave him a slim and ringlets
hand : then he suddenly drew her towards him and
tenderly kissed — not her lips — but her cold and regretted
cheek.

'' Now do leave me, Sir Brisco ! " she implored,
shrinking.

As my plighted wife, Melanie — yes."

And he retired, fearful that he might hear some
fatal response. But confidence came to him fast
now, and when he came again he brought their
bridal on the tapis, and said, as he drew her head
caressingly on his breast,

"One kiss, Melanie, dearest — permit me — to
show that we are something more than friends
now."

'^ Oh — ho — no ! " said she in a low voice, as she
shrunk from his arms with outspread hands.

The last kiss she had given was accorded to the
only man who had ever saluted her — Montague
Lonsdale — and she felt that it would be a species

of sacrilege to allow the li^gs of another to take
away the charm of his last — his final farewell.

The baronet suspected as much, but only thought
to himself —

Stuff ! how long will this romantic folly last ? "

While Melanie thought, also, she was to be
married now, and this sad superstition of the heart
could not go on for life.

The baronet began to urge about the marriage
now, but Melanie coldly, without a blush, but
growing if possible paler than ever, would not hear
of its taking place sooner than ApriL

It seems an age till April ! " said he.

But, Sir Brisco— "

"Do drop that formal ' Sir,' dearest Melanie."

She remained silent.

"Long before that time I had hoped to see you
enshrined at Ravensbourne Hall," said he, bowing
over her hands in his stiff old-fashioned way ; and
yet, withal, it was not without its tenderness and
grace.

HUNTED.

Melanie still mourned for Lonsdale as for one who
was no longer in this world.

A few months ago — only a few months ago, was
the ever-recurring thought, and he was living ; but
now he was with the dead of ages, passed away
into his original nothing as if he had never been ;
and she was on the point of marriage with another.
Well, to her that seemed only another .mode of
death too ; and times there were when she actually
thought to escape it by running away the moment
the ceremony was over, despite the scandal that
would be certain to ensue.

Often had she harrowed her heart by visiting the
old trysting-place, watching the silent flow of the
majestic river, as the sunset cast the shadows of
the old elms into it — shadows repeated downward

SO clearly that the eye could scarcely detect where
earth and water met in that glassy tutor. The
sky was blue as of old, the clouds as fleecy , and
white ; but the wind seemed to sigh sadly through
the leafless but budding branches of the trees
overhead.

Then all the spell of the past would come upon
her powerfully, and tears suffuse her eyes — bitter
tears indeed — when feeling that she must lay by
the old time, with all its memories and empty hopes,
its tenderness and love, and think only, with a firm,
or rather callous and indifferent heart, of the life
that was before her.

Do those who have left us know what passes on
this earth?" she asked herself.

Surely not ; for if so they could never attain to
happiness and peace ; but if it be otherwise, she
thought, then Lonsdale must know that the sacrifice
she was making was for others, and not herself.

She had to endure, almost daily, the visits of Sir
Brisco, daring which she seldom could sit still, but
paced up and down the room like a hunted
creature, with throbbing heart and brow ; she was

thankful when, after a time, he had to go to London
for a space to make some necessary arrangements
about their marriage, and for that space she was
left to herself.

No matter how oppressive his presence proved to
be, she felt that she had no right to drive the poor
man away from the neighbourhood by coldness that
all would deem most misplaced now.

She would get used to him in time, she supposed,
and. to her state of existence — be able, at least, to
sleep without dreams that harassed and haunted
her. Besides, to do him justice. Sir Brisco
Braybrooke was ever so gentle, patient, and good
to her.

Through the girl's brain such thoughts were ever
coursing, even when she seemed to sit, passive and
placid, in a low arm-chair by the fire, watched only
by the sad gaze of her lame brother, after the curtains
were drawn for the night, the lamp lighted,
and she stared into the red embers with wide
aching eyes.

Then, as if a fever came upon her, she would
start up, when roused, perhaps, by the stroke of a

clock, throw open the window, push back her dark
hair, and lean out for a little time to let the cold
breath of the night fan her temples. -^

Anon, she thought she would rouse herself and
seek some of her old occupations ; but gardening
had lost its charms for her, reading required concentration
— that was impossible, ditto needlework,
which would only give her leisure for bitter reflection.
Then she tried her weekly accounts, as of
old ; but the figures danced before her.

And now the April days were stealing on — on to
the hour of her fate.

Already the little children were gathering the
early flowers and chasing the butterflies with mad
glee, in many a green grassy lane, where the people
of other years had trod to church and market, time
out of mind. The trees were showing their
bursting greenery fast — especially the elms that
overshadowed the Cottage, the oaks in Kavensbourne
Chase were putting forth their red buds, and the
beeches their graceful sprays. The laburnum was
shedding its golden petals, the plum trees were
masses of unbroken blossom, and the happy birds

were building busily and singing merrily in every
shady bower. .

Dick was looking out his fishing tackle, for a new
golden light was playing on pond and stream. A
little time more and the flowers of May would be
all over the land.

Ere that time came — Melanie clasped her hands
and shivered.

Engaged ! If, but three months ago, anyone
had told Melanie she would be so, she would have
deemed that person or herself insane.

Now Sir Brisco's coloured miniature, on opal,
with burly eye-brows, grizzled upright hair, and
white moustache, was to replace that of Lonsdale,
with his handsome young face, his keen soldierly
eyes, close shorn dark hair and darker moustache —
his general expression of a pleasant and purpose-like
fellow, who, as the mess used to say, could do
anything, '' from holding his wicket at Lord's to
facing the devil in his shirt-sleeves."

Even her brother Eeginald, for whom she was
chiefly making the sacrifice, reprehended the
coming marriage. This did sound hard ; she

could neither explain nor retort — she was too
affectionate and too gentle ; but she felt, just
then, as if life was over with her, and in her
exhaustion and faintness, when turning to leave
the room, her knees bent under her and she
tottered.

The new turn of affairs partly puzzled little Amy
Musgrave, who, when on a visit to the vicarage,
bright, merry, and in all the flush of her own
happiness, said to Melanie :

I wish so much to ask you a question — but — "
and then she paused, though their arms were
entwined.

Ask," said Melanie, wearily.

'' With all my old love for you, I have perhaps
no right — "

I never had a secret from you, Amy."

"Well — do you really intend to marry Sir Brisco
now?"

Now! " Melanie repeated, and then burst into
tears at all the vrord implied.

"I do not like this marriage — this May and
December business," said Dr. Brendon, when

Melanie had gone; "she seems to be selling
herself for wealth and position."

"Nay," said his kindly old better-half; 'think
of her friendlessness, her uncle's character for
meanness, her brother's dependence. I hope they
will both be happy."

So do I, good wife— but you mean together."

Of course."

*' Ah — but I mean apart," replied the doctor,
cynically. "Melanie Talbot's heart is not in this
affair, but with the lad who has found his last long
home, so far, far away. God rest him ! Montague
Lonsdale was thoroughly an English gentleman
and soldier."

The time drew on. Melanie did not wish any
wedding cake or breakfast, in a wedding-sense — or
bridesmaids, or fuss; all was to be as quiet as
possible, to the intense disgust of Mrs. Chillington
and to the disappointment of Sir Brisco, who was
vain of his young bride.

"What do you mean, you eccentric girl?"
demanded Mrs. Chillington.

"In what way?"

**No breakfast — whoever heard of such a thing?"
There seems no one to invite, aunt."
Acquaintances are easily found."
Perhaps — but how many friends ? "
"Is it usual to have a marriage in this 
way, and with a man in Sir Brisco's
position ?"

"I do not know what you mean. I shall be
married in Stokencross Church."

Ey that old country frump, Dr. Brendon; why
not at St. George's, Hanover Square ? "

"I am an unknown girl— Dr. Brendon will do all
that is necessary."

Be that as you please then, but ere long no
one in town will be better known than you,
Melanie. Sir Brisco's wealth and your beauty will
achieve great things. We shall see your photo in
every shop window — the Braybrooke costume, the
Braybrooke hat, the Braybrooke orchid, or something
so named by gardeners — the Melanie waltz —
you will become the rage, my dear ! Your laces
will be priceless, your furs the envy of the Empress
of Russia."

And the little woman of the world laughed loudly
in her glee.

We English people are supposed to marry for
love," says a writer, somewhat cynically; "but asa
matter of fact we marry for fifty thousand other
causes that have nothing to do with it ; but woe to
the rash couple who are indiscreet enough to own
their fidelity to the selfish national tradition."

However, nothing short of a miracle could alter
the destiny of Melanie now.

A FATAL PARAGRAPH.

In a bungalow built of bamboo, thatched with
elephant grass, and having a broad verandah for
coolness in summer, lay . Montague Lonsdale,
stretched on a charity or native bed, unconscious
of all the world about him, of the
fierce war that was still being waged with
Dacoits, hundreds of miles up the great river
that rolled past the cantonments to the Bay of
Bengal, and ignorant or oblivious of everything
else.

"Bad case — very — hopeless, indeed!" said
Surgeon-Major Squills, as he removed his cigarette
and looked at the delirious and unconscious patient
writhing on the cane couch, and beckoning to
a hospital sergeant, he scribbled a memorandum

in a book — anent the case, and a prescription
therefor : —

Febris Rewritten — Eangoon. . . March.
Shivering last night — hot and giddy, listlessness,
languor and delirium increasing without remission.
Skin now burning hot. Pulse full and frequent —
tongue quite white — bad case — very.

Applies. Lotis frigid cassuti.

*' Effusion frig ides stat.

'* Capias calomel et ext. Coloeyntli comp. aa gr.
X Stat., dec., etc. See to it, sergeant."

All right, sir." He saluted and withdrew, and
so on went the visits and prescriptions for days
and days, ere, to Dr. Squills' surprise, a turn came.
Nature began to assert herself, and the patient
slowly to recover and with the recovery came the
longing to go home ; and the craving for a letter
with news of her — the letter which would never
come now — was strong in his heart, with the
hope of sick leave, and health and strength to
travel.

No letter — no letter — after all ! " he muttered,
and tried to console himself with the old adage

that " no news was good news " ; but in vain. He
did "so hunger for news of Melanie, from whom one
Hne would be, as it were, a glimpse of Heaven,
circumstanced as he then was ; for she seemed
somehow to have drifted out of his Kfe.

I don't think I shall die, doctor, this bout,"
said he, with a sickly smile.

Of course not."

Of course not ; yes, those whose lives are of no
use to themselves or anyone else never die."

Squills knew not what to make of this cynical
response, so he lit a cigarette and said nothing.

Around them both where frightful scenes of
human misery and human suffering at this time
for cruelly treated were our soldiers who were
wounded or invalided on service in Burmahh.
We remarked yesterday," says the Rangoon
Times, " that they were experiencing great hardships
and receiving very meagre allowance from
the Commissariat Department; and it has come
to om knowledge that these poor fellows, some
wounded and others in the last stage of dysentery,
are put on board the river steamers without

VOL. III. N

beds or proper attention, and, in fact, without
arrangements being made with the steamers even
for their messing. Men who are mere Having
skeletons are to be seen lying on the bare
decks, and the diet the medical authorities seem
to think best for men vomited or suffering from
dysentery is that vile compound known as Chicago
beef, dry biscuits, and a little tea and sugar tied up
in a piece of dirty gunny."

One steamer on the Irawaddy — the Secunda
carried nine hundred men, though she had
only accommodation for six hundred. They were
'packed like sardines in a box," wrote one of
the West Surrey Eegiment, without air to breathe,
and several expired of heat and apoplexy. Among
them, one man, who had struggled so far as the
companion-ladder to get a little air and sleep, was
thrown into the river.

So it is ever with John Bull in any war. He
has ever shown himself to be the incarnation,
of greed, meanness, and mismanagement, for
though John likes glory, he is shabby enough to
like it cheap.

Lonsdale was a great dreamer during his protracted
and intermittent illness at Eangoon— born
of what he had undergone amid the dewy marshes.
He had almost begun to believe in mesmerism of a
certain kind, and to think— to hope, that when he
dreamt of Melanie she also was beaming of him.
It was a ^dld idea, but the outcome of all he
had undergone made him a dreamer by night
and day, who ever saw a sweet face with pathetic
eyes raised to his, and felt in his a small
white hand, with the sound of a voice ever haunting
him, even as an old melody lingers in the
memory. But does not Sir William Hamilton tellus
that, " however astonishing, it is now proved,
beyond all rational doubt, that in certain abnormal
states of the nervous organism, perceptions are
possible through other than ordinary channels."

Anon, a change came over the dreams of
Lonsdale, born perhaps of these very perceptions,
for when at last he slept— by snatches— they
were full of hazy and horrid visions of some
great evil that overhung him— something dim.
dire, and not to be encountered.

N 2

His good constitution prevailed over his illness.
He " pulled through," as the phrase goes, in
spite of all medical predictions to the contrary;
and in a few weeks was * able to ride about
Eangoon on a native pony, one of those stout
and singularly strong little animals that are not
more, usually, than twelve hands high, but are
ever rough-coated and unroofed. Thus mounted,
he daily traversed Merchant Street, a broad and
spacious thoroughfare, having lines of trees and
grass plots before its double rows of varied
mansions, some of which are of European aspect,
so far as cornices and pilasters go ; others,
native, built of wood and bamboo, materials
which do not indicate poverty, but are used, being
light and portable.

Such edifices are all built on piles or posts,
in consequence of the occasional inundations that
roll beneath the first floor, and many have noble
galleries, graceful verandah with elliptical arches,
above which are broad projecting roofs, all of
Anglo Burmese architecture, being the residences
chiefly of Europeans, and over all towers the

great Golden Dagon Pagoda, with its new umbrella,
erected since the war of 1852.

As the Burmese women are not shut up
Mohammedan fashion, but mix freely in all social
gatherings, Lonsdale could see them working
at their looms, with men beside them, gossiping
and flirting — a true Burmese art — while their
slender fingers wove deftly the stuffs of brilliant
silk or cotton. Elsewhere were diminutive damsels
squatted in the lower verandahs, behind stalls
of fruit, betel nut, cigars, with a British sailor
or " Tommy Atkins" lingering near and " airing"
his pigeon English.

One day — he was never to forget it — he came
back from one of these rides, and with an
emotion of thankfulness in his heart, felt stronger,
and had many a hopeful thought of home. He
sought the mess bungalow to get some iced drink,
when he found that the mail had come in from
Europe, and the last London papers, then several
weeks old, were being conned with avidity — all
looking first at the latest news prior to taking
the rest at leisure.

He got one — the Times — and after running his
eyes over the news vaguely for some time, he
alighted on one tiny paragraph that gave him a
dreadful shock, and for a moment or two the power
of sight seemed to leave him, ere he could read it
again and disentangle one line from the other.

The marriage of Sir Brisco Braybrooke, Bart.,
of Eavensbourne Hall, Oxford, with Miss Melanie
Talbot, only daughter of the late Captain Eeginald
Talbot, of H.M. Bengal Army, will take place
tomorrow at Stokencross church. The ceremony,
we understand, will be performed by a bishop
a near relation of the bridegroom — assisted by
the vicar, Dr. Brendon. Our correspondent adds
that after the ceremony the happy couple will
leave for the Continent, but return to Eavensbourne
Hall before the meeting of Parliament."

The paper dropped from his hand on the
floor, and he never looked at it again. There
seemed no doubting it. The statement was too
circumstantial ; and by that time the whole dark
episode — dark to him — must have been overlong
ago.

The world — the '' penny a-Hner" world, he knew,
was at times given to marrying people with or
without their consent. But this notice was in an
important journal, and would be no mere " Society
paper " canard, and with this conviction came the
thought that he was so far away and so helpless
that he could neither learn the best nor worst.

In a moment or two may seem to be assembled
the agony of a lifetime-the heart to receive its
death wound, with the knowledge that the world
will never, and can never be the same to us
again.

The best part of his life had gone from him.

I shall never be the man I was ! " he thought,
as — in defiance of Dr. Squills' orders — he got from
the mess khansaman a stiff jorum of B. and S., and
drained it at a draught.

Weak though he was in health he now thought
that he would not leave India or Burmahh, or return
home ; for what purpose should he go there ?

"No letters," he muttered; "no letters! Her
silence is fully accounted for now. Fool — ass,
that I have been."

He manipulated a cheroot, put it in his mouth,
but forgot to light it, as he strolled, like one ina
dream, away to the quietude of his own lonely
quarters.

Marriage without love I have heard stigmatised
as being as much a sin as love without marriage,"
he thought bitterly. " Can she really have cared
for me, after all? Can she have felt that deep
love which, we are told, never changes, and ends
but with life, such as I — poor fool! — from the
first hour felt for her ? It could not be ! "

Yet, anon he remembered — could he ever forget
it?— what cruel pressure might have been put
upon her by her relations. Of the letters that
were intercepted, he had never yet received any
explanation ; of the false rumour of his own death,
he knew nothing, or of all the doubt and grief it
caused ; and yet, amid all the terrible thoughts
this unexpected intelligence roused, the soft face,
the tender eyes, and touching voice of Melanie
seemed to haunt him.

So this was the haunting evil he dreaded, that
had come to him in his feverish dreams; and for

which he could find no name. But he seemed to
have foreseen it all in his dream, when at Rangoon
before, of the shadowy marriage group in Tokens
church — one so powerful that he had never
forgotten, though deeming it only one of those
visions of the night that come unbidden. '' But
seeing in dreams," says Dr. Ennemoser, " is a
self-illuminating of things, places, and times — for
relation of time and space form no obstruction to
the dreamer ; things near and far are alike seen
in the mirror of the soul, according to the connection
in which they stand to each other, and,
as the futile is but an unfolding of the present,
as the present is of the past, one being necessarily
involved in the other, it is not more difficult to the
untrammelled spirit to perceive what is to happen
than what has already happened."

Could it be that in the past he had foreshadowed
the present ?

*' It is impossible!" he exclaimed to himself;
** and well it is for us that we can neither know
nor foresee all that life may have to bring. I
shall get over it, I suppose — life is made up of

getting over things ; I never loved any one before,
and certainly am not likely to do so again."

But with all this attempted philosophy, very
desolate and loveless seemed the future before him
now, and weakness of the body, which returned
in a great measure now, re-acted on his mind,
and, at times, he knew not whither he wandered
or what he did. The bright sky had grown dark
apparently — hope and love and the energies of
life were gone ; but it was chiefly when darkness
fell over the hushed cantonments, and the last
bugles had sounded, that he felt most alone in
his desolation ; for he had no friends or chums
there. Some were in their graves, others with
the regiment, far up country, hundreds of miles
away, beyond Ava and AmarajDura.

If the terrible tenor of that paragraph was true
could he doubt it ? — he would never, could never
hate Melanie, nor ever cease to love and pity
her, though lost to him for ever. Some dreadful
arguments, some harassing alternatives, must have
been applied to her by those selfish relations, at
whose mercy she was placed ; but, anyhow, he

would remain in India or Burmahh, he cared not
which, and never return to England for long years
to come.

So he thought ; but the hand of disease was still
heavy on him, after all he had undergone, and the
fiat of a medical board was peremptory. He was,
at that time, unfit for service in the field, and was
invalided '* for home," yet in charge of other sick,
some of whom were worse than himself.

At this juncture the " blind goddess " viewed
him ^Yith some favour. A relation, of whom he
knew little more than the name, departed this life
and left him £2,000 a year.

How welcome this accession would have been
once. How little he valued it now ! With whom
was he to share this little fortune, if not with
Melanie Talbot ? And she was lost to him forever.


The future seemed such a frightful blank. Of
what might happen in the years to come, he never
attempted to speculate, save in the possibility that
in a soldier's death somewhere he might find
oblivion of all.

Luckily such thoughts do not last for ever, and
sick though he was, he had to " pull himself
together," and look after his invalids, see to chimerical
reports, the returns for Nether, and other
prosaic matters.

Lonsdale has a wonderful recuperative power
a great nervous force," said Surgeon-Major
Squills ; '' hut he is not out of danger yet, and I
should not wonder if he went over to leeward in
the Bay of Bengal, with a cold shot at his heels ! "

And with this — to him unknown — sentence
before him, with weary and indifferent eyes,
Lonsdale saw the white trooper clearing the
waters of the Rangoon Eiver and heading away
towards Baigue Point, along the Della coast.
It seemed hut yesterday that he and poor Digby
Montressor had stood side by side looking on it
together. Ere long Elephants Point, and then
the Aguada Beef, with its lofty granite lighthouse,
sank into the sea on the starboard quarter, and
the great transport, with its freight of sick and
wounded, bore away into the vast Bay of Bengal.

THE MARRIAGE.

And now we must go back a few weeks in our
narrative, to where we left the inmates of Eose
Cottage, as it was named — though a small two-storied
villa.

There is a glamour in love," some writer tells
us, adding, perhaps with truth, that " what we
love is not the tangible man or woman, as the case
may be, who lives, breathes, and exists, but the
fancy of our own hearts — the ideal that we have
created out of our own unsatisfied longings."

Be all that as it may, Melanie had no such
thoughts — and yet her marriage was close at hand
now, painfully close — as it was a contract in which
her heart had no share ; a degrading one she felt
it to be.

So, at last, but one day intervened.

Melanie had not watched the papers for sometime
past, as a kind of curious indifference to
everything, a kind of dumb despair of her future,
possessed her now ; but had she seen the only
paper that came to Eose Cottage, even on the
morning of her marriage, it might have changed
that future indeed.

Uncle Grimshaw had looked, however, and seen
sufficient to make him conceal the newspaper in
hot haste.

The intelligence he saw was sufficiently startling,
especially at such a crisis. It was to the effect,
'that Captain Montague Lonsdale, who disappeared
after the capture of Ava, and had so
miraculously escaped the Dacoits, reaching our
gunboat Kathleen on the Irawadd}^ some time
before, was now coming home in charge of sick
and wounded men from Eangoon ! "

Coming home ! " muttered Uncle Grimshaw;
and, as he concealed the paper, something like a
malediction escaped him, and he hurried away
to see Mrs. Chillington, who had taken up her
quarters at Eose Cottage "till the event came off."

Melanie was thinking of her future when married
to Sir Brisco. She contrasted her years, barely
twenty, with his, over sixty ; and knew that when
she was forty, if spared, he would be an aged and
helpless creature of eighty — helpless, perhaps, as
poor Eeggie.

On her marriage morning she was somewhat like
an automaton in the hands of Mrs. Chillington,
old Bethia, and more especially Mademoiselle
Clochette, to whom was chiefly assigned the duty
of attiring her; while her " affectionate aunt " had
duly brought her well-hung carriage for her use,
with the powdered coachman duly accoutred with
bouquets and breast-knots.

There never was a bride more beautiful than
you. Miss Talbot," said Clochette, in her broken
English, as she fastened a sparkling spray of the
Eavensbourne diamonds among the dark masses of
Melanie's hair. " Mon Dieu — it is a romance to
regard you ! E'en suis en expanse I You are pairs


And she was so — perfect from her splendid hair
and snow-white neck to the tips of her satin

shoes — but ah, so painfully pale, rigid, and indifferent
to all appearance.

******

'' With this ring I thee wed, with my body I thee
worship, and with all my worldly goods I thee
endow."

Uncle Grimshaw heard the words, perhaps more
distinctly than she to whom they were said, and
he thought joyously of Eavensbourne Hall and all
its concomitants — the settlements and so forth.

Melanie heard the solemn words of promise, and
they seemed to echo through the old vaulted
church of Stokencross, first in the vicar's soft and
sonorous voice, and then in the firm and quiet
tones of Sir Brisco, and as they fell on her ear, the
shadow that sat enthroned in her heart — the
shadow of hint, who she deemed had found a
soldier's grave so far, far away, seemed to rise
upbraidingly before her.

She dared not then lift her eyes, even for a
second, to those of Sir Brisco, nor cared she to do so.

With my body I thee worship." As he said
this, she felt his strong, firm hand clasp hers

closely; but it felt^she was conscious— singularly
cold and clammy just then.

Why?

Her long dark lashes drooped and remained so
till the close of the ceremony.

Nor did she lift them when Dick, with regretted
cheeks, sprang forward to claim the first
kiss in the vestry, for, boy though he was, he knew
enough to feel that Melanie had sacrificed herself
for Eeggie and for him.

No bishop was present, as the paragraph had it ;
but among those in church were Mr., Mrs., and
Miss Plantagenet Pugwash, uninvited, however, ta
their own considerable disgust.

All that followed seemed a dream to the chief
actress therein. The register was duly signed in
the damp old mouldy vestry, or whilom sacristy
in England's older days ; and there were two
signatures side by side that seemed odd — most
strange to Melanie — as the pen dropped from her
fingers.

Then Sir Brisco drew her hand over his arm,
pressing it to his side, and they issued forth, while

VOL. III. .0

on the wheezy old organ was performed something
that was meant to he Mendelssohn's Wedding
March ; and they passed through the usually
deserted and sequestered churchyard, now fully
crowded, for all the " country side " had gathered
to see the marriage of their popular landlord with .
the sweet young lady whom the poor knew so well ;
and a few well-meaning folks, with their children,
all smartened up for the occasion, strewed flowers
upon the path before the wedded pair.

'^ She looks like death — a corpse— more nor a
bride," Melanie heard one whisper near her.

Better be an old man's darling than a young
one's slave. I was none the 'happier for marrying
a young un," said another rustic.

"She'll soon be rid of him; he'll croak anon,"
was the consolatory remark, of a third crone.

Melanie recalled this speech with dismay ere long;
but meanwhile the familiar bells were jingling
merrily in the ivy-clad tower of the Anglo-norman
church, half-drowned by the cheers of the rustics.

Under. the moss-green loch-gate Melanie was led
by Sir Brisco to his carriage, with all its heraldic

bravery — a shield azure, iY'eiiy urgent, supported by
lions, winged ; and to her, the dream seemed only
protracted as she entered it — protracted in all its
painful details.

As she put a foot upon the first step of the
carriage she reeled, and would have fallen backward
but for the ready arm of her watchful husband ; but
she recovered herself, and half repelled the caressing
assistance.

It is nothing — nothing," she murmured through
the folds of her long veil.

The marriage breakfast at Eose Cottage, the
speeches, the health-drinking, and many a flattering
reference to herself, sank like iron into
Melanie's soul, especially when she heard the
mockery— for utter and bitter mockery it was — of
the speech of her uncle, Mr. Gideon Grimshaw ; and
to her it was almost a relief to turn and watch
Dick, who, among the jellies, trifles, and fruit, was
enjoying the fleeting present ; who already saw
himself, in imagination, a full-blown cadet at
Sandhurst, in the " near point " affected at that

institution ; and in addition to his marriage favour

o 2

he had bestowed on Bingo more bones than that
quadruped could bury in the garden for his future
delectation.

So after a time, Melanie, who had to don
travelling costume, hastened to her own room— the
room in which she was now to find herself for the
last time ; while the domestics were collecting the
old slippers and rice, to throw after the wheels that
bore away the wedded pair.

To her, the wedding breakfast had seemed an intolerable
phantasmagoria. She had heard people
talking and making merry, but their voices had
seemed strange and unfamiliar, even as her own
husky whispers sounded afar off; while to-swallow
anything, even a glass of wine, was an impossibility.

THE Unforeseen.

Alone — for a little space — at last ! She would
have it so, and would admit neither effusive bridesmaids
nor fussy domestics, like the gushing
Mademoiselle Clochette.

Terrible thoughts pressed thick and fast upon
her. As has been written of a young girl similarly
circumstanced, she knew that the placidity and
contentment of middle age might be hers ; but the
smiles and tears, the intense delight, the fears, the
exultation of early hopeful years, the fresh spontaneous
love that gives itself unconsciously — she
had renounced them all !

How confused and strange were her reflections as
she sat there in her long veil, her blossom wreath,
and all her bridal bravery.

A wedded wife she might be — nay, was — but she
felt herself still to be Melanie Talbot.

The golden hoop on the third finger of her left
hand told its own tale, and yet the whole of the
past ceremony and the present situation would
seem more than ever a dream on the morrow.

The morrow ! Little could the new made Lady
Braybrooke foresee the close of this — her wedding-day.


Melanie was more than ever pallid. Her very
lips were white, and her violet blue eyes were so
shadowed that they seemed almost black. There
was something strangely solemn, too, in her aspect,
as of one who had passed through a cruel and
terrible ordeal.

Oh, uncle, be kind to me," she wailed in her
loneliness of heart, when he, to her surprise,
entered her room in haste, after a hurried knock at
the door ; "be kind and help me."

He regarded her strangely, and his face wore, for
him, an expression of deep concern and dismay.

What could this mean ? .

Oh, uncle," she resumed, with eyes cast down,
I feel myself like a widow rather than a wife."

And she looked, not at her wedding hoop, but

Lonsdale's engagement ring, which had never left
her finger since he placed it there perhaps.

"You are a widow," said Uncle Grimshaw, in a
low husky voice.

What do you mean ? "

He hesitated, and knowing how he had coerced
her, her anger began to rise.

Leave me for a little, uncle," said she ; " even the
bridesmaids and Clochette have not come to assist
me. The carriage, I suppose, is at the door
already ; but I cannot go away yet with that man.
Oh, no — the future does seem terrible now."

'rit cannot be worse than the present," was his
gloomy reply.

What do you mean ? " she asked again.

*' Compose yourself — "

For what next ? "

To hear what I have to say — to tell you — an
awful shock."

Her first thought was of Lonsdale.

News — from — Burmahh ? " she asked faintly.

A rough malediction escaped Mr. Grimshaw.

• ' No — your husband — compose yourself — "

'what of him?"

He is dead."

"Dead?"

He dropped down in a fit and died ten minutes
ago ; and you — you are already a widow."

Melanie, who had risen from the toilet-table, on
.which she had thrown her wreath, her veil, and
some of her diamond ornaments, fell backward into
a chair, and for a time all became blank to her.

Voices after a time reached her.

Poor girl — poor thing— poor, dear Lady Bray-brooke
— how sad, how awful ! "

They were the voices of Mrs. Chillington and a
few other ladies, of the bridesmaids and Clochette, as
they all fussed about her and impeded each other.

How Strange was the destiny of Melanie. Like
she of whom Gerald Griffin sung, she was now

In one morning-tide
A wife and a widow,
A maid and a bride.

After the awful strain, of the last weeks especially,
she felt stunned — strange, more bewildered
than ever. Could it be that she was free— actually

free ? But what a price^the life of a really goodman.
And was it not a sin to think she was free ?
Uncle Grimshaw now told her that Sir Brisco,
with all his appearance of sturdy and animal
health, had a mortal ailment, known to but very
few of his friends — disease of the heart ; that the
best doctors in London had bidden him avoid all
excitement, but the great event of the day had
proved too much for him ; and now the last
medical dictum was sudden failure of the heart's
action, otherwise syncope or fainting. " Thank
goodness it did not happen sooner," added kind
Uncle Grimshaw, with an eye to the settlements.

Gentle Dr. Brendon urged upon her the usual commonplaces
— about the mysterious dispensations of
Providence ; the death of a good man fully prepared
for it ; not to grieve, all was for the best ; we could not
be wiser than Heaven, and so forth. All the while Clos
drenched her unbound hair with eau-de-cologne.

By the next day all traces' of the wedding feast
had disappeared ; but the house was besieged by
callers, and cards in heaps, from persons unknown
to Melanie Talbot, were left for " Lady Bray-brooke,"

inscribed 'with deepest condolence" — for
she was deemed a disconsolate widow, abandoned
to weeping and sobbing, despair and dishevelment.

For a time Melanie was languid and listless,
like one who had outlived emotion ; but she was
only dull and dazed, with a strange sense that all
her future life had been on the point of slipping
out of her own hands, that she had hearted with
individuality and with individual action at the
altar ; and now all was. reversed.

She had no love to give, but she felt intense pity
and gratitude when she thought of the generous
dead. These emotions, with something of compunction
now, mingled with her genuine sorrow,
for poor old Sir Brisco had been ever kind to
Eeggie and to Dick. If it was all for her sake,
nevertheless, his kindness had been shown.

The circumstances of the baronet's death rendered
an inquest unavoidable ; but the concurrent
testimony of his London medical advisers, of Mr.
Grimshaw, and of Dr. Brendon, who had known
him for years, rendered that painful and antiquated
ceremony the work of an afternoon.

Days passed on now as usual, but Melanie had
still a curious sense of unreality — of having
awakened from a dream, or still being in one,
from which she might awake to find, perhaps,
that what seemed the event of the day happened
weeks ago. She was young, and it was impossible
for her not to think that among the hidden possibilities
of the years to come something of grace,.
of tenderness and tranquillity, might await her.

After all, you are married," said Uncle
Grimshaw. " When a woman is so her destiny is
accomplished, if the settlements are all right, as in
this case they fortunately are. So what does the
rest signify ? "

And he gave one of his old chuckles as he spoke.

The title and estates went to a remote branch of
the Braybrookes. Among other bequests in his
will. Sir Brisco left a good round sum to his
nephew, Horace Musgrave, and his wife. Amy
Brendon. Melanie had the Dower House to reside
in when she chose, and was left in ease and luxury,
which, however, would be considerably curtailed if
she married again ; but now, free from the

tyranny, the meanness, and the daily degradation
of Mr. Grimshaw's household and her aunt's
imperious interference, the perpetual irritation of
her former life had given place to a sense of
independence, safety, and tranquillity that, but for
the memory of Lonsdale, would have been very
delightful ; and her first thought on awaking each
morning was that she was now her own mistress,
and could never more be taunted that her daily
food was the price of submission and obedience.

After that time of excitement how the days
seemed to linger with Melanie — days alike slow
and swift, for they were full of aimless and dreary
emptiness, and passed without mark, though every
hour was one of suppressed thought and gloom.

Neither Uncle Grimshaw nor Mrs. Chillington
said a word of what the newspapers contained on
that eventful morning of the marriage ; and
Melanie still secluded herself so much that not even
Br. Brendon, and one or two others who knew the
story of her engagement to Lonsdale, felt themselves
at liberty yet to enlighten her on the subject
of his safety at Eangoon.

Was she to wear a widow's odious cap ? was one
of the first important subjects broached by Mrs.
Chillington.

It was, under all the circumstances, deemed
unnecessary, eventually ; and she appeared in the
deepest mourning Regent Street could furnish,
without that obnoxious head-dress to conceal her
beautiful brown hair ; but her attire, like her black-edged
letter paper, bore the impress of that
unutterable woe," which is essentially a badge
of English grief, and is essentially absurd or
grotesque. The routine of life began to go on, but
not as before ; for Melanie was too young and too
lull of life, for her youth, crushed though it had been
by many adverse elements, not to revive within her.

To the monotony' into which she was sinking, a
startling fillip was given one day when her brother
Dick, with Bingo barking at his heels, came
rushing into the room, brandishing a newspaper,
and shouting :

Oh ! Melanie— Melanie ! Thank God ! Thank
God ! Hurrah — hurrah ! Lonsdale is not dead at
all. Why, he landed at Portsmouth yesterday.

with ever so many sick soldiers from Burmahh, for
Nether. Head for yourself."

It was some minutes before she could do so, and
a longer time elapsed before she could realise it all
and know everything that had been so artfully
concealed from her on her marriage morning by
Uncle Grimshaw; and that knowledge did not
raise him higher in her estimation.

The whole episode showed the deep cunning and
cruelty of which he was capable.

'' Alive and well — alive and well," she whispered
to herself. It Seemed incredible, after the details —
meagre though they were — which she had read, so
long ago, it seemed now, after all her sorrow and
tears. " Well — and in England, too ! Oh, what
must he think of me when he hears all, from other
lips, at first ? The truth, the entire bitter truth,
he may never, never know ! "

She laid her head upon the mantel-board, as if
too much thought oppressed her, and rested her
cheek upon the dark velvet fringe with which its
pallor contrasted ; and thus she remained for a
long time, gazing into the fire as though she could

find a cine to the future amid the ever-changing
and red-glowing embers, the light of which played
upon her sad sweet face.

Days passed on, and save what the newspaper
reported, she heard no more of Lonsdale. But she
knew that he was now in England, and within reach
of all that skill, care, and science could do for him.

To rouse Melanie, and for the furtherance of
some more ambitious schemes of her own, Mrs.
Chillington, who had become effusively and
elaborately affectionate, left her stately residence
in the environs and took handsome rooms in
Piccadilly, opposite the Green Park, whither she
prevailed upon Melanie to accompany her ; and
after a time contrived to absorb her in a whirl of
flower shows, luncheon and dinner parties, theatre-going,
dresses and flying visits to all whom she
cared to know ; and under this . system, which was
new to her, Melanie's spirits certainly rose.

I thought you would like this, dear," said the
gay little widow. " There is no quietude so soothing
that it does not become utter boredom at last."

God alone knows what a day may bring forth —

for good or for evil," was the silent response of
Melanie in her heart, in which, with pique and
bitter disappointment, a misty kind of hope and
fear grew side by side.

Why does Montague make no sign or seek to
find me out, after all that has happened to us both,
to me, perhaps, especially, of late ? I cannot take
the initiative and write to him. Time, may have
some solution for this," she pondered, 'hidden in
the future."

But the solution, if it ever came, might come too
late.

Among other visitors of Mrs. Chillington's there
• came almost daily, full of attention and devotion to
Lady Braybrooke, a certain — not very — noble peer,
of whom we shall hear more anon.

Mrs. Chillington's ambition was kindled anew by
her recent success with the deceased baronet ; and
she now hoped that Melanie would crown all by
marrying — '' forming an alliance " — with some
peer ; and here was Colonel Viscount D'Oyley just
to hand, needy, but ignorant as yet of how the
young widow's settlements stood.

With her magnificent jointure, Gideon," said
Mrs. Chillington to Mr. Grimshaw, " and^till more
especially with her new position, her youth and
beauty, too, why should she not look far beyond
being a mere baronet's widow ? Lord D'Oyley,
whom perhaps you may remember, major of the
King's Dragoon Guards, has now come into his
uncle's title and estates. He is just home from
Bengal, a K.C.M.G. and C.S.I., and seems greatly
smitten with her."

Uncle Grimshaw gave a snorting assent. K.D.G.
men seldom came near Birchinin Lane, and he cared
nothing about them. Having now got the whole
three off his hands — Melanie and her two brothers —
he did not care much about this new scheme ; but
was loth to offend Mrs. Chillington or appear
indifferent to her ambitious views.

Lady Braybrooke— what a mockery!" was ever
Melanie's secret thought. And now, how to make
Montague Lonsdale understand more fully the
cruel pressure that had been put upon her — the
effect of the false rumour of his death— and that
she had never forgotten and never deceived him.

VOL. III. p

GOSSIP.

You here, Lonsdale, after all ? "

'hallo— Bilke? Val Bilke, of the King's
Dragoon Guards ? "

The same, my boy. Glad to see you alive and
well, old man," was the somewhat paradoxical
response, as Lonsdale found his hand shaken
by that gallant officer in the smoking-room of the
Naval and Military Club.

Not that Lonsdale had ever much affected the
society of the blase and, sooth to say, somewhat
bloated and " beery " looking cavalry man, but his
face was a familiar one, and amid the ever-changing
society of the club was one of the few he now knew.
The gay Val was so bibulous that he always looked,
as his mess said, '' like a fellow half sprung, or on
half-cock."

So you escaped those nigger fellows in the land
of the white elephant ? " said Bilke, proffering his
handsome silver cigar-case. " Try one of my
favourite brand."

Thanks — yes, I gave them the slip."

"And have come home invalided with sick.
That is like the blind leading the blind, as Byron
says," said Bilke, whose knowledge of literature
was somewhat hazy ; " but I did not expect you
to turn up here, looking so well and jolly, after
being killed and buried by Dacoits."

.Jolly ? Well, I cannot say that I quite feel so.
Fever at Eangoon nearly finished me," replied Lons-
dale. " I have come home to find health, though I
cannot say I have much to live for now — so many old
friends are gone, and I care not to cultivate new."

*' Oh, d — n it, don't begin to moralise, old man,"

said Bilke, burying his somewhat purple nose in a

beaker of brandy and seltzer. '' I have often

thought that it is wonderful what a man can go

through — marching, fighting, disease, and drink —

get over them all, and go on living as before, egad,

and never seem to get old."

p2

Lonsdale, not thinking this remark merited
a reply, smoked on in silence ; so Val Bilke twirled
his carefully-waxed and dyed moustache and said :
You remember D'Oyley, of Ours — Bob D'Oyley.
He has succeeded to his title, and is now in the Upper
House ; though he won't be much use there, I fancy."
*what of him?" asked Lonsdale, with ill-concealed
indifference.

"A gay old bird. He is dropping into a good
thing."

His title, you mean, or the estates ? "
Better than either, the estates, perhaps,
particularly."

In what way? "

"A charming widow — one scarcely a wife, they
say ; but widows were always Bob's pet weakness.
You remember that pretty Httle one who was at
grass in Calcutta till her calamity turned up, to the
astonishment of us all. Then Bob's sensible admiration
for married women has always been the saving
of him. But the grass widow of Calcutta — Lady
What's-her-name's supposed companion, whose
husband, an infantry man, was killed in Burmahh,

you know," continued Bilke, ending what he meant
to say by putting his nose again in his sparkling
beaker and becoming a little involved under the gaze
of Lonsdale, who resented this public reference to the
story of Montressor and his wife, poor little Claire.

You don't mean to say that the colonel is dangling
after her again— here in London ? " he asked.
" Not at all, not at all ; he is flying at higher
game. I really think he means to become respectable
and settle down quietly at last. They say it
is quite a case between him and the young beauty,
Lady Braybrooke."

What did you say — who ? "

Lady Braybrooke, by Jove."

This rejoinder effectually silenced Lonsdale.
"What was really meant or inferred, what had
transpired within so short a space, or what was
now transpiring, he knew not ; but while he
silently resented the mention of Melanie's name
in this blunt and off-hand way in such a public
place, and its being coarsely coupled with that of
such a man as Lord D'Oyley, he was unable to
show any vital interest in the matter or ask any

information about it. However, amid the banter
of a few vacant fellows, who were intrenched
behind their journals on lounges or in easy chairs,
he gleaned that the sudden widowhood of Melanie
on her wedding-morning, together with her beauty
and reputed wealth and sudden appearance in
public places, under the chaperonage of Mrs.
Chillington, had made her a kind of nine-days'
wonder even in London ; and that D'Oyley, an old
friend — some said whilom admirer — of her aunt,
was in such close attendance — "on daily booty,
don't you know, and all that sort of thing " — that
it must eventually lead up to something of the kind
towards Melanie, and in due course matrimony.

On landing at Portsmouth, Lonsdale had heard
early of the baronet's sudden demise ; but he had
also heard of his marriage, as a fact, before it — an
unpleasant fact for him to swallow ; one which
seemed somehow to separate him rudely and
suddenly from Melanie, and made him feel as if the
new ties cancelled all the old between them. All the
more now did this seem when in this accursed
club gossip her name was "muddled up" with that

of such an utter vaurien as D'Oyley, of the King's
Dragoon Guards. And lest he might hear more that
was equally galling, unpleasant, and unpalatable,
he retired and sought the solitude of his own rooms.

His return to London had summoned back
keenly all the fond, the sweet and tender memories,
that were beginning, even ^Yith him, to lose their
first acuteness and sharpness now.

Time, travel, war, excitement, and changes of
scene, in no way connected with Melanie, had intervened,
but they could not blunt the edge of his
first grief and stern mortification when he read that
fatal paragraph at Eangoon, and knew thereby that
he had lost her. And now that she was again free,
this new and unpleasant rumour was on the tapu.

His first thought was that he would get out of
London and go to the Continent, to Paris, to
Monaco, or anywhere — where, he cared not— to
spend his leave of absence and avoid her. His
best friends knew not what to make of his
abstracted ways and restless glances, his long
reveries, during which he would sit silent or
appear to peruse a paper which was upside down.

while his cigar or briar-root went out, as he forgot
even to smoke; even that had failed to soothe him.

London seemed intolerable to him now, with its
everlasting streets and monotonous rows of brick
houses, and the muddy river of unnumbered murders
and suicides flowing turgid through it ; for all unlike
"the pretty towne by Rameses' side" of which
old Leland wrote, is now the bloated and unpicturesque
Babylon that grasping centralisation has
created.

It was past the season of fogs, however — that

season when, as Byron describes it, the London

sun shines

Through a misty morning twinkling weak as
A drunken man's dead eye in maudlin sorrow.

But it was the breathless time of summer now,
when London has no more atmosphere than we
may find in the Bed Sea when steaming with the
wind astern.

For a time Lonsdale remained full of his own
dreamy thoughts, gazing listlessly beyond the
everlasting current of vehicles and wayfarers in
Piccadilly into the pleasant Green Park, where all

the foliage was powdered with simmer dust — that
stately park from which greedy old George III.
'scrubbed" so rich to add to his gardens at
Buckingham Palace, the scene of Beau Fielding's
famous duel in 1696, and that of Ligonier with
Algiers seventy-five sears after ; an so, after long
cogitation with himself, he was still in the mood to
turn his back upon London and relinquish all
chance of meeting with Melanie. But days passed
on and found him still lingering at the Naval and
Military Club, not far from the rooms temporarily
occupied by Mrs. Chillington and her niece.

Being greatly frequented by Aldershot men, who
run up to town for a day or two's leave, the club,
though a retired place, was ever gaj^ enough.

Strange to say, it was in ancient times a venerable
inn, ''by the way that led to Beading," when Knightsbridge
was a pretty hamlet and highwaymen haunted
Hounslow. In more modern years it was an abode
of Lord Palmerston ; and it has sei a noble aspect,
while the courtyard in front gives an air of retirement.

Lonsdale had seen in an old paper the paragraph
announcing his capture and death at the hands of

Dacoits near Ava ; and this accounted in some
fashion for her apparent treachery to himself in
the marriage with Sir Brisco.

Stmig to the soul by all he had heard, and still
more by all he imagined, Lonsdale, unwisely
perhaps, allowed some time to elapse before he
could make up his mind what to do; and this
delay was somewhat fatal to his cause.

At last he thought —

'' Why not call on Mrs. Chillington at her apartments
— I was a guest of hers at The Park when in
town before ? Of course."

It was only the polite thing to do so, and leave
his card if no one was at home. Accordingly, on
the very afternoon this idea occurred to him, he
quitted the club and turned westward down Piccadilly,
with but one thought now.

He was to see Melanie again.

He had acted, he feared, foolishly, timidly
suspiciously. How would she receive him ? What
would she do — what say ?

She loved me once ; she cannot but love me
still," he whispered to himself as he went on.

IN PICCADILLY.

It was early in the second month of the London
season. The afternoon was beautiful ; but as usual
in London, there came no breeze ta: replace the
heat of the breathless mid-day ; yet the Park and
the Eow were crowded. All the world of fashion,
wealth, and idleness was there, riding, driving,
sauntering about, or occupying the long lines of
seats near Hyde Park Corner.

At the lofty door of Mrs. Chillington's residence
in Piccadilly a handsome and well-appointed open
carriage was standing, as Lonsdale drew near, on
the opposite side of the way, by the pavement that
borders the northern side of the Green Park.
He perceived in an instant that its occupants were
Melanie, her friend Amy Musgrave, and Lord
D'Oyley, evidently bent for the Row ; and the

carriage, he also saw, was not that of Mrs. Chilling-ion,
with its pretentious coats-armorial, but was
Melanie's, for on the panels was a widow's lozenge,
small and modest, charged with the Braybrooke
arms, and the liveries were yellow and black.

The two seemed in excellent spirits, and the
carriage bowled away west, towards Apsley House.

That Amy should seem joyous and full of vivacity
with "town," and all the happiness and change it
brought her,*^ras natural. A lively girl, she was
always ready for anything ; so why not for "a bit
of park " with this " old fossil, who was weak on
Melanie — or was it on Mrs. Chillington ? " Amy
cared little if it were so.

Melanie's smiles and good spirits jarred upon
Lonsdale ; but she had happiness in one great
measure now. In charge of old Bethia Barlow, at
the Dower House, Eeggie was well cared for, thanks
to her own sacrifice, and Dick's aspirations after
Sandhurst would soon be crowned with success.
They were all independent of Uncle Grimshaw,
whose hopes of the fresh-pots of Eavensbourne Hall
had faded away, and he could only growl and glare

at his frugal meals, while he increased his allowance
of cheap i^oi-t and brandy and water.

The Viscount was now partially bald ; but his
hair, whether a triumph of art or nature, was still
a rich dark brown, while his burly mustachios
were of the same hue, but carefully waxed out at
the tips. He was well-preserved, well-padded, and
splendidly made up by his tailor, and was intensely
vain of ha^dng his name coupled with that of
Melanie, who was totally ignorant of his real
character. That those two country girls should be
in such *' shady" society as that of his lordship,
Lonsdale never doubted to be the result of Mrs.
Chillington's influence or plans, and their ignorance
of the infamous world of London ; and the rough
gossip of Captain Bilke and others at the club came
painfully to his memory as he crossed the street
and handed two cards to a tall, powdered
valet -a tall, powdered, overfed and insouciant
lout— who was lounging against a pillar and
looking down contemptuously on the world at
large.

Mrs. Chillington was — he believed — at 'one ;

but Lady Braybrooke was bout " ; so the visitor
was ushered in.

In the elegant double drawing-room of the
Piccadilly mansion — a species of apartment to which
Lonsdale, for long past, had been a stranger — he
glanced about him for some traces of Melanie's
presence, nor were they wanting.

There was a water-colour sketch of a scene on
the Thames — how well he knew the features of that
locality ! The willows and the elms drooping over
the shining water whereon the great white lilies
floated — the place where they had so often met and
last parted, with all its associations. On the piano
lay scattered several pieces of music, some by
Chopii^ and, among others, " The Waltz of the
King's Dragoon Guards," all inscribed to Lady
Braybrooke, with "the kindest wishes of Lord
D'Oyley ; so "this kind of thing" had been going
on for some time past.

Half-cut novels and serials lay about ; they were
not much in the peer's line ; but a cabinet photo of
the latter, in a heavily-frogged coat, with all his
medals and orders displayed, occupied a place of

honour on a side table, on a pretty little gilded easel,
which, however, might have been Mrs. Whittington's
arrangement. Yet Lonsdale eyed it darkly as if it
had been a Dacoit by the Rangoon Eiver.

Near it in a Dresden china vase was a bouquet
of small red roses. Lonsdale remembered that
just such a rose as one of them was in D'Oyley's
button hole as he drove off, and though it might
have been the gift of Mrs. Chillington, "trifles light
as air " haunted the lover's mind, and were rather
in the ascendant just then.

It chanced that a little before this time, for
support of the Ministry or some particular members
thereof, on the retirement of that incapable body
a huge batch of " creations " had, as usual, taken
place ; and among the latter now figured Sir
Plantagenet de Pugwash, Kent., of Stokencross —
for "his eminent services to the State" ; in boiling
up soap in unusuarquantities, we presume.

The blushing honours of the old soap boiler
of Batter sea had filled Mrs. Chillington with a
general contempt for all bearers of knighthood
that was not hereditary.

"Pooh ! " she had said ; "what are baronets now ? "
Thus she aimed at higher game for Melanie.
With Lonsdale's cards in her hand, she now
lingered for a moment at the rich Indian portiere
which hung before the inner drawing-room door,
and while unseen by him, a very cloudy and hostile
expression indeed hovered on her certainly fine old
face.

She half crushed the cards in her angry little
hand, as she felt herself positively ill-used by Fate.
It was too bad to think that, after all, after
deeming him safely dead and buried, or eaten —
she cared little which — by the Burmese, he should
return thus, looking as well and handsome as ever,
to mar, perhaps, her second ambitious plans and
hopes of being aunt to a peeress ; and so, in her
heart, she hated poor Lonsdale with a most unholy
bitterness.

Yet nothing could equal the sweetness and
brightness of her smile as she came tripping
forward and said, with both her hands held out :

"Welcome, Captain Lonsdale— or are you Major
now? — I do hope so. To see a man fresh from

the seat of war— especially one who has seen and
escaped so much as you — is indeed an excitement
in these prosaic days of ours.

He bowed over the old hypocrite's hand, and
took a gilt chair she indicated.

The story of your being killed was most painfully
tragic," she resumed ; " but untrue, thank
Heaven ! Nothing tragic happens now-a-days, eh,
Captain — er— Lonsdale ? "

How difficult it was, from her manner, to
imagine what was really passing in her snaky
old heart, while Mademoiselle Clochette arranged
her foot-stool and the tripod table, on which were
placed her fan, scent bottles, her knitting, and
pet cur in a mother-of-pearl basket, and then
withdrew to plunge into her raciest Zola.

Indeed, no one who looked on Mrs. Chillington
and saw the suave expression on her lifeless old
face, her features delicate and regular, her sweet
company smile and careful costume, with the
graceful cap of richest lace upon the coils of her
snow-white hair, could have deemed what a hardhearted
woman of the world she was.

VOL. III. Q

** And Lady Braybrooke is well, I hope ? " said
Lonsdale, as if in a casual way.

yes, thanks, wonderfully so, under the
circumstances. Ah, hers was a tragic story, if
you choose ; poor dear Sir Brisco ! You have
heard all about his sudden death, of course — a
sad fate — a dreadful shock to us all, dear Captain
Lonsdale. But I hope — nay, I am certain," she
added, with a waggish little smile, *' that my niece
has got over it all now. And the ruby mines,
Captain Lonsdale," she resumed, after a little
paiise, " I long so much to hear about them.
Don't you wish that you had gone with the troops
to the ruby mines ? "

'* They were scarcely thought of when we were
before Ava," replied Lonsdale, coldly, for her
manner irritated him.

Ah, indeed ! Then you have been in town for
some time?"

A little over a fortnight since I landed at
Portsmouth."

'eat your club?"

"Yes."

Good," thought Mrs. Chillington. " As the
club his cards show is only a few doors off, a
fortnight without making any move to see Melanie
infers that a change has come over the spirit of
his dream."

And this thought gave her such intense satisfaction
that her smile became radiant indeed.

''I thought Lady Braybrooke looked pale," said
he, after an awkward pause.

'* You have seen her ? "

Only driving along the street a few minutes
ago"'

"Ah," said Mrs. Chillington, greatly relieved;
London in summer is scarcely the place for
rose-coloured complexions, I fear. It is becoming a
dreadfully overgrown place, and though delightful,
who is it that says, if we take out of London
everyone and everything that is not English little
will be left behind ? "

"You will, I trust, give Lady Braybrooke my

kindest regards — my best wishes," said Lonsdale,

oblivious of her remark, and with a break in his

voice.

q2

Mrs. Chillington was not slow to remark the
latter. She made an impatient gesture, with a
small and still very beautiful hand, and thought
it would be as well to crush out any " nonsense "
that might yet be lingering in the memory of this
tiresome lover.

•' Your best wishes, as an old friend, dear
Captain Lonsdale — you have heard then. I shall
of course," said she, and added in a confidential
manner, and with her sweetest smile, *' Her
peculiar position, her strange story, and her
great attractions have made her an object of deep
interest to many in her new circle ; but perhaps
to none more than her present escort. Lord
D'Oyley, who is of a very romantic nature."

Romantic ! " thought Lonsdale, almost laughing
in the old woman's face, while thinking her
remark to him was in execrable taste — knowing
all she did and all she so cruelly ignored — the
present and the past relations of himself and
Melanie. Certainly he had never spoken with heron
that subject; thus, perhaps, with all her aplomb
and perfect self-possession, she felt that she was

at liberty to talk of Lord D'Oyle}^ with an ease
that was cuttingly cruel and suavely malicious.

Irritated almost beyond good breeding by the
style she adopted, and the tenor of such hints
as she would have made to no other man, he felt
that he had a right to say something in the way of
protestation ; and she knew and felt it too, while
inclined to ignore any right or interest he had in
Melanie or her movements. Thus he began, with
a smile and manner as suave as her own.

"But are you aware, Mrs. Chillington, that
Lord D'Oyley is a man whose antecedents — "

"Oh, I know all you would urge, as a friend,
Captain Lonsdale," said she, with smiling precipitation;
"but, believe me, his lordship is better
than many other men, and certainly, I believe,
not worse. Every woman of the world knows
what your sex is generally."

Lonsdale's face wore an expression of dissent and
disgust mingled ; but he held his peace. Could it
be possible that from underhand influences such
as these, Melanie, so pure, so good, and simple,
could tolerate a man with a reputation so unsavoury

as that of D'Oyley, whose name was a by-word
from the Currant to Chowringher. Of course she
could know nothing about it, or if she did, there
must have come to pass mysteriously some lamentable
deterioration on her part, and in her views of
men !

Fearing to hear more, and loathing what he had
heard, Lonsdale, after a mauvais quart dlieure,
rose to retire, and his hostess rose too, a hint that
their interview was over, as she rang the bell.

To-morrow is the day of the great Botanic
fete'' said she, bowing and smiling; "you will
be there, of course, Captain Lonsdale— all the
world will be : oh — good morning."

Good morning."

Heaven aid me to keep these two fools apart
for ever ! " was the old lady's prayer. She said
nothing of Lonsdale's call to Melanie when she
returned from the Eow, and took care to destroy his
cards ; thus, as days had already passed, Melanie
began to feel more than ever justly piqued.

Lonsdale gladly quitted the oppressive atmosphere
of Mrs. Chillington's residence, and found

himself once more alone in the sunshine of
Piccadilly ; but he knew that Melanie was alone
with " that man," and in the face of Society,
and looking the while so provokingly bright,
smiling, and happy. Was this the result of her
new circle," as her aunt called it — the new
life she was leading ?

It might be so.

If this abominable old woman is to be our
evil genius again ! " thought Lonsdale, as he
walked sharply onward, "it cannot be Melanie's
fault, or, if so. Pope was right : —

Woman's at best a contradiction still !

Well, well, if so, hey for India again ! Mother
Chillington spoke of the Botanic fete, casually.
No doubt she will be there, and Melanie too.
So shall I!"

With all her mock effusiveness, the aunt had
evinced no desire that he should repeat his visit ;
but Lonsdale cared little for that omission. He
knew well the dame of old.

THE BOTANIC FETE.

Hawksley, a hansom cab ! " cried Lonsdale.

"All right, sir," replied Dick's friend, the
sergeant, who had now quitted the R.W.F.L.W.O.
Eegiment to become a commissionaire at the club ;
while we may add that Corporal Albert Edward
Gutters had, for certain mal practices of his own,
been relegated for a considerable term to the breezy
locality of Dartmoor.

In a very mingled mood, or in many moods
rather, Lonsdale was conveyed swiftly up Bond
Street, through the network of narrow and shabby
thoroughfares that lie beyond it, to the outer circle ;
and thence to the Royal Botanic Gardens, where a
scene was presented of which old Charnock, the
designer of them, could not have dreamed.

The season was summer. The soft warm air

was apt to fill one with dreams and sensations of
pleasure, when a blue sunny haze partly obscured
the distant landscape, the haze of heat and moisture,
though violets yet lingered in the shadier woods ;
but the time we refer to now was night.

June is pre-eminently the month for those
privileged, follies called flower-shows, when the
woods begin to wear a uniform tint of greenery.
But the flowers, in all their beauty, were secondary
to the wonderful effects of the fete at the Botanic,
which presented a coup d'oeil unthought of, we say,
by the worthy Robert Charnock — a North Sweeter,
we presume — as the midnight junkettings, amid
myriads of Chinese lanterns, Woman candles, and
coloured fires, in his old nursery-grounds ; while
the beauty and fashion of London gathered there in
thousands, to promenade, to flirt, and listen to the
music discoursed by the bands of the Blues and Life
Guards ; and smiles and loveliness, and much real
or incipient love-making abounds on every side ; the
latter more than all in the quiet nooks and shady
places offered and afforded by the mode in which
these gardens are laid out.

LOVE S LABOUR WON.

So skilfully has this been done that the spectator,
standing on any spot or eminence, cannot possibly
guess how far the grounds extend, for the ring of
land has become to the eye an epitome of a boundless
and varied expanse of open scenery.

If in the clear sunshine of day this is the optical
result, how much more must it seem so by night,
when, added to all the skilful effects of artificial
lights and coloured-fires, the beautiful conservatory
becomes a temple of frosted silver, and the long
rhododendron marquees turn to flowering valleys
that seem the abode of fairies.

At the sudden explosion of a maroon or signal
light at ten p.m., the grounds became flooded with
coloured fires that brought out the foliage and
peculiarities of plants and trees, from the lowly
weeping willow to the tall and stately elm, while the
bands of the Household Troops, by the National
Anthem, proclaimed that Royalty had come. But
it was neither to see the latter nor watch scenic
effects that Montague Lonsdale sought that brilliant
fete. He came to seek but one sweet face that had
haunted him for months and months in places faraway

beyond the sea ; and among all the thousands
of lovely girls around him he saw nothing of it yet.

The utter solitude of being alone in a vast and
changing crowd, composed of groups and parties of
mutual friends, began to oppress him after a time,
and he was on the point of turning irresolutely
away, when a familiar voice said :

"You here. Captain Lonsdale? Montague —
what a delightful surprise ! "

Then he suddenly found himself confronted by the
bright, smiling face, and the languishing hazel eyes
of the coquettish Mrs. Musgrave, nee Hilda Tree
who was promenading with Mrs. Chillington
and a gentleman. The latter bowed, and moved
on a little way, when she at once joined Lonsdale.

This is fortunate," she resumed, beaming upon
him ; "I am so longing for special Indian news.
Did you see papa before you left for Europe ? Are
you direct from Calcutta ? "

'' No— Burmahh."

Of course ! You must tell me all about the
war — it seems an age since we parted at Suez ! "
continued the effusive Hilda, as she took Lonsdale's

arm, and looked up into his eyes with the old smile,
which he knew so well, and many others too ; but
it was a light and winning one, nevertheless.
** And now tell me, you have seen Melanie — Lady
Braybrooke, of course ? "

Is she here ? " he asked, evasively.

Oh, yes — every one is. She is here with her new
(perhaps I should say old) admirer. Your old
flame — you laugh at the idea now, no doubt — is one
of the sensations of the season ; but she will not
long ornament the rooms of the politic aunt, if
rumours prove true."

To all this prattle Lonsdale made no reply. He
knew Hilda of old, and how capable she was of
exercising all her powers of mischief and fascination,
married though she was. Thinking of this, he
enquired for Mr. Musgrave, fearing he was forgotten,
" in the way of the half-conscience world
in which they lived."

Oh, he is well, thanks, and at Brighton,
fortunately," she added in a low voice, with one of
her old oeillades shot from her white-lidded eyes ;
but the other Horace's little Amy is here, I

believe ; and — do you know — she is most amazingly
in love with her own husband ; though it is said that
people now-a-days never do marry the right people.
What finny old air is that which the Coldstream
band is playing ? " she asked, after a brief pause.

'' 'Love not'"

"Ah, very sensible title too."

"How?"

"Because* the thing you love may change,'
Does not the song say so ? " replied Hilda, with one
of her silly but certainly silvery laughs ; while
Lonsdale gave a species of start, as he saw, among
many others, the familiar face he had been in
search of pass close by where he and his companion
stood, half-hidden under the long branches of a
drooping willow, near the artificial lake in which
the coloured lights were brilliantly reflected.

It was the face of Melanie — that soft, yet
striking face ; so full of sweetness and power, tenderness
and strength, strangely blended — the face
he had last seen blistered with tears at their parting
place — last, but once, when yesterday she was with
the same man who was in attendance on her now.

As she passed slowly with D'Oyley, he heard
her voice. It was only uttering some commonplaces
; but how it thrilled through him as it fell
on his sensitive ear. " There are women," says a
writer, '* to whom one can shut one's eyes and
listen for the sheer pleasure of sound, half inclined
to laugh with the pleasure, without even heeding
what they may say, as one listens to the conversation
of a pious and sympathetic voice."

Such a voice was Melanie's, and Lonsdale had
ever felt it to be so ; but never so much as when,
after a lapse of anxious and harassing time,
he heard it uttering words that were of little
import, and were not addressed to him.

She did not see him ; but D'Oyley, ignorant of
any part or tie between them, did, and gave him a
friendly and self-satisfied nod as he and she moved
on with the passing crowd of promenaders.

Bob D'Oyley, as he was always called in the
K.D. Guards, had been handsome when young ;
but dissipation, good living, and hard drinking had
sorely marred all that. There was a good deal
of self-consciousness, and perfect aplomb, of course,

about him ; and every detail of his dress, from his
white cravat and pin to his tight glazed boots, was
perfect, a study.

His features were small cut, but heavy now;
his aquiline nose had become thick and crimson
tinted : his eyes watery and leery, while his
bearing was jaunty, and his whole air that of a
man who was resolved to be still young, and who,
though well-saved in some respects, had lived a
faster life than was good for him.

You know Lord D'Oyley ?" said Hilda, with a
little surprise.

"Yes, met him in Calcutta'' replied Lonsdale,
curtly.

"He is so delightfully wicked ! "' laughed Hilda,
who took in the whole situation and enjoyed it
exceedingly; "you were watching them, I saw."

Lonsdale made no reply to this unpleasant
speech.

Don't they seem a handsome couple ? '" asked the
merciless Hilda, who neither forgot nor forgave Lons-
dale's indifference to herself, particularly amid the
many opportunities afforded in the Pagoda to Suez.

Only one is very much older than the other,"
said he, coldly.

"Ah, but Melanie Talbot is an odd girl — she
always rather affected underlies. But Mrs. Whittington
says she will make him a most suitable
and charming wife."

Wife ! Has he proposed — are they engaged ? "

'' Don't you know ? Oh, Montague, of course
not, you have been so long in Burmahh and have
not heard what her own circle says ; but you will
soon know all about it. Her allowance is to be
cut down to less than a half if she marries again, I
hear. The selfishness of the upper ten, even in
dying, is really disgusting, Montague ; is it not ?
If a baronet is one of that upper circle, which I
don't think Mrs. Chillington admits, now that they
have a higher rank in view."

And in this more than vague way she continued,
with her sweetest smiles, to " stick pins and
needles " into her unhappy listener.

I would rather see Melanie dead than the wife
of such a man," was the latter's thought.

''Hilda — Mrs. Musgrave," said he, with an

irritation he cared not to conceal now, " are you
aware of all that your words infer to me ? "'

Under his angry eye her smile faded out.

I only know," she replied falteringly, " that
Lady Brayhrooke's name is mixed up freely
with that of Lord D'Oyley, under the influence,
guidance, what you will, of her aunt, Mrs.
Chillington."

I can easily believe that."

I know he has come down to the weakness of
five o'clock teas at Piccadilly, and he seems to be
able to command her society at will."

Hilda was piqued, indignant now, at being taken
to task.

And I ever thought her perfect," muttered
Lonsdale to himself ; yet Hilda heard, or guessed,
the remark.

Ah, this comes of raising so much upon
ideality," she said. " In love we picture the
object as perfection, yet have often in the end only
the prosaic reality — disappointment and deception.
Is it not so?" she added, while half-perceptibly
pressing his arm with softly-gloved hand.

VOL. III. R

LOVE S Labour WON.

Once again Melanie and D'Oyley passed him in
the same place unnoticed — in the same gay
promenade — and it seemed horrible, unnatural.

One fact seemed unpleasantly plain. She had
married Sir Brisco, and seemed ready enough, if
all he heard was true, to marry again ; and all
this seemed, for the time being, to bear but one
interpretation to him — that she was doubly false.

He might have followed, intercepted, and spoken
with her, ending perhaps that tete-astute promenade ;
but Lonsdale's pride was alike roused and
crushed, if wee may use a paradox. He felt
choking. He resolved to quit the fete and return
to his rooms ; and he did so, ignorant that the
Viscount had casually mentioned his name to
Melanie as that of a brother officer, whom he had
last met in Calcutta, and had just seen now.

"Seen?" thought the girl; ''so we have
actually been in the same place— almost together —
yet never met ! Oh, Amy, is it not horrid ! " she
exclaimed to her friend ; " why was I not told
sooner? "•
"He was too well engaged under the willows

with Hilda Tremayne — Musgrave, I mean," said

Mrs. Chillington, maliciously if not coarsely, and

she left nothing unsaid or unhinged to make it

appear that the laggard Lonsdale and the

coquettish Hilda were engaged in one of those

petty affaires du coeiir, for which the latter had

become so celebrated, as one of the most dangerous

of married flirts, as she had also bloomed into the

dubious honour of being a fashionable beauty ; and

Lonsdale could not know that Melanie, after

quitting the Botanic fete, had also gone home to

Piccadilly, disappointed, disgusted, and grieved to

the soul.

"Was it for all this sort of thing," thought

Lonsdale, " that every hour I was away from her,

and thousands of miles of ocean rolled between

us, I seemed to be eating my heart out, and she

was my first thought in the morning and the

last at night ? That I had nerve given me to

endure and face all I faced and endured among

those d d Dacoits and savage Burmese ? That

I was spared to outlive the deadly fever of the

Eangoon Eiver, and yet come home, from thc\

R 2

land where so many better fellows have left
their bones ? Surely not— surely not ! "

But his melodramatic thoughts and half-uttered
speeches failed to soothe him. His heart was
burning with a great bitterness and anger. In
this mood, resolving at once to start for the Continent
to send the time, till he could, via Brindisi
and Suez, return to the Eegiment, he wrote that
night to the Adjutant-general for the usual leave to
travel abroad, that he might put the "silver streak"
between himself and his unforeseen troubles.

And as he and that Base dragoon, Val Bilke,
had a little supper of devilled plover's eggs and
slightly iced champagne, the latter, who saw he
was cut up about something, said, quoting some
book, though he read little, certainly :

"Don't be down on your luck about a bill or a
girl, if possible. I would advise you .avoid misanthropy.
Amuse yourself with your fellow creatures,
make friends of them, make use of them, make all
you can out of them, but don't always impute bad
motives to them. Our motives are like ourselves,
a mixture. That is my advice to you, old fellow."

AMY S LETTER.

Strange indeed had felt Melanie's first experience
of her new and independent existence at the Dower
House, with all its comparative luxuries and perfect
freedom from the sways of Uncle Grimshaw,
with his petty tyrannies, sneers, and crotchets.

She had felt herself a woman for the first time.
Her surroundings, duties, motives, and position
partly bewildered the gull; though she had an
uncomfortable sense that she deserved them not,
and should relinquish them ; but why, or for what ?
Had she not, as Eeggie often said, dearly won it all?

And he and his brother were safe now, under
her own wing, and free from the horrors of
orphanage and dependence.

She had grown stronger, braver, more courageous,
since she had become so completely her own
mistress, and free from all the strain and pressure
put upon her.

Lonsdale was safe and at home, there was no

doubting that : yet days and weeks, that seemed Hkely
to run to months, had passed since she came to Piccadilly,
and he had made no sign to her of his presence
in England; and Mrs. Chillington had carefully concealed
the circumstance of his visit, and the false
impressions she had given him on that occasion.

Ignorant of all this, Melanie felt deeply wounded
by the apparent cessation of his tender interest in
her, on one hand, while Lord D'Oyley's continuous
sympathy and endeavours to please, on the other
though frequently boredom — seemed always to
occur at natural times , thus her instincts did not
take alarm at them ; besides he was so passe,
though acting the young old man.

She suspected — could not help knowing — the ill-disguised
intentions of her aunt; but was she to
permit this scheming and ambitious old matron to
mix up her name with that of a man who was
totally indifferent to her, and whom she would
soon learn to dislike ?

Was her heart to be again trifled with — again
trampled on? And a vista of future regrets and
bitter memories opened up to her.

But why did Montague treat her so ? There
was a time when she could not imagine life
passing without him ; hut now it seemed as if
the coming years might have eventualities for her,
in which he would hear no part.

Hilda had impressed upon her the fact, that he had
been for a long, long space at his club, close by !
Whenever came this strange and intangible barrier
of doubt, or growing indifference between them ?
It seemed like an evil dream, and sorrow became
blinded with her genuine emotion of pique, while in
Lonsdale's mind were formless and purposeless
thoughts of travelling beyond the seas again.

And now on the very forenoon after the Botanic
fHe there ensued between the aunt and niece a
brief conversation that seemed, to the latter, as
savouring of the old past at Eose Cottage.

You do not look happy, Melanie," began Mrs.
Chillingt'on.

Perhaps — but I am resolved to be happy, if I
may ; I had enough of being otherwise under
Uncle Grimshaw's regime'" replied Melanie, with
more spirit or asperity than she was wont to display.

*what is it that brings this cloud over you?
Lonsdale again, I suppose. Hilda told me that he
saw you twice at the fete, but contented himself by
doing so. Can you, my niece, be mean enough to — "

Aunt, please to leave Captain Lonsdale's name
out of this discussion."

'that's well. I shall gladly do so, my dear;
all the more thankfully that you have so happily
attracted — I may say infatuated — Lord D'Oyley."

'' I am very sorry to hear it," replied Melanie
keeping her profile to the speaker.

Sorry — why ? You ought rather to be glad,
when your old flame fails you, as he has so
abominably done, darling," said Mrs. Chillington ;
and it was strange, with her silvery hair, silvery
voice, and sweet smile, how cruel and false this old
woman could be.

I have had enough of these new schemes of
yours. Aunt Chillington, and shall quit London by
the night train for Oxford tomorrow."

But you must not — cannot ! "

'* Must not and cannot — why ? "

"You are almost pledged to be Lord D'Oyley's

wife, so far as publicity goes ; and I know he is on
the point of a proposal."

'' This is worse and worse; absurd, outrageous ! "
exclaimed Melanie, with a scornful laugh, that was
new indeed to her sweet lips. " I have been trepanned
once ; but never again — never again ! "

She started from her seat as she spoke; and
twisted her lace handkerchief as she would have
twisted a cord.

We shall see what we shall see, darling,"
laughed the old lady, and in spite of Melanie 's pale
anger and intense repugnance, she twined her arms
around the girl's neck, and tenderly— or apparently
so — kissed her on both eyes. " I have but to
request you, Melanie, to consider well before you
renew your marriage bonds," added the old hypocrite
: " and only wed — as I know you will do — one
who is worthy of you."

It was at this crisis that Mrs. Chillington
received a letter from the Viscount, asking her
good influence, and permission to address her
niece who, though a widow, he deemed yet but a
mere girl. He urged his deep regard for the latter

and the settlement he could make upon her, beyond
all the late Sir Brisco had done. She was a girl,
he added, who, he felt, was well calculated to shine
in the best society ; who would render his home and
his table brilliant and attractive ; who would
soothe his declining years, he was rashly on the
point of adding — not that they had begun to decline
yet — no d — me ! that was a long way off still, he
thought ; but he cast himself upon the amiability
and goodness of Mrs. Chillington, and craved her
best wishes in the matter of his suit.

She perused this letter with intense satisfaction,
and though she made no mention of the subject to
Melanie, wrote to the Viscount appointing a day
and hour to call, when he would find her niece
alone, and trust to himself, his own influence,
position, and attractiveness for the rest; also
reminding him that marriage, as a tie that lasted
for life, ought not to be contracted without due care
and just consideration. The same post brought a
letter to the club for Lonsdale. It was from Amy
Musgrave, the wife of his old friend, the Hussar.

Though inspired by a genuine spirit of friendship

and regard for Melanie and himself, Amy's letter
was a very rambling one ; yet she made Lonsdale
fully aware of how the marriage with Sir Brisco had
been brought so quickly about. "Fatherless, motherless,
portionless, alone, and more than all, supposing
you to be dead, dear Montague, what could you expect
her to do? It was a delusion and a sacrifice ! "
wrote little Amy ; ' ' she is under some of the bad influences
still, and your abstention from seeing her is
cruel — more cruel than ever was her Uncle Grim-shaw,
who, I hope — as papa says — is now thinking
of the needle's eye through which he must creep.
You have committed a sad mistake in not seeing
Melanie and ending all this painful turmoil at once ;
though I did see you cross Piccadilly some days
ago, and thought you meant to call." (so that
visit has been concealed ! " muttered Lonsdale —
"the same old game is being still played") "It
is horrible to think that after all the past, and
when you are so dear to each other, sou should be
residing but a few doors apart, yet never meet.
Some mischief is being done, and nobody does so
much of that as everybody. You are quite like the
people in a three-volume novel ! She would cut me

for ever and a day if she knew of this letter. Do not
fear your fate too much,' but put it to the issue of
a visit, dear Montague, or delay may be fatal. I am
engaged to shop tomorrow, at three p.m., with Mrs.
Chillington ; and will contrive that Melanie shall be
alone. Call then, or I shall never, never forgive you.

Pes. — I will keep the old lady in Regent Street
as long as I can."

His heart was full of tenderest gratitude to little
Amy for her kindly and amiable intentions.

What should he do but go at the hour she
indicated, when he loved Melanie so deeply, when
both had been so consistently tried, yet faithful to
the dream of love so long? But what did Amy
mean by the phrase that delay might be fatal ?

A well-padded and carefully attired personage,
who sat opposite, deep in the columns of a society
paper ; who had a rich brown fringe of hair round
his rather bald head, and who had his mustachios
equally well dyed, but carefully waxed to
their spiky tips, might have thrown some light
upon that, as he had in his pocket an important
reply from Mrs. Chillington.

AND SO THE TALE IS TOLD."

Curiously enough they quitted the club together,
and at the same time, that afternoon. Lord D'Oyley,
for he it was, turned through the gate to the left, to
visit first a shop in Bond Street, Lonsdale through
that which led to the right, westward down Piccadilly
; and a vast deal was involved by the small
difference in time these two movements made.

On this occasion Lonsdale did not go through
the empty pretence of asking for Mrs. Chillington,
but for Lady Braybrooke at once, and the tall
flunkey, who was lounging insouciantly against a
pillar of the doorway, leisurely informed him, in
the idiom of his county, that —

Lady Bibwook wos at 'one, but Missus Chilling-ton
wos out, taking of a airing."

Preceding him in orthodox fashion, with his

card upon a salver, lie ushered Lonsdale into the
stately drawing-room, the windows of which overlooked
the Green Park, and wherein Melanie was
seated at the piano.

She was singing to herself, for she was alone, in
her soft contralto voice, without strain or effort, as
she never attempted anything unsuited to her soft
and birdlike notes, for music was not Melanie's
strong point, thus she never thought of attaining
artificial perfection ; and now, full of her own
thoughts, she seemed neither to see the visitor's
card nor hear his name announced, but played on
in dreamy abstraction something that was very low
and sad.

Then, as the valet withdrew, she suddenly
paused and interlaced her slender fingers at the
back of her head ; and as she did so her sleeves
fell back and displayed, to the dimpled elbows, her
snow-white arms, so tapered and lovely in their
grace and contour.

One great beauty she had pre-eminently — even
Hilda always admitted it — her figure, which was
simply perfect ; and though by no means vain,

Melanie was sensible enough to have all her
costumes made plan, tightly-fitting, and becoming
to her.

For a second or two Lonsdale hovered near her
unseen, and felt with truth that we seem at times
to possess a kind of second self, and that " there is
a sense of unreality mixed up with our lives, even
at their greatest moments, which stands us in good
stead at a crisis and carries us calm in all outward
seeming, and sometimes even inwardly so, through
trials and difficulties that seem impossible upon
paper."

On every line of his handsome face there was
usually written self-control ; but now it wore a
yearning expression, and a half-stifled exclamation
escaped him. Melanie turned, and had not her
mind been full of him, she must have uttered
a cry.

Lonsdale — Montague ! "

Her voice was a breathless one ; at a glance she
knew him, despite the effects of recent suffering
and severe illness, but stood for a moment quite
still, voiceless, dumb, while a flood of pain and joy,

of memories bitter and sweet, seemed to sweep over
her head.

Melanie — at last, my darling — at last ! " His
arms caught her as she swayed about to fall, and
drawing her face upon his breast, he covered it
with kisses.

When she lifted it, it was colourless as one of
the marble busts close by, for great emotions
rendered her pale. She did not faint — far from it
but for a moment she seemed to see nothing of
the stately, double drawing-room, with its silken
hangings and florid decorations, and all seemed
dark, blurred, confused, and she might have reeled
had not Lonsdale's arms been round her; and ashe
kissed her hands, he did not fail to see that his
engagement ring was still on the third finger of the
left, half-hiding the wedding hoop of Sir Brisco.

"My own!" cried Lonsdale, as all the misery
that hoop recalled came to memory. "My own,
what a bitter bondage your short life has been, and
how cruelly you have been made to suffer, through
others and the force of circumstances ; but it is allover,
Melanie — all over, and past now ! "

More than once he held her at arm's length, that
he might contemplate her face, her eyes, her hair,
and then there spread a light, fond flush over her
cheek that made her strangely beautiful.

Tenderly he gazed down into her frank and soft
upturned face, which met the eyes that she had
seen in many a day dream, yet had never expected
to see in this world again.

Just then their words of joy were rather incoherent,
and their' caresses, if sweet, certainly looked
rather fatuous to a visitor, whose white, shrivelled
hand drew back the silk portion of the doorway,
but paused then, as he found himself not wanted,
and most decidedly che trop, and a little too late !

Provided with a magnificent ring from Bond
Street — a jewel, the acceptance of which he never
doubted — the Viscount had come gingerly, but
gaily, down Piccadilly. He had forgotten his card
case, but was duly announced to ears that heard
not his name, and by whom his existence was no
more remembered than the last year's snow.

'' The devil ! " he muttered, as he softly withdrew.
" If I am only of sufficient value in the

VOL. III. s

eyes of these women to be played with, the sooner
I am off the better, by Jove ! "

After a pause —

Why have you been so unkind ? " asked
Melanie, in a broken voice, while a little colour
swept over her face and neck.

'unkind, Melanie?"

Yes, if you knew all, why avoid me as you
have done ? "

*' I had no choice, and ever strove to crush the
wish to see you again."

'' After all I have suffered ? "

'rafter all I was told, rather."

Of what— of me ? "

"Yes."

"By whom?"

Your Aunt Chillington — of an intended second
marriage."

A little convulsive, yet almost angry, laugh
escaped Melanie.

Enough of that mischief — how can you speak
of it?"

Because it met me on every hand, Melanie."

How much they had to tell and to explain to
each other ! Of the intercepted letters ; of the
trickery of Mr. Grimshaw, and the use to which
he put his fatal despatch-box ; of the agonising
newspaper rumours ; of all he had undergone
abroad, and all that she had suffered, but in a
different manner, at home !

By degrees this was all unfolded and described
again and again, brokenly, lovingly, at intervals,
and Melanie listened to him with a thrilling yet
happy heart.

In marrying again — to come to prosaic matters
she would lose more than half her settlements ;
but little matter now, if she lost them all !

All was well now, and love's labour was won !

Even poor Eeggie, who had suffered so much in
body and spirit, and whose very existence had
proved so fatal a means of tyranny over Melanie,
was getting better, under new medical care and
happier auspices.

** No one— nothing can ever come between us,
darling ! " said Lonsdale, with infinite tenderness ;
*' all our future lies in our own hands."

Under God ! " she added, as her head dropped
on his breast.

Lonsdale's application to the Adjutant-general
for leave to travel on the Continent was successful ;
and certainly he did so travel, but not alone.

The leave comes in most opportunely for the

honeymoon trip — or, "wedding tour," as Melanie

would call it, saying that " honeymoon was a

ridiculous expression." And it did, perhaps, seem

to them, as Whyte Melville has it—

That life is short, though love is life,
And so the tale is told.

THE END.

NovELLO, Ewer & Co., Printers, Dean Street, Soho, W.
