?^^

5^ra

^4,K

^l}orr)0S • fi/lpf^ur • J0r)es.

What is a man
If his chief good and market of his time
lie but to sleep and feed ? A beast, no more.

■^mm!&

^^mi^

mt^m^3.

OF THE

UN IVLR.5ITY

or ILLINOIS



C5 792- p

v.i

VOL. 1.

a

THE PIT TOWN CORONET. By Charles J. Wills. 3 vols.
A RECOILING VENGEANCE. By Frank Barrett. 2 vols.
THE MAN WITH A SHADOW. By G. Manville Fenn. 3 vols.
DIANA HARRINGTON. By B. M. Croker. 3 vols.
A LEAL LASS. By R. Ashe King (' Basil')- 2 vols.
THE LAST HURDLE. By Frank Hudson. 3s. 6d.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

BY

ARNOLD GRAY

AUTHOR OF

"THE WILD Warrington," "LIKE LOST SHEEP,"

Etc.

the more a man learns of the wonderfulness of this world the more
chary he is in saying what is and what is not a possible complication
of events"— from an Article on Victor Hugo in the ''Athenamm."

IN THREE VOLUMES '^'
VOL. I.

LONDON

WARD & DOWNEY

12 YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN



fall Rights reserved']

COLSTON AND COMPANY"

PRINTERS

vel

o

TO

Fer. anil Jlr©. Certe ilaUirjIt

to whom this book

(when appearing in serial form)

was the happy means of making me known

I WITH FEELINGS OP WARM REGARD
AND SOMETHING MORE THAN PLEASURE
DEDICATE THE STORY
OF

PERIWINKLE

A. G.

Book I.

PAGE

MOOR EDGE, . 1

Book II.

DARYL Kirkwood's WIFE, . . U5-

MOOR EDGE.

Gloomy, windy, and full of ghosts." — Ossian.

There are depths in man that go the length of lowest
Hell, as there are heights that reach highest
Heaven." — Carlyle.

I have no companion
No friend in all the throng to hear my sighs;
No glance, but the cold stare of alien eyes."

Lewis Morris.

CHAPTER I.

'fest had been, though in mid June, a
chill and dreary day, with a strong
breeze and frequent showers ; and
now that evening was come, the clouds hung
lower and lower over the moor, and heavy
rain-drops at intervals splashed upon the .


Upstairs the floors creaked uncannily as
the wind swept round the house ; the lattices
rattled ; strange hollow meanings came down
the chimneys. One upstairs door in particular
seemed on that gusty June evening to strain and
fret at its lock more loudly than any other, as
if it meant to fly back and lay bare the fearful
secret it guarded.

VOL. I. A

It was the door of Uncle Simon's own garret
this mysterious attic under the tiles of Moor
Edge ; a room which never was entered by
any soul save himself. Ah ! that dreadful
place — that evil room ! Even now, looking
back to those days of my life at Moor Edge,
the memory of it makes me shudder in every
vein, my heart sickens with horror ; yet never
once did I cross the threshold — never once
behold the interior of the room. The door
itself was enough for me. I am glad that I
never saw beyond.

I stood before the broad and deep-set kitchen
window, staring out upon the sage-gray moorland,
bleared and troubled looking in the stormy
twilight mist, patiently watching for Uncle
Simon. He had left home on the day before
yesterday ; but to-night we expected him back.
I was always glad to see him return to the lonely
house where we lived ; for his sister, Aunt
Hannah, was but sorry company for a girl of
nineteen like me.

She — Aunt Hannah — sat by the hearth, toasting
slices of bread. There was a bright fire
burning in the grate ; the teapot, covered with
a cosy, stood ready within the fender. As usual,
when the day's work was done, my aunt was

dressed in a plain skimp gown of some sad-coloured
stuff, a limp net cap with faded ribbons,
and a small and very rusty black silk apron.
The weather being chilly, her pointed shoulders
were draped — as indeed they generally were,
chilly or not — with a knitted pink wrapper,
which looked as if a visit to the wash-tub
would have much improved its condition.
Aunt Hannah was a very bony and a very
low-spirited person. Her cheeks were thin
and colourless, her long sharp nose was red
at the tip, looking always frost-bitten. She
was a nervous, bloodless creature, and at times
suffered painfully from a disorder which she
called ** the jumps."

I can understand now that it was no wonder,
poor soul ! Ah, now — but not then ! For what,
brought up as I had been, could I know of the
skeleton which dwelt at Moor Edge ? All her
life long, or nearly so, had Aunt Hannah been
familiar with the grisly thing. The rattling of
its bare bones, so to speak, was nothing fresh to
her ; though, in spite of her knowledge, her long
familiarity with the truth, " the jumps " would
occasionally overtake her.

I may as well say at once that I did not like
my Aunt Hannah ; I had never really liked

lier — not even when I was a child. And yet, I
believe, to do her justice, she was fond enough
in her way of me.

Flower," said she, without turning her head,
is your uncle coming ? "

I strained my eyes in the twilight, with my
forehead pressed against the window. I could
descry nothing but the leaden undulations of
the moor ; not even a tree or a hawthorn-bush
was visible from the kitchen window.

No," I answered slowly, watching still. *' It
is all so gray and misty ; and Uncle Simon,
when he went away, was wearing his gray
suit and his gray hat. He would, you see,
be the same colour as the evening, out-of-doors."


You might catch a glimpse of his black bag,
though," observed Aunt Hannah, in her thin
monotonous voice.

Yes ; doubtless I shall see that first," answered
I carelessly.

Uncle Simon was never known to quit Moor
Edge without carrying with him his black bag.
I had long since ceased to wonder, whenever he
set out on those mysterious journeys of his —
which sometimes were of frequent occurrence and
at other times happened rarely — what it was that

he took away in his " black leather friend," as he
called it, and what it was that he brought back
with him. I suppose Aunt Hannah knew ; but
neither he nor she had ever told me. When
Uncle Simon was at home at Moor Edge, looking
contentedly after his poultry, his two cows
Daffodil and Daisy — his pigs and the garden,
the black bag was locked up in the attic under
the roof. We never saw it lying about in the
lower rooms. The attic was the best place
for it.

Aunt Hannah went on with her toasting, and
said no more. When the gusty wind was still,
the only sounds that broke the silence were
the ticking of the tall clock in its corner, and
the loud purring of our deaf tortoiseshell cat
Sally, which lay curled up comfortably upon
the cushion of my Uncle Simon's great armchair.


I date the story of my life from this most un-summertime
seventeenth day of June, because it
was the day, the memorable day, on which a
certain thing had come to pass — something which
had changed for me the whole aspect and tenor
of existence, and had conjured into being, so to
put it, all kinds of dim and sweet possibilities.
Hitherto I never had thought or troubled about

the future. I had begun, shyly and half fearfully,
to think of the future to-day.

Shall I tell him "— ^' him " meaning Uncle
Simon, — *' or shall I not ? " I mused, marking
mechanically how a rook, then with difficulty
travelling homeward to the far-away woods near
Stony lamp ton, was *' blown about the sky."
Suppose I should not see him tomorrow, ashe
said ; suppose I should not meet him ever
again ? Why, in that case, it would be ridiculous
to — " I felt that in the fast-fading light a
hot blush was gradually over-spreading my face ;
my very ears began to burn ; for this second
"him" did not mean my Uncle Simon. It had
distinct reference to some one else. But what
matter ? Aunt Hannah was not looking — could
not see ; nor could she guess what was passing
through my mind.

It's half-past seven," she cried presently,
glancing up at the solemn-faced old clock standing
like a sentinel — or a sentinel's box rather —
in its shadowy niche. ** The toast will be as cold
as a stone, and so'll the tea, before — "

At that moment I caught sight of the short,
square familiar figure, clad in its shabby gray
suit, and, as usual, carrying the black bag in its
hand, coming, with head bent to the wet west

wind, slowly and wearily over the dim moor, onward
to the lone house which was built upon the
confines of it.

Here is Uncle Simon ! " I interrupted, in a
rejoicing tone. "It is so dull and wretched this
evening, Aunt Hannah — let me light the candles,
will you ? It will be more cheerful for him
when he comes in."

It isn't really dark enough for candles,"
complained my aunt ; " but light 'em if you
like."

Speaking, she came to the table whereon was
set the tea-tray awaiting her attention ; whilst I
at once busied myself with match-box and brass
candlesticks, in order to give the place a snugger
and more homelike appearance by the time our
tired traveller should come in. When he had
reached the gate in the low stone wall which
surrounded the garden at Moor Edge, I was
ready to open the front-door and to fly down
the path to meet him.

Why should I not throw my arms about the
neck of my Uncle Simon and kiss him % Did I
not love him ? Ah 1 kind Heaven, in those days
of my absolute innocence and ignorance, did I
not love him very sincerely ? Yes ; I see no
reason why I should not confess it. The cruel

after-knowledge had not yet opened my eyes
and turned my unquestioning girlish affection
for him into something which, after all, I
think, was never hatred. No, it may have
been fear and shrinking and vague horror —
something very near akin perhaps to loathing
; but. Heaven knows, it was never downright
hatred !

I had not then learned that he had wronged
me because he loved me. I was conscious only
that he was the one good friend I had ever
known, the one truly kind relation I had ever
known — indeed, the only parent I had ever
known. And so, remembering no other — believing
that I had no other — I loved him and
looked up to him in those days as a child in its
simplicity looks up to and reveres its natural
guardian. Should I be blamed hereafter for an
extraordinary lack of instinct I cannot help it.
I merely state the truth.

My pretty Flower," he said in his caressing
way, his arm at my waist, as together we went
up the garden path ; " and so you are glad to
have me home again — eh ? "

Gladder than ever to-night, uncle," replied I
gaily ; "for it has come over so cold and stormy,
and one can't be out of doors with any comfort.

What makes you so late ? The tea has been
waiting for you ever so long."

'' The train was late, and Lang was late," said
Uncle Simon. " It was after seven o'clock when
he set me down upon the moor."

We were, I believe, more than five miles from
Stonyhampton. Whenever we wished to get to
the town, we walked across the wide and breezy
moorland, met Lang and his nag at the crossroads,
and rode thither with him in his carrier's
cart. Moor Edge itself stood in utter solitude.
Garlands-on-the-moor, the farm-house where
the Acres lived, was quite a mile and a half
from us.

Uncle Simon, as was his wont on his return,
went straightway upstairs ; and we heard him
unlock the creaking attic door, throw the black
bag just as it was into the dismal room beyond,
and lock the door again. Aunt Hannah just
then was pouring out the tea. The bony red
hand which held the teapot shook visibly, and
one of the cups, I noticed, overflowed upon the
tray.

When my uncle came down from the upper
part of the house, he had changed his shabby
gray suit for the one he always wore when at
home with Aunt Hannah and me, and had put on

his slippers too. He went up to Aunt Hannah
and kissed her on the forehead. She shivered
and did not look at him. His mild kind face,
with its pale-blue gentle eyes, to me seemed
somewhat to overcloud at her sisterly coldness
; and so, drawing my chair close to that of
my Uncle Simon, I slipped my hand into his in
token of my affectionate sympathy. However,
we were both of us used to Aunt Hannah and
her queer repellent ways.

Hannah, will you look at the newspaper ? "
he said, half drawing one from his pocket as he
spoke.

Not to-night, Simon, thank you."

Do you feel nervous, Hannah % " he inquired
kindly.

Not — not more so than usual, Simon, when
you come home to Moor Edge of an evening,"
she replied.

Have you the jumps, Hannah ? " asked
Uncle Simon playfully.

No ; but I shall have them perhaps by-and-by,"
she answered sullenly. " I suppose you
would like some ham with your tea ? "

Thank you, Hannah," he said, with his quiet
smile. " I have had a hard day's work, and am
hungry."

*' Don't ! " lie cried shrilly ; and, rising
abruptly from the table, she went into the
pantry upon the other side of the passage to get
the newly-boiled ham that was there.

Tea finished, the crockery put away, the fire
replenished, and the hearth swept clean, my
aunt, observing that there was a pile of linen
to be sorted and folded, left me and Uncle Simon
in the kitchen together.

The clean linen was kept in a huge mahogany
chest of drawers, with massive brass ring-shaped
handles, which stood behind the door in the
parlour — a large, low, square room, with a big
hard horsehair sofa and some slippery horsehair
chairs, some red-and-white china animals upon
the mantelpiece, and a case of studied birds upon
a table between the windows. The room faced
the north-east, and seemed always cold, earthy,
and silent, like a vault ; the chimney generally
smoked when a fire was first lighted in the grate ;
for the parlour was never used, except occasionally
on a Sunday.

But the linen was Aunt Hannah's pride, and
the drawers in the mahogany chest were
crammed full of it. She would sometimes kneel
before those heavy open drawers for hours together,
marking, folding, arranging, rearranging.

and putting in fresh muslin bags of dried
lavender : we had a row of stunted lavender-bushes
upon the southern side of Moor Edge.
But if ever I happened to come unawares upon her
kneeling before those open drawers, she would
shut them all up with a bang, one after another,
locking them in a kind of nervous haste.

"When he and I were alone — Sally, the tortoiseshell
cat, now asleep upon the patchwork
rug, Aunt Hannah's handiwork, before the
kitchen fire — Uncle Simon, with a fond look at
me, said :

Are you thinking that I have forgotten you
this time. Flower ? "

Forgotten me, uncle ? " I echoed, rather
absently. ** Oh, no ! I was thinking — merely
thinking — "

He was feeling in his pocket again. He drew
out the newspaper which at tea-time he had
offered to Aunt Hannah, and which she had
declined to look at, and, folding it and pressing
it into a small square, with the poker he thrust
it under the glowing grate. Then he set fire to
the newspaper and stared at it meditatively
whilst it blazed away into nothingness. The
last tiny spark died out of the black smouldering
mass; and he looked up at me and smiled.

Then, again putting his hand into his roomy
pocket, he this time drew out a thick volume,,
richly but quietly bound in dark green, saying,—


No, I did not forget you, Flower. See ! "

He was holding out the book to me. It was
Macaulay's Essays, Critical and Historical — a
book that I had long desired to possess, having
often heard my Uncle Simon mention it in terms
of the warmest admiration. I perched myself
upon his knee, and thanked him with a hearty
kiss.

You dear, kind generous uncle, how good you
are !

Something like a sigh escaped him ; his gaze
once more wandering to the fire as he held me
upon his knee.

Rarely did my Uncle Simon return home from
one of those strange and secret journeys of his
without bringing to me a present in the shape of
a book worth having. Already the small bookcase
in my bedroom contained the most popular
works of Dickens, Thackeray, and dear George
Eliot ; with those of Tennyson, Moore, and
Longfellow, and many others in prose and inverse.


My Uncle Simon — a man, I believe, almost

wholly self-educated— had been a great reader
in his time ; and indeed read much now, at this
period of his life, when he could find the leisure
for that which was his favourite recreation. Such
books, however, as those of Smiles or of Helps
were his chief delight in middle age ; though
occasionally a good novel pleased him mightily.
On a Sunday afternoon, if he was at home, he
always read Shakespeare ; and on a Sunday
evening the Bible. But he never went to church.
Nor, for the matter of that, did I and Aunt
Hannah very often go. For one thing, the
distance to Stonyhampton was a serious consideration
; for another, when we did go, the
congregation stared at us strangely and coldly ;
and Aunt Hannah did not like this behaviour.
It made her cross and discontented, though
doubtless she understood it. If our life at
Moor Edge was not exactly peaceful, it was a
curiously quiet and uneventful one ; and quiet
is akin to peace.

*just now," said my Uncle Simon, touching
my smooth black hair — it was beautiful, soft,
"purple-black" hair, he sometimes told me —
*just now you said that you were thinking
of — What was it. Flower ? "

For a second time that evening I could feel

the blood going upward to my ears and forehead.
I laughed a trifle uneasily.

'' I was thinking — thinking that you are looking
unusually tired to-night, uncle," said I,
lightly stroking the fringe of gray-white whisker
which grew on either side of his kind face and
met beneath his chin.

No, Flower, that is not what you were
thinking of," said my Uncle Simon gravely.

"■ Well, you are right," I cried impulsively,
after a pause. " I have not told you the actual
truth." And with contrition I dropped my head
to his shoulder and took his hand into mine.

Tell me the truth now, then," he said gently.

*' I — I was thinking, uncle, that — that I ought
to confess something. That is the truth."

Yes, my dear little girl ? "

'^ Something that happened to-day — this afternoon,
in fact."

Let me hear it. Flower," said my Uncle
Simon; *rand afterwards you shall get me my
pipe."

You know," I began somewhat lamely, " the
old quarry on the moor, don't you — the little
one, I mean, not the larger of the two — where
the turf and the broom hang over and form a
sort of cave ? "

Of course. Did you see any rabbits there
to-day ? "

Lots ; and I also saw something else."
** What was that, Flower ? "
I drew a quick breath, and answered hurriedly :
A young man — a stranger — a gentleman."
I felt my uncle start, as if a spasm had seized
him ; and I fancied too that he muttered, as if
involuntarily — 'eat last! Has it then come, I
wonder, at last ? " Yet it may be that I was
mistaken, for the next moment he was saying
as quietly and as gently as ever — " And did he
speak to you. Flower % "

*eyes. It was like this. I was out on the
moor with Jack Sprat for a walk after dinner,
when a frightfully windy shower came on
suddenly ; and, as fast as I could, I ran down
into the quarry for shelter. There was nowhere
else to run. Of course, I never dreamed of
finding anybody there ; but in the cavern, uncle,
I ran right against this young man."

And — and, child, you say he spoke to you ? "
"Yes. But — but I really cannot remember
what he said at first — I was much too confused
and astonished. However, by degrees, I began
to understand what he was saying ; and — and I
couldn't come away and leave him, uncle, you

see, because of the rain. It was simply pelting
down just then."

Ay — I see," said my Uncle Simon sadly.
What did he talk about, Flower ? "

Oh, he told me that he was an artist, and
that he was painting a picture called a * Summer
Storm,' and that, wanting a particular bit of sky
to put into this picture — which it seems is a
large one — he had come out on to the moor in
the hope of finding it overhead. He had with
him a small easel, a large umbrella, and other
things besides ; and — and he says that he is very
fond of the north of England, and has taken
rooms for the summer at Garlands."

What !— at Garlands-on-the-Moor ? AVith
the Acres ? "

Yes. he arrived there from London, I think
he said, the day before yesterday. He says he
is enchanted with Garlands and the wild scenery
hereabout."

Did he tell you his name ? "

"Yes. Daryl Kirkwood."

'' A good name," said my Uncle Simon thoughtfully.
"And, Flower, my darling, did you" —
with something, I thought, like pain in his voice
'' did you tell him yours ? "

I felt that I ought to, uncle, you see, when

VOL. I. B

he asked me if I would. And of course I said
that it was Greedy— Flower Greedy."

What — what did he say then ? "

This time I felt certain — it was no fancy of
mine — that there was real anguish in the voice
of my Uncle Simon.

All that he said was, speaking slowly, * Greedy
Greedy. And so your name is Greedy'"

'* Ah ! " said my uncle then ; and he appeared
to be thinking deeply.

'uncle Simon," said I timidly, "if I should
ae^ain meet this Mr. Darkwood on the^moor — and
he says that he will most likely be painting there
every day — shall I recognise him — speak to him
or would you rather that I did not ? I should
like to do what is right."

I would rather. Flower, that you did not,"
said my uncle, with a slow and wistful smile
that I did not understand ; '* but the fact is,
since matters have gone thus far, I do not see
how you are to avoid doing so. Perhaps — well,
perhaps the next time you meet him I may be
with you, dear ; and then — You are sure that
he is a gentleman ? " he broke off.

Quite sure," I answered earnestly. Yet at
that time of my life, or at any rate until that
day of it, I do not suppose that I had ever once

in my recollection spoken to what the world
calls '' a gentleman." Notwithstanding, I felt
positive that, if gentlemen walked the earth,
Daryl Darkwood was one.

'' I would not, if I were you, Flower, go
near the quarry again — at least not just yet,"
observed my uncle, after a short silence, in his
kindest manner. 'rit might appear, you know,
as if — well, as if you had wandered thither on
purpose."

Oh, no ; I should certainly not go near the
quarry. Uncle Simon, unless I was obliged to,"
I answered, laughing and reddening. " Mr.
Darkwood, when the rain stopped and he wished
me good-bye, said it was just the place for snakes,
he should think ; but I never saw one there, and
said so."

Nor I, Flower. I hope," observed my Uncle
Simon, in his mild way, "that you did not find
one there to-day."

'' No ; as I told you, only rabbits without
number, and — Hark, uncle ! Is not that Jack
Sprat barking in the yard ? Yes ! Now, who
can be crossing the moor at this time of night ? "

With hand uplifted to enjoin silence, I had
slipped from my uncle's knee. We listened
attentively. The wind was still moaning in the

chimney, though we could now see that the night
had grown clearer, for a star was twinkling in
the bit of dark sky which was visible through
the wide kitchen lattice, across which, as it
chanced, the curtain had not yet been drawn.

Yes, that's Jack, sure enough ! " my uncle
was agreeing ; when the door behind us flew
back, and Aunt Hannah rushed into the kitchen.
She was trembling. Her face was white with
fright. She gasped rather than spoke, with her
lean hands clutching her breast, —

*' Simon, a footstep ! It came up the garden
and went round the house ! I was in the parlour
with the linen ; I heard it distinctly ; and then —
and then the dog began to bark. There — can't
you hear him now ? "

A footstep in the garden ? Nonsense,
Hannah ! " said her brother soothingly. " It is
some one, as Flower says, crossing the moor;
and what of that ? Besides, Jack howls at the
moon sometimes — "

'' There's no moon to-night, Simon. Hah ! "

A cry of terror that was nearly a shriek here
broke from Aunt Hannah's lips, and she staggered
heavily against Uncle Simon's arm-chair. With
one bony red hand she gripped for support the
tall back of it ; with the other, with every finger

quivering, she was pointing to the uncovered
window.

"A face, Simon," she whispered, as if she
were choking — " a face looking in ! A dead,
staring, awful face — it must be the face of one
of your — "

Fool ! "

It was, or it seemed to be, the deft work of a
moment. Aunt Hannah, with ashy parted lips
and closed eyes, was lying back in the wooden
arm-chair ; and Uncle Simon, with iron grasp
ujDon her shoulders, was standing over her and
holding her thus. I could not see his face ; but
I noticed, I think for the first time, what fierce
strength there was in his flat wiry wrists.

'fool!" said my uncle again. He spoke
quite calmly ; but I, who had learned to know
every tone of his voice, detected the intense anger
which was breathed in that single word.

"You hurt me, Simon ! " whined Aunt Hannah.

He removed his hands from her body ; but
shook her slightly as he did so.

"Don't you move," he said then, with all his old
gentleness. "Keep quiet, and you will get better."

Perceiving that she did not venture to stir,
he stepped to the cupboard by the fire-place and
took from an upper shelf in ifc the stone jar of

whiskey from which he was accustomed to brew
his grog when he smoked his pipe of an evening.
The kettle upon the hob was at boiling-point;
and in less than a minute Aunt Hannah s brother
had mixed for her a tumblerful of strong spirits-antipater.


Your poor Aunt Hannah has got the jumps
with a vengeance to-night," said my Uncle Simon
pleasantly, turning to me, with the steaming
jorum in his hand.

I nodded, and smiled back at him. It was
not the first time by a good many that I had
seen Aunt Hannah with the jumps, though never
perhaps before had they seemed so bad as they
were now.

"Jack is quiet again," I whispered. "It was
really only someone going over the moor." And
I went to the window, and drew the curtain, so
shutting out the peeping stars.

Of course that was all," said my Uncle Simon
aloud.

That won't do ! I know better," contradicted
Aunt Hannah, shivering violently. *' I
saw — I saw — "

The reflection of your own white face in the
firelight window," said her brother firmly. "Come,
Hannah — no more nonsense ! Drink this ! "

Again lie was standing over her, his back
towards me, so that again I was unable to see
his face. But I fancied that I heard a slight
shuddering moan, such as might break from one
who was menaced with and quailing from an
immediate blow. Certain it was that Aunt
Hannah murmured piteously, —

Don't look at me like that, Simon ! I can't
stand it ! I can do nothing whilst you look at
me like that ! "

Pooh ! Drink it," he said in his gentlest
voice.

I — I can't. I can't indeed," she answered
faintly, " so long as you glare — "

My good soul, you shall."

And when my uncle moved away from her, I
saw that Aunt Hannah was obediently sipping
the hot whiskey-antipater ; and it appeared to
be giving her comfort, I was also glad to see.

My uncle kissed me with his customary affection
and said, —

We had tea so late to-night, we shall not, I
fancy, require any supper. So you had better
be off to bed. Flower. I have a letter or two to
write, my child, and I want to talk to your Aunt
Hannah."

At this my aunt half-fearfully glanced up

from her tumbler, and dropped the wet spoon
into her lap. She looked indeed as if she had
but little desire for any further conversation
with her brother.

Not sorry to leave the kitchen for my own
neat chamber, with its small old chintz-covered
couch, its little round table by the window, and
the silent but best of all companions in the
bookcase, I took up my new Macaulay, who
was now to be added to that dear silent company,
lit my lamp, and went to bed — having
first, however, dutifully put my lips to Aunt
Hannah's dingy cap, by way of a good-night
caress. I had always considered her an unpleasant
person to live with ; and this evening
she had shown herself more unpleasant than ever.

Mv room, with its sweet wide view of wild
and breezy moorland, was at the end of a narrow
passage ; and in order to reach it I must pass
the bare stair-ladder which led up to the attic
in the roof.

I was humming softly to myself, and thinking
of the stranger whom I had that day met in the
quarry, when the rattling of the attic-door, jarring
and fretting in the night wind, put him and
our meeting out of my mind.

I believe that scarcely a night at Moor Edge

tad ever gone by without my wondering, sometimes
sleepily and sometimes perhaps with an
almost acutely nervous curiosity, what strange
secret lurked there, and was hidden from me,
behind that garret-door. What was it ? What
could it be ? But, as I have already said, the
veil was not lifted in those days ; and so I knew
no actual fear.

^^|HE next morning dawned hopelessly
wet ; the wild west wind had gone
down, and the rain could fall in
comfort, as it were. And it did fall now —
straight, steadily, in a quiet and determined
manner, as if, having at last got its chance,
it meant to keep on for ever.

I saw in a moment when we met at breakfast
that Aunt Hannah was once more herself — her
peevish, low-spirited, but ever-industrious self — •
with, of course, her dingy pink wrapper clinging
limply to her pointed shoulders. Her nervous
attack of the past night seemed fortunately
entirely gone.

Somehow all the morning I could not " settle
to anything," as my Aunt Hannah querulously
expressed it ; and I chafed for a brisk long moorland

walk, with the free wide sky and the fresh
wild healthful air all around me, and faithful
Jack Sprat for my companion.

Jack Sprat was only a mongrel of the fox-terrier
kind ; but the right loyal heart within
his small coarse body made up for his sad lack
of beauty. A pedlar, called Wyse the Wanderer,
and well known in those northern parts, had
given the dog to me in his puppyhood.

But a walk in the present state of the weather
was out of the question.

My Uncle Simon, as was usual with him when
at home at Moor Edge, was busy to-day out of
doors ; but, owing to the rain, he could not
work in the garden, and his exertions were
perforce confined to the yard and the out-buildings.
And indeed there was always something
or other — with no servant or helper, either male
or female, upon the place — to be done amongst
the pigs and poultry.

Uncle Simon was exceedingly proud of his
two Alderney, Daffodil and Daisy, who, if they
where a trifle angular and poor-looking, were
certainly not lean upon the score of stinted
fodder. As often as not, too, they were roaming
at large over the rich moor, never, though,
straying out of sight of the squat gray-stone

house, the humble cowshed adjoining which had
been their home for a good many years. To-day
their master, blithely whistling as he worked,
was cleansing their stalls and heaping in fresh
straw ; now and then patting their lean backs
and calling them his " pair of beauties."

Not until the twilight fell did the weather
begin to mend. Then, with a little warm evening
wind, the clouds parted and rolled away; the
stars rushed out silver clear ; the drenched earth
sent up a refreshing fragrance ; and a slim new
moon, sailing face downward in the heavens,
made one hopeful of a bright tomorrow. Much
wearied with a long and — I fear — an idle day, I
went up early to my room ; but not to bed. I
wanted to be alone — to think — to dream ; anything,
in fact, to be away from Aunt Hannah
and her depressing prognostications about a wet
and dreary summer. She was sure of it, she
said ; we were *' in for " a bad summer.

No, no ; let us hope not," said I as cheerily
as I could ; though it was by no means an easy
matter to take a blithe view of things, with Aunt
Hannah sniffing and prophesying on one hand,
and the rain coming down on the other. " It
has been lovely up till now."

Ah, well," said she, in her thin dissatisfied

voice, " this is the beginning of it — you'll see if
it isn't ! Mark my words ! "

No wonder my heart sank and life took a
melancholy hue ; for a wet summer at Moor
Edge meant days of endless monotony and isolation
unspeakable. But for Uncle Simon it made
no difference. Dry or damp, sun or gloom,
storm or calm — it was all the same to him. If
he had to go on a journey, forth he went, uttering
no word of complaint or of distaste, but
trudging patiently away, black bag in handover
the dim gray moor to meet Lang the carrier
at the cross-roads, and then on in the carriers
to the station at Stonyhampton.

Having opened wide the window, now that
the night had become so fine and warm, I sat-down
at the little table in my bedroom, turned
up my lamp, and tried to read an essay in my
new Macaulay.

I dipped into the one on Madame d'Arblay ;
it looked promising, most interesting — Evening
and Cecilia were old friends of mine. But,
having read a few lines, and read them again, I
somehow discovered that I might just as well,
have been spelling over Greek for all the sense
I could make of the printed words under my
eyes. Clearly that night, then, I was in no-mood

for self-improvement ; the long rainy day-had
thoroughly unsettled me. So, with a sigh,
dosing the book, I rested my head upon my
hand and prepared to give myself up to the
luxury of undisturbed reverie — the luxury, as
some one has called it, " of thinking of nothing
in particular." I heard my uncle ascend the
first stair-case, and then go on up higher to the
garret under the tiles. But that was nothing
unusual. Meanwhile Aunt Hannah downstairs
was turning keys and drawing bolts, and in her
own fidgety fashion was making everything safe
for the night.

It may have been some twenty minutes later
I believe it was ten o'clock — when, as on the
previous night, I suddenly heard Jack Sprat
growling in the yard — a low, snarling, menacing
growl, which at any second might break into a
swift angry bark. However, before this could
happen, something flew whizzing through the air
beneath my window, and a piteous shriek
followed. Then Jack was still.

Full of wonderment at the circumstance, and
not without a suspicion of treachery, I leaned
out over the window-ledge — the casement was
deep-set in the dull-gray stone walls, as were all
the windows at Moor Edge — and peered cautiously

to the right and to the left. My room, a corner
one, was on the south side of the house, and
looked sheer down on to the moor. As the house
itself was squat in shape, and as the passage
leading to my bedroom was distinctly on the
slant, ending in two downward steps into the
room, the floor of it in reality was but an inconsiderable
distance from the green short turf
outside.

So, leaning stealthily out, and forgetting at
the moment that the burning lamp was upon the
table behind me, I very nearly screamed aloud
in my fright to meet in the star-lit gloom a face
upturned to mine.

Hush I It is only I."

Immediately afterwards, the lamplight from
within falling upon them, I recognised the pale
handsome features and brilliant dark eyes — eyes
they were that had in them a singular red-brown
gleam — of the stranger whom I had yesterday
met in the quarry. He was smiling in some
amusement at my confusion and consternation :
but his mouth was entirely hidden by his heavy
dark-brown moustache — the one hirsute adornment
he cultivated. He was very tall and
square-shouldered, yet slimly-built withal. Ashe
stood there upon the moor in the summer

darkness, we could with ease have shaken hands
with each other.

You must forgive," said he, speaking in a
distinct undertone, " my scaring you, as I fear I
have done ; but I quite thought the house was
on fire — "

The house on fire ! "

Do not, however, be alarmed," he hastened to
continue. 'rit is all right — I was mistaken. I
came out for a stroll and a cigar after the
miserable day we have had, and from where I
was, upon the rising ground yonder, I saw what
I took to be a light — a growing fire — in the roof
of your house here. Of course I ran hither withall
possible speed; but I soon discovered my
error. It appears that you have a skylight or
something of the kind in the tiles ? "

Oh, yes," I told him in accents of relief—
"that is my Uncle Simon's garret — his own
private room ! You may often see a light there
when he is working at night."

Working at night ! Then what does he do
up there all alone ? "

I cannot tell you," I answered simply ; adding,
as I prepared to withdraw from the window
and to wish Mr. Darkwood good-night — feeling
that it was far from proper and maidenly to be

thus secretly conversing with him at such an
hour — " It was thoughtful and kind of you to
come ; and — and thank you very much."

Pray don't go yet," he whispered hurriedly.
I am sure you would not have shut the window
if I had not disturbed you with my stupid false
alarm. I saw your lamp, like Portia's 'little
candle shining out from afar ; and then — and
then I saw you sitting at the window, and — and
I couldn't withstand the temptation to come and
speak to you — perhaps only to look at you.
Shall I see you on the moor tomorrow ? "

I evaded this direct inquiry ; still hesitating,
with my hand upon the casement-bolt.

"You ought not to be here, I think. My
uncle would not like it if he knew."

'' Why should he know ? "

Because he ought to know, and he will," I
answered him gravely. " I keep nothing from
my Uncle Simon."

You good little soul," said he, not without a
suspicion of mockery in his voice. " Naturally
you told him that you had met me in the
quarry ? "

Of course." Then a sudden conviction
flashed across my brain, and in momentary
excitement I leaned farther out. "Mr. Dark-vol.
I.

wood," I said, "I do believe now that it was
you who came here last night ! "

It was," he replied boldly ; "I came to see
where you really lived. I wanted to know.
By the way," he inquired coolly, " don't you find
it fearfully lonely here ? In the depth of winter
it must be appalling."

Sometimes — if we are snowed in," I acknowledged.
*but — but, Mr. Darkwood, I must ask
you not to do it again — I — I mean not to come
here at night like this. Do you know, last evening
you frightened my aunt dreadfully. Don't
laugh ; I mean it — I do indeed ! She is a very
nervous person, and a little upsets her."

I heard a woman scream," said he ; " but I
knew it wasn't you."

*' Well, let me beg you to be careful," I said
earnestly ; "for Jack Sprat, my dog, is uncertain
in his temper if he fancies there are tramps and
thieves about."

Mr. Darkwood laughed again ; softly and carefully,
lest he should be overheard.

Thank you," said he, with an amused nod.
Jack Sprat, I am inclined to believe, is an ill-conditioned
little brute," he added.

Indeed, he is nothing of the kind ! " I denied
rather hotly. "He is a faithful friend, though

not a very pretty one. He would bark at you
now, only he knows my voice — low as I am talking,
he can hear it. I hope you did not hurt
him just now ; if you did, I cannot forgive you."

Hurt him ? Not for the world, if he is your
dog."

'but I heard him cry out as though he were
hurt. What was it you threw at him % Not a
flint, I hope ? "

Oh, no ; merely a handful of gravel ! Believe
me, he wasn't in the least hurt. You
wouldn't have the whole neighbourhood aroused
by his noise, would you ? "

The whole neighbourhood ! " I echoed.
Why, Mr. Darkwood, we have no living neighbours
nearer to us than the people at 
— where you lodge, you know. Poor
Jack would have to bark loud enough," I said, a
little sarcastically perhaps, " before he awoke the
Acre folk."

I think you told me that you do not know
the people at Garlands — the Acres ? " he said
eagerly. "It is a pity — a great pity ; for we
might—"

"In the whole world I know no one except
my Aunt Hannah and my Uncle Simon."

And me," said my new acquaintance reproachfully

— " do not forget me. You know me
now, Miss Greedy."

Hardly. Until yesterday we never saw each
other."

"Oh, but surely our long talk together in the
quarry made us friends — the best of friends %
For me, at any rate, it was very pleasant."

My back being towards the lamp, he fortunately
could not see the bright colour which had
risen and was spreading in my cheeks.

*' Was it ? " It was, I have no doubt, a foolish
answer to make ; but I could hit upon no other
just then.

'remarkably pleasant. In fact, as pleasant
as it was unexpected," replied Mr. Darkwood
emphatically. " And let me now tell you that,
if you do not permit me to see you again — and
I have explained to you that I shall, I hope, be
constantly painting out of doors ; that I have
come here expressly in order to paint out of doors
I shall take it on your part, Miss Greedy, as a
great unkindness. What is that noise ? " he broke
off, stepping quickly backward and looking up to
the eaves of Moor Edo:e.

A muffled " tap, tap, tap — tap, tap, tap," like
the measured smiting together of hammer and
nail — a tapping notwithstanding that was a

familiar enough noise in my ears even at the
dead of night — had within the last minute or so
become audible from the region of the roof;
though I myself was able to give but a vague
explanation of the sound.

Why, you look almost frightened, I declare ! "
I could not help saying, with a smile. "It is
only my Uncle Simon at work, sawing and tapping
— sawing and tapping ! We often at night
hear that noise in the attic. We are used to it,
you see, and take no notice of it. At least I do
not."

Mr. Darkwood's eyes met mine again.

Does he make coffins up there ? " he asked
grimly.

The startling and unlikely question somehow
made me shiver.

Coffins ! Do not imagine anything so horrible.
I — I should think not ! And now," — the impropriety
of his being there beneath my window, and
the laxity of my own conduct in perhaps encouraging
him to linger where he had no business
to be, again troubling my conscience — "goodnight
in earnest, and for the last time 1 I am
sleepy. Thank you once more — for indeed it was
very kind of you — for coming to our aid when
you believed that we were in danger."

"I came because I believed that you" — with
emphasis — " were in danger."

I nodded a quick farewell to him, shut the
window, and drew down the blind. The tapping
in the attic had ceased for a while ; the night
was very still. A voice outside in the summer
darkness was saying, or rather softly singing, —

'* Good-night, good-night, my lonely, lovely
moorland flower ! "

I trembled with a nameless strange exultation,
and, I know not why, buried my hot face in
my hands. I waited — waited, I think, minutes
before venturing to stir.

Was he gone ?

Scarcely daring to breathe, with slow and
cautious touch I drew the blind an inch or
two aside.

I peeped out upon the quiet purple night. I
let the blind go with a jerk. The pale handsome
face, with its eloquent smiling eyes, was still
there ; and Daryl Darkwood was kissing his hand
to me.

Chapter III.

]£/^ '^ WEEK had gone by since the fateful
dav on which I had first seen Darvl

^f^"^^ Darkwood ; or rather, to be accurate,
just a whole week had now elapsed since the
date of our second meeting — the night when he
came to my open window to tell me that he had
fancied the house was on fire.

When I, rather awkwardly, related to my
uncle this instance of Mr. Darkwood's good
nature, he shook his head slowly and smiled
straight into my eyes.

•'Xo, no, Flower — it wont do!" he said
sadly.

What won't do, uncle ? " said I.

That vounor man no more believed the
house was on fire than he believed that it was
your Aunt Hannah whom he saw at the Sorted

window. ^ oukl he have come running over

the moor, think you, child, to tell poor Hannah
that the house was on fire, when he knew all
the time that it wasn't ? No, no. Young men
will be young men, I suppose ; and — and — well,
it will surely come to pass by-and-by ; in someway
or other it must come to pass ! And I
wonder how I shall bear it — eh. Flower ? "

Bear what ? " I asked, rendered vaguely uncomfortable
by his sorrowful look and tone. " I
do not understand you. Uncle Simon."

But he answered me evasively, capping my
question with another.

"You would not care, would you, my dear
little girl, to spend the whole of your life hereat
Moor Edge ? " he said wistfully. " And yet
and yet it might be best for you, dear ; who
knows ? "

I should never care to go away from you,
Uncle Simon," I replied. And at the time I
meant it from my heart.

'' Young men ! " here put in Aunt Hannah, in
her sniffing, grumbling way — '' I never heard
any good of young men yet ; and, if you take
my advice. Flower, you'll have nothing to say to
'em when you do get the chance. Young men
ugh ! They are all alike at bottom — all
vicious, all selfish, all naturally bad-inclined ;

only some are quieter and deeper than others,
and some are rich and some are door and some
are middling off — that's the only difference !
But they are all alike inside. I know 'em."

Which was neither fair nor just of Aunt
Hannah, sour and discontented as she might be
feeling;. For, considering; that she herself was an
old maid, and that, with the exception of my
Uncle Simon, no man, either young or old, was
ever known to plant foot across the doorstep
of Moor Edge, I did not think that she should
be accepted as a genuine authority upon the
matter.

And, oh, what an interminable week it had
seemed ; though it was possible to be out and
about all day long, and to roam beneath the
summer sky as far as one pleased ! July was
close at hand, and the weather was simply
glorious ; Aunt Hannah's doleful predictions
would assuredly not be verified. The high arch
above my head was of heaven's own blue, with
sometimes dim white clouds in fragments sailing
languidly with the delicious breeze which tempered
the warmth of the sun. The wide free
moorland beneath my feet was fresh and earthy,
sweet with thyme and the clustering gorse, over
the saffron bloom of which the wild bees swarmed

and filled the lazy air with their busy hum. Far,
far away in the blue distance, and seemingly
lying low when viewed from our own high moor,
were the — to me — quite unknown woods of
Stonyhampton. Sometimes, when the wind was
in the right quarter, especially of a night, faintly
would come to us the sound of bells, chiming
mournfully or joyously ringing, with other sounds
common enough to the dwellers in towns. But
I knew nothing of life in a town.

Ah, how the larks soared and trilled and " ran "
in the sky, as Shelley says 1 How the old rabbits
skipped and played with the frisky little ones ;
how the tall grass and sturdy docks nodded together
in the lightsome breeze ! Wild strawberries
this year were as plentiful as blackberries
in autumn ; and the moss in the moister hollows
of the moor, where noisily bubbled up and flowed
the clear cold stream which supplied us with
water, was richer and softer than any costly
velvet, spreading and luxuriating there in every
shade of lovely gray and green. At any other
time this gracious weather would have filled my
heart with unspeakable joy, and I should have
been singing from morning until night. To feel
the simple unquestioning gladness of thoroughly
healthful youth is, I have learnt to comprehend,

a blessing direct from Heaven that is indeed
beyond all price !

I was angry with myself for not feeling more
glad — it seemed to me wicked — angry for being
conscious of the vague discontent and disappointment
which of late had crept into my
heart. During the whole of that interminable
week I had neither met nor even once
seen Daryl Darlcwood. Whither had he gone ?
Had he for some reason quite suddenly left
Garlands, and was he never coming back there
any more ? Could — could it then be that I
never should see him again ? True, the propriety,
first suggested to me by my Uncle
Simon, of keeping away from the neighbourhood
of the quarry had prompted me to ramble
in an opposite direction ; nor had I during the
past week once ventured within a mile of
Garlands-on-the-Moor. Hitherto, in the days
before Mr. Darkwood had gone to lodge with the
Acres, I had not cared how often Jack Sprat
and I might wander past the old farm-house ;
although the booby boorish sons would come
and lean over the yard-gate to stare at me, and
the strapping loud-voiced daughters of the family,
with sleeves rolled high above their red elbows,
would from the windows look askance at me

after the manner of the folk at Stonyhampton.


I want to see him — I do want to see him ! "
I said aloud to myself, with a petulant stamp
upon the turf. "For I particularly want to
give him a piece of my mind — don't I, Jack ? —
because he did hurt you on that night — didn't
he, my dear ? I know he did ; though of course
he didn't mean to, and couldn't help it, Jacky,
in the dark."

Jack Sprat danced about on three legs, frantically
all the time working his poor coarse stump
of a tail ; and repeatedly jumped up my gown
as well, leaving dirty paw-marks behind him.

In the morning after the night when I had
last seen Mr. Darkwood, Jack had come limping
in-doors from his barrel — to which, by the way,
he was never chained or tied — with a nasty cut
upon his left fore-paw, which he held up pathetically
to us all in turn with dumb pleading in his
faithful bright eyes. As well as I could I had
washed the clotted blood from the gash, and had
very tenderly dressed the wound ; and, although
now the paw was considerably healed, poor Jack
had gone lame ever since.

On the eighth day of my new strange loneliness
Uncle Simon announced at breakfast — after,

as it was his habit in all weathers to do, he had
met the post-boy on the moor — that he was compelled
to leave home rather unexpectedly, and
would start from Moor Edge that night.

Curious as it may seem to those who have
troops of friends and who are blessed with near
home-ties, no letters ever came to Moor Edo;e
for me ; none ever came for Aunt Hannah —
unless Uncle Simon himself wrote to her when
he was absent on a journey to apprise her of the
date of his return.

I had no one in the whole world to write to
or to write to me ; nor do I believe had Aunt
Hannah herself anyone save her brother Simon.
So I never had received a letter in my life. As
I have said, my uncle in all weathers met the
post-boy on the moor ; and afterwards he read
his letters before coming into the house, sometimes
in the garden and sometimes in the porch.
Then, if there was anything to tell us, he told
it ; if there was not, he was silent.

Going away, Simon ? " whined Aunt Hannah.
Oh, dear — for long ? "

Longer," said Uncle Simon gently, " than
usual, Hannah, this time I fear I shall be away."

*' Where — where," said my aunt huskily, *' are
you going, Simon ? "

Her knotted lean hands were trembling; so
painfully that her black-handled knife and fork
rattled in her plate. So peevishly she pushed
it from her, rasher and all, and kneaded her
hands into her lap beneath the table-cloth.

I am going," replied her brother quietly,
^' on this occasion to Ireland ; and shall be
absent perhaps for a week or ten days — ten
days, Hannah, at the most. After that, I believe,
and indeed hope, that I shall have a
holiday, little Flower " — playfully turning tome
— " a long, quiet, restful summer holiday at
Moor Edge."

I am sure I hope so too," I echoed earnestly.
I had finished breakfast, and as I spoke I arose
and put my hand affectionately upon Uncle
Simon's shoulder. He imprisoned my fingers
within his own and rubbed them lightly thus
against his cheek. Ah ! should not I now find
my loneliness doubly hard to endure — my
Uncle Simon being away for so long — having
once known the hitherto unknown experience
of feeling my life's monotony so pleasantly
disturbed ?

What should I do with myself and my solitude
in all those coming ten long, endless
summer days, with no one but Aunt Hannah

for human company ? Well, there were always
my books — yes, they had sufficed once ; and
there was Jack Sprat, and there was also the
free wide sweet moor. I had never really before
found my lone home dull and dreadful to contemplate
— why should I begin to find it dull
and dreadful now ?

"I shall not sleep a wink the whole while
you're away," sniffed Aunt Hannah, gulping
down her tea, the rim of her cup knocking
audibly against her teeth. '' I shall be ill,
Simon, before you come back — see if I ain't."

That is an old story," answered her brother,
his voice mild, but his eyes turned sternly upon
the quailing woman before him. " Don't you bea
fool, Hannah ! "

"I cant help it," said she, with something
between a gasp and a sob.

Well, you had better not get frightening my
little girl here out of her wits With your absurd
'jumps,' as you call them," said my uncle, with
his quiet smile.

I can't help it if I do," said Aunt Hannah
again.

'* You had better not ! " he observed, still
smiling benignly. Now, however, it was his pale
blue eyes that seemed to smile, and the iron

sternness had crept into his low voice. *' It will
be the worse for you if you do, woman ! That
is all"

With that he got up and went out into the
yard. Whenever Uncle Simon called his sister
*' woman," it was a sure sign that he was terribly
angry.

A calm and sunny evening arrived ; tea was
over ; and my uncle, saying no word either tome
or to Aunt Hannah, went up to the attic in
the roof. He was locked up alone there for
more than an hour, and when he reappeared
it was between seven and eight o'clock, and
the sun in wide-spreading glory was setting
behind the woods of Stonyhampton. He came
down dressed in his gray suit, his gray hat,
his well-worn black silk neck-tie, and with his
boots nicely polished. In his hand he carried
the mysterious black leather bag, which this
evening bulged — or, at any rate, I fancied so —
somewhat more than usual.

When he kissed Aunt Hannah in the porch
and said good-bye to her, she began to shiver
and cry, and wiped away her tears with an end
of her old pink wrapper. He patted her thin
shoulder, telling her not to be more foolish than
common, but to take good care of Daffodil and

Daisy, the sow and her litter, and the sitting-hen
; and then, linking his arm in mine, he led
me with him as far as the garden-gate. I felt
very low-spirited at seeing him about to depart ;
and indeed, like Aunt Hannah's, the tears had
risen to my eyes.

Never mind — cheer up, Flower ! " said my
uncle tenderly. " I shall soon be back ; the time
will soon pass. And by the bye, dear, would you
like a new gown this time, or something else to
add to the little library upstairs — eh ? "

Oh, you are too kind, too generous by far,
dear Uncle Simon I " said I mournfully. '' Please
do not trouble. You let me want for nothing ;
and sometimes I think you cannot perhaps
afford it — "

I can afford anything for you, dear. Come,
say which it is to be — a new gown or a new
book ? I shall be passing through London on
my way home, and of course I could buy a fine
new gown-piece there."

I thought you were going to Ireland ? "
said I, looking up at him.

So I am ; but I shall be in London before
I come back."

'well, I am very greedy, Uncle Simon dear.
I would rather have a book, since you give me

VOL. I. D

the choice. I have plenty of gowns for the
present."

Why, nobody would see a new gown at Moor
Edge if I had one ! thought I. But this reflection
of discontent would certainly not have
occurred to me a month ago.

I think Adelaide Procter s poems would bea
nice book for your shelves, Flower — eh ? " said
my uncle, his hand upon the latch of the garden-gate,
gazing meanwhile very wistfully into my
upturned eyes. " All young people — young
girls especially — should read Adelaide Procter."

Yes, I would rather have them — those
poems, dear uncle — than anything else in the
world," I replied, trying hard to speak as
sincerely and as gratefully as I ought.

«• Very well, dear child, you shall then.
Good-bye, Flower — good-bye ! By-the-bye, my
little girl, you have not seen anything of that
Mr. — what is his name — Mr. Darkwood lately,
have you ? "

This was unexpected. My heart seemed to
stop for seconds ; then to go on again, beating
fast and loud. My eyes were burning with the
warmth of the blood which had suddenly rushed
upward to my head ; but if my Uncle Simon
noticed the guilty flush, he uttered no comment

upon it. Heaven knows how I managed to say
as carelessly as I did — " Mr. Darkwood ? Oh
dear, no ! He has left the neighbourhood, I
should imagine, for good. I am sure I should
have met him on the moor if he had not gone
away."

"Now, I wonder whether he really is gone
away ? " observed my Uncle Simon thoughtfully.


"There is no doubt about it," I cried; and
I wondered drearily whether those six little
words actually sounded as light and indifferent
as I meant them to sound, or whether they in
any wise betrayed the sense of desolation which
was so heavily burthening my heart.

You will be civil to him if — if you should
happen to meet him again, Flower ? "

Oh, yes, uncle dear — you said I might, you
know 1 Just civil, and that's all, of course !
But I shall not meet him again ; it is not likely ;
and I care not a straw — why should I ? — if I
don't." I knew — who better? — that it was a
lie. Heaven forgive me !

"My poor little girl — my dear little girl'*
muttered my Uncle Simon ; and the next
moment he had embraced me, and was gone.

Very down-heartedly I watched him disap-

'jiV;v-!

pearing over the purple-green undulations of
the moor ; straight before him the low rose
light of the sinking sun ; Moor Edge — I standing
at the gate, and Aunt Hannah, with the
pink wrapper held over her face, crying in the
porch — fading behind him. There he went, to
meet Lang the carrier — growing as he trudged
onward momentarily smaller and smaller in the
distance, clad in his gray suit and gray hat,
the ugly bulging black bag carried in his left
hand.

Upon the rising ground he turned, his back
now to the sun's red glory. With his blue
cotton pocket-handkerchief he waved a last farewell
to me ; and I fluttered my white one in
return. Then he went on again ; and a dip in
the moorland hid him from my sight.

Oh, Uncle Simon ! Uncle Simon ! when next
we meet, should we ever meet again, how will
it be with you and with me ? When next you
come back to your lone house upon the moor,
shall I be standing here at the gate of it,
with loving tones and with loving touch once
more to welcome you home ? Oh, Uncle Simon
in the near days that were coming, how
could I tell that, before I should see you
again, the horrid gulf which neither of us could

cross would be for ever fixed between you and
me !

The future is veiled from us — God knows it
is best so ! I stared forlornly at the fast-dying
sun, until a primrose mist seemed to dim the
splendour of it . . and I turned away.

Ace Speak was barking loudly, but
joyously. Aunt Hannah and I were
at the back of the house, in the
yard, between us doing our best to perform
those duties which were the pride and the joy
of Uncle Simon's leisure when he was living
quietly at home with us at Moor Edge.

It was perhaps about eleven o'clock in the
morning, and Uncle Simon had been gone two
days. I was in the hen-house getting some
new-laid eggs ; and Aunt Hannah, in the cowshed
hard by, was unchaining meek Daffodil
and Daisy, for it was time to send them forth
for their daily ramble on the moor.

Who in the name of fortune can it be ? '*
my aunt called out, aware that Jack Sprat
would not make such a disturbance for nothing.
*' Flower, you go and see ; it isn't a tramp, or
he'd never bark like that."

Setting down my basket among the straw on
the bricks, I entered the house and went to the
front door. There upon the doorstep under
the porch, his pack unfastened and his cheap
gay wares displayed enticingly, stood "Wyse the
Wanderer, as he was called. With him was his
dog, the pedlar's inseparable companion. Jack's
mother ; a truly ancient animal — if possible,
more ugly than poor Jack himself. For, though
she was perhaps on the whole better bred than
he, she had in her declining years lost an ear
in a fight, and was fast going blind with one
eye into the bargain.

Jack was as unfeignedly glad to see his
mother and his old master Wyse the Wanderer
as was I, Flower Greedy, myself; for old
Wyse's 'call" was by Aunt Hannah and me
regarded as an event worth remembering and
looking: forward to. He " looked in " at Moor
Edge about three times in a year; and occasionally
once in every quarter.

I am unwilling to say it, but Wyse was a
very dirty and a very unsavoury old man — a
crooked, stunted, unwashed old figure, with
a battered hat scarcely fit for a scarecrow,
and a filthy old red comforter twisted round
his lean stubbly neck. In the winter he wore

a rabbit-skin cap, with lappets tied over his
ears ; but, in winter and in summer alike,
always the old red comforter. He loved it as
Aunt Hannah loved her knitted pink wrapper.

The interior of his pack, however, presented
a striking and an agreeable contrast to the
grimy bearer thereof; for it was neat, clean,
and tastefully arranged ; the goods, when he
unstrapped and opened his treasure-house, being
a sight — or so I then used to think — well
worthy of industrious inspection.

There were laces, shoe-laces, ribbons, bottles
of scent, needles and reels of cotton, babies'
rattles, knitted shawls and wrappers — Aunt
Hannah's pink one had originally come out of
Wyse's pack — boxes of stale chocolate and
other sweets, writing-paper and sealing-wax,
black and red ; large envelopes, small envelopes,
buttons, purses, beads, and children's picture-books
; and many other things besides both
for ornament and for use. Aunt Hannah always
would have it that Wyse had long ago made
his fortune, and had old stockings crammed full
of sovereigns hid away somewhere or other
in his hovel at Dartle Heath, where he lived.
This might or might not be true ; but if it was
so, Wyse certainly did not look like it.

Oh, Wyse," cried I, " you are as welcome
as the sunlight ! What have you got to show
us to-day ? Oh, what lovely things ! You have
more with you than ever ! " And I clasped my
hands, I fear, quite childishly for my age.

From beneath the brim of his disreputable
hat Wyse the Wanderer, I fancied, eyed me
somewhat curiously.

"The little dog," said he, in his slow, queer
dialect, which I could not write down correctly
if I were to try, " is lively enough, it seems,
though he do go a bit lame, I'm thinking ; but
as for you, my lass — why, you are not looking
so bonny as when I saw you last. What's
been ailing with ye. Miss Flowyy ? Ain't you
well ? And where's your pretty colour all
gone to — eh ? Tell us that ! "

'' Oh, I am all right ! " I replied carelessly,
though taken somewhat aback at the pedlar's
unnecessarily free comments on my appearance.
" Yes," I made haste to go on, '' my
dear little doggy is, as you say, Wyse, lively
enough ; though — though he did have an accident
the other day and hurt his fore-paw. But
it is nearly well now — just look at him ! "

Jack Sprat and his mother were racing
hither and thither among the cabbages ; and

he, when lie did catch her, rolled her over
and over in most unfilial style — though it was
quite diverting for a looker-on. As Jack
craftily came up with and attacked her upon
her blind side, this feat was not difficult to
accomplish. However, his mother appeared to
enjoy his undutiful fun as thoroughly as did
Jack Sprat himself

Yes," said the Wanderer drily, " it's plain
they're glad to see each other. Animals is
full of human nature , I always say, and knows
and sees and thinks a sight more than we are
willing' to give 'em credit for. Now, lass," said
he mysteriously, eyeing me hard again, '* let
me ask ye whether — "

I quickly interrupted him ; being uncertain,
and uneasy too, as to what the cunning old
Wanderer might be bent upon saying next.

You must wait a moment ; I'll call Aunt
Hannah ; she is in the cowshed. She would
never forgive me if I did not tell her immediately
that you were waiting at the door."

''Hi, Miss Flowyy — bide a minute! Missis
Hannah will be here directly without your
going for her — no hurry, lass ! " I heard Wyse
crying hoarsely after me.

But I had run from the dirty shrewd-eyed old

man and his open pack upon the doorstep, and
was in the court at the back of the house,,
calling, —

Aunt Hannah, here — quick ! Here's Wyse
the Wanderer."

My aunt needed no second invitation. She
joined me at once. Her pinched faded face
lighted up ; her lack-lustre eyes positively
glittered.

Well, Missis Hannah," cried the stunted
old man hilariously, rubbing his hands together
and smacking his lips, and altogether greeting
her in a very different tone from that in which
he had spoken to me — " how on this bonny
morning do I find you, ma'am ? How has the
world been a-using you, Missis Hannah, since I
was here last?"

But poorly, Wyse — but poorly ! " replied
Aunt Hannah, with a sniff. Bending over the
open pack, her eyes dwelt upon it greedily.
"You've got a fine show for us to-day," said she.

"A fine show, truly," said the old man,
wagging his head — "the finest of its kind for
twenty miles round hereabout. But I don't
boast — I don't boast ! " said Wyse the Wanderer.
You pays your money, Missis Hannah, and
you takes your choice ; and there's no hurry.

ma'am, over your bargaining. That's the beauty
of it, don't you see ? "

*' So it is," said my aunt slowly and thoughtfully,
her eyes still gloating over the pedlar's
tawdry wares — " so it is, Wyse. I can't bear
being hurried." He always politely addressed
her as "Missis," having long ago discerned that
the title pleased her mightily. Wyse the Wanderer,
in his way, I suppose, was a student of
human nature.

I ha' been telling Miss Flowyy here," said
the pedlar, throwing another glance towards mea
fatherly, bantering sort of glance which
filled me with a sudden desire to then and there
push him from the door and to shut it in the
leering old face of him — " that she's lost her
roses o' late. She has growed into a fine and
promising lass within the last few months ; and
it's a pity the roses should fade, Missis Hannah,
before they have come to full bloom, ye know."

The weather's warm, you see," said Aunt
Hannah mechanically. She had dropped upon
her knees before the pack, and was turning
everything in it upside down. 'rand perhaps
she wants some brimstone-and-treacle. I took
a dose myself this morning."

How tiresome and fidgety she was !

'you're not slow in making up your mind,,
aunt," observed I, looking diligently down at
the back, of her head, and so avoiding old
Wyse's inquiring sidelong glances. ' ' You forget,
perhaps, that I haven't chosen yet ! "

'' My purse is such a narrow one," grumbled
Aunt Hannah ; '' or, bless you, I see lots o'
things I should like if I could have 'em ! "

The master is away — visiting, I suppose ? "
suggested the pedlar civilly. " Or he — "

*' Yes," — sharply, and without looking up.

Not for long, o' course ? " remarked the
pedlar cheerily.

'' Longer than usual," snapped my aunt ; and
could perceive by the movement of her scraggy
neck and shoulders that she was trying to repress
the shiver which had begun to crawl over
tier.

I heard yesterday in Stonyhampton," ventured
the pedlar, " that he had gone to Ireland.
[s that correct. Missis Hannah ? "

It is. And now, old Wyse," said my aunt
angrily, 'don't it strike you that you have asked
about enough questions for once in a way % "

"No offence, ma'am — no offence, Missis
Hannah," cried the Wanderer, with a conciliatory
duck of his disgraceful old hat.

She chose at last a shilling bottle of scent —
I imagined as a restorative to smell at in case
she should be taken with "the jumps" — some
buttons, some darning-cotton, and several yards
of lace ; and then she made room on the doorstep
for me, and I bought a few yards of
ribbon of a peculiar shade of dull light blue,
which I thought extremely pretty, a box of
the not-too-new chocolate, and some of the lace
like Aunt Hannah's. The lace was really good ;
for it was pillow-made by the gipsies on Dartle
Heath.

And now," said my aunt, patting her skirt,
but finding nothing beneath its folds, " I must
go upstairs for my purse. Bother it ! Old
Wyse " — looking over her shoulder as she went
" you'd like a draught o' ale, wouldn't
you % "

"Well, thenky. Missis Hannah," replied he,
drawing his cuff across his unshaven jaw — his
invariable answer to the invitation — "don't
mind if I do."

Flower, you draw it then," said my aunt ;
and disappeared on her errand up the staircase.

Her back well turned, the old man clutched
my wrist, and held it tight within his own
grimy claw.

'' Hist ! " said he.

What do you mean ? " I demanded, shrinking
from him.

Miss Flowyy," said Wyse in a hoarse whisper,
lest Aunt Hannah, descending, should overhear
him, " have you — have you ever had you fortune'
told?"

No," I answered, interested in spite of myself
— " never."

"For a new half-crown, then, I'll tell it you,
lass."

*' You ! " said I, partly in scorn, partly in
amusement. '' Who ever heard of an old manlike
you telling fortunes ? Why, to begin
with — "

Yes, me," interrupted the pedlar eagerly.
I can tell 'em when I like as well and true
as any old gip-mother on Dartle Heath."

"My aunt wouldn't allow it, I'm sure. I
believe it would make her nervous to see it
done," said I ; it may be, shaking my head a
little longingly. "And — and besides, Wyse, I
haven't such a thing as a new half-crown, nor
am I likely to have ; so it's no good thinking
about it."

I dare say an old one would do just as well,"
said Wyse the Wanderer.

*but there's my aunt, you see," I began
again. **' I am certain that she — "

S-s-s-h ! Do you know where the quarry is —
the little one with a cave like, and the big mossy
stones strewed about ? " whispered the pedlar
hurriedly; for Aunt Hannah's slip-shod tread was
heard overhead — evidently the purse was found.

*' Yes — yes," was all I could say. My heart-beats
were making themselves felt and my
colour was beginning to rise.

*' I shall be there, lass, in the quarry, for the
next hour or so," said the pedlar, with a nod and
a leer full of mystery — '* resting and taking a
snack, ye know, before I go onward to Bowden
Fells. I shan't start Bowden way, though,
before the afternoon ; for I must call at 
— the buxom lasses there are
fond of gewgaws ; and so please yourself, o' course.
Miss Flowyy ; but don't you forget as I Coin tell
a pretty girl her fortune' as well and true as any
old gip-mother on Dartle Heath."

I gave him no answer — no definite answer —
either one way or the other ; but, holding my
head in a rather high and disdainful manner, I
vanished, jug in hand, down the cellar-steps;
just as Aunt Hannah descended the stairs and
again joined Wyse at the passage door.

It was close on twelve o'clock when the
pedlar was paid and gone ; and then we
examined our purchases lovingly, Aunt Hannah
and I, after the manner of women to whom the
luxury of spending money is a rare one ; and
very shortly afterwards we set about spreading
the cloth for our early dinner.

By half-past one Jack and I together were
out on the moor ; leaving Aunt Hannah at home
in the tidied-up kitchen, sewing by the open
window.

Daffodil and Daisy were browsing within
earshot of home, and lashing their ribs with
their tails to scatter the teasing flies ; the fowls
were dusting themselves by the yard-gate ; in
the filth of the yard the pigs were sprawling,
and grunting with closed eyes under the noonday
sun.

There always seemed to be a breeze upon the
moorland, let the day be as warm and still as it
might. I used sometimes to fancy that I could
smell the brine — of course ever so faintly, ever
so subtly — wafted upward from the bleak North
Sea upon the sweet free wind of the moor.

I had changed my cotton gown of the morning,
and had put on an old blue muslin one ; I
mean it once had been blue, though there was
VOL. I. E

little colour left in it now. Found my neck I
had tied some of the ribbon which I had bought
of Wyse the Wanderer; and some of it I had
twisted round the coarse yellow straw-hat which
shaded my eyes from the sun.

If the pedlar was going to tell my fortune,
was it not as well to look my best ; or at any rate
as well as I knew how to make myself look ?
Moreover, it might both flatter and inspire the
oracle to see me decked in his own gay wares.

Of course there was now no reason why I
should hesitate to venture near the cavern in the
quarry ; for was not Mr. Darkwood gone from
Garlands, so that in all likelihood I should never
see him again ? Next summer, perhaps — who
could tell? — he might return to paint upon the
moor. It was just possible. Heigh-ho ! — would
next summer ever come ?

I found the old man seated upon a stone,
drowsily smoking a short black pipe ; his back
to the grassy cave ; his pack and his dog upon
the earth at his feet. Jack and his mother met
again, overjoyed.

Ha, ha," cried Wyse the Wanderer, at sight
of me rousing himself ; " so you've come at last,
my bonny lass, have you ? Lucky you're in time,
for I was just a-moving on."

I smiled, but said nothing ; for I knew the
old wretch was lying.

Have you brought that new half-crown wi'
ye ? " inquired he with a sly grin ; with an effort
getting on to his feet, and pocketing the short
black pipe.

No ; but I've brought an old one — you
said an old one would do as well," I answered
brusquely. In reality, to speak the truth, I
was now half ashamed of myself for having in
any wise encouraged the Wanderer. I well
knew him to be a cunning old man ; and now I
fancied that he was laughing at me.

"Well, an old 'un will do," he conceded — "at
a pinch."

A good half-crown, old or new, is a half-crown,"
I interrupted, again with some asperity.
Here " — holding out the coin — " take it ; and
and now, if you like, you may tell me my
fortune."

"If I like ! " echoed the old man with a
chuckle. "Why, what are you here for. Miss
Flowyy % Why, would it please you, I wonder, if I
was to take your money and never tell you your
fortune after all? Why — But there, there,"
he broke off, in a sort of pitying way that was
very irritating — "women are strange cattle."

I frowned ; looking beyond him, over his
head. I suppose I was " a very woman," and
therefore, woman-like, was inconsistently angry
with what I had brought upon myself

Come, come — that's right ! " the pedlar was
saying slyly. " How smart we've made ourselves
with the pretty blue ribbon, which I do declare
almost matches our own bonny eyes — if the
colour was a bit brighter ! Did you expect to
meet anyone here besides poor old Wyse, my
dear ? " inquired the Wanderer suddenly.

"No, I did not," I replied quite sharply.
** Take the half-crown, or home I go this
minute."

He took it at once ; spat upon it, and sent it
spinning into the air ; and then, having deftly
caught it, he dropped it into his breeches pocket.

Give us your hand, my lass," said the pedlar.

So, not without a shiver of disgust which I did
my best to hide — for Wyse the Wanderer was
indeed a very unwashed old man — I put my
hand, palm upward, into the pedlar's grimy claw.

He bent his head, and pretended to examine
minutely my pink-lined palm.

You're in love ! " said the pedlar briefly ;
without so much as an inch lifting his battered
old hat.

I started, crimsoned violently, and tried to
drag away my hand. That, however, I could
not do, for the Wanderer held it fast.

How dare you ? " I began in much indignation.


"Pooh," said the pedlar, **I knew it, bless
ye, my dear, the moment I set eyes on ye
this mornings ! Yes, I knew the time was
come. Miss Flows, when you'd be glad to have
your fortune' told. Now, let me see. You love
a dark gentleman ; and what's more — "

I — I — • Oh, how dare you, you wicked
old man ? I — "

Ah, I thought so ! " said Wyse the Wanderer,
unmoved, his grip tightening nevertheless.
"You love a dark gentleman, I say;
and, what's more, the dark gentleman loves
you. You live in mystery, and are not what
you seem ; but the secret, if you live long
enough, will be cleared up in the end. You'll
marry your first love, that's clear, whoever he
may be ; but you won't know what real happiness
is, my lass, until you have first tasted of
real tribulation. That I don't think will kill
you, though ; yet it may be at the time you'll
fancy it will. Hem, 'm, 'm — yes, a fair gentleman
too will come across your life ; but his

coming, I am glad to see, will bring you nowt
but good. You will live very likely to see
things that will amaze you ; and when you area
woman growed you'll wish you was a lass
again. Hem, 'm, 'm — that's bad ! But, as I
said before, Miss Flowyy, if you can only
manage to live long enough — and I don't seethe
line anywhere which means ' early death '
the clouds will surely break and roll away.
And though mayhap — I'm not certain about
this — you'll some day be a widow, the chances
are, my dear, you'll die a wife. There — that's
all ! And I think old Wyse the Wanderer has
given you your money's worth."

Before I could recover my breath — surprise, a
trembling excitement, a vague confused sense
of incredulity and belief contending with each
other, having for the moment robbed me of
it — the Wanderer had shouldered his pack, had
whistled to Jack's mother, and was trudging
out of the quarry. But on the earthy incline
at the mouth of it he halted for a few seconds ;
seemed to be pondering something ; and finally
he turned and came back to where I still stood,
dumb and bewildered, exactly as he had left
me.

Certainly I felt dazed, yet angry no longer.

My strange fortune had been told ; and strange
indeed it appeared to me then.

If," said the old man earnestly, with neither
leer nor banter about him now, " you should
never again set eyes upon Wyse the Wanderer,
you'll remember, won't you, my dear, the
pedlar's last words ? Mark 'em well, my bonny
lass, for they'll come true."

I did not reply — I was tongue-tied ; and in
the next minute the odd old man was gone —
really gone — and I stood there in the quarry
alone.

I sat down then upon a mossy hillock, and
clasped my hands round my knees ; my eyes
fixed on space ; my heart curiously chill. Jack
was snuffing and scampering among the rabbit-burrows
; but I neither saw him nor heard him.

I tried, and with tolerable success, to remember
— to repeat to myself — the pedlar's
remarkable prophecy. " ' A dark gentleman —
he loves you, and you love him You
live in mystery, and are not what you seem
. . . A fair gentleman — a friend a
life of sorrow and tribulation, but joy and sunshine
in the end.' " Oh, yes, I could remember
it all pretty accurately, sad stuff as it was ; and
and what an idiot was I ever to consent to

listen to it, and to part too with my half-crown
! Dark men or fair men were nothing
to me, and — and half-crowns were by no means
so plentiful at Moor Edge that I could afford so
recklessly to fling them away.

"With energy I roused myself ; the dark man
and the fair man should trouble my thoughts no
longer. Common sense should help me ; it is
ever one's safest guide.

*' The sly, wretched old Wanderer ! " I exclaimed
aloud. *' He knows, of course — 1 mean,
he must have seen us on that day here in the
quarry ; and the rest he made up out of his
own crafty old brain. And now I dare say he
has gone on to Garlands-on-the-Moor, and will
tell those big red plain Miss Acres precisely the
same nonsense that he has told me. * A mystery
about me,' indeed ; * I am not the person I think
I am.' Pooh ! — who, I wonder then, am I, if I
am not Uncle Simon s niece ? "

And ^ yet — and yet could it be possible that
disreputable old Wyse the Wanderer, even
he, knew more about me, in those young and
careless days of mine, than I knew about
myself ?

Find 'em, Jack Sprat dear — find 'em, little •
man ! " I cried out to my companion cheerily,

determined then and there to forget the fortunetelling
incident — to for ever banish it from my
memory. But this, albeit I lived to grow old,
I never was able to do. And Jack, encouraged
by the tone of my voice, yapped and scratched
amongst the sandy rabbit-holes with a vigour
worthy of a kindlier intent.

Over the great stones and gray chalky tufts
around me the periwinkle flowers climbed and
grew abundantly ; their pretty blue star-like
blossoms peeping coyly out from amidst their
trailing dark-green leaves.

I took ofi* my hat, and began to sing to myself.
My voice, though wholly uncultivated, was
sweet and true, I knew.

I saw from the beach, when the morning was shining,
A bark o'er the waters move gloriously on ;
I came when the sun o'er that beach was declining —
The bark was still there, but the waters were gone.

And such is the fate of our life's early promise,
So passing the spring-tide of joy we have known ;

Each wave that we danced on at morning ebbs from us
And leaves us at eve on the bleak shore alone.

Ne'er tell me of glories serenely adorning

The close of our day, the calm eve of our night ;

Give me back, give me back the wild freshness of
Morning —
Her clouds and her tears are M^orth Evening's best light.

Oh, who would not welcome that moment's returning,
When passion first waked a new life through his frame.

And his soul — like the wood that grows precious in
burning —
Gave out all its sweets to love's exquisite flame ! "

sang I. The dear song was an old favourite
both of mine and of Uncle Simon's. We both
loved Tom Moore, once so sweet a singer of his
own melodies. And as I sang — for I had
brought no book with me, and was in a singularly
idle and unsettled mood that afternoon —
I gathered long sprays of the pretty periwinkle-plant
and fastened them round my hat. Some I
wreathed about my throat, and tied the cool
green necklet there with Wyse the Wanderer's
ribbon, the delicate tint of which, I perceived,
nearly matched the periwinkle bloom ; and some
of the starry sprays dangling longer than their
fellows I stuck in one side of the blue band at
my waist. And I had still a whole handful left.

Ah me, ah me, what a child was I then !
What a woman am I, with a woman's knowledge,
now !

Suddenly a low menacing growl from Jack
Sprat made me start. I trembled ; I know not
why. A sweet, vague, nameless joy had taken
swift hold of my soul. The queer old pedlar

and his forecasting of my fate were alike instantly
forgotten.

"Don't move," said a well-remembered voice
above me — " don't move, pray ! As you are
now you are lovely — you are perfect ! Don't
stir ! "

But I did stir. I did look up. How could
I help it ? Standing there upon the moor in
the sunlight, just over the grassy mouth of
the " cave," sketch-book in hand, was Daryl
Darkwood.

CANNOT say how it came about —
for minutes my confusion and surprise
were overwhelming at again so
unexpectedly beholding Mr. Darkwood — but erelong
he was lying indolently upon the turf at
my side, and, having put away his sketch-book
and pencil, was trifling with the periwinkle
sprays in my hand.

As for me, I was dumb — had not yet
recovered the power of speech ; and I had
intended to be so distant, so indignant with
him for causing the injury to Jack's fore-paw.
But then — but then, I was reflecting insensibly.
Jack was now as good as well, and doubtless after
all he — Mr. Darkwood — had never really meant
to hurt him. At the worst it was an accident.
And so I was mute. Not, however, from anger or
indignation — it was sheer gladness at seeing him
again which kept me frightened and dumb.

And all the while he was telling me, explaining
quite simply and quietly the reason of his
absence from Garlands-on-the-Moor, and why
it was that lately I had not seen him at his
painting out of doors.

He had, he said, been by telegram called
suddenly to London ; and had started forthwith
for town with scarcely five minutes' preparation.
Then unforeseen delays had cropped
up, and he had stayed away much longer than
he had anticipated. After having travelled all
night, he had got back to Garlands only on
the morning of that very day.

*'I did have half a mind," said he, looking
hard, I felt, at me as he spoke, " on my journey
to town, and indeed whilst there, to write to you
and explain my absence from these beautiful
northern wilds. I — I thought, you see, that
you would think me so rude and so unkind.
But I afterwards remembered that I did not
know your proper address ; and also perhaps,"
he added vaguely, *that it would not do to
write. By-the-way," said Mr. Darkwood earnestly,
" how ought one in writing to you, Miss
Greedy, to address you at that dull and lone old
house of yours ? "

"I — I hardly know," I then timidly replied

venturing for the first time to meet the upward
gaze of his dark clear ardent eyes ; "but I should
imagine that * Moor Edge, near Stonyhampton,
would ba enough. I never have had a letter in
my life."

Never ? " He did not utter the word in any
astonishment ; on the contrary, his tone just
then was exceedingly thoughtful.

Never," said I quietly.

'rand how about books and magazines and
newspapers?" he asked. "Do you never see a
newspaper at Moor Edge ? "

'books — good books— I have in plenty," I
told him. "But as for newspapers and that
kind of thing — oh, no, I never see them ! My
Uncle Simon always says that the newspapers
now-a-days are not fit reading for girls ; and he
says, too, that a woman who is a politician is a
nuisance — a bore ; and that the other things
printed every day are not meant for women to
read. So when he brings home a newspaper, he
generally burns it. My Aunt Hannah, I believe,
detests the sight of them."

Ah ! " Mr. Dark wood sprang up so impetuously
to seat himself by my side upon
the great mossy stone I was sitting upon, that
Jack, who was not many yards away from us,

immediately flew at him with white teeth ominously
bared.

Be quiet this instant ! Lie down, sir, will
you % " cried I, feeling absurdly vexed with my
faithful mongrel for this ill-bred display of most
uncalled-for temper ; then little divining — how
should I ? — that the dog's instinct was surer
than my own. And Jack Sprat, with a growl
of smothered dissatisfaction, reluctantly obeyed
me.

The little chap has taken a dislike to me, I
fear," observed Mr. Darkwood airily. " Never
mind ; we shall be better friends by-and-by, I
hope." But, alas ! they never were. " I was
about to ask," he cod tinned more seriously,
when seated quite near to me upon the convenient
old stone, " whether you would mind telling
me something — anything — with regard to yourself
and your lonely life here ? As yet I know
so little about you ; and I want to know more.
Let us talk about yourself — will you ? Do
believe me, I have grave reasons for asking you ;
it is not impertinent curiosity. The truth is, I
am greatly interested in you — May I call you
Flower ' ? " he begged, softly breaking off.

I blushed a burning red. Little in those
days sufficed to make me blush.

Would it be — would it be right ? " I
stammered.

There would be no harm in it, at any rate,"
he said confidently, with a smile. "And it is
such a pretty name."

'' Do you really like it ? "

'' I never in my life heard a sweeter. Indeed,
I remember now that it once belonged to a dear
little cousin of mine ; a cousin, however, whom
I never saw — for she died before I came to
England, in an unusually tragic way. Yes, it
is a lovely name, and suits you, I think, as no
other could."

I drew a deep breath, and was conscious of a
slight delicious tremor in every vein. I was
very happy — ah, so strangely, blindly happy ! —
on that perfect summer afternoon. And before
I was half-an-hour older I had actually told Mr.
Darkwood everything that I could remember of
my simple life — my uneventful life of nineteen
years. How I could recall no other existence
than the one I had always lived at Moor Edge
in spring, summer, autumn, and in winter,
ever the same ; an undisturbed record of level
monotony from the end of one year to that of
another. How I had never been to school ;
could not play and sing like the strapping loud-voiced

young women at Garlands-on-the-Moor ;
and how I was indebted for all that I knew —
which I discovered shortly afterwards was not
much to boast of — to the patient tuition and
the good sense of my Uncle Simon himself. I
could read, write, and cipher, at the same time
possessing a fair knowledge of much that was
best and brightest in the literature of my own
country ; and there was my education in a
nutshell.

I told Mr. Darkwood about my uncle's mysterious
journeys, and how sorely he was missed by
Aunt Hannah and me when those times came
round for him to go away from Moor Edge ; and
what a useful little income was made out of our
garden and small farm-yard ; how Aunt Hannah
was occasionally overtaken with "the jumps;"
and how oddly the Stonyhampton people and
their children stared at us — at me and Aunt
Hannah — if we walked about the town on a
market-day.

This and more — which I have no doubt to
him sounded trivial enough, although to me it
was all very real — as concisely as I could on that
sweet lazy afternoon did I relate to Daryl Dark-wood
; who sat there by my side on the great
gray stone in the quarry, idly fingering the peri-vol.

I. F

winkle sprays in my lap, but listening intently
to me all the same, I could see.

"And you are quite sure," said he slowly,
by-and-by, not now looking at me, but pulling
thoughtfully at one end of his heavy swart
moustache, " that your name, Flower, is * Greedy '
really ' Flower Greedy ' ? "

I was somewhat staggered at the question ; at
the calm manner in which it was put to me ; and
I could only stare for some seconds in silence at
the pale, handsome profile of my interlocutor. Indeed,
I barely noticed at the time how coolly and
easily he had made use of my Christian name.

''Of course," I said at last. "Why, Mr.
Darkwood, what else should it be ? "

In that case," he replied, but replying indirectly,
"your father must have been the
brother of Simon Greedy ? "

I — I suppose so," was my uncertain rejoinder.
"But, to tell you the truth, the question has
seldom, if ever, troubled me. No — I have never
thought about it at all."

Yet now I did begin to feel rather uncomfortable.
The suspicion that Mr. Darkwood had met
perhaps, for some odd reason, was in league
with — Wyse the Wanderer began to dawn far
from pleasantly upon me.

It was all very curious and disquieting. It
was altogether extraordinary.

And your mother, Flower," continued Mr.
Dark wood gently — '' do you remember nothing
of her ? "

"Nothing ; not even in the faintest degree. Mr.
Darkwood," I said in nervous haste, determined
to know the worst, " did you, I — I wonder, as
you came along here, meet upon the moor a
queer-looking and not very clean old man, carrying
a pedlar's pack, and with a dog very like
Jack — in fact, his mother, only she is blind of
one eye — trotting close to his heels % "

No, that I did not," he answered, looking
up with a frank smile which spoke for itself ;
amused, I suppose, at my impulsive address.
What about him — this unwashed old man % '

** Oh, nothing ! " said I, breathing more freely.
*' I thought — thought that you might perhaps
have met him ; that is all. He is only old
Wyse the Wanderer, as they call him about
here. He came with his pack to our house
to-day ; and — and we bought, as we always
do, a few trifles of the old man. This ribbon,
for instance" — touching it — "amongst the
number."

So happily, after all, it seemed that my alarm

was groundless ; and Mr. Darkwood then could
know nothing of the folly I had been guilty of.
Oh, what would he have said, what would he
have thought of me, had he caught me in the
act of throwing away a good half-crown to hear
my fortune told — such rubbish as it was too !
Nevertheless it was strange, to say the least of
it, that he should have fallen to speculating as
to whether or not in reality I was the niece of
Simon Greedy.

"And so," said Mr. Darkwood, quizzically,
you bought this ribbon of the pedlar, did
you % It is a charming colour " — his eyes roving
upward to my hat-brim — " and matches
the periwinkles."

I was aghast.

*' What ! " I exclaimed. " Do you mean to say
they are still there ? How silly I must look !
I declare I had forgotten — I had indeed — "
In honest disgust at my own idle vanity,
I was about to raise a swift hand and to snatch
off the ridiculous wreaths from my throat and
my hat. But Mr. Darkwood caught my arm,
crying out hastily, —

Oh, do not ! You look so pretty as you
are. I at once resolved to sketch you when I
found you sitting here ; but you would not

remain quiet, you know. However, no matter.
My eyes since then have had a goodly feast ;
and I can very well paint you from memory."

I could only blush again, well pleased. I could
find no words in which to answer him — to
thank him for his praise.

"And, Flower," he went on, with a kind of
tender authority in his voice and in his manner,
*' we must talk more of this, if you do not mind.
I mean about yourself and — and the parents you
never have known. As I said a minute ago, I
am interested in you — interested deeply. You
must learn to trust me. Flower."

I was silent, vaguely troubled. What could
he mean ? Was not I content to be Uncle
Simon's niece ? Surely I wanted to be no one
else !

"And you do trust me. Flower?" said Mr.
Darkwood earnestly, taking my hand into his.

Yes ; I trust you," I answered simply —
perhaps a little sadly also.

His clasp tightened round my fingers.

Your — your uncle is away, I know," he
said more rapidly ; " the Acre people told me
that he is gone to Ireland. So could not you
could not you in his absence. Flower, persuade
your aunt to invite me to Moor Edge ?

I should so much like to see the interior of
that grim-looking old gray abode of yours.
Tell her that I am a painter, and your friend,
in search of the picturesque''

Here, recollecting Aunt Hannah's unflattering
opinion of all young men, I was obliged to
laugh. Mr. Darkwood ceased to speak, and
looked inquiringly into my eyes.

What amuses you ? " smiled he.

"That funny idea about getting my Aunt
Hannah to invite you into the house," I replied.
*' Ah, you do not know her ! "

'you believe then that it would be vain to
ask her ? "

I am quite sure that it would. Now, Uncle
Simon himself might do it — I am not certain about
him — if he were at home ; but, sou see — "

Mr. Darkwood shook his head, frowning
thoughtfully.

"No, no, no," he muttered, more to himself
than to me; "it must be done, and done
promptly, if done at all, before his return."

I glanced wonderingly at my companion, now
wholly failing to comprehend him.

"When will your — your Uncle Simon come
back to Moor Edge ? " inquired Mr. Darkwood
abruptly. " Flower, can you tell me that ? '

I explained to Mr. Darkwood that Uncle Simon
had been gone two days, and that in all probability
he would be back with us in about a
week, as his stay this time was to be a longer
one than customary.

"Ah," said he quickly; "there's a clear week
then!"

His dark eyes appeared to glow with sudden
passionate feeling ; the red-brown light in them
shone boldly out. I felt his arm gently touching
my waist ; his searching eloquent gaze
seemed to thrill me through and through.

If you will not invite me to the house,
Flower, you must meet me out here again upon
the moor as early as possible," he whispered
half-sternly, half-playfully. " I have more to
say to you ; and it shall be said. You trust
me ; you have confessed it ; and — and, well,
you must obey me."

"But anyway I must go now," I faltered,
hardly conscious of what I said — "indeed,
indeed I must." And I rose uncertainly to my
feet, feeling in truth rather faint.

Actually the fast-westering sun was dropping
to the fringe of the moor ; its glorious undulations
were taking rainbow hues beneath the low
spreading fiery light. The solemn rooks, in

dusky battalions, were travelling slowly homeward
to the woods of Stonyhampton.

"Jack, Jack," cried I, with, I fear, poorly-assumed
ease, "we are going home, like the
rooks, little man 1 Come along — say good-bye
to the rabbits, Jack ! "

But, as Daryl Darkwood still held my un-gloved
hand, I was unable to make a start.

"Flower," he said, 'you must let me see you
again soon — tomorrow — do you hear ? Promise
; or I shall not release you."

"Well, I — I promise," I whispered.

And now. Flower, you must grant me something
else."

What is that ? "

Something very simple — a kiss."

You have — you have my hand in yours,
Mr. Darkwood," I answered tremulously. " If
you like, you — you may kiss that."

Periwinkle, it is not enough," said he emphatically.
He added softly, " Periwinkle — the
blue periwinkle that so charmingly becomes you
means ' early friendship ; ' and how apt is a
quick friendship to ripen into a speedy love ! "

Without other preamble or ado, he lifted his
hat, bent down, and then and there kissed me
upon the lips.

I love you, my beautiful Flower," lie said.

My hand was free. I turned from him and
fled — Jack Sprat racing on ahead of me, joyously
yapping at space. My cheeks and brow,
I well enough knew, were scarlet ; my eyes
tingled with unshed tears. But for all that
the heart within me was feather-light, and I
laughed for very gladness as I ran. Away,
away with all anxiety and misgiving I On
our side of gaunt Bowden Fells, at least, I
believed that I was the happiest soul alive.

Ah me ! for the wild freshness of youth's
bright morning, when that first freshness of
life and of life's possibilities has for ever gone
from us, and left us sad and wise !

OUR ramble, I should say, has done
you good, Flower," Aunt Hannah
observed, when, flushed and glad
and just in time for tea, I got back to Moor
Edge. 'you certainly look better."

*' I never was ill," I answered lightly.

Still there's the brimstone and treacle on
my mantelpiece upstairs, if you like to try
it," said she peevishly.

' Throw physic to the dogs,' Aunt Hannah
!" laughed I ; and took my place at the
table.

Sunset faded into twilight ; twilight died into
night. The white summer moon sailed high
over the moorland, and turned into fairy silver
the dew upon the heather and gorse. No sound
ever so faintly came up to-night from the dim

far-off valley Stonyhampton way ; all nature
seemed hushed and resting beneath the light
of the clear summer moon.

Not without uneasiness, as bed-time drew
near, did I notice that Aunt Hannah looked
wan and drawn about the lips, restless and
strange about the eyes — sure signs, I was uncomfortably
aware, that she was threatened
with a nervous attack.

I deemed it prudent to hasten our movements
in an upward direction. Bed, I believed,
was the best place for Aunt Hannah — sleep
might avert the catastrophe.

As we were going upstairs, all being made
safe below, my aunt in front, clutching her pink
wrapper around her narrow shoulders and starting
at every shadow cast by her candle and big
flat candlestick ; I following with my own small
lamp, and wishing from the bottom of my heart
that Uncle Simon was at home — as we thus
together, two silly frightened women, ascended
the worn dark stairway, one of the cocks in the
hen-house suddenly crew.

As everybody knows, the crowing of a cock
after sunset, more particularly at night, is by no
means an ordinary occurrence. To superstitious
people the sound is an uncanny one ; and the

harsh voice of the bird calling out in the dark
and stilly hours before midnight is by some said
to bode no good.

There," shivered Aunt Hannah, halting upon
the landing and turning her gray twitching face
towards me — " that means misfortune ! "

Oh, nonsense ! " said I, in a tone that I
strove hard to make valorous, in spite of the
curious chill which seemed to go straight into
my heart.

And — and perhaps death'' shuddered my
aunt, her voice scarcely audible. '* Oh, there he
goes again ! Drat him ; I wish I could wring
his neck ! "

You can wring it tomorrow if you should
be still in the same mind," I remarked, with
some petulance. "I do wish, Aunt Hannah,
that you wouldn't try to frighten me out of
my wits. You will make me as nervous as
yourself."

How wicked and unkind you are, Flower !
I'm sure I don't try to frighten you ; so for pity's
sake don't go and get telling your uncle that
story," whined she. " How can I help my
infirmity? I wish I could. You don't know,
girl — you don't know how I've been tried all
the many long and dreadful sears that I've

lived in this house Flower," said my aunt,

checking herself with a kind of jump, as if
for the moment she had fancied that Uncle
Simon was behind her, "would you — would
you mind just going out with the mop and
pushing him off the perch ? It's the game
Tom, I know by the crow. He'd be quiet
then ; and — and I'll wait here for you at the
top of the stairs."

Yes, I should very much mind," I answered

flatly. " For goodness' sake. Aunt Hannah, da

not be so ridiculous ! Draw the bed-clothes

well over your head, and then you will not hear

im.

I persuaded her to go to her room, and at her
request remained with her whilst she got into
bed. When I bent over her pillow to bestow
my customary airy good-night kiss upon her
forehead, I saw and indeed could feel that she
was still shivering.

Do you really believe, aunt," I inquired
anxiously, " that you will be taken with the
jumps to-night ? "

Yes ; I do really believe that I shall. I feel
as I always do when they're coming on," was her
cheering reply. And the bedstead itself began
to shake as I stood by it.

Fortunately recollecting my Uncle Simon's
recipe for this distressing malady, I said, " Wait
a minute ; I'll be back directly ; " and quitted
the room. From past experience I was pretty
well certain that, had I suggested a jorum of hot
grog as a preventive against the threatened
attack, my aunt, with a sniff and a hurt air,
would obstinately have refused to touch it ;
though hankering for it, perhaps, all the same.
So, saying nothing to her of my intention, I
crept down — half fearfully, I own — to the kitchen
cupboard by the fireplace. A rat was gnawing
somewhere under the stairs ; but deaf Sally, the
cat, unmindful of crickets, was asleep within
the kitchen fender. Out in the hen-house at
intervals the game-cock contain sued to crow ;
doubtless mistaking the white moonlight for a
ghostly dawn.

The water in the kettle was still hot ; and I
was soon again standing by my Aunt Hannah s
bedside.

'* Here, Aunt Hannah — drink this ! "

What is it, Flower ? " said she, partly raising
herself upon her elbow, and looking very lean and
droll in her night-attire, her face being quite
framed in a double row of large limp cap-frills.


"What Uncle Simon himself always insists
upon your having when you are nervous — hot
whiskey-ands water. "

For a wonder she was sincerely grateful tome,
the potion coming thus unexpectedly. But
she coughed and choked as she drank it, staring
up at me with swimming eyes.

** Isn't it rather — rather strong?" she said
meekly.

I confessed that it was very strong. 'for I
want you to go to sleep," said I honestly.

I fancied," remarked Aunt Hannah more
comfortably, when the tumbler was empty,
'whilst you were downstairs just now, that I
heard a step in the garden — like — like I did
you know, a few nights ago. But, of course, I
may have been deceived."

"Very likely; we will not talk about it," I
said hurriedly. " Besides, Jack would have
barked — trust him — if any one had been near
the house."

I often think," slowly went on my aunt,
gazing upward at the low cracked ceiling as
she lay flat on her back in the bed, "how
easily anybody, if he had a mind to, could
crawl up upon the roof just at this part of the
house ; first by mounting the wall by the

cowshed, then along the brew-house tiles,
and then on by the help 0' the spouting
to —

Pray, do not encourage those horrid fancies
at this time of night," I interrupted earnestly ;
"but try your hardest to go to sleep. Aunt
Hannah, and then perhaps you will wake
up better tomorrow. I am sure I hope you
will."

I turned up the wick of her old-fashioned
night-lamp to a more cheerful point, so dispelling
one or two weird Witch of Ensor-like
shadows that had taken flickering shape upon
ceiling and wall, and once more put my lips
to her forehead. Then, finally bidding her
good-night, I left her.

At last in my own room, I leant out of window
and lifted my face to the starry sky. How exquisite,
how still, how unspeakably beautiful was
the sleeping world ! That tiresome, wakeful fowl
in the yard was quiet now ; the only sound that
was in any wise audible was the smothered grunt
of a slumbering sow. A little frolicsome night-wind
blew sweetly and crisply from the northwest.


Fondly I turned my eyes towards .


My love — dear love," I murmured — " goodnight
! "

Was I dreaming ; or was I awake ?

It must have been past midnight, for the
waning moonlight lay in patches upon the floor
of my room, when I started up in bed, listening
acutely, convinced that some unusual noise had
reached my sense of hearing. By degrees it had
aroused my sleep-bound faculties, and I was now
almost broadly awake.

At first I believed that I must beyond all
question be dreaming — dreaming that thieves
and cutthroats were perhaps upon the roof,
Aunt Hannah's uncomfortable talk hazily recurring
to my memory — for the ceiling above
my head was jarring in a peculiar manner,
as if some one, stealthily yet heavily, were
moving within the dark void of the roof
itself.

For a while I was horribly frightened ; and
the palms of my hands and the soles of my feet
grew moist with terror. Yet the next minute I
was out of bed ; hastily clad in my gown and a
shawl, and with slippers on my feet ; vainly
groping for a friendly match-box, which, of course,
in a moment of panic, was nowhere to be found.
VOL. I. G

Unlike Aunt Hannah, I was not accustomed to
burn a light throughout the night.

I had rushed to the conclusion that she was
ill, and moving about the house ; perhaps she
wanted assistance and was unable to make me
hear. But what on earth could she be doing
in Uncle Simon's garret ? — for now that I was
thoroughly awake, and with wits alert, I knew
that the strange sounds proceeded from the solitary
and mysterious attic across the grim threshold
of which I had never yet gone.

In despair abandoning my search for the
matches, I swiftly but noiselessly opened my
door and peeped cautiously out into the passage.
If Aunt Hannah should be walking in
her sleep — and it was not impossible — one
could not be too careful in one's movements in
approaching her.

The white moonbeams pouring in at the small
stair-head window flooded the passage and the
landing. Out here it was as light as day ; but
with a light more cold and *' creepy" than that
of any day.

Stealing along the passage, with my heart
thumping, I came, almost before I was aware of
it, at a corner of the landing, upon the door of
Aunt Hannah's chamber.

Kind Heaven protect me — I was wrong ! Her
door was shut ; and, listening, I could hear my
aunt, evidently in a deep sleep, snoring aloud in
her bed.

Then it was not she, either well or ill, who
was prowling about the house at this unearthly
hour. Who then could it be ?

Hark — yes ! Some one or something was
moving in the attic under the roof!

Was it a robber ?

Had Uncle Simon returned without warning,
and much earlier than he had anticipated ? And
if so, how had he managed to get into the house
in spite of shuttered windows and barred doors ?
Why, moreover — and this to me was the strangest
circumstance of all — had not Jack Sprat barked,
as after nightfall he never failed to do at the
slightest noise in the vicinity of Moor Edge ?
Had he crowded and barked in that familiar
unappeasable way of his, I was certain that I
should directly have heard him, his barrel in the
yard being so near to my window. What ought
I to do ? It would be the worst of folly to
awaken Aunt Hannah. She would instantly betaken
with her nervous disorder in its most
alarming and serious form ; and perhaps in the
sudden terror of it all would die outright !

On the other hand, inactivity on my part —
and the precious moments were flying — might
mean a violent death both for her and for me ;
two weak women as we were, shut up with
some desperate wretch in a lonely house like
Moor Edge !

Wh — ir — ir — r-r-r ! " went the old eight-day
clock in the kitchen downstairs, and then struck
one ; jarring hideously upon the dead night-silence.
And in the same instant I heard a key
grate rustily in the garret-door ; the door itself
open gently — close — and a footstep then upon
the upper stairway about to descend to the
landing where I was.

Dumb, paralysed with fright, I fell back against
the passage wall ; my arms extended behind me ;
my eyes wide, strained, unwillingly fascinated,
fixed upon the dusky narrow stair-ladder which
led up to that evil place. No moonlight touched
the garret-stairs ; all there was impenetrable
gloom.

Had my life depended upon promptitude
in flight, I could have stirred neither hand
nor foot. I could only keep staring, in a
voiceless agony of dread, upward at that flight
of steep bare stairs which led to my Uncle
Simon's den.

It seems to take minutes in telling, but
actually seconds only could have elapsed ere
dimly I perceived advancing towards me the
tall figure of a man advancing with great
care, and, like a blind man, feeling his way
as he came.

Then from the ugly shadow he stepped into
the beautiful moonlight ; and a stifled shriek,
partly of relief, partly of mingled wonderment
and joy, broke from my dry lips.

The man was Daryl Darkwood !

He saw me ; started — he was already very
pale — came quickly forward and sank upon
one knee at my feet. Too startled yet to
utter a word, I could only stand there petrified
in amazement, with my quivering arms
spread for support against the wall behind
me.

My darling, forgive me ! " he passionately
whispered. '' I did not mean to disturb or to
alarm you ; but I couldn't help it. I found the
skylight in the roof unfastened — movable. It
seems, however, that it closes with a singular
kind of spring ; and I was speedily made a
prisoner. I struck a light, and luckily then
found an old key ; or "

My heart was beginning to thaw, as it were.

My tongue became loosened, and was once more
my own.

But— but, Mr. Darkwood," I gasped, " what
is the meaning of this — what are you here at all
for? It is — it is terribly wrong! Why, oh,
why did you do it — "

"Flower, I love you!" he cried breathlessly.
'' I love you, and mean to save you from the
desolate, unnatural life you are now living.
Dearest, this house, believe me, is no place, no fit
home for you. The people here have wickedly
deceived you — you are nothing to them, are
not of their kin. I am convinced of it from
what I have heard about them and you
in Stonyhampton and elsewhere. Yet, before
making this known to you, I was resolved
to ascertain the truth for myself — and tonight
I have done it. It is very ugly truth ;
and. Flower, you must quit this place —
say adieu to it for ever — the very hour that
I can arrange for you to fly with me to a
happier shelter ! My darling, with me you will
be safe ! No one can take you from me or
can in any wise harm you when once you are
my wife ! "

In pity," I whispered distractedly — " not so
loud ! You will awaken my aunt else ; and that

would be dreadful, dreadful, dreadful ! Go —
please go ! "

I will. But you must first solemnly promise
me that you will be in the quarry tomorrow
morning — nay, it is now morning ! — not later
than eleven o'clock. I will explain everything
to you then."

"Oh, I'll promise anything if you will only
go ! " I moaned, almost sobbed, wringing my
hands in an anguish of distress.

He sprang to his feet, and clasped me in his
arms. I was too weak and unnerved — indeed
utterly powerless — to in the least resist him.
I could but lie passive in his sustaining arms
whilst he pressed his lips to mine.

*' Farewell, beloved, for a few hours," he murmured.
" Show me the best way of escape —
and I am gone ! "

'the best way — the best way!" I dazed
repeated to myself. Yes, yes, that would be
it — the quickest and the best way !

See ; straight before you — down this passage,"
I explained feverishly — "is the door
of my room. The window is exactly opposite
to the door ; the moor itself is, as you know,
merely a few feet from the window - ledge.
There is no better way than that. Oh, be

quick, Mr. Darkwoocl, if you would be kind tome
— and go ! "

Not until I have heard you say—' Daryl,
I love you ! ' "

It was, this extraordinary midnight encounter,
but the fourth time in my life of seeing him.
I — poor moth in the flame ! — obeyed him nevertheless.


Daryl," I breathed, trembling exceedingly,
''I— I love you!"

"Periwinkle," he murmured back, caressing
my head — "you are all the world to me, love!
My pretty Flower, Heaven shield you and bless

you!"

Again did he strain me to his heart, his lips
fastened upon mine. Then, releasing me, he
vanished down the moonlit passage ; and I
was alone.

No more sleep or rest for me that night.
My old life, as it were, had been suddenly
wrecked.

Was I plunged in deep ocean, or about to
touch the border-land of a glorious unknown
world? Whither was I drifting, or rather
being hastened ? Where and how would it
all end ?

Was I deliriously happy, or prodigiously
scared. I did not know. I could not
decide.

The old Flower Greedy seemed to *me gone
and I was changed into someone else !

Ease betimes to sit by my open
window ; and the fresh pure air of
early morning wrought me more
good than anything else could have done. It
cooled my aching head and fevered eyes, and
brought back to me the bodily vigour of
which the excitement of the past night had
robbed me. Notwithstanding, at present,
steady and collected thought was a sheer
impracticability : that must wait until the
day was older and I had learnt more than I
already knew of the mystery which brooded
over Moor Edge. I could not, would not yet
think of that. A dispassionate view and reasoning
of things must be put aside until I had
again seen Daryl Darkwood. Daryl — Daryl I I
could think only of him ; and not yet of Uncle
Simon, Aunt Hannah, and Moor Edge.

Whatever of evil there might be about my
lone old home — and, having known no other, it
always had seemed really like '' home " to me —
had never hitherto troubled me in any harmful
way ; and therefore the grim thought of it
should not trouble me now. At any rate, not
for the present. No. My thoughts in these
early morning hours could only dwell, and dwell
fondly, upon my lover — that was enough. So I
watched the sun rise and spread upward from
the chill lovely east, and the pallid dawn-mists
roll silently away from the dim purple uplands
of the breezy moor — dreaming, dreaming all
the while of Daryl Darkwood. Blithely the
soaring lark shook the dew from his wings,
telling the waking world that another day was
come.

Ashen I heard Aunt Hannah astir below,
opening doors and windows and raking out the
ashes from the kitchen grate, I quietly arose
from my chair by the casement and went downstairs
to join her in her work. I began to
wonder whether in appearance I was at all
changed from the Flower Greedy of the night
before. I suppose, though, there was no perceptible
difference in me — at all events, to
the eyes of my Aunt Hannah — for when she

looked at me and said good morning, she
made no observation whatever of a personal
character.

She, I was glad to notice, looked better than
usual ; evidently a night's thorough rest had in
every sense been beneficial to her.

Did — did you sleep well, aunt, after all ? "
I ventured, as carelessly as I could speak, as I
shook out and spread the cloth for breakfast and
clattered the crockery upon the table.

Sound as a roach," answered she, quite
cheerfully for her. "That grog you made,
Flower, must have been very strong, I feel sure ;
and I wonder I have not a headache this morning
— that I do ! "

"I told you it was strong. I thought you
needed it so," I struck in, with a short forced
laugh. "You did not want to hear that cockcrowing
all night ; did you ? "

"No, indeed," shivered my aunt, as she
poured the boiling water upon the tea. " I daresay
you won't believe it, but my very marrow
ran cold as it was."

Again I laughed a little absently, perhaps
somewhat unfeelingly — for nothing in creation
is more selfish than a new-born love, a great and
an exultant love, and the crowding day-dreams

which are born with it — and strolled to the open
back-door.

Why, where was Jack ? Why had not he, as
was his wont, come scampering indoors, his
stump of a tail quivering joyously, the moment
he heard us moving in the house ?

Bare-headed, I went out into the sunny court,
and gazed up and down it and over the wall
into the yard beyond.

"Jack, Jack," I called — 'little man, where
are you ? " And then, as I could whistle, I
whistled for Jack.

But there was no glad bark in reply ; no
bristly little four-footed form came hurtling along
the court in order to spring frantically upward
into my arms, there to nestle its small coarse
head delightedly against my breast, and always
if possible to favour me with a swift " doggy '*
lick.

Where could he be, my dear little mongrel
companion and friend ? So I ran to his barrel
and looked into it.

A sharp cry burst from me. I fell upon my
knees by the barrel's mouth. My tears had
suddenly gushed forth and blinded me.

There upon his side on the straw — half in,
half out of his tub — he lay, my faithful " little

man " that would never more answer to my
merry call, never more wander with me over
the wide and windy moor. His glassy eyes were
partly open ; his tongue, slightly frothy, hung
sidewise from his jaws ; his body, his limbs were
cold and stiff; in death he lay stretched to his
fullest length, which yet was barely that of a
good-sized hare. My cry of bitter grief speedily
brought out Aunt Hannah.

Is — is he dead ? " said she, turning very
white.

Yes — dead ! " was all I could say.

Aunt Hannah stooped over the little dead dog,
and warily examined the hanging tongue. Then
she looked up at me. In an awe-stricken voice
she said, —

It must have happened last night when the
game-cock was crowing. He has been poisoned
that's plain ! And who — who can have done
it, I wonder? Oh, Flower," whined she, 'didn't
I say that misfortune was coming ? And now
and now, depend upon it, there's worse
behind!"

My dear one, do not, oh, do not cry so
piteously ! It is terrible for me to see you.
Take heart, Flower. In a little while hence you

will be far away from that dismal place yonder.
We shall be always together, in a purer atmo-
sphere—amorally purer, you know, I mean — with
no cares, no troubles, and as happy as the day
is long I "

It is so — so much to have lost in a single
day — at a single blow," I sobbed, although
Daryl's dear arms were holding me as we sat
together upon the grass-grown quarry stones,
and Heaven's own fair radiant sky was overhead.
*' Faith — one's utter faith in one's nearest and
best — shattered at a single blow, and — "

Now do not any longer call that old vil —
that old man your ' nearest and best,' Flower !
I tell you that he is nothing to you — I am
thoroughly convinced of it ; nor are you aught
to him. He is an outcast, a pariah, a kind of
leper — what you will — that is all the world over
shunned by his fellow-men. Moor Edge, as I
tried to make you comprehend last night, is no
fit abode for you, my darling. It is an accursed
house — haunted, be sure, by many a ghost, if
ghosts of the poor dead there be. You must
by-and-by forget that you ever lived there ; that
you ever called it home."

That will be impossible. I have known no
home but that : and — and Uncle Simon has been

has always been so good to me. I owe him so
much — everything, indeed ! "

"You owe him nothing. Whatever he may
have done for you, my dear little girl, rest well
assured that he has done it in the way of atonement
— having so wickedly wronged you. And,
Flower," said my lover almost sternly, ** do not
any more, I beg you, speak of him as * Uncle
Simon.' I do not like it — cannot bear to hear
it. I have a sensitive ear. Flower, and 'Uncle
Simon' grates upon it painfully."

1 sighed heavily, wearily, and could not stem
the flood of my tears.

Then — then there is Jack," wept I, " my
dear little dog. Oh, I loved him so — I loved
him so ! He too is gone — all is'gone ! "

Come, are not you a trifle childish, darling ? "
said Daryl half gently, half playfully. "Jack,
after all, was only a dog; and — forgive me.
Flower — a precious ugly and, I think, dangerous
one."

"Ah, but he was so faithful!" I managed to

say.

"No doubt. But some one, 1 suspect, with
intent to destroy stoats and other vermin, had
been throwing poisoned flesh about," answered
Daryl lightly.

I — I don't know. I wish I did," I sadly
rejoined.

Talking in a light and tender vein, Daryl did
his best to soothe and to comfort me — to encourage,
to brace me, as it were, for the ordeal that
was ahead of me. And I was with him, his arms
were around me, his shoulder was my aching
head's sweet resting-place ; and so my grief over
the unalterable past, and my vague nervous
quailing from a shadowy and an unknown future,
were alike assuaged by his nearness, his touch,
his dear companionship, which soon would be a
constant joy that was never more to be taken
away 1

Alas ! when one loves blindly and absolutely,
one's faith in one's beloved is immeasurable ! It
is an infinity of trust that is supreme in its
blindness. Doubt, misgiving, any suspicion
whatsoever even is as sacrilege itself; he has
one's all — one's all, which begins in belief and
ends in adoration. So, at least, I know it is
with women. Men, as a rule, perhaps, in like
circumstances, are more cautious, more calculating,
and therefore less confiding — they knowing
the world and its folly far better than we.

My lover on that morning, since I had joined
him in our sheltered trysting-place, had told me

VOL. I. H

many strange and disquieting things, explaining
also his startling appearance at Moor Edge in the
dead of the past night. He declared to me that
he had felt that he could not rest until with his
own eyes he had beheld the interior of Simon
Creedyy's garret. He had heard from the folk at
Garlands and from other gossips in Stonyhampton
what the place was said to contain — what gruesome
secrets were believed to be hidden from the
light of day in that attic under the roof ; but,
before in any manner venturing to influence mein
the taking of the serious step which must forever
cut me off from Uncle Simon and his guardianship,
he wished, said he, to make quite certain
that rumour for once was correct. When all
doubt upon the point was thoroughly set at rest,
then no time should be lost in persuading me to
fly with him, to thenceforward turn my back
upon the evil abode. As there appeared to be
not the remotest chance of his — Daryl Dark-wood's
— entering the house by fair means, why,
he must — so he reasoned — have recourse to
means that were not exactly fair. He described
to me how simple a matter it was to scale the
walls and roof of Moor Edge — remarkably simple
to a skilful climber — how he had found the skylight
in the roof ajar (he supposed for ventilation's

sake), and had at once carefully lowered
himself into the small and stuffy den beneath it.
To his horror, the skylight had closed with a
spring, the secret of which he had been unable to
detect, and there was he in the roof of Moor
Edge — a prisoner — caught like a rat in a trap,
laughed my lover — " As I told you, my dear one,
last night," added he.

'' But — but was it not very — very dark and
horrible up there ? " I faltered.

"Dark enough, in all conscience! However,
I had fortunately with me a box of wax lights ;
and there was, as you know, the cold white moonlight
besides. White and weird as it was, it was
nevertheless sufficient to show me — what I saw."

"" Oh, Daryl," I whispered, womanlike kindling
with curiosity, notwithstanding my sorrow
and uneasiness, " what did you see ? Remember,
I never was in the attic in my life."

I saw, Flower," was his grim reply, "plain
tokens of — well, the hideous proofs of the old
man's guilt."

"And they were — " breathed I.

My dear," said Daryl earnestly, "I do not
want to frighten you ; and you must have
patience. After we are married you shall learn
everything, or at any rate as much as I know

myself. Let it be enough now — as I have
before said — that I consider Moor Edge no fit
home for you ; and you must exchange it for
the best, my own dear one, that it is within my
power to give you."

I shudder to imagine," I said, clinging to
him, 'what might have happened last night
had you not so luckily found the rusty old
,

well, in that case, I should have stamped
and shouted for assistance 1 " threw in Mr.
Darkwood lightly.

Then, as surely as we are alive, you would
have been the death of Aunt Hannah," I told
him solemnly.

And I should have gone raving mad. Flower,
had I for a bare quarter of an hour been kept a
prisoner in that foul hole of Simon Greedy 's.
Good Heaven, dear, what a lively household
we should then have been ! "

Oh, pray do not jest about it ! " I entreated.
"It would have been all so real and so awful if
if it had happened. " And I shuddered again
at the mere idea.

*' One can always jest about the unknown,"
said Daryl Darkwood. And then he went on to
break to me what it was that the Stonyhampton

gossips and the people at Garlands-on-the-Moor
could tell about me — concerning me, Flower
Greedy, as I was called ; though, being so friendless,
so completely alone, I myself had never
heard the story.

I had, so it now appeared, quite sixteen years
or more before, by my Uncle Simon been brought
home to Moor Edge, to his lone house upon the
moor, which then, as now, was kept for him by
his sister Hannah.

Taking, as usual, the black bag with him, he
had one day set out upon one of his mysterious
journeys — Londoners, it was then thought ;
and after an absence of nearly a week he had
reappeared at Moor Edge, on this occasion
accompanied by a little child — a pretty little
toddling dark-haired mite of almost three years,
who, he gave out, was the orphan daughter of a
brother lately dead.

Nobody, however, at the time or since, had
believed the statement ; for in the neighbourhood
it was tolerably well known to be a fact
that Simon Greedy had no near relatives aboveground
save his scraggy sister Hannah, who
lived with him at Moor Edge.

I was that little child, who had been brought
so quietly no one knew whence, and reared in

loneliness and the vigorous moorland air as the
niece of Simon Greedy.

Hence, I suppose, the disagreeable curiosity
my appearance never failed to excite whenever
I had accompanied Aunt Hannah into Stonyhampton.


For was not I a creature of mystery ? And
was not Moor Edge, where I lived, a house as it
were under a ban ?

More than this, indeed, that day Daryl Dark-wood
revealed to me ; but I now cannot recollect
what were his exact words, being at the time so
bewildered, so unhappy, and yet withal so happy
too. Verily, as some people say, my brain on
that day " was in a whirl."

There was one thing my lover impressed
vehemently upon me — forced me to comprehend
and that was the wisdom of getting our flight
well managed and over before Simon Greedy
should return to Moor Edge.

'there will then be nothing unpleasant for
anybody," said Daryl with energy; 'rand it is
quite as well perhaps that I and the old russian
should not meet."

Do you think — do you think it is likely that
he will pursue us when he discovers that I am
gone?" I suggested timidly, "like — like Pharaoh

after the Israelites, and try to take me away from
you ? Oh, Daryl, that would be dreadful ! "

"Not he, Flower. If we could be here, ourselves
unseen, when the blow falls, we should
see that he will accept the situation without a
murmur. I would wager anything I possess
that no one knows better than himself that he —
Simon Greedy — has no earthly right, no possible
claim to you, my darling."

A feeling of intense remorse seemed all at once
to overpower me.

Oh, Daryl," I once more cried, and once
more bursting into tears, 'she has been so good
to me — so kind, so good in every way as far ashe
could ! It seems such — such terrible ingratitude
to — to — Oh, surely you can tell me
something more, enlighten me further," I cried
piteously — " can tell me why it is wrong for me
to — to care for him ; I — I mean, what great
wickedness he has committed ; in what way is
his life so bad that I should shrink from him,
leave him without a word, after all — after all — "

What," interrupted my lover, with a sort of
masterful tenderness in his low and clear voice,
*' has it then come to this ? Oh, Flower, I am
disappointed in you ! You hesitate to believe in
me — hesitate to trust me — hesitate when I have

told you the plain truth : that Moor Edge is nota
fit home for you ; that the man whom you
have learnt to call ' Uncle Simon ' is no proper
guardian for you — a young, sweet, and innocent
girl like you, Flower ! I thought you were
brave — not a coward, dear," he said with gentle
reproach. '' I thought you understood that a
crisis in your life has arrived, and that the time
is now at hand when you must choose between
Simon Greedy and me ! "

Kind Heaven, help me, guide me in my innocence
and ignorance ! No need to say —
being a foolish woman in the ecstasy of a first
love — that I chose and blindly clung to Daryl
Darkwood.

HEN we — Daryl Darkwood and I —
parted on that morning, our plans
for the immediate future were mapped
out and settled. What had to be done must
be done promptly, he reiterated ; there was no
time to be lost.

Yet I did not altogether comprehend why
there should be so much haste in the matter ;
Uncle Simon — as I still could not help calling
him in my own thoughts, if not aloud — would
not return to Moor Edge for several days to
come ; and then — and then was not it most
pleasant and delightful, this being made love
to out of doors upon the moor, with the warm
sun and blue sky overhead, the sweet wild
northern breeze all around us, and the mossy
turf and the heather as a carpet for our feet ?

It was a time, halcyon and all too fleeting,
that I instinctively knew never would, never

could come again. Why then be in such
haste to cut it short ? However, my lover,
I supposed, knew best ; and my whole love
and trust were now given to him.

So, like one moving in a dream, I went back
to the solitary house which for so long had
been my home, but which thenceforward was
to be my home never more !

Daryl had been both careful and patient
in making me understand all that I was todo.
I was to keep a brave heart, he said,
and to forget nothing that he had told me to
remember.

For himself, he hastened home to .
He had, of course, a good deal
to do — much to see to and arrange with regard
to our flight, which was to take place even so
early as at dawn on the following day. We
should not meet again until then.

He had to settle in a pecuniary way with
the people at Garlands, and naturally to pay
them as much as they should in reason demand
of him in consideration of his so hurriedly
quitting the farm-house, after leading its inmates
to expect that he would remain there
as their lodger for the whole of the present
summer.

Then there were his things to pack ; I mean
not only his clothes, but his easels, his pictures,
his paint-boxes, and the many other chattels
appertaining to his delightful calling.

This done, he would drive with his luggage
to Stonyhampton, and thence take the train
to North minster ; where he would make all
needful preparations for our marriage on the
next day. In that sleepy ancient city, Daryl
said, we could be married before a registrar ;
for at Northminster neither of us was known ;
whereas, if the ceremony were performed at
the registrar's office in Stonyhampton, the
proceeding might create much impertinent
curiosity — which, of course, in a case like ours,
was better avoided.

Northminster was no very great distance
from our market-town — scarcely fifteen miles, I
fancy.

At daybreak, Mr. Darkwood would contrive
to be at my window, and I must be ready ; for
waiting for us upon the moor behind the outbuildings
there would be a vehicle of some
kind, in which we could at once drive off. I
was to take nothing with me from Moor Edge
beyond those things which were absolutely
necessary — as the garments, for instance, in

which I stood upright ; because all that I
possessed in the world had been bought with
Simon Creedyy's money ; and that, declared
Daryl Dark wood proudly, was accursed money.
Aught that I might want he himself would buy
for me, either in Northminster or in London ;
or even, should I prefer it, in Paris — for to
Paris were we going after spending a few days
in the English capital. So no wonder my
brain " whirled," and I barely knew whether
I was dreaming or awake !

All the same, I had pleaded for my books —
the few books I loved as I had loved my faithful
little cur. I had had so little to love ! Must I
lose them too ? Must they also go, those wise
and silent companions ? Must every vestige of
the old tranquil and lonely life, then, be made to
disappear ? Yes, it seemed so ; for, although
Daryl had answered me in a playful and smiling
manner, there was yet in that agreeable manner
of his something more than a spice of unyielding
masterfulness. Young and inexperienced as I
was, knowing nought of men and their ways,
that gleam of tyranny, faint as it was, in the
nature of Daryl Dark wood, was at any rate not
lost upon my perception.

**No, Periwinkle," he said. "Did not Simon

Creedyy likewise buy the books ? Leave them
behind with the rest ; besides, they'll be in the
way. I repeat, what you want in the future
your husband himself will see that you do not
lack. You are mine ; you belong to me now ;
you must look to me for everything."

What could I do but yield to him entirely ?
He knew best.

Notwithstanding, when we said good-bye, I
had whispered, as he held me to his heart, with
my arms lying round his neck, —

"And — and after we are married — will you
not, Daryl ? — you will try to find out who I —
who I really am — who, what she is that you
have made your wife ? You will not let me forever
live — live as it were under a cloud ? For
your own sake — for mine — you will do this,.
Maryland

with passionate assurances of his unchanging
love, he promised me that he would.

We will tackle Simon Creedyy himself," said
Daryl, lightly and fondly, " after the honeymoon
shall we % The secret, we may be sure, lie
with him."

And so, like a woman moving in a dream, I
say, I went slowly back to Moor Edge. Dinner
I found was ready and waiting ; with Aunt

Hannah, because I was ten minutes or so late,
"as cross" — in her own phraseology— "as two
sticks."

I looked at her dreamily, curiously wonderingly
; and it was really a marvel that I did not
utter my thoughts aloud ! And so, I was insensibly
thinking, this lean angular woman, with
the sharp colourless face — colourless save for the
frost-bitten nose-tip — and nervous shifting eyes,
with the dirty pink wrapper and skimp frill-less
go^\Ti, was not my aunt after all ! How odd —
how very queer, to be sure ! Did she as well asher
brother know the true history of my birth,
my parentage? And how much, I wondered,
could she reveal if she chose ?

Ah, well, as my lover said, I must have
patience ! Every instant I thought, as I had
thought at breakfast, that she would make some
remark or other either on my appearance or on
my behaviour ; for I somehow felt that I could
not possibly be looking and acting as I had
hitherto been accustomed to look and to act,
now that so delicious and so solemn a secret was
locked away within my own breast. Indeed, I
trembled every instant lest by some sudden unguarded
word or action I should betray myself,
should lay bare my precious secret before

those small and shifting eyes of my Aunt
Hannah.

But, with extraordinarily good appetite for
her, she was eating her boiled pork and peas — a
by no means unfamiliar dinner with us at Moor
Edge in the summer-time — and looked up by-and-by
to observe peevishly, —

You don't eat a morsel, Flower. Ain't you
hungry ? "

Therefore with an effort I roused myself, and
made a pretence of eating a little, though in
reality to-day I had not the smallest appetite
for the homely fare upon our table. It was the
last dinner which I should ever sit down to
beneath that roof; yet, all the same, I could
swallow no particle of it. Somehow it seemed
to me then that I should never be hungry
again !

Within the shadow of the cob-nut trees which
grew upon the south side of the garden, where
merely the low and rather broken stone wall
divided the garden itself from the wide purple
moorland, I buried Jack Sprat — my small dumb
mongrel friend with the faithful brown eyes.

Need I say that it was a most sorrowful task ;
and that my tears fell fast upon the little grave ?

However, it was clone at last ; and I suddenly
lifted my head to see standing there, on the
other side of the low stone wall, a youthful intruder
who was intently regarding me. He was
a poorly-clad lad with a hungry look ; and in a
moment I perceived that he was no moorland-bred
hoy — plainly a pallid urchin from the back-streets
of Stonyhampton.

"What are you doing here?" I demanded
rather sharply.

If you are the young lady, miss, as lives at
Moor Edge, I was to give you this," said he.
And from a pocket in his tattered jacket he
drew out a large square envelope with something
painted on it. It could, I of course knew, come
from no one but Daryl Darkwood ; and I immediately
leant with outstretched hand over the
broken wall, eager to possess the missive, whatever
it might be.

*'I met the gentleman on his way to the
station, miss," explained the boy ; ** and he said
I was to be sure and wait about the place till I
see you."

I had a sixpence and a few halfpence in my
pocket, all of which I joyfully bestowed upon the
messenger — he should have had more, three
times as much, had I had more with me at the

time to give ; and then I bade him hurry away
in order that I might be alone — alone with my
wonderful luck. The pallid waif scampered off
well pleased, doubtless not having reckoned upon
being paid at both ends of the journey.

Once more by myself, and with no one to
watch me, in a flutter of joy that was almost pain
I prepared to read what I thought was to be my
first love-letter.

There was no address upon the large square
envelope — only the word " Periwinkle," in fanciful
letters of pale-blue and olive-green, painted
across it from a top corner to a bottom one.
With eager, trembling fingers, yet with a touch
of reverent care, I broke the seal and peeped in
at my treasure. But there was no love-letter !
What then could it be ?

Ah, something as sweet, if not sweeter, for it
was Daryl himself — his photograph ! There were
the handsome faultless pale features ; the heavy
swart moustache as in life hiding a perfect
mouth ; the wide white forehead and dark wavy
hair ; and Daryl's own wondrous beautiful dark
eyes gazing gravely, yet smiling a little, upward
into mine ! It was a marvellous, a most eloquent
likeness, and I kissed it a hundred times.

With the photograph there had come a clever

VOL. I. I

little sketch, done, even my untutored eye could
perceive, upon rough drawing-paper and in great
haste — the hurried sketch of a girl in a washed-out
blue-muslin gown, with blue ribbons knotted
loosely about her throat and hat ; and with long
sprays of the periwinkle plant adorning, in dusky
fantastic fashion, her person as well. The girl's
hair was soft and sombre as the purple black wing
of a young raven ; her heavily-lashed eyes, looking
straight at one with a questioning serious air,
were as clear and as blue as the periwinkle flower
itself. Perhaps the face in contour was a trifle
thin ; the lips in expression a little sad ; notwithstanding
— being by nature neither stupid
nor blind — I knew it was a lovely and no idealised
portrait ; the genuinely healthful hue of the
fair young face being unquestionably the greatest
charm to be found in it. " Oh, Daryl," was the
silent glad cry in my heart, — *' how you must
love me, my darling, my darling, from memory
to paint me so faithfully ; in absence to remember
me so well ! "

And, yes ! on another scrap of paper there was
a line or so of writing too. After all, then, it
was really and truly a love letter !

The written words, however, which my eyes
devoured were merely —

"Beloved, farewell until dawn tomorrow. I
send the enclosed to you, my lovely Flower, so
that you may know that you are not forgotten by,
but are ever present in the tenderest thoughts of,
your own Daryl Darkwood."

With these dear words and the photograph
pressed to my lips, mutely I raised my eyes to
the high summer sky, and thanked Heaven thus
for so brave a lover.

all my favourite haunts I had said
good-bye ; nor did I forget the pigs,
the poultry, Daffodil and Daisy ; nor
the deaf and aged Sally upon the kitchen
hearth. Also had I paid my last visit to, wept
my last tears over, my little dog's grave under
the nut boughs in the garden. Yes, to all
then around me I had whispered that simple yet
often heart-breaking word " Good-bye." Goodbye
for a brief while only is sometimes bad and
sad enough in all conscience ; but when it comes
to good-bye for evermore — for evermore upon
this side of Eternity — then it is a wrench indeed !
At least do I know that it is so if one's poor
human heart has taken, as it were, root in
the soil where the inevitable farewell must be
said.

There was only Aunt Hannah now ; and, as

for Uncle Simon — But I must not — I dared
not think of him.

And so, when bed-time came, hardly knowing
what I was about to do or say, I fell
upon Aunt Hannah's bony shoulder and hid
my face in the grimy pink wrapper. So,
clinging to her, I sobbed out my farewell.
Aloud, in tones husky and choked, it was
*' Good-night ; " under my breath it was '' goodly
! "

She was evidently very much astonished at
this unwonted display of emotion on my part ;
and, I have no doubt, vividly enough afterwards
the circumstance recurred to her.

'why, bless me. Flower, child," said she,
more kindly than she generally spoke, " what's
the matter with you ? You don't feel nervous, I
hope — stumpy, or — or anything like that, do
you ? " added Aunt Hannah anxiously.

No, no, no. I aui weak and silly — nothing
more," I stammered, quickly drying my eyes.
*' You see, 1 — I — I cannot help thinking of poor
Jack. I shall miss him so — so terribly ; and —
and — "

Oh, that's it, is it ? " said Aunt Hannah
in a relieved tone. " Well, it is silly to cry
about it, Flower ; though I must confess that

it made me feel a bit shaky myself this morning
when I saw him stretched out there on
the straw in his tub ; and — and I do trust
his death, being — being poisoned and all —
don't mean misfortune of any kind," said she,
shivering and looking scared.

Unable to bear more or to say more just then,
I slipped from Aunt Hannah's stiff and queer but
kindly-meant embrace ; fled to my own room,
locked the door ; and there in a passion of weeping
flung myself upon the bed. Yet all the
while I was conscious that I was, in spite of
everything, deliriously happy ; for Daryl Dark-wood's
picture — his own likeness — was lying
next my heart.

From sheer exhaustion, and worn out with
excitement, I must, I suppose, all dressed as I
was, have quickly fallen asleep, and slept, too,
soundly. And as the night wore on I dreamed
a frightful dream.

I thought that without warning Uncle Simon
had returned to Moor Edge, looking stern and
menacing, and altogether unlike the benign old
man I knew, to accuse me the moment we met
of base ingratitude and lack of natural feeling.
He seemed to be aware that I was flying from

Moor Edge and from the vao-ue horror which
brooded over the lonely house ; because he said,
whilst his face grew wan with anger and a steel-like
glitter crept into his eyes, that my conduct
was unpardonable and more cruel than '' a
serpent's tooth." He dropped his hands upon
my shoulders ; and his wiry grip was like the
clutch of a skeleton. Dumb with despair and
fright, I sank at his feet ; and I noticed then
that he had the black bag with him.

He caught it up as if struck by a swift idea ;
and something in his pale evil look made me
gasp out, —

Are you going to kill me ? "

And he answered quite quietly, —

"' Yes — living, you never shall leave Moor
Edge ; never shall take the secret with you.
One day, some day — who knows? — it may be
my fortune. So I will stifle the life out of you
with my black bag."

And in the next instant he was kneeling
upon my chest, holding me down thus, with
the black bag pressed heavily over my mouth
and nostrils. The horrid thing had a loathsome,
deathlike smell ; and frantically I struggled
to thrust it from my face. Vain ; the agony
of a violent end was stealing over me ; the voice

of my Uncle Simon was humming in my ears.
'flower," it said — 'good-bye, Flower! I will
bury you in the attic with the others
at least there will be ghosts ever present to
bear you company such ghosts, dear !
And then you can haunt the attic too. Flower
poor Flower — to die so early ! . . . .
Flower ! "

"With a great and painful start I awoke. The
rose-gray light of dawn was in my room ; someone
without my window was softly calling,
'* Flower — Flower ! " and the thong of a whip
was smiting my window-sill.

Up I sprang ; pushed back my tumbled hair;
and ran — my ugly dream in a trice forgotten —
to the open casement.

Yes, it was new morning — young, lovely
day ; and the dawn had restored to me my
lover. I leant out into the sweet chill air,
stretching both hands towards him. He grasped
them and kissed them in gallant greeting.

**Ah, that is right!" he said gaily. "I see
you are up and dressed, and so we can start without
the least delay. It is now about a quarter to
four. I meant to have been even earlier, my
darling, but could not altogether manage it. It
has been rather a rush as it is."

But I told him that I had not really been to
bed ; I had merely lain down with my clothes
on ; and in that fashion had fallen asleep unexpectedly.
And then shyly I began to thank
him for his gift of yesterday — the photograph,
the sketch, and the dear note. But he struck
in somewhat impatiently, —

We'll talk about that going along, dearest.
Time's short — our breakfast is waiting at
Northminister. The old hag " — that was Aunt
Hannah — "may wake up directly, you know;
and then — and then. Flower, there'll be a
scene — a deuce of a row, perhaps ; and we
don't want that. Let us look sharp and begone
! "

I will be ready in ten minutes, Daryl," I
promised quickly.

Ten minutes ! " echoed he, frowning.
*' Why, what have you to do ? "

I must make myself tidy and nice," I
answered timidly. "I — I feel rather confused
and bewildered at present, to tell the truth,
but plenty of cold water will soon wake me
up."

" Well, that won't take long. Periwinkle,"
he said. " Do be quick about it, dear ; for I
am getting hungry — fearfully hungry."

"And I must say my prayers too, Daryl,"
I finished gently.

He laughed. At any other time — a time
that offered opportunity for, that invited calm
and dispassionate reflection — the laugh would
have jarred upon me, hurt me. It is ever a
bad sign when a man laughs at religion.
However, as it was, in the novelty and excitement
of that fateful hour, his light regard
of what was to me so solemn and so true a
thing passed almost unnoticed.

I'll give you ten minutes for everything,"
he said blithely. "And, Flower," he added,
in a graver tone, " recollect what I have
told you. Bring nothing away with you
from this house, mind you, beyond the few
things which are absolutely indispensable.
All deficiencies shall be made good by-and-by."



I earnestly assured him that no wish he
had expressed in the matter had been forgotten
by me. His wishes were commands,
I told him, and should be obeyed to the
letter.

'the chaise," said my lover, "is on the
moor ; just round the corner of that shed
yonder. I'll go and see whether the horse is

all right — what a pickle we should be in if he
were to bolt ! — and will return here when the
time is up."

Daryl lit a cigar ; strolled off on his errand ;
and I withdrew from the window.

When the ten minutes were flown I was
ready. I had put on the best summer clothes
I possessed ; my sole luggage being an
antiquated sunshade — a faded mauve silk one
with a handle that doubled up and a deep
fringe — and a small hand-bag. I had taken
a last tender lingering look at my little
bookcase, the wise silent occupants of which,
I understood in after years, had been my
truest friends and companions at Moor Edge.
I had knelt by the side of my small white
rumpled bed, and in brief hurried prayer
had passionately asked Heaven's blessing upon
the step I was about to take — the new
life I was about to enter upon, my new
strange unknown life as Daryl Darkwood's
wife.

And then — and then, looking slowly round
the narrow familiar room, every homely bit of
furniture in which I can see before me now
as distinctly as if long and bitter years of
suffering could not by me be counted between

*' the dim yesterday and the bright to-day,"
I realised that there was indeed nothing more
to be done.

I was ready.

Again I went to the window. Daryl with
outstretched arms was waiting there.

Come," said he.

By this way— like this ? " I faltered.

"Yes. It is the simplest and the safest," he
replied. 'hand me down the bag and the

parasol ; then take my hands firmly — and jump.
I will catch you, never fear ! "

'' One moment, Daryl," I pleaded, holding
back. "Do not — do not be angry; but —
but I should like, if I may, to leave behind
me some message, a written message — justa
word or two — for Uncle Si — for — for —
Oh, you know what I mean ! " I broke off
tremulously.

Daryl Darkwood struck the ground with his
foot,

What folly ! " he exclaimed. " Why,
Flower—"

Please, oh, please let me ! " I whispered.
It won't take long."

Making no further objection on the point,
he hastily tore a leaf from a sketch-book he

carried in his pocket, and scribbled upon
it,—

Simon Ceeedy, — I know everything ; and
to-day I have left Moor Edge for ever. I
have found one who truly loves me, and
whom I dearly love. His home, not yours,
henceforth will be mine.

'' Flower Darkwood."

There," said my lover coolly — " stick that,
dear, upon your pincushion. It will make the
old man sit up."

*' It looks too — too cold and unfeeling —
so cruelly brusque ! " said I very wistfully ;
with fast dimming eyes reading what Daryl
Dark wood had written. " And — and, besides, I
do not know everything. It is not the
truth—"

"Oh, hang it — oh, that's nonsense, dear, I
mean ! Surely you know enough, at any rate,
for the present.

And — and there's the signature. Oh,
Daryl !"

It's all right, my dear little girl. By the
time the old ruffian comes home and reads that,
why, you will of course be ' Flower Darkwood '
in fact, a quite old married woman ! "

Ah, well, I had been called upon to choose
between the two men, and I had elected to trust
to Daryl Darkwood ! Him had I chosen before
all other men ; thenceforward I must do his
bidding — obey him — he was my master. His
wishes, his will, now and for ever after, must be
mine.

With my head turned aside, so that my
sad eyes should not witness the deed my
trembling hands must so unwillingly perform,
I pinned upon the cushion on my dressing-table
those cold lines of eternal farewell. Oh,
Uncle Simon — oh. Uncle Simon — good-bye —
good-bye !

A few seconds later, with a poor forced
smile, I assured my lover that I was ready —
yes, really ready at last. I climbed on to
the window-ledge ; put my hands into his ; and
then, gazing trustfully down into his dark
tender eyes, I sprang fearlessly earthward,
to be safely caught within his strong and
sheltering arms.

The chaise that was waiting for us upon the
breezy moor was a somewhat dilapidated-looking
vehicle, I thought. It was the best he could
get in the neighbourhood, Daryl gaily said ;
and the animal attached to it — with no

thoughts, I am sure, of bolting — was tranquilly
cropping the sweet and dewy herbage.
The sun was waxing stronger ; the larks were
singing out of sight; upon the far uplands
the heather took faint crimson and purple
hues when viewed though the vanishing morning
mists.

I was seated by Daryl Darkwood's side. I
was now very silent. I dared not look back at
the house I had forsaken. He gathered up the
reins ; gave the horse a sharp sting with the
whip ; we were off. " Ah," cried Daryl, suddenly
stooping and taking from beneath the seat of the
musty old chaise a handful of lovely real orange-flowers
— '' I ought to have remembered these
before ! See, sweetheart — fasten them at your
throat ! I wonder whether they are as becoming
as periwinkles ? "

For a moment, in a dazed unseeing way, I
stared at the exquisite blossoms. For a moment
I utterly failed to realise their tender and deep
significance ; because I believe that their rare,
unearthly fragrance had turned me somewhat
giddy and sick.

Daryl put the flowers on my lap, and passed
his arm round my waist. Fondly he drew
me to his side, and bent his dark head to

Periwinkle.

mine. I clung to him helplessly — he was my
all now !

What ! — is it possible that you have forgotten,
my dearest," whispered he, " that this is
our wedding-day ? "

DARYL Kirkwood's WIFE.

He will hold thee, when his passion shall have spent

its novel force,
Something better than his dog, a little dearer than

his horse." — Tennyson.

0, what may man within him hide,
Though angel on the outward side ! "

Shakespeare.

"Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to
be understood"— ^a^p/i' Waldo Emerson.

VOL. I. ^

IFE is real — life is bitter; but life
after all is — or so it should be — only
a pilgrimage to higher things. So
the sooner it be over the better.

Some such sad reflection as this was passing,
dimly and unuttered, through my tired brain, as
I sat by the open window of an up-stairs sitting-room
in a not-too-cheerful lodging-house which
stood in the neighbourhood of Shepherd's Bush,
with Hammersmith not far off.

It was evening. Twilight was deepening into
darkness. The sultry night promised to be
even sultrier than the midsummer day had been.
In this stuffy and third-rate suburban locality,
where cheap villas and gaudy shops abounded,
and where the near rumble of tram-car and omnibus
seemed to make the windless air grow yet
more unendurable close, the mere thought of the

real sweet fresh green country at eventide came
to one's lono-ino^ soul like a dream of Paradise.

The furniture of that up-stairs " drawing-room
" was both shabby and of a by-gone date ;
but the limp muslin curtains about the window
were tolerably clean, and that was something to
be grateful for. Flies, however, had made the
chandelier a favourite abiding place ; green and
yellow tissue-paper, fantastically cut diamond-wise,
draped the gilt frame of the mirror upon
the mantelpiece.

I was not alone in the room. Dozing upon
the hard sofa — which, notwithstanding its inflexibility,
was rich in gay antimacassars of all
kinds — lay my little daughter, aged four years
and some months ; a delicate, patient little soul,
and " the image of her mother," strangers were
wont to say. I nevertheless could not discern
the likeness. To my eyes the little one was like
her father ; and sometimes, when my sad heart
was unusually low and sore, I grieved bitterly
that this should be so.

The sitting-room door opened softly ; and with
a start I looked round. The landlady of the
house had entered the room ; but she halted in
the dusk near the doorway.

What, sitting all alone in the gloaming', Mrs.

Darkwood?" said the landlady. "Dear, dear,
'm, that is lonesome like, isn't it ? Let me light
the gas."

Hush — no ! " I answered, in a rapid undertone.
" I prefer the twilight, thank you. Do
not make a noise, Mrs. Eamage. Isla, I fancy,
is asleep."

Pretty duck !" breathed Mrs. Eamage, clasping
her hands and looking affectionately towards
the sofa. " Is she better to-night, mem, do you
think ? "

I — I do not know. I hope so," I replied

'' You ought to have a doctor to her, you
really ought, Mrs. Darkw^ood," whispered the
landlady sympathetically — " The pretty angel !
I don't like to say it, but — but she really seems
fading away. Eory says the same ; and a
doctor, you know, mem, if you had him in time,
would safe to be able to set matters straight a
bit. It seems such a pity, when there's Doctor
Morrison only just round the corner in the
Tregonda Eoad ; and — and," ventured Mrs.
Eamage as delicately as her kind heart could
prompt her, and waxing bold perhaps in the
friendly gloom, " he isn't a dear doctor, not by
any means, Mrs. Darkwood. I do assure you he
isn't — only three-and-sixpence a visit, which of

course, though, don't include the medicine ; that
you get afterwards at the chemist's. He did
Miss de Yere — my Eory, you know — a lot of
good when some time back she was laid up with
a nasty sore throat. Indeed, I do verily believe
that if it hadn't ha' been for Doctor Morrison
she would have lost her engagement at the
theatre. And, as I said before, Mrs. Darkwood,
his fee is only three-and-sixpence ; and not so
much as that if you go to his house."

My hands were twisted fiercely together in
my lap ; the nails of one pierced the flesh of the
other. I interrupted the landlady, speaking
with difficulty.

You are extremely kind and thoughtful,
Mrs. Eamage. I — I will tell Mr. Darkwood
what you say."

"Eeally I think it would be as well, mem,"
said Mrs. Eamage earnestly. " And shall I lay
the supper cloth, Mrs. Darkwood, now ? Will
the Captain be in to supper ? "

You forget," I said, with impatience, "what
I told you the other day. My husband is not
Captain.' He has nothing whatever to do
with the Army. He is simply ' Mr. Darkwood,'
and I shall be glad if you will call him so.
It grates upon my ear, Mrs. Eamage, to hear

you say * Captain when the title is so utterly
wrong'

"Well, I'm sure I beg your pardon, mem,"
simpered the landlady good-temperedly ; '* but
it will slip out sometimes, and I can't help it.
You see, it's all Tory's fault. She says that
Mr. Darkwood is the handsomest and the 
gentleman as she has ever set
eyes on, either in the Park or at the Levity,
or anywhere else for the matter o' that ; that
he has got the true military cut ; and that if
he ain't a captain, why, he ought to be one,
Eory says ; and so you must forgive — "

"Is Miss de Vere gone yet?" I inquired
gently, desirous to turn the drift of the talk.

Oh, yes, Mrs. Darkwood ! "What— didn't
you see her run out to ketch the omnibus ? "
cried the mother of Miss de Vere proudly,
her voice going upward. " Why, it's close on
nine o'clock, and her turn comes on at — "
- " Oh, hush, please ! " I entreated, with a swift
glance towards the sofa. " If she is asleep, I
would not for anything have her disturbed."

Pretty darling," breathed Mrs. Eamage
obediently, also again glancing at the sofa —
pretty innocent dear ! As I was saying,"
she continued in the smallest of whispers, " it

is close upon nine o'clock ; and Eory, during
this week, is due at the theatre at 9*15. She
has a new song for this evening called ^ Would
you believe it ? ' and Eory says that the whole
orchestra, and indeed everybody at the theatre,
vows that the chorus is the most fetching one
that the Levity has heard for a long while past.
I told her, if the omnibus was late or crowded or
anything, she'd better take an 'anson ; for she
had got on her silver-gray satin and her lovely
new purple-velvet ' princess ; ' and I wouldn't
have her spile 'em in a crowded old omnibus for
the world ! The proprietor and manager, Mr.
Binkworthy, has a supper on to-night ; and
of course Eory was invited. He said the party
wouldn't be complete without Miss Aurora de
Yere ; and, if ' Would you believe it ? ' proves
the big success that Mr. Binkworthy and all of
'em think it will, why, next week Eory will
have her name upon the bills in large red
letters a foot long, instead of in small blue or
black ones as she has had it up till now. And
her salary will be raised, Mr. Binkworthy
says — something considerable — and that, mem,
will be better than all ! "

"Well, you need not trouble to spread the
cloth unless Mr. Dark wood should come in

and want anything," I said wearily. 'rand
if he should I will ring, Mrs. Eamage. I want
nothing myself, thank you."

Not even the gas ? " said Mrs. Eamage,
reluctant to go.

'' Not yet. It is cooler in the dark," I
answered quietly.

And the Captain — Oh, excuse me, 'm —
I forgot again ! Mr. Darkwood, then, you
think, won't be in just yet ? "

I cannot tell. As I said, Mrs. Eamage, if
he comes in and wants anything, I will ring."

The landlady, feeling herself dismissed, backed
towards the door ; and having sidled out and
gained the landing, she closed the door as cautiously
as she had opened it a few minutes before.

Alone, I rose ghost-like from my chair and
crept over to the shadowy antimacassar-strewed
sofa to reassure myself that the little one had
not been aroused. No ; the child had fallen into
a- sound sleep — was breathing regularly, the
small pale face pillowed upon a tiny arm. Fearful
even of kissing my darling, I bent over the
sofa-head and murmured passionately, —

Heaven help and have pity on us both, my
treasure, my own ! What shall we do — what
shall we do ! "

Then, in a kind of dumb despair, pressing my
forehead downward into my hot palms, I moved
slowly back to my seat by the window ; there to
think — once more to try to think dispassionately
what could be done for the best. Alas, in dire
straits, ** the best" is always so hard to discover
! It was a problem worse than a nightmare
; and with every day that came and went
it seemed to grow more terrific. To-night I
felt too weak to wrestle with the spectre — the
future was my spectre. Try how I would, in
my present state of mind, I could bring no concentrated
thought to bear upon the torturing
question. Weeks of weary brooding upon the
inevitable, sleepless nights passed in contemplation
of the chaos ahead, had, I believed, rendered
my brain apathetic, when, for my own good and
for the good of others, it should have been keen
and alert.

And so my thoughts — as they so often did
when I, in an utter heart-sickness which was
nothing approaching resignation, sat down to
tussle with the riddle of my destiny — wandered,
without my will, back to the days that were
for ever dead. I was not the first woman, I
knew, nor should I be the last, who had made
a grievous blunder upon the threshold of her

womanhood. The wild freshness of life's morning
is the time of sowing ; and woe for the
guerdon of the sower if that sowing-time be
lightly regarded ! The harvest thereof will be a.
barren one, and in truth means blackest failure.

As I sat there so stilly and with bowed head,,
my little sick child sleeping upon the couch a few
yards away, my girlhood came back to me once
more. I was a girl again — a girl, innocent, careless,
and free — never dreaming that the day would
dawn which would see me Daryl Darkwood's wife.

How well did I remember my moorland life,,
and how far back in the unalterable past it all
now seemed — its health, its mystery, its simple
joys ; the glory of its lonely summer, the isolation
of its still lonelier winter ; my books, my
day-dreams, my faithful mongrel friend ; and
those two — the man and the woman — upon
whom for so long and so trustfully I had looked
as my sole kith and kin ! And then — and then
across my calm life-path had stepped Daryl Dark-wood,
bringing with him love, agony, mistrust,
terror, and a speedy severing of all that had
hitherto bound me to an existence which, before
his coming, had been enough. Yes, until he
came, I knew now that in my ignorance — which
verily was bliss — I had been satisfied !

But with him and his headlong passion all
was changed ; and the wild freshness of morning
had fled for ever. With knowledge, as in
the first Eden days, had come pain ; and eyes
that had been strange to the anguish of weeping
had grown familiar with the bitterness of
real tears. Life is indeed very real, very earnest
at least it is so to ninety-nine mortals out of
every hundred ! How vividly did I remember
my flight from Moor Edge ; our hasty marriage
before a registrar at Northminster ; our wondrous
honeymoon abroad, the brief delirium of which
joy-dream I cared not now to recall — for the
present was made up of sternest actualities, and
such contrasts are not kind.

The first year of my married life had not been
wholly unhappy ; and at the close of it my child
was born. Our little daughter Isla, as 1 have
already said, was at this date something more
than four years old ; and night and morning did
I thank Heaven that neither brother nor sister
had followed Isla. Far better so !

No ; that first year of my wedded life, which
had been spent in Paris, where Daryl Darkwood
had appeared to possess many friends, both men
and women, had not been wholly unhappy ;
though it had not taken me a whole year to find

out that in the man whom I had married there
were two Daryl Darkwoods — the one who, in a
brief and secret wooing, had won me at Moor
Edge : the other, the husband and no longer
a lover, who had already grown tired of me, and
who made no feint of showing that this was not
the truth.

In those early days of our life together I had,
too, made other strange discoveries, which had
at first filled me with acute dismay. But intime,
alas, one gets used to anything and to
everything — even to a bad husband ! The
man I had married was cursed with the vice
which is the parent vice of all the rest. He was
lazy. Being lazy, he was fond of pleasure, and
constantly seeking it ; oftentimes drank more
than was good for him ; and in his cups would
swear at me, his terrified wife, in language that
before my marriage had never assailed my ears.

I thought you were an artist — a painter,
Daryl ? " I said wonderingly to him one day,
perhaps some six months after that hurried ceremony
at Northminster.

** So I am," said he.

*' Why, then, do you never paint ? "

Oh, you don't understand 1 I am an
amateur ; and amateurs. Periwinkle, my dear,.

paint just when they please — that is, whenever
inspiration is the motive power," was his careless
reply, delivered with a yawn.

I ventured to ask him no more then ; but
pondered, not without misgiving, the ways of
amateur painters. They seemed, if Daryl himself
were a true specimen of the brotherhood, to
have plenty of money at their command.
Where did it come from ? I wondered every day,
but feared to put the question into plain words ;
and Daryl was not the man to notice timid hints.
He could be very deaf and very blind when he
chose.

I knew even now no more of him than I had
known on my wedding-day. His people were
all dead, he said carelessly, or he was dead to
them — which amounted to the same thing. If
anything, he was — as he had given out — a painter
by profession ; but he believed indeed that he
was getting sick of that ; though doubtless he
should take to painting again when once he got
back to England.

We had no fixed home, we Darkwoods — we
were wanderers upon the face of the earth. A
few months spent in one Continental town, a
few months passed in another, and so the years
went by — Daryl making friends, of a certain

sort, whithersoever we moved ; I seeking none.
From a shy, slender, a quite unformed girl I
had become a quiet, reserved, not to say a
proud woman ; looking, by reason of the
manner in which I carried myself, considerably
taller — so I was told — than I really was.
I had my child for companionship, for society,
and that was all ; for the men and the women
whose company was sought by Daryl, and who
seemed to find pleasure in his, were emphatically
not of a class of beings with whom I could in
any wise feel either at ease or at home. Instinctively
I shunned and disliked them ; yet I
could give no reason for my dislike. Isla, my
little daughter, was all the world to me now.

It would not infrequently happen that Daryl
would fly into a passion with me for declining
to make a friend of " Countess This," or
*' Mrs. That," and the husbands of them, who
were if possible more objectionable than the
women themselves ; and would tell me, Flower
Darkwood, that I was shy, unformed, foolish,
and that my curious bringing-up had made of
me something worse than a nun.

Naturally taunts, disputes of this nature
between us led to much misery in the way
of downright quarrelling. One night in Dresden,

Daryl had been drinking with some
American acquaintances of his in the town,
who he said were " painters." He came in
and reproached me for moping, for unsociability
— he was evidently in a bickering humour
and for the fiftieth time he told me that I
was shy and stupid ; enough, in fact, to drive
a man to the dogs.

There are limits to human forbearance ; and
unmerited reproach — to say nothing of undeserved
neglect — is at all times hard to
endure patiently.

If I was shy and stupid, Daryl," I said
bitterly, but as calmly as I was able, " why
why did you marry me ? "

Ah, why ? " answered he, with a disagreeable
sigh.

And, having married me," I continued,
with rising warmth, " why don't you redeem
your promise, Daryl ? When you made me
your wife, you said — "

If I had not been so confoundedly in
love with you, I never should have made you
my wife," grumbled he. " There was the
mischief of it ! "

You said, you faithfully promised me — you
cannot deny it — that — that you would do your

utmost to discover the true history of my
parentage in the days — in the days before I was
before I was taken to "

'confusion seize that stale old grievance!"
he said violently. "Am I never to hear the
last of it ? If you were wise, Flower, you would
be content to let it rest — it is an ugly past —
would be satisfied with what you are and what
you have in the present. Take my word for it,
there's no good to be "

Daryl, once for all, I do not mean to let it
rest. I am not satisfied. For my own sake,
for Isla's sake, I want to know — nay, I will
sooner or later know the truth ! You shall
have no peace until I know it."

He faced me savagely.

You make me speak out," he cried, " when,
God knows, I don't want to — to hurt your
feelings ! "

I was standing at the time ; but, turning
suddenly faint, I sat down.

'' My feelings, Daryl ! " I echoed unwisely.
''So it has only just occurred to you that I
am not unlike other women, after all ? "

Oh, curse you. Flower ! You make a
fellow's life a burthen to him with your
everlasting whining and discontent. I say
VOL. I. L

again, let the dead past alone — let sleeping dogs
lie. Depend upon it, if I had honestly thought
that there was anything respectable to find out
concerning your antecedents, I should have
cleared up the business long ago. But, take my
word for it, I say — there isn't. I understand it
all — it's all plain enough — now. I married
Flower Greedy ' before the registrar at North-minster
; and I did but marry my wife in her
real and lawful name, or what " — with a shrug
" was as good as such — that served as well.
Voila tout ! "

'then you believe now," I said huskily,
*that — that my uncle — I — I mean, that the
generous-hearted old man at Moor Edge was —
was in fact "

Exactly," interrupted Daryl, with a hiccough.
*' I believe that when years ago the old
scamp brought you home to Moor Edge, he had
simply, from some secret quarter or another,
claimed his own ; had seen fit to adopt — well, if
you will have jrt — his own child."

But the Stonyhampton people used to say
that I had been stolen, Daryl, or — or something
of the kind," cried I piteously. " Often I have
heard you say so yourself. Oh, you must
remember ! "

'' The Stonyhampton people be — Pshaw,"
broke off Daryl Darkwood roughly — "how
should the fools know ? Flower, I want some
brandy-and-seltzer. Get it, please ; look alive ;
and do, for Heaven's sake, cease this infernal
chatter about what can't be helped or mended."

I took no notice of his request ; but, white to
the lips, I rose to my feet and staggered over to
the armchair in which he lay sprawling, his
hands thrust down into his pockets, his long
legs stretched widely apart.

I'll get you nothing — I'll never obey you in
any one trivial thing again, until — until I have
heard the truth. You shall speak out to-night ;
if — if in so doing you should break my heart
should kill me outright," said I passionately.
"If I am the child of Simon Greedy, why then
was his house unfit to be my home ? What
were the horror and the mystery of Moor Edge,
and why did you terrify me into quitting its
roof ? Why "

*' I wanted you," he said sullenly. " I was
idiotically in love with you. A man will do
anything, dare anything, say or swear anything,
to get for his own the woman he loves. You
ought to know that by this time."

What a man — and what a noble love ! " I

said, with bitter scorn. He laughed disagreeably,
with lowered eyelids. "Daryl," cried
I, "I will know ! Do you hear ? You shall
tell me ! Who — what was — what is Simon
Greedy? Tell me, Daryl ! "

With an oath Daryl Darkwood sprang unsteadily
from his chair ; and, gripping me by
the shoulders, he forced me downward upon
my knees.

"Tell you? I will!" he shouted, still
gripping me and swaying above me, as I
glanced upward at him with quailing, affrighted
eyes. " He is "

He bent low over me ; dropped his voice ; and
hissed the hideous words into my ear. Yet I
heard them — heard them each one distinctly.
Shuddering, I looked back into my strange
past and saw it all once more as if by lurid
lightning-gleams ; and I believed that Daryl
Darkwood had then spoken only the truth —
that I had heard the grim truth at last ! No,
I never then for an instant doubted that I was
Simon Creedyy's child. . . . God help me !

I was not very vigorous in those days ; on
that night I was really faint and ill. With
merely a gasp for breath, a short heart-broken
sob, I sank unconscious at Daryl's feet. For

days afterwards I kept to my bed, stricken
down with a kind of melancholy and low
fever ; but time, one knows, is a marvellous
physician, and by-and-by I rallied and grew
strong: again. Nevertheless, had it not been
for my child — my little dark-haired Isla — I
should, I thought, have prayed that I might
die and be at rest for ever.

After that ever-to-be-remembered night in
Dresden, the past — the fateful past in which
we two had met — was never again mentioned
between Daryl Darkwood and me. For myself,
I could only ponder it with horror unspeakable
; though oftentimes the old life would
come back to me in my dreams.

And my mother — what of her ? I wondered
sometimes. Was she living or was she dead ;
and, if living, where ? Did Simon Creedyy
himself know? Perhaps yes — perhaps no.
And so — and so it was because of my birth
- — the shame of it — that he had in my
earliest years taught me to call him '* uncle."
The stain upon my life, he fancied, could be
hidden thus — hidden, but never rubbed out.
No wonder he had been so good, so generous,
always so kind and tender to me ! No wonder
I had cared for him in return ! Oh, Uncle

Simon, it was then but natural, say what one
might — And yet the keen pain, the amazing
gloom and horror of it all ! . . . .

Heigh-ho ! How bitter and crooked was life
how full of disappointment, of disenchantment,
and of rough awakenings from impossible
dreams !

When Isla's fourth birthday had gone by,
it became plain to me — horribly plain — that
money was growing scarce in our little family.
Daryl's means, whatever their source, were
upon the brink of exhaustion ; his luck at the
gaming-tables — and for some time past he had
played a good deal — seemed utterly to have
deserted him. His sketches, his paintings,
appeared to be of no value abroad ; no one,
in fact, seemed to care about or to understand
the very English-looking pictures that
Daryl drew and painted. With every passing
day he grew more morose and black-browed ;
and when things " went wry," and loomed in
the near future more hopeless than ever, he
drank brandy and swore horribly, frightening
little Isla out of her wits.

Left, as I had been, so much to myself, I
had turned my leisure and my loneliness to
solid account. Naturally fond of books, and

keenly alive to the pleasure derived from their
silent companionship, I had by diligent study
during the past few years acquired — for an
Englishwoman — a thorough mastery over the
French and German tongues. For study, for
hard mental work of any kind, I found that I
had a genuine aptitude. The acquiring of
languages came easy to me ; music too had not
been neglected.

In our more prosperous days, whilst staying
in Munich, Daryl had consented to my studying
under the first-rate guidance of the famous
Herr Bode ; and afterwards, with other clever
tutors elsewhere, I had accomplished wonders.
My progress indeed had astonished myself.

It had proved that I was gifted with a strong
and beautiful voice, deficient in no quality —
powerful in its passion, sweet in its pathos ; and
patient hard work and right cultivation had
brought with them their usual reward.
- Yes, in the old dead-antigone days I had
been a shy, light-hearted, an ignorant girl ;
but with hard schooling in a hard world I had
become a woman of many accomplishments —
reserved unquestionably, yet capable of intense
feeling — suffering much, perhaps, where others
would suffer not at all.

When we discovered that financial matters were
desperate — realised that something must beyond
all doubt be done to remedy them — we were in
Brussels, having lately arrived from Homburg.

Properly managed, the journey would not
cost so much, Daryl," I gently suggested. *let
us go to England ! "

"What, pray, to do there?" he muttered,
with a frown.

''I am certain that could teach French
and music," I said ; " and other things besides.
And you — you could, of course, sell your pictures
in London, Daryl."

Again he said something in a growling tone —
something to the effect that he was not, if he
knew it, going to have his wife slaving about the
London streets as a drudge of a daily governess.

A queer smile, I believe, passed over my
lips; although it was nothing fresh to me
to hear Daryl Darkwood take this lofty tone,
when all the while I knew that he cared nota
straw in so far as his wife's dignity or
inclination might be concerned.

After much grumbling and gloom on Daryl's
part, my suggestion was ultimately acted upon.
We came to London towards the end of May,
and found a cheap lodging in the Lambeth

district. But it soon became too evident to
my eyes that the child — delicate from her
birth — was sickening and growing frailer in
that low-lying locality near the river ; and I
therefore urged Daryl to quit Lambeth and
to move westward, where the air would be
lighter and purer.

After some difficulty, another lodging was
found in the vicinity of Shepherd's Bush —
*' Chesterfield Avenue " the place was called —
in the house of Mrs. Ramage and her daughter
Aurora ; and then Daryl emphatically refused to
move an inch farther out of town. From the
Tregonda Eoad, said he, we could, by the aid
of tram-car and omnibus, in a very short while
get to Kew or to Ealing Common ; and surely
those places were airy enough for anybody.

Could I have had my will, we should have
removed outright to some outlying breezy
suburb — this alone for the child's sake ; for it
seemed to me that Shepherd's Bush was in
reality but a poor improvement upon the
Lambeth neighbourhood. Certainly Isla at
present looked little better for the change.

We had now been three weeks in Mrs.
Ramage's house ; two weeks' rent had been
somehow or other paid ; one was owing.

What valuables in the way of trinkets I had
possessed had been quietly parted with before
we left the Lambeth lodging. Few as they
were, Daryl, I well knew, had missed them —
they were his own gifts to me ; I had no
others. But he said nothing ; nor would he,
I well knew too, say anything witt regard to
my jewels' disappearance. I sold my gold
chain one day for three pounds ; on the
following day Daryl had come to me and
had " borrowed " thirty shillings.

At the present time I had not a penny in the
world to call my own — it was the truth ; and
the little sick Isla was in need of many a luxury
that it was utterly out of my power to obtain
for her.

So far I had made no attempt whatever to
find pupils or employment of any sort ; for I
could not endure the thought of the child's being
left to the casual care and mercy of strangers —
though no two female hearts could well be more
thoroughly kind than were the hearts of Mrs.
Eamage and her daughter Aurora.

The latter was a rising " comedy artiste " at a
certain theatre of varieties situated somewhere
between Holborn and Soho, called the '* Levity,"
where she figured in the bills and programmes as

Miss Aurora de Vere ; the mother of Miss de
Vere having all her life, though in a humbler
capacity, been associated with theatres and
caves of harmony " both in town and in the
provinces."

Mrs. Damage's husband, when alive, had in turn
been a carpenter — stage-carpenter — a super in a
crowd, a limelight man, a waiter in theatre
refreshment-rooms, and he had also in his time
filled other useful posts in the same busy and
interesting sphere of action ; whilst Mrs. Ramage
herself had been a " scrubber-out " of green-rooms
and dressing-rooms ; a dresser to third-rate
actresses and singers ; also, like her husband, a
super in a crowd ; and once, years back, she had
*' gone on " with Aurora when a real live baby
in long clothes was wanted in a harrowing scene
at an East-end theatre where realism perhaps
ranked before art.

But when her husband died, and she was
no longer young herself, Mrs. Ramage took to
letting lodgings at Shepherd's Bush. She was
an active, a good-hearted, and an honest soul,
and she flatly refused to live in idleness upon
her daughter's comfortable earnings. If she
could get members of " the profession " to
take her drawing-room floor, why, so much the

better was Mrs. Ramage pleased ; they were
as a whiff of the old life she had known and
loved in her youth. If, however, lodgers of
this character were not forthcoming, she made
the best of those she could get in their stead.

Mrs. Ramage, indeed, was proud of her lodgers,
and never robbed them. Nevertheless, softhearted
as landladies of suburban lodging-houses
may occasionally prove, they do not like to
be kept unduly waiting for money honestly
their own. How, I wondered, as I sat therein
the summer night gloom by the open upstairs
window — my head still bowed on my
locked hands, my heart sick with despair —
how was Mrs. Ramage to be paid that week ;
and not only that week, but the next, and
the week following ? How was Doctor Morrison,
who lived " only just round the corner "
in the Tregonda Road, to be called in to
prescribe for Isla, when doctors want their
fees, no matter how reasonable those fees maybe
? Doctors, moreover, are chary of trusting
strangers — they, like other folk in this world,
must look after their own.

What was to be done ? "What must be
done for the best ?

I knew that Daryl had a little money with

him ; for a few days back lie had succeeded
iu selling; two or three water-colour drawings
to a dealer and frame-maker in the Strand.
But I did not know — he had not told me —
how much he had got for his pictures. AYhat
money he could obtain in this manner he
always wanted for himself. I hated — it was
agony to me — to be obliged to ask him fora
single shilling;.

Ah, if he would only work or try to
work harder ! The talent was his undoubtedly
the pluck, the application, the will, were
wanting. What, I wondered drearily, did
he do with his time, his money, when he
had any to spend? He was out nearly the
whole of the day. Whither did he go ? I,
his wife, knew no more than Mrs. Eamacre

o

downstairs.

My painful reverie was so deep, so self-absorbing,
that I failed to hear a latch-key
grate in the lock of the front-door, then a
Cjuick step upon the stairs, the sitting-room
door again open ; but not this time to admit
Mrs. Earn age.

The lamps — what few of them there were —
in Chesterfield Avenue were lighted ; the one
opposite No. 11 threw its wan light upward

upon my bowed head. A hand dropped
heavily upon my back. With a great start
and wild dazed eyes I looked up.

Why the deuce are you sitting in the
dark, Periwinkle ? " cried my husband boisterously.
He always called me " Periwinkle "
when he was in high good humour, and occasionally
when he was not. '' Are you asleep ? "

In an instant I was thoroughly awake.

'* No. Dreaming though, perhaps," I answered,
myself unconscious of the bitter weariness
in my voice.

Well, look here — Why on earth didn't
that old fool below light the gas ? It's a lot
past ten," he broke off, noisily proceeding to
draw down the chandelier and to search fora
box of matches that he carried in his .


I asked her not to. And, Daryl, please
make less noise if you can. Isla has fallen
asleep upon the sofa ; she is very poorly tonight."


He struck a match, and set the gas flaring
extravagantly. I perceived then that he had
been drinking ; though in a manner he was
now sober.

Pooh, Flower — you are full of fancies

about that child ! She's naturally a bit delicate
always was. With all your coddling, you only
make her worse — 'm sure of it ; and — and —
Why, she ought to have been in bed hours ago."

Do you want any supper, Daryl ? " I asked
quietly. I was aware that our larder just then
was furnished scantily enough.

"Presently. Look here, Flower — I was in
luck's way to-day. In Piccadilly I ran against
an old schoolfellow — sort of cousin or connection
o' mine, I suppose he is — and he lent me
ten pounds."

Lent you, Daryl ? "

Yes," he said roughly. " Why not ? "

A burning flush spread in my cheeks ; it
was a flush partly of shame — for I was very
certain that this friend, cousin, or schoolfellow
of Daryl's, whoever he was, would never again
see his ten pounds — partly of sudden joy. I
went quickly to my husband's side and laid
my hand upon his arm.

Daryl, give me a sovereign of it," I said.

What for, my dear ? " he hiccoughed.

I want to see Doctor Morrison about Isla.
His fee, Mrs. Eamage says, is only three-and-sixpence.
But — but of course, Daryl, there
would be the medicine as well."

*' Oh, hang it, Flower, if you arc going to
begin physicking the youngster with doctor's
stuff, you'll about do for her altogether — see
if you don't I " he remarked carelessly, going
somewhat unsteadily over to the bell-cord and
sharply pulling it. '' By-the-bye, I asked Leigh
Eversleigh to call — if he didn't mind coming out
to such an infernal hole as this. And he said
he would."

Is Leigh Eversleigh the old friend whom you
met to-day, Daryl ? " I inquired ; resolving
then and there that, should this Leigh Evers-
leigh ever really find his way out to Chesterfield
Avenue, I would thank him, let it cost
me what it might, for his generous and timely
*sloan."

Yes, he is. And if — and if," said Daryl,
"you do positively want the money, why,
here's a couple of sovereigns for you. Periwinkle.
The old woman downstairs must be paid, I
suppose ? "

I eagerly caught up the two gold pieces,
murmuring the while my feverish thanks, just
as the child upon the sofa stirred uneasily,
moaned a little, and then said plaintively, —

Mamma — mamma, are you here ? "

In a moment I was by the child's side ;

kneeling upon the floor by the couch and
caressing the little dark head.

I am here, Isla. And are you better, my
darling ? "

I am very tired, mamma, and so thirsty."
Are you, Isla ? And what would you like ? "
Some lemonade, mamma."
You shall have it directly, darling."
Tired — lemonade ! " cried Daryl, laughing
loudly. " You're a nice young woman, you are,
after going to sleep the whole evening long, to
wake up tired and want lemonade ! Bless my
heart alive, what next ? "

'' Papa, is it you ? Are you come home
then ? " said Isla listlessly. She was always
listless now ; the weather was so warm ; and
nothing apparently astonished or interested her.
"So it seems, don't it, Toddlekins \ " said
her father boisterously. " Come in ! " shouted
he, in answer to a tap at the sitting-room door ;
and Mrs. Damage, having heard the bell, accordingly
entered, bearing a supper-tray with everything
at once collected upon it that there was
to bring upstairs to her lodgers.

Ah, Captain, how are you this evening ? "
said Mrs. Eamage, simpering and wriggling in
her own characteristic fashion as she set down

VOL. I. M

her load upon the sideboard. Then the good
soul threw a deprecatory glance at the kneeling
figure by the couch. 'soh, mem — Mrs. Dark-wood,"
said she— ''I really beg pardon again;
do pray forgive me — it slipped out ! "

Daryl thanked Mrs. Eamage for her kind
inquiry, and told her that he was " first-rate "
how was she herself? In perfect 'earth,
Mrs. Eamage assured Daryl ; and then he went
on to talk to the landlady in a tone of
exaggerated politeness and banter which highly
diverted Mrs. Eamage. Her daughter. Miss de
Vere, would have called it " chaff". "

But I, kneeling there by the sofa, scarcely
heard them. I was anxious, broken-hearted,
full of unuttered fears. Ah, could it actually
be that I was indeed the Flower Greedy of the
old Moor Edge days ? Had I ever in reality
known a careless and happy girlhood in the dim
years that were gone ? It might be so. Yet
to me. Flower Darkwood, the woman now,
tried in the furnace of sorrow and experience,
the transformation seemed impossible !

N something less than a month from
that evening on which Leigh Evers-
Q^ leigh had first found his way out
to Shepherd's Bush, and thence to Chesterfield
Avenue, it seemed that he was always finding
excuses to call at No. 11.

When he was unable to come himself, he
would send to us instead — flowers from Covent
Garden, new books from Muche's, toys and fruit
for Isla ; all these and more besides at different
times arrived at Mrs. Ramage's house — " For
Mrs. Darkwood," or 'for Miss Isla," as the case
might be.

Of course they were very welcome, these gifts
and attentions, and helped to make life infinitely
lighter and sweeter ; but, all the same, I, Flower
Darkwood, Daryl Darkwood's wife, was not quite
satisfied in my own mind upon the matter of
Mr. Eversleigh's extraordinary good-nature.

I plucked up courage one evening — he had
driven home in a hansom with Daryl, who had
called in at the Temple for his friend, and had as
usual run up to our sitting-room with an armful
of costly offerings for Isla and me — and said to
him :

I — I think I ought to put a stop to this, Mr.
Eversleigh. We cannot, indeed we cannot, forever
be accepting these beautiful things. It is —
it is embarrassing, you know, to say the least
about it," I tried to explain. " You — you are
too kind — because it is not possible to find every
time a fresh supply of words in which to thank
you suitably."

Why in any way attempt to thank me
then ? " said he, with a smile. " You know I
hate it, Mrs. Dark wood."

*' That is nonsense," I returned gravely.

What a fuss you make about nothing at
all. Flower ! " called out Daryl impatiently.
The door of the bedroom, which opened into
the " drawing-room," was ajar ; and my
husband, in that farther room, was washing his
hands and changing his coat. 'you forget,"
he added bluntly, and with what I thought was
a deplorable lack of good taste and nice feeling,
'that Leigh is blest with more coin than he

knows what to do with. He's not obliged — ■
lucky dog ! — like some poor beggars I could
name, to look at a sovereign half a dozen times
over before he ventures to change it."

'' It's quite true," Mr. Eversleigh hastened to
assure me — " what Darkwood says, I mean.
Upon my word, I don't know what to do with
my money sometimes — it's a fact. My own
wants and inclinations are not, I believe, of a
ruinous stamp ; and, as you are aware, I have
neither brother nor sister ; no mother, no father ;
no wife to — "

But you have troops of friends both in
town and in the country," I gently interrupted.


He flushed to the roots of his cropped fair
hair.

'* I — I don't believe there is anybody in
the world whose friendship and esteem I
value so — so truly as I value yours, Mrs.
Darkwood," he stammered, quite awkwardly
for him.

More than perplexed, I could not decide
how to reply ; but I was beginning somehow, ^
"You see, we have — I — I have — we have
known you for so short a time, that I — we,
I mean — " when Isla fortunately came to the

rescue, and Mr. Eversleigh at once gave his
whole attention to the child.

"Thank you, Mr. Eversleigh," lisped she, "for
the grapes you sent yesterday. They were so
big and so nice."

He drew her affectionately to his knee, his
clear gray eyes full of tender interest, say-iii.—



Were they, my dear little lassie ? I'm so

glad."

Yes, beautiful ! " answered Isla, in her
earnest un-childlike way, '' So big and so
juicy ; and my throat was so sore."

And what does Doctor Morrison say ? "
asked Leigh, lifting her wee pink hand and
kissing it.

*' Oh, Doctor Morrison says we ought to
go to the seaside, and see the waves and
the niggers, and paddle about in the water
without any shoes and stockings on, you know.
But mamma says that she is not yet certain
we can afford it ; and so we had better perhaps
not think — "

Hush, Isla ! " I cried, distressed and vexed.
Little girls shouldn't chatter about what
they don't understand ; they should be — "

Seen and not heard, Toddlekins," called

out Daryl from the bedroom, laughing. " Never
you mind, young 'un, you shall go to the sea ! "

Isla's sensitive little face reddened immediately
; and slipping from Leigh's encircling
arm, she crept to my side and hung her head
shyly — conscious, dear little soul, of an offence
committed, but ignorant of its extent and
character.

On these occasions, when Mr. Eversleigh
came to spend the evening in Chesterfield
Avenue, it was Daryl's invariable custom to
invite his guest to a game of cards ; and
Mr. Eversleigh as invariably accepted the invitation
— accepted with alacrity. To speak
the truth — and this it was that troubled
me — it appeared to me then that this horrid
card-playing was the real attraction which
drew Daryl's old schoolfellow to No. 11. He
came laden with gifts for Isla and me ; but
the cards were the magnet which brought
him to us.

And yet, thought I, Leigh Eversleigh diei
not look like a gambler. Far from it. Frankness
and truth were stamped plainly upon his
fair tanned face, upon his broad calm brow ; a
chivalrous heart and a high regard for noble
things looked out direct at one from his clear

keen eyes. He was not perhaps so tall as Daryl
not quite — but apparently he was stronger ;
his hands too were strong-looking and beautifully
white ; and a very handsome fair moustache
hid a firm yet finely-cut mouth.

I do not understand cards and card-playing
I never did. So, neither liking them nor
understanding them, it may be that I am
prejudiced against these '' playthings of the
devil," as I fancy I have heard them called.
What I certainly do know is that, whenever
Daryl and Leigh Eversleigh played together
in Chesterfield Avenue, there was always a
large amount of money — sovereigns mostly, in
little stacks — upon the table between them,
and that Daryl always, or nearly always, won.

Since we had known Mr. Eversleigh money
had no longer been grievously scarce with
us ; for through him — through his influence
and introductions in the right quarter — Dar}^
had been enabled to sell numerous sketches
and pictures which had been lying on his
hands for years, and moreover to get astonishingly
good prices for them too ; for, alas, I
fear that they were, some of them, but poor and
insignificant productions after all ! How could
he hope to excel in achievement when he

would never really take pains ? Mr. Eversleigh
himself generally managed the business of
selling or dealing, or whatever it was that
took place, and handed the money to Daryl
afterwards. And so now, at least for the
present, the storm-clouds had sailed onward,
were overcast ; there was no longer occasion
to torture myself with the thought of a
perhaps hopeless hunt for pupils in music orin
languages, or in aught else that might
suggest itself as a likely field of enterprise.
Thanks to Leiofh Eversleio^h, that nightmare
had vanished — had vanished utterly for a
while — and Isla could continue to have as
heretofore my whole attention, my constant
care. Yes, thank Heaven and Leigh Eversleigh
for that !

Besides, we had no debts now. Mrs. Eamage
was paid regularly. We could obtain, without
pinch, the right and wholesome food for the
child ; and, better than all — oh, blessed
thought ! — it might happen that by-and-by,
with planning and economy, we should be able
to carry her off to the sea for the change of
air which was so strongly advised for her.

If only that wretched card - playing could
be stopped ! Could that have been done, I

should, I think, have been happier and easier
than I had been for many long months. Or,
since they would play, if only Mr. Eversleigh
might win more often than he did ; or, when
he won — which was rarely indeed — that his
winnings could somehow be made larger than
they appeared to be !

When Daryl was the victor — which in fact
seemed to be the rule of the game they
played — he sometimes gathered up quite a
handful of gold ; and it hurt me to see it.
It hurt me, too, to be obliged sometimes to
take and to spend this money won from Leigh
Eversleigh at those everlasting hateful cards.
That which was the result of the picture-selling
was in my eyes honest money by far than
the other ; and I spent it or hoarded it — for
Daryl in his new good fortune was no niggard
with a certain sense of housewifely pride ;
it was of my husband's just earning — the
reward of honourable labour.

But that other — ah, no ! Somehow it seemed
verily to scorch my fingers whenever I took
it from my purse. I felt ashamed to touch
it. For the truth was, I was haunted by
the notion that it was not — emphatically not —
fairly gained. Daryl at heart was a confirmed

gamester, I too well knew — a master-hand, an
adept at all card-games and games of hazard ;
whilst Mr. Eversleigh, it appeared to me, was
the merest novice — a raw beginner — compared
with his opponent in this unequal warfare.

But what could I do ? I was a brave woman
in many ways ; but not in all ; and I feared
to arouse Daryl Darkwood's anger by speaking
out boldly and telling him what I thought.

With him that mode of approaching a difficult
point — so past experience had taught
me — would inevitably lead to a downright
quarrel. He would swear at me. I should
wax calm and contemptuous as he grew more
violent. He then would swear more horribly
and taunt me with a hapless past. I, in silence
and in indignation and with head erect, should
march from his presence ; and days of chill
misery would follow as the sad result of all
this. I had gone through it all before — so
cruelly well did I know how it all would
be!

Yes, I was afraid to stir up my husband's
anger. It was too dreadful and too humiliating
in the consequences of it. So things, unchecked
undisturbed, went on as they had so strangely
begun.

But I have recollections of other and happier
evenings which belong to that portion of my life
that was spent in the house of Mrs. Eamage.
Twice or thrice, when Isla had had a really good
day, and could without the least anxiety be left
to the motherly guardianship of Mrs. Ramage —
by whom, when she, Isla, was well and in better
spirits than common, the child for a change liked
being put to bed — Mr. Eversleigh had driven out
to Chesterfield Avenue to carry off Daryl and me
to some good theatre or other. He had, said he
cheerily, got stalls for the Haymarket — for the
St. James's — for the Lyceum, as the case might
prove. And go we must, for the piece " on "
was capital, and shouldn't for the world be missed
if one were in London to see it. And gone we
had ; and I, at all events, had enjoyed myself
surprisingly.

And then, after the theatre, nothing would
satisfy Leigh Eversleigh but that we must
go back with him for supper to the Temple.
It was awaiting us ; his servant, sitting up,
expected company ; he would hear of no
denial.

What beautiful rooms those of his were in
that great old straggling block of solemn gray
buildings that looked towards the river and the

opposite shore and upon the quiet green gardens
of the historic Temple !

In those chambers of Leio;h EversleiHh there
were pictures and bric-à-brac — gems of their
kind — Oriental wind-curtains, many books, a few
marble busts, and some in terra-cotta ; delightful
lounging-chairs, and a fine piano.

I am a barrister — a briefless barrister — you
know," he would say lightly, with a mirthful
gleam in his clear and pleasant eyes ; " but I am
afraid from my habits that one would hardly
suspect it."

One wouldn't," agreed Daryl, with a discontented
shrug and a comprehensive glance at
the bachelor-like luxury around him. *' Therefore
not many such deucedly lucky briefless ones as
yourself, old man, I should guess, here in Sceptre
Chambers ! "

"Oh, I don't know about that ! " Leigh
answered sweet-temperedly. 'there are lots of
good fellows scattered about the dear old barrack,
if you only know where to look 'em up."

On one occasion, after supper, Mr. Eversleigh
asked me to sing ; and at once opened his lovely
piano — upon which instrument he himself was
no mean performer, having a voice that was a
clear true baritone.

**I am somehow sure that you sing, Mrs.
Darkwood," he said ; " although I never have
heard you."

** She ought to if she don't," threw in Daryl
indolently. He had drunk plenty of champagne,
and was now lying hack at full length in an armchair,
with crumpled shirt front and white tie all
awry, and his long legs stretched to their widest
over the Persian rug before him — a favourite
attitude, this, of his. '' She had the best of
masters out yonder, I can tell you." By '' out
yonder " Daryl meant abroad.

"I studied chiefly in Munich and in Leipsic,"
I observed quietly. " They used to tell me that
I sang well."

Mr. Eversleigh had a quantity of music, with
most of which it proved I was familiar ; and
I selected from the heap an exquisite German
love-song that was the composition of one of
my old masters, who himself had taught me
how it should be sung.

Leigh was enchanted, and was lavish in his
thanks and praise.

Why, Mrs. Darkwood, you have a most
beautiful voice ! " he cried enthusiastically. " If
need were, you could with ease make a fortune
with it on the concert-platform or on the stage."

*' Could she — do you mean it ? " spoke up
Daryl eagerly. "By Jove, Periwinkle, you'd
better have a try ! "

I smiled a little coldly, and did not answer.
My ambition in life, as it happened, did not
tend towards the stage. But then one, alas,
never knows what is ahead of one in the future ;
and as often as not one's ambition has nothings
to do with one's destiny !

Then, too, on more than one occasion, we had
dined out of town with Leio;h Eversleisfh ; driving
in his phaeton, with its splendid dark chestnut
pair, down to Richmond, or going by water
to Hampton Court. And once we had had a
real whitebait dinner with him at the " Ship " — I
think it was — at Greenwich. On these pleasant
healthy daylight excursions Isla had always
accompanied us ; and she said that Mr. Evers-
leigh was the kindest and the dearest gentleman
she had ever known.

- As soon as Daryl had discovered that Mr.
Eversleigh was a passionate lover of music,
he promptly hired a very good instrument
from a pianoforte-tuner's in the Tregonda
Road ; so that, with Miss de Yere often practising
her songs in the sitting-room downstairs,
and myself and Mr. Eversleigh singing

German duets in the drawing-room above,
there was occasionally a good deal of musical
display to the fore at Mrs. Damage's house in
the Avenue. Mrs. Eamage herself, however,
declared that it was just what she liked — it
was cheerful and lively, and she enjoyed it
amazingly ; but what our immediate neighbours
thought of it all I cannot say.

Often and often I wondered — indeed worried
myself terribly in secret, wondering so much
over the painful question — whether my husband
had ever told Leigh Eversleigh anything
or the whole of the history of our first meeting
; the clandestine trysts that had followed
the hurried flight — the hasty marriage ? Did
Leigh Eversleigh know that — and the anguish
of the thought at times made every vein in
my body tingle ; the shame of it seemed to
scorch me, as it were, from head to foot —
that — that his friend had first seen me at,
and taken me from. Moor Edge ? That I
had, in those days before my marriage, been
known as and called — Heaven pity me ! —
Flower Greedy ? Did Leigh Eversleigh know
this?

Thoroughly aware that Mr. Eversleigh was
a gentleman in every sense of that so often

glaringly misapplied word, I was confident that
he had sought no information touching my
antecedents, if Daryl himself of his own freewill
had vouchsafed none. But had — and here
came the torturing doubt — my husband, perchance
in a maudlin fit of sentimental friendship,
having drunk much strong drink, and
having won much of Leigh Eversleigh's money
into the bargain, voluntarily confided to his
old schoolfellow and college • companion the
story of those dead Moor Edge days when I
had lived under the dreadful roof of my
Uncle Simon ? "

The two men seemed very intimate ; therefore
it was not unlikely — nay, it was really
likely ; for not infrequently, when Leigh had
spent the evening in Chesterfield Avenue,
Daryl — particularly if the night, or, to speak
correctly, the early morning, were fine — would
on foot accompany Mr. Eversleigh part of the
way home.

I will just stroll with you, old chap," my
husband would say, rising rather crookedly
and ramming on his hat, " as far as the corner
of the Thingumy Eoad, and see you into a
decent hansom."

And, Leigh having said " good night " to

VOL. I. N

me, aud perhaps apologised for having stayed
so late, the two men, arm-in-arm, would start
out together. And every one knows that
moonlight chats are apt to wax somewhat
gushing ; especially after convivial hours andover
** the last cigar ; " that things are then
said, secrets are then parted with, that never
would be allowed to escape in broad day.
But it was impossible to learn from Leigh's
manner, at all events, how much he knew, or
whether he knew anything at all. He was
always kind and cheery, always courteous,
always most winningly deferential in his least
word or action towards me. And not for
worlds could I have asked Daryl outright.
No, no ! Perhaps, had I plucked up the spirit
to ask him, he would not have told me the
truth.

However, an evening soon came when the
gnawing misgiving and the horrible uncertainty
were destroyed and entirely set at rest.

Mr. Eversleigh had arrived at No. 11 rather
later than his usual hour. He had brought
some magnificent peaches for Isla ; some lovely
flowers for me. He was expected, too, I remember,
on that evening ; had come by special
invitation " for his revenge," as Daryl said — a

revenge, so it seemed to me, that was like a
Will-o'-the-wisp, never to be overtaken by
Leigh Eversleigh. But somehow Leigh did
not appear to mind ; and Daryl over his
friend's losses waxed oddly and boisterously
sympathetic. Yes, it was all very queer, and
to me then inexplicable.

Therefore, as Mr. Eversleigh was certain to
come, my husband was ready for him when he
did arrive. The card-table was open ; the packs
of cards were waiting upon the circle of green
cloth ; upon the sideboard, with its looking-glass
doors and cheap marble slab, there were
spirits and bottled ale, and a couple of large
siphons of seltzer and soda-water.

I know I am late," said our guest genially
on entering ; " but I dined at the ' Holborn '
this evening ; and there I met a man with
whom I am slightly acquainted, and he was
full of the summing-up business of the great
murder-trial at the Old Bailey. He literally
button-holed me — little as I know of him — •
so that I absolutely couldn't get away."

Murder ! The word smote my heart. I
turned suddenly faint and sick.

"Man o' law, of course?" observed Daryl
lazily.

Of course," assented Leigh, laughing ;
and a terrible one of his kind, 1 do assure
you, let him once begin to talk. He means,
he says, to die a Q.C., and I fancy he will
attain his ambition. Mrs. Darkwood" — turning
to me — " I suppose you have seen a paper
to-day ? If not, I have a Globe special in
my pocket. Would you like to look at it ?
The verdict this afternoon was ' Guilty ; ' but it
could not possibly be anything else, could it ?
The punishment for so ghastly a crime could,
with justice, be no other than death. Otherwise
"

Daryl just then, lying back in his chair,
was looking at me through his half-closed
lids ; his brilliant eyes, with the singular gay
red-brown light in them, gleaming, I fancied,
quizzically but not unkindly through the
dusky drooping lashes.

"Flower doesn't care a bit about newspapers,"
he put in tranquilly. "Women
seldom do, Eversleigh, whatever they may
affect. They like a thing with plenty of
fashion-plates, and a spicy novelette chucked
in occasionally. My wife, at any rate, I
believe, doesn't understand politics ; and I'm
very sure that she doesn't like murders."

Mr. Eversleigh was again about to address
me upon the subject of newspapers — perhaps
murder-trials ; but I was not going to endure
it. I could not. With an effort I arose, outwardly
calm and smiling faintly, and said,
before Leigh could continue, —

No ; Daryl is right. I neither care for
nor understand politics ; and — and I never,
never look at the horrible parts of newspapers
trials and murders, and — and so forth.
They make me ill."

Then I gently drew Isla towards me,
stroked her pretty short dark curls, and said
rather hurriedly, —

My pet, it is your bed-time. Say goodnight
now to papa and to Mr. Eversleigh, and
come with me."

She put her tiny arms round Leigh's neck
and whispered more shy thanks for the
peaches ; kissed her father in a hesitating,
timorous manner ; and then, with her little
hand lost in mine, she trotted obediently off
to her cot, which stood by the bed in our
room.

When Isla, in her wee white gown, knelt
down to say her prayers, something — some
curious unuttered yearning, perhaps some

vague indescribable feeling of great thankfulness
— prompted me to kneel by the dear
little white innocent soul, and thus to gather
her to my side.

She stopped to look inquiringly upward,
and to ask, —

"You are going to say your prayers too,
mamma ? And are you going to bed with
me then, as well ? "

"Not going to bed, darling, yet. But I
will say my prayers with you now."

"But you must say them again by-and-by,
if you do," said Isla.

"Yes, again by-and-by. Hush, my dearest,
or you will forget to say properly what
mamma has taught you ! "

Thank Heaven ! Clearly, after all, our true
kind friend in that other room knew nothing
nothing ! Had he, through Daryl, or
through anyone else, ever at any time
obtained a glimpse of the truth, he, with his
chivalrous heart and his sensitive regard for
the feelings of others, would never — I was
sure of it ! — in my hearing, have said what
he had said that nio-ht.

ELL," heartily exclaimed Aurora
Eamage, or Miss de Vere, as
both the girl herself and her
proud yet simple - hearted mother preferred
that she should be called, — "well, I am glad
of that ! It will all fit in just beautifully
now, Mrs. Darkwood, and dear mother will
be able to have a change down there as well
as the rest of us. And I am sure she wants
it as badly as anyone. She works hard, you
know. I'm really tired of bothering her to
get a slavey to help her in the house — a
handy young ' general ' of some sort — for it's
no use. She says the dirty little creatures
are more plague than profit — never honest,
rarely civil after the first day or two — and
she'd rather be without them. You see, Mrs.
Darkwood, when I obtain a country engagement,
if mother can't go with me, I have to

put up with the company of my Aunt Matilda ;
she's an old maid and lives at Hammersmith ;
and I never could, endure my Aunt Matilda.
She is fidgety for one thing, and horribly
particular for another."

I wish," said I, feeling rather vexed over
the matter, *' that Doctor Morrison had not
so strongly insisted upon Thangate, of all
places in the world. I have heard that it
is always dreadfully crowded and — and not
too nice at this time of year."

'swell, it is rather a strange, if you mean
that," admitted Miss de Vere, "just now, in
the middle of August. But all the same it
is very jolly, if one is happy and well. Were
you ever there, Mrs. Darkwood ? "

Never. I know nothing beyond what I
have been told of English seaside places."

*'I do assure you, then, that Thangate isn't
half bad ; and the air there is the very finest
air in England. Everybody says so. Every
doctor in London would tell you so."

"Eeally you make one feel quite hopeful
about it. Miss de Vere ; and it will be pleasant
to meet you and Mrs. Eamage in a strange
place. I am indeed very glad that you are
coming too," said I, smiling cordially, as we

shook hands ; Aurora going on her way downstairs,
I continuing my way up.

It was on the staircase that we had met,
as we frequently did ; and Miss de Yere, as
was her habit, had stopped me for a few
minutes' chat. She was a handsome girl of
the cool and easy type, with a quantity of
bright fair hair with a golden glint upon it,
which in front she wore elaborately frizzed,
and behind coiled into a knot. Ill-natured
people said that it was dyed ; but this was
not true. There was nothing false — • except
her stage-name — about Aurora Ramage. Her
complexion was surprisingly good, considering
the trying nature of her profession ; and though
her mouth was somewhat large and without
much expression, her teeth in every way were
unquestionably beautiful. As a rule, she was
remarkably well dressed, if sometimes justa
trifle too fashionably so ; and the Cockney
accent which was an accident of birth she
had, if not wholly conquered, at any rate
laboured hard to correct. In such words as
"I," ''my," "day," "way," it was perhaps
faintly noticeable ; but ordinarily, if not excited,
she contrived to keep it well in subjection.
For Miss de Yere was no fool —

far from that ; on the contrary, she was
shrewd, receptive, and naturally observant.
What she heard and saw in others she remembered
and turned to her own advantage —
that is, if there was aught to her own advantage
to be gained by the observation. And
this rare perceptive faculty of hers was always
arrested by the right thing; seldom indeed
by the wrong — hence her success. Yes, Miss
de Vere was undoubtedly clever, and was
perfectly capable of taking care of herself.
As she would sometimes say, with a comical
smile, and with, I think, pardonable vanity,
her theatrical trainer had had very little
difficulty in " knocking her into shape."
This was slangy, I admit ; but it was expressive
; and it was true.

On that day at breakfast it had been decided
that we could, after all, afford to go to the sea ;
for Daryl quite lately had again been most
fortunate in selling some more of his paintings.
And, although they were merely small watercolour
ones, and hastily done, they had fetched
at the dealer's an uncommonly good price. So
Mr. Eversleigh had assured us ; and he, as
formerly, had managed the transaction.

We can do about a month of it well, Periwinkle,"

said my husband, in his most airy
and agreeable manner. " Where shall it be % "

Oh, Daryl, I don't know ! " I replied, deeply
thankful. " I had better run round to Doctor
Morrison after breakfast, I think, and ask him."

All right — do," said Daryl. "I don't care a
^g where it is."

The sea, mamma — and are we really going
to the sea ? " said Isla, more eagerly than she
usually spoke.

Yes, my darling — really and truly," I told
her, gathering her wee pink hand into mine
and squeezing it under the table-cloth. ^' And
you shall have a bucket and spade, and dig in
the sand, and paddle in the water, and see the
nioorers, and — "

And Mr Eversleigh — will he come too ? "
put in the little soul wistfully.

No ; he won't, Toddlekins," answered Daryl,
who had risen, stretched himself, and gone to
look out of the window. " He's off very soon
to Norway or to the Mediterranean — I'm not
sure which. But I dare say he'll wish you
good-bye, little 'un, before he goes. Tact, he'd
take you with him, no doubt, if you were to
ask him. Who knows ? Shall I make him a
present of you — eh ? "

Isla was silent. Always rather afraid of her
father — for her frightened childish eyes had beheld
him in his very worst moods, and children's
memories are long ones — she was never quite
certain whether he was in fun or in earnest.
There were some days when she would be
unaccountably shy with him ; and Daryl then
would seize and " chaff " his little daughter
until the sensitive tears, bursting forth, compelled
him to desist in his cruel play.

Having strolled over to the sideboard and
mixed for himself a large soda-and-brandy — he
seldom ate any breakfast worth mentioning — he
carefully brushed his hat, looked intently at
himself in the glass, and then said he was
going out.

When he was fairly gone, I rushed round
to the Tregonda Eoad. Doctor Morrison was
at home, and saw me directly. No place on
earth like Than gate, he declared emphatically ;
and, since it was possible to give the child
a change this sultry trying weather, why, of
course, so much the better ; it was exactly
what she was in immediate need of; therefore
get her away to Thangate as soon as practicable.
The bracing air, the vigorous North Foreland
breezes, would set her up for the winter.

On my return to No. 11, the first person
I met in the house was Miss de Vere. Hearing
what Doctor Morrison had said about the
seaside, and that we were ordered to Thangate,
she promptly expressed her satisfaction as to the
arrangement in question. It appeared that
Mr. Binkworthy, the proprietor of the Levity
theatre, was now a temporary manager of
a place of public resort and entertainment
at Thangate, called — I was told by Miss
de Vere — the " Dome-by-the-waves ; " and
Miss Aurora de Vere, with the most popular
songs in her London repertory, was shortly —
in fact, almost immediately — to be sent down
thither for a month's or six weeks' engagement.


And, now that we also were going away,
Mrs. Ramage could shut up her house, or leave
it in the charge of a less fortunate neighbour,
and accompany her clever daughter Aurora for a
holiday to the sea.

Mrs. Ramage — grot amiable soul! — was
greatly delighted in consequence. There was
nothing now to hinder our starting as early
as possible ; and on that very day I began
to make the necessary preparations for our
journey out of town. That was on Monday

I remember ; on Thursday morning at mid-day
we were ready.

Miss de Vere had gone to the theatre for rehearsal
— we had already said good-bye to her
but Mrs. Eamage was nodding and beaming
in farewell to us at the cab window.

"We shall be down ourselves next week,
Mrs. Darkwood — Aurora and me," said Mrs.
Eamage. ** I do hope we shall see something
of you."

I am sure I hope so too," replied I sincerely.

"Trust us ! We shall look out for you," said
Daryl, doffing his hat in his most absurdly polite
manner. '' I, for one, believe me, Mrs. Eamage,
shall not be happy until — until — Well, until
you arrive and we meet."

*' Lord, Captain, how you do talk ! " sniggered
Mrs. Eamage ; then, observing that the luggage
was secure overhead, and that there was nothing
more to wait for, Mrs. Eamage added, still nodding
and smiling, " Good-bye, Cap — sir, I mean ;
good-bye, Mrs. Darkwood ; good-bye, missy,
until next week ! "

And off we went jolting in our fusty rickety
four-wheeler from Chesterfield Avenue, leaving
Mrs. Eamage waving her hand to us upon the
doorstep of No. 11.

How little thought I on that morning that I
never should see the place again !

Mr. Eversleigh was at Victoria to say goodbye
and to wish us a pleasant stay in Kent.
Overnight, at our rooms, he had said that
we should meet him in the morning at the
station.

This will be a long farewell, Mr. Eversleigh,"
I remarked, more regretfully it may be than I
myself was aware, "since you have decided
upon the Mediterranean cruise."

We were strolling up and down the busy
platform, with a quarter of an hour to spare,
alongside the waiting train — I, Leigh Evers-
leigh, and Isla, who had got tight hold of her
kind friend's hand. Daryl had gone for the
tickets.

Yes," replied Leigh absently.

I very much wonder that you have remained
in town so long, Mr. Eversleigh, when everybody
who could do it went away weeks ago," I
said, simply making the observation because he
was so silent. He did not, I fancied, seem in
his usual spirits to-day.

Do you '? " he smiled — a quiet, thoughtful
smile.

Yes, I do. Daryl says London is empty —

a howling wilderness ; but that of course is
nonsense."

Yes ; that is nonsense," said Leigh, as if
however he was thinking of something else.

I made another attempt to support the conversation.


"Well," said I briskly, "yachting this glorious
weather must, I should imagine, be charming
work — or sport — for those who are fond
of it and who are good sailors."

"Perhaps; it depends, you know," said Mr.
Eversleigh vaguely.

Here Daryl came back, pushing his way
through the crowd, heated and inclined to
be hilarious. Besides the booking-office, he
had doubtless paid a visit to a refreshment-bar.


There's no second, I hear, to this train.
Flower," said he ; " it's either first or third.
So I took firsts."

"Oh, Daryl — " I was beginning involuntarily
; but he cut me short.

"Hang it all, you wouldn't have us go
down packed in with a lot of beastly excursionists,
would you ? " he exclaimed impatiently
— " unless you particularly wish to get
smothered in crumbs and be deafened by a

chorus of yelling babies ! Come, little 'unlook
sharp and jump in with your mother —
there's no time to lose."

He was holding open the door of an empty
first-class compartment ; and, as there was no
gainsaying him, in we got. It was Daryl's
way. When he had money to spend, he spent
it extravagantly — recklessly ; when it was all
gone, and he wanted more and could not
get it, then came the time for anathematising
everything and everybody about him
save himself.

Mr. Eversleigh, suddenly recollecting the
bookstall, had rushed off to another part of
the station. He as speedily returned, laden
with society journals and illustrated papers.

To enliven the tedium of the journey, little
maid," he smiled, pushing them through the
open carriage window into Isla's arms. Her
pocket was already stuffed with a large box of
Mr. Eversleigh's chocolate creams ; and the
papers and the magazines, I knew, were meant
for me.

I do wish you were coming too ! " said
she, with an earnestness [that was almost
pathetic in a child like Isla.

'who can tell? The yacht may sail your

VOL. I.

way, Isla," said Leigh gravely. " Yachts are
very unmanageable things sometimes."

Oh, how I wish it would ! " lisped she,
her small face lighting up at the bare idea.

'ebon voyage I'' cried Daryl, putting Isla
roughly aside from the window and leaning
out himself to grasp Leigh Eversleigh's strong
white hand, whereon the one massive gold
ring that he ever wore flashed with its diamond
in the midday sun. '' Let us have a line, if
possible, old chap, before you start — we'll send
you our address as soon as we've got one ;
and let us hear occasionally of your whereabouts
too. Will you ? "

All right — you shall," promised Leigh, with
fair head uncovered.

Good-bye ! "

Good-bye ! "

The bell had rung for the last time. Late
passengers, with luggage nowhere to be seen,
were running wildly up and down. The engine
gave a horrid shriek and poured forth clouds
of angry white steam. Then the train seemed
to strain and groan as if it wanted a friendly
push behind just to start it ; and we began
to move slowly out of the station.

How well can I recall every incident — every

trivial incident — of that sunny August morning,
when, steaming out of the huge Publico
station, bound for our seaside trip, we left
Leigh Eversleigh standing alone upon the
platform, staring after the vanishing train !

lARYL Kirkwood soon wearied of
a place like Thangate.

If lie was in a good temper, this
seaside town, according to lira, was *' really-jolly
— so free and easy — and all that." If
his humour was a bad one, the place was
a filthy hole," or " beastly low," or some
other equally choice epithet would with vigour
be applied to it, to distinguish it from the
superior watering-places elsewhere that he had
known and frequented in bygone days.

This being the case with my husband, he
found manifold excuses for running up to
town. There were some sketching materials
that he wanted and must have, and that could
be got only at a certain shop either in Bond
Street or in Piccadilly ; or a picture-dealer in
the Haymarket particularly wanted to see him,
so that if he did not go directly he would in

all likelihood lose the chance of a " good thing."
There were other transparent excuses besides ;
but I cannot remember them now.

Therefore it happened that Isla and I were
at all times left a good deal to ourselves, to
amuse ourselves in the best way we could.
But I do not think we much cared ; we were
very happy together ; and I was so thankful
so unspeakably thankful — to perceive that
her dips into the sea and the wild sea-breezes
keen with ozone were bringing a faint tinge
of rose-colour into the dear little wan cheeks
of my child.

She often, long and patiently, looked over
the blue-green sea, watching for '' Mr. Evers-
leigh's yacht."

'' Is this it, mamma, do you think ? " she
would say wistfully, when the London boat,
bound for some summer haunt farther along
the coast, stopped on its way at the head of
Thangate pier ; or when some other distant
steamer, with black smoke vein in g the fair
sky, loomed in sight upon the dim horizon
where heaven and sea seemed to meet.

It hurt me to have to tell her that he
would never come as she expected — she looked
so sorrowful and disappointed. Still, I do not

think that she altogether believed me ; for her
faith in Leigh's word was firm ; and had not
he said to her that yachts were sometimes
unmanageable things, and that he might after
all come sailing her way ?

And so Isla, notwithstanding my asseverations,
watched every day. The weather was
perfect ; lovely beyond description. Thangate
was " crammed," as people expressed it — truly
a somewhat mixed multitude — a motley crowd.

But we had been most fortunate, all the
same, in the matter of rooms ; having found
some quite clean and well-furnished apartments,
in terms not too extravagant, upon the
higher and healthier part of the town, in a
crescent " hard by the great Cliff Hotel
itself.

Everybody at Thangate went on to the pier,
which, owing to its length and diversified
attractions, was the principal lounge and promenade
of the town. Indeed the humours of
Thangate pier would fill a big volume, I used
to think.

Isla and I had, as usual, been down to the
sands for our morning dip ; to listen to the
nigger minstrels, the hurdy-gurdy grinders,
and to the other vagrant musicians that

abounded there ; then into the town for a
little necessary shopping ; and then on to
the long and breezy pier for our midday
blow.

Daryl had gone up to London by an early
train, and would not come back — so he fancied
until the following day.

At this lazy sunny noontide hour the pier
was thronged.

There were a few invalids to be seen in
bath-chairs, but the sufferers really looked as if
they were well upon the high-road to health
again, and they chatted and joked with the
friends who gathered round them and snuffed
the Thangate air meanwhile. The band — a
passable one — was playing favourite airs from
the newest comic opera, and other popular
tunes ; the refreshment bars in the gay pavilion
were driving their customary lively morning
trade. There was much bustle ofoino: forward
at and above the landing-stage ; for the
London boat, packed thick with fresh arrivals,
was just in at the pier-head.

We had now been at Thangate something
over a week ; but wx had heard nothing at
present of Leigh Eversleigh — although Dallas
soon as we were settled in our lodgings

on the cliff, had written to him at his old
address in the Temple. Clearly he had not
yet started on the Mediterranean cruise ; or,
if he had started, he must have forgotten us.

I had brought with me a book from the
circulating-library ; but I was not reading.
I was watching the people.

Good heavens 1 what a number of young
men and young women from the London shops
there seemed to be taking holiday down at
Thangate — at least, from an indescribable
something or other about them, it might be
in their attire, or in their manner, perhaps
in their voices, one judged them to be of
that class. What a number of fat — awfully
fat — overdressed women of all sorts, years, and
conditions ! What swarms of children, with
third-rate nurse-maids ! What flurried hot
mammas, with yet more children ; and what
queer-looking papas, with rugs and hand-bags,
there were now arriving by the London boat !
And how ill, too, some of them looked — those
poor venturesome folk who in a rash
moment had elected *' to go down by boat ! "

Jews as well, I noticed, appeared to be
very fond of Thangate. They were to be
met with at every corner ; adding in no

mean measure to the brilliancy of the company
by their rich apparel and their gorgeous jewels.
Here and there one caught sight in the
crowd, but only occasionally, of some one
who looked actually " nice " — I mean, someone
who was indubitably a gentleman or a
gentlewoman — an agreeable contrast to immediate
surrounding's that diverted for a
while but soon palled. Yet such glimpses, I
repeat, were rare. Presently Isla came running
up to where I was sitting, my head
and back well protected by my large sun-umbrella,
and cried breathlessly: "Mamma,
mamma dear, Mrs. Eamage and Miss de Yere
are here ! "

I started at the news, genuinely pleased to
hear it.

Are they, darling — where ? "

"Over there," nodded Isla — 'looking at the
boat. Shall I go and tell them that you are
here as well, mamma ? "

"Do, dear," I willingly told her. And away
the little creature scampered on her errand.
Yes, beyond a doubt, the Thangate air was
doing wonders for Isla. Doctor Morrison was
quite right ! Never before in her brief young
life had I seen her so active and so bright.

Soon she returned to me, borne in the arms
of Mrs. Damage, with Mrs. Ramage's overwhelming
kisses still smarting upon her delicate
cheeks. Miss de Yere, cordially smiling and
showing her fine teeth, followed more leisurely
in her mother's wake.

Mrs. Ramage was gaily attired in brand-new
clothes, in which perhaps she seemed scarcely
at ease, whilst Miss de Vere was more quietly
dressed than usual in the palest of pretty pink
gowns and plain large white straw hat. She
was neatly gloved and shod, and looked strikingly
handsome ; revealing her admirable sense
by never on any pretext or on any occasion
whatever wearing paint or powder out of doors
indeed never off the stage. Naturally of
robust health, she naturally always looked
well ; albeit she did not disdain a most becoming
pink lining to the sunshade she had brought
out with her that morning. No one would
have guessed, at any rate from her appearance,
that she was the identical Miss Aurora de Yere,
the lady serio-comic artiste " from the Levity
theatre in London, whose name, in the biggest
and boldest of capitals, stared at one from all
the hoardings in Thangate.

I liked Aurora Ramage ; for I respected her.

The young actress and singer was honest and
good, and worked hard to maintain the position
she had won.

As Mrs. Eamage herself was always ready
and proud to admit — " No mortal mother could
possibly have been blessed with a kinder
daughter than her clever girl Aurora was in
every respect to her."

Our friendly greetings over, and Mrs. Eamage
having again and again expressed her delight
to think that they — she and Miss de Vere —
should have found us there upon the pier, we
all sat down together near to the pavilion in
the breezy sunlight of that perfect summer day.

The grand expanse of blue-green sea was
heaving languidly under the cloudless sky.
The pleasure-boats were coming home slantwise
from their morning sail, with some of
their 'jovial crew" sick and some of them
singing. The band was playing selections
from loathe, I remember, with the hot
sunshine flooding down upon the glittering
brazen instruments. Certainly there was a
red-striped awning flapping over the players ;
but an awning like that was of little value
on such a radiant day.

Then Mrs. Eamage inquired feelingly whether

we had found " nice rooms " without a drawback
of any kind to them ; and I assured her
that we had ; the good soul going on to say
that she and Miss de Yere having; arrived at
Thangate only on the previous evening, they
had taken apartments which faced the sea in
the lower part of the town. The house, said
Mrs. Eamage, was on the Marina and close
to the Dome-by-the- Waves.

You see, mem," remarked Mrs. Eamage,
^* we must be handy to the Dome " — she
called it " Doom " — '' because of Tory. She
has to sing there twice a day."

'*I begin my engagement this afternoon,"
Miss de Yere put in. " Will you come and
hear me, Mrs. Darkwood ? "

I — I should like to," I replied, not without
hesitation, "if — if — Well, do you think I
may bring Isla ? " I did not know how to
hint what I meant ; but Miss de Yere instantly
understood.

Oh, my songs are harmless enough, if
you are aiming at that ! " she laughed good-tempered.
" I flatly refuse to sing them — •
it's my rule, and I break it for nobody — if
they are in the least suggestive or horrid. Mr.
Binkworthy, not so very long ago, thought

fit to swear at me because I would not put
on blessings — tights, you know. But that's
a thing I have never yet done, and I never
Weill do, Mrs. Darkwood ; and I did not
speak to him for a whole week. He knows
me better now," she added, with a serenity
which bespoke conviction.

I suppose you have brought down some
new songs with you ? " I inquired, feeling a
strong and growing interest in this shrewd
and sensible young woman, who went her
fearless way upon a dangerous road, and
who upon it too could hold her own without
dismay.

'' A few, Mrs. Darkwood," she answered
pleasantly ; adding that her chief ones were
the best of her old London favourites, such as
"Would you believe it?" and '^ So I hear,"
which, with new topical verses smartly written
up to date, would be sure to prove successful
at Thangate.

I promised to visit the Dome in the afternoon.


Thank you," said the girl simply. Then
she continued, — "And if you don't care about
the show, why, you can but leave it and
take Isla out into the gardens at the back

of the concert hall. The wild beasts and
the merry-go-rounds will amuse her. Have
you seen the wild beasts yet, you sweet little
thing ? " said Aurora, suddenly bending over
and kissing the child in a thoroughly hearty
and unaffected fashion.

No," said Isla, with wide upturned eyes.
'* Lions and tigers ? "

'' Yes, both ; and laughing hyenas into the
bargain." Then deftly she lifted the little
one on to her lap and began to describe to
her all the wonderful sights that were to be
seen in the gardens of the Dome-by-the-Waves.

"But, dear me, where is the Captain,
mem, all this while ? " cried Mrs. Eamage,
just then recollecting my husband's existence.

In a few words I explained to her whither
Daryl was gone ; and with much concern she
said immediately, —

But the poor dear gentleman will find
No. 11 all shut up, Mrs. Darkwood. What,
mem, will he do for a bed ? "

I reminded Mrs. Eamage that London was
not wholly destitute of hotels, and that my
husband was a man who could well attend to
his own comfort. At this she laughed, and
said amiably — " Ah, yes, indeed — gentlemen

could always take care of number one — there
was no doubt about that ! " And then, as
the band had ceased to play and one o'clock
had struck, it was time that we should be
going homeward to our early dinner. Everyone,
in fact, was leaving the pier, with appetite
sharpened for luncheon or dinner.

The Damages accompanied me and my
little girl as far as the entrance-part of the
pier, and there we separated to go our
different ways ; but with the understanding
that, if Isla were not tired, we should meet
again at the Dome in the afternoon.

Arrived home at our lodgings on the cliff,
we met our landlady, Miss Piper, in the hall.

'* There's a gentleman upstairs, madam,
waiting to see you," said she. AVe had the
drawing-room floor in Miss Piper's house —
it was bigger, airier, altogether better than
the downstairs floor.

A gentleman ! " I echoed, astonished.
** What is his name % "

'* T do not know, madam ; but he said that
he was very well acquainted with you and
Mr. Darkwood."

Isla had heard. She had vanished up the
staircase. Her instinct was surer than mine.

I followed her wonderingly. Who could it
be?

Ere I reached the landing however a little
smothered cry of intense joy broke from the
child. I quickly entered the drawing-room.
There by the open bay-window stood Leigh
Eversleigh.

Isla, speechless, was hugging his neck — she
being hoisted aloft to his shoulder, clasped in
the strong arms of her friend.

"^^HE tide was out ; the sands under
the cliffs were swarming with
hundreds of busy youngsters, who
were building castles and digging moats around
them, or hunting for shrimps in the little
dykes and pools which the outgoing sea had
left behind it.

Isla herself was there amongst those noisy
young ones, with Mr. Eversleigh, a most
accomplished architect in sand and seaweed,
in the rule of her obedient slave.

I, with book and sun-umbrella, was occupying
my favourite corner at the far end of the
pier ; the salt life-giving wind blowing gently
from the north-west and wafting shoreward the
sad soft sighing cadence of the distant waves.

Mr. Eversleigh had now been at Thangate
for three or four days, and was staying at
VOL. I. P

the cosy "Black Stag." He shunned on
principle, he said, all such monster edifices
as the huge hotel on the cliff; preferring the
real comfort and the capital cookery, the
charming hostess and the courteous host, for
all of which attractions the "Black Stag" at
Thangate had acquired a wide reputation.
Indeed the "Black Stag" was famous, and
worthily so.

It was odd, I thought, that Mr. Eversleigh
should say nothing about his going back to
town, or how long he intended to remain at
the "Black Stag." As for Daryl, he had not
yet returned from London ; nor had he once
taken the trouble to write to me to in anywise
account for his lengthened absence. I
suppose he meant us to understand that we
were to expect him when we should see him
that he would come back to us when he
pleased, and not before. This was Daryl's
"way" — at least, it was one of them. He
had several others peculiarly his own that
were equally erratic and unsatisfactory.

As I sat on the pier under my serviceable
umbrella, the queer crowd trooping past like
an organised procession round and round the
gay pavilion for morning exercise, the band

playing, the flags adorning the pavilion-roof

floating out upon the wind, two strangers —

young men — came aloof and seated themselves

close to my side.

But they took no notice of — never looked
at — the quiet woman reading under her umbrella
; and, in fact, they continued to chat
together as coolly as if she had not been
there at all.

Feminine curiosity prompted me to peep
forth cautiously in order to ascertain what
kind of neighbours these of mine were. So
I looked ; and I then saw that they were of
the genus which I had heard Daryl term the
master " breed — voice and accent revealing
that they were young men of breeding too.
Decidedly they were not of the ordinary herd
that rushed in their thousands to Thangate.
I went on reading.

In another moment or two I had wholly
forgotten that I was not alone in my favourite
corner. But presently, the name of Miss de
Vere falling distinctly on my ear that was
nearest to this pair of male loungers, I caught
myself involuntarily listening to the talk that
was going on between them.

Look here, old chappie," one of them was

saying very quietly and kindly — " I don't think
I altogether — er — approve, don't you know,
of your ' Aurora-king ' Miss de Vere quite so
freely now. It makes a lot of difference when
a fellow's in earnest and as good as engaged to
a girl, don't you know % It makes a lot of
difference then ! "

And his companion, with a more perceptible
drawl, answered, —

In earnest, Tracy — surely you are not in
earnest ! But if so, old man, of course she shall
be Miss de Vere for the future."

You'll see, Gaveston," said the first speaker,
dropping his glass from his eye. " I don't much
fancy — er — that I should have followed her
down here if — er — if I had not been in earnest
head over heels in earnest — eh ? "

The other laughed.

By Jove," he said, '' what a deuce of a row
there'll be at Starch when the governor hears of
it ! "
- "I dare say," replied the one called Tracy
serenely. " But it won't be the first, dear fellow,
by a good many, that I've been compelled to
have out with the old man at home. It does
him good, I believe — wakes him up, don't you
know."

'' Can he disinherit you, old chappie — I forget
or otherwise in that direction make himself
obnoxious ? "

Fortunately he can't ; or I have not the
least doubt in the world he would have done it
long ago."

The other laughed again. I noticed that he
usually laughed before he spoke.

"The Countess will have a fit," he drawled.

'not she — she's too tough. You don't know
how tough my mother is. She'll storm, of
course ; but storms don't last for ever. They
blow over in time."

And Lady Cassandra, old man — how about
her ? "

Tracy yawned ; a long yawn, with something
like a groan at the end of it.

Oh, Lady Cassandra be — " He recollected
himself; for the first time perceived also that a
gown was in close proximity to — indeed was
brushing — his dandy legs. " Oh, Lady Cassandra
be jiggered ! " he supplemented mildly.

The next remark that fell upon my ears caused
me to start visibly ; but these young men
noticed it not. Never for a moment did it
occur to them that I was interested in what they
were saying. My book nearly slipped from my

hand. I was listening voluntarily now — listening
intently — scarcely breathing, lest a syllable
of the strange talk should escape me.

By-the-bye," said he of the irritating drawl,
Daryl Darkwood, so Tm told, has lately been
seen here at Thangate — at Thangate, of all places
in creation ! I wonder where he has been hiding
for these five or six years or more. Abroad, I
fancy — perhaps the best place for him."

Undoubtedly," replied the one called Tracy.
"Your brother Rollo was at Cambridge with
him ; wasn't he ? "

Yes. He and Darkwood and Leigh Evers-
leigh were all three of 'em at Ursula's together.
I never knew much of Daryl Darkwood myself.
He's older than I am. What I heard of him
came from Rollo."

'* A rather loose fish ; wasn't he ? " said
Tracy pleasantly.

Who — Darkwood ? Father ! And he
made such a mess of it at last — ended so
deuced badly — one couldn't help feeling sorry
for him, poor chap ! They said — Rollo or
somebody said — that he turned painter ;
married and turned painter, you know. He
always, so I've heard, had a taste in that
direction. I have seen some of the sketches

he gave to Rollo — really awfully clever some
of 'em ; and — and, well, as I say, lie went
abroad presently, and we lost sight of him.
Where he went Heaven knows ! "

Did his wife go with him % "

"I suppose so. But who she was, or where
the dickens he picked her up — whether she
was pretty or whether she was plain, or
whether she was at all acquainted with the
true character of the husband she'd got hold
of — all this is unknown to me, and I believe
to everybody else. The whole thing was a
mystery."

And Eedknights, Marc," said Tracy lazily
'how about Eedknights then?"

'' Oh, Darkwood, of course, never went
there assail — has never been there since !
After the scandal, the frightful row they had
and I suppose the poor beggar deserved it
the old Squire kicked him out ; disowned
him ; swore he'd done with him for ever. It
was a most miserable business, no doubt."

"But what I mean is," said the admirer of
Miss de Vere — " how about the entail at
Eedknights ? "

Why, there is none," was the reply. " Old
Darkwood, in that way, can do exactly as he

pleases. He can leave every penny of his
money, house and all, to the County Hospital
if he likes. And, pon my word, I shouldn't
wonder if he did it. He is quite in his
dotage now, so they say, and acknowledges
no kinship whatever save that of his daughter,
Mrs. Eversleigh, who lives with him. And
she's a great invalid — had a lot o' trouble
in her time."

'well, 'tis lucky for me," observed Tracy
lightly, " that the old man at Starch is not
possessed of the same power ; that's all I
can say ; or it would be all the worse in
the end for me and Aurora."

The other laughed out loud and long, as
if the domestic tempest ahead of his friend
were the greatest joke imaginable for a looker-on.


"Devilish lucky indeed for you, old chappie!"
he drawled at last. " As some illustrious poet
says somewhere or other, * Best for you and
best for Miss de Vere — ' "

Hush, man," suddenly interrupted Tracy
" here they come — she and her mother ! "

I had overheard enough. I was scarcely, as
may be conceived, in a humour to be recognised
by Mrs. Damage and Aurora ; particularly

after all that I had just heard. An
agreeable state of things it would be for everyone
concerned if Miss de Vere marched up
in her cordial fashion and insisted forthwith
upon introducing me to the young man called
Tracy and to the friend with him ! Both,
then, to their consternation and confusion,
would learn that they had all the while been
sitting close to Daryl Darkwood's wife ! The
thought was dreadful.

I rose swiftly and noiselessly, my large
sunshade lowered well over my head and
shoulders, and walked away in a direction opposite
to that from which I was somehow conscious
that Mrs. RamaQ:e and her daughter were
approaching.

I was soon lost in the promenading crowd.

My emotions just then were of a conflicting
nature. I felt keenly hurt, humiliated, angry —
curiously lonely all at once in the midst of
so many people. My bosom ached with its
sense of pain and bitterness ; I believe that
hot and passionate tears were rising thick in
my eyes ; I know that I could hardly see
whither my steps were leading me.

Although I had never — never from the first —
been in my husband's confidence, in some vague

manner it galled me to reflect that strangers
and outsiders — the cold and careless world
generally — should know more of the man I
had married than I myself knew. Indeed the
world, it appeared, knew all ; whilst I knew
nought. What right had he to keep me in the
dark — to enlighten me, his wife, in no wise ?
What right had he to marry me in secret, under
cruelly false colours ; and — if he was in truth
the reprobate that those men seemed to
hint — what right had he to drag me down to
his

Then the recollection of my own grievous
parentage, of my own sad past, rushed as it
were headlong upon me, bringing with it, as
it ever did, a hot wave of shame and horror
which seemed to flow over me, to burn me
from head to foot ; and in a kind of dim sorrowful
way I realised that I should rightly be
grateful to, and not wroth with, my husband,
Daryl Darkwood ; for, after all, I owed him
much !

If, on the one hand, he had seen fit to
keep his shameful past a secret from me — from
me who should have been the participant of
all his secrets if there were any — had not he,
on the other, given to me a name, a name

that could be mine so long as I lived, a name
lawful alike in the eyes of God and of man,
and for ever taken me from the evil shelter
that I had from my earliest years been taught
to call my " home " ? Moreover, he was Isla's
father. No, no — I could not, dared not now
reproach him for aught he had done ; for who,
alas, was I that I should presume to pry into,
to sit in judgment upon, the past of the man
who, at any rate, whatever his offences, had
been unselfish enough to make me his wife ?
Throughout our married life I never had
reproached him for his unnatural reticence ;
I would not begin to reproach him now.
Knowing Daryl's temper, I would be wise ; I
would be as cautious and as forbearing with
him as I had ever been. So I then resolved.

All the same, I was unhappy, dissatisfied,
ill at ease — perhaps because deep in my heart I
was conscious that, had I now loved Daryl as
dearly and as truly as I had loved him in the
old dead days, my misery of that morning,
the galling sense of injustice and wrong, would
have been infinitely greater than it was —
infinitely harder to endure ! Was it any fault
of mine that my once strong love for him
had decayed and grown poor? Well, Heaven

above me knew the truth, though man might
never know it !

I had passed the iron turnstiles which cut off
the broader and more popular part of the pier
from the longer and narrower part which
touched the town, when I walked blindly
against some one who was hurrying towards
the iron barriers.

Eeally, I beg your pardon," I was beginning.
The next instant I saw that formal
apology was needless. It was Leigh Evers-
leigh.

** I was on my way to look for you, Mrs.
Darkwood," he explained, laughing ; whilst I,
unseen, managed to brush the tears from my
eyelashes and to call up a smile to my set
lips.

"The sunlight was in my eyes," I said at
random. Then, marking that the child was
absent, I cried anxiously, " Isla — where is
she ? "

It is all right — she is perfectly safe," he
answered. " We have had an uncommonly
industrious morning on the sands, and it was
warm work into the bargain ; and by-and-by
the little one got tired, and wanted me to
take her home."

^'And you did?"

'' Yes ; I carried her home and laid her in
her cot, and, at her earnest request, began to
tell her stories ; but in five minutes she was
asleep as sound as a roach, and looking as
well and as rosy as you could wish to see
her. I am so glad you brought her to
Thangate."

So am I." In the next breath, ** How
good and kind you are to her, Mr. Every
leigh ! " I added gratefully.

He stooped, and rather abruptly said, —

'have you — forgive me — heard bad news V

Why do you ask ? " I inquired, in a faint
voice.

*you are looking so — so pale and sad'*
said he very kindly, flushing somewhat through
his tan as he spoke ; " though I fear you
will think me impertinent for remarking
it."

If there was one man in the whole world
whom I felt I could trust before all other
living men, that man was Leigh Eversleigh.

If," I said, more firmly, " you will walk
homeward with me, I will tell you what I
have heard this morning."

He turned directly, his head slightly bent, hi

hands and stick behind his back. So he walked
by my side towards the town.

Then I, without further parley, and reserving
nothing, told him all that I had by chance overheard,
not half an hour before, in the desultory
conversation of those two young men. For some
seconds he offered no comment ; then he said
slowly, —

That must be Viscount Tracy, the only son
of the Earl of Starch ; and his companion
doubtless was Marc Gaveston, Kollo Gaveston's
younger brother."

And is it possible that Lord Tracy is going
to marry Aurora Eamage — Miss de Yere ? " I
exclaimed.

** Actually it seems like it," smiled Leigh. " I
heard in town, a short while back, that he was
partly engaged to some handsome young woman
who was on the stage ; but I had not the least
idea that the lady so favoured would prove to
be your Miss de Vere."

Will it not be considered a — a — a very
extraordinary occurrence, Mr. Eversleigh ? " I
inquired ; amused and amazed at the same
time.

Well, hardly. Lord Tracy will be by no
means the first of his rank who has chosen a

wife from the same quarter. Whether such
ventures as a rule turn out well is quite another
question."

It is a queer world, Mr. Eversleigh ! " said I,
sighing unawares.

"Can it be that you have only just mastered
the fact, Mrs. Darkwood ? " returned he, with a
swift and somewhat quizzical downward glance
at me.

** No. I found it out years ago."

I had spoken more passionately, perhaps —
with more bitterness, I am certain — than I had
meant to speak. So I hastened to cover what I
felt to be an error by hastily saying, before
Leigh himself could speak, —

And do you know — personally, I mean —
this young Viscount Tracy % "

*' I have met him once or twice — it may be
oftener — at the Gavestons'. As you heard,
Rollo Gaveston and I and Daryl Darkwood
were all three of us together as quite young
men at Ursula's."

And the Mrs. Eversleigh mentioned this
morning by Mr. Marc Gaveston," I ventured to
ask, — " who is she ? You, Mr. Eversleigh, I
know, have no mother. You have told me so
yourself," I gently added.

"Ah, you mean the Mrs. Eversleigh at
Eedknights ? " said Leigh, in his frank
way.

Yes — at — at Eedknights," said I, in a rather
husky and uncertain tone.

Well," Leigh tried to explain, " she is in
reality no kinswoman whatever of mine ; for
I and her late husband, Captain Eversleigh,
were merely cousins two or three times removed
I positively cannot tell you which ; for I
am not, you see, sure myself," he laughed.
However, I know Mrs. Eversleigh intimately ;
for, besides our being just slightly connected
through her marriage with Captain Eversleigh,
I used frequently to meet her, in the days before
she became a confirmed invalid, at Gaveston
Priory — a fine old place, and only a few miles
from Eedknights itself. But it strikes me,
Mrs. Darkwood," said he pleasantly, '' that somehow
you never have thoroughly understood
the Eversleigh-Darkwood connection. Have
you ? "

'* It would be odd," I replied, trying to speak
without pain, " if I had. You are aware — you
must have seen for yourself — how little I know
of Daryl's affairs ; how little I am in my
husband's confidence."

But surely," cried Leigh, as if involuntarily,
" you have heard of Redknights ? "
And I answered as calmly as I could, —
''I never heard of Eedknights until this
morning ! "

VOL. I.

F the reply touching my ignorance
upon the subject of Redknights and
its history created any astonishment
in the mind of Leigh Eversleigh, he allowed
naught of the surprise to escape him.

Well, Mrs. Darkwood," he said, with a rather
suspicious cheeriness and rapidity of utterance,
Daryl, I think, could not possibly object to my
making a slight family complication somewhat
clearer to you than it is evidently at present,
because I notice that in your hearing he sometimes
— though perhaps it is in jest — speaks of
me as his cousin ; which of course I am not. It
is misleading, you know ; and there's no secretin
the matter ; there cannot be. Besides,"
added he, with that sunny smile of his own
which could be so singularly winning when he
chose, " I consider that it is as much my family

story as it is Daryl's. You see, it was in this
wise. Old Squire Darkwood, who is himself
yet alive, had two children — a son and a
daughter ; Marion, who became Mrs. Evers-
leigh ; and Daryl — Daryl's father — who, together
with his wife and Captain Eversleigh,
fell a victim to an outbreak of some terrible
fever in India. All three of them were out
there, as it happened, at the same time ; the
separate regiments of the two Captains being
stationed only a few miles apart from each
other ; and all three of them were carried off by
the epidemic, with many another European,
within the space of a few days. The news for
the old Squire at Redknights — who, by-the-way,
had lost his own wife in the earlier years of
their married life — was a great blow ; people
said, indeed, that it aged him prematurely.

Fortunately for Mrs. Eversleigh herself,
whose health just then was delicate, she had
been unable — like Mrs. Darkwood, the other
Captain's wife — to accompany her husband out
to the Indian station. The Darkwoods had
taken their boy with them ; but Marion Evers-
leigh and her little daughter remained behind
in England with her father at Redknights.

"But Fate, it seemed, was to be strangely

cruel to the Dark wood family. Scarcely had the
sad tidings arrived from India, telling the old
Squire that his only son Daryl, his son-in-law
Captain Eversleigh, and his daughter-in-law,
Daryl's wife, where no more, and that Captain
Darkwood's boy, now a youngster of eight or
nine and his grandfather's heir, was about to be
sent home to England by friends of his dead
parents — scarcely, I say, had this sorrowful intelligence
reached Eedknights, when a fresh and
crushing calamity fell upon the newly-widowed
Mrs. Eversleigh.

Her only child — the darling of its mother's
heart, and the pet of its grandfather's too — met
with a tragic end. The little Flower, when only
about two and a half years old "

Flower — Flower ! " I interrupted, keenly
interested. " Was, then, the child of this Mrs.
Eversleigh — who, I perceive, must be Daryl's
aunt — called Flower ? "

*eyes," replied Leigh gravely. "Her name,
sweet as it is singular, was the same as yours,
Mrs. Darkwood. Often since I have known
you have I thought what an extraordinary
circumstance it is that Daryl's wife should be
called Flower."

"Surely," said I musingly, "the child you

speak of must have been the little cousin whom
Daryl has once or twice mentioned in a casual
manner. Ah, I remember now ! "

Yes. But Daryl Darkwood, now your husband,
never in his life saw her, though," Leigh
gently put in. " For, as children, they never
had met before he was taken out to India ; and
before he returned from that treacherous country
little Flower Eversleigh was dead. She had been
killed, the tragedy was over — Daryl knows it
only by hearsay — by the time he came to live
with his grandfather at Kedknights."

** Killed!" I echoed. 'show dreadful, Mr.
Eversleigh ! How was she killed ? " My voice
sank to an almost awe-stricken whisper ; my
blood, as the saying goes, ran cold.

I was thinking of my own darling, my little
Isla, with her soft short dark curls and her wistful
blue, her intensely blue and dark-lashed eyes
"Periwinkle the Second," as Daryl sometimes
in his boisterous moods called her ; and
I wondered, with a dull sense of unspeakable
anguish, how should I be able to go on living
as this other mother, it appeared, had gone
on living, and was living still, if my child were
thus to be snatched violently from me ?

"Yes," quietly continued Leigh; "poor little

Flower Eversleigh was murdered — murdered,
for revenge' sake, by a vindictive woman-servant
who had for insolence been dismissed from
service at Kedknights.

*' She was Mrs. Eversleigh's abigail ; and
was called, if I remember rightly, Kachel Owen.
She had an accomplice, though I forget his
name, in this fiendish deed ; but I know that
he was the lover of the woman Owen, and an
under-keeper or something on the Squire's
estate. It was a most cruel thing — they being
well aware how dear was the little one in the
sio;ht of the old man and his daughter — and
caused, so I've been told, in those days great
stir and excitement throughout Buckinghamshire.
"

Is — is Eedknights then in Buckinghamshire
? '^

"Yes."

*' But those — those wretches, Mr. Evers-
leigh — you have not yet told me how they
murdered the child ? "

** They drowned her," he answered. " Winding
through a hollow or valley in the park
of the old house there is a deep and swift-flowing
river, with many a muddy and weedy
hole hidden away in the dangerous bed of

it. This deep swift stream, Mrs. Darkwood,
was that little child's grave."

'rand the murderers — the man and the
woman," I said indignantly — " they were of
course caught and properly punished for the

crime " I stopped ; turning, as I invariably

did when bloodshed and the hideous consequences
of it were dominant in my thoughts,
suddenly faint and sick.

'well," Mr. Eversleigh said more blithely,
'* the really most extraordinary part of the story
is that, although every effort was made at
the time to track the man and the woman
to their hiding-place, all endeavour towards
this righteous end failed utterly. But by-and-by
the rumour got abroad — yet no one
in the Darkwood family to this day, I
believe, is quite certain whether or not the
report was correct — that justice, in a singularly
complete manner, had overtaken Rachel Owen
and her infamous companion in guilt.

As man and wife, and under an assumed
name, it was said that they had fled to
and hidden themselves in some north-eastern
locality of London. Here it came about
that, in a deadly brawl between this worthy
couple, Rachel Owen was slain by her brute-lover

— kicked and beaten to death by this
man, whose name I cannot just now remember.
However, the end of the affair was,
he, sullenly making no attempt to escape, was
taken red-handed ; tried, condemned to death,
and speedily "

I wished to hear no more. It was all too
horrible. Warm as was the day, I shivered.
We were ascending the higher part of the
town on our way to my lodgings upon the
cliff; and here I was thankful for an excuse
to ask for some real support.

Do not tell me any more of it," I said,
with difficulty controlling my faint voice —
the story is so — so dismal. It is dreadful ;

and — and I Mr. Eversleigh, will you be

good enough to lend me your arm just here —
merely for a moment ? I always fancy that
this part of the ascent, especially on a warm
day, is most fatiguing."

It is," he readily assented ; the assistance
I had asked for being instantly forthcoming.
*the heat has not made you feel ill, I trust,
Mrs. Darkwood ? " he added anxiously.

No, no ! I am rather tired — indeed that
is aU."

We had gained the summit of the heights.

The sea-wind met us afresh. I drew in a
deep draught of it, and felt stronger. But
I was determined that the talk should not
drift back to the gloomy theme of murder
and sudden death — I had had enough of it :
it tried me too sorely.

Now that I have the chance — that the
opportunity is here," so I made haste to say
" I should very much like to — to put a
certain question to you, Mr. Eversleigh. I
wonder whether you will answer it ? "

I will if I can," he replied gravely, after
a pause. My hand still rested upon his
arm.

'' I am sure that you can ; but I am not sure
that you will."

"Let me hear it," said he.

This is the second time to-day — the second
time within the past hour — that I have made to
you the humiliating confession that, although
I am Daryl Darkwood's wife, I know almost
absolutely nothing of his affairs — certainly
nothing of his past," observed I.

Leigh, an honest gentleman, was silent. He
knew that I spoke only what was true. Therefore
I went on, —

It is painfully clear to me that there is a

secret in Daryl's life. It is equally clear to me
that from his own lips I never shall hear what
that secret is. If hitherto I have been fool
enough to doubt that this was actually so, young
Viscount Tracy and his friend this morning
dispelled all uncertainty upon the matter.
From their conversation the truth was forced
upon me — there is a dark chapter in Daryl's
life."

Still Leigh was silent.

So I continued more nervously, —

"" Of course I, as Daryl's wife, cannot stoop to
ask you, Mr. Eversleigh, to lift the veil, to let
in the light upon the gloom, as it were ; equally
as a matter of course you, as Daryl's friend,
could not do so mean a thing even were I sofar
to forget myself as to beseech you at this
moment to do it. But — but this I do freely
own I should like to know — I think that I
have a right to know it : was the offence — this
trespass of Daryl Darkwood's — a very great, a
very heinous one ? That is my question ; and,
do you know, I am rather hopeful about it ? It
cannot be very bad, can it," said I wistfully, if
somewhat vaguely — " or — or you, Mr. Eversleigh,
would not be his friend ? "

He was staring at the ground as he walked.

He seemed to be pondering something before he
could make up his mind to speak.

"Will you tell me," I begged earnestly, "so
much, if nothing more ? Indeed I ask you for
nothing more. Do tell me, Mr. Eversleigh, that
it was not anything very terrible — at any rate,,
that it was nothing wholly unpardonable ? "

At last he said, with great kindness of
manner, —

You see, it is not fair, not just, that a man
should suffer for ever for a — a fault once committed
and past undoing. He sins, let us say,
and suffers for that sin. But surely, though
reparation, atonement, may not altogether lie
within his power, after much suffering and
sincere repentance on account of the transgression,
he should be forgiven and his fault be
forgotten ? That is only just."

I was far from satisfied. I was disappointed
and uneasy ; the truth of the case being that
I somehow could not bring myself to conceive
that Daryl had ever really suffered, much less
repented. One could not in fancy associate
penitence and humility with the reckless, not
to say selfish, spirit of Daryl Darkwood. They
are qualities of a divine stamp, and are impossible
to the natures of some people. According

to Daryl himself, he was never to blame for
anything. It was always his " accursed luck " —
his destiny " — that was answerable for the
mischief that happened.

I sighed and said, —

"Yet, in spite of all, whatever the 'all' maybe,
you are — are you not ? — his real, his sincere
friend ? "

We were close to Miss Piper's door ; there
was no time for more ; and after to-day the
question, I felt, could never be unearthed again.

And Leigh, as gently and as kindly as before,
replied, —

"I can truthfully say, Mrs. Darkwood, that
I believe I am his sincere friend — and yours."

"Ah, I know well enough that you are
mine ! " I answered gratefully ; albeit perhaps
a trifle sadly. Was I hurt, I wonder, because
he had not been more frank with me ? I do not
know.

There was some one standing within the open
doorway of Miss Piper s house, smoking a cigar
that made the air around delightful. At first
1 thought it was one of the lodgers who
occupied the dining-room floor below us, and
did not recognise him ; for he — the strange
man, as I thought — was dressed in a new

summer suit of very light gray and woolly-looking
tweed, admirably fashioned and vastly becoming
to the tall dark handsome stranger who
wore it. His hat, a deerstalker, matched the
gray suit in just the right way ; his tie was
a knot of dusky crimson silk caught in a gold
ring ; and his boots were of new patent leather
topped with light-coloured cloth. A black
walking-stick with a silver knob, and a white
Bond Street button-hole, finished off the gentleman's
attire.

"Like a good and dutiful dame, Periwinkle,"
he called out, with an unpleasant light in his
brilliant eyes, and an offensive smile just visible
beneath his heavy swart moustache — " I perceive
that you look inconsolable for the absence of
your true knight and master."

Suddenly, as if it had been burnt, my hand
dropped from Leigh Eversleigh's arm. I had
totally forgotten that it remained there.

Leigh, in his easy, thorough-bred manner,
lifted his hat to the man upon the doorstep ; for
it was his friend, and my husband, Daryl Dark-wood.


Notwithstanding his strange mien
and his curious smile in greeting me
and Mr. Eversleigh, Daryl clapped
Leigh upon the shoulder in the heartiest way
possible, and invited him in to " luncheon."

But Mr. Eversleigh, though he came upstairs
for a few minutes' chat, firmly declined to stay
for our mid day meal. He was going to drive
over to Shipgate, he said, to call upon some
people he knew who had taken a house therefor
the autumn ; and he must get back to the
*' Black Stag" at once.

A mutual explanation took place between
the two men, whilst I went to see whether Isla
was yet awake, to take off my hat, and to
smooth my hair. The Thangate breezes of a
morning were apt to wax rough in their play.

Leigh Eversleigh explained to Daryl what

I naturally already knew : how it was that he —
Leigh himself — had turned up so unexpectedly
at Thangate. The father of his yachting friend
had died suddenly in Scotland ; the son in great
haste had been telegraphed for ; the yachting-party
and their plans were of course broken up
in consequence ; and the whole scheme had been
abandoned — postponed indefinitely until a happier
time. Having made all his arrangements
with this cruise in view, and really looking forward
to what would be his first glimpse of the
Mediterranean, Leigh declared that he had been
at a loss to decide what to be at, or whither to
go for his "autumn holiday," when this sudden
upsetting of their plans was brought about by
the death in Scotland.

Recollecting, however, that we were at Than-gate,
and having our address in his possession,
he thought that he could not do better than run
down to the seaside and in person ascertain how
we were " getting along."

So he came, and took rooms at the "Black
Stag ; " and indeed was so comfortable at that
famous hostelry that he had no intention just
yet of going away from it.

Well, as for me," threw in Daryl carelessly,
'* I merely went up to town for the day, as I

thought. But strolling along the shady side of
the Strand, don't you know, whom should I run
against but that queer fish Herr von Eosenberg
why, you must remember Rosenberg, Periwinkle,
don't you ? " — turning rather sharply tome.
Isla was still resting in her cot ; and I had
returned to the sitting-room.

"Yes," I replied briefly. Distinctly I remembered
Herr von Eosenberg ; but I could
remember nothing good of him.

I wonder how it is," pursued Daryl, in a
voice of affected plaintiveness, "that so many
foreigners invade our shores — come over to Mo '
the English capital — at such an impossible time
of year ? "

Oh, it's only those who don't know any
better ! " said Leigh.

Suppose that is it," agreed Daryl languidly.
And it's so deuced hard to make 'em comprehend,
don't you know, that London in mid-august
isn't exactly the same thing as London
in May."

"Did you stop then, Darkwood, with this
Herr von Eosenberg ? " Mr. Eversleigh inquired.

"Yes," replied Daryl, sinking into the easiest
chair the room contained and stretching apart
his long legs in that remarkably cool and

favourite fashion of his. "He said he felt
lonely and wanted somebody. And so, as he
was snugly housed at Clang's, 1 saw no reason
why-what

!— in Brook Street ? " put in Leigh, in
accents of quiet astonishment.

"Yes, Brook Street," said Daryl, nodding
indolently at his friend. " Rosenberg, in one
respect, you see, old man, is unlike the generality
of his needy brethren of the Fatherland.
He has a nice little property of his own somewhere
or other in the Saxon Switzerland region,
and is as free as an Australian millionaire with
the coin it brings him in. Not half a bad chap,
Eversleigh, for a German ! Should like, by the
bye, to introduce you."

Thanks," was all Leigh said. But the single
word was spoken with perfect kindliness, and
might mean anything.

Come, old fellow," cried my husband, rousing
himself, " if you are so confoundedly obstinate
and won't stop, you'll have a sherry-arbiters,
or a seltzer-and-brandy, or something
before you go ? Now, Periwinkle, my dear,
look alive. Your notions of hospitality are prodigious."


The becoming gray suit, the patent-leather
VOL. I. R

boots, the smart walking-stick, and the gold
ring which encircled the crimson necktie, were
all now accounted for. I no longer marvelled to
myself over the perfection of my husband's
appearance.

For this was the plain fact — Herr von
Eosenberg was a confirmed gamester ; but,
even in those days when we had known
him in Dresden and elsewhere, he never had
in that direction been a match for Daryl
Darkwood.

When Mr. Eversleigh was gone, and indeed
for the rest of that day, Daryl's curious
and highly unpleasant humour towards me
remained unchanged. I hardly knew how to
interpret it, or in what light to view it ; it
was in truth almost suggestive of — well, I
cared not to imagine what. I chose rather
to ascribe the mood to one of his manifold
ways," and kept my temper, I flatter myself,
admirably under the sting of his provoking
manner.

He had two " seltzer-and-brandies " before
dinner ; and, when the weary lodging-house
maid-of-all-work toiled up from the unknown
kitchen regions to spread the cloth for luncheon,

as Daryl called it — she having left the 
door ajar, so that the sea wind,
rushing in at the open bay-window, blew his
newspapers and society-journals into a wild
confusion together — he swore at her volubly
but quietly, smiling all the while. But it
was only his lips that smiled — there was
a darkling, savage light in his half-closed
eyes.

Daryl ate his " luncheon " in silence, with
a magazine open by his plate, alternately
taking a mouthful and turning a page. The
meal over, he lit one of those deliciously
fragrant cigars which he had brought down
with him from town — got, doubtless, from
Herr von Rosenberg — and then dragged Isla
by the arm to his knee. Like a shy small
culprit in a pinafore she stood there, arraigned
before her judge.

And so you have been horribly dull, I suppose,
Tupp'ny," said her father, " whilst I've
been away — eh ? "

Yes — no, papa," said Isla, in the weakest
of whispers.

*' Come, speak up ! " shouted Daryl, giving
her a slight shake.

Isla, with drooping head, became dumb.

Now I daresay you have had lots of rides
in a goat-chaise — eh ? " said Daryl, more kindly.
*' Is that about it, little 'un ? "

Yes, papa."

And built castles in the air — I mean, upon
the sands ? "

Yes, papa."

'rand driven in a carriage to Shipgate, I'll
wager anything ; and to Downstairs ; and to
Beckford ; and to Maxwell Bay ; and to —
well, dickens knows where we haven't been ina
carriage with Mr. Eversleigh — always with
Mr. Eversleigh— eh, Tupp'ny ? "

"Yes, papa," said the child, brightening,
reassured by a smile — a queer one though it
was — from Daryl, and by the magic of the
name that she knew and loved ; " and we've
been to the Dome-by-the-Waves to hear Miss
de Vere sing, and seen the wild beasts in the
gardens, and the monkeys, and the big funny
birds,

done all that, have you ? " her father
cut in. " Why, bless me, you can't have
been so dull then, after all ? "

No, papa."

"Humph — ah! 'said Daryl, with a mock
scowl at his little daughter. "You want

looking after a bit, young woman, I can
plainly see, when your father's away on
business in London. I must lock you up
next time I go — yes, I must — in a dark cupboard,
Tapping, and take the key in my
pocket ! "

As the child began to look pale and
frightened, and Daryl feared that the tears
were about to flow, he gave her a push and
said airily, —

*' There, cut along with you — I'll forgive
you this once ; but mind and be a better
girl next time — that's all 1 "

Just as Isla and I were about to sit down
to our tea, Daryl, with gray hat and silver-topped
walking-stick, strolled into the sitting-room
and gave out his intention of wandering,
as he said, as far as the " Black Stag." He
wanted a game at billiards or something ; and
perhaps Leigh Eversleigh had got back from
Shipgate, said he.

I had not yet taken my seat in front of
the small tray, but was standing at the o^^en
window, looking out at the sea. It was seven
o'clock. One after another the lamps along
the cliff were being lighted. Someone — a
woman with a mandolin — was singing under

the windows of the Cliff Hotel. Thangate
visitors, in smart apparel, were hastening off
to the already crowded pier, that now stretched
out into the tranquil sea a mere dim dark
line dotted with coloured lights ; or were
swarming down to the concert and dance at
the popular Dome-by-the- Waves.

A melancholy greenish hue rested upon the
lovely still sea, with here and there a dead-gold
gleam or a dull splash of wannest rose that had
been left by the fading sun. And here and
there, too, in the hazy sapphire distance a
motionless yacht or steamer was faintly limned.

Daryl came to my side. He put his arm
around my waist and brushed my cheek roughly
with his moustache.

So sorry, is she," said he jestingly — " so
sorry that her true knight and master has returned
? And yet — was she not ? — she was
moped to death without him I "

Steadily — perhaps not without contempt — I
turned and met his dark and cruel smiling eyes ;
and, as I did so, with cool firm hands I loosened
his fingers from about my waist.

I don't understand you, Daryl," I said.

We live and learn, Periwinkle," laughed he,
odiously obscure.

We do," was my brief reply.

As I spoke I moved coldly from him ; and
again stared — but now blindly, for my bosom
was rising visibly, and tears, proud hot tears,
had started to my eyes — out at the fast-darkening
sea.

*' Shall I bring Leigh back with me, if I see
him. Flower ? "

'' You may please yourself, Maryland

you too, of course," said he jauntily.

Oh, how could he be so cruel to me — how
could he find the heart to wound me so ! What
had I done to deserve it ? I had not deserved
it — no, I had not ! I had not ! Even that
untranslatable smile of his was like a stab ; and
he knew it.

This time I vouchsafed no reply to his remark.
I would not — nay, I could not ; that is
nearer to the truth. So my husband called out,
*' Ta-ta, Periwinkle!" and shut the door. I
heard him laughing quietly to himself as he
descended the stairs ; and in that moment —
God forgive me ! — I hated him.

)T soon became apparent that the old
days, or rather evenings, of the
^.^Ji^ Chesterfield Avenue kind, in all their
odious risk and perplexing nature, were to be
revived here at our Thangate lodgings ; and
once more returned the old uneasiness, the
old anxiety, when I perceived that this would
inevitably be the case.

The bare sight of the cards seemed to smite
my heart with a deadly chill ; but I was utterly
powerless to hinder the play. So well knowing
Daryl's temper, I dared not interfere.

Nevertheless, I felt as certain as I was of my
own existence that evil, sooner or later, must
come of this bad state of things. And the foreboding,
alas, proved a true one !

It is no wonder that even now T cannot look
back to those days in my life without a shrinking

sense of acutest humiliation, of intolerable
shame. Knowledge, when it did overtake me,
was indeed terrible — terrible in the consequences
that it brought in its train !

Somehow I never could endure to go to bed —
though all Thangate save ourselves had long
since gone thither — and to leave the two men
sitting up together and playing into the small
hours of a new day ; with the siphons and the
spirit-bottles upon the slab of the sideboard, and
the littered cards — oftentimes dice — upon the
oval table between them.

Leigh Eversleigh, however, was always himself
— self-possessed, cool-headed, temperate. It
was Daryl who waxed excitable and noisy, and
who drank about three times as much as he
ought.

Little piles of gold, on such evenings as these,
very quickly seemed to accumulate at the elbows
of the two men, and glittered in the gas-light
from the chandelier above their heads. And
sometimes I heard the crisp rustle of a banknote
; but for what amount I never saw.

I used to sit silently behind the curtains
within the open bay-window ; my arms upon
the window-sill, my head in my hand ; looking
out with troubled eyes at the vast plain of water

before me — upon which sometimes the moonbeams
fell chilly and weirdly, and quivered for
miles in a thin bright amber track athwart the
restless bosom of the lone dark sea.

How awful, how divinely mysterious was that
sea in its midnight loneliness ! There was tome
something appalling in its solemnity ; in its
great and utter solitude. What terrific force,
what crushing strength, lay sleeping beneath the
ripples of its cold quiet tide ! And yet in someway
it seemed to ease my heart, to soothe the
vexed soul within me, to gaze thus out in the
hushed darkness at the gentle but mighty sea,
with the tremulous moonbeams and the chill
salt breeze just lightly wrinkling the surface of
it.

For I felt that God Himself was there ; whilst
in the gas-heated, spirit-smelling, card-tainted
room behind me, devils invisible might beholding
high sway.

It is perhaps unnecessary to state that affairs
of the evening here at our Thangate lodgings
ended precisely as they used to end at Mrs.
Ramage's house in Chesterfield Avenue ; Mr.
Eversleigh invariably — or nearly so — at pale
dawn returning homeward to the '' Black Stag "
a poorer man than he had come up to the cliff.

Nevertheless, I have some pleasant memories
associated with that visit of ours to Thangate*
One's past is never all gloom.

With daylight and sunshine and vigorous
breezes, my heart usually grew buoyant again ; and
all morbid dread and gnawing anxiety took flight.

Perhaps it was the splendid air of the place —
the life-giving ozone that made old folk feel
young, and young folk fancy that they could
never grow old. Any way, in the daytime
my fears were forgotten ; and all thought
of the future I resolutely put away. The
present at any rate was bright and real — so
I then believed ; the past, please Heaven,
was for evermore done with. So it is that,
when one is happy, one is too apt to hug
oneself, as it were, in a mantle of false security.

One morning — it was in the first week of
September, I recollect — Mr. Eversleigh, Isla
and I were down upon the sands under the
cliffs. The tide was far out ; the slimy flat
black rocks were bare. There was a stiff wind
blowing from the north-west, and woolly clouds
went racing over the somewhat cold blue sky.
The clull-o^reen waves in the distance were
foam-capped and frolicsome ; the soft white
sea-birds wheeled above them. Now and again.

with a curious planning cry, they swept lightly
and low through the salt spray, to ride at
graceful ease upon the romping billows.

And so, as the pier was just now too breezy
to be agreeable, we had sought the shelter of
the rugged old cliffs.

Isla, with some other youngsters like herself,
was industriously digging holes in the
wet sand ; her frock and petticoats pinned
up conveniently, her wee pink feet bare. Mr.
Eversleigh and I, our backs to the towering
chalk wall in the rear of us, were watching
her operations from the higher and drier ground.

I had a book on my lap ; but I was not
reading. He was lying idle by my side. Daryl
was playing billiards at the " Black Stag,"
and doubtless drinking whiskey-and-soda meanwhile.


Suddenly the light in front of us was
darkened, and a woman stood there upon the
sands close to us — a thorough-born Sibyl if
one ever walked the earth.

Her wily eyes were as black as was her
shining oily hair; her wrinkled face was of
the colour of the duskiest cocoanut ; she had
large gold rings — or rings that looked like
gold — in her ears and upon her hands. She

wore a brilliant red shawl tied around her
in singular fashion, since at her back it served
as a sort of hanging cradle for a baby as swart
as herself. The child was asleep. Yet the
woman could scarcely have been the mother
of it — she was too old.

'' Tell your fortune, pretty lady ? " said the
gipsy, in the whining, wheedling voice familiar
to every one.

Instantly, so to put it, the sealed book of
my past life was opened — fell then and there
apart at a well-remembered page. Involuntarily
shrinking, I glanced upward at the
fortune-teller, and said hurriedly, —

No, no, no ; go away, please ! " I laid an
entreating hand upon Mr. Eversleigh's arm.
Don't let her stop — send her away ! " I
beo'Q-ed, in a voice which had grown nervous
in spite of myself. Leigh put his hand into
his pocket. The gipsy's eyes glittered. An
offensively fawning smile crept over her coffee-brown
face.

"You are as beautiful, lady, as the flowers
you favour and after which they christened
you in your sweet innocent babyhood," said
she glibly. " And as for the gallant handsome
gentleman by your side — ah, believe the poor

Periwinkle.

gipsy when she tells ye that he'd go through
hire and water, my dear, to serve "

'' Make her go away, Mr. Eversleigh," I broke
in desperately — " please do ! "

Leigh sprang to his feet. He thrust a half-crown
into the Sibyl's ready claw. " Be off ! "
said he sternly. " We want none of your
gibberish here. Go, I say ! "

Smiling, leering, curtseying, as she pocketed
the piece of silver, for one wavering moment
she eyed the resolute speaker. But in him
she could discern no shadow of relenting —
nothing but a swift and an iron determination
that would brook no thwarting when
once he had spoken.

The police are not far off," calmly remarked
Leigh, as he settled himself leisurely by my
side again.

The fortune-teller kissed her brown hand tous
; nodded with grinning insolence as she
turned away ; and then vanished, with the
living bundle tied to her back, into the crowd
which covered the sands.

'then you don't believe in palmistry, Mrs.
Darkwood ? " Leigh said pleasantly, affecting
not to have noticed my loss of composure, and
interpreting, in his own tactful fashion, my

shuddering aversion to the hag and her foolish
trade. 'you are not a bit superstitious, I
perceive," Laughed he.

Nevertheless, I was absurd enough once
long ago — to have my — my fortune told,"
I said. And then, in the next instant, I
wished that I had not spoken ; had not told
him this ; and my gaze wandered nervously
away from Leigh.

And did it come true ? " he asked, in
an amused tone. 'has any part of it ever
come true ? "

"Yes — no. I — I mean, I'm sure I forget.
It is all so long ago — or it seems so," I
answered at random, wishing more than ever
now that I had held my tongue. I felt intensely
vexed at my own stupidity. Yes, it
had happened long ago ; but, as vividly as
though I had heard it only on the day
before, could I then recall every word of the
strange prophecy spoken of my future by
old Wyse the Wanderer, in the quarry upon
the northern moor. *' A fair man," so the
Wanderer had told me, would come into my
life ; and here, at vulgar, matter-of-fact Than-gate,
was Leigh Eversleigh lounging under
the cliffs by my side.

I tried to give a turn to the conversation ;
and directed Mr. Eversleigh's attention towards
an Italian organ-man who had with him a sad-faced
little monkey dressed in a garment of
faded red and green. But the cogitations of
my companion appeared still to be running
upon the dreadful gipsy and her fortunetelling.


It is really astonishing," I heard him
saying thoughtfully, as he picked up little
pebbles from the cliff's jagged base and
aimed them, with indifferent result, at some
child's forgotten sand-castle a few yards off
** what clever shots, so to speak, these
nomadic old prophetesses do sometimes make.
Of course it is only occasionally that they
succeed in hitting something like the truth ;
and of course it is nothing in the world
but pure chance even then — everybody knows
that. Still," ruminated Mr. Eversleigh aloud,
*4t is odd."

You mean," I said, continuing to watch the
pitiful antics of the marmoset, " that horrid
woman's allusion with regard to my own name ?
It was odd, I admit. Fortune-tellers — although
no sane person ever puts an atom of faith in
their predictions — are uncanny folk, I think."

I suspect, Mrs. Darkwood," observed Leigh,
in the same light yet preoccupied manner, " that
she guessed you to be a ' Violet ' or a ' Lily ' or a
^ Rose ' or a ' Hyacinth,' or a something of the
kind equally commonplace and sentimental. I
fancy it would have puzzled her, her dark gifts
notwithstanding, to hit upon the right one —
would it not ? "

'eyes, indeed ! "

After all, though, it would have been rather
good fun to tackle her upon the subject," he
smiled.

*she never would have guessed * Periwinkle,'
" said I, with a rather bitter laugh.

Mr. Eversleigh bestirred himself — sat up.

'* Mrs. Darkwood, you must not think me
impertinent," he said more soberly ; " but do
you know that I should very much like to hear
I have so often wondered — who it was that
first christened you ' Periwinkle ' ? "

Daryl," I answered briefly. I cared not to
rake up the old dead trivial story of how the
fanciful name had in the first instance been
given to me. Those old past days, with their
gladness and their gloom, their innocence and
their horror, for ever were done with. Let
them rest in their unhallowed grave !

VOL. I. s

Just then bare-footed Isla came trotting
delicately over the sands towards us, and
wanted her frock unpinned and her shoes
and stockings put on. She was tired — had
had enough of paddling and digging holes ;
and, more than anything else, she wanted
her dinner. She was so hungry !

'but gracious, darling," cried I briskly,
feeling almost feverishly grateful for the interruption
to our tete-astute, which the appearance
of the child beside us had now
completely effected, " where are the cakes
and the chocolate-creams that Mr. Eversleigh
bought for you in High Street this morning ? "

All gone," whispered Isla, hanging her
head.

Thangate air ! " laughed Leigh, catching my
darling to him, and himself beginning to put
on for her Isla's stockings and shoes ; just as
Daryl, coming along the sands to find us, and
swinging his stick as he came, cried out —
having suddenly espied our whereabouts, —

By Jove, I^eigh, old chap, you'll make
an admirable family-man by-and-by ! "

*'Do you think so?" inquired Leigh, unmoved.


' Yes, I think so ! * " replied Daryl absurdly,

quoting a then favourite catch-phrase from a
certain popular extravaganza of the day. "But
I say, you two," continued my husband, with
his careless laugh — " such a joke ! What's
think? For the last half-hour or so I have
been on the pier with the Ramage gang ;
Marc Gaveston and that young fool Loftus
Tracy were there, and Binkworthy, the manager
of the Levity, who it seems has run
down for a few days to see how the fair
Aurora is getting along at the Dome. As it
was frightfully rough out yonder at the pier-end,
we took shelter in the pavilion ; where
the Viscount stood us ' fizz ' in the most
liberal manner. It is a pity that he is bent
upon making such a confounded ass of himself."


How do you mean ? " inquired Leigh coolly,
without lifting his eyes from a tiresome job
touching a refractory top-button of Isla's boot.
Mr. Eversleigh's hands were so big, and the
buttons were so small, Isla seriously explained
to her valet de chambre — " That's why he
couldn't do it."

He swears that he'll marry the girl,"
answered my husband, with a shrug.

"And a man like Tracy might certainly do

worse, rejoined Leigh calmly. *' If lie is in
earnest, he can't do less."

'* Well, it's no affair of mine," said Darling
his airy way. *'He may marry the old
mother herself if lie pleases. But I was going
to tell you, Mrs. Eamage gives a supper tomorrow
night — that is after Miss de Yere
has done her turn, as she calls it, at the Dome
and the old lady got me aside this morning
and made me promise that I would bring you,
Flower, to the festival ; and * my friend Mr.
Eversleigh' as well, added the old girl. It
was devilish awkward, you know — she would
hear of no refusal. She says she must do
something in a small way to celebrate 'Miss
de Vere's engagement,' which is now, it appears,
an open secret. There will be only Binkworthy,
the Viscount, and young Gaveston as guests —
and ourselves, of course. Just * a nice little
family party,' as Mrs. Eamage says."

''I— I don't think I'll go, Daryl, thank you,"
I gently observed.

Not go ! Why, pray ? " he demanded
brusquely.

There is Isla, you see," I began ; *' and —
and — "

'' Oh, hang it all, Miss Piper can look after

the youngster, can't she ? I have promised for
you, Flower, and you must accompany me. I
don't care about going alone ; and what's more,
Periwinkle, I am not going alone."

I said no more. As I have before recorded
in this autobiography of mine, by this time I
thoroughly knew my lord and master. It was
easier to yield to him than to resist him. Experience
had made me wise.

You, Eversleigh, will make no fuss about it,
I suppose ? " said Daryl carelessly.

Leigh was half frowning, half smiling. But
he plainly hesitated.

Why, man alive," cried Daryl, " who cares a
a — a rag what one does here at Thangate? Anything
for a change ! Who knows ? Who cares ?
You are not in Belgravia. I told Mrs. Eamage
and the accomplished Aurora that, since I and
my wife would be happy to assist at her party
you sooner or later would be safe to put in
an appearance too. I felt quite certain, you see,
that they might count upon you, old man."

Oh, all right then ! " said Leigh, getting up
quickly, and — having at last conquered his task
gathering Isla's hand into his own. " Perhaps
I shall run against Mrs. Eamage between now
and tomorrow evening ; and then, Darkwood,

if I should, ril thank her on my own account.
By-the-bye," said he, changing the subject, " I
got the phaeton and horses down from town this
morning — it's time they had a little thorough
exercise. What do you say" — looking from me
to my husband — ** to a drive to Canterbury and
back this afternoon ; and dinner afterwards at
the * Black Stag ' ? "

I smiled my gladness, my grateful assent ;
and Isla glanced shyly but very happily upward
into Leigh's fair tanned face, because a pressure
of the hand had assured her that she was not
to be left behind.

With all the pleasure in life, old fellow,"
Daryl answered ; with vigour smiting his friend
upon the shoulder — "that is, if you'll consent to
come up to the cliff now, and eat your luncheon
with us. Will you ? "

Leigh said that he would. And so, bending
our heads to the strong sea-wind, we all went upto
Miss Piper's house together.

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

■-i^/m

m¥r

*4::'''

sS*

^

AS SOON KILL A MAN AS KILL A BOOK

Y[)orr)0S • o/lpffjup • Jorics.

What is a man
If his chief good and market of his time
"Be but to sleep and feed ? A beast, no more

!5»i*i?:.

M^^-

m^

s^.«^m

itt^^m^

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

8a3

VOL. II.

Or

THE PIT TOWN CORONET. By Charles J. Wills. 3 vols.
A RECOILING VENGEANCE. By Frank Barrett. 2 vols.
THE MAN WITH A SHADOW. By G. Manville Fenn. 3 vols.
DIANA HARRINGTON. By B. M. Croker. 3 vols.
A LEAL LASS. By R. Ashe King (' Basil')- 2 vols.
THE LAST HURDLE. By Frank Hudson. 3s. 6d.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

BY

Arnold GRAY

AUTHOR OF

THE WILD Warrington," "LIKE LOST SHEEP,"

Etc.

the more a man learns of the wonderfulness of this world the more
chary he is in saying what is and what is not a possible complication
of events." — From an Article on Victor Hugo in tie "■ Athenxum."'

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON

WARD & DOWNEY

12 YORK STREET, COYENT Gardens

1 888

fall Rights reserved']

v.^

CONTENTS.

Book II.

continued.)

DARYL Kirkwood's WIFE,

Book III.

HEDKNIGHTS, . . . . .195

continued.)

DARYL Kirkwood's WIFE.

•" He will hold thee, when his passion shall have spent
its novel force,
Something better than his dog, a little dearer than
his horse." — Tpm7i>jso7i.

O, what may man within him hide.
Though angel on the outward side ! "

Shakespeare,

Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to
be understood." — Ralph Waldo Emerson.

Chapter XVIII.

^^l^pHAT evening, after a delightful drive
^g ^i to Canterbury and back in Mr.
^S^5^^ Eversleigh's smart phaeton, followed
by an excellent dinner at the celebrated " Black
Stag," Leigh suggested to Daryl that they
should have a cigar and a moonlight stroll
upon the pier.

So, coffee finished, we left the hotel — first
however taking Isla home to bed ; for the child
was dead tired with her long and happy day —
and then we bent our steps towards the iron
turnstiles.

The wind had wholly gone down at sunset ;
the night was beautifully fair and calm. The

VOL. II. A

tide was well in ; but the waves were hushed ;
the sea was as smooth as a deep still river.

Lights far out — green, yellow, and glowing
red — twinkled mysteriously upon invisible
masts ; and were reflected in dim and tremulous
hues within the quiet dark mirror which lay
beneath them.

Now and again one heard the splash of oars
near to the black and ghostly network of the
pier timbers ; and from the dense cold shadow
into the watery moonbeams a small boat perhaps
would shoot jauntily forth — the venturesome
crew of it laughing, horse-playing, or shouting
snatches of a rollicking song. What was the
loveliness of a perfect night to them %

High overhead rode the tranquil pale moon,
gazing wonderingly down, as it were, upon the
noisy sea-girt scene ; for the pier promenade
was as usual thronged ; the crowd was chattering
like a vast flock of jays ; the band was
playing its liveliest ; the tramp of feet was like
the tramp of an army. A seat in the neighbourhood
of the lighted pavilion was not to
be obtained ; every available chair and corner
of resting - space being occupied by early-comers.


So those, of course, who could find no seats

were by circumstances compelled to keep upon
the tramp.

No sooner did we gain the circular promenade
than straightway we met the Ramage party.
It was then half-past nine o'clock ; and Miss de
Vere's duties at the Dome-by-the- Waves were
now over. The Dome concert ended at nine ;
but the fun of the place in reality — a " ball "
following — lasted, I believe, until eleven or
midnight. The evening glories of the 
-the-waves were known to me only by
hearsay.

Mrs. Ramage, as was her wont, was respectfully
effusive ; Miss de Yere as genial and self-possessed
as ever. The girl was nicely and
becomingly dressed in a soft white gown with
much lace about it and old-gold coloured
ribbons ; and she had on a high-shouldered
tippet of otter's fur, being careful of her throat
and chest. She wore perhaps too many narrow
silver bangles that jingled incessantly ; and I did
not altogether like the small close-fitting diamond
stars — diamonds unmistakably — which
flashed and burned in her pretty ears. But
doubtless the jewels were the gift of Viscount
Tracy, and so Aurora wore them.

Then for the first time — on that clear moonlight

night — I was introduced to Lord Tracy
and to his friend Marc Gaveston ; who had been
standing a little apart in the background, with
their crutch-sticks tapping their teeth. Off
came their hats with the utmost courtesy ; and
I could perceive that neither of the two young
men had the least idea that he had ever in his
life before set eyes upon the wife of Daryl
Darkwood.

I do not quite know how it came about ; but
presently we three women found ourselves
abreast and walking on ahead, with the four menin
pairs strolling with their tobacco in the rear
of us. Such awkward divisions in a friendly
group always somehow arrange themselves.

** I am happy to congratulate you, Miss de
Vere," said I sincerely. " I believe I may do
so now ? "

'eyes, you may do so now, Mrs. Darkwood,"
replied the practical Aurora equably. '' You see,
I have learnt that it is always wisest to make
sure of a good thing before you begin to brag
about it ; or I should have told you something
with regard to Lord Tracy and his attentions tome
at the theatre before you left home for Than-gate."


In a sudden burst of maternal pride, which

I suppose the worthy creature was unable any
longer to hold in check, Mrs. Eamage, under
cover of the tramping and the moonlight shadows,
slipped her arm beneath mine and gave it a
convulsive squeeze.

'' Only fancy, Mrs. Darkwood, mem — only
just fancy ! " gasped she. *' He's a real live
lord, and a kind-natured and a well-meaning
one into the bargain ; in spite of his dandy airs
and his shiny boots. They're to be married before
the spring — the next spring as ever is — and
Eory, if she lives, will be the Countess of Starch !
Oh Lord, Mrs. Darkwood, I can't bring myself
to believe it yet — I can't, mem, indeed ! "

"Well, she is a thorough good girl, and she
deserves her good fortune," I promptly whispered
back.

A good girl ? Ay, that she is ! " said Mrs.
Eamage, almost tearfully. " What do you think,
mem ? I am to have a suburban villa residence
all to myself when they are married, just
wherever I please to fancy ; and I've chose Ealing
Common, since my lord had no objection ;
and I'm to go and visit Eory at her own grand
house just as often as I please, and I am to stay
there too with the dear child just as long as ever
I please ; and — and — now isn't he kind and

noble?" whispered Mrs. Eamage breathlessly,
as the band struck up the ** Pomona " waltz.

*' Yes, indeed ! " I answered sympathetically.

And then Miss de Vere went on to remark, —

"And so you understand, Mrs. Darkwood, I
asked mother just to be good enough to hold her
tongue to everybody until things had been
brought to a real head. You can imagine that
I didn't want to look like a fool through being
in too great a hurry."

"And I'm sure I obeyed you, Eory, dear — I
always do," mildly threw in Mrs. Eamage.

Oh, yes, mother — it's all right ! " gently
answered Miss de Yere.

Then Mrs. Eamage hoped that she was not
presuming, was not indeed going too far, in saying
that she should be extremely disappointed if
I did not come and have supper with them at
their apartments on the following evening. The
Captain — Mr. Darkwood, she ought to say — had
promised her faithfully that he would bring me ;
and she — Mrs. Eamage — would really feel it if,
after all, I should decline to honour her.

'bless you, mother, Mrs. Darkwood isn't
proud," observed Miss de Yere coolly — " she'll
come ! "

Of course I mean to come," I answered

gaily ; at the time forgetting my scruples of the

morning.

How can I thank you, Mrs. Darkwood ? "
exclaimed Mrs. Eamage gratefully.

*' Our thanks are due to you, Mrs. Eamage,"
was my light-hearted reply ; " for I think it is
very kind of you to invite us."

*' Gracious!" after a while ejaculated Mrs.
Eamage — '' where is Eory ? "

Behind us, Daryl, who had overheard, laughed.

We were just wondering, Mrs. Eamage,"
said he, " what had become of Lord Tracy."

Oh," said Mrs. Eamage, in a more comfortable
tone, " if that's the case, sir, it is all right
then I "

Mrs. Eamage and I continued our promenade
together. Presently Daryl called out, —

Flower — I say, Flower — wasn't it so ? I am
right, am I not ? " — appealing to me on some
trivial point or other that he was masterfully
arguing out with young Gaveston and Mr. Evers-
leigh. It so happened that I was able to settle
satisfactorily the question mooted between them.
In a few words I did so ; and then turned again
to Mrs. Eamage.

Heigh-ho ! " said she, with a sentimental sigh
which somehow came oddly from the mother of

Miss de Vere. " Never can I forget the old days,
Mrs. Darkwood, whenever I hear the Captain
calling you ' Flower.' "

Cannot you ? " I smiled. *' Why not ? "

I never heard the name in my life," said
Mrs. Damage pensively, " until I went to live at
Hoxton ; and that was years ago. My poor
dear husband, mem, was alive then."

Was he ? " I said gently, not knowing what
else to say.

Yes, Mrs. Darkwood — he was alive then, and
in the best of 'earth, poor dear," said Mrs.
Eamage, with another not uncheerful sigh ; " and
it was some little while before Eory was born.
We had two rooms in those days, I remember,
in alehouse in the St. Vincent Eoad, Hoxton. It
was not a very genteel part, mem, to speak the
truth, in spite of its high-sounding name —
nothing like so genteel as Chesterfield Avenue ;
nothing like ! But it was rather hard times
with us just then, Mrs. Darkwood. I had no
employment at all that year ; and my poor dear
Abraham worked the limelight at the Albion
Theatre Royal. So two rooms, you see, was
about as much as we could manage at that time
of day — with our own furniture o' course.

"Well, mem, at the top of the house, occupying

only one room, there was a man and a
woman by the name of Wilson — at least, they
gave out that Wilson was their name ; but none
of the other lodgers, I don't think, believed
that they were man and wife, or that Wilson
was their real name. I know we did not, my
Abraham and me ; though," said Mrs. Eamage
earnestly, " may Heaven forgive us if we was
wrong and uncharitable !

One sweet little child they had — such a
sweet little duck she was, mem — who was just
as shy and frightened sometimes as your own
dear little angel, Mrs. Darkwood. Indeed I
am often reminded of that little child at Hoxton
when I look at your own pretty darling. Missy
Isla. But when I knew baby Wilson, she
couldn't have been so old as Missy — "

And was her name Isla too, then ? " I broke
in absently.

** Oh, no, Mrs. Darkwood ! Don't you understand
? The little Hoxton child's name was
Flower ' — the same as yours."

Flower ! " I exclaimed. '' How curious ! "
adding, with a smile — 'why, my name, after
all, Mrs. Eamage, it appears, is not such an uncommon
one as I have generally been inclined
to think it. My husband once had a very

young cousin whom he never saw; she — she
died, I have heard, before he came home from
India; and she was called * Flower.' There
is nothing new under the sun. How true
it is!"

Well, I never ! " said Mrs. Eamage. " But
I was going to tell you, mem, that something
very shocking happened at that house in the St.
Vincent Road ; and little Flower Wilson was
fetched away from it by her grandfather, I — I
think it was ; no, it was her "

Something very shocking ? " I interrupted,
beginning to feel a genuine interest in Mrs.
Eamage's inconsequent narrative. " And what
was that ? "

** A murder," said Mrs. Eamage, lowering her
voice. " As dreadful a murder — and all through
drink, they said — as ever was "

Again I interrupted the narrator ; both
my interest and my curiosity now strongly
awakened.

"Not the little child, I hope?" I said
quickly.

"Dear no, mem ! I told you just now — or
meant to— that baby Wilson was fetched away
from that house at Hoxton directly after her
father had been "

But it seemed that Mrs. Earn age was not
then to be permitted to finish her story ; and
perhaps I was not wholly sorry to lose the end
of it, whatever it might be, since the tale was
evidently one in which the horrible predominated
in no mean degree ; and enough of that
which was terrific had already overshadowed
my past knowledge of life !

Daryl, in a playful manner, with his stick
was tapping Mrs. Eamage upon the shoulder.
She broke off immediately in her talk of Hoxton,
and her gloomy reminiscences of the St. Vincent
Eoad there, and faced my husband, broadly
smiling.

'* What is it, Captain ? " she said, with that
queer, arch, sidewise ducking movement of
hers, which somehow suggested a curtsey and
yet which was not one. It was more of a
respectful wriggle than anything else — any way
I never saw anything like it until I came ta
know Mrs. Eamage.

We had all halted in a group together.

Mrs. Eamage," said Daryl joyously, *' we are
about tired of this eternal tramping round and
round — this tread-mill sort of business, don't you
know — aren't you ? — and begin to feel a craving
for, a — a — an absolute need of, a refresher of

some kind. Come with us, Mrs. Eamage, and
have a glass of wine ? "

Mrs. Eamage wriggled more than ever.

Oh, lor , sir," said she, " I really don't think
I ought — "

'' Pooh ! " said Daryl airily, taking her by the
arm. " A claret and apollinaris, or a port and
soda with a dash of lemon in it, will do you all
the good in the world. Now don't be unsociable,
there's a dear creature ! "

Oh, lor , Captain," said Mrs. Eamage more
faintly, '' what a one you are, to be sure ! I — I — "
She pretended to hang back ; but all the same
she was allowing Daryl to lead her in the direction
of the dazzling pavilion ; young Gaveston
following them, laughing, apparently much
amused.

'come along, Flower — come along, Evers-
leigh ! " Daryl looked over his shoulder to
shout to Leigh and me, before the glass doors of
the pavilion closed on them. He was still holding
Mrs. Eamage by the arm.

'* No, thank you," said I.

*' No, thank you," said Leigh Eversleigh.

Thus it happened that we two found ourselves
alone with each other — alone, that is to say, in
the midst of the pier crowd, which still kept up

its perpetual march — with the band playing, and
the high fair moon overhead.

Let us get to the flag-post at the end yonder."
suggested Leigh, offering me his arm. 'there
it will be possible, Mrs. Darkwood, to feel a
breath of fresh air."

Willingly," I replied ; and accepted his
proffered escort.

To the smartly-dressed multitude the band and
the noisy pavilion were far more attractive than
was a contemplation of the grand serenity of the
wide lone sea, with the wan moon-smiles quivering
within its dark and awful bosom ; for hereupon
the triangular promontory where, with
faces turned seaward, we now stood, there was
space to stretch oneself and to breathe comfortably.


What an exquisite night ! " Mr. Eversleigh
murmured as if to himself ; looking slowly upward
to the purple dome of heaven, all strewed
as it was with its myriad white stars. " What
a perfect night ! "

I said nothing. The loneliness, the mystery
of the sea at night was filling, as it ever did,
my heart with a deep sense of peace and of
rest.

Suddenly upon the crowd there fell a hush.

One could now distinctly hear the prolonged
swish — s — s — sh " of the little growing waves,
as with a ghostly whisper they went creeping
inland to fling themselves wantonly at the base
of the rugged cliffs. Calm as it was now, there
might yet be foam-capped breakers ere the dawn ;
for the sea is as capricious, as changeful as a
woman. The Thangate summer mob had fallen
dumb, as it were, to a man ; the cornet-player of
the band was playing his customary solo — which
this evening proved to be " Some Day."

Far over the quiet sea rang out the slow sweet
air ; clear, true, unutterably pathetic. The
hornet-player, as he played, himself seemed to
feel every note of the music.

The link of tacit sympathy — or whatever it
should be correctly termed— which existed
between Leigh Eversleigh and me kept us both
silent. He had folded his arms as he stood ; his
shin rested upon his breast. For myself — well,
for the life of me I could have spoken no syllable
just then ; my heart was touched to aching by
the haunting pathos of the melody ; the tears
in my throat gathered thickly and rose to my
burning eyes.

Had there been by my side a husband who
really loved me, and whom I truly loved, I

might have pressed my forehead to his dear
shoulder and have wept outright.

Did my staunch friend Leigh Eversleigh,
although so silent, comprehend this ? I cannot
tell.

ES. RAMAGE'S party was emphatically
an event in my life. Through many
a strange experience had I gone as
Daryl Darkwood's wife ; but Mrs. Ramage's
festival in honour of her daughter Aurora's engagement,
taken with the consequences which
were the direct result of the affair, was unquestionably
for me the strangest and saddest
experience of all.

The supper-hour was ten o'clock ; and a few
minutes before the appointed time we — Daryl,
Mr. Eversleigh, and I — presented ourselves at
the Damages' apartments, which were up-stairs,
like our own at Miss Piper's. Viscount Tracy,
his friend young Gaveston, and Mr. Binkworthy
the theatrical manager, were already there ; the
three men having returned home with Miss de
Vere straightway from the Dome-by-the- Waves.

Aurora, who was wearing the gown in which
she had sung her songs at the Dome, to-night
looked really handsome — undeniably beautiful.
It was a tasteful gown of palest lemon-coloured
muslin, with many little frills about the narrow
trained skirt of it, all edged with pretty lace. The
elbow-sleeves revealed her shapely arms, upon
which, in the house, the numerous bangles she
was so fond of did not appear in the least out of
place. She wore upon her left shoulder a lovely
cluster of hot-house flowers, both scarlet bloom
and white, with long feathery sprays of maidenhair
fern — and in her fair hair Lord Tracy had
just fastened some bright-red geranium, with a
sprig or two of lemon-plant as well.

He was paying Aurora the most marked attention,
and seemed passionately devoted to this
clever young woman of his choice ; whilst
Aurora herself treated her titled slave with a
cool and easy familiarity which was decidedly
amusing to witness — her brio-ht face was flushed
with genuine pleasure notwithstanding.

As we three guests from the cliff* were strangers
to Mr. Binkworthy, we were each of us in turn
presented to the manager of the Levity. It was
Mrs. Eamage — who was attired in a bronze shot-silk
gown, with a large embroidered collar and

VOL. II. B

a cameo brooch, and a gorgeous new cap that
would not keep straight — who with much pride
and many a wriggle performed the necessary
introduction ; Mr. Binkworthy, with extreme
affability, bowing to the right and to the left
of us.

He was a short, stout man, in a short jacket,
who wore many rings upon his fat and not over-clean
hands. A white waistcoat, cut low, displayed
a fine expanse of rather limp shirt-front,
in the centre of which shone a big carbuncle,
and below which dangled an immense gold locket
and chain. Mr. Binkworthy, in his way, was
an illustrious person.

At supper I sat between the manager and
young Gaveston ; and both of them made themselves
exceedingly agreeable. Daryl, at Mrs.
Eamage's request, was occupying the end seat
at table immediately facing her own, in order
that he might relieve her of the work of carving.
'* If you don't mind. Captain," said Mrs. Eamage
in her most wheedling tone, "just cutting up
the fowls and that for me, I can manage the
lobster-salad and the rest."

And so, facing each other — hock, claret, and
by-and-by champagne flowing without stint —
Daryl and Mrs. Eamage cracked many a joke

together, and drank each other's health quite a
dozen times at least.

Naturally, in these circumstances, as the evening
wore on, the hilarity of the little party
waxed stronger and stronger ; Mr. Binkworthy,
the manager, telling some really funny stories ;
Daryl, in highest spirits, capping them with
others still funnier and wilder.

Stop, Captain, do," cried Mrs. Ramage,
laughing and choking together ; "or you'll bethe
death o' me, I know ! " And then, recovering
herself, in her best manner she forthwith
proceeded to " take wine " with Viscount
Tracy.

My love to you, Mrs Ramage," said he
pleasantly.

The same to you, my lord," replied Aurora's
mother, affectionately beaming upon her future
son-in-law.

At that instant, raising my own eyes from
listening to some lengthy but not too wise
remark of young Marc Gaveston's, I encountered
those of Mr. Eversleigh — who was
sitting opposite to me and my drawling companion
— with a queer questioning light lurking
within them. With one hand meanwhile he
stroked his long tan moustache ; and I could

not help wondering whether he was smiling
beneath it.

He, I somehow felt, was wondering what I
thought of Mrs. Eamage's party ; but I knew
that we must wait until the next day before we
could quietly compare notes upon the event.

The next day !

How little did I dream on that brief evening
of Bohemian merry-hawking, in that short hour
of informal conviviality, what the 'next day"
for me would bring to pass ! Alas, how hard
and wrong it seems that often when one is
brightest and happiest, then is it that the
shadows of life are nearest !

Many were the good things upon Mrs.
Eamage's supper-table ; and the wines fortunately
were irreproachable. Lord Tracy himself,
having undertaken to attend to this department
of the feast, had got down all that was
requisite from his chambers in town.

But, excellent as was everything upon the
Beam ages' hospitable board, the business of feeding
could not go on for ever. Moreover, it had
been previously settled that with the after-supper
refreshments and cigarettes — also for these latter,
of a fragrant ^' Egyptian " brand, were Mrs.
Eamage's guests indebted to the good nature and

forethought of Lord Tracy — music was to be the
principal feature of the entertainment.

Very heartily, it having been proposed by
Daryl — a toast, said he, half-seriously, half-joy
ously, which must on no account be forgotten
had we drunk the health of the engaged
couple, and wished them a long life and much
true happiness in it. And then, his lordship
having in reply made a quite neat and witty
little speech, sincerely thanking us on behalf of
himself and of Aurora, Mr. Bink worthy proposed
the health of Mrs. Eamage. And so the fun
went on, until supper was over and cigarettes
were lighted, and Miss de Vere opened her hired
piano.

She was going to sing to us.

She sang her serio-comic songs with real
humour, with all the wit and vivacity of a trained
obedience of her kind ; and Lord Tracy sat by
her at the piano as she played, his arm thrown
round the back of her chair. He was very much
in love, and very jealous. He meant everyone
to understand, it was clear, that Aurora belonged
to him — that she was his own, his very own,
and nobody else's. And then Daryl sang the
"Yeoman's Wedding" in a rollicking easy
manner that won for him plenty of applause ;

and young Gaveston, in the smallest of tenors,
piped the ** Power of Love."

Then once more my husband obliged the company,
now with '' Jack's Yarn " and the " Warrior
Bold ; " and by-and-by Miss de Vere again
delighted us all by her spirited rendering of
her great Levity success, "Would you believe
it ? " — which set Mr. Binkworthy thumping the
table until all the glasses rattled together.

But Leigh Eversleigh, when pressed to perform,
for some reason quietly but firmly begged to be
excused ; and Lord Tracy himself ruefully declared
that he never had sung a song in his life.
"I don't even know one note from another —
except that some of 'em are black, and some are
white," said his lordship frankly — 'wish I did."

Eory would soon teach you, my lord,"
sniggered Mrs. Eamage.

Will you, darling ? " whispered the enamoured
young man, bending low over his bright
divinity, his cheek touching her ear.

If you're good," replied Aurora briskly, out
loud.

He's far gone, ain't he ? " murmured Mr.
Binkworthy confidentially to Mrs. Ramage.
*' Head-overseers this time, and no mistake ! "

** Hush — sh ! " said Mrs. Ramage. " You

don't know, sir, what a noble young man he is."
And then she told Mr. Binkworthy about the
villa-residence she was to have upon Ealing
Common, when Aurora should no longer be Miss
de Vere, but the wife of Viscount Tracy.

I am sure that you are a musician, Mrs.
Darkwood," presently called out the manager of
the Levity — *' from the style in which you play
your husband's accompaniments any one can tell
that. You sing — now don't you, madam ? "

'mrs. Dark wood sing!" exclaimed Leigh
Eversleigh, speaking up involuntarily. ' ' I should
rather say she did, sir ! "

Rather indeed ! " echoed Miss de Vere in
her hearty way ; wheeling suddenly round
upon the music-chair in order to face the company.
" Why, I declare I had clean forgotten !
Sing ? Of course she does — sings as well as
plays. Mrs. Darkwood, if she pleases, can beatus
all hollow."

Mrs. Darkwood sings like — like any nightingale,"
Mrs. Eamage was earnestly assuring Mr.
Binkworthy, "and I am sure that she will
kindly favour us. Won't you, mem ? " — turning
from the manager and appealing to me.

It would be foolish to refuse when it was
plain that they were all against a refusal — to

make excuses when I had actually no sensible
one ready ; and so, though I myself was scarcely
that night in the vein for singing — like Mr.
Eversleigh, preferring the role of listener and
observer — I at once complied with as gay a
grace as I could.

After a moment's pondering, uncertain what
they would like — my repertory and that of Miss
de Vere being so dissimilar — I remembered and
sang " Kathleen Mavourneen," deciding that
something old, simple, and pathetic from me
would please them best.

I do not think that I was mistaken in my
choice ; for Mrs Eamage's sea-side drawing-room
was as silent as an empty room until my song
was ended. And then, when the last note of the
accompaniment had died quite away — well, for
some time afterwards they would not allow me
to stir from the piano ; but besought me again
and again to sing to them " those sweet old
songs."

At last, after " Auld Robin Gray," Lord Tracy
begged me to give them something more modern
" ' Going to Market,' or ' For Ever and For
Ever,' don't you know % " said he. Knowing it
the better of the two, and it suiting me the
better of the two, I sang the latter ; and then I

got up resolutely from the music-chair, lightly
remarking that I had become hoarse. So many
compliments had been heaped upon me, I was
feeling quite pleased and excited.

The room to me now had grown intolerably
warm and " smoky," and I went over to one of
the long and narrow windows, both of which
opened conveniently to the floor ; there being a
balcony running along outside of them, upon
which to-night were placed two or three fragile
wicker chairs.

I stepped out into the air and sat down in
one of these chairs ; thankful to feel the fanning
of the gentle night-breeze which breathed inland
from the wide dark sea. The roadway — the
*' Parade," as it was called — below was now
utterly deserted. Thangate church-clocks were
chiming the half-hour after one.

Somewhat to my surprise, Mr. Binkworthy
joined me upon the balcony ; seating himself
heavily in another of the basket-chairs, which
creaked piteously beneath his weight. He drew
his familiarly towards mine ; but said rather
awkwardly — the rest were again talking and
laughing within the lighted room behind us, —

And how do you like Thanet on the 'ole,
Mrs. Darkwood % Ever been here before — eh ? "

I told Mr Binkwortliy that I liked Thangate
very much, on the whole, and that I never had
been there before. Then I stared at my stout
companion and wondered what was coming
next.

He humid and hard, and appeared to be at a
loss for a conversational idea. As I found his
fidgety dumbness a great deal more irritating
than his speech, I said carelessly, —

*' How odd the bathing-machines look, do
they not, all drawn up in a dark line under the
sea-wall yonder ? "

Mr. Binkworthy merely glanced in the direction
indicated, and answered automatically, —

'* They do. Mrs. Darkwood," said the manager
abruptly, " you've got a rare fine voice of
your own."

I smiled a little coldly.

You told me so a few minutes ago."

*you was taught abroad, I understand ? '* he
observed thoughtfully.

eyes."

Hem — ha, just so — hem ! " said Mr. Unworthy,
slowly rubbing his rather stubbly
chin.

I yawned as slightly and as politely as I could.
But the mild hint was lost upon Mr. Binkworthy

or he would not see it. He laid his fat belonged
hand upon my arm. I gently withdrew
it from his touch.

Look here, madam," said the manager, in a
tone that had all at once grown brisk and businesslike
; " how would you like to be put — to be put
into the way of earning a — a — well, say a nice
little lump of coin every week ? To look in at a
certain shop, regular, on every Saturday afternoon,
and to find a envelope addressed to you,
and waiting for you there, with — i'm, ha — well,
let us say with between twenty and thirty
pound inside ? "

"Very much indeed," I replied readily; but
still quite coldly. " Always supposing that I
could clearly see my way to such singular good
fortune."

Mr. Binkworthy slapped his thigh.

'madam, it's as clear as daylight," said he.

I am afraid that I am very obtuse," I
rejoined.

The manager of the Levity made an impatient
noise in the roof of his mouth ; frowned, and
said, —

I am afraid, madam, you mean to be."

"Positively, Mr. Binkworthy, I do not understand
you," I remarked calmly.

Tee manager then rose from his creaking
basket-chair, which indeed was more than a
size too small for him ; and stood upon the
balcony, with his back to the sea. He was
rather nervously fingering his prodigious watch-chain
and locket.

"Mrs. Darkwood," he said, " it would, I'm
aware, be impertinent on my part to infer that
you would be glad to — to be put into the way
of earning anything ; and therefore I don't infer
it. I hope you understand me, madam — I don't
infer it. All I wish, however, to say is — supposing
— mind, only supposing as you was ever
to find yourself in want of a little ready cash,
to buy some pretty gowns with, gewgaws, or
what not, and didn't quite know which way to
turn for it — see ? — why, all that you've got todo
is to just think of me ; or, better still, comedown
to me in my room at the theatre, and the
matter shall be arranged with as little delay as
possible. It only rests with yourself"

There was no misunderstanding Mr. Unworthy
now. I understood him perfectly ; and
I told him so.

"You mean," I said in my chilliest manner,
^* that you would like me to sing for you at your
variety theatre; and that you would pay me

something between twenty and thirty pounds a-
week simply for my singing there ? Is that it
Mr. Binkworthy ? "

'* You've hit it exactly, Mrs. Dark wood," said
the manager boldly. '' If you would come e very-night
to the Levity — to the Levity, and to no
other theatre in London, mind — and sing me
three, only three old songs or modern ballads,
whichever you like, just as you sung 'em here
to-night — why, I would willingly give you
twenty-five pound a week to start with. Many
a lady, bless ye, have done it before you ; and
there's nothing; to be ashamed of in earnings
money ! You have got a lovely voice,
Mrs. Dark wood," said the manager eagerly —
'' a lovely voice, splendidly trained ; and you
would just about fetch 'em with that simple
dignified style of yours ; and an old ballad or a
pretty new song on the boards nowadays is
about as popular as anything you can give 'em.
I ought to know. It beats the ballet into fits ;
and brings the swells a-dropping in, too, after
dinner. Besides, you needn't sing under your
own name any more than Miss Aurora Eamage
does ; and a lady who goes in for the simple
ballad singing business can dress as modestly
as "

I held up my hand. I cut Mr. Binkworthy
short.

You are too kind," I quietly said ; " but my
answer is emphatically ' No.' "

You decline then ? " said the manager ; reluctant
to take a plain refusal.

Do not you comprehend me ? Most
assuredly do I decline."

Many women would jump at the chance,"
grumbled Mr. Binkworthy.

Perhaps ; but in more respects than one I
am unlike other women. For example, I am
fond enough, I grant you, of the theatre itself
of a good play or a comic opera. Yet, for
all that, I cannot bear to think of women
.as being upon the stage — upon any stage
no matter how gifted they may be."

The manager laughed offensively.

*' There's no sense, madam, in talking like
that. Women on the stage — or, as you'd have
it, no women on the stage — why, hang it all,
how's the stage to do without 'em — eh ? "

*'I well know that my ideas upon the subject
are inconsistent, ridiculous, impossible, if you
like," I replied equably. " Nevertheless I say,
I maintain, that a woman, whoever she be, who
goes upon the stage, in so going loses something

of her purity — of her womanhood. She may be
highly gifted, I repeat — a bright genius — but
her genius is tarnished in the glare of the footlights.
At any rate, that, sir, is my opinion of
the matter."

The manager laughed again as coarsely as
before.

*^ In these days'' said he vulgarly, *such
notions won't wash ; and the sooner, madam,
you get rid of 'em the better." He was moving
away, but turned to add — '' Well, you know,
Mrs. Darkwood, a day may come — for the world
is full of rum surprises — a day may come, I say,
when you may be not altogether unwilling' to look
me up. I am mostly to be found myself at the
Levity ; and any letter addressed to me there
will always be safe to find me. Don't forget ; I
shall be 'happy to see you or to 'ear from you
at any time."

Thank you," I answered — I fear ironically.

Once more Mr. Binkworthy was turning to
leave the balcony ; to re-enter Mrs. Eamage's
close illuminated drawing-room, where 
were still flying gaily, and Miss de
Yere was still singing her serio-comic songs. A
thought had suddenly darted into my mind — a
thought that disturbed me acutely.

Mr Bink worthy," I called to him — " one
moment ! "

He at once came back to me.

'' What ! — you have altered your mind ? " he
said, brightening. " How like a woman, to be
sure ! "

Nothing of the kind," I said impatiently.
Mr Binkworthy, I want you — as a great favour
I want you to promise me that you will mention
nothing, nothing whatever, if you please, of this
conversation to Dar — to my husband."

I wasn't going to," put in the manager
sulkily. *' Where's the good ? Is that all
then ? "

With a sigh of relief I sank back into my
chair.

Yes, Mr. Binkworthy, that is all ; and I am
very much obliged to you," I said, not without a
vague feeling of gratitude towards the manager
after all.

He left me then ; and I was alone. Not for
long however ; for the flimsy window-curtains
behind me again were parted ; and out stepped
Mr. Eversleigh. Whatever may have been
happening within the noisy room in our rear,
Leigh himself at this hour was as calm, as cool,
and as genially self-possessed as when, some few

hours before, with Daryl and me, he had arrived
at Mrs. Eamage's door.

His society after that of my late companion
was a thoroughly welcome change ; and I frankly
assured him — Leigh — of the fact. But I told
him nothing of Mr. Binkworthy's curious proposition.
He took the wicker chair vacated by
the manager, and quietly drifted into talking of
music and of books, with many a kindred theme
besides in which we both of us felt the same
keen sympathy and interest. His nature was
too kindly, too essentially gentle, to discuss
the oddities of — to in any wise criticise — Mrs.
Eamage's festival within Mrs. Ramage's own
apartments. So together we chatted on very
pleasantly of one thing and another — for it happened
that most of the foreign towns with which
I was acquainted were equally well known to
Mr. Eversleigh — and I, at any rate, forgot how
late, or indeed how early, it had already grown.

The clocks were striking three. A cold dawn-wind
was breathing from the east ; wan flame-streaks
would soon be breaking over the chill
gray sea.

A voice shouting close behind us caused me
and Leigh Eversleigh to start and look round.

Hullo, you two ! " cried my husband, in the

VOL. II. c

open window. ** Perhaps, when you've quite
done — done your spooning out there, you'll —
you'll come home. At all events, I mean — I
mean my wife to come home with me. You,
Eversleigh, 'course, may please yourself. So —
so, Flower, you just look alive, will you ? Can't
you see I'm — I'm waiting — been waiting this
hour or more for you ? Come along ! "

Very pale, and trembling slightly, I went
directly to get my hat. Leigh remained unmoved.
He perceived what Daryl's condition
was ; and he wisely ignored the insulting remark
that Daryl had made.

"All right, old fellow," he said, rising and
stretching himself; "it is latish. I'll come with

you."

Oh, please yourself, man!" hiccoughed Daryl
again. As he spoke, he was steadying himself
by the framework of the window. ''My society
is no attraction, I'm well aware. Still, there's
my wife. She — she, I dare say, will be glad of
your company if — if I can't 'prelate it, don't ye
know."

In the sitting-room, Mr. Binkworthy, young
Gaveston, and Viscount Tracy were still smoking
cigarettes and drinking champagne ; or perhaps
it was brand y-and soda — I don't know.

Miss de Vere, looking annoyed — nay, exceedingly
put out — was tapping the floor with her embroidered
slipper. Mrs. Eamage, I was shocked to
notice, was fast asleep upon the sofa.

As speedily as we could manage our departure
we got away ; and Mr. Eversleigh accompanied
my husband and me up to Miss Piper's house on
the cliff". Without Leigh's strong aid I shudder
to think what, in the circumstances, I should
have done ; I was helpless and horrified enough
as it was !

With every lurch and stagger Daryl swore
at us both ; and told Mr. Eversleigh that he —
Leigh himself — was drunk.

At Miss Piper's door Mr. Eversleigh left us.

If our hands — his and mine — at parting clung
most pitifully together, God above us knows
that it was no sin of either. His manly chivalrous
heart, 1 knew, was bleeding sorely for me ;
my own heart, aching very bitterly, was unspeakably
thankful for such real sympathy
as his.

What more, alas, could he do for me ?

So he and I, in the chilly dawn, said good-bye
to each other ; and from that sad hour it was a
long, long day before I saw Leigh Eversleigh

AKYL, with many a curse and stumble,
somehow got upstairs ; and I heard
a door creak cautiously upon the top
landing of all, and felt that Miss Piper, hearing
the commotion, had slipped out of her bed and
was peeping at us over the banisters.

He dropped into the first arm-chair he came
to ; thrust down his hands into his trousers-pockets
; stretched his long legs widely apart ;
and growled out that he wanted a 
— a big one ; and then he swore at me for
being so '' infernally slow " in getting what he
wanted, though I was in reality obeying him as
fast as my trembling hands would let me.

When Daryl Darkwood was very tipsy, then
was it that he was most inclined to be quarrelsome.

Having from hard experience learnt this fact,
I am well aware that I should have been more
wary, more tactful, in dealing with him at such

a time as the present — should have waited until
he was sober ; and for a while, at any rate, should
have smothered as best I could the hot indignation
which was consuming me.

Had I been wiser, had I been more patient
and forbearing, I should have been spared much
sorrow, much degradation — some almost hopeless
suffering in the after days !

But there is no woman living who is without
a spark of temper of her own ; and mine, as a
rule under thorough control, not an hour before
had been cruelly tried.

So, at the sideboard, 1 mixed for my husband
a huge tumbler of soda-water and brandy ; and
holding my head high, and conscious of my own
heart-beats, I crossed the room and carried the
mixture to him. With my bosom heaving, with
my breath coming short and fast, I stood there
before the arm-chair in which he lay sprawling.

"Your conduct to-night has been hateful,
Daryl. You have insulted me intolerably!" said
I recklessly. "And, if you were a man with
a grain of honourable feeling about you, you
would this minute, sir, rise and beg my pardon."

Here was a flinging down of the iron glove
with a vengeance !

Before in any manner answering, he took the

>;■.

glass from my hand, and at a draught swallowed
half the contents of it. It seemed to do him
good — to sober him somewhat. His own hand
was steadier than mine when he set down the
glass upon a small table near him. It was by this
time broadening dawn — in fact, nearly bright day
and the room was full of rose and gray light.

It was too late now to wish that I had given
my anger time to cool ; at least, wishing could
avail me nothing. The rash words were uttered
there was no unsaying them. Heaven help me !

Hem — so ! " said my husband then, in his
most insufferable way. " Beg your pardon, Periwinkle,
'm — eh ? Something fresh, that, isn't it ?
Ha, ha, ha ! Besides, why the deuce, pray, should
I beg your pardon. Flower my dear, when I told
you only the truth, 'm — eh ? " hiccoughed he, in
the nasal tone of the half-sobered tippler.

What 1 " I cried, aghast.

*' Why, only the truth. Periwinkle," Daryl
repeated with an insolent laugh. " I said —
didn't I ? — that you and Eversleigh were — were
spooning together out there upon the balcony at
old mother Ramage's ; and so you where, by God !
or I never in my life saw a spooning couple.
But what's there to fly into a passion about now,
'm — eh ? Ain't you always at it ? "

When I could manage my voice, my hands behind
me locked together convulsively, I said — and
the husky words seemed to hurt me as they came, —

That is a lie, Daryl Darkwood. And you
know that it is a lie ! "

He laughed again in my face.

Ha, ha, ha ! Ton my honour, Flower, your
acting isn't bad — not half bad ! But the innocence
of the part is just a trifle overdone, my
dear ; especially with your own husband, you
see, who is — well, who is behind the scenes,
don't ye know."

Daryl, as I live, I do not understand you ! "
I cried passionately ; perhaps piteously. And it
was the truth — I did not understand.

"No, it won't do. Periwinkle — clever as you
are," said he, slowly shaking his head in an
odiously wise and solemn manner. He clutched
the tall tumbler, and this time drained it. He
thumped down the empty glass, and sprawled
back again in his chair. Everybody knows — and
who better than yourself ? — that Leigh Evers-
leigh — confound him ! " growled Daryl, with an
abrupt change of tone and gloomily-lowered
eyebrows — " is — is in love with my wife. Worships
the ground she walks upon, in fact, and is
never happy away from her side. Ha, ha ! "

I could not speak. I was simply dumfounded.
Speechless I stared at Daryl, with wide dismayed
eyes.

'* Oh — ah, you are putting it on pretty strong,
I can see ! " he sneered, scowling upward at me
from beneath the penthouse of his straight dusky
brows ; " but you are a fool, as I hinted just now,
to get acting the innocent saint for my edification.
Ton my soul, I should have thought that
you had discovered by this time that I am not
to be gulled quite so easily. Ha, ha ! A neat
idea of yours, that. Flower — your pretending a
virtuous ignorance, the sweet simplicity of budding
seventeen at this time o' day ! Rather too
old and experienced for that, ain't you ? The
joke is too rich — 'pon my soul — pon my soul it
is. Why, Eversleigh himself would grin at it
if he were here 1 "

Still I did not speak. I could only stare at
Daryl. Had he drunk himself mad ? I was wondering
dully. Had something gone wrong with
his brain ? The first heat of my intense anger
had died out. A horrible cold fear was stealing
over and benumbing my whole body. What
strange words would he say next ? I soon heard.

*' I suppose," he shouted hoarsely, sitting bolt
upright, and gripping the arms of the easy-chair

to keep his balance as he sat — " I suppose — I
suppose you want me to believe that — that he
came down here to Thangate expressly to seeme,
'm — eh ? That's very likely ; isn't it ? "

What else — what else — should he come for ? "
I whispered. I was obliged to put my hand to
my throat ; or I felt that I could not have articulated
a syllable.

'ego on, Flower — that's capital! We all
know — don't we ? — how fond he is of the
youngster, for — for the sake of the child's father,
of course. Oh, yes — how remarkably kind ! You
believe that, don't you ? " said Daryl savagely.

Why not ? " I answered stupidly. " What
should I believe, then, Daryl ? "

I felt faint and bewildered. I did but very
dimly comprehend the nature of the accusation
that he was trying to bring against me. However,
in the next minute every faculty within
me was stirred into passionate life.

Oh, ah — of course we understand ! " continued
my husband, in the same taunting savage voice,
and with the same fierce menacing scowl. " It
is for my sake — his friend's ; not for the sake of
his friend's wife — deuce take him, no ! — that he
nightly over the cards flings — flings away his
money — purposely loses a heap or so o' gold.

when perhaps with a little thought and care he
might as easily keep it in his own pocket. Hem,
hem — it is for the sake of his dear friend — not
for the sake of that dear friend's wife, oh, no ! —
that Leigh Eversleigh happens to have discovered
a miraculously generous dealer in the picture
line down the Haymarket way, who for a wretched
sketch or daub not worth five sovereigns can at
once by Eversleigh be persuaded to fork out
fifteen or twenty ! Hem, ah — wonderful dealers,
those, that Eversleigh knows down the Hay-market
way ! He can call 'em into existence at
a moment's notice, it seems. I could never find
'em myself — often tried to, 'm sure. But then
the friend of his bosom — his old school-fellow
and college-chum — must be allowed to live in
comfort, and want for no luxury that money can
obtain ; must have good clothes — good fare ; his
little daughter, being delicate, must be sent to
the seaside, and whilst there, too, must be
furnished with the best of everything. Good
heavens, why not — hem ? But the mother of the
youngster — the friend's beautiful wife — bah, she
counts for naught ! For naught, I say, Periwinkle
!" — snapping his fingers. " What is she to
Leigh Eversleigh ? Ha, ha, ha! it is too good, isn't
it ? And so — and so. Flower, you perceive "

I stopped him. I could endure no more of his
fiendish banter. The helpless, horrified silence
which I had kept while listening to him now suddenly
gave way to something like a scream. I
flung myself upon my knees at the feet of Daryl
Darkwood ; and clung desperately to his arm
with two strained white quivering hands.

'you mean to say, in this ironical, roundabout
manner — you are telling me," I gasped,
that — that we are, even now, and — and have
been doing so all along — living — living upon
Leigh Eversleigh's money ! His charity — nothing
less ! You are telling me — telling me,
Daryl — is it possible ? — that it was his money
that brought us hither to the sea ; that he
has, in plain language, been keeping us — all
three of us — ever since — ever since we have
known him ! It is true, I — I have thought
that you sometimes took an unfair advantage
of him at the cards ; but not — oh, never, never
for an instant — that he, with his eyes open,
permitted you to do it, on account of — for —
for — Oh, Daryl, not that, not that — not so
bad as that ! " I panted, shivering from head
to foot. " Surely — surely, Daryl, you have not
been so base — have not fallen so low as to
allow — have not all along actually known •"

Once more my husband laughed out brutally ;
a laugh cut short by a violent hiccough.

Oh, yes, I have," he said, with something
of his old jaunty air ; " and so have you, you
infernal hypocrite. Flower ! Who all along, I
should like to hear, has known better than yourself
that for love of you — for love of you, do
you understand, Periwinkle, my dear? — Leigh
Eversleigh's purse and his cheque-book have — "

Stop ! " I cried, in a low authoritative voice
a strange hollow agonised voice most unlike
my own. I released his arm mechanically. I
shrank from him in loathing and disgust by
far too deep for expression in speech ; my eyes,
in a wild stare of horror, fixed upon the dark
handsome dissolute face of the man who had
dragged me down to this ; to this cruel, cruel
depth of unspeakable degradation. Ah, me ! did
it not verily seem as if my whole life was to be
but one dreary record of shame and humiliation ?

My love — my once passionate and too-confiding
love — for Daryl had been hitherto dying
a gradual death ; slow, but sure enough, as I
thought. And now it lay dead within my heart
bruised, shattered, utterly dead ; abruptly
slain outright, I believed, by Daryl Darkwood
himself. And yet, oh, how I had once loved

this man — how truly, how unselfishly had I
once loved him !

Don't stare at me," he cried roughly — "■ don't
stare at me — do you hear ? — in that beastly
theatrical fashion, you "

As he hurled at me a coarse, foul epithet that
meyer should pollute the hearing of any good and
pure-souled woman, he thrust me — nay, struck
me — from him with a blow upon my breast ; and
the effort sent him rolling backward into his
chair again.

I fell against the table in the centre of the
room ; but happily was in no wise seriously hurt ;
and soon, by the aid of it, I dragged myself
upward to my feet. Nevertheless I felt much
.shaken and rather dizzy ; and the blood seemed
to be rising from the region of my heart and
surging with a humming noise over my brain.

Forlornly I threw back my head, with one
hand covering my eyes. Slowly and blindly
thus I groped my way towards the door.

Good-bye, Daryl," I said gently.

His head had sunk to his chest. His hands
once more were rammed down into his pockets ;
his legs were spread out in the old favourite attitude.
As he did not answer, I paused upon the
threshold to say *' good-bye " again. The second

time I spoke more distinctly ; and then he heard
me.

His reply was a curse muttered drowsily —
that was all. So I noiselessly closed the sitting-room
door and left him alone in his chair ; so left
him for evermore !

Heavily — heavy in spirit — I went to the bedroom,
where Isla was sleeping peacefully the
sweet undaunted sleep of guileless childhood.
There by my darling's cot I dropped quietly to
the floor ; and stretched my yearning arms over
the little unconscious body.

But I could not yet pray for strength and
guidance — not yet. I broke instead into a fit
of helpless weeping ; and perhaps the rush of
tears would ease my misery.

A few minutes after six o'clock Isla and I had
left Miss Piper's house on the cliff. Not a soul
was astir within it; and but few were abroad
outside ; for the dawn had been too ruddy to bethe
harbinger of fair weather, and the clouds now
hung low and sullen over a stormily rolling sea.
It was a fresh cold morning ; and rain perhaps-would
follow by-and-by.

The waves, mud-brown and dull green, broke
with an angry hiss and roar at the base of the:

breezy cliffs ; the fitful shafts of sunlight were
white and watery, and struck slantwise out of
heaven from behind the murkiest clouds. Soft-white
also looked the screaming gulls, dipping to
and wheeling around the tempestuous green water.

For one brief heart-bursting moment I halted
at the drawing-room door. My breath suspended,
I listened at the keyhole. Daryl, within the
room, was snoring loudly, I could hear.

^' Good-bye ! " I murmured, for the third and
for the last time. " Daryl, good-bye ! "

Along the esplanade an venturesome bather
in flannels, towel in hand, was strolling down
towards the sands. But there were no rickety
landaus, no public conveyances of any kind anywhere
in sight. Here and there an early maidservant
was engaged in cleaning her doorsteps ;
stopping every now and then in her work to
clutch her cap upon her head.

Whilst I was washing and dressing her, Isla
asked no questions — to do so would be unlike her.
But presently she remarked wistfully, —

Aren't we getting up rather early, mamma ? "

'' Yes, my darling— earlier than we usually
do," 1 answered.

That was all then. Afterwards, when out of
doors upon the pavement, she said, —

And isn't papa coming with us ? "

*'No, Isla."

** Nor Mr. Eversleigh, mamma ? "

"No, no, no, child — we are going alone."

For a few seconds Isla remained silent, pondering
the situation. Then she said thoughtfully, —

'have we got enough luggage, do you think,
mamma ? Only this bag ? "

Enough for the present, darling," I told her.
I looked anxiously, but in vain, up and down the
windy esplanade ; and added, before she could
speak again, " I don't see any carriages about, Isla.
It is too early, I suppose, for them. I wonder, dear,
whether you could walk as far as the station ? "

Oh, yes, mamma — I can walk as far as the
station, I'm sure ! " said the little soul trustfully.

So we made our way towards the lower end
of the town ; the part of it where the station
was situated ; taking the back streets and meaner
thoroughfares in order to avoid passing the
Black Stag " hotel.

At twenty-five minutes to seven we had
reached Thangate station. About a dozen people
or so — all men — were waiting upon the platform
for the first swift train up to town.

I went to the booking-office ; Isla clinging to
my gown and taking care of the bag meanwhile.

One and a half, third-class, to Victoria," I said
to the ticket-clerk ; who looked cold, sour, and
only partly awake. ** Have we long to wait ? "

"No — ten minutes. Train's due here at 6*50."

He slapped down the change and gave his
attention to the next applicant, who, being a
person who was going first-class, got more civility
than had been accorded to me.

Fortunately the refreshment-room had just
been opened ; and there was time to buy a glass
of milk and a stale sponge-cake for Isla. Then
the rumble of the approaching train was heard ;
and we hastened out to take our seats.

The train — a long one — came slowly in ; the
engine hissing, passengers looking out of the
windows ; porters calling to one another and
hurrying hither and thither. Then followed the
usual groaning of wheels, the superfluous banging
of doors ; two or three rain-drops like big tears
were dashed upon the carriage window-panes ;
and with a shriek we steamed out of the Than-gate
station.

And — and are we goings back to London
then, mamma ? " asked Isla, in her small puzzled
voice ; and I answered wearily, —

Yes, my darling, back to London. We have
nowhere else to go ! "

VOL. II. D

'OT until nearly a month had gone by
since my flight from Thangate and
Daryl Darkwood could 1 arrive at
any fixed determination with regard to my plans
for the future.

But that I must be up and doing, for Isla's
sake, I well enough knew ; must act — work ;
must earn some money in one direction or
another ; or else the just fate of all penniless
idlers would assuredly overtake both me and
my child, and we should starve.

Therefore something must be done ; and done,
too, promptly ; it was imperative.

Not a shilling more than I reckoned to be
absolutely needful had I carried away with me
from my husband's purse. The money was not
his — Daryl's. Ah, no — not his — not mine ! It
was the money of I shuddered at the bare

thought. The memory, the knowledge of the
shameful truth, was nothing short of an intolerable
pain. For many days after I had fled from
Thangate I felt crushed — simply crushed — with
the sense of my own degradation. I could do
naught but brood over my ruined life ; and weep
vain tears for what was irrevocable.

Nevertheless, my meagre stock of money could
not be made to last for ever ; and over and over
again I told myself that something must be done.

The difficulty was to obtain work that would
not take me away from Is] a ; at any rate in the
daytime. There indeed was the rub. Yet was
there nothing that I could think of as being an
at all likely means to the end I desired but what
would necessitate a daily separation from my
little delicate child ; and that was impossible — ■
at least I would not have it so if any effort of
mine could avert so real a calamity.

And so in the end it came about that, after a
sore tussle with the cherished convictions, the
most sensitive feelings — perhaps foolish prejudices
— of my womanhood, I determined to write
to Mr. Binkworthy. To do this would cost me
not a little ; and yet, after all, who was I, I
asked myself bitterly, that I should object to
sing for the manager of the Levity ; particularly

^ILlNoiQ ,,^^.'

now that to earn my daily bread — my own and
my child's — had become a stern necessity of
life ?

Notwithstanding, in the first instance, I
resolved to write to Miss de Vere. I asked the
landlady, however, to be good enough to write
the address upon the envelope ; for the missive
by mischance might fall under the notice of
Daryl ; and he would then, should he see it, of
course recognise my handwriting.

So I wrote to Aurora Eamage, and begged her
to come and see me. I sent the letter to
Chesterfield Avenue, Shepherd's Bush — for the
autumn was now well advanced, and Miss de
Vere's engagement at the Dome by-the Waves
must by this time have come to an end — and
marked it " Strictly private." Her character
was a staunch and a generous one. I knew that
she was my friend, and could be trusted.

I had hidden myself in the neighbourhood of
Primrose Hill ; for quite by accident, some time
before, I had heard a friend of Mrs. Eamage s
say that furnished apartments were very cheap
in the region lying north-west of Eegent's Park.
The park in itself too was a recommendation ;
Isla and I, there along its shady and often quite
deserted walks, could wander, if fine, every day

of the week, and be troubled scarcely at all with
a, thought of our whereabouts being discovered.
No one, unless given a clue, would dream of
looking for us at Primrose Hill ; and London is
at all times and in all circumstances the best
hiding-place in the world.

I had found a dull, narrow, and rather hilly
street — in fact it was nothing more than a blind
road ; for it ended unexpectedly in a high and
dreadful-looking brick wall, suggestive, I used to
think, of a prison-yard — which branched off from
a better and a much cheerfully street, where
there were numerous shops and several public-houses.
This dull blind road where I had found
a lodging was called Bentham Street ; and my
landlady's house was the first that one came to in
it — the first, I remember, upon the right-hand
side.

Mrs. Sadler was a weary-looking, untidy widow ;
and two grown-up sons lived at home with their
mother. One was a watchmaker, and worked
near home ; the other was a booking-clerk on the
Underground Railway ; and Mrs. Sadler lived in
perpetual daily dread lest either or both of the
young men should one day marry and go away
from her and Bentham Street. Life, as it was,
was a hard enough struggle for Mrs. Sadler ; but

without her lodgers and her grown-up sons it
would be a desperate battle indeed.

The house was shabbily furnished and not in
any wise remarkable for cleanliness; but I had got
Mrs. Sadler's " dining-room " floor — a stuffy back
bedroom and a front sitting-room opening into
each other with folding-doors — for 
a week, including gas and attendance ;
and so 1 must not grumble, I told myself, over
trifles.

At the outset I had deemed it best to tell the
plain truth ; and therefore I informed my landlady
that I was a woman who was separated from
her husband. But Mrs. Sadler evinced not the
slightest astonishment. She merely nodded,
sighed, and said — " How sad I It often happened
so ; " and never in my hearing alluded to the
matter again.

The day on which I expected Aurora Eamage
to call in Bentham Street — for Miss de Vere had
written me a hurried scrawl to the effect that
she would answer my letter in person — was a
gray and chilly October one. The colours of the
trees in the neighbourhood of Primrose Hill were
changing visibly day by day ; soon would our
favourite walks in the park be all thickly strewed
with brown and yellow leaves which now dropped

sadly earthward through the moist and silent air.
And the early morning now dawned always in
mist ; dull gray evening mists heralded the cold
night shadows. The London sparrows shivered
upon the damp and dripping boughs ; and looked
as if they were dismally aware that bleak winter
and its hardships were near.

For my owen part, I never can see the beauty
of an autumn day ; not even when the sun shines
in a clear sky and the trees are richest in their
wondrous tints. In spite of the sunlight there
is sadness in the air ; and to me Mother Earth
seems melancholy and subdued at the prospect
of her own decay. Spring is like youth — autumn
like middle-age ; and at middle-age one feels that
the grave is within sight. Then comes cold
winter, which is as dark death ; and " our little
life, rounded with a sleep," is gone !

To welcome Miss de Yere 1 had a nice cheerful
fire burning in my dingy sitting-room, which
made it appear quite cosy ; and the tray and
tea-things were all ready upon the round table
drawn near to the hearth. In the morning I
and Isla had gone out as usual, and had bought
a new Bristol cake, and a bottle of port at a good
wine-merchant's, and also, at a florist's, a few
autumn flowers wherewith to soften the gaudy

glass vases which adorned the sham marble
mantelpiece. Aurora had promised to be in
Bentham Street at half-past four o'clock ; and
shrewd and practical people like Miss de Vere
generally contrive to be punctual in keeping an
appointment.

And will papa come with Miss de Vere % "
asked Isla.

"No, Isla."

Nor not Mr. Eversleigh, mamma ? " said she
more wistfully still.

"Oh, Isla," said I, catching the little fragile
soul to my breast, " you must not ask so many
questions ! You have mamma, you know ; and
and for the present, my darling, you must be
satisfied with — with all the love that she is able
to give you."

It was sometimes for me the most difficult
matter conceivable to answer the child's questions
in a way that would really quiet her. She was
for ever almost plaintively asking why papa and
Mr. Eversleigh did not come ; and for hours at
a stretch she would stand at the dull windows,
just as she used to do at Thangate, patiently
watching for the coming of Leigh.

She was at the window, standing, as was her
wont, upon a hassock, this afternoon ; now watching

for the arrival of Miss de Yere. Perhaps
Isla s soul was gladdened with some vague unlikely
notion that Mr. Eversleigh might accompany
Mrs. Eamage's daughter.

It was about three minutes to the half-hour
after four when a hansom rattled up to Mrs.
Sadler's door. Out of it, comfortably clad in her
furs, briskly stepped Aurora. A few moments
later she was with us in the passage ; affectionately
embracing my child and me.

ELL, Mrs. Darkwood," observed
Aurora, in her old straightforward
manner and with her old
friendly smile, " this is a pretty state of
affairs — you would be shocked, I suppose, if
I called it ' a rum kettle of fish ' ? — upon my
word it is ! I never was more sorry in my life
than when I heard of the miserable split between
you and Mr. Darkwood. I do sincerely trust
however," added the girl earnestly, " that things
are not past mending ? Do not tell me that."

"They are wholly past mending," I answered, ina
gloomy and an emphatic tone. "What does my
husband say of me ? Let me hear please, Aurora. "

For some seconds she was silent, staring into
the fender.

Well," she said at last, " of course what he
says now — and — and perhaps it is hardly to be
wondered at — he says under a sense of — I won't

call it injury ; but anger and intense annoyance
"

Whatever he says," I put in bitterly, " depend
upon it, he means. No one knows him
better than I ; you may believe that, Aurora,
Come, tell me ; will you ? Does he swear that he
will find me and force me to return to him % "

'' On the contrary," replied the girl frankly,
but laughing with some constraint, as she took
from the mantelpiece a small Japanese hand-screen
and held it between her face and the fire
*' he says that — that you may go to the deuce for
aught he cares ; if you want plain speaking, Mrs.
Darkwood. But, as I remarked just now, it's his
temper of course. Men are such odd creatures ;
and at times such brutes ! All the same, I am
sure that he doesn't really mean it."

Oh, yes," said I quietly ; " that is precisely
what he does mean ! If he did not mean it, he
would not say it. And 1 am glad to hear it —
very glad indeed."

Glad, Mrs. Darkwood ? " echoed Aurora.
Oh, no 1 "

"Yes — heartily, positively glad; for now I
know what to expect ; and am not afraid. I
shall feel more at ease — more secure, as it were —
now that I am certain I can go my own way.

and that he will not molest me. We are best
apart — my husband and I — for ever apart. This
separation was inevitable. For a long while past
I have foreseen that it must happen ; and it is
entirely his own fault — not mine."

*' Hem ! Of course you best understand your
own affairs," said Aurora slowly and kindly.

She had taken off her out door things and had
drawn her chair near to the fire. She looked
very Handsome and very well, as she sat there
opposite to me, thoughtfully playing with the
trumpery hand-screen, and with her neatly-shod
feet upon the fender. Her fair hair was arranged
in a new and somewhat eccentric style ; but it
was a style which was admirably suited to her
healthy, bright good looks. Isla I had sent
downstairs to *' help Mrs. Sadler make the tea ; "
for Miss de Vere, with a queer smile, had
suggested that "little pitchers have long ears."

Meanwhile Aurora chatted leisurely on ; and I
heard a good deal that was news to me about
Daryl. Oh, yes, said Miss de Vere, he was back
again with them — the Damages — at Chesterfield
Avenue ; in fact, he had quickly followed them
home from Than gate ; but Mr. Eversleigh — with,
I felt, a furtive glance across at me — never now
came to the house. She believed — her mother

said so — that the two men had quarrelled, and
were no longer intimate. Aurora herself thought
that it was far from unlikely ; but was not at all
certain upon the point. Latterly, said the girl,
a horrid foreigner, a German, Herr von Eosenberg
his name — her mother always called him the
Baron — had been much in the society of Daryl.
Indeed, he and this Herr von Eosenberg appeared
to be inseparable friends ; and the Baron was forever
coming — just as Mr. Eversleigh used to do,
only there was a difference — to their house in
Chesterfield Avenue. They were always card-playing,
and got very tipsy sometimes ; the
German not infrequently being " taken home "
in a cab, for the simple reason that he was unable
to walk a step. On these ultra-disgraceful
occasions Mrs. Eamage, it would seem, had
noticed that "the Captain" himself remained
perfectly sober ; or nearly so. The Damages
thought this odd ; but 1 understood.

To speak the truth," said Aurora frankly,
*' if my mother were not so absurdly fond of
your husband, Mrs. Darkwood — she says she
loves him like a son ; takes his part against you,
there is no doubt; and nobody understands better
than he how to get the blind side of her — I
should beg her to request him to find lodgings elsewhere

for the accommodation of himself and his
friends. The place is unbearable with their everlasting
drinking and cards ; and that shock-headed
German fellow smokes like — like a chimney ! "

I know he does," I threw in with a shudder.
"We knew him abroad. For many reasons I
used to detest the man ! "

I hate him ! " with energy said Aurora.
*' There is, to my thinking, something downright
abominable about the wretch. The other day
he snatched me into his arms — we happened to
meet upon the stairs — and kissed me before I had
a chance to stop him. But — my word, Mrs. Dark-wood!
— I took him such a ringing slap on the face
directly afterwards that I fancy he won't forget it
just yet ; nor be in a hurry to try it on again ! "

I smiled involuntarily.

*' Nothing that you can tell me about Herr von
Eosenberg would astonish me, Aurora," said I ;
and then I inquired quite steadily if she knew
whether Mr. Eversleigh was in town or out of it.

She eyed me in a rather curious and puzzled
manner.

Mrs. Dark wood, do you mean to say that you
too have seen nothing of Mr. Eversleigh lately ? "

Certainly I have not seen him since we — Isla
and I — left Thangate," I replied coldly.

'' And he does not know where you are even?"

Certainly he does not know where I am " —
my tone, I believe, unconsciously haughty.
^' How should he?"

Aurora shrugged her firm square shoulders.

"It is a queer state of affairs," she said slowly ;
adding, after a slight pause — " Are you sure,
Mrs. Darkwood, that jealousy had nothing to do
with it all ? "

Jealousy ! " I echoed. " Jealousy on my
husband's part, do you mean ? "

Yes ;" answered the girl boldly. *she was
jealous perhaps of Mr. Eversleigh."

I laughed scornfully.

'* My dear Aurora, your notion of the matter
is too ridiculous. My husband has long since
ceased to care a straw for me ; he never really
cared for the child — indeed I am convinced that
he always looked upon Isla more in the light of
a nuisance than anything else. Men like Daryl
never really love children. He may have feigned
a jealous humour — I do not know, nor do I care
now — tried to act the jealous husband ; but that
was absurd in the face of the truth ; for Heaven
knows I never was weak or wicked enough to
give him the slightest excuse for assuming such
a role. ! I grant you that he — he did openly

accuse me of — of — well, of possessing a conscience
as facile as his own, a knowledge of circumstances
as evil as his own. But I am innocent, Aurora
I swear it ! Never for an instant did I dream,"
said I passionately, " that — that — " I checked
myself. My indignation was hurrying me into
unwise speech. " No," I said more quietly ;
Daryl Darkwood wanted to be rid of me ; he
literally drove me from him, not without blows
and horrid language ; and he has succeeded perfectly
in his aim. I feel that I would rather die,
Aurora, than ever go back to him. He has
treated me shamefully ! "

I think it is a pity," she answered gravely,
that Mr. Eversleigh should be in ignorance of
your hiding-place. He is so true a gentleman
that lie might, if you would only let him hear — "

I held up my hand. It shook a little. .

*' You go from the point. We were not speaking
of Mr. Eversleigh — he is nothing to me," I
interrupted as gently as I could ; yet conscious as
I spoke of a dull pain, born perhaps of yearning
and regret, fluttering in my bosom. " Daryl and
Daryl's friends are alike dead to me now."

*' Ah, well, as I observed a minute ago," mused
Miss de Vere aloud, " you best comprehend your
own affairs, Mrs. Darkwood ; and it is always a

foolish thing to in any wise interfere between
husband and wife."

That is true," said I, in a low sad voice.

Here Mrs. Sadler and Isla appeared together ;
the former bringing with her the teapot, a jug
of steaming water, and a covered plate of muffins
and crumpets ; Isla, in her wee shy fashion, clinging
to Mrs. Sadler's rusty black skirt. Miss de
Vere had brought the child a present in the shape
of a smart new doll ; and the doll, flaxen head
downward, was now being hugged to Isla's breast.

'come here, my pet," cried Aurora, deftly
whisking Isla on to her knee. " What a feather-weight
it is, to be sure ! Now that the lamp is
lighted, let me have a good look at you. Why,
what have you done with your Thangate roses ? "

I don't know," said Isla softly.

I hope you do not think that — that she is
looking delicate ? " I hastened to say.

"Oh, no," Aurora was quick to reply — 'not
more so than usual ! But the Thangate breezes
blew some colour into her cheeks, and the
London fogs, I suppose, have managed to rob
them of it — that is all ! "

"It is considered very healthy just hereabout
for — for London, you know," said I anxiously.

Oh, a lot healthier than Shepherd's Bush; isn't

VOL. II. E

it, Isla ? " said Aurora, laughing, and kissing the
child heartily before she set her upon her feet again.
When tea was over, I once more told Isla that
she had better run along downstairs — if the
landlady would be kind enough to have her in
the kitchen — this time " to help Mrs. Sadler wash
up the tea-things." And the little one, ever docile
and obedient, trotted contentedly off with her doll.

In answer to my earnest interrogation — already,
I think, in a different manner, three or
four times repeated — Aurora most emphatically
assured me that no living soul save herself was
aware that she had on that afternoon driven
over to Primrose Hill.

Not even your mother ? You have not told
her ? " I said nervously. As circumstances were
at present, I was far from desirous, much as I
liked and respected her, to see Mrs. Eamage in
Bentham Street ; though I was sincerely pleased
and truly thankful to see her daughter there.

My mother, good soul — indeed not her ! One
might as well at once print a secret in the agony
column of a newspaper. Why, Mrs. Darkwood,
cannot you trust me ? " said Aurora, with a hurt
look. " You asked me to keep to myself the fact
of your having written to me, of your having
told me where you were ; and, do believe me, the

confidence you have been good enough to place
in me could not be more thoroughly respected
than it is."

Thank you," I murmured a trifle wearily. "I
am ungrateful and mean to doubt you. You have
been so very, very kind to me — a true friend ! "

Pooh ! " said Miss de Vere. Then she, in her
own matter-of-fact manner, went on to inquire
whether I and the child were not in want of the
divers articles of apparel which we had left behind
us at Thangate ? How on earth had we managed?
The clothes were quite safe, Aurora said ; for
Daryl, it appeared, had gone straightway to Mrs.
Ramage, and had asked her to have the friendliness
to look after and to pack up everything
that belonged to me and Isla. He did not understand
the job, he said; and he wanted "the
litter " collected and got out of the way directly.

Of course Mrs. Ramage promptly obliged him ;
and she had ever since taken care of the yellow
tin trunks which contained Isla's belongings and
mine. I confessed to Aurora that I had been
somewhat in a quandary for the want of the
luggage ; but that, with economy in other directions,
I had been able to buy sundry necessaries
both for Isla and for myself We had rubbed
along somehow.

"Nevertheless," said Miss de Vere briskly,
if you don't mean to return to Chesterfield
Avenue — and that, it seems, is to be the programme
— you would naturally like to have with
you here all that belongs to yourself and to the
child ; would you not ? "

I said that indeed I should ; but that I could
not yet perceive how it was to be accomplished.

Leave it to me," said Miss de Vere. " I will
manage it, Mrs. Darkwood."

** But pray do not forget your mother," I put
in doubtfully. " Not for the world would I have
her learn — "

Oh, I will manage her too ! " confidently said
Aurora. *' Do not fear."

I thanked her warmly for her sympathy and
goodwill ; and now the moment was come forme
to broach a far more serious matter. So ina
few words I informed Aurora that — supposing
Mr. Binkworthy were still in the same mind
about offering me an engagement — I had resolved
to sing for him at his theatre of varieties.

Miss de Vere was genuinely astonished. She
said so ; and she looked so. Evidently this
was the first she had heard of the proposal the
manager had made to me.

Good gracious ! " exclaimed she. " And you

mean to say, Mrs. Darkwood, that you will
actually do it — will sing for Binkworthy at the
Levity ? "

Yes ; my mind is made up. I want money
badly."

For some seconds Aurora kept quiet ; manifestly
pondering my determination.

I am afraid — I am very much afraid, Mrs.
Darkwood dear, that — that you will not at all
like it," said she vaguely at last ; with a kind
and rather troubled glance into my face.

"That cannot be helped," I answered doggedly.
I shall not be the first woman by a good many
who has had to do work that she loathed."

'* But — but is there no other way in which
you can earn money ? " said Miss de Vere
anxiously. " Surely yes % "

There is no other way in which I can get
money so easily, or that would leave me so free
in the day — no other work for which I should be
so liberally paid ; I have thought of everything.
Mr, Binkworthy offered me twenty-five pounds
a-week to begin with : that was, to sing three
ballads for him on each evening of the week,
but for nobody else in London."

Hem — that is pretty good for a new hand,
you know ! " observed Aurora reflectively. " But

then it isn't one novice in a thousand that is
blessed with such a lovely trained voice as yours."

But I little conceived that the dark day was
so near when I should be glad to reconsider Mr.
Bink worthy's strange offer," I said, in an absent
and a bitter tone ; my thoughts going vividly
back to that evening of Mrs. Eamao-e's Translate
festival, when the manager of the Levity had
come out to me upon the balcony, suggesting
that so fine and cultivated a voice as mine should
be turned to substantial account.

*' Of course you will not sing under your own
name ? " said Aurora slowly.

No ; I thought of calling myself Madame
Fleurette. I know a number of chansonnettes
that may come in handy for a change occasionally
— for an encore perhaps — and an average
British audience, looking very wise, will always
flock to hear and listen respectfully to what
it does not understand."

And is * Fleurette,' then, the French word
for * Flower ' ? " inquired Aurora curiously.

Not exactly. The name would suit Isla
better than me ; but it will serve. And no one
will dream that it is I — that it is Daryl Dark-wood's
wife who, as Madame Fleurette, is singing
ballads nightly at the Levity theatre of varieties."

**Ah, but your friends, my dear Mrs. Dark-wood,"
said Aurora gravely — '' and I know the
life ; you do not — what will they say to this step
you contemplate ? How will they take it ? "

Friends — what friends ? I have no friends
now ; except you, Aurora," replied I, with a
dreary smile.

'* Pardon me, I know better than that," replied
the girl simply and earnestly. " There is "

My husband now does not care for theatres,
whatever his taste in that way may have been
when he was younger ; never of his own accord
troubles to enter a place of the kind," I interrupted
hurriedly ; and perhaps somewhat at
random. " He will not interfere with me.
There is no one else. You have given me your
word — and I fully trust you — that you will
keep my secret. I shall likewise insist upon a
promise of secrecy from Mr. Binkworthy before
before I come to any sort of arrangement
with him. For the future, to Mr. Binkworthy,
should he still be willing to employ me, I shall
be Madame Fleurette — never Mrs. Darkwood."

Aurora could be very daring when she chose.
So, in her quietest and most deliberate fashion,
she said, —

Now let us suppose some night that Mr.

Eversleigh should stroll into a stall at the
Levity, and should recognise you — you, of all
people — facing the bold glare of the footlights.
How then, Madame Fleurette ? "

And, so saying, she laughed pleasantly, if a
little mischievously. I, I believe, winced palpably.
This time however there was no evading
a direct reply.

It would — it could make no difference.
Why should it ? " I said, in nervous haste.
If my own husband — my lawful protector —
casts me adrift, surely I am at perfect liberty to
earn my living in whatsoever manner suits me
best ? It may be this — it may be that. It is
no business of his — of Mr. Eversleigh's — no
one has a right to object." I resolutely
turned the current of the talk. " If," said I
wistfully, '* I should be engaged to sing at
the Levity, we shall meet there, Aurora, every
evening, shall we not ? That, at any rate, will
be something consolatory to look forward to."

Then a bright dimpling smile broke over
Aurora's face ; and a sudden blush suffused it.
Oh, yes, we are pretty safe to meet, Mrs. Dark-wood
; and that will indeed be delightful. I am
generally at the theatre soon after nine o'clock,"
she said. "But you must know," added Aurora,

nodding gaily, " I shall shortly, in a few weeks
or so, be leaving the stage — giving it up for
good. Lord Tracy, you see, wishes it ; and of
course it is my duty to humour his lordship.
We are to be married in February, at the latest."

My heart sank. Mr. Binkworthy's theatre
without Aurora would for me be a terrible place,
I was thinking ! The fact of her being a
member of his company — a friend there whose
help and whose sensible advice I, in a difficult
and strange position, might at any time safely
reckon upon — had materially, I fancy, affected
my decision with regard to the manager and his
offer. Well, there was no help for it. My hand
once put to the plough, there would be no turning
back. The battle of life must be manfully
faced — ay, faced even alone — and fought without
quailing to the bitter end !

The cheap wooden clock upon the mantelpiece
of my sitting-room tinkled out eight ; eight swift
shrill strokes, after the manner of cheap wooden
clocks ; and Miss de Vere sprang up from the
fireside, avowing that she had no idea it had
grown so late. She must be going. She had
promised to meet Lord Tracy at the Cafe Seine
in Eegent Street, whence, as he usually did, he
would drive her in his brougham to the Levity ;

where, like a good and dutiful young man in
love, he invariably waited in a stage-box until
Miss de Vere had ** done her turn."

'lotus will be in a fume" — Loftus was the
first of the young Viscount's Christian names ;
he had at baptism been given half-a-dozen — ** if
I am not punctual," said Aurora, as she went
into the bedroom to get her handsome wraps.
*' He's the most impatient young man alive when
he is obliged to wait for me," added she.

I consider him a very fortunate young man
to get you at all," said I warmly.

The Countess of Starch, I hear, holds a vastly
different opinion," remarked Aurora, with a laugh
of real merriment. " She goes about groaning
and telling everybody she knows in town and in
the country that she will assuredly die of a
broken heart — and Loftus says his mother is as
strong as a cart-horse and never has known an
hour's illness in his recollection — on the day that
her son marries ' that creature from the music-halls.'
That's me, you know. But hearts are not
broken quite so easily, Mrs. Darkwood; are they?"

Ah, no ! " said I gently. " One's heart, I am
inclined to believe, is the toughest part about one."

We heard Isla climbing the kitchen-stairs to
say good-bye to Miss de Vere. Aurora abruptly

turned to me, her colour rising brilliantly. She
put her hands upon my shoulders, and whispered
hurriedly, —

** Don't be angry, Mrs. Darkwood, please —
please don't feel angry and offended with me —
but I must, even at the risk of seeming impertinent,
say something before I go. You have
told me that you are in want of money ; that
must not be. I can very well spare a ten-pound
note — two if you want them. So take them,
please, and repay me just whenever you can best
afford to do it. Do ! "

I kissed her ; with difficulty keeping back my
tears.

You are too good — you are too good ! " I
murmured. " But I have enough for the present.
I can manage ; and — and I would rather not.
Forgive me, dear Aurora, I would indeed rather
not."

I should be so happy if you would," said she ;
and she meant it.

No, no, no ; I cannot 1 Thank you, and God
bless you, all the same !" was my earnest, tearful
reply. Her true warm-heartiness touched me
keenly.

Then Isla came in with her doll ; and Miss de
Vere turned brightly to the child.

I pressed Aurora to take a second glass of wine
and another piece of the Bristol cake ; but she
excused herself upon the plea that she would be
compelled to join Lord Tracy in some " coffee or
something " when she should meet him by-and-by
at the Cafe Seine.

Good-bye, my pet," she was saying to Isla.
Mrs. Sadler had run round the corner and fetched
a hansom for Miss de Yere. " I shall see you
and mamma again very soon, I have no doubt.
In the meantime, little woman," added Aurora
playfully, " try and get back your Thangate
roses. Mind, I shall quite expect to see them in
full bloom the very next time I come."

What are Thangate roses, mamma ? " asked
the child wonderingly, when Aurora had driven
away.

They are not white, my dearest. They are
bright, beautiful red ones ; and — and they mean
health and strength," I answered miserably ; holding
the dear little thin hand against my throat.

"But I like white ones — white flowers — best,
mamma," said Isla, with a serious and puzzled air.

And that night I dreamed restlessly of the
dead-white roses that now bloomed so wanly in
my darling's cheeks.

Within the next few days three or four
circumstances had come to pass
which I can very distinctly recall to
mind ; and which I therefore think are worth
chronicling in this eventful history.

My trunks had arrived from Chesterfield
Avenue ; carefully forwarded by Miss de Vere.
I had hired a piano from a neighbouring music-shop,
where I had also bought clean copies of the
numerous best - known ballads I could sing.
Indefatigable practice must be now an absolute
rule ; for a singer who would sing successfully
must cherish her voice, I knew ; cherish it, and
yet exercise it rigorously and patiently.

Then Mrs. Sadler was considerably more
cheerful than it was her habit to be ; and consequently
it was more pleasant and less depressing
to have anything to do with her. In her
dull tired way she rejoiced exceedingly ; for

after its remaining untenanted for many months
gone by — and she was now " full," as she
expressed it — she had at last succeeded in again
letting her attic-floor ; two dim small rooms at
the top of the house, the rent of which was not
more than seven shillings a week.

For, you see," said Mrs. Sadler, in an apologetic
manner, ''' they slant a bit and are rather
low ; and there's no grate in the back room, and
not much of a one in the front ; and so you can't,
with a good conscience, ask more, when the
chimney smokes frightful in a east wind."

And who is your new lodger, Mrs. Sadler ? ""
I inquired ; wishing to be sympathetic.

Well, ma'am, his name's Jones ; and he looks
like a pore broken-down old gent as has known
better days — I may say like me. He is very
shabby to look at ; and seems very shy ; but
he's nice and quiet spoken when he does speak,
and promises that I may rest satisfied that he'll
pay up regular — and that of course is something.
And so, as he gives hardly any trouble worth
mentioning, and gets what meals he has out of
the house, not counting his breakfast, I'm sure I
oughtn't to complain."

And gradually we got to speak of the shadowy
and inoffensive old gentleman at the top of the

house as " old Mr. Jones " — always as " old Mr.
Jones." I myself had not once yet encountered
the new lodger ; but Isla, trotting hither and
thither indoors, had already, in her coy way,
made friends with old Mr. Jones.

One day, as I sat at the piano, she crept to my
side, holding out a box of chocolate-creams.

*look, mamma! He gave me these," said
she. *' Isn't he kind ? "

Who gave them to you, Isla ? " I asked in
surprise ; for it was a large handsome box, bearing
upon the lid of it a name that in itself was a
guarantee of excellence, and must have cost at
the least two shillings or half-a-crown.

Old Mr. Jones, mamma," answered the child.

Strange ! " I muttered ; quite believing that
the old gentleman at the top of the house could
ill aftbrd to throw away his money in this extravagant
fashion. Perhaps he was not so poor as
Mrs. Sadler imagined; or perhaps he was a miser,
though fond of little children ?

Mr. Eversleigh," remarked Isla wistfully,
lovingly gazing into the pretty oval box, with its
edging of dainty paper-lace and layers of big
luscious brown sweetmeats, "used to give me
chocolate-creams — just like these. Didn't he,
mamma ? I wonder "

"Yes, yes, dear," I said hastily. "But you
must be quiet now. Sit down upon the hassock
by the fire, Isla ; mamma is going to sing, and
cannot be interrupted at this moment, dear."

By this date everything with regard to my
new career was satisfactorily settled with Mr.
Binkworthy. I was to make my first appearance
— "my first appearance on any stage " — at
the Levity theatre at the beginning of the
coming week. At our initial interview the
manager was radiant ; took no pains to conceal
his delight ; was, in fact, too, so to speak, bursting
with curiosity.

But I checked at once all inquiries that were
not strictly pertinent ; said exactly what I wanted
to say ; and emphatically gave Mr. Binkworthy
to understand that all questions irrelevant to the
purpose of my visit to him were — not only then,
but thenceforward — to be kept in the background.
I was mistress of the situation, I could perceive.


Let us get to the point, Mr. Binkworthy, if
you please," I said quietly. " Surely you can
comprehend the state of affairs ? I and my
husband have parted. He for the future goes his
way ; I go mine. It is necessary for me to work
for myself and my child. Therefore, remembering

what you said to me at Thangate, I have
come, in a hard strait, to you."

"' And nobody in London or out of it could be
welcomer, Mrs. Dark — I beg pardon — Madame
Fleurette," said the manager ; with something
curiously like a wink at me. He was in great
good-humour over his own victory and my
capitulation ; and alternately rattled the money
in his pockets and jingled his prodigious watch-chain
and locket, with a thoroughly well-to-do
and self-satisfied air.

'' And how about those pretty and high-sounding
notions of yours, madame, as to women
a-going on the stage — eh \ Nous avery slings
toos-a-la ! Is that it ? " added Mr. Unworthy
; with a sudden and bewildering flight
into '' French."

'' My opinion upon the subject remains unchanged,"
I replied coldly. 'rit is true that
I have consented to sing for you at the Levity,
three songs on each evening, and occasionally at
a matinee on Saturday, for a salary of twenty-five
pounds a week. But, at the same time, be
good enough to recollect that it is * my poverty '
and not ' my will ' which consents."

And I'll give you a rise at the end of a
month or so, if you take, and take well, with my

VOL. II. F

audience, Mrs. Dar — Madame Fleurette," put in
the manager eagerly.

Thank you. By-the-bye, I should feel much
obliged if you would always, now, remember to
call me Madame Fleurette. I don't Wish my real
name to be in every one's mouth here at your
theatre, Mr. Bink worthy."

*' I will remember, madame," said the manager,
with his finest bow. ** Of course I shall want
you to sign an agreement — it's a mere matter
o' form — but that I'll send to you in a day or
two."

So the business was settled, and I returned
home, wondering heavily how I should ever find
the courage to face the ordeal that was in store
for me. At present I could not realise what I
had done. I felt almost like a woman who had
'* signed away her soul." Even when Miss de
Yere looked in one morning to tell me that my
stage-name, in scarlet letters a foot long, was
flaming upon the boards outside the Levity
doors, I somehow could not feel that the dreaded
hour was drawing horribly near. Nevertheless
with the utmost diligence, regularly every day
when breakfast was over did I set to work to
practise my songs and cliansonnettes ; commonsense
telling me that there was now no escape

from the course I had elected to pursue ; it was
too late. There was no turning back.

Oh, by-the-way," said Aurora that morning,
** I met such a insular but courteous old gentleman
upon the door-step ! We came in together ;
and he shuffled on upstairs. I never before saw
such a sad and shadowy-looking old gentleman.
Who is he, Mrs Darkwood ; do you know ? "

I told Aurora about the tenant in the attics ;
how poor he seemed, and yet how kind-hearted ;
this new odd lodger of Mrs. Sadler's, with his
two dim little rooms under the roof.

It is only old Mr. Jones," said I.

T had to be ; and it came.

The night of my debut arrived all
too swiftly ; and the memory of it
is a memory that will never die — at least, so
long as life shall last for me, until pleasure and
pain alike for me shall be no more.

On the memorable night I put Isla early to
bed — for, luckily, the child seemed sleepy and
tired — and I asked Mrs. Sadler to be good
enough in my absence to step now and again
into the bedroom to peep at her whilst she was
asleep.

And then I dressed myself in a plain black
gown — one of the plainest and severest-looking
I possessed — adorned but niggardly with real
white lace at the throat and wrists, and sat down
by Isla's cot to wait for Miss de Yere. It had
between us been arranged that Aurora should

drive over in a cab and call for me — it was her
own kind suggestion, in the first instance — in
order that we might go down to the Levity
together.

"And will you be going out like this every
evening, mamma ? " had inquired Isla wistfully
after tea.

'' Yes, my darling," I had answered as cheerfully
as I could — " every evening. It is — it is
necessary, Isla. It must be done, dear. You
shall learn the meaning of the word ' duty ' by-and-by,
when you are older, Isla. It is a very
stern and cruel word sometimes. But — but my
little girl does not — does not mind mamma's
going, does she ? "

'* No ; I do not mind, mamma ! " said the little
soul bravely.

Besides, I — I shall not be long away, dear,
and you will not be alone, you know. Mrs.
Sadler will be at home ; and — and — "

"And old Mr. Jones?" put in Isla, brightening.


** Yes, old Mr. Jones," said I, smiling. " He,
I dare say, will be at home too. He generally
is of an evening."

I like old Mr. Jones," said Isla thoughtfully.
Don't you, mamma ? "

"Very much, Isla. He is, I think, a — a
very nice old gentleman. And a remarkably
odd old gentleman, into the bargain," I added
to myself.

Isla and old Mr. Jones, who lived his solitary
life in the two small attics under the roof, had
become fast friends. He was continually giving
her sweetmeats and other presents ; and
promising her all sorts of wonderful things
"when his ship came home." On two occasions
he had given her a really handsome toy.
Much as it troubled me to think that he should
do this — feeling certain that the shabby old
gentleman was in pocket too poor to afford
such a lavish indulgence of his whims — I was
quite at a loss to know how to put a stop to it.
And so it went on. And of course Isla herself
did not mind ; and one day, indeed, when he
gently asked for it, she actually gave him a
kiss !

He was always however strangely chary of
speaking to me. Nothing beyond 'good morning,"
"good afternoon," or "good evening,"
muttered hurriedly on his part, had ever passed
between us. If we met in the passage or upon
the door-step he seemed all at once to grow
singularly shy and nervous ; half-frightened, in

fact, lest I should be bent upon drawing him
into conversation. And yet, on the other hand,
it certainly did not appear that he made the
least effort to avoid me ; for we were constantly
meeting in the chance manner I have described.
I once tried, encountering him in the passage,
to thank him for his kindness to my little
daughter.; intending, should he give me only the
opportunity, to say something about his having
already been too good ; that his generosity
must be taxed no further ; and that I could
not possibly allow the child to accept anything
more from him, because, as it was, he had given
her a great deal too much.

But it was of no use. Before I could utter
two words on the matter, he had managed, but
without rudeness, to shuffle past me, muttering
something I could not catch and shaking his
head deprecatingly ; and so, leaving me staring
after him, he vanished up the dingy staircase to
his rooms at the top of the house.

And on the very next day he found Isla in
the kitchen and gave her a larger box than
ever of chocolate-creams. Certainly he was a
mysterious old gentleman, this old Mr. Jones,
thought I.

At half-past eight o'clock Aurora Eamage

arrived ; beautifully dressed in the palest of
maize-coloured satin ; with a crimson girdle, and
a lovely fan attached to it, around her waist, and
a mass of living crimson flowers garlanding her
left shoulder and breast. A single diamond star
burned in her fair hair. With a comical smile
she glanced at my severe attire ; and said, —

You are not very smart, Madame Fleurette!"

*' I did not mean to be smart, Aurora. I told
you I should wear a black gown. I shall always
wear black when I sing on the stage."

Hem — that will be a change for 'em," laughed
Aurora — "at all events, at the Levity."

If they do not like it, I cannot help it.
Perhaps they will hiss me," said I.

*'0h, you would go down— never fear," said
the girl frankly — '' if you chose to sing in a
sack ! We don't often, believe me, get such a
voice, together with such a face and style as
yours, Mrs. Darkwood, at our theatre of varieties.
Binkworthy knows that — nobody better
and he will say nothing, you may be sure,
whatever he may think."

She made me, before starting, drink a glass of
wine, and blithely tossed off one herself; and
soon we were rolling away from the neighbourhood
of Primrose Hill and Eegent's Park and had

got into the Marylebone Road. A sudden cold
thought struck me.

"Lord Tracy will be there to-night?" I
exclaimed.

At the theatre ? Of course he will," replied
Aurora equably.

'rand tomorrow he will be going all over
London and telling everybody he knows that in
Madame Fleurette, the new ballad-singer at the
Levity, he has recognised Daryl Darkwood's
wife ! "

In the lamp-lit gloom of the cab I gazed
helplessly at Aurora.

Oh, no, he won't ! " observed she calmly.
'she'll do exactly as I tell him — he always
does."

Has he no idea who Madame Fleurette

IS {

At the present moment no more than my
mother ; who yet also knows that Binkworthy
has a new singer coming out at his theatre
to-night. But have no fear of my mother's
tongue, Mrs. Darkwood — she'll not be there to
see you ; she's too busy at home."

I sighed with relief.

She used to come and hear me when I first
took to the stage," continued Aurora; "but

latterly she has had no time for it — with a
houseful of lodgers, you see."

Aurora chatted lightly on, good-naturedly desirous
to hinder my thoughts from too nervously
dwelling upon that evening's trial ; expecting —
and in truth getting — but poor replies from me.
Notwithstanding, I was sincerely grateful to her
for her efforts to alleviate the feverish anxiety
of my mind. I quite believe that, had it not
been for Aurora, I should have felt downright
sick with apprehension.

The three songs I had chosen for this, the
night of my debut, were ** Ruby," " It was a
Dream," and " Auld Robin Gray." To the last-named
of the three — as Mr. Binkworthy desired
it — I was to play my own accompaniment upon
the stage grand piano. The rehearsal I had
attended had been a very informal affair ; for
the Levity orchestra was a capital one of its
kind, and the pianist of it was a true musician.
Such accompaniments as mine were of course
mere child's play.

The cab stopped ; we had arrived at the
stage-door.

** Cheer up ! " said Aurora merrily — God bless
her !

Mr. Binkworthy was awaiting us in the dim

white-washed passage ; and took us at once to
his own sanctum. I was nervous — I own it —
horribly nervous. The manager himself was
fussily so ; at the eleventh hour fearful of his
debutantes " pluck," as he called it ; lest, after
all his preliminary puffing and big posters, she
should fail to create the sensation he had
predicted.

I have a hazy recollection of many strange
faces peeping at us curiously from unexpected
corners ; of scantily-clad forms flitting hither
and thither ; of carpenters in shirt-sleeves ; of a
good deal of noise ; and of the band playing
somewhere or other in a muffled sort of way.
Soon I heard a woman say, in coarse excited
accents, —

'that's her!"

And another responded quickly with, —
Oh, so she's come with Miss de Vere ! "
*' The Viscountess Stuck-up you mean ! ''
venomously said the person in blessings who had
exclaimed " That's her ! "

Once in his room, the stout manager waxed
profuse in hospitable suggestions ; and was pouring
out glasses of champagne before we could
stay his hand. Aurora, with relish, was just
sipping hers, when a sharp rap came upon the

door. It opened a couple of inches, and a
youthful voice sang out, —

'' Miss de Vere I "

My turn," observed Aurora, briskly rising
and picking up her handsome yellow train. But
before she quitted the manager's room she stooped
and kissed my hair. " Be brave," whispered she
" for Isla's sake ! "

And to those few cheery and timely words of
encouragement, all hastily spoken as they were,
was solely due the great success which I achieved
at the Levity that night. Without Aurora I
well know now that I never could have done
what I did. No wonder that I cried in my heart,
God bless her ! "

*' I thought that it would be safest as you
should take your turn immediately after Miss de
Vere," I heard, as in a dream, Mr. Binkworthy
saying to me ; ** because that girl has got the
knack of always putting an audience into the
best of humours. A wonderful clever one, and
no mistake, is Miss Aurora de Vere — as true as
steel, and no humbug about her, as I daresay
you've found out for yourself. And so, if you goon
and follow her, it will, I fancy, be all the
better for you, Madame Fleurette — d'ye see ? "

Yes ; thank you," I answered faintly.

He went on talking in a nervous fidgety fashion,
drinking several glasses of champagne meanwhile
; I, if I replied at all, replying at random ;
until, the door again opening, in swept Aurora,
flushed and radiant, having been genuinely
encored in a new comic song.

"Madame Fleurette ! "

It was the sharp voice of the dreadful call-boy
outside the manager's door.

Aurora was very warm. The house was
densely packed, she said, and sufibcatingly hot.
She caught up a soft white wrap that she had
brought with her and deftly flung it round her
neck.

I am coming to the wings," she whispered.
Remember. Be brave — for the child's sake ! "

I seized her hand and pressed it tremulously.
Speak I could not just then. And so we all
three went out together ; Mr. Binkworthy leading
the way.

Two minutes later : and I stood upon the
stage alone.

Again my recollections become blurred and
hazy. I am the central figure in a vision, as it
were.

Dimly, by fancy's aid, I can see again the
interior of the great horse-shoe-shaped building,

with the myriad eyes of the multitude which
filled it to the roof turned with simultaneous
curiosity upon me — upon me, as I stood alone
there before them ; pale as wan death itself ; in
nay plain black gown ; with a sheet of music
quivering in my hand.

Staring upward at me, immediately below the
footlights, there were rows of men and women
lounging in comfortable-looking red velvet-covered
seats ; the men were smoking ; both
men and women were drinking ; whilst waiters,
with bottles and glasses on trays, went nimbly
hurrying to and fro.

At a table in the middle of the theatre sat a
man with what looked like an auctioneer's
hammer in his hand. He, I was afterwards told,
was the well-known and popular " chairman " of
the Levity ; the expression however was then
Arabic to me. From the private boxes above
the stalls — narrow dark compartments, with
tawdry decorations and dirty limp muslin curtains
— lorgnettes were levelled pitilessly at the
pale trembling woman upon the stage.

The instant I appeared a great silence seemed
to fall upon the theatre ; no buzzing, no murmur,
no stir of any kind. The chairman rapped
smartly upon his table ; inviting, I imagined,

the applause which he reckoned might give me
confidence. But his hammer rapped in vain ;
no hand was raised to bid me welcome.

T was a novice — I might be a vara avis ; but
I was unknown. I was an Englishwoman with
a Frenchified name ; I was going to sing them
English songs — perhaps some French ones as
well. But nobody present as yet knew whether
I was worth hearing or not ; they had only Mr.
Binkworthy's word for it ; and they meant to
judge for themselves. It was clear that I had
yet to win my way into the affections of a Levity
audience ; and they liked a good article for their
money, or would have none of it.

It was thus that I interpreted — sand interpreted
aright — the cold respectful silence of the
huge crowded house.

The prelude, the opening bars — those few plaintive
familiar minor notes — of Virginia Gabriel's
dear melancholy song rose up from violin and
piano in the orchestra, and clave the stifling
atmosphere of the hushed and listening theatre.
The hour was indeed come !
I thought of my darling ; I prayed for strength
prayed for it in a swift mute wild fashion that
was a kind of agony ; and then — and then
my voice obeyed me, and I sang the song

of " Ruby " as I never had sung it in my life
before.

It was over — all over !

The curtain had descended ; the band in full
had struck up an inspiriting gavotte ; but the
cheering and the uproar in the theatre were
tremendous, and killed all sound of the orchestra.

Thunders of applause " was a phrase which I
had often heard and read of ; now for the first
time I thoroughly comprehended what it meant.
I realised by-and-by that I was once more in the
manager's room, with Aurora laughing and crying
in turn upon my shoulder ; and with Mr.
Binkworthy himself, the tears in his eyes, shaking
my hand with an energy that was absolutely
terrific. There, too, in perfect evening attire,
had appeared Lord Tracy— a privileged patron
of the establishment — his glass screwed into his
eye ; astonishment unspeakable stamped upon
every feature.

*' Bai Jove, Mrs. Darkwood," he gasped at
last — " who'd have thought it % Never was I
more astonished in my life, Mrs. Darkwood I
Bai Jove ! "

^* Madame Fleurette, my lord — Madame
Fleurette ! " cried Mr. Binkworthy hysterically.

'' This lady is not ' Mrs Darkwood ' here, if you
please, my lord ! "

Bai Jove ! " uttered his lordship again ; this
time more deliberately and wonderingly than
ever. It was too much ; he '* could not take it
in in a moment," as the Viscount vaguely expressed
it. He must have time.

Here some employe of the theatre put his head
round the manager's door.

Mr. Binkworthy, sir," said the messenger
hurriedly, " they won't be quiet, nor they won't
listen to the Brothers Bouquet. The noise is
something awful ; and the gentlemen of the
orchestra don't know what to be at. Apparently
the angcores ain't satisfied 'em, sir, for they're
a-shouting and a-hallooing again for Madame
Fleurette."

*' That means that they want me to lead you
on, my dear Madame Fleurette," explained Mr.
Binkworthy, offering me his hand for the ceremony.
His state of delight was simply indescribable.
" You won't refuse 'em ? " said he
quite piteously.

''No ; I will go with you if you wish it," I
answered.

I spoke mechanically — I smiled mechanically ;
and yet I was conscious that I felt deeply thank-vol.

II. G

ful, and I believe very happy, to know, to be
certain, that I had triumphed on this terrible
night.

And so a carpenter upon either side of the
stage pulled back the drop-curtain, and the stout
manager, glittering with his wondrous jewellery,
himself stepped before the footlights, gallantly
leading me by the hand.

How the people shouted, stamped, cheered,
raved ! The deafening roar is in my ears still.
Never, never shall I forget it ! It seemed
to me that they were all standing up in a
mass, waving their hats and their pocket-handkerchiefs.


Bow to them, madame — bow to them ; they
expect it," whispered Mr. Binkworthy hoarsely.

I suppose I looked — as I in truth was — helplessly,
utterly bewildered ; wondering insensibly,
it may be, whether what I had done really
merited this hurricane of enthusiasm, this extraordinary
tempest of excitement and approbation.
Thus awakened by my manager to the etiquette
of the situation, with what self-command I could
muster I bowed to the right and to the left —
with what grace, in the trying circumstances, the
act was performed I cannot say ! And then,
amidst another wild outburst of the " Bravo ! "

shouting and the hand-clapping, I was at length
permitted to retire.

But Mr. Bink worthy for a few minutes remained
upon the stage by himself, in order to make a
quite tearful little speech in front of the curtain
thanking his overflowing; audience for the
generous and enthusiastic reception which they
had accorded to Madame Fleurette — " a stranger
and a foreigner in London, he might almost say "
and assuring all present that until further
notice she would continue to sing nightly at the
Levity ; and at the Levity only. " And now,
with their kind permission, the Brothers Bouquet,
old Levity favourites, would," et-caetera.

Perrier-Jouet flowed without stint that night
in the manager s cosy sanctum ; and Mr. Bink
worthy begged hard that Aurora and I — and
of course Lord Tracy — would accompany him
home to supper.

His little 'ouse was at 'Ighgate, a snug enough
little crib ; his housekeeper —-he had the misfortune
to be a widower — the best soul alive,
expected us ; and indeed, said he, he positively
could take no denial. It was an entry-ordinary
occasion, and he could take no denial. Mr.
Binkworthy pleaded eloquently ; my success,
which was his success, and the repeated bumpers

of champagne in which he had drowned all
anticipation of failure, rendered him touchingly
in earnest now ; but he pleaded to no effect.

My work was done. I was going straightway
homeward to my quiet lodgings. Isla, my
darling, my all in the world, was there — perhaps
she was even awake and watching for my
return.

Lord Tracy at once offered to drive us in his
brougham to Primrose Hill ; for Aurora had
stated her intention of going home with me.

"No, Loftus," said she flatly; "we dont want
you to-night, dear boy ; you'd be one too many,
and that's the truth. You go back to your box
and see the ballet ; you adore the ballet, I know.
And this evening, just to console you for once ina
way, you may ogle Topsie Tiverton. I shall
not be jealous."

The Viscount grumbled ; scowled through his
glass ; and said, " Hang Topsie Tiverton 1 " But
Miss de Vere was inexorable.

I brought Mrs. Darkwood down here tonight,"
said she coolly ; "and to-night I intend
to take her home. I have lots to say to her —
so Loftus, my dear, good-bye. And, Loftus,
be sure you remember what I have told you,
and keep a quiet tongue in your head until

I see you tomorrow. You understand, dear.
Ta, ta ! "

And so Aurora and I, as we had started,
alone together in a hansom drove back to
Primrose Hill. But, when Lord Tracy had closed
the narrow doors of the cab — he had escorted
us to the stage-door — and the driver had let
down the window, for the night was raw and
a drizzling mist had begun to fall, Aurora put
her arm about my waist and hugged me close
to her side.

My head dropped heavily to her bosom then ;
and I burst into tears.

HE end of November was near — a
November dull and drear enough ;
with horrid choking fogs and brief
dark days, throughout which sometimes the
sickly yellow gas was everywhere kept burning,
day and evening alike. I was still living, unmolested
by Daryl, with Mrs. Sadler in Bentham
Street ; though divers changes — for is not it a
sad old world of incessant shift and change ? —
had been going on elsewhere. A change that
I deplored as sincerely as did the manager of
the Levity himself was the loss of my truehearted
friend Aurora Ramage. When we
should meet again I knew not ; nor did she ;
and Aurora, as it chanced, was about the
worst correspondent alive. I heard nothing
now of the doings of the house in Chesterfield
Avenue ; nothing of Mrs. Eamage and her
lodgers ; nothing of Daryl Darkwood's movements,

nor of those of Herr von Eosenberg. I
was ignorant whether my husband was still in
London, or whether he had migrated elsewhither.

I missed Aurora sorely ; missed her frequent
calls in Bentham Street — for never a week
used to go by without her looking in two or
three times to see how Isla was — and her
friendly, her wise companionship at the theatre
more than all.

She had, as she had told me that she shortly
would, given up the stage " for good ; " and
her marriage with Lord Tracy was fixed to
take place at the beginning of the coming
February.

Aurora, in these dismal November days, was,
luckily for her, in the country, staying at the
house of two rich aunts of her future husband —
large-hearted and most amiable old ladies,
spinster - sisters, who adored their nephew
Loftus, and who would have done anything
to please him that he asked of them. For
his sake they cordially received Aurora Ramage
at their delightful country-house ; and there
introduced her to all of Lord Tracy's friends
and relatives who felt well-disposed towards
the young man ; to all of them, that is, except
his father and his mother, the Earl and the

Countess, who, in dark and terrible displeasure,
remained shut up at Starch, nursing their wrath
in the ancestral hall of the family — which hall,
by the way, was not yet fifty years old — sternly
refusing to have anything to do with Aurora.
They would not, it was said, even tolerate the
bare mention of her name. A very high and
mighty pair were the Earl and Countess of
Starch.

They had set their parental hearts upon the
Lady Cassandra Bearwarden alliance — Lady
Cassandra, who was five-and-thirty, if she was a
day ; very plain, very blue-blooded, and with a
quarter of a million of her own. And Lady
Cassandra Bearwarden, the great folk at Starch
well knew, might on any day be had for the
asking.

Poor Aurora !

Lord Tracy's father was the first Earl of his
line ; and his young lordship's mother had been
a Miss Cousins, the only daughter of an h-less
but an immensely wealthy Alderman of the City
of London. But that was years ago ; and — well,
things had altered strangely since then, and the
whilom Miss Cousins had, by a freak of fortune,
blossomed into the Countess of Starch.

I had leaped into sudden favour at the

Levity ; and from the night of my first appearance
at Mr. Binkworthy's theatre of varieties my
position as " first star " there had remained unchallenged.
It was my invariable custom to
arrive at the theatre a few minutes before I was
due upon the stage ; afterwards to quit the place
the moment I had performed my duty. I do
not remember ever exchanging a single word
with any one " artist," male or female, engaged
at the Levity, with the notable exception of Miss
de Yere. They were not all like Aurora ; and
that is the unpleasant truth. I believe I was
accredited by the rest of the company with all
sorts of ugly qualities ; a '* disgusting " pride
heading the list ; being generally known and
spoken of at the theatre as "that Madame Fleurette."
It is surprising what a world of scorn
can, if desired, be packed into the simple little
word "that."

Of course, too, my great and swift popularity
was much against me ; and the spite of a jealous
tongue is the worst of venom. Mr. Binkworthy
however was my abject vassal; and in every
possible manner he made things as smooth forme
as it was in his power to make them.

By this date I was quite at home in my
nightly work at the theatre ; and no nervous fit,

no attack of stage-fright, ever overtook me now.
I did my work as conscientiously as I could, and
was liberally paid for so doing it. Thirty pounds
a- week Mr. Binkworthy was giving . me ; after
Christmas I was to be paid forty. Out of my
weekly salary I spent perhaps three pounds ; the
remainder, on every Monday morning, I took to
a bank near Bentham Street — feeling deeply
thankful that a goodly provision was accumulating
against the coming of a rainy day. The
future is never, alas, sure ! The sun at dawn
may rise in glory, and at eventide set in gloom.

Whatever was right or necessary for Isla, that
she had in abundance. But, for myself, I continued
to live with the utmost frugality in those
cheap apartments I had found near Primrose Hill.
And yet, in spite of all my care and cherishing,
the child did not get back her " Thangate roses."

It fretted me cruelly to perceive this ; to note
how white and thin were the little arms ; to hear
with what difficulty she breathed sometimes
after too quickly mounting the steep kitchen
stairs. But Isla — sweet patient little soul —
never complained. She always said that she
was " quite well," only rather tired now and
then — that was all ; and once she unexpectedly
asked me whether I remembered how Mr. Evers-

leigh used to carry her up to the cliff — always
on a hot day — when she was tired at Thangate ?

"Yes, dear, perfectly," I answered; and changed
the subject. We never talked of Mr. Eversleigh
now.

There were times when I felt downright ill
myself — ill from a sheer anxiety which was
worse than physical pain ; for its intensity
robbed me of my sleep at night and kept me
wretched throughout the day.

The increasing delicacy of the child was not
to be mistaken. A mother's eyes, at all events,
were not to be shut to the fact. The conviction
that she should not be allowed to remain in
London began to haunt my imagination ; I felt
certain that the thick moist air, with its deadly
early chill, the " pea-soup " fogs, the dismal sunless
days, were by degrees working fatal mischief
to the fragile constitution of my darling.

This torturing idea having gripped me, as it
were, body and soul, I forthwith took her to a
famous Harley Street physician — Doctor Grace.
Should it cost me a whole week's earnings, I
would obtain his opinion without delay.

The little one is undoubtedly delicate — indeed
very delicate," he said blandly. " But
with regard to her living in London — and you

say that you are by circumstances compelled
to be in London just now — why, you must know
that a great many delicate children are obliged
to live in town all the year round, and yet
eventually they grow as strong as their more
sturdy-born brothers and sisters. I am sure I
need hardly tell you that you should take care
of her."

I do take care of her," I replied almost
passionately.

Is there," inquired the great man — who, in
bodily appearance, at any rate, was small and
wizened — as blandly as before, " any tendency
at all to consumption in your family, or in that
of your husband ; will you tell me ? "

I — I do not know," I answered uneasily.
I felt that I had changed colour — turned somewhat
pale.

You do not know ? " — smiling in faint
surprise.

No," I said shortly ; and then, with an
indefinable sense of shame, or something like
it, I felt the paleness going and a hot flush
taking its place.

The physician pressed the question no further;
but, turning to the escritoire before which he
sat, he began to write a prescription ; murmuring

softly as his pen scratched the paper that
We must be careful — very careful — to avoid
all coughs and colds."

It was soon done ; and with a few courteous
words he handed the prescription to me in
return for the two-guinea fee which was the
cost of a five-minutes' consultation with the
famous Doctor Grace.

If she is no better," said he, tenderly with
his cool shrivelled white forefinger touching Isla's
cheek, " at the end of a month, bring her to me
again ; will you? Thank you. Good morning."

He shook hands, bowed us out, and I left the
doctor's big gloomy house feeling, to speak the
truth, but poorly comforted by the interview.
If only I could get away from vast cruel London
to some quiet sea-girt hamlet upon the south or
the south-west coast, where the air was pure and
balmy even in winter, and deadly yellow fogs
were not ! But in the country what work could
I find to do — work, at all events, that would
furnish the requisite luxuries for Isla — work that
would pay me like my singing for Mr. Unworthy
? A ray of hope flashed across my mind.
Would — oh, would the manager, I wondered,
grant me a respite, a brief holiday ? If he would,
I could in that case well afford to take the child

for a few weeks to Bournemouth or to Vintner ;
perhaps to the Devon coast ; or even as far as
Cornwall.

On that very evening I determined to ask Mr,
Binkw^orthy whether or not he would let me go.
A breath from the lonely and health-giving
ocean might, at this season of the year, do
wonders for Isla. Thangate in the winter would
of course be too bleak for her. If anywhere,
this time, it must be the south.

Accordingly that night, before I quitted the
theatre, I plucked up courage to speak to the
manager. But his face grew long as he comprehended
what I wanted ; he scratched his chin
in silence ; and to my dismay, I perceived that
Mr. Binkworthy regarded my scheme unfavourably.


You see — you see, Madame Fleurette," he
said at last, in a halting and deprecating manner,
as if loath — as I believe at the moment he
honestly was — to cause me the least distress,
"you have hooked on first-class, as I knew you
would, with my audience here ; there ain't a
more popular singer than you are just now at
the Levity, nor at any other place in London, if
it comes to that ; and — and it would be a small
fortune out of my pocket if — if you was to cry

off before the termination of your engagement.
And — and I don't wish to appear unfeeling' or
unkind in any way — but an agreement is an

agreement, you know ; and — and Come'

he broke off more blithely, " don't you think you
are perhaps jest a wee bit over anxious about the
little gal ? Mothers are so quick to take alarm
all of 'em alike ; or, if you are bent on her
going into the country, ain't there some well-disposed
relative you've got out of town, an
uncle or an aunt or a married sister or somebody,
as 'ud agree to take care of her, if you made it
worth their while, until the winter's over and
the warm weather comes round again — eh T

There is no one," I answered desolately.
1 felt that I could have cried like a school-girl
with sick disappointment.

Mr. Bink worthy laid a fatherly hand — a hand,
as usual, adorned with many a massive ring —
upon my shoulder ; and for a few moments he
kept it there.

** Well, cheer up, madam e," he said, meaning
to be kind, but at the same time careful lest a
too-sentimental generosity should cause him to
stumble where he should remain firm in his own
interests ; " and don't give way to the dumps !
You'll magnify trifles if you do — '11 make

mountains out of mole-hills and all that. There,
there" — patting me on the shoulder — 'we'll
see about it by-and-by ; we'll see what can be
done. I dare say we shall be able to manage it
by-and-by. But — but it wants a little thinking
over, you know ; it can't be done in a hurry.
We'll talk about it another day, Madame
Fleurette."

I sighed in a hopeless manner. 'another
day," I was drearily convinced, would be slow
in coming if it were left to Mr. Binkworthy
to fix the date of it.

Thank you. Good-night, Mr. Binkworthy,"
said I, without looking at him. I rolled up my
music mechanically, and went home.

My heart was leaden that night, God knows ! —
heavy and full of bitter rebellion. I was a slave ;
in bondage ; chained to the oar, it seemed, with
my freedom gone I I must submit uncomplainingly
to the will of a task-master who held life
itself more cheaply than gold. It is a golden age,
with a vengeance, this in which we live ; when
Mammon and his millions are exalted like the
calf of old, and when men will grovel in the very
dust to worship them ! We give our right hand
to the world ; and our left to God.

Adhering to my rule of strict economy in all

matters touching my present mode of life, it was
my habit to journey to and from the theatre in
omnibuses which ran conveniently past the
corner of Bentham Street. But to-night I somehow
felt that I could not endure the jolting and
the crowding, the cold damp straw underfoot,
the dim malodorous oil-lamps overhead, which are
such distinct and familiar features of that public
abomination the London 'bus. I felt in truth
wretched and lonely ; unutterably heart-sick and
depressed. The future loomed menacing, full of
trouble and gloom. The slow rumbling movement
of an omnibus, with its perpetual maddening
stoppages, would in my present condition of
mind have been torture unendurable — would
have sent me crazy outright.

I hailed a passing hansom with a good horse,
and so was driven rapidly home.

I had my own key, and let myself into the
house. But I met Mrs. Sadler in the passage,
carrying a water-can ; she being on her way
upstairs.

How is Isla ? " were my first words.

'well, m," replied Mrs. Sadler, with her
usual doleful air, " the little dear really did seem
very purely after you was gone. She complained
of a sore throat ; and I fetched her some

VOL. II. H

lozenges — at least, old Mr. Jones did, who came
down and have been sitting with her ; and now
she seems got a bit more chirrupy-like."

'she's awake then?"

Oh, yes, 'm ! She was a few minutes ago."

Is old Mr. Jones still sitting with her ? "

"Oh, yes, m ! " said Mrs. Sadler again. And
with her can of water she went sighing upstairs.

I moved into the sitting-room, unfastening
my cloak as I went, and passed quickly into the
bedroom beyond it.

My darling," I cried, trying to speak
joyously — " mamma is come home ! "

Isla, sucking lozenges and wide awake, was
however alone ; for old Mr. Jones had vanished
had disappeared, I suppose, by the other
door.

It was always the case. I had frightened the
old man away !

iT was heart-breaking work, this having
to go on with a duty which with
each day was becoming to me more
irksome and distasteful.

The novelty, the excitement of the first week
or so had worn ois ; and I was growing to downright
hate my nightly work at the Levity.

In my soul I never had liked it ; my natural
instinct, my inherent prejudices with regard to
a stage-life for a woman were reviving with
increased force.

Yet, if Aurora had still been at the theatre to
cheer my flagging spirit and to bear me company ;
or if Isla, whom I was compelled every evening
to leave at home in Bentham Street, either in
the care of Mrs. Sadler — who was continually
remarking that the child was " fading away
like " — or in that of shadowy old Mr. Jones, had

not looked so white and wistful, so childlike
and pathetic in her patient suffering ; it would
not have been so miserable — it all would not
have been so hard to bear. Ah, no ! If Aurora
had still been my stage-companion, and if the
health of my dear little girl had kept unbroken,
I should doubtless have been able and willing
to go on singing for Mr. Binkworthy, if not with
a heart thoroughly at ease, at any rate with
one free from that gnawing pain of unrest and
discontent, that terrible leaden sense of near
calamity, which oppressed me daily now.

It was anguish for me to leave the child when
evening came ; for I knew that, in spite of
her patient little smile, she was really ill, and
indeed needed my tenderest care. But my
master at the theatre was inexorable in an
affable sort of way ; and, once having securely
got me, he refused to let me go. If his glove,
so to speak, was silken, the hand beneath it
was of unyielding iron.

Unfortunately I seemed to be more popular
than ever at the Levity ; and the spirits of Mr.
Binkworthy in consequence rose higher and
higher. Offers from managers of similar places
of entertainment came to me now in abundance ;
but the terms of agreement between me and

my first manager precluded all possibility of
my acceptance of any one of them.

Oh, the irony of fate ! One man, who, it
appeared, had a "temple of varieties" at Mar-mouth
Bay — a healthy flourishing seaport upon
the south-west coast — wrote and begged me to
come and sing at his theatre. I might name
my own terms, he said, and all journey-expenses
should be paid me.

And yet it was impossible — impossible ! Oh,
sad, sad word — sad and hopeless sometimes as
"good-bye" itself! Nevertheless, what would
not I have given, what would not I have
done, to be free to turn my back upon cruel
London and to carry off my darling to Mar-mouth
Bay ?

And nightly at the Levity I was greeted
with deafening cheers ; my most pathetic ballads
winning for me the greatest storm of
applause. My heart was breaking ; tears often
were in my voice ; and I sang my melancholy
songs straight from my heart, I suppose.

She sings with true feeling — true as it is
rare ; that, sir, is the charm of Madame Fleurette
— the secret of her success," I overheard
someone saying close to me upon the pavement,
on one occasion as I was hurriedly leaving the

theatre to catch my omnibus hard by. '' That
woman, sir, feels every word she sings, bless
you ! There were real tears in her eyes tonight.
I saw them distinctly."

True feeling ! Real tears ! Ah, my friend,
yes — even so ! The feeling was there, and was
true enough ; the tears were there, and were real
enough ; but who of them amongst that audience
which crammed the theatre, smoking and drinking
and ripe for the evening's amusement, and
which stared at and applauded in wild delight
the pale dark-haired woman in her simple black
gown, guessed — or would have cared a straw had
they known — that the singer herself vas the
unhappiest of women, and that her songs, in
very truth, came straight from her breaking
heart ?

And, in response to a tumultuous encore
for " The Better Land," I had that night at
Mr. Binkworthy's request — or shall I say his
command ? — sung them the jaunty '' Shady
O'Flynn"

*' Must give 'em grave and gay," whispered the
manager hoarsely. " They don't like too much
of the one nor too much of the other — not ' too
much sentiment, but just sentiment enough,'
don't ye know % If you make 'em cry at first,

you must get 'em to laugh afterwards. That's
the way to fetch 'em."

'steady ' Fly nn " — think of it !— and my
little child dying at home !

Dying ? Ah, me ! Could it be true ? Well,
they told me so — though I did not, would not
believe them. Dying ? Oh, no ! Why should
there be any talk of death ?

'you are wrong — you are wrong," I said
passionately. " The child was delicate from her
birth ; has always been delicate — always, always,
always ! Do not you understand ? She is no
worse now than she has been before. She never
was like other children. Never — my sweet
fragile little Isla ! "

No ; I would not believe them. Heaven, I said,
never could be so barbarous, so exquisitely cruel
as to take from me my little child ; whose
innocent existence had been to me the one perfect
joy, the one bright star of hope, as it were, in
those heavy and sorrowful years of my life since
Daryl Darkwood had made me his wife.

I believe now, looking back to those sad days
in Bentham Street, that my grief had in some
wise touched my brain ; for I could not, try
how I would, quite realise that I was soon to
be left alone — utterly alone, alone for evermore !

No friend, no husband, no child. Alone ! Well,
if that ever should come to pass — and I would
not believe it to be possible — Death would
perhaps then be merciful and summon me too.
I could not, cared not to live without my child.
If Isla must go — went

From this room into the next "

why, I too would go "in a minute," would
quickly follow her ; there should be ** no time
to be vext." Life robbed of my darling would
be life no longer to me — but at best a living
death. That could not be borne. Surely life is
not worth living when one has lost one's all
in it !

There were times when I wept myself half-crazy
; lying prone upon my bed, with my hands
clutching the pillows ; wept until the fount of
my tears was dry and the storm of sobs was
wholly spent. Then I would rise, loosen my
hair, and plunge my disfigured face into a bath
of cold water ; the next moment laughing
hysterically to think that I should have been
fool enough to weep at all ! What was thereto
weep for ? Nothing. Isla, after all, was not
going to die. And yet, with my palms pressed
hard to my temples, I remembered dully that I
had again taken her for advice to the famed

Doctor Grace ; and not only to that renowned
physician, but likewise to other eminent men of
his profession. And did not they now one and
all say the same thing — that the child was
doomed, had not long to live ; that she had
fallen into a swift decline ; that no power or
skill upon earth, no change from town to
country, could hold the little wan pilgrim back
from " the strait and dreadful pass " ?

But of course they did not speak the truth.
Doctors always exaggerate — especially in cases
of decline. Nevertheless, why, I wonder, did I
one day write off wildly to Aurora and tell her,
with tears raining upon the paper beneath my
pen, what those foolish doctors had said ?

On the very next day Aurora, laden with gifts
for Isla, appeared in dingy Bentham Street ;
having travelled by express up to town from
the country place she was stopping at ; and I
fell upon her bosom, crying piteously.

I remember her telling me very kindly and
seriously that Daryl should be sent for ; he was,
she believed, still living at her mothers house
in Chesterfield Avenue. He ought — for right
was right, said Aurora — to see his child : to
know that she was ill ; it was wrong and unnatural
to keep him in ignorance of his little

daughter's state. But at this I exclaimed
angrily,—

He shall not come here. He cares for
neither of us. I forbid you, Aurora — do you
hear ? — I forbid you to tell Daryl where I am I
Recollect, please, that you promised to keep my
secret ; and never will I forgive you if you break
your word ! "

I forget how Aurora reasoned with me on the
matter ; but she spoke of Christian love and
charity, of the divine qualities of mercy and
forgiveness, and was altogether very gentle and
good. It was nobler to forgive than to be forgiven,
she said. But I was firm, stubborn, in
my passion and despair. Voluntarily I never
would see Daryl Darkwood again.

And, when Aurora was going away, she sat
down and took the child upon her knee, and hid
her face on my darling's neck. I heard her soft
slow tender kisses ; but why — but why did she
keep her face hidden for so long ?

What are you doing ? " I said sharply.

Aurora looked up ; her eyes were wet.
Strange !

*' I — I was saying good-bye," she gently
answered ; " that is all."

One would think — one would think," said I,

in a tone of reproach — why did the mere effort
of speech seem to suffocate me ? — " that — that
you were saying good-bye for ever. Why make
such a fuss about it ? You used," I added
querulously, *' to be so practical, so sensible.
You have grown silly and sentimental, Aurora."

Oh, no, I haven't ! " she answered quietly.

And then she had to hasten from Bentham
Street to catch her train at — Euston, I think
she said, was her station.

After Aurora had gone that day, the twilight,
I remember, seemed to come on very suddenly ;
and, with the wintry gloaming, snow, in small
eddying flakes, was driven against the windows
by the bleak north breeze. I stared at the lamps
as they were being lighted in the street. They
looked quite dim, and flickered miserably. The
snow, then, was thicker than it appeared,
thought I.

Snow ? Why, it must be December, of course
nearly mid-December, in fact. How time
sped ! Christmas would soon be with us, I was
musing — Christmas, that holy season of " peace
and goodwill towards men." What did it mean,
that much-vaunted peace and goodwill on earth
towards men ? Did it mean mirth, happiness,
plenty — a healing, an alleviation of all earthly

suffering and distress? That could not be so
when, in wretched fireless attics and cellars, the
very poor — men, women, and children alike —
were naked, frozen, starving outright ; and when
the rich, clad in purple and fine linen, by their
blazing hearths fared sumptuously every day !
What an unfair and a heartless old world it was !
And what a lonely Christmas festival mine and
Isla's would be ! Could it indeed be actually
true that "God is love" — that God is just?
Oh, inscrutable love, inscrutable justice — never
to be rightly understood upon this side of the
grave !

When it was time for me to dress and to start
for the theatre, Isla was still lying upon the sofa
drawn near to the fire, the child's favourite place,
with a warm gray woollen shawl of mine partly
covering her. She did not want to go to bed
just yet, she said ; she was not very tired — not
very ; and Mrs. Sadler could undress her and
put her in her cot when she was ready. Besides,
old Mr. Jones, she informed me, had bought hera
new story-book full of beautiful pictures, and
all about a " poor cock-robin who was killed by
a wicked sparrow with his bow and arrow ;" and
old Mr. Jones, by-and-by, when I was gone, was
coming down to read it to her — Isla — and to sit

with her perhaps " until mamma came back from
the theatre."

The cruel hacking cough seized her unexpectedly
— a sound which smote and racked my
heart with an anguish beyond expression ; and
my darling could tell me no more. The paroxysm
over, white as a snowdrop she lay upon
my breast.

I waited with her, soothed her, till she was
better again ; gave her some port-wine and water
and some calfs-foot jelly ; and then rang for
Mrs. Sadler to take my place by the sofa.

I must go. Ah, me — how wretched was I !

For the last fortnight or more — indeed, since
the child had grown so weak — I had been frequently
late at the theatre. To-night I was
once more late. My usual omnibus was gone ;
no other was in sight. There was no help for
it ; I hailed a hansom that was lingering by a
public-house and drove down to the Levity as
fast as the horse could take me thither.

It was still snowing, softly and thickly, the
flakes whirling; slantwise in the small but biting
north wind. It was just the night to drive
pedestrians, idlers, street-readers, to the warmth,
comfort, and glitter of a theatre of varieties.
The great open pillared doors and brilliant vestibule,

with its mirrors, palms, and pictures, of
Mr. Binkworthy's popular establishment were an
attraction, a temptation in themselves.

Tut, tut — you are late again, Madame Fleurette,"
said the manager, somewhat impatiently ;
and naturally the audience have been kicking
up no end of a disturbance because you did not
appear in the order set down for you on the
programme. We have had to send on the
O'Leary Family, with their eccentric entertainment
— they wouldn't listen to the Sisters Gay
before anything like order could be restored.
There was the same bother the other evening,"
grumbled Mr. Binkworthy.

I cannot help it," I answered wearily — it
might be indifferently.

Surely, madame, you could be more punctual
if you tried," rejoined the manager testily. " I
should — I should fine you if you was anybody
else. I — I had no call to complain of you at
first."

I turned upon him fiercely.

'* I have a little sick child at home now,
recollect," I said. " I came as early as I could.
Worry me no more ! "

The manager shrugged his shoulders; and
spread out his fat belonged hands.

I hope she's better — the little gal," said he.
'' Is she ? "

I did not answer him. But, with my whole
soul in hot revolt, with moist quivering hands,
and with eyes that were burnt dim with fiery
tears, I turned and unrolled the music of my
first song.

My reception that evening, when I at last
appeared upon the stage, was as uproariously
hearty as ever ; and, although the atmosphere of
the great building, with its tobacco smoke and
;smell of beer and spirits, seemed to stifle me, to
turn me sick ; the glare of the footlights and of
the chandeliers to blind my aching and yearning
eyes ; the crowd of eager and staring faces to
bewilder me strangely to-night — accustomed as I
had grown to the odiousness of it all — yet I
suppose I sang my songs to the complete satisfaction
of my listeners and admirers ; for again
and again was I recalled in front of the orchestra
to bow my acknowledgments to this token of my
popularity.

My last song, like its two predecessors, was
frantically encored. I had managed however, by
gently shaking my head and appealingly touching
my throat, to shirk complying with the wishes of
the audience with regard to my earlier songs.

But my third was "Kathleen Mavourneen" —
always a tremendous favourite with Levity
patrons — and there was " no getting out of it "
this time, as Mr. Binkworthy, in some excitement,
expressed it.

I cannot sing again to-night — indeed I
cannot," I said earnestly.

You must," said the manager. " Hark
at 'em ! "

I cannot — oh, I cannot ! " I moaned. " Let
me go home ! "

Pooh ! Sing them one more, and then you
shall leave. They'll never be quiet else ; and
there's Professor Pampeluna and his performing
dogs waiting to go on. Come — don't be a fool,
Madame Fleurette ! " said the manager roughly.
He disappeared ; but soon returned with a small
tumbler of champagne. " Here, drink this — look
sharp ! It'll pull you together and give you
'part," said Mr. Binkworthy more kindly ; and
himself put the glass to my unwilling lips.

I was his slave — his paid slave ; and so it
ended in my going heavily back to the stage,
and by my presence thereon once more hushing
the theatre into tranquillity and decent behaviour.


The stage attendants, in their ridiculous and

shabby ]iveiy, had already wheeled on the grand
piano ; for, whenever I accepted the encore for
my last song of the evening, I was expected, as
before, to accompany myself. But no " Kerry
Dance," no "Shady O'Flynn" for them to-night !
They must have what I chose to give them ; or
go without.

For some moments my hands moved aimlessly
over the keys of the piano. I struck a few
minor chords, and then played a brief dreamy
prelude of my own composition. I wanted no
notes for my own accompanying. The music of
the sweet old melody came back to me out of
dreamland — was plaintively stealing from beneath
my wandering hands. I remembered the
words of the sweet sad song as perfectly as if I
had last sung them only yesterday, and not long,
dim, and shadowy years before. And yet — and
yet, was it so very long ago, after all ? Strange
that, on that night of all nights, I should have
found myself singing the favourite song of my
girlhood, of my lost happy youth, when I knew
not Daryl Darkwood, nor aught of evil or of
sorrow —

I saw from the beach, when the morning was shining "
the song that I sometimes used to sing to

VOL. II. I

I trembled ; shivered as if the ice-cold breeze
from without had touched me ; but played on
mechanically nevertheless.

Ne'er tell me of glories serenely adorning

The close of our day, the calm eve of our night —
Give me back, give me back the wild freshness of
Morning,
Her clouds and her tears are worth Evening's
best light."

I sang — sang with a passionate feeling of
hopeless regret, all unconscious though I was
perhaps of it at the time ; with a vague, tender
longing for the glad innocence of youth which
never, never more could be mine again —
which, in its fidelity and yearning pathos,
seemed absolutely to thrill the densely-packed
house.

Never within my short experience of it and
the ways of its audience had the theatre been so
hushed. No flitting to and fro of nimble waiters ;
no vulgar popping of corks and jingling of
glasses ; no careless chatter at the distant bars,
where flirtation and refreshment were wont to go
together — nothing but the sound of a woman's
voice, clear, unutterably sad, and tremulous with
tears, pathetically telling her listeners that the

heart of the singer was breaking, and that " the
wild freshness of morning," with all its sweetness,
purity, and vigour, was dead, lost to her ;
for her had vanished, in this life, for ever and
for ever !

It was not often that I glanced downward at
the occupants of the stalls ; they always appeared
to be so horribly near to the stage. The bold
upward stares, whether of curiosity or of admiration,
which I there encountered annoyed me
acutely — to me were disagreeable in the extreme.
Bat to-night, as I was in the act of rising from
the music-stool to bow my thanks to the familiar
outburst of enthusiasm, something — a strange
indefinable force or influence which some people,
I dare say, would call *' magnetic" — involuntarily
caused me to turn my eyes downward upon those
rows of crimson seats immediately behind the
band.

There, in the end seat of the third row from
the stage, his eyes fixed upon me — eyes in
which, I fancied just then, there were shining
together amazement, joy, reproach, and a hopeless
fatherly love — sat a figure that for years I
had seen only in my dreams. Was it a ghost —
a ghost from my dead forlorn pastor was it in
grim reality

No — no ; it was no error of vision ; no trick
of fancy ; no apparition from an immaterial
world. God help me, it was solid flesh and
blood !

Time notwithstanding had dealt hardly with
the benign-looking old man ; he looked indeed
as if his years sat in heaviness and in weariness
upon him.

His light blue eyes were as mild as ever in
expression ; but his pale lips were drawn down
with strong lines about them. His face, with
its fringe of iron-gray whisker, was no longer
pink and smooth ; but had now a colourless,
an almost leaden hue which in the gaslight was
ghastly to behold. He had, too, grown very
bald. Upon the convenient ledge before him
stood a glass of steaming grog ; between the
fingers of one wiry veined hand he held the
stump of a cigar ; whilst with the other hand,
upon his knee, he grasped a black bag. Great
Heaven — the hack hag !

Our eyes met.

He smiled mournfully ; half rose from his
seat, still faintly smiling, as if uncertain what todo.
It was horrible.

A smothered cry broke from me. I staggered
sidewise back on to the music-stool ; discordantly

striking the notes of the piano with my

nerveless outstretched arms.

Some one shrieked : *' She is ill — dying ! "
Then the lights seemed to go out ; the theatre

to spin round. The curtain fell with a crash ;

and I remember no more.

HEN I recovered strength and sensibility,
I was in the manager's room.
I found myself sitting there in an
easy-chair, with Mr. Binkworthy bending over
me, looking thoroughly scared and anxious. He
was holding brandy, or brandy-and-water, to
my lips. I thrust it away ; and with difficulty
rose to my feet.

Pah ! I do not want it. Don't ! " I
muttered, in a tone of weary disgust. " I am —
I am going home immediately."

** You are not strong enough yet. Do pray
wait a bit, Madame Fleurette," pleaded the
manager. '' 'Isn't very late — not eleven ;
and—"

I shook my head ; held up my hand to
silence him ; found my wraps, and put them

on. One of them was a fur-lined cloak, the
warm hood of which I drew close over my
roughened hair.

Let me see you home — you really ain't fit
to go alone," said Mr. Binkworthy earnestly.
*' Or there's my brome waiting outside. Take
it an' welcome, so long as you get safe home."

No, no, no ! I — I am quite well now —
indeed I am, thank you," I told him hurriedly.
It was the heat of the place — nothing else.
The theatre is dreadfully full to-night."

"Not more crammed than common since
you've been singing here," replied the manager,
with a rather uneasy air. He was accompanying
me down the dim white-washed passage to
the stage door. I felt that he was glancing
askance at me. " They were saying," he added
in the next breath, 'that — that you had recognised
an old friend in the stalls, Madame
Fleurette, and it upset you."

'they said that?"

Yes. Was it true ? "

If it was, it is no one's business but mine,"
I replied coldly. " I repeat, the theatre was
stifling — frightfully so. It always is. It wants
better ventilation or something. I am sure I
wonder that I have not fainted before."

o

The night's bitter enough outside, anyhow,"
said the manager drily — "it snows
hard."

'* So it did when I arrived. Good-night, Mr.
Bink worthy."

He caught hold of my cloak to detain me
another minute or two.

For Grot's sake, Madame Fleurette, take care
o' yourself!" he said huskily. "Don't go and
ketch cold, whatever you do, or — or you mayn't
be able to sing tomorrow night."

The bare thought of such a calamity seemed
to make him perspire. He blew a loud sigh ;
pulled out a puce-silk pocket-handkerchief and
wiped his shining forehead.

"That mustn't happen, you know," said he,
with a poor attempt at a friendly smile.
'Twould never do to disappoint 'em at this
time o' year ; and — and when you've got to
be such a tremendous favourite with 'em all,
too ! " •

Do not be frightened. It will not happen,"
said I, with a kind of scornful impatience which
I took no pains to disguise. "I don't forget
what is expected of me here so long as the
breath remains in my body. But a cab-horse,"
I sighed bitterly, as I moved from the stage-door

into the bleak and snowy street, " drops
sometimes in the shafts — dead ! "

Notwithstanding, after that night, the Levity
saw me no more. After that night I never
again sang at Mr. Binkworthy's theatre of
varieties. Indeed, I never again saw the
manager himself. Thenceforward we were as
strangers ; as though we never had met ! Such
is the strange uncertainty of the future, and of
Fate !

I hurried along, seeing no cab, my cloak
wrapped tightly about me, my fearful eyes
glancing nervously to the right and to the left.
The night was unutterably cold and dreary ;
the snow still fell, but here in the great city
losing its chill purity the instant it reached
the earth ; the sludgy pavements were almost
deserted. All the late omnibuses were full ;
but I recollected that there was a cab-stand
not many yards farther on, and thither with
beating heart I hastened. Could I escape \
Was there a chance for me ?

Yet no shriek of alarm left my lips when I felt
my arm touched — touched timidly by some
unseen hand — when a figure stole out from the
shadow of a roomy doorway belonging to an
empty house with broken and shuttered windows,

which adjoined a portion of the theatre I had
just quitted. No ! No cry, either of alarm or
of surprise, broke from me ; for, after what had
occurred within the theatre, I had instinctively
known that this would follow — that there would
be no avoiding it — that I must meet it, this
grisly spectre of the past, and bear with the
horror of it all with what courage in the
circumstances I could summon to my aid.

Nevertheless, had a corpse, starting from its
coffin, suddenly touched me, I could not have
shuddered more violently or have experienced a
keener terror. I quailed — trembling all over —
shrank into the shadow of the long-empty and
most desolate-looking house ; my eyes shut
involuntarily, dreading what they would see ; my
spread hands uplifted for a moment or so as if to
shield me from a blow.

Flower — Flower," said the well-remembered
voice, humble, mild, tremulous with sorrowful
entreaty, gentle as ever ; " and so we meet again.
How strange is life ! How strange are the
accidents of it ! Oh, my child — though child
you are no longer, but grown to a womanhood
wondrously fair — speak to me, give me a word !
I have been waiting and watching for you here ;
speak then to your poor old "

*' Father," I said in a shuddering whisper, " in
pity leave me ! No ; do not touch me again ;
but leave me in peace — if there be such a thing
as peace in this world. And if — if it be that
that you still care for me, I — I ask you to
prove it this instant by leaving me as I beg
you. We are nothing to each other — nothing
but strangers. When I left — left Moor Edge,
I left you for ever — for ever and ever. I have
other ties now. Never dare to trouble me
again ; but go ! "

I had opened my horrified eyes, with my hands
pressed hard over my bosom, my face as white
as the falling snowflakes — still cowering backward
against the wall of the forsaken house, lest
my garments even should be defiled by contact
with the man before me. In the pallid light
from the street-lamps in our vicinity I perceived
that he was regarding me with mild questioning
blue eyes full of perplexity. One hand in a
pleading manner was extended towards me ; in
the other was the black bag without which — as
in the old days — he travelled nowhither. But
the pure cold snow, dancing so thickly and so
noiselessly earthward, was fast clothing in white
the noisome ugly thing.

Flower," sadly said he whom once I had

known as and innocently called my '' Uncle
Simon," " you are very hard, my dear ; I will
not say unnatural, because perhaps it is only
only natural, after all, that you, having—
as you told me in that message which you
left behind you when you fled from Moor
Edge, and indeed as is very evident to me
now — at last discovered the truth, should shrink
from him who always loved you so well, dear —
nay who would — "

'love — love," I gasped. ''Do not, I pray
you, think of that beautiful word as anything
that could possibly have existence between you
and me ! It is not possible — not true. I
ceased to care for you, to regret you, when I
learned the truth. Ah, it was too cruel ; too
horrible ! "

Oh, Flower," said the old man very desolately,
the tears beginning to trickle down his changed
cheeks, " you are too hard — too hard upon me !
Child, you would at least pity me — I believe you
would not be so unkind — if you knew how
wretched I am in my old age ; how lonely I
have been since you went away. The old moorland
home is sadly altered since you knew it.
Flower. It was always solitary, dear, I'm
aware ; it is worse than solitary now. Flower,

for the sake of the happy old days that are dead
and gone and cannot return, let me take you by
the hand — only once again, my dear — just once.
Let me take your hand in mine, and hear you
say ' Uncle Simon ' — just once, only once, as you
used to do ! A minute ago you called me
father.' Why — why was that ? Strange, very
strange, coming from you. Flower ! Why was
it, dear ? " he whispered plaintively. " Call me
Uncle Simon ' again ; not "

Nearer to me crept he ; the black bag brushed
my gown. I flung out my arms and passionately
waved him back.

*'Do not you understand me ?" I said sternly.
*' Since we parted I have learned the truth ; the
whole truth. If I called you 'father,' I — I did
not mean to. The name slipped from me unawares
; you are nothing to me. Your meeting
me to-night is dreadful — dreadful ! I was unhappy
enough, God knows, before ; I am fifty
times at this moment unhappier than I was.
Thanks to my husband," I cried bitterly, " I am
no longer an innocent and an ignorant girl — I
am a woman, with a woman's hard experience of
life. My husband — where all was gloom and
darkness — has let daylight in. I have gained
wisdom, and have paid dearly for the gaining of

it. That is the way of things in this world. He
guessed — somehow found out — everything ! He
told me the truth — the truth, Simon Greedy.
Do you hear ? Do you comprehend ? Go, gogo,
then ; the sight of you hurts my eyes ! Let
me pass ; but do not touch me ; I want to get
home to my child."

Husband — child," repeated the old man
dreamily, as if my passionately-uttered words —
every one of them, save those two — had not
fallen upon his ears at all ; " tell me something
about them — your husband and your child —
perhaps children ? Have you more than one —
tell me. Flower ? Are you happy in your
married life — quite happy, dear ? " he said
eagerly. " And — and let me hear how it is
that I find you singing at that theatre place.
They told me inside that you sing there every
night ; that — that — "

*'My present life is my own — it does not
concern you, Simon Greedy," I answered wildly.
Whatever it be, whatever I may hold dear in
it, it is my own affair ; not yours. Evil, lost
old man ! I am nothing to you. I may be
your child, but I have naught in my heart
for you except deepest loathing ; and therefore
"

A huge (lark shape, but a few yards from
where we stood, here advanced slowly through
the whirling snow. I sprang past Simon
Greedy and grasped the policeman by the
arm.

Find me a cab, will you," I panted, " and
I will give you half-a-crown % "

For a few astonished seconds he stared down
into my white and agitated face ; and then
said, —

*' Certainly, 'm, I will."

He put a whistle to his lips and blew it
shrilly.

What is the matter, madam — have you
been insulted ? " he asked, dropping the whistle
into his pocket.

Yes — no — yes, I mean," was my incoherent
reply ; and, hardly conscious of what I did, I
pointed to the dark doorway of the empty
house.

Straightway my burly friend turned his bull's-eye
full upon the shadowy entrance-place. The
piercing light of it revealed Simon Greedy
crouching there upon the wet doorstep ; his
bowed face hidden in his hands ; the black bag
lying unheeded upon the pavement at his
feet.

With one stride the huge policeman was
stooping over the abject old man. He shook
him roughly by the shoulder. Simon Greedy
looked up.

*' Flower, Flower," he cried — '' do not leave
me like this ! One word, dear — after all these
years, one little kind word — Flower — Flower — "

With a harsh laugh the policeman stepped
back.

*why, you old sinner — you, is it?" I heard
him exclaim. " You, of all limbs o' darkness in
the world — Youl'''

The past faintness and dizziness of the theatre
were returning. I felt that I could not stand
unsupported. Happily at that instant a hansom
drove briskly alongside the kerb-stone, and
stopped quite close to me.

Are you the fare, madam % " inquired the
driver. " Some one whistled."

"Yes."

I told him whither to drive me ; stumbled
somehow into the cab ; and sank back upon the
padding of it with a moan of despair.

The policeman came to the cab doors ; leant
one arm upon them, looked in, and said significantly,
—

Do you know, 'm, who he is ? " — with a

jerk of his helmet in the direction of the dark
doorway.

"Yes."

You do ! Shall I take him into custody ? "

No, no, no ! He — he has done nothing."

'* I understood you, madam, that he had insulted
you ? "

I remembered the promised half-crown. I
managed to find the money, and thrust it into
the policeman's hand ; saying faintly, —

*' It — it doesn't matter — let him go. And —
and please tell the man to drive fast ; he knows
the address."

My head, my head — oh, the throbbing, the
dull, dreadful giddiness of it ! What did it
mean ? Was I going to be ill ?

My big friend touched his helmet and immediately
withdrew from the vehicle. In another
moment I was travelling rapidly homeward to
my darling — to my little sick patient child —
through the whirling white mist of the wintry
night.

But a desolate cry seemed to follow me upon
the breath of the wild north wind ; seemed,
every now and then, with bursts of demoniac
laughter, to rush by the side of the rattling cab ;
and would not be shut out.

VOL. II. K

Periwinkle,

'' Flower, Flower," wailed the old man's voice
" do not leave me like this after all
these years, dear, not like this ! One little
word," it sobbed and laughed — " one little kind
word, dear ! Oh, Flower Flower . . . . ! "

LEASE, Mrs. Darkwood, 'm, there's
a Mr. — a Mr. Blameworthy, I understood
him to say, at the door.
See you he must and will, he says. Shall I
ask him to walk in ? "

See me he can't and shall not," was my
reply, given very calmly — the calmness that is
born of a great but a quiet and tearless despair.
** By no means invite him an inch beyond the
doorstep."

'' But, ma'am," said Mrs. Sadler dolefully,
how am I to get rid of him ? Indeed, 'm, I
told him as you was just about as bad as you
could be, and little missy there so ill and all too ;
but the gentleman fired up quite angry like, and
said, ' Pooh, she's not too bad to see me, Pll
warrant ! You go and tell her I said so.' He

seems a very peppery sort of gent," sniffed Mrs,
Sadler.

For a few moments I pondered the aspect of
affairs ; then said, —

'' Mrs. Sadler, please be good enough to go as
quietly as you can into the sitting-room and
lock the door opening on the passage ; make no
noise if you can help it ; and then come back tome.



She left the bedroom, passing through the
folding-doors, and I heard her stealthily doing in
the other room what I had begged her to do.

It was four o'clock in the afternoon, and
already growing dark. No snow was falling today
— it had ceased during the past night ; but
the sky was still leaden and low ; the atmosphere
was gray and cheerless ; and the raw wind, which
had shifted eastward, wailed and whistled at
every keyhole and dismally rattled the window-frames
both upstairs and down.

To-day my darling was too ill to get up — too
weak indeed to lift her little dark head from the
pillow unless my arm was placed beneath it. So
she was lying in her cot near to the bedroom
fire ; and I, in my dressing-gown, with my easy-chair
wheeled to the cot-side, had been trying to
interest her, to rouse her from her lethargy, by

reading aloud the nursery tales that the dear
little soul loved best.

But it was of no use. She smiled, took lier
medicine without a murmur, said she was tired — ■
so very tired to-day — and appeared to be dozing
every other minute. Her cough however, [
noticed, with a sense of great thankfulness,
had seemed somewhat easier since the early

morning.

For myself, I was ill, really ill — bodily and
mentally alike ; but I hardly as yet realised the
fact. A sleepless, a most wretched night, the
misery of my own reflections in the still dark
hours before the morning dawned, had completely
worn me out. I must not give way, though ;
dimly yet distinctly enough I was conscious of
that ; for Isla's sake I must bear up, be alert, and
not give way. No — that of all calamities must
not happen. Yet, dreary and long and hopeless
as the night seemed, morning — as it ever does —
came at last.

On rising, the first thing I had done was to
write to Mr. Bink worthy. I would sing no more
at the Levity until — until — well, until my child
was well again. No earthly power should move
me from her side, to Mr. Binkworthy's theatre
of varieties or elsewhere, until her health was

thoroughly restored and I could once more,
without anxiety, leave her to the care of
strangers.

Thus determined, I had seized my pen and
written hurriedly, —

Dear Sir, — I find it is as you feared it would
be last night. I have caught cold — am downright
ill. My little girl, too, is worse. Therefore, as
I have now to nurse both her and myself, you
must not, I am afraid, for some time to come
expect me to return to the theatre. With
sincere regrets, should I have caused you any
inconvenience, — Believe me, yours truly,

Flower Darkwood."

The note was despatched through the post before
ten o'clock a.m. By four in the afternoon
Mr. Binkworthy in his brougham had driven over
to Bentham Street and was standing upon the
doorstep of Mrs. Sadler's house.

I was not surprised. I expected the visit. I
had guessed there would be a tussle over the
determination I had arrived at. But a hundred
furious managers should not shake it. Once and
fur all, my mind was made up.

How thankful was I now that out of my

weekly earnings a considerable sum of money had
been lodged in a bank against the coming of a
day of trouble ! Had no money been hoarded,
no strict economy practised, I should not now
have been in a position to defy Mr. Binkworthy
and his wrath. As for the future, when — when
Isla was better, I had no fear of that. Should
Mr. Binkworthy by-and-by refuse, which was
hardly likely, to have anything more to do with
me, there were other managers, in London as
well as out of it, who would be only too glad of
the chance to offer me an engagement.

Mrs. Sadler, looking rather frightened, came
back on tip-toe from her errand in the sitting-room.


'rand what shall I tell the gentleman, please,
'm ? " she whispered. '' He's thumping the step
with his stick awful impatient. He do certainly
seem a dreadful peppery sort," said Mrs.
Sadler again, with an anxious glance over her
shoulder.

"Tell him," I said quietly, *' that if he stands
there from now until tomorrow afternoon he
will not see me ; neither will he come in. He
has had my letter — I have nothing further to
say. I am ill ; shut in my bedroom — to
receive a visit either from him or from anybody

else is in the circumstances an impossibility."


Mrs. Sadler slowly left the bedroom, thoughtfully
nibbling the nail of her first finger as she
went. I daresay she was wondering whether
she could in any wise soften the message I
had given her to deliver.

When she was gone, I sprang involuntarily
from my chair and locked the bedroom door
also. I knew not what the manager might
attempt in his angry desire for an interview.


For a long while the two voices were audible
at the front door ; Mr. Bink worthy's raised and
indignant ; Mrs. Sadler's whining and would-be
conciliatory. But at last the manager departed ;
and with a sigh of relief I heard the wheels of
his brougham roll away from Bentham Street.

Well ? " said I, turning the key again
softly, and allowing my landlady to enter.
Hush — sh, my good soul ! Not so loud — the
child has fallen asleep again."

Oh, he did go on," said Mrs. Sadler in a
shocked whisper — '' frightful ! He used a lot
of bad language, and that's the truth. What
Mrs. Winch's niece thought next door — she
was taking in the milk — I can't imagine ! He

kep on saying, Mrs. Darkwood, as you'd broken
your contract, and a good deal more that I
couldn't understand. And he said too, ma'am,
as he'd have a doctor's certificate from you
before eight o'clock this evening, or he'd know
the reason why."

"So he shall," I answered wearily, putting
my hands to my head. " Is old Mr. Jones
at home ? "

Oh, yes, 'm ! " said Mrs. Sadler. '' He's upstairs
with the newspaper, sitting over his fire."

Will you run up to him, then, Mrs. Sadler,
please, and ask him to have the kindness to go
round to the surgery and tell Doctor North
that I particularly wish to speak to him ? "
said I.

I had no hesitation in asking this favour
of old Mr. Jones. A dozen times a day he
would creep down from his garret floor to inquire
whether there was any improvement in the
child's condition, or whether, in any direction
whatever, there was aught that he could do
to help me ? I had only to mention it, said
old Mr. Jones earnestly ; he would do anything
he could, and be glad to.

Only on that very day, at dinner-time, had
the mysterious old man come shuffling downstairs,

knocked timidly at my door, and had
put into my hand a china dish of magnificent
purple grapes — grapes at four or five shillings
a pound! 'for little missy, with her old
friend's best love," said he. And before I
could thank him, back he had shuffled upstairs
again.

I was very sure that old Mr. Jones would
directly take a message for me to Doctor North,
whom I had of late called in to prescribe for
my child, and who lived conveniently near tous
in another street. The doctor, if I asked
him, would at once quiet Mr. Binkworthy by
certifying in the usual manner that I was,
through illness or "indisposition," wholly incapable
of performing my nightly work at
the theatre.

And not only did old Mr. Jones volunteer
to fetch Doctor North to my lodgings ; but
moreover insisted later on upon himself going
down to the Levity to place the certificate
in the hands of Mr. Binkworthy.

At first I would not hear of this notion ; for
the night was wet and rawly cold. But old Mr.
Jones was curiously stubborn, and would not
heed the objections I put forward. With a quite
hurt and stern air he buttoned up his shabby

overcoat, which seemed so much too big for his
shrunken figure, and pulled the worn collar of it
high about his ears. Resolutely he clapped on
his shabby old beaver hat, with its nap brushed
all the wrong way, and declared hurriedly
nervously, that nothing should hinder him in
doing what he knew to be his duty.

*' Oh, Mr. Jones," I entreated, with tears of
gratitude swimming in my sad eyes, perhaps
running down my wan cheeks, "do not — do
not you trouble ! One of Mrs. Sadler's sons,
I have no doubt, will, when they come home,
oblige me for once — "

Mrs. Sadler's sons may be late in — they
often are," muttered old Mr. Jones. " I am
going." The mean, narrow house passage where
we stood together was but poorly lighted. He
looked in the feeble gas-gleam like the ghost of
some little shabby old man, thought I insensibly.

Then at any rate you must take a cab," I
said, venturing to press my purse into his hand.
"You are going solely on my account; and
therefore I cannot allow — "

Courteously but firmly he waved the purse
from him.

"You are mistaken. I — I am not going out
solely on your errand, madam," murmured the

shadowy old creature, with something like real
old-world dignity in the mien of him. " I have
to — to call upon a friend of mine as well. I am
truly happy to be of service to you at the same
time."

He shuffled past me ; unlatched the front
door. He closed it softly ; and was gone. I
had never before exchanged so many words with
old Mr. Jones.

The very wheels of the omnibuses rolling by
in the distance seemed to move onward with a
muffled sound. People in the street outside, I
fancied, hushed their voices and trod the damp
pavement with care when they passed the door
of Mrs. Sadler's house. In the wind to-night,
as it swept round the corner of dingy Bentham
Street, I heard the crying and the moaning of
unearthly voices, chanting a dirge — a dirge
which ere long would sink into a requiem — for
the innocent soul of my darling, my beloved
child, that was travelling home to its God.

She had asked whether I would let her get up
to-day — had asked me to let her lie upon the
sofa in the sitting-room. And so, as Doctor
North had plainly assured me that " nothing
could make any difference ; " that was how he

put it : that she might do quite as she pleased
have just whatever she fancied ; I carried her in
the afternoon — she was scarcely heavier than one
of her own dolls — into the front-room, and laid
her there amongst many pillows upon the couch
by the fire. If she was in pain, I took her into
my arms, and thus rocked her to sleep upon my
breast. Well, she must go, it seemed — the dear
Lord knew best.

It was now three days ago since the manager
of the Levity had called at my lodgings and I
had refused him admittance. He had got from
me what he said he would have — my doctor's
certificate ; and Mr. Binkworthy so far had
troubled me no more ; though every knock at
the door set my heart thumping, lest it should
be some messenger sent by him from the theatre
or perhaps Mr. Binkworthy come again himself.

And nearly four days had now elapsed since I
had recognised Simon Greedy amongst the Levity
audience ; when the old man had waylaid me in
the vicinity of the stage-door, and had so pitifully
besought me — for the sake of the unalterable
past — for the " one little kind word " that
I would not, could not give him !

And for two whole days and for two whole
nights I had neither taken ofi* my clothes nor

stretched my limbs upon a bed ; my post had
been by my darling's cot. Nor for many, many
hours had I shed a tear ; nor swallowed solid
food ; nor said a coherent prayer. My tears,
I believed, were all gone ; food choked me ; and
when I tried to pray I had no mastery over my
words — I could only moan dumbly in an agony
of grief, and dimly wonder whether God understood.


Presently the door of the sitting-room opened ;
and Mrs. Sadler came noiselessly in. She had a
sup of tea and some toast upon a tray. Could it
then be tea-time ? Certainly it had grown very
dark ; and the lamps were lighted in the misty
street. Yes, indeed, said Mrs. Sadler in answer
to my listless inquiry, it had already gone six by
St. Saviour's clock ; and she had been waiting
for me to ring.

And now, dear lady," added the kind soul
earnestly, " do try and drink this tea, and swallow
a morsel o' toast with it. It's beautifully strong,
and there's a pinch o' green in it. It'll do you
all the good in the world."

I thanked her ; mechanically took the cup ;
but shook my head at the toast. So Mrs. Sadler,
sighing, set down the tray, quietly stirred the
fire, and lighted the gas overhead. And then,

having lowered the blind and drawn together the
faded moreen curtains, she came back to the
sofa and stared compassionately down at Isla.
Poor little dearie ! " she muttered. " A happy
release."

My hands trembled. The tea-spoon dropped
into my lap.

Has anyone been spreading straw on the
road outside ? " I asked nervously.

"Oh, no, m!" replied Mrs. Sadler. "Did
you want it done, though ? If so, Charlie will
be in in a minute, and then I'll send him round
to the mews — or perhaps old Mr. Jones '11 go
directly. I will step up and ask him ; shall I ? "

Do not trouble — I — I don't think it matters,"
I answered dully. " It sounds to me exactly as
if some one had been spreading straw in the
road — that is all. Everything seems so — so
muffled."

It's your pore head," said Mrs. Sadler
pityingly. " It aches and hums badly, I've no
doubt. What you want, 'm, is rest and sleep —
that's what you want more than anything."

*' I daresay. But, if I fall asleep, I hope and
pray that T may never wake up again — I mean,
here. It would be beautiful for me and my
child to wake up together in a kindlier world

than this. I can imagine nothing sweeter," said
I dreamily.

Mrs Sadler, feebly shocked, replied — " Oh, nom
! Don't say that ; it's wicked." And by-and-by
she left us alone once more. It was an
hour or two later perhaps when she looked in
again. She was then going out, it appeared ; for
she had put on her rusty black bonnet and shawl,
and had a canvas bag — her marketing-bag she
called it— on her arm.

I am obliged to go out, 'm," she whispered —
*' just to the grocer's and the pork-butcher's, and
to call on a neighbour over the way. Is there
anything I can do for you, Mrs Darkwood ? "

"Thank you, nothing."

Mrs. Sadler, scarcely breathing, crept to the
couch-side.

"How is she ? " she asked.

I can see no difference."

Mrs. Sadler shook her head mournfully.

"Poor little angel! She will not live till
morning."

God knows ! " I answered desolately.

Well, 'm. Bob and Charlie are both underneath
" — pointing to the carpet — " playing cribbage.
If you want anything, though I won't begone
longer than I can help, you've only to call

to them at the top of the kitchen stairs —
they'll hear. And old Mr. Jones is at home
too."

Very well. Should I want them, I will call
them," I calmly replied.

With a sniff and a sigh the landlady vanished
as noiselessly as she had appeared, murmuring
" Oh, dear — oh, dear, if she'd only take and
have a good fit o' crying, it 'ud do her all the
good in the world ! It isn't natural — it can't be
to bear up agen death like this."

I do not know how long Mrs. Sadler had been
gone ; it may have been an hour ; it may have
been only a quarter of one ; but presently there
came another soft " tap, tap, tap," at my sitting-room
door. I supposed that Mrs. Sadler had
returned from her shopping.

*' Come in," said I.

But the tapping was repeated ; and no one
entered. So I rose unsteadily, with a sensation
of sudden giddiness — 1 dare say I was weak from
my vigil and fasting — and opened the door
myself. I peered cautiously forth. I could see
no one.

Who is there ? " I breathed, trembling a
little.

Then, standing in the dimmest and shadows

VOL. II. L

part of the passage, with its one sickly gas-jet
near to the fanlight of the front door, I discerned
old Mr. Jones. His long and shabby overcoat
was buttoned close up to his chin ; a gray woollen
comforter was twisted about his neck. His scant
wisps of silvery hair, I noticed, were uncovered,
and rested upon the cloudy comforter ; but his
shabby old hat and stick were in his hand ; it
was plain that he was going out. Perhaps Mrs.
Sadler had said something to him about the
straw, and he was now going to the mews.

Old Mr. Jones ! " was my involuntary exclamation.


Yes," he said.

Do you — do you want me ? " I inquired
wonderingly.

** I should like to hear from your own lips
whether it is true," he murmured ; his gray head
bent so low that in the passage-gloom I could
no longer see his face. " Mrs. Sadler says the
child is dying — cannot — cannot live until the
morning ? "

I smote my hands together, and pressed them
against my bosom.

Old man," I cried — and my voice in my own
ears sounded strange and unearthly, like those
other spirit-voices in the wind — *you torture

o

me ; you are cruel ! Cannot you see that my
distress and anguish are insupportable — that my
grief is killing me % Why should you come hereto
stare at my breaking heart ? "

'' Heaven forbid ! " he answered, as if to himself.
With his usual shambling gait he moved
to the street-door. 'eyes," he muttered, "it is
time now. In distress, broken-hearted, no
friends near her in this terrible hour ! He
would blame me if he were not told. I will go.
Yes, yes ; I can see it is the proper thing to do.
I promised to do my duty, and the promise shall
be kept. Afterwards, I know, he will say that I
did right."

I had dropped my face into my hands, and
was leaning heavily against the passage wall.
Yet no tears came to my hot dry eyes ; though
a hard gasping sob shook me roughly now and
then.

When I swept my hair from my aching
temples and looked dazed around me, I was
alone in the poorly-lit passage. Old Mr. Jones
was not there. Whither had he gone — the
strange, mysterious old man ? What did he
mean, if he really meant anything ? He was,
I recollected, for ever muttering and saying
queer things to himself, after the fashion of

solitary and contemplative old folk who have
seen better days perhaps in their time.

The next instant I had forgotten old Mr.
Jones, his odd ways, his odd talk, and was back
by my darling's side. She had moaned twice —
was turning restlessly on the pillows. Her eyes
were open ; but I perceived that she did not
know me.

Upon my knees I flung myself by the sofa
and gathered my child to my heart. My touch
seemed to quicken her memory. A faintly-passing
smile answered my passionate yearning
gaze.

Isla dearest, it is mamma ! Darling, say
that you know mamma ! You must have a little
wine, a little jelly, now that you are awake,
because — because, you know, dear," said I incoherently,
'rit will make you well, give you
strength ; and then — and then, Isla, we will go
right away to the sea again, and will never come
back any more to cold foggy London ; but will
live always by the sea — always, darling, you and
I together, Isla ; and — and will not that be
beautiful, dear ? "

But I am so tired this morning," she said —
'* so tired ! May I — may I ask him to — to carry
me up to the cliff, mamma \ "

With a stifled cry of alarm I arose. I knew
of what, of whom she was thinking. It was
terrible to see her like this. I got her to swallow
a spoonful of wine ; but she could not take the
jelly. See Doctor North once more I must ;
there might be hope — just a glimmer of real
hope yet ; he might do something — something —
although he had told me in the afternoon that all
that it was possible in her case to do had then
by him been done. Still I would see him once
more that night. I could not rest until I had
done this. I must see him in the house again —
and that at once I

I rushed to the kitchen stairway. I called
down into the dark place, —

Mrs. Sadler — Mrs. Sadler, I want you to run
to the surgery — to fetch Doctor North. I want
him immediately. Old Mr. Jones is gone out
somewhere, or I would not trouble you."

No answer. Evidently the landlady had not
returned.

Is anyhocly downstairs ? " I called piteously.
If so, please answer. I want some one to fetch
Doctor North. I cannot, dare not leave the
house myself."

I paused — held my breath. Dead silence.
My own voice and the slow ghostly ** tick —

took ; tick — took " of some wheezy labouring
old eight-day clock below alone disturbed the
gloomy quiet. Indeed the house everywhere
seemed horribly still.

It flashed into my mind that Mrs. Sadler's
sons were there, but that they had in all
likelihood fallen asleep. I must awaken them
somehow. One of them must go for Doctor
North.

I groped my way down the steep staircase,
the stale smell of herrings that had been
cooked for tea greeting my nostrils as I descended,
and found these area regions utterly
forsaken. No soul was there. The gas in the
kitchen was turned downward to a mere blue
glimmer ; the fire was nearly extinguished. An
old cribbage-board, a pack of soiled cards, an
empty Bass's ale-bottle, and a couple of common
tumblers littered the table in the centre of the
room. That was all !

Tired of their game, Mrs. Sadler's sons, it
appeared, had also quitted the house, to seek
livelier recreation, perhaps, elsewhere ; probably
fancying that old Mr. Jones was still in his
attic parlour. Their mother, believing that the
young men were where she had left them
before going out, was doubtless gossiping comfortably

with lier *' neighbour over the way ; "
and old Mr. Jones, still absent, had gone I
knew not whither.

So I was in the house alone — alone with my
dying child ! Merciful Heaven, pity me ! What
should I do ?

Hark !

Some one was knocking at the front door —
a loud bold knock which, on that sad night,
was a jarring agony to hear. Whoever it was
outside in the street must be in ignorance of
what was happening within the house — that
pale Death, who is so cruel and yet so kind,
was hovering about the couch of my child.

As swiftly as I could, in my trembling haste
stumbling up the dark steep stairs, I gained
the passage and then the entrance-door ;
wildly eager to get it open before the loud
knocking should be repeated.

My hand was extended ; it was upon the
latch. But apprehension suddenly turned me
sick ; and my hand dropped nerveless to my
side.

It was Mr. Binkworthy — it could be no one
else !

Ah, well ; humbly, if need were, upon my
knees, I would ask him, beseech him to forgive

me — to be Christian enough, if he had a man's
heart within his breast, to run to the surgery
and bring back Doctor North !

He could not refuse — oh, surely not ! — when
he should see what genuine grief was mine ;
when he should learn that my child, my darling,
my all, was indeed that night passing from earth
to heaven.

With a curse the man outside once more
seized the knocker. I wrenched open the door
and cried hoarsely, —

-Stop!"

At first I did not recognise him. His back
being towards the street-lamp, his face was in
shadows But in the next instant, powerless to
check the scream which rushed to my white lips,
I had staggered, gasping and half senseless,
backward to the passage wall.

Periwinkle," said a too-familiar voice — the
thick jaunty voice of one who is not wholly
sober — " how are you ? Glad — glad to remark
that — that you seem overjoyed to see me !
That's well — in fact as it should be, my dear ;
for I am come to take care of you again. D'ye
hear — 'm, eh ? So I think I'll walk in."

The man was my husband — Daryl Darkwood.

With one hand pressed over my eyes,
with the other, like a blind woman, I
groped my way back to the sitting-room
; and there sank helplessly upon the sofa
by Isla. I heard Daryl shut the street-door ;
and then he followed me in.

I groaned ; he noisily tossed his hat on to the
top of the piano, and flung himself into an easy-chair
by the window.

With an effort I recovered my stricken wits ;
my failing strength ; and, with passion but ill-controlled,
I turned towards my husband.

'will you have the goodness, the humanity
to be quiet, Daryl ? " I said in a trembling undertone.
" Isla is ill — dying they tell me. Now
that you are here — though Heaven knows why
you have come, how you found me — will you go
and — Oh, Daryl ! " I broke off", no anger

quivering in my voice now ; it was tremulous
with pleading, humility, and a deep despair —
go and bring Doctor North here, will you ? I
am frightened — the child is very ill — not conscious
— -I am in the house alone. He — the
doctor — lives close by ; you will see the red
lamp "

"Ah," he threw in, with a slight hiccoughing
sound, but as coolly as if we had parted only on
the day before, " I was told yesterday that the
youngster was ailing a bit — had been seedy for
some time past ! But, you know. Flower, my
dear, you always took fright without cause
wherever the child was concerned — exaggerated
trifles, made mountains out of molehills — you
know you did. If she had got just the suspicion
of a feverish cold, you were immediately convinced
that she was down with scarlet fever.
Dying ? Not she ! That's like you, Periwinkle.
Where is she ? Oh, I see — you've got her with
you ; covered up there ! I'll come over and
have a look at her in a minute. But, as I was
saying, when old Binkworthy told me yesterday—"


Ha ! "

What's the matter ? " inquired Daryl, smiling
indolently.

"It was that man then who gave you my
address," said I in a husky whisper — " who told
you where you would find me ? "

Eight ; he did," replied my husband, with
another hateful smile.

*' The villain ! " I hissed, my hands locked
about my knees, my wild dry eyes fixed upon
the fire before me. "It was his malice — his
way of making me suffer. I might have guessed
what to expect of him — might have known that
he would not spare me, after — after my — "

Ha, ha, ha ! " Daryl laughed, in the old
boisterous style. " ' The villain,' eh ; that's how
you thank a fellow, is it, for kindly handing you
over to the lawful protection of your husband ? "

'you are my husband no longer," I murmured
doggedly.

'' So ! The law, as it now stands, I fancy,
would take a different view of the case," replied
Daryl affably.

Daryl, I would rather die than live with you
again," I said in hollow accents, and with my
haggard gaze still bent upon my smouldering fire
of wood. " You deceived me abominably ; unpardonably
; to — to say nothing further. You
turned me adrift ; were only too glad when a
sham opportunity occurred — "

'' If I remember rightly, you turned yourself
adrift ; didn't you? I am sure I never expressed
any wish that you should go. You went, my
dear Flower, purely of your own accord."

It was impossible to remain an hour longer
with you after — after I had learned — after
your despicable and unmanly conduct," I said
haughtily. " No true woman would have
endured it. Any woman on earth worthy the
name would have left you as I did."

"You choose your words at random. Periwinkle,"
observed Daryl plaintively. " Despicable
! Unmanly ! " He shrugged his shoulders.
'come, now, isn't that a trifle harsh of you?
Ton my soul, I think it is, when I am so willing
why, you can see that I am— to forgive and
to forget ; to let all unpleasant by-gones be bygones,
don't you know, and — "

I held up my hand — I have been more than
once told that it is a trick of mine — with a
gesture of passionate scorn and disgust.

I do not want your forgiveness, Daryl. I
never in any wise erred to require, to justify
forgiveness from you ; and as for letting bygones
be by-gones — faugh ! " I exclaimed wearily.
Your motive for seeking me here is as clear as
noonday. You have of course learnt at the

theatre that I have for some time past been in
the receipt of a considerable weekly salary, paid
to me by Mr. Binkworthy. It is perfectly true —
I own it ; and therefore it has occurred to you
that I am, in the circumstances, a wife worth
claiming. A wife that can earn her thirty or
forty pounds a week is a person worth looking
after — a wife worth forgiving when she has done
nothing to forgive. You are wondrously magnanimous,
Daryl. You come here for my money ;.
not for me."

I dropped my head desolately to the pillow
beside Isla's. She was asleep ; or seemed to be.
But I was determined that Doctor North should
see her once more that night.

''Oh, my darling, my darling," I breathed,
if we might only die together ! If Heaven were
pitiful, He would let us go hence together ! "

*' You put it coarsely," I heard Daryl saying,
still in that absurdly plaintive voice of his which
he could assume whenever he chose. " I grant
you. Flower, that I want money — I want money
badly. In fact, at the present moment, I haven't
a sixpence in the whole world to call my own —
haven't indeed. Gave cabby my last half-crown.
Kosenberg returned to his native Schloss and his
sausages a couple of days or so ago. By-the-way,

did I tell you ? — it was he who, one night
hy himself, looking in for a lark at the Levity,
recognised in the popular Madame Fleurette my
own lost talented wife, Mrs. Daryl Darkwood ;
and — and — Well, Eosenberg's gone, you see ;
and altogether luck with me of late has been
deucedly bad. Can't understand it — it's beastly
hard. I am not accustomed to this cursed ill-luck.
But when things are at their worst they
mend, 'tis said ; and so, Periwinkle, my dear, as
I remarked just now, you must be sensible, and
let all past mistakes and small unpleasantness
be exactly as though they never had happened
with us. In short, we'll make it up — kiss and
be friends ; eh ? We'll spend a quiet Christmas
together — here, if you like, melancholy as it all
seems ; or wherever you please, Flower — and
hope for better luck with the New Year."

As I deigned no answer, nor lifted my head
from the child's pillows, Daryl rather unsteadily
rose from his seat, though he was more sober
now than he had been when he arrived, and
came over to the couch-side.

"Hullo, Tupp'ny," he cried cheerily; "how
are you ? Don't you know me, little 'un — 'm,
eh?"

I was upon my feet then in an instant. How

I managed it — so weak and spent as I was — in
truth I do not know. But despite his height
and strength, I struck my hands against Daryl's
chest and thrust him backward to the arm-chair
he had vacated.

How — how dare you, at such a time ? " I
said hoarsely. " Have you no grain of tenderness,
no natural feeling — have you no heart,
no spark of manhood left in you ? Your brutal
roughness will kill her'' I said, trembling with
indication at his callous mien in this hour
which to me was an hour of such supreme
sorrow.

I wasn't going to eat her — don't be frightened
! " said my husband sullenly. As I had
feared he would, he had disturbed the child.
She stirred uneasily ; opened her eyes ; uttered
the little pathetic moan I knew so well, and
said just audibly, —

Is Mr. Eversleigh come yet, mamma ? "

"No, my dearest," I said very simply, very
quietly ; for I somehow felt — although I could
not see them, my back being turned to him —
that Daryl's brilliant dark eyes, with a savage
sneering light within them, were at that moment
fixed upon me. "It is papa ; Mr. Eversleigh,
you know, Isla, never comes here."

To any further, to any more direct explanation
I would not condescend ; no matter what
vile suspicion, awakened by the child's innocent
delirium, might be passing through the bad heart
of him who called himself my husband.

*' Shall we — shall we never see Mr. Evers-
leigh any more, mamma ? " whispered Isla.

'* Some day, perhaps, dear," I answered
brokenly. " I cannot tell."

Daryl burst out laughing, and struck the floor
with his heel.

I suppose," said he, " your old " — here an
insulting pause — " your old friend frequently
looks in to — well, to inquire after his favourite,
the youngster — eh ? " drawled my husband.

Straight into his handsome insolent eyes
looked I.

'' You may think just whatever you please,
Daryl," I said, as calmly as I could. 'the
child's mind is wandering ; you know it. However,
you have wilfully misjudged me often in
the past ; you are at liberty to misjudge me again.
It does not matter ; I do not mind — now."

** All women are alike," observed he, with
something of his old airy manner ; quite aware
that it would in no wise serve his purpose to
quarrel with me to-night.

They are. They discover, sooner or later,
poor souls — poor fools ! — that there are few-good
men in the world," I said, as I held
another spoonful of wine to Isla's lips.

Daryl threw back his head and laughed
pleasantly. Isla, with hers upon my breast, was
murmuring; — " I am so tired, mamma — so tired!"

"Daryl," I said more patiently, "may I now
beg you to go and call Doctor North ? The surgery
is quite near — a red lamp is over the surgery
door. It will not take you five minutes. Daryl,
do go, please — please go ! " And I explained
to him precisely where Doctor North lived.

Oh, I'll go ! " he said leisurely. He got upas
he spoke and put on his hat. I then for the
first time noticed that the hat in style was new
and fashionable; as were his clothes. Certainly,
for a man with no money, my husband was
remarkably well-dressed. But many a West-end
tradesman — so I learned some while afterwards
— was at that time anxious to discover the
whereabouts of Daryl Darkwood. " I think you
might offer a fellow a drink, Flower," he observed
reproachfully, " before he goes."

*' I have nothing to offer you. At least, there
is some port-wine on the sideboard — nothing
else."

VOL. II. ' M

Have you no brandy in the place ? " he
inquired.

None that I can give you. The small quantity
that I am never without I regard as a medicine
— an invaluable restorative not to be wasted."

*swell, you know what I've told you," he
said lightly. "You can lend me a sovereign,
of course ? "

Then I did a foolish thing ; but I did it
without reflection. I was so feverishly eager to
see him depart on his errand that, at the moment
of committing it, the folly of my thoughtless act
entirely failed to strike me. When it was too
late, I realised that I had acted unwisely.

I drew out my purse and laid it upon the table.

"Take that, if you like," I said. "Only
have pity on me and make haste."

He unfastened the purse and counted its
contents.

A couple of sovereigns ; some silver ; and
a latch-key," said he. " Is that all you
have ? " — dropping the purse into his pocket.

"Every farthing that I have in the house. With
the key you can let yourself in when you return."

But you have more elsewhere ? " said my
husband boldly.

"Yes."

Good night, Tupp'ny," he called out from
the passage. But the child did not hear him ;
or at all events she took no notice of her
father's light farewell. " Oh, by-the-bye," said
Daryl abruptly, reappearing at the sitting-room
door — " I presume you can give me a
shake-down somewhere or other, Flower ? "

A bed here, do you mean % "

Yes ; I mean a bed here."

Impossible," I answered dully.

'' Oh, curse it ! Why not ? "

Every room in the house is occupied,"
I replied — "upstairs and down."

Is there a decent tavern, I wonder, to be
found in this beastly locality ? " grumbled Daryl.

''I do not know. I dare say. But why
cannot you go back to Mrs. Earn age's ? " said
I apathetically.

Because I cannot — and that's enough. What's
more, how the devil do you know that I came
from Mrs. Eamage's ? " he answered brusquely.
And then he went.

The clock in St. Saviour's steeple was chiming
a quarter to ten as Daryl Darkwood shut the
street-door behind him and strode off to summon
Doctor North. Would he — Daryl — be long in
finding the surgery ? I prayed not.

I had some time before heard Mrs. Sadler's
sons come in and go to bed. But the mother
herself — in her doleful fashion an inveterate
gossip whensoever opportunity came in her way
was still out ; and the house had grown
deadly quiet again.

The "drawing-room floor" was rented by two
commercial travellers, intimate friends, who were
occasionally absent from Bentham Street for
several days together. Like old Mr. Jones and
myself, they had their own latch-keys ; and so,
as their hour of arrival was invariably very late,
and their hour of departure always very early, I
knew scarcely anything of these two men — had
never once seen either of them. Mrs. Sadler
however had twice or thrice gratuitously informed
me that her " drawing-room lodgers " were
"perfeck gentlemen ; " and there my knowledge
of them ended.

Neither had old Mr. Jones yet come in, which
for him was really extraordinary. Unlike Mrs.
Sadler, the old man was no gossip. I did not
believe that he could boast of a single chatting
acquaintance in the neighbourhood of the house
where he lodged. He visited none of the
numerous public-houses near ; was in bed as a
rule by half-past nine ; and — yes — hark ! There

was St. Saviour's chiming again and about to
strike ten o'clock.

Daryl had already been gone a quarter of an
hour.

Where could he be ? Doctor North's house
was so close, so easy to find, being well within a
stone's-throw of the corner of Bentham Street,
that it was absurd for an instant to imagine that
one could lose one's way in going thither.
Besides, I had made Daryl clearly understand
which turning to take and what was the number
of the doctor's house ; and, even supposing his
memory should fail him, anyone in the street
would direct him afresh.

And the winged minutes flew by ; the wheezy
old clock downstairs seemed to labour and tick
more loudly than ever ; the white wood ashes
dropped to the hearth like the sad leaves falling
earthward in autumn. There once more went
the chimes of St. Saviour — a quarter past ten !
No Mrs. Sadler ; no old Mr. Jones ; no Daryl ;
no Doctor North. Where could they all be ?

The silence and the loneliness of the house
were dreadful. I began to feel horribly nervous
I cannot tell why — stupidly frightened. The
shadows in the corners of the room took fearful
shapes ; and seemed, with weird antics, to be

grimacing at me through the gloom. I stirred the
fire and put on more wood — the blaze of it might
chase away those horrid shapes upon the wall.

The excitement caused by Daryl's unlooked-for
and startling appearance in Bentham Street
had given me a temporary but an unnatural
strength and courage. Now the reaction was
quickly following, and I once more began dimly
to realise that fasting and anxiety, sleeplessness
and sorrow, had cruelly weakened me, and that
I was feeling downright ill. My head, indeed,
in one minute, felt heavy as lead ; in the next,
feather-light, with a blinding giddiness that was
intolerable. Was I going mad ? Oh, no — not
that — not that ! I would eat something — that
would be wise. I had fasted too long — it was
foolish. Doctor North would arrive directly ; he
must not find me like this, in a state of utter
nervousness and collapse.

With uncertain steps I went over to the sideboard.
Upon it, forgotten by Mrs. Sadler, stood
a loaf of bread on a pink-ands white china plate,
with a large black-handled table-knife lying by
the side of it.

I drank a glass of port, and managed to eat
with it a crust of bread. As I set down the empty
wine-glass a sound in the bedroom reached my

ear ; it was as if some one was laug-liins; — a low

& — i3

mocking laugh — behind the folding-doors.

The roots of my hair grew damp ; my forehead
too. I could hear the thumping of my own
heart as I stood there ; breathless ; listening intently.
Horribly frightened as I was, I seized a
bedroom candlestick, lighted the candle, and
moved swiftly and noiselessly into the other
room. But no creature was there.

I looked under the bed. I peered into every
corner. Nobody — nothing !

It was diseased imagination — acute nervousness
— I wearily told myself as I shut and now
locked the folding-doors ; unless it be, as some
folk maintain, that both good and evil spirits do
inhabit the air around us. Assuredly that, if
either, was an invisible spirit of evil which had
laughed in the other room ? Nothing holy
could have uttered a sound at once so mocking;
and so unearthly !

Morbid imagination ; unhealthy fancy ? Yes
have I not said so ? Nevertheless I shivered
violently. Oh, my head — how strange it felt !
Now so heavy ; now so light ; now so burning-hot
— now so curiously —

Mamma," said Isla's feeble little voice from
the sofa, " I am so cold — so very cold, mamma.

AVill you take me on your lap ? I — I shall be
warmer then."

Ere the weak little voice had ceased its plaint
I was with her ; my arms held her passionately
to my bosom ; my face rested upon hers. Yes,
sweet little soul, as she said, she was very cold.
Her snowdrop cheek was chill as marble itself ;
but — but I had no fear of it ; the warmth of my
own body would enter hers, and she herself
would grow warm again by-and-by.

Where was Daryl ? Why did not he hurry
homeward, and bring with him Doctor North ?
Let me think — let me remember if I could !
Had he been gone five minutes or an hour — one
hour or three ? Stay ! Perhaps it had all been
a trick of my sick fancy ; like the horrid demon
laugh behind the folding-doors ; and Daryl had
never in reality been within miles of Bentham
Street ? His seeming presence there in my 
was after all nothing in the world buta
vivid and most painful dream — could that be
it ? Perhaps. And yet — and yet, surely I had
seen him, spoken to him, touched him ? Surely
it was Daryl Darkwood in the flesh — the selfish
and living Daryl Darkwood — who had appeared
before me that night ?

The clock aloft in St. Saviour's spire was striking

now. What melancholy chimes they were
at night ! Eleven ! Was it eleven ; or really
midnight ? How quiet it all was — how chilly
the room was growing ! How strangely soothing
was the silence of the night — how full of unfathomable
mystery ! I have somewhere read —
I cannot remember where— that God, in the darkness,
to one on earth, seems always very faraway.
It has never, though, seemed to me like
this. Ever in the dark, more than in the light,
the Creator, I have somehow felt, has been then
most friendly and near.

Did I actually sleep — lose all consciousness,
all sense of pain ; albeit for a few brief blessed
moments only ? If I did, oh, it is no wonder !
So worn with watching, so weary, so weak, so
wretched with every bright hope gone, it is no
wonder that oblivion stole mercifully over me
and eased me, just for a little space, of the
burthen it was my lot to bear !

And yet an oblivion — ah me ! — too transient.

He who knows all knows best. My time forgoing
hence was not yet come. Isla must go on
the dark journey alone. His will, not mine, be
done ; but how hard to say " Amen " !

As tranquilly as I had lost all sense of suffering
did I as gently awaken to a consciousness of

the bitter, bitter truth. Oh, cruel life ! Oh,
kind Death !

Safe clasped within my arms was the child —
but my darling lay dead upon my breast.

I heard him, with bungling hand, putting the
latch-key to the lock. I heard the door go jarring
against the wall, and himself come stumbling
over the mats in the entrance-place.

With wild dry eyes full of pain and loathing
I sat immovable, staring at the sitting-room
door. Like a woman petrified I sat there upon
the sofa ; keeping guard over my dead child.

I had covered her with a shawl — lightly —
as if she had still been sleeping ; and had
drawn it over the small quiet face — so white,
so beautiful in restful death ; and now I was
waiting — there was nothing else to do — waiting
waiting — yet for what ?

The door opened. Daryl came in. I did
not speak — I did not stir. But my eyes
were upon him and followed his every movement.


He could not stand without support ; and
rolled at once into the arm-chair by the
window. He must have had a bad fall or
two upon the pavement or in the roadway ;

for I noticed that his hat was crushed and
his fine clothes were muddy.

In the old familiar way he sprawled back
in the chair, with his hands plunged down
into his pockets, and his long legs stretched
widely apart over the carpet.

It struck me that he was paler than he was
wont to be on an occasion such as the present ;
and he was tugging savagely at an end of his
heavy swart moustache.

** I say, I couldn't find that doctor of yours,'^
he muttered. I knew however that he lied —
knew well enough now that he had never even
tried to find Doctor North's house. But I did
not say so. Thrice I essayed to speak ; and thrice
my tongue refused to obey me.

'* I say, do y' hear ? " hiccoughed Daryl. *' I've
been looking for a bed — looking everywhere — ■
and for — and for that dam doctor fella' too.
Couldn't find the man anywhere — couldn't, 'pon
my soul ! "

I rose. I went over to him. With a sudden
return of that temporary and unnatural strength
which had before helped me, I gripped him by
the wrist and dragged him to his feet.

He swore at me.

Come and see ! " I said. How weird and

hollow, I thought, was the sound of my own
voice !

I led him to the sofa; and uncovered the
child's face.

In silence I pointed to it, still clutching his
unwilling arm ; thus I held him prisoner.

Why, she's only — only asleep. You're too
too theatrical, Periwinkle, my dear," he said,
with a callousness, a tipsy jauntiness which set
my heart ablaze. *' I 'spoke now you've got
a taste that way — it's only natural."

"That's not sleep, Daryl. That is death."

He laughed thickly but uneasily.

Oh, come," he was beginning ; " that's like
you. Flower — "

You have killed her," I went on in the same
even hollow tone. " You are a murderer. You
could have brought Doctor North hither in a few
minutes, had you pleased, and he might have
saved her ; there was a chance — we cannot tell.
But you did not ; you disregarded the errand
which meant life or death, and went elsewhere
on a low debauch. Behold your handiwork,
Daryl Darkwood — you have murdered her, my
child, my darling, my all ! Just as in the
old days, at that lone old house upon the moor,
where you first found me, innocent, happy, and

free, you robbed me of, killed — ay, for a long,
long while I have guessed it, though I have
never told you so — you killed my little dumb
faithful mongrel friend, so have you now — "

With a fearful oath he smote me from him.

'' Get out ! " he shouted ; and staggered back
to the convenient arm-chair.

There he lay, with his arms dangling over
the leather sides of it, scowling at me from
beneath his dark brows, and breathing curses
not loud, but deep."

I bent over my child and kissed her marble
cheek ; then reverently again covered the little
white face that was the face of an angel now.
Oh, Death, dear Death, you are kind and
merciful — majestic, beautiful, unutterably sweet !

I never comprehended until now — not until
now. How false, how foolish, to call you cruel ;
when in truth you are most pitiful and kind !

And again from my abiding place at the
couch-foot I turned my wild and haggard eyes
upon Daryl Darkwood ; bending forward as I
sat, my elbow upon my knee, and my chin
resting firmly upon my clenched hand.

His head had drooped; his moustache swept his
breast ; he breathed harshly with many a guttural
sound — he was fast locked in tipsy slumber.

And this was the man to whom I was chained ;
who had found me out ; who had come to claim
me — his own property — and who would make
me work for him like any galley-slave whilst
he lived ignobly upon the gold I earned.

And he was a murderer to boot. His brutal
neglect of right and duty — it was thus that
I reasoned with myself on that mad, sad
night — had slain my child ; the little one that
was my darling, my all.

A murderer ! And did it not say in the
Scripture, " An eye for an eye ; a tooth for a
tooth ; a life for a life " ? And who should
gainsay that — Heaven's own command ?

To be chained eternally to this bad and
selfish man, from whom, it appeared, there
was for me no escape — great Heaven, whats,
fate ! Should I submit to it ; submit toit
without a struggle ? Should I ? — should I
tamely bow my neck to his tyrannical yoke,
writhe beneath the tyranny of his lazy masterfulness,
and yet strike no bold and desperate
blow to gain the freedom I coveted ?

There he was before me — at my mercy ! — in
slumber profound ; helpless ; as unconscious of
the present and its surroundings as the little
-dead child at my side — utterly at my mercy !

Should I kill him, then — kill him, and be free ?

Should I do this thing ; and at the same time
rid both myself and society of a monster of
selfishness and cruelty — a man who was not
worthy to live and eat, because he would not
work for his daily bread so long as others would
toil for it and win it for him ?

But — but I had loved him very dearly once
very dearly; and he was the father of my child.

He was my husband — my husband. Yes ; say
what I might, he was that ; and yet — and yet —

My fierce strained gaze travelled slowly from
the sleeping man and wandered instinctively
over to the sideboard. There still were the
pink-and-white china plate ; the loaf of bread ;
the laro;e black-handled table-knife Ha !

Would that knife, I fell to wondering, serve
me as a weapon ? I remembered that, for a
miracle, it was sharp — the sharpest perhaps in
the house. Would it do — would it ? Could
I, if I tried, kill Daryl with that shining black-handled
knife ? . . . .

I had risen very cautiously. I had crept
across the room to the sideboard. There, with
a hurried scared glance over my shoulder at
Daryl, I snatched up the knife and hid the
horrid thing in the folds of my gown.

As cautiously I moved to his side — stealthily,
like au animal approaching its prey ; looked at
him long and intently.

Could I do it ?— dared I ?

Should I venture to feel where his heart was
beating — the exact spot — and drive the knife
in there ? No ; his clothes were thick — the
blade of it might twist aside ; shiver ; and
break. Then he would awake ; discover mein
the act red-handed ! And what
would happen then ?

It would be better, wiser, to do it, since it
must be done, in some other way that was
more sure ; but how ?

Yes ; I could wind my hand amongst his
beautiful thick soft hair, and, clutching a handful
of those dusky locks, draw his head suddenly
backward over the chair ; so that, his brown
throat well bared, it — it would be easy then 1
That was where the knife should be driven in.

But after all — after all — he was my husband ;
my dead child's father ; and I had loved him
very dearly — once ! And then something — I
know not what — prompted me, lest a gentle farewell
kiss should awaken him, to kneel very softly
by the side of him, and as softly to lay my cheek
against his knee. " Daryl, forgive me — forgive

me ! " I believe I whispered with a sob. Kind
Heaven, forgive me too ! It must be done —
I must be free ; my darling's death must be
avenged.

I stood up — stood resolutely over him ;
and drew my weapon swiftly from the folds
of my skirt.

My breath came hard ; my teeth were set ;
my hand was firm.

Yet what if he should cry out — cry out fearfully
% For strong men like Daryl do not die
easily ; especially when — But, no ; that should
not be the case. I would not bungle in my
bloody work. I would plunge the knife into
him — fatally, surely homeward. He should
have no time to shriek.

And so, without a tremor, I seized him by
his hair ; seized him thus with my left
hand, and dragged his dark head well back ;
and then — and then his dusky throat was bare
for the stroke.

In the same instant I flung high my right
arm — high, well out from the shoulder — and the
cold steel gleamed and glittered in the air. My
burning eyes quailed not ; my burning right
hand faltered not.

Strike !

VOL. II. N

In another moment — one brief moment more —
Daryl would be dead ; and I should be free.

But that swift descending arm of mine was
snatched into an invisible grip ; a grip of iron ;
and from my nerveless and imprisoned hand the
gleaming knife dropped straightway to the floor.
Horrified faces — horrified voices — seemed all at
once to fill and to float through the room ; and
once more I heard the mocking demon laughter
behind the folding-doors.

Some one — a man's voice — said, *' Thank God,
I am not too late ! " and it sounded like the
welcome voice of an old friend, heard after the
silence of many years.

Was it — could it be the voice of Leigh Evers-
leigh ? I fancied so.

With a crashing sound in my ears, 1 fell, I
believe, heavily against the speaker ; but my fall
was stopped by strong sustaining arms.

Then a great darkness, like the darkness of
death, swept over me ; and my soul passed
thence into the land of shadows.

REDKNIGHTS.

"We should not look mournfully over the past."

J amines Hair Friswell.

^' How could I help loving you beyond measure, withall
your care and tenderness for me, joined to so much
charm ? " — Madame de Sahran.

You see each grief is noted ;
Yet it was better so —
I can rejoice to-day — the pain
Was over, long ago."

Adelaide Anne Procter.

'T was a bright late March day, with a
fresh but not a cold wind — was that
one on which Aurora, Viscountess
Tracy, came in her luxurious carriage to Bentham
Street and carried me off to Arley Bridge.

Thank Heaven, the crisis, the danger is past,
And the lingering illness is over at last ! "

and my soul had returned from that dim
shadow-land whither, into silence, upon dark
mysterious wings, it had been borne, now so
many long weeks gone by.

But not into eternal night. After much
anxious watching and waiting, wan light had
flickered through the gloom, and day for me had
at length dawned again.

It is strange — there are, I think, few experiences
stranger — from a trance, as it were, to
once more awaken into life, and to know that a

portion of it, at any rate so far as oneself is concerned,
is without memory — a blank ; a curious
state of things suggesting perhaps a volume, a
life-story, faultily bound, from which several
pages are missing.

I remember very clearly opening my eyes one
day and finding Aurora sitting by the bedside.
I thought at once that it was her first visit to me
since I had been stricken by my dangerous illness.
I soon learnt however that I was wrong.

That must have been in February ; towards
the end of the month ; or it may have been
about the middle of it. I do not think that
she allowed me to speak at all on that day ;
I believe, indeed, that she held up her hand
and said " Hush — s — h 1 " adding — *' If you
dare to utter a syllable — if you do not lie
there as quiet as a mouse — I'll go away this
very minute, and never come to see you anymore."


Yet often after that I would open my eyes,
and there would be Aurora sitting by the
pillows ; and the delicious things she invariably
brought with her — jellies, sweet puddings,
choice wines, dainty dishes of all kinds — from
Arley Bridge were really enough to stock a
small shop for a confectioner.

But by-and-by a day did actually arrive — and
this must have been in March — when Doctor
North gave me full permission to sit up in
bed and talk ; to talk, of course, in moderation.
Of course, too, there must be no excitement,
was the doctor's kindly stipulation.

I am inclined to believe — that is, should I
ever have doubted it — that constant attendance
in a sick-room will sometimes be the means of
creating in the breast of a nurse a true regard
and affection for the helpless soul under her
care.

At any rate, on that noteworthy day, after
Doctor North had left the house, Mrs. Sadler,
in her familiar rusty black, crept in, leant over
my pillows, and in a quite motherly fashion
kissed me upon the forehead. And she cried
a little, and held my weak white hand to her
bosom, and whispered in a choked voice, —

Oh, my pore dear lady, I am that glad —
that thankful, you can't think, to hear as
you're getting along so nicely ! I let the
doctor out just now, and he says that you'll
gain strength daily if we'll only take care of
you. As if we wouldn't ! Oh, ma'am, it's
been a weary terrible time ; but the worst
part, thank Heaven, is over ! "

*' You're very, very good," I murmured.

And then j\Irs. Sadler set quietly to work
and began bathing my hands and my face in
eau-de-cologne and water ; and she brushed
the hair from my temples, and straightened the
creases in the bed-clothes, with a deftness and
a tenderness of touch that one perhaps would
scarcely have expected to find in so poor and
doleful a creature as Mrs. Sadler.

So little do we comprehend the hearts and so
apt are we to underrate the capabilities of those
who are daily with us.

*' It does indeed seem a shame," observed
Mrs. Sadler, softly *sto have cut it so cruel
short — such beautiful hair too ! "

*' My hair, do you mean ? " said I languidly.
'•' Have they cut it very short then ? "

Oh, it'll grow again 'm — never fear," replied
Mrs. Sadler, with, for her, a wonderful cheeriness
" thicker and beautifully than ever, I daresay!"


'* It doesn't a bit matter," said I, iu the same
listless tone. "As well short as honos."

Mrs. Sadler sighed then, and let the question
drop. And presently, my toilette completed, as
far as it went, the landlady proceeded, with a
handful or two of early spring flowers which she

had purchased over the area-railings, to make the
bedroom quite bright and fragrant. 1 lay still
and watched her ; following her movements with
dreamy eyes.

** You are making me unusually smart to-day,"
I said at last. " "What is it for % "

** Oh, her ladyship will be here directly ! " replied
Mrs. Sadler, bustling about as she spoke ;
but without any of those irritating bumps and
creaking which " bustling about " with most
people ordinarily means.

Her ladyship ? And who, pray, is that ? "

'' Well, 'm, you used to call her Miss de Vere ;
but I'm told that she is Lady Tracy now — has
married the son of a took or something," replied
Mrs. Sadler, as she dusted the cheap gimcracks
that decorated the narrow mantelpiece. There
was a small fire in the tiny grate beneath it ;
a larger one was unnecessary to-day. It was almost
" summery " out of doors, Mrs. Sadler said ;
notwithstanding the wind in the shade was justa
trifle nipping.

Ah, Lady Tracy — yes ! " said I absently.
'' I suppose she is Lady Tracy by this time.
She was engaged to the only son of the Earl of
Starch."

Fancy that ! " said Mrs. Sadler, with a sigh.

I was not in the least surprised to learn that
Aurora was married. Before — before I was ill I
had known that the wedding-day was near. Nor
did it to me in the least degree sound extraordinary
to hear my faithful friend spoken of as
Viscountess Tracy. Nothing astonishes one, I
think — nothing seems odd, remarkable, or out of
the common course — in the lassitude and prostration
which follow upon the heels of a long sickness.
When the deadly enemy has been wrestled with
and routed, the convalescent days not infrequently
are marked by a languorous indifference
to the world's affairs — an indifference the "sad
serenity " of which it will sometimes take a good
deal to ruffle or to dispel. At such a time one
hears, perhaps, of the most astounding events,
and receives the intelligence with an absent
smile.

Lady Tracy has been here constantly of late ;
has she not ? " I inquired.

Indeed, yes, Mrs. Dark wood — lots o' times !
Only you haven't known her like," answered
Mrs. Sadler. "To-day, 'however, she's coming
earlier than common ; because she's aware that
you may sit up and talk with her. Ah, sleeve a
warm and generous heart of her own, have that
Lady Tracy; and no more pride about her,"

added Mrs. Sadler, " 'an if she was still Miss
de Yere ! "

'mrs. Sadler," said I abruptly, after a pause.

Yes, 'm — I'm not gone."

You did not nurse me alone — all by yourself,
without help, I mean ; did you % "

"Me? Lor', no, 'm!"

Who — who was here, then ? "

"Well, 'm, of course I did all I could. But
you see there was the house to look after, and
my two boys, and the other lodgers, and — and
so a Holy Sister — Sister Dorothea her name
was — came from — "

A Holy Sister ! Do you mean a Sister of
Mercy ? "

A sort of," replied Mrs. Sadler vaguely —
"though it isn't to be expected that you'd have
any recollection of her."

"No."

She was a frightful object to look at, Mrs.
Darkwood ; but she was a real lady for all
that."

You mean her dress was frightful 1 "

Yes, 'm. There, I declare the first time as I
came in here and found her bending over you in
her long black gown, and her chin and head
bound round like — like a corpse's, as you may

say, it gave me quite a turn inside, and that's
the truth. All the same, 'm, when you came to
look at her well — close — you saw then that her
face was very sweet and very calm ; and," said
Mrs. Sadler earnestly, "it — it somehow made
you think of heaven."

I can understand."

"And she was as sweet and gentle as she
looked too," said Mrs. Sadler ; " and always the
same."

I can believe it. And where is that good
sister now ? " I asked. " Sister Dorothea, I think
you called her ? "

** Oh, 'm, she's gone back to her convent !
She left as soon as ever you were well out of
danger — she was wanted elsewhere, she said —
and that was more than ten days ago," was the
landlady's reply.

What is the name of the convent ? " I
inquired musingly.

I am not quite sure," Mrs. Sadler answered ;
^* but I believe she called it the Convent of St.
Cordelia. And I fancy it's somewhere out
Bays water way."

The Convent of St. Cordelia," I murmured to
myself. "I will remember that." Aloud I
said : "Of course it was your own excellent idea,

Mrs. Sadler, to send for the good sister — to
bring her hither to nurse me ? "

"Mine? Oh, no, 'm ! " said she promptly.
I'm a pore creature for ideas like. I didn't
know what to do."

*' Whose, then ? " I inquired, in mild wonder.

Mr. Eversleigh's," was the landlady's unexpected
reply.

Silence.

I lay back upon my heaped up pillows, very
still, very thoughtful ; and with my eyes closed.
I said no more — asked no more questions. In
that silence, as Mrs. Sadler, duster in hand,
moved noiselessly hither and thither, we heard
the sound of the muffled knocker upon the
street-door.

The landlady opened the folding-doors [and
ran to the sitting-room window.

*eyes, 'm," she said — 'there's her carriage
It's the Viscountess ! I'll go and let her in."

ES," Aurora was saying — it may have
been twenty minutes or so later on —
when Mrs. Sadler, in her best manner,
had made us some nice strong tea, and had withdrawn
to her area regions, " I daresay there area
great many things you want to know ; but,
now that we have amongst us managed to pull
you so far on to the safe high-road to health, my
dear Mrs. Dark wood, we are not — so don t fancy
it — going to let you slip back for the want of
a little judicious severity. I consider myself
mistress in this room — do you hear ? — and moreover
I mean to be obeyed in it. On my road to
you I stopped at Doctor North's ; and he said
that, nicely as you are getting along, you must
yet be careful in more ways than one. Therefore
it will do you no good to — "

Dear Aurora, only to lie quietly here and to

look at you does me good, I believe," I murmured,
interrupting her.

She nodded and smiled, and stroked a feeble
hand of mine which lay upon the coverlet, her
own shapely white one adorned with many
a costly ring. She wore to-day a magnificent
dolman of figured velvet heavily bordered with
fur ; a gown of richest and darkest green silk,
much trimmed with satin of the same hue and
lovely old lace ; a large Rubens hat smothered ina
mass of soft dull-green ostrich feathers ; and a
solitary band of plain and massive gold upon her
left wrist. Her fine healthy complexion was as
clear as ever ; her bright fair hair was twisted up
into its usual graceful knot ; the smile of Aurora,
Viscountess Tracy, was the same frank unaffected
smile of the old Aurora Eamage. She looked
beautiful.

Mrs. Sadler had wheeled my visitor's chair —
a capacious, old-fashioned, chintz-clad and somewhat
frowsy bit of furniture — conveniently close
to the bed-head ; and there Aurora sat, apparently
in no hurry to go, chatting leisurely about
all sorts of things, and with relish sipping her tea.

She had sent the carriage home, she observed,
and should return by train to Arley Bridge ;
driving of course to Euston in a hansom.

I shall never," said she merrily, " get over
my old weakness for hansoms. The next present
that Loftus gives me I will choose for myself,
and it shall be a private hansom perfectly
appointed ; and I will drive about the Hertfordshire
lanes in it all day long, and so make the
Arley rustics gape and stare as they never gaped
and stared in all their lives before."

** Is Arley Bridge then in Hertfordshire,
Aurora ? " I asked.

Yes, my dear Mrs. Darkwood," replied she.
"And to Arley Bridge I intend to — "

Do not you think," I broke in earnestly,
'rit is about time that you put aside — dropped
for ever — that stiff * Mrs. Darkwood ' you seem
so fond of ? Will not you sometimes try, Aurora,
to call me ' Flower ' ? I wish you would ! "

She laughed ; blushed deeply ; and said, —

'* I should like to — if — if you are sure that it
will not offend you to hear me."

Offend me ? Oh, Aurora ! "

Well, then, Flower," said she, beginning to
stroke my hand again, " I intend, the very hour
that you are strong enough to be moved from
this dull house, to carry you off to Arley Bridge ;
and there you shall get some colour, my dear,
into that sad white face of yours."

Ah, but — but I do not know about that ! "
mused I aloud.

But I do," said my friend briskly. '* What
on earth is there to prevent you ? "

I — I have to think of — of the future,
Aurora," I whispered.

So has everybody. You can take your time
over it and think it well out at Arley Bridge,"
was her cheery reply.

I smiled sorrowfully and doubtingly. Certainly
at present the question as to what shape
or course my future life should take was one
that I had neither the heart nor the strength to
thoroughly grapple with. For a while, at any-rate,
it was a riddle that must rest ; nevertheless,
in these convalescent days, I was continually
brooding upon a possible solution to it.

As the afternoon wore on Lady Tracy told mea
great deal about herself and her new life at
Arley Bridge ; and everything of course was new
to me, who had for so long, as it were, been a
captive in utter darkness.

The village of Arley, it appeared, was in Hertfordshire,
as Lady Tracy had said ; and, although
the place was not ten miles — indeed it was
scarcely eight — out of London, the neighbourhood
all about it was fresh and beautiful country,
VOL. II. '

with *real live rustics in the lanes and fields,"
as Aurora expressed it.

The chief house near to the village was Arley
Bridge; why "Bridge," though, nobody could
tell, for there was nothing of the kind to be anywhere
seen at Arley ; its little winding stream
in the meadows, where the water cress grew so
abundantly for the benefit of Covent Garden
Market, being here and there spanned by ancient
planks which were very rotten in places and not
at all safe. Years ago, Arley Bridge, which was
a pretty house, but not by any means a large
one, Lady Tracy said, had belonged to Lord
Tracy's godmother — a Miss Loftus. When the
old lady died, she left it, with everything in it
and just as it stood, to her godson who bore her
surname ; with another and much finer mansion
in Somersetshire. This old Miss Loftus had
been very rich.

And so," said Aurora, in the course of her
narrative, " we spent our honeymoon at Arley
Bridge. It was my wish ; and Loftus, good
fellow, was perfectly agreeable."

'•' What, didn't you go abroad for it ; or — or
anywhere else ? " said I wonderingly.

"No, we didn't," said Lady Tracy, laughing.
We are going for it — a real foreign honeymoon

by-and-by. And then we mean to have a
high old time ? ' "

'' But— but— "

It was like this," said she, more gravely. " I
looked in here one day, just before Christmas, in
order to ask you to promise to be present at our
wedding — which, by-the-way, was a very quiet
affair ; for the old folk at Starch are still
inexorable, and are likely to remain so — and
imagine my surprise, my grief, when — when,"
said Aurora, rather nervously — " when I found
how — how matters were ! "

After a short pause she went on —

The house was in a pretty state of confusion ;

and nobody took a bit of notice of or said

Thank you ' for my Christmas hamper ; and I

had taken such pains, too, to make it one worth

accepting ! Well, here I discovered you, my

dear Flower — it had all happened the night

before, I was told — lying terribly ill — delirious,

in fact — moaning and raving in the agony of

brain-fever. However they had, it appeared,

sent to the Convent of St. Cordelia for one of

the nursing sisters ; and I — I was most thankful

to perceive, dear, that you were in good and safe

hands.

I also wanted to stop in the house," said

Aurora, *' so that I might assist Mrs. Sadler and
Sister Dorothea ; but Loftus wouldn't hear of it.
You'd only be in the way, Aurora — there's no
room for everybody,' said he ; * and I'll drive
you over here from Chesterfield Avenue everyday,
if you like, to see how Mrs. Darkwood is
getting along. Won't that do V And so, as
there was sense in what he proposed, I gave in ;
and — and in the end it was arranged like that,
don't you see ? " remarked Lady Tracy sketching.

I wanted then," she continued, as I remained
silent — " I wanted at once then to put off the
wedding until you had quite recovered. Doctor
North thought so badly of — of the whole business
; he could not guess how long — how long
it might be about. The idea of being married
and going away and leaving you behind in
London, perhaps at death's door, or something
remarkably like it, was exceedingly distasteful
to me. In short, I wasn't going to have it.
But Loftus, poor boy, looked very glum over
this notion ; and he said, —

' Oh, come, Aurora — that's foolish ! You
promised to marry me in January, or at the
beginning of February at the latest, and I can't
have you backing out of the bargain now ; it
isn't fair.'

'Well,' said I, 'if I do marry you, Loftus,
at the beginning of February, we'll spend the
honeymoon within a reasonable distance of
Bentham Street. Married or unmarried, for
the present — I mean until things are brighter
for my friend Mrs. Darkwood — I am fijoinoj
there to see her just as often as ever I can.'

A happy thought struck his lordship.

' So you shall, Aurora,' cried he. ' Why,
there's Arley Bridge I The place is barely an
hour's drive out of town ; and from Euston you
can get down to it in twenty minutes — with a
quick train in something less. We'll content
ourselves for a while at Arley Bridge. How
will that do ? '

' Capitally,' said I. And so, Flower, that
was how we managed it. Loftus drives or rides
into town to his club or elsewhere whenever he
feels inclined ; and I, in like manner, am equally
free and able to follow my own inclinations.
As soon as you are well enough to travel, you
are, my dear, as I have said, coming into the
country on a long visit to us ; and you will then
see for yourself what ' a convenient little box '
as Loftus calls it — in every way is Arley
Bridge."

My true, true friend ! " I murmured. I could

say no more. For, when one is sincerely and
deeply grateful for real human sympathy and
real human kindness, one's gratitude is difficult
to put into speech. A dumb gratitude — a dumb
thankfulness — is often the more eloquent, though
it may not appear so.

At length Lady Tracy said she must go. It
would never do if she were late for dinner. Lord
Tracy was at home by himself that day, and
would be safe, remarked Aurora, to be impatiently
waiting for her at their small wooden station at
Arley. She had told the footman to inform his
master that she — the Viscountess — would return
from town by train.

Still, now that I was pronounced to be " out
of danger," and had Doctor North's full permission
to talk " in moderation and without excitement,"
I resolved that Aurora should not quit my bedside
until she had further enlightened me with
regard to — with regard to what was past.

As she was bidding me an affectionate goodbye,
and heartily assuring me that I should see
her again onjthe morrow, I put my arms suddenly
around her neck and whispered, —

Aurora, where is — where is Daryl ? "

**My dear, I cannot tell you."

Do not you really know ? "

I would tell you this moment if 1 did."

'' Does — does any one know 1 "

** Yes ; I believe that your best friend knows."

You are my — my best friend, Aurora."

No, I am not," she replied calmly.

To this assertion I made no rejoinder ; but
trembled slightly as I clung to Lady Tracy, with
my face hidden upon her bosom.

Mr. Eversleigh is your best friend — the best
friend woman ever had," said Aurora, in the same
even tone. " You'll have to acknowledge it
some day."

"No, no, no," I shivered; "he is nothing
to me I "

There are few men living like him," said
Aurora boldly. " Remember that."

I was still very weak ; a trifle was sufficient to
unnerve me ; I burst into a fit of helpless weeping.

I solemnly declare," said Aurora, " that
if you do not this instant stop those tears
I will not listen to another word — I mean it —
nor will I remain here another moment ; but
straightway I shall march out into the street
and drive to the station as hard as I can go."

I feared that she was in earnest ; that she
would carry out her threat ; so, making haste
to dry my eyes, I said brokenly, —

Don't go ! See — there, I am calm. I will
not cry, Aurora — I am quiet again ; indeed I
am ! But tell — tell me — have pity on me
what you have done with — where they have
put my darling — my little Isla ? Oh, my child,
my child ! "

Aurora held me close to her breast.

We buried her," she answered very gently,
** in Arley churchyard — a sweet shady old
churchyard it is, as you will by-and-by see,
dear Flower — and that is one reason why we
want you to come to us."

'* How good of you — how good of you ! " I
sobbed.

Dear, it was Mr. Eversleigh's doing ; not
mine," said Aurora. " I told him that I
somehow felt certain you would not like your
darling to be lost in a crowded London cemetery
— "

Ah, no," I put in, with a tremor — " not
that ! "

And he — Mr. Eversleigh — said immediately,"
went on Aurora quietly — " having
of course heard from Loftus about our Arley
Bridge arrangements — * Cannot we bury her,
then, poor little soul, in Arley churchyard ?
Mrs. Darkwood would not mind that. You

are her friend ; and she would like her child
since she is not able to decide anything for
herself — to be near you, I fancy.'

' When she recovers — if Heaven be merciful
— she should bless you for the good thought,'
said I earnestly. * It shall be done.' And it

was."

And I do bless you, Aurora," I said.

Honour to whom honour is due ! " said
Lady Tracy obstinately. *' You must bless
and thank Mr. Eversleigh by-and-by. That,
Flower, is your duty. We saw a good deal of
him," she added, " whilst you were lying so
ill ; indeed met him very frequently ; and my
husband and he became quite chummy. More
than once, in fact, he has dined with us and
stayed for the night at Arley Bridge. Loftus
likes him immensely, now that he knows more
of him ; and so do I," announced Aurora
stoutly.

I could find no reply to this ; so kept dumb ;
my face still hidden from the fast-fading light.

*' I thank Heaven," I cried presently, with a
shudder that was irrepressible, " that I did not
that I did not really do so fearful a thing —
that dreadful deed ! Oh, Aurora, if — if I had
actually murdered him — Daryl — my own husband

! . . . . On that night I must have been
mad — mad — "

What, do you remember all that ? " she
whispered soothingly. " But, dear, it is past ;
do not let it hurt or trouble you now. You
could not help it, Flower — it was part of your
illness ; we all understand that — doctors and
everybody."

I must have been mad ! " I moaned again.

You were, dear," said Aurora gravely.
Forget it."

With every day," I said hoarsely, " it all
comes back to me by degrees — more clearly,
more hideously ; and — and — Oh, Aurora ! "

"Forget it. Flower," she said again, "as you
would forget an ugly dream."

I cannot. There are some things one never
can forget. Nevertheless, with all my heart
and soul, I do thank Heaven that I was hindered
in that wicked deed — "

Figuratively speaking, Aurora pulled me up
short.

And do you likewise recollect, Flower," she
said quickly, yet with a kind of tender daring
and gentle reproof in her caressing manner and
in her grave low voice, " that it was Mr. Evers-
leigh who most assuredly — look at it how you

will — was the instrument of Heaven in hinder-with

a petulant sob I broke from her ; sank
back upon my pillows ; and turned my face
away from her.

"You are determined, it seems, Aurora," I
said, " that I shall not at any rate forget my
infinite obligations to — to Mr. Eversleigh ! He
is fortunate in having so staunch a champion ! "

She laughed softly and good-temperedly ; gave
me a lingering kiss which I did not return ;
and, when I looked around me, she was gone.
But I heard her call out in the next room, when
the folding-doors were shut — " You will see me,
Flower, tomorrow. Be brave, dear ; cheer up ! "

• ••••••••

On that bright late March day when I said
adieu to Bentham Street I left Mrs. Sadler's
house alike poor in health and in pocket. My
illness altogether had been a grievously expensive
one ; my careful hoard, earned at Mr.
Binkworthy's theatre of varieties, had by this
time sadly dwindled. Still I was able to pay
every farthing 1 owed ; to make Mrs. Sadler a
handsome present ; to send another to the
Convent of St. Cordelia — which holy retreat, I
learned, was entirely supported by voluntary

contributions — and, ah me, then to think of
the future with what courage I could !

I was in my front room — mine thenceforward
no longer — dressed in my new mourning,
and waiting for Lady Tracy and the carriage.
My trunks were already piled in the gloomy
passage ; and Mrs. Sadler sat amongst them,
crying dismally because I was going away.

Do not cry, Mrs. Sadler," I said hopefully.
^* I will come and see you whenever I can ;
and I shall not forget you — believe me."

*' It's a cruel world," wept the poor widow —
'* all ups and downs and nothing certain.
Here to-day and gone tomorrow — heigh-ho ! "

Mrs. Sadler," I said suddenly ; recalling
with a 'pang' of unutterable sorrow the tenderheartedness
and shy sympathy of the shadowy
old man who had been so good to my lost
darling; " where is old Mr. Jones ? I — I should
like to see him once more ; to — to say goodbye
to him before I go. Is he upstairs ? "

Why, bless the pore dear lady," cried Mrs.
Sadler forlornly, "he left me long ago ! He
went away, 'm, almost directly you was taken
ill. But he paid everything ; there's nothing'
owing — pore lone old gent ; and I've never
set eyes on him since ! "

Strange ! " murmured I.

"Yes; he always was a curious old soul,"
said Mrs. Sadler, dolefully shaking her head ;
and now I'm losing you, 'm. Oh, dear, oh,
dear, it do seem hard ! "

Before I could in any wise try to comfort
her we heard the near rolling of carriage-wheels
and the brisk clatter of horses' hoofs. A
splendid equipage had driven into Bentham
Street ; and a footman was knocking at Mrs.
Sadler's front-door.

It's the Viscountess," wept the landlady.

Yes ; Aurora had arrived at the appointed
hour, to carry me off to Arley Bridge.

OW, mind," had said Lady Tracy ;
*you are here, dear Flower, at
Arley Bridge, to be idle all day
long ; to be out of doors as much as possible ;
sitting, say, occasionally under those nice old
trees yonder, when the leaves get a little thicker
and the sun o^rows a little warmer ; to trouble
your head about nothing whatever ; in short, to
take life, don't you know, just as smoothly and
as drowsily as did those odd lazy folk in that
wonderful land where it ' seemed always afternoon!"


I shook my head, smiling mournfully. Already
had I formed dim plans with regard to my life in
the future. With more earnest thought, with
more prayer for high guidance in the matter, I
should, I fancied, ere long see my path more
clearly to the right course ahead of me.

In spite of the deep melancholy which at times
possessed me — a melancholy that assuredly was
not to be marvelled at ; all that I had suffered,
all that I had gone through being borne in mind —
I could not help feeling that life at Arley Bridge
was a very pleasant and wholesome business.

The house was by no means small, I found ;
nor was it too large. It was a commodious and
decidedly old-fashioned abode in which, from the
moment of crossing its threshold and entering
the roomy old hall, a stranger might look around
him and somehow at once feel at home. Built
of white stone which, with time and storm, had
taken a grayish, greenish hue, it stood surrounded
by about five-and-forty acres of lovely
park-land, well back from the broad high-road ;
so that only the chimneys and upper windows of
Arley Bridge were here and there through the
trees visible to passers-by. A private path across
these grounds — narrow, winding, and copse-shadowed
— led one to a lonely wicket in the low
flint wall of Arley churchyard.

Lord Tracy himself was as genuinely kind tome,
as solicitous for my comfort beneath his roof,
as was his handsome wife ; it seemed to me that
his marriage with Aurora had vastly improved
the young man.

Her bright sensible companionship ; her shrewd
practical character, and her active, cheerful
example in everyday affairs and duties ; had
bestirred, as it were, to a like activity the better
and higher qualities that had hitherto lain dormant
in the man. Certainly he was no longer the
selfish, affected fop ; the idle, the almost effeminate
dandy I had mentally designated the lover of
Miss de Vere on my first introduction to him at
Thangate. He had become more natural, more
manly, more healthily energetic ; and consequently
he was more pleasant and companionable
in every sense. He had always been proud of
Aurora ; and now, I verily believe, she was growing
proud of him.

Every day, when the weather was warm and
fine, I went with Aurora for a long and delightful
drive — Lord Tracy sometimes asking whether
he might accompany us — and so explored the
charming country neighbourhood in the midst of
which Arley Bridge was situated.

The April showers were nourishing the fresh
young grass and awakening to vigorous life the
moist bursting leaves ; the lush and radiant
green of the meadows, the tender foliage of the
trees, the fair fickle blue of the sky, with its
fleecy swift-sailing cloudlets and the frolicsome

wind from the south that drove them along — all
these things were most beautiful and in a high
degree soothing to the jaded spirit of a melancholy
invalid.

Nevertheless I was well aware that with each
too-quickly passing day I was growing stronger,
undeniably stronger — how else indeed could it
be, surrounded as I was by every luxury and by
every care ? — and with better health of course
came better heart.

Sooner or later however — I never lost sight of
this fact — my sojourn at Arley Bridge must
come to an end. And then, after that, there
was my future. Well, so I told myself, I should
be ready !

** I have ordered the carriage this morning,"
announced Aurora one day after breakfast — a
bright breezy day without a cloud in the sky ;
a day on which the larks sang madly out of sight
and the tree-tops bent and whispered together of
the glory of the coming summer — " to take us
to Ealing Common. Loftus has an engagement
in town, and won't be home until dinner-time ;
and so we ourselves need be in no hurry to get
back to Arley. If you don't mind, dear Flower,
we are going to call on my mother ; she will be
so pleased to see you again. She knows that

VOL. II. P

you are stopping with us at Arley Bridge ; and
lie will feel hurt and slighted perhaps if I do
not take you to see her."

*what!" I cried involuntarily, "has Mrs.
Ramage, then, left Shepherd's Bush — left
Chesterfield Avenue ? "

"Two months ago. I thought I had mentioned
it," replied Lady Tracy. '* Dear old
mother — bless her! — she's in clover now; thanks
to my own good generous boy."

T was truly glad of this opportunity of once
more meeting Mrs. Ramage ; for I had been
haunted by the fear that Daryl — Heaven knew
where he now was ; I did not ; and neither
Aurora nor her husband, it really appeared,
could enlighten me ! — had in all likelihood taken
leave of Chesterfield Avenue, characteristically
forgetting to settle his debts. I could not
endure the thought of this injustice to Mrs.
Ramage ; and was most anxious, if it were in my
power to do so, to put matters straight in that
direction at least.

Mrs. Ramage's suburban villa was merely a
good hour's drive from Arley Bridge — at all
events, it was only an hour's drive in Lady
Tracy's luxurious barouche, with its marvellously
easy springs and splendid thorough-bred pair ;

and, bowling delightfully along the Hertfordshire
roads that would by-and-by take us into the
adjoining county of Middlesex, I told Aurora of
the fear which troubled me.

Good gracious ! " exclaimed she, smiling —
'' pray do not mention the matter to my mother.
You will be sure to offend her — or rather to
wound her feelings — if you do. She is ' quite
the lady ' now, she says, and means to forget all
about those days when she let apartments in
the Chesterfield Avenue. Besides, Flower, even
supposing it to be as you apprehend, why, it
doesn't signify a rap to my mother. She is more
than comfortably off in her new home, as you
will see."

Lady Tracy chatted on briskly ; presently
observing that her mother's house was called
*' The Oaks ; " though at present, in the way of
trees, there was naught to be seen in the front
garden of the villa ; neat clusters of severe-looking:
shrubs however bordered the carriage-drive.

There was also a half-moon patch of lawn
in front, perfectly kept, and with a new yellow
iron garden-seat upon it.

Mrs. Damage, dressed in a purple shot-silk
gown and a cap with salmon-coloured ribbons
flying in it — an immense brooch and a great

many other ornaments as well — received us in
her own impulsive fashion. She seized my hand
within both her own, and for some time shook
it and hugged it silently, unable to say a word.
But the queer ducklings and wriggling that
I remembered so well were in their way very
eloquent ; and speech, after all, was hardly
necessary.

We sent the carriage into the town for an
hour or so ; and stayed to luncheon ; and
listened to Mrs. Ramage's description of her
new and easy life, and to her reiterated praises
of 'that noble-hearted young man," her son-in-law,
Lord Tracy — the tears rising to the
good soul's eyes whenever she mentioned the
Viscount's generosity.

But, warned doubtless beforehand by Aurora,
Mrs. Ramage contrived to avoid all allusion
either to my late illness, my vanished husband
or to my cruel loss ; though more than once she
had stammered ; checked a sentence ; coughed
awkwardly ; and I felt as certain as if she had
spoken outright that she had been upon the
brink of inquiring after " the dear Captain."

Very reluctantly she let us go ; earnestly
asking us when we were coming again.

"When," promptly answered Lady Tracy,

with her farewell embrace — 'when you have
been to Arley Bridge, mother. You are always
coming, and you never come."

Mrs. Eamage wriggled ; and protested that
her son-in-law's house was too fine a place for
her, and she was very happy where she was.
Perhaps some day, some future day, hinted
Aurora's mother, when she — Mrs. Eamage herself
— had become more accustomed to her own
good fortune, and could think of her clever
daughter's exalted position without that delicious
tremor of excitement which seemed to
take away her breath and to make her head
spin round, she would come and spend at Arley
Bridge a few quiet days with Lord Tracy and
his wife — or, let her say, wherever they might
be living at that dim future time. At present,
pleaded Mrs. Eamage, with her most eloquent
wriggle, she could promise no more — indeed
she could not — Aurora must not ask it of
her.

Driving leisurely homeward, Lady Tracy exclaimed
abruptly, —

Oh, by-the-way. Flower, did I tell you, my
dear, that I met old Binkworthy in Oxford
Street yesterday afternoon ? "

No," said I, with a slight start and a little

quiver of the breath ; " you certainly did not
tell me."

Somehow or other, in these calm, lazy, convalescent
days at Arley Bridge, no thought of
Mr. Binkworthy had arisen, spectre-like, to disturb
their sweet tranquillity. He had passed
of late clean out of my mind.

"Did — did he say anything about me,
Aurora ? " I asked with palpable anxiety in
the next breath.

Yes. But do not be frightened," replied she.
•' I don't fancy he'll trouble you any more. He
has got hold of a fresh star — this time from
Australia — who, he says, is drawing tremendous
audiences. She calls herself Signora Something
or other ; and the Levity is crammed nightly,
according to Mr. Binkworthy."

I drew a sigh of relief.

What did he say about me ? " I inquired.

He merely remarked that he hoped you were
all right again, or something of that sort ; but
the whole manner of the man, my dear Flower,"
said Aurora, frowning, " was offensive in the
extreme, to say the least of it. The carriage
was standing outside Grant and Lavender's — I
had stopped there for some more of that lovely
cru lace I showed j^ou the other day — and

Binkworthy, as he talked, with both arms leant
heavily over the side of it, and called me
Countess ' in the most objectionable style. ' I
am not going to tolerate this,' thought I, ' with
Banks stuck there upon the pavement not a yard
away from him. I'll cut his familiarity short.'
He said something else ; winding up the observation
with another odious ' Eh, Countess ? ' that
made my blood tingle. I looked stonily over his
hat ; called sharply to the footman — ' Home
directly, please tell Willis ; ' and the next minute
Mr. Binkworthy was reeling backward from the
carriage-step, and flinging, I have no doubt, a
vigorous malediction after my vanishing chariot-wheels
! "

Aurora chuckled at the recollection of the
manager's discomfiture ; reminding me that, even
in her " old Levity days," she had always succeeded,
in any hostile business with him, in getting
the upper hand of Mr. Binkworthy.

It was close upon the stroke of five when the
tall elms of Arley village, with the rooks flapping
and cawing restlessly around their clumsy nests
of black sticks and twigs, loomed in sight through
the thin blue distant haze. Already were the
high hedges beginning to wax fragrant and
sweet subtle grassy smells to float upon the still

air. A pigeon was cooing in a thick plantation
near to the roadside ; the sun was westering
and growing languid above the copses of Arley
Bridge.

I have been thinking," said Aurora, gently
breaking a silence that had fallen upon us —
"indeed, to speak openly, Loftus and I, only
last night, were together discussing the matter ;
and he said what a splendid idea of mine it was
I say, dear Flower, I have been thinking what
a pleasant arrangement it would be — for me, at
any rate — if you would consent to stay with me
always. I love you very dearly," said she, with
an unaffected and earnest simplicity that touched
me keenly, '' and that you know without my saying
so ; and, if you would but agree to remain
with me as my lifelong companion, it would
give me unspeakable happiness — "

I laid my hand upon hers, and stopped her.

Dear, generous friend," I said, in a low voice,
'' it cannot be. It is impossible ! "

"Impossible, Flower?" she echoed cheerily.
Oh, no ; don't say that ! "

*' You have your husband, Aurora," I said
mournfully ; " you will soon have troops of
friends — little ones perhaps by-and-by ; you will
not always want me — "

Troops of friends ? " she echoed again, now
with a short light laugh which had however
no particle of bitterness in it. " I don't know
where they are coming from ! Why, bless you,
Flower, not a soul in the neighbourhood worth
naming has yet come to see me — and probably
nobody worth naming ever will ! Of course
Loftus's friends are in a manner mine ; still —
still there are others, don't you know ? Every
society journal in London, you see, came outwith
something disagreeable — something would-be
humorous and sarcastic — when Loftus married
me ; the profession of the woman whom Lord
Tracy had fallen in love with was an open
secret from the first. Loftus says, in his vague
good-natured way, * Never you mind, Aurora,
old girl — they'll all come round in time ; ' and
I tell him frankly that, for aught I care, they
may * all ' — whoever they be or represent —
please themselves ; I do not care a button. I
speak for myself. I should be sorry indeed,
though, if Loftus got to care — that is all. I
should hate to see him fret about it. But that's
not the point in question," said Lady Tracy,
more briskly. " I am sure, Flower, that you will
not pain me by refusing to grant a favour which
I ask of you from the bottom of my heart ? "

Here, I thought, was precisely the moment
to let her hear the determination I had arrived
at. So I spoke.

Aurora," I said sadly, " it's of no use — I
cannot do it ! My mind is made up. Grateful
as I feel to you, and ever shall so long as I
live, what you wish is impossible. You would
suggest perhaps in favour of your loving
scheme that I — I — that I have now no child,
no home, no husband. True. All the same,
the last-named may at any hour reappear and
compel me, or strive to compel me, to again
live with him. And that, Aurora, I could not
endure. I could not — I could not ; after —
after all that has happened through Daryl's
conduct I I — I could not bear such torment
and live ! No, dearest friend ; I want to hide
myself from him and from the world — to hide
myself in some retreat where Daryl would
never dream of looking for me ; where it would
be possible to forget the hollowness of the
world and — and to prepare myself for heaven.
Life has no charm for me now. And so, dear
Aurora — believe me, this is no hasty decision
on my part ; it is the serious outcome of much
meditation and prayer — I have resolved to goto
the Convent of St. Cordelia ; to tell the

good sisters my life-history ; and ask them to
take me in there — in their midst to give me
shelter from the "

Whilst I had been speaking, Aurora's foot,
I noticed, kept tapping the carriage-mat. At
last it seemed that she could no longer restrain
her vexation and impatience ; for she burst outwith
—

*' Upon my word, Flower, this is too foolish —
I was positively going to say idiotic — of you t
What on earth shall I hear next, I wonder ?
I shall send for Doctor North ; you can't be so
well as we have thought ; you must be slipping
back, or you never would talk in this gloomy,
morbid, ridiculous strain ; for it is too ridiculous
! You are not joking ; are you ? " she
broke off brusquely.

I smiled sorrowfully ; but did not turn my
head to meet her bright indignant eyes.

"You well know, Aurora, that it is not like
me to jest upon such a subject ; it is a very
solemn matter if you will only reflect a moment.
I am in earnest," I answered quietly.

'' And are you, pray, aware," she went on
almost angrily, ignoring my reply, " that the
nursing sisters of the Convent of St. Cordelia
are all of them gentlewomen with means, more

or less, of their own — the Sister Dorothea who
came to you in Bentham Street is a very rich
woman ; a woman of title ; I believe Mr. Evers-
leigh knew her before she joined the sisterhood
and that . it is from a pure love of good and
Christian work that they go about nursing
whithersoever duty calls them ; that they do
not turn from the worst of slums nor shrink in
their ministering from the most loathsome of
diseases ? Their world, in fact, is the sick-room.
Death to them is more familiar than life."

I know all that, dear," I gently interpolated.

"But," said Aurora grimly, " there are others
in that Sisterhood of St. Cordelia — if I am
speaking too bluntly, you must forgive me,
Flower — the poorer sisters who have been permitted
to join the community, but who are yet
without private means of any kind. These, I
have heard, are expected to do the work — the
menial work — of the place ; and I have also
heard that they never put their noses outside
the convent gates from the end of one year to
that of another. This perhaps you do not know?"

Yes, Aurora ; I know that too," I said
resignedly ; " and it is one of those poor hardworking
sisters who are never seen beyond the
convent walls that I mean — I should say, that

I long to be ; always supposing they will consent
to have me amongst them. Poor as I
am, I could expect nothing higher ; and such
complete seclusion will suit me exactly. Daryl
never will find me there."

With a movement of strong irritation Lady
Tracy lowered her lace sunshade ; and with a
snap shut it.

Their dress is something too frightful ! " she
fumed. ** It is hideous enough to frighten the
crows. What you will look like in it I altogether
fail to conceive. It's too much for my imagination.
Oh, Flower," cried she, " I am so disappointed
in you ! I never, never could have
believed that you would take such a wild crotchet
into your head 1 It is too wild — too absurd !
We might have been so happy all our lives
together if you would only have had the sense
to see it ! "

She was still doing her utmost to shake my
resolve, bringing many a blunt and vigorous
argument to bear upon the vexed question, when
we drove into the grounds of Arley Bridge.
Having alighted from the carriage and entered
the hall, Lady Tracy inquired of the servant who
had opened the door whether his lordship had
returned from town.

No, my lady ; he has not," the young man
replied.

Has any one called in my absence ? " asked
Aurora then.

Yes, my lady — a gentleman," answered the
man, who, I fancy, at that date had been only a
few dr/s in Lord Tracy's service. " He arrived
about an hour ago ; but, hearing that neither
you, my lady, nor his lordship was at home, he
said he would wait until you came in. I showed
him, at his request, into the library, and gave
him the daily papers."

What is his name ? " inquired the Viscountess
quickly ; pausing as she moved across the hall
to glance over her shoulder at the man-servant.

And to me, at any rate, his answer came like
a thunderbolt.

** Mr. Eversleigh, my lady," said he.

sleigh

EVERSLEIGH at Arley Bridge !
The Viscountess, herself not in
the least astonished at the servant's
answer, turned and put another question to the
young man ; but I do not know what it was.
I stayed to hear no more ; without once looking
round, I walked straight up to my two pleasant
rooms, locked the bedroom door, and flung
myself down upon my dressing-room sofa.

Many confused and painful thought was hurrying
through my brain ; the unlooked-for arrival
of Mr. Eversleigh somehow sorely troubled me.
The news of his presence in the house had filled
me with a curious sense of unrest, of dismay, of
vague unsettled ness ; and, as I lay prone there
amongst the silken sofa-cushions, I was suddenly
possessed of a longing to escape from the peace
and quiet of Arley Bridge. Yet whither, at a moment's
notice, should I flee ? However, commonsense

soon came to my aid ; and I smothered
down the small voice that was whispering within
me and inciting me to so foolish a course.

How long I had been lying motionless upon
the couch in my dressing-room I had not the
faintest idea ; but daylight, I could see, was fading,
and a soft sapphire twilight was coming on.

Hark ! Yes — the shrill little clock upon my
bedroom mantelpiece was striking seven ; and
there was some one tapping at and rattling the
handle of the farther door.

"It is only I," called out Aurora. " May I
not come in ? "

To myself I supposed wearily that there was
iso help for it ; and with a stifled sigh I arose to
admit the brisk Viscountess.

Full of animation she came in ; and I perceived
directly that she had put on her dinner-crown
; a lovely pale peach-coloured satin with
festoons of gossamer-like lace falling from throat
to hem, and a close-encircling necklace of twisted
seed-pearls for her sole ornament.

Gracious, Flower — what, all in the dark, or
nearly so ? " she cried. " You really must hurry
along, my dear ; we dine a little earlier than
common this evening ; for Loftus has got back
from town, and has got back too as hungry as

the proverbial hunter. Come," observed Aurora ;
*' let us shed a little light upon the scene ; you
cannot see to dress in the dark, Flower."

Speaking, she moved swiftly to and fro and
lighted the candles in both rooms.

There," said she — " now look alive, my dear!"

I meanwhile had returned to the sofa.

"My head aches badly, Aurora," I, said in a
pleading tone. "Please don't ask me to join you
at dinner. I — I cannot come down this evening."

She looked at me quickly, and not without
vexation. I believe she knew that I was not
uttering the strict truth.

This is tiresome. Flower," she said ; " for Mr.
Eversleigh dines and sleeps to-night at Arley
Bridge "

What ! " I involuntarily interrupted, but in a
faint enough voice — " you have — have invited
him to — to stay ? "

Certainly I have," replied Aurora. " Why,
pray, not ? In reality, he simply called — called
indeed to see how you were progressing, to
ascertain what strides you had made upon the
high-road to health, and so forth ; and you have
made strides, you know, my dear friend, though
you are rather reluctant to admit it ! Hitherto,
whenever Mr. Eversleigh has dined here, he has

VOL. II. Q

remained with us for the night ; and on this
occasion also he has consented to be our guest
until the morning."

Well, I can't see him yet," I said querulously.

'* I suppose — nay, I hope — that you will,
though, be well enough to come down by-and-by
? A cup of tea may cure the headache*' said
Aurora gravely.

If you do not mind I should like the tea
now, Aurora," I meekly suggested.

Of course ; but you must have some dinner
too. I shall send Emilia up with it," answered
Lady Tracy promptly.

"Oh, Aurora," I rejoined petulantly, *' do not
you comprehend, or will not you ? My head is
bad — really bad. How can one eat dinner with
a bad headache ? "

One can't, I know, with some headaches,"
said the Viscountess drily. " I didn't understand,
Flower, that yours was of that inconvenient
kind."

Well, it is ; and tea is all that I want — so
please send up nothing besides," I told her wearily.

My friend was shrewd — perhaps occasionally
too shrewd — and it was difficult at any time to
deceive her. She laughed pleasantly as she
turned to go, saying, —

'' Oh, very well ! Nevertheless it won't do to
have you shutting yourself up here to starve.
Recollect that you are an invalid, and want
feeding up and looking after."

With that she went ; and I fancied I was left
in peace. But the next moment Aurora again
popped her fair head into the room, to say, '' Be
sure you come down presently if you can.
Perhaps when the men have got rid of me I may
run up and fetch you." She smiled ; nodded
brightly ; and then she really did go.

Aurora's visit had thoroughly dispelled my
physical languor. I could no longer lie passive,
nursing my sombre thoughts. Emilia, too, the
Viscountess's own maid, had appeared with the
tea. It was very strong ; and it had refreshed,
cleared my brain, and had bestirred it to increased
activity.

I rose, laved my hot forehead and hands in
some toilet-vinegar and water, and began to pace
restlessly from one room to the other. The house
seemed unusually quiet ; they must by this time,
I thought, be shut in the dining-room.

Sighing;, I went to one of the windows and
looked out. The dusk had deepened to an
amethyst gloom ; the sward of the park was
silvered lightly with dew ; the spring moon, pale

as a primrose, was rising above the black plantation
which hid from my gaze the village church of Arley.

To-day I had had no opportunity of going to
the churchyard ; and seldom, since I had been
living in Lord Tracy's house, had a day gone by
without my visiting — alone, but carrying with
me beautiful flowers from the Arley Bridge
conservatory — the little grave of my lost Isla.

It was late, true ; but I could very well go
thither at this hour. I should be missed by no
one ; and could easily get back to the house
before Lady Tracy quitted the dining-room.

In my wardrobe there was a black-silk cloak
lined with nineveh, hood and all. It wrapped
me snugly from head to foot ; and I had often
worn it of a night on my omnibus journeys in
London, when jolting from Mrs. Sadler's lodgings
down to Mr. Binkworthy's theatre of varieties.

I put on now this warm silk cloak, noiselessly
left my room, and crept downstairs to a garden
door at the end of the library passage.

The lighted windows of the dining-room did
not look in this direction ; all the same, I hurried
nervously through the misty grounds, as if
vigilant eyes were in the rear of me and my
movements were being observed.

Once or twice I fancied that I was followed by

some one, that footsteps brushed the grass behind
me ; but, when I glanced half-fearfully around
me, there was nothing anywhere visible save the
trees, their shadows, and the moonlight which
gave such fantastic shape to them. Overhead
the clear white stars were thickening ; a breath
of wind travelled mournfully through the dark
plantation boughs.

It did not take me many minutes, by this
narrow winding path across the park, to reach
the lonely wicket in the churchyard wall ; moreover,
by this time it had become familiar ground
to me, and familiar ground is quickly traversed.

Arley Church itself was a low gray building,
with a short square tower three-parts clad with
ivy. It was very sheltered ; very silent ; all
around it, closely packed, lay the happy dead.
Here and there a mausoleum or a costly tombstone
stood out conspicuously from amidst its
lowlier neighbours ; but the many graves were
for the most part unmarked by cross or headstone
; the few humble devices in wood, scattered
widely apart, were all aslant and neglected and
green with decay.

In a remote corner, the least crowded of anywhere
ivy topped the low flint wall of the churchyard,
as well as the tower of the church ; where

a spreading yew cast its cool and solemn shadow,
and the periwinkles clustered and trailed in profusion
over a hillock of big gray mossy stones
flung there and forgotten, perhaps, in years gone
by ; where, in the springtime, violets both
purple and white might be found in hiding
amongst the moss, and daffodils lifted their
heavy yellow heads to nod them bell-like in the
wet west wind — here, at rest, in this sweet and
shady spot, lay Isla, my child, my darling who
was not really lost to me, but only " gone before
; " in all the wide world the solitary human
tie that once had rendered life truly dear to me !
Marking the place where the kind earth covered
her, where the shorn turf grew greenly over the
little mound, stood a slender marble cross ; pure,
chaste, cold, white as unsullied snow. Upon it, in
letters of gold, were engraved her simple name ;
her brief span of life ; and, beneath her dear
name, those bright words of the Good Shepherd
which are as balm to the heart of every grieving
mother not yet grown old in motherhood, —

In loving memory of Isla Darhwood ; aged
Jive years. 'Suffer the little children to come
unto Me, and forbid them not, for of such is the
kingdom of God.' "

Time, merciful as it ever is, had softened the
first sharp agony of my loss ; and I could now
kneel in silence and without tears by the grave
by the earthly resting-place — of my little
angel. My faith, thank God, was strong ; and
I knew that an hour must come — it might be
near ; it might be far off ; but sooner or later
that hour would surely come — when Isla and I
should meet again ; meet again, never more to
be parted from each other ! " Be patient," I
would whisper to myself in those melancholy days
" be patient — have courage ; and the child as
you knew her and loved her in life will be yours
once more ! Unless," used I to think very
sorrowfully sometimes — '' it be that we grow old
in heaven ! "

The night was warm, notwithstanding the low-lying
mist and the fallen dew ; an early bat, or
some other grim winged creature of the darkness,
swept by the churchyard wall. Plaintively across
the dim fields from a distant farm-shed came the
lowing of cattle ; the faint " tinkle-tinkle " of a
sheep-bell ; weirdly peeped the primrose moon
through the black and ivied belfry bars.

The flowers which I had yesterday brought
hither were not yet withered ; in the moonlit
gloom, with the dew upon them, they were faintly

fragrant still. Close-wrapped in my long cloak,
with the hood of it drawn over my cropped hair,
which I used pensively to fancy would never
grow again, I sank upon my knees by the slender
marble cross and wound my arms desolately
about it. Chill as death's touch itself it struck
to my brow ; ice-cold as the dawn-wind of a
winter morn.

And yet, as I knelt there, a great peace, a
sense of infinite calm and gratitude, seemed to
steal over my heart — nay, to fill my whole being ;
and prayer was in that sad heart of mine, if not
upon my lips. Perhaps, after all — who shall
tell ? — I was thankful that Isla was indeed at
rest ; utterly beyond the reach of all earthly
suffering ; that life's bitter sorrows and manifold
disappointments could never touch her now,
never touch her more !

Ah, would that I too were there, and at
peace, beyond the eternal stars, in heaven with
my darling — that my future were as safe as hers t

Whatever befalls in the coarse loud world.

We know she will never wake.
When I thought of the sorrow she might have known,

I was almost glad for her sake. . .
Tears might have tired those kiss-closed eyes,

Grief hardened the mouth I kissed ;
I was almost glad that my dear was dead

Because of the pain she had missed.

Oh, if I could but have died a child

With a white child-soul like hers,
As pure as the wind-flowers down in the copse,

Where the soul of the spring's self stirs ;
Or if I had only done with it all,

And might lie by her side unmoved !
I envied the very clods of earth

Their place near the child I loved !

Our spirits — my child's and my own — in such
an hour as this were always very near together ;
although I was still a pilgrim upon earth and
she was " at home with God."

A hand, with infinite gentleness, touched my
bowed head lingeringly ; and, in momentary
dumb terror, I started to my feet.

There in the moonlight, by the little new
grave, stood Leigh Eversleigh.

Lady Tracy told me that I should find you
here," he said, just as kindly and as quietly as if
we had parted only on the day before. 'rit is
late, Mrs. Darkwood ; the grass hereabout is
very long and damp, you know. Will not you
come home ? "

And so it was — by Isla's white cross in Arley
churchyard — that I and Leigh Eversleigh met

T was several minutes ere T could recover
my lost self-command.

Had it been broad day, instead of
the time it chanced to be, Mr. Eversleigh must
have perceived into what a state of embarrassment
and agitation his sudden appearance therein
Arley churchyard had thrown me.

But perhaps the uncomfortable fact was not
unmarked by him ; I cannot say. I felt strangely
glad to see him again ; and yet strangely miserable
; no soul save myself could divine how I
had dreaded this encounter with Leigh.

One thing however was evident — he was
striving his utmost, with conventional and
common-place inquiries as to my health and its
present amendment, to render the meeting
smooth and easy for both of us. The embarrassment,
the constraint on my part, went far

towards making his task a by no means inconsiderable
one. Finding him thus unexpectedly
by the grave of my child had sorely perturbed me.

I did not offer him my hand — I could not —
I hardly knew why.

Remembering all that Daryl had told me
on that terrible night at Thangate — the confession,
the cruel and unmanly confession, was
verily scorched into my memory — was it right
that I should greet him, Leigh Eversleigh, even
as a friend ? And yet how good, how kind,
how nobly generous he had been — had ever
been to me ! What was right ? What ouo-ht
I to do ? Which was the right course for me
to adopt ; for me, Daryl Darkwood's wife ?

In silence, with a full and an aching heart,
I turned from the little grave ; Mr. Eversleigh
in silence following me. By the lonely wicket
in the low flint wall I halted, glanced at him
timidly, hesitated ; then said, in a voice tremulous
beyond my control, —

I should like to thank you, if I could, for
all that you have done for me ; it has been so
much — so much ! Ah, believe me, I know it ;
but — but to-night I am afraid that I cannot.
You must wait ; you have taken me unawares ;
I — I am not yet so strong as I was ; I — I "

I could not continue ; I broke down utterly
in my incoherent essay. 1 wrung my hands
beneath my cloak ; shivering in the soft and
ghostly light of that quiet place.

Try to realise, Mrs. Darkwood," he was
saying calmly enough himself, " that there is
indeed no occasion to thank me. Aught that
I have found it within my power to do, any
true friend, any friend worthy the name, would
readily have — "

Yes, the truest of friends — that in truth
you have been ; I own it now ! " I interrupted
a little wildly ; and checked myself again.

"Please say no more," Leigh entreated — "it
is so entirely unnecessary. Do you know, I
came to Arley Bridge to-day with the express
purpose of seeing you — you alone, before anyone
; because I — I have a suggestion to put
before you that touches your future, Mrs.
Darkwood," he said, rather wistfully ; " and
something which Lady Tracy has this evening
been telling me about your plans makes me
trust — in fact, most sincerely hope — that you
will give the idea your earnest consideration.
Weigh it well, will you, when you have heard
what it is ? "

Stay — a moment ; there are a few questions

I should like to ask you," I began hurriedly.
I leant against the wall as I spoke ; I was
very tired — I needed a prop of some kind.
Time had been when I should have asked
him for the aid of his arm ; now it was impossible,
I drearily told myself. " You will
answer me ? " said I.

*' Certainly," he replied courteously — I fancied
somewhat coldly. '' But do you not think that
it would be wiser for us to at once return to
the house ? I do not forget that you have been
very ill ; I cannot allow you to forget it either."

I shall not hurt," I told him, with a hrus-
queries which was wholly due — I understood it
afterwards — to intense nervousness. Heaven
knows that I had no desire to treat with graceless
incivility this good and rare friend of mine ;
but gradually the conviction was taking firm
hold of me that this man in the churchyard,
standing there with me in the pale moonlight,
was not — emphatically not — the Leigh Evers-
leigh whom I used to know ! A change was
plainly discernible in him.

He was as kind, as courteous, as friendly as
of yore ; but something was wrong somewhere.
Was it that his manner lacked the geniality, the
winning warmth which had characterised it and

had made it such a pleasant manner in the days
that were gone ? And yet — and yet what was
that wild bad tale that Daryl, in his cups, had told
me at Thangate ? . . . Ninety-nine women out
of a hundred are notoriously inconsistent ; and
this indefinable change in Leigh Eversleigh irritated
me curiously. Well, if he could grow cold,
I could freeze ; but never — Heaven help me ! —
would I be ungrateful to him.

Where is Daryl ? " I demanded abruptly.

He is abroad," Mr. Eversleigh gently replied,

Abroad — where ? "

"He is staying somewhere in the Saxon
Switzerland region, at the Schloss of that friend
of his, Herr von Eosenberg. The castle, I've
heard, is romantically situated ; and Darkwood,
I believe, intends to utilise his opportunities —
to turn the magnificent scenery amidst which
at the present time he is living to substantial
account."

'' That is so very likely ; is it not ? " I observed
bitterly. " Of course you gave him the money
to go ? He could not have gone without
money."

After a brief pause, Leigh quietly answered, —

I lent him the money, Mrs. Darkwood —
yes."

You gave it to him," I repeated, obstinately
and gloomily.

Ever so slightly Mr. Eversleigh shrugged his
shoulders ; and so let the contradiction pass.

"And — and this, now," I said, my voice growing
once more faint and unsteady — " it was you,
was it not, who caused that beautiful white
cross to — to be placed over Isla's grave ? "

"Yes," he answered, quite simply now. "It
was I. Why not ? "

"Ah, no, no — I cannot have it thus ! " I cried
brokenly. " It must not be ! "

Eeally I cannot comprehend why you should
raise any objection, Mrs. Darkwood. In life I
loved the child very dearly ; and I believe the
little one loved me. To do what I did was to mea
sorrowful pleasure that I should take it very
hard and cruel of you to in any wise spoil. I
do pray you, let things remain as they are,"
he said earnestly. " I shall feel hurt, deeply
wounded, if you insist upon interfering in — in
matters that, please understand, were long ago
settled and done with. I shall begin to fancy
else that you mistrust our — our friendship ; that
that you do not believe in the spirit of it as
heartily as you once used to do."

He spoke with a sad gravity which seemed to

go straight to my heart and to pierce it. His eyes,
I felt, though I could not look up to meet them,
were resting upon me with something of reproach.

You crush me with a burthen of obligations
that never can be shaken off — never, never
repaid," I groaned. A smothered sob escaped
me ; and I covered my face with my hands.

Come, Mrs. Darkwood," I heard Leigh saying
more cheerily, " you must return to the house.
If you were to catch cold out here, the Viscountess,
I know, would never forgive me. Let us be
moving. Will you take my arm ? "

No — no, thank you," I murmured. '' It is
quite light. I can see very well."

That was not my meaning. I thought that
you — not yet being over strong — were in all
likelihood feeling tired," he rejoined gravely.

"Oh, no ! " — speaking as indifferently as I
could ; and I drew my cloak more closely around
me. ** Yes — let us be going; it is late," added I.

Ah me ! Tired ? Was I not tired both in
body and in soul — unspeakably weary and
leaden-hearted ? Happy Isla — you, dear — at
rest there beneath the dim and dewy turf!

We left the churchyard and closed the little
gate ; Mr. Eversleigh, his hands behind him,
walking slowly in the grass by my side.

By-the-bye," he observed, " I saw some one
in town the other day who inquired most kindly
after your welfare, Mrs. Darkwood. Can you
guess who it was ? "

"No," I said wonderingly — "who was it?"
It could not be Mr. Binkworthy, I had instantly
decided ; and at the moment I could think of
no other likely person. Nevertheless I added
quickly, " Was it Mr. Binkworthy ? "

Mr. Binkworthy ? " echoed Leigh ; for a few
seconds in doubt.

Yes ; Mr. Binkworthy — the manager of the
Levity," I said, with a flash of rather poor and
uneasy defiance. " Of course you know that I
have sung for a living at his variety theatre '\ "

"Yes," he answered quietly, "I know that;
but for the minute I had forgotten it. No, it
was not Mr. Binkworthy ; it was your old friend
Mr. Jones ; that selfsame old Mr. Jones who —
who—"

You mean the old Mr. Jones who lodged in
Bentham Street ? " I interrupted eagerly.

Yes, it was he," said Leigh.

Ah, he was indeed a good and strangely kind
old man ! " I sighed, thinking of Isla and her
brief pathetic past. " Always so — so good — so
very good to my darling."

VOL. II. R

"That I can readily understand. For he had
once — long ago, in his better and brighter days —
little children of his own. They are dead now ;
all dead and gone ; and he is left in the world
poor and alone — utterly alone," said Leigh.

*' It is singular that you should know him,"
mused I aloud.

I know him very well — in fact, I have known
him very well for many years. At the present
time he is acting as clerk to a barrister friend of
mine," said Mr. Eversleigh, somewhat hastily.
I — I always try to take care that in some way
or other he is decently provided for. Poor lonely
old fellow — I believe he would do anything forme
! "

For some minutes we walked on in silence ;
I pondering many a circumstance — many a circumstance
which perplexed and troubled me in
no mean degree — that belonged to the dead gray
past. I said abruptly, —

Mr. Eversleigh, how did you first learn that
I was engaged to sing at the theatre ? And how
did you first discover that I was living in 
Bentham Street ? Will you tell me ? "

Not to-night," he answered, in the same halting
yet hurried manner ; "at some other time,
perhaps — not to-night."

Why not to-night ? " I persisted ; somehow
speaking more coldly by far than I wished to speak.

'' I — I can hardly explain. For one thing,
the story is too long, Mrs. Darkwood ; and — and
here we are, you see, close to the house. I shall
not be surprised if we find Lady Tracy looking
out for us. She is certain to be anxious about
you ; and — and will, as I said, naturally blame
me if anything happens to — "

I checked him proudly.

Perhaps," I said, " you went one night to
the theatre ; in ' Madame Fleurette ' recognised
me ; were amazed to find me earning a livelihood
amid such odd surroundings ; and out of curiosity
you doubtless watched me, followed me home to
Bentham Street — "

"You are wrong," Leigh in his turn put in
almost sternly. " I frankly admit — why indeed
should I deny it ? — that I did go many a time
to the theatre to hear you sing — in fact, I went
whenever I could ; for you yourself well know,
Mrs. Darkwood, how thoroughly I enjoy good
music ; particularly the music of a beautiful and
cultivated voice like yours ; but never once did
I follow you, as you so harshly and unkindly put
it, to the lodgings which at the time were your
home. I trust you will believe what I say."

Well, I never recognised you amongst a
Levity audience — never ! Perhaps it was as
well for me that I did not ! " I exclaimed, in a
somewhat hysterical key. " I suppose you hid
yourself, Mr. Eversleigh, in one of those odious
little narrow boxes with the tawdry hangings ?
They always made me nervous — I hated them !
One could never tell for certain whether they
were empty or occupied," I added petulantly.

Hid myself? Well, yes, if you like to put
it so," he remarked gently. *' I seldom failed to
come on those evenings when you sang ' Kathleen
Mavourneen ' and ' The Better Land.' "

*' And you will not tell me how you came to
know that I had consented to sing for Mr. Unworthy
? " I questioned impatiently.

He seemed to be pondering something before
he replied.

"Yes, I will tell you that," he said at last,
in a more friendly tone. " Old Mr. Jones, in
the first instance, was my informant."

Old Mr. Jones again ! Who — what," I cried,
in strong irritation, " was that shy and shadowy
old man ? The thought of him worries me ;
there is something behind it all — something I
do not understand. Why will you not be more
open, more explicit with me, Mr. Eversleigh ? " I

demanded. *' Old Mr. Jones, I imagine, likewise
informed you that I lived in Bentham Street ? "

No."

A sudden thought, a fearful remembrance,
like lightning struck across my mind. My
hands involuntarily locked themselves together ;
my fingers working convulsively meanwhile.

Oh, Mr. Eversleigh," I said with difficulty,
my voice little better than a wild whisper —
I should have mentioned it before ! Forgive
me, forgive me — I am ungrateful — stop one
moment ! " I broke off, in speech more nervous
and disjointed than ever. " Yonder, see, is an
open window; it has just been thrown up;
Lady Tracy herself stands there beckoning tous.
One moment — stop ! "

He halted directly within the shadow of a
clump of flowering lilacs ; their faint subtle
fragrance upon the dewy night air was inexpressibly
sweet ; often the scent of those lilacs comes
back to me in my happiest dreams. He grasped
my trembling hands within his own warm strong
ones ; and firmly held them thus.

"Mrs Darkwood — my dear friend," said he
very kindly, " you must be calmer. This excitement
cannot be good for you ; you will make
yourself ill — "

*' Hush ! I must and will speak. On that
fearful night in Bentham Street you arrived —
you arrived not one moment too soon — ah, I recollect,
I recollect ! — but in time nevertheless to
save me from the perpetration — the consequences
of a deed so dreadful, so unnatural, that — that

A violent shudder shook me from head

to foot. I could not for a minute or so continue.

Why speak of it ? " Leigh was saying, really
distressed. "It is past ; over ; let it rest and
be forgotten. Why should it not be so ? It is
the better way."

No, no, no ! But for you my hands would
be red with blood — with the blood of Daryl
Darkwood — my own husband! Ah, too horrible !
But for you I should be a murderess — branded
like Cain — yet God knows I did not mean it ;
I could not help it ! I was not myself then ; I
was mad with grief on that cruel night ; and
my brain had already given way. Thank you,
Mr. Eversleigh — thank you — thank you from the
very depth of my heart for what you did forme
in that terrible hour of need. Yes, I will
thank you — I will ; but after this night never
to living soul will I speak of it again ! I am
utterly in ignorance as to how you contrived to
come to me so opportunely. It may have been

pure chance — more likely it was the mercy and
interposition of Heaven. Perhaps that sh}^ and
strange old man summoned you at a time when
your presence was so sorely required % I know
not; I cannot tell. And, though guessing is
vain, I do know this — that I am grateful to
you," I cried passionately ; " that my gratitude
is a living gratitude — it never will die ! Only
when the breath leaves my body, when earth
and earthly things grow dim for me, shall I cease
to remember all — all that you have done for me
for my sake ! To remember your nobility,
your goodness, until death — that is easy. But
to in any wise repay you so long as I am alive —
ah, that is impossible ! "

Do not — do not put it so ! Oh, if you
could only understand ! " he was beginning
almost as impulsively and as passionately as
I myself had spoken. But he appeared, with
an effort, to check himself; and said soothingly,
if somewhat incoherently : " Yes, Mrs.
Darkwood, it was old Mr. Jones ; there is no
reason why you should not know it. Often
through him I have heard what — what you
were doing ; how you and — and the child were
getting along in the new life. Being aware,
you see, that — that I was a friend of yours,

and convinced that, on that winter night, you
were in very real need of a true friend's help
and counsel, he journeyed in haste to my
chambers to — to inform me of your dire
necessity. Unluckily, when he arrived in the
Temple, he learnt that I was out — dining, it so
chanced, at a house in a distant suburb. But
but, determined to find me — the plucky old
man ! — and to bring me to you if it were possible,
he hailed a cab, the best he could secure,
and — and managed, after considerable delay, to
discover whither I had gone. Thank Heaven,"
said Leigh Eversleigh hurriedly, lifting his face,
which in the moonlight looked singularly pale and
earnest, to the silent stars — *' I was not too late ! "

Yes ; for that shall I thank Heaven until
my dying day ! " I cried, with another hysterical
catch in my voice. " Mr. Eversleigh, if Lady
Tracy were not watching us from that window
in the drawing-room, I would kneel here upon
the ground at your feet — yes, I would, I would !
and kiss your hands, and thank you humbly
thus for "

Mrs. Darkwood," he broke in hoarsely ;
** you must not — indeed you must not. I cannot
bear it — to hear you. You pain me unspeakably
— you are too — "

But at that instant Aurora, having lost all
patience, was advancing towards us swiftly over
the silvery lawn ; a fleecy white wrap flung
carelessly about her head and shoulders. Indeed
she picked up her train and ran ; and, joining
us without ceremony, interrupted Mr. Evers-
leigh.

Upon my word," cried the Viscountess,
rather out of breath, " you ought to know better
both of you ! How on earth can you be so
unwise — and not yet May, too ? Why, the
ground is soaking ; these dewy spring nights are
abominably treacherous. Flower, my dear, you
want to catch your death, I should imagine ; and
really I had almost said that you deserve to do
so. Well," exclaimed Aurora impatiently, perceiving
that we had neither of us a word of any
kind ready just then — " what does Flower say to
your proposition, Mr. Eversleigh ? If she is so
bent upon carrying out this absurd nursing whim
of hers, I should imagine that the idea would
meet with her warmest approbation. It is just
the very thing ! "

We have not discussed the matter yet,"
replied Leigh, trying to answer the Viscountess
in his natural, pleasant manner. " I think now,
Lady Tracy, that it must wait until tomorrow.

I am sure Mrs. Darkwood is much too fatigued
to listen to me to-night."

Good gracious," cried Aurora, in her brightest
and bluntest fashion — " not discussed the matter
yet ! Why, what in the world then have you
been talking about all this long while ? Loftus,
who is dying for a cigar and a chat with you,
Mr. Eversleigh, would have it that you and Mrs.
Darkwood had lost your way — perhaps strayed
into the water-cress brook — and he wanted to
come and look for you himself."

I waited to hear no more.

Like a ghost I stole away from them, and
glided into the house ; across the hall ; up the
stairs ; and, as I had done on returning from our
drive in the afternoon, 1 gained my own rooms
and there locked myself in.

What a puzzle and a maze was life ! thought
I heavily. Was it actually worth living, after
all?

For some people, I told myself emphatically —
"No!"

SLEPT badly on that night of Leigh
Eversleigh's brief sojourn at Arley
Bridge ; and, as a matter of course,
in the morning; I awoke but ill refreshed and
feeling far from well.

When Lady Tracy's maid Emilia brought the
warm water for my bath, I told her to give my
love to the Viscountess and to say that I should
not come downstairs to breakfast ; I would rather
take it — merely some tea and a little dry toast —
alone in my own dressing-room.

Emilia, in her province, was a treasure. The
tea and the toast which she by-and-by appeared
with where precisely as one would wish to have
them. A tepid bath and this slight breakfast
seemed to do me a great deal of good.

About ten o'clock I went downstairs ; and,
with a book which at the time I was reading, and

a Chinese umbrella in case a shield of the kind
were needed, I forthwith made my way out into
the fresh air of the garden.

It was a lovely morning — warm, clear, and
with a high and cloudless sky — a real foretaste
of the summer that was now so near at hand.
The turf of the wide neat lawns was hardly yet
dry ; in the shade the dew still lingered, glistening
upon drooping grasses and budding fronds ;
in the sunlight floated the fairy gossamer, perhaps
like the severed threads in the magic web of the
Lady of Shalt.

Industriously the bees went humming from
flower to flower, plainly loving best the tall
old-fashioned ones ; a blackbird, " with orange-tawny
bill," was piping flute-like in the twisted
old mulberry tree hard by the library window.

The leaves had thickened early this beautiful
spring-time ; the gardeners had already set out
the rustic seats and tables in the pleasantness
corners of the Arley Bridge grounds.

Not far from the house, sheltered by noble
elms, there was a kind of grotto ; where a pool
for goldfish had been sunk and made picturesque,
built round, as it was, with great rugged stones
and gnarled brown roots from the Arley woods ;
with mosses and ferns growing luxuriantly about

the brink of it, and dipping their delicate greenery
into the cool dusky water. The broad leaves of
the water-lily, too, floated stilly there upon the
unruffled pool ; the close-shut pale green buds of
the lovely flower itself as yet showed no sign of
bursting ; and the fish sought shelter beneath
those wide smooth leaves, occasionally gleaming
far down in the water like jewels seen in the
dark.

Here I seated myself upon a wooden seat — it
was a favourite haunt of mine — and, forofettincr
the book that I had brought with me out-of-doors,
fell to listening idly to the cawing of the rooks in
the faintly rustling elm-tops overhead.

How harsh and solemn sounded the monotonous
caw-caw " of the grim old patient parent birds ;
how peevish and discordant were the cries of the
young ones, calling out insatiably for the living
dainties foraged for their benefit from the moist
hillside !

So it went on, "caw-caw — caw-caw, "throughout
the livelong day.

With a start I brought my eyes earthward ;
footsteps were approaching. I perceived then
that the garden-door in the library passage was
open, and that Lord Tracy and his wife were
coming towards me.

Aurora herself, rather to my surprise, was
dressed for travelling ; looking simply bewitching
in a perfectly-fitting brown tailor-made gown and
a most captivating brown straw 'princess" bonnet
trimmed with brown velvet and a bunch of bright
yellow cowslips. Lord Tracy, too, was wearing a
new spring overcoat, a white scarf and gold
horse-shoe pin. There was " Bond Street " in
every seam of this young man's clothes.

'' What — you are going to town ? " I exclaimed
involuntarily ; when Lady Tracy had kissed
me in her hearty affectionate fashion, and the
Viscount had crushed my hand within his, fervently
hoping that I was " a lot better."

Yes ; I have some shopping to do," briskly
replied Aurora ; " and I intend to try Whiteley's
for a change ; and Loftus is going to Crib's and
then on to Tattersall's. So we shall lunch in
town — and don't you wait, dear Flower."

"I presume Mr. Eversleigh will accompany you,
Lord Tracy ? " observed I, carelessly turning to
the young man, who was pressing against his
teeth the silver crook of his walking-stick.

Well — er — well, no, Mrs. Darkwood," hesitated
he, thus suddenly appealed to, flushing
rather pink and glancing at Aurora for wifely
guidance ; uncertain as to whether he was saying

*' the right thing " or was " putting his foot into
it," as he would have expressed it ; " we are
er — driving, you see, to-day ; and Eversleigh
will come on later by train, he says. He's
writing letters in the library now — isn't he,
Aurora ? "

Yes ; but when we are out of the way,
my dear boy, he is coming out to talk to
Mrs. Darkwood. So we weill be off," replied
she.

Aurora," I said, somewhat stiffly, " I should
very much like to go to town with you this
morning. I too have some shopping to do'
I remember now ; and if you will wait forme,
I shall not be five minutes putting on my
things — "

'' Out of the question, my dear," cried Aurora
blithely. "I am going with Loftus in that
new American dog-cart of his — it's an awfully
high and perilous-looking affair ; so don't in
the least be astonished if we come to grief. I
wouldn't for the world, Flower, have you risk
your neck ; and if Loftus breaks mine, I'll never
forgive him ! "

Oh, I say, that's good ! " put in his lordship,,
smiling delightedly, as if his wife had said a
really brilliant thing.

I rather like a high dog-cart," I cried
quickly and without reflection. *' Cannot I go,
Aurora ? "

I am very sorry — I think not. It would
look too droll, dear Flower, I fancy, to see you
perched up on the back-seat by the side of Dickson,
you know. You must wait until tomorrow ;
and then we'll have the carriage and go together,
dear, wherever you like. Good-bye ! "

She laughed gaily ; waved a faultlessly bronze-gloved
hand ; and hurried her husband away
towards the front of the house, almost before
that obedient young man himself could snatch
ofi* his hat in adieu. Aurora was still his bright
exacting empress ; he still remained her most
willing and adoring slave.

Alone again in the pleasant shadow of the
grotto under the elms, within myself I began to
wonder how, after our emotional parting of the
previous night, I and Leigh Eversleigh would
meet on this day ? For, after all, regarding the
question from a calm and common-sense point of
view, it was ridiculous to think of running away
from him. He had something to say to me ;
and he must say it. To avoid him at Arley
Bridge was for me, it seemed, impossible — flight
was absurd ; he himself, I thought feverishly,

would have left the house ere the day ended;
and then, and not before, should I know peace of
mind once more.

The earlier he went the happier I should feel,
I told myself restlessly. Let the interview,
then, whatever might be the nature of it, begot
over as quickly as possible ; let me be free
again and alone, in my heart I cried querulously,
to settle unaided the course of my
future life ! What had Leigh Eversleigh todo
with it ?

Even as my thoughts ran thus busily and impatiently,
with perfect self-possession he joined
me in the garden and sat down by my side upon
the rustic seat. With his own genial smile he
inquired after my health ; hoped that I was
better — he assured me that I was looking so —
or, at all events, was likely to reap no punishment
for my imprudence of the foregoing evening.
He remarked upon the extraordinary
loveliness of the day ; the sweetness and
beauty of the Arley Bridge grounds ; the bright
kindness and hospitality of Lord and Lady
Tracy.

How contented and happy they seem together
! " said Leigh ; and I quietly agreed that
they did ; moreover believed with him that they

VOL. II. S

were in truth so. But we did not sake hands
with each other, he and I.

Was the omission of the act, I wondered, not
without a pang of discontent, due to him or tome
— his fault or mine ?

Again, as on the night before, I realised that
Leigh Eversleigh was not the Leigh Eversleigh
of the old Chesterfield Avenue and Thangate
days. Yet how subtle, how indefinable was the
change in him ! Kind, winningly kind, friendly
and courteous he certainly was ; but, ah, again
there was no mistaking the fact — he was cold
arid distant withal !

Perhaps it was as well ; his self-command
enabled me to keep my own. However, self-possessed
as I outwardly appeared, I remember
that my heart-beats were stormy enough.

Very soon Mr. Eversleigh pulled out his
watch.

'* I must catch the 12*25 from Arley up to
town," he observed thoughtfully; *for old Mr.
Jones, I recollect, is coming to lunch with me at
my chambers to-day."

Indeed ? " said I coldly.

Yes. So pardon me, Mrs. Dark wood, if I
hurry on to tell you what I have to say —
what I came down to Arley Bridge expressly

to talk over with you : with you and nobody
else."

"It would be a pity to miss your train, Mr.
Eversleigh. Believe me, I am listening."

And speaking, I leisurely put aside my book
and Chinese umbrella ; laying them for the
present upon the seat at my side ; and folded
my hands in my lap.

For an instant he looked at me keenly ; then
said, with no further preamble, —

Lady Tracy tells me, Mrs. Darkwood, that,
if you can in any manner make arrangements
with the Lady Abbess, it is your intention to
enter the Sisterhood of the Convent of St.
Corde ia ? "

That is quite right."

"It is a singular decision," mused Leigh
aloud.

Singular," I echoed, with something like
scorn — "how so ? Am I then the first unhappy
woman, think you, who has grown sick of the
world and of life, and who longs with a passionate
longing for that peace which the world
cannot give ? It may not be exactly heaven
within those convent walls ; nevertheless there
are to be found within them tranquillity of
mind, hard, useful work, and, above all, a

peace that is as the reflex of the peace of
heaven itself. I ask, I expect no more so long
as I live."

It is a Catholic sisterhood," suggested Leigh
very gravely.

I know it," I answered, as quietly and as
gravely as he.

Mrs. Darkwood, have I your whole attention
? " inquired Leigh. The gentleness and
gravity were gone from his voice ; his manner
was once more prompt and business-like ; but
kind as ever.

Of course," I replied, with some impatience.
I told you that you had a minute ago."

Good."

And then Mr. Eversleigh at once proceeded
to make clear to me the errand which had
brought him down to Arley Bridge.

It is an odd circumstance," said he, with
another glance at his watch, " that I should have
arrived here for the purpose which I have in
mind precisely at a time when you have determined
upon the taking of so serious a step.
You say that you are sick of the world and its
ways ; that you long for quiet, peace, and yet
not an idle tranquillity — a retired life, in short,
and a useful one ? I think that I can help

you to find what you now desire, Mrs. Dark-wood,
without your going to the grave length
of entering a Catholic sisterhood like that of
St. Cordelia."

You can — you really can ? " I said quickly,
for an instant looking at him with interest and
strong curiosity combined.

Yes. I daresay you have not forgotten our
conversation about — about Eedknights ; I mean
the conversation we had about the old house
and its people when — when we were at Than-gate
last year ? " Leigh said, hesitating a little
now.

Eedknights ? " I echoed faintly.

Yes, Eedknights — Daryl Darkwood's old
home," replied Leigh ; this time quite firmly.
Surely you remember ? "

"I — I remember perfectly," I assured him ina
low voice.

Well, Mrs. Darkwood, it rests with yourself,"
said Mr. Eversleigh impressively. "You can —
should it so please you — there, in the old home
of your husband, down in Buckinghamshire, for a
certainty find the quiet and useful life which your
soul is at present yearning for. Listen to me —
do be advised by me — I beg you, Mrs. Dark-wood
! Dismiss forthwith that solemn and uncomfortable

thought of immuring yourself within
narrow, dreary convent walls ; and • bravely
go and do the good work that awaits you
at Eedknights.

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

:^1^

^■rn-mmm

tm

■|

'^^:

m.

?^;^>-'

•i»:^'

l"*^'-'-':

.^ ;-

^rr)0rr)(2rs • ©/ipf^ui? • lories.

What is a man
If his chief good and market of his time
Be but to sleep and feed ? A beast, no more.

mmmmM

^^S^ m^K^frt^^p'

"L I E> RAFIY

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

V.3

VOL. III.

a

THE PIT TOWN CORONET. By Charles J. Wills. 3 vols.
A RECOILING VENGEANCE. By Frank Barrett. 2 vols.
THE MAN WITH A SHADOW. By G. Manville Fenn. 3 vols.
DIANA HARRINGTON. By B. M. Croker. 3 vols.
A LEAL LASS. By R. Ashe King (' Basil). 2 vols.
THE LAST HURDLE. By Frank Hudson. 3s. 6d.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

BY

Arnold GRAY

AUTHOR OP

THE WILD Warrington," "LIKE LOST SHEEP,"

Etc.

The more a man learns of the wonderfulness of this world the more
chary he is in saying what is and what is not a possible complication
of events." — From an Article on Victor Hugo in the '■'■Athenasum."

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

LONDON

WARD & DOWNEY

12 YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN

1 888

wall Rights reserved.

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS.

Book III.

(Continued.)

Park

UEDKNIGHTS, . 1

(Continued.)

REDKNIGHTS.

We should not look mournfully over the past."

James Bain Fi'iswell.

How could I help loving you beyond measure, withall
your care and tenderness for me, joined to so much
charm 1 " — Madame de Sahran.

You see each grief is noted ;
Yet it was better so —
I can rejoice to-day — the pain
Was over, long ago."

Adelaide Anne Procter.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

;Knights, of all places in the
world ! What did Mr. Eversleigh
mean ?

Why, how on earth should I, the
unknown wife of Daryl Darkwood, go to the
old home of my lost husband, the doors of which
had been for so long closed against him ; the old
home from which he, for his sins, had been so
long an exile ? Why — how — should I go ? Forme
it was too extraordinary to comprehend.

I had never set eyes upon Redknights ; I never
had expected to do so. In my hearing Daryl
himself had never in any manner spoken of the
home of his grandfather ; the fine old family

VOL. III. A

place and estate to which he — Daryl — had once
been the acknowledged heir.

And now here, to my unspeakable amazement,
was Leigh Eversleigh assuring me that a peaceful
life and good work also awaited me — Flower
Darkwood — at Eedknights I

Figuratively speaking, Mr. Eversleigh had
taken away my breath.

'' I — I do not in the least understand you ! "
I stammered at last.

'* I will explain it all to you as briefly as I
can," he answered readily.

And he did so ; I an eager listener meanwhile.

It appeared that quite recently Mr. Eversleigh
had himself been staying down in Buckinghamshire
at Gaveston Priory ; thither having gone
on a few days' visit to his friend Rollo Gave-son,
the elder brother of the young man Marc
Gaveston, the whilom bachelor-friend of Viscount
Tracy, whom, in company with his lordship, I had
met last year by the sea. Gaveston Priory, as I
was already aware, as the crow flies, was but a
mile or so distant from Eedknights, the ancestral
home of the Darkwoods.

As a friend and connection of the Darkwood
family, Leigh Eversleigh, as a matter of course,
had gone to Eedknights to call on Mrs. Evers-

leiojh — the widow of that soldier" cousin " of
his who years ago had died of fever in India —
and her father, the old Squire, Daryl's grandfather.


Both Mrs. Eversleigh and her father were
confirmed invalids ; and inhabited different
portions of the old mansion. In fact the
Squire, now a very old man indeed, and long
since by his manifold troubles and infirmities
hopelessly broken in health, was now in a
dotage-state — nothing less; a quite helpless
and childish old man, Leigh said. A faithful
valet, grown gray in service at Kedknights,
was in attendance upon the aged Squire both
day and night.

The entire management of the estate was in
admirable hands ; those of a shrewd and an
honest agent who had been the Squire's busi-
ness-manager for many years past. Life at
Redknights being an affair so quiet, so simple,
so wholly uneventful in every direction, the
expenses of the household were in consequence
absurdly small for the position of a family as
wealthy as were the Darkwoods. Therefore,
at the Squire's death, hinted Mr. Eversleigh,
a rich inheritance must necessarily fall to the
lot of — well, to the lot of whomsoever the old

man's wealth should ultimately prove to be
willed. Doubtless, in the first instance, Darkling
disinherited, utterly disowned and castoff,
it would all pass naturally enough to Mrs.
Eversleigh — Daryl's aunt — should she survive
her father. But her own life was so frail and
uncertain a one ; so unlikely to touch even the
borderland of old age ; what was to become of
Eedknights and all the fat lands appertaining
thereunto when Marion Eversleigh also should
have gone to her rest ?

It was a serious reflection, earnestly said
Leigh ; for Daryl Darkwood was unquestionably
the rightful heir. What was to become of all
this carefully-garnered wealth, should the old
Squire die — as he might any day — in his present
childish yet obstinate condition of mind ; unrelenting,
inexorable, hard and unforgiving to
the last ?

Now, Mrs. Darkwood," said Leigh boldly,
it seems to me that your duty lies straight
before you. A noble revenge is, as it were,
brought easily within your grasp. Take the
opportunity that is now open to you of heaping
coals of fire upon Daryl's head ; and go,
just as early as you can make it convenient
to start — to Redknights."

My companion bewildered me. I could neither
follow him nor catch the drift of his meaning.
I told him so.

"Eeally you must put things more plainly
to me if you wish me to comprehend what it
is you are advising," I said rather helplessly.

I will. I hope sincerely that my proposition
will carry no offence with it — nay, I believe
that you are too sensible a woman, Mrs. Dark-wood,"
he said gently, " to be offended where
no offence is meant ; but only honest, wholesome,
practical advice. To the point, then.
For a number of years gone by — in reality ever
since, or almost ever since, the date of the
trap-ic shock which befell her in the loss of her
beloved only child — Mrs. Eversleigh has been
accustomed to keep in her service at Eedknights
a person of superior manners and education,
who has always been to her (or who should
have been so) a kind of friend, companion, and
nurse sometimes, in one — one who has brought
with her a fair knowledge of and experience
in domestic matters generally, and who has
been qualified to consult with the housekeeper,
Mrs. Jessamy, in all important questions relating
to household affairs.

Mrs. Eversleigh's attendant and companion

must likewise be able to read aloud distinctly ;
to write a good clear hand ; in demeanour must
be cheerful, yet noiseless in movement ; and of
course, above everything, should at all times
be patient and forbearing — if that be possible
with the occasionally querulous moods of a
delicate and nervous sufferer.

The salary which Mrs. Eversleigh offers to
this companion-nurse of hers is, I believe she
told me, either fifty or sixty pounds a year," said
Leigh, with a sort of quizzically-inquiring smile
at me; "but you perceive that the post is no sinecure,
Mrs. Darkwood. Do you follow me now % "

Yes ; now I begin to. At least — at least
I fancy I do," was my faint reply. Many
thoughts and sensations were astir within my
brain.

The first person that ever went to Eed-
knights," calmly continued Leigh, " in the capacity
of Mrs. Eversleigh's constant attendant, was
a Miss Strong. She remained at the old house
for more than fourteen years ; and Mrs. Evers-
leigh had become greatly attached to her. But
the day came when Miss Strong left her service
to sail for Australia, to be married to a man, the
lover of her girlhood, who as a lad had gone out
to make a home for her in Melbourne. Since

Miss Strong's departure poor Mrs. Eversleigh has
been terribly unfortunate in the numberless
young women who have been recommended to
her from various quarters as likely or certain to
be all that she required of them. One or two
perhaps have remained with her for a year ; some
merely for a few months ; others have deserted
her at the end of a week or so. Some would not
stop ; others, on account of their vulgarity and
ignorance and their deplorable lack of training
in the most ordinary duties of life, she could not
endure to have anywhere near her ; but one and
all of them, it appears, before quitting Red-knights,
have been thoroughly unanimous upon
one point at least — namely, that the quiet and
monotony of the big desolate house were more
than common flesh and blood could stand. The
unearthly stillness of the place, the absence of all
stir and excitement within as well as without its
walls, sent them crazy, they averred. It was
unnatural ; no mortal could bear it ; one might
just as well, when one was about it, be buried
alive in a foreign nunnery, declared the last
of the tribe, who — during my late brief stay at
Gaveston Priory — packed up her belongings and
fled from Eedknights at the expiration of a ten-days'
sojourn there.

With all this unlucky experience to try her
feeble nerves, you will readily conceive that Mrs.
Eversleigh has never ceased to deplore the loss of
her old friend and companion, Miss Strong; and,
I think not without reason, feels convinced that,
look where she may, she never will be fortunate
enough to meet with her like again."

And at the present moment," I said slowly
" at the present moment, then, I presume,
your friend Mrs. Eversleigh is without any one at
all in the character of special attendant on herat
Eedknights ; and has obtained your assistance
in the apparently difficult business of finding for
her a suitable person ? Is that it, Mr. Evers-
leigh ? "

Precisely," he answered cheerfully. " When
I saw her the other day down in Buckinghamshire,
she besought me to make every inquiry for
the purpose in view amongst my friends in town
they might be of some help in the matter, she
hoped and believed ; and only yesterday I received
a letter from Eedknights — written, I
should imagine, by old Mrs. Jessamy at Mrs.
Eversleigh's dictation — asking whether I had
been successful in my quest or was eventually
likely to be so. I have as yet sent no reply to
that letter. I shall send one by-and-by — to-day,

I hope. You now, I am sure, fully comprehend
what I mean — what it is that I am strenuously
advising you to do, Mrs. Darkwood ? There is
no further occasion to beat about the bush ? "
he smiled.

You think," I said, the words causing me no
slight effort — "you think that — that I am the
suitable person who is so anxiously sought by
this Mrs. Eversleigh ? That it is I who should
lose no time in offering myself as a candidate for
the — the situation ? "

I do," said he.

You think," I said, not without an accent of
bitterness, " that between the deadly quiet of
Redknights and the holy calm of the Convent of
St. Cordelia the balance as regards monotony is
about equal — that the one for me would be as
good a refuge as the other ; the distractions of
the world being shut out from both ; but silence
and hard work from neither ? "

Leigh smiled — a smile that was just a trifle
sad and thoughtful.

"You say that you yearn for peace and quiet,
and yet at the same time you are desirous to find
good work," he observed. " Surely it must be
better to seek these things in a quiet and
thoroughly English home in the country than ina

rigid sisterhood in noisy London ? Do not you
agree with me ? " he persisted.

"Mr. Eversleigh, you have some other
motive," I said dully, ignoring this last direct
question, "in persuading me to go to Red-knights.
You hinted as much a few minutes
ago."

Yes," was his frank reply. " I said that your
going to Daryl Darkwood's home would be the
means of bringing a noble revenge within your
reach. Once obtain," said Leigh more wistfully
"not perhaps, I allow, by altogether fair
dealing ; but the object in view, remember, is a
high and a generous one — a footing within that
old country house down in Buckinghamshire, and
you, Mrs. Darkwood, a gentlewoman, educated,
refined, gifted in no ordinary measure, will very
quickly win the heart and the confidence of the
invalid mistress of Eedknights. You will win
the heart and the sympathy of Mrs. Eversleigh —
in all probability, by your talents, your many
attainments, you will arouse both interest and
delight in the obstinate old Squire himself.
Woman's wit, you know, can compass wonders —
particularly the wit of a clever woman. He is
but a very old man — a very feeble old man — with
his weak points, after all. You will ere long, I

%b

predict, win the hearts of both father and
daughter ; and then "

Yes — and then ? " I broke in hoarsely.

'* And then," quietly continued my companion,
you can make yourself known to the Squire
and to his daughter Marion, and intercede with
them for — from them win forgiveness for — the
exiled heir, your husband. You will accomplish
this, believe me. To you, I am convinced, it
will be no impossible task. In real sorrow for
him, I admit that Daryl has — has treated you
very basely, Mrs. Darkwood ; would it not therefore
be, as I have said, a noble thing to "

I started up from the garden-seat with a
passionate gesture of rebellion and dissent ; my
quivering hands locked tightly together.

*' Not that," I cried wildly, when I could
speak — " oh, not that ! It would inevitably lead
to our coming together again. He — Daryl —
would compel me to live with him — I know it !
And — and the old life, the old misery of it all,
would beo^in over again ! "

For some seconds in silence Leigh Eversleigh
sat with his head slightly bowed. He did not
lift it to look at me when he said :

*' Perhaps — who can tell ? — Daryl Darkwood
might become a different man ; himself ; the

man he was, say, in the days when — when you
married him — if once he were to learn that he
was forgiven at Eedknis^hts. To know that he
was restored to his grandfather's favour, that his
future was once more as safe as it seemed to him
in the time of his careless youth — all this would
cast a very different hue over life and life's possibilities.
He is reckless now ; he would be — "

The man who married me six years ago was
not the real Daryl Darkwood," I interrupted
gloomily. " The real man has revealed himself
— since. I never wish to see him ao^ain ; and
voluntarily I never will."

You are husband and wife," Leigh said.
But still his brave clear eyes were turned from
me ; he did not look up.

You need not remind me of the fact," I
answered passionately.

I fancy," said Leigh, as if well pondering the
question — " indeed I am sure of it — that Daryl's
gratitude would in no wise be insincere, should
you consent to render him this great service I
speak of — I mean, of winning back for him his
lost birthright. For justly it is his birthright.
He was reared in the notion that Eedknio:hts and
all belonging to it would one day be his own."

''I do not want his gratitude," I answered

doggedly. "If he has forfeited this birthright
of his, he deserves to lose it. Let it go ! "

Leigh checked a sigh; roused himself; and,
turning suddenly to me, said, in the old prompt
kindly way, —

'mrs. Darkwood, you will go to Eedknights ;
will you not ? "

I — I do not know. I — I cannot decide in a
hurry. It wants thinking over — much thinking
over," faltered I.

For the third time he looked at his watch.

In ten minutes I must say good-bye. I will
give you ten minutes in which to make up your
mind."

So announcing, he sprang to his feet ; and
stood there facing me.

Surely you can make up your mind in ten
minutes ? " he smiled.

Mr. Eversleigh," I said hurriedly, " which —
which would you yourself have me do ? "

Why do you ask when you so well know ? "
he answered gravely. And with that he strolled
away ; his head a little bent ; his hands behind
his back ; to a path hard by overshadowed by
the elms — a kind of ride bordered here and
there with lilac and syringa trees and groups
of denser shrubs — whilst I sank back upon the

rough garden-seat and pressed my face into
my hands.

My thoughts, in a singular tumult, were warring
together ; duty, inclination, pride, passion, a
sense of loneliness, a longing for the mental ease
which only a restful conscience and a freedom
from all gnawing uncertainty and doubt can ever
bestow, were one and all, as it were, having
something to say and pulling different ways.
What ought I to do ? How ought I to decide ?
Which was the right road? Which was the
wrong ? Which course in the end would yield
me the absolute calm and content for which my
fainting soul so passionately hungered ?

Under the elms, by the flowering lilac and
syringa, paced Leigh Eversleigh ; never once
glancing towards me, or even towards the grotto
near which I sat tormented ; never once as he
walked lifting his eyes from the ground. The
ten minutes were flown. Back to me he came.

Now that he was really going away, he held
out his hand. My own was chill and unsteady
as it lay shut within Leigh's strong warm white
one. He said cheerily and confidently, —

You will go, after all, to Eedknights ? We
have settled it so then ; have we not ? "

'' I — I want to do what is right — to — to please

you, in fact I cannot bear the thought that
you should be vexed with — disappointed in me.
You have been so — so very good to me," was my
broken piteous whisper in reply.

*' Mrs. Darkwood, do you know that you have
made me extremely happy," he said hastily —
*that you have lifted a really serious weight
from my mind ? Without your help, where in
the world, I wonder, should I have discovered
the vara avis whose appearance at Redknights
my kinswoman, Marion Eversleigh, is so anxiously
awaiting ? Thank you a hundred times.
I do not think that you will ever regret your
good decision of this morning."

Stay — one moment ! " I cried, nervously
withdrawing my hand. "I discern many difficulties
ahead, Mr. Evervsleigh. Things cannot
be hurried along in this reckless fashion — it is so
like a man. For instance, there is my name !
How can I boldly enter Daryl's old home in — in
my own name ; which is his ? It is impossible,"
I said blankly. " And there — and there are
other awkwardness, other uncertainties — I
foresee so many 1 "

Take my word for it, they will all of them
vanish," lightly replied Mr. Eversleigh, " before
the force of careful thinking-out and determined

operation. Write to me, will you % —
the old Temple address, you know ; it will
always find me — and I will write back to you
with all the helpful suggestions that may
occur to me. I fancy that I shall not be at
Arley again for some time to come — still, there
is the post. A new name 'pro tern, is, of course,,
indispensable ; it goes without saying, Mrs.
Darkwood, in the circumstances. But that is
a minor difficulty ; and can easily be met ;
easily overcome. You must write to me about
it, as I say, and we will put our heads together,
and see what can be done. I shall send a line
to Mrs. Eversleigh by this evening's post,"
added Leigh, in the best of spirits, ''to tell
her that I have been fortunate enough to find
the vara avis at Arley Bridge, in Hertfordshire.
My letter will be welcome, you maybe
sure. And now it will be a rush for it, or
I shall lose my train. Good-bye ! "

Somehow, in a vague odd way — I hardly
knew why ; but it was so — his light-heartiness
at parting irritated me ; jarred upon me ;
my own nerves, I suppose, being attuned tO'
a gentle melancholy. And so, with a flash of
the old defiance and rebellion, I cried out, —

"No matter in what direction — whether a&

sick-nurse or as intercessor — I may ultimately
succeed at Eedknights, it will make no difference,
Mr. Eversleigh, to me and Daryl. Weare
nothing to each other ; and we never can
be anything to each other again. Should he
ever again, at any time, enter the house which
you say should by right be his home, at that
same moment do I quit it. He will continue,
whatever may happen, to go his way — I to
go mine. Please understand that."

We must trust to the future," replied Leigh,
with a smile which appeared to me at once
joyous and enigmatical. " Once more goodbye
! "

He raised his hat ; and was gone. With
mournful eyes, and with that feeling of vague
dissatisfaction which I cared not to analyse
still asserting its presence in my breast, I
gazed after him.

Whv should Leio^h Eversleigh be so eao^er to
see me installed at Redknights in the character
of " companion " to the old Squire's daughter,
the invalid Marion Eversleigh ; why so glad
when he had wrung from me a promise that I
would do as he desired in the risky business ?
Was it solely on Daryl's account ; or was it not ?
Could it be that in the background he had some

VOL. HI. B

other motive as yet unexplained ? Certainly it
was not like Leigh Eversleigh, I thought dreamily,
to counsel the following of devious paths —the
hoisting of false colours. And without much
deception, the stooping to false pretences, how
was I to cross the threshold of the Dark woods'
ancient home ?

Well, it was Leigh's plot — his risky inspiration
; not mine ; I was in his hands. If evil or
catastrophe should ensue of the venture, he, not
I, must take the blame of it.

Strange of Leigh Eversleigh ! So cold, so
kind, at times so singularly unlike his genial and
winning self; and yet so joyous when he parted
from me — when he said good-bye 1 Was I never
again to know the frank old friend of the past ?
How much his coming across my life-path had
meant ! Kind Heaven, how much indeed ! After
all, reflected I wistfully, would it not be the
better, the safer, the altogether wiser course, to
shut myself up from the world within St. Cordelia's
convent walls ?

The world, even at gloomy silent Eedknights,
might be full of pitfalls. Worse off than " a
stranger in a strange land " should I be in the
home of the Darkwoods !

But I had given my promise to Leigh ; I

could not now draw back. How would it all
end ?

Thoughtfully I made my way indoors ; and
gave up the riddle, since I could not solve it.
It must be left patiently to time — to old Time,
the magician : he who, with his grim scythe
and hour-glass, works wonders likewise solves
mysteries.

In time, sighed I to myself, everything perhaps
would be made clear.

Yes — patience !

Towards five o'clock on a cloudy and
chilly afternoon at the beginning of
the second week in May, Lord and
Lady Tracy, together with a friend of theirs
a woman who was attired in neat and inexpensive
mourning garments, and who called
herself Frances Deane — were standing upon the
busy departure-platform of the railway terminus
at Haddington.

Alas for the treachery, the delusive promises
of an English spring ! The lovely April weather
was a thing of the past — a sweet memory ; nothing
more ; and May, the poet's darling, the
(( inej.py month " of flowers, song, and sunshine,
had followed in quite sulky fashion. She had
brought with her an east wind which chilled one
to the marrow, and frequent cold showers that
were even worse — fine, cruel rain that, driving
slantwise, smote one like powdered glass.

The Viscountess, with a shiver of disgust, had
gone back to her richest furs.

The first bell had just been rung for the train
that was about to start. Lord Tracy, a sudden
thought striking him, made a dash for the bookstall
near.

1 think you had better get in now," observed
the Viscountess, in her bright, brisk way ; but
her eyes, as she spoke, I could not help marking,
shone curiously, and she quickly pulled down her
veil — " or you may lose your corner ; and that
would be a pity now you've got it."

We were close to the carriage-door ; and I
at once entered the compartment. Aurora remained
standing by the open door.

Oh, Flower, my dear, my dear," exclaimed
she, in a forced playful tone — " or ought not I
to say ' my dear Mrs. Deane ; ' eh ? I am forgetting
— I am so sorry to lose you ! Keep a
brave heart ; things will come right by-and-by ;
and — and, whatever happens to you, do not quite
forget your loving old friend Aurora ! "

Have no fear," I said. Just then it was all
that I could say — my heart was too heavy and
too full. She had held me close to her bosom
before leaving Arley Bridge ; she was by far too
sensible to care for a sentimental farewell in

Periwinkle,

public. Lord Tracy himself had insisted upon
getting my ticket — a first-class one — waxing
indignant and looking hurt when I had tendered
him my purse ; and we had arrived early enough
at the great noisy station to secure for my
comfort a snug corner seat in the train which
was to carry me down into Buckinghamshire.

"Hazel is your station, Mrs. Darkwood ; don't
forget," had said his lordship cheerily ; fancying
perhaps from the look of me that I wanted
cheering up — " merely a few miles beyond High
Whitfield, don't you know ? " I knew no more
than the dead. "Yours is a capital train," he
chatted on — "don't even change at Maidenhead.
You'll find yourself at Hazel, I shouldn't wonder,
quite by half-past six. I have been down that
way myself, you see, in my bachelor days, and
know the line pretty well — I mean when I've
stopped at Gaveston Priory."

The good-natured young man returned from
the book-stall just as the last bell was clanging
out. He was laden with all sorts of magazines,
society journals, and " shilling dreadful," and
he heaped them upon the vacant seat opposite
to me.

"There, Mrs. Deane," said he shyly — "you
won't be dull now."

And I thanked him with a poor wan smile
the best I could give him.

The only other traveller in my compartment
was a remarkably ugly old lady in a large
mushroom-shaped hat and a green-and-black
plaid cloak. She looked very cross ; altogether
unamiable.

The people upon the platform were requested
to " stand back ; " the train was beginning to
crawl out of the station.

Good luck to you, Mrs. Deane — Mrs. Dark-wood,"
blithely cried Lord Tracy, bare-headed.
All success to you at Redknights — and don't
let it be long, mind, before we meet again 1 "

But Aurora could only kiss her hand in farewell
— a silent farewell ; her dear eyes all the
while glistening brightly through her veil. Her
lips moved — I saw them — that was all.

In another minute she and her husband were
no longer to be seen ; they and the great dingy
station were left behind. With something between
a sob and a groan I fell back into my
corner and shut my eyes tight to keep back
the tears. I was journeying to Redknights at
last !

When — how should we meet again ? Heaven
alone knew 1

What would have happened to me — how
would it be with my strangely-shadowed life —
when next I should clasp my dear friend
Aurora's hand within mine ? Heaven alone
could tell ! Ah, would that I could feel as
bright and hopeful as she !

The future is ever as a wide lone sea — dark,
awful, with many a hidden rock and whirlpool.
One's bark, as it were, is launched upon its
waters to drift towards an unknown shore.
Happy are those that escape shipwreck, and
sail at last safely into port !

I was scarcely in a mood for the literature
with which Lord Tracy had so liberally supplied
me. In fact, being in no humour whatever
for it, I forgot all about it ; and where he had
piled it, there it lay unheeded.

The landscape through which we were travelling
was by no means attractive, with an east
wind paralysing the earth and its spring beauty,
and with steely glimpses of cold blue sky just
visible now and then behind the hurrying rain-laden
clouds. The trees, like living things,
shrank in the cruel blast, which had no pity
for the tender young leaves that only a short
while before had rustled and whispered joyously
in an almost summer-like warmth and

sunshine. It was a rude change. The pools
and running streams which watered the pasture-lands
— often lying low and dotted with farm-dwellings
— had a dead slate-coloured shadow
upon them that nevertheless reflected, in a
troubled fitful manner, the sullen scudding
clouds overhead ; for the dull surface of those
pools and watercourses was furrowed with a
thousand wrinkles as the pitiless east wind
swept past, pinching and withering all things
as it went. From its fangs the cattle sought
shelter within dry ditches under hedge-rows ;
or hustled themselves together, at times lowing
dismally, beneath the spreading branches of
some solitary meadow oak.

With a shiver I turned my eyes from the
carriage window ; and, leaning back in my
corner, again closed them.

The past week — those few last days of my
pleasant sojourn at Arley Bridge — had been
an active time ; nothing of it had been wasted
even supposing that I had wished to indulge
in auo'ht of the kind — in idle regrets over what
I told myself was irrevocably settled. It was
Leigh Eversleigh's desire — his decision ; it must
be mine. He knew what was best for me, I
sighed. And so there was shopping to be

done ; there were various new things to be
purchased and to be made up ; for, to begin
with, I had resolved by means of small neat
lace caps to cover my cropped dark hair — such
head-gear, I thought, would be but seemly in
the post I had elected to fill. Old markings
upon my linen must be effaced, and new signs
must take the place of the old ones. Everything,
in fact, that I now possessed in that way bore
simply the two initials ''F. D. " — " F. D. " and
nothing more. Mr. Eversleigh had impressed
upon me that I could not be too careful.

Aurora, ever practical and full of energy, was
indefatigable in helping me from morning until
night ; for no soul could rejoice more heartily
than did she in "the knocking upon the head,"
as she called it, of that too ridiculous idea of mine
of joining a nursing sisterhood.

It is only love-lorn heroines in three volume
novels and women in real life who can't get
husbands who go in for that kind of thing," she
said impatiently. " And, since you so flatly refuse
to stop and live always with Loftus and me
which is, by-the-way, abominably mean and
unfriendly of you — and if you won't for the
present have anything more to say to your own
lawful husband ; why, it truly seems to me that

the very best thing you can do, dear Flower, is
to go and live with your husband's people ;
particularly as Mr. Eversleigh knows all about
them ; and as there is too, it appears, every likelihood
of your being eventually able to do a good
turn for that handsome reprobate husband of
yours. I am quite of Mr. Eversleigh's opinion.
If a reconciliation could in any manner be effected
between Daryl Darkwood and his own people at
Eedknights, I do thoroughly believe that he
would soon become a worthier fellow. Now,
don't you ? He is not all bad — far from it !
Of that I am certain."

To this however I answered nothing. I was
at the moment sewing away industriously at one
of my little white caps ; my head was bent over
my work ; and my needle flew fast in silence.

Then, moreover, at this time, during those last
days of my sojourn at Arley Bridge, many letters
were passing between Leigh Eversleigh and me.
Concerning every difficulty — and difficulties
were continually cropping up — that arose in the
matter of my going to Daryl's old home, I wrote
to Mr. Eversleigh for his assistance and advice ;
and on each occasion of my troubling him his
reply was prompt and plain. One day there came
a hasty postscript — '' I know quite well that it is

a difficult venture. Do not forget that I want
to help you in it all I can."

And so, in one of my first letters to him, I
inquired how I should decide with regard to the
alteration in my name.

Any simple name, I should say, would do,"
he wrote directly in answer, " that will fit your
initials, ' F. D.' If you do not mind the trouble,
send me a list of half a dozen or so ; and I will
return it to you by next post with a red-ink
mark against the one which may strike me as
being the best for you to appropriate. Mrs.
Eversleigh is impatient to have you at Eed-
knights ; and indeed reminds me in her latest
note that I have not yet told her the name of
her new companion."

On receipt of this I and Aurora, who grew
most animated and enthusiastic over our conspiracy
— our " good cause," she called it — at
once put our heads together and made out a list
of the nicest-sounding yet simplest names we
could think of; each one of them beginning
with "F."; the surname beginning with "D."
Back came Leigh's reply, with a thick red-ink
line drawn round the last of all ; which, as it
happened, was " Frances Deane."

Yes, that will do as well as any

other," I remarked listlessly. *' What does
it matter ? "

But Aurora declared gaily that it was the very
one that she herself should have chosen ; and
insisted for the rest of that day upon calling me
Frances Deane."

"I have now written," said Leigh, "to Mrs.
Eversleigh, and have told her that Frances Deane
is still staying with her friends in Hertfordshire;
but that she will be ready to present herself at
Eedknights at the beginning of next week. You
promised me, you know, that you would be
ready to start for Buckinghamshire at the beginning
of the week after the present one. Mrs.
Eversleigh, I need hardly repeat, is looking
greatly forward to your coming ; and is good
enough to say that she is certain to be more
than satisfied with what I have done, having
perfect faith in my judgment and penetration.
We are quite old friends, you see, and she knows
that I should do the utmost in my power to
spare her either annoyance or disappointment.
With my whole heart do I hope, Mrs. Darkwood,
that you will find peace — will be happy — at
Eedknights."

Then, in another of my letters to Leigh
Eversleigh, I said abruptly, —

And cannot you, or will not you, tell me for
how long Daryl intends to absent himself — to
keep out of sight ? Do not you really know
for how long he means to stay in the Saxon
Switzerland region ? Is he still at Schloss
Eosenberg ? I want to know. I do not like
being kept in the dark in this manner — no woman,
would. Surely you can enlighten me — can tell
me something about my husband's movements I
If you cannot, who can ? "

Dear Mrs. Darkwood," speedily came Leigh
Eversleigh's answers — " Daryl, as you are aware,
went to Germany some few months ago — in
January last, I think it was — to join his friend
Herr von Rosenberg. He did not say for how
long he should be away from England ; neither
did it occur to me to ask him. You may depend
upon it that he is still abroad ; or he would have
appeared somewhere or other — we should have
heard something of him — in London."

With this scanty information touching the
erratic life and conduct of Daryl Darkwood it
seemed that I must for the present rest content.
Well, after all, what in the world did it matter
to me where Daryl might be, or what he might

be doing ? Were not our lives — his and mine —
upon this earth parted lives for evermore ?

As the day fixed for my departure drew nigh
that day on which I was to exchange the
shelter of pleasant Arley Bridge for that of
unknown and mysterious Redknights — I grew
oddly feverish and nervous ; often lying wakeful
during the greater part of the night, thinking
moodily of the ordeal that was ahead of me —
that every hour, in fact, was bringing nearer
and nearer.

I began at length to fancy that I could not
possibly go through with this scheme of Mr.
Eversleigh's. It was not possible, I told myself.
I must altogether abandon the idea of it ; even
at the eleventh hour. However, I said not a
word to Aurora about my increasing uneasiness ;
for I knew that she would have naught but
raillery for my poor faint heart, and I was in no
mood for her good-humoured laughter.

Late one night, alone in my own rooms, when
all the household save myself were in bed, I
began to pace restlessly up and down my 
; thinking, ever thinking of Mrs.
Eversleigh and the gloomy home of the
Darkwoods.

I cannot do it — / cannot go I " I exclaimed

aloud at last. '' No ; I cannot — it is of no use ;
give it up I must."

A swift thought smote me.

I seized my desk ; placed the candles close toit
; resolutely sat down with writing-paper before
me, and then and there penned a long letter to
Leigh Eversleigh.

I am full of misgiving — my heart fails me
terribly ; I feel that after all I cannot go to
Redknights," I wrote recklessly. " Mrs. Evers-
leigh does not know the true story of my life —
you do not know it ; perhaps if you did you
would not suffer me to cross the home-threshold
of any one of your friends ; more especially that
of a refined and delicate gentlewoman like Mrs.
Eversleigh. Something within me to-night — I
know not what — impels me to tell you my life-history
; I feel that I cannot rest until it has
been faithfully told to you. Never to living soul
except Daryl — not even to Lady Tracy — have I
once spoken of my dreadful past ; never until
this hour, when I take up the pen to lay bare to
your eyes the dark and hideous truth. Yes,
ever — ever until now — have I been silent ;
but you have been to me the noblest
friend that woman ever had, and my conscience

cries out to me that you should hear
the truth."

Then, as concisely as I could, I confessed to
Leigh Eversleigh all that I could remember of
my childhood and my youth — of the loneliness
and the freedom of my Moor Edge days — of the
old man Simon Greedy and his sister Hannah.
I told Leigh Eversleigh about my meeting with
Daryl upon the wild moorland ; my flight with
him at dawn from Moor Edge ; the hurried
marriage-ceremony before a registrar at North -
minster.

My pen travelled steadily onward until I came
to the record of that memorable night at
Dresden ; when for the hundredth time I had
implored Daryl Darkwood to redeem a solemn
promise which he had given me in the happy
innocent time before he made me his wife —
namely, that he would, after our marriage, set to
work to discover the true history of my birth ;
the secret of my young life and parentage in the
days before I was taken to Moor Edge.

*' On that cruel night in Dresden," I confessed
to Leigh, " Daryl, so to speak, threw up his
cards — admitting at last that there was no secret
to unearth ; no actual mystery enshrouding my

VOL. III. C

birth ; because the real truth was — and for long
he had divined it — that I was the child of Simon
Greedy. Think of it — the disgrace, the shame,
the unspeakable horror of it — a child, nameless,
the daughter of Simon Greedy !

Say now," I ended, as recklessly and as
abruptly as I had begun my confession, " whether
or not I shall go to Redknights — whether or not
you deem me a fit associate for a gentlewoman
like your friend Mrs. Eversleigh."

I would not once glance through the closely-written
pages of this long letter, lest on reading
it over I should be tempted to destroy it. So,
hastily folding it and thrusting it into a large
envelope, I directed it to Leigh's old Temple
address, and sealed the packet heavily with black
wax. That done, I went to bed ; and slept, I
believe, more soundly than I had slept for many
a troubled night past.

I had no secret now from the man who had
been so good to me ; and the still small voice of
conscience within me seemed to whisper that I
had done what was right. Any way, I felt a
great deal happier for having told Mr. Eversleigh
about Moor Edge. He should now decide whether
or not the hapless daughter of Simon Greedy
should find a shelter beneath the roof-tree of the

Darkwood family. By his decree would I
abide.

On the day before I quitted Arley Bridge his
answer to my confession arrived. What would
he say ? In what manner, in what tone, would
he write to me, now that he had learnt the black
secret of my life ?

With quivering hands I broke open the
envelope. Thank Heaven, there was no difference ;
there was no falling off in the manner I had
dreaded — no scorn, no loathing, no shrinking
horror ! It was an eloquent, a manly letter,
strong in expressions of indignation and surprise.
His amazement at what I had told him ; his hot
anger at Daryl's unpardonable indifference in the
vital matter of searching out the mystery of my
birth ; were plainly too deeply felt for ordinary
language. Daryl's unnatural selfishness throughout
had been worse than cruel, said Leigh — it
was barbaric. He could not have believed it
possible — even of Daryl Darkwood !

You the child of Simon Greedy of Moor
Edge — of Simon Greedy ! . . . Great Heaven,
the supposition is too horrible ! " Mr. Eversleigh
wrote. " Never, never will I believe it ! It
cannot be so. Take comfort — be brave ! Should

I be alive six months hence, I will have proved
it to be a lie. As I write to you I am on the
eve of starting for a trip to America in company
with an old friend of mine whose people
have for long been resident in Boston. It is
a somewhat sudden determination on my part,
I am aware ; but the opportunity is too good
a one to be disregarded. The truth is, I have
for several months past been feeling the need
of a thorough change : and this American visit
will, I trust, renew the man in me. In all
probability we shall be away from England
until the autumn ; because m}^ friend talks
seriously of journeying to the Far West for a
glimpse of San Francisco, the Yosemite Valley,
Nevada, and other places of renown — taking,
he says, Chicago en route.

But trust me, Mrs. Darkwood — trust me ;
even should I fail to write to you from across
the sea. The day on which I live to return
to England — on that self-same day will I set
to work to unravel this tangled web of your
life. I will take upon myself, if I may, todo
that which should long ago have been done
by Daryl Darkwood. With Heaven's help, I
will prove to you — nay, to the whole world,
if need be — that you are no offspring of the

monster, the accursed wretch, Simon Greedy !
Go to Redknights without fear ; and prosper ! "

I dropped upon my knees — I was reading this
thrice-welcome letter in solitude — and smothered
the paper with passionate tears and kisses ; tears
that were tears of joy and of hope ; kisses of
great and unspeakable thankfulness — to think
that in the end the day might really dawn when
my life should be freed, absolutely freed, of all
taint of the horror of Moor Edge ! Could
Leigh Eversleigh indeed bring this miracle to
pass ? Fervently prayed I that he might — •
God bless and help him in the work ! And
on the following day I had packed my trunks
for Redknights.

In reverie, in busy retrospection, time soon
flies.

I started. I looked somewhat dazed about
me. The train had stopped ; and the railway
porters were shouting — " Maidenhead ! "

At Maidenhead the ugly old lady in the 
plaid cloak and the mushroom hat
carefully alighted. She peered crossly up and
down the platform. Apparently no one had
come to meet her — perhaps it was no wonder !

The train moved on again. I had now, thank

goodness, the compartment to myself! No one
had entered to take the old lady's place. So I
put up my feet to the opposite seat, and once
more fell a-dreaming of the future and of the
past. I had found in my bed but poor rest of
late. I was weary ; tired out ; and I dropped
asleep.

With an effort I again bestirred myself ; with
a jump sat upright. For again the railway men
were shouting by the side of the standing train ;
and this time the name of the place was —
'' Hazel ! "

HE station at Hazel, I noticed in a
moment, was a building of but
small pretensions — wooden, draughty,
cheerless ; a dull and miserable halting-place fora
traveller condemned, say, to an hour of waiting
there. One hour at Hazel, I decided, would
assuredly seem like three.

Besides myself there were only two or three
other passengers who alighted at Hazel — countrified
looking folk, with carpet-bags and brown
paper parcels, who quickly vanished on their
different ways. The train too soon moved on
again ; disappeared ; and I was left solitary upon
the gravelled walk of the platform.

A middle-aged porter of slouching gait came
civilly forward and asked me for my ticket ; and
then he informed me that if I was the lady that
they expected up at Redknights," why, there

was a carriage waiting for me outside the
station.

The luggage, mum, can come on afterwards,"
said the porter. '' We'll send that on up to ye
if they don't send down here for 't."

I told the man that there need be no hurry in
the matter ; my travelling-bag, which I carried,
contained all that I should require until the following
day. The high-road just beyond the station
palings was a broad and elm-sheltered one. In
it, and drawn close to the door of the booking-office,
stood a small and dark-painted brougham
and a dark chestnut horse ; with a stout old
coachman, ruddy-checked and white-haired,
seated upon the box.

The clumsy porter, leading the way, opened
the brougham door. The fat ruddy old coachman
just looked over his shoulder.

'^ Mrs. Deane ? " said he interrogatively —
nothing more.

Yes — Mrs. Deane," I answered quietly.

I stepped into the carriage ; and was at once
driven away from the draughty white wayside
station.

It was kind and considerate of Mrs. Eversleigh,
I was thinking, to send so snug a vehicle — which
was furnished inside with a hot water footstool

and a magnificent bearskin rug — to meet me on
this bitter spring day ; but of course her kinsman
Leigh had given her to understand that
"Frances Deane " must be regarded as no
ordinary dependant ; and so doubtless the
mistress of Eedknights, apprised of this fact, had
treated me with greater consideration than she
would have accorded to a humbler and less
interesting stranger arriving in her quiet household.


It indeed seemed a beautiful country down herein
Buckinghamshire, thought I, looking out at
the grand green hills undulating and wood-crowned,
but fast growing dim and gray in the
gathering dusk of a chilly May evening. Here
and there one caught the gleam of water in some
lovely valley amongst the hills ; and sometimes
the glint of cottage casements blinking in the
watery light of the down-going sun — that is, the
sullen little there was to be seen of it in the
cold and gusty twilight. The village of Hazel
itself, I learned afterwards, lay in the opposite
direction to that in which we had come.

After driving for perhaps a couple of miles,
we turned in at the lodge-gates. The road
hitherto had been tolerably level travelling ; the
carriage-way in the park seemed suddenly to

grow steep. Then we once more drove briskly
along ; now through thickly-timbered land ; until
presently the ground dipped gradually again,
and I found that we were going down-hill.

The porter at Hazel station had called it "up
at Eedknights ; " but the house unquestionably
lay in a distinct hollow of the park ; overshadowed
— indeed darkened — by the noble
wooded hills which arose and frowned majestically
upon every side of it.

As I stepped from the brougham there was
opportunity for a swift glance around me. Eed-
knights, I then perceived, was very large, very
sombre-looking — block-like, gloomy, baronial.
The solid masonry might once upon a time have
been bright red ; now, however, weather-beaten
and time-stained, the walls were russet-tinted ;
splashed only as it were with red ; and quite
hidden in many parts by the knotted stems and
ever-growing foliage of creepers which were
nearly as ancient as was the mansion itself.

A roomy terrace flanked the western side of
Eedknights ; but the flags and the buttressed
brickwork of it looked equally damp and moss-grown
; and there was a sad neglected air about
the pleasaunce and its sun-dial which lay there
so stilly beneath that old terrace-wall.

And this great quiet house, with its many
shuttered windows and hushed forlorn aspect,
was the home of Daryl Darkwood ! Would he
ever again enter it ? I wondered idly. And
what would he say if he knew that I, Flower,
his wife — for the time calling herself Frances
Deane, and the paid attendant and companion
of his aunt, Marion Eversleigh — was about to
cross its silent threshold ?

Looking back to that twilight hour of my
arrival at Daryl's old home, I remember
dreamily, and yet vividly enough, that there
was now in my breast naught of fear or of
anxiety at the prospect of my future line of
duty. All nervousness and all dread where
wholly gone ; and I felt strangely calm, perhaps
unnaturally calm and satisfied, in my
new and most strange position.

I might have been here before," I mused —
'' I feel so little scared ; so little frightened,
after all ! In truth, not in the least like * a
stranger in a strange land.' How is it, I
wonder ? It seems very odd ! "

A remarkably neat and old-world dame —
small, noiseless, active — opened the hall door
and swept back some heavy drapery for me
to enter ; and, greeting me in a quite motherly

fashion, that had however nothing of undue
familiarity in it — though at the same time
speaking in a voice that was hardly more thana
whisper — she led me forthwith upstairs to
the second floor.

We met not a soul on our way thither —
neither in the vast dusky hall, with its ghostly
armour-figures and shadowy pictures, the battered
metal and rich frames of which glimmered
fitfully in the cathedral-like gloom of
the place; nor along the softly-carpeted corridors
and spacious landings of the quiet upper regions.
All was silent, fragrant, reposeful. Perhaps the
luxurious wind-curtains, which appeared to be
everywhere, deadened all sound within the
rooms beyond them.

Far from the intense stillness, the ghostly
hush of the house, in any degree appalling mea
sense of infinite peace, a peace indescribable,
seemed to enter my tired heart ; and I began
to feel as a weary and worn-out pilgrim might
feel who comes at last, after much toil and
much heart-sickness, unto a resting-place where
he realises that, without dismay, he may rest
for evermore ! It was a sensation which somehow
brought the tears into my eyes — I felt so
glad ; so thankful ! A home-like spirit seemed

to hover over, to breathe throughout Ked-knights.
Yes, I thought dreamily, it was in
some sweet strange way like " coming home."

The room to which my neat little old guide
at length brought me and told me was mine
was a commodious and comfortable apartment,
looking down upon the western terrace and the
forsaken pleasaunce beneath it. It was in reality
half bed-chamber, half sitting-room, wide and
lofty ; a bright wood-fire burned in the low
grate ; a cosy meat-tea was spread invitingly
upon an oval table at the hearth-side.

With a full, an overflowing heart, I stared
down into the depths of the fire, sighing without
knowing it, and mechanically resting a foot upon
the gleaming brass bar of the fender. I became
aware that, with an anxious look, the little old
dame was watching me. Somewhat nervously
she smoothed out her white satin cap-strings,
which dangled free about her shoulders, and
came stepping noiselessly to my side.

My dear," she whispered, " I am only Mrs.
Jessamy, the housekeeper ; I am old enough
almost perhaps to be your grandmother ; I
have lived here nearly all my life. And so,
you see, you mustn't mind me ; but — "

Ah, yes," I put in, smiling absently as I

looked at her — " of course you are Mrs. Essay,
the housekeeper ! I thought so."

"Mr. Leigh Eversleigh, I presume, mentioned
my name to you, ma'am ? " questioned the little
old woman, with a sunny smile back.

Yes," I answered slowly ; " and — and I was
thinking that I had seen you before — somewhere.
But it is not possible."

Well, hardly, ma'am," said Mrs. Jessamy
doubtfully. " x4s I remarked to you just now,
I have lived at Eedknights nearly all my life ;
and I don't believe that I've been a dozen times
away from the dear old place since I was a
young woman of thirty or thereabout."

No ; of course it can be only fancy on my
part," I mused aloud.

My dear," said the little old woman hurriedly,
laying a timorous hand upon my arm —
you mustn't mind me, I say — but — but I was
about to ask you something. That is, do you —
do you think you'll stop ? "

Here at Eedknights ; do you mean ? "

Yes ; here at Eedknights," answered Mrs.
Jessamy.

I — I hope so. I mean, I should like to. It
it depends," I replied in a low tone, and a
trifle incoherently ; remembering that it is.

alas, the unforeseen which always comes to
pass !

The solitude frightened all the others away,"
continued Mrs. Jessamy wistfully ; " however,
for the matter o' that, I'm sure they weren't
worth keeping. But — but do pardon me, ma'am,
for the liberty ; I'm taken with the look o' you
you're not like the others who've been and
gone. And I can't help feeling that it would bethe
greatest comfort in life to the dear mistress
if you could only make up your mind to be contented
with us at Redknights. You are a — a born
lady, and gentle-mannered, I can see ; and — and,
well, why shouldn't I say it out ? " rambled on
Mrs. Jessamy, with her kind and blithe old smile
" the others were not ; indeed no — except
Miss Strong ; but it's years now since she went
away. And those others — there, they've given
the poor dear mistress more trouble than they
were all worth put together ! They nearly
worried her into her grave with their everlasting
cry about the lonesomeness of the place driving
'em crazy, and such stuff ! But you — ah, you, I
am very certain, will be different ! I saw it
knew it, ma'am, directly I set eyes on

you."

*' It is not always wise to trust blindly to appearances,

Mrs. Jessamy," I remarked sadly ; and
sighed again.

Trust, though, the instinct of an old servant
that's lived with and been used to the ways of
gentlefolk all her days," answered Mrs. Jessamy ;
bridling and setting in motion the white satin
'' streamers " and pearl-bead ornaments of her
spotless cap. " An old servant like me soon
detects a sham article in that line, ma'am —
specially amongst the women," she added, with
a sort of honest pride in the boast that did not
ill become the natty old dame. And then she
went on to inform me that Mrs. Eversleigh was
dining now — dining, as was her wont, at this
hour, quietly and alone in her own part of the
house ; but that, when she had finished dinner,
the mistress " would expect me to be ready to
go to her. " I'll come myself, ma'am, and fetch
you, if you'll allow me," said the little old housekeeper
good-naturedly ; " and, if you find that
you want anything else, you have only to pull
that bell-rope yonder and it will be all right."

I gratefully assured Mrs. Jessamy that I
should require nothing in addition to what I
already saw around me ; and, when thoroughly
satisfied upon this point, she left me and went
downstairs.

Alone, I took oiBT my bonnet and cloak ;
washed my face and hands in cold water ; and
made myself as severely neat as when, as
Madame Fleurette, I used to sing at Mr. Unworthy's
theatre of varieties. My long black
gown was nun-like in its simple severity ; its
sombreness relieved merely by narrow bands of
lawn at my throat and at my wrists. Besides
my wedding-ring, my sole other ornament was
a smooth oblong jet locket strung upon a black
ribbon and tied around my throat. The locket
contained the only portrait I possessed — a
faintly-coloured one — of my dead darling Isla.
It was the work of a renowned London photographer
; and Daryl one day had taken it into
his head to tint the little picture. As it now
was, the likeness was life-like ; perfect. Therefore
above all things it was my treasure.

I brushed my short dark hair, and as well as
I could arranged it under one of the pretty caps
that I had manufactured at Arley Bridge. Somehow
upon my head the little light thing had or
seemed to have a jaunty air it lacked when it
was off. I smiled mournfully into the looking-glass
at my own reflection — certainly the headgear
was by no means unbecoming !

Then I sat down by the oval table near tt e

VOL. III. D

fireplace to await the reappearance of Mrs. Essay.
With genuine relish I drank some of the
tea ; but found that I had little inclination for
the tempting fare which accompanied it. With
my feet upon the warm fender, and my hands
clasped loosely in my lap, I fell into a brown
study as I sat there. I ought, I was aware, to
write immediately to Lady Tracy, and let her
hear that I had got safely to my journey's end.
But I told myself that Aurora wouldn't mind —
the letter could easily wait until the next day.
Even were it written, in all likelihood it would
not be despatched that night to the Hazel postoffice.


A clock on the mantelpiece of my room
chimed the half-hour after eight ; in the same
minute Mrs. Jessamy tapped at the door. With
a jerk, so to speak, I brought myself out of
thought-land ; and cried " Come in ! "

If you are now quite ready, ma'am," said
Mrs Jessamy, in her soft purring old way,
the mistress would like to see you."

I am quite ready," said I, rising.

The housekeeper started visibly. She gave
me a keen admiring glance from head to
foot.

I did not think you were so handsome, Mrs.

Deane, when I saw you just now with your
things on ! " she exclaimed, as if involuntarily.

Handsome ! " I repeated half bitterly, half
carelessly. " Yes ; I believe I was handsome
once."

Once ? Tut, tut ! " said the little old woman.
** What next, pray ? There ; come along, my
dear; we must not keep the mistress waiting."
And without further loss of time we descended
to the first floor ; where the corridors were dimly
lighted by crimson globed lamps that were held
in the hands of white statuettes in niches placed
here and there upon their dark marble columns.

We presently stopped at a shadowy archway
draped heavily with hangings of rich claret-coloured
cloth.

The housekeeper swept the wind-curtains
apart ; and revealed the mighty, almost square
oak door behind them.

*' These," whispered she, " are Mrs. Evers-
leigh's rooms. Poor soul ! One may truthfully
say that her life has been spent within them —
since — since the loss of her child. Come, Mrs.
Deane ! "

UNIVERSITY OP,
'^'-"VO/S LIBRARY

ERE, madam," I heard the housekeeper
announcing softly, " is Mrs.
Deane."

Having thus introduced me, the little old dame,
making no sound, vanished ; and I found myself
alone and unsupported in the presence of Marion
Eversleigh.

It was a fine room, spacious, lofty, though
somewhat out of date perhaps in its solid Philistine
comfort — which was hardly to be wondered at, as
things were at Redknights — and with a faded
old-world air pervading it that was at once homelike
and delightful, I thought.

The long drapery about the narrow and deep-set
windows was, I noticed, of claret-coloured
cloth, like that of the hangings in the corridor
outside ; the thick carpet beneath one's feet was
as soft as wood-moss in the early spring. The

atmosphere was laden with a dry subtle aroma
which I judged must be wafted from the huge
old pot-jjourri china bowls and jars that gleamed
in the wood fire-light from many a dusky corner.

A subdued tinted light — lice the light that
slants through some faintly-pictured cathedral
window when touched by the westering sun — fell
around me from the shaded lamps which illumined
the room.

Upon a capacious old-fashioned sofa wheeled
near to the hearth, with its brass " dogs "
supporting a couple of burning pine-blocks, lay
Mrs. Eversleigh ; a woman evidently some years
past middle age, and indeed looking much older
than she actually was. She was so thin and
fragile in appearance that the jewels she wore
upon her wrists and fingers seemed to my pitying
gaze sadly out of place — too painfully large and
heavy, I mean, for the delicate hands of the
wearer. But, with the jewels, she wore a great
quantity of exquisite lace — a filmy hood of it
graced her silvered hair ; the loose dressing-gown
or tea-gown, whichever it might be, that she was
robed in seemed composed of nothing else — and
this wealth of most beautiful lace became her
perfectly. The steel-beaded points of tiny slippers
just peeped from beneath the gown.

For a few seconds I stood there irresolute and
trembling, upon the exact spot where Mrs.
Jessamy had left me ; tremulous — yes ; but not
nervous ; unless it was a kind of nervous joy
which thrilled so strangely every vein in my body.

In that very first moment of my meeting with
Marion Eversleigh my heart told me that I
should be happy at Redknights — that learning
to love the worn suffering woman upon the
couch before me would be the simplest lesson
that life could appoint. With sudden yearning
did my whole soul go out to her — was it more
than common sympathy ; more than common
love ? Ah, what was it ? I could not tell — I
knew not. All that I did know was, the swift-growing
love and longing were there.

Mrs. Deane " — the voice that fell upon the
warm and fragrant silence was low, gentle, sweet,
with no note in it either of querulousness or of
complaint — " will not you come nearer ? I want
to look at you. My voice is very weak to-day,
as you hear. The wind is in the east, and my
throat suffers in consequence. Take this chair —
here — will you ? "

The seat she indicated was by the couch-side.
Then I advanced quietly over the moss-like
carpet, and sat down by Marion Eversleigh.

She looked long and earnestly upward into my
face ; a silent, searching look that I met, smiling
a little and fearlessly, though once more that
glad yet quite indefinable tremor was quivering
through every vein.

Suddenly, with a slow sweet smile, she put
out her wished hand, afire with its beautiful
gems I clasped it tenderly — nay, more, with
something akin to reverence I bent my head
and kissed it. Mrs. Eversleigh smiled ; looked
pleased.

Our mutual friend Mr. Leio^li Eversleio-h
assured me that I should not be disappointed in
you," she gently observed. *' And, do you know,
I already feel that he will prove a true prophet ?
He has been very good."

Very good," murmured I.

Pardon me," said Mrs. Eversleigh in the same
winning tone, 'for asking a few of what may
appear to you unnecessary and impertinent
questions. You see, lately I have been really
too ill to write to you. I have trusted solely to
Mr. Leigh Eversleigh. He is going — or has
already gone — on a trip to America ; is he not ? "
she inquired somewhat abruptly.

eyes."

I think I understood him to say in one of

his earlier letters that — that you have known
better and brighter days, Mrs. Deane ? Is
that so ? "

My life, dear madam," I answered unsteadily,
" has never been very bright. In
my whole life, so far as it has gone, there has,
alas, been much of shadow — terrible shadow —
and little enough of sunshine ! "

Poor soul ! " said Mrs. Eversleigh, her own
fragile hand compassionately touching mine, and
tears of sweet pity rising to her worn eyes.
*' Having known much sorrow myself, I can
give you real heart-felt sympathy. Indeed
trouble, in its worst and most afflictive form,
has been a frequent guest at Eedknights. And
you are a widow, Mrs. Deane ? " she unexpectedly
added. '' Mr. Eversleigh hinted as much —
I believe that I understood from him that you
had lost your husband ?

'* Yes," I faltered, when I felt that I could
speak with self-command. Ah me, was I not
worse than widowed ?

And — forgive me — you have lost, too, your
only child ? "

Yes," I cried desolately — " only a few
months ago. The loss of her drove me mad —
nearly killed me. Sometimes I wish that it

had done so outright. I am wearing this" —
touching my black gown — " for her."

Poor soul ! " whispered Mrs. Eversleigh
again ; her weak voice broken and pathetic.
*' How I feel for you — how I feel for you !
Doubtless you have heard that — that, years
ago, a similar crushing loss fell to my own lot,
Mrs. Deane ? "

Dear madam, I have heard so."

And — and although it all happened so
many years ago," said Mrs. Eversleigh, *' the
old sorrow seems, even now, still new — it often
wakes and cries.' I cannot — cannot bear even
to speak of it."

Ah, I can understand ! " I moaned, my head
turned aside.

Mrs. Eversleigh hastily pressed her handkerchief
to her eyes ; and then said more calmly, —

It is very hard for you, Mrs. Deane, to be
compelled to go out into the world to earn
your living. Mr. Eversleigh has explained tome
that you are a gentlewoman of high attainments."


I have worked for my daily bread — for my
own and for my child's — before I came to Red-knights,"
I answered, very low.

Do you mean in — in a situation of this kind,

Mrs. Deane ? " the mistress of Eedkniglits gently
inquired.

No," I replied, determined to speak the truth
where I could ; " I — I was driven to sing in
public — in a theatre — for a short while. But I
hated the life and the work — they did not suit
me ; and I was thankful to hear of a shelter, a
home, where I was likely to find quiet and peace.
I wished to withdraw utterly from a noisy and
selfish world."

I do sincerely trust," said Mrs. Eversleigh,
with a little fearful smile which to me was
infinitely touching, " that you will not find Ked-knights
too quiet, too peaceful ? It has been the
general cry here, I am sorry to say, since my old
friend and companion Miss Strong went away.
The silence, the unbroken calm, the dreary
monotony of existence at Redknights are insupportable,
I have over and over again been told.
I do hope, Mrs. Deane " — with poorly-disguised
anxiety — " that — that you will be braver than
the rest ? "

You will see — time will show," was my confident
reply. " Mrs. Eversleigh, had not I come
to Eedknights, I should have endeavoured to
enter a convent in London''

I am glad that you changed your intention,"

returned she, almost cheerfully. " By-the-bye,
you must be unusually proficient in music, Mrs.
Deane, since you have been able to sing in a
public theatre. Will you sometimes sing to me
and to my father ? It will amuse and delight
him ; and do him good. He used to be very
fond of music when I myself was able to sing to
him — long, long ago."

With a full and glad heart I assured Mrs.
Eversleigh that aught it might be within my
power to do 1 would do at any hour, and to the
best of my gifts, to please either her or the
Squire ; and then we drifted on to speaking of
the duties of my post in this the old home of
Daryl Darkwood. Daryl's home ! How odd tome
was the sound of it, when merely whispered
under my breath ! I could not yet realise that I
was in truth beneath the roof of my husband's
grandfather — that I had in truth got to be the
daily companion, in the fine old home from
which Daryl himself was banished, of my husband's
aunt, the old Squire's daughter !

As to the duties expected of me, these I
already comprehended. I could write legibly
and well ; I could read aloud distinctly ; I could
converse with tolerable sense for a woman
about the older writers and the best of modern

books. I was qualified to arrange, with the
aid of Mrs. Jessamy, a menu fit to tempt the
capricious appetite of the childish old Squire.
In a sick-room 1 was a strong and capable
nurse ; for had I not sat up night after night
with my dead little one, meanwhile singing
regularly every evening at Mr. Binkworthy's
variety theatre ?

Only on those occasions, however, when Mrs.
Eversleigh might be weaker than usual and
more than ordinarily nervous would she desire
me, she said, to sleep upon a sofa-bed in her
dressing-room ; which opened out of the room
we were then in. The bed was always therein
readiness if required.

Generally speaking, I was free to occupy my
own pleasant room, which had been prepared
for me upon the second floor.

And, if I was fond of exercise, of taking long
walks, there would be ample time for such
recreation. The country scenery was exceedingly
beautiful round about Eedknights and
beyond Hazel ; and there were several fine
family-seats in the neighbourhood well worth
the going to see — Hazel Manor-house and
Gaveston Priory amongst the number. Lovely
Hughenden itself, too, was but a few miles

distant from Hazel village, said Mrs. Evers-
leigh.

Speaking of your room reminds me of the
circumstance," she broke off in her quiet desultory
talk with regard to how my leisure
time at Eedknights might be spent if I so
willed. " That room of yours upstairs, Mrs.
Deane, used to be one of a suite once occupied
by my unhappy nephew ; bat I believe the
doors of communication are fastened up now.
He was terribly wild," sighed Marion Evers-
leigh — " his wildness ruined him. Have you,
I wonder, ever heard of Daryl Dark wood, my
nephew, and the Squire's grandson and heir ? "

Another unexpectedly-direct question. I
shrank back in my chair ; well out of the touch
of the warm red radiance shed by the tall lamp
near us ; and somehow managed to say, —

Oh, yes ; I have heard of him."

Even as a quite young man at college,"
continued Daryl's Aunt Marion sadly, " he was
irredeemably wild and extravagant — reckless,
venturesome, brave ; though, I fear, utterly
without principle. Yet there were times when
my father and I could not help feeling proud of
him, his faults and his follies notwithstanding —
proud of his handsome looks, his brilliant

manners, his many talents, his singular fascination
; and we fondly hoped that ere long he
would grow steady, settle down, marry early
perhaps — marriage with the right woman is so
often the salvation of men like Daryl — for he
was the real heir of Redknights ; and my father
at that time would have forgiven him almost

anything. But Hark ! " Having listened

intently for some seconds, Mrs. Eversleigh spoke
again ; though her weak voice was now so faint
that I was forced to bend over the couch-head in
order to catch what she was saying. She wa
very pale. " The wind must have changed, Mrs.
Deane ; for I can hear the splash of the river ;
some one has left open the end window of the
corridor — may I ask you to go and fasten
it?"

Glad to escape, to be alone, if only for a short
while, I hastened out into the corridor, and found
that Mrs. Eversleigh was not mistaken. The
long arched window at the farther end of it —
which, with a stone balcony outside, touched the
oak floor — was partly open. But it was not
until I had come to the open window, and had
stepped out for a breath of fresh air upon the
balcony, that I myself could hear the splash and
roar of rushing water. Yes ; the wind had

happily shifted to the soft south ; there was
a wan moon in the sky ; the night was hushed
and mild, though rainy-looking. Recalling to
memory the part which the river at Eedknights
had played in the tragedy of Marion Eversleigh's
life, I returned to her room and found her sitting;
up. But she said nothing more about the sound
of the moaning water ; nor did I ; she merely
thanked me for closing the corridor window, at
the same time remarking that one of the women-servants
was to blame for omitting to make
it safe.

"It is my custom to take a little mulled wine
at this hour," Mrs. Eversleigh said ; " and then
I go to bed. Good-night, Mrs. Deane " — once
more offering; me her fragile hand, which I
covered impulsively with both my own. "Mrs.
Jessamy will see that you have anything you
may wish for. For creature-comforts, believe
me, you could not be in better hands than hers.
Kindly ring for my maid before you go ; and
I hope that you will sleep well on this the first
night in your new home."

My new home ! How sweet in my ears
sounded those three brief words — how strangely
sweet ! My new home !

Then for the first time Mrs. Eversleigh noticed

my short dark hair ; a stray soft lock or two of
it having escaped from beneath my cap.

Did they cut off your hair, Mrs. Deane, when
you were ill ? " she inquired, with tender interest.

*' Yes. In — in the illness which followed on
the death of my child."

"Was the little one like you, Mrs Deane ; or
like her father ? "

I have heard some people say," I answered
dreamily, " that my darling was very like me,
her mother. In reality, if there was in her a
resemblance to either of us, she was like Dar —
like her father."

'' If the child resembled its mother, Mrs.
Deane," Marion Eversleigh remarked, the frankest
and sweetest smile in the world lighting up her
weary white face, " she must, I am certain, have
been a lovely little soul. Have you a portrait
of any kind of your lost darling ? If you have,
you will perhaps" — wistfully — 'show it to me
tomorrow ? "

I dropped upon my knees by the side of the
couch.

I have it here," I whispered — " the one dear
portrait I possess. I will show it to you now.
It is so like — ah, so like ! " I said, a dry sob,
in spite of me, quivering my breath.

With eager and trembling fingers I unfastened
the jet locket ; and held it by its black ribbon —
well open — close to the glowing lamp.

Together we bent — I and Marion Eversleigh
over the little picture.

A sharp, stifled cry of agony all at once broke
from her gray lips.

'' My little Flower — Flower — my little
Flower ! " Mrs Eversleigh gasped ; and like
a dead woman she fell backward upon the
cushions behind her.

VOL. III. E

)T was not long ere I realised that in
Daryl's old home I was a more truly
happy woman than I had ever hither •
to been, or indeed had ever thought to be. I
suppose the air of Buckinghamshire suited me
marvellously well ; for my health mended
rapidly ; my heart grew light ; and one day I
actually caught myself smiling at the recollection
of my whilom inclination for the joyless asceticism
of a cloistered existence. Life within narrow
nunnery walls might be all very well — at least,
for those who were really fitted for it ; but
surely a life of freedom in the beautiful green
country, with summer coming on, and with fresh
air and sunshine and the song of birds everywhere
around one, was a thousand times preferable
after all ? The solemn unbroken calm of
Eedknights, I thought, was as soothing, as healing

to a weary body and soul as was the delightful,
health-giving Buckinghamshire air itself.

I heard often from Lady Tracy, who was now
abroad with her husband — frank, blithe letters
they were, exactly like Aurora herself They
were always welcome ; always did me good. She
enjoyed life keenly ; and made the very best of it.

We are now," wrote she from, some mountain
inn in the region of the Pyrenees, 'eon our real lune
che miel. There ! What do you think of that, my
dear Flower, for a beginner in the French tongue ?
and Loftus says that we are having ' a high
old time ' of it ; and I believe that we positively
are ! I know that I am enjoying myself prodigiously
; and my dear infatuated boy seems as
happy as the day is long. What do you think ?
Loftus has just been talking of going still farther
south. He says that, now we are here, he wants
to see Madrid and Seville and Granada ; and lots
of other wonderful places that I've never even
heard of. So you see, at present, how uncertain
it is when next we shall look upon the white
cliffs of Dover. You seem, dear Flower, happy
and contented at Redknights — well, thank Heaven
for that ! It is what I call thorough good news.
Go on ; be brave ; and prosper ! "

But no letter addressed to " Mrs. Deane " had

as yet arrived at Eedknights from Boston ; or indeed
from anywhere else in the States. Nevertheless
I knew that Leigh Eversleigh had not
forgotten me ; nor the promise he had given me
before he went away. That promise of his, should
he live to return, would be kept faithfully — of
that I had no fear. Therefore night and morning
I prayed for his safe return.

And every new day that dawned and ended
seemed at its close to have drawn me and Mrs.
Eversleigh more nearly to each other. I had got
to love her more dearly than pen can depict ;
and it was not difficult to perceive that her affection
for me was as spontaneous, as strong, as was
my own for her. She kissed me at our greeting
in the morning ; kissed me when we parted at
night — never now omitted to do so ; and on one
occasion, when we were separating at a somewhat
later hour than usual, she broke into a fit
of hysterical weeping upon my shoulder. I
held her close to my bosom then ; my own tears
falling upon her silver white hair.

I wonder how it is, Mrs. Deane, that I
have grown to care for you so dearly — so dearly
in so short a while ? I wonder how it is ? " she
sobbed. " It must be the ghostly hands of
little dead children that draw and that hold

our souls together ! The little child of whom
you were so lately bereft was so like — must
in life have been so very like the sweet little
one whom — whom I lost in such cruel fashion
more than twenty years ago ! It is that ; it
must be that," she wept almost wildly. " I
love you for your child's sake — she was so like
my own ! "

And on that night, I remember, Mrs. Evers-
leio-h's acute nervousness was intensified to such
a degree that I lay down upon the sofa-bed
that was placed in her dressing-room, with the
door of communication ajar ; keeping awake
and alert the whole night long in case my dear
invalid, needing me, should call me. But never
again, after that first evening of my arrival at
Redknights, when Marion Eversleigh had swooned
on beholding the contents of my jet locket, had
she asked to be allowed to see the treasured
little portrait of my darling ; though oftentimes
I noticed that her worn and wistful eyes were
fixed, with a pathetic yearning look, upon the
smooth black locket on my bosom.

Whatever she may have been with those
difficult and dissatisfied young women who had
filled the post of attendant - companion before
me, Mrs. Eversleigh, with me, at any rate, was

never impatient or querulous, never hard to
please. On the contrary, with me she was
always winning and sweet, and grateful for
the slightest service.

One perfect morning in early June, when the
birds, young and old, seemed delirious with joy ;
and when the air was deliciously balmy with
sunshine and roses ; I persuaded Mrs. Eversleigh
to quit for an hour or so the great cool shadowy
house, and to accompany me on a drive in an
open carriage.

The light crept into her eyes ; a faint colour
stole into her cheeks ; the unwonted change from
luxurious silent shadow to dancing joyous outdoor
summer life and light was, I am certain,
decidedly beneficial to the invalid. Mrs. Essay
the housekeeper was amazed at my
success ; and so too was Doctor Wynter, the
village surgeon — " Doctor," I fancy, merely by
courtesy — whose custom it was, and had been
for many past years, to drive over from Hazel
in his gig twice every week, to visit old Squire
Darkwood and his daughter Marion.

That new companion, it strikes me, is about
the most sensible person I've met here for a very
long while — in fact, she's the right woman in the
right place, it seems to me," said the Doctor to

Mrs. Jessamy ; " and I only hope that you'll be
able to keep her. Don't, if you can help it, let
her run away like the rest of 'em."

I hope not," said the little old dame. " I'm
sure I hope with all my heart that that won't
happen, Doctor. She suits the dear mistress as
no one else ever suited her before — no, not even
Miss Strong."

"Pooh," said the surgeon heartily — "don't
name 'em, Jessamy, in the same breath ! This
Mrs. Deane is miles beyond Miss Strong — beyond
her in every way."

This came to my ears afterwards ; and pleased
me mightily, of course.

We know that it is simply the first step in
any new undertaking that is difficult ; and this
first drive, on a bright and warm June morning,
was the forerunner of many another like it ; and
by-and-by gentle walks in the well-kept but
utterly deserted gardens followed.

These, I think, Mrs. Eversleigh enjoyed, if
possible, even more than the carriage-drives.

Sometimes we would wander, the invalid
leaning upon my arm, into the shady forsaken
pleasaunce that lay beneath the western terrace
wall. Here wild-roses climbed about the base of
the sun-dial ; and sweet old-world flowers of all

kinds bloomed abundantly in the mossy borders.
The sweetbread hedge, one might have imagined,
had for ages gone untrimmed ; the musk-plant,
scenting the air around, clustered over and
drooped from the ancient stone-vases. The
gardeners seemed to have forgotten the quaint old
spot ; for some reason to have passed it by ; a
pert robin, as though monarch of all he surveyed,
was usually to be caught piping upon the gray-green
face of the sun-dial.

But never by any accident did we stray in
the direction of the river ; that division of the
grounds which led down to its broken banks
was cypress-shadowed and sombre in the
extreme ; it was shunned with an aversion
unutterable by Marion Eversleigh. If perchance
the sullen roar of the dangerous stream smote
the sensitive ear of the mistress of Eedknights,
a pained, drawn expression would pass over her
white face ; the light hand upon my arm would
begin to shiver ; the thin fingers of it would
insensibly close on my flesh — Mrs. Eversleigh
whispering plaintively : '' Take me in — I cannot
bear it." And we would leave the sunny
grounds forthwith, and enter the cool and
shadowy house. All the same, it was Doctor
"Wynter's opinion that he could hardly recollect

the time when he had last seen so many a
hopeful sign in the old Squire's daughter ashe
could happily detect during this present
summer. Mrs. Deane was an admirable and an
invaluable nurse, he told Mrs. Jessamy ; and
Mrs. Jessamy immediately told me.

With regard to the old Squire himself, I had
as yet seen nothing of him ; and I had now
been at Eedknights nearly three weeks. Daryl's
grandfather, as it happened, was a prisoner in
his own suite of rooms, which were upon the
south side of the house ; but his daughter
Marion visited him and sat a while with him daily.

The Squire, I learned from Mrs. Ever sleigh,
had caught cold in the spring, a few days
before my arrival ; having imprudently and
obstinately gone out in his chair one day
when the east wind was blowing pitilessly. An
attack of bronchitis was the result of the old
gentleman's folly ; and now, in mid-June, with
a hot sun scorching the southern walls of
Eedknights, he would insist upon the burning
of big fires throughout his apartments, at night
as well as in the day ; so that his faithful
gray-haired valet, whose name was Buckle, was
just now experiencing a somewhat unenviable
time of it.

Even at the best of times, I by-and-by discovered,
poor Buckle's bed, in the service of his
tyrannical old master, was by no means a bed of
roses ; but, like that of Mrs. Jessamy herself, the
greater part of the valet's life had been passed
beneath the roof of Eedknights ; and Buckle,
moreover, had reason to suppose that he was
** down " for a legacy in the master's will. An
old servant will endure a good deal without
murmuring, if it happen that he has fair reason
to believe that he is '' down in the master's will."

I was passing Mrs. Jessamy 's parlour, one
afternoon towards five o'clock, carrying a sunshade
and a book from the library, on my way
to a garden door which opened upon the terrace
near the pleasaunce, when the housekeeper,
hearing me, looked out into the passage and
invited me in to her room for a cup of tea.

I was really very fond of the little old dame ;
and I assented gladly.

"Is the mistress lying down, ma'am ? " inquired
Mrs. Jessamy, in her prim nice-mannered
old way.

No, I explained to her ; Mrs. Eversleigh was
then sitting with the Squire upstairs ; and I
believed that she was drinking tea with him
tete-astute. I myself, having nothing else to do,

had intended to go and sit with my book in the
garden, and there read until dinner-time. It
was now an established rule for me to dine, indeed
to take every meal, in company with Mrs. Evers-
leigh ; and good old Mrs. Jessamy never wearied
of expressing her amazement and her delight at
the wonderful improvement in the health of
the dear mistress " which my coming to the
old house had in some mysterious fashion
effected. It was an amendment, said the dame,
that she never had dreamed she would live
to see.

The housekeeper's parlour was a cosy room,
with pots of mignonette and geranium in the
open window ; and a fluffy gray kitten this afternoon
lay curled up asleep upon the red cushion
which covered the low wide window-seat. I sat
down idly by the sleeping kitten ; and, with my
back to the light, rested my elbow upon the
window-ledge ; white clematis and yellow jasmine
nodding sweetly in meanwhile.

It was rarely that Mrs. Jessamy invited any of
the Redknights household — the domestic members
of which were all of them more or less well
on in middle-age — to her snug parlour; unless
it might be Mallard, Mrs. Eversleigh's own
maid ; or perhaps occasionally the much-enduring

Buckle, when the troublesome old Squire was,
happily for everybody, dozing in his huge armchair
; for Mrs. Jessamy was a proud little
old dame in her way, and I told her with a smile
that I felt quite honoured.

Tut, tut, ma'am," softly cried she ; " quite
the other way, if you please — quite the other
way ! "

Over our tea and hot buttered cake we fell
a-chatting about all sorts of things ; chiefly
matters, of course, concerning the Darkwood
family and the many troubles which had befallen
Kedknights.

And many too were the stories which Mrs.
Jessamy had to tell relating to the wild youth of
Daryl Darkwood — how often he had sinned, and
how often the Squire had forgiven him ; the
money he had spent ; his terrible extravagance ;
and the good-tempered daring of the young man
through it all.

Ah, he was a hare-brained, dare-devil one — •
if you'll pardon me, Mrs. Deane — to be sure ! "
the dame said, with a mournful shake of her nice
white cap. " Yet, in spite of his reckless ways —
'spite of everything — everybody, I do believe,
liked him ; everybody, I know, was sorry for
him when — when he went away for good."

Naturally it was with much interest that
I listened to all this. With my back to the
]peeping jasmine and the westering sun, and my
face thus in tremulous leafy shadow, I thoughtfully
stirred my tea ; the cup at the time resting
upon my knee

Went away for good, Mrs Jessamy ? " I repeated
slowly. "How, I wonder, did that happen?"

"Well, ma'am, 'tis true I say 'for good'"
replied the housekeeper pensively — " though I
fear me I should by rights have said * for evil ; '
for from that sad day when the shameful business
came to light, and the Squire, in a fit of wrath
that I suppose one cannot wonder at in the
circumstances, turned Mr. Daryl out of the house,
we never have once set eyes upon the poor young
man ; or indeed heard any word whatever about
him ; nor do I suppose, ma'am, for the matter o*
that, we ever shall again. Dear, dear, it was a
sad dark day — getting on now for seven years
ao"o or more — was that one on which Mr. Daryl
left Kedknights for ever ! "

"Is it," I asked quietly, after a moment or
two of reflection, " in any wise kept as a secret ;
I mean the truth regarding the final quarrel
between Dar — between the old Squire and his
grandson ? "

Mrs. Jessamy looked at me with something of
mild wonder in her gentle old eyes.

A secret % " said she. " Oh, dear, no, ma'am
not at all ! Why, the whole county knew of
it within four-and-twenty hours after it had
happened, bless you 1 It was the talk of the
neighbourhood for a long, long while. In a
family like ours," added the dame, with pride,
*' you can't make a secret of or hush up a misfortune
of that kind ; it isn't to be done. Everyone,
of course, was heartily sorry for the old
Squire ; but I fancy they were sorrier still for
Mr. Daryl."

Insensibly I lowered my voice as, with unsteady
hand, I leaned forward and set my empty
cup upon the table. Mrs. Jessamy promptly
refilled it.

*' What — what did he do ? " I asked.

Oh, it was money, ma'am, at the bottom
of it — you may be sure of that ! " replied Mrs.
Jessamy simply. " But whether or not he
actually forged the Squire's name for the amount;
or whether or not he went to the Jews and so
raised it like on the estate ; I never rightly
understood — for I've no head for figures except
when I do 'em in my own way. But I do know
that the Squire's signature, very cunningly

imitated, was somehow or other mixed up in the
affair ; and that Mr. Daryl, by means that were
neither fair nor lawful, got hold of the money
he wanted."

*' And how much was it % "

Ten thousand pounds," with a sigh Mrs.
Jessamy replied ; "and not a penny less."

And this was the man whom I had once
passionately loved, I was thinking very bitterly
as, alas, I had so often thought before ! — the
father of my little dead Isla ; the man who, in
shameful exile from the home of his race, and in
the picturesque guise of a careless painter, had
wandered northward to find me at Moor Edge ;
and with his dark splendid beauty and false
captivating tongue had wooed me, won me, and
had made me his wife ! And this was Daryl
Darkwood, my husband — in truth, a man no less
than a criminal in the eyes of his fellow-men !

** Dear, dear," I heard Mrs. Jessamy chatting
on ; " what a scene there was, to be sure — a
fearful scene — when Mr. Daryl was found out !
He swore ; the Squire swore ; and the poor dear
mistress was dangerously ill for months afterwards.
It might have happened no longer ago
than yesterday ; so clearly, when I speak of it,
does it all come back to my mind. ' Keep the

money, sir,' stormed the Squire, ' now that — like
the thief and swindler that you are — you have
robbed me of it ! But, when every penny of it
is gone — gone, sir, the way of many another
wasted thousand you have had of me before it —
then, sir, starve — do you hear, sir ? — starve I
For I've done with you. Henceforth you are no
heir — no flesh and blood o' mine. So never
again, sir, darken the threshold of Redknights.
Go 1 ' And Mr. Daryl — high and proud as
Lucifer — went."

Bad grandson — bad husband," I muttered,
speaking more loudly than I had intended —
bad to the very core ! "

''No; not all bad, ma'am," charitably pleaded
the little old housekeeper, having caught those
few last words of mine. " No one somehow
could help loving him when he was a lad ; 1 will
say that ; though he was bold-spirited and daring
enough even then. Why, he used to think
naught of letting himself down to the terrace-walk
from his bedroom window up there on the
second floor — yes, the identical room, Mrs. Deane,
which is now yours — when all the household w^a&
abed and asleep, and of coming home in the
small hours of the day, and climbing the walls
like a squirrel to get back again to his room.
The Squire, though, never knew of this ; or there

would have been a fine disturbance, you may be
sure ! Afterwards — afterwards, however, it came
to his ears," said Mrs. Jessamy somewhat hazily
" the drinking, the bad company, the disreputable
debts and goings-on ; but at the time
he was in ignorance of it all. You see, ma'am,
the old gentleman was very strict with the lad
in those days ; too strict — strict to a fault — we
always said ; for young men will be young men,
and you can't alter 'em if they're wild inclined.
Anyway, Mr. Daryl was never the one to brook
contradiction or restraint. He said that he was
old enough to have a night-key of his own ; the
Squire held a different opinion. And so what
was denied the young man in a fair and open
way, as you may say, he took his own reckless
means of getting. It was a miracle, and nothing
short of it, that he never came to harm or broke
his neck outright. It would have been certain
death," shivered Mrs. Jessamy, " if he had for a
moment let go his hold ; lost his presence of
mind ; and dropped upon the terrace stones ! "

"How on earth did he manage it, the?" I
asked curiously. This rambling talk of the kind
old woman's touching the youth and misdemeanours
of Daryl Darkwood was verily of
the liveliest interest to me, his forsaken wife ;

VOL. III. F

trivial as it might have sounded in the ears of
other people.

"Well, ma'am, Buckle always said," replied
Mrs. Jessamy, " that he managed it skilfully by
knotting his bed-clothes together, and making a
sort o' rope in that fashion ; but we none of us
ever knew for certain. Mr. Daryl went his own
way and kept his own counsel ; and it wasn't for
us, of course," said Mrs. Jessamy, " to open the
Squire's eyes."

And the getting back, you say ? " suggested L
'' Why, that, ma'am," answered Mrs. Jessamy,
was, I should suppose, far easier work than the
getting out for an active slender young fellow
like Mr. Daryl was then. On the western side
of Kedknights there is, as you are aware, a good
deal of trellis work ; strong and serviceable ;
partly of wood, partly of iron. It reaches more
than half-way up the walls of the house, and is
in the summer-time pretty nearly hidden by the
mass of creepers. You'll find, by-the-bye, upon
that side of the house the finest magnolia in the
county. Above the trellis the limbs of the ivy
are so old and so thick and so horny that they
would, I fancy, resist the weight of a much
heavier man than Mr. Daryl. You never saw
him, Mrs. Deane ; or at a glance you would have

discerned the gay, reckless spirit of him in his
beautiful dark bold eyes."

Still with my back to the amber sunset light,
and with the dancing leaf-shadows quivering over
my features, I smiled to think that I was being
gravely informed that I had never in my life
looked upon the face of Daryl Darkwood.

"There is," suddenly exclaimed the dame, ''a
fine picture of him in the large dining-room,
painted when he was about seventeen or
eighteen. He is taken on horseback — his
favourite mare — and my good man, who is in
heaven now, stands at the animal's head. I do
not think that you have yet been into the large
dining-room ; have you, Mrs. Deane % "

No ; not yet."

Then will you come with me now, ma'am ?
I should be very happy to show you the pictures
if you would."

And Mrs. Jessamy, rising, took down a key
from a row of several which hung upon a
mahogany board that was nailed to the parlour
wall.

Thank you, Mrs. Jessamy," I returned with
alacrity. " I should very much like, since I
may, to see the pictures in the large diningroom."


Therefore, as we had both of us finished our
tea, we at once left the housekeeper's pleasant
parlour ; and, crossing the passage and turning
into another, silent with its Persian carpet
underfoot, arrived through a lobby at the great
front hall ; one of the stout oak doors in which
was the entrance to the baronial large diningroom
of Eedknights.

It was, in truth, a vast room ; with a lofty
painted ceiling ; and with numerous portraits
and other pictures adorning its sombre walls.
For sears past the apartment — which in some
dim manner recalled to my memory '* der 
" in the Wartburg — had gone untenanted ;
but it was perfectly kept notwithstanding ; no
speck of dust, no cobweb, being anywhere discernible.
Its long windows — eight or nine of
them in all — were barred and shuttered ; but
good old Mrs. Jessamy had soon let daylight
in ; the vivid red glory of the down-going sun
quickly scattering the goblin shadows.

I halted abruptly before the first portrait I
came to. It was that of a gallant gentleman,
painted in brilliant uniform.

Who is this, Mrs. Jessamy ? " cried I.

She was a few yards ahead of me. She
stepped back to my side.

'that, ma'am," said she, "is the late Captain
Eversleigh ; the dear mistress's husband that was.
He fell a victim — as you may perhaps have
heard — to a terrible pestilence out in India ;
a fever it was which at the same time carried
off Captain Darkwood and his wife also — Mr.
Daryl's father and mother, I mean — who were
out there together with Captain Eversleigh."

Instantly I recollected what Leigh Eversleigh
had told me one morning upon the pier at
Than gate.

I remember," I said softly ; still gazing
earnestly at the gallant soldier form. "It was
a sad story."

Ay, there's more than one sad story in our
family, ma'am," sighed Mrs. Jessamy in reply —
though a by no means lugubrious sigh. Her own
mild gaze wandered from the brilliant canvas and
rested then upon me. The dame uttered a little
cry. I started ; turned ; our eyes met.

What a foolish, fanciful old woman I am, to
be sure ! " exclaimed Mrs. Jessamy apologetically.
Just now I actually thought — just for the
min u t e — that — that — ' '

She stammered ; hesitated.

Yes ? " said I wonderingly.

Oh, nothing, ma'am ! It isn't worth telling,"

she answered quite gently. " I am a silly old
woman — there's no doubt about it."

And, so saying, the housekeeper moved on
down the room ; and presently she stopped before
another picture.

Here is what I-want to show you, Mrs.
Deane," she called to me. *' See — this is Mr.
Daryl."

LOOKED long and intently at the
portrait of Isla's father.

Although in the picture before me
he was not yet grown to manhood — in fact, was
a mere stripling — there was no mistaking for
whom it was intended. It was Daryl Dark-wood.


The painting was cleverly done ; the likeness
was unquestionably a good one. There, from his
easy seat in the saddle, his dark eyes, with the
brilliant red-brown light in them that I knew so
well, seemed to smile mockingly down into mine.
I shuddered.

"It is very like," I muttered at last incautiously.


Eh ? " said Mrs. Jessamy, not quite understanding.
" I beg your pardon, ma'am. Did
you say that — "

I hastened to correct the unlucky slip ; the
blood rising hotly to my cheeks.

** I — I meant to say that — that from what
you have told me, Mrs. Jessamy, I should judge
the likeness to be a capital one." Adding in
the same breath — " And at the horse's head,
you say, is — " and then stopped inquiringly ;
whilst Mrs. Jessamy, turning, smiled fondly at
this her favourite picture, thus giving me time
to recover my usual calm.

"Yes," said she; "there, at the mare's head,
as you see, ma'am, stands my good man. Dear
heart — he's in heaven now," repeated the dame
confidently. " He was head - man about the
place, here at Eedknights, for upward of forty
year; and now, in Hazel churchyard, he lies
at peace — God bless him ! — hard by the vault
of the Darkwoods. He served 'em well in life,
if ever servant did ; and almost with his last
breath he asked to be buried near the family."

Here was a portrait of the old Squire himself,
taken years back, in hunting-dress — in dapper
"pink," with a black-velvet peaked cap upon
his head, crop in hand, and with eager hounds
snuffing the sward at his feet. There, close by,
hung the Squire's wife, painted in a velvet
gown, with a dusky crimson curtain and a faint

blue landscape beyond it in the rear of her.
She had been a beautiful young Irishwoman of
high degree — the loveliest gentlewoman of her
line, said Mrs. Jessamy ; and there was something
of the look of her grandson Daryl, I
thought, but did not say so, in the turn of
her small haughty head and in the direct gaze
of her proud dark eyes.

"She died young," observed Mrs. Jessamy softly.

Here was a famous Darkwood beauty, fair
and joyous-looking, of the reign of George III.
There hung; a dashing and handsome, but
utterly worthless young fellow who had not
been altogether unknown at the Court of
George IV.

He was killed, poor young man, in a duel
fought in Flanders," observed Mrs. Jessamy
mournfully ; " and from all accounts — for it
was an ugly story, with a lady in it — I am
afraid, ma'am, he deserved his fate."

Why, he is like Daryl ! " cried I again
involuntarily.

In mild surprise Mrs. Jessamy stared at me.

"Do you mean our Mr. Daryl — him that
we have been speaking about this evening ; or
some one else ? " questioned she, with her pretty
old dimpling smile.

** No — I mean yes," I replied, in some confusion
; and this time I could hit upon no
handy common-place remark or conversational
turn with which to cover my second lapsus
linguae.

Well, there is certainly a slight resemblance,
now that you do mention it, Mrs. Deane," said
the housekeeper thoughtfully ; '* but I never
noticed it before. That unhappy young man
there was a thorough Darkwood ; and so is Mr.
Daryl. Perhaps that's it," added she vaguely,
with a parting glance at the picture of the wild
young courtier who had been run through the
body in a foreign land.

And have you no portrait here of Mr.
Leigh Eversleigh ? " I inquired at random ;
anxious to hurry on Mrs. Jessamy, if possible,
towards the forgetting of the blunders I had
so stupidly committed.

"Not here," she replied simply; "but I believe
the mistress has one of him in an album
for she is very fond of Mr. Leigh Eversleigh.
You see, ma'am, he doesn't rightly belong to
our family — he's on the other side ; indeed he
is merely a distant connection of the late
Captain Eversleigh."

Some of the pictures were of quite ancient

date, and were, too, said my genial old guide,
exceedingly valuable. She had the names of
the dead-antigone painters of those dingier
canvases at her e^lib too-ue's end ; and with
much pride and dignity did the dame point
out to me the Cavalier Darkwoods of a dim
long; aro — the dashing: foemen of the low-born
usurper, Oliver Cromwell, as with quaint disdain
she termed the great Protector.

Near to an end window, through which,
warmly poured the dying sun-glow, and, catching
the rich colour of the heavy window-drapery, lay
tremulous there in blood-red splashes upon the
bare black oak floor of this grand old dining-hall,
with a start I noticed a portrait group of three ;
three separate pictures, I mean.

It was the centre one which had seized my
attention.

Ah, yes !" said Mrs. Jessamy sympathetically,
following the direction my eyes had taken —
upon one side of that lovely picture, ma'am,
you see her brother. Captain Darkwood ; upon
the other side of her hangs the Captain's wife —
she was a Miss Hetherington of High Whitfield
Grange. That, of course, in the middle is — "

Yes. Who is that that hangs between the
other two ? " I interrupted almost breathlessly ;

having neither heed nor hearing just then for
aught but that centre portrait. Where — in
what circumstances in my life before had I beheld
that same bright yet serious face, with the clear
faint rose-leaf complexion ; that same soft dark
hair with a purple glint upon it ; and those
sweet and serious dark-blue, dark-lashed eyes ?
Where — in dreams or in actual life ? Where ?

That, of course," Mrs. Jessamy was repeating,
between the other two is the dear mistress
herself; though no one — say, like you, Mrs.
Deane — who never saw her when she was a
young and happy girl would, I must allow,
recognise that for her picture. Dear heart — so
sadly changed is she ! Yet I, Mrs. Deane, can
well remember her, you know, as she was then
the most beautiful young gentlewoman in all
Buckinghamshire. That portrait of her was
painted by a celebrated London artist ; and the
Squire paid him no less than three hundred
guineas for it, if I remember rightly. But it
was Mr. Daryl, a long while afterwards, who,
with his Aunt Marion's consent, painted in that
crimson rose which you see, ma'am, there upon
her breast. Mr. Daryl himself had a very skilful
hand with his pencil and paint-brush ; and, as
the mistress's picture had grown a bit faded, he

said that a clash of colour would brighten it up
again."

Was the portrait," I asked, a trifle huskily,
'' painted before or after her marriage ? "

I could not remove my eyes from the picture
of Mrs. Eversleigh ; painted as she had been and
as Eedknights had known her in her young and
happy girlhood.

"Oh, before," was the dame's reply — "in the
days when she was Miss Marion Darkwood !
After her marriage her health was always delicate
never certain — or she would have gone out to
India with Captain Eversleigh. When — when
that last cruel blow fell upon her — I mean the
loss of her child, ma'am, in so terrible a manner
her strength and spirits declined rapidly ;
utterly gave way ; her health then broke down
altogether."

Tell me something about it," I said, in tones
that were still hoarse and difficult ; and with my
gaze still riveted upon the fair, lovely face of
Marion Darkwood. In her picture she looked as
if she and sorrow could have naught to do with
each other ; and yet, in the on-coming years, as
Marion Eversleigh, how had it been with her '\
She had drained "the chalice of grief" to its
very dregs 1

Have you never heard the story of the death
of Mrs. Eversleigh's little daughter — her one little
child in whom her very life was wrapped up ;
who was indeed as the whole world to her ? " the
dame inquired in genuine astonishment. '' Dear,
dear ! I thought that everybody had heard the
tale ; for it is rarely — unless it be in an old
family like ours — that you will find such a tragic
thing happening to any one. In an old family
like ours, ma'am, there is always a secret, a
ghost, or a tragedy," said Mrs. Jessamy, bridling.

Something of it," I rejoined rather absently
" some time ago, I certainly did hear from Mr,
Leigh Eversleigh. But I believe he could tell
me only part of the story."

Herself nothing loath to give me further
enlightenment, Mrs. Jessamy cleared her voice ;
primly, as she did so, folding her hands before
her.

** After all, Mrs. Deane," said she, "it is a
story that is soon told — it is a short and grievous
one ; and soon told. Upward of twenty years
ago the mistress had in her service here at Ked-knights
a wretch of a woman," said Mrs. Jessamy
sternly, " called Kachel Owen. She was at that
time Mrs. Eversleigh's abigail ; and I do not
believe that a more evil-natured creature than

Kachel Owen ever drew breath on this earth.
She was engaged to be married — or so it was
supposed — to a Giles Hardman ; a by no means
young man ; and one in every way, I should say,
about as bad as herself. So far they were a
good match.

"■ Giles Hardman was one of the Squire's
under-keepers ; but, being strongly suspected of
having mixed himself up with a notorious
burglary-poaching gang — though as yet he had
never been caught red-handed — he was under
notice to take himself off. He was a low-browed,
sulky-looking brute ; and he went about muttering,
so it was said, that somehow or other he'd
be revenged.

Rachel Owen, ma'am, was a bold hussy, if
ever there was one ; and frequently she was as
insolent as she was brazen. Her tempers and
tantrums were shocking sometimes. ' I really
cannot put up much longer, Mrs. Jessamy, with
Owen's behaviour,' the dear mistress would occasionally
say to me. ' She is becoming simply
intolerable. Greatly as I dislike strange faces
around me, I must send her away, and try to get
some one else.'

One day the mistress's bell rang sharply.
She sent for me. She was trembling with anger

and indignation. 'Mrs. Jessamy,' she quietly-said,
'pay Kachel Owen whatever is due to her ;
give her a month's wages besides ; and you
yourself see, if you please, that she leaves the
house within an hour. Her boxes — whatever
belongings she may have of her own — can follow
her if they are not ready. But, for herself, she is
to quit the house as soon as possible.'

This was on a dull afternoon in November.
Each el Owen, with an evil laugh, did leave
Eedknights within the hour — I standing at an
upper window to watch her depart. She looked
defiantly back at me ; still with a horrible smile
upon her features ; and shook her clenched hand
at the house she was quitting. Bold as brass,
Mrs. Deane, she and her belongings went straight
to Giles Hardman's cottage.

Early on the next morning that cottage was
found to be deserted. It was merely a small
two-roomed hovel, very lonely, and built upon
the border of one of the higher copses. However,
it was quite empty ; the door was open ; the dead
ashes of a fire strewed the gray hearth-place ;
Giles Hardman and Rachel Owen were gone.

At Redknights, on that same morning, it was
indeed a dreadful state of affairs. It was discovered
that during the night the house had been

broken into ; an entrance having been effected
through a pantry window ; and that the one
thing stolen by the cowardly thieves was just
the most precious thing that the house contained
little Flower Eversleigh, the poor mistress's
only child."

*but the nurse," suggested I dreamily — my
eyes once more wandering, as Mrs. Jessamy
had paused, upward to the fair untroubled face
of Marion Darkwood — " where was she ? What
was she doing ? "

There were two nurses sleeping in the child's
room at the time," gravely replied Mrs. Jessamy
"the head-nurse, an elderly experienced person ;
and another, a younger woman. The child's cot
was empty — like a robbed nest — the two women
were slumbering heavily, and could not be roused.
Doctor Wynter came — he was a young man in
those days, and in partnership with his father
and he said that they wouldn't wake for hours.
They had been chloroformed ; or drugged."

'^ And the child was never found — never again
heard of?"

"Never, ma'am. But later on in the day a
little black velvet bonnet and cape lined with
white satin — which the mistress had made with
her own loving; hands — were seen caught

VOL. III. G

amongst the weeds and rushes of the river down
yonder in the park ; and we knew, alas, then
that the very worst had happened : the child
had been murdered — drowned ! "

But of course they searched for the child
everywhere ? " I put in mechanically.

Ah, trust me, Mrs. Deane ! " sorrowfully replied
the old woman. " Be sure that everything
that could be done was done unweariedly ; yet
all to no purpose whatever. The river is swift
and deep, with a frightful undercurrent which is
more dangerous than one can imagine ; and with
weedy holes here and there in its bed that some
of the foolish ones in Hazel would tell you are so
deep that you can't touch the bottom of 'em — no,
not even with the longest withy-pole that ever
was ! Nevertheless the stream was dragged and
drawn off wherever it was possible to drag it or
drain it ; but no tidings, no good tidings of her
came to us ; no trace was ever found — save the
little bonnet and cape I have mentioned, ma'am
of the lost child. She was gone. She had
been murdered, it was clear ; and it was supposed
by every one — for we tried not to think of
of the otters," said Mrs. Jessamy, dropping
her voice and shuddering — " that the little body
had been swept along by the current and lost

beyond all hope in the river Bourne, which the
Eeclknights river joins, as you know, Mrs. Deane,
just a mile or so below the grounds of Hazel
Manor-house.

It's not for me to talk of the mother's
grief ; no poor words of mine could describe
such broken-hearted sorrow as was hers. Only
to think of it — ay, after all these years — makes
my own heart ache afresh ! "

I remember," I remarked slowly, recalling
Leigh's own words in speaking of the Eed-
knights tragedy, "Mr. Leigh Eversleigh's telling
me that, although every effort at the time was
made to track Rachel Owen and her companion
in guilt to their hiding-place in London, all
endeavour towards this righteous end failed
utterly. Notwithstanding the large reward
which was offered for any information concerning
them, they never were captured."

"No," cried the dame indignantly — "but
wickedness, in the long run, rarely, if ever,
prospers ! Giles Hardman and Rachel Owen,
it is true, managed for a while to escape the
clutches of the law ; but before another twelvemonth
had gone over their heads — at least,
so we heard afterwards —-the pair of 'em, ma'am,
had come to a bad end — "

"I know — I have heard," I hastily interrupted.
" The man, in a savage, drunken fit,
or something of the kind, killed the woman — I
T believe ; and he paid the penalty of his
crime in — in the usual way. Mrs. Jessamy,"
I added, with an abruptness of mien which I
fear must have seemed peculiarly ungracious
to the kind little old dame, '' this great room —
is it not? — is growing somewhat dim and ghostly,
now that the sun has gone down and the dusk
is falling. Let us get away — shut it up again !
All the same, I heartily thank you for allowing
me to accompany you here to look at the
pictures."

Mrs. Jessamy protested that I must not thank
her. To show me the portraits of " the family,"
and to chat with me about the originals of them,
had, declared she, given her sincere pleasure.
And I felt sure that she spoke but the truth.

So she locked the mighty oak door of the
great dining-hall ; and left the place once more
to the silence and the darkness — perhaps to the
ghosts of dead-antigone Darkwoods. I then
shook hands with Mrs. Jessamy ; and went upto
my own room.

Somehow, as I mounted the stairs and went
along the quiet corridors, my mind dwelt a

good deal more closely upon the exquisite fair
face of Marion Darkwood than upon the story
of the loss of the beloved only child of Marion
Eversleigh.

Where — where in my life before — I kept
asking myself, had I looked upon that same
fair girlish face, so serious, so sweet, so singularly
haunting in its fresh bright youth ?
Where ?

Suddenly I recollected.

A cloud as it were passed from my memory ;
and all tantalising doubt with regard to the face
of the portrait vanished.

I reached my room — which in the past had
been Daryl's old room — I locked myself within
it. I crossed straightway to the set of drawers
which formed the base of the wardrobe.

Hidden away there in a corner of one of them
w^s a small faded drawing, water-colour tinted,
carefully wrapped in a sheet of silver-tissue
paper — the rapidly but cleverly done sketch of
a girl in a washed-out blue muslin gown ; with
blue ribbons knotted loosely about her throat
and her hat ; and with long sprays of the dusky
periwinkle plant in a fantastic manner adorning
her person as well. .

Underneath the sketch, in letters of pale-blue

and olive-green, was painted one word : the
fanciful name that Daryl himself had given me
—periwinkle."

Yes ; it was Daryl's own work ; the forgotten
likeness of myself which, on the day before that
one of my flight with him from the home of
Simon Greedy, by the hand of some Stonyhampton
waif he had sent to me at Moor
Edge !

I carried the faded sketch to the open
window ; and there knelt with it and stared
at it in the waning evening light. A bell was
ringing. It was time for me to go down and
meet Marion Eversleigh at dinner. But I did
not rise ; I could not ; did not in any wise stir
from the open window.

In the twilight I knelt there ; scarcely breathing
; with the tinted drawing that had been
long ago done by Daryl Darkwood held close
to my perplexed and wondering eyes.

The face of Marion Darkwood in the beautiful
portrait downstairs and the face of the lonely
girl that Daryl had so carelessly drawn and
tinted in the old Moor Edge days were — or soit
seemed to me — one and the same. The resemblance
of the two, each to the other, was
in its way, distinct ; perfect !

So, like a woman with wits entranced, I was
telling myself; forgetting that fancy — a too-vivid
imagination — will play one strange pranks
sometimes.

Good morning, Mrs. Deane," cried
the Squire, in bis high cracked
voice — " good morning ! I need
not ask you how you are ; you are looking so
fresh and bonny — quite bonny ! Allow me to
express to you my thanks once more for your
charming singing — Buckle, you fool, stop, can't
you ? — for your charming singing of last night,
Mrs. Deane," quavered he shrilly.

I went up to his chair — a roomy and well-hooded
bath-chair it was, apparently full of
shawls and cushions, amongst which the
shrunken figure of the very old man looked
as if it were about to slip altogether out of
sight — and he took my hand into his own
palsied gloved one, with the other patting it
in a quite simple and childish manner before
he let it go.

The Squire had been " about again " — as
Buckle called it — and able to take his mid-day
airing upon the terrace or along the broad
garden walks, for some few weeks past now ;
and I and the feeble old man — thus had it
oddly come to pass — had grown to be capital
friends.

Since the health and spirits of Mrs. Evers-
leigh had so greatly improved, she had by
degrees got to live less and less within her
silent and shadowy rooms upstairs. We dined
now, she and I together, in a snug room, a
kind of morning-room, which opened into the
library ; and after dinner we drank our coffee
and spent the remainder of the evening in a
pleasant and pretty apartment which at Eed-
knights was known as the white drawing-room.
Here in plenty were new books from Muche's ;
magazines and " society journals " in abundance
too ; whilst in an alcove shaded by a white-angola
threaded Oriental curtain, strung with ivory
rings upon a slim gilt rod, there stood a grand
piano that had been newly tuned.

My singing appeared to astonish and to delight
the dear folk at Eedknights ; and Mrs. Evers-
leigh, and indeed the Squire himself, never
seemed to grow weary of the songs that I

sang to them. My repertory was a wide one ;
but the old man loved best the ballads of a
by-gone day.

Regularly every evening now, attired in a
smart Indian dressing-gown (he never failed to
appear if he was well), and leaning upon the
arm of the patient Buckle, did he totter down
to the white drawing-room ; and there by that
admirable valet was his aged master " settled "

o

and made comfortable in a huge arm-chair by
the open window.

The Squire drank but little tea or coffee ; they
did not agree with him, upsetting his digestion
and rendering him unendurable tiresome.

Buckle having " arranged " his master to his,
the Squire's, satisfaction — which, by-the-way,
was no easy task — then went and fetched down
the old man's decanter of port and a wine-glass ;
which the valet placed upon a table within convenient
reach of his hand. It was, I believe,
this generous cordial, which was as old as, perhaps
older than, the Squire himself, that kept
him living and warm.

Sitting there in the sweet gray gloaming, a
black velvet cap covering his almost hairless
skull, the fragrant garden air blowing in with the
languorous twilight rustle of midsummer leaves,

the Squire would sip his wine, and nod his head
to the time of the music ; sometimes clapping
his hands in senile applause when a favourite
ditty was ended.

And then, when his bedtime arrived, and
Buckle appeared in order to lead him away, he
would as a rule take my hand into his ; kiss it in
quite courtly fashion ; pat it ; fondle it ; and
perhaps shed a few childish tears over it also —
saying that only to listen to my beautiful voice
made the blood dance within his veins, so that
he really felt like a young " buck " again !

Sometimes his dim old mind would wander ina
manner that was truly remarkable ; and he
would persistently call me "Marion." On these
occasions I was bewildered to know in what way
to answer him, and would glance appealingly
across the room to Mrs. Eversleigh. She then
would rise directly, and go over to the Squire's
chair ; and, with her thin jewelled hand upon
his shoulder, she would bend down to him and
say tenderly, —

Here am I, father. That is Mrs. Deane, who
has been singing to us, you know."

"Pooh," quoth the old man rudely once — "as
if I didn't know my own daughter ; the fairest
girl in all Buckinghamshire ! You, madam, J

suspect, are Mrs. Thingumy. You lean, bony
woman, as flat as a board, you are not
Marion ! "

And lie pinched ber arm so spitefully that she
nearly cried out with the pain he had caused her.

And sometimes he would refuse to leave the
white drawing-room when it was half-past ten ;
querulously declaring that it was not yet bedtime
; the clocks were all wrong ; some one
had been tampering with them, putting them
forward ; and no doubt, said his master, it was
that scoundrel Buckle who had done it — being
anxious, for some atrocious reason or other, to
get him, the Squire, ofi" to bed before the proper
hour. And he would then proceed to inflict
upon Buckle's unlucky arm pinch after pinch
that would have made a less heroic soul than he
yell amain with agony. But Buckle made no
sign — never did ; he was used to it. Besides,
was not he " down " in the master's will ? — and
surely, thought he, "it could not go on much
longer ! "

Nevertheless, a whispered word from me would
at any time render docile the fractious old Squire ;
and once he looked piteously up into my face
and began to cry, as very old people sometimes
will, saying in his high and quavering voice,

which on some days was more cracked and shrill
than on others, —

God bless you, Marion ! Why have you been
so long away from me — eh ? I thought you
never, never were coming back to your poor old
father ! " whimpered he.

Yet never by any accident or lapse of memory
did he mention his grandson's name ; and Mrs.
Eversleigh told me that, since the Squire had
sunk into this pitiable dotage-state, her father
had not once, by any inmate of Redknights, been
heard to give utterance to the name of Daryl.

You are indeed a magician, Frances," said
Marion Eversleigh one evening to me, with
grateful tears shining in her dear eyes, when the
Squire in his conduct had been more unmanageable
than usual, and when I had been successful
in persuading him to go quietly away with
Buckle, though he had pinched and sworn shrilly
at the poor man all the way upstairs — " nothing
short of a magician, Frances ! My father, in the
most extraordinary manner, seemed ' to take to
you,' as Mrs. Jessamy says, on the very first day
that he saw you ; though it was rarely that
he would speak to, or really notice with any
kindness at all, any one of my ' companions '
before you. ' Who's that new woman ? Where

did you get her from, Marion ? ' he was continually
saying. ' What, another of 'em — and
another of 'em — and another of 'em ! Why, how-many
more ; and where do you put 'em all to —
eh ? ' But see how different everything is now
that you are with us ! In truth, a wondrous and
welcome change has dawned upon our life at
Eedknights ! It is years, my dear friend, since
I felt so happy and so strong ; and then, too,
I say, look at my father ! Who in the house
can manage him as you do ? Your music and
your society, Frances, are an infinite pleasure to
him, and do him all the good in the world.
Frankly, I can hardly recollect the time when
last I saw him as blithe and chatty as he has
been of late. What a real blessing your coming
to Redknights has proved, dear ; has it
not ? "

She smiled ; and winningly held out to me-both
hands as she spoke.

I met them with mine ; held them close ; and
pressed my head against her shoulder.

It is sweet and kind of you to say so," I
murmured, with a sense of happiness so great
that it was akin to pain itself.

Almost insensibly, as time went on, she had got
into the habit of calling me " Frances ; " though

the name, whenever spoken by her tender voice,
was verily like a stab to my own heart — I so
well knowing that name to be a lie !

Often, as I had done this morning, I would
encounter the old Squire in his roomy bath-chair
taking the air in the garden or upon the wide
terrace-walk, with the faithful and stoic Buckle
in attendance. Also not infrequently I would
catch him, in his high cracked voice, swearing
at the patient valet ; who of course bore it all
unmoved. But at my approach the old man
would cease in his shrill abuse ; brighten perceptibly
; and then occasionally fall to chatting tome
with quite rational ease, as indeed he did this
morning.

When we thus met, I generally lingered with
him and walked slowly by his chair until it was
time for him to go indoors for his luncheon.
But, as a rule, his talk was wild and hard to
follow ; and at such times he always perversely
called me "Marion." Could it be possible, I
sometimes wondered, that even his dim old eyes
could now and again discern the curious likeness
which I had myself detected between . . . Faugh I
It was folly for an instant to imagine such a
thing ; and I flung, as it were, the thought away
from me.

Marion, I presume," blithely said the Squire
that day, with amazing clearness for him, "is
indoors, Mrs. Deane ? "

Yes, I told him ; Mrs. Eversleigh was indoors
in her own room — writing letters ; and I had
come out alone to gather some fresh flowers for
the white drawing-room.

Marion writing her own letters, is she ? He,
he, he ! " The Squire here cackled and choked
in the queerest, shrillest manner ; then after a
little while he was able to go on. " You are
making a new woman of my daughter, Mrs.
Deane," said he. " Why, we shall have her taking
horse-exercise next, and riding across country
and coming a cropper with the best of us, as she
did, and thought nothing of it, when she was a
girl. Ha, ha,^ha ! He, he, he ! "

I am thankful, sir, to see her so well," I
answered gravely ; a trifle disgusted, to speak
the truth, at the old man's unseemly levity
where my dear Mrs. Eversleigh was concerned.

So well, indeed ! He, he, he ! " piped the
Squire. " I don't believe, Mrs. Deane, between
you and me, that Marion ever was really so bad
as she fancied herself She moped and brooded
and got hysterical. Lots of women, bless you,
madam, get like that if they've plenty of money

and no healthy occupation I With some of 'emit's
worse still — they take to drinking — oh, yes,
they do, I tell you ! He, he, he ! And then — •
Buckle, you fool," shrieked the old man, " why
do you jolt my bones in that barbarous fashion ?
If you see a stone in front of you. Buckle, kick
it out of the path — do y' hear ? — and don't drag
the wheels of my chair over it, you lazy, insolent
hound, you 1"

'every well, sir," replied Buckle, with the utmost
respect — though he had neither jolted the
bones of the old Squire nor dragged the chair-wheels
over a stone in the pathway. But
Buckle was used to being wrongfully accused ;
and it never was worth while to contradict his
master. And then perchance, in the next breath,
the old man woukl address me as " Marion,"
and talk rambling of the lean, flat, white-faced
woman who called herself Mrs. Deane,
and who was writing her letters indoors all
alone.

Unquestionably he was a trying old gentleman
to live with ; but, after all, his vagaries mattered
little to me. I was happy — strangely, peacefully,
supremely happy — at Redknights ; and of Destiny
I asked no more. Nevertheless there were
moments, nay, whole days, when the voice of

VOL. III. H

conscience within me whispered uncomfortably,
and would not be stifled or put down, try how I
would to smother it.

Not infrequently, when thus conscience-pricked,
I would wander away in the twilight to
the river bank ; and there along the neglected
walk, which wound by the side of the rapid
stream, to and fro I strolled in deepest
thought ; striving hard, in fact, to think the
matter out.

The river walk was certainly the most sheltered
and lonesome part of the intricate
grounds at Eedknights ; no soul save myself
came thither to disturb its sombre quietude
or to listen to the rush and the roar of the
swift brown water, ever day and night, without
rest, rolling onward to join the still
mightier Bourne.

Somehow this gloomy place, otter-haunted and
shut in by the great hills and neighbouring
copses, where years ago the hapless little Flower
Eversleigh had met with her tragic end, for me
possessed a kind of magnetism — weird enough
in its way — and for hours together I sometimes
paced there ; thinking, thinking troubled of my
husband Daryl.

What, so far, in Daryl's behalf, for Daryl's

good, had I done or even attempted to do with
his perverse and obstinate grandfather ? Sofar,
nothing. I told myself that I was utterly
at a loss to discover in what manner I could
for the best bring so delicate and so difficult
a subject under the notice of the childish
old man. How was I to set about it ? I
asked myself almost peevishly. There was
the rub.

Conscience, notwithstanding, whispered that
there was Marion Eversleigh at hand. Already
she loved me as a dear friend ; why not then
reveal to her my true name and condition ; to
her, at least, if for a while to no one else ; why
not kneel at her feet and confess to her that by
my marriage I was her lawful niece and Daryl
Darkwood's wife ?

She was sweet, loving, and sympathetic ; not
hard and perverse. She, I knew — never for an
instant doubted — would readily forgive the
deception that had been counselled by Leigh
Eversleigh and carried out by me. Would not
she better than any one — she who so well understood
the old Squire and his caprices — be able to
aid and advise me in my task when the whole
truth had been told to her and nothing kept
back? No one, I believed, would be more

sincerely glad than would she to see the true
heir restored to his rightful position. Marion
Eversleigh was gentle and forgiving.

The old Squire's daughter, beyond question —
could the old Squire himself be once brought to,
humoured into and retained in, a more Christian
frame of mind — would heartily welcome back
Daryl to Eedknights. Not only, should this
happen, would she once more gain a nephew ;
but in me, his wife, she would find a niece who
already loved her tenderly with a daughter's
love.

Yet well did I realise that it could not be
all plain sailing ; putting aside the difficulty
of the old Squire himself. There were other
rocks ahead ; and I quailed, was dismayed, at
the thought of them. For, even supposing that
success should crown my venture ; that the
Squire by-and-by should listen to me, could
be made to comprehend for whom it was that
I was pleading and interceding — supposing, in
short, that Daryl in the end were freely pardoned,
his transgressions condoned — what, in
that case, would be the result of it all ?

With exceeding bitterness did 1 put this
question to myself; for there was but one
answer to it, and only one. Should Daryl

forgiven — return to Eeclknights, then I,
Flower Darkwood, must go thence. There
would for me be no alternative. Never, never
again could the same roof shelter both him
and me !

And keenly did my heart ache at this
hard reflection —-ache and rebel likewise ; for
it had grown deeply attached to the calm
secluded old home. And surely it was little
wonder !

And so the days went uneventfully by — because
I did nothing ; attempted nothing. " Tomorrow
I will try," I used to say moodily —
*' I will make a beginning of some sort tomorrow
; I will put it ofl" no longer." But —
well, do not we all know that tomorrow is
non-existent ; is a kind of ignis fatuus ; ever
flitting on ahead, but never overtaken ? Up
and be doing to-day, if there is aught at hand
to be done ! If " To-morrow," and not " Today,"
were the watchword of life, then would
the world stand still — its work would never get
done !

And thus serenely and uneventfully did the
days go by.

However, one Sunday morning, in Hazel
church, I received a considerable shock. Mrs.

Eversleigh never accompanied me thither, but
stayed at home and read alone within her
own rooms ; and therefore, unless dear old Mrs.
Jessamy went with me, as she sometimes did,
I had the tall family-pew in the chancel, with
its carved oak panelling and dingy red-velvet
curtains, entirely to myself.

I was very fond of Hazel church ; chiefly because
it was not unlike the sweet little old gray
building near Arley Bridge, in the peaceful
'' God's Acre " of which my darling was buried.
Upon the chancel wall, immediately above the
pew of the Darkwood family, there had in the
years gone by been placed an exquisitely sculptured
marble tablet. It was oval in shape ;
bordered fancifully with a wreath of broken
lilies ; and with a pure white dove hovering
above the lily-garland.

A few words engraved upon the smooth centre
of the marble told one that the tablet had been
placed there by a grieving mother, whose love and
sorrow in this world would never die. " To the
ever dear memory'' it said simply, '' of Flower ;
the only child of Marion Eversleigh.'" And
then was recorded the age of the beloved lost
little one. '* Two years and six months old " —
that was all ; no more ! How pathetic was the

story, I used to think insensibly, with pensive
dreaming eyes staring upward at that oval tablet
upon the wall — strange dim musings sometimes
coming to me unawares. How pathetic, how
brief, and how cruel !

Opposite to the tall Eedknights pew there was
in the chancel another in everywhere similar to it
dingy with its dusky carved oak ; faded crimson
curtains ; and a narrow door that opened and
shut with a sharp click. I never had thought to
inquire to whom the pew opposite to the Eed-
knights one belonged ; for hitherto I never had
seen it occupied by anybody. But on this particular
Sunday morning a young man strolled
into the church quite late. The congregation at
the time were standing ; the psalms where being
read — they did not chant them at Hazel — the
stranger, as I at first took him to be, advanced
coolly to the east end of the church and entered
the big empty pew facing me.

Before he could in any manner notice me, I
had sat down suddenly but quietly, and arose no
more ; thus keeping myself hidden from view
during the remainder of the service. When last
the late-comer and I had seen and had spoken to
each other, it had been on the memorable occasion
of Mrs. Damage's party at Thangate — when he

had known me as the wife of Daryl Dark-wood.


For the young man was no other than the
whilom bachelor-friend of Viscount Tracy — the
Priory family, I learnt afterwards, had been for
some weeks absent from home— young Marc
Gaveston, of Gaveston Priory !

I did not quit the little church that morning
until the amiable old Rector himself, the congregation,
the snuffy old woman who looked after
the pews, and the smart country damsel who
played the harmonium, had one and all of them
departed ; and I very nearly got locked in for
my pains.

It was for the most part a simple rustic flock,
conspicuous for its new corduroy and clean
smock-frocks ; and the good folk, in friendly
groups of twos and threes, and chatting as they
went in a bucolic language of their own, had
soon straggled off to their different homes.
The pleasant shady high-road beyond the low
churchyard gates was ere long clear of them
all ; with the thrice - blest calm, that sweet-breathing
stillness peculiar, I think, to a summer
Sabbath-day in the country, reigning everywhere
around.

And after that Sunday morning — when fortunately

I had gone to Hazel church unaccompanied
by Mrs. Jessamy — I never again
ventured, at least as Frances Deane, without
the lodge gates of Eedknights unless I wore a
veil.

'N this maimer the late summer passed
away ; and early autumn, with its
low-lying morning mists and its
silent, melancholy afternoons," followed apace.

Fallen leaves, wondrously diversified in orange,
red, yellow, green, and brown, had begun thickly
to strew the moist narrow paths in copse and
wood alike, and in the valleys too between them.
The tangled bracken also had lost its lovely
green ; and now, trailing earthward amongst the
thorny black brambles, it had taken a speckled-saffron
tint which occasionally, in the low hazy
splendour of the afternoon sun, would change to
a fitful pale gold.

Gloriously beautiful indeed to the eye were
the wooded hills which shut in Eedknights —
glowing, flaming for a while in their dazzling
vesture ere the shrieking autumn winds and the

desolating autumn rains swept over them and
ruthlessly stripped them bare.

And down in the cypress-shadowed hollow,
where the river rushed onward — perpetually
onward — the water was browner and more turbid
than ever ; its banks were dangerous and slippery
beneath the tufted grass ; the sedge already had
been nipped by an early frost ; and the dipping
reeds and the gray elder-boughs together whispered
there like living things when the ghostly
chill twilight crept over the place and banished
from it the light of day.

During the past month or so — and by this
time my dark hair was grown long and luxuriant
again ; and I had discarded for ever my pretty
jaunty caps — I had received many another letter
from my friend Aurora. The Tracys were now
at Tangier, where they talked of spending the
winter ; and twice, and twice only, since I
had been living at Eedknights, had I heard from
Mr. Eversleigh.

They were sensible, manly letters that any
generous-natured brother — had I been blest with
one — might have written to me ; and how
thoroughly welcome they were, when they did
come, it is hardly necessary to record. The first
of the two had borne the indistinct postmark of

some outlanclishly christened "city" of the Far
West ; the name of Which, until I had opened
the envelope, I was wholly unable to make out.
The second had come to me dated from San
Francisco.

In both letters Leigh asked the same question
— nay, questions. What was I doing — what
had I done ? Was I happy — had I prospered — ^
and was Daryl forgiven ?

Yet to neither of these kindly-penned epistles
was it possible to send a reply ; for the plans
and the movements of the far-away writer were
apparently of the most uncertain character.
He was in one place on one day, it seemed, and
in another on the next ; very shortly, Leigh
added in a postcript to the second letter, he was,
he hoped, coming back to England.

Absolutely welcome as were these letters of
Mr. Eversleigh's, I nevertheless believe that I
was secretly thankful that no reply to either of
them was expected. Had I written in answer,
what could I have said ? Ah me I what ?
What had I done ? Leigh asked simply
What was I doing ? Nothing. That was, in
brief, the only true answer I could have given
him ; for was not I still hugging myself,
still selfishly and indolently rejoicing, so to say,

in my newly-found interests, in my new and
calmly happy life at Eedknights ; whilst Daryl
himself, yet an outcast and unforgiven, was an
exile from the dear old home ?

Was not I something of a usurper as well
as an impostor % I sometimes found myself
vaguely wondering — chiefly perhaps when lying
wakeful in the stilly hours of the black and
lonesome night ; when the great house was
as hushed as a grave, and the ticking of a
clock or the scratching and tapping of dry
creeper leaves upon the window-panes alone
disturbed the heavy silence. I, at Eedknights,
was warmly housed, safely sheltered, happy
and contented withal ; whilst Daryl, the rightful
heir, banished, unpardoned — where was he ?
What might not be his evil fate ; whether
upon English soil or upon a foreign shore ?

Who indeed could tell ?

Howbeit, I resolutely thrust from me all
apprehension of the future ; would not think
of it ; smothered as best I could the admonishing
whisper of conscience ; and thus lived only
in and for the present, and for the tranquil joy
it afforded it me.

One late October afternoon, when the sun,
framed in a sullen gray sky, through a moist

dark network of leafless trees looked like a
ball of dull red fire, I walked into Hazel as
far as the village draper's. There was a rawness
in the misty atmosphere ; and the lanes
and roads were somewhat muddy ; therefore
dear Mrs. Eversleigh preferred to remain at
home by the fireside.

The draper's shop was a stuffy little establishment
crammed with all sorts of useful articles
in a small way, and was kept by a sharp-featured
spinster named Eobinson, whose age and whose
temper, said Hazel behind her back, were alike
doubtful. Hazel, all the same, was unable to
get along without Miss Eobinson and her
delightfully various stock-in-trade — the village
being situated some four or ^yq miles from
*' everywhere," as the natives said ; and Miss
Eobinson herself was quite aware of the fact ;
so that, if at any time she did not " feel civil "
towards a customer, she saw no reason why
she should try to appear so. And Miss Robinson
could be dreadfully snappish when she
chose.

Upon one side of the draper's shop, adjoining
it, there stood a public-house, quaintly called
*' The Willing Hand ; " upon the other side of it
was the post-office, which was also kept by Miss

Eobinson. But here a pleasant chatty orphan
niece of hers was at the head of postal affairs.

The letter-bag was brought to Kedknights but
once a day ; in the early morning ; and at seven
o'clock every evening the postman called for it at
the lodge gates to take it back, with letters — if
there were any to go — to the Hazel post-mistress ;
blowing a horn as he tramped along the road tolet
the lodge-keeper know that he was approaching
the park entrance. But, if during the day it so
happened that I walked into the village, or drove
thither in the carriage with Mrs. Eversleigh, I
rarely omitted to call at the queer little low-ceiled
post-office, to inquire of Miss Eobinson's
niece whether any letters had arrived for us
since the morning.

Having got what I wanted — merely a small
parcel or two — of sour, sharp-nosed Miss Robinson,
I stepped into the next doorway and down
its three steep narrow stairs to speak to her
more amiable relative.

Yes, said Miss Eobinson's niece pleasantly, she
believed that there was one letter for Eedknights ;
and only one, that afternoon. It had arrived by
the mid-day post ; and I would like to take it
back with me, of course, would I not ? " Ah,"
added she, gingerly picking out, as she chatted

on, the Kedknights letter from amongst a few
others that were in a rack in a corner of the
little dark shop — "I see it is for you, Mrs.
Deane ! The weather is really getting quite
wintry, mem, is it not ? " said Miss Eobinson's
niece ; with a smile handing the letter to me
across the counter.

I agreed that the weather was both moist and
chilly ; in every way reminding one of the
approach of winter ; and hurriedly quitted the
post-office — my heart thumping fast, the colour
in my face coming and going, I could feel.

At a first swift glance at the envelope I had
recognised Leigh Eversleigh's handwriting ; a
second was sufficient to tell me that the letter
was no American one. So he had returned — was
at home — he was then in England ! What —
what had he to say to me ?

I walked quickly — nearly ran — until the
pretty old straggling village was left far behind
me and out of sight ; and then, as not a soul
save myself or a vehicle of any kind was at
that moment visible upon the always somewhat
lonely Hazel road, I lifted my veil and broke the
seal of my letter.

It was rapidly growing dusk. The dull red
sun had now almost entirely disappeared ; the

group of gaunt bare trees behind which he had
so sullenly gone down looked black and stark
in the hazy lurid glow that there touched the
evening sky. But it was not yet so dark as to
hinder me in reading my letter. The 
light from the angry west enabled me
to decipher it from the first word to the last.

The desolate country road was damp, cold,
and very still. The plaintive " tweet, tweet " of
some shivering solitary bird in the hedge fell just
then upon the raw and silent air.

Scarcely breathing in my excitement, I stood
stock-still there upon the road-side ; with the
opened letter held close to my wide and half-fearful
eyes.

Kind Heaven above me, of all places upon the
face of the earth, it had been written at, was
dated from, an hotel — " The Eaven " — at Stonyhampton
!

The wind had risen with an eerie sound, crying
and wailing around the outer walls of Redkniohts,
like an unearthly voice uplifted in wildest lamentation.
Sweeping downward from the hills, and
shrieking through the stripped brown woods, it
drove the bleak raindrops and stray dead leaves
before it and dashed them against the windows

VOL. III. I

of the warm white drawing-room. At intervals
the rain smote the panes like hail ; whilst the
wind itself sobbed and roared alternately
within the hollow throat of the spacious
chimney.

Upon one side of the wide white marble
birthplace I, for a wonder, was sitting idle ;
upon the other, in a low easy-chair, and with
the glow of a shaded reading-lamp falling
softly in, a ruby halo around her, sat Mrs. Evers-
leigh ; apparently much interested in a new
book. The old Squire her father was this
evening too poorly, and in reality too tiresome,
to be suffered to join us as usual for music
in the white drawing-room ; Buckle was therefore
enduring — well, I suppose only Heaven
and he. Buckle himself, knew what upstairs.


With a slight start, and with an expression
of faint astonishment upon her sweet wan
face, Marion Eversleigh presently looked up.

Frances," she said, " is it rain that I hear ?
The sun, I noticed, set so redly, I should imagine
it is hardly possible ? "

I knew — for I had for some time been listening,
with a curious intentness, and yet barely
conscious that I was actually doing so, to the

eerie storm-voices outside — that it was rain;
but I rose at once, if a trifle automatically, and
went over to one of the windows. The shutters
were not yet fastened. I parted the heavy
white Oriental curtains, with their glinting gold
and silver thread-work, and looked out. With
my back to the lamps and the bright fire, I
stood there for minutes in silence ; my hot
forehead pressed to the cool dark window-glass,
all rain-blurred upon the outer side. The night,
so far as one could see, was wild and black
indeed ; with now and then a glimpse of a weird
white moon, appearing and disappearing in most
ghostly fashion.

Yes, dear Mrs. Eversleigh," I murmured at
last, '* it is a rough and dismal evening enough
hopelessly so, I fear. The sharp pattering
noise that you can hear now and then is the
rain against the windows."

'* And after the beautiful sunset we had too ! "
she remarked, still in accents of gentle surprise.
Did you see it, Frances ? "

Yes," I answered restlessly. " But there
was a watery primrose light also in the sky
which I fancied had a stormy look about
it ; especially after the angry crimson had
gone.

I returned to my seat by the heartsick ; and
thoughtfully stared into the fire.

"Frances," said Mrs. Eversleigh suddenly,
why such a deep sigh, my dear ?

'' Did — did I sigh ? " I raised my eyes ; and
I then perceived that Mrs. Eversleigh had put
aside her book and was regarding me with a
wistful, not to say an anxious gaze. My own
eyes wandered to the fire again.

** Yes ; and I am afraid that you are not feeling
well, dear Frances — not altogether quite
yourself, I mean, this evening," she said very
kindly. " Is it so ? "

'' Why ? " And I tried to smile.

"To speak the truth," frankly replied Mrs.
Eversleigh, smiling back — " though of course on
my part it may be sheer fancy — I have thought
more than once since you came in from your
walk this afternoon that you have somehow
been — well, Frances, not quite your usual self.
Am I too absurd and fanciful, dear ? "

Unlike myself ? " I echoed vaguely. " Have
I ? Perhaps I have."

Yes ; absent and restless by turns," rejoined
Mrs. Eversleigh more emphatically. " Silent and
thoughtful one minute ; bright, almost excited,
the next. At dinner, do you know, though I

said nothing, I once or twice felt really alarmed ;
you seemed to me so — so strange, Frances ; so —
so feverish ; and you ate hardly anything, I
noticed. Nothing, I trust, dear friend, is in anyway
wrong ? " she added anxiously.

Wrong ? " I echoed again uneasily ; speaking
very low. " How do you mean ? "

Mrs. Eversleigh leaned towards me, and said
earnestly : " Frances, at this moment you are
looking so troubled, so ill, I am convinced that
in some unexpected direction or other you have
been greatly worried and upset. Indeed it has
struck me as being just possible — not unlikely
that you may have called at the post-office,
when in Hazel this afternoon, and perhaps found
there a disagreeable letter awaiting you. Won't
you tell me what it is ? Mayn't I share with
you the trouble ? Mayn't I hear the bad news,
dear, if there is any ? I may help you, you
know."

Acting upon the impulse of the moment, I
started up ; for a few seconds I hesitated ; stood
irresolute ; nervously locking my hands together
in a spasm of doubt and fear. Finally
I dropped upon my knees by Mrs. Eversleigh's
low chair.

Frances," said she tenderly, laying her cool

fragile hand upon my head, " what is the
matter ? "

*' Yes — yes, you are right," I said hoarsely.
I have had a letter ; I found it at the post-office
this afternoon. It has made me wretched, intensely
wretched, and yet — and yet it has, in —
in another way, made me most glad and hopeful
too ! I know not what to think ; or — or how to
act. Everything just now — I mean to-night —
seems so strange, so unsettled, so threatening.
My brain for the last few hours seems to have
been spinning round incessantly ; burning as
though it were on fire. And, alas," I cried incoherently,
" I have been so happy — so happy
here at Eedknights "

And you will go on being happy with us, I
fervently hope," put in Mrs. Eversleigh soothingly.
Frances, you very well know how dearly I
have grown to love you ; I cannot afford to
lose you now ! Have pity — do not hint at
such a thing. Dear, it would be too cruel
a wrench ! "

The tears rushed straightway from my heart,
and flooded my eyes to blindness.

Oh, my own dear Mrs. Eversleigh, I know
not how it will have to be ! " I said brokenly.
In all likelihood I shall — I shall have to go

away — away from Reclknights. I foresee no help
for it ; matters will inevitably arrange themselves
"

No, no, no — not that, Frances ! "
"I fear that that will prove to be my fate.
Dear Mrs. Eversleigh, there are things — circumstances
— in my past life which I have perhaps
wrongfully kept back from you ; things — circumstances
— concerning myself and another that —
that day after day I have tried to tell you — that
by rights, I fear, you — yes, both you and the
Squire — should have long ago known ; should
have learnt from my own lips. But I have been
a coward — a pitiable coward ! My cowardice
indeed has been greater than I can make you
comprehend ; for I was well aware that confession
would serve only to imperil the deep happiness I
have felt in being daily near you ; beneath the
same roof with you ; and it was too hard. And
now — and now all that I have so reprehensibly
kept back with regard to —to the past is rising
like a ghost to bewilder and affright me ; and I
feel powerless — wholly powerless — with no particle
of strength or of will, as it were, to do present
battle with the consequences of my own
vacillation."

In Marion Eversleigh's own dear eyes tears of

sorrow and of sympathy were shining now ; her
fragile hands, flashing with their many jewels,
where resting upon my bowed shoulders.

"And that troublesome letter, Frances," she
whispered — 'has it then been the cause of all
this mischief — of making you so unsettled and
so unhappy, dear ? "

"Yes," I moaned. "It has awakened my
conscience in such a manner that there is no
hushing it again into a false slumber, a sham
tranquillity. The time has at last come when
the truth must be faced — and borne ! "

And yet, dear friend," she rejoined very
wistfully, " you hinted, did you not, that you
had received good news as well as bad."

Kneeling there, I laid my head upon her
breast.

Yes ; right good news, I should say," I answered,
in a dreamy tone ; " but — but at present
I have heard so little of it ; I am not yet sure,
you see. I shall hear more, I suppose, if —
if I am here, by-and-by, when — when — " I
stopped ; and a shiver crept over me from head
to foot.

'' Yes ? " softly put in Mrs. Eversleigh.

"When," I finished, with an effort — "when
Mr. Leigh Eversleigh comes to Eedknights."

Marion Eversleigh's wan face brightened with
genuine pleasure.

Is Leio^h coming; to us then ? " she exclaimed,
smiling through the tears which still
lingered in her eyes.

He says so," I breathed.

** And when, Frances — when ? "

He says," I faltered in reply, trembling and
fearful lest in the next moment she, in her
tender, wistful way, should express the reasonable
wish to see Leio[h Eversleio:h's letter —
for was not he her own staunch friend as
well as mine ; and was not he moreover
shortly to be her guest at Redknights ?
Surely she had a right to see it ! — " he says
he may come on any day ; at any hour ;
he may be here tomorrow, the next day, perhaps
the day after. But, at all events, he will
arrive as soon as — as soon as circumstances
will permit him to travel down to Buckinghamshire."


In my then strained state of feverish hope and
apprehension, of nervous dread and uncertainty
as to the immediate future, I felt that I could
endure no further conversation that night ; even
though my participant in it was my revered Mrs.
Eversleigh. I stumbled to my feet ; bent over

her and kissed her ; saying hurriedly, almost
piteously, —

Let me go now, will you ? I want to be
alone, to think — to sleep if it be possible. I am
utterly weary, as it is, with much thought and
anxiety. I shall be far better alone ; shut up in
my own room."

She returned my caress as affectionately as she
was wont to do when we parted from each other
for the night, and insisted upon my drinking
some mulled wine before I left the white 
; gently saying that too much tea was
the very worst thing in the world for any one in
my then nervous and hysterical condition.

And, do you know, dear Frances, I cannot
help fancying," she added, more lightly and hopefully,
" since it appears that your correspondent
is none other than our mutual friend Leigh
Eversleigh — by-the-way, I must speak to Mrs.
Jessamy ; a room had better be got in readiness
for our guest without delay — that you are
perhaps magnifying trifles ; seeing mountains
where there are molehills only ; and are, I
dare say, conjuring up all sorts of shadowy
trouble where none in reality of any kind exists.
I somehow cannot imagine bad tidings coming
through Leigh Eversleigh ; his presence here,

the mere sight of him, has often done me good ;
to me, Frances, he has invariably proved a glad
herald. And — and with regard, dear, to the
rest — whatever it may signify, or — or even
portend," said Marion Eversleigh, with a timidity
of manner and a loving upward smile which
to me were infinitely touching, " I have not the
least doubt that with daylight tomorrow things
difficulties — will appear altogether different —
will show themselves in a much brighter, in a
far less gloomy aspect "

*' To-morrow," I interrupted drearily, " I will
tell you all ; to-night I cannot — I cannot. I
will keep nothing back tomorrow ! "

So, in our little mundane way, we discuss and
arrange for the morrow ; mortal-like forgetting
that the present only is our own ; the future
never — that prescience is Heaven's alone.

As I kissed the beloved brow once more, a
swift sob choked my speech. With blind and
hurried steps I left the white drawing-room, and
went up to my own chamber upon the second
floor. The lamps in the warm and silent
corridors flickered slightly in the draught ; the
wind was rushing upon Eedknights from the
north-west.

The window of my room had been carelessly

closed ; and, as I opened the door of it, a cold
gust met me upon the threshold and blew out
the candle I carried.

Then, save for the fire, which had burnt low in
the grate, I was in darkness.

^"^SKIVIAL as was this mishap which
checked me upon the threshold of my
own room, it nevertheless in no mean
measure aggravated the nervousness and trepidation
which on that night had taken such stronghold
upon me and refused to be shaken off.

It was almost, thought I fearfully, as if someone
had stepped noiselessly towards me from out
of the thick gloom of the room, and with a swift,
sudden, living breath had extinguished the candle
in my hand.

Expressing a shudder, I groped my way to the
table by the fireplace and found there a box of
matches. Fortunately there were other candles
in the room ; and I quickly lighted all of them.
Then I securely fastened the window ; drew down
the blind right over it ; flung a dry root or two
on to the dying fire ; and by the fireside sat

down to peruse for the twentieth time the
disquieting letter I had received from Leigh
Eversleigh.

How the wind growled, grew, and roared upon
this side of the house ; now and again whirling
dead leaves and twigs against the window-panes
as it had whirled them against the windows of
the white drawing-room downstairs ! Occasionally
would come a brief hush in the gale, when
the rain seemed to be falling more gently,
and when the mighty whispering sound which
travelled ceaselessly through the swaying treetops
was not unlike the hissing noise of an angry
in-crawling sea.

The wind then was but resting — gathering
new strength.

As — with the candles in their tall old silver
candlesticks drawn close to my strained and
fevered eyes — I once more read, from the first
word to the last, Leigh Eversleigh's amazing
letter, I sighed and shivered by turns.

This is how it ran, —

The Raven Hotel,
Stonyhampton, 25^A October 18 —

"My Dear Mes. Daekwood, — First, let me
say that I am writing in great haste to let you

know that I have not forgotten the promise I
gave to you before I went to America. From
the above address you will see that I am now
in England. Barely a week ago I landed at
Liverpool ; and as soon as I could make it
possible, after a day or so unavoidably spent
in town, I journeyed hither to Stonyhampton.
Good news — take courage — have no fear ! I
have been to Moor Edge ; I have seen and
have interviewed the wretched pair who still
occupy that lonely dwelling of theirs upon
the bleak moorland — the brother and sister,
Simon and Hannah Greedy, with whom your
childhood and your early youth were so
strangely passed. Again I say, have no fear
be content ! Both from the man and the
woman — having at length convinced them
that neither should be punished if they would
confess everything and tell the plain truth —
I have learned enough ; seen enough ; nay,
more than enough, my dear Mrs. Dark wood,
to prove to the whole world that you have
been most cruelly wronged. I have got from
Simon Greedy a couple of papers — each of
them contains merely a few dozen lines ; but,
trust me, those few lines are as good as a
dozen thousand — which will be the means of

wholly lifting the black cloud from your past
and rendering it as light as broad day. Better
far than all — thank God — these papers I speak
of will at once help to restore you to the unhappy
mother who for so many long and bitter
years has mourned you as one for ever lost to
her in this world ! I will not write the great good
news ; I will bring it myself to Redknights ;
for I am anxious that what I am now so
hurriedly writing to you shall catch this night's
mail. I am unable to say positively on which
day I shall leave this place and come south ;
it may be tomorrow ; perhaps the day following
; but certainly not later. I shall travel
straight to London ; and then on to Eed-
knights. Although I as good as say, ' Expect
me at the hour you see me,' be assured that as
speedily as I can I will be the bearer of my own
great good news ! Even to me indeed it seems
incredible — really too great and wonderful to be
true. So too will you, I believe, say when you
come to hear it and understand it ! My kindest
love to Mrs. Eversleigh. By-the-bye, does she
yet know — does the old Squire himself yet know
that ' Frances Deane ' is a myth, a fiction,
what you will, and that in sober truth you are
Daryl Darkwood's wife ? Yes, it is simply marvellous

how things have turned out — to what
end events, catastrophes in your life have shaped
themselves ! A superstitious person might, I
think, be pardoned for suggesting that you were
born under a magic star ! To conceive that of all
men in creation you should have unknowingly
married Daryl Darkwood ; and that you are now
living beneath the roof of Redknights, your
husband's old home, as the friend and the daily
companion of the old Squire's daughter, Marion
Eversleigh ! No ; at present I cannot realise it,
try how I will ! And this reminds me. Daryl,
like myself, I hear, has returned to England ;
has on several occasions lately been seen in the
streets of London. I am very much afraid,
though, from what I have heard, that he has
not, poor fellow, made his fortune in Germany I
I do pray with all my heart that the old Squire,
before it be too late, may be brought to his
senses — to a right and Christian frame of mind.
What is the use of, what is to be gained by
carrying with one to the grave an obstinate and
an unforgiving heart ? I beseech you, do what
you can with the Squire for Daryl' s sake ; so
that his wretched, uncertain, his wandering and
aimless life may soon now come to an end.
Believe me, so long as the Squire and his grand-vol.

III. K

son remain estranged, unreconciled, so long will
Daryl Darkwood remain the man he now is.
Surely — and I fancy I must have said the same
thing to you half a dozen times before at least —
it is in the power of you, his wife (particularly
as circumstances are with you at the present
time), to break up and to for ever destroy
this unhappy and unnatural state of affairs ?
Good-bye, until we meet at Eedknights. —
Ever your sincere friend,

"Leigh Eversleigh."

For several dumb seconds I stared stupidly at
the clear bold signature — 'sleigh Eversleigh."
A good and an honest-looking name it was,
thought I — a name that somehow fitted the
man who bore it ; and then I mechanically
folded the letter, put it back into its
envelope, and thrust it down again into my
pocket, where, as I sat below with Marion
Eversleigh, it had been kept hidden throughout
the evening.

How long I remained sitting there upstairs —
dumb, motionless, dazed — by the now comfortable
fire, I have no remembrance. Doubt, hope, joy,
fear, in turn or all together passed through and
filled my soul. A gladness vague and unutterable

thrilled me one moment ; acutest terror and misgiving
seized me the next. Various riddles, for
which — for me, at any rate — it was impossible to
find solutions, cropped up in and tortured my
weary brain.

What was the story of my life ? Who then
was I ? Who were my kindred ; my own people ?
Were they lowly-born or of high degree ? What
now had the hidden future in store for me after
my curiously chequered past %

Would that day week, or perhaps that day
month, say, still see me living at dear silent old
Eedknights ; or by that time would my tent be
pitched elsewhere, amidst fresh scenes and new
unfamiliar faces ?

Then came a lightning thought of cruel
anguish — how could I ever endure, come to
pass what might, a lasting separation from
Marion Eversleigh ? That could not be borne,
I knew. No, no, no ! I had learned to love
her with a love that could die out of my breast
only with my last breath upon earth — my poor
tired heart and its best affections had taken
deep root where Eedknights stood. Was I, I
wondered bitterly, in this life doomed to be
as the Wandering Jew or as forlorn " Poor Jo "
for ever " moving on " ? Surely, within my

brief experience of it, I had " moved on "
enough ! Ah, yes ! I yearned for no other
home ; for no greater or further rest in this
world. I was now satisfied. No ; from Eed-
knights I could not go !

And what, I drifted into wondering then,
would she — dear Marion Eversleigh — and the
old Squire, her father, say when they should
come to understand that I was really Daryl's
wife ? How good and generous and noble
had Leigh Eversleigh been to me — immeasurably
kinder and more chivalrous than
my own husband I How, should I live
for a thousand years, could I ever repay
him for all that he had done ? How
indeed ?

And so he — Leigh — had actually been to
Stonyhampton ; and likewise to Moor Edge ;
I was musing half unconsciously, yet with
something of the old horror stealing coldly
over me as I recollected the mystery and the
loneliness of my girlhood — had positively seen
and talked with Simon Greedy and his sister
Hannah 1 How strange, how complex was life 1
thought I. Death and its mystery, in comparison,
were infinitely simple 1

And it was at Moor Edge, was it not, where

I had first met Daryl Darkwoocl — met him,
worshipped him, obeyed him ? Could it be
possible that I had ever really loved Daryl — so
passionately and so blindly loved him ? I
suppose so. And it was at Moor Edge, was
it not, that I had been silly enough to have
my fortune told, and had given old Wyse the
Wanderer a half-crown for the telling of it !
What a child was I in those days — what a
foolish, ignorant child ; when I had raced over
the wide and breezy moorland with my faithful
little mongrel doggy Jack Sprat, whose coat
was coarse and whose tail was stumpy, but
whose bright brown eyes were full of honest
love for me 1 Poor Jack Sprat ! Dear little
Jack Sprat — how wildly fond was he of chasing
the larks of a dewy summer morning when the
gossamer floated upon the air ; and how frantically
used he to bark, too, because they soared
beyond his reach ; heedless of him, trilling their
lovely music against the misty far blue of
heaven !

And Daryl — how could I know then that he
was worthless and cruel ? — had poisoned Jack
Sprat ! For had not we found him one morning
quite dead in his barrel, lying there stretched
stiffly out upon his straw ; his faithful brown eyes

stark, glazed, agonised ; and his tongue, with
a greenish froth upon it, hanging from his
discoloured jaws ?

Yes ; that was Daryl's work — I knew it —
though never once in his life had he owned
to the brutal act ; and so too, for the matter of
that, was the dainty " Periwinkle " sketch of
myself which in the days that, like poor Jack
himself, where for ever dead and gone I had used
to hold so dear — just for the simple reason that
he had painted it. Daryl, I was bitterly thinking
— and, ah me, how often had I thought so
before ! — was versatile and many-sided ; he could
slay with one hand whilst he fondled with the
other.

And to-night it all seemed so long, long
ago. . . . Centuries, dim innumerable ages, and
not a few brief years only, seemed indeed to
have fled since I had lived with Simon Greedy,
and met Daryl Darkwood, at Moor Edge ! And
then I thought — ah, so tenderly and so regretfully
! — of my lost darling ; my little dead
angel who slept so well beneath her white
cross in Arley churchyard. Oh, Isla ! . . .
Isla ! . . . And I bowed my head to the
table before me, and thus let the tears have
their way.

• ••••••••

Had I sobbed myself to sleep ? Perhaps — I
am not certain ; but I could not have slept for
long — surely not half an hour % — for the clocks
in the great still house, when I lifted my head,
were but striking midnight ; and the root fire
was still pleasantly glowing, and the wax-candles
in their tall silver candlesticks were not yet
three-parts burnt down.

The wind and the rain, I fancied, had become
less boisterous ; the rain, in fact, for a brief
while had ceased ; and the weird white moon was
ao^aiQ struck-lino; to show herself — howbeit that
sound like the sound of a troubled sea crawling
inland was still to be heard in the tossing
trees.

Wearily I rose from my chair ; pressed my
hands upon my eyes ; and began slowly to move
towards the bed. Ah !

What was it — the wind ? Hardly. Hark !

It was an odd uncanny noise, not easy to
describe — a kind of dull jarring and scratching,
a clinging and bumping against the outer walls
of the house — as if some heavy living thing, by
means of the ivy and the iron trellis, where with
difficulty climbing in the direction of my window.
Paralysed stood I in the centre of the room ; my

breath involuntarily suspended ; every pulse in
my body almost ceasing to quiver ; and my eyes
in a horrified stare fixed upon the shadowy blind.
The window itself was in fitful gloom ; with
the white and watery moonlight now full upon
it outside ; the huge bed and its sombre hangings
cutting ofi" the light from the candles and
the fire.

A gust of wind swept past the window ; the
blind moved in the draught. In that terrible
moment, for the life of me, I could neither have
stirred nor screamed.

The uncanny noise grew more distinct ; the
extraordinary scraping, the jarring, the quivering
and straining of the ivy-stems upon the outer
walls came nearer — higher — unmistakably nearer
and higher.

Merciful Heaven ! were thieves, desperate
wretches, breaking into Eedknights? And should
I — could I find neither the strength to move—
nor the voice to shout — be murdered, perhaps
strangled by their dreadful ruffian hands, there
where I stood so helplessly ?

I felt that those as yet invisible hands were
already clutching the stonework of the windowsill
; the next instant would see — Yes ; there
was a shadow — the shadow of a man's head and

shoulders — upon the blind now ; it grew larger
yet larger ! An arm was raised — I saw it ! I
heard a knife, or some other small implement,
scraping at the bolt of the window. The bolt
flew back. Click — clack !

I tried to shriek for help, but I could not ; my
tongue refused to obey me ; it clave, hot and
dry, within my mouth.

Then flashed across my brain a thought more
fearful and intolerable than all the rest.
Instantly it gave me strength and courage ; and
my coward terror fled.

Danger to my beloved Mrs. Eversleigh I The
robber-scoundrel would in all likelihood murder
her as well as me !

The fright even, the shock alone perchance of
the man's presence in the house, might mean
nothing less than death to Marion Eversleigh ;
delicate and nervous as she was.

No ; that should never be ! My life for hers,
first, if need where. The villain, whoever he was,
should kill me then and there — should step over
my dead body — before he dared to injure so
much as a hair of her dear head !

So instantly I resolved ; and straightway
acted.

Kind Heaven," I breathed — " help me !

In this hour of horrid danger do not forsake
me!"

And, barely sensible of what I was actually
doing, of the grim risk incurred by so desperate
an act, but impelled by the conviction that there
was not a moment to be lost, I rushed forward
to the window ; which in that self-same minute
was being stealthily raised.

In a trice I had dragged the curtains widely
apart and sent the blind flying upward. With
dauntless mien I threw the casement high ; and
confronted the man upon the stone ledge outside.


A minute more — and he would have leaped
into the room.

But a scream, swift and shrill, left my lips.
I staggered backward, sick, nerveless again,
half fainting from an utter revulsion of feeling,
against the lofty footboard of the great bedstead
near. The light touched the haggard white face
of the man ; showed me his sunken brilliant
eyes, bright with an almost terrified red gleam
in them ; his uncovered head, his rough wet
hair.

Daryl — Daryl ! " was all I could say ; with
my hand to my throat — a hoarse stifled whisper
that seemed to choke me.

In his awful position lie rocked to and fro —
staring wildly at me ; appeared wholly to forget
the frightful peril of it ; and unconsciously
loosened his hold of the knotted gray ivy-limbs
upon the wall.

My God," he gasped out — " you here,
Flower ! Flower — my wife — at Redknights —
in — in this room ! Flower ! "

I saw him, though powerless to save him,
reel into space as it were ; his arms flung outward
into the wet windy darkness behind him.
I heard a groan — a crash — a terrific thud, sickening
to the ear, upon the terrace-flags beneath
the window.

He had been there one moment ; the next he
was gone !

I leaned far out into the black gloom. The
moon had gone in again. The rain fell heavily
upon my bare head ; the sound like that of the
sea travelled very mournfully now through the
ghostly trees in the pleasaunce and through the
tall yew-hedge beyond it.

'' Daryl— Daryl ! " I called frenziedly. " Is it
you, Daryl — really you ? " And no other word
then could I speak — only his name : " Daryl,
Daryl, Daryl ! "

A moan, faint and pitiful on the wet and

Periwinkle.

windy darkness, came up to me from the terrace
stones below.

And that moan was the only answer to my
cry.

|;5^ BELIEVE it was merely for a few
■ "'^ seconds, not longer, that I remained

thus completely unnerved and stupefied
; just at a time when presence of mind was
required before aught else, and when every
minute was precious — crouching there by the
open bedroom window, the midnight rain blowing
in upon me, and listening helplessly to the
moaning voice of Daryl that so faintly came upto
me from the dark terrace-walk.

Only for a few weak dazed seconds ; and then
I sprang to my feet ; pale enough, I know, and
dishevelled, but with every faculty roused and
alert.

Some women, I am well aware, would be but
poor limp useless fools in a terrible emergency of
this kind ; I am thankful however that I am not
one of them. The past half-dozen years, with

the bitter experience they had brought to me
had strengthened, it may be hardened, my
character. I was no longer a timid and careless
girl ; I had lived, loved, and suffered — in brief,
I was a woman, and morally in reality, I think,
stronger than most.

The truth must out, and must be faced now —
there was no help for it ! No longer could it be
shirked and kept in the background. The hour
for it had come ; and the truth must be told ;
an hour indeed was it, too, of sternest necessity,
of grimes reality — there could be no doubt of
that. The time of dreaming and of vacillation
had gone by ; prompt, swift action and cool commonsense
above all things were suddenly demanded
in place of them. And the hour, thank
Heaven, found me strong and ready !

As quietly as I could go I flew to Mrs.
Jessamy's room. In as few words as possible I
explained to her what had happened. She sat
bolt upright in bed ; well-nigh scared out of
her senses, and as white as the sheets around
her.

'lord ha' mercy upon us!" the dame ejaculated.
'what — what is to be done, Mrs.
Deane ? "

I told her what I thought ought to be done ;

meanwhile suppressing as best I could my own
agitation and excitement.

Lose no time. Call up directly some of the
men-servants ; and send one of them as fast as
horse can take him to Hazel for Doctor Wynter.
But, whatever you do, if it be possible, do not
too abruptly disturb Mrs. Eversleigh and the
Squire ; I mean — I mean, for the present at any-rate.
Let us first ascertain the worst. I — I
myself am going immediately to the terrace.
Join me there, Mrs. Jessamy, please, will you ?
And — and it would be best to bring some one
with you the instant you can come to me."

Three minutes later I was out of doors ; wrapped
from head to foot in a thick gray woollen shawl ;
and had fought my way through the wind and
the rain round to the broad high terrace above
the pleasaunce.

I found him ; I bent close over him ; I lifted
his head to my knee ; I called him very tenderly
by name — yet he did not answer me. But he
was not dead ; for now and then he groaned ashe
lay there upon the cold flagstones.

Daryl — Daryl," I whispered, " it is I, Flower,
your wife ! Speak to me, dear, if — if you hear
and understand."

He moaned again ; that was all.

I had remembered to bring out with me some
brandy, and I managed to put the glass to his
lips. He swallowed a little of it. In the stormy
gloom which enshrouded us I peered yet lower,
yet more eagerly, into his quiet face ; and I
fancied that his eyes had opened and were staring
upward into mine.

"Daryl," I said again, very softly, '* do you
know me, dear? It is I, Flower. They will
come out to us and help us directly. A doctor
will soon be here."

He just stirred — ever so slightly ; but he
was not, I could perceive, conscious. And for
this insensibility, in silence I fervently thanked
Heaven ; for I knew that his injuries — oh, my
poor Daryl ! — must necessarily be of a dreadful
nature. With my warm woollen shawl I, leaning
over him, made a shelter for his head as it rested
against my knee ; so that the cold rain should
not beat upon his face. And, as I bent thus
above him, and felt his head touching my bosom,
something of the old great love that I had once
conceived for him, but that had now lain for so
long moribund far down in my heart, awoke
within it, stirred again ever so tremulously ; and
with a sob of deepest pity I bowed my head to
Daryl's and kissed his chill white brow.

Was he dead ? God grant not ! In this
solemn hour, when Death was hovering so near
to us, when earth and all things earthly seemed
nothing worth," or of so little account, I began
to yearn with an intense yearning to hear the
man who in the days that were gone had been
my — ah no, no ! — who still was my husband,
say just once, "Flower, I forgive you!" For,
granted that he far more than I had been in the
wrong, I perhaps had not been altogether blameless.
I could not tell — I was not sure now !

"Oh, Daryl," I cried piteously, "say, dear,
that you forgive me ! Do not for ever leave me
with those words unsaid."

And, although that low, long-drawn, suffering
sound was, as before, his only response, I was unspeakably
glad to hear even that ; for it told me
that life still lingered in the mangled body —
Daryl's soul had not fled from me yet ; and so
there might be hope still.

Presently I saw a group of figures — alike fantastically
clad and indistinct in outline, and with
the shadows of them cast weirdly along the wet
terrace-pavement and upon the gloomy walls of
the house — hastening towards Daryl and me.
Two of the men carried lanterns ; others were
bearing between them a narrow mattress. Mrs.

o
VOL. III. L

Jessamy, breathless and distressed, led the
way.

*' Oh, ma'am — Mrs. Deane," wept the good old
soul — " will he — will he know any of us ? I
always loved him — always. "Will he — can he
speak to me, the dear lad ? "

''No."

'' Oh, Mrs. Deane," she was beginning again ;
but I abruptly checked her.

Do not call me that ! " I cried sternly, passionately.
"It is not — it never was my name ! "

In tearful wonder Mrs. Jessamy gazed at me.
I believe she thought that my reason was at
fault. But it was no time for questions — explanations
— idle, unnecessary talk. She knew
that as well as I.

I will make it clearer — will tell you more
by-and-by," I added hurriedly. " Forgive me,
Mrs. Jessamy ! I didn't mean to speak to you
as I did just now."

Very carefully had the men lifted Daryl and
placed him upon the narrow mattress. The
hall door was open ; upon the wet gloom outside
the light from within streamed ruddily
forth ; and very carefully and slowly they made
their way towards it. I and Mrs. Jessamy —
like funeral mourners — followed the men and

their burthen. The stable-yard clock chimed a
quarter to one.

You have sent, I hope, for Doctor Wynter ? "
I said.

*' Yes, ma'am. He ought soon to be here, I
should say."

In which room will they put him ? "

Mr. Daryl, you mean ? "

'eyes."

The dame, in a broken voice scarcely audible,
explained that the mistress, before going to bed,
had given her — Mrs. Jessamy — to understand
that Mr. Leigh Eversleigh might at any hour,
and without warning, arrive at Eedknights ;
therefore it would be best that a room — his
usual one — should at once be prepared for him,
as the hour of his coming was so uncertain.
This, said Mrs. Jessamy, in accordance with the
mistress's wish, had been seen to without delay.
She herself, with her own hands, had aired the
sheets and lighted a fire in the room before she
had gone upstairs. Very fortunately, as it happened,
all was done and in readiness ; and —
and now Mr. Daryl must have that room.

And it is the one, you say, that Mr. Leigh
Eversleigh usually occupies when he is here ? "
I inquired quickly.

'eyes, ma'am. It is the third you come to in
the bachelor's corridor."

That is downstairs ; is it not ? "

Yes, ma'am, downstairs — close to the billiard
and smoking rooms. There will be no stairs toto
carry him up," whispered Mrs. Jessamy —
if you were thinking of that ? "

Yes, Mrs. Jessamy — I was thinking of that."

We reached the hall-door. The men and
their burthen went in first. The old housekeeper,
halting a moment, touched my arm.

*' The dear mistress knows," said she, brushing
away her tears with a corner of the ancient
marketing-cloak — a marvellous wide garment of
other days — which she had hastily thrown around
her ere she joined me upon the terrace.

Knows of this — this accident, do you
mean ? " I exclaimed anxiously.

Yes, ma'am ; you see we were obliged to tell
her. She had heard the commotion, the hurrying
to and fro, the running about overhead, I
suppose — for men are so clumsy — and she came
out in her dressing-gown to learn what was the
meaning of it all. She insisted upon being told;
and so, ma'am, there was no help for it "

Here Marion Eversleigh herself glided towards
us, trembling and very pale ; but, on the whole.

calmer and braver in the circumstances than I
had dared to hope. It had frightened me to
think how this hard calamity might affect her.

Fearfully she glanced at the dark quiet figure
upon the mattress ; and clung to me as she said
with a shudder, —

'• Oh, Frances, Frances, this is dreadful, dear !
What shall we do ? Tell me more about it —
how it happened. I could not understand Mrs.
Jessamy — she was too upset and excited. It all
seems so terrible — I — I do not comprehend."

For a space I held her to my breast ; almost
convulsively held her to me thus.

Do not — do not any longer call me
Frances ' ! " I muttered hysterically ; " I cannot
bear it."

She lifted her worn sad eyes inquiringly.

"- Why, what are you saying, dear ? That
I am no longer to — "

I interrupted her. I put her gently aside.

Presently — presently," I said hurriedly, " I
will tell you more. Come ; let us go with them
they are taking him to Mr. Eversleigh's room.
We must do all that we can, you know, until
Doctor Wynter arrives to help us."

*'My dear Mrs. Deane, I am here," said a
brisk voice close to us. And with a start, turning,

we most thankfully beheld the Hazel
surgeon. He had already divested himself of
hat and overcoat ; and was then drawing off
his stout driving-gloves.

He went at once to the room in the bachelors'
corridor, whither the men-servants, directed by
Mrs. Jessamy, had carried Daryl. Marion
Eversleigh and I, now and then shivering with
anxiety and apprehension, waited outside the
door of that sad room. We clung to each
other ; waiting for the verdict ; waiting to learn
the worst, but saying never a word. The doors
of Eedknights were thick ; only the subdued
buzzing of half a dozen voices stole out to us
as we waited in the corridor.

By this time the whole household had been
roused and was astir; and it all seemed very ghostly
and sorrowful in these dark chill small hours of a
new day. The old Squire and the valet Buckle,
in their remote part of the great house, alone at
present were in ignorance of what had happened.

Frances," Mrs. Eversleigh suddenly breathed,
the sleeve of your gown is quite wet — soaked
through. I can feel it ! Is it — is it rain ? "

There was a lamp upon the panelled wall
near to where we stood. I moved a little away
from her ; and, with my back to Marion Evers-

leigh, I held up my arm to the light. I narrowly
examined the sleeve.

Yes," I said at last, as calmly as I could ;
"it is rain."

It was not. Rain, it was true, there might be
upon it ; but something else had soaked my
sleeve red — and that was blood.

Just then out to us came Doctor Wynter ;
Mrs. Jessamy — her faithful old eyes inflamed
with crying — following him. He looked exceeding
grave.

Well ? "

With painful eagerness I put the brief inquiry
; whilst Mrs. Eversleigh remained quite
quiet, tightly holding within her own my
quivering hand.

I find that I must immediately drive back
to Hazel," replied Doctor Wynter evasively.
I am in urgent need of things which I have
not with me. I shall not be gone long. In the
meantime my patient, Mr. Daryl Darkwood,
must on no account be for a minute left alone.
If he speaks — at present he is not conscious —
get him to take, whenever he can, a spoonful of
brandy — not more — until I return. It will do
him no harm — "

I broke in impatiently, —

Of course. What we want to know, if you
please, Doctor, is : Is there hope at all ? Can
he live ? "

Impossible."

When I could once more speak, I said, —

*how long — how long, Doctor, will it be — "

He may linger for some few hours yet —
it is possible, mind you, though not likely —
but it is certain that he will not live to see
another sunset. With great difficulty we have
succeeded in cutting his clothes from off him ;
and I find that he is dreadfully hurt — and no
wonder, dear madam," murmured Doctor
Wynter smoothly, turning to Daryl's Aunt
Marion. " His spine and one of his legs are
fractured," said the surgeon ; " and there are
other hopeless injuries besides."

I cried out passionately, —

I shall stay then with him — watch with
him until he dies ! "

Mrs. Eversleigh, the old housekeeper, and
the Hazel surgeon, all three of them were staring
at me seemingly struck dumb with surprise.
It was Mrs. Eversleigh who at last
spoke.

*ewe cannot allow that, dear Frances," she
said, in her loving quiet way — and she put

lier arm around my waist as if she would so
lead me from the door of Daryl's room, — " on
the contrary, you must go to your bed and
rest. I am sure that you are worn out as it
is. You have done enough for us — indeed
too much, dear — already. It is for me and
Mrs. Jessamy to stay with Daryl ; not you."

'' Yes, for me," said I firmly ; " if any one !
My place now, so long as he is alive, is by
Daryl Darkwood's side."

Frances ! "

"Dear Mrs. Eversleigh," I said more gently,
my head dropping wearily to her shoulder,
"believe me, I am not crazy. I know quite
well what I am saying — it is the simple truth.
Do not — do not ever again call me ' Frances ' ;
it is not my name ; I — I have deceived you !
Forgive me — oh, forgive me if you can — I am
Daryl Darkwood's wife ! "

throughout that most sorrowful
night I watched in Daryl's room.
Nobody now disputed my right to do
this for it was, I fancy, vaguely felt by everyone
— incomplete as was as yet my confession of
the fact — that I had spoken but the solemn truth.
My words and my manner together, I suppose,
had carried conviction with them ; despite the
enigma of it all !

Looking back from now — a gladder and sunnier
time — to the long hours of that dark vigil by
Daryl's bedside, it is difficult to realise, even in
memory, how simply and naturally things by
degrees adjusted themselves ; how one event
followed upon the heels of another ; how grief
and disaster led to joy and light ; how black
mystery vanished and white truth asserted herself;
until my life was cleared of all reproach.

and the past to me and mine — thank God —
appeared as though it never had been !

Yes, looking back, I say, from now to then,
everything in truth seems so dim and so unreal
that it is singularly hard to conceive over again
the grim reality of circumstances which once
prevailed. Such is the mercy of the great
magician Time ; ever cruel and yet ever kind ;
ever the true friend of all sorrow and of all

wrong !

Of that night, however, I can recall several
incidents that in memory rise up by far more
vividly than do others of the same sad date
This of course is only natural.

For instance, I distinctly recollect Doctor
Wynter's returning to Eedknights, bringing
with him a flat case of surgical instruments and
also a quantity of lint and oil-silk. He seemed
to have been gone for hours ; actually — so they
assured me — it was barely half-an-hour.

I recollect too how oddly and how keenly
the surgeon watched me as I washed the oozing
blood from a horrid gash which he — Doctor
Wynter — upon examination had found beneath
Daryl's thick beautiful hair. An unerring instinct
told me what was passing through the
mind of the surgeon. He was thinking that, if

what he saw in me was grief for my husband, it
was an emotion curiously cold and repressed.

All the same, I loved him once — very dearly
once," I said audibly, in a hollow mechanical
tone — " though you may not believe it. But I
did — I did, I tell you ! I loved him more dearly
than life itself!"

I looked straight, and perhaps somewhat defiantly,
at Doctor Wynter as I said this ; whilst
he answered me with a slight deprecating movement
of the shoulders, and went and busied
himself in another part of the room.

Some one was standing behind me ; and a
light tremulous hand was laid upon my head.
I looked up. I then saw that it was Marion
Eversleigh herself. She had brought a little
tray with her ; and upon it there were wine and
sandwiches. She forced me to swallow some
of the refreshment, lest I should faint, she said
anxiously, from sheer exhaustion. She remembered
how little I had been able to eat at dinner
on the past evening.

** Has he spoken ? Is he conscious ? " she
asked very low.

'' No ; not yet."

I wish," she began, " you would go and lie
down, Fran — " She corrected herself. " I wish,

dear, that you would allow me to take your place
for an hour or two, so that you might rest," said
Marion Eversleigh wistfully.

So long as he breathes I do not stir from this
room," I gently but firmly told her.

She sighed ; then inquired, —

Does Doctor Wynter say there is a chance
of his recognising any of us before — before the
end ? "

Doctor Wynter, still busy at a table in a
corner with his lint and instruments, overheard.
In a whisper he threw his voice across the room
to us.

Just a chance, Mrs. Eversleigh," he said ;
and no more."

'what is the time now?" I asked. "My
watch has stopped."

Mrs. Eversleigh glanced at her own, and then
showed it to me.

It was a quarter-past four. It would shortly
be daybreak.

*' Does the Squire know ? Have you told him
yet ? " I asked ; looking up drearily at the old
Squire's daughter.

'' About — about Daryl ? " she faltered.

"Yes."

She shook her head. Her father was asleep.

Marion Eversleigh said ; and Doctor Wynter was
of opinion that it would be unwise to disturb him
before his customary waking hour. He was too
old and too infirm to bear the shock without due
caution in preparing him for it. They must be
very careful in telling the old man. But Buckle,
the valet, knew — he was up and dressed. He
would come and apprise Mrs. Eversleigh directly
his master awoke.

It is too strange — it seems impossible," she
murmured involuntarily, turning upon me her
wistful gaze. I divined her thoughts as I had
read those of Doctor Wynter.

"You mean," I said quietly, with the unnatural
calm that is born of an intense sorrow,
*' that I should be the wife of Daryl Darkwood ?
Yes, to you, I grant, it must seem strange —
impossible."

Marion Eversleigh's pale face flushed. She
bent and kissed me.

Believe me, dear, I do not doubt you," she
said, with something like a sob ; " but — but
at present it — it is all so hard to understand."

*' If ever in this world he should speak again,"
I rejoined, 'depend upon it, you will hear
the truth from his own lips."

Later on, I recollect Mrs. Jessamy's giving

utterance to a similar speech. She had crept
into the room, bringing a cup of strong black
coffee for Doctor Wynter. He had asked for
coffee ; preferring it at that hour to anything
else.

I can't take it in yet, ma'am," said the old
woman mournfully — " I can't — I wish I could.
My head goes round like with trying to understand
that you are really our Mr. Daryl's wife ! "

And I answered the dame forlornly in language
similar to that in which I had answered
Marion Eversleigh.

"Wait," I said. "I pray — am praying now
that he will soon become conscious. Then
he will recognise me — me, his wife ; and — and
you, too, then will hear what he says. Wait ! "

When the chill gray light of day struck
through the closed window-curtains, Daryl was
sleeping ; and quiet. Towards six o'clock his
restless moaning had begun anew ; he seemed
to breathe with greater difficulty ; the deep
groans grew longer and more frequent ; were
more terrible to hear. I felt certain that he
was conscious of intense physical suffering, if
of naught else ; and I begged and prevailed
upon the Hazel surgeon to administer some

potent narcotic — could it be done without risk
something, I besought him, which should beat
once harmless yet effectual ; for I cou d
not bear to hear the voice of Daryl moaning
hard like that. It hurt me cruelly — broke
my heart.

The surgeon at first demurred — said the pulse
was too weak ; was every hour becoming weaker;
but ultimately he consented to try something
that could do no mischief, even to a man in
Daryl's hopeless state. Mercifully the venture
was successful ; and Daryl Darkwood, his agony
for the time deadened, slept.

I rose noiselessly and moved to the window.
I gently raised the blind and looked forth upon
the new day. The rain had ceased ; the earth
was drenched ; the higher wet bare branches of
the trees had a reddish chocolate tint upon them ;
and the watery clouds in trailing fragments were
flying diaphanous over the clear and steely
sky. The morning, I fancied, would be bright
but windy.

The others had left me just for a few minutes ;
Mrs. Jessamy having come to say that breakfast
had been prepared for and was awaiting us in.
the library.

Marion Eversleigh and the Hazel doctor went

together — for indeed they needed something —
but I refused to stir from my husband's bedside.
They could send some tea to me there
by-and-by ; and if, during their brief absence,
I should want help of any kind, I could easily
ring for it — the bell-rope was at the bed-head.

And so I was alone in the room with Daryl
Darkwood.

Upon a carved oak chest at the foot of the
bed lay the clothes which the surgeon had ripped
from Daryl's body — since it had been possible
to get them off in no other way. One by one
I carried the garments to the light ; and one by
one I looked at them closely.

They were worn, travel-soiled, undeniably
shabby. They might once, it is true, have been
spotless, of fashionable make — he always had
loved goodly apparel — but, alas, they were
shabby enough now 1 At a glance I perceived
that the boots matched the clothes, every pocket
of which was empty — at least, I could find no
money in any of them.

Oh, my poor Daryl ! My love — my love !

Not until the morning was well advanced,
and the cold pale sun was high in the breezy
sky — a sun that dried but tardily the bare wet

VOL. III. M

chocolate-tinted tree-tops and the sodden brown
leafy paths beneath them — did Daryl utter any
word that was to us in the least intelligible.

Even then it was hard to understand him ;
difficult to catch the drift and the meaning of
his muttered, rambling talk.

He lay upon his back high amongst the
pillows ; a ghastly, tortured look on his whiteface
; a bandage hiding the gash upon his dark
head ; but his eyes were still closed.

He seemed, so far as we could comprehend
him, to be living over again some scene or other
of devilry at Schloss Kosenberg, in the Saxon
Switzerland region, the remote mountain home
of that godless foreign friend of his. Drink
and play : wine and women ; cards and dice ;
money won and money lost — in disjointed, fragmentary
sentences, as we watched and tended
him, we caught these muttered words amid the
rest.

He cursed his ill-luck — ah, was not it ever
so ? When money was gone, friends likewise
disappeared. He cursed those false friends, —
Herr von Eosenberg more than all ; but, as
his terrific maledictions were uttered partly in
German, I believe that no one in the room
save myself understood them. In this wise he

spoke of his quitting Germany ; his return to
London ; and of the various hardships, the
misery he had endured in the great cruel
selfish city during the past two months or
more.

Over and over again did he curse his ill-luck
not his folly. Ah, it is ever so with men of
Daryl's stamp — even to the last doggedly refusing,
as it were, to acknowledge that " conduct
is fate ; " is so, and so must ever be, in this
sorry world below !

He is speaking of his grandfather," said
Marion Eversleigh anxiously. " Listen ! "

Yes ; he was muttering now that, like the
prodigal son, he would return to the old home,
to Redknights — not however, prodigal-wise, to
confess humbly that he had sinned and had
repented ; but to own passionately that in exile
he had suffered and was wretched ; that he
wanted to end his miserable banishment. If it
were really a question of forgiveness, then in
mercy let him be forgiven and have done with
it — forgiven in any manner the old Squire
pleased. Only let him be pardoned ! For the
present he asked no more !

He fell to wondering how he would be received,
should he resolve to go thither ; whether

the doors of Eedknights would be closed against
him ; and whether the Squire, his wrath unquenched,
would sternly refuse to see him.

Perhaps ; it was more likely than not.

An idea came to him ; he would act upon it.
Once let him gain admittance to his grandfather's
presence ; let him only come upon the
old man suddenly and without warning ; and
the rest, he believed, would be sufficiently easy
his object, in fact, would be attained. If this
were done, and his grandfather taken unawares,
there would then be no time for the old anger,
or the smouldering ashes of it, to flare up again
into fierce life ; no time for the old bitter quarrel
to be remembered, gone over once more in all
its galling actualities, its shameful details. But
this, thought he, would inevitably be the case if
he, Daryl Darkwood, were fool enough to in anywise
announce his coming — to prepare the Squire
beforehand, either by letter or by the mouth of
a servant, for his daring reappearance at the
home of his boyhood.

No. The Squire and himself, he decided,
should come face to face when such a meeting
by the old man was undreamed-of and least
expected. If he was to win in the bold adventure,
this, he told himself, was the only way todo

it. He was ignorant of the pitiable state of
senility to which the past few years had reduced
the old Squire. The extreme physical infirmity,
the mental havoc of the very old man, were alike
unknown to Daryl Darkwood.

So he determined that, like a thief in the
night, he would steal into Kedknights ; and for
Daryl to accomplish this would be no extraordinary
feat — had not he, as a younger man,
done the same thing scores of times before ? —
and in the morning, when he guessed the coast
to be clear, he would seek the Squire, his grandfather,
and make the desperate stroke. It
might mean triumph — who could tell ? At the
worst, it could but mean defeat.

The lower windows of the huge old pile he
well knew were at night kept heavily barred
and shuttered ; but there was neither shutter
nor bar to the lofty casement of that chamber
upon the second floor which had once upon a
time been his own — his own old favourite room,
spacious and comfortable, which overlooked the
terrace and the forsaken pleasaunce. Upward to
that window, as he had so often and so fearlessly
done in his wild youth, by the aid of the iron
trellis and the tough ancient ivy-limbs, would
he once more climb

Here the indistinct rambling talk broke off;
and, moaning, he moved his head restlessly from
side to side upon the pillows. All at once he
cried out — weak as he was, it was almost a
shout, —

Why is she — Flower — at Kedknights % In
God's name how did she get here ? I saw her
my wife ! She was in my room — my old
room, I tell you ! Flower, it was you, dear,
was it not ? Flower ! ''

Marion Eversleigh stepped backward a few
paces ; her hands pressed over her heart.

What — what is that he says ? " she gasped ;
her wan face taking an ashy hue.

I went hurriedly to her side.

He cannot know," I somehow at the
moment deemed it wiser to tell her, frightened
to see her look so startled and so ill ; " his mind
is clouded — wandering. Perhaps — I fancy he
is thinking of — of his little cousin, dear — I mean
the little daughter that years ago you lost ! "

She was leaning heavily for support against
the tall oak wardrobe. I put my arm round
her ; but she was rallying ; for a faint pink
colour was creeping into her cheek.

'• That cannot be," she said, in a distinct
whisper — " for he never in his life saw her —

that little cousin ; my own darling child ; never,
that I can remember." She put both her hands
to her forehead ; bowed her head in them.
My little Flower was so young — such a
baby," she said ; " and — and it all happened
before he came to Eedknights. He was in
India at the time ; or on the homeward voyage ;
and therefore it is impossible that he should
recollect her as "

Even while she spoke, Doctor Wynter quitted
the bedside and joined us.

The Squire has not yet been told, I believe
? " he said.

Marion Eversleigh looked up piteously into
the smooth and kindly face of the Hazel
surgeon.

Oh, Doctor Wynter," said she to this old
friend of the family, " I feel that I cannot tell
him ! He is so weak, so altogether poorly and
feeble this morning, I tremble for the result
of the shock. Twice already have I been
to him ; and twice has my courage failed
me.

"Is he out of his dressing-room ? "

By now ; yes."

Well, by rights, anyway, he should be
told at once," said Doctor Wynter, in a low

firm tone. " There is no time to lose," he
added, with meaning.

Mrs. Eversleigh locked her hands helplessly
and shivered.

Would you like me to break it to his
grandfather ? " said the Doctor considerately.
Perhaps it would be best."

Oh, if you would ! "

'every well ; I will manage it as expeditiously
as I can, you may be sure," the Doctor answered.
** I will go immediately, and shall try to persuade
the Squire to return hither with me."

Thank you ! " Marion Eversleigh said gratefully.


And Doctor Wynter forthwith left the room ;
beckoning to Mrs. Jessamy to accompany him
on his errand.

Flower — Flower ! " called Daryl's voice.

In an instant I was kneeling by his pillows,
my arm placed well beneath them ; in that
manner raising his face nearer to mine.

Daryl, I am here. Do you know me ? " I
said gently.

Languidly he turned his dark eyes towards me
eyes from which the brilliant red-brown light
was fading out, leaving them dim and unutterably
sad. For some seconds, with a wondering mournful

gaze, he stared into my face that was so near
to his own — though as a rule nothing; seems
miraculous to a dying man. Within the shadow
of the lone and sombre valley, adown which,
sooner or later, whether we will or no, we all of
us must 2^0 to meet the g-rim friend who awaits
us there at the bottom of the hill, nothing seems
unnatural or unreal to the senses that, with every
faltering step along the darkling slope, are surely
and swiftly passing away from us. All is so
gloomy, so mysterious, in the unknown Silent
Land which lies beyond the valley, that we forget
to wonder over, to trouble ourselves about, the
riddles and the mysteries of earth which we are
leaving behind us for ever and ever. Yes,
cold and silent Death, chilly as is your greeting
smile, wintry as is your close embrace, you are
after all a warm and loving friend 1

Daryl, do you know me?" I asked again,
very softly and tenderly, perceiving that he did
not or could not speak. '' I am Flower, your
own wife ; and I am here with you, Daryl, at
Redknights."

At Redknights ? " he echoed faintly, with
partly-closed eyes. " Am I then at Redknights
and you too, Flower — really back in the old
place at last ? "

Yes, Daryl ; really back in the old home."

"All, I remember'' he groaned. "Haven't
I been a brute — a bad husband — to you,
Periwinkle ? " he murmured unexpectedly. " If
so, try to — to forget — to forgive — "

No, no, no — there is naught to forgive. Do
not, dear love, think of that now 1 Daryl, you
remember your Aunt Marion ? "

Aunt Marion? Oh, yes — poor Aunt Marion ? "
he said dreamily. " Where is she, then. Flower ? "

She is here—"

I stopped ; for Marion Eversleigh was kneeling
by my side ; with quivering touch was clinging
to my arm as she knelt.

Why — why does he call you ' Flower ' ? "
said she, in agonised accents. " Wh}^ is it ? I
must — I will know ! "

The uncontrollable trembling which had seized
her frail frame seemed just then to pass magnetically
from her body into mine.

"Because," I managed to answer, as quietly
and as soothingly as I could — " because it is
the truth. Flower is my name — my real
name."

Her nervous hold on me loosened. As if in
prayer, she bent low her head to the bedside
and broke into a fit of smothered weeping.

"Kind Heaven," I heard her sob, " what — oh,
what can be the meaning of it all ? "

Daryl was feebly moaning ; and saying with
difficult breath that it had grown cold — very
cold.

Flower, put your arms round me — warm me
thus," came his faint entreaty.

I sprang to my feet and got him champagne
; a modicum of which, at frequent
intervals, he had been taking during the
past hour or so. It was better for him than
brandy, the Doctor said. And then I lifted
his head to my bosom and softly kissed his
cold damp forehead.

"Ah," he muttered, though I could barely
hear him, " I am glad that we are once more
together, Flower — you and I ! "

Are you, Daryl ? So am I, dear — in this
hour very thankful and glad 1 "

The door opened. Clad in his Oriental 
of many colours, carefully led by his
old friend Doctor Wynter, and followed very
closely by Buckle and Mrs. Jessamy, lest his
tottering limbs should fail him and he should
suddenly collapse in their midst, entered the
Squire ; crying as he came like a child ; babbling
like a child : his scanty white hair just peeping

from beneath his skull-cap — truly a pathetic
sight.

As Doctor Wynter by patient degrees brought
the old man forward to the bedside, another
servant appeared in the doorway and spoke ina
somewhat excited undertone to Buckle and to
Mrs. Jessamy. Both the housekeeper aod the
valet brightened, I noticed ; neither of them
appeared to be astonished; and all three of
them hastened away together.

Daryl, dear, my husband, do you hear me ? "
I spoke near to his ear ; for it was impossible
not to mark that he was sinking — rapidly sinking
; he and friend Death, in the darkling valley,
would soon be clasping hands. " Your grandfather,
the Squire, has come. He is here. See —
he is speaking to you — can you hear him,
Daryl ? "

He heard ; he tried to raise himself; but could
not. Doctor Wynter and I between us lifted
him higher upon the large soft pillows.

Grandpa — grandfather — forgive — forgive — "

We had placed the old man in an arm-chair at
the bed-head. There, crushed and dazed by a
great grief, howbeit the real nature of which his
enfeebled intellect could but dimly comprehend,
he sat obediently ; fondling and very childishly

crying over one of Daryl's hands. But Daryl
Darkwood's fingers were utterly nerveless —
powerless now to respond to the weak pressure
of those skinny palsied ones that so pathetically
were wanderings over and clinHng^ to his. He
could gasp out only, —

'* Grandfather — forgive ! "

They tell me — the fools ! " incoherently
wept the old man, drying his tears in the skirt
of his gaudy dressing-gown — "that you have
come back to Eedknights to — to die, Daryl lad.
Say it is not true, my boy — say it is not true !
You might have come back to your grandfather
before, Daryl — why didn't you ? — for the years
gone by without you have seemed very long tous,
my lad — you might have come back before.
I'm got such an old, old man — I've wanted you
in many ways — wanted you badly sometimes.
Do not die, Daryl ; but, now that you have returned,
stay a little while with your poor old
grandfather — he will not trouble you lomond
there's money for you in plenty, if you
want it — in plenty. Marion don't want it ; she
has enough of her own ; take a blank cheque,
Daryl lad, and fill it in as you please — four figures
if you like — I won't grumble — no, no ; and bygones
shall be by-gones, you know ; we'll never

Speak of 'em ; and — and we'll make a fresh
start, Daryl — we'll begin all over again."

Daryl," I said, with my lips put again to
his ear — " you hear ? The Squire, your grandfather
— our grandfather, dear — means to be
kind. He is hard no longer. He forgives."

The tortured look was nearly gone from the
face of my husband ; an expression of greater
content and calm had lately stolen over and had
remained upon his features.

And — and you. Periwinkle ? " he breathed.

Hush, my poor darling ! "

And in token of my forgiveness — if there was
aught to forgive — I laid my face upon his.

Marion Eversleigh, in prayer, still knelt with
her face hidden. The old Squire was still prattling
and shedding senile tears, and drying them
now and then in senile fashion, there in the
chintz-covered arm-chair where we had at first
set him down by Daryl's pillows ; when the door
of the room was once more noiselessly opened,
and Mrs. Jessamy said softly, —

"Mr. Leigh Eversleigh."

He came straight to the bed-head and bent
over Daryl.

Thank God, dear old fellow, I'm not too
late ! "

A last flicker of strength stirred the pulses
of Daryl Darkwoocl. He stared rather wildly
upward into Leigh's compassionate eyes ; and
said hoarsely, —

Leigh ! . . . You, old man, is it ? Always
a good friend to both of us . . . our best
friend. Take care of my poor wife — I have not
treated her well, I know . I loved her,
though — I loved her. And — and, Leigh, you
will help her — won't you — all you can ?"

I will — Heaven hear me ! Daryl, listen,"
he said, with an emotion he tried in vain to
control — " that same Heaven who now hears
us, around whose bright Throne I hope, and
do believe from the bottom of my heart, that
we all of us shall one day meet again — but
never then, old fellow, to be again parted —
has been more merciful than you can guess.
Daryl, it was Flower Eversleigh, your own
cousin, whom you found at Moor Edge ; the
long-lost, the long-mourned Flower Eversleigh
not Flower Greedy — whom you took from
that evil abode and made your wife before
the registrar at Northminster. Consequently
your grandfather, Daryl — dear old fellow,
hear me ! — is lie grandfather. Your aunt,
the Squire's daughter Marion, who now is kneeling

here, praying for you in this room, is — is
none other than her own mother ! Do you
understand me? — verily her own mother. Time,
Daryl, has righted a great and cruel wrong;
and Flower Eversleigh — Flower Darkw^ood —
is at last restored to her own people. After
long years she is beneath the roof of her old
home again — at Eedknights at last ! "

*• God is good," was all Daryl said ; and that
was his last breath.

A long-drawn sigh, as from one who is
very weary and is falling asleep ; a smile of
bright joy breaking over his now tranquil
features ; a scarcely perceptible quivering of
the long eyelashes — and Daryl, with his dark
head lying heavily upon my bosom, was
dead 1

Some one most lovingly was guiding my
blind footsteps away from that chamber of
death.

Upon the threshold of it, going out, I
instinctively paused ; slipping downward for
support against the firm arm behind me. My
strength was all spent ; I could no longer stand
alone.

I have known it — I have felt that it

was true," I murmured. ^' Oh, my beloved
mother ! "

My own child — my own sweet daughter ! "
answered the dear voice ; as though speaking
afar off in some blissful dreamland. Ah ! were
we among the living ; or among departed souls ?
Were we indeed upon earth ; or were we together
in heaven ?

It was I who sank senseless into my mother's
arms. She, in her great love, after all, was the
stronger of the two.

Some few hours later — I think it was about
sunset time — the old Squire was missing and
could not be found. He had cunningly contrived
to give Buckle the slip — and his rooms
were empty ! Consternation seized the household.
They searched for him everywhere — in
vain. The humbler domestics were awe-stricken ;
scared ; the presence of death in the great still
house had already robbed them of audible speech.
They crept upon tip-toe ; they spoke with bated
breath.

At length Mrs. Jessamy, in conference with
Buckle, started. A thought occurred to her ;
and she said, —

We shall find him in — in that room. Come!"

VOL. III. N

And the faithful dame was right.

For there, safe enough, they discovered the
aged Squire ; crouching all alone by the bedside
and holding fast within his own the hand
of his dead grandson.

And when they reverently parted those two
dead hands a small slip of tinted paper fell
rustling lightly from between them.

At a glance they saw it was a cheque.

The writing upon it was barely legible ; being
the thin quavering scrawl of the poor old Squire
himself. Everything was duly filled in — everything,
that is, save the amount to be cashed ;
and that had been generously left to Daryl
Darkwood's pen.

So the old man had stolen back to that
quiet room — once more, in this touching
fashion, to tell Daryl that he was really
forgiven.

T will be fine tomorrow; we shall
have good weather for our journey,
Flower," said my mother, as she
stood in the dusk at a window of the white
drawing-room, gazing rather anxiously upon
the fast darkening landscape. " The wind has
got round to the north-west ; and the few stars
I can see over the river yonder are coming out
beautifully clear."

I joined my mother at the fire-lit window and
looked out too. We stood there together, in our
heavy mourning garments, and with our arms
about each other's waists, more indeed like two
most intimate friends — between whom there never
can come a shadow, never be the ghost of a secret
than mother and daughter. But then the
boundless love between us was in reality no

ordinary love. We were in truth dear friends,
as well as parent and child.

The weather shall not hinder us, my mother,
since it is your wish to go," I answered ; adding,
with a tender playfulness which did but veil
the deeper feeling in my soul — " Henceforward,
in storm or in sunshine, in winter or in summer,
I shall always be with you to take care of you,
dear ; come what may 1"

"My Flower, my own darling," she murmured
passionately ; and in silence she laid her head
upon my shoulder.

*' Grot is good ! " Those had been Daryl's last
words upon earth. Never, never more, I had
vowed, should they slip from my memory. They
were engraved now upon my heart. Every hour
of our life, my mother and I, did we humbly
thank Heaven that we had both of us been
spared ; so mercifully spared ; again to meet
each other upon this side of the grave. It might
have been cruelly otherwise — one might have
been taken ; the other left — but it was not so.
After long and fateful years — years of separation
and of suffering — we had lived to meet and to
be together again upon this fair earth below.
And, when things go well with us in this world,
what is there in it sweeter than life ? In that

one most beautiful word " Life " are not all
possibilities comprised ?

It was November ; and more than three weeks
had gone by since we had put our dead out of
sight. That had indeed been a gloomy day for
Redknights — our burying-day — on which the
ancient mausoleum, all weather-stained and
lichen-grown, in Hazel churchyard, had been
opened to receive the mortal remains of old
Squire Darkwood and his grandson Daryl.

Yes ; it was a sad and gloomy time — a
time of mourning, of genuine sorrow ; but
Leigh Eversleigh, who had stayed on at
Redknights until after the funeral, had been
to us — to my mother and me — in fact, to
the whole bewildered household, as a veritable
tower of strength. What we should have
done without him at this dark and difficult
time I do not know — it were hard to say !
But, the funeral over, he left us and went
back to London.

No persuasion on our part would induce him to
stop longer with us down in Buckinghamshire ;
nor had we seen aught of him since. However,
on the morrow, we should again see him ; for my
mother and I would be leaving Redknights in the
quite early morning ; and Leigh Eversleigh had

promised to meet us in town at King's Cross
Station, in order to accompany us upon our
northern journey.

For we where going to Stonyhampton !

The old Squire in his time had made many
wills — many and various — but nothing of its
kind could well be either shorter or plainer than
that last one of all which he had left behind
him.

It had been drawn up and dated by his own
solicitors in Holborn immediately after the
memorable day — now seven or eight years gone
by — when had occurred that last bitter quarrel
between grandfather and grandson ; and when
Daryl Dark wood, proud, defiant, and reckless,
had quitted Eedknights, never more, as both the
old man and the young man then believed, to
re-enter the doors which had been shut against
him.

In old Squire Darkwood's brief last will everything
he possessed in the world, both money and
land, with the exception of the handsome legacies
which he bequeathed to all of the old Redknights
servants — so that the patient and much-enduring
Buckle had at length reaped the reward he
honestly merited — had been left, saddled by no

irritating condition whatsoever, to his daughter
Marion Eversleigh. Not once in the document
was the name of Daryl Darkwood mentioned.
Therefore, as the old Squire had been an
exceedingly wealthy man, and a thrifty one into
the bargain, my mother, as sole inheritor — or sole
inheritrix, as the lawyers called it — now that her
father was dead, had become an extraordinarily
rich woman.

For your sake, my child, I rejoice," she said,
straining me to her bosom — " hardly for my
own ; why should I ? My own fortune is
ample — I had more than enough for myself
before. Frequently has your grandfather, when
he was perchance more than usually infirm and
querulous, threatened to leave the whole of the
Eedknights property to some renowned London
hospital, or to bequeath it for the building and
support of one upon a vast scale in his own
county. Yet in those days, whenever I chanced
to hear him say this, I used not to mind. Did
it in the least matter what became of Redknights
and its wealth, since Daryl, the rightful heir,
was to have none of it ? No, I said wearily, it
did not signify. I myself was ill — in all likelihood
might die even before my father — I had so
little to live for. Let it all go ! But now — ah.

now everything is changed ! Everything is
so different ; so wondrously different from
what it was ! I have found you, my darling,
whom, at any rate in this world, I never
thought to look upon again ; and therefore
unspeakably do I rejoice. Flower, to think
that it lies within my power to make you
very rich."

'' One can be happy, dear mother, without
being rich," said I, smiling.

Long and earnest were the talks we had together,
she and I, in those first sweet sad days
of our extraordinary reunion. Naturally, the
very curious history of my past life — the romance
of my earlier youth ; my strange marriage with
Daryl ; and my wonderful return to the old
home — had spread throughout the length and
breadth of Buckinghamshire ; had gone, like
the proverbial wild-fire, to the north, the
south, the east, and the west of the county ;
and from all quarters at once did our neighbours
come flocking — calling at Eedknights
with congratulations and condolences in the
same breath.

Nearly all of them, I suppose, could distinctly
enough remember Daryl Dark wood and his wild
youth ; though I fancy but few of them of late

years had seen anything of the old Squire himself.


Nevertheless my mother and I were at present
in no mood for callers or ordinary visitors
of any denomination ; and we resolutely shut
ourselves up from this kindly-meant invasion ;
and so the people left their cards in shoals at
the great entrance-door of Eedknights — some
of them bearing sympathetic messages scribbled
in pencil — and drove away in their comfortable
family chariots, doubtless not a little
disappointed in the errand upon which they
had set out.

To such old neighbours and friends of the*
family however as the Gavestons of Gaveston
Priory, or the Bursts of Hazel Manor-house,
we sent down Mrs. Jessamy for a few minutes'
chat ; and then be sure she told them all they
wanted to know.

Mrs. Jessamy now declared that, everything
considered, she was not in the least astonished
at much that had come to pass ; and she had
always seen "a something" in my face, said
she, which had reminded her of the late Captain
Eversleigh.

Of course I told my beloved mother everything
I could recollect that related to my

strange past ; beginning with my earliest reminiscences
of horrible Moor Edge, where Daryl
Darkwood had first met me and had christened
me '* Periwinkle ; " and ending with an account
of my warm friendship for Viscount and Lady
Tracy.

Their kindnesses to me have been manifold,"
I said earnestly ; " and soon, I hope, dear
mother, you will see them and like them
too — they are so good and true."

Of course also I had written to Aurora
and had given her a full narration of the
remarkable events which had been happening
amongst us at Eedknights ; but as yet T
had received no reply to that lengthy epistle
of mine.

The Tracys quite recently had altered their
winter plans. They had left Tangier and
had gone to Madeira ; for the Viscountess's
health at this time was in a somewhat
critical condition, and a celebrated English
physician whom they knew at Gibraltar
had strongly recommended Madeira for the
winter.

Nor did I forget to tell my mother about Mrs.
Eamage ; Mrs. Sadler ; odious Mr. Binkworthy
and his variety theatre ; and old Mr. Jones, who,

when he lived in the attics in Bentham Street,
had been so kind and tender to my little dead
Isla.

wye were going to call upon Mrs. Ramage
and also upon Mrs. Sadler as soon as ever
we could conveniently arrange a visit to them ;
for both had been good to me, each in her
way, and for that my mother wanted to thank
them both. More particularly was she anxious
to make the acquaintance of Mrs. Ramage ;
because Mrs. Ramage, at a certain house in the
St. Vincent Road, Hoxton, had once known
the infamous Giles Hardman and his companion
and victim Rachel Owen — years ago my mother's
guilty maid. But the pair called themselves
Wilson " in those days.

Any person with whom in the past I had in
any manner been associated ; any spot on earth
w^itli which I was in the least degree familiar ;
now for my dear mother possessed the liveliest
interest. In short, she wanted to see everything
and everybody, to know everything and everybody,
that had in any wise been mixed up with
my past life ; and so I need hardly mention that
we were shortly to make a pilgrimage to Arley
Bridge — to Arley churchyard ; there to view the
little missed grave, with its pure white cross —

Leigh Eversleigh's white cross — where Isla slept
beneath the yews.

But first of all, before aught else was done,
my mother had determined with her own eyes
to see if possible Stonyhampton and Moor Edge ;
with her own tongue to speak if possible with
Simon Greedy and his sister Hannah.

She could not rest until she had done this, she
declared almost sternly ; and I caught myself
marvelling at her resolute mien ; her new-born
energy. Could this forsooth be the invalid
Marion Eversleigh ; shadow-like, fragile, nervous,
hysterical ; of a few short months before ?
Happiness, hope, something to passionately love
and to live for, will as often as not accomplish
miracles where the wisest of physicians may
lamentably fail.

My darling," said my mother, late on
that night before the day of our northern
journey, " you have those two papers that
Leigh gave us, safely, I hope, under lock and
key ? "

Yes ; I assured her they were perfectly safe ;
locked away in my desk upstairs.

We take them with us, mind — those papers
tomorrow. Flower," she whispered as she
kissed me. The clocks slowly and solemnly

struck midnight. " I mean to have them with
me at — at Moor Edge," she said.

Christmas we were to spend quietly at Ked-knights.
Afterwards, for a year's thorough
change, we were going abroad.

T ten o'clock on the following morning
Leigh Eversleigh met my mother and
me at the great busy terminus at
King's Cross. A fast train for the north left
the station punctually at eleven minutes past
the hour.

I noticed — it was not, though, for the first
time — that Mr. Eversleigh looked thinner ; altogether
more worn and spare than he used to
look ; positively the crow's-feet were coming
about his eyes, and here and there I thought
that I could discern a silver thread amongst
his cropped fair hair.

Of course it may have been sheer fancy on
my part — it is in the nature of women to be
fanciful ; perhaps absurdly so sometimes — anyway,
I found myself deciding that his trip
across the Atlantic and his peregrinations in

the Far West had by no means apparently
proved so beneficial to him as they ought to
have done.

Kind, courteous, genial as ever, he still was
not, emphatically not — once more I could not
but mark the fact — the Leigh Eversleigh we
had known in the old Thangate days ; the
Leigh Eversleigh who had been so good to
Isla and to me. Should T, I caught myself
wondering, with something that was akin to a
sensation of cold disappointment and chagrin,
ever again see and know that same dear
friend ?

It was a long and a fatiguing journey ; and,
for myself, I spoke but little from the beginning
to the end of it ; though my thoughts
were active enough.

It was a strange weird journey too ; certainly
a curious one ; that upon which we
were bent on that dull November day.

Thanks to some quiet arrangement which
Leigh, before our appearance upon the platform,
had effected with the guard, we had a
compartment to ourselves ; and he and my
mother, as the train sped northward, seemed
to be finding a great deal to say to each
other.

She always had liked this kinsman of hers — or
rather of my late father's — now she loved him.
In all things whatsoever — in difficulties, in perplexities,
I mean, whether great or small — she
looked up to, trusted to Leigh Eversleigh. His
counsel before that of any one else she would
for the future hold foremost in her esteem.
There was no one — no man — now in my mother's
eyes like Leigh Eversleigh ; and surely it was
no wonder !

Darkness had fallen when we arrived at
Stony hampton ; but Mr. Eversleigh, ever chivalrous
and considerate where women and their
comfort were concerned, had on the previous
day telegraphed to the landlord of the '' Eaven,"
at which hostelry — a somewhat homely but an
exceedingly clean and comfortable one withal,
and, moreover, the best to be met with in
Stonyhampton — we were that night to dine
and sleep ; so that on our arrival at the straggling,
draughty northern station we found a funny
old fly there awaiting our pleasure. Potently
did it smell of damp hay and horse-cloths ;
and it jolted us abominably as it carried us
to the " Raven."

At the hotel itself however everything, we
discovered, was delightfully warm and cosy ; a

nice middle-aged chambermaid ; a capital little
dinner ; and there were sheets in the beds,
which had been especially prepared for us,
that were redolent of roseleaf- and-lavender
bags.

Slight marvel is it, I think, if on that night
I dreamed that I was back ao;ain at Moor Edo^e :
walking over the moorland with Hannah Greedy
and her basket, to do our marketing in Stonyhampton
; stared at, pointed at by the townsfolk
and the corner-idlers, as if we were
queer foreigners or people from a play-acting
booth.

After breakfast next morning the stuffy oldy
was again at our command, and in it we
drove off to Moor Edge. How the fat landlord
and his comely wife must together have wondered
what we could possibly want at the
Creeds' lonely dwelling ! The flyman, I have
no doubt, wondered also. It was with relief
that I perceived that no one at the *heaven'*
recognised in the tall grave slender woman, in
her heavy mourning-robes and widow's headgear,
the shy young friendless girl of the moorland
who had once dwelt beneath the Creeds'
roof.

The morning mists lay low over the wide

VOL. III. o

moor, and veiled the dim distance that spread
around it. No note of bird, no sound of life,
no echo of any kind in the gray air awoke
the bleak silence of those high and barren
solitudes. The sterile desolation, the utter
loneliness of the spot in winter, must always,
I fancy, seem appalling to a stranger accustomed
to more southern and sheltered scenery. On
that day it was a landscape the raw misty gray
chill of which went straight to one's very
marrow.

"What a dreary place!" remarked my mother,
with a shudder.

*' At this time of the year, yes," I said absently ;
'but in the fresh early spring or in the middle
of summer its isolation is beautiful ! "

It does not seem possible, dear — I cannot
imagine it," gently replied my mother. How
for her could Moor Edge ever appear lovely ?
At all seasons alike it must be horrible — horrible,
and nothing short of it !

On our way over the rugged moorland we
jogged past the ancient farm-house called 
; but no face appeared either
at door or at window, though smoke was issuing
sluggishly from one or two of the squat brick
chimneys. Mr. Eversleigh informed us — so he

had learned on his previous visit to Stonyhampton
— that the people of the name of
Acre had gone away from the neighbourhood,
and that strangers now lived at .


My hand sought my mother's and held it
close.

'that," I whispered, "is where Daryl lodged."

Scarcely had we left Garlands behind us when
our rickety vehicle lurched ; jerked ; almost
stopped ; and then went on again.

Come up, you brute, will you ? " shouted
the driver in his own northern tongue. " As if,
now, you'd never seen that old scarecrow
before ! "

The horse, I fancy, shied at something,"
Leigh observed. And I put my head out of
the window to see what the something might
be. I quickly drew it in again — my face, I
could feel, was burning from chin to brow.

Sitting half asleep upon a hillock by the wayside
— his back against a convenient milestone,
and a short black pipe between his coarse stubbly
lips ; with a pedlar's pack at his feet, and an
aged one-eyed mongrel of the "ratter" breed
keeping guard over the pack — was a very dirty-looking
old male figure that I instantly recognised.

The lappets of a cap fashioned out of
rabbit-skins were tied over his ears ; a foul red
worsted comforter, in many a twist, adorned his
lean throat.

It was old Wyse the Wanderer ; and the aged
mongrel watching the pack must be Jack Sprat's
mother of course ! Poor Jack Sprat ! Yes ; sure
enough, it was none other than old Wyse, the
vagabond pedlar, whom once upon a time I had
actually suffered to " tell me my fortune."
What a simpleton I was ! What rubbish had it
all been, that *' fortune " which had cost me a
good half-crown ! The dark man ; the fair man ;
the shadow ; the sunshine ; and all the rest of
the familiar nonsense ! And yet — At that
moment I somehow became conscious that Leigh
Eversleigh was watching me from the opposite
seat of the fly, with something peculiarly like
a smile in his frank clear eyes. Was he
wondering within himself at the expression
which my features were just then wearing,
trying perhaps to guess what it meant —
what was passing through my mind ? Impossible
to say.

My crape veil was up at the time ; so as
carelessly as I could I let it down over my
face.

At last we came to Moor Edge. Our carriage
stopped at the garden gate. How well I
remembered the low gray-stone house ; with its
deep-set casements and sun-blistered green front-door.
There was the flat unlovely garden ; with
its lavender bushes, its herb-beds, and its army
of withered cabbage-stumps. There upon the
south side of the garden were the spreading
cobnut-trees, beneath the brown boughs of which
I had buried Jack Sprat.

But the 'broken sheds look'd sad and
strange ; " the house-leek and other sturdy
lichens flourished upon the shattered tiles of
them. Not a solitary fowl was to be seen in
the yard through the bars of the hingeless yard
gate — no pig, no cow, no sign whatever of
animal life ; nothing but a manure-heap steaming
in the raw air, with a pond of ugly blackwater
in its immediate vicinity.

The aspect of that low gray-stone house upon
the moorland was wholly and inexpressibly
desolate and forlorn. There was about it a
haunted, a blighted, an awfully empty look,
as an old forsaken house will look sometimes
when rumour whispers that murder has been
done within it.

And once it had been my home — I had

called it home ! Could it be possible ? Well,
it did not seem so now — not now !

"From what I could learn when I was last
here — from the people, that is, at ,"
I heard Mr. Eversleigh telling
my mother, as we all three went up the weedy
garden path, the carriage meanwhile waiting
for us at the gate — " things of late years have
gone ill with the man and woman at Moor
Edge. They lead a most unhappy life. Neither
of them is ever really sober ; the whole place,
as you perceive, is in a most miserable plight ;
everything about it, in fact, has gone to rack
and ruin."

Whatever of misfortune has befallen them,
they deserve it," answered my mother sternly.
It is their just punishment."

No grain of compassion could my mother
find in her bosom either for Simon Greedy
or for his sister Hannah. They were inhuman
wretches ; fiends. No fate upon earth, Marion
Eversleigh thought and said, could be too hard
or too bitter for them.

We knocked three times ; but no soul appeared.
Therefore, growing impatient, and finding
the door unlocked, we marched unbidden
into the house.

The dark passage smelt close, suffocating,
unwholesome, as though the fresh sweet outer
air was never, even through a keyhole, suffered
to enter it ; and so we were glad to hurry onto
the airier kitchen-part, which, as I so well
recollected, was at the end of the entrance-passage.


Dirt, dust, cobwebs were everywhere. Cleanliness
and Moor Edge must for long have been
strangers to each other. Nowhere was visible
deaf old Sally the cat ; I suppose she was
dead.

With knees and chin together, over a handful
of fire in the kitchen grate, we saw a woman
crouched — a skinny, poorly-clad, an unhappy-looking
creature, with a knitted pink wrapper,
faded and grimy as of yore, clinging about
her bony shoulders. There was the hateful
odour of some cheap spirit — whiskey, I think
it was — heavy upon the close atmosphere of
the room ; and, shuddering, sick, disgusted,
I halted upon the threshold and could go no
farther.

But my mother and Mr. Eversleigh went
on undaunted ; though it was not until they
were close beside her that Hannah Greedy
looked up and noticed them. She was too

stupid, too drowsy to be astonished ; she
merely said, in a thick, nasal, sing-song
tone, —

"Who are you? What do you want
here ? Go away — go away, I say ! I had
the jumps all night long ; and couldn't sleep
a wink for 'em. I want to be left alone —
go away ! "

Her eyelids dropped again ; her head jerked
downward. Mr. Eversleigh put his hand upon
her shoulder and gave her a little shake.

Hannah Greedy clutched at her pink wrapper.

Don't ! " she cried sharply. " Go away ! "

We do not intend to trouble you many
minutes — pray do not fear," put in my mother
icily. "Where is your brother — Simon Greedy ? "

With considerable difficulty Mr. Eversleigh
made Simon Creedyy's sister Hannah comprehend
what it was that my mother wished
to know ; three times well-nigh shouting to
her, —

Where, we ask, is your brother, Simon
Greedy ? "

I felt thankful, as I stood recoiling therein
the dark unwholesome passage, that Hannah
Greedy was too foolish, too muddled, to in
the least recognise me. After all, it were

infinitely better — could it be anyhow managed
that neither she nor her brother should be
made aware that I, Flower Darkwood, was
once more, and for the last time in my life,
please Heaven, within the gruesome walls of
Moor Edge. For myself, at any rate, such
recognition was by no means desirable.

I don't know where Simon is," Hannah
muttered at last. " I have not set eyes on him
to-day ; and don't want to."

^' Is he at home," inquired Leigh; "or — oris
he away on business ? Tell us that, if you
please."

He was at home last night," Hannah
answered limply. '' Haven't seen him since ; nor
don't want to," she muttered again. " Ugh ! "

'' Never mind," impatiently put in my mother.
Believe me, save for one purpose, for one determination,
I have no desire whatever either to
see or to speak to your brother. I have no doubt
that you will do as well ; for of course you, having
lived here with him all your life, know as
much as he does of the cruel, the infamous business
which has brought me hither to-day. I
would have you punished in a manner proportionate
to your offence if my friend Mr. Leigh
Eversleigh had not promised you otherwise —

trust me, I would ! If it were possible so to do,
you should be made to suffer as I have suffered
for so many long and melancholy years."

Hannah Greedy glanced upward at Leigh
Eversleigh — a sulky oblique glance from her
half-closed drowsy eyes.

Yes ; you've been to see us before ; and not
so very long ago neither — I remember you now,"
said she. " You came here and got those papers
out o' Simon ; but you promised we shouldn't
be punished — yes, you did."

*' And the promise will be kept," observed
Leigh quietly.

Not that anybody could punish me," muttered
Hannah half angrily, once more with spasmodic
clutch saving the dingy pink wrapper from
slipping off her narrow shoulders ; " for I never
did anything ; it was Simon. I only held my
tongue ; and it was he who made me hold it. I
never smuggled the child here ; never wanted
her here ; though I liked her well enough so
long as she stopped here. She ran away of her
own accord — we didn't drive her. And I'm sure
I never was unkind to her. I don't know whether
she's alive or dead ; and, what's more, I don't
care a garden ; but, if she was alive and standing
there with you, she couldn't say as I was ever

unkind to her. If she did, it would be a lie.
Are you her mother ? " asked Hannah Greedy,
with a sudden gleam of curiosity, accompanied
by another sullen upward glance at her unwelcome
visitors.

I am," was Marion Eversleigh's quick stern
reply. " Listen, woman ! I have travelled many
miles to find this horrible place ; to hear either
you or your brother, Simon Greedy, swear to me
that every line written upon these two papers is
true. I shall not be satisfied until I have heard
you do this. Afterwards I shall require something
else of you ; it is mine, not yours ; and
you will have to give it up."

Hannah Greedy for rejoinder simply grunted.

My brave mother, still standing before the
birthplace — she declined to sit, although Mr.
Eversleigh had dusted and had brought to her a
wooden arm-chair — forthwith opened a small
sealskin hand-bag which had journeyed with her
from Eedknights, and from which she took two
folded papers ; one of them tolerably clean and
new looking ; the other much soiled and faded
with age. She read the soiled one first.

Are you listening ? " sharply cried my
mother.

And the lean woman, crouching witch-like

over the rusty kitchen grate, grunted again for
reply.

This is how the first paper ran — it was blotted
and ill-spelt ; that however is a detail. In a
manner translated and punctuated, it read as
follows, —

Gaol, 18—

Dear Cousin Simon. — You, I suppose, will
be the last man I shall look upon in this world ;
your hand — so they tel] me — will be the last to
touch mine in this world ; and so, as this must
be, and as we are cousins into the bargain —
though for a goodish number of years now,
cousin Simon, you and I have lost sight of each
other — I want you to help me like ; I mean, to
help me to make up for something wrong I've
done. I don't care to die — and some I know
would perhaps say I was a coward ; some old
pals, I mean, as I used to know — to be sent to
eternity with this black thing upon my soul. As
soon as I am dead you must make it right ; and
then it is more likely that, in spite of my crimes,
I shall rest in the grave they are digging for me.
I wouldn't trouble you in the affair if I liked and
trusted the parson — chaplain they call him — in
this prison. But I don't. What's more, Simon,

I don't believe in parsons of any sort ; I don't
trust 'em — I never did. Underneath their black
clothes they are just like other men ; often a lot
worse. They have to appear better than most
folk ; that's what 'tis ; or there would be no room
for 'em, no call for 'em at all, in the world. You
see they must live, like other men, after all.
No ; no black-coated hypocrite for me, however
smooth his tongue may be. Simon, man, I'll
trust you first.

Here is what I want to say.

"At No. 117, St. Vincent Road, Hoxton,
you'll find a little girl ; not much more thana
baby. She's known there as ' Flower
Wilson'; and all the people at No. 117 believe
she belongs to poor Rachel and me. It's false,
though ; she never did belong to us. Her right
and lawful name is Eversleigh ; and she is the
only child of a lady that lives with the Squire,
her father, at a great house down in Buckinghamshire
called Redknights. The Squire was
once upon a time my master ; and the gentlefolk
down there at the great house are quite persuaded
that the little child I speak of is
dead — never you mind why.

Simon, now that it's come to the last, I want
to do what is right. So when I am dead, you

go straight to the address I have given you hereon
this paper, and get the baby away from the
neighbours at No. 1 1 7 — it's no fit home for the
likes of her ; she was bred to something very
different. In any way you think proper, send
the little one back to her own kinsfolk at
Kedknights ; and say that, with his last breath,
Giles Hardman hoped that they would forgive
him for the wrong he had done them, and for
the sorrow he had brought upon the family.
Add. if you like, that he freely confessed his
guilt right through ; and was, moreover, truly
sorry for his sins.

I can't say more — can I ? — and what I've
said I mean.

'* I know that you will take my hand, cousin,
on that last morning which is now so very
near ; and into your hand, when the time comes,
I shall slip this letter of mine. Take care of it
and don't forget. I want to rest in my
grave. Good-bye, Simon. I am not afraid.
And may the Lord have mercy on my soul !

Giles Hardman."

My mother refolded the faded paper and
carefully replaced it in her bag.

Swear to me, Hannah Greedy," she said

distinctly, " that every word of that written
confession is true."

The skinny huddled-up figure, plucking
at its frowsy pink wrapper, required another
slight shake from Leigh before it would
reply.

Every word of it's true," snapped Hannah
Greedy then, with shut eyes. *' I swear it. I
have heard Simon himself say so a hundred
times at least."

Very good. Now for the other," my
mother said, in the same dispassionate icy tone
in which, so far, she had spoken throughout the
interview. " Don't go to sleep ; but attend tome."


I'm not asleep. I am attending," grumbled
Simon Creedyy's sister. "Get on — make haste —
I want to be alone ! "

And we want to be gone," rejoined my
mother drily. " Now then for this one ;
which is your brother's statement. Are you
listening ? "

Oh, bother ! Haven't I said so ? "

Condescending to no further parley, my
mother unfolded the second and cleaner-looking
paper. Unlike the other, it was neatly and
legibly written ; in a hand almost like that

of a careful, conscientious schoolboy ; and it
read as follows : —

"Moor Edge, 24^A October 18—
A gentleman, Mr. Leigh Eversleigh byname,
has on this day come to my sister
Hannah and me, and says that he will have
from us the truth — as far as we can tell it
concerning our share in the hiding from
the world of Miss Flower Eversleigh ; for
many years known hereabout as our niece.
Flower Greedy.

There is not much to tell.
It is now getting on for five-and-twenty
years since I hanged my cousin Giles Hard-man
for the murder of a woman he lived
with called Kachel Owen. With this, my
own confession of evil-doing, I will seal up
that of Giles Hardman. His tells its own.
story ; and helps the telling of mine as well.
When he had ceased to live, I did as he had
begged me in his letter. I went straightway
to the address mentioned — No. 117, St. Yin-cent
Eoad, Hoxton — and found the little child
he spoke of being taken care of there by
the neighbours. But they were all alike in
that house — very poor ; they could ill afford

to keep her without payment ; and naturally
they were glad to learn that some one had
come to claim her.

"Before I saw her I did honestly mean todo
what was right, in the best and the
quickest way I could — that is, I intended
without delay to carry out my cousin Giles
Hardman's wishes. Yes ; before I saw the
child, I honestly meant to put right what
Hardman and the woman had set all wrong.
But when for the first time I saw the little
baby-girl, with her pretty dark clustering curls,
her sweet innocent dark-blue eyes, and her
pretty timid baby-ways — well, then it was the
devil himself who slunk up behind me ; whispered
to me as only he can whisper ; tempted
me as only he can tempt a man ; and I — I
listened to him ; wavered ; in the end yielded ;
and it was all over with my good resolution !

She was such a beautiful, innocent little
soul ; and I was such a miserable, solitary
man — a lonely outcast shunned by my fellowmen,
and with no living near tie upon this
wide earth save my sister Hannah, who lived
with me at Moor Edge.

*' I coveted the child — coveted her for my
own ; coveted her more eagerly than words

VOL. III. p

can explain. Why shouldn't I have her? Her
own people at the great house away down in
Buckinghamshire believed that she was dead —
they would never know that in reality it was
not so ; nor would Giles Hardman himself ever
know that I had failed to carry out that last
dying wish of his. Or, even supposing that
in another world Hardman could know of it,
he was powerless to come back to reproach
me ; to trouble me in any way. Ghosts
never yet hurt a man. I, at any rate, was
never afraid of ghosts — which may seem
odd.

Briefly, then, I told the neighbours who'd
got her that I was the little one's uncle ;
that I had come to fetch her away to my
home in the north ; and that I was going to
adopt her ; and she was to be thenceforward
as my own child.

"Whether they believed me or not I don't
know. But they willingly gave up to me
the few little things which belonged to her ;
and I took the child home with me to Moor
Edge. And from that day forward to the
day on which she fled with the young man
who had guessed or discovered something of
the truth, and who made her his wife, she

was known as my niece and called ' Flower
Greedy

I have not much more to add.
So long as I could keep my stolen
treasure with me, I did my duty to her ;
at least so far as it lay within my power todo
it — Heaven knows I did my best ! I educated
her as well as I could. I kept all dark
and terrible knowledge from her as well as
I could. She never dreamed of the secret of
Moor Edge until the young man she fled
with opened her eyes.

'when I lost her, I was stunned — brokenhearted.
I've been going down-hill ever since.
With her — for me — went all joy and sunshine
in life. I was a lonely and an unhappy
wretch once more — a hundred times lonelier, a
hundred times unhappier, than I was in the
days before I found her !

^' That is all I need write.

I have felt that the truth would one day
have to be told ; and I have told it now.

Simon Ceeedy."

With a resolute snap my mother closed her
bag:.

Swear to me, Hannah Greedy, that every

word of that vile confession also is true," she
said.

Dear, dear, how you do worry I " muttered
the woman, in a leaden voice — " a-
keeping on with your ' Swear this ' and * Swear
that ' — "

Do as I bid you — swear that it is true ! "
cried my mother haughtily.

I swear that every word of it is true,"
grumbled Hannah Greedy drowsily. *' And
now go : and let me be. You've bothered me
enough for one day, I think. You'll bring back
the jumps directly, with your worrying and
your — "

One moment," very coldly said my mother.
There is a bundle of little garments which
belonged to my child. With my own hands I
made them ; they are mine ; and I mean to
have them. Where is it, I say — that bundle
of little clothes ? "

I'm sure I don't know why we kept 'em ;
but you may have 'em an' welcome ; they are
no good to us," the woman said, in the same
leaden way. '' What for should I want of
'em % Ugh ! "

^V ." Mr. Leigh Eversleigh here has told me that
they are hidden in some ponderous piece of old

furniture ; an old-fashioned chest of drawers or
something: that you have — "

So they are. In the chest of drawers in
the parlour, where the linen is. Take an' go
and see for yourself, ma'am. I ain't hindering
you," said Hannah Greedy, with sleepy insolence
— " am I ? "

At that moment my mother glanced towards
the kitchen-door. As I stood in the passage
beyond it, shrinking in the gloom and avoiding
the dim gray light, her eyes met mine, and I
beckoned to her. She joined me directly ; forever
turning her back upon that huddled-up
figure by the hearth.

Come with me. I will show you the
parlour," I whispered. " If it can possibly
be managed, I do not wish to be recognised
by — by any one in the place." My mother
caught me to her breast. For seconds, in
silence, she held me thus.

Oh, my darling, my own darling ! " she
breathed. No more ; but I understood. Passionately
she kissed me ; and then released me.
Together we entered the parlour of Moor Edge.

Here, as everywhere else, decay had set its
seal. Huge hairy spiders had woven their nets
upon the window-panes ; the damp old ugly

paper was slowly dropping from the walls.
Drab dust lay thick wherever it could settle ;
the low room smelt as a grave-digger's tool-house
smells, or as an ancient belfry where the rats
have made a home.

My mother at once descried the old-fashioned
chest of drawers. I believe she was too excited
to mark just then the deadly chill and forlornness
of the Moor Edge parlour. The drawers, it
seemed, were unlocked ; for one after another
she seized them by their massive brass ring-shaped
handles and dragged them all open as
far as they would come. Then feverishly she
began to rummage for what she sought among
the heaps of damp neglected linen. I heard Mr.
Eversleigh's step in the passage ; and involuntarily
I looked out of the parlour. He was
going upstairs !

He understood the mute astonishment on my
face ; the half-fearful glance of inquiry in my
eyes ; for he said quietly, —

"I want a word or two with Simon Greedy
before we go. And, from what I can gather
from that woman in the kitchen, I fancy that,
after all, he must be in the house to-day."

"In the house ? " I echoed blankly, with
a shudder. " Then do not — do not let him

discover that I am here with you, Mr. Evers-
leigh ! "

Trust me. His sister talks of a workshop in
the roof ; a kind of attic-den he has under the
tiles. Evidently she thinks he must be there
if he is anywhere at home ; and so I am going
to see."

"Ah!"

How vividly came back to me the recollection
of that ghostly attic in the roof; where of a
night we — Hannah Greedy and I — used so often
to hear the measured tapping and sawing of a
carpenter's tools ; the mysterious attic regarding
which Daryl Darkwood had once asked me, when
he had come in the summer star shine to my
chamber window which looked over the beautiful
lone moor, whether Simon Greedy was " making
coffins up there."

'' Pray, pray be careful, Mr. Eversleigh ! " I
cried very anxiously in the next breath. "He
may be angry — he may resent your seeking him
there ; I am sure it is not unlikely. He — he
never would, I remember, permit any one to see
him at work in that garret. He always locked
himself within it ; and always kept the key
whenever he quitted it. I believe it is some
sort of dreadful Blue Beard chamber ; I do not

know ; I have never beheld its interior. Oh,
do pray be cautious, Mr. Eversleigh ! "

I suppose," observed Leigh, with a grave
reassuring smile, "that the man was jealous
of his wonderful invention ; doubtless that
was about all, Mrs. Darkwood. The woman
herself says — at least, so I make out — that
he has been working at it in various ways,
improving upon the original idea, for a
number of years past. It appears — now that
quite lately he has completed the model —
that it is his intention to endeavour to get
the affair patented ; in the hope, I imagine,
that it will bring him a fortune ! I will
soon return — I shall not be long."

Certainly I did but vaguely comprehend Mr.
Eversleigh ; and he turned and went on his way
upstairs. More than half-fearfully now I
watched him until he disappeared.

Hovering— I could not help it— I
went back into the mouldy parlour,
where my mother was still searching
diligently among the damp neglected linen.

I have found them nearly all, my darling,"
cried she almost gleefully ; her eyes shining with
excitement, her voice triumphant. " See here,
Flower ! Actually I have unearthed the funny
little purple velvet and swansdown shoes which
dear old Mrs. Jessamy gave you upon your
second birthday. Ah, no ; they are really
very pretty — but how utterly useless ! " said
my mother, with a low sweet laugh. " Why,
child, I do not believe that you ever wore
them ! "

"I dare say not, dear," I answered automatically.
I was listening — listening acutely

for sounds upstairs. Howbeit I could hear
nothing. Overhead it was as silent as death.

Facing me were the grimy parlour windows,
where the famished spiders hung hairy and
hideous ; and in at one of the shut dim casements
came slanting a thin and watery gleam of
light. The moorland morning mists were rolling
away ; and somewhere out of doors in the
gray sky the wintry sun was trying to show
himself. The wan beam touched the gloom bv
the cold birthplace, and fell upon a dark
object which lay there upon the floor — something
which apparently had been thrown down
and forgotten.

How careless had they become at Moor
Edge !

It was Simon Creedyy's hack hag I

I am a woman ; a veritable daughter of
Eve. Be sure that I was not born into the
world lacking my full allotment of woman's
curiosity. Perchance I have more than my
natural share.

An unconquerable impulse urged me, now
that for the first time in my life the chance
was mine, to peep into the black bag ; just
once — only just once !

Its little brass key was gone ; it was unfastened

; and I did peep in. Althotigli I
quite well knew beforehand what I should
see, the first glimpse of the horrid snakelike
thing turned me suddenly giddy and
sick. Yet in reality what a harmless-looking
thing it was ; that by means of which Simon
Greedy of Moor Edge had for the greater
part of his lifetime earned his daily bread.

A sturdy, simple rope — nothing more !

I cried out rather wildly, —

' Breath of Christian charity,

Blow, and sweep it from the earth ! ' "

and stumbled backward, longing to be in
the air.

My mother looked up quickly from her
occupation. She had got together her treasures,
and had made them into a neat and portable
parcel.

''My dearest," said she in amaze, "what
is the matter ? "

I decided that I would not tell my darling
mother — at all events not yet — of the presence
in the room with us of that awful coiled thing
in the black bag. It might affright her
and upset her, notwithstanding her improved
health, her wondrous new strength. Should
I tell her at all, I would wait until we reached

home — until we were safely back at Eed-
knights.

"Nothing — nothing. I — I was thinking
aloud, mother," said I at random ; with an
effort recovering my natural manner. '* I
wonder whether you would care to see the
narrow chamber with the uneven floor where
I used to sleep ? I have no doubt that everything
in it is exactly as I left it. Let us
ascertain for ourselves — shall we ? "

Willingly," she replied eagerly. " But where,
Flower, shall we find it ? "

I took her somewhat nervously by the wrist to
lead her from that dismal parlour.

Come with me," I whispered ; for the moment
forgetting Simon Greedy and his still more
dreadful attic, " and I will be your guide,
mother."

It was not to be.

Mr. Eversleigh, hastening down the staircase,
met us ; stopped us ; barred the passage. He
was pale ; more, he looked singularly strange
and startled.

Where are sou going, Mrs. Darkwood ? " he
demanded.

I told him.

"No, no," he said, a little huskily. "Let us

get away immediately ; there is nothing further
to wait for. For myself, I have had enough of
this house ; and I am certain that you and Mrs.
Eversleigh can have no desire to linger in it — it
is accursed," cried he with some vehemence, — •
under a ban ! Let us get away ! "

My mother, holding her precious packet with
both arms, indeed pressing it to her bosom, put
in anxiously, —

But what is the matter, Leigh ? What is

wrong ?

Nothing — everything ; that is — well, to
speak the truth," Mr. Eversleigh said, in a low
voice, literally compelling us to precede him
along the passage, out of the front doorway, and
down the garden path to the waiting lily at the
gate, " 1 saw something upstairs that rather
knocked me over. It was a sight which will
haunt me, I fear, for many a day. I wish withall
my heart that I could forget it ! " he almost
passionately exclaimed.

My mother and I were both about to speak.
Horrified curiosity was upon both our faces.
Leigh Eversleigh however held up his hand.

Be kind," he said more gently ; " and do not
ask me any questions until we get back to
Stony hampton. "

Our return drive to the "Eaven" was a very-quiet
one. But as we once more drew near to
Garlands-on-the-Moor a thought appeared to
strike our companion.

*' After all, it is but a slight Christian act," he
said aloud ; yet as if to himself And he forthwith
stopped the flyman and hurriedly alighted.
He went into the ancient farmhouse ; but he was
not many minutes absent. When he rejoined
us, and we were again jolting onward, Leigh
said, — "There is a good motherly soul at that
old homestead yonder ; and with her I have
arranged about — about the unhappy woman
we have left behind us at Moor Edge."

How do you mean, Leigh ? " my mother
inquired, a trifle coldly.

'* I mean that she cannot live much looser —
it is impossible ; the wretched habits she has
sunk into preclude all reasonable idea of it,"
was Leigh's firm reply. " And, as she ought
not to be left day after day utterly alone
there in that awful forsaken house, unwatched,
uncared for, perhaps to sicken and starve, I
have spoken to, arranged matters with, the
worthy soul at Garlands-on-the-Moor. So
long as Hannah Creedyy is alive, she — the
housewife at Garlands — will do her best to

look after lier. It is only right, I consider,
and human."

The woman has her brother," remarked
my mother, still coldly. To which observation
Mr. Eversleigh answered nothing.

No more upon the question was said then ;
and my mother stared moodily out of the
carriage-window, her delicate lips tightened
visibly, her small proud head held stiffly
and high. That which Leigh Eversleigh had
taken upon himself to do was '* a slight
Christian act " which my beloved mother,
at any rate, could not have brought herself
to perform ; at least not yet — no, not yet.

For when we have been most cruelly
wronged ; when the injury, the wound, as it
were, mercilessly inflicted upon us is — or when
we fancy that it is so — still unhealed, gaping and
raw ; what brief and simple prayer is harder in
earnest to utter than — " Forgive us our trespasses,
as we forgive them that trespass against
us"?

It was long past midday when we re-entered
the snug hotel. In our temporary sitting-room
a blazing fire in the high polished grate, and
upon the stiff" lily-white cloth covering the
table a capital cold luncheon, pleasantly greeted

our return. Yet, before we laid aside our
bonnets, Mr. Eversleigb insisted upon each
of us two women drinking a glass of good old
brown sherry — a brown sherry famous at the
Eaven " — saying authoritatively that we must
need it after what we had gone through that
morning. And then he himself did what I
never had before seen him do ; not even in the
sad old card-playing days with Daryl Darkwood.
He rang for a decanter of brandy; and drank
nearly half a tumblerful of it, mixed with only a
very little water. Then he turned to my
mother and me, and said rapidly, —

*' You must kindly, please, forgive my leaving
you again; I shall be back with you by the time
you have taken off your things. But there is a
duty to be performed which I dare not neglect
information must be given to the police."

Before we could question him he was gone ;
and though, as he had promised, he was away
but a short while — in reality barely ten minutes
the waiting-time seemed to us like a very
long half-hour.

But at last he reappeared ; and we sat down
to luncheon.

And now," entreated my mother — " end our
suspense, Leigh. Tell us what was wrong."

You mean," he answered, as he thoughtfully
shook open his serviette and spread it
upon his knee, " at that desolate house on the
moor ? "

"Yes," shivered my mother — "at that
horrible house on the moor."

He hesitated. And I, in a kind of fearful
whisper, put in, — " And did you, Mr. Evers-
leigh, manage to find that— that dreadful attic
in the roof? "

"Yes— I found it."

And what did you see, Leigh ? What was
in it ? " quickly asked my mother.

It was full of horrors," was Leigh's sober
reply — " never mind what they were ; do not
ask me ; for I have no wish to destroy your
appetite. Let it suffice that I found a deadman
up there — a ghastly sight — hanging,
strangled, upon a machine of his own invention."


I sank backward, for a moment dumb and
inert, in my chair. Mr. Eversleigh quietly
refilled my wine-glass. With a glance I
thanked him ; and gratefully swallowed its
contents.

And the dead man was — " said my mother,
awe-stricken.

Q

'* Simon Greedy. And now, my dear Mrs.
Eversleigh — Mrs. Darkwood — suppose we try
to forget that uncanny abode and everything
connected with it," said Leigh more cheerily.
*' I am ravenous ; and I trust that you are
equally so. If you are not hungry, why, I
think you ought to be — that is all — after
breathing that fine moorland air ! "

We travelled homeward, Londoners, by
the afternoon express ; parted with Mr. Evers-
leigh, as we had met him on the day before, at
King's Cross ; slept that night in town at the
Great Western Hotel ; and went down to
Eedknights on the following morning.

Ere long we — my mother and I — journeyed
again to London. On this occasion, however,
Mr. Eversleigh was out of town, and we did
not see him. So, without an escort, we went
together to Mrs. Sadler's house in Bentham
Street, and there found my whilom landlady
at home engaged in cooking a lodger's dinner,
and just as shabby and as doleful as I remembered
her in the past.

Yes ; it was indeed a dreary neighbourhood,
agreed my mother ; but it was a dreariness, said
she, that was paradisiacal in comparison with

that of Moor Edge. Of course, not dreaming of
our coming, Mrs. Sadler was greatly astonished
to see us in Bentham Street ; and she
said so.

When her first brightening and excitement
over the event had flickered out, we perceived
that JVIrs. Sadler was exceedingly low-spirited
that day ; in fact, she was, I believe, more
depressed than she was wont to be.

Ah, yes, life was a hard battle, she said, for a
poor widow ^voman who was forced to work for
her living ! It was slave, slave, slave from
morning until night ; and with little enough
money coming in for the joyless drudgery, and
small thanks for your pains." Kent-day was
a nightmare ; taxes were something worse — for
tax-gatherers and their papers were for ever
dropping down upon one when they were least
expected ; frightening poor widows like Mrs.
Sadler out of their wits with their blustering
and their threats and their "last demands."

Her best paying and safest lodger had given
notice ; and one of her sons was soon going to
be married. Heiorh-ho ! Of course he would
leave her then, to live in a small house of his
own at Camden Town ; and of course, too, it
was her eldest boy, the one who earned the

largest salary. What she would do by-and-by
Mrs. Sadler didn't know ; for she was afraid,
though she was not yet quite certain, that her
second lad was "engaged," or was "thinking of
some young woman or other." Any way, he
was always writing letters of an evening ; and
matrimony, Mrs. Sadler supposed dolorously,
was " catching." Heigh-ho ! If the silly lads
did but know what they were rushing into !

Be sure that my mother did not say goodbye
to Mrs. Sadler without at parting pressing
into her lean hard hand a certain slip of crisp-rustling
paper, stamped with three figures and
not unknown at the Bank of England, which
was the cause of the poor glad soul's dropping
speechless upon her knees and wetting my
mother's black glove with a hot flood of grateful
tears. Not only that, said my mother — like
the dear saint she was, —

Whenever you are in trouble — whenever
you are harassed for money — write to me, Mrs.
Sadler. You know our address. And mind
you are looking brighter and happier the next
time we come to see you."

Poor Mrs. Sadler herself was quite unable to
say good-bye.

And then we caught a suburban train running

conveniently upon the Underground Eailvvay,
and went down to Ealing Common to see Mrs.
Eamage. The delight, the fluster, the eloquent
wriggling and curtseying of Mrs. Eamage, who,
as it chanced, was wearing a marvellous lace cap
decked with apple-green bows and streamers
of a darker shade a yard long, are truly indescribable,
and vastly amused my dear mother ;
to whom Mrs. Eamage was a revelation ; now
meeting her for the first time.

Mrs. Eamage talked glibly of her daughter
the Viscountess, who, she informed us, was still
"in Madeira ; expecting a certain event" — this
in a confidential whisper — " every day ; " and
would not rest content until she had seen us
accept refreshment, and we had consented to
stay to tea." Then, also, my mother must be
shown all over " The Oaks," and listen meanwhile
to Mrs. Eamage's eulogies of her noble-hearted
son-in-law the Viscount. She told us
willingly, and with perfect good-nature, everything
of interest that she could recollect concerning
the St. Vincent Eoad, Hoxton ; of Giles
Hardman and Rachel Owen ; and of the beautiful
little dark-haired-baby-girl-whom they called
Flower Wilson."

I ain't proud, mem," said Mrs. Eamage

amiably. " I certainly did live at Hoxton
once, and I've known some queer characters
in my time. But that day, mem, is gone
by," added Mrs. Damage, bridling ; " and,
thanks to his lordship, my son-in-law, I live
on Ealing Common now."

Time all too quickly seemed to fly during
this visit of ours to Mrs. Eamage ; it naturally
being for my dear mother a deeply interesting
occasion ; and it was really quite late in the
evening before we were able to get back to
town.

And Mrs. Eamage, when at length we did
say au revoir with many a wriggle bashfully
promised my mother that, on our return to
England, she would come and visit us at
Eedknights.

Again we spent the night at a West-end
hotel — at this date the town-house of the Dark-wood
family in Portman Square was let to an
American millionaire — and on the next day
we journeyed down into sylvan Hertfordshire ;
to Arley churchyard ; and there stood hand-in-hand
by my darling's grave.

■ ••••••••

Christmas was close upon us ; it wanted
barely a week to Christmas Day.

I shall write and ask Leigh Eversleigh to
come to us," said my mother, delicately touching
her forehead with her quill. " He won't
think us too dull, Flower, I know."

'' Do, dear," I said, as carelessly as I could.
And I beo-an to wonder whether he would
come.

But he wrote and said that he could not ;
he was very sorry ; he was going abroad again
almost immediately — not on the Continent,
as we ourselves were ; but this time to the
East — in all likelihood to Cairo, Jerusalem,
Damascus, and such places ; perhaps on to
India and to Australia. He supposed he
should return some day. He had no settled
plans.

What ails him ? " exclaimed my mother,
in a hurt tone. "He never used to be so
restless. I shall write once more, and ask him
to strain a point and come to us for Christmas
Day. I shall say that we both want
im.

Pray do not ! " I cried hastily. " Depend
upon it, he cannot come ; or — or if he were able
he would."

"Well, I cannot understand it," fretted my
mother. "He is only just back from the

wildest parts of America ! I am so disappointed.
I suppose, now, we shall not see
anything more of him until — until — until
goodness knows when ! "

"Depend upon it," I iterated indifferently
how hard did I try not to speak bitterly ;
I wonder whether I succeeded ! — " if he could
come, he would. Since he cannot, he will not ;
he knows his own business best. Mother, I ask
you — I ask you as a favour, dear, not to —
not to write to him upon the subject again."

And so my mother and I together spent
a very peaceful and a very happy Christmas
Day. Kneeling, she and I alone with each
other, within the tall carved oak walls of
the Redknights pew — whence, overhead, the
oval marble tablet crowned with the white
dove and bordered with the broken lily-wreath
had been removed — how full of unspeakable
gratitude to an all wise, an all-merciful
God were our prayers on that
Christmas morning !

The New Year came. Ere the first week
of it had passed we had packed many giant
trunks and had crossed the English Channel
for an indefinite time — certainly however
for a whole year.

We were going to visit those foreign towns
and cities where Daryl and I as man and
wife had lived ; where the first strange
years of our vagrant married life had been
spent ; and in one of which Isla had been
born.

^EAELY two years had come and gone
since my mother and I, turning our
backs upon tranquil Redknights,
had together crossed the Straits of Dover in
search of the thorough change of air and of
scene which she, at all events, then so truly
needed.

Now it was the month of September ; and
we had been re-established in the dear old
Buckinghamshire house for quite six weeks
perhaps more. One hardly comprehends
the flight of time when the heart within one
is so feather-light that all the world around
one seems glad.

To-night was the 15th of the month; and
Gaveston Priory was splendid with light and

company — for there was a great ball to the
fore.

It was the first entertainment of any description
at which my mother had been seen
for many a long year gone by ; and, in consequence,
all her numerous old friends in the
county had come flocking to be present at
the gathering ; to welcome her back to the
world, as it were — to welcome back both her
and me.

At first however we had both of us demurred
in the matter of attending this ball at the
Priory ; had hesitated, and wistfully appealed
to each other. Was it not " too soon," we
wondered, to be thinking of routs and
balls ?

But the Gavestons were such old, old friends
of the Darkwoods and the Eversleighs — they
would hear of no denial. My mother, they
said, had been a recluse for too long — she
must not shut herself up for ever ; and perhaps
after all they were right.

At all events, we gave way in the end ; for
the festivity in reality was given in our honour ;
and so on the night of the 15th of September
we went to Gaveston Priory.

At the time Lord and Lady Tracy and her

ladyship's mother, Mrs. Eamage, were staying
with us at Eedknights ; and of course they
were included in our party.

Perhaps dear old Mrs. Eamage was at first
somewhat shy with us ; but my own good
mother, I, and Aurora herself, amongst
us took care that she — Mrs. Eamage — was
in no wise slighted by the rest of our
friends.

More than once, whilst we were abroad, we
had fallen in with the Tracys ; our wanderings
had crossed theirs ; and theirs ours ; and at
Paris, where we had first met them, we had
stayed several weeks with Aurora and her
husband. Within half an hour of their introduction
to each other my mother had recognised,
and had become a staunch admirer of, the
remarkable qualities in Aurora. There was the
baby then ; a small, fleshy, healthy male creature
swathed in flowing robes and costly laces ;
who was regarded by its delighted parents as
something the like of which this world had
never seen before.

The young autocrat, with his vigorous lungs
and his two attendants — trained and patient
women were they, thank goodness, who
thoroughly understood their business ! — was

now installed within the nurseries at Red-knights.


But, the Tracys' visit to us at an end,
the Viscount and his family were going
on to "ancestral" Starch; for the birth of a
son and heir to the illustrious title had quite
softened the hearts of the proud old new Earl
and his Countess. Lady Cassandra Bearwarden
was never mentioned now ; and Aurora — highly
amused at the thought of the pardon-ceremony
in prospect — was about to be received at Starch
with open arms.

It was nearing midnight ; almost everybody
expected at Gaveston Priory had arrived ;
the wide and brilliant rooms were already
crowded.

For the first dance that I was dancing I
was engaged to Rollo Gaveston ; the next I
had given to his brother, young Marc. These
young men had appeared at Eedknights on
the foregoing day ; and they had then bespoken
as many dances as they could worry
me into giving them.

It was with a vague sense of alarm and
irritation that I discerned that they were in
all probability going to be troublesome — would,
in fact, be somewhat difficult to manage.

Indeed they had, the pair of them, been
more or less troublesome ever since my return
from abroad ; EoUo, the elder of the two,
especially.

The dance was over — the music was enchanting.
Reluctantly Rollo Gaveston removed his
arm from my waist. He said boldly, —

"Mrs. Darkwood, I don't know whether
you are conscious of the fact ; but you are
looking very lovely to-night."

With a careless hand I opened my fan.

Am I ? " I said idly*' that is all right then."

*your gown is so becoming!" he remarked,
staring down at it, and at the pure snow-white
fragrant bouquet I carried.

"Is it ? — it is simple enough in all conscience
; merely an arrangement in black-and
white."

I never saw black-and-white, though, look
like that on any one else," he rejoined ; with
an ardent glance straight into my cold eyes.

Did you not ? That is odd, Mr. Gaveston.
Ah," I cried, with sudden animation, before he
could go on ; " there, yonder, if you will, is
a lovely gown ! It is one of the handsomest
if not altogether the handsomest — I have
seen here to-night ; I knew it would be — I

told her so before we came. But you men
don't understand these things."

He followed rather cloudily the direction
of my gaze.

You mean — " he was beginning.

Lady Tracy ; yes," I smoothly interrupted
him. " But, as I observed a minute ago, you
men never understand these things. Lady
Tracy's diamonds — Mr. Gaveston, why don't you
look at them % — are superb ; and just in the
right manner suit the gown she is wearing ;
which is perfect — "

'eyes, I know; I am sure it is ; I will
take your word for it. Look here, Mrs. Dark-wood
; suppose we — "

"It is composed, as perhaps you will see
if you follow me," I coolly continued, **of
silver plush and port-wine satin. The brocaded
train, gleaming fitfully with its slashing of
that exquisite pink, is a dream, a master-thought
in its way. The whole, let me tell
you, is a work of art — Worth's or Carre's, I
have no doubt."

A very good get-up — a swagger frock, I
daresay ; but give me simple black-and-white,"
said Rollo Gaveston perversely.

"Mr. Gaveston, I should very much like to

cross the room. I want to speak to my
mother. Lend me your arm, please."

There is no seat to be had near Mrs.
Eversleigh," he answered, without stirring.
Far better stay where we are, I think."

I rose impatiently ; and he had no choice
but to obey.

At that moment to reach the part of the
ball-room where my mother, near to a doorway,
sat chatting brightly amidst a group of
old friends, was no light undertaking. Our
progress consequently was but slow. The
band had struck up a sweet and popular
waltz — one of those extraordinarily " catch "
and haunting airs that for a space are known
and heard everywhere and are then, forgotten.
The company, at the first bars of it, in pairs
came trooping from every quarter. Under
cover of the joyous ball-room din, Kollo
Gaveston bent his head to mine ; and he
said reproachfully, —

You disdained my poor flowers, then, Mrs.
Darkwood 1 "

"Disdained them? Not at all. They were
lovely ; and indeed they are so still ; for they
are in a bowl of water upon my dressing-room
table."

"Why, if you valued them, wouldn't you
wear them ? " he asked.

*' I would have worn them with real pleasure
if I could," I replied gravely — " but I
could not. They were brilliantly and tastefully
arranged, Mr. Gaveston ; but they
would have gone ill, you see, with my
quiet gown."

Humph ! I suppose those white ones you
have with you to-night were sent to you, Mrs.
Darkwood ? " This with something disagreeably
like a jealous sneer.

I glanced at him coldly — a little defiantly.

Yes ; they were sent to me," I replied ;
and I raised the dear white flowers to my
lips and drew in their pure fragrance lingeringly.


'' Sent by some one, I presume," said he
confidently, "whom you had previously permitted
to learn what colours you intended to
wear to-night. Am I not right ? "

"No," I flashed out at this ; "it happens that
you are utterly mistaken. They were sent tome
by some one who had the wit to guess that
I should wear no colours to-night. Thank you,
Mr. Gaveston — here is my mother. No, no ; I
won't keep you. Please do your duty. I have

VOL. III. R

seen your card, remember, and know that you
are expected elsewhere."

And so I dismissed him, poor fellow ! But
this, I am sorry to say, was not the first time by
several that I had of late been driven to snub
Kollo Gaveston. Well, it was entirely his own
fault. There are some men who are so tiresome,
so blind, they cannot or they will not see what
is plain to all creation save themselves.

With a radiant smile my mother turned tome.
She was faultlessly gowned in pearl-gray
satin, that looked like moonlight and that had
about it a small fortune in black lace ; and she
wore the Darkwood opals.

Leigh has only just arrived, I hear," she
exclaimed. *' If he does not make haste over
his dressing, he will find," laughed my mother
light-heartedly, "no partner to be had when
he appears by-and-by ! As it is, I fear, they
have too many men."

A ball, dear mother, is seldom a failure
when there are too many men," I said rather
listlessly ; avoiding my mother's eyes and
staring straight down the beautiful glittering
room.

That is a woman's view of the case, of
course," blithely chatted on my mother. *' By-the-bye,

Flower, you heard about Leigh's telegram
; did you not ? "

Yes. He was hindered in some unexpected
fashion at the last moment, Marc Gaveston
said."

Yes, dear ; precisely as he was upon the
point of starting," answered my mother. *' It
was very provoking. I think it was close upon
eleven o'clock when he did arrive ; and then
he had had a nine-miles' drive or so from
High Whitfield — at that time of night there was
no train down to Hazel — and he ought, you
know. Flower, to have been here for dinner,
they tell me ! "

"Yes, I know," I said absently; but in the
next instant I roused myself ; became alert.

Resolutely making his way towards me there
came a certain Captain Edwards, a son of an
Indian officer who had once been a comrade and
friend of my father's. I was engaged to dance
with Captain Edwards ; yet, brave soldier
though he was, just then I wished the young
man miles away. As matters now stood, there
were but two clear lines upon my card ; and it
had been desperately hard work to keep even
those spaces open.

Mother," I hurriedly whispered, " here

comes Captain Edwards. Make it all right with
lira for me ; will you % I — I do not want to
dance again just yet. Ah ! — here is Marc
Gaveston coming too ! The initials of both
of them have somehow got put down against
this dance — it's a mistake — say whatever you
like to them, mother, only — only do not let
either of them follow me ! "

There was a wind-curtain immediately behind
my mother ; and, even as I spoke, my hand was
upon the embroidered cloth. In another second
I had stepped behind the folds of it ; had passed
into the hall ; and was flying noiselessly towards
the morning-room, which to-night was serving
as a pleasant lounge.

It was some distance from the ball-room ;
and I hoped to find it cool and deserted.

The tall lamps within it were soft aud
dim ; majestic plants from the conservatories
drooped over the tinted shades of
them.

I wanted a cup of 005*6 e — it would cheer
me perhaps ; do me good. I decided that
I would ring for it and get it brought tome
here.

I entered swiftly ; started ; stopped. In
the centre of the morning-room stood a man

in evening-dress, all alone, leisurely drawing
on a pair of gloves.

I could not well retreat ; so I went
forward.

Leigh Eversleigh looked up and recognised
me.

At first however I quite failed to recognise
him ; for he had grown a short close
yellow Ijeard — which, by-the-way, became him
wondrous well ; there was no doubt about
that — and he looked older, much older, and
graver too, than when I had last beheld
him.

He, like ourselves, had but lately returned
from his wanderings abroad ; although he, I
believe, had been everywhere and seen everything
upon the face of the earth ; and this
was our first meeting; since his home-coming;
to England, and to me.

Yes, thank God, to me, after all !

I know not what we at first said to each
other — in moments of intense joy one's wits
are apt to take flight. One can be stunned
by a great happiness as well as by a great
sorrow ; for both have within them the
elements of pain.

But I remember his saying very gently, —

My flowers, are they ? "

And I as gently answered, —

Leigh — whose should they be, if not
yours 5

He was smiling ; his arms were stretched
apart.

Straightway went I to his breast and laid
my head upon it.

Beloved," he said, as his arms enfolded
me — " my own dear love at last ! "

When in Paris, my mother was never
weary of buying presents for me — they were
numerous as they were costly. If we had
set out upon our travels with many giant trunks,
it is certain that we returned to Eeclknights
with their number considerably augmented.

Amongst her handsome gifts to me there
was a splendid coat of darkest Russian sable
luxuriously lined with quilted lemon satin.
I put on my sable coat — I had worn it to
the ball — for Leigh said the night was chilly ;
and with my lover I went out into the
open air.

The revel and its gaiety were at their
height ; but we, I am sure, had forgotten
all about it. True, we heard the music and

the laughter ; we saw the dazzling Hosts ;
but we two with each other were as
much alone in creation as if we had
the whole world and its sweet night to ourselves.


Ah, how happy were we — how perfectly
happy ! Dear Heaven, could it last ? Was
it possible that out of heaven it could
last?

Leigh had been explaining to me what it
was that had hindered him in town and had
made him so late in coming down to the
Priory ; and actually it turned out that the
tiresome delay was all through old Mr. Jones !

The shadowy old gentleman, I then heard,
had been for some time ailing ; was suddenly
taken worse ; and, thinking that he was going
to die, he had sent in a great hurry for his
benefactor, Leigh Eversleio^h, the truest friend
he ever had known.

Leigh, it appeared, had found him in the
hands of an incompetent Bob Sawyer ; a harebrained
youth fresh from one of the hospitals.
This good-for-nothing young man had got it into
his head that his patient was suffering from
a weak heart, and was treating him accordingly.


Id reality, poor old Mr. Jones's attack was
nothing in the world but violent indigestion.
So Leigh promptly sent Mr. Bob Sawyer about
his business ; and placed his old friend in the
care of a clever physician with whom he — Leigh
Eversleigh — was personally acquainted.

But of course all this had taken time ; and
Leigh had got late for the ball.

And did you leave the old man getting
better ? " I asked earnestly.

Much better, my dear one ; in fact, nearly
well. He knew before I left that I was starting
for Buckinghamshire, Flower ; and he asked me
to give you his ' respectful compliments.' "

Good old man ! " I murmured. " Leigh''
I said suddenly, " do you know, dear, when
I look back to — to the past' — and I often do
look back, sad as looking back is — I catch myself
fancying sometimes that it was you — yes, really
you, and nobody else, Leigh — who sent old
Mr. Jones to live in Mrs. Sadler's top-floor
lodgings in Bentham Street ? That it was you
who were so kind — so kind all the while to —
to my little child and to me ? Old Mr. Jones
was simply your agent, merely obeyed your
orders — that was it ; I am convinced of it now —
carrying out to the letter the instructions you

had previously given him ? Oh, Leigh, I am
right ; am I not ? You cannot deny it ! "

Why should I wish to deny it, Flower —
now ? " he said. " There can be no secrets
between us two now."

And then he told me that he had always loved
me — loved me, yes, from the very day on which
he had first met me ! Very sweet was it to
hear ; but — but I do not think that it was
news.

He told me how hard it had been — the
keeping of his secret ; confessed how wretched,
how staggered he was when with Isla I fled
from Thangate — for he divined that I should
never more return to Mrs. Eamage's house
in Chesterfield Avenue. He believed that he
had then lost sight of me ; perhaps never again
to see me. He was aware how utterly alone
I was in the world ; well knew how cold and
cruel is vast London to the friendless and the
despairing soul ; especially to a friendless and
despairing woman ; and, loving me so well and
generously, he wanted to watch over me, to
shield me and the child from all possible
calamity. But, albeit he guessed I had gone
back to London, he was in complete ignorance
of my hiding-place ; and so he was powerless —

could do nothing. Day and night he thought
of me ; prayed for me ; and watched untiringly
for a clue which might lead to his finding
me.

One day he had the good fortune to see Miss
de Vere — Aurora Eamage ; but she did not
see him. Seated in a hansom, she was driving
rapidly in a north-westerly direction, in
the neighbourhood of Eegent's Park. A light,
as it were, all at once broke upon him. He
divined Aurora's errand ; hailed another hansom;
and, unsuspected, followed her to Primrose
Hill. Leaving Primrose Hill behind her, she
was carried into the dingy and, to Leigh, quite
strange locality in the midst of which Bentham
Street is situated. Cleverly and cautiously he
tracked Aurora until he saw her enter Mrs.
Sadler's house.

On the following day he despatched his
ancient friend and pensioner, old Mr. Jones,
to make certain inquiries of the landlady in
Bentham Street — inquiries nevertheless that
must raise no suspicion — and the result of old
Mr. Jones's diplomacy was that old Mr. Jones
himself became Mrs. Sadler's mysterious top-floor
lodger ; with instructions, and with the
means, to remain in her house so long as Mrs.

Darkwood and lier child should likewise remain
in it.

Never a day passed," now confessed Leigh
Eversleigh, " without old Mr. Jones's coming
to the Temple — that is, if I was in London
to let me hear how you, Flower, and the
little one were getting along ; how you were
managing together ; what you were doing ;
whether or not — my darling, forgive me —
whether or not you — you were in the slightest
need of aught that it was in my power to
supply. If ever you were in trouble — in
distress — in any great misery — particularly
should he learn that you were at any time in
pressing need of a strong and true friend's
presence and assistance — his orders were instantly
to let me know of it. And — and
strictly did the old man honour the confidence
I had ventured to repose in him ;
and faithfully did he discharge, too, the
duty which he had so willingly undertaken
to please me."

In a passion of love and gratitude I clung
to my noble lover.

So generous — so unselfish — and — and yet
so cold ! " I cried a little incoherently.
"Throughout you knew — you knew the whole

of that mournful time where I and Isla were
living, and — and yet you yourself, Leigh,
never came near us ! "

He held me fast to his true heart.

"Dearest, I came to you when I was obliged
— when duty and real necessity compelled
me," he said simply. " I could not come
before. How could I ? You were living
apart from Daryl. . . . Was it not right
therefore — hard though indeed it was — that
I should hold aloof from you, loving you
as I did ? Flower, I loved you too well
to let even the shadow of a reproach touch
you through me. The world, my dear one,
has no mercy upon a woman in life placed
as you were then placed. I tried to do
what was — what was best and right, for your
sake, Flower, my beloved ! "

Nevertheless, sir, you have been cold tome
— singularly, inexplicably cold and strange
sometimes. You were cold, unlike yourself,
when you came to Arley Bridge ; you have
been cold and odd to me likewise at Eed-
knights ; but I will not humour your vanity,
sir, by confessing as freely as I might how
this coldness of yours has at times hurt me.
Some day you shall hear — perhaps. Not now.

Because, Leigh, I am so happy — so happy ;
and disagreeable memories shall in no wise
be suffered to cloud the "

Again he drew me to his heart and held
me there ; and thus stifled what I would
say.

Flower," he whispered, '* cannot you then
understand ? A great love is a terrible tyrant
a man's absolute master. Often was I
afraid of it myself, knowing it to be my
master. My darling, if I ever was really
cold to you, it was because I dared not be
too kind ! By the stars in heaven above us,
my beloved, that is the stern truth ! Cannot
you conceive what a hard fight it was forme
? My love had somehow to be conquered ;
trampled down ; and I wrestled with it daily
as valiantly as I was able — daily I strove to
live it down. And so I said to myself
wearily that it was well and wholesome forme
— a great chance for you — when events
brought about the opportunity of your finding
a haven of peace at Redknights ; of your
taking shelter from a world you were sick of,
beneath the roof of Daryl's old home ; though
I never dreamed — how should I ? — when I
plotted for your coming hither to Mrs. Evers-

leigh, of the extraordinary revelation touching
your birth and your marriage then in store
for us all. I persuaded myself that, could a
reconciliation only be brought about between
Daryl and his grandfather, it would in all
probability lead to another reconciliation that
was greatly to be desired for others as well.
My darling, you understand me now ? "

"You wished," I murmured back, "to see
Daryl and me also reconciled — restored to
each other? Yes ; I — I knew that."

Because," he said, " I believed it to bethe
only possible state of affairs which
could ever conduce to the absolute curing of
my most terrible madness. My great love
was in truth a great folly — what good in
the circumstances could ever come of it ?
Alas, Flower, no good whatever — nothing but
evil and dire unrest ! Let it be cured, then
slain outright, if it could be done — at any
cost ! "

My poor true Leigh ! " said I tenderly ;
in the dim white star-shine smiling upward
into his faithful eyes. "My poor truelove
1 "

Poor indeed, dear heart," he echoed fondly,
and yet a trifle sadly. "For, wild and strong

as was this great love of mine, it was nevertheless
after all the passion of a weak and
an inconsistent coward."

No, no, no ! Never that, Leigh."
"Yes, surely that, Flower, and nothing
less. The mere thought of your burying
yourself alive in some joyless ascetic sisterhood
or other — and that was what you
threatened to do, recollect — was to me a torture
unendurable. You would be lost to me
utterly then ! I should be left in the world
you would be gone from it. In that case
I should never more see you ; never more
hear your dear voice ; never more with mine
touch your dear hand. It must not, it
should not be ! If you went instead to live
at Redknights — ah, then would it not be
different ? Sometimes then — even though it
were but once in every year — I might see
you ; sometimes listen to your voice ; sometimes
feel the rapture of your touch ; sometimes
realise, just for a sweet brief space,
that you and I, my own darling, were hereupon
earth together. And the mere thought
of even that poor gleam of happiness, Flower,

was — was to me "

He paused ; looked upward ; with the wan

moonlight upon his bare head and face. He
drew a deep, strong, quivering breath which
seemed to break from his very soul.

Yes, Leigh ? " breathed I, trembling in his
arms.

Was to me as a foretaste of the bliss of
heaven itself! " he answered reverently.

Leigh did at length let me go ; and I left him
smoking a cigar in the avenue.

I re-entered the house, seeking my mother.
The ball-room was nearly deserted ; the musicians
had temporarily vanished ; so it was clear that
the supper-room and the other rooms must be
thronged.

Was my mother in the supper-room ? Probably.
I was hastening thither when I met
Lady Tracy. Her attendant knight was a
stranger to me. She stopped ; he went on a
few paces by himself; then halted too — pulling
at a handsome moustache somewhat discontentedly,
and waiting for Aurora. I suppose
there was something in my face which made
her exclaim sotto voce, with her brightest
and shrewdest smile, whilst her mischievous
eyes sparkled like the diamonds in her fair
hair, —

Flower, my dear, tell me what has
happened ! "

'' Nothing — nothing ! Aurora, where is my
mother — can you tell me ? "

** Yes. Not many minutes since she went
into supper with — I think it was General Hurst.
Now, Flower, what has happened — will you tell
me that ? "

Under her keen bright laughing eyes I believe
I blushed like the veriest school-girl. But, perceiving
this, she had no mercy. Her quizzing
glance made me writhe.

Aurora — Aurora," I stammered helplessly ;
secretly wondering whether I looked sublimely
happy or ridiculously foolish — " once upon a
time, long ago, I — I had my fortune told.
And to-night, Aurora — well, what do you
think ? — it — it has come true ! That is all."

'saul"

She seized me by both hands ; for seconds
shook them vigorously ; then imprinted a
hearty kiss upon either of my burning
cheeks.

Hurrah ! " cried she as she released me — a
brief characteristic comment, by the way, which
seemed in no slight degree to astonish the
man who was waiting for her. " Hurrah ! "

VOL. III. s

We live at Eedknights ; and of course my
darling mother lives there with us. The great
house, with all belonging to it, is really hers;
but she always declares that it is not.

It is my mother's most earnest wish that
our eldest boy shall, in addition to his own
name of Eversleigh, take the name of Dark-wood
— that is to say, by-and-by, when he
shall, God willing, have grown to man's
estate.

Since this is my mother's desire, the child
when a man — shall be known as Daryl
Darkwood. He is called Daryl Eversleigh
now.

Positively I am almost afraid that Buckle
and Mrs. Jessamy are spoiling the children ;
but my mother, who, I think, is as wise as
she is loving, says that at present one need
not mind ; it does not matter ; for kindness
and love are the very sunshine of little
children's lives. Spoil them in their young
days, in the right way, she says, and it will
never hurt them.

It happens that I am writing these the
last words of my autobiography at Arley
Bridge. We are staying for a few weeks

with the Earl and Countess of Starch.
Arley Bridge is Aurora's favourite home.
Starch itself, she says, is too large to be
comfortable — it reminds her of the Bingham
Hotel.

How wonderful are the changes which the
years bring round ! Whether viewed in lightest
jest or in grimmest earnest, life is an
amazing kaleidoscope.

Last night Leigh and I were in Arley churchyard
; together we had strolled thither in the
dusk of the summer evening. It was very quiet
and holy there as we stood by a little grave.

And Leigh, stooping, in silence gathered a
blue periwinkle flower from amidst the mossy
stones near to the spot, and fastened the drooping
spray in the bosom of my gown.

I can hardly tell in what direction his thoughts
at the moment were drifting ; but he drew me
towards him ; held me firmly ; and looked seriously
down into my eyes.

*' Are you satisfied. Flower," he says. ** I
often wonder. My dear one, tell me faithfully
has life anything more to give you ? "

Nothing, Leigh.

I think of early days, and thee.
And bless thee,' "

I answer passionately, yet low. And my arms
go upward and rest about his neck.

He bends his head. His lips are upon
mine.

Flower, my sweet wife," he says — " then
I too am satisfied."

THE END.

V-s.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, Printers, EDINBURGH.

l:^^i^LiiS^ii^^^^^ir^^kr^if^
