LIKE LOST SHEEP:

BY

ARNOLD GRAY

AUTHOR OF " THE Wilts Warrington," &C.

Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small ;
Though ivith patience He stands waiting, with exactness grinds He all.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. I.

Lotion :
WARD AND DOWNEY,

12 YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1885.
[All Rights Resei'ved.}

Elis. SIMPSON-CARSON,

K.,^^ AS A SLIGHT ]eut SINCERE ACKNOAYLEDG Event

OK HEU KINDNESS AND Veil SYMPATHY,

THIS STORY IS INSCRIBED

^ BY THE

Coo

AUTHOR.

I

I

PRELUDE-chapter
I

CHAPTER II

CHAPTER III

PAGE




PEELIJDE.

CHAPTER I.

*' And this, you say, must be the end of it
all?"

What would you have ? All things, like
men and women themselves, must come to
an end in some way or other — sooner or
later, you know."

A pause. Then the woman — in reality she
was little more than a girl — said :

"Well, the end of — of all this has come
round terribly soon, I think, looking back to
the beginning of it, remembering how it
began ! "

VOL. I. B

She spoke with self-control — indeed, with
a curiously quiet mien — though her heart
was full of gall, and her bosom heaved
visibly.

A keen sense of her bitter wrongs was
changing love to hate; changing it slowly,
perhaps, but surely and absolutely nevertheless.
Already a vague desire, a desire that
would grow and grow, for revenge of some
kind, had begun to stir in her breast. It
could not be that she was powerless in every
direction ? Assuredly by some means, legitimate
or otherwise, an adequate revenge
was possible to her; would come, with time,
within her reach ? Else was there no kindness,
no pity, no justice in the clear heavens
above them !

The man, as he answered her, laughed ;
not unkindly, but in an easy and a matter-of-fact
style which had something of cynicism
in it too.

My dear Minna," he said, " that ' looking
back ' is always an unsatisfactory business,
and can do one no earthly good ; at any
rate, that is my own experience. It is all
pure humbug, believe me, about the chief
happiness of life consisting in anticipation
and retrospection. The present is everything.
Make the best of it while you've got it — the

rest is mere folly and waste of time. My
child, like hundreds of others before us, we
have made a blunder; what remains for us todo
now is — well, you may perhaps have heard
what Shakespeare says about ' what's gone
and what's past help ' — "

He finished the sentence with a shrug.

His coolness, his sophistry, the absence of
all humanity in his dealings with her, goaded
her to momentary passion. Her self-repression
gave way, and she smote her hands
together with a despair that was very real.

Faugh ! " she cried, almost as if her
wretchedness were choking her, " I cannot
stand it — I will not listen to you ! Who
would have believed, a few months back,
that it would all come to this ! Ah me ! not
I — not my dear father, had he known — indeed
not anyone who knew me. Kind Heaven !
what fiends men are, and what fools, what
poor fond fools, are women to trust them fora
single hour — "

Come, Minna, Minna," he interrupted
quite gently, as if he were admonishing an
angry child, " did we not agree only yesterday
that we have had about enough of these
scenes ? They are not nice ; they fatigue
one. You bore one to death, you know, my
dear, with your tragedy fits — you do, indeed.

Besides, if you excite yourself you will suffer
for it, recollect. That horrid pain will
return, and — "

Let it ! " she burst out. " Let it, and
put an end to me. The sooner the better.
Garth!"

Come, be rational," said he, '' and let us
talk the matter over sensibly ; not only
sensibly, but finally. It is," drawing out
his watch and holding it close to his eyes
in the fading evening light — '' getting late.
It is close upon eight o'clock, Minna."

With an effort which cost her not a little
she checked herself, and regained the strained
composure she had lost. As she swallowed
or dashed aside the tears which seemed to be
burning away her sight, she was vowing
inwardly, again and again, that, once she
could see the path to it clearly before her,
she would take her revenge upon him for
what he had done. There could be for him
no punishment cruel enough on earth, she
felt, as a proportionate reward for his black-hearted
perfidy.

Though the storm in her breast had for a
moment got the upper-hand, she well knew
that the time for tears and supplications wa
gone by ; that tears and pleadings for mercy
could avail her nothing now. The man was

as granite; his love for her — if real love had
ever existed — eras dead. Being weary of
her, he was chafing to be rid of her. That
was the naked truth.

She felt like a bird in a fowler's net, the
means of escape from which could come only
through death itself.

With a shuddering sigh she pressed her
hands upon her forehead ; then looked at
him with a mixture of love and scorn which
struggled for the mastery in her despairing
eyes.

If I were not sure," she said, '' if I were
not as certain of it as I am that we — you
and I, Garth — shall one day, in another
world, have to answer for the sins we have
committed in this — were I not convinced, I
say, that you are lying to me, lying even now
as we stand here together, in your cowardly
knowledge of my pitiable inability to help
myself, it would not be so hard to bear.
But I know that I am your wife, Sir
Garth Gilroy — that I am guiltless of any
wrong-doing ; that our marriage of four
months ago was a legal marriage ; that
we are husband and wife in the sight of
Heaven and man alike ! You did not lie
to me then. No ! I feel it, am convinced
of it — though you lie to me now ! You

showed to me then what sou called our
marriage-certificate ; you say now that the
paper was false, and that you have destroyed
it as being utterly worthless. What can I
do ? How am I to disprove these wicked
statements ? You took me away to London,
where I had never before been in my life,
and where I have never since been ; you took
me, half-dazed, to a place where you said we
could be lawfully married — I loved you, I
believed you. I know no more than the
simplest child what to do in order to discover
— "

Gilroy ever so slightly shrugged his
shoulders a second time.

Yes, yes, so you have often reminded
me," he threw in. " If you will not believe
me, I cannot make you do so. After all,
you will have little reason to complain ; you
are amply provided for" — taking out a
cigar-case and lighting a cigar. " I have
explained all that to you, and I don't — I
really don't, upon my word — see that you
have much to complain about. You might
be in a far worse plight than you are,
Minna ; you might, indeed."

She made a gesture of passionate weariness,
almost of disgust.

Homeless, fatherless, friendless, money



less— for I would die in a ditch. Garth,
rather than I would touch a penny of your
money after this night ! Yes, I might be,
as you remark, in a worse plight than I am
already in," she cried bitterly; 'but it is
beyond me to divine in what way that could
happen. Can I go back to my father without
you ? No, a thousand times no ! Can
I earn my living in the manner in which so
many women earn theirs, when I have had
no education of any service, and when to be
cooped up in a house from morning till night,
after my life of perfect freedom and unrestraint,
would be simply another name for
dying a slow death ? Have I a friend in the
whole world to whom I can go and tell the
story I should have to tell, or who would
believe it when it was told ? Grarth, you
know that I have not. Oh, you are cruel—
you are cruel ! "

Here she broke down again— this time
broke down completely — and, in spite of her
proud spirit, sobbed as if her heart would
break.

It will be wholly your own fault,
Minna, you know, if you die in a ditch — and
dying in a ditch, by-the-bye, must be
deucedly unpleasant, I should fancy," he
coldly observed, not looking at his companion,

but scrutinising the ash of the
cigar he was smoking. " I wish you would
be reasonable. Since this is to be our last
evening together, we may as well spend it
amicably as not."

She paid no heed to him ; but, leaning
heavily against a tree, wept with her face
covered. As they stood there, in the long
sweet grass, in the cool August twilight, the
old gray country-house, known in that part
of Warwickshire as Lonefield Grange, hidden
from view, the rich foliage all about them
just shivering now and then, their figures
were reflected in the water of the mere
close by.

Over the smooth surface of that broad
expanse of water the gnats were dancing in
gay gray flocks, and the swallows swept low
and with bewildering rapidity, wheeling
hither and thither in their flight. There
was a smell of late clover in the air, and
voices of harvest people working at some
distance off were borne now and again across
the quiet leas.

Moored to the willow-trunk against which
the girl still leant, a boat lay idle in a
sheltered creek. It was a steady-looking
old boat of the light-punt pattern, its green
paint blistered by the summer sun. At the

bottom of it were lying a discarded fishing-rod
and bait-can, together with a pair of
sculls somewhat the worse for wear. The
young man, softly whistling, stooped and
unfastened the chain ; then stepping into
the punt, he held out his hand to Minna.

Come," he said, in a light yet authoritative
tone. " I shall be miles from the Grange
by this hour tomorrow night, and I should
like to carry away with me, if possible, a not
entirely disagreeable recollection of my last
English summer evening. Because, you
know, if I never return — and life's full of
mishaps — this is the last I shall ever see in
the old country. We can talk just as well
sitting in the boat as we can standing herein
this confoundedly dewy grass ; besides, it
will be like old times, and the moon will be
rising directly. The dog-cart isn't ordered
until ten."

With a repetition of the old impetuous
movement she once more brushed from her
eyes the tears which blinded them. She
stood erect, yet irresolute, looking at him
curiously. When she was calmer, she said :

Do you want to kill me ? Do you mean
to take me out and drown me ? It would be
one way certainly — perhaps the best — of
getting rid of me, Garth. I have heard that

the mere is horribly deep out yonder there in
the middle."

He laughed pleasantly.

** My dear child, nothing was farther from
my thoughts. In reality, I was thinking
that we should be more private, more alone,
out there on the water than here in the park.
One of the servants might be strolling about
and passing this way. Servants, whatever
they may pretend, are spies at the best of
times."

You are cruel enough for a murderer,"
she said, shivering.

Don't be absurd, Minna."

Murderers are always cruel — they must
be so," she said, obstinately; "else they
couldn't be murderers."

"You reason without thinking, and think
without reasoning," answered he, with some
display of irritation. Then he added carelessly
— " My dear, you are wrong ; my nature
is essentially a passive one. In a tragedy of
any kind I should I fancy, be the slain —
never the slayer. Bah ! what nonsense weare
drifting into. Jump in, Minnehaha ! "

A man can always jest about the unknown,
because the unknown is never real; just ashe,
being full of health and ignorant of what
the future may have in store for him, can

laugh at death and its terrors when standing
perhaps upon the identical spot where his
grave is shortly to be dug. It was a truly
merciful wisdom that ordained that the
morrow should be veiled. Notwithstanding,
in a way, the present is the future, as surely
as " conduct is fate."

Without another word the girl sprang into
the boat, disdaining the proffered aid of her
companion's hand.

I will take the sculls," she said. " A
pull at them will do me good perhaps — will
exorcise the fiend in me. I feel to-night
like— like— "

A murderer," he suggested calmly. " Eh,
Minna?"

She gave him no reply ; but grasped the
sculls with the air of an adept, settling herself
firmly upon her seat as one thoroughly
accustomed to the work.

"As you will," said he; and sat down,
facing her, upon the well of the punt.

Half-a-dozen vigorous strokes carried them
well out from the bank, the swallows skimming
around them with their incessant
'' tweet, tweet," and dipping their long
wings into the smooth dark water.

Here and there, where the belting trees
would admit of it, the fading light from the

rainbow west came slanting in tremulously
upon the beautiful gloom of the place.

This lonely mere in the park of Lonefield
Grange was several acres in extent ; was as
lonely indeed as a wilderness, as silent as the
Dead Sea itself. Nothing there smote the
stillness at this hour, save the restless twittering
of the swallows and the splash of
Minna's sculls.

Near the margin of the mere, in the solemn
shade of the great cool boughs, the pike were
evidently on the feed. The girl and her companion
could see the consternation which prevailed
amongst the helpless little fishes at
the sudden appearance in their midst of the
hungry monster they dreaded.

The roach and gudgeon are in for a bad
quarter of an hour this evening," observed
the young man, indolently. " Look, my
Minnehaha ! "

She rowed on in silence ; her head slightly
turned towards her right shoulder, her proud
brown eyes full of thought and sadness.
Her present occupation displayed to advantage
her handsome figure — the full bust, the
firm shoulders, the rounded waist, and the
somewhat large white arms revealed by the
short open sleeves of her gown : a gown
fashioned from some delicate pink material,

which, finished off as it was with lace and
ribbon, suited her warm beauty admirably.
Her chestnut hair was soft and luxuriant,
and grew low about her wide white forehead.
In age she was two-and-twenty ; but a
stranger, looking at her that night, would
have said that her years were more. She
seemed to have aged perceptibly within the
past few hours.

The man opposite to her on the well of the
punt was barely as tall as the girl ; was
slight in build, good-looking, as the phrase
goes, though decidedly somewhat effeminate
in appearance at this period of his life.
His hands and feet were small, his clothes
faultless in cut, his raven-black moustache
was perfumed and carefully curled. He had
crossed the threshold of his thirtieth year ;
but, unlike the firm-limbed young Hebe
before him, he did not look his age by a
good half-dozen years.

I hope," he said presently, breaking the
deep quiet which reigned about them, *' that
you are resolving to come round to a sensible
frame of mind with regard to the arrangement
I propose — "

'' I was resolving nothing. I was thinking,"
she struck in curtly, turning her gaze
slowly upon him, but not resting as she spoke

in the measured working of her sculls, " of
what I have more than once heard my dear
lost father say of you and yours : that the
Milroy — and, Garth, he knows them well,
for he has lived with them — were ever a
bad, heartless lot ; that the women of their
family were seldom good or happy, the men
always selfish and hard — nay, more, that
they were profligates, liars, spendthrifts;
worse even — for they were invariably brutal
to their wives. So how can one wonder if
the wives themselves were bad and unhappy,
Garth ? "

Humph ! The old man said that of the
Milroy, did he ? Exceedingly uncomplimentary
and ungrateful of him, I must say,
when he owes to them the bread he eats, and
has done so all his life ! " laughed Sir Garth.

I would to Heaven I had believed him,
or had given . a moment's reflection to his
words, when I first met you ! " said Minna,
with energy. And the boat moved faster
over the dusky mere.

Unfortunately, one is always wise too late
in this world," observed Gilroy, with a smile.
'' I wonder what the old ingrate would say if
he knew everything, Minnehaha ? "

If you mean my father, I know what he
would do," she rejoined.

« Yes ? "

Why, kill you — or try to."

My dear girl, you are morbid this evening
! You can talk of nothing but murder'*

Perhaps," she answered briefly.

The last streak of rose and primrose died
out in the lilac sky ; a mist was gathering
over the water, more noticeably so near the
bank where the alders grew. Behind the
trees which hid the hushed old Grange, a
yellow light foretold that the moon was now
on the rise. The swallows had disappeared;
the bats had taken their place ; the voices of
the distant harvest-folk had ceased, and the
creaking waggon-wheels were still.

The narrow punt and its two occupants
facing each other might have been a ghostly
boat and crew upon a ghostly lake in a
dream.

They were some distance from land — the
dim moon waxing stronger and stronger —
when Minna suddenly uttered a low cry.
It escaped her involuntarily. Was it of
anguish, of joy, of triumph, of what ? She
had bowed herself over the oars as she sat ;
her face was hidden ; she remained thus,
quite motionless, for seconds.

What is the matter ? " asked Gilroy,
startled from the reverie into which he had

fallen. He stared, not without concern, at
the girl whom he had called Minnehaha.
'' Are you ill ? Is it the pain again ? "

She lifted her head from her arms and
pushed back the hair from her brow. A
strange light shone in her beautiful eyes,
from which all trace of tears had vanished ;
a mocking smile seemed to play about her
lips.

"No, no," she quickly answered; "I am
quite well. I — I did not mean to cry out.
I was very nearly thinking my thoughts
aloud. Odd, was it not ? Garth," she went
on feverishly, before he could speak, " I
perceive now how foolish I am to talk of
refusing to touch that allowance which you
propose. Of course, since — since I dare not
go home to the Lock, I cannot live on
nothing. One must live somehow, I suppose
must not one ? So if you will forgive my
obstinacy in the matter, let it be as you at
first suggested. Write to the lawyers and
tell them what you said you would, and — and
that I agree to everything. Garth*'

Ah, now you are wise," returned the
young man, throwing away the stump of his
cigar and lighting another, with a visible air
of relief. " Listen, Minna ! Time is short.
I want to get you to comprehend things

thoroughly, so that in the future there maybe
no mistake."

Ah ! if he could but have guessed what
was brewing in her passionate heart and in
her busy brain !

I am listening," she answered, meekly ;
though I think it is scarcely necessary to
repeat all that you have said before."

Nevertheless, it was some time later on
when Minna shipped her sculls and the punt
touched the bank again. As it did so the
clock on the cupola in the stable-yard
of the Grange struck the half-hour after
nine.

They landed upon the other side of the
mere, now chaining the boat to a half-sunken
post at the base of a flight of wooden steps
which led down from the garden to the
water's edge.

Hard by was an ivy-crowned boathouse,
very ancient of aspect, sheltering a dainty
skiff and a larger punt. The skiff, which
had been a gift to Minna from Sir Garth
when she first came to Lonefield Grange,
was shrouded in white tarpaulin ; and its
outline in the moonlight was clearly defined
as it lay upon the black water in the cavern-like
boathouse. Some weird bird of nio^ht,
at their approach, flew blindly out from the

VOL. I. C

boathouse rafters and went screeching in its
alarm over the sleeping lake.

As Minna somewhat tired ascended the
wooden steps, to which dank green water-weeds
clung in slimy masses, and beneath
which the water-rats loved to gambol, she
glanced at the little skiff tied up in its
tarpaulin shroud and shuddered in spite of
herself.

Are you cold ? " asked Gilroy.

They were crossing the lawn, where a sundial
stood ghostlike, on their way to the
Grange — a mansion of Elizabethan build,
which confronted them upon the slightly
rising ground.

Cold ? Not in the least," she replied.
I was thinking of — "

Thinking again, Minna ! Something
unpleasant, of course," he interjected.

'' Yes. I was thinking of the astonishing
difference between the man you are, Garth,
and the man you can be ; between the man
that you are to me now and the man that you
were, for instance, when you gave me my
little boat."

Ah, the subject of ' lost illusions ' is a
curious one for contemplation," said he,
carelessly. " Life is swamped by them."

"I suppose we loved each other once,"
she said, dreamily, speaking as if to herself.

Well, I suppose so," lie answered,
wondering whether the dogcart he had
ordered was ready.

They entered the old house by the library
window, which was partly of stained glass,
and which opened to the ground. The room
was handsomely furnished with dull red
hangings and cumbersome furniture. There
were many valuable books upon the walls;
the oai^ floor was bare. Above the grotesque
dogs " on the hearth and the tall mantelpiece
which overhung them, the arms of the
Milroy figured in oak : three doves and a
bloody hand. Beneath the device was the
strange motto —

^^ Je fais mourir

The first Gilroy of any importance had
been a traitor and a renegade, having won
his spurs and his fortune under the banner
of the English Henry upon the field of Agincourt.
Upon a table stood decanters of wine,
an old Venetian flask of cognac, some glasses
and a dish of fruit.

Gilroy poured out a small tumbler of
cognac and tossed off the draught standing.
He was beginning to feel for the first time in
this hour of parting that his nerves were
somewhat shaken and needed pulling
together.

Everything is all right — traps and so
forth went on this afternoon, I believe ; and
and you understand all that we have been
discussing, Minna, I hope?" he said, not
without some awkwardness of mien.

Yes. Everything that you ordered has
been done for you, 1 know," she answered,
as steadily as she could. "And I — and I
perfectly comprehend everything."

She was resting on a sofa by the open
window, looking rather pale now in her
pretty pink gown with the lamplight falling
upon it. She stood up with difficulty, and
added then :

*' Garth, I hear wheels ! It is the dog-cart.
Let us say good-bye and get it over."

She extended her cold hand, and he took
it at once. He would have held it within his
own, but she drew it away resolutely.

"You leave Liverpool some time tomorrow,
I think you told me ? " said Minna,
growing paler and paler every second. Her
very lips were turning white with a bluish
hue about them.

Yes ; I shall just manage to catch the
10.40 from Leamington to-night, and shall
breakfast in Liverpool, if all's well, tomorrow
morning. The City of Borne leaves towards
evening."

LIKE LOST SHEEP. 21

She could not answer jusfe then; words
would not come.

'' I will write to you from New York,
Minna," he said, with assumed cheeriness.

I would rather that — that you did not,
she managed to reply. " And from New
York you go — "

To the Far West — to Texas, California
perhaps; then on to Japan, Egypt, Syria —
Heaven knows whither, and I care not !
After all, a man's life — Minna, you are
really ill now ; it is useless to deny it.
Here, sip this" — making a dash for the table
and pouring out more of the cognac.

However, he was too late. With a choking
and shuddering sound, her hands pressed
upon her heart, she staggered forward,
marble-white, and would have fallen if he
had not caught her in his arms.

A knock at the door. A servant entered
the room, bringing with him his master's
hat and a travelling-coat for summer wear.

'' Sir Garth," said the man, " the dog-cart
is waiting."

*' Here 1 " cried Gilroy. " Look sharp —
fetch Mrs. Oliver ! Your mistress is unwell
one of her fainting-fits ! "

The man disappeared in haste, whilst
Gilroy laid the unconscious girl upon the

couch near the window and moistened her
lips with brandy.

Mrs. Oliver, the house-keeper, a motherly
soul well on in middle age — she had lived
for many years at Lonefield Grange —
bustled in, all alarm and concern on her
mistress's account ; at least, on account of
the young girl whom she and her fellow domestics
had regarded as their lawful mistress
during the past summer months of that year.

Minna's advent at the lonely old house had
been a great event. For years Mrs. Oliver
and one or two servants had had the Grange
to themselves.

But the days after her arrival in their midst
had gone by, and nobody called on Lady
Gilroy; and the housekeeper and her servants
— as servants will do — like other people,
formed opinions of their own, and expressed
amongst themselves those opinions pretty
freely.

There was something " queer " about Sir
Garth and Lady Gilroy. And the odd
separation on this August night confirmed
the dark suspicion.

Presently the colour crept back to Minna's
cheeks and lips ; and she slowly opened her
eyes to find that her head was pillowed upon
Mrs. Oliver's shoulder.

J>

LIKE LOST SHEEP. 23

Where am I ? What is the time ? " she
whispered, struggling into a sitting posture
and looking helplessly around her.

The time, my lady ? " said the housekeeper,
soothingly. " It is past ten o'clock ;
and you are here at Lonefield Grange."

"And Sir Garth — where is he?" she
asked, her wits still abroad.

"He — he is gone, my lady.'

Gone ! "

Yes, my lady.'

"Ah," she groaned, "I remember!" Then
lifting her eyes mechanically to the carved
shield above the mantelpiece, with its human
motto and bloody hand — the interpretation
of which she had learned from her
lover in days gone by, when she had noticed
one evening the same crest and words engraved
upon the stone of his signet-rings
her lips moved again. "Your cruelty has
not slain me — you have not yet broken my
heart. No, not yet, Garth ! " she muttered.

Did you speak, my lady ? ''

No. Thank you, I am better now, Mrs.
Oliver, and want to be alone."

The housekeeper rose ; and having placed
the wine within reach of Minna's sofa, she
reluctantly left the library. Alone, Minna
stood up. With one hand pressed for

support upon the couch-head, she raised her
eyes and the other hand, with an impassioned
gesture. Heavenward.

Time will show," she cried, " which is the
stronger — Eight or Wrong ! ' Je fats mourir
Ah, no ! you have not killed me yet. I will
live — so Heaven help me — for justice and
revenge ! ''

l^EABLY four years had elapsed since that
August night when, in the library of the
lonely old Warwickshire mansion, Minna
and Sir Garth Gilroy had parted from each
other for ever. Now it was the month of
June, and the early morning was brilliant
with sunshine and roses.

The sunshine flashed and sparkled upon
the dancing waters of the Dane ; the roses —
red, white, and yellow — clustered in profusion
around the porch and windows of the
four roomed cottage at the Lock.

Adam Ford, the lock-keeper, the picture
of human grief, sat upon the bench in the
creeper-covered porch, a newspaper spread
upon his knee.

There had been a time when Adam was
hale and robust, strong of mind, and stout
of limb. He had been a great traveller, too,
Bud had seen many foreign sights and cities ;

but a crushing sorrow of recent years had
fallen upon him, and he had grown old before
his time.

He heeded neither the sweet scents which
abounded in the garden of the Lock cottage
nor the splendid sunlight which turned the
river to molten silver and the meadows to
fields of gold.

"Hullo! Mr. Ford; ain't you well?"
called out a young voice, clear and lusty.
What's the matter ? "

On the other side of the Lock, having
crossed the first part of the long, straggling
and somewhat rickety wooden bridge which
connected the Borough meadows with the
meadows which lay around Woldney Moat,
stood a manly and healthy-looking youngster
of ten or thereabout, armed with rod and
line.

With the boy was a sunburnt little maid,
three or four years his junior, who carried a
small gallipot which contained worms for
bait. She echoed her brother's question —

What's the matter with you, Mr. Ford?"

Adam looked up, and shook his gray head
hopelessly ; but made no reply.

So the boy, thinking more of his own
delightful errand just then than of the lock-keeper's
trouble, said :

We're going to have a long day's fishing
in Woldney park, Mr. Ford ; for father says
that Sir Garth will be soon coming home,
and then it will be all up with it, father says,
and we shan't be able to fish there any more.
And Dan'l's going to bring us our dinner out
there."

"Yes, Dan'l is going to bring us our
dinner," said the little girl.

Master Roger," then said Adam, " I have
had terrible news this morning — though
perhaps," he added, more to himself than to
the children, " it's about the best news I
could have had of her, after all ! — and. I
want you to ask your father if he'll be good
enough to let me have the cart to drive to
Redtown in. I want to catch a train, for
I've got to go a journey to London, tell him.
And will you ask him, too. Master Roger, if
Dan'l can come and mind the Lock while
I'm gone — Naomi, I daresay, will bring your
dinners over into the park — for Coverley is
very full of stranger folk, with the Races
close here and all ; and there's safe to be a
sight o' boats coming through, the day being
so fine. Tell him. Master Roger, will you ?
that Mr. Prince sent round the paper to me,
and that — and that I read my bad news in
the first column on the front page. Say that.

and he'll understand. In the first column on
the front page — don't forget."

All right," was the boy's willing answer.
Here, Kate, hold my rod whilst I go ! "

And he ran back along the wooden bridge
to his home — Little Borough Mills, commonly
called the Little Mills — which was situated
just where the bridge began, and took Adam
Ford's message to his father.

Come over, Miss Katie, and pick a few
raspberries till Master Roger comes back,"
said Adam. And the little lass, nothing
loath, and fearless of the sparkling water
about the cool dark mouth of the Lock,
trotted across the narrow plank above the
great gates to pick raspberries in Adam
Ford's garden.

In the rear of the Lock cottage, near to
the Margrave high road, were situated the
larger mills — Borough Mills proper — where
dwelt Mr. and Mrs. Solomon Prince and
their family. These Pringles were more
prosperous and well-to-do in every sense
than the Harlands at Little Borough Mills ;
the mills upon the other side of the water.
This being the case, the Pringles, in a
measure, " looked down'' upon the Harlands
although Mrs. Prince would sometimes
call her husband "par" and her eldest
daughter " Juleyer."

Between nine and ten o'clock on that summer
morning Adam Ford found himself in
the mill-yard of Little Borough Mills; seated
in Mr. Harland's spring-cart, with the reins
gathered in his hand and his carpet-bag at
his feet— the good-natured miller and his
wife, both full of sympathy and kind intent,
standing by in the hot sunshine.

"If you can't get back to-night — and I daresay
you won't — why, don't worry," said the
miller; 'the mare and cart '11 be quite safe at
The Roebuck' in Redtown. And Dan'l shall
mind the Lock — I'll see to that. He is not
wanted in the mill to-day, nor tomorrow
either, as far as I know at present''

You're very good to me, sir," murmured
Adam.

Don't hinder him, Roger," here gently
put in Mrs. Harland ; '' time's precious, you
know."

If I can only get a last look at her poor-dead
face," said the lock-keeper, heartbroken,
" and drop a kiss of forgiveness
though the Lord knows I forgave her long
ago — on her lips, I'll try and be satisfied.
Well, good-day, sir — good-day, ma'am — and
thank you both for your kindness, I'm sure"'

Good-bye," said the miller and his wife
together ; and the lock-keeper drove out of
the yard and into the lane which, cutting

through the meadows, led to the Redtown
road.

There was no branch line of railroad in
those days, as in these, from the main line
to Coverley-on-Dane. If Coverley folk were
desirous of visiting London they drove to
Twycross or to Redtown and caught the
train thus. But it was always the better
plan, though the longer way, to go direct to
Redtown; because Twycross being little
better than a village, the fast trains never
stopped there. Redtown, on the other hand,
was the principal town of its county, and
boasted a jail, a factory, and other places of
renown.

On his way thither Adam more than once
took from his pocket the newspaper which
Mr. Prince, seeing what it contained, had
thought fit — or rather which Mrs. Prince,
after marking the notice with ink, had seen
fit — to send round after breakfast to the
Lock cottage. With dim eyes Adam read over
for the twentieth time the sorrowful news
on the first sheet. And his tears dropped ashe
read.

The poor man will be glad to know that
the creature is gone," had said Mrs. Prince.
*' Let him have the paper, par, when you've
done with it''

"He shall," said Mr. Prince, with his
mouth full of ham.

It's a real mercy she is dead and gone,
Solomon," continued Mrs. Prince, with a
virtuous air ; " or as time went on she would
have been for coming back to the Lock —
the bare-faced thing ! — and with the girls
growing up and that, why, it would have
been dreadful, Solomon — simply dreadful I ''

So it would, mar ; you're right," said Mr.
Prince. " Another cup o' coffee, my dear."

Mrs. Prince replenished her husband's
coffee-cup, and then said to their eldest
daughter :

Pass the toast to your par, Juleyer, my
dear ; and don't drop your crumbs on the
new carpet."

Theirs is awful shabby at the Little
Mills," put in the second girl Louisa. " Isn't
it, Jill ? "

Julia, commonly called *' Jill " by her
sisters, answered promptly :

"Lor', yes ! Not a scrap of colour in it
anywhere; nor in the drawing-room one
neither, ma ! "

Mrs. Prince reproved her " girls " — she
had no son — in her own wise maternal
fashion.

It is not polite or nice, Jill and Louisa,

to talk in that style about your neighbours
belongings, even if they are shabby, and are
not so good as our own. It is not everybody,
recollect, my dears, that has things so
nice as us. And besides, little ladies should
be seen and not heard; shouldn't they,

par ? " .

"Of course," said papa; "seen and not
heard, of course ! "

*rand when are we to ride in our own
carriage ? " cried little Hester, the youngest.
You said, pa, not long ago, that one day
we should ride in our own carriage ! "

Hush ! " whispered Mrs. Prince, holding
up her finger, a delighted smile beaming
over her fat face nevertheless. " What did I
say just now about little ladies, Hetty ? "

Mr. Prince got up — he was a stout, self-satisfied
man, with a very red, whiskered
face and short thick legs — and looked out
from the breakfast-room window into his
mill-yard, where his own flourishing mills
were undergoing repairs and being improved
and added-to in a very extensive manner.
He whistled softly to himself for some
seconds ; then he said :

Yes, Hetty, my child, some day — and
before not so very long neither — mar and all
of you shall ride in your own kerridge.''

Jill and Louisa clapped their hands in glee.

How grand we shall be, pa, then'' they
cried out ; "as grand as Sir Garth Gilroj,
shan't we, pa ? "

Before noon Adam Ford was in a railway
train, being hurried along towards the great
city of which the lock-keeper knew hardly
anything. He and his grief had a third-class
compartment to themselves, and the
much-crumpled newspaper was still in his
hand, though every word of the message it
contained for him was already stamped upon
his brain.

Foe. — June 9th, at 30, Prince's Street,
Brompton, Minnehaha, only daughter of
Adam Ford, of Borough Lock, near 
; aged 26 years."

That was how it ran ; and the same
announcement, on that 12th day of June,
was in every daily newspaper in the kingdom.
A stranger to London and the London
streets, it was some time before the lock-keeper
arrived at the place he sought. In
his heart-sickness and desolate state of mind,
bewildered by the noise and traffic and
ceaseless press of life around him, after the
sweet and breezy solitude of his country
home by the woods and river, meadows, and
the sparkling weir, he got into wrong omni-vol.

I. D

buses and took wrong turnings at every other
step. At length, through the kindness of a
passer-by, who directed him aright, late in
the afternoon he arrived at Prince's Street,
Brompton.

He found No. 30 a quiet, respectable
lodging-house, roomy but very dull, which
was kept by a widow of uncertain age, careworn
and somewhat crafty-looking. She
looked indeed as if she and life were daily
wrestlers in a hard old world. Minutes
elapsed however before the door was opened
to Adam and his shabby carpet-bag ; for
there had been sounds of scuffling and hurrying
along the passage and on the stairs, as of
a person or persons getting out of the way,
after the stranger's first knock.

When all was quiet again, the careworn
widow appeared. Adam explained to her at
once who he was, and then inquired eagerly
whether he was too late.

"No," the widow told him, hardly above
a whisper — the dingy house was horribly
silent now — "he was not too late. The
funeral would not take place until the next
day. The weather had been very warm, she
knew ; but they couldn't manage it before."

The lock-keeper thanked Heaven for it,
and then asked whether he might be allowed
to see his daughter at once.

But the landlady explained, with a melancholy
shake of her frowzy cap, that he could
not see the body — only the coffin containing
it ; for the undertaker's man had been to the
house on that very afternoon and had fastened
the coffin down. The weather, she again reminded
Adam, had been very warm; he must
remember that. What they had done was
absolutely necessary, said the doctor — the
famous Doctor Dexter, of Cumberland Square
who had attended the poor soul in her last
illness.

She's in there," said the widow, opening
the first door they came to in the entrances
" That was her room."

Adam entered it reverently, and gazed
dully around. It was a good sized room,
looking on the street, but poorly furnished —
a bedroom and parlour in one. The sun, in
spite of the lowered blinds behind which a
blue-bottle was bumping himself drowsily on
the glass, poured in and showed up the meanness
of the place.

There was a bed in a sort of niche by the
chimney-piece ; there were a small side-board
very dusty — a table and a few horse-hair
chairs. In the centre of the room, upon
tresses, stood the coffin, fastened down.

It was quite a plain coffin, with a plain
metal plate, whereon were inscribed, simply

enough, her fantastic name and the number
of her years —

MINNEHAHA Ford,
Aged 26.

Will you leave me for a bit, please ? "
said Adam ; for the widow had followed him
in.

She went out, snuffing gently, with her
cotton apron pressed to her mouth ; and the
lock-keeper was left alone with the hidden
corpse.

He knelt down upon the square of faded
carpet, flung his arms over the coffin-lid, and
laid his gray head upon the metal plate —
kissing again and again the letters which
spelt her name.

'' Oh, my poor darling — my poor darling! "
he sobbed, " why didn't you come back to
your old father ? Your home was with him,
my dear, whatever had happened; with all
the world against you, your home was with
him ! "

When he came forth from that close and
darkened chamber the sun was setting: and
twilight was stealing over the city. He was
going out, with the intention of procuring at
some public-house the refreshment of which
he stood so much in need, when on the doorstep

he met the landlady herself. She was
coming in, with a jug of beer and a plate of
cold meat from a neighbouring cookshop ; the
latter being covered with a scrap of greasy
paper. Hearing from Adam what his errand
was, she begged him to remain in the house.
For a wonder, she said, she had both meat
and drink to offer him — that in her hand was
for one of her top-floor lodgers — and if he
did not mind sitting down in her kitchen,
she would do her poor best to make him comfortable.


Adam was weary, and gratefully consented.
It would be all the same in the end, he said,
for he would pay her on the morrow tor
anything he might cost her.

At supper, the lock-keeper asked many
questions concerning his dead daughter ; and
the widow — whose name he then learnt was
Mrs. Knibb — told him, apparently truthfully
enough, all that it was in her power to tell.
Mrs. Ford — yes, she was always called " Mrs.
Ford " — (Adam groaned) — had lived now in
Prince's Street for nearly four years, and
had always appeared to be utterly alone in
the world. Had she, since her coming to
Prince's Street, always lived a good and
steady life? Adam inquired, trembling —
wondering how much, if anything, the landlady

knew of his girl's past history. Oh
yes, indeed ! Nobody ever entered Mrs.
Knibb's doors, said the widow with queer
dignity, that was not quiet and respectable.
Adam might rest satisfied on that point.
How did Mrs. Ford manage to live ? Well,
she was remarkably clever with her needle —

She never was very clever with it at
home," put in Adam, mournfully. " She
was too fond of her freedom and of being
out o' doors. She never was much of a one
for that sort of thing ; better for her perhaps
if she had been, poor dear ! "

Well, she was certainly very industrious
in Prince's Street, flatly declared Mrs. KnibK
and it was with her needle that Mrs. Ford
had earned her living until she fell ill of the
rapid consumption which had just carried
her off.

No ; she had no friends whatever — nobody
ever came in to see her — nobody, that was
except a lady upstairs on the drawing-room
floor, named Mrs. Randal, who was a lodger
of Mrs. Knibb's when Mrs. Ford first came
to Prince's Street.

The two women, according to the widow's
somewhat mixed and rambling narrative, had
become close friends; and Mrs. Sandal on
the following day would attend the coffin to

the grave. Indeed, if Adam had not come
up from the country, Mrs. Kendal would
have been the only mourner at the funeral.

A few months after her arrival in Prince's
Street, Mrs. Randal had been — had been —
well, taken seriously ill ; they thought she
would have died. But Mrs. Ford had nursed
her friend so devotedly through it all, that
she had, in fact, saved the life of Mrs.
Sandal. Naturally, after that, the two
became greater friends than ever; and so
when Mrs. Ford herself fell ill, and could
not get any better, Mrs. Sandal never left
her bedside either by night or by day. . It
was quite wonderful how the two clung to
each other.

At this part of her story the landlady's
statements had grown more confused and
contradictory than they had been hitherto.
Of the fact she was uneasily conscious herself
; but perceived with relief that it was
utterly lost upon the grief-stricken Adam.

And was there anything owing from Mrs.
Ford to Mrs. Knibb, the lock-keeper asked ;
and — and how about the funeral expenses?
No. Nothing was owing — not a penny, the
widow assured him ; Mrs. Ford having
always managed to " pay up regular." And
as for the funeral, Mrs. Randal — who was

not at all badly off — had expressed her
intention of paying for everything herself.

Ah, that I can't allow," said the lock-keeper.
*' I must see this Mrs. Randal
myself, and tell her so. Besides, I want
to thank her for her goodness to my poor
girl."

Here the widow looked scared, and said
hastily —

No, no ! " Then she checked herself.
*' I mean," she said, with some embarrassment,
'that Mrs. Randal never sees
strangers. She — she is very careful of her
health, suffering badly at times from a weak
heart. But I will tell her what you say, if
you like ? "

I shall see her, shan't I," said the lock-keeper,
quietly — '* tomorrow ? "

The frowzy landlady still looked embarrassed
and doubtful, muttering something
about " she didn't know — she wasn't sure ; "
and the expression upon her features by
no means disappeared when the wail of a
peevish child broke forth in a room above
the kitchen.

«« Why, what's that ? " said Adam, looking
up at the ceiling. " Have you children in
the house then ? "

It is Mrs. Randal's," replied the widow.

rising hurriedly. 'she has two; and the
little boy is sickly. 'Sense me a minute; I
must go and see if she wants anything. I've
no servant."

Mrs. Knibb went off and shut the kitchen
door; and Adam, left to himself, stared
sadly into the grate, wherein for summer
ornament the widow had placed a jar of
water full of flowery branches of lilac and
laburnum. It was poor town stuff, Adam
was thinking insensibly, and not like his
lilac and laburnum which grew by the riverside
at the Lock.

That night he slept in the room where
the closed coffin was ; lying down in his
clothes upon the bed in which his own dear
child had breathed her last.

Mrs. Knibb was horrified at the idea,
or professed to be so, and offered to makeup
a bed for him in an attic ; it was all she
could do for him, she was sorry to say. But,
at any rate, it would be better than sleeping
in the parlour with the corpse. Adam, however,
was not to be dissuaded.

The dead can't hurt a man'' he said, in
his quiet, broken fashion. '' I shall stay
with my girl as long as I can — thank
you, ma'am, all the same."

He was very tired and slept heavily,

notwithstanding the presence of that gruesome
thing supported upon tresses in the
centre of the room. In his deep sleep he
dreamed that Minna, in a long black gown,
with clasped hands and streaming eyes, came
and stood by the bedside. After gazing at
him for some moments in tearful silence, she
bent over the pillow and kissed him on the
forehead.

So vivid, in fact, was this dream of Adam's
that he awoke and started up with outstretched
arms, crying — " Minna, Minna ! "
But his voice fell on the horrible stillness of
the room; and only the coffin upon the
tresses met his sight in the gray dawn.
And yet, in his heated fancy, he thought
that the door of the parlour — nay, he could
have sworn to it — had slowly closed, as if
cautiously shut by someone that had just
crept out.

It was Mrs. Knibb, he decided, if it was
anybody in the flesh — perhaps the landlady
had peeped round the door to ascertain if he
was comfortable in his strange quarters.

With a groan Adam sank back and slept
once more.

It was late — broad, bright daylight — when
he again awoke ; and Mrs. Knibb was really
in the room this time. She had come to tell

him that his breakfast was ready, and to inquire
whether she should step out and buy
him a hat-band ?

As he had not one on his hat, Adam said
Yes '* gratefully ; and then he rose and
dressed himself in the suit of black clothes
which he had brought with him to London in
his carpet bag, and which he had put on for
the first time when he had mourned for
Minna's mother — who slept her last sleep
in a far-off land, in a grave upon the banks
of the Missouri. These ancient black clothes
were very creased and rusty, but what cared
Adam Ford?

When the hearse and coach rolled up to
No. 30, Prince's Street, Adam was ready.
Mrs. Knibb wept audibly in the passage
when the undertaker's men came in; but
the lock-keeper himself was dry-eyed and
very quiet — his sorrow had spent itself, and
outwardly was dumb.

He was scarcely conscious of the fact,
perhaps ; but in reality he was thankful that
Minna was dead. Better so, he told himself
now — yes, better so ! For in a better world
she would be out of harm's way.

A tall figure, heavily robed in black, and
with a veil so thick in texture that it was impossible
to see behind it the features of the

wearer, glided ghost-like downstairs ; and,
without a word to anyone, passed out of the
street-door and got into the stuffy mourning-coach.


"It is Mrs. Randal," whispered the landlady,
sniffing more loudly than ever.

Adam followed her, with uncovered head,
and took the seat opposite to Mrs. Randal.

She shrank into her corner of the coach,
and appeared to be crying very bitterly.

The sad, short procession moved on down
the street, and dispersed the miscellaneous
crowd which a funeral, no matter how
humble a one, invariably serves to call together.
Adam, leaning towards Mrs. Randal,
spoke :

"You have been uncommon kind to my
poor daughter, I hear, ma'am, and I thank
you from the bottom of my heart," he said.

The veiled black figure tried to answer,
but apparently could not.

But now that I have found her," went
on the lock-keeper, earnestly, " I can't let
other folk be for paying what may be owing,
you know, ma'am, on her account ; and the
person of the house tells me — "

Here Mrs. Randal managed to make her
voice audible. It was so low and hard of control,
however, that Adam could barely hear it.

He wished that she would lift her veil ;
but he was too shy to ask her to do so.

"You need not — must not think of
troubling," she said. "Everything is paid
for — settled — there is nothing more to be
done."

You are very good — I cannot thank you,
ma'am," murmured Adam. " Still — still, I
should like to put up a headstone or something,
you see, over my poor girl, just to
mark the place — "

'* Leave that to me," Mrs. Randal hastened
to say. " I promise you that her grave shall
be always cared for. It shall never be neglected
— never ! "

I can't find the words to thank you — I
really can't," said Adam, brokenly. " Your
beautiful kindness is too — "

*' Oh, do not thank me ! " interrupted Mrs.
Randal ; " you will pain me unendurable else.
Mrs. — Mrs. Ford was a dear friend to me —
dearer by far than I can tell you. The little
1 can do for her now I do out of deepest
gratitude. Please say no more ! "

She shrank back if possible still farther
into her corner, and gathered her gloomy robes
more closely around her.

Heaven bless you and reward you, Mrs.
Randal," said Adam Ford, simply. " I ama

poor man, and I am grateful to you beyond
words for all that you have done."

Oh, hush — oh, hush, please ! " sobbed
Mrs. Sandal.

That unostentatious burying in the Crompton
Cemetery was soon over. With neither
pomp nor show, nor crowd of sombre
mourners, Minna Ford was laid to rest.
After Life's fitful fever, within sound of the
throbbing of London's mighty heart, and far
from the river-meadows and the laughing
waters of the weir, far from the pleasant old
Lock, with its shady river-girt garden and
clustering roses, she slept well. Yes, Life's
fitful fever for the poor tired heart was ended,
and Minna Ford slept well !

The hearse from the cemetery gates jogged
off at a brisk pace, as though glad once more
to be rid of its familiar burthen, and the
rusty coach followed jauntily in its wake.

Back again in Prince's Street, Adam respectfully
assisted Mrs. Randal to alight, and
the door being open, they entered the house
together.

"I'm going back to Coverley directly,"
said the lock-keeper to her, as they stood
there alone with each other in the dusk of the
entrance-place ; *' but there — but there is one
question, ma'am, if I may be so bold, that I
should very much like to ask you before I go."

Mrs. Sandal was silent.

It is this," continued Adam, more firmly.
You say that you knew my dear daughter
well — that you and she were close friends.
Did she — did she, may I ask, ma'am, ever
tell you aught about — about the man — the
name of him who — "

He stopped ; and his sad face grew fierce.

Mrs. Sandal tottered back a step, and leant
heavily against the passage wall ; the thick
veil which she had never once raised still
hiding her face from the light.

"I know what you would say," she interrupted,
in her low, strange voice. '* No !
she never mentioned — would never mention
the name of the man who deserted her."

A pause.

Mrs. Randal's face, could Adam have seen
it, was white and agonised ; her very lips
were growing pale.

She— she called herself Mrs. ' Ford,'
I'm told," said the lock-keeper, huskily.
*' But do you not think that — that — Heaven
knows why I venture to ask you, ma'am! —
do you not think that it might be likely there
was a marriage of some kind ? She may
have had reasons that we know nothing about
for going by her maiden name ? "

She called herself Mrs. ' Ford,' and I
am very certain that she did have strong

reasons for going by her maiden name,"
replied Mrs. Randal, with emotion. " That
I know, if I know nothing else. She was
lawfully married — was a lawful wife. I — I
knew her well ; I am sure of it. Her husband
who — whoever he was — treated her with
cruel cowardice. He took advantage of her
ignorance — being weary of her — and cast her
off ; in fact, disowned her. I — I can tell you
no more. Yet, take comfort ; whatever the
world may say or think, there is One above
who knows the truth ! "

It does my heart good to hear you,
ma'am," said Adam, humbly. " I will try to
think like you. My poor Minna ! — my poor
Minna ! But oh ! if you could have told me
his name," cried the lock-keeper, involuntarily
clenching his hands and throwing them
upward, " I would not rest — so hear me
Heaven ! — until I had found him out and
punished him for what he has done. An eye
for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a
life — that is just. If I could find the man I
would kill him ! "

He will meet his punishment, never
fear ! " said Mrs. Randal, in the same passionate
tone, pressing as she spoke her hands
upon her bosom. " I do not believe that
such deeds as his ever do go unpunished. It
is only a question of time.'

j>

*' If you could but tell me his name ! "
said Adam, hoarsely.

If — if I could, I would do so," was her
difficult answer.

The little sick boy upstairs was crying.
His sister was standing at the stair-head.

"Mamma, mamma," lisped the little thing,
will you come up ? Mrs. Knibb wants you.
Roy is - "

Yes, yes, my daring," said the mother,
hurriedly, " I am coming." Then she added,
'* Stay where you are, Minna, or you will fall."

Is your little girl, ma'am, called Minna?"
inquired Adam, wistfully.

'* Yes," replied Mrs. Randal, not without
confusion ; " she was christened after Mrs.
Ford."

She seized Adam's hands within both her
own, held them thus closely for seconds with
her head turned aside, then went quickly up
the stairs and upon the landing disappeared.

She entered a room where a young child —
a little boy — lay fretting upon a couch, and
there fell fainting by the couch-side. The
little girl called Minna, distressed at the
sight — though it was by no means for the
first time that she now beheld it — flung
herself down by her mother and tore off the
ugly black veil.

VOL. 1. E

Poor mamma ! poor mamma ! " cried the
little creature piteously.

Adam meanwhile had gone into the parlour,
from which the coffin had been borne out, to
pack his carpet-bag.

I wish," he lamented to himself, " that
I could have seen her without her veil. I
should like to have carried back with me, in
my memory, the face of the woman who was
so good to my poor girl ! "

It was the evening of the next day, the day
following that one on which the funeral had
taken place at 30, Prince's Street, Brompton,
and Mrs. Randal sat alone in her sitting-room
upstairs, which looked out upon the
street.

She was dressed quite simply in a neat-fitting
black gown, with white cuffs and
collar; and her heavy brown hair was
wound into a knot low at the back of her
head.

Her face was very handsome ; she was still
young ; but the lines about her eyes and her
mouth told of the trials of life which had
already fallen to her lot. Surely her share
of them must have been more than an
ordinary one ?

Mrs. Randal, in these days, rarely smiled.

She heard wheels, started, and looked out
of the window. A private brougham had
stopped at No. 30, and presently Mrs. Knibb,

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
LIBRARY

throwing open the sitting-room door, announced,
'' Doctor Dexter ! "

He was a tall and powerful-looking man,
past the prime of life ; of somewhat rugged
appearance; of a somewhat stern cast of
feature ; yet with a pair of blue-gray eyes,
kindly enough, beneath their bushy penthouse
brows. His forehead was ample ; his
jaw was square ; there was something about
the whole man, his patients said sometimes,
which was wont to inspire one at first sight
with feelings of trust and confidence.

He was dressed for the evening ; and was
evidently due elsewhere than in Prince's
Street, Brompton.

They shook hands like two old friends.

Sit down," she said, gently. " Do not
be in a hurry."

But I am in a hurry. I am dining at
Fulham this evening," he answered. " However,
I could not pass through this neighbourhood,
you know, without looking in to
see how you were feeling after the ordeal of
yesterday. I was coming here last night, buts
was urgently called in another direction."

"Yes," she said, sighing; "it was a hard
day — a very hard day."

How did you bear it, my dear ? " he
inquired kindly, as a father might speak to
his daughter.

On the whole, pretty well. I was ill
after it was over," she said. And she told
him how she had been tried.

*' No wonder ! " was the Doctor's brief
comment. "This?" said he, tapping his
shirt-front on his left side.

"Yes," she answered, quietly; "nothing
more."

Ah'' he rejoined ; " nothing more ! You
must be careful; indeed you must. Oh, my
child, my child," he added abruptly, with
something like a frown knitting his shaggy
brows — " what are you going to do now ?
You will ruin your health utterly, will wreck
yourself bodily and mentally, with this
restless longing, this ceaseless plotting and
scheming, this unholy thirst for vengeance.
Forget it, child, forget it ! and shape your
life to a different course. How often must I
remind you that my home is waiting for
you ? Come to it, and find peace."

I cannot," she answered, gloomily ; " you
know that I cannot, so long as there remains
a shadow of that horrible doubt ! I am convinced
of the truth myself. I want to prove
the truth to the world. Dear Doctor Dexter,
you remember our compact — we must abide
by it."

A light seemed to kindle upon the man's
earnest face.

Remember it ! " lie echoed. " Do I
not ? Why, remembering it, I am sometimes
almost tempted to pray that you may be
wrong ; that there may be no truth to prove
to the world beyond that it already believes."

Then would my revenge be impossible''
said Mrs. Randal, wearily.

So much the better for you," was the
Doctor's answer. '^If you would forget it
if you would bury every shred of recollection
of the past and accept the new
chance of happiness I am now holding out
to you — a good home, comfort, money,
luxury, position — you would be a different,
a happier woman, believe me; you would
make me the happiest of men. My step-sister
Helen — Mrs. De Lisle — the simplest
and sweetest-natured soul alive, is waiting
to know you ; she has heard from me your
history ; she is not much older than yourself,
and she is ready to abdicate in your
favour. She is devoted to me — regards mein
fact, as a father; for I am the only
parent she ever has known — and consequently
for my sake she will do anything
for you. Say the word — forget the
past — and come ! "

You are the noblest of men," she said,
with bowed head.

Nonsense ! Do what I want you to do,
and then — "

Oh, I cannot, I dare not ! " she moaned ;
it is ungenerous to tempt me. For my
children's sake I must find out the truth.
Moreover, I have gone too far on a perilous
road ; I have done too much ; I cannot now
turn back if I would."

You must turn back — or stop," said he,
gravely, " if the truth prove contrary to
what you hold it to be."

She shook her head and smiled — a bitter
smile. She knew that she was right; that
right, if not might, was on her side.

Well, the work of ferreting is still going
forward," said the stalwart physician, checking
a sigh. " I may bring you news at any
moment, my dear — so cheer up ! "

He drifted then into talking of the
children, and mentioned that he was about
to change the prescription for the little boy's
tonic. Shortly after he took his leave; driving
off in his brougham to his dinner engagement
at Fulham.

At parting, Mrs. Randal had kissed the
Doctor's hand, assuring him again and again,
with tears choking her voice, that he was
the best and noblest of men.

You must not tell me that so often — it

isn't true," he had returned bluntly, with his
own kind, peculiar smile. " Besides, in the
first place, I shall become vain ; secondly,
my motives are purely selfish ones, as you
are aware. Don't lose sight of that."

A few days later, at about the same hour
of the evening, the brougham of Doctor
Dexter, of Cumberland Square, again stopped
at the door of 30, Prince's Street, Brompton.

It was a sultry evening, with a dull red
sunset, and coppery streaks athwart the
hazy blue of the sky. The gaieties of the
London season, though drawing to a close,
were still well to the fore. It was the
hour when Park and Row were deserted —
or rather were given up to the common
crowd — and all the gay, rich world was
flocking to dinner, ball, or theatre. The
distant roar of wheels was incessant; now
and then a hansom, the occupant or occupants
thereof in evening garb, would come
rattling even along Prince's Street on its
way to the Putney or the Fulham neighbourhood.


The windows of Mrs. Randal's sitting-room
were open to the air ; and she sat near them,
with a book on her knee. But she was not
reading. She looked pale and listless ; there
were dark shadows beneath her beautiful eyes.

The children were playing on the floor at
Tier feet, with handsome picture books and
other expensive toys — principally the gifts of
Doctor Dexter. The little boy was better;
it was one of his good days; and consequently
lie was not so fretful and hard to amuse.

The instant the Doctor entered, the
children — Minna and Roy — scrambled up
and ran to him ; whilst Mrs. Sandal perceived
immediately that he had tidings of
moment to impart.

Her languor vanished. She rose excitedly
to her feet. She met her friend in the centre
of the room ; saying, before he could open
his lips —

You have found something — I can read
it in your eyes. Speak! Pity my suspense!"

"You must be calm. I will tell you
nothing if you are not calm," he said.

He spoke very kindly, very gravely, and
put his arm round her to give her support.
Yet he knew that his dream-castles had
collapsed, were utterly destroyed, and that
the sweet hopes he had cherished for so many
months past had melted like ghosts into thin
air. He had brought with him, as it were,
the warrant for his own destruction ; and the
woman he loved so nobly and so well could
.never now be more to him than she was

already. No ! never now. The dream was
over ! Until death they must remain friends
friends and nothing more.

I am calm," she panted. " See ! here is
my pulse — I do not tremble. Speak ! "

He got her wine and compelled her to
drink a glassful. Then without further
delay, perceiving that delay was perilous, he
pulled out a pocket-book and placed it upon
the table.

In the after days he confessed to her how
fiercely he had been assailed by the temptation
to keep his discovery secret, or to swear
to her before his Maker that the contents
of the pocket-book were valueless.

He would have done anything, ventured
anything, no matter how hazardous, for her
sake ; but he loved her too well to play her
false. He loved her; he could not deceive
her ; albeit by deception he might ultimately,
if unlawfully, win her.

Yes, my dear, it is found," he said, quietly.
'' A copy of it is in there."

Let me see it ! " she cried, wildly. And
snatching up the Doctor's pocket-book, she,
with quivering hands, began to unfasten the
clasp.

"You will make mamma ill, Doctor Dexter,
said the little girl, in her serious, childlike
fashion, looking up with her soft dark eyes

»»

into the Doctor's rugged face, and plucking
at his coat as she spoke.

Dear Httle soul ! " he murmured tenderly,
patting her pretty head.

Meanwhile the little boy, seeing that something
was amiss, began to cry as fretfully as
was his wont. Minna pacified her brother in
her wee, childish way.

In trembling haste the mother extracted
the single document which the pocket-book
contained, and with hungry, fevered eyes she
read it quickly through from the first word to
the last.

I thank Heaven ! — I thank Heaven ! " shee

was trying to say in her joy, but the old

pallor overspread her face, she gasped, she

closed her eyes. With a stifled shriek her

hands went upward to her heart, and the

next moment her head, like the head of a

dead woman, was resting upon the Doctor's

breast.

*****

Late on one evening, towards the end of
that same month of June, it happened that
Sir Garth Milroy sat alone in his library
at Woldney Moat.

He was looking idly through a pile of old
magazines, reviews, and newspapers, which
represented the accumulation of many weeks.

He had just returned from one of his desultory

wanderings in foreign lands — he was
rarely at Woldney Moat — during which lie
had seldom taken the pains, even when at
hotels he did chance to come across them, to
glance at English newspapers. He was no
politician ; his interest in the politics of the
day was of the languages description, he
always declared.

The reading-lamps were lit. The great
mullions window was open. The broad
waters of the Dane beyond the park flowed
tranquilly along in the purple hush of the
summer gloaming.

The pollards by the river-edge whispered
in the breeze ; the stars were dimly strewing
themselves over heaven's vast land.

Sir Garth Gilroy took up a recent Times
and ran his eye leisurely down the first column
of the first sheet.

Presently he leapt from his chair, and stood
with the paper crushed in his hand, dumb-founded
for the moment at what he had just
read.

It was the notice of the death of Minna
Ford.

'' Ford. — June 9th, at 30, Prince's Street,
Brompton, Minnehaha, only daughter of
Adam Ford, of Borough Lock, near ,
aged 26 years."

'' By Jove ! how fortunate," he muttered

at last. " This is rare luck indeed. I shall
hear, I suppose, from Yates and Hodgson now
the poor little lass is gone — wonder they
haven't written before. By-the-bye, the poor
child was not so very petite either, now I
come to think of it ; though I fancy, in spite
of her healthy looks and apparent strength,
she was always a trifle delicate," he mused
aloud. " I wonder whether she kept the affair
a secret till the last ? — and I wonder, too,
whether the old chap at the Lock up yonder
ever got an inkling of the real facts of the
case ? I must sound him ; must try to find
out tomorrow. By Jove ! it's a real mercy
nothing better could have happened —
deucedly hard-up as I am just now ! "

On the next morning Sir Garth Gilroy,
as he expected he should, heard from his
solicitors in Lowborn.

They wrote to apprise him that they had,
from a certain quarter, received information
to the effect that the four hundred a-year
would no longer be drawn as usual; for
the person who had hitherto withdrawn, in
quarterly instalments, the money from the
custody of Messrs. Yates and Hodgson, was
dead.

END OF PRELUDE.

»1 »

A Enough night, Dan'l.'

Ay, roughish, Mas'er Roger."

Like old times, Dan'l," said Roger,
cheerily; "having the mills going all night
again — eh ? "

"Ay, like your grandfather's time come
agen," agreed Dan'l. " Bad luck, sir, as I
often says to Naomi, can't last for ever.
'Taint in the nature' o' things, Mas'er Roger."

Well, let's hope not, old chap," said
Roger Harland. " Hope is as good as a
fortune sometimes." And he forthwith,
though he had changed his, miller's dress,
began to lend a vigorous hand in the work
of stacking up sacks of meal.

Master and man were in one of the upper
store-rooms of the mill; and the former,
having just finished supper, had come to
give an order which had been forgotten to
the men, and to have a last look round the
place before going indoors for the night.

Dan'l Drake was foreman to the Harlands,
and had, in Roger's earliest days, carried the
youngster about the mill and to and fro over
the mill-tail ; to show him the great stones
crushing the wheat, or to let him listen to
the roar of the water as it turned the
ponderous wheel.

Naomi, Danes wife, with a girl — a relation
of her husband's — under her, was indoors
servant at the Little Mills. The couple had
been brought up in the mill-yard together,
and had served in their youth with Roger's
grandfather.

Roger's own father had now been dead for
some few years past, and the mother, a good
and faithful wife, had not been slow to follow
him.

Somehow or other things, during the latter
part of his lifetime, had not prospered with
Roger Harland's father. He speculated ill ;
lost money ; custom fell away. Things had
gone from bad to worse, until at last the
miller had fallen sick with worry, and literally
died of his troubles.

Whilst Roger Harland senior was growing
poorer and poorer at the Little Mills, his
neighbour, Solomon Prince, across the
water, had grown rich, had prospered exceedingly;
in fact, had become a "big

man " in the estimation of Himself and His
family.

There were some people who said that Mr.
Harland was too good-natured, too indolent,
by far too easy-going in every respect ever
to get on and make much of a show in life.
He would have lent his last sovereign to a
friend in need, or his name, for the matter of
that, or his roof, oi" anything that was his to
lend. He forgave bad debts to struggling
bakers ; had even advanced small sums to
some of them at a time when he could ill
afford to be generous to anybody. It does
not now-a-days do to be too good-natured,
for gratitude is a very old-fashioned virtue
indeed — if it is not gone altogether out of
date. Soon, in all likelihood, it will cease to
appear in the dictionaries.

There were other people who opined that
the two mills were too near to each other for
both millers to get on and thrive ; that one
of them must always go to the wall so long
as the two mills stood where they did.

But those wise folk were wrong, as young
Roger Harland was gradually proving; for
the two buildings were situated in different
counties, the beautiful Dane, at this spot
well-nigh at its widest, flowing between
them, and thus dividing the two.

When a man grows poor his friends fall
away. " Prosperity " — one knows alas ! too
well who knows the world — " is the very
bond of love."

There came a day when Eoger Harland, of
Little Borough Mills, was sorely pressed for
the loan of a few hundred pounds. His
account at his bankers', in Redtown, was
already over-drawn ; the bankers themselves
were inclined to be disagreeable.

Although the two families had never been
very intimate — the Pringles holding such a'
curiously high opinion of themselves and their
belongings — Roger Harland went across the
water and asked his neighbour Solomon
Prince to lend him the money he wanted.

It would have been a trifling sum— a mere
flea-bite," he said afterwards, with a wink,
to his better-half, as he called her — out of
Solomon's pocket. But Miller Prince was
the wrong man in the matter. He refused.

This refusal caused much bitterness of
feeling between the two households ; and for
some time afterwards the respective members
thereof saw little of one another. Attending,
as they did, different churches, and going by
different roads into the town of Coverley,
unless they met on the river or upon the
long, straggling wooden bridge which led to

VOL. I. F

tLe Lock, crossed the river, and connected
the Borough meadows with those of Woldney
Moat, a whole twelvemonth might easily
have elapsed without the Harlands and the
Pringles coming together.

Of course they saw one another in Coverley
occasionally, and the two millers met on
common ground at the markets and elsewhere.
But, in a social sense, there was
little or no intercourse, in these days,
between them. And the coldness lasted
until Roger Harland died.

The money somehow was procured, and
immediate ruin stayed ; but Eoger Harland's
heart was breaking, and he was not sorry to
give up the struggle of life.

When Eoger junior, at the age of three-and-twenty,
found himself master at the
Little Mills, he determined — if it were in a
man's power to make them — that things
should mend on their side of the water.

He stuck to business ; worked early and
late; worked as hard, in fact, as any of his
own men — taking his turn at the night work
too, and never missing a market where business
was to be done.

Hereward of real and conscientious labo ur
was slow, perhaps, in coming, but sure ; and
things at length did actually begin to brighten
for the master of the Little Mills.

Unhappily, just as the clouds were clearing,
Mrs. Harland fell ill and died ; and her loss
to young Roger was a sad blow — for he
loved his mother dearly.

• But he rallied, and worked on ; worked
indeed harder than ever. There were still
debts of his father's to be paid off, and his
sister Kate was wholly dependent upon his
energies.

At last however the day came round when
Roger Harland stood up amongst his fellows
a free man. He held his head high then ;
for he felt proud, and honourably so, of
what he had achieved.

His father's name was cleared of all reproach,
and brighter days were assured for
their home at the Little Mills.

Ah if only the dear mother had lived to
see it !

With the dawn of easier circumstances for
the house across the water, the Pringles —
although at this time they drove in a carriage
and pair, with coachman and footman in
dazzling livery — saw fit to thaw considerably
towards their neighbours the Harlands ;
indeed, as time went on, they condescended
to call pretty frequently at Little Borough
Mills.

The girls, Julia and Hester — still commonly
called Jill and Hetty — would row

themselves across the river, attired in smart
boating-costumes of the latest fashion, to
know whether Kate would come over for
tennis and dinner, or drive with them in the
carriage — the "porridge," as papa Prince
would call it, to the great disgust of his
daughters whom he had sent to a Paris
finishing " school — on a shopping expedition
into Coverley.

Sometimes, if Kate Harland had really
nothing better to do, or if Roger was at
market and she was at home by herself, she
would go with Jill and Hetty ; for they
amused her when they did not bore her. If
Roger was at home and wanted her, or if
she was busy in the house, she would say
perhaps in her bright frank fashion —

Thanks ; you are very good, both of you ;.
but I cannot come to-day. I have a pile of
Roger's shirts to button and innumerable
other little jobs to attend to. As for dinner,
I couldn't eat a mouthful, because, you see,,
we have dined already."

Albeit Roger and Kate were perfectly
willing to forgive and forget, and to let
bygones be bygones, they never hesitated, all
the same, to let the Pringles perceive that
their friendship was estimated at exactly its-right
value.

If they chose to come across, the two girls
and their fat, florid mamma, to chat for an
hour, to suggest going home with them to
dinner — the Pringles dined late, at seven
o'clock, and a man-servant waited at table —
and perhaps to hint mysteriously at the
grand acquaintances they were making here
and there in the neighbourhood, they were
at perfect liberty to do so ; and Kate, and
Eoger would be civil to them, and laugh at
them good-naturedly after they were gone.
If they did not want to come, having other
and finer friends to call upon, why, they were
at perfect liberty to stop away.

Kate and Roger did not value the Pringles'
so-called friendship one brass farthing ; and
occasionally, just to do them good, said
Roger, they allowed them to see what they
thought of them.

When Roger had first stepped into his
father's shoes, old Prince had taken upon
himself to lecture the young man, to give
him what he considered a bit of wholesome
advice from the pinnacle of his own successful
experience. But the master of Borough
Mills unexpectedly met his match in the
young master of the Little Mills, and he
did not repeat a discomfiting experiment.
He went back to his grand new house, which

every year he contrived to make grander and
newer-looking, feeling decidedly *' sat upon "
fully comprehending that Roger Harland
was about the last man in the world who
would suffer himself to be patronised by
Solomon Prince, or Solomon anybody else
if it came to that.

Roger, at this time, was seven-and-twenty,
tall, tanned, strong, and well set-up. If he
was not a remarkably handsome man, he was
at any rate one of the finest-grown young fellows
to be found in his native county. He did
his duty, and was not ashamed of his trade ;
he was moderately well educated, and fond
enough of reading when he could make the
time for it. He lived temperately and cleanly,
and hoped — though he was as yet quite heart-whole
— to be sufficiently well off to marry at
no very distant day; when his children,
should he have any, he resolved, should be
brought up as kindly and as carefully as he
and Kate themselves had been brought up —
that is, to fear God, but no man ; to consider
home as the first and best place in the
universe; and, as good subjects should, to
honour their Queen and their country.

Such was Roger Harland with his simple
creed.

Kate, who had all her wits about her, had

soon perceived in which direction at the
Little Mills lay the attraction for the Prince
girls. Roger was so strong and so manly-looking,
it was no wonder, thought Kate,
that they should be fond of rowing across
the river in the hope of seeing and having a
chat with her brother. They had the reputation
in Coverley for running after all the
good-looking and eligible young men they
could get hold of, and even after those who
were neither eligible nor good-looking into
the bargain.

Julia Prince was " getting on." She was
about Roger's age; but Hetty, the youngest
of the three, was by a few months Kate Har-land's
junior. Louisa, the middle one, had
married well soon after her return from the
Paris school, and was now abroad again with
her husband, on account of her delicate health.
Their two young children meanwhile — little
daughters — were being taken care of by their
aunts and grandparents at Borough Mills.

The wind on that murky November night
rushed and howled around the Little Mills,
the place standing upon a less sheltered spot
than that upon which was built its wealthier
neighbour over the water, and did its best
with its clamour to drown the humming and
the jarring going on within the building.

The tallow lights guttered in the draught ;
the river outside flowed blackly onward,
lapping and gurgling in the darkness about
the slimy timber of the bridge. When the
wind was lulled for a moment the ever-tumbling
splash of the mill-tail plainly made
itself heard. E-oger Harland, pausing in his
labour, looked out from a little window high
up in the wooden walls — and from which he
could have dropped sheer down into the unruffled
ebon depths of the silent yet swift-gliding
water of the mill-pond — and found
that the wind blew rain.

Rain, Mas'er Eoger ? " inquired the
foreman presently.

Yes," replied the young man, still leaning
out. " I quite expect that we are in for
another wet winter, Dan'l, with floods again
such as we had last year."

Oh, darn the floods ! " said Dan'l Drake,
always ready for a gossip. " There's no
getting about nohow hereabout with the
water up to your middle in the lane and the
meadows out o' sight altogether. It was
bad enough last year, going up to Coverley
in boats in the thick o' the winter o' Saturday
nights. I've lived here boy and man for
well, you knows for how long, Mas'er
Eoger, as well as anybody do, and I never

remember 'em fuss 'an 'era was last year.
The water touched the Eedtown road on our
side almost, and on t'other side the Margrave
road was like the river himself."

Roger made no reply ; perhaps did not
hear Dan'l's wordy observation. Once set
talking, Dan'l was apt to wax tedious.

The young master was whistling softly to
himself and listening to something out in the
night at the same time.

He fancied that he had caught the sound
of wheels coming along the Redtown road.
He stopped whistling and listened intently.
Surely those wheels now were rattling down
the lane which led direct to the Little Mills ?

Who can it be at this time o' night ? "
wondered Harland — " if they are coming
here." His watch was indoors ; he had
forgotten to wind it up. " Dan'l, what's the
time ? " he called out over his shoulder.

The foreman clutched his white breeches
with one hand, and with the other dived
into some out-of-the-way corner of them,
dragging out therefrom, by a black ribbon,
a silver watch of the modest size of a cricket-ball.


"It's nigh upon half-past nine, Mas'er
Roger," said he.

'' Thanks," said Roger.

The wheels along the lane were certainly
coming nearer. Eager decided that it must
be the doctor's gig. For Mrs. Wickie, the wife
of one of his men, who, on account of her
ever-increasing family, occupied the largest
cottage in the mill-yard, was daily expecting
to be ill. Yes, doubtless Mrs. Wickie had
sent off in a hurry for Mr. Headstone Payne.

Is Mrs. "Wickie ill yet, Dan'l, do you
know ? " inquired Roger, quite simply. "I
thought I heard Mr. Payne's gig coming
down the lane."

''No-o," replied Dan'l, dubiously — "I
don't think she is, sir. She was all right, I
know, at tea-time, for I see her standing at
the door a-talking wi' Adam Ford."

Ah," said Roger, absently.

And Adam tells me, Mas'er Eoger,
continued Dan'l, " that Sir Garth is expected
at Woldney Moat for Christmas. They say
he's short o' money agen, and is going to
live quiet here for a bit. Lor', sir, there
can't be nothing to do at Woldney nowadays;
and that young gent there — Mr.
Chance — must have an easy time of it ! "

Shouldn't wonder," said Roger.

The place is like a howling' wilderness,
as the say in' is," said Dan'l Drake. '' I
crossed the park only t'other day. It's a

>>

thousand pities, sir, that *tis, a fine old property
like that all a-going to the douce — "

If it hasn't gone already," muttered
Harland.

Jest for the want of the money handy to
keep it up like ! " said Dan'l. " They do say
as Sir Garth owes a mint o' coin to the big
man across the water," — nodding with a leer
in the direction of Borough Mills. " Dunno
how true it is."

Who told you that ? " asked Roger,
carelessly.

Adam Ford, sir."

Ah, it won't do to listen to all that
Adam may talk about, you see, Dan'l. He
doesn't always know what he's saying, I
fancy — he gets lost occasionally and can't
remember things properly. His troubles,
my father used to say, made an old man of
him before his time," answered Roger; '* and
my father was about right."

** Ay, he's breaking fast, is poor old Adam
he can't bide at the Lock much longer,
Mas'er Roger, I should say; he's got too
slow, and people haven't patience with his
dodger ways," said Dan'l, with the air of a
man who has still the best of his own years
ahead of him. " Lor' ! how well do I remember
that gal of his with the heathenish

Bane ; and what a beauty she was, too,
years ago, when she lived with the old man
at the Lock ! It was seventeen years ago last
summer that she died — how time slips away
to be sure ! Yes —-jest seventeen years ago
it is since old Adam went up to London
town to see the last o' her, poor soul. Ah !
she was a bonny one to look at, Mas'er
Eoger, she was, and no mistake ! "

So IVe heard'* said Roger. " I can't
say I recollect her; though I haven't forgotten
Adam's going to London."

'* 0' course not, sir. But as to what I
was saying, sir, about Sir Garth Milroy and
Mr. Prince — why, I heard a good deal o'
talk about it," said the foreman, mysteriously,
" only t'other day in Coverley."

'* We all know, Dan'l, what a hot-bed of
lies and scandal Coverley is," laughed Har-land.


As he spoke, a fresh blast of mingled wind
and rain swept over the meadows and the
turbulent river and shook the Little Mills to
their very base.

For some moments nothing then, in that
upper store-room, could be heard save the
roar of the wind. Roger drew in his head
and broad shoulders, closed the dusty little
casement, and snuffed the tallow lights.

"Right you are there, sir," called out
Dan'l, heartily, from the bottom of a bin as
large as a small room, in which he was now
engaged in folding sacks. " Why, o' Saturday
nights, at ' The Red-Hot Poker,' you
can hear anything you've a mind to, jest
for the trouble o' keeping your ears open,

sir — "

'' Truth, or the other thing, I suppose P '*
said the master, drily.

That is as maybe, o' course, Mas'er
Roger," replied the man — "jest as it
happens. Why, sir, when Miss Topps goes
into Coverley, Naomi says, she scrapes
together every tit-bit and morsel o' tattle
she can to take back with her to the Miss
Pringles. They likes it. They don't care
how long she's gone, pervaded she brings
'em home plenty o' talk — the spicier the
better, J^aomi says — and it ain't hard to do,
for the place is always full of it."

** I daresay," laughed Harland, yawning.

I went over this morning," continued
the garrulous Dan'l, " with a message from
Miss Kate to Miss Jooly, and I see that there
Miss Topps at the kitchen-door. She says,
sir, as they've got a governess, or summit o'
the sort, coming there to look after the little
gals, 'cause Miss Jooly and Miss Hetty have

had about enough of them, and wants to
shunt 'em on to somebody else — "

Ah, yes," Eoger cut in, with another
yawn, " I did hear something of the kind
some time ago, I believe." He and Kate
had seen little of the Prince girls lately,
owing to the blusterous weather which had
prevailed. '' Mind and send in for your beer,
Dan'l ; it's getting late."

Thenky, Mas'er Roger. Good-night,"
returned Dan'l.

Unmistakably now there was a sound of
wheels ; wheels that were crushing the wet
stones outside.

A voice called up from a lower ladder —
Is the master aloft, there ? If so, he's
wanted."

All right," Harland shouted down
through the opening in the floor.
Coming ! "

With the ease and dexterity which spring
from long habit, he disappeared rapidly down
the steep ladders that led to the roomier
caverns at the basement of the mill.

What the dickens can they want, whoever
they are, at this hour ? " muttered the
young man. " It can't be Mrs. Wickie,
then, after all ! "

So saying, and taking a lantern from one

of his men whom lie met ascending to the
store-room he had just left, he went out alone
into the mill-yard.

How little on that night guessed Eoger
Harland that the story of his life was about
to begin !

'' That is not you, Mr. Payne, is it ? " called
out Roger, in order to be sure upon the
point.

The night being so wild, the dim lamps on
either side of the vehicle gave him but scanty
aid to distinguish the pattern of its make.
ISTeither could he discern the form of its
driver.

So, holding the lantern above his head,
Harland went towards the trap, which had
halted a few yards from the mill door, and he
then perceived that it was one of the ramshackle
old flies and broken-kneed quadrupeds
from " The Gig Hotel " in Coverley.

She tol' me to bring her to Lit'le Borough
Mills, an' I ha' brought her, ain't I, to Lit'le
Borough Mills ? " said a thick voice from the
box-seat — a voice which Roger instantly
recognised ; *' an' Mr. Roger Harland he live
at the Lit'le Mills, don't he ? Alius thought
so, 'm sure."

Oh, it's you, is it, Bocky Oakum — drunk
as usual ? " cried Harland, sharply. " What
mischief have you been up to to-night ? "

She said Lit'le Borough Mills — take 'm
oath she said Lit'le Borough Mills," the
dissipated Bocky, who was a well-known
character at " The Gig " in Coverley, was
beginning again ; '' an' I ha' brought her
to—"

Hereupon a lady put her head out of the
fly-window, and said, in a clear, sweet-toned
voice, which, nevertheless, at that moment
had the ring of just indignation in it :

There is evidently some mistake, and* the
man is intoxicated. Harland certainly was
not the name I told him ; it was Prince —
and the people live at Borough Mills. Where
am I ? To what place has he brought me ? "
she added, with evident anxiety. " Ah, it
must be — I remember — "

She checked herself abruptly.

Roger had presented himself bare-headed
at the window of the fly, and hastened to
explain to the strange lady, who, he could
just make out, was young and warmly
cloaked and hooded, that there was indeed a
grave mistake, owing to the tipsy stupidity
of the wretched Bocky ; but that the blunder
could be rectified in a very short time, the

VOL. I. G

Pringles' house being situated only just
across the river.

I can reach it, then, I suppose, by means
of the bridge, cannot I ? " asked the stranger,
quickly.

And Roger replied —

Yes ; over the bridge and round by the
Lock-garden, which adjoins the Pringles'
shrubberies. There is no other way at this
time of year. If it were summer-time you
might cross by water."

By the flickering light of the lantern he
was regarding the pale hooded face within
the carriage with so much interest and
curiosity that he failed to notice a singular
circumstance : that the girl — she looked about
one or two-and-twenty — had mentioned their
picturesque old wooden bridge quite of her
own accord; there had been no suggestion
about a bridge from Roger. This, surely, in
an absolute stranger to the neighbourhood,
was odd, to say the least of it.

However, the fact was lost on Roger, And
perhaps she was no stranger after all. Speaking,
he had opened the fly door ; then held
out his hand to assist the lady to alight.

You must allow me to be your guide'*
said he ; " and I will see that your luggage
follows us directly."

The slight, hooded figure stepped forth
into the darkness, purse in hand to pay her
fare. She murmured as her arm just touched
Harland's —

'rit is very good of you."

*' Pray do not say so," replied the young
man eagerly, with a vague wonder, perhaps,
at his own gallantry. Roger Harland was by
no means what is termed a " ladies' man."
In the society of women with whom he was
intimately acquainted — the Prince girls, for
instance — he was natural and easy enough.
In the company of strangers of the gentler
sex, the strong young fellow was inclined to
wax shy.

On that tempestuous November night,
however, when Bocky Oakum drove his
feeble old fly into the yard of the Little Mills
instead of up to the smart stuccoed entrance-gates
of Borough Mills proper, Roger somewhat
forgot to be awkward in his desire to
be of service to his unexpected visitor.

But stay a moment," he continued. " Do
let me beg you to come into our house ; it is
close by. My sister is indoors, and will be
only too pleased to get you any refreshment
sou might like. Tea, you know, or anything.
I can answer for her. You are both
cold and tired, perhaps, and : "

Thank you very much," she interrupted
quietly, *' but I cannot do as you suggest. I
must hasten," with a glance across the
moaning river to where the lighted windows
of Borough Mills shone out upon the windy
gloom, '' at once to my destination."

So Harland called out lustily :

Bocky, just rouse yourself — look sharp
and haul down those trunks, will you ?"

Bocky, with a horse-cloth tucked about his
legs, had fallen asleep upon the box. He
started violently, and almost rolled off.

Coming', sir, coming' 1" he shouted, imagining
for a second or two that he was in the
stable-yard at ** The Gig," and that somebody
in the hotel wanted him.

Eoger meanwhile gave instructions to one
of his men with regard to the bringing over
of the luggage, telling him first of all to run
to the house and explain to Miss Kate what
had happened, and whither he, her brother,
was gone. And then he said :

As for you, Bocky, be off with you now
immediately. Do you hear ? "

The incorrigible Bocky mumbled something
in reply — an inarticulate speech in
which the words " beer," " Mr. Harland's
health," and " a nasty night," were audibly
enough insinuated. But it met with no
friendly response from Roger.

Not a drop more of anything do you get
here," said he. " You have had more than's
good for you already at ' The Poker.' "

'' Ain't been at ' The Poker ' —been at ' The
Wild 'Loss ' for a change," hiccuped Bocky,
sullenly.

No matter," was Eoger's stern rejoinder;
be off with you at once, you rascal ! The
next time I see you in Coverley I hope you'll
be sober — if not for your own sake, at least for
your poor old grandmother's. Good-night."

Bocky Oakum made use of some very bad,
but happily unintelligible language, seized his
whip to lash viciously at his poor lean beast,
and finally rattled out of the mill-yard, swearing
all the way on his homeward journey to
Coverley.

Not without shyness now Harland offered
his arm to the quiet figure at his side. She
took it without demur; indeed, accepted it
with the self-possessed mien which was
evidently natural to her. Also, without
hesitation, she handed over to Roger's care
her travelling-bag and umbrella. It was
folly to think of putting up the latter ; the
wind would have turned it inside out, made
it it's own. and driven it like a leaf through
the wild air.

You are not afraid of the river on such a
night ? " said Harland.

Not in the least," she replied.

As they made their difficult way along the
rough planks of the bridge — which jarred and
trembled beneath their steps, and through
which, by the lantern's yellow light, they
could see the troubled water, with its masses
of eddying foam, heaving and rolling about
the slimy wooden posts — Roger inquired of
his companion how it had happened that the
Pringles had not sent their carriage to meet
her ? She had come on a visit to Borough
Mills, the young man vaguely supposed.

In reply she explained to him that she had
missed the train at Twycross — between which
place and Coverley on-Dane a branch from
the main line of late years had been opened —
and in consequence had been compelled to
wait nearly a couple of hours at that dreary
little wayside station. When the last train
of all ran down to Coverley, she found
nobody there to meet her. As it had been
arranged that she should arrive at Coverley
at seven o'clock, and had failed to appear,
the Pringles, the girl imagined, had concluded
that she would not come until the
following day.

Too bad of them ! " commented Har-land,
frowning. " They might have met the
last train''

And so saved me from the tender mercies
of your friend — Bocky Oakum ? That is his
queer name, is it not?" she said, demurely.
And the horror of the future was so near, so
close upon her, and she knew it not !

*' Do — do you know," said the young man,
with some embarrassment, " that I am more
than half inclined to forgive Mr. Bocky his
blunder of to-night ? If he had been sober
which he seldom is — and had driven you
by way of the Margrave road instead of
coming our Redtown way, I should have been
deprived, you know, of — of — the pleasure
of—"

Not by any means were compliments Roger
Harland's strong point. He floundered
hopelessly, stopped, and blushed to the very
roots of his hair. Fortunately there was
neither moon nor star ; the only light near
them was that about their feet, which was
shed from the lantern he carried.

After a few seconds of silence the strange
girl said in her peculiarly sweet and clear
voice — and Harland was wondering now
whether it was pride or scorn, or both, which
he could detect in its refined inflection —

I should tell you at once that I am only
the governess they are expecting. Had I
been a friend, they would have waited for

88 LIKE LOST SHEEP.

me in all probability — I do not know ; I do
not think I care. The ways of these people
are wholly unknown to me."

Ah ! " exclaimed Roger, indignantly ;
that is like them." Then more quietly:
*' Yes, we did hear — my sister and I — a little
while ago, that a lady was coming to
Borough Mills as governess to the children —
Mr. Prince's grand-children. We had no
idea, though, that the lady was expected so
soon," said Roger, simply. '' Miss — Miss — I
do not know your name, you see," stammered
he.

Another pause. Then —

*' I am Miss Dexter," she said, with unmistakable
pride.

Miss Dexter," continued Eoger, lingering
on the name as if it were very pleasant
to utter, and, even in that early hour of their
acquaintance, unconsciously longing to know
what the name or names might be that went
before it, "Miss Dexter, you will not, I'm
afraid, thank me for enlightening you — but —
but I should not be surprised if you do not
like the Pringles."

"Nor I either," she replied, calmly.

Of course you may find that they
improve upon examination," said Roger,
dubiously.

I assure you that it does not signify in
the least degree to me, Mr. Harland, what
these people are like," said Miss Dexter,
quickly. " They cannot interfere with me
or with the work that I have to do."

It was a curious answer; but it did not
strike Roger as being so — perhaps at the
time he dimly thought that she alluded to
her work of tuition. Afterwards, however,
he remembered her words and pondered
them.

They were approaching the Lock.

Eager became suddenly aware that the
small hand resting upon his coat-sleeve had
grown nervous — in fact, was trembling perceptibly.
A solitary light shone in an upper
casement of the cottage — the window of
Adam Ford's room, wherein, it might be, the
weary and aged lock-keeper was tossing
sleepless upon his bed or dreaming of his
dead daughter whom he had lost years ago.

You find the wind from the river chilly,
I fear — it comes sweeping up just here over
the Woldney meadows yonder," suggested
Roger, seized with a wild desire to then and
there pull off his coat, to make an additional
wrap for the Pringles' governess.

No, no ! Is this — is this the Lock ? "
asked Miss Dexter, abruptly.

Harland said that it was ; remarking carelessly,
with an upward glance at the lighted
lattice :

The poor old fellow has already gone to
bed, I suppose. Let us hope, for his sake,
that no barge or anything will be coming
through to-night."

*' Of — of whom are you speaking ? " she
said.

Of Adam Ford, the lock-keeper," replied
Eoger.

You mean that he would have to get up
and let it through the Lock, if a boat were to
come along?" Miss Dexter said, shuddering
as she put the question.

Yes. He would have to come down,
certainly, and open the gates," answered
Eoger, cheerily. "No wonder you shiver at
the idea. Miss Dexter — it is not a pleasant
one, especially on a winter night ! Adam
now-a-days is not young and tough enough
for the work ; he's past it really ; but he
won't be persuaded to give it up — the place
has been his home for so many years."

Poor, poor old man," said the girl, slowly
and tremulously,

'' You've a very gentle heart," ventured
Roger, shyly.

I do not know — perhaps. It can be as
hard as granite notwithstanding."

In the shadow of her hood her eyes
flashed; her teeth were set. Beneath her
bodice her bosom throbbed to aching.

I cannot believe it," returned Roger,
stoutly, unconscious of her pain and
emotion.

She made no rejoinder to his disbelief;
but, halting, said hurriedly —

'rand yonder, you say, Mr. Harland, is
Woldney Moat ? "

Roger had said nothing of the kind. He
had mentioned the Woldney meadows; but
not Woldney Moat. But, unaware of this
fact, he made answer — mechanically hoisting
his lantern as if the poor light it gave could
fling its beams athwart the dark meadows
and show up the ancient ruin amidst its low-lying
pastures, where dwelt, when he visited
the neighbourhood. Sir Garth Gilroy, with
grim care in his breast and wan ghosts about
his hearth — " Yes, yonder is Woldney Moat.
You must go there one day with my sister,
and explore the old place — "

Yes, I intend to do so'* said the girl,
hurrying onward.

'' A great friend of ours — of Kate's and of
mine — lives at the Moat," Harland was continuing.
" We could go over the old house
any day you pleased. Miss Dexter. By-the-bye,
I hope you will like my sister Kate, and

that you and she will become friends in time.
If you are not happy and comfortable with
the Pringles, you must make our house
your — "

Roger was talking to space.

His lantern dropped with a jerk when he
found himself alone. The sudden movement
of his arm — either that or a gust of wind —
extinguished the bit of candle within the horn
cage.

Cursing the mishap, he ran forward, sick
with apprehension. " Miss Dexter — Miss
Dexter ! " he shouted, " for Heaven's sake,
take care what you're about ! Don't go
another step until I am with you ! You
don't know the ground — "

He was too late.

The shrill cry of a woman's voice rang out
upon the blusterous night. The wind, as it
swept by the river, caught up the shriek and
carried it afar over the woods and meadows.
Help — help me — I am sinking ! "

The strange governess, having quitted
Roger's side, had walked sheer into the
black, cold abyss of the Lock.

The dwelling-house appertaining to Little
Borough Mills was old-fashioned, solid and
comfortable.

On either side of the entrance-hall was a
good-sized sitting-room, with a third and
smaller parlour opening out of the diningroom
from an alcove by the fireplace.

This small parlour was Eoger Harland's
own den, " snuggery " and counting-house
together. It was lighted by one long narrow
window which looked towards his mill, and
from which, on Saturday evenings, Harland
paid the men who worked for him.

This inner room, in its turn, opened on a
lobby which communicated with the kitchen
offices.

In front of the house lay a neat flower-garden,
which in the summer-time was sweet
and gay with every variety of colour and
perfume, with a fine view therefrom of the

silvery Dane flowing broadly between its
woods and pastures.

In oblique view the Harlands could obtain
a glimpse of the pretty town of Coverley,
its fine old cburcli — the parish church of St.
Eve's — and its noble bridge. Immediately
facing them were Borough Mills proper.

At the back of the Harlands' house were
kitchen-garden and orchard, stretching up
towards the railroad and the clover fields of
Woldney.

Roger Harland's prediction with regard to
the coming winter being a wet one seemed
likely to be verified.

A week had elapsed since the arrival of the
Pringles' governess, and during that entire
week, the wind having dropped, it had rained
steadily and incessantly. The river was
turbid and troubled, and lapped the banks
noisily as it rolled between them ; carrying
with it upon its swollen tide all sorts of
booty that it had snatched to itself on its
way — masses of dried reeds, garden shrubs,
spars of wood, and other objects which were
not distinguishable in the swift eddies and
dirty yellow foam. Sometimes the bloated
carcase of a dog sailed past ; sometimes an
empty bottle went jauntily by; sometimes
an old hat or shoe.

And every day, with December drawing
near, the sad and dismal rain fell regularly,
and smote the angry bosom of the river like
shot or hail.

Kate Harland sat by their dining-room
window, busy with needle and thread. A
big cheery fire burned in the grate, and Kate
had partly turned her back upon the dreary
scene without.

The large room was cosily furnished. The
furniture, it was true, was of rather ancient
date ; but the mahogany everywhere shone
like glass. The fender and door-ornaments
were of brass ; a few good oil-paintings,
dingy with age, adorned the walls ; and if
the carpet in places was somewhat worn, it
had been a substantial one in its day, and
looked in complete harmony with the rest of
the room.

Kate herself was by no means the least
pleasing feature in it. She was a well-grown
young woman, with an attractive and a sensible
face, bright and pleasant with health,
but a face which had never yefc been considered
a " pretty " one in her part of the
world. Perhaps she was more popular with
men than with members of her own sex — a
man who had once seen Kate Harland was
always glad to meet her again.

She was not so dark in complexion as
Eoger, though a decided likeness existed between
the two. In Kate's estimation Roger
stood high— to her he was the finest, the
handsomest, the dearest brother in the world.
He was a man, said Kate Harland, proudly.

Her head was bent over the work on her
lap; the dull afternoon was growing gray;
so that she failed to perceive two female
figures, attired in masculine-looking mackintoshes,
that were making their way over the
wooden bridge towards the Little Mills.
Presently Jill and Hetty Prince passed the
garden-railings ; and, their forms darkening
the window, Kate looked up and saw them.

"With her needlework on her arm, she went
herself to the front door.

How do you do, both of you ?" she said,
heartily. " I admire your courage in coming
over. Come in — I am all alone."

The two girls entered, and proceeded with
the freedom of old friends to divest themselves
of their dripping mackintoshes and to
place their umbrellas in the ball-stand.

*' Oh, isn't it simply beastly ! " observed
Jill; who in person was large and square and
loud, and with a strong likeness to her
father.

'' Beastly is far too mild a word ! *' cried

Hetty, energetically ; who in appearance was
small and plump and florid, and with a decided
likeness to her mother.

It might be better, I admit," laughed
Kate. " However, it is very comfortable
indoors ; so come along."

Relieved of their waterproofs, the Prince
girls were seen to be clad in dark, expensive
gowns, handsome sealskin jackets,
with brilliant crimson toques upon their
heads. Each wore her knot of hair twisted
low on her jacket-collar ; and each had a
wondrous thick " fringe " reaching quite
down to her brows.

They always tried to look their best whenever
they came over to the Little Mills; because
of course there was the possibility of a
chat with Eoger, and not infrequently with
his friend — Barton Chance — as well.

A young man was a young man with the
Prince girls; they would trudge any distance,
in any weather, to talk to a young man. On
this particular afternoon, poor Hetty's
"fringe" had suffered obviously from the
wind and the dampness of the atmosphere ;
but Jill's, which was of coarser growth, was
marvellous to behold in its wiry bushiness.
Jill, too, before starting, had given hers an
extra touch-up with the curling-irons.

VOL. I. H

How is Miss Dexter ? '' was Kate's first
question, as soon as they were seated round
the dining-room fire; her next, before she
had received an answer to the first — " Has
she to-day left the Lock ? She told me this
morning that she should do so."

Julia Prince shrugged her large shoulders
and said —

"Oh, I believe she's all right ! She came
to us after luncheon looking well enough —
and I, for one, was not sorry to see her.
Those brats of Louisa's are simply a nuisance
in the house, and the sooner she fetches
them away the sooner shall I bless her ! "

Hetty began to giggle.

It is my fixed belief that she tumbled in
on purpose," said she ; and, as she spoke, she
slid from her chair to the hearth rug and
spread her plump hands — upon which
sparkled numerous costly rings — to the fire.
Jill thinks so too."

"I said so, in the first place, if you please,"
snapped Jill.

Well, if you did, I thought so all along,"
retorted Hetty, looking round reproachfully
at her sister. " You needn't catch one up
so sharp, you cross old thing ! "

The younger was ever ready to stab the
elder with the fact of her seven-and-twenty
years.

"Whom — what — on earth are you talking
about ? " asked Kate, pausing in her sewing,
which she had not suffered the arrival of th
Prince girls to interrupt, and staring with
a questioning look from one to the other.

*' Miss Dexter," they answered together ;
Jill hastening to add :

Yes — we quite believe that she pitched
into the Lock and made all that fuss on
purpose."

Kate Harland, indignant as she felt at the
foolish accusation against the strange governess,
laughed in spite of herself.

Why in the world should she take 'the
trouble to do so mad a thing?" said she.
She might easily have been drowned on
such a dark night — to say nothing of the unpleasantness
of the cold plunge."

Oh, it was a romantic adventure, she
thought, with Mr. Harland close at hand to
rescue her from a watery grave ! " giggled
the younger Miss Prince.

It would have been a bad look-out for
her, though, if Frog — if Mr. Harland had been
unable to swim," grimly observed the burly
Jill.

" Just wouldn't it ! " cried Hetty, vivaciously.
" What a sell ! "

** Well, of one thing I am very sure," said
Kate, not without asperity, laying aside her

work, which was now finished, and pulling
the bell-cord near to which she sat. '' If that
of which you accuse Miss Dexter were true —
which, however, it could not be, she being, I
can plainly see, a gentlewoman in every
respect, and, therefore, incapable of such
folly — Eoger would have left her, I almost
believe, to shift for herself. He is about the
last fellow in the world to countenance that
kind of nonsense. He hates it too much."

The Prince girls shook their bushy toque-crowned
locks, and smiled incredulously.

They judged others of their own sex and
age — as the like of them are apt to do — by
their own peculiar standard of action. They
themselves were constantly on the look-out
for an adventure, and would have upset their
boat in mid-stream, or pitched head-foremost
into the lock or mill-tail with amazing alacrity,
could they be but assured beforehand that
there was a young man ready to rush and
dive to the rescue.

In answer to Kate's ring, a gaunt, hard-featured
woman, in close-fitting white cap
and clean apron, entered the room, bearing
some tea-things and a china dish of
thin bread-and-butter. The Miss Pringles
always declared that they positively could
not exist without afternoon tea, and it

amused Kate Harland to humour their absurdities.
Naomi, the wife of Dan'l the foreman
— who, from an attic window, had seen
the arrival of Hetty and Jill, and who, like
the thorough old servant she was, fully understood
her mistress's ring — was ready, at the
sound of the bell, with the necessary tea
equipage.

'' Oh, you shouldn't bother on our accounts'*
protested Julia, languidly. " "Why
do you?"

No, you really shouldn't," echoed Hetty.

It's awfully good of you, nevertheless,"
said Jill.

*' Awfully," said Hetty.

** My dear girls," replied Kate, laughing,
*' our kettle is always boiling at this hour —
if you want a cup of tea, why not have it ?
Besides, it is a fashionable institution — why
not be fashionable ? Eoger and I shall behaving
our own homely meal by-and-by; but
we like meat with our tea — at least Roger
does."

Jill and Hetty looked up suspiciously.
Was Kate Harland really daring to laugh at
them?

Is he in the mill to-day ? " inquired Hetty,
after a few thoughtful sips.

** Who ? Roger ? Yes ; in the mill and

very busy. Hetty, I don't believe I Have
given you enough cream, have I ? "

Loads, thanks," replied Hetty, nonchalantly.


As the girls sat round the fire, with teacups
on their knees, their talk drifted back
to the subject of Miss Dexter and the singularity
of her mishap on the night that she
arrived.

"As for that old Ford," said Miss Prince,
contemptuously, taking her tea in audible
spoonfuls, " he grows more idiotic every day
of his life. It's time, everybody says, that
he was turned out and an able-bodied man
put in his place. Sir Garth Gilroy, or pa, or
somebody, ought to speak to the Dane Conservancy
authorities. I'm sure, last summer
people used to scream themselves hoarse at
the Lock in their attempts to make the old
stupid hear ; and, even when he did appear,
he was frequently too feeble to wind back the
gates. His rambling chatter about Miss
Dexter is really quite too sickening — it is
simply babyish. As we came past to-day he
was sitting in the porch, all in the rain, crying,
and holding his head in his hands, and
moaning out — "

' Oh, Minnehaha ! Minnehaha ! She was
like my Minna in life again ! '" suddenly sobbed
out Hetty, with mock emotion, setting down

her cup and dropping her forehead and fringe
into the palms of her pink plump hands
— Just like that."

Am I telling the story or are you ? '*
demanded Miss Prince, angrily.

You, you old cross patch," replied Hetty,
pertly. '' But I will, if you like."

"You know," continued Jill, with a very
red face, yet ignoring the rudeness of her
junior, and pointedly addressing Kate as if
there was no such person as Hetty in the
room, " when Frog — when Mr. Harland
rescued her on that night, old Adam, hearing,
for a wonder, the commotion beneath
his window, came out with a light to see
what had happened, and Miss Dexter was
taken at once into the cottage, it being so
close at hand. She was insensible from
fright and exhaustion — "

''Or shamming insensibility*' threw in
Hetty, nodding. " We know."

Insensible from fright and exhaustion,"
repeated Jill, stonily, " and they — Mr. Har-land
and old Adam — carried her upstairs and
laid her upon a bed — "

"I remember," Kate interrupted, quietly.
Did not I go to her the instant I heard
what had occurred ? "

"Oh, of course — I am forgetting," said
Jill, with a careless laugh. "We have seen

Kate Haeland, alone, went back to the
dining-room, and sat there quite quiet and
idle for some time, staring into the fire. Her
thoughts had returned almost insensibly to
the night of the coming of Miss Dexter, and
she caught herself pondering the probable
result of the governess's advent in their
midst.

That Roger — and somehow at this reflection
a cold, strange feeling seemed to settle
about Kate's heart — was deeply interested in
Miss Dexter was plain ; though, a naturally
reserved and self-reliant young man, he had
mentioned her name scarcely at all since the
night when he had saved her from drowning.
At least, of his own will he had not spoken of
Miss Dexter. The fact of his having rendered
her so great a service would, of course, serve
to increase his interest in the stranger, decided
Kate, between whom and the new

governess a strong mutual liking had already
sprung into existence.

This was but natural.

As soon as Kate — as she herself had reminded
the Prince girls — had been made
aware of the catastrophe, she had flown to
the assistance of Miss Dexter.

She and Naomi, with tenderest handling,
had put her to bed in the Lock cottage, and
had done their utmost to restore animation
to the unconscious girl ; whilst Eoger, hastily
changing his wet clothes for dry ones, had
himself saddled his horse and galloped off to
Coverley for doctor's aid. Happily, half-way
thither, he met Mr. Headstone Payne — a
young and remarkably energetic country
surgeon, very popular with ladies — who, in
his gig, was on his road to the Little Mills
having just been summoned to the relief of
Mrs. Wickie, the matron in the mill-yard.

Throughout that anxious night had Kate
and her gaunt handmaiden watched by the
bedside of Miss Dexter; Roger sitting in the
kitchen below and listening, or pretending todo
so, to the wild talk of the childish old
lock-keeper.

As for the Pringles, they all, having learnt
what had happened, went comfortably to bed,
and declared amongst themselves that it

Kate Haeland, alone, went back to the
dining-room, and sat there quite quiet and
idle for some time, staring into the fire. Her
thoughts had returned almost insensibly to
the night of the coming of Miss Dexter, and
she caught herself pondering the probable
result of the governess's advent in their
midst.

That Eoger — and somehow at this reflection
a cold, strange feeling seemed to settle
about Kate's heart — was deeply interested in
Miss Dexter was plain ; though, a naturally
reserved and self-reliant young man, he had
mentioned her name scarcely at all since the
night when he had saved her from drowning.
At least, of his own will he had not spoken of
Miss Dexter. The fact of his having rendered
her so great a service would, of course, serve
to increase his interest in the stranger, decided
Kate, between whom and the new

governess a strong mutual liking had already-sprung
into existence.

This was but natural.

As soon as Kate — as she herself had reminded
the Prince girls — had been made
aware of the catastrophe, she had flown to
the assistance of Miss Dexter.

She and Naomi, with tenderest handling,
had put her to bed in the Lock cottage, and
had done their utmost to restore animation
to the unconscious girl ; whilst Roger, hastily
changing his wet clothes for dry ones, had
himself saddled his horse and galloped off to
Coverley for doctor's aid. Happily, half-way
thither, he met Mr. Headstone Payne — a
young and remarkably energetic country
surgeon, very popular with ladies — who, in
his gig, was on his road to the Little Mills
having just been summoned to the relief of
Mrs. Wickie, the matron in the mill-yard.

Throughout that anxious night had Kate
and her gaunt handmaiden watched by the
bedside of Miss Dexter; Roger sitting in the
kitchen below and listening, or pretending todo
so, to the wild talk of the childish old
lock-keeper.

As for the Pringles, they all, having learnt
what had happened, went comfortably to bed,
and declared amongst themselves that it

served the governess right — her tumbling
into the Lock — for having had the audacity to
arrive at such an unearthly hour and in such
a preposterous fashion.

However, they sent one of their smart
maids round in the morning to inquire how
the patient was, and the smart maid tripped
back and reported that — according to Mr.
Payne — Miss Dexter was at present too ill to
be removed from the cottage, and that she
had sunk into a sound sleep and still slept.
So then Miss Topps, the Prince damsels'
own special domestic, minced round to the
Lock, and left word at the door that her
mistress and the young "eddies" would
look in with inquiries as soon as they could
find time to do so ; which somehow did not
occur until the second day, when Miss Dexter
was well enough to be dressed and to sit up
by the fire in the little whitewashed bedroom
which had been the bed-room of the
lock-keeper's daughter.

But a severe cold had followed on the
effects of the immersion, and the shock and
excitement of it all had weakened her considerably
; so that for the next few days, at
any rate, said Mr. Headstone Payne, the
patient must remain where she was.

When she awoke for the first time to consciousness

of her strange surroundings — when
she had realized the event of the past night,
and had discovered who it was that sat
watching by her bedside — the governess said
feverishly :

I must write a letter, please, immediately
only a few words, Miss Harland — and then
and then I will try to thank you for all
that you have done for me*'

Thanking me is nonsense," said Kate,
smiling. '' And I think it would be better
for you to remain quiet — "

But my letter — indeed it must be written
at once," had pleaded the governess. " It
is of real importance."

Frankly, I do not believe that you are
yet strong enough to write," said Kate
kindly. *' Let me be penman ? "

I assure you that I am quite strong
enough," earnestly replied Miss Dexter — " if
you will help me."

So Kate, without further parley, obtained
the necessary articles, and put her firm arm
round her new friend, who, thus supported,
sat up in bed and scratched hastily, without
date or address, the following words :

Dearest Rot,

I arrived here late, but am quite
safe. Will write you a long, long letter —

also to Aunt Helen — in a few days' time.
Yours, dearest, with a world of love to both,

With deft delicate fingers she folded and
closed the note, and directed the envelope

to —

'troy Dexter, Esq.,

"17, Cumberland Square,

'^ London, WJ'

Her hand trembled visibly when she gave
the letter into Kate Harland's custody.

*' Please let it go as soon as possible,"
said Miss Dexter, eagerly; "it is to my
brother, who will be very anxious to hear
from me. It tells him nothing to make him
uneasy, for he is extremely delicate, and the
slightest cause will sometimes bring on an
illness'' sbe added, with a faint smile.

It shall go at once," Kate promised,
and left the room with the letter in her
hand.

On that day when the governess was
dressed and sitting by the fire in a roomy
old chintz-covered chair, Eoger and Adam
Ford were allowed to come upstairs to see
her.

Kate noticed that she became much
agitated at sight of the men ; that Roger

himself looked awkward and shy ; and
Eoger's sister ascribed the nervousness of
both to an embarrassing consciousness of
their peculiar relations towards each other.
Roger, in the character of preserver, was
dreading to be thanked for what he had
done ; and Miss Dexter, in that of preserved,
was of course struggling to find language
good enough in which to express her gratitude.


So Kate was settling it in her own mind,
when the lock-keeper, suddenly breaking
forth in a cry, turned the attention of all to
himself.

Forgive me, ma'am ! " cried he, falling
upon his knees by Miss Dexter's chair —
you are like my dear dead girl, sitting
there ! That chair was her arm-chair — her
very chair. Oh, my Minna — my dear lost
Minna!"

He clasped the girl's delicate hand within
both his own, and wept over it in the childish
fashion, the weak abandonment, which was
at all events no revelation to Kate and
E-oger Harland.

But Miss Dexter was a stranger to Adam
and his ways. She was trying hard to speak.
The next instant they perceived that she had
fainted.

Then Koger immediately found his tongue*
and burst out angrily : " Go down, you old
fool, do ! Why the dickens cannot you be
rational now and again ? Can't you see that
the lady is too ill to understand your nonsensical
vagaries • — *'

He checked himself, remembering Adam's
years and affliction ; and gently taking him
by the arm, Harland led the old man away,
leaving Miss Dexter to Kate's solicitude.
And so long as the governess remained at
the Lock-cottage Kate Harland watched over
her, attended to her comforts, as her especial
charge.

When her presence was required at home,.
Kate sent Naomi Drake — an excellent nurse
to take her place. And Miss Topps called
every day with inquiries from the Prince
family; and sometimes Miss Topps would
bring with her a small rice-pudding, and
sometimes some stale blancmange. But
Miss Dexter preferred those delicacies which
came from the Little Mills.

Roger, after that first interview, was for
sternly forbidding Adam ever again to visit
Miss Dexter's room during the few days
which would end her enforced stay at the
Lock.

The girl, however, surprised Harland by

declaring that she was glad to converse with
the old man; he interested her, she said;
and that she was stronger now, a great deal
stronger, than she had been on that first
occasion of their meeting upstairs.

So Adam, as pleased as a child, used,
whenever he could, to steal up and talk
to the strange young lady who sat in his
dead girl's room ; and sometimes, without
knowing that he did so, he would call her
Minnehaha.

Once, after the lock-keeper had been
sitting with Miss Dexter and speaking of
his lost Minna, Kate coming briskly in head
found the girl in tears. She tried to brush
them away, but Kate's keen eyes were not
to be deceived. The latter affected not to
notice the circumstance ; but the governess
herself observed :

It is nothing ; do not mind me — I feel
rather low-spirited to-day. And — and the
old man's tale is so mournful a one, it has
touched me, saddened me inexpressibly."

He is a very tiresome old man ! " said
Kate, impatiently. '' If I were you, my dear,
I would not have him up here at all. He is
but doleful company at the best of times."

On the contrary, I like him to come,"
Miss Dexter replied, more calmly. " Besides**

VOL. I. I

with a little smile, "is not he in his own
house ? "

*'He does not know half his time what
he is chattering about," said Kate, with
decision. " My brother always says that
he is as mad as a March hare."

To this Miss Dexter made no response ;
only bowed her head, as if in token that
she understood.

And so the week slipped by, and the
governess grew well enough to enter upon
her duties.

When she quitted the Lock-cottage for
the Pringles' house she pressed some gold
pieces into the hand of Adam Ford — gold
pieces which represented a sum that is
seldom — at least for fanciful charity — at
the command of governesses engaged at a
salary of forty pounds a year. And he,
on receiving them, looked earnestly, with
his vacant, troubled eyes, first at the donor
and then at the money, and said, with
grateful simplicity, that he should never
spend it — never — he should keep it always
for her sake — yes, always for her sake —
because she was so beautiful and so like
his dear dead Minna !

And then, when the strange lady was
fairly gone from the cottage, Adam sat

down in the porch, regardless of the weather,
his arms flung over his bent gray head, and
sobbed aloud in the weak and broken manner
which the Prince girls had described to
Kate when they called at the Little Mills.
Yet they had told her nothing that she did
not know before ; she, during the past week,
having been constantly with the young
stranger, and they having got their information
second-hand from the mincing abigail
Topps.

By-and-by Naomi came into the diningroom,
but Kate stirred not from her thoughtful
attitude. The tall old servant lit the
lamp, drew down the blinds, and then the
warm curtains over them. She heaped on
more firing, and swept the hearth clean ;
and then, having removed the kettledrum
equipage, with a snort of open disdain,
Naomi spread the cloth for regular tea and
brought in a home-cured ham. The master,
whom she had hugged as a baby, had, Naomi
was well aware, the wholesome appetite of a
strong and an industrious man; and Kate
herself never neglected to ascertain that
there was something good in the house for
Roger's tea.

Presently, with a start, the mistress looked
up.

Why, is it you again, Naomi ! Where is
Hannah this afternoon ? "

That gal Hanner is as ockard as any
mule," grumbled ]^[aomi. '' She's gone to
Coverley."

She might have waited for a better day,"
said Kate — " though I believe I gave her
permission to go."

Jest what I said, Miss Kate. But there,
it ain't a morsel o' use to waste breath on
Hanner ; especially when she's got finery
in her hi," returned Naomi, with indignation.
" She'd traps through muck and mire
above her middle, that gal would, to buy
a artificial for her Sunday bonnet. She
says she shall have a taller rose — a taller
rose indeed ! "

Naomi stalked out, muttering wrathfully
A taller rose ! " and the mistress of the
Little Mills once more fell into a brown
study, seeing odd things and familiar faces
in the heart of the fire before her. Again
she started, for a solid hand was laid upon
her shoulder. Koger, in his dusty clothes,
was standing beside her on the hearthrug.

*' Kate, old woman, you were snoring ! "

She laughed, jumped up, and pressed her
hands tight upon her eyes to banish the
visions they had seen.

"I was deep in though fc, my dear," she
said. " I did not even hear you come in."

What, pray, were you thinking about ? '*

"I was thinking of Miss Dexter," was
Kate's quiet reply.

Oh ! " said Roger, blushing suddenly
through his flour.

She is really gone to the Pringles today,"
said Kate. " She went to them after
luncheon. Jill and Hetty have been here ;
and — and, Roger," added his sister, with a
sigh, '* I greatly fear that Miss Dexter will
not be very happy with those girls at Borough
Mills."

Ah ! " was all that Roger said this time.
And forthwith, with much care in the operation,
he seated himself at the table and began

to carve the ham.

^ * ^ *

When Hannah, towards seven o'clock, returned
to the Little Mills, laden with paper-bags
— herself and her parcels alike sopped
through and through, according to Naomi —
she brought with her the news that Sir
Garth Gilroy had come back to the Moat ;
for the Woldney carriage had met him, declared
Hannah, at the Coverley Station.

It passed me on the Redtown road," said
she, as she unlaced her thick wet boots before

the kitchen fire ; " and I see his white face in
the carriage Hghts. Mr. Chance was with
him, for I see him too."

And when Roger came into supper, Kate
said to him as she brought him his slippers :

Roger, Sir Garth Gilroy has returned
this evening to the Moat. Did you know
it?"

"Nonsense !" replied he. "I saw Barton
only this morning, and he said nothing about
it. Sir Garth is not expected until Christmas."


Barton was with him in the carriage,"
rejoined Kate. And she repeated Hannah's
story.

Can't be," said Harland, thoughtfully.
Unless — "

He stopped, and looked up at his sister
with a queer, questioning expression in his
eyes. He kicked off his boots in silence.

Ah, my dear ; that's just it," nodded
Kate, drily enigmatical. Then she added :
He has come home all in a hurry, as he has
come home all in a hurry before to-day — for
the simple reason that he was compelled todo
so. He telegraphed to Barton, depend
upon it, Roger."

Phew ! " whistled Roger. " I suspect
you're right, old girl."

"Women are, always" laughed she —
only they so seldom get their due ! "

So saying, Kate Harland quitted the room
for a moment to speak to Naomi in the
kitchen ; and Roger, left to himself, heard
the restless moan of the swollen river and
the familiar throb of his busy mill — the
black night brooding over all.

Oh — — — o ! " cried Hetty Prince, with
desperate clutches at her companion's arm.
'' I shall fall, Mr. Chance ; I — I — I am certain
I shall fall ! "

Then she gasped, reeled, and clung to her
cavalier even more tenaciously, if possible,
than she had clung before.

He supported her, laughing ; and said —

Try again. Miss Hetty. Ce n'est que le
'premier pas qui route, vous savez.'^

That's — all — very — well — in theory, vous
saves panted Hetty, recovering her balance
with difficulty, and venturing very gingerly
to move onward again ; " but the 'premier
pas with skates on one's feet, Mr. Chance, is
likely to cost one a good deal, I — I — I am
afraid. Ah ! "

Here Hetty staggered ludicrously ; grabbed
at the young man this time in vain ; and sat
down suddenly upon the ice before him.

What a spectacle you're making of yourself
! " called out Jill, scornfully, as, hand-in-hand
with some Coverley youth considerably
smaller than herself, she tottered past
her sister ; who, with Barton Chance bending
over her and good-temperedly assisting her
in the task, was now endeavouring to stand
erect once more.

You're not cutting an over-brilliant —
oh ! — figure, is she, Mr. Chance ? " observed
Hetty, with great caution, " as far as I am
any judge in the matter. She goes along —
oh ! — very much after the fashion of a catin
walnut-shells, doesn't she, Mr. Chance ? "

'' That, at any rate, is better than not
going along at all," Jill was looking over
her shoulder to retort ; when, with scarce a
second's warning, her heels slid outward, and
Miss Prince lay in a heap with her unfortunate
youth upon the top of her.

Hetty could afford to crow in spite of her
mishaps ; for had not she managed to secure
Barton Chance to herself, whilst Jill — up to
the present — had been compelled to rest
satisfied with the unwilling aid oE a schoolboy
? ^

Retribution ! " shrieked Hetty,, delightedly
— '' isn't it, Mr. Chance ? Serve you
right, old lady, for laughing at me ! "

Poor Jill was too smothered and shaken
to reply ; and Hetty and her handsome
cavalier went delicately on their way.

As for Barton, he pitied himself intensely,
seeing that Hetty Prince had " nabbed '*
him, as he called it, early in the afternoon ;
and as yet he could discern not the faintest
probability of ridding himself of her unwelcome
preference. He was not this afternoon
exactly in the humour to talk and
chaff " with Hetty, for there was in the
distance a figure upon the ice — a figure
neatly and darkly clad, and innocent alike
of costly furs and bushy red-toque-crowned
locks, that skated quietly and well, with an
erect and a business-like air — whom Barton
Chance was impatient to join.

Still, he was too sweet-tempered to allow
the girl at his side to perceive that to him, in
his present frame of mind, her society wa
little better than a nuisance.

To aggravate affairs. Barton himself was
an accomplished skater, and could perform
all kinds of fantastic movements ; and, naturally,
Hetty's pitiable incapability irritated the
young man exceedingly.

All the same. Barton chatted and smiled
in an encouraging manner, and swore that
ere long Miss Hetty would be able to " go

backwards," nap, to execute the " outside
edge " with the most consummate ease.

Although Hetty herself did not believe a
word of this prediction, she said :

Do you really think so, Mr. Chance
really and truly ? " — and audaciously
squeezed his arm, her hold on which was
already like that of a vice — " How nice ! "

Yes, upon my word," answered Barton,
you will at this rate. Why, you're getting
along like a house a-fire ! " And all the
while his eyes were roving after that distant
figure moving easily hither and thither
amongst the crowd of skaters in the field.

Hetty's aim, perhaps, on that afternoon
was not so much to learn to skate as to keep
Mr. Barton Chance by her side as long as
possible, and so to triumph over Jill and her
hobbledehoy. She knew that Barton was not
what her mother considered '' an eligible
young man ; " nor was he, perhaps, a very
steady young man. But he was pleasant to
be seen with, being so good-looking ; pleasant
to talk to ; was to be met at most of the
houses whither the Pringles themselves went ;
and, above all, as agent and steward to Sir
Garth Gilroy, he lived at Woldney Moat.

This counted for not a little in the estimation
of the Pringles, who certainly, in a

fashion, knew a good deal of Sir Garth himself.
At least, the head of the Prince
household knew a good deal of the affairs
of Sir Garth Gilroy.

But it was at the Little Mills that the
Prince girls most frequently met Barton
Chance.

He was a young man of good descent, his
family, the earlier members of which had once
owned a considerable estate in the county of
Suffolk, having come down, through extravagance,
with a rush, in the world. Indeed, his
father and Sir Garth Gilroy had been young
men together in days gone by; so that when,
some three years back, affairs at the Moat
had got into such a plight that they were
fast drifting beyond the control of its negligent
master, he remembered the existence of
the son of his old friend, and wrote and
offered Barton the post he now occupied in
the old ruin at "Woldney.

Chance, at that date, had left Cheltenham,
where he had been educated, and was then
living in easy idleness at the house of his
guardian in London. But that gentleman
had recently made known to him that there
were no funds available for an University
course, and that it therefore behoved him to
look out for something to do in the world
with all possible despatch.

Sir Garth's offer was a timely one, and
Barton at once accepted it. The young
fellow was almost alone in life, bis parents
being dead and his only sister married and
settled in Canada. And though, it may be,
he would have preferred to remain in town,
since nothing in the way of employment there
presented itself to him, he perforce bowed to
circumstances and resigned himself to life in
the country.

He came to Woldney, and Sir Garth, perceiving
that the young man seemed equal to
the work required of him, took himself off to
foreign soil again, saying, as usual, that it
was uncertain when he should return, and
leaving Barton to do the best he could with
the mass of muddled business which he found
at the Moat.

Sir Garth Gilroy, Chance very soon discovered,
was for ever coming and going
without ceremony or warning. Sometimes
he would stop at Woldney for a night or
two only; at other times he would remain fora
month. And the home-coming of the master
of the dreary old mansion was generally a
matter of compulsion. This, too, Barton had
discovered as time went on.

The young man soon made himself happy
enough in his new quarters ; he was a naturally
contented and easy-going fellow. He

had his own rooms in the old house ; there
was a horse and dog-cart always at his command
; he was entirely, for the greater part
of the year, his own master.

If he felt inclined to run up to town for a
day or so's change, he had the leisure and
the moderate means wherewith to indulge the
inclination. Barton, ere long, began to consider
himself as not being so badly placed
after all ; for he was very fond of an easy
life, of pleasure and of pleasant things.

Fishing, one summer evening, from the
banks of the Woldney meadows, Sir Garth's
young agent met Roger Harland, engaged
upon the same occupation as himself. The
two men got into conversation, as anglers
will, and Eoger, shy and reserved as he knew
himself to be, felt vaguely astonished at the
manner in which he thawed towards Barton
Chance. Perhaps, however, the secret lay
in Barton's own singularly winning and
attractive personality. Later on they strolled
together, with their fishing-tackle, over the
bridge in Harland' s homeward direction —
Barton saying that he was in no hurry to get
back to the Moat — and so to the garden gate
of the Little Mills.

Eoger, in his quiet way, suggested that
his new acquaintance should come in for a

glass of beer or a little cold whiskej-and-
water — it was yet early. Barton, nothing
loath, acquiesced immediately; and, with
Roger entering the cool pleasant house, he
was introduced to his friend's sister Kate.

From that evening thenceforward he became
a frequent visitor at the Little Mills ;
and the acquaintance thus begun by degrees
ripened into a treasured friendship. Barton
conceived a great respect for Harland ; and
Eoger, on his part, was often the means, by
brotherly talk and sensible advice, of saving
Chance from many a folly and the consequences
attendant on it. He was continually
looking in with a new song for Kate to try
over, a new magazine, some flowers from the
wild old gardens at Woldney, a new pipe for
Roger to examine — Barton had always a
laughing excuse for these frequent visits of
his.

At the Little Mills Chance first met the
Prince girls, who made a " dead set " at him
with their fascinating powers the instant the
introduction was an accomplished fact between
them.

He was so awfully good-looking ! " they
whispered to each other on going away.
And it was true. Barton Chance was
blessed with beauty of no common order —

a " perfect face and perfect form." He was
neither so tall nor so strong-looking as
Roger Harland, said the Prince girls, but
he was a million times handsomer — oh yes !
His eyes were sweetest, darkest blue, pronounced
Hetty rapturously ; in fact they
were the true, rare violet colour.

Barton, indeed, was very fair — with the
warm, downy fairness of a rich ripe peach.
His hair was crisp and golden ; his thick
eyebrows and eyelashes, in reality of a light
tan colour, looked sometimes a quite dark
brown, when a deeper flush than usual was
glowing upon his handsome face.

His features were strikingly clean-cut;
his teeth were beautifully white — continual
smoking apparently failing to spoil them ;
whilst the long tawny moustache which
drooped from his red upper-lip hid a mouth
which was as sweet and smiling as that of a
pretty woman.

Such was Barton Chance, sunny-tempered
and weak of will; nay, with many faults
which needed but opportunity, perhaps, to
broaden into actual vices. But Julia Prince
in the phraseology of Agatha Groldraore in
Fundi — had declared to her sister Hetty thp.t
Barton was "like a young Greek god." As
for his careless, impulsive nature — which, in
all probability, would prove his greatest

drawback in life — that, without doubt, he
had, with his good looks, inherited from his
mother, who had been a charming Irishwoman;
but whose improvident light-hearted
ways, upon her introduction into the Chance
family, had certainly wrought that family
no especial good.

Christmas was approaching ; hard and
frosty weather had followed upon the heels
of gale and flood. The riverside meadows
in the neighbourhood of Coverley were
sheeted with water ; and business now at
the Borough Mills, both the greater and the
less, was at a standstill, owing to the blocks
of ice which, floating down stream, had
made their way into the mill-ponds and
clogged the mill-wheels.

The afternoon was dim and bitterly cold;
the sun, already westering and showing like
a globe of smouldering fire through the haze
overhead, promised a continuance of the
present hard weather.

All the idler members of Coverley society
were, on that December afternoon, disporting
themselves upon the ice — in a meadow about
a quarter of a mile removed from Roger
Harland's mill — and were airing their accomplishments,
or their lack of them, in a
fashion not unamusing to observe.

VOL. I, "^ K

Those who really could skate swept and
curved and sailed about and turned hither
and thither on one leg, backward or forward,
as the humour of the moment seized
them, and cut hieroglyphics upon the glassy
surface; those that could not, tripped up
and rolled over one another, or sat down unexpectedly
at every turn.

Some, with the aid of a chair, crept fearfully
along, trembling for what might becoming
in their rear ; others, striking boldly
out, with a "look at me " sort of air, either
triumphed, as they deserved to do, or failed
disastrously in their attempt to shine.

There were tiresome scared little curs that
would get in the way of everyone ; there
were equally tiresome louts and hobbledehoys
who would play " rocky '' when they
were not engaged in earning pence for
fastening on the skates of the public ; there
were the usual groups of on-lookers in the
field who criticised the performers and
gossiped as they watched.

Do you see," said Hetty Prince to
Barton Chance — '' oh ! do let's rest a
moment — do you see those two old cats
on the bank — "

Two old cats ? " repeated Barton, mechanically;
looking, however, in a quite
wrong direction. " Where ? ''

"Not there — but yonder, on the towing-path
by the gate," answered Hetty, with
a slight nod of her brilliant toque in the line
of vision indicated. " I'll be bound they're
saying something nasty about everybody —
about us, perhaps, Mr. Chance ! "

Oh, I see ! — Miss Bishop and Miss
Eager," said Barton. " Ah, very likely ! I
have met them once or twice at the Little
Mills. They are a pleasant couple, are they
not ? "

I can't think why Kate Harland will
have anything to do with them," Hetty
remarked. " Why, there is Kate 1" she
broke off, " talking to Miss Dexter and
the brats. It's the first time I've caught
sight of her. Do you see her, Mr. Chance —
Kate Harland, I mean ? "

I've seen her for some time," said Barton,
restlessly.

And I declare there's Roger — I mean
Mr. Harland — come into the field, and
putting on his skates too. Poor Jill, she's
hobbling over to him, or trying to. Do look
at her, Mr. Chance ! Isn't she droll ? Oh,
dear ! down again she goes, full sprawl in
the very path of Tim Maltover. That, I
verily believe, was a ruse of Jill's ; I know
her so well. See ! the guileless Tim has
fallen into the trap, and is helping her to

get up. And, yes ! I thought so ! He is
now going to give her a turn. Bravo, Jill !
very nicely done."

I should imagine that your sister, by
this time, must be pretty well black and
blue," observed Barton, with a laughing light
in his bright, beautiful eyes, '' judging from
the style in which she goes to work."

Oh, the bruises, Jill considers, are gained
in a good cause," Hetty returned, flippantly.
She'll lay in a larger stock yet, you'll see,.
Mr. Chance,' before we leave the ice."

'' How do you mean ? "

'why, having wearied out Tim Malt-over,
with her conversation for a certainty
perhaps with her weight — she will next
contrive to enlist the help and sympathy
of his brother Phil. Phil, in his turn, having
been bored out of his five senses, she will
proceed to lay siege to Mr. Headstone Payne
he is in the meadow ; I saw him with the
Miss Bilfils not a minute ago. If Headstone
Payne is too sharp for her, she'll catch hold
of Roger Harland — and so on throughout
the afternoon."

And all this manoeuvring on your sister's
part will necessitate, you say, a good deal of
what shall we call it ? " laughed Barton —
well, of self-abasement, bruises, and what

({

not. 'Pon my word, Miss Hetty, I think
you're rather rough on Miss Prince."

Not a bit of it ! " answered the girl,
lightly. " She's a regular fiend to me
sometimes, and so I always put a spoke
in her wheel whenever I get an opportunity."


*' Ah, I see. May I light a pipe ? " Chance
inquired.

Why do you ask ? — you know you may.
Yes ; and that as well. Go on ; I'm not a
bit shocked ; besides you want it, of course,
to keep out the cold. And then when you're
refreshed I think we'll be moving again — my
feet are getting quite numbed."

Barton groaned inwardly.

I do wish," continued the sprightly Hetty,
that we had learnt to skate earlier. I feel
downright ashamed of myself this afternoon ;
but somehow we never before cared to try,
or it was a mild winter and there was no ice,
or we were from home and near no water if
it did happen to freeze, and all like that,
don't you know — Oh, gracious ! " giggled
the damsel, as Chance, before putting the
spirit to his own lips, gravely, yet with a
roguish downward glance at her, tendered the
flask to his companion — " do you really mean
it ? Will it not make me cough and choke,

and — and perhaps tipsy? Oli, Mr. Chance,
it would be dreadful if it got into my head,
and I were to tumble down and couldn't getup
again ! Well, only a beetle tiny sip, then,
Mr. Chance. Goodness me, it's whiskey ! "
cried Hetty, with an expression of mock
horror in eyes and tone, but swallowed what
she had taken nevertheless.

"Finest old Scotch in the world. Miss
Hetty — wouldn't hurt a baby," answered the
young man. " A fellow I know in town gets
it direct from Edinburgh, and I have it from
him. Feel better?"

Warmer, decidedly," replied Hetty, archly.
Never did such a thing before," she added,
confidentially. " Please, don't split, Mr.
Chance ! "

Not I. Are you ready ? "

Quite."

She strangled a grimace in its infancy, and
once more gave him her hand. Her feet,
with their new skates and leather strapping,
were aching to positive agony ; but Hetty
had no intention of giving up the sport so
long as she could manage to keep Barton asher
partner. So he, having lit his meerschaum
and drained the silver flask, gallantly — making
the best of a bad job — sallied forth again into
the moving throng, with the heroic Hetty
tottering by his side.

Well, if ever I did ! " exclaimed Miss
Bishop. Miss Bishop was massive and corpulent,
with a double chin and eye-glasses,
and a false auburn front with a black velvet
band across it to prevent it from slipping
over her nose, with which, by the way, the
keen north breeze was dealing far from kindly.
Her voice was loud and rasping, and was apt
to set one's teeth on edge. '' Well, if ever I
did ! " said Miss Bishop. " A pretty scene
truly ! Those Prince girls take one's breath
away ! "

Nobody, Maria, is ever astonished at
what they do — you know that," said* Miss
Eager. Miss Eager was wiry and dried-up
looking; her features were brown and
pinched ; her hair, which was her own, was
growing very white. In appearance, at least,
she was a contrast in every respect to the
other spinster lady, with whom she had lived
for the past twenty years.

The two had been school-girls together,
friends all their lives ; and, at this date, they
rented conjointly a very clean and comfortable
house in the High Street of .
Their incomes separately were
small ones; but, put together, made a respectable
sum. They dressed alike in a
fashion which they fondly believed to be the
prevailing one, and they had earned for themselves

the not perhaps unjust reputation for
possessing the bitterest tongues in Coverley.
Kindly Mrs. Harland, however, had always
counted Miss Bishop and Miss Eager amongst
her Coverley acquaintances ; and Kate, for
her mother's sake, never failed in civility
towards the two maiden ladies.

Standing there upon the frozen towing-path
by the meadow gate — of course, not for
kingdoms would they have ventured upon the
ice — their hands in their muffs, and each with
an umbrella tucked under her arm, the two
spinster ladies had been watching Hetty
Prince and Barton Chance, and had seen
the girl refreshing herself from Barton's
silver flask.

The manner in which those girls run
after young men in the town is — is — simply
appalling," said Miss Eager, sourly.

Julia Prince, you observe, Rachel," said
Miss Bishop, " has got hold of one of the
Maltover young men. They are getting to
know all sorts of folk — the Pringles, I mean
what with their money, and the carriage,
and the ladies' maid, and dickens knows
what besides I I haven't common patience
with such airs and graces — that I haven't ! "

Well, the Maltovers are nobody," said
Miss Eager, with fine contempt; "though,

for second-rate country brewers, I must say,
they have a pretty high opinion of themselves
! My own father was a Staffordshire
brewer, you know, Maria, and as good as
any other brewer, as brewers go, as far as I
can tell."

There's more than one pack in Coverley
whom I should be very happy to tell 'em
what I thought of 'em'* said Miss Bishop,
importantly. " The Singletons, for instance
coming into the place and sticking themselves
up for quite big people in a little way.
I've not common patience with such tomfoolery
! My cousin, Latina Simpson,* at
Highgate — did I tell you, Rachel ? — knows
all about them. They had, it seems, a
hosiery and haberdashery business somewhere
or other Islington way ; and they
come down here and give out that their
father was a surgeon in the Indian Army,
and has seen active service in the Punjab !
just because the old man has a cork arm in
the place of the one which, Latina says, he
lost by amputation after an accident in the
Underground Railway ! Well, the old man
has three of them — and no beauties either —
to find husbands for ; and I only wish they
.may catch 'em in Coverley ! "

The place is overrun with girls of all

sorts — good, bad, and indifferent," observed
Miss Eager.

And worthless young men," snarled Miss
Bishop, '' who won't marry."

They don't, or they won't, or they can't,"
said Miss Eager. " I don't know which it is."

They want whipping to church," said
Miss Bishop. " The girls — oldish girls some
of 'em are — are ready enough to go."

It's no good their going alone, of course,"
observed Miss Eager, drily.

Now there are seven Miss Bilfiis, as you
know, Eachel," said Miss Bishop — " Lawyer
Bilfil's daughters. What's to become of
them, pray — "

Lovely as they are ! " interjected Miss
Eager, chuckling. *' I've seen three of the
brood in the meadow this afternoon — curate-hunting.
Poor parsons ! "

"What's to become of them, I repeat,
Rachel ? " Miss Bishop continued. " I'm
glad I'm not their father ! Regularly as
August comes round, they let their house
and troop off to the seaside ; each one of the
seven takes it in turn to stay with some fine
relatives they've got in London ; and what is
the result ? Back they come every year to
Coverley — still the Miss Bilfiis. It must be
weary work ! "

There are always the curates to hope

something from'* said Miss Eager, in her
thin, asthmatic voice. " Dear, dear ! What,
I wonder, would the Coverley young women
do without their St. Eve's and their afternoon
and early ' masses,' and the flighty
fledglings in clerical clothes who don't care a
button for the Reverend Septimus Haze ?
Give 'em plenty of lawn-tennis and flirtation,
and the Coverley curates ask no more."

That Reverend Felix Scamper is a nice
specimen," said Miss Bishop, " from all that
I can hear, Rachel — married man though he
is. Did Susan tell you about Miss Sn^e,
the Lady Principal, as she calls herself, of
the Cottage Hospital, and the hot sausages
for supper? The poor creatures upstairs
tearing away at their bells to deaf ears, the
Vicar himself calling unexpectedly in South
Street on his way home from a dinner at
Major Long worth's, and the Reverend Felix
being bundled ignominiously by the nurses
and Miss Snaffle into the flour-bin — "

Hush — hush ! Here come the Vicar and
his better-half."

His better-half, with a vengeance, if
report speaks truly," said Miss Bishop.
She must be fifty if she is a day ; though
she pulls herself in at the waist as if she
were a chit of sixteen ! "

I've sat behind her at ^ mass,' " said Miss

Eager, ironically, "and heard tHe stitches
crack."

This in an undertone, whilst the speaker
stared straight before her as if gazing at
some object in a distant part of the field;
for at that moment the Eeverend Septimus
Haze and his wife, the Caress, as vulgar
Coverley scoffers jocosely called her, passed
close along the towing-path by the two
maiden ladies ; to whom the pair vouchsafed
a condescending bow and shadowy
smile as a token of favour sufficient for
members of their flock who were not within
the magic circle of the " Yicarage set."

What a plump and dreamy little man it
is," remarked Miss Bishop, with scant respect,
looking after her pastor and master
with quizzical jpince-nez^ the instant he and
his spouse were out of earshot. " Gracious !
Actually the couple of 'em are stopping to
speak to the Pringles; and the Pringles
don't belong to the parish at all — they go to
Margrave."

*' The Pringles have money," said Miss
Eager, sarcastically. " The Pringles are
intimate with Sir Garth Gilroy."

A curious sort of intimacy, that, I
fancy," replied Miss Bishop, grimly. " We
;shall see, Rachel, what it leads to."

"All the same, the Milroy are an old
county family, and — "

And highly reputable some of its members
have been, too," sneered Miss Bishop ;
to say nothing of the present representative
of the family ! "

*' I daresay old Prince knows what he is
about," said Miss Eager.

I'll be bound he does," Miss Bishop replied.


I'm told that the little big folk — as we
call 'em, Maria — the Bilfils and the Malt-over
and the Singletons — are frightfully
jealous of the Pringles' intimacy with Sir
Garth Gilroy."

"Very likely, Rachel," answered Miss
Bishop, in her hardest tone ; " but it will be
some time hence, I venture to predict, before
the Maltovers and their lot find themselves
taken up by the county."

Pigs may fly, of course," said Miss
Eager.

ISo wagged the tongues of these two famous
Coverley spinsters, in the identical style in
which they had wagged over their neighbours
and their neighbours' affairs and
doings for a good many years past now.
They belonged to that class of commonplace
people who apparently never grow

weary of talking of the same tang. Gossip
to them is the salt of life.

Suddenly Kate Harland, in her plain yet
well-fitting dark clothes, stood before the
two maiden ladies upon the ice which bordered
the meadow-path.

She was still alone ; her face, flushed with
the cold air and exercise, betrayed nothing.
She smiled very pleasantly as she said to the
two elderly spinsters — who started at seeing
Kate so near, they not having noticed her
swift approach —

JSTaomi has sent us out some beautiful
hot tea, and some hot seed-cake as well. It
must be cold work standing about and looking
on. Will not you come and join us ?
You needn't cross the ice, for we have spread
the rugs by the hedge near the next gate.
Don't say no," said Kate, with another smile.

I don't think we mean to, my dear
Kate," spoke up Miss Bishop. " Do we,
Eachel ? "

No. I was really, not a moment ago,
wishing it were possible to get a cup of tea,"
fibbed Miss Eager, politely.

Then come along," returned Kate, gaily;
or we shall find it all drunk, or cold."

She skated on ahead. Miss Bishop and
Miss Eager following, with careful steps, in
her wake. ♦

That new governess of the Pringles has
joined them, too, I can see," whispered Miss
Eager to her companion. Miss Eager was
lynx-sighted and needed no pmce-nezto assist
her vision. " This will be a capital opportunity
to ascertain what she is like, Maria. I
wonder where they got her from ? "

We must find out, Eachel," said Miss
Bishop, with determination.

Yes. But we won't stay long, Maria,"
answered Miss Eager, glancing round uneasily.
" Remember my asthma — the fog's
rising."

Somewhat apart from the group gathered-round
Naomi's urn of fragrant souchong
and smoking-hot seed-cake stood Roger Har-land,
cup-and-saucer in hand, talking to Miss
Dexter ; who was quietly enjoying her tea
with the rest.

The girl Hannah had followed Naomi with
rugs and shawls, and Kate and her party
had settled themselves well in the shelter of
the wintry hedge.

Clinging shyly to Miss Dexter's gown, and
contentedly munching hot cake meanwhile —
for they had already learned to love and to
obey the reserved yet tender voiced girl
whom they called their governess — were her
two small pupils, Joey and Tommy, as their
grandfather at the Mills had facetiously
nick-named them ; they having received
in baptism the names of Josephine and
Thomasina respectively.

Josephine was five and a half; Thomasina

Yer four. They were very good and quiet
little maids, indeed remarkably so if compared
with ordinary children of a similar
age. They were always obedient and never
quarrelsome; but, as is not unusual with
very good and obedient children, they were
keenly observant of their elders — of their
speech, manners, and peculiarities if any
were prominent. So that when these little
people did open their lips their innocent remarks
were apt to savour of the observations
of the worst enfant terrible.

You have had three glasses of port-wines
grand mamma, and your face is so red," had
said Joey, with the utmost gravity, on the
last Sunday at dessert. ^

Nose too," lisped little Tommy, with
equal solemnity ; '* all over, grandmamma.'*

Grandpa at this had laughed out loud
and long, but grand mamma said sharply that
i^ Joey and Tommy did not behave better
than they were then doing they should never,
never come down from the schoolroom to
dessert again. In fact, said grandmamma,
she had half a mind to send them home that
very minute to their own papa and mamma —
right across the great deep sea, in which, in
all probability, they would both be drowned ;
and then they would never come back any

VOL. I. L

more to see dear grandpa and grand-mamma
at Borough Mills.

This outburst awed the little creatures
into utter silence, and they spoke no more
that day in the presence of their seniors;
presently slipping unnoticed from their high
chairs and creeping out of the room, wondering
in their guileless young souls why grand-mamma
should be angry and grandpa
should laugh ?

Do you not skate ? " Eoger was inquiring
of his companion ; adding wistfully, " I
have just now plenty of time — the mills
can't work in such weather as this — and I
should like to teach you. I should be so
happy — "

It is very kind of you," the governess
interrupted, with a smile ; " but I assure
you I am tolerably proficient in the art. I
learnt two or three winters ago in London,
when the Serpentine was frozen. We get
capital skating in town sometimes."

Then why won't you try now ? " said
Eoger, eagerly. " Will you, Miss Dexter ?
Take a turn with me — "

He stopped again, and grew very hot.

No," she answered, firmly ; '' I would
rather not. You seem to forget, Mr. Har-land,
that I am merely the governess with

these people here. I could not leave my
little charges. What, pray, would the
Pringles say ? And both the Miss Pringles
are here. Besides, you likewise forget that
I have no skates ; I did not bring mine with
me."

*' Why study the Prince girls ? " said
Roger, brusquely. " And as for skates,
why, I will go up to Coverley this very
evening and get you a pair, if you will but
promise — "

I can promise you nothing," interrupted
Miss Dexter, gently. " I am not my own
mistress in this place. Surely you can
understand that, Mr. Harland ? " For a
moment she looked at him pleadingly with
her lovely dark eyes, and the sweet, proud
lips seemed touched with pathos. " So you
must not be vexed," she added, " nor think
that I am ungrateful. You know," smiling a
little, " that I look upon you as my best
friend amongst all these strange people.
How lonely should I feel here if it were not
for you and your sister, Mr. Harland ! "

I hope so," stammered Roger. " I — I
mean, you know, that — that it makes me
very happy to think that you regard us as
your friends."

Have not I good reason to do so ?" said

the governess earnestly, lier eyes shining, lier
voice tremulous. " Believe me, I am not one
to forget a noble act — "

Ah, don't ! " said Roger, truly uncomfortable.


He saw that tears were glistening upon
her heavy eyelashes ; he was wretched ; he
looked over the field helplessly. It was with
intense relief that he heard Miss Dexter
saying:

Will you take my cup, Mr. Harland ?
Joey and Tommy are getting frozen, and weare
going to run about for a short while in
order to get ourselves warm again before we
go indoors. Thank you. Come, dears ! —
this will never do. I don't know what
grand mamma would say to us if we were
all to go home with bad coughs and sore
throats ! "

She would put us to bed and make us
have mustard-plasters on our stomachs," said
Joey, looking up seriously.

And gregory-powder," added Tommy, in
her small, slow, sing-song treble. " Do you
like gregory-powder. Miss Dexter ? "

Very much," said the young governess,
soberly, "when I know that it will do me
good to take it."

So saying, she grasped a tiny hand in each

of her own, and briskly trotted the youngsters
off the ice.

As they passed Kate Harland's group—
the urn was almost empty now — Joey said,
shrilly :

Who are those funny old ladies with
Auntie Hetty and Auntie Jill ? Miss Harland
is giving them some tea. What big muffs
they have ! "

"And their noses are as red as grand-mamma's,"
said Tommy.

Hush ! — oh, hush, children 1 " said the
governess, hurrying them on to the meadow-path,
and hoping that Miss Bishop and Miss
Eager were occasionally a trifle deaf. " Now,
we will run twice from this gate to that one
yonder, and then we must go in. See, dears,
how the mist is stealing over the river ! "

Fortunately, the two maiden ladies were
engaged in asking the Miss Pringles a variety
of questions concerning Miss Dexter herself,
and so had not caught the uncomplimentary
prattle of Miss Dexter' s infantine charges.

She does not look much like a governess,"
by-and-by remarked Miss Eager.
She is so slight — such a girl — so altogether
so altogether superior-looking, don't you
think, Miss Prince ? " turning to Jill.

Jill shrugged her shoulders, and did not

answer. The two maiden ladies from
Coverley were Kate Harland's friends — not
hers; mere nobodies, in fact, whom it was
not worth while to be gracious to.

She dresses, in my opinion, a great deal
too extravagantly fpr a person in her position,"
said Miss Bishop, "Look at that
jacket i "

Oh, yes," threw in Miss Prince, languidly
— *'I know. That seal she has on
to-day is every jot as good as mine. Can't
understand it."

All her things are simply beautiful'*
cried Hetty, vivaciously ; " and all of them
are brand-new into the bargain — marked
M. Dexter,' if you please ! I wonder what
her name is ? — Mary Anne, I shouldn't
wonder. She looks like a Mary Anne."

I presume. Miss Prince, that you had
proper references with the — the young
person ? " said Miss Bishop, pursing up her
lips virtuously. " One can't be too careful."

No, indeed," chimed in Miss Eager.
"One can't be too careful in these days,
when all sorts of odd and startling tales
appear in the newspapers."
" I believe it's all right," replied Jill, in
her careless and uncivil way. "She has
been living for* several years with a Mrs. De

Something in Cumberland Square, who is a
kind of rich relative, I should imagine, and
who has given her a home for her services.
Anyway, mamma managed what little correspondence
there was in the matter ; and
she was perfectly satisfied, for aught I know
to the contrary. We didn't care, so long as
somebody was found from somewhere to take
the responsibility of those little plagues off
our hands."

Cumberland Square ?" cried Miss Bishop.
Is not that a very aristocratic neighbourhood
? I am sure I have heard so."

I really neither know nor care," said
Jill, rudely.

"Miss Dexter's brother also lives at 17,
Cumberland Square," cried Hetty ; " for I
have seen the letters she writes to him — and
she is always writing to him — with that
address on the envelope."

Did Miss Dexter herself tell you that it
was her brother ? " inquired Kate Harland,
coolly.

Yes, she did. I asked her only yesterday,
and she said that it was — shortly enough,
I grant you. I think she's frightfully stuck-up
for a governess, and wants taking down a
peg. I don't believe she has a brother living
in Cumberland Square — 'isn't likely," said

Hetty, disdainfully. " There's something
shady about the young woman — that's my
conviction. Kate Harland here says she —
Miss Dexter — is lovely ! A joke, that, isn't
it? Ha, ha, ha!"

Here Barton Chance, who, with eyes
shining with suppressed merriment, had been
silently listening to the feminine chatter,
scrambled up from the rug upon which he
had been lying, and said in a quick, low
tone —

Kate, you haven't been near me the
whole afternoon ! "

Whose fault was that ? " said Kate.

*' Not mine. Kate, you saw very well how
it was ! " pleaded Barton. " Won't you take
just one turn with me before it gets too
dark ? "

A queer, thin, croaking noise which issued
from the throat of Miss Eager made them
all start.

Gracious, my dear Eachel, your asthma !"
almost screamed Miss Bishop. " I shall have
you laid up ; we must go home at once ! "

Whereupon, without ceremony, each lady
whipped out from her pocket a soft knitted
scarf of coloured wool, and dexterously
wound the article not only around her neck
and chin, but smothered up nose and all

until their eyes alone were visible. Each
waved her umbrella and nodded her bonnet
in a sort of general farewell ; and then, Miss
Bishop hurriedly drawing her house-mate's
arm under her own, the two made what haste
they could upon the slippery ground in the
direction of the town of Coverley.

Thank Heaven for her asthma ! " ejaculated
Barton Chance, as he and Kate
together, hand-in-hand, went flying over
the surface of the darkening ice. They
were alone with each other at last.

The field had thinned considerably ; people
were fast going home; for the sun had set
and darkness was coming on with the misty
twilight of a winter afternoon. The nipping
breeze brought over to the skaters that yet
remained the sound of the bells of St. Eve's
chiming in their sweet, melancholy fashion
for afternoon " mass." It was a quarter to
five.

The curates, remembering their duties —
admonished perhaps by the Reverend Sep-times
Haze, or, what was more likely, by the
Eeverend Septimus Haze's omnipotent spouse
had wrenched off their skates and gone
rushing, with flying coat-tails, homeward to
the parish church. In a twinkling, the Miss
Bilfilsj the Miss Maltovers, the Miss Singletons,

and half-a-dozen more like them, had
likewise slipped off their skates, and had
vanished precipitately in the wake of the
curates. Away went the chase through the
wintry gloaming.

Jill and Hetty Prince, looking blankly
around them, discovered with chagrin that
they were deserted by everybody.

Even by Eoger Harland. Where, then,
was he ?

He had disappeared quietly ten minutes
before.

The Prince girls saw him now in the distance,
by the gate nearest to the mills, holding
it open for Miss Dexter and the children
to pass through.

Without difficulty they recognised his tall
figure, as he stood there, bareheaded, in the
gathering mist, his hand extended to the
governess.

I cannot allow you to come a step
farther," she was saying to him, gravely and
firmly. " Please go back."

Go back ? '' he repeated slowly. '' Why ?"

The Miss Pringles are alone. You must
go back to them."

I have taken off my skates," said Roger

They are * acme,' " said the governess
with a smile. " You can easily put them on
again."

I have no wish to put them on again,"
replied Harlan d, quietly.

You will make it pleasant for me, Mr.
Harland," remarked the governess, with a
kind of proud simplicity, " if you go back.
Do not you comprehend ? "

Ah ! " said Eoger quickly. He did comprehend.


"Goodbye," then said Miss Dexter. "I
shall come to see your sister soon — perhaps
very soon."

Thank you — do," replied the young man,
earnestly. " You are always welcome — no
one on earth more so with Kate and me.'*"

I must say ' Thank you ' now ; for I know
that I can believe what you say."

She hurried on with her wee friends, and
left him standing by the gate alone.

Eoger gazed after her for a minute or so ;
and, without knowing it, drew a deep sigh.

Then he went slowly back to Jill and Hetty
Prince.

It wanted but three days to Christmas Day.

The promise of a long-lasting frost had,
after all, not held out, and dull and cloudy
weather, with a south-westerly wind, having
once more set in, the ice all over the country
was rapidly disappearing, and any business
of life with which Jack Frost may have
temporarily interfered was again in a fairway
to proceed as usual.

The floods in the neighbourhood of 
were sinking ; the grass of the
surrounding meadows, pinched and sodden
from frost and immersion, was showing itself
more distinctly with each passing day. The
skaters grumbled ; hunting men rejoiced ;
the poor were especially thankful for the
kindly change, for the poor ones of the earth
are the world's keenest sufferers at all times
and seasons of the year.

Everybody, at any rate, was of course
agreed on one point — namely, that he were

a shrewd and a wise man who should satisfactorily
account for the vagaries of the English
climate.

The evening was still and mild. A pallid
moon on her back was just visible in the
rainy gray of the sky. The wide river,
mirroring the dark woods, the tumbling weir,
the rushing mill-tails — all gleamed with a
ghostly fitfulness beneath the feeble moon's
wan smile.

Sir Garth Gilroy on that evening was
dining alone with the Pringles. Indeed, it
was always en famille and never with other
company, that Sir Garth had ever dined with
the Prince family.

He preferred such an arrangement, he
coolly informed the master of the house —
which, said the wealthy Solomon, was fortunate,
since as yet they knew nobody in
their miscellaneous assortment of friends and
acquaintances that was " good enough " to be
asked to meet Sir Garth.

No insulting observation from the illustrious
guest had ever yet given offence to
Solomon Prince ; simply because Solomon
would not be offended.

So Sir Garth Gilroy being absent from the
Moat, and there being no hindrance in the
way of accounts to go over, Barton Chance

ascertaining that the towing-path of the
Woldney meadows was tolerably high and
dry — put on his cloth-hat and light cover-coat,
and set out for the Harlands' house. He
had got a new song and the new Christmas
number of a popular magazine for Kate to
look at ; so off went Barton to the Little
Mills.

The song and the magazine would amuse
her — Kate— said Chance to himself, whilst he
and Harland strolled up to Coverley for a
pipe and a game of billiards at " The Gig."

As Barton Chance passed the lock-keeper's
cottage, he saw a light in a lower window
falling ruddily out on the garden gloom.
The curtain was drawn only partly across
the lattice; the small, lit interior was distinctly
visible.

Old Adam sat by the fire, a large book — it
looked like a Bible — spread upon his knee ;
whilst kneeling there by his side, her hand
upon the open page as if reading aloud, was
the beautiful young governess from Borough
Mills.

Miss Dexter, by Jove!" muttered Barton.

The candlelight flickered upon the old
man's shaggy white hair, and played round
the bent dark head of the kneeling girl.

Barton, astonished, stared for a few

seconds at the picture; then resumed
his leisurely walk across the bridge. Ashe
turned his back on the Lock cottage he
heard Adam's cuckoo-clock strike seven.
Barton quickened his pace.

Queer," he said aloud. '' Almost as
queer as what I saw the other night — if I
did see it' he added, a smile, half thoughtful,
half careless, stealing over his handsome
fair face. He tapped at the dining-room window
of the Harlands' house ; and Roger,
knowing the familiar signal, threw aside his
newspaper and, pipe in mouth, went to let
Barton in.

He sat down by the clean-swept hearth,
and Kate offering him a spill, the young
fellow followed his friend Roger s example
and fell a-puffing at his pipe.

He told them presently, having duly presented
his song and Christmas number, what
he had seen at the Lock cottage, and asked
Roger whether he did not consider the circumstance
a rather singular one.

'' She seems to make a strange fuss with
that old chap*' said Barton. " As Hetty
Prince says, I am half inclined to believe that
there is something ' shady ' about Miss — "

What folly you talk occasionally. Barton,"
Kate interrupted, with some asperity.

Eoger was silent, frowning; and stared
into the fire. He hated the idea of there
being any shred of mystery in connection
with the life of this girl whom he had known
so short a time, concerning whose antecedents,
in fact, he knew absolutely nothing ;
and yet who, notwithstanding, in those few
short weeks, had gone near to robbing him
of his entire peace of mind.

He had got to think of her both by night
and by day ; he could not help himself in
his bondage ; her sweet, proud face, with its
pathetic eyes, haunted him both in his business
and out of it. Somehow he felt angry
with Barton for his outspokenness ; and
Kate, perceiving that Roger was annoyed,
persuaded herself that she was angry with
Barton too.

"Do not you see how ifc is*' continued
she, her slipper tapping her footstool, her
darning-needle glancing fast about the heel
of a coarse gray worsted sock of Roger's.
The Prince people are at dinner ; and
Miss Dexter— "

Not being esteemed, perhaps, worthy to
meet Sir Garth Gilroy," threw in Barton,
nodding — " Yes ? "

Roger growled; and with a rough hand
seized the tobacco-jar at his elbow to refill
his favourite briar.

Yes ; not being, as you put it, Barton,
esteemed worthy to meet Sir Garth — if the
man is there," said Kate, laughing now,
Miss Dexter has charitably, knowing that
at this hour she will be neither missed nor
wanted, gone to old Adam's cottage to read
to him for a little while. What more
natural ? — remembering all that happened
on the night of her arrival here ; recollecting,
too, how interested Miss Dexter has become
in the old man and what a strong fancy he
has taken to her. I see nothing odd in it.
Barton."

She was kneeling by his chair," ruminated
Chance. " That, surely, was an
extraordinary familiarity on her part. Wo ;
they wouldn't believe me if I were to tell
them what I saw — what I am almost positive
that I did see — the other night at Woldney
Moat. So ril keep it to myself — perhaps it
will happen again. 'No; I won't tell them.
Better not." Aloud : '' The old chap
declares — doesn't he ? — that this Miss
Dexter resembles a daughter he lost years
ago ; a daughter who ran away from home
and never came back to him ? Mrs. James
at the Moat once told me something of the
tale — or tried to, and got frightfully mixed —
but I have forgotten her rigmarole. It was

VOL. I. M

a very gin-and-watery one," laughed Barton ;
'* I do remember that."

Ah, yes ; but Adam is not to be trusted.
When mind and memory fail them, old people
sometimes take uncommonly queer notions
into their heads," answered Kate, darning
away industriously.

Miss Dexter, at any rate, doesn't seem to
much mind the old fellow's flights of fancy,"
remarked Barton. " On the contrary, she
appears to take a Christian delight in
humouring them."

I really believe she does," said Kate.
*' She goes away, you know, tomorrow for a
short Christmas holiday ; but will return, so
says Hetty Prince, early in January, so as
to be able to help them in their preparations
for their New Year ball."

You will go as usual, I suppose ? "
inquired Barton, lazily.

'* Oh, I suppose so ! " replied Kate, with a
little impatient sigh.

Presently Chance said —

By-the-bye, what was the name of
Adam's runaway child ? That slipshod old
soul at the Moat did tell me, Kate ; but, as
I say, I have forgotten. Wasn't it something
fantastic — not to say smacking of paganism? "

I don't know about paganism," replied

Kate Harland, slowly. " It certainly was
Dot an ordinary name. But then, you see.
Barton — thereby hangs a tale."

Bump, bump, bump at the dining-room
door ; and enter Naomi.

Mr. Roger, my Dan'l wants a word with
you. It's about that last load of Backhouse
corn that came in this afternoon, he said I
was to tell you."

All right," said Roger, rising and
clapping on his millers cap which, oncoming
into tea, he had tossed on to a
bracket in the alcove by the fireplace ; '' I'll
come out to him."

Exit Naomi by the door at which she had
appeared, and Roger through that smaller
and inner room — his own particular den—
which communicated with the lobby that led
to the kitchen regions.

Was it Minerva — Morgiana — or what ?**
said Barton Chance, helping himself to
Rogers brown jar of " Virginia " and
taking up the conversational thread which
Naomi and her message had momentarily
broken. " It was something outlandish, I
know, Kate."

What ? " said she. " Oh, you mean the
name of Adam Lord's daughter ! Let me
see. I dare say you are aware, are you not ? '*

contained Kate, narratively, " that years ago
the present owner of Woldney Moat — your
precious Sir Garth, Barton — or, perhaps, I
ought to say his branch of the family, no
more dreamed that one of its members would
eventually succeed to the Woldney estate,
than — than — " said she, casting about for
an apropos idea, " than — "

"Than I am dreaming at the present
moment of one day becoming Lord Mayor
of London," supplied the ready Barton.
"Yes; that much I have heard."

'* Ah, thanks," said Kate, looking up at
him with a quick smile — " that will do
exactly."

"But this has nothing to do with old
Adam Ford and his daughter," Barton said.

I'm coming to it. I am a woman, sir,
remember, and you must allow me to tell my
little story in my own way, else I can't tell it
at all."

"So'' said the young man. And he let
his yellow pate sink back upon the cushion
of his arm-chair, and slowly puffed out
gossamer rings from the cherished meerschaum
between his lips. " Kate, I'm all
attention'*

No," she repeated, emphatically ; " the
Garth Gilroy branch — in days gone by — I

have heard my parents say, no more dreamed
that one of them would one day become Sir
Garth Gilroy, of Woldney Moat and Lone-field
Grange, than you, Barton, according to
your own suggestion, are dreaming at this
moment of Mansion House honours and
turtle-soup."

Ah, but the dream may come in time ! "
murmured the young man, partly closing his
eyes. '' Who knows ? "

You will have to rouse yourself somewhat,
Barton, and work a trifle harder than
you are now doing if the dream is to meet
with a substantial ending," observed practical
Kate, drily.

Kate — spare me ! I know I am monstrously
idle. But the truth . is not always
palatable — and — and how about Morgiana ?"

Morgiana ? Nonsense ! If you interrupt
me again, I declare I won't tell you
another word." ,

Barton looked pathetic.

I am dumb," said he.

So Kate, threading her big needle afresh,
continued :

*' Well, you must know, it was in this
wise. Sir Garth's predecessor was Sir Jasper
Gilroy, there being, at one time, between
the former and his chance of succession

as many as three or four vigorous lives ; and
yet within the space of a few years these
same healthy lives, either in one fatal direction
or another, were swept from his path,
so that Garth Gilroy became heir to the Moat
and the Grange. Lonefield Grange, I believe,
is somewhere in Warwickshire.

'' Sir Jasper and his wife were a notoriously
unhappy couple — a childless couple; were
badly matched, I suspect, in every sense of the
term. I am not certain that he actually ill-treated
her ; he simply killed her with unkindness
and neglect. He used to leave her for

months at a stretch — nay, years sometimes
pining in solitude at Woldney Moat, whilst
he would be roaming all over the globe in
search of the excitement and adventure
which were, he said, necessary to his existence.


Rumour whispered that Lady Gilroy was
not a good woman ; if she was not good, I
maintain that the fault was her husband's —
not hers''

Of course," said Barton, meekly.

'' Adam Ford, as a young man," went on
Kate, smiling a little at the interpolation,
filled the post of valet to Sir Jasper Gilroy,
and more than once had accompanied his
master in his wanderings in distant lands.

"It was in the wild territory of the Far
West that master and man quarrelled and
parted company. It came about in this
fashion.

'' Sir Jasper and one or two more like
him — for I never will believe that good men
herd with bad — were bear-shooting in the
neighbourhood of the Rockies. Adam, as Sir
Jasper s servant, was travelling with them.
Lady Gilroy, at home as usual, was shut up
at Woldney Moat.

It happened that, whilst sojourning in
these wild western regions of North America,
the wanderers from Woldney found themselves
' in the land of the Dacotahs, in the
land of handsome women,' as Longfellow has
it in 'Hiawatha.' You remember. Barton;
you are fond of poetry ? "

'' Yes, I remember," said Barton. '' Goon,
Kate ; you don't tell a story badly when
once you have warmed to your work."

'' Thank you. Well, Adam Ford, it would
chance sometimes, had not much to occupy
his time out there ; Sir Jasper and his friends
not infrequently going off into the mountains
or the forests upon their sporting expeditions
and remaining away for a fortnight or more.
Adam, left to himself, and with nothing particular
to do, naturally got into mischief."

GJiercJiez femme ! " laughed Barton.

Exactly," said Kate, nodding sagely.

*' Best V amour ^ V amour ^ V amour qui fait le
monde go round ! "

Do be quiet. So it came to pass that he
Adam — during a longer spell of absence
than usual on the part of Sir Jasper, managed
to get acquainted with a party of English
emigrants who had moved up from Wyoming
to settle in Dakota. Of this party there was
a pretty orphan girl, very young and very
delicate, with whom Adam Ford thought fit
to fall desperately in love. The long and the
short of it was, he persuaded her to marry
him off-hand, then and there — they would
risk the consequences together.

The result of their folly was that Sir
Jasper, coming back to make preparations
for an immediate return to England, learned
what had happened, and dismissed poor Adam
on the spot.

The master accordingly returned to England
; the man remained behind with his wife.

It was the best thing that Adam could do,
the emigrants assured him — to throw in his
lot with theirs, and to take his chance with
them, now that his imprudent marriage had
made him one of themselves.

At the end of a twelvemonth Adam Ford's

little daughter was born, and the child's coming
into the world cost the hapless young wife
her life. Her melancholy story, by some
means or other, reached the ears of a certain
intrepid Englishwoman and celebrated
authoress — I can't at this instant remember
her name ; I dare say both herself and her
books are forgotten by this time — who just
then chanced to be passing through the valley
which the Wyoming emigrants had made their
own. This brave lady came immediately to
the bedside of her countrywoman, but perceived
at once that there was no hope for the
poor young thing. She died at sunset on the
day of her illness, and the infant being extremely
weakly, they baptised it without delay
by the bedside of its dead mother.

' Call it " Minnehaha," said the authoress,
who assumed the office of godmother. ' It's
mother, poor soul, was very sweet and fair, I
can see, and it has come into the world in the
*' land of handsome women." Call it Mines


"So the authoress had her way in the
matter — Adam himself was too dazed and
grief stricken to care or to interfere — her
whim of the hour was gratified, and Adam's
baby, which lived and thrived after all, wa
christened Minnehaha.

The story was afterwards given to the
world in her new book of travels, upon the
compilation of which this female explorer was
then engaged : entitled, On a Mule through
Dakota, Wyoming, and Utah, and the Regions
beyond the Rockies ; and the volumes are to be
found, I believe, with, of course, the writer's
name upon the title-page, in the library at
Woldney Moat."

Kate paused, threw aside her sock, and
folded her hands in her lap. Barton Chance
sat upright in his chair.

There," said she to him, " that is the
tale as I. heard it from my own mother's lips."

"But afterwards," said Barton — '' afterwards
! Surely there's more to come ? I am
impatient for the sequel."

Are you so interested ? Well, there's not
much more to relate. About three years afterwards,
I think it was, broken in health and
spirits, gaunt, travel-stained, and carrying a
little child upon his shoulder and a bundle
upon his arm, Adam Ford one day appeared
at Woldney Moat.

He had had enough of a hard life and
toil in the 'free Far West,' and had come
home, bringing his little daughter with him,
to beg forgiveness and help of the master
who had turned him adrift. Sir Jasper's

anger had had time to cool ; and, as lie could
not very well take both Adam and the child
into the house, for the sake of his servant's
faithful service in the past he managed to
procure for him employment elsewhere. Sir
Jasper Gilroy, you see, if he was a bad
husband, was a not altogether bad master.
The post of Borough Lock-keeper had lately
fallen vacant, and Sir Jasper did the best in
his power to obtain the Lock cottage for Adam
Ford. Having considerable influence with the
Dane Conservancy authorities, Sir Jasper
Gilroy succeeded in his aim. And so at the
Lock cottage Adam, with his little girl, took
up his abode. He loved the child devotedly ;
she was simply all the world to the lonely
man. Nothing, I have heard, was too good,
if he could afford it, for this child of his — his
little Minna.

'' With assistance, I believe, from Sir
Jasper, he placed her at a respectable school
in C overlay ; so that the girl received, in
many ways, a better education than falls to
the lot of most children of her position in
life.

She grew up to be a tall, fine, healthy
young woman — though my father used to
say, when he told the story to anyone, that
she was not so strong as she looked — and

the handsomest, too, many people thought,
to be met with for miles round here.

She used frequently herself to let the
boats through the Lock in the summer-time,
winding back the great gates as easily as her
own father could do, when strangers never
failed to remark upon the beauty of Minna
Ford.

Then, too, she had a skiff of her own in
which, alone, she used to scull herself for
any distance upon the river, either up or
down stream as the fancy seized her. Sometimes
she would be from home the whole day
long. Adam denied her nothing. He was
absolutely wrapped up in Minna. It is difficult
to convey to you, Barton, an idea of how
dearly he loved his girl.

Thus father and daughter together lived
contentedly at the Lock, until — until —
Barton, I do not think I need try your
patience any longer," Kate here quietly broke
off ; " you must know the sequel as well as
L"

Yes," replied he slowly, tapping out his
tobacco-ash, as he spoke, upon the trivet
of the grate — " it is not difficult to guess.
But did old Adam never discover the name
and condition of the man who robbed him of
his daughter and broke his heart ? It is
strange' mused Barton — " very strange."

It is," agreed Kate. " It is both strange
and true that Adam has never discovered the
name of the man. Minna Ford, you see, left
her home in the spring of the year; and
people have always thought — as indeed did
her own father at the date of her disappearance
— that she joined someone, some
stranger, some artist perhaps, whom she had
met about the river during the previous
summer. Coverley had been very full of
visitors in that past season — unusually so;
the Eaces, as you know. Barton, bring crowds
to the place from all parts, and of all sorts
and conditions as well; and Minna Ford's
good looks, her curious name, and, above all,
her romantic history, had made her quite a
local celebrity.

After her flight, her father recollected
that for some months past she had been in
the habit of receiving letters addressed to herat
the Lock in a handwriting wholly unknown
to him. But I suppose he loved her too
well either to doubt her or to interfere with
her whims in any way, as a wise mother —
had she been blest with one — would in all
probability have sometimes done.

Adam Ford, you know. Barton," concluded
Kate Harland, not without a shudder,
"has always sworn — then, when the blow
fell upon him, as indeed ever since that day

that, if ever in this world he should find
the man who wronged him, he would kill him
as he would kill a dog that had bitten him."

Quite right ! " said Barton, lightly.
'^ Bravo, Adam ! "

'' No, no, no ! " answered Kate, emphatically.
"You are wrong, Barton. Vengeance
is not for man. Rest assured that
the — that the person, whoever he was, that
wrought such misery upon that happy. little
home across the water yonder, will — if, that
is, he has not already met with it — some day
meet with his just reward. Still, Minna Ford
is dead, and perhaps he is too."

And what did Sir Jasper and Lady
Gilroy say to it all?" Barton inquired.

You forget. Sir Garth in those days was
in possession of the Woldney property. Sir
Jasper and his unhappy wife had died some
years before."

Ah, so ! " said Chance — *' I see. And
Sir Garth— "

Oh, Sir Garth, for a wonder," replied
Kate, as she rose and got from the sideboard
a stone bottle of water and a decanter of
whiskey of the kind with which, when they
were together, her brother and Barton
Chance were accustomed to mingle their
evening tobacco — "Sir Garth, I say, was

remarkably kind. He actually wrote to
Adam Ford, from his other place in Warwickshire
— Lonefield Grange — where, it appeared,
he was passing that summer, and
expressed his sympathy with his family's old
servant in the sad domestic trouble which
had befallen him ; the affair having come to
his knowledge quite by accident, added Sir
Garth in a postscript. My father used
grimly to say that it was about the only
kind action Sir Garth Gilroy ever performed
in his life."

Don't doubt it," was Barton's airy comment,
as he leisurely mixed his cold grog and
again refilled that everlasting meerschaum
of his. *' Lonefield Grange doesn't see much
of him now-a-days, does it ?"

One never hears that it does," said Kate.
The place, I've been told, is a dreadful old
barrack, given up pretty much to the bats
and the owls — and ghosts perhaps — and is
looked after by some purblind old creature
who was its housekeeper in happier times.
I daresay the house is something like the
Moaned Grange,' with ' blackest moss '
thickly crusting the roof and walls, and with
strange, uncanny noises at midnight sounding
through the empty rooms."

*' It can't very well be worse than Woldney

Moat," observed Chance, in a lugubrious
tone. " Why, the other night, Kate, I woke
up to hear the wind crying and moaning
round and rattling my windows, and to find
the rain splashing down in great drops upon
my face from an inch-wide crack in the ceiling ;
and old Mrs. James, when she's half-seas

over, says Hullo, Roger ! " cried Barton,

as Harland entered through the inner room
from his confabulation with Dan'l Drake
touching the last load of the Packhouse corn
** done for to-night ? If so," springing up
from his seat, "we'll stroll Coverley-ward,
old fellow, and see how the world wags
there."

'' I've no objection," said Roger, who
enjoyed a walk and a chat with his friend
when the work of the day was over. Besides,
when that friend went o' nights to
Coverley, alone, he invariably got into
trouble — " I've no objection if Kate doesn't
mind."

The colour had deepened in Kate Harland's
face ; then, fading out, had left her rather
pale.

Is it not too late to go ? " said she,
quietly, perhaps a little wistfully. " Let us
light the candles in the drawing-room,
Barton, and try over the song you brought

this evening. I don't think we shall find the
room too chilly ? "

Oh, the song can wait, like the girl in the
song, don't you know ! " cried Chance, in
his gay, light-hearted fashion, pulling out his
watch. " It is only just upon the stroke of
eight. We shall be back by ten o'clock, and
can try over the song then, Kate. Sir
Garth, you may be sure, won't be at "Woldney
this side of midnight ; old Pringie will take
good care of that."

Hang old Pringie and the whole brood !"
muttered Roger from the interior of his own
domain, whither he had withdrawn to put on
his hat and coat and to brush the flour
from his trousers.

Roger," called out Chance, " Kate has
been telling me the story of Minnehaha, the
lock-keeper's daughter — never rightly heard
it before — and somehow it recalls, not altogether
agreeably perhaps, the memory of
my earliest school-days, when a certain
good old dame, with blear eyes and
spectacles on nose, used to hear me recite,,
on every Saturday morning, a page of
Hiawatha, ' Should you ask me, whence
these stories ? Whence these legends and
traditions,' etcsetera, etcsetera, don't you
know ? The only lines that I can distinctly

VOL. I. N

remember now, after the lapse of many years
ah, me ! Kate, it seems, on looking back
from to-day, centuries instead of years —
are :

Once a warrior, very angry
Seized his grandmother, and threw her
Up into the sky at midnight ;
Eight against the moon he threw her ;
'Tis her body that you see there.'

I never forgot those lines; chiefly, I suspect,
on account of that good old woman being a
trifle too free with an ebony ruler which, if
occasion warranted it, she kept up her
sleeve. In impotent fits of childish rage, I
simply panted sometimes to serve her as the
Indian warrior served his grandmother."

So chatting on, and laughing as he talked,
Barton tossed off the grog that remained in
his glass ; and Roger, reappearing at that
moment, brewed, in response to a smile half
pleading, half comically-inquiring from the
younger man, a fresh supply of the good
liquor he perchance loved too well.

A strange gravity had settled upon the
features of Kate Harland ; though, in spite
of herself, she had laughed with Barton
himself at the ridiculous picture he had
called up of his early and 'petticoat days."

Come — come, old chap, aren't you
ready ? " presently exclaimed Roger — " that
is, if you mean coming at all ! "

So the two young men bade " good-night "
to Kate "for the present," as they told her
Chance, his beautiful dark-blue eyes full
of gaiety and tenderness, as he looked into
her own and folded his two hands caressingly
over the one she gave him when he said au
revoir — and left her to spend her evening
alone. Well, she was not altogether unaccustomed
to the situation, and she was
not the kind of girl to feel dull when cast
upon her own resources. Perhaps she was
thinking insensibly that all men were alike
^ — masterful and selfish in their lives and
pleasures.

A sigh escaped her.

She stirred up the fire; then put back
whence she had taken them the spirit-decanter
and the homely old earthenware
pitcher of water. Then coming back to the
fireside, she took up from the table the new
song which Barton that evening had brought
over from the Moat. For the first time she
saw that it was called " Love and Life."
Opening it, she read —

Though T may breathe no word, dear love,
Yet do I love thee more dearly than life ;
Through storm and calm, through shower and shine,
Through life's unrest and through life's long strife,
I am thine, dear love, I am thine !
Trust me, dear one, in Love,
Trust me, dear heart, in Life ! "

The song slipped from her lap to the

hearth-rug, and Kate's head drooped until it
rested upon her clasped hands.

Barton — dear love — Barton," she murmured,
" if you only knew ! If you only really
cared for me ! But you cannot, you do not
or you would be more willing to — ah, kind
Heaven!" she broke off reverently, ''be
merciful. Deliver him from the curse of — '*

Hark ! Was that the click of the garden-gate
? Unmistakably. Then a swift light
footstep sounded upon the gravel path,
followed, as the footsteps halted, by a gentle
knock at the front door.

Kate Harland flung off in an instant, as it
were, the sentimental mood to which she had
been more than half inclined to give free indulgence
in her solitude, and, divining who
her late visitor was, went directly to the hall
door.

You needn't trouble," she said to the
girl Hannah, whom she met coming from the
kitchen — " I will go.

jj

On the doorstep stood Miss Dexter,
wrapped in her long fur cloak, the silken
hood of which was drawn close over her hair.
Her face, in its dark setting, looked white,
proud, lovely as ever. Her manner was
almost nervous, agitated,

"I cannot indeed come in," she said.

hastily, in response to Kate's pressing request
that she should do so. ''I merely
came to say good-bye ; I guessed that I
should find you alone. You know I am
going home tomorrow for a few days, and-^
and I have been to see and to say good-bye
to my — my old friend at the Lock." Kate
did not remark that she already knew this.
And I thought," said Miss Dexter, " that
it would not take a moment to run across
the bridge and speak to you. You have been
so very kind to me during my short stay here."

I do not understand you, and I do not
mean to try," answered Kate, lightly.
*' Come in — do come in. I have told you
that I am all alone. My brother and his
friend Mr. Chance are gone to Coverley."

I cannot — believe me," the other returned,
speaking as if with difficulty. " I
have promised to — to be in the drawing-room
at the Mills to-night by nine o'clock.
Sir Garth Gilroy— "

Miss Dexter stopped. She leant as if
weary against a pillar of the door ; and her
hands beneath her cloak, could Kate have
seen, were locked convulsively together.

You have hurried too much, walked too
fast," cried Kate, all sympathy and solicitude.
*' Let me get you — ''

*' No, no," interrupted the governess, with
a forced, faint smile. " I assure you I am
quite well. I was about to explain to you'*
she continued, the words coming rapidly
enough now, " that I have told the Pringles
I will present myself without fail in the
drawing-room at nine o'clock this evening,
because — because Mrs. Prince has promised
to introduce me to Sir Garth Gilroy, who is
dining there to-night. It is an honour, they
give me to understand," cried the governess,
with a sudden scornful light in her soft, proud
eyes, " that one should not lose, Miss Har-land,
for the world ! I don't suppose that
you or anybody in my place would be insensible
to so magnificent a favour. You perceive
why I must hasten back''

"I never have in my life exchanged a word
with Sir Grarth, and I do not know, I am not
at all sure, that I should care to either," replied
Kate Harland, simply ; vaguely bewildered
perhaps at the disdain perceptible in
Miss Dexter' s mode of speech over so trivial
a matter as an impending introduction to
Sir Garth Gilroy.

Good-night — good-bye! " said the governess,
abruptly, gathering the folds of her
cloak more closely around her. " Please
please remember me to Mr. Harland ;

though I hope to meet you again very
shortly. I imagine that both you and he
will be present at the Pringles' ball?"

Yes ; if nothing prevents us. We
generally go; though I do not think that
we either of us particularly care about the
affair. Roger, however, says it is neighbourly
to go, and consequently, as a rule,
we accept the invitation."

It is then, I suppose, an annual event ? "

Oh, yes ! — at least of recent years it has
been so ; ever since the girls left school, you
know."

They are rejoicing," said Miss Dexter,
her hand upon the garden-gate, " because
this year Sir Garth Gilroy has consented to
grace the festival. What trifling ambitions
will satisfy some people in this queer old
world of ours. Miss Harland ! ''

"I am inclined to think that you are right,"
replied Kate, with a short laugh. Then with.
a few quick steps she quitted the lamp-lit
doorway and joined the governess at the
garden-gate.

The night was still mild and fretful-looking
; the sick moon still lay on her back in
the fleecy gray of the sky. The river, broad
and flood-swollen, its cold black bosom catching
now and then the quivering white beams

from heaven's wan lantern overhead, rolled
heavily, moaning onward ; suggestive of
horrible depths, weedy and unfathomable,
beneath the darkling ripples of its shimmering
tide. The cool splash of the mill-tail
outside, the dulled throb and jar of the
grinding within the mill, smote refreshingly
upon the silence of the warm gray night.
Kate laid her hand upon the governess's

arm.

'ram I always to be ' Miss Harland ' r "
she gently said. " Will you not try to call
me 'Kate?"

Miss Dexter clasped the hand which lay
upon her arm, and, carrying it impetuously
to her lips, kissed it.

If I may I will call you Kate," she
murmured ; " I believe I have often longed
to call you Kate. You are so sweet and
kind."

Please, do then," replied Kate, heartily.
And she kissed Miss Dexter's forehead ; feeling
somehow, on the strength of her few
years' seniority, altogether a great deal older
and wiser than the young girl before her.
And you," she added, playfully — " may I
call you — ah, what ? "

But the governess was gone; her slender
shape in its long dark cloak and hood was

dimly visible as she hastened across the
bridge ; the wan white moonlight touching
her fitfully as she went.

Kate Harland, standing thoughtfully alone
there at the gate, strained her eyes in following
that swift flitting form, until thick
shadows from the Lock cottage and garden
closed round it and it disappeared.

Here, Barton, take my arm — look out, old
man ! " said Roger Harland, grimly. " If I
had guessed how the case was going with
you, my friend, you should have come out of
this an hour ago. I had not the ghost of a
notion it was half as late as it is."

The truth of the matter being that Roger,
discussing certain business affairs with young
Penfold of Packhouse, whom they had found
in the smoking-room at '' The Grig," had
forgotten Barton and the flight of time.
And Chance, left to his own devices — Har-land'
s back being turned — and meeting in
the place with more than one kindred spirit
with whom he acknowledged a chatting acquaintance,
had amused himself after his own
humour, which had certainly not been in the
wisest direction, as Roger, when he joined
him, in a moment perceived.

"I'm all right, Roger, 'pon my soul I am
don't jaw, there's a good fellow ! " said

Barton, bearing rather heavily, notwithstanding,
upon Har land's proffered arm. '' I say,
though, aren't we a bit late ? There's that
song you know, to try over to-night, and —
and — and Kate, you know — you know, will
be waiting, won't she ? Awfully pretty
song ' Love and Life ' — has a haunting kind
of refrain that you can't forget, you know — •
awfully pretty. Have you heard it, Roger ? "
''No, and don't mean to to-night," answered
Roger, brusquely. " There goes
eleven. Kate '11 be gone to bed, bless
you I

Oh, hang it all ! — it must be ten, riX)t
eleven. What' 11 she think of us ? We promised,
don't you know — "

I don't know about myself, old man.
You did, I fancy."

Did I ? I say, Roger, it must be ten.
Listen ! "

The chimes from the clock in the fine old
gray tower of the parish church of St. Eve's,
with the moonlight peeping through the
belfry bars and just touching the pictured
windows in the hoary southern walls of the
building, had ceased ; then eleven slow and
solemn strokes smote the tranquil atmosphere
which brooded over the town. The
town-hall and corn-exchange in the marketplace

stood white, square, and still ; lights in
the upper windows of the surrounding houses,
where dwelt the chief shopkeepers in ,
proclaimed that their occupants
were retiring for the night.

The doors and gates of '' The Gig " were
being banged and bolted; the gas, both in
bar and parlour, was being turned out.
Taverns of less repute, amongst which might
be ranked " The Wild Horse " and its opposite
rival " The Red-hot Poker," were likewise
shutting up for the night, and ejecting
such lingering customers as were disposed to
ignore the legitimate closing-hour.

Good - night — good - night ! " shouted
several friendly voices as Harland and Barton
Chance turned their backs upon St. Eve's
and the High Street and took a short cut
through an unsavoury locality known in
Coverley as Trinder's Yard, in order to get
to the Redtown road.

Although the Woldney meadows were
fairly high and dry, portions of those of
Borough yet remained under water ; so that
the two young men, for the greater part of
their homeward way, must tramp the Red-town
road.

Good-night ! " cheerily sang out Chance,
looking backward ; and, taking his pipe from

his mouth, lie waved an adieu with it in the
moonlight — " good-night ; and I say, sou
fellows, if you — "

Come along," interrupted Roger, gruffly,
dragging at Barton's arm.

Harland himself had neither turned his
head nor responded in any fashion to their
evening-companions' farewell. For one thing,
he was feeling vexed with Barton for his lack
of self-government, his deplorable weakness
of will ; for another, he was annoyed with
himself and his own carelessness in manaofino:
SO ill in his looking after Chance.

Roger knew well enough that Barton would
drink with any man that asked him ; and inconsequence
of this foible of his, was apt
overnight to get himself into all kinds of
scrapes, for which, when morning came,
nobody indeed could be sorrier than Barton.

Roger knew this ; and yet, after entering
'' The Gig " and meeting with young Penfold
from Packhouse, he had suffered himself to
lose sight of Chance — who, in fact, had gone
straightway to the billiard-room — until within
five minutes or so of their quitting the hotel.
Then it was too late. Roger saw at a glance
that the mischief was done.

Harland himself was by nature no tavern-haunted.
When he did spend an evening at

*' The Gig " or elsewhere, it was generally
some business object with a neighbouring
farmer like young Penfold which had led to
his being present at places of the kind. If
business had nothing to do with his going, he
went solely on account of, and to please.
Barton Chance.

He loved the man, and would save him if
he could. And Roger strongly suspected
that there was someone else to whom Barton
Chance was very dear.

*' Roger — where the deuce — I say, old chap,
where are you taking a fellow ? " Barton
suddenly cried, stumbling over a broken
curb-stone and well-nigh staggering into
the evil-smelling gutter.

'' Trinder's Yard — near cut, don't you
see," replied Roger, laconically. And so
saying, he halted and lit a fresh pipe, and
drew at it vigorously in the polluted air.

The foul darkness of the alley was all
around them now. A patch of dim light at
the farther end of it told where the alley
ended.

In the fairest and most innocent-looking
of country towns there are usually to be
found, in one part or another of them,
certain plague-spots like Trinder's Yard;
narrow nooks of crime, misery, and immorality,

of the existence of which respectable
inhabitants are perhaps really unaware,
or else deem it easiest to ignore the fact
entirely.

What can they do, reputable folk like
themselves, with such horrible places ? they
perchance ask themselves feebly. They
would do something if they could, but — well
they don't.

Nobody appears to know who is the landlord
of the wretched tenements, in which
ghoulish poverty and fearful language are
rampant from the end of one year to that of
another ; and it is not unlikely that nobody
cares either.

The school-board man, in these sad crannies
of the world, is hooted and defied ; a
solitary policeman knows better than to show
himself. Pious district visitors, passing by,
turn their faces in another direction ; and
the Rector of the parish and his smug
satellites are alike deaf and blind to the
hideous sin which is born and lives and
thrives there.

Anyway, the Eeverend Septimus Haze
and the omnipotent dame who governed him
had never been known within the memory of
anybody to put their noses an inch down the
entrance of the den called Trinder's Yard.

After all, the Yard, it may be, was not
nearly of such ill-repute as many a spot of a
similar character ; yet, taken altogether, it
was a very bad corner of the earth indeed,
because within very narrow limits there was
packed enough of wickedness to have stamped
as infamous an alley four times its size.

A stranger to Coverley-on-Dane would
scarcely have believed that, in the heart of
the pretty old town, there should be hidden
away so foul and unlovely a nook as Trinder's
Yard.

"Murder! Help — Murder!"

Blood-chilling shrieks, blows, curses, followed.
The two young men stopped short ;
and Barton's bright colour faded. The dull
sound of the blows turned him sick.

Roger, what is it ? " he whispered.

There were no lamps in the alley. Here
and there the light of a tallow dip shone
palely out from a broken casement ; here
and there upon a blind or curtain the lean
shadow of some starved window-plant was
dimly figured. Farther down the Yard,
where the unwholesome gloom was thickest,
an assemblage of cats were celebrating their
orgies ; and uncared — doubtless being accustomed
to them — by the ghastly shrieks of
murder and for deliverance, were wailing

in dismal chorus as only cats can wail when
daylight has fled and darkness fallen.

Hark ! " said Roger ; " there it is again.
Which, 1 wonder, is the house — where does
it come from ? Great Heaven ! I can't stand
this. We must do something."

'' It's horrible ! "

The words dropped from Barton. Clinging
to Roger's stout arm, he looked helplessly
around him ; then, shivering, drew his hand
across his eyes.

The alcoholic fumes were passing from his
brain ; the shock wrought upon his nerves
by those despairing screams from a woman's
lips had doue something, nay much, towards
sobering the young man.

His temperament was of an affectionate
and excitable order — an impulsive nature
which hurled him into follies; his fibres
were highly strung ; and, as is frequently
the case with an organization like Barton's
he was easily vanquished by strong liquors
and as easily brought to himself again.

Murder ! Murder ! "

Once more the voice, in accents of terror
and appeal, rang out upon the gloomy silence
which reigned in Trinder's Yard.

A door not far from Roger and Barton
opened cautiously just then; and two girls

VOL. I.

wLo were known in the Yard as Packet
Nell and Surly Sal — dressed alike in black
and red plaid shawls of an enormous pattern,
large white aprons, and battered hats laden
with dirty artificial wreaths — looked out together
and laughed.

The squalid interior behind them was lit
up with fire and candle; a heavy shutter
haying darkened the lattice from curious
and prying eyes.

Sound a common deal table in the centre
of the room were grouped some three or
four stalwart youths of the navvy or barges
type; thick of throat, bloated of feature,
foul and blasphemous in their every other
word.

Before them lay scattered the greasy cards
they were playing with ; whilst within convenient
reach stood black bottles and stone
jars and divers mugs and glasses from the
rickety dresser-shelves.

One of the girls was obviously tipsy. It
was Eackety Nell.

That's our dear Bocky, I'll bet three
pen'o'th," said she, in a thick sing-song
voice, steadying herself as she spoke by the
aid of the door-post, " a-punishin' o' that
old Granny o' his 'n. The old gal's squeaking
louder than common to-night. Why can't

she take it quietly — dam her ! — and hold
her row ; we has to ; she'll bring the bobbies
round directly, and then — "

Eoger Harland strode up to the two girls.

Which house is it ? " he demanded. " I
know Bocky Oakum lives somewhere in this
court, bub I have forgotten where it is."

Eackety Nell and Surly Sal started at
sight of him; and the latter — the less intoxicated
of the two — clutching the gathers
of her companion's gown, tugged her violently
backward into the room, slamming
the door almost on Roger's nose and drawing
the bolts which secured the door within.

Ah, we knows ye ! " yelled the girl called
Nell through the keyhole. " You're peelers
in plain clothes ! We ain't done nothing —
we ain't. Go on with ye. What do you
want — "

Which is the house where that woman's
screaming ? " shouted back Harland.

It's only Granny Oakum," laughed out
the girl, hoarsely ; " three numbers further
down t'other side. She won't hurt, old
Granny won't. She's used to — "

In another minute Eoger was at Granny
Oakum's dwelling ; had with all his force
flung his body against the door of it. It,
yielding to his strength, flew clattering back

upon the inner wall ; and Eoger then entered,
followed by Barton Chance.

The sole illumination in that ghastly and
filthy hovel was that which came weirdly
from a lean rush light stuck slantwise in a
bottle upon the mantelshelf. No fire burned
upon the cold brick hearth; no strip of
carpet, matting, or sack even, hid the grim
ruggedness of the cold brick floor. A
damaged rocking-chair, a three-legged stool,
a bench under the window which served
as table — these things were all the furniture
the miserable place contained.

Before the black hearth a fagot was cast
down ; a fagot which with much labour
had been gleaned that day from the lone,
damp woods, and with much labour borne
homeward through the wintry twilight over
the dim fields.

Lying huddled there across the loose
bundle of wood was the form of an aged
woman. Her cap was off ; her thin gray
hair dishevelled and wet with blood ; there
were splashes of blood still wet upon the
walls.

Over her stood a devil in human shape,
now brutally — having felled her with blows
kicking her helpless body. But she was
past crying " Murder ! " now; consciousness

was almost gone ; ber tears were well-nigh
spent. With every kick she moaned piteously
that was all ; she had no strength for
more.

Koger rushed upon the drunken Bocky;
gripped him by the collar; and flung him
headlong over the three-legged stool. Where
the brute fell, there like a log he lay, cursing
and swearing hideously at the treatment and
interference he dared not resent.

Then Roger, as gently as he could, raised
the woman against his knee ; whilst Chance
quite sobered now — fetched water from a
pump to wash the red smears from the
unhappy old creature's face.

She opened her eyes and recognised the
young miller; her "old man" — long since
dead and gone — having once worked for the
Harland family at the Little Mills.

"Ah, sir, is it you ?" said she, the tears
flowing again. " If you hadn't ha' come
along, he'd about done for me to-night,
Bocky would ; he's safe to do for me some
day, as it is."

She put her skinny old hand, so knotted
and thickly veined, to her forehead, and
presently tried to lift herself from the bundle
of wood. But she groaned with pain, and
could not stand yet ; so Eoger and Barton

between them assisted her to her feet, and
gradually placed the old woman in the
rocking-chair by the hearth ; upon the ashes
of which Barton then began — with a serious
look in his dark blue eyes — to kindle,
awkwardly enough, a little fire.

'' We'll make the kettle boil before we
go," observed the young fellow, kindly, " so
that you may have a cup of tea, you know,
Granny, before you go to bed. I'm afraid
it's too late to-night to get you anything
else."

Granny dried her tears in her red-stained
apron, and tremblingly glanced round at the
shadowy corner where her grandson still lay
as he had fallen from Roger's grasp. A
deep snore, however, with other guttural
sounds, revealed that he was locked in a
drunken sleep.

He's safe there until tomorrow," said
Eoger, looking darkly at the unconscious
Bocky: " If you take my advice. Granny,
you'll leave him for the future to his fate,
and pitch your tent somewhere or other
beyond Trinder's Yard''

'' Ah, sir, it's easy to talk o' leaving
Bocky, but where's a poor wider womanlike
me to go that has only her three-and-sixpence
a-week from the parish, and a

gallon o' bread on every Zaddurdaj," said
Granny Oakum — *' unless it's the 'Ouse.
True, sir, there's the 'Ouse for poor folk
like me ; but I'd rather be beat and bam-mocked
to death in the Yard than have to go
and die in the 'Ouse — I would, sir. Bocky
don't alius beat me — only when he's in
liquor and been spending his money at ' The
Poker.' Heave been on the drink, sir,"
rambled on the poor old soul, forlornly,
all this blessed week ; and only t'other day
at ' The Gig ' they threatened to give him
the sack if he didn't mend, and afore long I
expect they'll do it too, and then — and then,
sir, there'll be no help for 't, and into the
'Ouse both on us'll go together."

*why did he ill-treat you to-night'*
Barton inquired compassionately, wondering,
as he surreptitiously explored his
pockets, whether he had any loose silver
left about him. " What was the row, then.
Granny ? ' '

Well, perhaps after all it was my fault,
whimpered the old woman. " I'd been out
in the 'gods — 'coming, and got home dead
tired; had been out, gentlemen, nearly all
day long, and I am seventy-eight years o*
age come next Michaelmas, seventy-eight
years o' age. When I got back I fell

jj

asleep in this 'ere chair ; the fire went out ;
and Bocky he come in and wanted his
supper. He'd been a-drinking at ' The
Poker ' all the evening, and began knocking
me about as soon as ever he come indoors
— because there was nothing ready.
If you, sir," looking at Roger, "and this
other kind gentleman here, hadn't ha' been
passing through the Yard, I believe he'd
ha' done for me to-night. Heave threatened
to do it often and often, and do it he' nil
afore heave done."

The tea by this time was made and
waiting in a small brown crockery pot with
a broken spout ; and the two young men
prepared to depart. Before turning their
backs, however, upon Granny Oakum and
the slumbering sot in the corner, they
squeezed a few shillings into her poor
horny old hand in token of their joint
sympathy ; Barton, with a smile, significantly
advising the old woman to look
well after her treasure, and Granny calling
down many a tearful benediction upon
the heads of her generous preservers. At
the beginning of the Redtown road they
met a Coverley policeman. Roger knew the
man, and briefly related to him what had
occurred in Trinder's Yard.

*' You had better keep an eye on the
place," said he, " if any of you happen to
be in that neighbourhood between now and
morning. It is not at all unlikely, I should
say, that there may be another row on down
there before long."

Drat 'em ! There's always a row on
down there'' grumbled the burly custodian
of the peace. '' I can't help it ; I'm off duty
in a few minutes."

And the man continued his solitary tramp,
to end his beat at the granite obelisk in the
market-place of Coverley-on-Dane.

Barton Chance was strangely quiet during
that homeward walk with his friend Roger
Harland.

As a rule, Barton's tongue was seldom
idle ; his careless laugh was frequent and
pleasant to hear.

Once he had said —

'' By-the-bye, isn't that Bocky Oakum the
rascal that brought Miss Dexter by mistake
down to the Little Mills on the night she
should have arrived at the Pringles' ? "

The same," was Harland's short reply.
"He'll end on the gallows some day."

"A very respectable place for such a
gentleman to end upon," replied Barton.

And silence again fell between them until,
quitting the Redtown road, they turned into
the mill lane.

Here trees were scarce and hedges low.
The fleecy, fretful-looking clouds were gone;
the white moon in a star sprinkled sky now

rode high on her course. A cold breeze,
with a breath of frost in it, blew up from the
riverside ; the roar of the mills, which were
working all night, was borne distinctly
across the sleeping land.

In the lane it was nearly as light as day.

An exclamation of horror broke all at once
from the lips of Barton Chance.

Quickly withdrawing his arm from Roger's,
he held it out in the moonlight.

Dark red stains — crimson marks that were
barely dry — were visible upon his wristbands
and upon the sleeve of the light cover-coat he
wore.

Blood ! " he gasped. " It's bloody
Roger ! That old hag's blood upon my
clothes ! "

He staggered to a gate on the side of the
lane — a gate which led into one of the Woldney
clover-fields — and, flinging out his arms
upon the top bar of it, dropped his head
upon them and so hid his face. In an
instant Roger's hand rested on Barton's
shoulder.

Barton, old chap, don't be a fool ! " said
he,, with rough kindness. " What if it is
blood ? It'll wash out fast enough. Come,
come, Barton, be a man ; don't let a trifle
like a spot of blood upset you ! I say, there

goes twelve o'clock; and I want to have a
look round the mill before I turn in."

As Eoger spoke, midnight was tolled out
upon the still air ; from a cranky old stable-clock
at Woldney Moat, and from the brand-new
stable-yard at Borough Mills proper.
Then in the distance St. Eve's melancholy
chimes were faintly heard, beginning to ring
out as the others finished.

Barton, checking something like a sob,
lifted his fair head from the gate. He was
very pale. Those beautiful eyes of his were
troubled, piteous, almost wild.

What a horrible thing this drink is ! " he
said, huskily, as if pondering the truism
aloud. " What a horrible, what an accursed
thing — "

Has the fact come home to you only just
now ? " threw in Harland, drily.

'' I never until to-night felt so keenly the
horror of its complete dominion over a man,"
said Barton — " never before realized the extent
of its devilish power; never, on my
honour, Roger ! I don't know why it is — I
suppose it is this'' He glanced again at his
blood-stained cuff, and shuddered. " The
recollection of — of what we saw a little
while ago in that foul alley at Coverley
makes me sick even now. Ah ! " cried the

young fellow, passionately, " Cassino was
right, Roger. Why should men ' put an
enemy in their mouths to steal away their
brains ? ' Roger, I swear that I will nevermore
— never after this night — touch another
drop of strong liquor. Heaven help me, I
won't ! "

Harland answered quietly again :

Barton, don't be a fool, I say. You
know perfectly well that your present mood
and brave intentions will have undergone a
remarkable change before daybreak. Do try
to bear in mind, old man, that it is excess,
not moderation, which does the mischief-If
you would but endeavour to keep that impulsive
and excitable nature of yours a bit in
check, you wouldn't come to grief half as
often as you do. I never knew such a fellow.
Try to have a will of your own, man ; try to
have a will of your own ! ''

Barton sighed.

I wish I were more like you, Roger,
he said, with an all too-transient humility.
*' I'd give much to be a steady, plodding,
business-fellow like you — 'pon my word, I
really would. As it is, I don't fancy that I
shall ever cut much of a figure in the worlds
unless — "

Pooh ! " was Roger's interruption. "A

iy

man is either That lie makes himself or what
he allows his friends — his enemies perhaps —
to make him. Come, Barton ! Unless you
mean to pass the night leaning dejectedly
upon that old gate, I think we'll be moving
on.

When they reached the Little Mills the
Harlands' house was as quiet as a church.
There was a light in the narrow window of
Eoger's sanctum — that was all.

Kate, you see, is gone to bed," observed
Harland, glancing upward. " However, I
have my key, so will come with you as far as
the Moat garden.

?»

Chance made no comment on the first part
of his friend's observation, though he thought
penitently enough of his broken promise and
the new song ; but to the latter he answered
—

Don't trouble, dear old fellow, I shan't
be five minutes getting there."

I tell you I am going into the mill for
an hour or so before turning in. I am in no
hurry for bed — five hours at most are always
ample for me ; and I am coming with you as
far as the Moat grounds," replied Koger, in
that quiet, determined way of his own.

The broad dark stream gleamed and
heaved beneath the quivering planks of the

straggling old bridge; the Woldnej meadows,
mists and lonely in the frowning shadow of
the opposite woods, lay bathed in white
moonlight and silver-gray dew.

A wicket in a thick plantation which
bordered the wilderness of pleasure-grounds
at the Moat, opened on a secluded part of
the Woldney meadows — a narrow walk
winding from this gate in the copse to the
sloping southern garden of the great dreary
house.

Before this wicket, which at night was lost
in densest shadow, the two young men stood
still together.

*' Then you'll eat your Christmas dinner
with us. Barton — it's understood ? " Har-land
was saying, apropos of a subject that
Roger had started during their few minutes'
walk along the meadows. " I may tell Kate
so?"

Thanks, do. As I said, I shall be only
too happy," replied Chance, gratefully. " My
guardian ' being in Paris — I heard from him
yesterday — if you won't have me at the
Little Mills, you see, I must perforce remain
shut up in this lonely old barn with Sir
Garth for sole company; which will be an
exceedingly lively festival for both of us. I
can't very well go up to town, now that —

Hark ! " whispered Barton, suddenly. *' Qui
Vive I

The figure of a man, not tall, and slight
in build, with a light coat covering his evening
of clothes and a cigarette between the wax-white
fingers of his jewelled left hand, was,
with slow steps, approaching the little wicket.
Wax-white, too, looked his features in the
moonlight. He walked almost like a man ina
dream — or like a man with senses sleep-bound.


"It's Sir Garth himself, by Jove!"
breathed Barton. " I'm in for it — there'll
be a row, as sure as fate, if he catches me
out here at this hour. He drove to the
Pringles' in the brougham, I know, but I
suppose a fine night has tempted him to
stroll home. Look sharp — so ! "

Quick as thought Chance dragged Roger
Harland into the long wet grass which
fringed the copse on the field side, and
interposed between themselves and the
approaching figure a sheltering screen of bare
hazel boughs. Blackest shadows enveloped
them as they stood there ; no soul now could
discover them in that impenetrable gloom.
Sir Garth, on the contrary, was as yet in
the full light of the moon. They could distinguish
plainly his neatly-trimmed short

beard and moustache, which, together with
his eyebrows, had retained their dusky hue
of twenty years or more before ; whilst his
close-cropped hair, cropped in London style,
was in these days as gray-white as a patriarch's.
The contrast in hair and beard was
not altogether, perhaps, a pleasing one; anymore
than was the expression which just
now shone in his haggard eyes — eyes fixed as
are eyes in a waxen figure. An extreme
pallor, at this period of his life, marked the
features of Sir Garth Milroy.

He opened the wicket and passed through
it, muttering audibly to himself as his while
hand rested on the latch. The diamond he
wore flashed and caught the moonbeams ;
the exquisite fragrance of his Egyptian
cigarette was wafted to Barton and Roger
through the network of hazel-boughs.

Barton, as the master of the Moat closed
the little gate, could have tapped Sir Garth's
shoulder with his walking-stick.

So like ! " he said aloud. " So like—
and yet so unlike. Good God ! if there
are ghosts, or their messengers who look
like them perhaps, from another world —
Faugh ! A stranger — it's impossible ! What
am 1 dreaming of? And yet how oddly tha
girl looked at me; I can't forget her — "

VOL. I. p

He was gone ; his footsteps died slowly
into silence along the plantation path.
Eoger and Barton, stepping out from the
wet grass, in muteness stared at each other.

Barton spoke first; and laughed.

What or whom the deuce was he talking
about ? " said he. " Any idea, E-oger ? "

No more than the dead," replied Har-land,
carelessly. " Have you ? "

Not I. I believe the man s mad — stark,
staring mad," said Chance. " In fact, I've
caught myself fancying so more than once
lately ; and to-night he looked like it, didn't
he?"

He certainly looked queerish," admitted
Eoger. "But, there, it is no business of
ours, Bart. Perhaps he really had met a
ghost," added he, with a grim smile —
shouldn't wonder."

"He seemed to fancy that he had seen
something unpleasant," laughed Barton.
I have no doubt that he has more than
one skeleton locked away in the family-cupboard
— he is just the man to have half-a-dozen.
Perhaps they trot out sometimes,
one after another, and he ran against one of
'em just now."

Barton's spirits had risen in the momentary
excitement of the incident, small though

it was. His dejection, that sense of sorrow
and humiliation for follies committed and
past undoing, had quitted him, passed off — •
evaporated as it were with the fever and
confusion from his brain. He was once
more himself, his thoughtless, volatile self;
oblivious alike of the blood stains upon his
sleeve and the ghastly sight his eyes had so
lately looked upon in that hovel in Trinder s
Yard.

Utterly did Barton Chance forget just
then his determination of an earlier part of
the evening, the resolution which he had
formed some four or five hours back.

Do you know," said he, " I believe something
is going to happen here at the Moat —
something dreadful in all probability — for
there's a ghost, or a banshee, or something of
the kind that flits about the place occasionally.
And that, you may depend upon it, is what
Sir Garth had met by the river, or wherever
it was that he saw it. Wo wonder he looked
scared ! Did ever you hear that Woldney
Moat was haunted, Roger? "

"Never. And now, Bart, good-night.
I'm going back."

Stay, half a second ! and I'll tell you,"
rattled on Chance. " It was one night last
week — I really forget which night, though, ^

at this moment — but the moon had risen I
do recollect, because by the light of it I
caught a glimpse of her face."

Whose face ? '* said Roger, wonderingly.

You won t give me time. I was upstairs,
smoking and writing in my own quarters,
which, as you are aware, are above the
library and look out upon the south lawn,
which, as you equally well know, is bordered
by the moat wall, when something, I can
hardly say what — I believe now I must have
heard a footfall, a ghostly sigh perhaps, or
the rustling of a woman's garment, for, the
night being mild, I had got the windows
partly open — prompted me to rise from my
seat to look out on the garden below. It
was between nine and ten ; there wasn't a
shadow on the lawn ; Sir Garth himself was-shut
up in the library — the house was as still
as a vault."

Well ? "

Well, as I tell you, I looked out ; and,
gliding along there by the moat, and muffled
in what appeared to me to be a long black
hooded cloak, I saw a female figure. I did.
You needn't look so confoundedly incredulous,
Roger — "

*' I dare say. I am not in the least incredulous
about it, Bart," said Harland,.

yawning, '* for I have no doubt that what
you saw was one of the women-servants out
for a breath of air. What more likely ? '*

You won't give a fellow time," said the
other. " The figure paused ; looked towards
the library window ; and raised its hand, it
seemed to me, in a threatening kind of
manner. In another instant the moonlight,
falling upon its face, revealed to me the
features of — '*

Of Mary Jane the housemaid. Sleep
well. Barton. In all probability, I shall see
you some time tomorrow — "

"No! Of Miss Dexter, the Pringles
governess, or I'm a Dutchman!" said Barton
Chance, triumphantly.

Harland started; started as a man will
sometimes start in spite of himself when
taken unawares and astonished painfully.
An angry flush dyed his brown cheek. He
looked at Barton in cold displeasure.

I thought you were sober, old man," he
said. " I find I'm mistaken. Good-night."

Eoger, don't say that ! " pleaded Barton,
really wounded, catching Harland's hand and
holding it affectionately between both his
own, and so detaining him. "I'm all right
now — indeed, indeed I am. There ! Confound
my stupid tongue. I wish I'd never

»»

told you. I vowed I wouldn't — vowed I
wouldn't only this very night — and now I've
gone and — Roger, dear old chap, I didn't
mean to vex you ; I — I — I didn't know — I —
I expect I was deceived, drunk at the time
if you like, after all — "

Of course you were deceived — very likely
drunk at the time. Only it is a pity that
you do not try a little more to learn to think
before you speak — "

And act, too, perhaps you would insinuate.
Haven't you jawed me enough for
one evening, Eoger ? " put in Barton, ruefully.


As you will. Look here, old fellow,"
said Eoger, in his turn feeling, after an instant's
reflection, annoyed with himself at
having allowed Barton to perceive that his
absurd tale had caused him — Roger — both
vexation and surprise, '' I didn't mean to be
bearish and unkind. Believe me, and forgive
me. Look ! there's a cloud over the
woods yonder no bigger than a man's hand.
Shouldn't wonder if we have rain again tomorrow."


He wrung Barton's hand; looked back and
nodded; and strode off into the silent meadow;
his gigantic shadow thrown yards ahead of
him along the silvered grass.

Barton stared after him ; the contrite and
rueful look — almost comic now in its ruefulness
— still in his dark-blue eyes.

What an ass I am ! " sighed he ; " what
a confounded, babbling ass ! And yet — and
yet — Yes, I am certain I was right enough
on that night. I couldn't have been mistaken
— deceived — I had touched nothing to
speak of all day. It was that girl from the
Pringles', or her double. I can't make her
out. What the deuce can she want pranking
about here — "

He stopped. He still gazed half sadly
after Roger's broad and rapidly retreating
back and the long grotesque shadow striding
along ahead of him in the moonlight.

"Dear, grave, steady old friend," ruminated
Barton aloud—" dear old Roger ! Fancy,
though, the wind's blowing in that quarter !
Whew ! Who'd have thought ? Well, it's
always the way in this world and always will
be so, I suppose. Given two men that get
to be really fond of each other, and a
woman, sooner or later, is bound to come
between them ! "

It was known in the household at 17, Cumberland
Square, as '' Mr. Roy's room."

It was a luxurious room in every respect,
sumptuously and artistically furnished, if
not exactly in strict accordance with the
severely aesthetic taste of the period.

It was a room in which there was a good
deal of colour of various kinds; but the
tints and shades were all of so subdued a
character that they blended harmoniously one
with another like the tints and shades of
some grand old cathedral window when seen
by the dimming light of a glorious summer
evening.

The drapery about the windows and doorways
was of darkest claret coloured velvet;
a Persian rug and two or three wild-beast
skins covering the centre of the shining oak
floor.

Here and there upon the walls, which,
above the wainscot, were painted dove-gray,

there were bits of battered armour from
ancient battlefields, a rare old oil-painting,
small and dingy, of which perhaps there was
more of gilt frame than of coloured canvas ;
a bracket supporting a terra-cotta bust ; a
china bowl containing dried rose-leaves and
lavender.

There were cabinets through the glass
doors of which one caught a glimpse of more
old china, a cedar tray of coins, a bandit's
dagger ; treasures, curiosities of many lands,
collected both at home and abroad.

There were Queen Anne couches, and
Louis Quatorze screens, and a massive oak
table, black with age, and carved in a manner
marvellous to behold.

Above the brass " dogs " and fine old
mantelshelf gleamed out a great mirror, its
frame also of oak ; there were peacock-feathers
too upon the mantelpiece, a sandalwood
casket, a tall antique gold candlestick,
.and a couple of quaintly-painted jars which
had been brought direct from Japan.

In a shadowy corner, standing well out
from the wall, was Roy's grand piano.

Flowers, books, and magazine literature
abounded everywhere ; the room being
lighted with Oriental lamps delightfully
.softened with rose-tinted shades.

Eoy Dexter himself had furnished the
room in obedience to his own caprices of the
hour ; and was continually — that is to say,
when he was strong enough to bear the
fatigue of driving hither and thither among
the famous *' curiosity streets " of London
adding to his hoard of whimsical treasures.

Like many extremely delicate people, he
was fanciful to a degree that bordered on
eccentricity. At times he suffered much for
days together ; but, for a fragile, sensitive
young fellow such as was Roy Dexter, he
bore his sufferings with an amount of fortitude
that was almost stoical in its silent
heroism.

Fortunately for him, his tastes were refined,
and he possessed ample means wherewith
to gratify them. Books formed his
chief delight; and of these companions, when
he could read without pain, he never wearied
in the day or the night.

Perhaps, however, the brightest hours of
his lonely and dreaming life were those in
which his strength — as it did occasionally —
permitted him to spend an evening either at
a concert or a play ; where for a time, in the
rapture of a rare intellectual joy, he could
forget that his fate, in this life at least, was
to be cut off from the society of his fellowmen.


He lay as usual upon a couch drawn near
to the hearth, in that charming old room of
his at the house in Cumberland Square ; the
soft rose-light falling upon his fine and delicate
features and upon the head of the beautiful
girl who, on a foot-stool, sat by the
couchside.

The two were alike and yet not alike ; but
the merest stranger at first glance must have
guessed them to be brother and sister. Both
had the same soft dark hair with a natural
wave upon it ; the same delicate mould of
feature; the same dark, proud yet gentle
eyes. The expression of the two faces,
nevertheless, was totally dissimilar; his being
that of habitual thought and melancholy,
whilst upon hers, notwithstanding its perfect
grace, firmness and resolution were stamped
in characters that were not to be denied.
Had the lovely dark eyes been masked, or in
any wise concealed, one would have at once
pronounced that about those sweet lips there
was something more than a suspicion of
wilfulness and pride.

Her evening-gown, in which a few minutes
before she had been dining with her brother
and Mrs. De Lisle, was of soft black lace,
clinging and diaphanous; with, for sole ornament
in the way of flowers, a knot of crimson
blossoms which she had got from the conservatory

and fastened with their leaves at
her bosom.

Facing them, upon the opposite side of the
hearth, and occupying one of Roy's carved
high-backed chairs, sat a handsomely-attired
and wholesome-looking lady, in age between
forty and fifty — close, perhaps, upon the
latter figure.

She wore upon her person a quantity of
lace, for which she had a genuine weakness ;
and a good deal of costly jewellery as well.

This was Mrs. De Lisle — the late Doctor
Dexter's step-sister ; a childless widow, and
very rich, and with few near kindred in the
world now that her brother was gone ; a
widow who, had it not been for the fact that
she loved too well her freedom and her ease,
might have taken to herself another mate
a score of times over since the death of her
first, which had happened indeed many years
back.

But one trial in that direction had satisfied
Mrs. De Lisle ; and she was perfectly
content with her widowhood.

In disposition she was sweet-tempered and
indolent, aud was devoted to the two young
people whom she called nephew and niece ;
they, in their turn, calling her " Aunt Helen.

In fact they did precisely whatever they

»»

pleased with wealthy and ease-going Mrs.
De Lisle ; poor Roy sometimes boasting that,
fragile as he was, he could twist with ease
substantial Aunt Helen round his little finger.

She never in the least thwarted them ;
never interfered with their wishes or plans ;
was always generous and always good-humoured.
They deferred to her, of course,
in matters of importance ; but her answer
was invariably the same in affairs both great
and little.

Pray do as you like, my dears," she
would say equably ; "if you please yourselves
you will please me."

Or : " Don't study me. Decide for yourselves.
I'm agreeable, I assure you, to
whichever way you decide lo arrange it."

Therefore Miss Dexter, some weeks before,,
had experienced no difficulty at all in obtaining
the consent and the assistance of Mrs.
De Lisle in the furtherance, in the carrying
out successfully of a certain pet scheme of
her own and Roy's, which had ultimately
Ian ded her — • Miss Dexter herself — as
governess in the Prince family, who lived
near Woldney Moat.

It seems a mad idea, I must say, my
dear Minna," had observed Mrs. De Lisle,
with her accustomed placidity of manner.

but in a tone of no remonstrance. She spoke
as if Minna were only proposing to attempt
the accomplishment of the most simple task
in the world. '' But I have no doubt that it
can be done if you, dear, and Eoy are bent
upon it — as you appear to be. And, as you
rightly say, the opportunity — the chance
offered you by this advertisement — is a
golden one ; and such another, in all likelihood,
will never occur again. It is very
extraordinary. Yes ; we'll put our heads
together and see what can be done. I don't
feel at all certain that our proceedings are
strictly fair and above board ; however, the
object in view is a just and praiseworthy one,
and that is surely something to be said on
our side, Minna''

Justice, Aunt Helen, is everything !
had replied Minna Dexter, firmly. " Cunning
must cope with cowardice and cunning.
It has for a long while been my first desire
in life to act for Roy, since Hoy has been
denied the power to act for himself. I do
not want revenge — as did our dear dead
mother — either for Eoy or for myself ; but,
at any cost, I will have justice for Eoy if
justice is to be obtained by any deed or
sacrifice of mine. I am old enough to act
now ; and act I will. One cannot fail — I

>>

remember hearing our mother often say so —
if one has right in one's favour. Might
may triumph for a time ; but right will
conquer in the end. It is for Roy, my
darling brother, that I do this thing — for
myself I care not a straw. If it rested with
myself alone, I would rather die, Aunt Helen,
than I would touch the hand or look upon
the face of this Sir Garth Gilroy."

Between the brother and sister a great
and boundless love existed. In their lives,
in their love for each other, they were truly
lovely, if in death, in a time to come, they
should be divided !

This evening, which found them all three
sitting together in Roy Dexter s room, was
the last of Minna's brief Christmas " holiday."
On the morrow she would leave their great
house in the Square and start once more for
Borough Mills.

Throughout dinner they had talked of
little save Minna's proposed tactics in the
future campaign ; and now that they had
left the dinner-table to drink their coffee in
Roy's picturesque study, their thoughts still
ran, as was natural on this last evening, upon
the plans and intentions which Minna had in
hand. For would not tomorrow, said Minna,
with a bitter little smile, to Roy, see her

back again in the neighbourhood. of their
natural enemy ?

I have done little enough as yet, Heaven
knows," said she, looking fondly up into
Roy's pathetic eyes; and he, putting aside
the open book which he had but that moment
taken half-mechanically from a table near his
couch, stroked with his long white hand his
sister's dark soft hair. " I have been only
once, Roy, to Woldney Moat ; and that was
a visit paid by stealth, as you are aware*
And, dear, there are times when the terrible
misgiving steals over me that I never shall
do anything at all worth speaking of. I lose
heart ; my courage fails me ; and — and, now
and again, I catch myself wondering whether
the game is worth the candle, Roy?"

I do not believe that it is worth the
candle," said the young man in his gentle
voice. '' Let it — let him — go, Minna. Give
up the whole thing and come back to us."

Never ! Now that I have made a
beginning, I will go on to the end, Roy
bitter though it be. For your sake, Roy
dearest, I will not give in. Then, too — you
forget ! There is the poor old grandfather.
Now that we have found him, something
by-and-by must be done for him. It wrings
my heart to see him, at his age, living so

hard and so lonely a life. But he clings toit
and won't give it up. I think it would
kill him if he were taken from the Lock."

And during all these many years, you
say, Minna, he has remained in total ignorance
of the truth ? " remarked Mrs. De Lisle,
cosily. "Dear me! how very odd; and living,
too, as he does — does he not ? — within sight
of Woldney Moat. How very curious, to be
sure !

Ah ! Aunt Helen," threw in Roy cynically,
" have not you yet discovered that the
world is merely a vast museum of contrasts
of all kinds, of grim facts, of curious things
of all sorts ; that one should never be surprised
at anything that one may hear or see
in it. I am not very old — but I have already
learned that much. It is a very hard old
world to understand, Aunt Helen."

I don't think that I have ever thought
anything at all about it, Roy. I have always
found it a very nice, comfortable old world ;
and I should be very sorry to leave it — that
I do know," cheerfully replied the good, simple
lady. " However," continued she, " we were
speaking of that poor dear childish old
man at the Lock. Couldn't we give him a
sum of money at once, and put him into a
nice little home of his own ? How really

VOL. I. Q

wonderful it is that lie should have taken so
strong a fancy to you, my dear child ! that
he should sometimes, without knowing it,
call you by your real name ! It must be a
kind of instinct, I suppose, or — or Providence
or something. Now cannot we do what I
suggest, my dears ? I think myself it is an
excellent notion."

Not yet," was Minna's firm reply.
*' People, I know, already comment upon my
so often going to the Lock cottage. Your
suggestion, kind as it is, dear Aunt Helen,
cannot yet be carried out. Doing so would
immediately rouse suspicion. One must be
cautious, I can well perceive, in dealing with
Sir Garth Gilroy. Do you know, the other
evening when I first spoke to the man, I
trembled lest I should faint — brave as I fancy
myself to be — and drop like a dead thing on
the carpet at his feet. My heart seemed to
stand still — my blood to turn cold. And he
oh, Roy ! — he looked at me in such a strange,
scrutinizing manner, that I thought for an
instant that he assuredly must divine who I
was — had discovered the truth ! But that, of
course, would be utterly impossible ; he believing
all that he does believe."

Curse him, my Minnehaha ! " said the
young man, in his tender low voice, just for

all the world as if lie had said " Bless him ! "
instead. "He is a scoundrel if ever one lived
on earth. If I were a strong man, Minna,
dearest and pluckiest of sisters, and not the
sickly and useless being that I am, I would go
down to Woldney with you tomorrow and
would horsewhip the villain within an inch
of his life. I would, Minna — and Heaven
forgive me for it if I am wrong ! "

Do you know, Hoy," she said, looking
long and earnestly at her beloved brother, ashe
lay there so weak and frail on his sofa,
you are in truth very like him ! Where the
likeness is I cannot quite determine. But it
would never do for you to go to Woldney —
at least, not yet. All the same — "

Perdition seize him ! " murmured Roy, as
softly and dispassionately as before. " I am
sorry for it."

Here Mrs. De Lisle struck in with her cosy
laugh.

How funny it is, children," said she, " to
hear you speaking of your own father in that
disrespectful fashion — "

*' Father ! " interjected Minna, scornfully.
He is father to us only in name ! Heaven
is too just to demand of any child honour and
respect for such a father as he."

"Hear, hear ! " said Roy, entertaining his

delicate fingers amongst the waves of this
dusky hair.

"After all," continued Mrs. De Lisle,
letting the strip of lace-work over which she
was professing to be very industrious, drop
with her smooth jewelled hands idly into her
lap, and looking across with mild perplexity
in her countenance at the weakly, handsome
lad upon the couch and the devoted girl upon
the footstool at his side — " after all, since you
cannot wreak upon this bad man the vengeance
for which your mother in her lifetime
yearned, it really seems to me, dear Minna,
that not much remains for you to do. He
has not married again, therefore the revenge
I repeat, it seems to me — for which your
mother schemed and lived, has become — well,
impracticable. You tell us that the estate is
in a wretched condition, and that Sir Garth
himself is little better than a ruined man.
Surely, there is not much to be gained ? No,
Minna ; looking at the whole business from
more points of view than one, I am inclined
to echo the observation you made just now :
that the game does not appear to be worth
the candle. Of course, you and Roy know
best," said Mrs. De Lisle, serenely taking up
again her dingy strip of lace-work. " Still,
it is not, my dears, as if he were a parent

worth claiming — is it ? And it is not as if
either you or 'Roj wanted money from him ;
for, on the contrary, you want nothing of
the kind; both of you, as it happens, having
plenty of your own."

Minna's lips tightened ; her bosom heaved ;
in that rose-red light from the pretty lamps a
passionate fire seemed to smoulder and glow
in the velvet depths of her soft eyes.

Money ? No ! Thank Heaven, we do not
want money! " she said at last. 'but our
claims upon him, the claims of our dead
mother as well, he shall acknowledge. Woldney
Moat and Lonefield Grange, both of then
are Eoy's by inheritance, and I shall claim an
acknowledgement of his birthright from Sir
Garth Gilroy. He may have mortgaged
every available acre of land not strictly
appertaining to those two old houses; but
those two old houses themselves, so ruined
and desolate now, and the few acres which
have belonged to them for generations and
generations of dead and gone Gilroy s. Sir
Garth cannot meddle with in any manner
whatsoever. This was one day explained tome
by Mr. Prince, who, horrid and vulgar ashe
may be, is nevertheless a shrewd man of
business, and well understands these things.
Our money, by-and-bye — Eoy's and mine —

can restore, shall do wonders, both for Woldney
Moat and the Grange."

But Sir Garth, you know, may not believe,
may boldly deny the truth of your tale, when
the time comes for the telling of it," said Mrs.
De Lisle. " I fancy we shall have some difficulty,
my dear Minna, in proving all that we
want to prove. But I daresay you know
best."

He must and he shall believe ! " cried
Minna Dexter, impetuously. " He cannot
help believing when he shall come to hear
everything."

Unconsciously she touched her breast as if
caressing a treasure concealed in it. E-oy's
arm stole round her neck, but he said nothing ;
he was looking tired.

She continued :

There is a rumour in the neighbourhood
of Coverley that Sir Garth is trying to find for
himself a rich wife, whose dower shall mend
his own fallen fortunes. But no woman, I
vow to Heaven, Aunt Helen, shall ever become
a second wife of his until he has done justice
to the memory of his first. I am on the watch ;
I will be in no haste ; I can bide my time —
but justice for our dead mother, for Roy, and
for me, I will have sooner or later at the hands
of Sir Garth Gilroy."

Dearest and bravest of sisters," murmured
E,oy, wearily — '' my Minnehaha, my
lovely Laughing eater, how hard, how very
hard it is for me that you should do all and I
nothing!"

She pressed her cheek against the thin
white hand upon her shoulder, a world of
love for Roy expressed in the simple deed.

There is nothing upon earth, you know
that, Hoy, that I would not attempt for your
dear sake," she said.

Tell us," put in Mrs. De Lisle, throwing
aside, with a poorly-disguised yawn, her tiny
needle and scrap of work, and, leaning back
against the tapestry padding of her tall carved
chair — " tell us, dear, something more of
those Harland people who seem so good and
kind. From the little you say about them in
your letters, they do seem really very kind and
nice. The young man especially rendered
you a great service, a very great service,
Minna — you must admit that."

'' Ah, I hope some day to shake his hand for
that piece of work," threw in Roy, with a
flicker of real energy in his tired voice.

Again the girl pressed her cheek caressingly
to her brother's hand, but she did not speak.

You manage to find plenty to write about
the Prince people and their funny, silent little

grandchildren, whom you say that you have
got quite to like," went on placid Aunt Helen
" the Prince vulgarity and ostentation, and
so forth ; but of their neighbours, these Har-lands,
who seem so very much nicer in every
respect, we seldom hear in your letters, Minna,
beyond a few lines — do we, Eoy ? And there
are only a brother and a sister in family, too,
I think you said ; like E-oy and yourself, dear.
How odd ! "

How well I recollect, mere child though
I was at the time," observed Koy Dexter,
dreamily, " hearing our mother speak both
of the Pringles and of the Harlands, and of
her own free life at the Lock by the beautiful
Dane, in those long sad talks which she, dear
soul, and the Doctor — God bless him ! — used
to have together at that quiet old Brompton
house in Prince's Street, when the evenings
were long and we played round the fire at his
knee. Do you remember, Minna ? "

I remember, dear. It is not likely that
I ever can forget."

And how strange it is, my Minnehaha,
that you should now be living near Woldnej
Moat I And as a governess too ! You a
governess, Minna ! "

'* Strange indeed, dear," she smiled.

A hansom went rattling past in the raw

winter night; a postman, with his last delivery,
was dealing his "rat-tat" at one of
the great pillared doors in the Square. Minna,
rising from her low seat, took from the mantelpiece
a screen of peacock-feathers, which she
held as she stood between her face and the
fire.

Well, Minna," suggested Mrs. De Lisle,
who had not forgotten her unanswered question,
aimless in intent though it was.

The girl started slightly.

'' Yes ? Oh, I beg your pardon, Aunt
Helen ; about — about the Harlands, you
mean. If I do not, when I write, find much
to say about them, it is — it is, I suppose,
because, in reality, I see so little of them.
"When — when I do see them, however, they
are, as I have told you, very, very kind.
With the Pringles it is different. Am I
not " — with a shrug — " always with the
Pringles ? "

Oh, yes, of course — that is it, I suppose,"
said Mrs. De Lisle, vaguely.

'' Where," inquired Minna, abruptly turning
this point of the conversation, " where.
Aunt Helen, do our friends in town think
that I am now living ? "

They think you are somewhere in the
country, on a long round of visits. That

234 LIKE LOST SHEEP.

is what I tell everybody, dear child," laughed
Mrs. De Lisle, cheerfully.

Ah me ! a terrible fib. Aunt Helen,
said Minna, wistfully. " And yet — and yet
what else can one say ? "

I'm sure I don't know, my dear," replied
Mrs. De Lisle, in her cosy way. " I think
myself it is a very good explanation. It
satisfies the most inquisitive — and that is
everything."

Heigh-ho ! " said Minna ; " I fear that
we are weaving a very tangled web. Roy,
dear," she went on, hastily checking a sigh
as she turned from Aunt Helen to bend
over her brother, "what are you reading
a new novel ? Yes, I see it is," taking
up the open book and glancing through its
pages. It was the third volume of a story
called Madeline — written by a well-known
hand, and a favourite author of Roy's.

Yes ; it's Madeline' said the young
fellow, listlessly ; " the same tale, don't you
know, upon which the new play now running
at the St. James's is founded. The heroine
is lovely, brave, and devoted, and sticks at
nothing to gain a righteous end. I really
believe she reminds me somewhat of you,
Minnehaha."

Does she, Roy ? Well, it is time, I

think, that you were going to bed. You
are looking fagged, my dearest — and that
must not be. I will bring your wine upto
you, and will sit with you, if you like,
while you try to sleep, and read Madeline
aloud— shall I, Roy?"

I should like nothing better, my Laughing
Water," replied the young fellow, looking
up at Minnehaha with his sad sweet
smile.

Lovingly she assisted him to rise from the
couch ; Mrs. De Lisle going before them to
light the candles in the hall. Aunt Helen
was yawning prodigiously now.

Well, Minna, I hope you will enjoy this
dance on the 7th," said she.

"It will not concern me, Aunt Helen,"
answered the girl, quietly. " I shall not
dance."

My Minnehaha, my beautiful sister, not
dance at a ball ! " whispered Roy, incredulously.
" Oh, nonsense — nonsense — "

She stopped his lips with a kiss.

So, with his arm resting on Minna's, Roy
went laboriously up to his bed ; Mrs. De
Lisle parting with them at her dressing-room
door.

An hour later Roy's melancholy eyes
were closed in uneasy slumber; the long

and wearisome dav for him was once more
ended. He slept with Minna's kisses still
warm upon his lips, and Minna's loving,
passionate prayers still hovering perhaps
around his pillow.

At the head of the fine staircase, upon the
first landing, she met Mrs. De Lisle' s maid.

*' Do you require my services to-night,
Miss Minna ? " asked the woman, who had
known Minna Dexter for many years.

'' Not to-night, Hobson, thank you," she
answered. "I am not going to bed just
yet."

At the foot of the wide stairs in the hall
she encountered Bing the footman.

I am locking up for the night. Miss
Dexter," said the man. '' Shall I extinguish
the lights in Mr. Eoy's room ? "

"No, thank you," replied Minna. ** I
will put them out myself."

She passed into her brother's study, shut
the door, and drew the velvet curtain across
it. The beautiful artistic room, with its
subdued tints and coloured shadows, seemed
at this hour very sombre and still. The
dying wood embers were dropping upon the
hearth ; the heads of the wild-beast skins
lying about looked half ferocious in the
tinted gloom. Minna could hear the step

of a policeman upon the broad damp pavement
of Cumberland Square.

She reseated herself upon the footstool by
her brother's couch and laid her head where
he had lain.

Upon her knee she held the third volume
of the story called Madeline; but never a
page of it did she turn now. Indeed she
scarcely knew that the book was under
her hand, havens all unconsciously brought
it down with her from Roy's bedside.

So she sat there, quite alone, her eyes
fixed on the dying wood ashes, falling —
falling — like the leaves in autumn. Though
awake, she sat there dreaming far into the
night — " the dead unhappy night " — of Roy's
future and of her own.

*' Topps, how do I look ? Come, tell me the
truth now ! "

Lovely, miss — jest lovel-ly," said Topps,
stepping backward a couple of yards or so
and clasping her lean hands ecstatically.
"You're a real vishnu of beauty to-night,
Miss Jooly ; you are indeed ! "

Really and truly, Topps ? " said Julia
Prince, advancing, retreating, smiling, endeavouring
to glanced own her bare shoulder-blades,
and sweeping from side to side before
the long cheval-glass in her room, on the
night of the New Year ball at Borough Mills.

"Really, miss. Your dress is perfect,"
said Topps. " There ain't a atom o' fault
to be found with it anywhere. Anybody
with eyes in their 'eat can see it's a London
gown ; the fit of itself would tell 'em that."

I think I like the pink better than the
blue — don't you, Topps ? — the blue is so insipid,

isn't it ? " said Julia, gingerly putting
with a tiny powder-puff certain finishing
touches to her already palpable complexion.
Then she took up a pencil from the toilet-table
and carefully finished off her eyebrows
as well.

*' Better than the blue ? Oh, a million
thousand times ! " gushed Topps. " Pink
satin, miss, always do show up so beautiful
by candlelight. I should have chose the
pink myself."

Here Hetty tripped into Julia's room,
attired in a ball-gown of a similar style to
that of her sister ; but whilst Hetty had decided
on pale-blue satin, Jill had fixed upon
pink.

Both gowns in the bodies of them were
brazenly low-cut ; with just about as much
sleeve or *' shoulder-strap " as was perhaps
demanded by common decency. Both were
laced up behind, and fitted close to the
figure ; indeed, Jill's ample outline looked
almost matronly, so tightly had Topps, in
obedience to the damsel's desire, tied back
in the approved line of fashion the hidden
strings of that pink satin train.

And then their heads! If their ''frinofes"
were marvellous to behold on every day of
the week, is it not likely that they would be

doubly amazing on the night of their New
Year ball ?

I would not be too liberal, if I were you,
in the manipulation of that little fluffy thing,"
observed Hetty, briskly. " My poor old
dear ! you look positively ^o^^r?/ already, and
people may be inclined to crack ill-natured
jokes, don't you know. We know quite well
what fellows are behind our backs. ' By
Jove, Miss Julia, how quite too awfully
charming you look — quite fetching, by Jove I'
I can hear Tim Maltover saying unblushingly
to your face ; afterwards — having
shunted you — to some other fellow : ' By
Jove, that girl ! Did you see the powder ?
laid on with a trowel, don't you know. It
flew off in clouds just now, by Jove, and I've
done nothing but sneeze ever since. Look
at my coat, old man ! ' " And the vivacious
Hetty made a feint of brushing something
from her plump bare arm, which she
presently proceeded to cover from public
view in the longest and most fashionable of
many-buttoned gloves.

Any idiot can see that you are
smothered," retorted Julia, unamiable —
especially your nose."

That's soon remedied, Jill," coolly remarked
Hetty, who, having recently imbibed

a cup of strong coffee with a dash of cognac
in it, was in excellent spirits and entirely
satisfied with her own dazzling appearance
in the Cambridge-blue satin from Madame
Theodore's in Regent Street. She skipped
over to Topps and held up her face.

'' Blow on it, Topps dear, please," said
she — " gently ; not too hard. You know
exactly how to do it, for you've done it
before."

Topps sniggered, and did as she was
bidden.

La ! Miss Hetty, how you do go on,"
she said.

If it be true that no man is a hero to his
own valet, it must be equally impossible that
any woman should be respected by her own
abigail.

Curls ! girls ! " cried a loud voice on the
landing; '' aren't you ready ? What a time
you do take to be sure ! Your par says he
can hear a carriage on the Margrave road ;
so I'm just going down. It's the Carraway-
Joneses, I expect ; they are always early."
And a mighty frou-frou in the corridor
outside proclaimed that Mrs. Prince was sailing
downstairs to welcome the .


The '* girls," thus admonished, caught up

VOL. I. K

in haste gloves and bouquets, handkerchiefs
and fans, and prepared to follow their mother
to the drawing-room below; which at
Borough Mills was a really fine and spacious
apartment, and which on this memorable
annual occasion was always gorgeously decorated
and brilliantly illuminated to serve
the purpose of ball-room.

*'Topps," Hetty took an opportunity to
whisper to the tiring-maid, as the sisters
left the elder's dressing-room, Jill marching
on ahead, buttoning her glove, and with
thoughts intent upon the conquests she
meant to achieve by-and-by, " candidly now,
Topps, which do you like best — the pink or
the blue?"

Thus again appealed to, the worthy Topps
called up an expression of feature which
demanded as plainly as speech itself how any
young lady in her senses could possibly ask
such a question ; and whispered in reply —

The blew, of course, miss, a hundred
million times. Why, there ain't no comparison
whatever ! " Adding, hurriedly : " Don't
tell Miss Jooly I said so, though, Miss
Hetty; she oughtn't like it — and — and
might be jealous, you see."

No, no, no ! And do I look nice ? "

Lovel-ly, Miss Hetty ! " replied Topps.

** You'll be the belle o' the ball." And once
more she clasped her hands ecstatically and
rolled up her artful eyes.

I'll give you my purple cashmere tomorrow,"
said Hetty, glancing over her
nude and powdered shoulder and nodding
familiarly to the smirking maid. " And,
Topps, you duck, if I run up here and ring
the bell, it is for — well, Topps, you know
what."

Topps returned the nod in a very knowing
fashion indeed ; and then the two girls, in
the sheen of their satin and the flash of the
jewels they wore, trailed down the wide
staircase together — Miss Topps now, with
scorn on her pale lip and in her faded eye,
leaning over the balustrade upon the landing
and watching their descent to the hall.

I wonder they ain't ashamed o' themselves
— I do ! " she muttered. '' If I was
dressed out like that — I — I should pray that
the earth might open and swallow me out o'
sight ! I shouldn't know where to 'ide my
'eat for shame," said Topps, shivering virtuously.


The Pringles' smart roomy house was a
blaze of light on this the night of the 7th of
January ; and the head-gardener had robbed
his winter-houses of their choicest treasures

in order to furnish flowers for the lavish
decorations. Flowers and light were indeed
everywhere.

Mrs. Prince herself was resplendent in
sage-green moire antiquities which had also
come down from Madame Theodore's establishment
— being stout and florid, she was
fond of green of all shades,. believing that no
other colour became her half so well — with
real rubies round her fat neck and real
rubies in her ears.

People were arriving fast; it was half-past
nine o'clock. Along the Margrave
road, from Coverley way, there came a
heterogeneous stream of vehicles — private
carriages of all sorts, together with hired
flies from " The Gig Hotel " ; one after
another they rattled up to the door of the
Pringles' house.

In the wake of the Carraway- Joneses from
Margrave — the Carrara-Joneses were retired
bone-manure manufacturers — had come
a crowd of folks from Twycross; then more
arrivals from Coverley; and then a batch
from distant Redtown.

All the world, of a sort, it would appear,
had been invited to the Pringles' ball.

When the Harlands from across the water,
accompanied by Barton Chance, put in an

appearance the rooms were nearly full, and
the first two dances on the list for the evening
were over.

Roger and Kate — the latter being simply
arrayed in a white silk gown, trim of fit, as
were all Kate's garments, with a soft lace
ruff worn high about her throat, whilst she
carried a magnificent bouquet of tea-roses
and lilies-o£-the-valley which Barton had
caused to be sent to the Little Mills direct
from Covent Garden — sat down by each
other near one of the doors, and began —
though neither admitted the fact to the other
narrowly to observe the moving figures
in the crowd.

Barton, who had just been chatting with
Mrs. Prince and telling her seriously how
well the green moire became " her style,"
at that instant appeared and stood before
Kate.

He looked, as good-looking fair men always
do, exceedingly handsome in his evening
clothes; his face flushed, his eyes alight
with pleasure. He stretched out his hand.

Kate, where is your card ? You promised
your first dance to me — you know you
did. There goes the band, so come along ! "
Bait he.

I promised you the first I danced — yes,

)»

she answered. " But I am not yet quite
ready. I will dance with no one until I
have danced with you. Barton." So telling
him, she pressed to her lips the sweet flowers
he had given her, and over the leaves and
blossoms of them looked up at him pleadingly.
" And — and, in return, you must
promise me something. Barton. Will you ? "
she said.

My car — " he began, impulsively.

'' Hush ! " said she, gently, with almost a
look of pain.

*' Anything, Kate," he said then, more
gravely. " What is it ? "

'' That — that you will be careful to-night, ''*
she murmured — " Barton, for my sake ! "

He bent his fair curly head as he answered
:

For your sake, Kate, I would — "

But Chance just then was permitted to
register no brittle vow. An enormous pale-blue
satin fan with feather edging was tapping
his sleeve ; and, turning, he beheld
Hetty Prince standing there beside him.
She held out coquettishly a filigree-silver
basket containing programmes, and was still
panting from her exertions in the dance
lately ended.

Thanks," said Barton, stammering and

LIKE LOST SHEEP. 247

smiling, " I — I have one — see ! Mrs. Prince
kindly gave it to me a minute ago. How
very pretty they are ! "

Yes ; aren't they ? Have you a partner
for the next waltz?" said Hetty, with an
upward, sidewise glance which was meant to
be extremely bewitching.

Poor Barton — anticipating his fate — longed
to be able to reply in the affirmative ; but ashe
could not honourably do that, he said
lamely :

''No. Have you?

Well, I have," said she, with coy hesitation,
fingering the dainty cards in the liker
basket ; " but — but — The truth of the
matter is, Mr. Chance — "

Yes ? "

Well, I wish I hadn't, then ; for he is a
perfect little horror of a dervish. He dances
anyhow and anywhere — if you can call it
dancing — in fact, flings one all over the
place."

Who is it ? " inquired Chance, peering
slyly round at Kate Harland, with a queer
smile brimming in his joyous eyes ; a smile
to which she, thoroughly comprehending the
situation, promptly responded with one of
her own.

Why, it's young Carrara-Jones, don't

you know? " sighed Hetty. *' The last time
I danced with him, at a ball in Redtown, we
both of us got giddy together and fell plump
into the lap of the man who was playing the
violin."

"The barbarian ! " cried Barton. " If I
were a girl and a fellow served me like that,
catch me ever dancing with him a second
time. Miss Hetty — unless, of course, there
was nobody else to be had."

I'm sure I don't want to," replied Hetty,
with a little grimace. " And — and look here,
Mr. Chance " — very shyly — '' don't think me
quite too awfully bold, and — and all that, but
if you like to ask me for this waltz now, why,
I'll throw over Mr. Carrara-Jones before
I'm a minute older. There ! It is such a
shame to be obliged to put up with vile
partners when one has Comte and Thingumy's
music to dance to, don't you know," pouted
Hetty.

With all my heart," said Barton, with
apparent heartiness. " I am indeed favoured.
Poor Carrara-Jones ! "

I can easily say that I waited ever so
long for him and he never turned up, don't
you see," cried Hetty, with animation.
Simple as ABC!"

I must steer clear of him for the rest of

the evening," smiled Barton, " or who knows
what may happen, Miss Hetty ! "

You needn't be anxious, Mr. Chance,"
returned she, archly. '' I think, if you tried,
you could knock Mr. Jones into a cocked
hat. Don't be shocked — that is what pa
says sometimes. Here, ma dear, you look
after this " — popping down her programme-basket
upon Mrs. Prince's knee ; that lady
having taken a vacant seat by Kate Harland's
side.

And the next minute Hetty had slipped
her arm under Barton Chance's and had led
him triumphantly off to join the waltz which
the band had just struck up.

"And so you walked here across the
bridge, Kate, Mr. Chance tells me ? " said
Mrs. Prince. " How did you manage
that ? "

Oh, the night was tolerably fine and
dry, and we changed our boots when we got
here," replied practical Kate, smiling.

We are ' so far and yet so near,' ain't
we?" said Mrs. Prince, with a fat chuckle at
her own pleasantry.

The passing years had dealt genially
enough with Mrs. Prince and her prosperous
spouse. They looked, and behaved and
spoke, the pair of them, at this date of their

lives, pretty much the same as they had
looked and behaved and spoken some seventeen
or eighteen years gone by. Prosperity
is an excellent fattening recipe, and for keeping,
too, the wrinkles and crow's-feet at bay.

I do not see Miss Dexter anywhere,"
said Kate, raising her voice a tone or two,
for the waltz which the musicians were playing
was in parts a rather noisy one. " Has
she returned ? She told me before she went
to London that she would be back in time for
the dance, Mrs. Prince."

Eoger, on the other side of Kate, pricked
up his ears.

Returned ? Lor', yes ! She's returned
fast enough — come back the day before
yesterday. She knows where she's well off,
bless you ! " bawled Mrs. Prince. " To tell
you the truth, though, Kate, neither me nor
the girls, nor their par, for the matter of
that, would have fretted much if she hadn't
have come back at all. She gives herself too
many hairs and graces, and has too many
fine notions by half to please us ; and
paupers and governesses and such publishing
folk have no business to give themselves
such hairs beyond their station, I say. Sho
was dressing ever so long ago, I know for a
fact ; and so I suppose she'll come down-^

we invited her — when she has a mind to do
so. She pleases herself pretty much. However,
there's one great point in her favour,
Kate ; she manages those children admirably,
and they are very fond of her, too. But
once let Louisa's complaint get well enough
to allow her to come back to England, and off
I pack Miss Stuck-up to — to — to wherever she
come from ; I shall have had quite enough of
her by then, I'll warrant. A holiday indeed !
What did she want a holiday at all for ? She
only come in November," shouted Mrs.
Prince, who had talked her florid countenance
into a flame, and whose bosom, rubies
and all, was heaving with the elocutionary
effort she had made. Mrs. Prince' s English,
it was clear, was not strictly that known in
polite circles as the Queen's when she became
a trifle excited and gave free rein to her
tongue.

Eoger Harlan d, before his hostess had
ceased to speak, had got up and disappeared.


A cloud since his arrival at the dance had
been brooding upon the features of Eoger.
But that cloud was now dispelled ; and he,
catching sight, through the revolving shapes
of the waltzers, of young Penfold of Pack-house
standing solitarily by the glass-doors

of the conservatory, made "his way round to
him, tapped him on the back, and with him
had gone off to get some coffee.

'' What I am sitting here by this door for,"
Mrs. Prince presently went on to expound to
Kate, when she had in a measure recovered
her breath, vigorously fanning herself as she
spoke, 'ris to receive Sir Garth Gilroy. He
is very late ; everybody has come but him ;
and — and I am almost beginning to despair
Hi, Solomon ! " Mr. Prince was in sight,
and his wife beckoned him with her glove.
Personally, Mr. and Mrs. Prince were curiously
alike — some husbands and wives are so,
and with increasing years the resemblance
between them not infrequently grows more
and more striking. Mr. Prince's red,
whiskered face, however, was marked by
a purplish hue about the cheeks and gills.

The bulk of him was encased in a snow-white
dress-waistcoat, in the armholes of
which, as he advanced towards his wife, he
thrust his short flat thumbs ; so that a rope-like
gold chain and an immense glittering
locket were displayed to fine advantage.

Well, mar, what is it ? " said he. " We
make a capital show here to-night, don't
we ? " — throwing a portly, self-satisfied
glance around the large and brilliant room.

Yes, yes — but, Solomon, I am very
anxious ; how about Sir Grarth — do you
think he'll come ? I have done nothing but
stick about this door and the inner hall for
the last hour or more, and he hasn't arrived
yet. Do you think he'll keep his word ?
Oh, Solomon, if he shouldn't after all! — "

Mrs. Prince actually trembled with suppressed
anxiety and apprehension. If Sir
Garth Gilroy of Woldney Moat failed in his
promise to honour with his company their
New Year dance, then — gay and hopeful as
was the aspect of everything at present —
nothing, in Mrs. Prince' s opinion, could save
her ball from failure.

She had told everybody whom she could
tell that Sir Garth Gilroy was coming ; and
consequently everybody would expect to meet
him there. Should he fail to keep that
promise of his given weeks before the eventful
night — oh, how everybody then would
laugh at her behind her back ! thought Mrs.
Prince, growing cold all over at the bare
thought. '' Oh, Solomon," said she, in a
piteous undertone, " do you really think he
means to keep his word ? "

Mr. Prince, standing with his short legs
somewhat ungracefully wide apart, winked
at his wife before he answered.

'' He'll come, mar, never fear," lie chuckled.
Don't fret yourself, my dear ; he'll be here
presently, as sure as eggs is eggs ! It maybe
latish — I shouldn't wonder ; perhaps not
till supper. Strolling in late is fashionable
among the nobs. Still, some time or other
before cock-crow, you'll see, we shall have
my fine gentleman here. Oh, yes, mar, it's
all serene," said Mr. Prince, actually putting
his finger to his nose as if he would intimate
that he knew somewhat more than he felt at
present justified in revealing.

Mrs. Prince was reassured.

Her husband's confident tone and knowing
air were comforting to her in the extreme.
Sir Garth of late had been a good deal at
Borough Mills ; and Solomon Prince, in his
turn, had been seen a great many times at
Woldney Moat. Evidently, then. Sir Garth
Gilroy and the wealthy Solomon thoroughly
understood each other.

Mr. Chance could tell us nothing about
Sir Garth's movements," said Mrs. Prince,
more blithely ; " for he tea'd and dressed at
the Little Mills, it seems, and came over with
the Harlands afterwards — didn't I understand
him to say so, Kate ? " laying a beef-red hand
scintillating with brilliant upon Kate's white
silk sleeve.

Quite right," answered Kate, quietly ;
and resumed the chat she was engaged in
at the moment with the person who sat upon
her left ; who had taken the seat lately vacated
by her brother.

I was talking to Master Roger not a
second ago, Miss Kate," observed Mr.
Prince, in a loud and would-be patronising
voice. " Him and young Penfold were
having some coffee and a cigar together. I
offered to find them both pardners, but neither
of 'em, it appears, cares for 'ops ; though
there's more 'an one young teddy as I can
see a-setting about and tapping her foot citie
floor to the tune o' rum-tum-tiddy as
would be glad if they'd come aud ask her.
Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed Mr. Prince, rolling
his full bull-eyes on Kate in a highly facetious
manner.

My brother never cared much for dancing,
Mr. Prince — balls always bore him,"
replied Kate, coldly. She turned again to
the guest on her left and put her dance-card
into his hand.

Though I cannot comply with your
request to give you one immediately, Mr.
Payne," said she, " you may take whichever
you please after the next two or three — "

Give me the one before upper. Miss

Harland — do ! " interrupted Mr. Payne in a
pleading tone. " That will be real kindness'*

Mr. Headstone Payne, the active young
Coverley surgeon, was a genial young man
with a bald head, a remarkably clear complexion,
and a handsome brown moustache
under a large Roman nose ; altogether a
dapper bachelor doctor, worshipped by ibis
lady-patients of all " sets " and " cliques."
For he was ever cheery, ever ready to gossip,
and, best of all, was always sure to be in
possession of the latest local on dits and
choicest bits of scandal which might happen
to be common property in Coverley-on-Dane.

Indeed, apart from his little weaknesses —
amongst which must be reckoned a slightly
affected occasional lisp — he was said to be a
very clever young man ; not only socially,
but also in the mysteries of his profession.
But Kate Harland liked him chiefly on
account of his well-known kindness to the
poor. He would always physic them " for
nothing." .

I am sorry that T cannot give you the
one before supper," answered Kate, gravely ;
it is already promised. But take the
seventh if you will — it is a quadrille. And
now," added she, in a hurried whisper — •' be
good enough to gratify a whim of mine. I

want to examine those pretty Chinese lanterns
in the conservatory. Will you be my escort,
Mr. Payne ? The waltz is finished and we
can now cross the room."

'' With all the pleasure in life," cried he.
And he sprang up and offered her his arm.

They were soon seated in the conservatory,
which was nearly opposite that doorway of
the ball-room close to which Mrs. Prinerle
still lingered and through which the chief
guest of the evening was momentarily
expected to enter.

Confess now," said Mr. Payne, confidentially,
" that you are not in the least
desirous to examine these trumpery lamps
and silly little fountains that only trickle and
won't play — because, you know, they were
all exactly the thane this time last year when
we were here. Confess now. Miss Harland,
that you wanted to get away from that insufferable
old — "

I shall confess nothing of the kind," interrupted
Kate ; but she buried her lips in
Barton's flowers. " I am not going to hear
you abuse our host and entertainer, Mr.
Payne."

*' Believe me. Miss Harland, I have no wish
to—"

Very well, then wo won't speak of him ;

VOL. 1. s

we will talk of something else. Tell me the
truth. Am I keeping you from the side of
any lady who perhaps at this instant is
anxiously watching for your approach? If
so, do your duty like a man, Mr. Payne, and
go to her ! "

*' On the contrary — there is no one. Like
your brother, I am not remarkable for my
skill in a ball-room ; at a pinch, though, I
can manage a polka or a quadrille. I infinitely
prefer looking on, I do assure you —
for instance, sitting here with you. Miss
Harland, and quizzing, from this jolly nook
amongst the flowers, the odd assemblage
of — "

I am not quizzing," protested Kate, indignantly.
'* Please speak for yourself, Mr.
Payne ! If you are going to be ill-natured I
won't listen to you."

I ill-natured ? Never ! " returned the
chatty young surgeon, laughing. " I am
merely observant ; it's my nature so to be.
Now do have the justice to admit, Miss Har-land,
that it is a curiously assorted company
that is capering in that room yonder. There's
the jovial Coverley parson, the Eeverend
Felix Scamper, but — mark you — not Mrs.
Scamper. Therefore Tim and Phil Maltover,
but not the Miss Maltovers. There is Lawyer
Bilfil's son, but you will look in vain for the

Lawyer's daughters. There are the Reverend
Felix Scamper's fellow-curates of St. Eve's
but then curates go everywhere — "

"Like doctors," interjected Kate, coolly.
"Do you know, Mr. Payne," she frankly
added, " that your remarks, to me, savour of
extreme impertinence ? "

Do they really ? " replied he, as if the suggestion
struck him in the most novel light
conceivable. " I am very thorny. I do not
mean to be impertinent. Miss Harland, 'pon
my word I do not. But candidly," said Mr.
Headstone Payne, with unruffled good-humour,
" does it not amuse you to see
represented here to-night so many of the
cliques of the Coverley folk ? "

And, pray, Mr. Payne, to which clique
do you flatter yourself that you belong ? " inquired
Kate, eyeing with a queer smile her
companion of the hour.

He shrugged his shoulders, with eyebrows
raised.

I ? Oh, I go everywhere and anywhere,
as you justly remarked just now," said he,
laughing again. " A bachelor doctor in a
small country town where, in point of population,
there are about a score or more of
women to every man, is at all times and
seasons in great request, I find."

A conceited, well-to-do young man like

yon, Mr. Payne, should make haste to find a
wife. A married doctor's position, in a place
like Coverley, is at once an assured thing.
If you were married, now, you could attach
yourself and your wife to just whichever
particular ' set ' you pleased — and stick toit,"
said Kate with the utmost gravity.

If I could only meet with a lady in every
respect as charming as yourself, Miss Har-land,
I would not remain a bachelor doctor
another — "

If you are going to make yourself ridiculous,
Mr. Payne, I leave you this instant. I
can't stand compliments — particularly foolish
ones — from anybody."

Well, it is rather rough on me, I must
say, to call me conceited," smiled Headstone
Payne, more imperturbably good-tempered
than ever. '' First, I am told that I am impertinent
; and then — Stay ! is that Mrs.
Porkbury from Redtown ? Surely, yes —
yonder there, speaking now to Mr. Prince.
That enormously stout person with a large
high nose ; with sunflowers, I think, on her
head ? "

"Yes; that is certainly Mrs. Porkbury,"
said Kate, following the direction which Mr.
Payne's quick eyes had taken.

And yes — great heaven ! There are the

Carrara-Joneses, the bone-manure people
from Margrave," cried Headstone, excitedly
*' of all people in the world ! "

'' And why, pray, should they not be
here ? "

Faintly, though ! " said Headstone
vaguely, with another shrug.

For my part," said Kate, equably, '' I
consider the Porkburys and th Carraway-
Joneses every whit as presentable as the
Maltovers, or the Bilfils, or the Singletons,
or, for the matter of that, as any of your
Coverley little big folk, as my friends Miss
Bishop and Miss Eager so playfully designate
that especial Coverley ' set.' Do you know
Miss Bishop and Miss Eager, Mr. Payne ? "
inquired Kate, slily.

"Ah, do I not!" answered Headstone,
with a gay sly glance in return. " Sometimes,
of an afternoon, they give me a cup of
tea, and tell me all the news that's afloat — "

And what they don't happen to know, I
suppose, you tell them," said Kate. *' Is
that it?"

*' Exchange is no robbery, you know, Miss
Harland," replied Mr. Headstone Payne, with
a roguish twinkle in his bright shrewd eyes.
Oh, by-the-bye, have you heard the latest
joke about Miss Snaffle and the Reverend

Felix Scamper? It beats that one about the
sausage supper and the hot grog and the
Vicar popping in unexpectedly at the Cottage
Hospital, and the belli upstairs ringing like
mad — "

Stop — do ! " whispered Kate, peremptorily.


At that instant the Reverend Felix
Scamper himself, laughing and joking inmost
clerical fashion with the girl on
his arm — who was, in fact, none other than
Hetty Prince — entered the conservatory by
the garden-door. Quickly following them
came Julia Prince and Barton Chance, this
latter pair strolling up to Kate and her
cavalier.

Hapless Barton !

He had escaped from the clutches of one
sister, it seemed, only to drift helplessly into
the toils of the other.

What, Kate, not dancing ! " exclaimed
Jill, in her loud harsh way — " nor you either,
Mr. Payne ! My word ! you are a couple of
lazy ones."

'' We are perfectly cool and comfortable, at
any rate," smiled Headstone Payne with
audacious serenity. '' It's deliciously pleasant
in thigh corner here. Miss Prince."

Well, I am rather hot, I own," said Jill,

unfurling her big pink fan. " Don't I look
so ? " — a trifle anxiously.

You do indeed," was Headstone's candid
reply. '' Still, I hope that you are enjoying
yourself, Miss Prince ? "

Awfully, thanks," replied Jill, emphatically
; and she wiped the perspiration from
her matted " fringe."

Her face was beet-root colour ; so were her
arms, neck, and back — in short, all that her
decollete gown so unblushingly revealed.
Every atom of powder had disappeared from
her person ; and she was wondering as she
talked whether it would take her more thana
few minutes to rush upstairs and make good
all deficiencies — for Jill was instinctively
conscious that the delicate end of her left
eyebrow had gone somewhat astray with the
rest of her borrowed charms.

I can recommend the claret-cup," she
went on. " It is one of the drinks, you know,
that pa prides himself upon brewing. You
must come and try it, Mr. Payne " — with a
broadly enticing downward glance at the
young surgeon. Julia had still more than
one unappropriated dance going a-begging on
her programme, and Headstone Payne had
not as yet requested the honour of Miss
Prince's hand. Hetty's card, Jill knew, was

already full — even her sister's " extra after-supper
ones," should there be time for any,
were all promised, and promised very likely
half-a-dozen times over. Indeed, there was
nothing Hetty enjoyed at a party so much as
creating ill-blood and confusion amongst the
numerous candidates for her favour. If they
quarrelled about her — perhaps came to blows
afterwards — why so much the more delightful,
of course.

Claret-cup ! " echoed Headstone, with
smiling immobility. " The mere idea with
divinely refreshing. I won't forget it, Miss
Ringlet''

Barton Chance was bending over Kate.

'' Kate, how much longer is this purgatory
to last ? When are you going to take compassion
on me ? " said he, in a pathetic sottovoce.


She looked straight upward into those godlike
" wet violet " eyes of his ; and perceiving
that, so far, he had given her cause
neither for displeasure nor for pain, answered
with a bright and trustful smile :

'' Have patience ! Very shortly I hope to
gratify you."

Just then there arose, together with the
sound of music which was about to strike up
again, a buzz of voices, murmurs of curiosity,

accents of interest and astonishment, travelling
hither and thither amongst the crowd.

Two late arrivals, it would seem, had
appeared simultaneously in the principal
entrance of the Pringles' ball-room. A
slight, middle-aged man, in faultless evening
attire, with pale, clean-cut features, close-cropped
gray hair and trim black beard and
eyebrows ; and with him a woman, young,
very beautiful, and exquisitely dressed, and
with an air of perfect breeding about her
which at once caught the notice of all.

Her gown was a lovely mixture of palest
canary silk, canary tulle, and costly lace, garlanded
most delicately with sprays of crimson
Virginia-creeper. A twisted necklace of
small pearls closely encircled her cream-white
throat. Pearl bracelets matched the
necklace. These were her sole ornaments,
save the blood-red leaves of the delicate plant
with which she had crowned the ripples of
her soft dark hair. ^" '

What a distinguished-looking couple ! "

Wbo on earth are they ? " .

Surely not husband and wife — she's too
young?"

Might be father and daughter."

'' Look more like that than anything else."

Never saw a lovelier face in all my life ! '*

VOL. I. T

So from one to another ran the muttering
and the whispering amongst the stranger
guests who knew them not; whilst those
who did recognise these late arrivals were
staring their hardest and their widest at them
almost, indeed, as if they had lost suddenly
the gift of speech and could not believe what
their eyes beheld.

Foremost in this division of astonished
ones were Mr. and Mrs. Prince themselves
and their daughter Julia — Jill, in fact, standing
there transfixed in the conservatory,
speechless and wroth, as she watched that
little comedy going forward upon the polished
floor opposite her.

At last the strapping Julia broke into a
harsh laugh.

"Upon my word I like her cheek — don't
you?" said she, coarsely, turning sharply to
Kate Harland, Barton Chance, and Mr. Headstone
Payne. " That is Sir Garth Gilroy of
Woldney Moat, as you can see ; and the lady "
sarcastically — " if you please, is a lady
from the schoolroom upstairs —-our governess,
Miss Dexter 1 "

END or VOL. I.

WAED AND DOWNEY'S

SONGS FROM THE NOVELISTS, FROM

ELIZABETH TO VICTORIA. Edited, and with Introduction
and Notes, by W. Davenport Adams. [Just ready.

PHILOSOPHY IN THE KITCHEN. By "The

Old Bohemian." 1 Vol. [Just ready.

UNDER THE TZARS. By Stepniak, Author of

Underground Russia." Demy 8vo.

LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL

CORRESPONDENT. By John Augustus O'Shea. 2 Vols.,
with a Portrait of the Author. dis.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; or, LONDON

UNDER THE FIRST GEORGES. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOY. Crown 8vo. 6s. »

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; or, LONDON

UNDER THE LAST GEORGES. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOY. Crown 8vo. 6s.

A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN, AND OTHER

STORIES. By the Author of " Phyllis," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

MORNING GREY. By the Author of " Ade.'^

3 Vols. 31s. 6d. lln April.

THE FLOWER OF DOOM. By M. Bethany

Author of " Kitty," &c. Crown 8vo. 6s. [Shortly.

LIL LORIMER. By Theoo Gift, Author of ''A

Matter-of-fact Girl," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

SOME STAINED PAGES. By the Author of

The New Mistress," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

WARD AND DOWNEY, 12, York Street, Covent Garden.

LIKE LOST SHEEP. By the Author of ^^The

Wild Warringtonss." 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

NOT EVERY DAY : A LOVE OCTAVE. By

Constance MacEwen, Author of " Miss Beauchamp : a
Philistine," &c. 2 Vols. 21s.

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW. By

Mabel Collins. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

JOHN FORD. By Frank Barrett, Author o£

*' Folly Morrison," &c. 2 Vols. 12s.

THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. By B.

L. Farjeon. Third Edition. 6s.

GREAT PORTER SQUARE: A MYSTERY. By

B. L. Farjeon, Author of " Grief," &c. Fourth Edition. Gs.

PROPER PRIDE. By B. M. Croker, Author of

Pretty Miss Neville," &c. Fourth Edition. 6s.

FOLLY MORRISON. By Frank Barrett, Author

of " John Ford," &c. 3s. 6d.

GRIF: A STORY OF AUSTRALIAN LIFE.

By B. L. Farjeon. 3s. 6d.

THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. By Richard

DowLiNG. Picture Boards. 2s.

HONEST DAVIE. By Frank Barrett.

\ In the Press.

IT IS NO WONDER. By J. Fitzgerald Molly.

\ In the Press.

^

WARD AND DOWNEY, 12, York Street, Covent Garden.

t^y!^^M%i(j'

;j^fe

:mM

mm

^m

^^10Z.

%id^f

'i^

1^

^ ^?

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS


&79Z-t

tM

BY

ARNOLD GRAY

author' of " THE WILD Warrington," &C.

Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small :
Though ivith patience He stands waiting, ivith exactness grinds He all.'

N THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

Lotion :
WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1885.
[All Rights Reserved']

CONTENTS.

PAGE

CHAPTER I . . . I

CHAPTER II 15

CHAPTER III 42

CHAPTER IV 55

CHAPTER V 70

CHAPTER VI 79

CHAPTER VII 98

CHAPTER VIII 119

CHAPTER IX 128

CHAPTER X 140

CHAPTER XI . . . 151

CHAPTER XII 166

CHAPTER XIII .181

CHAPTER XIV 19s

CHAPTER XV . 213

CHAPTER XVI 226

CHAPTER XVII 242

CHAPTER XVIII 257

CHAPTER I.

Hetty Prince, without so much as one
conscience-prick, having thrown over a
foolish and callow youth that had fallen to
her lot, and that could not say " Bo ! " to a
goose — a youth with remarkably long front
teeth, lank flaxen hair parted faultlessly down
the middle, and an eye-glass stuck in a dim
and vacant eye — went flying upstairs, unobserved,
to her room ; and arrived there,
tugged the bell-rope in a prompt yet cautious
manner, once, twice, thrice. The gentle
*' tinkle-tinkle " in some far off region had
the desired effect ; for Topps, the astute and
invaluable, comprehending the signal, shortly
appeared with a silver salver. Upon the salver

VOL. II. B

was a tall and slender glass, brimming and
sparkling with '' soda-and-brandy," with a
lump of crisp, cold ice showing itself enticingly
upon the surface of the delightful
draught.

Thanks awfully ! '* murmured Hetty,
putting her parched lips to it gratefully.
You are indeed a real duck, Topps ! You
see," said she confidentially by-and-by, when
the tall glass was empty, '' one cannot very
well ask the gentlemen for this kind of thing
at least, not more than once during the
evening, and even then it all depends upon
what sort of fellow he is ; it looks odd, and
and, if it gets about, it does a girl a lot of
harm, don't you know. Fellows exaggerate
so. But, after all, there is nothing in the
world that pulls" one together half so well and
gives one such an appetite for supper. I've
been dancing like a whirlwind all the evening,
and was thoroughly sinking for the want of
it, Topps."

"And I don't wonder, miss," answered
Topps, demurely sympathetic. " Jane and
cook and me and Thomas have been watching
the company for a little while from the
lobby at the end of the hall; and, as you
say, you have been a-footing it and no mistake
! And we all agreed, Miss Hetty, that
you was the belle."

Did you really, though ? " cried Hetty,
eagerly. She ran over to the looking-glass,
gingerly patted her fringe, and touched up
her fascinations generally. " I told you,
Topps, didn't T, that I'd give you my old
cashmere ? " said she.

Yes, Miss Hetty, and thank you kindly
for it."

'' Oh, and I say, Topps, do you know how
that Miss Dexter thought fit to show herself
in the ball-room to-night ? She came in as
late as you please, and with all the coolness
and cheek imaginable, side by side with Sir
Garth Gilroy ! "

Yes, miss, but she couldn't help it."
These were the words which sprang involuntarily
to the abigail's lips ; but, upon second
thoughts, she checked them — Topps being
wise in her generation — and said instead :

A proper idea, that. Miss Hetty ! And
what presumption, to be sure." All the
same, Topps and her fellow servants, in the
lobby at the end of the hall, had been spectators
of the little incident and had seen
quite well how it happened. " She don't
know her place, it's very certain, that Miss
Dexter don't," added Topps, severely.

Rather not ! " was Hetty's disdainful
reply. " Ma tried her best to get her aside
and to give it her pretty stiff on the quiet; but

you know lier way, Topps — Miss Dexter' s, I
mean. She just looked ma up and down in that
cool and tightly unpleasant manner of hers,
and then marched quietly off before she —
ma, you know — lead finished speaking to her,
and joined Miss Harland or somebody in
another part of the room. However, she'll
catch it tomorrow, I have no doubt."

What downright importance ! " said the
abigail. '' Nobody would ever think that
she was a governess, Miss Hetty, to see how
she gets herself up and that. Why look at
her to-night ! She's as grand as anybody —
or thinks herself so," sniggered Topps.

How she does it, I can't conceive," said
Hetty — " it gets over me altogether. Well,
I don't fancy she'll bother us much longer.
Only the other day we all were heartily
agreed that as soon as ever my sister, Mrs.
Farleigh, gets all right — and she is a lot
stronger than she was — away we pack those
little animals and Miss Dexter after them.
Children in the house are a frightful
nuisance."

She's too 'high for her place," said Topps,
nose in air. " Them sort of people usually
are. Anybody can see it, Miss Hetty, bless
you."

'' Then the sooner the looks out for

another the better," laughed Hetty, carelessly.


So saying, she deftly picked up her Cambridgeshire
tail, and, much refreshed and
invigorated, tripped lightly downstairs to
rejoin the revels below. Her next partner,
disconsolate at her absence, was mooning to
and fro in the hall, searching for the damsel
everywhere. A moment afterwards his arm
was around her waist, and the two were soon
lost in a maze of other couples all prancing
in a lively schottische.

Kate Harland still sat in her conservatory
corner among the cool plants and Chinese
lanterns ; but Mr. Headstone Payne had
vanished from her side, and his place was
now occupied by the Pringles' governess.

The two girls sat upon the ottoman
together; they had the dim sweet place to
themselves.

Kate was telling her friend that as yet she
had refused all solicitations to dance because
she was bent on obtaining, if possible, a cosy
little chat with her — Miss Dexter — as soon
as she should appear in the room. " I
thought I might lose sight of you amongst
all these strange people here if I did not
keep a sharp look out on your movements,"
said Kate, with her frank laugh, " and

perhaps not be able to get near you the
whole evening."

'sit is very dear and kind of you — you
are always kind' Miss Dexter murmured.
And then she went on to explain to Kate
that Mrs. Prince, having all along promised
the two little girls, Joey and Tommy, that
they should sit up late for a treat, to have a
peep at the fine company and the smart
dresses, and perhaps a bonbon apiece to put
under their pillows, had, at the last moment,
changed her mind and despatched them
early to bed instead.

Joey and Tommy, sorely aggrieved at this
treatment, had wept very bitterly over it,
but quietly all the same, as was the little
creatures' wont ; and so, in order to pacify
them and ease their sense of wrong, Miss
Dexter had begged from the cook downstairs
some jelly and tarts and other " goodies,"
and they three together, in the children's
bed-room, where nobody would think of
looking for them, had had an impromptu
little supper under the rose; the governess
afterwards reading them to sleep with fairy
stories from their beloved Grimm.

This, said Miss Dexter, had made her late.

At all events, late as you were in coming
down, you were fortunate in finding an
escort," remarked Kate, playfully.

Do not say fortunate — the circumstance
was purely accidental," returned the other,
coldly. " Sir Garth Gilroy and I happened
to meet in the hall, indeed at the very door
of the ball-room. He had just arrived. As
the Pringles had already introduced me to
him, we could not very well avoid entering
the room together. However, I do not
fancy that the accident was any more to his
taste than it was to mine."

Kate Harland glanced curiously at the
pale, proud, lovely profile of the girl at her
side. Was there or was there not something
strange, perhaps mysterious, connected with
the unknown past of Miss Dexter, Kate
caught herself wondering insensibly as she
looked at her. The doubt, she knew, had
often troubled her, but it was stronger than
ever to-night. And yet why — oh, why! — •
thought Kate almost impatiently, should she
feel towards the girl so warmly and so
singularly attracted ?

What a strikingly pretty gown yours
is," Kate remarked after a pause, with
genuine admiration. " It is quite the
prettiest I have seen here to-night."

'' You surprise me," replied the governess,
with a little shrug and smile. " It is not
new — in fact, it has done duty in town on
more than one occasion, at the theatre and

elsewhere. Still it is good enough for
Borough Mills."

'* Do you go often to the theatre when
you are — when you are at home in London?"
Kate inquired ; somewhat perplexed and
astonished at the nonchalant reply — though
perhaps she could hardly have told why.
Doubtless it was the tone more than the
words themselves which had set Kate
vaguely marvelling again.

*not very often," said Miss Dexter,
quietly ; '* unless my brother is well enough
to accompany me. It is an intense pleasure
for me then, because he so enjoys it."

You once told me that your brother was
delicate," said Kate, laying a sympathetic
hand upon the governess's arm. " Have
you seen him this Christmas ? If so, I
sincerely hope that you found him stronger.
You see, we are alike in one respect — are we
not? We both possess and love an only
brother. It is a pleasant coincidence."

Miss Dexter's small dark head, with its
coronal of blood-red leaves, had drooped and
was turned aside; so that Kate could not
see the quivering which touched those sensitive
lips.

'* My brother," she answered, with pathetic
emphasis upon the pronoun, " will always be

delicate. He will never, in this world, Miss
Harland, be stronger than he is now. He
may live for years, say the doctors, or — or
he may — "

Oh, surely not so bad as that ! " cried
Kate quickly. " Doctors are not always
right, you know. Even the cleverest men
err sometimes — are sometimes mistaken."

My brother," said the governess, speaking
as if the mere effort of speech were
anguish to her, '* is a hopeless invalid. Miss
Harland. At times he suffers terribly with
his heart ; a — a fatal malady which has come
to him from our dear dead mother."

But the doctors may be mistaken — indeed
they may," urged Kate, affectionately."

Ah, no ! The cleverest, the noblest doctor
in London, Miss Harland, who was, too, our
dearest — "

The governess, unable to continue, stopped
abruptly.

Forgive me — forgive me, " Kate
hastened to say. " I did not mean to cause
you pain. Do you recollect," she went on,
summoning to her aid her cheerfulness tone
and mien, " what you promised to do the last
time I saw you ? — on that night before you
went away for your Christmas holiday ? You
promised me then that I should be *Miss

Harland ' no more, but ever ' Kate ' thenceforward."


"Did— did I?"

You know that you did."

Yes — you are right. I remember."

And is that pleasant promise to count for
nought ? Do you mean, after all, to go back
to the stiff and formal ' Miss Harland ? ' Oh,
I hope not ! "

A flood of living crimson had swept away
the " warm pallor " which was the ordinary
tint of Miss Dexter's complexion. In a few
seconds that burning colour had died out,
and had left her deadly pale. A moment
which she had dreaded and had known must
come, and for which perhaps she was not
totally unprepared, had at last arrived. She
divined what Kate's next desire must inevitably
be : ah ! what should she say or do
in facing it ?

No," replied the governess, tremulously ;
I will call you ' Kate.' I — I want to call
you Kate. Did I not tell you so before, on —
on that night when I ran across the bridge to
say good-bye ? "

Of course," said Kate ; " and I do not
intend to let you off now. There," she
broke off, gaily, "you see how tiresome it
is ! I cannot get on one bit, for I do not

mean to ' Miss Dexter ' you any longer.
Will you not help me out ? Do ! " — coaxingly.


Oh, for a little time ! She was hemmed ina
corner ; she felt that her strength was leaving
her ; and there was no escape now. In
this moment, which she had for long anticipated,
feared, and trembled for, was there
then no alternative but the truth ?

Yes. There was one course to take, and
only one, and take it she must and would,
since she could see no other outlet to her
dilemma. Heaven forgive her ! she would,
at any cost, make it serve her for the present,
and bear as best she might the consequences
of her backsliding which doubtless the future
would bring upon her. What could she do ?
What could she do ? Oh, for a little more
time ! She must cudgel her wits, strive for
calmness.

Are you feeling well ? " inquired Kate,,
anxiously. " No ! " — starting up — " I can
see that you are not. You have turned so
pale. I shall go and get you a glass of wine.
Pooh ! my dear. I do not in the least mind
going alone for it ; I can reach the 
by running round the garden way.
I will not be long, trust me."

'thank you; if you really do not mind

the trouble," said the governess, faintly. " I
believe the heat has penetrated even here.
You are too good — "

Kate Harland was gone. Miss Dexter, left
to herself, shrank shivering back into the leafy
gloom and pressed her face tightly into her
hands. The dancers went flying past the long
glass doors ; the music clashed out in merriest
strains.

Should it be so? Kate would soon be
back. "M— M — M," she muttered feverishly.
Yes ; she was resolved. Circumstances
demanded that it should be done, and
she would do it. But alas ! alas ! for the
tangled web that she was weaving into her life.

Kate had returned with a glass of champagne.
Luckily she had run against Roger
to whom she whispered her errand — and he,
with surprising alacrity, had procured the
wine for her.

Come, you are looking better ! " said
Eoger's sister, briskly. "They have now
opened the hall-windows, and the breeze from
the river will make it cooler everywhere.
You must drink this instantly, or I shall be
angry with you."

The other obeyed. She was still very
pale, but her agitation was no longer visible.
Outwardly she was self-possessed and calm
again.

*' How shall I thank you, Kate ? " said the
governess quietly. 'you are good-nature
and unselfishness personified."

"Ami? I didn't know it'' was Kate's
light rejoinder. " Still, if you would really
like to thank me for nothing at all — why, it
can very easily be done. You know yourself
how easily it can be done," said she, dropping
her two hands upon Miss Dexter's shoulders.
Tell me, my dear, what I may call you ?
What is your name — the name that begins
with M ? "

Then the governess also stood up; and,
after a momentary flinching, met the truthful
gaze of Kate Harland's eyes. In those clear
eyes there was no veiled falsehood ; only a
frank, inquiring smile.

Call me," Miss Dexter said, trembling
again a little as she spoke — " call me, if you
will — Madeline."

Madeline ! " Kate echoed, with a bright,
pleased look ; " Madeline — Madeline — it is a
beautiful name. And so, dear, your name is
Madeline ? "

*' Yes," was the faint reply — ^' Madeline."

'' Madeline," cried Kate, blithely, " here
come my brother Roger and Mr. Chance. I
must leave you now, I can plainly see ; I can
no longer shirk my duty. Will you let Eoger
take care of you ? — you could not, I assure

you, be in better or safer hands," she added,
mischievously, as Roger and Barton joined
them.

About twenty minutes later on it so
happened that Barton Chance and Kate Har-land
found themselves in a set of Lancers
vis-a-vis to Roger Harland and Madeline
Dexter.

In the figure which opens the dance Kate's
opportunity occurred, when she was called
upon to quit Barton's side to execute a paS'
de-deiix with Roger.

My dear old boy," she said in a rapid
undertone, when Roger's strong arm was
gripping her waist, " I have discovered it at
last. She has told me her name ! "

*' Well," he was quick to respond in the
same manner, " what is it ? — Kate, let me
hear it ! "

Kate's head was on a level with her brother s
neck, but she managed to put her lips to his
ear.

It is Madeline," she answered, distinctly,
under cover of the capering and the music —
Madeline."

And Roger actually hugged her before he
let her go.

It was past midnight ; in fact, nearly one
o'clock.

In the great dining-room at Borough Mills
sin which, by means of a little clever planning
beforehand, it had been found practicable
so to arrange matters that all the
Pringles' guests should be seated at once :
which, confided Mrs. Prince to Mrs. ,
was a much more sociable style
of doing things than that of sending in the
company in batches to scramble as they
might for themselves — supper and making-merry
were well to the fore. A perhaps
somewhat riotous merry-making it promised
to be ; but then that would astonish nobody
at the Pringles' New Year ball.

The supper was a very grand and a very
fashionable one. The plate and glass were
of the most elaborate character ; the epergnes
and candelabra were of the tallest and handsomest

of their kind. The lights and the
floral decorations were indeed dazzling — the
table, in short, was a triumph of good things.
They liked to do the affair out-and-out well,
when they were about it, said Mrs. Prince,
or else leave it alone.

The waiters — hired for the night from
'* The Gig Hotel " — were nimble and attentive
and everything that could be desired ;
though they were generally found to be
incapable towards the waning of the entertainment,
with the slender necks of one or
two bottles sticking out of their coat-tail
pockets. This circumstance, however, was
not altogether to be wondered at, seeing that
corks went popping with startling frequency,
and Solomon Prince's irreproachable Perrier
Jouet flowed without stint throughout the
feast.

Don't you be afraid of it. Sir Garth,"
said Mrs. Prince, in a hoarse whisper, to
the honoured guest who sat upon her right
hand — " it's none of your gooseberry joyce
at five-and-sixpence a bottle. Take my
word for that, Sir Garth."

Your kind assurance is unnecessary," replied
Sir Garth, politely ; " for — "

Good wine needs no bush, I know,"
struck in his hostess blandly, wagging her

bedizened head at the guest spar excellence
of the night ; and Mrs. Prince smiled and
bowed, and raised meanwhile her glass to
her lips, thus intimating that she wished "to
take wine " with Sir Garth, and felt flattered
beyond measure at his condescension in
gracing her ball with his presence. A queer
expression flitted over that gentleman's white
features as he responded to the lady's humour
and bowed and smiled in return.

Roger Harland had gained his heart's
desire. He had found sufficient courage to
ask Madeline Dexter to give him the supper-dance
— indifferent performer though he was
and knew himself to be — and, to his intense
happiness, she had readily acceded to his
request.

Perhaps he was both a little amazed and
confused at her graciousness towards him ;
for it was easy to perceive that there was
not a smart young bachelor present but who
was eager to win the favour of the lovely
girl in the soft canary robe and scarlet
leaves. Roger was the least vain and conceited
of young men; and he could hardly
believe his good luck.

It was with feelings of wrath and bitterness
commingled that the Prince family —
father, mother, and daughters alike — were

VOL. II.

compelled to witness the impression which
the governess's appearance had created. In
half-an-hour they had grown utterly sick of
the eternal question — always the same — of
Who is she ? — that beautiful girl in the
pale yellow gown and crimson leaves ? "
They were weary of the name of Miss
Dexter, and wished vehemently fifty times
over that they never had had the folly to
invite her down from the school-room.

Dear me ! Why it's only the governess,"
said Mrs. Prince, managing to work up a
broad, surprised smile, yet with infinite disdain
upon the word " only."

Lord, bless you, no ! — only the governess,"
echoed Solomon; "only our little
gals' governess — our daughter Louisa's little
gals', I should say — from upstairs."

We thought it would be a treat for the
poor thing," added Mrs. Prince, vaguely.

'' That said the burly Jill — "gracious
goodness, it's only Miss Dexter ! She's the
brats' governess — a mere nobody — she came
here last November. How do you like my
bouquet — it is charming, isn't it ? " — pushing
the flowers with clumsy coquetry under
her partner's nose.

Who is she f " was Hetty's reply to her
interrogator, with an arch upward stare and

a shrug to match. *' Now, as if you couldn't
tell at a glance who and what she is. She's
those small plagues' gouvernante — and a
pretty spectacle she has made of herself ! "
Hetty added, with a shrill little laugh which
deceived nobody ; the venom in it was too
apparent.

All the same — outrageous in taste on the
part of everybody as the Pringles affected to
regard the circumstance — Miss Dexter was
besieged on all sides by those susceptible
and fortunate youths who had contrived to
obtain an introduction. Her behaviour, however,
under the marked ordeal was in keeping
with her other "airs and graces," said
Julia Prince.

She was cold and distant to the majority,
and gracious only to a few — a very few. She
had danced with Headstone Payne — who, ashe
put it, claimed the right of an old friend,
and asked her if she had forgotten that it had
been his privilege to visit her daily when she
was lying weak and ill at the Lock — with
Barton Chance and with Roger Harland ;
whilst to Kate she had imparted her intention
of withdrawing to her own room as
soon as she could after the business of
supper had come to an end.

These three men had been her only

partners. All other candidates for her
hand had been met with a quiet but resolute
denial. The over-bold and audacious
had been snubbed for their pains.

Pop— pop ! Pop — pop ! " went the corks
in the background; and the agile waiters
skipped hither and thither, replenishing the
glasses at every opportunity after the seductive
manner of their tribe. With the clattering
of knives and forks, and incessant
changing of plates; with the rattling of
icepails and other dinner waggon adjuncts ;
with the noisy laughter of the young folk
■ — noisiest amidst which was that of the
Prince girls themselves and their respective
adorers of the hour — in all this din of
riot and festivity, it was not a very difficult
matter for two quietly disposed people to
converse with each other almost as freely as
if they two had been sole tenants of some
desert spot. Certainly the spirit of the oft-quoted
Yere de Yere repose was conspicuous
by its absence at that boisterous supper-table
at Borough Mills.

Have you been to visit your old friend at
the Lock yet?" Eoger was saying to hi
sweet proud lady at table, whose few alimentary
wants he jealously guarded and
attended to; "I mean, since your return,,
Miss Dexter?"

"No — not yet'* was the calm answer.
Since my return to this place there has
been no opportunity for my going. I hope,
though, to see him tomorrow."

I have met him frequently in our mill-yard,
on the bridge, and elsewhere, whilst
you have been gone," Roger told her simply,
*' and he was always wanting to know
whether I knew when you were coming
back to us."

'' Dear old man," said the governess,
gently.

Here a louder burst of laughter than
common rang out from that part of the
horse shoe " table where Hetty Prince
sat wedged between two obstreperous Red-town
young men. Amongst them they had
been pulling those bon-bons familiar to everybody,
which, having exploded, are found
to contain '' surprise packages " in divers
colours, in the shape of paper caps and
other flimsy headgear.

One of the young men had now tied on his
head an article which was plainly intended
to represent an old woman's night-cap, with
flapping paper frills and pink paper strings ;
the other had crowned himself with a bishop's
mitre; whilst the lively Hetty had made
haste to decorate her person with a babyhood
and a bib beneath it.

Thus grotesquely arrayed, all three of them
were shouting and wagging their heads at
each other.

"Do you know," said Harland, bending
his stalwart shoulders the better to speak
near the ear of his companion, and somehow
finding in the uproar going on around them
a temerity which, under other conditions,
he perhaps would have lacked — " do you
know, Miss Dexter, that I have learned
something to-night which — which I have
for a long while wished to discover?"

Indeed ? And what, may I inquire, is
that?"

She looked brightly up at him as she put
the question, and so met the steadfast light
which shone in Eoger's eyes. Then hers
fell before his, whilst Harland's brown face
suddenly blushed like a girl's.

*' I have heard — I know at last what your
name is," said he, bluntly and awkwardly
enough. " It is Madeline."

Madeline Dexter had been playing with
her spoon, the jelly on her plate remaining
untouched. Instantly the tiny spoon slipped
from her hand and struck the plate before
her. As she uttered no comment upon
Eoger's discovery, he said — with a kind of
rough anxiety —

You are not angry with me, I hope ?
You do not think me impertinent — too — too
presumptuous — "

'« No, no, no ! Why should I ? "

*' I did not know," stammered he. '' I — I
thought you might be angry. I couldn't
tell."

*' I am not angry*' she said; "at least,
not with you. Why should I be so unjust
when you have done nothing to offend
me?"

With whom, then, are you angry," said
Eoger, with a puzzled look, " if not with
me?"

With myself," she replied, almost vehemently.
'' I am vexed — nay, I hate myself
to-night."

Harland stared straight at the magnificent
epergne in front of him, with its exquisite
mass of hothouse bloom and fern, its silver
stem of wondrous design flashing through
the drooping green of spray and tendril,
then turned again to Madeline.

Since you are not annoyed with me," he
ventured once more, with the sensation of
growing hot all over, " I — I should like to tell
you — if I may — that in all the world I do
not think there can be a prettier or a sweeter
name, Miss Dexter, than yours — Madeline."

Silently she smote her hands together in
her lap; clasped them, pressed them one
upon the other until the gems in the rings
upon her fingers caused her absolute pain.

Do you ? " she said, wearily, more to
herself than to him. " It may be a pretty
name — I — I do not know — but to me it
never seemed more odious than it seems
this night."

Roger, not knowing what to say in answer,
wisely kept dumb; thinking almost unconsciously
meanwhile how true it was that
women were " strange cattle."

The bon-bon pulling had by this time
become general; the floor of the supper-room
was strewn with tinsel rubbish. Hetty
and her Redtown young men had exchanged
their late wild headgear for specimens of a
still wilder character, and were shrieking
with glee over the trying-on process.

Julia Prince, near her father's portion of
the table, was skittish engaged in extinguishing,
in an immense black sunbonnet
with flying saffron ends, the small pate and
cherubic features of young Carrara-Jones.
Jill herself was smirking, in most bewitching
fashion, in a saffron sun bonnet with strings
and ends of black.

Noisiest amongst the noisy ones was Barton

Chance, who certainly appeared to be
not in the least degree behindhand — if his
patron Sir Garth were so — in doing full
justice to thePringles' Perrier Jouet.

The young fellow's shirt-front was crumpled
; his amber locks were roughened ; his
handsome face — nay, his very neck and brow
were alike flushed with wine and excitement ;
and his eyes — those beautiful " wet-purple"
eyes of Barton's, which many a woman in
her time had gazed into and envied him —
danced and melted with a reckless light born
of the false pleasure of the hour.

But the woman, in the plain white silken
robe, who sat there by his side, looked
grave and sad — almost stern. What were
his promises worth, ardently made as they
were, she was reflecting bitterly ? What
peace, or calm, or rest on earth could she
ever hope to attain in worshipping at so
earthly and so worthless a shrine ? Had
not she built her house upon sand, as it were,
and pinned her woman's faith to a vain
shadow ? Ah me ! cried she, in her heart
of hearts, was not Roger right when he
had one day likened his friend to chafE
before the wind ? Unstable as water, how
could he hope ever to excel ? Above all,
if he loved her — yet should there be no
"if" in the matter, for had not his love

for her been expressed in signs that were
unmistakable a hundred times over ? Verily,
yes ! — would not he endeavour more than he
did to study her loving wishes and to spare
her so much pain ? For her wishes were
wise as well as loving, and were all for
his good !

My dear one — my bonny Kate !" whispered
he, raising unsteadily the sparkling
glass to his lips, " my love — my endless love
to you ! "

It was no time for reproaches — this midnight
hour of gaiety and glamour — for
rebukes at promises broken as soon as
given; and so Kate, true woman as she
was, roused herself and smiled on him and
thanked him thus. And none who saw that
bright kind smile guessed that beneath the
surface of it lay the " hidden tears."

Pop — pop I Pop — pop ! " went the flying
corks, and every glass upon that glittering
horse-shoe board was once more charged
to the brim.

Meanwhile Mr. Prince had risen to his
feet, and, something like silence having been
obtained, the worthy Solomon, in the finest
language at his command, was assuring all
those present how happy — alas ! the " h "
was nowhere — it made him and his family

to see 'em all enjoying themselves so
thoroughly in his house. Having rambled
on for a space of five minutes or so, with
nobody in reality paying the slightest heed
to him, he wished, before a-setdng down,
he said, to propose a toast which, on an
occasion like the present, he couldn't with
civility pass over : namely, the 'earth of
his illustrious guest and very good friend
and neighbour — Sir Garth Gilroy.

This toast, albeit there was no especial
reason for it, was enthusiastically received
and drunk by the majority of the company ;
who were, perhaps, of that everyday order
that dearly loves a baronet in the absence
of a lord.

But Miss Dexter, the governess, never
stirred in her chair.

Sir Garth responded in a few terse sentences,
and sat down again, looking unspeakably
bored. Once or twice he had
caught himself upon the very brink of yawning
in the face of Mrs. Prince. Had he,
however, done so outright, that good and
florid dame would have freely pardoned the
offence. Dearly, at any rate, did Mrs.
Prince love a lord.

Then somebody of course, must needs
propose the health of the ladies; the time-honoured

business being coupled with the
name of Mr. Carra way Jones, junior — who
was, declared a wag, known to be a staunch
adorer of the fair sex.

Once upon his legs, poor unhappy little
Carrara-Jones began to perspire and
quaver horribly ; his nervous condition not
by any means being improved by the jocular
encouragement of the Reverend Felix
Scamper, who sat in his vicinity. Like
those of his fellow convives, the clerical
crown of that model Coverley parson was
fantastically decorated with paper headgear
; he having donned a rakish-looking
chess white cap and sleeves ; and the jovial
gentleman's eyes were full of clerical fun.

Don't be shy, man, now you're about it,"
said the Reverend Felix, in a vigorous
whisper — " that's splendid ! You are a born
orator, by Jove ! — the coming Demosthenes
of the nineteenth century. You have made
all the girls cry, 'pon my soul you have,
Jones ; your eloquence is too much for 'em
they can t stand it ! "

Little Carrara-Jones writhed in his
pumps, and aimed a kick under the tablecloth
at the shins of the Eeverend Felix.
But as ill-luck would have it, he missed his
mark, and '' barked " the ankle of the fair
Julia.

Jill screamed out involuntarily — she positively
could not help it, she said afterwards —
and " loathed " Mr. Carraway- Jones for his
brutal awkwardness from that hour thenceforward.


'' And as the poet says — as the poet says —
he says somewhere," floundered the wretched
youth, continuing his speech, " and as the
poet says — says — ' bright the lamps ' — as the
poet says — ' shone o'er — shone o'er — ' "

For Heaven's sake, don't break down,
old man, now you've got so far ! " murmured
the Reverend Felix Scamper. '' You are
creating a tremendous impression. Just
look at Mrs. Porkbury yonder —-she's struck
dumb with admiration. Your language,
when you speak ' trumpery,' as the old
woman said in Punch, is ' that wonderful
fluid.' Jones, do observe her."

It was an evil suggestion on the part of
the Reverend Felix ; for Mr. Carraway- Jones
was weak enough to glance, with one piteous
wandering eye, across at Mrs. Porkbury.
The bust of that stout and be-sunflower
matron was thrown well forward; her double
chin was well in air ; whilst high upon the
bridge of her large beak-nose, she held a
gold since-nez. Thus she sat and stared
straight upwards, surveying Mr. Carraway-
Jones.

Her unblinking scrutiny was too much for
the speaker, for this brilliant champion of the
fair sex. Indeed that bold pince-nez was as
the last straw.

Poor Demosthenes turned from hot to
cold ; from cold to hot again. Beads of perspiration
trickled visibly down his forehead
and nose ; until desperately he seized his glass
of "Boy " and drained it then and there.

As the poet says — as the poet says," he
gasped out, " 'and bright the lamps shone o'er
shone o'er — brave women and fair men — '"

A roar of unfeeling laughter drowned all
further effort ; and young Mr. Carra way-jones
collapsed, sat down suddenly, steeped
in confusion and despair.

What an awful fool you have made of
yourself, Mr. Jones," said Jill, waspishly,
who had been surreptitiously rubbing her
bruised limb, which she felt pretty certain
would, on examination, prove to be black
and blue.

You needn't tell me that. Miss Julia,"
replied he, humbled and rueful. " I shan't
forget it for some time to come."

Nor I, either'' retorted Jill meaningly.

Bravo, Jones, old man," cried the
Eeverend Felix Scamper. " I'd no idea you
were such a gifted chap — 'pon my word, I

Hadn't. It's a treat to hear him spout — isn't
it, Mrs. Porkburj ? Like myself, I perceived
that you too were thrilled with the
burning eloquence of Mr. Carraway- Jones."

Whereupon Mrs. Porkbury waggled her
sunflowers at the parson, and told him that
lie was a good-for-nothing fellow. She had
always suspected it, said Mrs. Porkbury,
archly, and now she was sure of it.

Taking neither part nor interest in the
jocose proceedings that were waxing fast
and furious around them, Roger and Madeline
remained engrossed with what they
found to say to each other.

It was the first evening-party of the kind
that the latter had ever assisted at, and she
was devoutly hoping that it would be the
last as well. The noise stunned her.

I'm afraid. Miss Dexter," hazarded
Roger, with humility, " that you think us a
a — a very rowdy lot ? "

I ? I— I don't know that I do." But
the rare, tell-tale colour mounted to her pale,
lovely brow.

You look as if you do," said he.

*'DoI?" she smiled.

''I suspect the parties which you are accustomed
to go to in London are not like
this one," said Roger, bluntly.

I do not go to many parties when I amin
London," replied Madeline, gently.

But those that you have been to," persisted
Harland, " were not like this one, I'm
sure r

Well, not exactly, perhaps," she admitted,
with a little amused laugh. ^' Still
all dances, you know, are more or less alike.
Country ones, doubtless, are less formal than
those one goes to in town."

'' There is not much formality here," said
Roger, grimly.

No, there is not," laughed the governess,
frankly. And her laugh was as sweetest
music in the ears of Roger Harland.

The gloomy eyes of Sir Garth Gilroy, from
beneath their straight black brows, were at
that instant furtively watching the features
of Madeline Dexter ; whose seat was on the
opposite side of the supper-table, some three
or four yards away. He had completely
forgotten his hostess. He was just then
living once more in the days of a vanished
past.

Mrs. Prince's woolly voice jerked him
back, as it were, to the present. He came
out of shorthand with a start.

Now, my dear Sir Garth," said she,
*' do let me persuade you. This ice-pudding.

I mean — it really is delicious. Just a beetle
bit, now, Sir Garth. Do — ■"

'' Thank you, no," replied the gentleman,
hastily. "You must excuse me." Within
himself he was vaguely wondering whether
this business of feeding, this lengthy scene
of senseless jocularity, were ever coming to
an end ; or was it, idle supposition apart,
indeed to go on until broad day ?

You are dis-trays Sir Garth," said Mrs.
Prince, who had picked up a fugitive
French word or two from her daughters'
Paris vocabulary. " I am very much afraid,
Sir Garth, that you are not enjoying yourself?"


You are extremely kind. I — 1 have
passed a most enjoyable evening. I was
looking at the lady who — er — er — is your
governess, Mrs. Prince. She reminds me
strangely of someone whom I — er — used to
know years ago," he answered, rousing himself.


'' Really, Sir Garth ? You surprise me ! '*

Mrs. Prince drew herself up. Her ample
bosom for seconds heaved in silence — a
thunderous silence. Her very rubies themselves
looked angry. Somehow, with Mrs.
Prince, the effect of the bare mention of
the name of Miss Dexter was becoming

VOL. II. D

similar to that produced by the flourishing
of the proverbial red rag under the nose of
the proverbial bull.

It is so, I assure you," said Gilroy,
dreamily, having relapsed into his absent
humour. And he again glanced across at
the governess through the intervening table-decorations.


And may I make so bold as to ask," said
Mrs. Prince, breathing hard — " whether the
reminiscence which — which the sight of the
young person awakens is a pleasant one or
otherwise, Sir Grarth ? "

A pleasant reminiscence ? " echoed the
master of the Moat, slowly, as if he were
pondering the idea. " Well, yes — no — I
mean, no. Miss Dexter reminds me of — of
nothing that I care to remember, Mrs.
Prince."

Oh," said she, ** that's lucky then, Sir
Garth ! For Miss Dexter won't be here
much longer, I can tell you. The children
will be leaving us very soon, I hope, and she
won't be wanted no more."

'* Indeed ! " returned Gilroy, with more
animation than he had hitherto displayed.
He was glad — though, had he been called
upon to do so then, he could hardly have
given a reason for the feeling of relief which

he experienced — to learn that the girl who
was called Miss Dexter would shortly be
seen no more at Borough Mills.

The truth of the matter was, her presence
there caused him vague irritation. He could
not tell why ; or, at any rate, he cared not
to ask himself why. Indeed, since the date
of that night a little while back on which she
had first been presented to him, and when he
had for the first time seen her in close view,
her face — more particularly her dark, proud
eyes — had never ceased to haunt his mental
vision. She was so like ; and yet so unlike.
. . She recalled in a dim yet painful manner
faces and scenes of a buried past, which it
was little joy to remember, but hard enough
sometimes to forget. The likeness, of course,
was merely just one of those purely accidental
affairs which are sufficiently common
in the world if one did but know where to
look for them. Nevertheless, the likeness
existed ; was undeniably there.

Yes; the presence of this girl in the
neighbourhood of Woldney — this girl with
her high, proud bearing and haunting eyes-was
troublesome, was a nuisance, and nothing
short of it. The tidings of her departure
would be eagerly awaited on the part of Sir
Garth Milroy.

No man likes to be reminded against his
will of what he fain would forget.

Madeline, who had remained far from unconscious
of Sir Garth's furtive glances, still
lent meanwhile no unwilling ear to the voice
of Roger Harland.

I wish I could persuade myself," he was
saying, earnestly, " that you are happy in
this house; but somehow I cannot. Miss
Dexter. Knowing so well what the people
are, I — I — "

I never expected to be happy when I
came here," she interrupted him gravely.

Roger eyed her narrowly.

Will you," he said, wistfully, " never be
happy in this place ? "

It is, you know," replied she, evasively,
a sad heart that never rejoices."

Again Roger looked at her keenly before
he said :

Do you — do you believe it is at all likely
that you will remain — don't set me down as
unpardonably inquisitive — at Borough Mills,
Miss Dexter, for any length of time ? "

And she answered, without hesitation, yet
with perceptible bitterness :

I believe, Mr. Harland, it is highly improbable
that I shall remain at Borough
Mills for any length of time. I should not

in the least degree be taken unawares if Mrs.
Prince were to tell me to walk out of the
house tomorrow morning. To-night she
has been odiously rude to me. For the
future, I shall be astonished at nothing that
Mrs. Prince may either say or do."

Harland was then and there seized with a
well-nigh uncontrollable desire to shake his
fist at the voluble and unconscious mistress
of the mansion.

Now, look here, Miss Dexter' said he,
with his most sterling and business-like air,
I want you to promise me that you will do
something ? It is nothing very hard."

Anything in reason," answered Madeline,
gently;

'* Well, it is but this. If at any time
during your sojourn beneath the Pringles'
roof, whether your stay with them be long
or brief, you should ever find yourself in
sudden need of a friend and a friend's help —
a real, a staunch friend, mind — will you in
your trouble or anxiety come straightway tome
— to — to us, to my sister Kate and me, I
should say ; and let us do everything for you
that it may lie within our power to do ? "

She held out her hand to him, a gathering
mist in her beautiful eyes. Roger for several
seconds held closely within his own big palm

that little tremulous hand; longed, indeed,
to carry it to his lips.

Should that time ever come — and it may,
who knows ? — I will remember what you
have said," replied Madeline, firmly.
Then you promise ? "
I do ; and promise gratefully."
Thank you," said Harland, without a
particle of the habitual shyness which handicapped
him in his intercourse with women
generally. But then Madeline Dexter was
not like other women, he told himself. No ;
for him she was and ever would be thenceforward
a woman who stood alone in the
world; a woman alone and supreme in her
worth, purity, and loveliness. He did not
believe that he would ever again feel shy
with Madeline Dexter. Somehow, within
the last hour or so, all barriers between
them, himself and her, seemed to have been
broken down. Nevertheless, he regarded
her with feelings of deepest reverence, and
vaguely felt that so sweet and fair a woman
as she was as far beyond his reach as were
the stars in heaven. Nevertheless, too,
in serving her he could love her, and no
man should hinder him in that silent devotion.


Thank you," he said, simply. " I cannot

tell you how glad your promise has made
me."

Ere Madeline could reply, a general stir at
the table proclaimed that supper was at last
over. The band likewise had supped and
done well ; and a most alluring waltz-tune
was stealing in now from the ball-room.

Eoger and Madeline rose with the rest.

I declare," she cried, lightly, though as
she spoke she brushed with her tiny lace
handkerchief a tear from her long eyelashes,
you and I, Mr. Harland, have not pulled a
single bonbon with each other ! "

It is not too late now," said Roger, with
almost childish eagerness. '* See ! hereabout
the last of the flock, I should say. Let
us find out the contents of it."

He offered one end of the tinsel joujou to
Madeline ; and, standing there together, a
crowd trooping past them on its way to the
ball-room, they pulled the bonbon asunder.

Bang !

*' Honours divided ! " she exclaimed.
You, Mr. Harland, have the packet, and
the motto, it seems, is my portion."

She read aloud, laughing, and blushing
beautifully —

Down on your knees,
And thank Heaven, fasting, for a good man's love ! "

Charming, is it not ? And what luck
Lave you ? " Madeline then hastened to inquire.


Eoger had untwisted the piece of thin wire
which bound his package round ; and lo !
his share of the spoil was discovered to bethe
head-dress of a jester.

A doors-cap!" remarked the young man,
ruefully. "A fool's-cap. Miss Dexter, and
nothing less. T wonder whether it fits —
somehow I fancy it will."

Do not try," cried Madeline ; '* and then
you will never know ! "

'' But it is always best to know the worst,"
said he, grimly.

Not always. Is there not a sensible old
adage about ' ignorance ' being ' bliss ' ?
You know what follows. Please, give it tome
! "

Still laughing, not without embarrassment,
and with the rare rose colour still burning
on either cheek, she stretched out her hand
and took the cap from Roger. Then folding
it quickly, she tore it across and across, and
flung the fragments away.

There ! you will never know now whether
it would fit or not," she said.

I liked your motto," observed Eoger,

sturdily. '* For a wonder, there was sense
in it."

The best of all sense — Shakespeare's
sense," said Madeline. '' Yes, I had quite
the best of the experiment."

"Bonbon mottoes, as a rule, are such idiotic
things," said Eoger, thoughtfully.

And Madeline demurely agreed that they
were.

Ten minutes later the after-supper dances
were in full force; and the dancers themselves,
refreshed and invigorated, were " footing
it" — as Solomon Prince expressed it — ina
style which would lead one in ignorance of
the truth to suppose that the high jinks were
only just beginning instead of being, as they
actually were, in the second and final stage.

Sir Garth Gilroy, alone, a cigarette between
his fingers, was pacing slowly to and
fro in the Pringles' cool wide hall. The hall-door
was ajar, and the air from the riverside
blew in.

The clocks had struck three ; the " glimmering
wind " of wintry dawn was " winnowing
the deep dense plumes " of the night.
-Already, low down in the sombre east, wan
daffodil streaks were dimly visible, stretching
gradually athwart the chill morning sky.

Waiting carriages, with sleepy coachmen
amongst whom was the dissolute Bocky

Oakum in charge of a fly from " The Gig "
at Coverley — and tired, patient horses, whose
nostril-breath looked like fog in the cold air
where the carriage-lamps shone out upon it,
blocked in a long double line the sylvan
Margrave road.

*' A cigarette in the 'all Sir Garth ? " said
Mrs. Prince, sweetly, to her privileged
guest. " Oh, certainly ! Nobody, I am sure,
can object ; and you know that I always like
you to make yourself at home here, Sir
Garth."

Had Sir Garth suggested a cigarette in the
ball-room, Mrs. Prince would have said,
Ob, certainly ! " with equal empressement,
and would have been likewise positive that
nobody could object."

A slender figure, in a pale yellow gown
wreathed about with blood-red leaves, passed
him swiftly on its way to the staircase. The
hall was brilliantly lighted ; the pearls upon
Madeline's neck and arms for the first time
caught the eye of Gilroy.

She heard a sudden exclamation behind
her; she halted, turned at once, standing
upon the lowest stair.

Did you speak to me, Sir Garth ? " she
said.

Her manner was extremely odd, he thought

afterwards — cold, sharp, and constrained.
Governesses, servants, nobodies like this
Miss Dexter, were not in the habit of addressing
him like that.

He advanced towards her, pale, frowning.
It was neither a kind nor a pleasant face fora
man of middle age ; nor indeed for one at
any time of life. The record of the years
which lay behind him must have been full of
bitterness and discontent, if truth can be
read in the lineaments of a man.

There was something unnatural, almost
unearthly, the girl was thinking as her eyes
rested upon him, in the contrast presented
by his cropped gray hair and close blackbeard
and brows.

*'I — I beg your pardon," he began, uneasily.
" I beg your pardon — er — er — Miss
Dexter; but that necklace you wear tonight
— I — I — er — may I ask — "

He stopped; fancying that she would,
perhaps, anticipate his desire and help him
out.

Yes ? " however was all that she said ; a
cold and haughty monosyllable, uttered interrogatively.


Those pearls," said Gilroy, vaguely, the
troubled frown still puckering his straight
black brows — " I — I should like to know

how they came into your possession — if — er
er — you will pardon the seeming impertinence
of the inquiry ? They are unique in
their way, I believe. Only — er — only once
before in my life do I recollect ever to have
seen any others exactly like yours."

As they stood together thus, facing each
other, Madeline upon the lowest stair. Sir
Garth upon the bears-skin at the foot of the
staircase, their questioning eyes were about
on a level ; Madeline's scornful and unflinching
; Sir Garth's embarrassed and gloomy.

Shouting, laughter, the sound of many
capering feet, and music waxing fast and
wild in some breathless Bacchanalian measure
— doubtless it was the " Breakneck
Galop " which the Prince girls were so fond
of, that composition offering such a fine
excuse for a downright romp — were borne
to the ears of those two, Madeline Dexter
and Sir Garth Gilroy, as they met and confronted
each other without the ball-room
door.

But the reckless, jubilant sounds were to
them like sounds heard in a dream. In that
minute the aspect and significance of the
present were forgotten, and they twain stood,
as it were, alone in creation.

You would like to know, Sir Garth,"

said Madeline, slowly and distinctly, touching
first the twisted necklace close-clasping
her small smooth throat, and then one of the
bracelets which in like fashion encircled her
wrist, '' how these came into my possession ?
Why, too, perhaps, I am wearing them tonight
? It is very soon explained. My father
gave them to my mother — who is dead. I
prize them very highly for her dear sake."

Impossible ! "

The ejaculation escaped Gilroy involuntarily.
The next instant he had covered it by
carelessly saying — " Indeed ? So ! Pray, pardon
my curiosity — it is explained now." And,
with a slight bow, he abruptly turned away.

Truth, Sir Garth, is never impossible,"
retorted Madeline, haughtily. " Truth and
right conquer . always in the end."

So saying, the proud, slender figure in the
daffodil gown with dignity vanished up the
broad flight of stairs.

'' Curse the girl, whoever she is ! " muttered
Gilroy, savagely chewing the end of
his cigarette — at least, thus his cogitations
insensibly ran — "Who the deuce is she?
What does she mean ? Why is she here ?
Heaven speed the day, say I, when this place
shall see the back of her ! "

The hour had now arrived when dowagers

and chaperons lead beo^un to yawn prodigiously,
and the meditations of elderly
papas to turn longingly to the pillows at
home. But the youngsters were rebellious,
undutiful; blind, in short, to all mute appealing
glances from their elders. They
longed not for bed and pillows — not they ! —
and would romp and caper until six o'clock
in the morning, if they were stiff as a crutch
for a week afterwards.

Madder and merrier waxed the music ;
more wildly and audaciously the dancers
footed it over the now alarmingly slippery
floor — a floor, too, which by this time was
littered with scraps of tulle, odds and ends
of lace, and once-sweet flowers all withered
and dead.

Already had Hetty Prince and Mr.
Headstone Payne gone sprawling in a heap
together upon those treacherous, shining
boards; whilst the strapping Jill, with
Lawyer Bilfil's son, had in their boisterous
gambols succeeded in knocking from her
perch at the end of a couch a very tired and
inoffensive old lady who sat there waiting
for her Coverley fly — worse still, for they
capped their exploit by rolling helplessly
over her prostrate body and crushing it well-nigh
flat with their weight combined.

In the remote breakfast-room, which had
served as a card-room, the Maltover brothers
were drinking Christmas ale. As they themselves
had brewed the famous old liquor,
they knew that the tap was a safe one — this,
preparatory to buttoning their ulsters and
taking leave of their friends ; whilst 
was in great demand elsewhere
as a stimulus to fresh exertions ere daybreak
should put an end to the orgie. Not a few
of the livelier damsels and the more frolicsome
matrons had discovered, in this direction,
a weakness similar to that of Hetty
Prince. A " pick-me-up " was absolutely
needful, now boldly confessed Hetty to Mr.
Headstone Payne, when one had danced
one's satin shoes, high heels and all, into
shreds, as she had done at this ball of theirs.
No; they would not go home until morning,,
vowed they one to another in the most rollicking
fashion conceivable — indeed, "for
two pins," it was Hetty's opinion, they
would all have sung out their determination
in chorus ; they were at just the right pitch for
it — until " daylight did appear." Mammas
might yawn their heads off, and papas swear
horribly under their waistcoats, but they
would not go home until morning, if they
knew it — these frisky and selfish young

people — until daylight should appear. So,

On with the dance ! let joy be unconfined ;
No sleep till morn, when youth and pleasure meet
To chase the glowing hours with flying feet."

Thus quoted little Carra way Jones to his
partner in the last galop but one. She was
a large and dusky Redtown spinster, very
good-humoured, though no longer young,
and stone-deaf of one ear. She was attired
in a limp rose-coloured satin gown elegantly
draped and festooned with black lace, and
ornamented with red camellias, with a red
camellia in her hair. She trusted — nay
actually believed — that the tout ensemble was
Spanish " or *' Mexican " in effect ; and
of course no one could be either so rude or
so unkind as to undeceive her.

Whose feet ?" said the lady, with a broad
smile.

Nobody's feet in particular," answered
little Carrara-Jones. " What I said was — "
And here he took the pains, under cover of
the music, to shout out over again the quotation
from his favourite poet.

Yes, they are a fair size, I must say,"
this time said the Spanish lady from Red-town,
glancing down at the blunt white toes
of a stout and gasping matron, who was
resting ; she having been seen to bound
hither and thither all over the place with a

VOL. II. B

man who had proved himself utterly incapable
of steering his partner from frequent
catastrophe, until lack of strength and breath
to the joy of everybody — had compelled
them both to desist. " Yes," said the Spanish
lady ; " they are a fair size, I grant you.
But then, poor thing, it's her misfortune, not
her fault, you know. Now I dare say you'd
like to call them beetle-crushers, wouldn't
you ? — you wicked man, you ! "

Byron's disciple groaned; mopped his
bald forehead in a kind of heroic desperation;
and then, gripping his large and
amiable partner as securely as his small
arm would permit, he plunged with her
once more into the thick of the fray.

Surely the attraction which big women
seem to possess for little men is one of the
enigmas of life ?

Eoger Harland, leaning against the conservatory
entrance, scanned the faces of the
remaining dancers as they flew past him in
that last galop but one.

A gloved hand presently touched his arm.

Eoger, are you ready ? "

He turned quickly ; and saw Kate waiting
at his side.

I was this instant wondering whether you
had had enough of it, old woman," said he ;
wondering too where you were got to."

Yes ; I am quite ready ; and I came
to see whether you were. Let us get away
now, Roger; I have said good-bye both to
Mr. and Mrs. Prince. I am very tired."

She looked tired ; and, for Kate, was
strangely pale. She spoke wearily too.

All right," said Roger, with alacrity.
^' Come along."

It was not long before they had quitted
the Pringles' house, with its Japanese
lanterns, its flowers, and its riot, and were
wending their way across the familiar bridge
Kate's arm tucked closely under Roger's —
to their own quiet home upon the other side
of it.

The dawn-wind was ice cold; the wan
primrose light and thin gray streaks in the
east were growing stronger every minute.
The river looked a dull slate-blue in the
chilly morning gloom. The moaning of the
weir, the drowsy roar of the mills, fell
heavily, almost mournfully, upon the waking
air.

In silence the brother and sister reached
their own door ; but although Roger, coming
homeward, had not spoken a word, his
manner to Kate was tender and kind enough.
His heart ached for her.

Naomi and the girl Hannah were both
astir, they found, and going about their

iJWIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
LIBRARY

household duties. They were early risers at
the Little Mills.

The dining-room was neat and cosy; a
bright fire crackled in the grate ; and, better
than all, the fragrant odour of hot strong
coffee came potently in from the kitchen
regions.

Kate flung off her wraps ; her pretty plain
white ball-gown seemed as fresh and unsoiled
as when she had first put it on some hours
gone by. With a little shiver, she held out
her hands to the blaze. Yes; she looked
very tired and worn; there were purple
shadows under her eyes.

Well, old girl, how have you enjoyed it
all?" said Roger, with a cheerfulness which
was perhaps rather overdone.

Pretty well, dear," replied she, as calmly
as she could. " Are you going to lie downs

Not I. I shall just change this toggery
tub — have a cup of coffee afterwards, and
then into the mill. Why, it's close on six
o'clock. You, Kate, had better lie down,
though — you looked fagged to death. You'll
be knocked up else."

No, I shall not. I couldn't sleep if I
were to go to bed. I shall follow your
example, dear ; a bath will refresh me more
than anything. Roger — Roger," she faltered
going up to him and putting her hands very

wistfully upon his shoulders, " what has
become of — of Barton? He went home
early — rather early — did he not, Roger ? "

Harland placed his strong arm round his
sister's waist, and drew her thus to his
side.

Yes, Kate, soon — soon after supper, in
fact. I — I managed it, old woman ; ifc was
all right — I mean, all wrong, dear. But
not a soul knew anything at all about it, and
and it was better that he should get back
to Woldney, you see, before Sir Garth himself
reached home," said Roger, bungling
frightfully in his anxiety to spare poor Kate
as much pain and humiliation as possible.

Perhaps if Roger, after the dance at
Borough Mills, had felt less light-hearted
than he was then feeling, he would have
been sterner in his judgment, harder upon
Barton for his grievous instability. He was
stern and hard and pitiless enough at times
in this matter, Kate knew.

But her name — " Madeline " — " Madeline"
well, Roger's heart was simply full of the
music of it; he could think of naught but
Madeline. . . . Yes, Barton was a fool ;
there was no doubt about that ; but he had
acted like a fool so often before, that it
should astonish no one who knew him to
find. . . .

Love, especially a new great love, is very
selfish.

He was driven home then, Roger ? '*
said Kate, in a voice so low that it sounded
like a moan.

Yes. I got hold of somebody's fly from
The Gig ; ' I'm sure I don't know whose ;
and then — and then it was all right, you
know. It was the only thing to do — at
least, the best thing to do, dear old girl — "

Oh, Eoger," said she, with a sorrow that
was none the less touching because it was
so quiet, " was he — was he very bad ? "

Don't ask, dear," said the young man,
soothingly, distressed at his sister's pertinacity.
*' It can't be helped now."

It was seldom with Kate Harland that
intense feeling was allowed to get the upper
hand. But she was sick and tired to the
sorriest degree — a degree bordering on despair
itself. And she was so weary, so very
weary, so disappointed ; her heart within her
felt like lead.

Roger, what will be the end of it — if he
does not mend, Roger, what will become of
him ! " she said in a voice of smothered
anguish; and then fell to crying upon
Roger's shoulder, as if that tired heart of
hers must break indeed.

So for Kate Harland ended the Pringles'
ball.

Hannah, gal, that toast's burning," cried
Naomi, sharply. " Mind what you're about,
do ! You can hear what Dan'l's a-saying
without gaping round like a daft gal. Keep
your eyes on the fork, and don't get staring
up at Dan'l."

The girl Hannah, squatting upon the steel
bar of the fender, was holding a thick slice
of bread to the fire. Dan'l Drake, with a
waggon and team, had been into Coverley
that afternoon ; and the foreman, who, whilst
in the town, had just " looked in " at " The
Red-Hot Poker," had brought news home to
the Little Mills.

Naomi's roomy old kitchen was as scrupulously
neat as it always was at this hour of
the evening ; the brick floor — with a square
of matting before the hearth, and a sack
spread about here and there where one was
most likely to tread — was spotless vermilion.
The stew-pans, the dish-covers, the lids of
various cooking utensils which adorned the

walls, the ancient brass candlesticks which
crowned the tall mantelpiece, all shone like
looking-glass and flashed in the firelight;
whilst the fire itself leaped and roared in a
huge old-fashioned grate overarched by a
black and cavern-like chimney, with pothooks
dimly visible in the sooty gloom.

It was six o'clock; the kitchen tea-hour
at the Little Mills. Kate was sewing and
humming softly to herself in the diningroom.
Eoger — it being market-day there —
was away at Redtown, and was expected
home about half-past six.

The month of March was come — bleak and
nipping and unkindly as usual, with as yet
but little promise of a genial spring.

Sir Garth Gilroy was still at home at
Woldney, being often, as in days gone by,
with the Pringles at Borough Mills ; the
Pringles themselves not infrequently going
to call on Sir Garth at Woldney Moat.

Once or twice — " for a treat," Mrs.
Prince told the little ones — they had taken
the children and the governess with them ;
and thus a great aim cherished by Madeline
Dexter had been accomplished without the
least difficulty on her part. At last she had
found herself within, had explored the
interior of the home of Sir Garth Gilroy !
For on one occasion he had been civil enough

to show his parvenu friends, acting, however,
upon a broad hint thrown out by Mrs.
Prince, all over the fine old house — melancholy
ruin though it was.

They went from attic to wine-vault — at
least so the master of the Moat politely
assured them — and Madeline and the children
having accompanied the Pringles thither on
that day, the young governess and her little
charges of course went from attic to wine-vault
too. But somehow Miss Dexter could
not help fancying that there was more than
one mysterious corner and corridor left unexplored
in that hushed and rambling old
house. And in all likelihood she was risfht.

o

Thus it had come about that, in the
simplest manner possible, Madeline's desire
was gratified.

She had scarcely dreamed perhaps that
she would remain for so long a member of
the Pringles' household. She was quite
aware that they all thoroughly hated her —
except her two quaint and silent wee
charges — and that if opportunity for snub
or insult came within their reach, did they
only too gladly avail themselves of the chance
of inflicting pain upon her.

And yet she stayed on with them. She
was her own mistress ; she was perfectly free
and able to act as she pleased; and she

stayed on at Borough Mills nevertheless. It
was true that she held in view a stern and
resolute purpose which shaped her life and
actions ; yet — yet was there no other
reason, whispered even to her own heart,
for Madeline's being content — in spite of
odious surroundings — to remain in the
neighbourhood of Woldney Moat ?

That — er — lady, Miss Dexter, is still
with you, I see ? " observed Gilroy one day to
Mrs. Prince, in a slow and questioning
manner. He had exchanged barely a word
with Madeline since that memorable night of
the Stew Year dance. Notwithstanding, he
was vaguely, yet distinctly enough, conscious
of a tacit antagonism which existed between
himself and this haughty girl — who doubtless
for some motive best known to herself was
masquerading as a governess — and, if the
truth were told, avoided encountering her as
much as he could.

Yes, she is still with us, dear Sir Grarth,"
Mrs. Prince made haste to reply ; " but I
do assure you that she may be going at any
moment. Louisa and 'Every — that's her
husband — are such wretched correspondents,
or we should know more than we do of their
movements. As Louisa's 'earth is quite
restored, or nearly so, they may be writings
for us to send the children to them — or

indeed coming down here themselves to
fetch' em away — this very day, tomorrow,
next day, for aught we know to the contrary.
Louisa and 'Every are such an uncertain
couple. Sir Garth — you never knew their
like. However, once let us get rid of our
little Tommy and Joey, and away departs
that stuck-up miss with a quarter's salary in
lieu of a quarter's notice — and sharp ! " said
Mrs. Prince, nodding ominously. " I have
promised you this before, Sir Garth," she
added, '' and depend upon it I will keep my
word."

You are very good'' civilly murmured
Gilroy.

"Still, it's hardly worth while, dear Sir
Garth, to send her about her business so
long as the children stay with us, when their
stay now, you see, may be so short — "

Of course — I apprehend," gently interposed
Gilroy. " She is — er — a rather — a
rather singular young woman, your Miss
Dexter ; do not you think so, Mrs. Prince ? "

Don't I think so ? I have always thought
so ! " replied Mrs. Prince, getting excised.
We have never liked her ; never understood
her, Sir Garth. I really begin to believe I
wasn't half particles enough about her antecedents
and that ; and Solomon thinks as I
do. Where, I want to know, does she get

lier smart clothes from, and the money, too,
that she makes no secret of possessing ?
Take my word for it. Sir Garth, what we
pay her here don't suffice for all her extravagance.
Why, she thinks nothing of
giving a couple o' sovereigns or a five-pound
note to that mad old Adam Ford at the
Lock ; and 'pon my word and honour. Sir
Garth, the thought has more than once come
over me that — that she may not be all
straight — altogether honest, or — or anything
like that, I mean. She may be a
thief in disguise, or — dear me ! — worse than
that ! " said Mrs. Prince, waxing purple
with indignation.

I have no doubt there is ample ground
for suspicion," remarked Gilroy, with cool
indolence.

He was sick of the name and of the
subject of Miss Dexter as discussed by Mrs.
Prince. After all, what were the girl and
her motives to him ? After all, too, the
hateful likeness which so irritated him could
be merely a freak of fancy. What mattered
it whether she went or stayed ? He would
forget her.

So the month of March came, and found
Madeline still sheltered by the Pringles' roof.
She and Kate Harland, during the past
eight or nine weeks, had become intimate

friends ; and Madeline's half-holidays, and
any other spare time that she could make
for herself, were about equally divided between
old Adam's cottage at the Lock and
the Mills upon the other side of the water.

What in the world you and Mr. Harland
can see in that girl, I never can make out,"
once said Hetty Prince, with much petulance,
to Kate.

Ah, existence for us all would be a dull
business if we all of us thought alike," was
Kate's response, accompanied by Kate's own
bright, shrewd smile.

Some of the happiest evening-hours of
Madeline Dexter's life had lately been spent
at the Harlands' house ; where as often as
not, at the same time. Barton Chance —
happy-go-lucky, unstable Barton, who still
was great at forming resolutions of amendment,
and as great, alas ! as ever at breaking
through them ; terribly downcast and gloomy
and penitent one day ; careless, oblivious of
past offence, and joking merrily the next —
was to be found as well.

Barton and Kate would sing and play
duets together, try over new songs, or talk
perhaps of the new tales appearing in
popular magazines ; whilst Roger and Madeline
— if Roger was not in the mill — sat by
the fireside, in the Harlands' snug old ,

conversing soberly with each other,
or sometimes playing cribbage : a game of
which Roger was exceedingly fond.

It was a very dear old room, thought
Madeline, home-like and unpretentious, with
its somewhat faded carpet of red and drab,
its drab and red window-hangings, with
cumbersome brass cornices above them, and
the furniture which had once been rubbed
and polished by the housewifely hands of
Roger's grandmother.

Yes, in the winter firelight, it was a sweet
and dear old room, smelling always so deliciously
of dried rose-leaves and lavender, of
the jpot-jpourri secreted in the gay old china
bowls. On Christmas Eve, in years long
gone by, Eoger s grandfather had ladled out
steaming punch from those same old china
bowls.

The spring seemed to have come round
very quickly that year, said Madeline, in
one of her frequent letters to Cumberland
Square ; which somehow of late had contained
but little intelligence with respect to
the cherished design which had brought her
to Borough Mills.

Rest satisfied, my own beloved," she was
writing to Roy in his luxurious London home
on that very same March evening which
beheld Dan'l Drake, his wife Naomi, and the

girl Hannah with her toasting-fork, seated at
their tea in the kitchen at the Little Mills —
*' Rest satisfied," wrote Madeline, " that as
soon as ever I have accomplished anything
definite you shall hear what it is. Better
than that, my dearest, it is not improbable
that I may be the bearer of my own tidings
if they be tidings of any worth. You
know, moreover, without my wasting ink
upon these last lines, that I am yearning,
Roy, to be with you, to see my beloved
again."

The wind was rough on that March evening,
though it came only in gusts at present.
The night threatened to be a stormy one,
and heavy drops of rain now and again were
blown through the bleak gray air. Naomi's
kitchen-fire leaped and blazed right comfortably
; the sparks in scurrying shoals
hurtled up the broad black chimney.

Outside, in the mill lane, the pollards
there, dimly discernible through the wide
kitchen-lattice all aglow with firelight,
creaked and shivered and shrank before
the wind; the shallow wayside brook which
they overshadowed gleamed fitfully like steel
in the gusty gloaming.

And as I was a-telling ye," continued
Dan'l, who had been temporarily interrupted
in the imparting of his news by Naomi's

rebuke to the gaping Hannah, "it's all over
the town. Everybody's talking about it and
saying — "

And well 'em might," threw in Hannah,
who was not easily crushed by Naomi's sharp
speeches ; she was used to them, and familiarity
had bred contempt — " My patience ! "

Do hold that silly tongue o' yours, if
you can," cried Naomi, her saucer brimful
poised deftly upon the horny tips of three
distended fingers, ere in this mode she carried
her tea to her lips, " and let Dan'l tell us
what he's got to, can't ye ? I suppose there's
some says one thing and some says another,
Dan'l ? "

Yes," replied Dan'l, " some on 'em goes
about saying that Solomon Prince ought to
be downright ashamed of himself for allowing
it; and some says as Sir Garth is as free as
anybody else in the land to please himself in
the matter of a wife. There's reason in that,,
ye know, Naomi, and it's all his doing, o'

course."

All old Prince's doing, you mean,.
Dan'l," remarked Naomi, drily. " Any torn
fool could guess that."

'' Well, six o' one perhaps, Naomi, and
half-a-dozen o' t'other, as you may say like,'^
returned Dan'l, somewhat hazily. " The
obliges one another, as I take it."

And what does the young lady herself
say to the bargain, I wonder ? " said Naomi.
It do seem shameful wrong, though, when
you comes to think it over — it do, Dan 1 —
a-bartering the marriage vows about in that
way."

Still it must be nice to get married,"
threw in Hannah, with a grin, '' and be
called ' my lady ' by everybody, and wear
silks and fattens, if you like, every day o'
the week — "

Stuff-an-nonsense ! " scoffed the old
woman. " She can wear silks and fattens
if she likes every day o' the week, as it is,
without going and marrying a man old enough
to be her father. That's jest where it is."

Yes, as Naomi says, that's jest where it
is, gal," chuckled Dan'l. " If she wasn't
gallus well able to buy her own silks and
fattens, and his'n as well as her own, and a
darned Jot more besides silks and fattens.
Sir Garth wouldn't want her, bless ye ! — you
may take yer oath o' that. In fact, he
don't want her in particles more 'an the
other, they was saying at ' The Poker ' this
afternoon. According to all 'counts, since
heave got to take one of 'em off old Solomon's
hands, he don't care a brass garden which of
the two it is."

Well, it's a curious business, Dan'l, look

VOL. II. if

at it how ye will," declared the gaunt old
Naomi, pursing up her lips and staring
hard at her mate over the horn rims of her
owlish spectacles. The dame had just taken
them from her pocket, rubbed them thoughtfully
in her apron, and put them upon her
nose. She was going " stocking mending "
after tea, whilst Hannah would wash up the
tea-things and tidy up generally. " A rum
and curious business, Dan'l ; not only that,
it's an unnat'ral one. And that's about the
best you can say for it."

Trew," said Dan 1, who never in his life
had been known to contradict his wife, or to
express on any subject an opinion contrary
to her own. Dans, in his way, was the
best and wisest of spouses.

And no goodwill ever come of it if the
match ever comes to anything," observed
Naomi, oracularly — " never ! You see,
Dan'l," she continued, carefully brushing
into the fender the crumbs which had dropped
on her apron, " it won't do ; mark my words.
Sir Garth — bad 'un and worthless as he is —
belongs to the county gentry. "When all's
said and done, that's the truth of it. The
Woldney Moat folks have always reckoned
themselves amongst the highest hereabout ;
and there'll be a fine flutter and rumpus
among 'em all when they comes to know for

certain that Sir Garth Gilroy is going to
marry a daughter o' Solomon Prince of
Borough Mills."

Trew enough," said Dan'l, scratching his
head.

0' course there's a deal to be said on the
side of the money — especially when it's
wanted bad," Naomi went on. '' We all of
us knows that money now-a-days counts first
with ninety-nine people out of a hundred you
run agen — "

Trew," put in Dan'l again — " very trew,
Naomi."

'but money," said she, harshly, "have
never yet purchased happiness in this world,
'specially in a marriage that we all may be
certain sure was never made in heaven,
Dan'l."

What further homely second-hand wisdom
the Harlands' ancient handmaiden might
then have given utterance to would never
now be known ; for at this juncture, borne
upon the wind, came the sound of Eoger's
gig-wheels rattling homeward down the mill
lane.

There's the master," said Dan'l Drake,
staggering stiffly to his floury old legs
and pushing back his wooden arm-chair —
punctual as usual, Naomi. I must be off."

The foreman went out into the yard, and

Naomi bustled up to find her workbox.
Hannah was flattening her nose against tha
lattice to see " Master Eoger " drive past.

Now, look sharp, gal, and set about
tidying up, do!" cried Naomi, impatiently.
What are you gaping at there ? The
master s coffee '11 be wanted directly, and
you'll have nothing ready."

*'I expect," answered Hannah, irrelevantly,
that Master Eoger will have heard all about
it in Eedtown to-day ; and Miss Kate, maybe,
'11 tell us — '

"Heard all about what?" interrupted the
old woman, brusquely.

Why, all about the wedding that is to
be," said simple Hannah, with her broad
good-humoured grin. " I should like to see
'em married when the time comes. I suppose
she'll have orange-blossoms, and di'monds,
and—"

There, you get along about your business,
and don't stand a-idling and a-chattering
about what's no concern o' yours ! You'll
never want a wedding-ring, gal, I'll answer
for it — plentiful as fools are now-a-days ! "
was Naomi's unsympathetic reply.

And Hannah thought ruefully that Naomi,
after all, might prove to be right ; for would
not she — Hannah — be nineteen years old

come next July, and as yet lie never had
had a young man of her own.

That " young man of her own '' was the
dream of Hannah's Hfe. Was it, she wondered
sometimes, to remain a dream for ever ?
Why, there was Sir Garth Gilroy going to be
married when he was turned fifty and his
hair was quite gray ! Surely, then, there
was a chance yet for Hannah ?

Yes ; that prediction of Naomi's was unkind
indeed. If gaunt old Naomi's own wedding-ring,
which Dan'l had slipped upon her finger
ah, goodness only knew how many years
ago ! — had worn almost to a thread, it was
plainly no reason why she should wax so
bitter about possible wedding-rings for other
people.

Roger Haeland, having written his business
letters which demanded attention that night,
talked over with astonished Kate the news
which was rife in Redtown as well as in
Coverley-on-Dane, had, according to invariable
habit, changed his coat and waistcoat
for the homelier and dustier garments
which hung behind the door in his den,
drunk a cup of strong coffee, and then gone
into the mill to ascertain how things had
been progressing there during his absence at
market.

It was his custom, on market-days, to dine
at " The Roebuck " in Redtown between
three and four in the afternoon ; so that
Kate never waited tea for him at home. A
cup of coffee, either before, after, or whilst
engaged in writing his letters, was all that he
wanted when he got back to the Little Mills.

I suppose you heard the news to-day,
Mas'er Roger?" began curious old Dans,

having watched his opportunity with the
master when they two were alone together in
an upper store-room.

What news ? I heard a good deal of one
sort and another."

About Sir Garth Gilroy and Miss Prince,
sir?"

Oh, yes ! I heard that. You have too,
then, it seems, Dan'l ? "

Well, I was in Coverley with the waggon,
as you know, sir, this afternoon, and coming
home, I jest looked in at ' The Poker ' — "

Ah ! " interjected Roger, briefly.

Only for a minute, sir ; and it was there
that I first heard it."

I don't doubt it," replied Roger.

He leant his broad back against a sack of
meal — one of a tall stack near to which he
stood — crossed his legs, folded his arms, and
waited to hear what more Dan'l had got to
say.

In the dusty and cobwebby caverns below
them the familiar whirring and jarring and
grinding were going forward as usual, with
the heavy splash of the water as it tumbled
over the great dripping wheel.

And is it trew, sir, do you think?" inquired
the foreman.

What did they believe at « The Poker' ?"
said Roger, with a smile.

Why, there they said 'twas gospel-trew,"
replied Dan'l, lifting his white cap with one
hand and scratching his head deliberately
with the other — a cogitative trick, this, of
Dans. " And Miss Topps, they said, had
been seen in the town about middle-day, just
afore I got there. She was doing some
shopping for her young ladies, and had got
the dogs with her ; and more an' one I know
in Coverley had spoke to her about it, and
she didn't deny that there was trewth in it.
For she laughed and tossed her head like,
and said, ' Why not ? Rank and money as
often as not mated together in these days
when big folks went into trade as well as
little 'uns.' Zachary Dance, you know,
Mas'er Roger, sir, what's own first cousin to
Miss Topps, he said as how she flung her
petticoats about and tossed her head that
high you'd ha' thought she'd been going to
marry Sir Garth Gilroy herself."

Harland laughed carelessly.

Yes, it's all right enough, Dan'l," he said.
"Mr. Prince himself was at market to-day.
A host of inquisitive friends attacked him
upon the subject, and he never once denied
that the rumour was correct."

Dan'l took out a blue-ands white check
pocket-handkerchief and mopped his glistening
forehead.

"He'll be a bigger man than ever now,
Mas'er Roger," said he.

That he certainly will," said Roger.

And which of the young ladies, then, is it
to be, sir ? " inquired the old man — " Miss
Hetty or Miss Jooly ? Some says one, some
says t'other."

'' I really can't tell you positively," replied
the master, with a shrug. '' But I fancy it's
the younger of the two — Miss Hetty ; and I
wish her joy of her bargain, I'm sure."

Well, my old Naomi indoors, sir, she
calls it a very curious bargain, and an unnat'ral
one," remarked Dan'l, beginning at
last to fold the heap of sacks which lay
waiting his attention upon the dusty floor.
*rand I says that — "

Yes, Naomi's right," put in Harland,
preparing to descend to a lower room, where
the ponderous millstones were crushing the
corn ; when —

You're wanted directly, sir," called up
one of the men, who had received the message
from a " mate " yet lower down in the
mill. And Roger in that instant was reminded
irresistibly of a certain dark and
blusterous night in the November of the
past year, when Madeline Dexter, in Bocky
Oakum's fly, had been conveyed by mistake
to the Little Mills.

Vividly recalling that night, he hastened
down the steep ladders, and found, to his
joyful surprise, that Madeline herself was
indeed once more waiting for him at the mill-door.
He was astonished ; and yet somehow
not astonished, for the current of his thoughts
just then had been suddenly turned towards
her.

You ! " exclaimed Roger, his brown face
aglow with happiness at so unexpectedly
beholding her. " How good of you to come !
We'll go indoors and — "

Stay — a moment," she said. " I must
speak to you at once."

He perceived that she was wrapped in her
long fur-lined cloak, and that the hood of it
was drawn closely over her head, almost concealing
her face. His first sensation of keen
delight subsiding on cooler reflection, he
marvelled somewhat perhaps that she should
seek him at the mill itself instead of going
straightway to inquire for him at the house.

Moreover, he then perceived that her
manner was agitated — the light from the
open mill-door fell upon them both — that
she was striving for calmness and self-possession
before attempting to explain to
him what had brought her thither.

What is it that I can do ? " inquired the
young man, earnestly, longing to clasp her

then and there in his arms, and to soothe her
thus upon his strong true heart.

He had never as yet told her openly that
he loved her ; fancied sorrowfully enough at
times that he never would, would never .find
the courage to venture so far as that. But
the secret when he looked upon Madeline lay
mirrored in Eoger's eyes — ay, lay mirrored
therein so clearly that herself and all the
world might read it.

He knew instinctively that she was a born
gentlewoman — pure, sweet, refined. Would
she ever be persuaded to listen to his suit, to
words, assurances of love, from him who was
nothing, he told himself with proud humility,
but one of nature's gentlemen ? Would that
satisfy her ? Was that claim sufficient ? He
was not sure — yet in a manner was plagued
by the conviction — that a gulf of some kind
stretched between them. Of what width, of
what nature, was that dividing gulf ? Should
he, upon one side, dare to put forth his hand
and invite her, upon the other, to cross it,
would not she stand there, resolute yet
pitiful perhaps, shake her head sweetly and
mournfully, and murmur back to him, " It is
impossible " ?

Ah, who should determine until Roger
himself had grown bold enough to settle the
momentous question ?

What is it that I can do ? — tell me' said
he again.

In a little while Madeline answered :

'not so very long ago, Mr. Harland, I
gave you a certain promise — a promise made
to you at your own request. Do you — do
you remember what it was ? "

I remember it perfectly," said the young
man, eagerly. "How could you conceive
that I should forget ? "

You said to me on the night of that
dance, Mr. Harland — Let us step aside into
the shadow here," she broke off, nervously.
Your men are looking at us."

A huge covered waggon, with " Roger
Harland, Little Borough Mills " painted in
white letters upon the black tarpaulin, stood
solitary in the mill-yard. On this suggestion
of Madeline's they withdrew from the lighted
doorway of the jarring mill to a spot in the
yard screened from all view by the towering
shape of the great lumbering waggon.

You asked me to promise," she then
continued rapidly — '' a promise, on my part,
Heaven knows, freely and gratefully given —
that if ever at any time during my sojourn
beneath the Pringles' roof I should suddenly
find myself in real need of a friend and a
friend's help, I would in my trouble come
straightway to you — to you and your sister

Kate. That time, Mr. Harland, has now
arrived. I find myself in absolute need of
your help. I — I hope that I have not done
unwisely in coming to seek you here instead
of going — as I ought perhaps to have done
directly to Kate ; but the truth is, T acted
upon the impulse of the moment, impelled,
I think, by the recollection of my promise of
that night."

"You have done quite right," answered
the young man, rather hoarsely — hoarse from
the deep feeling which was stirred within
him. " I am proud, more proud than I can
say, that you should have trusted me, come
to me in your trouble, and — "

Hush, do not say that ! — do not say
that ! " she cried, hastily. " I have merely
done exactly what you were generous enough
to ask me to do. I did not forget, you see,
that is all — ''

Well, let me hear more," said Roger, as
she paused, keeping business-like and collected
by a strong effort, " and we'll soon
then make an end of the difficulty, whatever
it be. What is it. Miss Dexter — all this that
is so bothering you ? "

To be brief," said Madeline, a strange
and mournfully sweet little smile shining out
from under her sombre hood-border like starlight
on murkiest night — " to be brief, Mr.

Harland, you now see me before you homeless,
roofless. I know not what to do for
the best — indeed, but for you, not whither to
go either. To-night I have no bed even to
call my own ! It is true — I am not joking.
Will you and Kate therefore take compassion
on the wanderer, and give her shelter at least
for to-night ? For in this place," cried
Madeline, still trying bravely to smile and to
treat the matter lightly, as she extended, with
an air of winning appeal, her small white
hands to Roger, albeit her lovely eyes were
glistening with tears which had not yet fallen
" for in this place she is far from those
who are dear to her — her own people — she
has here no friend but you ! "

Sitting by the Harlands' fireside, in the
dining-room at the Little Mills, with Roger
and Kate for indignant and sympathetic
audience, this which follows was substantially
the story that Madeline Dexter had
come over to tell them.

She told it rapidly in her own words,
which were few and passionate, and in her
own way; the actual facts of the case in
detail having, however, happened in this
wise :

About five o'clock on the afternoon of
that day Mrs. Prince, flushed and pompous,
had sailed into the school-room — where
Madeline and her wee charges were occupied
with their tea, and talking at the same
time of fairies good and bad, hobgoblins,
gnomes, and the like, as described so delightfully
in their adored Grimm — with an open
telegram in her hand.

Miss Dexter, I have ]must heard from my
daughter, Mrs. Farleigh," announced Mrs.

Prince, without preamble, tapping with the
gold-rimmed glasses which she occasionally
wore on her elaborate watch-chain the pink
strip of paper in her hand. " Her and Mr.
Farleigh are coming tomorrow. They will
stay a few days here, and when they leave us
for London they will take my grandchildren
with them. So we shan't require your
services no longer. Miss Dexter. Joey and
Tommy, my dears," said Mrs. Prince, with
marked insolence abruptly turning her broad
back upon the governess, and stooping with
an uncommon display of affection between
the two little ones — " dear pap-pa and mamma
are coming tomorrow. Aren't you glad,
my duchies ? "

The two sensitive little maids stared sadly
and wonderingly up at their stout grandmother,
who glittered all over with golden
ornaments like some strange Hindoo god,
and answered nothing. They hardly, as yet,
comprehended what they had heard.

"Aren't you glad, my duchies, I say?"
repeated Mrs. Prince. " For pap-pa 'and
mam-ma are coming tomorrow ! "

She called them her " duchies " that evening,
because, like Hetty and Jill, Mrs. Prince
had grown heartily sick of the children, who
were so mouselike, so childlike, yet so
observant withal, and who sometimes gave

ness in wide-eyed astonishment at the evident
aspect of affairs.

"We thought somebody was murdering
somebody," said Hetty, shrugging her
shoulders. '' Why, ma, they must have
heard you at Coverley."

'* I don't care if they heard me at Redtown,"
returned Mrs. Prince. Then a reaction off
eehng overtaking her, she broke forth into a
fit of snorts and tears. " I was never so insulted
in my life," she said, plumping herself
down upon a slippery old horse hair sofa
which stood near the school-room window—
never I " wept Mrs. Prince, emphatically.

Well, I can't say that it sounds altogether
decent, whether one's insulted or
not," remarked Hetty languidly, " to scream
out, ma, at the top of one's lungs as if one
were shouting for a wager, don't you know ?
Miss Dexter, you, perhaps, will be good
enough to enlighten us, to explain the meaning
of this extraordinary — "

So Hetty was continuing ; when, turning,
she perceived that Madeline was gone.

Miss Dexter went straightway to her
room ; found the scared little girls huddled
together there ; comforted them in her own
endearing fashion, and assured them that,
although she was going away, she would see
them again some day.

Then like one in a dream, though her
movements were quick and determined, she
set to work to get her belongings together.
An hour later she was at Roger Harland's
mill-door, repressing her agitation and reminding
him of his promise to assist her in
her hour of need. That hour had now overtaken
her, Madeline told the Harlands, and
she was thankful beyond words for their help
and friendship.

When she had finished her story, Kate said
indignantly —

I have no patience with the Pringles, and
I cannot tell you, Madeline dear, how I
rejoice that you have done with them. It
will be simply delightful to have you here,
and I shall be in no hurry to let you go, I
can tell you."

Madeline smiled uneasily ; she was still
very pale, and shivered now and then, in
spite of the wine which, as she sat there by
the fireside, Kate and Roger had insisted upon
her drinking soon after her arrival at the
Little Mills.

I — I think I must find tomorrow apartments
somewhere in Coverley," she began,
until — until my arrangements are completed,
and I know what I am going to
do''

Fatherland interrupted their visitor. She

When you have finished, Mrs. Prince, I
should like to get my things together — to
pack my trunks."

Pack your trunks ? Ay, that you shall,
my lady, an' welcome, when I've done with
you. I'll see about that."

Pray go on."

*' I tell you that you don't know who you're
speaking to," shrieked the stout and choleric
wife of the wealthy Solomon Prince. " I
shall be mother-in-law to a maronite very
soon — a real live maronite ! My daughter,
Miss Hester Prince, I would have you to
know, madam, is going to marry Sir Grarth
Gilroy of Woldney Moat ; and then she'll be
Lady Gilroy, and I shall be mother-in-law to
a real — "

Madeline was taken a-back ; perceptibly so.
She started, the colour leaped to her cheeks ;
then, as quickly fading out of them, left her
marble white. She leant heavily with one
hand upon the school-room table, and almost
overturned her cup of cold tea.

Impossible ! " came the faint interjection.
It is impossible, Mrs. Prince."

'impossible?" echoed Mrs. Prince, at
the highest pitch of her voice. " How dare
you say so ! What, pray, do you know about
it ? Who are you that you should presume
to question the truth of anything that I am

pleased to tell you concerning the private
arrangements of our family ? " cried Mrs.
Prince, waxing somewhat obscure in her
desire to be crushing and impressive. " I
tell you my daughter Hester will shortly be
Lady Milroy — "

I do not believe it," exclaimed Madeline,
passionately.

"You ill-bred creature ! You insolent
thing ! " screamed Mrs. Prince, who looked
as if — had she not been on the verge of
choking — she would have flown at Madeline
with the intent and fury of a wild cat. " Out
of my 'ouse you march this instant, and never
DO more do you — "

'' I am going," said Madeline, retaining
her composure by a struggle which cost her
positive pain. She felt dizzy with a rush of
mingled sensations. For a moment she
turned faint, and thought she would have
fallen. But she managed to walk composedly
towards the door, her head erect, her hand,
outstretched to grasp the lock.

Ere she could touch it the door flew back,
and into the school-room bounced Jill, followed
more leisurely by her sister Hetty — the
future Lady Gilroy.

*' A fine row you're making in here," said
Miss Prince, roughly. " What's it all about,
ma ? " staring from her mother to the govern

the two little girls, frightened at
their grandmothers violent tones, at the
sudden change in her, began to cry together.
So Mrs. Prince pounced upon them both at
once, shook them roughly out of their high
cane chairs, and then, having gripped each
by a little bare tender arm, in a trice had
jerked and twisted them out of the room.

Terrified out of their infant wits, they
fled to Madeline's bed-room, where they remained
in hiding, drying their tears in their
pinafores, until Miss Dexter herself by-and-by
came up and discovered them there.

Having banged the school-room door, and
thus excluded the little ones, Mrs. Prince
stalked back to again confront the governess;
not having, in her — Mrs. Prince's —
phraseology, " done with her yet."

Yes, your hairs and graces, I say, and
your goings-on generally," said she, panting
out the words at the top of her coarse voice.
'* We've had enough of 'em, or rather too
much of 'em all along. From the day when
you first set foot in this house, you've never
known your place — "

Madeline slightly inclined her head, a
finely ironical smile curving her delicate
lips.

If I have not," she said, " surely it is no
wonder."

The sarcasm of the remark was incomprehensible
to Mrs. Prince, who once having
given the rein to her tongue had no intention
now of stopping to choose her words.
She had flung off Uke a new but ill-fitting
garment her company and would-be fine lady
manners ; and with that complete flinging-off,
as it were, Mrs. Prince became herself.

Having politely pronounced the governess
an impertinent hussy," was it likely that
she would hesitate over any other choice
epithets which might haply just then occur
to her mind ?

"Ah, you may sneer, you audacious baggage,"
she stormed; "but let me tell you
this : you don't know who you are speaking
to — "

It may not be improbable, Mrs. Prince,
that you and your family are equally ignorant,
may be similarly situated, with regard to
myself," threw in Madeline proudly, unable
in the heat of the moment to resist the
temptation to make a retort of the kind.

Don't interrupt me, you stuck-up pert
thing," cried Mrs. Prince, struggling for
breath. " Me and my family, indeed ! I
don't believe you are a fit associate for anybody's
family. You ought to have been sent
to the righteous long ago. That's my
opinion of you and now you've got it! "

utterance to such astonishingly unpleasant
remarks. Yes, their grandmother was heartily
sick of them, and waxed loving at the prospect
of their departure.

I don't know'' said Joey, hanging her
flaxen head shyly.

I don't know," said Tommy, also with
little blond head drooping over a slice of
bread-and-jam.

Madeline had pushed back her chair from
the table, and had risen to do battle with the
enemy.

I am to understand, then, Mrs. Prince,"
she said, controlling her voice as well as she
was able, '' that it is your wish that I should
leave this — "

*' Exactly ; as soon as ever you please,
madam," replied Mrs. Prince, straightening
her fat figure with what she flattered herself
was a most dignified mien, and now
facing the young governess with all the pent
up hatred and jealous spite of the past few
months flaming in her face. " Of course you
will receive a quarter's salary in lieu of a
quarter's notice, like any other of our servants
might do placed in similar circumstances;
we always likes to be just; together with
whatever may be owing, which I know isn't
much — "

I do not want your money ; I will not

VOL. II. G

touch a penny of it ! " said Madeline,
haughtily, every vein in her slender body
thrilling with indignation, her beautiful
face now flushing, now paling, with an
emotion born of anger and disgust combined.
" How dare you so speak to me,
so insult me, Mrs. Prince ! "

Dare ! Insult ! Bless my soul alive,"
cried Mrs. Prince, purple with rage, " what
next, I wonder ! How dare z/o?^, a — a — a
trumpery governess, speak to me in this
fashion ; that's what I should like to know ?
you impertinent hussy, you ! I never in
all my born days, no, that I never did — "

I leave your house immediately, Mrs.
Prince," quietly interrupted Madeline, holding
up her hand. *' You have said enough
more than enough."

Leave my 'ouse ? Ay, that you do, Til
warrant ! Ill take precious good care of
that I And — and, what's more, if you don't
pretty soon clear out of your own accord,
my lady, I'll have you chucked out neck
and crop, see if I don't," screamed Mrs.
Prince, whom Madeline's self-possession
and quiet contempt, overtly expressed as
was the latter in look and demeanour alike,
only served every instant to exasperate the
more ; "for we have had quite sufficient
of your hairs and graces, I can tell you — "

inclined to be communicative — which isn't
often, as you are aware. At dinner this
evening he never once opened his lips. He
is a lively companion, I assure you ! "

Then Barton announced his intention of
going up to "The Gig" to see one or two
fellows who were to meet him there. Was
Eoger coming too ?

No, said Roger emphatically, he was not ;
it was already nine o'clock, and too late.
Why could not Barton content himself at the
Little Mills, instead of gadding off to
Coverley where he was safe to get into
mischief ? But Barton laughed, and said
"the fellows" expected him — he couldn't
disappoint them ; and if Roger would not
accompany him, why, he must go alone. So
gaily enough he took his leave; and Kate,
when he was gone, sat down with an involuntary
sigh, and began mechanically to turnover
— though her eyes saw but dimly the
objects beneath them — the contents of her
housewifely work-basket.

Harland accompanied his friend to the
gate; and under cover of the blusterous
darkness, in which the sullen splash of the
river made itself heard like some deep and
melancholy human voice, he mentioned the
fact of Miss Dexter being their guest ; she
having quarrelled with the Pringles and forever

severed her connection with that
family.

•' Though she's over there now," said
Roger, nodding across the gloomy river in
the direction of the Pringles' abode, " we
expect her back here every minute."

Barton Chance immediately gave vent to
a low whistle.

*' Then the plot thickens still further, old
fellow ! " exclaimed he, in his impulsive
fashion.

What do you mean ? " inquired Harland,
sharply.

"Well — well, you see*' replied Chance
already repenting, after the manner of the
man, of having given utterance to speech
which he had vowed to himself before
entering the Harlands' house that nothing
should induce him to give utterance to —
"you cut up so deuced rough, Roger, the
last time I — I mentioned it, to tell the truth
I meant to keep my own counsel this time.
But as usual," laughed Barton, " I haven't
been able to do it."

Speak out, man, can't you ? " said
Roger.

Barton knew that he was ** in for it ; '*
that he must speak out now. So as it was
too late to draw back, he accordingly said :

'* Dear old fellow, you are wrong ! Mis

They waited for her a long half-hour ; yet
she came not. At the end of the half-hour,
however, a groom from Borough Mills arrived,
bringing with him Madeline's belongings from
that house upon the other side of the water.
But no Madeline followed the trunks.

Close on nine o'clock Barton Chance looked
in ; his coat-collar turned up round his ears ;
a favourite meerschaum between his lips.

The rough night wind had blown a brilliant
colour into the young fellow's handsome face ;
his joyous blue eyes sparkled, as though with
lurking merriment, in the lamplight ; raindrops
glistened in the waves of his blond
hair.

Kate's true heart, as it ever did, leaped
at the sight of Barton's beauty ; but Kate
Harland was a woman who could be mistress
of herself in the presence of the man she
loved, and her firm white hand was perfectly
cool and steady when it rested within Barton's
close, lingering clasp. She was a woman ina
thousand, true, sweet, and forgiving, he
used to think tenderly in those dear days — how
dear, indeed, they seemed, in looking back in
the after years ! Ah ! if he could only see
his way — if someone would only die and
leave him a fortune — if — if — a hundred
other futile " ifs," when he might have been
up and doing and carving out for himself a
way to the winning of all that he coveted.

Why not ? God had given him health and
strength, rare beauty, talents of no mean
order ; a love, too, of the beautiful things in
life, with keenest powers for the enjoyment
thereof. And yet somehow with all these
gifts in his favour, weakest and most
visionary of weak and visionary mortals
was Barton Chance. Poor, handsome, 
Barton ! — what would he do with
his life ?

The young man was full of the news of
the hour.

Why, it's plain to the blindest," said
he gaily, " how the land lies."

''Of course," said Roger, gruffly.

"I agree with Naomi, who just now
called the affair disgraceful," said Kate. " I
wonder what Hetty will have to say for
herself?"

"Much about the same that any other
worldly-minded young woman in similar
circumstances would say," replied Barton,
flippantly.

And he filled his pipe from Roger s brown
jar, and helped himself to the whiskey which
Roger had placed upon the table.

Sir Garth, however," continued Barton,
as he set down the water-pitcher, " has
breathed no word to me upon the subject;
and I don't suppose he will until he feels

She murmured her earnest thanks to Roger,
and seated herself at his sister's davenport ;
Kate herself going ofP to give instructions to
Naomi about preparing the best bed-room for
Madeline's accommodation. Harland stood
upon the hearth-rug, his back to the fire,
wistfully watching Madeline as she wrote her
hurried letter.

In a little while it was written, folded,
stamped, and ready, bearing the familiar
address — " Roy Dexter, Esq., 17, Cumberland
Square, London, W."

Give minutes afterwards Madeline's letter
was speeding on its way to the Coverley
post-office, Roger telling the man not to
spare the horse.

Kate meanwhile reappeared — her interview
with Naomi satisfactorily concluded —
to find that their guest, once more cloaked
and hooded , was evidently about to quit the
house.

My dear," she exclaimed, staring in
surprise at her friend, '* where in the world
are you going ? "

Madeline answered that she must return
for a short time to the Pringles' — she did
not think she would be absent long — but she
wished to tell them where she was, whither
to send her trunks, and, moreover, she
recollected there were still at the Pringles'
house a few of her possessions which she had

omitted to pack up with the rest of her
things. She would soon come back, she
said feverishly — but indeed she must go.

But we can easily send across and tell
them where to bring your things' urged
Kate, with her usual practical view of a
case. '' There is surely no occasion for you
to go back to that house to-night and to
face again that angry woman. Better still,
dear, let Dan'l or somebody go over immediately
and wait for them and bring them
home here. Stay, I will myself write a note
to Mrs. Prince. That will be best."

Nevertheless Madeline was firm in her
resolve to go herself ; the worst of the
Prince storm was doubtless past, she said,
and she felt that she did not now care for
fifty Mrs. Pringles — with a wan attempt at a
smile. She kissed Kate in nervous haste,
and got away whilst that young woman was
still volubly holding forth upon the folly of
returning for so trifling an object ; or, since
Madeline was bent upon again showing herself
in the dragon's cave, why could not she
wait until Eoger came in, so that he might
accompany her thither, and also protect her
when there ?

But Kate was wasting her breath.

And when Roger did come in, he discovered
to his amazement and vexation that
Madeline Dexter was flown.

went to Madeline's side and put her hand
upon her shoulder.

"You will pain us if you talk in that
strain," said roger's sister ; whilst Koger
himself looked up quickly from a fixed contemplation
of the cheery fire.

"What is that you are saying?" he
struck in, brusquely — 'apartments in Coverley,
Miss Dexter ? For Heaven's sake, don't
let us hear any more of such a mad suggestion
so long as a roof remains above our
heads at the Little Mills ! "

You hear," said Kate, smiling ; " and you
mustn't say it again. Roger can be very
angry when he pleases, believe me."

Madeline, too, then rose and stood by
Kate, and pressed her hands wearily over her
dark and feverish eyes.

I cannot thank you to-night," she said. " I
must think — my brain is in a whirl. I cannot
thank you yet — "

You had better not — in fact, don't try,"
was Kate's brisk reply. " My dear Madeline,
tell me this, however. Why did you rouse
the ire of our worthy friend Mrs. Prince, by
so flatly disbelieving her statement about
Hetty's projected marriage ? You know, it
is perfectly true; Roger himself says so.
The news to-day is in everybody's mouth in
Redtown."

Madeline's small white hands were twitching
nervously ; the delicate face wore an
expression of acute distress.

The announcement, you see, was so —
was so unexpected," she said, faintly. " It
was — it was, I suppose, about the last thing
in the world that I thought to hear. I did
not think it possible that it could be true. Tome
— I — I cannot explain why — it seemed so
strange ; so — so altogether unnatural," said
Madeline, almost piteously.

Ah, Miss Dexter, we shall hear more of
the affair before we are many days older.
Things — motives — will come out as clear as
daylight by-and-by, you'll see," said Roger,
knitting his brows.

With an effort Madeline collected her
wandering wits.

I must write a note to my brother in
London," she said, hastily — " merely a few
lines. Can it by any possibility be despatched
to-night ? "

Roger at once pulled out his watch, and
Kate lost no time in placing all requisite
writing materials upon her davenport, which
stood in the room.

It is now twenty minutes to eight," said
Garland. '' The last post goes out at Coverley
at 8.15. Write your letter. Miss Dexter,
and one of the men shall ride directly with it
into the town. My own have already gone."

Dexter is not at this moment at Borough
Mills — I can swear to it. She is at Woldney
Moat. I saw her hurrying through the
grounds there to-night just as certainly as I
saw her on that other night I told you about.
Pm not drunk, Roger; and you can believe
me or not, as you please. Good-night I "
*' Here, Barton—"
'' No, old chap, I'm off. Ta-ta ! "
Before Harland could say more, he had
waved his stick in adieu ; and the next
moment Barton had disappeared. Now that
there were no floods out to hinder him, he
took the shorter road, the meadow-path by
the windy riverside, to Coverley ; and Roger
Harland, lost for a few minutes in moodiest
reflection, stood leaning there bare-headed
over the garden-gate alone.

VOL. II.

Roger presently went back to Kate. His
mind was made up. But be said not a word
to his sister of what Barton Chance had
told him.

What he did say, was :

I shall just go over to the Pringles' and
see if Madeline is ready. I'm sure she can't
want to stop there now."

Yes, Roger, do ; and supper shall be on
the table by the time you get back," replied
Kate, glancing anxiously at the clock upon the
mantelpiece. " I wonder," she added, " what
is keeping Madeline. She had nothing to
stay for as far as I could understand."

Well, I'll go and find out, at any rate,"
said Roger; and forthwith he took up his
hat and started off on his errand.

He passed through a shrubbery by the
waterside and made his way to what was
known in the Prince household as the
river-door ; which was a door opening on a

sheltered part of their spacious grounds that
was here touched by the river itself.

In answer to Eoger's knock a spruce
parlour-maid speedily showed herself; but
she stared at him when he asked for Miss
Dexter.

She has been here, has she not — Miss
Dexter, I'm asking about ? Don't you understand
? " said Harland, impatiently.

Oh yes, sir, I understand," answered
the girl. " And Miss Dexter was here, I
know. But she stayed barely a minute, I
should say, for I let her in and I let her out.
It's quite an hour ago since she left, sir."

Good Heaven ! thought Harland — the conviction
that it was so thrusting itself upon
him — could it be possible that Barton, after
all, was right ? No, no, he decided the next
minute ; what should Madeline want at
Woldney Moat, with Sir Garth Gilroy at that
hour of night ?

She must be sitting with her old friend,
Adam Ford, at the Lock cottage. He —
Eoger — would look in, going back, and see
whether Madeline was there.

'' Thank you," said he to the servant; and
was turning from the step of the river-door
when Mrs. Prince, crossing the stone
passage, heard and recognised Roger s voice.

Oh, that's you, Roger Harland, is it?"

she cried, coming up and sending the maid
about her business. In Mrs. Prince's
manner, in her bearing altogether, there were
indications plainly yet remaining of her late
hostile encounter with Miss Dexter. She
had just been upstairs and well slapped and
shaken her little granddaughters, each in
her little white cot, for '' crying themselves
to sleep," as their grandmother put it, for
the loss of Madeline. " What, ain't you
coming in then," said Mrs. Prince, " to —
to congratulate Hetty ? "

She was indeed eager just then to get
Roger into the house. For the worthy
woman was precisely in the humour to give
him "a bit of her mind."

I am much obliged'* said Eoger, drily ;
but my congratulations can wait, Mrs.
Prince, until I have more leisure to see
Hetty. I merely called to ascertain whether
Miss Dexter was here ; but since she is not,
I suppose I shall find her at the Lock
cottage. We are expecting her at the
Little Mills, as of course you are aware.
She is going, I hope, to be our guest for
some time."

Yes, I am aware," cried Mrs. Prince,
wrathfully ; '' and very ill we take it, Eoger,
of you and Kate, old friends and neighbours
as we are, siding with that jade against us !

I can just tell you, now that you have come
over," added Mrs. Prince, " that so long as
that stuck-up insolent baggage remains at the
Little Mills, neither me nor the girls — •"

Good-night, Mrs. Prince," cut in Eager,
shortly. "Please, for the future, recollect
that Miss Dexter is our friend ; and I am not
going to hear her abused either by you or by
anybody else."

He turned abruptly and strode off; and
Mrs. Prince, thus cheated of her intent,
slammed the river-door upon the young
man's retreating form, and drew the bolts
and rattled the key in the lock with as much
ado as if she had been bolting out Miss
Dexter herself.

When Harland again passed the lock-keeper's
cottage, he stole cautiously toward
an uncurtained lattice, through which a light
shone out upon the outer gloom, and peered
in.

Every comer of the small white-washed
room was distinctly visible. At a glance
Roger perceived that Madeline was not
there.

Adam Ford was alone.

The old man was sitting at a small brown
table, a lamp and an open Bible before him.
He always read a chapter in that Book before
he went up to bed. It had happened that

many a barge had passed through the Lock
gates during the day; and Adam was very
tired. His gray head leant upon his hand
as he read.

Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the
Lord'

It is hard," old Adam muttered, dropping
his hand heavily upon the open page, '' that
vengeance should be forbidden to man. And
yet — and yet if after all these long and
weary years, I should ever be permitted to
learn the truth, should ever come across him,
ah ! " — with a slow upward gaze — " then
may the Lord have mercy on me. I should
want mercy from God and man too ! "

Harland saw the old man's lips move, and
thought that they moved in prayer. Quietly
he stepped from the window, crossed the
Lock, and regained the wooden bridge. His
step was firm, his mouth had an iron look,
his eyes were troubled beneath their contracted
brows. He turned his back upon
that portion of the bridge which led to his
own home, and took that part of it which
spanned the weir and terminated upon the
river bank in the low-lying meadows of
Woldney.

Here upon a blasted pollard-stump Eoger
seated himself, determined to wait, if need
were, until daybreak. That strange assertion

which Barton Chance lead now made
for the second time should that night be
proved either true or false. If Madeline
were, as Barton had declared he had seen
her, at Woldney Moat, she would pass on
her return to the Little Mills the decayed
old pollard stump upon which Roger sat.
So he would wait there and see what happened.
He would get at the truth if
possible.

He pulled up his coat-collar, and managed
to light his pipe. The heavy cloud-canopy
had parted, and now in weird and threatening
fragments went hurrying over the sky.
The fitful rain drops had ceased to splash
down; a watery white moon peeped forth
now and then. The roar of the restless mills-smote
the night air, with the sad, sullen
sobbing of the river and the sound of the
silvery weir.

The tall rushes whispered everlastingly in
the wind, and shrank and bowed themselves
to the very water s edge. A moorhen, disturbed
from a bed of reeds hard by where
Roger sat waiting, rose up and flew screeching
to a pool farther on ; her harsh scared
voice died away; an owl began to hoot in
the woods.

But Harland's sense of hearing as yet had
caught no sound of footsteps along the

meadow path wych led from Woldney Moat.
Yet that that sound would come by-and-by
Eoger knew well enough.

Yes ; though he had within the last half
hour a hundred times told himself that
Barton must be wrong, sorely against the
force of his own inclination he was somehow
convinced that Barton was right.

Still, what could Madeline Dexter want at
the house of Sir Garth Gilroy ?

Alone in the library at "Woldney Moat sat
Sir Garth Gilroy.

That room, which was upon the southern
side of the house, and the dining-room, were
about the only two apartments downstairs
that the master ever entered in these days.
The decaying old mansion, with its numerous
unoccupied chambers, was as silent as a
cenotaph; though surely many a ghost,
gaunt and grisly, stalked up and down those
broad empty corridors and in and out those
lofty desolate rooms ?

• At least, slipshod old Mrs. James, the
housekeeper — who used to creep about in
the performance of her duties taking snuff
whenever she felt disposed to, and whose
scanty staff of servants robbed her unblushingly
and left her none the wiser — always

alarmed that there were " ghosts " at
Woldney Moat.

Not that Mrs. Jaraes had ever seen one ;
only she felt that the place was " haunted-like,"
she said. But then Mrs. James was
addicted to gin-and-water, as well as to
snuff, and liked her liquor brewed very hot,
very sweet, and not at all very weak ; and it
was after she had been indulging in a
tumblerful or so of her favourite stimulant
that Mrs. James would aver that Woldney
Moat was haunted.

She had lived in the service of the late Sir
Jasper and his dame, and never hesitated, in
speaking of the Moat family to Mr. Badger
the butler, to call the Grilroys " a bad lot."

"Ah, Mr. Badger," she would say tearfully,
after her third jorum, '' Sir Jasper he
were a bad 'un, if you like ; and so was her
ladyship, for the matter o' that. There,
Badger, I could tell you things as 'ud lift
up the 'air o' your 'eat — I could. Badger,
though perhaps I'd better not. But it wasn't
her fault, maybe, so much as his'n. And Sir
Garth he's another bad 'un, if ever there was
one — an out-an'-outer and no mistake, who'd
stick at nothing to gain his ends."

And Mr. Badger, who was a very mild
and ordinary sort of person, and who, by the
way, had no hair upon his head to be lifted

by tales of horror, thought to himself what
an ungrateful old creature Mrs. James was
to speak of the family in that disrespectful
style, after getting her bread out of 'em for
so many years !

Sir Grarth, as he sat in his library on that
night of Madeline's mysterious absence
looked pale and harassed — unusually so.
He had dined, and had letters to write ; but
he felt in no mood for the task. The light
from the shaded lamps fell fantastically about
him ; upon his close-cropped gray head, upon
his short black beard and blacker brows, and
revealed distinctly the lines of care which
furrowed his dead-white forehead.

The Times for that day and other papers
yet uncut lay upon the table near at hand ; a
silver coffee-pot and an empty cup stood
upon a salver at his elbow. A quaintly-fashioned
liqueur frame of solid old silver
was also amongst the litter upon the table.

Sir Garth however touched none of these
things ; he sat there silent and abstracted,
lost in a world of hateful memories, and was
in truth as wretched and as sick at heart ashe
looked.

He had scarcely the air of a happy lover.

At dinner a note had been brought to him
from Solomon Prince, saying they should
expect him that evening at Borough Mills ;.

an unpleasant note smacking of vulgarity
and worded more like a command than a
polite invitation. In reply, nevertheless,
Gilroy had sent a brief refusal to the effect
that he was feeling far from well, but would
call on the following day.

He was sick to death of the Pringles, and
of the dreary solitude of the Moat ; he was
out of tune with himself and the whole
world. If he could have done it, he would
that very night have packed a portmanteau
and gone oS to Paris, to Baden, or to
Vienna. But the blessed road to freedom
was blocked with barriers, with tremendous
difficulties, that were not to be overcome.

He was horribly pinched for money,
clogged with debt ; he could not apply, ashe
had so often done in the past, for assistance
to Solomon Prince, in order that he
might run away from Solomon Prince's
daughter, whom he now stood pledged to
marry as early as they should please to
arrange the business.

What a gruesome record of waste and
wickedness had his whole career been !
What a bare and barren life ! And now,
hedged around with a grim army of sordid
cares from which it appeared there was but
one mode of escape, it had come to this !
And in solitarily reviewing his present state.

it seemed to Gilroy that his downfall and
ruin were complete.

Middle-age was past; old age was looming
ahead ; and his downfall and ruin were complete
!

Oh, for the past, for the wild freshness of
morning back again once more, with all the
bright possibilities of youth and manhood,
that he might live his life over again and
order that life anew ! Oh, vain regret !

The hangings which draped the library window
— which, like the library window of his
lonely old Warwickshire Grange, opened to
the terrace-flags, and upon the upper panes
of which, in coloured glass, were wrought the
Gilroy crest and motto : the three doves and
the bloody hand, with Je fats mourir encircling,
here at Woldney Moat, the strange
device — were only partly drawn, and they
swayed slightly in the draught as the wind
rushed round the house. The trailing dead
grasses by the broken brickwork of the moat
rustled and whispered like the reeds by the
riverside. The cloud-shadows, on the desolate
southern lawn beyond that old mullions
window, chased one another in the white
windy moonlight.

Suddenly Gilroy started from his reverie
and looked up. The fire had burnt low;
the great dingy room had become chilly.

What had disturbed him ? What noise was
it that he had heard ?

He poured out some cognac, and tossed it
off. As he put down the glass he heard the
noise again.

Someone was tapping upon the windowpanes.


He crossed the room, and dragged the
heavy hangings wider apart; and then the
figure of a woman, cloaked and hooded,
stood revealed there upon the terrace-flags,
her face pressed against the diamond-shaped
panes, looking into the room.

At sight of that beautiful, pale, resolute
face Sir Garth staggered back a step or two,
scared and horrified, clutching as he did so
the curtain in his trembling hand.

'great Heaven!" he gasped — "who is
it?"

*let me in," said his visitor, again
tapping peremptorily upon the old mullions
window. " Let me in, Sir Garth
Gilroy!"

Hearing her voice, and in the next instant
recognising her, Gilroy unfastened
and pushed back the window ; and Madeline
Dexter stepped at once into the room. It
was a terrible moment for her, and she was
astonished at her own intrepidity. But she
had prayed for strength and courage in this

hour, and her prayer had not been uttered
in vain.

You are — er — er — Miss Dexter, I believe,
from Borough Mills," said Sir Garth, when
he felt that he had regained sufficient control
over his voice to speak in a natural manner.
*' A — a — I mean, pray pardon me ; I did not
at first recognise you. To what cause, may
I ask, am I to attribute the honour of this
visit ? If — if you are come here upon business
of any kind, I really must refer you to
er — my agent, Mr. Chance. He is not at
home, I know, this evening; but you will
find him here tomorrow."

As he spoke, he pointed carelessly to a
chair; but Madeline took no heed of the
gesture. She remained standing motionless
by the littered table. Sir Garth himself had
sunk back into the arm-chair from which he
had sprung at the sound of the tapping on
the window, eyeing with a dark scowl his unexpected
guest.

What on earth did she want at Woldney
Moat ? "Why was she not yet gone from the
neighbourhood. Who was she ? Why had
she come ? What right had she thus to invade
his privacy? — to trouble him with a
sight of that haunting, hateful likeness. . . .
How did it happen that the likeness was
there at all ? He hated the girl fiercely for

recalling those scenes and those memories
which he fain would forget so long as he
lived ; and the expression which came
over his features, as his eyes rested on
Madeline, was not good to see. Verily he
then looked — in the language of slipshod
Mrs. James — as though he " would stick
at nothing " to accomplish his ends.

I should indeed be much obliged to you
if you would not worry me with your business
to-night — whatever it is. I confess I
am at an utter loss to guess what it can be,"
he said, impatiently, as Madeline did not open
her lips, but in stern silence met unflinchingly
the lurid gaze of Gilroy's fierce eyes.
You must speak to Mr. Chance in the
morning ; for I have letters to write, and
other matters to attend to, and — and — >'*

Did you think, Sir Garth, that I was a
ghost of the dead ? " she inquired, coldly and
abruptly, '' that you were startled so visibly
just now at sight of me at the window? ''

A ghost ? " he echoed sharply. " I don't
understand you ; and I have yet to be informed,
remember, why you should appear
in this unwarrantable manner at my library
window when there are proper entrances to
the house for the trouble of seeking them,
Miss Dexter."

I knew, Sir Garth, that, if I knocked at

your door and asked for an interview with
you, you would unquestionably deny me
admittance," was Madeline's bold reply. " I
knew, moreover, where you are mostly to be
found of an evening. I have watched you
here before."

He leaped again to his feet and confronted
her.

'' Woman, who are you — what do you
want?" he said, savagely, flinging, together
with his habitual drawl and languor, all
courtesy to the winds. " Why are you here,
I say ? What is it that you have to tell me ?
I am in no mood for these interruptions tonight.
Speak ! — for, candidly, your presence
here is an annoyance to me, and I want you
gone."

She flung back, ere she answered him, her
fur-heed hood, and crossed her arms defiantly
at her waist.

Speak ? " cried Madeline, as passionately
as he. " I will, Sir Garth Milroy ! Ah, kind
Heaven ! " half sobbed the girl, involuntarily
lifting heavenward her beautiful, agonised
eyes — " give me words, give me strength ;
let them not fail me ! What have I to tell
you ? " she went on, rapidly recovering herself,
with deep scorn expressed in every line
of her proud bearing. " I have to tell you,
Sir Garth Gilroy — false, cruel, heartless man

The end of April found Madeline Dexter still
a guest at the Little Mills. She had been to
London two or three times since that well-remembered
evening on which she had quitted
the Pringles' house and paid that night visit
to Sir Garth Gilroy.

But on each occasion, having remained in
town for a day or so, she had come back —
much to the disgust of the Prince family —
to the Little Mills.

She had made the Harlands her confidants
to a certain extent ; she felt constrained todo
that. But she could not tell them everything
yet, she said gently, though they should
learn the whole truth very soon — at any rate,
so she trusted. And having told them as
much as she could, she begged them in return
to respect her confidence, and to impart to no
one in the neighbourhood the little she had
now confessed.

Of course, Kate and Eoger, having gone sofar

in their friendship, had promised this
readily enough, and had sworn, come what
might, to stand by Madehne through thick
and thin. For they loved her and believed
in her ; and so were content to await the
time when there should be no more secrets
between them.

'' Then you did not know Sir Garth, my
dear," Kate, with a puzzled air, had ventured
to inquire at breakfast-time on the morning
after Madeline's first night spent beneath the
Harlands' kindly roof, " in the days before
you came to Borough Mills?"

Madeline still looked worn and ill. The
terror and exhaustion of the past night had
left their traces upon her delicate beauty.

No," she replied, in a low, firm voice,
I never in my life saw him until I came to
Borough Mills. Since you have promised to
respect anything I may confide to you, I tell
you frankly that I came hither under false
colours. 1 am not a governess ; I never have
been a governess. The Mrs. De Lisle who
lives in Cumberland Square, and who wrote
to Mrs. Prince about me before I came to
this place, is our aunt — Roy's and mine. At
least — at least, we call her aunt, though for
many years now she has been more like a
mother to us both. We live in Cumberland
Square — the house there is our home. I

and excitement of the last few hours had
utterly exhausted her, and in Roger's arms
she had fainted.

So Harland, lifting her as tenderly and as
easily as he would have lifted a young child,
carried her home to the Little Mills ; home to
the Little Mills where Kate awaited them,
marvelling greatly at their non-appearance,
and scared out of her wits lest some accident
should have befallen them.

About midnight — on that same night — in
the misty low-lying meadows of Woldney,
another figure — the solitary figure of a
man who lurched and reeled as he trod the
familiar track — was to be seen making his
difficult way in the direction of Woldney
Moat.

A few yards from that self-same spot in
the narrow footpath on which Roger and
Madeline had a short while before met each
other, the man stumbled, staggered, fell
heavily.

He tried to rise, but could not; no soul
with friendly hand was near him. So helpless
he lay there prone upon the damp earth, and
slept the drunkard's sleep.

And the river flowed darkly and sullenly
past; the reeds by the black waterside

whispered plaintively, rustled like ghostly
garments in the keen night wind.

But the man stirred not ; was conscious of
naught ; he was sound in his drunken sleep.

His bat was off, and lay in the grass beside
him ; his fair curls were matted, his hot brow
was cooled, with heaven's pitiful dew. And
the high white moon, clear and pure in the
now serene heavens above him, gazed sorrowfully
down upon the beautiful upturned face
of the man — which was the face of Barton
Chance.

woman walking by the river in a dream.
Eoger strode forward to meet her, was
close to her, but she saw him not ; not, indeed,
until he spoke her name did she perceive
and realise that he was actually there.

'' Madeline," cried he, sternly, catching herby
the wrist, '' what is the meaning of
this?"

He had frightened her horribly, and she
was powerless to stifle the shriek which, in
her terror, flew to her lips. For a few seconds
she gazed helplessly to the right and to the
left, as if seized with some wild idea of escaping
Roger's questions by flight. But she
was too weak for such energetic measures ;
she would have staggered and dropped to the
grass had he not flung his arm around her
and thus held her upon her feet. He perceived
then how deadly pale and worn was
Madeline's delicate face.

'' Madeline," he cried again, unconscious
that he was making free use of her Christian
name, nor scarcely conscious either that his
manner was brusque and rough, '' what is
the mystery about you ; what possible business,
at this late hour, could take you to
Woldney Moat ? Why cannot you trust us,
Kate and me — are we not your friends ? Did
you mean to deceive us ? Oh, surely not !
And yet how would you have accounted to us

for this strange disappearance, had I not by
accident learnt where to seek you and found
yon here in the Woldney meadows ?"

She wrung her hands piteously, shaking
her head as it drooped again to her bosom.

I do not know— I cannot tell," she answered,
hardly above a whisper. " I was
wondering — wondering when you met me — •
what explanation of my conduct I could give
you. Oh, Eoger ! " she broke off, with something
like a moan of despair, *' I have done
nothing wrong, do believe me ! — nothing
wrong. Nothing to be ashamed of — only
what is right and just ! Trust me, trust me,
Eoger, yet a little while longer, and you
shall learn the whole truth, be told everything
— "

"My darling — Madeline, my darling," he
cried with sudden passion ; and he clasped
her in his arms, held her to his heart, for his
own name breathed by those dear pale lips
was in his ears like music direct from heaven
" forgive me if I was rough just now. I
am a brute. I did not mean it; you know
that. Trust you, my dear one ? I will trust
you until the end of — "

But Madeline answered him not ; resisted
him not; his words were falling upon deaf
ears. Her eyes had closed ; her head was
lying lifeless upon his shoulder. The strain

that you are — that you shall not, I repeat
you shall not ! — for I will move Heaven
and earth to prevent it — marry and bring to
misery another woman until you have first
done justice to one who is dead ; ay, and to
the living — for I will have justice for the
living too."

He half sprang towards her then — murder
in his eyes — his white hands working
nervously. For a moment terror seized and
paralysed Madeline ; she thought that those
cruel hands were about to clutch her throat ;
that he was going to kill her.

Bah !" said Milroy the next instant, regaining
with no apparent effort his lost composure
— " you are a mad woman, I believe,
and as such you should be treated ! I know
not who you are, nor do I in the least care
to know. Your conduct, your wild assertions,
are alike inexplicable " — moving leisurely
towards the bell-handle — " or are rather, I
suppose, the outcome of your madness — "

She went swiftly forward and stayed his
hand.

You do care to know who I am — and you
shall hear, too, who I am. It is no madwoman
that stands before you ! I am,"
cried Madeline, the disdain in her clear voice
dying out, her tone softening to a tenderer
key as she uttered her dead mother's name —

VOL. II. I

the child of Minna Gilroy, once known
hereabout as Minnehaha Ford. Listen tome,
Sir Garth ; and you shall hear for the
first time in your life the true story of Minna
Gilroy ! "

The half-hour after ten o'clock had struck ;
it was close upon a quarter to eleven ; and
Roger Harland, having wearied of his chilly
resting-place, had deserted the pollard-stump
and was pacing by the river-side.

He still watched there, still resolute in his
purpose ; he would intercept Madeline Dexter
on her way from Woldney Moat.

The moon had risen higher ; the wind had
winnowed the clouds ; here and there a cold
bright star gemmed the fairer parts of the
sky.

Presently that sound for which he had so
obstinately waited smote faintly upon his
listening ear. Yes, there were approaching
footsteps at last ; coming, too, from Woldney
Moat.

He beheld her advancing towards him
along the misty meadow-path — slowly,
wearily, as one fatigued with the toil of a
long journey on foot. Her head drooped,
her long dark cloak was held tightly about
her. She looked, on nearer view, like a

the house-top ; she would have suffered and
been strong in silence and hoped for better
times. She would have borne her misfortunes
with womanly dignity— albeit perhaps
with deepest sorrow in secret — and
never, come the worst, have worn her heart
upon her sleeve for chattering days to cackle
over and peck at.

It was a lovely spring day in late April.

Madeline was in London — Roger himself,
in the early morning, had driven her in his
dog-cart to the Coverley station to catch a
quick up-train.

On the evening previous to that day she
had been to Woldney Moat — not, however,
before she had intimated to Kate and her
brother whither she was going — and had
obtained another interview with Sir Garth
Gilroy.

The story of that interview she carried
with her to London.

In the afternoon Hetty Prince — having
*' got wind," as she phrased it to Kate, that
Miss Dexter was in town for the day — sculled
herself across the water to call at the Little
Mills.

This was the first time Kate had seen
Hetty, to speak to her, since the rumour of
her remarkable engagement had been con-what

the deuce did she want there, I
wonder?" said Barton, staring with all his
might.

"Ah, that I cannot tell you," replied
E/Oger simply.

Is it a case of asking no questions and
hearing no lies ? " laughed Barton.

I am not in the habit of telling lies,
Bart ; you know that."

No, old man; I didn't really mean anything
of the kind. I was merely wondering
what Miss Dexter is concealing from all of
us — what is the nature of the mystery in
which she seems to be enveloped."

*' Upon that point I cannot satisfy you
either, Barton. She is our guest; and we
have perfect faith in her."

"You trust her entirely, though you know
so little about her ? "

Yes ; though we know so little about her
we trust her entirely," answered Roger,
quietly.

Barton, in his impulsive style, seized Har-land's
hand and wrung it fervently ; whilst
tears— he could not for the life of him have
explained their sudden coming — glistened in
his deep-blue eyes.

You love her very dearly, don't you, old
man ? " said he.

You are right. Barton, for once — I do""

replied the other ; and, returning with a grip
of his own the pressure of Barton's hand,
Eoger turned on his heel and went about his
business.

Throughout his daily work Madeline's dear
face in fancy was ever before him ; her low,
entrancing voice ever in his ears. Yet
never a duty was shirked, nor business care
neglected. He plodded onward, strong,
quiet, conscientious, in the performance of
all that he had to do ; yet looking confidently
forward to the time when there should
be nevermore a shadow between them, and
his life should be crowned with the crown of
Madeline's open love.

And Kate ?

If Kate had her own troubles and doubts,
her black moments of gnawing anxiety,
grievous disappointment, and bitter humiliation,
she kept the knowledge of them locked
within her own breast, and showed a cheerful
front to the world around her. Her
temperament was similar to Roger's— a plodding
and a hopeful one. If haply Kate Har-land
had been married to a brute that beat
her and otherwise used her ill, she would
have taken neither friend nor neighbour into
her confidence to pour out the history of her
woes into a so-called sympathetic ear. She
would not have shrieked out her griefs from

winter were rapidly disappearing, and the first
fresh flush of spring's green splendour was
bursting forth all over the earth, Kate saw
scarcely anything of Jill and Hetty Prince.
Folks at the Little Mills knew absolutely
nothing of the manner in which life went on
with their neighbours across the water.

They had heard through Dan'l the foreman,
who had got his information from Miss
Topps, that Mrs. Farleigh and her husband,
after spending a few days at Borough Mills,
had carried off Tommy and Joey to their
own home, which was situated somewhere in
the west of England ; and Madeline thought
regretfully of the two dear silent little oddities
whose young lives for a space had crossed
her own existence, and whom now in all probability
she would never meet again.

They had heard too — this however had
come from Miss Bishop and Miss Eager —
that Julia Prince, wild at the thought of
Hetty's triumph in the matrimonial direction,
was making a '' dead-set " at Mr. Headstone
Payne. But the Coverley gossips said knowingly
that Mr. Payne was a great deal too
astute to be caught by a girl like Julia
Prince.

It is not my fault, I do assure you, dear
Sir Grarth," said Mrs. Pringl-e plaintively one
day to her future son-in-law, " that that girl

is still in our neighbourhood. I packed her
off with a flea in her ear; and then those
good-for-nothing Harlands over yonder must
needs go and take her part against us, and
she's going to stop with them, I believe, as
long as the choose to keep her. Poor
thing ! " said Mrs. Prince — " having no 'orae
of her own, she's only too thankful, I suppose,
to get her nose in anywhere."

And Sir Garth observed languidly — though
his lips under his black beard tightened in
ominous fashion— that it was not of the
slightest importance; in fact, he had forgotten
the very existence of the girl.

Again, with regard to Madeline Dexter,
Eoger said on one occasion to Barton
Chance :

Oh, by-the-by, old man, I wanted to
beg your pardon. You were quite right. I
did cut up somewhat roughs own it — when
you persisted in that statement of yours
about having seen Miss Dexter at Woldney
Moat after ^ dark ; and it was because 1
thought you were — you were mistaken, you
know. However, you were not. You were
right, it appears. It was Miss Dexter whom
you saw. She has said so herself, and has
given me permission to say so as well — at any
rate to you. Barton."

And — though it is no affair of mine

suppose it is all very wrong to do as I have
been doing — acting a lie throughout ; but —
but, alas ! it is all wrong from beginning to
end," she said, sighing. " The story that I
cannot tell you yet, because I cannot yet see
my way as it were to telling you — though I
forced Sir Garth Milroy to listen to it last
night — is the story of a great wrong ; a
wrong that I am here to set right ; a wrong
which I will, with Heaven's help, sooner or
later, make wholly right. You have promised
to stand by me, to trust me, no matter how
singular my actions may appear in your eyes ;
and I thank you from the bottom of my heart
for your trust and faith in me. If you
had not so generously insisted upon my being
your guest, I should have taken a lodging in
Coverley until my work was accomplished."

You would have set the little world of
Coverley-on-Dane wondering and talking then
with a vengeance," remarked Kate, with a
smile.

You know," said Roger, gravely, " that
we want you to stop here, to keep you always.
You know that, Madeline."

She looked at Roger with a slow sweet
smile tinged with melancholy ; and then her
eyes dropped until their heavy fringe seemed
to brush her pale cheek, over which a warm
carnation flood was gradually spreading.

He called her " Madeline " now quite naturally,
though he had uttered no other words
of passion to her since that night when he had
held her in his arms by the dark river in the
low-lying meadows of Woldney, when her
heart had throbbed against his heart and her
head had lain upon his shoulder. Notwithstanding,
she knew that he loved her ; and he
knew that his love was reciprocated. Still,
there was that in her manner and in her eyes
which seemed to say, " Not yet. Be patient I
I cannot listen yet." And Roger understood
and obeyed. His great love, it is true, chafed
secretly at this hard condition of affairs, but
her slightest wish was law forthwith to him ;
she was his queen. They were like brother
and sister together — nothing more. She
called him *' Roger " as if he were her brother.
For the present he must rest content with
this.

Between the Pringles and the Harlands a
decided coolness had arisen; Mrs. Prince
herself being simply furious with Roger and
his sister for '' taking up with " Madeline
Dexter in the face of all that had happened
at Borough Mills. And Mrs. Prince vowed
that she would never again set foot within the
Harlands' door — no, not if she lived, said
she, '' to be as old as Methuselah."

So in these days, when the last traces of

firmed and the news everywhere become
public property.

Kate was at first inclined to receive the
girl's visit coldly ; she could not help it —
she was no hypocrite ; and asked as coldly
after Jill.

'' Jill ? — oh, she's all right ! She's busily
engaged in hunting game of her own; in
other words, she has taken herself off to
Coverley to stalk after Headstone Payne,"
replied Hetty, with a flippant laugh, nothing
daunted at her chilly greeting. " Poor
fellow ! I pity him this afternoon, sincerely.
Jill, like a Jack-in-the-box, will pop up
before him at every street-corner in the
town ; and if she can succeed in setting
folks' tongues wagging about herself and
him, and coupling their names together, why,
so much the better for poor little even-tempered
me — of whom, you know, Kate
dear, the fair Julia is frantically jealous — for
she will feel then that she has not lived her
afternoon in vain, and will accordingly come
home in a fifty-times better skin than that in
which she has just gone marching off to
victory."

I fancy Mr. Payne is quite capable of
taking care of himself," remarked Kate, in
her driest tone.

'' That, you must know, is the joke of it.

VOL. II. K

He is," said Hetty, laughing. " But poor old
Jill, you see, is growing desperate. The
Maltover fellows are too wide awake for her.
Young Bilfil is shy or something ; and so
she is bent upon going in wildly for the capture
of Headstone Payne. She vows that by
hook or by crook she'll be married before I
am. Maisje le doute' said Hetty, with a sly
nod and a half wink. " We shall see."

When are you going to be married,
pray ? " inquired Kate, with a queer smile.

I cannot tell you for certain," answered
Hetty, promptly; " but before long, I fancy.
And look here, Kate, now I am at last come
to see you, just let me tell you that you are,
I think, a nasty cold unfeeling thing never
to have sent me all this long while a single
line or word of congratulation upon the — "

'' Forgive me, Hetty," put in Kate, gravely.
'• I congratulate you now — that is, if the
matter is a matter of congratulation."

There ! " pouted Hetty. '' I knew as
well as possible that you would take that
tone. ' If,' indeed ! What a wet-blanket
creature you are, Kate. Why, Jill would give
her ears to stand in my shoes."

I do not doubt it. But, you see, I am
still rather hazy about the rights of the
case," said Kate, rising to ring the bell for
Naomi to make some tea. " I know only
what people say."

Well, I suspect) that people say true in
this instance," returned Hetty, carelessly;
*' although Coverley folks, as a rule, are not
particular to a lie or two."

Come, let me hear your version of the
story, Hetty. If anyone knows the truth, it
is you," said Kate, coming back to her chair
by the open window, at which Hetty Prince,
in a smart new boating costume of cream
flannel and Cambridgeshire — the first of its
kind she had donned that season — also sat,
resting her chin in her hand, with her elbow
supported by the window-sill, and looking
idly out at the beautiful Dane.

The sun shone radiantly ; the river sparkled;
the osiers in the eyots were growing green
and vigorous after a recent spell of showery
weather. A lark, a quivering dark speck
against heaven's azure land, was singing
jubilant of the coming summer — a paean to
its Creator for the fair soft day. Moored ina
creek, amidst the rushes by the meadow-path,
Hetty's light skiff, with its gay red
cushions and tassels, languidly rode up and
down, agitated by the gentle tide. The
sleepy roar of the mills fell to-day soothingly
upon the balmy air, with the humming of
bees amongst Kate's sweet wallflowers and
the cool refreshing splash of the tumbling
null-tails.

Let me hear," said Kate again, in order

to rouse her visitor from the contemplative
mood into which she appeared to have insensibly
drifted, "your version of the story,
Hetty."

Naomi had brought in the tea, and Kate,
speaking, handed Hetty a cup.

Oh, there's not much to hear," replied the
girl nonchalantly, waking up ; " and I fancy
that you know all about it as well as I do.
However, since I am here — I tell you frankly
that ma, though she cooled down a bit when
she heard Miss Dexter was away, is awfully
wild with me for coming over at all ; but I
thought it was stupid to keep back from you
any longer, just because you chose to take
Miss Dexter's part and have made a friend of
her. After all, what does it signify ? It will
be all the same a hundred years hence — since
I am here, I say, you shall have the plain
truth from my own lips. I don't feel half so
cocky over it as I did a month ago, and can
now regard the arrangement as coolly as
does Sir Garth himself. It's a comical kind
of courtship, I can tell you, Kate ! "

** I dare say," Kate remarked, with an involuntary
smile.

Her manner had thawed somewhat, and
was more cordial than it had promised to beat
the beginning of Hetty's call. In spite of
herself, Kate Harland felt amused ; there was

something tickling, exhilarating, in Hetty
Prince's slangy nonchalance and imperturbable
good temper in discussing her strange
engagement.

"You know — must have known — everybody
knew how awfully Sir Garth is in
papa's debt. He has been borrowing money
of him, big sums, too, for years and years
past, and at last papa, very sensibly, declined
to stand it any longer. He determined that
there should be a settlement, an arrangement
— call it what you will — of some description
; and so after a while they managed it
between them in about the only way, as it
seems to me, that the thing could be comfortably
settled."

A terribly worldly way, Hetty," Kate
observed, half sadly.

Of course you are just the girl to look
at the affair in that light ; but the picture,
you see, has two sides to it, and I always try
to keep before me the less gloomy of the
two. Well, as I was about to explain, papa
at last gave Sir Garth to understand that be
was inclined to play banker no longer. If
Sir Garth chose to marry one of us girls
and make her Lady Gilroy, mistress of
Woldney Moat here in this county, and of
Lonefield Grange somewhere or other in Warwickshire—
tumble-down old barracks as I

believe the both are notwithstanding — he
would give his daughter so favoured sixty
thousand pounds down on her wedding-day,
and at the same time would cancel the debt
of Sir Garth's which has grown, during all
these years, to such a formidable figure.
There is also some talk on pa's part of paying
Sir Garth's other debts, frightful as they
are, so that he shall go to church a free man
and start afresh once more with me for his
wife. If Sir Garth refused to fall in with
papa's suggestion — why, then he. Sir Garth
Gilroy, must take his chance, look out for
squalls ; in plain language, prepare to have
things made decidedly hot for him, don't you
know — indeed, as hot as it would be possible
for pa to make them in the circumstances.
To cut the tale short. Sir Garth asked for a
week in which to consider the proposition;,
it wanted a deal of thinking over, said he.
Papa agreed. And the upshot of it all was
that at the end of a week my future lord
appeared at Borough Mills and proposed indue
form for the hand of Miss Hester Prince.
He chose, being a middle-aged man of taste
me before Jill ; and so I, my dear Kate, am
to be Lady Gilroy ! "

'' Well, well, well ; you must go your own
way, Hetty," said Kate. Then she added,
abruptly, " I'm sure I hope that you will be
happy."

Hetty shrugged her shoulders.

I dare say you wonder how we get along
together — he and I — now don't you ? " said
she, in the most matter-of-fact tone conceivable.


Perhaps I do," said Kate. " As you
observed just now, it must be a comical
courtship."

It is," replied Hetty, nodding. '' When
we are alone together we can never find a
syllable to say to each other ; and I always
somehow fancy that he is half-asleep. He
looks like it. He has given me no presents
and I don't expect any. He has never once
kissed me, and I don't expect he ever will ; in
fact, I verily believe that I should shiver
violently if he were to take it into his head
to attempt the performance. However, after
all, there is one thing which makes it tolerably
easy for both of us ; and that is we both fully
comprehend that the marriage is a marriage
of mutual accommodation, and that love has
nothing whatever to do with it."

You think that it will be a fine thing,
then, Hetty, to be made Lady Gilroy ? " said
Kate, with perceptible scorn in her clear
eyes.

Certainly I do," answered the other,
equably. *' I'd throw over the nicest
fellow in the world, if he was poor, for
one that could give me a title, don't you

know. I always said that T should like to
be Lady Somebody or other, though I never
dreamed that it would one day really happen.
My word ! you should have seen and heard
how Jill stamped and raved — if she had been
a man she would have sworn like a trooper
when she heard that it was ney and not her,
to whom Sir Garth had thrown the handkerchief.
Of course pa and ma don't care a
straw which of us it is, so long as one of us
in the end shall be made Lady Gilroy. Such
fun ! We heard the other day that all the
bigwigs, as papa calls them, in the county
had cut Sir Garth dead since his engagement
to me had become generally known ; but ma
says they will all come round by degrees
after we are married and settled at the Moat,
and be as affable and as condescending as
you please. Let them, that's all," said
Hetty, viciously, 'rand I'll snub 'em right
and left, every man Jack, for their pains ! "

In this strain she chattered on for sometime
longer ; when finding that Roger failed
to show himself, she rose and took her leave ;
sculling herself home in her trim little skiff
with the crimson cushions and rudder cords
to match.

In the evening, by the last train, Madeline
returned from her day in town. Roger
again drove his dog-cart into Coverley, met

Miss Dexter at the station there, and brought
her home to the Little Mills.

Pleading weariness, Madeline went to her
room as soon as she got back to the Har-lands'
; Kate accompanying her upstairs
and protesting, in spite of Madeline's dissent,
that Naomi should presently bring upto
her a nice cosy little supper — for of course,
after her journey, she must be both hungry
and fatigued. Then Kate, with her hands,
in the old affectionate fashion, upon her
friend's shoulders, asked after " Roy " ; and
Madeline, her head turned aside and her
lovely sad eyes filling, answered that it was
one of her darling's bad days, and that the
spring-time of the year always sorely tried
him.

Kate hastened to change the talk, and told
Madeline cheerfully of Hetty Prince's visit.

From what I can understand," said Kate,
*^ 1 do not think that it will now be long
before that remarkable marriage takes place.
I can't imagine how it will turn out."

Madeline dashed aside her tears, and smiled
in her proud calm way.

I do not think the marriage ever will
take place," she said. " Time will prove."
Adding hastily : " I had told Eoy before today
about my — my old friend Adam Ford
at the Lock ; and see ! he has sent him

this purse for a present. My friends are
Eoy's."

It is a very heavy purse," said Kate
thoughtfully, taking Roy's gift in her hand.

By-and-by, when Madeline was putting
on her dainty dressing-gown, Kate Harland
for the first time noticed a large jet locket
which she wore on a ribbon round her neck
and evidently concealed in her bosom. At
sight of the locket an involuntary exclamation
broke from Kate. For an instant, an
instant keen with pain and apprehension, she
trembled for Roger's future.

*' Madeline — forgive my curiosity," she
said, wistfully ; " does that locket contain a
photograph ? "

Madeline, without knowing that she did so
raised one hand quickly to the ribbon about
her throat, covering the black locket with the
other.

'' Yes," she replied, not without emotion
" the photograph of my dear dead mother."

And — and, Madeline nothing else ? "
said Kate, in the same wistful tone.

And Madeline answered :

"Yes, Kate — something else. A copy of
that dead mother s marriage certificate."

"That is all, dear''

That is all."

Kate thereupon pressed her arms very

lovingly and trustfully around Madeline, and
buried her face on Madeline's neck.

"Dearest friend, forgive me," she whispered.
** You know of what — of whom — I was thinking?"


^' Yes, I know," answered Madeline, softly,
returning Kate's caress ; " but you have
nothing to fear. I — I mean, dear, that he has
nothing to fear."

On the next day Madeline went across to
the Lock cottage to see Adam Ford, and took
with her the present which Roy had sent to
the old man. She found him sitting in the
porch in the sunshine, engaged in mending
his night-lines, which it was Adam's custom,
during the summer months, to bait and set
after dusk in cool and secret places beneath
the old bridge or in the reedy shallows by
the tumbling weir. It had been an idle day
for Adam Ford; few boats or barges since
sunrise having passed through the Lock-gates.


He wept childish tears of gratitude over
Roy's bountiful gift, and patted Madeline's
hand, and stroked her dark hair, telling her
dreamily, as he was wont to do, that she was
like his lovely daughter who was dead and
gone, and calling her Minnehaha.

It was market-day in Coverley-on-Dane, and
the busiest day of the whole six for the scandal-loving,
frisky little town.

About mid-day the country folk who had
business to attend to arrived in spring-carts,
gigs, four-wheels, and other vehicles of more
or less odd build, and drawn by more or less
odd-looking quadrupeds, and " put up " either
at 'the Gig" in High Street— where a
capital " ordinary" might be had for half-a-crown
— or at the less pretentious "Wild
Horse," whose flourishing rival, '' The Red-hot
Poker," was situated upon the opposite
side of the way.

Many of the humbler class of farmers
patronised " The Red-Hot Poker."

There upon the pavement edge in the
market-place were crockery stalls and vegetable
stands, and wicker prisons full of
struggling poultry ; the latter, as a rule, being
guarded by buxom country wives in vast
white aprons and red plaid shawls worn crosswise

over their breasts, who had also for sale
pats of fresh butter wrapped in cool cabbage-leaves,
and baskets of new-laid eggs.

Invariably outside that popular tavern,
The Poker," a well-known calf-dealer took
up his station ; his living wares, panting and
leg-tied, lying in a mass along the tail-board
of his cart, with their pathetic young eyes
turned dumbly yet beseechingly to the faces
of the passers-by.

In the corn-exchange, beneath the town-hall
and justice-rooms, the farmers transacted
the business which had brought them thither ;
and looked very wise and talked very broad
in discussing their crops and farm affairs —
and not infrequently went home very drunk
when market was over and the day's work
done.

Indeed a good deal of drinking went forward
on a market-day at Coverley — a thirsty
little town at the best of times — and altogether
the day for the inhabitants was far
from being a dull one ; what with the barking
of dogs, the cackling and screeching of
fowls, the bleating of calves, the oaths of the
farmers, and other sights and sounds incidental
to the occasion.

Generally, in the afternoon, perched in their
carriages-and-pairs, the county folk drove
soberly into the town, and, with gracious

mien, did a little trumpery shopping at the
superior drapers in the place — giving infinite
trouble for very small results ; and Coverley
damsels, of the best Coverley *' society,"
walked abroad and did a little shopping likewise,
and hunted the curates of St. Eve's,
and stared with a stony stare at other
Coverley damsels who were of an altogether
lower sphere, but who also had an eye to and
an interest in curates ; and then they all
marched ofF to afternoon " mass," with their
packages under their arms, or in their
pockets, or in their muffs, as the case
might be, and afterwards — the brief service
concluded — hustled one another at the
sacred doors, animated by the common
desire to walk home with the officiating
parson. Invariably was there a melee of
this description if it so chanced that the
Reverend Felix Scamper was the curate who
had conducted the afternoon " mass " at St.
Eve's. True, the Eeverend Felix Scamper
was a married man; but then, as Miss Bishop
and Miss Eager observed in their caustic
fashion, that fact was of little weight with
the unmarried young women of Coverley.

Look at Miss Snaffle, for instance — that
audacious yet fascinating Miss Snaffle — of
whom the Maltovers, the Singletons, and the
Bilfils, were known to be wildly jealous.

Why, even on this very market-day the
whole town was simmering with the whisper
of her latest frolic !

It was the opinion of everybody that that
vivacious lady was going a trifle too far, and
that, if she did not take care, the Reverend
Septimus Haze would get wind of her tricks,
and there would then be an end of the Lady
Principal's reign at the Cottage Hospital in
South Street.

No more leaping over forms after dusk in
the parish schoolroom on Christmas Eve; no
more primrose-gathering in Chalkhill Wood
for church-decorating at Waterside; no more
sausage suppers and hiding in flour-bins, hot
grog hastily consumed, and other surreptitious
delights of a similar nature ! No, all
these things must assuredly cease if the
frolicsome Lady Principal were not more
cautious.

Coverley-on-Dane, like the world at large,
was subject to periodical attacks of virtue ;
and when those attacks came on, and so long
as they lasted, the sly little town waxed exceedingly
virtuous indeed.

So people were beginning to say that Miss
Snaffle and the curates had better take care,
that the scandal was becoming a really grave
one, and that if the Vicar himself did not
*' smell a rat," Mrs. Septimus Haze herself

smelt one, it was plain. And woe betide
Miss Snaffle and the Reverend Felix Scamper
if that queer rumour of the form jumping and
the sausage-suppers got to the ears of the
Vicars' s wife !

It being a warm May day, Kate Harland,
in the afternoon, having a few purchases to
make at different shops, walked through the
lovely Borough meadows Coverley-ward.
Madeline accompanied her friend. Eoger,
of course, attended market, and had driven
in his dog-cart into the town. The girls
had arranged to meet him at '' The Gig "
at five o'clock, when they would all drive
back to the Little Mills together.

The wooded hills beyond and beside the
Dane were now greenly, and most gloriously
so, clad ; the river flashed and quivered in
the sunlight ; the swallows kissed the
stream's broad breast. Most gloriously
green and beautiful, too, was the billowy
plain of meadow grass, starred thickly
everywhere with bold bright buttercups;
and sweetly, daintily blue were the clustering
forget-me-nots which grew so coyly
amongst the rushes by the river-side.

As they left the fair wide headland
behind them, and, gaining the town, turned
up into High Street, they beheld, coming
slowly towards them, a poor old figure — a

figure advancing with difficulty, leaning on a
couple of sticks.

Her big black bonnet was crushed and
shapeless ; her apron, which might once have
been whiter, now hung before her in unsavoury
tatters ; her miserable gown, if
gown it could be called, limply, starved
clothed her gaunt old bones.

The two girls noticed, as she tottered onward,
that a foul, blood-marked bandage
crossed her wrinkled forehead and concealed
one eye as well; above the bandage, with
its horrible stains, locks of short and coarse
Avhite hair blew about in the sweet fresh wind.

A strip or two of sticking-plaster were
conspicuous upon her lower jaw, which, toothless
and palsied, worked up and down as she
crawled along in the sunshine, muttering :

Ah, me ! — ah, me ! for poor bodies o' the
likes o' us it's a cruel world. I daughter have
been dead and gone — and I wonder I ain't —
long ago. But I can't go into the 'Ouse ; I
won't go into the 'Ouse. Bocky shall
murder me first ; and I suppose he 'full some
day!"

Kate Harland immediately recognised the
poor old figure. It was Bocky Oakum's
grandmother, who lived in Trinder's Yard.

Why, Granny, what is the matter with
you?" she cried, shocked and astonished at

VOL. II. L

Granny's woeful appearance. " What on
earth have you been donor to yourself ? "

Ah, Miss Kate, is it you — God bless you ! "
said Granny, with a lively sense of favours to
come, looking up sidewise with her one blear
eye from out of the dingy penthouse of her
flattened headgear. '' I ain't been doing
nothing to myself — it's Bocky. He's on the
drink again, Miss Kate, and a-spending at
The Poker ' or the ' Wild 'Loss ' every
blessed garden he earns at his fly-driving.
And he'll be the death o' me afore heave
done, he 'full, Miss Kate, and then his poor
old Granny won't trouble him no longer."

Why don't you have him locked up ? "
said Kate, indignantly. '' It is shameful to
see you in this plight ! "

And Madeline, though her heart ached with
keenest pity too, could not repress the
shudder which chilled her veins as her eyes
fell upon the blood-soiled bandage that hid
from view Granny's wounded eye and head.

Have him locked up ? " whined the old
woman, dolefully shaking her big black
bonnet. *' I dunno, Miss Kate; I dunno.
It's hard, after all, you see, on yer own flesh
and blood, to send 'um to jail. Once a jailbird,
alius a jail-bird, my ole man that I
buried twenty year ago used to say ; and he
was right, Miss Kate. I mayn't be too hard

on Bocky; he don't know what lie's doing
Ashen the drink's inside of him, Bocky don't.
Ah, that cussed drink ! "

Accursed, indeed ! " sighed Kate, quickly.
But as for being hard on him, why that's
sheer nonsense, you know, Granny. It is a
great deal harder for you, I should say, to be
knocked about the place like a bit of old furniture,"
she added, with warmth.

But if Bocky was took away I should
have to go into the 'Ouse," said Granny,
swaying feebly as she leant upon her two
hedge-sticks ; " and I don't want to die iu
the 'Ouse, Miss Kate. Trew, he a' most did
for me in the winter, and would ha' done it
quite if Mr. Roger and the young gentleman
at the Moat hadn't ha' come along the Yard
that night and stopped him."

'' Ah, yes ; I remember now their telling
me about it," Kate replied, kindly. " And
where are you off to now, Granny ? "

Granny whimpered out that she was just
dragging herself down as far as the Yicarage,
to see whether her pitiful story would in anywise
soften the heart of the Reverend Sep-times
Haze.

It all depends what skin he's in," said the
old woman, not without venom; 'whether
he's awake-like or day with his book-learning.
It's o' no mortal use a-going to her'' —

-with withering scorn on the pronoun, and a
thump upon the pavement with one of her
sticks — " for she's as hard as nails with the
likes o' us."

*' Her, Granny ? Who is her ? " said Kate,
smiling.

The Vicar s lady, Miss Kate," grunted
Granny Oakum, with another thump upon
the pavement in High Street. " She's as
hard as nails or the crusts o' bread a week
old which she chucks to the likes o' us, as if
we was dogs, when we go down to the kitchen
door for scraps. But there, my deary, when
the cupboard's empty at home crusts a week
old be better than no bread at all. ' Come
to church, to early mass, Mrs. Oakum,' says
she ; or, ' Head our beautiful little magazine,
Mrs. Oakum,' she says sometimes, ' and you
will feel more comfortable in every way.'
She thinks we can live on tracks and that
there blessed ' parish magazine,' as they
calls it ; and if a poor soul's a-starving, why,
she tells 'um to come to church. But prayer-making.
Miss Kate, comes hard to a empty
stomach, and church-going ain't pleasant-like
in rags and tatters. The Yicar he ain't so
bad as her — I will say that for the little
gentleman," rambled on Granny ; " though
with all his book-learning he's never the parson
to help the poor folks to Heaven — whatever

comfort he may be for the rich 'uns. 'Deed,
I often thinks," sighed Granny Oakum —
spite of the taxes and all the tracks — that
there ain't no such a place as Heaven for the
poor."

The clock in the fine old tower of St. Eve's,
chiming and striking three, warned Kate and
her companion that they should be moving
onward. So, with kind and cheering
words, they each squeezed something into
Granny's ready palm — something which
made the crone's one blear eye twinkle with
satisfaction —-and hastened up the street in
the direction of the market-place.

Granny Oakum meanwhile, with many a
^' God bless ye, my dears," upon her palsied
lips, gathered herself together and went
crawling on again upon her two sticks
towards Coverley Yicarage, which faced the
beautiful Dane. She had heard — poor sad
old soul ! — of offer tories made every Sunday
for the relief of the Coverley sick and needy ;
but never so much as the colour of a copper
collected in the church of St. Eve's for that
purpose had Granny seen as yet in Trinder's
Yard. That she did know, and could take
her oath to.

Where then did all the coin go to ? Trin-der's
Yard would sarcastically demand sometimes.
Perhaps, boldly scoffed the most unregenerate

of te inhabitants, fine madam
collared it to pay her cook's wages or her
milliner's bill. Yes, beyond question there
were hosts souls in Trinder's Yard. Such
calumny spoke for itself.

When next Kate and Madeline heard of
Granny Oakum, the old woman's troubles
were ended, the hardships of a hard life were
done with for ever. And Trinder's Yard
knew her no more. She had solved tha
riddle of the " Great Perhaps," and had
ascertained whether or not there was a place-called
Heaven for the poor.

By the time St. Eve's clock had struck four,
Kate Harland had finished her shopping.

She and Madeline, during the afternoon,
had caught a glimpse of Roger, surrounded
by other men, near the corn-exchange ; they
had beheld, in the distance, the familiar burly
figure of Julia Prince in hot pursuit of Mr.
Headstone Payne.

They had seen the Reverend Felix Scamper,
with his jovial stride, turn down into South
Street, presumably to call on Miss Snaffle ;
and they had met more than once a callow
and blushing curate attended adoring by
two of the Miss Bilfils and three of the Miss
Singletons as well.

The second time that Kate and Madeline
came across that favoured curate, the
plain Miss Bilfils had been ousted from the
siege and the plump Miss Mai to vers had
triumphantly taken their place. But the
resolute Miss Singletons could stick like
burs.

Presently they saw the Pringles' carriage
drive with much pomp into the market-place
and stop at the shop of the chief Coverley
stationer. This shop, which was also the
library, was situated nearly opposite to the
doors of " The Gig Hotel."

Within the carriage, reclining with much
grace upon the cushions, were Mrs. Prince
and her daughter Hetty, both of them
magnificently arrayed in the latest fashion
for the month of May.

Facing these two sat Sir Garth Gilroy,
languid of aspect and faultlessly dressed.
His trim slight figure was still so young-looking
that one might well have mistaken
it — had not it been for the close-cropped
gray head — for that of a really young man.

At this spectacle the faint carnation
which the walk into Coverley had brought
to Madeline's cheeks gradually disappeared,
and her lips tightened visibly. Kate Har-land
laughed.

It is a proud moment for Mrs. Prince,"
said she merrily. " Cannot you enter into
her feelings, Madeline ? — driving thus into
Coverley on a market day, with Sir Garth
Gilroy occupying a seat in her carriage in
the character of her future son-in-law ? Yes ;
it's a proud moment for Mrs. Prince. Look
at her ! "

And Madeline still pale, and with nostrils
slightly quivering, looked again ; but she
answered low and firmly :

'' No — I could not, if I were to try, dear,
enter into the spirit of Mrs. Prince's sensations.
For my own part, I cannot conceive
that there should be anything to be proud of
in holding the slightest intercourse with a
man like Sir Garth Gilroy."

Ah, well, you know how much in the
dark I still am ; how little at present I comprehend
of your secret," Kate replied, in her
bright, good-humoured way. '' And though
of course I am aware how intensely you dislike
the man, yet you must admit that — "

"Dislike, I am afraid, is hardly the word.
I believe that I am wicked enough to hate
him," interrupted Madeline quickly.

Here the carriage party waiting before the
stationer's door caught sight of Kate and
Miss Dexter upon the opposite pavement.

Hetty nodded immediately in a pleasant
condescending little manner ; Sir Garth, with
no trace of a smile, just lifted his hat ; whilst
Mrs. Prince's satin bonnet, with its towering
plume of sage-green feathers, moved
never an inch.

Kate bowed across the road in return ;
Madeline, with proud indifference, ignored
^11 three.

*' I suppose they'll take up Jill by-and-by,"
Kate remarked, " when she has accomplished
her — Ha ! "

Now it was Kate Harland's turn to start
and change colour. But people were near,,
and she quickly regained her self-possession.

A burst of laughter, the sound of voices
raised in friendly dispute, had turned the
eyes and attention of the girls to the doors
of "The Gig Hotel." Those plate-glass
doors were continually on the swing on
market-day in Coverley-on-Dane.

A group of young men, all known one to
the other, had accidentally met outside that
comfortable hostelry ; and now were united
in prevailing upon one of their number — one
that appeared somewhat reluctant to join
them — to enter the bar and (in their own
language) " liquor up."

No, no, you fellows," laughed Barton
Chance. *' I have had enough, I tell you
at any rate, for the present, Can't you
see that I have, man ? Later on, perhaps,
don't you know. . . . Besides, there's the
guv'nor. Sir Garth, over yonder. If he sees
me loafing about here, he may take it into
his head by-and-by to be a bit unpleasant.
He can be deucedly unpleasant, I assure-you,
when he likes. ."

Don't be a fool," said one.

"A bottle of apollinaris won't kill you,
Bart, old chap," chaffed a second.

*' Oh, Sir Grarth be hanged ! " cheerily
observed a third ; the expression however
made use of was by no means exactly
'' hanged." " He has eyes just now only for
the lovely Hetty."

Another shout of merriment greeted this
jocular remark at Miss Hetty Prince's expense
; and then they all said soothingly,
patting the young fellow on the back :

Yes, yes ; Sir Garth be ' hanged ' — a
capital idea. Come along, Bart ! "

Here somebody resolutely pushed open
the swing-door, and they all trooped in,
treading upon one another's heels and hustling
the yielding Barton along — actually
nothing loth perhaps — in their midst. The
doors swung easily back into their place.
The boisterous young men had vanished.

The little scene was over in less than a
minute ; but Kate Harland saw it and instantly
grasped its significance.

She dragged Madeline's arm within her
own and turned shortly round.

*' Let us cross over," she said, speaking
hurriedly in her attempt to speak carelessly.
*' I detest passing that horrid ' Gig ' on
these days— detest having to meet Roger
there. See ! Madeline, Julia Prince has at

last captured poor Mr. Payne, and is now
taking him up to the carriage to speak to her
mother. I suppose between them they will
make him promise that he will dine to-night
at the Mills."

In silent yet tenderest sympathy Madeline
pressed close the arm of her friend. She
understood, had perceived long ago, how
dear to Kate was Barton Chance. Still
Kate, with regard to her great love, had
breathed never an actual word to any living
soul — not even to Madeline Dexter. Why
should she, how could she, she reasoned with
herself, when Barton himself kept silent ;
when he had never really spoken out ?

Thus loitering about the market-place and
High Street, waiting until Roger and the
dog-cart should be ready for them, they
passed, near the top of the latter thoroughfare,
a comfortable-looking bay-windowed
house ; the brass knocker and bell-handle of
which abode shone in a style that was dazzling
to behold. Upon the panes of the bay-window,
on the right-hand side of the front
door, somebody, in order to attract the
girls' attention, was rapping as loudly as she
could.

Kate and Madeline, looking up together,
saw and recognised above the green wire-stand
of flowering-plants which filled the

window and served thereto the purpose of a
lower blind, the large face and broad E/oman
nose of Miss Bishop ; with the more scraggy
lineaments of Miss Eager peering over her
shoulder.

In another moment Miss Bishop was at
the open door, with Miss Eager standing in
the hall behind her.

'' Come in ! Come in ! " cried Miss Bishop,
authoritatively, in her deep strong voice.

Why, we haven't seen you for an age,"
said Miss Eager, in her thin asthmatic one.

*' And how do you do, Miss Dexter ? " continued
Miss Bishop. " Very glad, I'm sure,
to see you. And so you have left the Pringles
and are stopping awhile, we hear, with the
Harlands — trying the other side of the water
for a change; eh ? "

A change for the better, I should say,"
remarked Miss Eager, with her little dry
cough.

There was no resisting Miss Bishop ; she
was a woman of much determination, and
her will was a vigorous one. She meant to
get Kate Harland and Miss Dexter into the
house for half-an-hour's gossip, and lo ! almost
before they knew where they were, they found
themselves seated in the spinster ladies' 
— or " best-parlour," as the apartment
was habitually called — with Susan, a

middle-aged domestic of rather vinegary
aspect, bringing in some tea and bread-and-butter.


Come, now ! acknowledge that this is
every jot as comfortable as waiting about
the street in the sun for your brother," said
Miss Bishop to Kate, when the reason of the
two girls' lingering before the modest shop-windows
in High Street had been explained
to her.

Kate pleasantly acknowledged that it was a
great deal more comfortable ; and that the tea
and bread-and-butter were most refreshing.

Then I wonder you died not come in of
your own accord," said Miss Bishop directly.
"You know well enough where we live."

Kate murmured in reply some not quite
audible excuse for not having voluntarily
called ; and Miss Eager struck in with —

Why, I don't believe we have seen anything
of you since that fine ball you had down
at Borough Mills in the winter. We quite
counted upon your coming up to Coverley
and telling us all about it ; didn't we,
Maria?"

That we certainly did," said Miss Bishop.
Everyone in Coverley told us that the affair
was a great success — no expense spared, and
all that."

I believe it went off very well' answered

Nate, quietly. " It seems now a long while
ago."

"Well, perhaps you can tell us," Miss
Eager hastened to put in, '' whether Sir
Garth Gilroy proposed to Hetty Prince on
the night of that ball of theirs ? We heard
that he was there, and thought it very likely
that he did so."

Yes, he was there ; but for the rest, I
cannot enlighten you," replied Kate, as
quietly as before.

Madeline herself said nothing; indeed
made no observation of any kind unless
pointedly addressed. She sat there quite still
in her hard high-backed chair, and gravely
sipped her tea ; her long dark eyelashes
veiling the light and scorn beneath them.

I never heard of such a brazen business
in my life," cried Miss Bishop — '' never !
And I should say that all concerned in the
match would live one day to repent it. It's
scandalous ! IJave you seen them driving
about in the carriage this afternoon ? Sir
Grarth looked as if he was praying that the
earth would open and swallow him, whilst
the old parent bird herself looked as proud
as a dozen peacocks rolled into one."

Yes ; we remarked that Mrs. Prince
looked exceedingly happy," answered Kate
Harland, smiling.

Marriages, they say, are made in heaven"'
observed Miss Eager, bitterly. *' This one
was made upon earth — or elsewhere — and
will be unmade in the Divorce Court. Mark
my words ! "

Then the two famous Coverley spinsters
went on to talk about their neighbours, in
their usual edifying style — about the Bilfils,
the Maltovers, the Singletons, the doings of
'' the little big folk " generally, and the
flighty curates of St. Eve's.

*have you heard, by-the-bye," said Miss
Bishop, " the latest report about Miss Snaffle
and the Reverend Felix Scamper? I cannot
vouch for the truth of it — we got it from
Headstone Payne."

And here, in spite of Kate Harland's protestations
that she and Madeline must be
going in a minute, followed an anecdote
touching the reckless doings of the Lady
Principal of the Cottage Hospital in South
Street, which put those other tales of the
sausage suppers and the hot grog and the
form-jumping after dusk in the parish-schoolroom
utterly into the shade.

Madeline could only listen and marvel in
silence at what she heard ; such talk as this,
and such evident relish in it, was an experience
altogether new to her. It was a revelation.
Such odious gossip had never been heard at

her refined and beautiful home in Cumberland
Square. What would Roy and Aunt Helen
think of it all, she found herself wondering
in her own breast ?

Kate Harland pulled out her watch ; and
Madeline gladly rose.

'' We must go now," Kate said, emphatically.
" It is five o'clock."

But before the two spinster ladies would
allow the girls to depart, they told them of a
special entertainment, consisting of songs,
duets, readings and recitations, which was
fixed to take place in the large hall of the
Athenaeum, on Thursday evening in the
following week.

It is in aid of funds for the Cottage
Hospital," explained Miss Bishop ; " and as
the object in view is a charitable one, everybody
in Coverley is sure to be there. Miss
Dexter," turning to Madeline, "you really
ought to come. You are a town-bred girl,
and a genuine country entertainment of this
description would, to you, I should think,
prove highly diverting."

"In fact," chuckled Miss Eager, 'these
Coverley Athenaeum affairs are, as a rule, a
good deal more amusing for everybody who
looks on than they who organize and take
part in them altogether care about."

I have never assisted at anything of the

VOL. II. M

kind' said Madeline, with a gentle smile.
So perhaps I should enjoy it. I have not
the least idea what ' a country entertainment'
is like."

Well, the rude boys in the gallery are
great fun," croaked Miss Eager. " Mr.
Payne always will have it that they are the
chief attraction for the greater part of the
audience ; and, 'pon my word, I believe he's
right. At all events, I, for one, would never
go if it were not for the rude boys in the
gallery. And I don't care who knows it."

Very well, we'll consider the matter
settled," said Miss Bishop, promptly. " We'll
secure reserved seats when we take our little
stroll this evening, and then we shall be sure
of good places, Kate. You must come up and
drink tea with us on Thursday evening — no
refusal; we won't hear of it! — so that we
can all go round afterwards in a party to the
Athenaeum. And if you can persuade your
brother Eoger and his friend Mr. Chance to
accompany you girls, why, of course, so much
the better. Tell them from Rachel and me
that they must come — you will want them to
look after you, going home — and so we shall
secure places for them too. Now, mind,
don't forget — it's an engagement."

Kate at that moment, in order to get away,
would have promised anything ; for she knew

that Roger, himself the most punctual of men,
hated to be kept waiting at any time.

They found him with his dog-cart awaiting
their appearance in the broad gateway of
The Gig Hotel," where sounds of conviviality
were distinctly audible, issuing from
the bar and public rooms within. Roger's
brow was cloudy. He spoke in the brusque
tone which he could not help when annoyed.
Kate's heart sank; she read Roger's gloom
aright.

You are nearly ten minutes late, Kate,"
said he.

Yes, dear, I know — we couldn't help it,"
she answered. She touched the sleeve of his
light cover-coat. " Roger," she whispered,
is — is Barton in there ? "

He nodded.

Jump up," he said aloud.

So saying, he helped his sister to mount
the back seat and assisted Madeline to the
front place beside his own. The ostler,
tipped before the girls' arrival, led the mare
to the gateway entrance, and three minutes
later, at a brisk pace, they were driving
homeward along the Redtown road.

Kate for a while wrestled in silence with
her anguish, thankful that she was occupying
the back seat of the dog-cart. But presently
leaning over between Madeline and Roger,

she told her brother quite cheerfully how they
had got through the afternoon ; whom they
had seen, where they had been, and that
they had promised to go to the entertainment
at the Coverley Athenaeum.

Do you really want to go, Madeline ? '*
he inquired, with a downward incredulous
glance at the beautiful still face near his
shoulder.

Madeline — though her dark eyes were
grave and dreamy, and she scarcely noted
the sweetness of the flowering hedgerows,
the vigorous undulating green of the far-reaching
cornfields, the slanting golden light
of the westering sun — laughed softly. There
was for her a sense of rest, strength, and
protection by Roger Harland's side ; and the
future, so close at hand now, that she had to
face and to fight, lost wholly its lurid and
terrible aspect when Eoger and his strength
were near her. So she laughed, and said
thoughtfully :

Yes ; they say it is amusing — I think I
should like to go. One must live and learn."

That is settled then," remarked Eoger,
lightly flicking the brown mare's mane.

Here they turned down the quiet lane
which led to the Little Mills; and shortly
after the brown mare stopped at the Har-lands'
garden gate.

Home at last ! " cried Madeline, quite
simply and naturally. " I am very glad."

And Roger's heart leaped as lie heard the
words. Would it ever be really Madeline's
home ? Yes, some day, he fondly trusted —
some day, if he was patient ; and patient he
meant to be.

Ah, what would he have said, could he
have looked into the future and have read
therein that his beloved Little Mills would
never be the home of this woman who was
all the world to him !

Radiantly as the sun shone, was shining
on that fair May day, the shadows were
horribly near.

It was the evening before that one on which
the entertainment at the Coverley Athenaeum
was fixed to take place — a Wednesday evening,
calm, exquisitely serene, with the clear
pale blue of the sky overhead mirrored faithfully
in the dark depths of the river below ;
with streaks of pink and primrose and
wannest apple-green lying low in the languid
west, marking the fair region where the sun
had gone down.

For once the busy roar of the mills was
hushed ; business was slacker now that
summer was drawing near. In the glorious
woods above the river a nightingale had
already begun to flood with his rapturous
melody the dark and unfrequented dells, where
the harebells grew in such wondrous profusion
and the moss was as richest velvet beneath
one's feet.

In the meadow-grass by the riverside, lush,
abundant, and almost ready for the scythe —
in which the bold bright buttercups and the
sturdy ox-eyed daisies would assert their being

and refused to be concealed — a corncrake
croaked his monotonous call ; whilst another,
in the same untiring fashion, answered him
from a distant field.

Gray clouds of insect life hovered thickly
over the surface of the stream, and the big
fish were on the feed in the close vicinity
of the eyots.

Eoger Harland had changed his dusty
clothes, and now sat with the girls in the
pleasant old dining-room at the Little Mills,
reading his newspaper by the open window.
Presently, having done with it, he flung it
aside.

It's more than a shame to waste such
an evening indoors," said he, rising and
stretching himself. 'come, Madeline — Kate
rouse up, both of you, and we'll go fora
row as far as Woldney or Margrave. There
will be a moon by-and-by, so that if we area
bit late it won't matter."

But Kate, who was readily occupied with
smattering up one of her neat best gowns for
the following evening's wear at the Coverley
Athenaeum, answered briskly :

Out of the question, my dear boy. I
must finish this little matter to-night, for I
shall have no time for it tomorrow. It is
baking-day, and there are other important
things besides to be done on Thursday. You

see, I want to go smart to the entertainment.
You take Madeline on the river, and I'll stay
at home, Roger."

Madeline was willing, and Eoger nothing
loth. The arrangement was a satisfactory
one for both of them ; and Kate perhaps,
knowing this, invented an excuse for staying
at home.

Ere long Harland had got his skiff out
from the boathouse, and was assisting Madeline
into the cosily cushioned seat at the stern.
He took the sculls, and she the scarlet rudder-cords
; for she had grown quite accomplished
in boating affairs since her sojourn in the
Harlands' home.

She wore this evening one of her pretty
London gowns — a soft dead-white material,
trimmed with lovely lace and old-gold satin.
A handsome high-shouldered tippet of Russian
sable was her only wrap ; it was sufficient on
this fair May night.

They must pass through the Lock in order
to gain the Woldney part of the river ; but
Adam Ford the lock-keeper, they noticed,
was not at his accustomed post. In answer
to Roger's shout of " Lock — lock — lock," it
was Dan'l Drake who appeared to wind back
the huge dripping gates.

"Hullo, Dan'l, you here?" said Roger.
'how's that?"

Dan'l explained that Adam had gone
farther up the river Woldney way, to look
after one or two of his night-lines, and had
asked him — Dan'l — since the mills had stopped
working for the day, to mind the Lock for him
during his absence.

So I be here, sir," said Dan'l. 'naomi
she's gone to Coverley, and it was a bit lonesome
like with only Hanner at home."

Adam's getting a sad poacher in his old
age," remarked Harland, carelessly. " He
had better look out."

Is it wrong, then ? " asked Madeline
anxiously, as the gate closed behind them,
and their boat rose higher and higher every
moment with the rising, seething, imprisoned
water — " to set these night-lines ?"

*' It isn't altogether right, I suppose," said
Eoger. '' But then I fancy old Adam does
not do much mischief in that direction. It
amuses him, and really harms nobody. Besides,
if Sir Garth Gilroy does not object
to his poaching in the Woldney water, nobody
else round about here has any right to interfere
with him."

Sir Garth may not know," murmured
Madeline.

I don't much suspect Sir Garth would
care if he did know, Madeline," replied
E/Oger, his attention just then engrossed with

his manipulation of the boat-hook. " There
are other poachers in the "Woldney back-stream
besides Adam, you may be sure. Sir
Garth's too careless to look after his own."

Madeline was silent.

Presently the skiff reached the edge of the
lock ; and Madeline drew her hand through
the now deep and eddying water, with an
exclamation of relief.

*' Eoger," she said, '' I cannot bear a lock.
When we are at the bottom of it I am always
somehow reminded of a huge coffin — a huge
black slimy coffin ! "

That is a horrible idea," said Roger,
simply.

"I never shall forget that night," said
Madeline, with a strong shudder — '^ never
can forget it — when I walked straight in —
headlong — ah ! it was frightful."

It is not likely that you would forget
it," answered Eoger, quickly. " Nor shall I,
my car — neither shall I ever forget it,
Madeline," he said, correcting himself, and
drawing the sculls dexterously into the rowlocks
again. " That night and its peril went
a long way towards making us the — the — the
good friends that we are, Madeline."

She dried her hand in her handkerchiefs
and gathered up the scarlet cords.

We are more than friends, Eoger," she

said gently, without looking at him. "You
know that — know it well''

They had passed through the farther gate ;
half-a-dozen vigorous strokes from Harland's
muscular arms, and they had shot past the
Pringles' fine house and gardens — past the
swift-gliding dam of the tumbling weir —
away from the picturesque and straggling
old bridge, now growing dim of outline in
the gathering twilight — and out on to the
wide calm bosom of the Woldney water.

'' Yes, I pray Heaven that we are more
than friends," he answered, with unconscious
sternness ; " but, Madeline — when are
we to be to each other something more than
more than friends ' ? "

Sbe clasped her small slim hands in her
lap, with the scarlet rudder cords lying over
her white wrists.

Roger," pleaded she, hardly above a
whisper, " trust me — oh ! trust me a little
while longer ; and then — and then, by-and-by,
I do not know why it should not be as
as you wish. Unless — unless, Roger, it be
that, when you know all, you should wish it
no more — "

She stopped. He rested upon his oars.

The wild " jug-jug-a-jug" of the nightingale,
full of joyous passion, smote the tranquil
evening silence, with the musical

rippling of the current around the keel of
the boat.

'nothing, Madeline, could make any
difference," said he.

Ah, wait and see," she answered. And
bowed her face in her hands.

Well, I have been very good, very
patient — have I not, dear ? — so far," he
said, bending towards her ; a smile half
jesting, half sad and tender, flitting over his
brown face.

Indeed, indeed, yes ! " she replied,
earnestly, looking up at him — '' too good,
too patient; far more so than I deserve.
And yet — and yet, if I try your goodness
and your patience still farther, I know that
you will bear with me as you have borne with
me until now?"

I will try, my darling," said Harland, in
his simple, straightforward way. And this
time he neither checked himself, nor did
Madeline rebuke him either.

The woods, on one side of them, cast their
great solemn shadow over the river. Over
the low-lying meadows of Woldney, on the
other side, the river mist was slowly spreading
like a silver-gray cloud. The saffron
buttercups and the sturdy ox-eyed daisies, at
this hour, were blurred and indistinct. They
had folded close their dewy petals, had

drooped their heads, and were awaiting the
sun's up-rising once more and the carolling
at dawn of the soaring lark.

Presently Madeline started in her seat.
They were nearing the gloomy parkland of
Woldney Moat.

The figure of a man in evening clothes,
with a light coat over them, was visible in
the dusk upon the towing-path. He came
onward ; a lighted cigar between his lips ;
his face set towards Borough Mills. Madeline
recognised him at once.

She tugged the cord in her right hand, and
the boat suddenly veered to the Woldney
bank.

There is Sir Garth Gilroy," she said, as
calmly as she could. " Let me land a
moment, Eoger — will you ? I must speak
to him."

Harland turned his head quickly and
looked towards the meadow. The lines in
his forehead deepened as he looked.

Madeline," he said, slowly, " you heard
from Sir Garth only this morning; you
hear from him often ; the letter was on
your plate at breakfast-time — I could not
help recognising his crest and handwriting
when I took the letter from the bag. You
cannot want to speak to him now — "

I do'* she interrupted, still tugging at

the right-land cord. " It is concerning the
contents of that letter — of other letters too
that I now wish to speak to him. Roger,
be patient with me — bear with me — you said
you would ! I must speak a moment with
Sir Garth Gilroy — and — and, Eoger, I would
rather that you were near me whilst I do so.
If you will not humour me in this, I shall be
compelled to go alone to "Woldney Moat —
and — and I am afraid of him sometimes. I
hardly know why. The bank is low yonder
let me land ! "

Do as you will, Madeline ; you know
your own affairs best."

Trust me — trust me," she pleaded, in a
low and hurried tone of distress ; " do not
hinder me, Eoger. He will be gone."

The next instant the keel of the boat was
grating along the gravelly shallows by the
bank.

I will wait for you here," Harland said
more kindly. " Do not hurry."

She murmured 'thank you" as she
sprang ashore before he could step out
himself to assist her ; and hastened, her
white gown brushing the dewy grass, after
the retreating figure of the master of the
Moat.

Her step was light ; he did not hear it ;
knew not indeed that he was tracked by

Madeline, until she touched his arm and
said rapidly :

Sir Grarth, I want to know how much
longer you intend to keep me waiting — what
you mean to do ? Your letters are mere
subterfuges, are worth nothing, are not to
be relied upon. I am weary of this miserable
putting-off," she said, passionately — '' from
day to day, from week to week. Sir Garth,
I am resolved to act ; I will remain no longer
passive. If you will not proclaim the truth,
I shall. Afterwards do as you please ! This
new marriage that you contemplate — and I
have sworn it to you before — shall not go
forward until justice has been done — "

You ! Is it you again ? Curse you ! "

He had turned upon her savagely ; startled
for the moment out of speech at this unlooked-for
attack. He had not dreamed that Madeline
was near him.

For a moment, too, the expression of hate
and fury which lit up his white face and sombre
eyes was such that the girl recoiled from
his side — shrank back a pace, regarding him
steadily the meanwhile. Once in her life
before had she seen upon his features that
same dangerous expression — on that memorable
night in the library at Woldney Moat.

He had flung away his cigar, scarcely
knowing what he did in his wrath, and his

wax-like hands twitched nervously, as if their
working were beyond his control. He glanced
restlessly from Madeline to the river — there
was a hole in its weedy bed, mysteriously and
horribly deep, near to the spot where they
stood — and from the river back to Madeline.

'' Do not venture to hurt me," said she,
breathlessly. " I have a friend close by. In
an instant a cry from me would bring him
here. Have a care. Sir Garth, what you do ! "

A swift change passed over him. The
look of smothered hate gave place to one
of languid contempt.

You alarm yourself unnecessarily'' he
said. "Why should I wish to harm you?
I tell you, you have placed me in a difficult
position by your persistent and extraordinary
statement ; and I want time — time to consider
how best I shall arrange things — "

Your tale — your excuses for delay are
always the same," she stopped him disdainfully.
"You want time ! My theme likewise
is always the same — I want justice for my
brother and for myself ; justice for the
memory of our dead mother ! "

You are a woman ; and, like all women,
are impatient of small delays," he said,
indifferently.

Why should there be delay ? There is
no possible reason for it, except that of your

own cowardice. You are afraid, after all
these years, to let the world hear the truth,"
was Madeline's passionate retort.

Gilroy shrugged his shoulders.

That is the point," said he, coolly. "Is
it a case of truth or not ? The fact is, I
want time to demonstrate that you are the
mainspring of a vile conspiracy. Let me
once prove that it is so, and it will go hard
with you, I promise you. Miss Dexter, and
with those that are backing you up."

"You are perfectly aware, Sir Garth," she
replied, with an effort speaking as coolly ashe,
" that you want time for no such course.
Your conscience — if nothing else — convinces
you that I am speaking the truth ; that I
have told you nothing but the truth hitherto."


If you have spoken the truth, then your
mother lied infamously," he said, sullenly.

*' If she lied — and I freely admit that she
did — she lied to punish you," returned
Madeline, her anger flashing out again.

I could show you that when Minna
Ford died, she died childless; died, too, some
years prior to the date on which you declare
the event happened," said Gilroy. " I have
still in my possession letters from my solicitors
that will prove the fact."

She was not Minna Ford when she died,"

VOL. II. N

cried Madeline, haughtily. '' How dare you,
in my hearing, call her Minna Ford ! "

'' Oh, very well ! " answered Sir Garth —
*' as you will."

*' Have not 1 here a copy of her marriage
certificate ? " demanded the girl, her beautiful
proud eyes sparkling as she clutched
the bosom of her gown, wherein the black
locket with its treasure lay hid.

A forged certificate is no very great
curiosity," sneered Gilroy, with another
shrug. " ' Desperate men stick at naught,' "
he added, with his rare and saturnine smile.

Madeline's lips curled.

I have told the truth ; my story is
true," she reiterated, coldly. " It only remains
for you. Sir Garth, to investigate
any part of it whatsoever that you may
feel in the least inclined to cast a doubt upon.
Only remember that I am sick of this putting-off;
sick of this eternal temporising and
going over the old ground. I am fully resolved
now to take my own course — you may
take yours. I have remained long enough
in the neighbourhood of Woldney Moat. I
have warned you ; I have pleaded with you.
Your son, Sir Garth, and heir, needs me by
his couch at home. Be astonished at nothing
that may happen — that I may do — after tonight."


He grasped her suddenly by the wrist.

Curse yoQ ! " he once more burst forth —
** Listen to me ! "

His clasp upon her delicate flesh hurt her.

Let me go ! " she panted. '' Recollect
that I am not alone."

She tried to wrench her wrist from his
grip ; but could not.

Truly you behave, Sir Garth," said she
mockingly then, " like one who has no
ground for fear ; who believes himself to bethe
victim of a conspiracy ! Somehow the
conviction seizes me to-night that all this
while, these weeks past, you have been occupied
in searching out — as far as it now lies
within the power of any living man to search
it out — the truth of the history of my dear
mother's life and death ; the history of her
melancholy life after your cruel desertion —
secretly believing every word of it as it was
told to you by me on that night when I came
to you in the library at \Yoldney Moat.
Yes ! I can read in your coward eyes that it
is so ; that you have been hunting out the
truth for yourself. Ah ! Sir Garth Gilroy, I
do not fear you now. The game is nearly
over. Bad as your own small world knows
you to be, the whole world shall soon know
you for what you really are ! "

The grip about her wrist insensibly
tightened.

'' Listen one moment," he said, almost

hissing out his words, and bending so near
to her that his breath swept her cheek.
Listen, Minna — Minnehaha — or whatever
name it is that you call yourself ! I own that
you have right on your side — I am in your
power. You spoke, when you came to the
Moat, of a person, a widow, living at 30,
Prince's Street, Brompton, with whom you
and your mother lodged in years gone by.
I have found her out, have been to her — she
still lives, starved and needy in her old age,
plying her old trade, at the same address.
She was in the secret, as you told me, and
assisted your mother in the fraud she planned
and carried out. I bribed her heavily ;
she confessed everything ; and showed me
that lying grave in the Brompton cemetery.
In other quarters, too, I have proved that
your story is true. Minna, I ask you for
another month — another month's secrecy —
no more. I ask you for time to think — to
turn round, as it were — that is all ! I am
hedged about with the most pressing worry
and difficulty, worry and difficulty of all
kinds. At the expiration of that time, a
month hence, I solemnly swear to you that
it shall be as you desire. You and your
brother shall have justice then — justice in
the eyes of all the world I Surely that is
enough — that will satisfy you ? "

It had grown so dark that Roger, in his boat
Tinder the bank, could by this time see but
very indistinctly the figures of Madeline
Dexter and Sir Garth Milroy standing there
together upon the towing-path.

The mist was round them ; the amethyst
tint of the gloaming had deepened imperceptibly
into the monochromatic gloom of
night. Stars throbbed faintly in the calm
sky ; their reflections quivered far down in
the cold ebon mirror beneath them. A little
wind crept out of the willows and played
daintily and chillily athwart the broad and
gliding river. The rushes moved and whispered
in ghostly fashion ; the whisper
travelled slowly through the meadow-grass.
The young May moon was coyly showing
herself behind the black plantations of Woldney
Moat.

The breeze brought Madeline's voice to
Roger. He could tell that the converse of
those two dim figures was impassioned and

stormy. What on earth, he wondered
moodily, as he had wondered so often of
late, could be the business between them ?
Ah, would the day ever really dawn, would
the sun ever really shine upon the day, when
there should be no hidden thing of any kind
between himself and Madeline ?

He grew uneasy, restless ; he fidgeted with
the sculls ; he splashed the water idly with
one of them in the hope that Madeline would
hear the sound and understand his impatience.


Presently another figure — that of a gaunt
old man, whose head was bare and whose
lank gray hair hung wildly in the wind
about his stooped shoulders — passed along
the towing-path. He was accustomed at
times to go bareheaded; and to face all
weathers in his rough duties at the Lock.

He had with him an old boat-hook, which
he habitually used as a walking-stick ; in the
other hand he carried a mass of wet twine,
with some of which — securely to tough withy
pegs — he had been fastening down his lines
in the pike-haunted and lily-covered pools of
the Woldney back-water.

In those shady pools by the Moat's deserted
grounds, where the water lay deep
and silent, overshadowed by a wilderness of
copse and plantation — deep, hushed water

across which the moriens flew screeching
fearlessly, trailing behind them over the
broad smooth lily leaves their slim red legs
and delicate webbed feet — big fish lived and
throve, and were occasionally taken therefrom
at prodigious weight and size.

No voice nor oar through the livelong day
disturbed their sombrous quiet, unless Barton
Chance, unchaining Sir Garth's old punt,
punted himself through those long lush lily-stems
to reach the public water Margrave
way.

Harland recognised the wild-looking old
man, tramping bareheaded along the meadow,
with his boat-hook for a staff, and muttering
to himself as was his wont.

Good-night, Adam," said Roger. " Any
sport ? "

Perhaps the lock-keeper did not hear ; at
any rate, he returned no answer. He tramped
on, muttering and shaking his gray head;
and, in the darkness, came blundering against
Sir Garth Gilroy and Madeline.

Gilroy had released the girl's wrist. They
were about to part.

So let it be — another month then," she
was saying wearily. " Heaven alone knows
whether or not you are to be trusted ! ''

In this you may trust me," he replied.
Doubt me, of course, if you will."

'* The revelation will astonish your future
wife and her kindred," said Madeline,
bitterly.

That remains to be seen."

*' You are now on your way to Borough
Mills?" the girl said.

Gilroy inclined his head.

On duty, you know," he answered,
vaguely cynical. " And now good-night,
Minna — if I may call you so. I am glad
that we are parting with an amicable understanding
— "

Pardon me," she interrupted ; " I should
prefer your calling me by my right and lawful
name — ' Miss Dexter.' "

So ! " laughed Gilroy softly. " A singular
arrangement, that, between you and

me."

To me and mine you are simply Sir
Garth Gilroy," said the girl, icily and
proudly; " and to the end of our lives you
never can be more than that. Wherever we
may be, wherever, through accident or mischance,
we may meet in this life, to us you
will be only Sir Garth Gilroy."

Well, I have not the least objection," he
told her, carelessly. " It will be pleasant
so, I have no doubt." •

Have not I told you over and over again
that we want nothing of you — nothing —

nothing — nothing ! — save justice," Madeline
said, her voice beginning to quiver again ;
*sand justice — if there be justice out of
Heaven — will we have. We want nothing
else ; will accept nothing else at your
hands'*

** That is fortunate," said Gilroj, not
without a gleam of sinister humour lurking
in his deep-set eyes. " Good-night,
Miss Dexter."

'good night, Sir Garth."

Ere she could move to leave him, the weird
old lock-keeper, with his twine and boathook,
had stumbled, in the gloom, against
them.

Gilroy pushed the old man roughly aside,
and he nearly fell.

How could you ! " cried Madeline, indignantly,
stretching out her hand to Adam.
*'He could not help it — he did not see us."

Adam instantly knew Madeline's voice.

My Minna — Minnehaha ! " cried he joyfully
— " is it you ? God bless you for your
goodness and your pretty face," he rambled
on, in his childish crazy fashion — " that
pretty face — those beautiful eyes — so like my
dear lost girl's, my Minnehaha — "

"You babbling old fool — you are drunk ! "
broke out the master of the Moat, violently.
^' Get home with you, and smother your

senseless chatter in the mill-dam ! '' He-clutched
Madeline by the shoulder; but this
time she jerked herself at once from his
touch. " What does he mean ; what does
he know ? " Gilroy whispered, not without
agitation, in her ear. " You have told him
nothing'*

Nothing — he knows nothing, as yet,"
replied the girl, briefly. *' Well, perhaps
for you, Sir Garth, that he does not''

No offence sir, no offence," said Adam.
Why, Sir Garth, is it you ? I'm sure I beg
pardon, sir — I did not know it was you."
The old man touched a wintry forelock.
This lady, sir, is so kind and beautiful
she is like my lost darling," he said
dreamily. '' It was a happy day for me
Sir Garth, when she came to these parts.
She lets me call her Minna sometimes. Sir
you remember my beautiful daughter — my
Minnehaha — the pride and darling of my — "

This lady is Miss Dexter, Adam'' said
Gilroy, in his usual deliberate voice and
manner, " who a little while ago was living at
Borough Mills. You are a raving old lunatic,,
you know — an unmitigated nuisance, my
friend — and ought to be shut up like other
lunatics."

Ah me, ah me ! " groaned the aged lock-keeper,
" shut up, did you say, sir ? Yes,.

perhaps the day will come when I shall be
shut up and shall swing for it ; for if I live
to find him, I mean to kill him, sir. That
is only right and fair — an eye for an eye, a
tooth for a tooth, and a life for a life ! He
robbed me of my child, ruined her, killed
her, and the Almighty — ay ! something tells
me that it will be so — one day will bring us
face to face ! "

Adam, grandpa — my dear old friend,"
murmured Madeline piteously, taking within
both her own the lock-keeper's horny hand,
"you must not talk in that dreadful way.
Vengeance is His — not man's. He will repay.
Leave the sinner to His mercy ; it is infinitely
more just than man's."

'' No, no ! " cried Adam, with his boathook
smiting the dewy earth, and lifting
his worn face and wild gray locks skyward,
so that the broadening moonlight shone fully
down upon them. " Murder is man's own
affair, to do with the murderer as he sees fit,
God will have nothing to do with murderers,
and he took away and murdered my
darling. I dreamed the other night," said
Adam Ford, more gently, " that I had found
him ; found him after all these long years of
waiting and watching and vain praying for
his coming. We met, he and I, in the
meadows here; and the moon was shining,

as it shines now ; and I split his skull open
with my hook — with a swift and sudden blow
I did it — and I danced and laughed round
the corpse as the blood flowed out, and
stamped on his white staring face, and
ground my heel into his neck, and thanked
Heaven — ''

Madeline, in an agony of horror and fear,
tried to speak, gasped, then said, with
hands locked convulsively together :

Hush, Adam ! for pity's sake, do not !
You frighten me. I cannot listen to you if
you talk so wickedly. Go home — please go
home ; it is late, and there may be no one
at the Lock. 'J' here — there are boats waiting
there — cannot you hear the shouting ? "

Hist ! my Minna, my beautiful Mines
whispered Adam, '' I would not harm
you ; you have nothing to fear ; only him,
when he is found — "

The situation had become too keen for Sir
Garth. With a gesture of vehement impatience
he flung out his arm, pushing Adam
backward, and turned abruptly from him and
Madeline.

D — the old madman ! " he cried, fiercely;
and strode off in the direction of the Pringles'
abode.

For a few minutes after Sir Garth's departure
the girl talked kindly and soothingly

with Adam Ford, pressed his rough old hand
repeatedly within hers and held it lovingly
against her throat. Then she gave him what
money she happened to have with her, and
again bade him hasten home to his post at
the Lock. He sobbed out his gratitude, blest
her for her bounty, and did her bidding with
the docility of a child.

Having seen the old man start upon his
homeward trudge, Madeline went slowly and
wearily back to the spot where Roger, leaning
forward as he sat, his arms folded, his face
bowed on his chest, still waited for her in the
boat by the bank.

He had not moved. The skiff was exactly
where she had left it.

Eoger, are you asleep ? " she said.

At the sound of her voice he sprang up
directly, and stretched out his hands to help
her in.

No. I was in a brown study, Madeline ;
not asleep. You have been a long time."

Yes — I wonder you did not grow tired
of waiting for me, and row home alone," she
said, with a poor attempt at playfulness.

That was likely, was it not ? "

He could see that she was shivering, though
the river air, as yet, had not become cold ; it
was misty and chilly, but not yet really cold.
The ice-cold breath of the river would creep

up and spread out with the "winnowing
wind" at dawn.

So before pushing off, Roger wrapped his
coat round Madeline — sculling, he did not
want it himself. As he tried, in his awkward,
tender fashion, to button it over her
tippet at her throat, he felt her tears dropping
upon his hand.

My dearest, what is the matter ? " he
said huskily ; his blood burning, his strong
hands trembling. "Madeline — ah, Madeline!
if you could only bring yourself to trust me
wholly — "

Do not mind me, Roger," she faltered ;

I shall be better presently. Let me be fora
little while — please, do not mind me. I am
cold, tired, unutterably depressed; that is
all, believe me."

He crushed back his love ; for the world
he would not worry or offend her ; and silently
settled to his work. Two or three measured
strokes, and the skiff was well out on the
moonlit river

The stream is with us — we shall soon be
home, Madeline," said he, cheerfully, but not
looking at her. '' We cannot go to Margrave
to-night. It's too late, you know."

No, not to-night," she answered mechanically,
brushing away her tears.

The black lone woods frowned above them ;

the moonlight, in a rippling golden path, lay
shimmering upon the Dane's dark bosom. The
measured dip of the sculls sounded curiously
cold and unearthly as they neared the smooth,
swift water which fed the roaring weir. Ina
clanging, melancholy manner, upon the night
stillness, smote the chimes of a clock at Woldney
Moat. If was a quarter to ten.

"Kate will think we are drowned," observed
Harland, lightly.

Is it very deep here ? " asked Madeline,
with an absent little smile.
"Awfully deep."

The girl shuddered.

Lock — clock — lock ! " shouted Roger, with
stentorian lungs.

Lock-a — lock-a — lock-a ! " mocked Echo,
over wood, wold, and water.

It was Dan'l Drake who, in response to
the cry, again wound back the huge wet gate.

Have you seen anything up yonder of
that dodger old buffer, Mas'er Roger ? " said
the foreman, testily. " I be pretty nigh tired
o' this, and wants to get home to bed."

"Yes, we have seen him. He will soon be
here — if you mean Adam Ford," said Madeline,
gently.

It's about time, miss," grunted Dan'l.
Naomi ha been over here for me — thought
I was lost or summit."

Don't forget, Dan'l, if I shouldn't see you
again to-night, that the waggon goes into Red-town
the first thing tomorrow morning," said
Harland ; referring to some business arrangement
settled between master and man earlier
in the evening. " You can't go, mind. Jem-met
must go."

"It's all right, sir; I've told Emmet.
Good-night, Mas'er Eoger."

Good-night, Dan'l."

A few minutes later, Roger and Madeline
stood again before the Harlands' garden-gate
; the skiff chained up in its place in
the boat-house, and Roger — Madeline having
unbuttoned it from her neck — putting
on his coat before going indoors.

A light shone ruddily through the blinds of
the musk-scented old drawing-room. Kate
was playing ; and a clear light tenor accompanied
the notes of the piano. It was the
voice of Barton Chance.

He had come up to the Little Mills, everlasting
pipe in mouth, intending, if he could, to
persuade Roger to stroll with him as far as
Coverley, for a game at billiards at the convivial
" Gig." But Roger, he found, was outwith
Miss Dexter ; and Kate at home alone.

She had coaxed him, pleaded with him,
and had at last prevailed upon him to go
that evening no farther than the Little Mills.

Stay, Barton, with me," she said very
earnestly. " I do not often ask a favour
of you, do I ? You used not to want so
much persuasion to spend a quiet evening at
the Little Mills." And Barton, stirred by
an access of tenderness and contrition, took
the dear face within his two hands, smiled
down on it lingeringly — his beautiful eyes
half merry, half sorrowful — kissed it, and
stayed.

Roger and Madeline paused a moment to
listen outside before going in. Barton was
singing the song called 'love and Life,"
which he had himself given to Kate one
evening before Christmas of the past winter.

Though I may breathe no word, dear love,
Yet do I love thee more dearly than life ;
Through storm and calm, through shower and shine,
Through life's unrest and through life's long strife,
I am thine, dear love, I am thine !
Trust me, dear one, in Love ;
Trust me, dear heart, in Life ! ''

Touched by the yearning strain of the
music, Roger put his arm round Madeline and
drew her " unresisting" to his heart. She,
with a sigh, pressed her head against his
breast and closed her eyes. He bent his face
over her until it rested on the sweet tired white
one which lay against his faithful heart.

Eoger," she murmured, "you will let me
stay with you another month?"

VOL. II.

Another month, Madeline ! " he echoed.
You know how impossible life without you
will be to me."

In another month," she said dreamily,
it will all be clear — all clear, and just, and
right. That is, if— if— "

"If what, Madeline?"

He held her more closely. He was vowing
to himself that nothing in time or in eternity
should ever part them from each other.

If Sir Garth Gilroy does not play me
false," she answered. " He gave me a
solemn promise to-night, Roger, but— but —
somehow my heart misgives me ; I am afraid ;
I cannot trust him. The Milroy were ever
false, never truthful," she said, bitterly.
In spite of his promise, I fear he means
mischief."

Madeline," said the young man, passionately,
" I do not understand — you know that
I do not understand. But I swear, nevertheless,
that no living soul shall harm you,
my dear one, so long as I am near to shield
you'

She opened her eyes, smiled faintly ; and
her arms crept slowly upward and entwined
themselves shyly about his neck.

I fear no man — nothing on earth," she
said, " when you are with me, Roger."

*' The hall is nearly full already ! " exclaimed
Miss Bishop, staring boldly about her, with
nose in air and glasses on nose. " It will be
frightfully stuffy, Rachel, by-and-by.'*

The gallery is quite full ; that is a comfort,"
said Miss Eager, noting the circumstance
with relish. " With that fact in its
favour, Maria, the entertainment can't be
dull."

The last time we were here," said Miss
Bishop, turning to Kate, '' they kicked up
such a disturbance that they were all turned
out — every man Jack of 'em — in the middle
of the evening. Not, however, before they
had succeeded in making Lawyer Bilfil very
nearly dance with rage on the platform up
yonder. He was in the chair that night, you
know, and a nice time he had of it."

Who — what — who were turned out ? "
said Kate, who was not listening just then.
She and Madeline were watching with amusement
the humours of the arrival and the seating
of a Coverley Athenaeum audience.

Why, the rude boys in the gallery !" said
Miss Eager, chuckling.

The two spinster ladies, as they had
promised they would, had secured half-a-dozen
capital reserved seats at the beginning
of the third row of chairs from the little
stage, upon the right-hand side of the hall ;
and Kate Harland and Madeline Dexter, likewise
according to promise, had come up to
Coverlet in time to drink tea with the two
maiden ladies before setting out for the
Athenaeum. Roger and Barton Chance
would arrive later on, to escort the girls
home — they were keeping the young men's
chairs for them by making the vacant seats
a resting place for their wraps.

Everybody, if would appear, made it an
especial point to come sprucely attired to an
entertainment at Coverley.

Miss Bishop and Miss Eager had put on
their best bonnets and mantles, and their
Sunday gowns ; and each wore a pair of
lavender-kid gloves, stitched with black, and
cleaned for the occasion. Many of the
younger damsels in the reserved seats, Kate
and Madeline noticed, took off their hats,
and showed the folks immediately behind
them how nicely their hair was done in the
latest fashion — or what, in Coverley, was
believed to be the latest fashion.

Indeed the Miss Bilfils had bound theirs
round and round, ia quite classic style, with
silver braid ; whilst two of the Miss Malt-over
had fastened a coquettish-looking sprig
of jasmine in the tight and glossy plaits which
a Coverley hair-dresser had been called in to
arrange.

The Miss Singletons — who were accompanied
by their old papa with his cork arm —
wore severe-looking "Princess" bonnets,
which they could not very well take off ; and
Mrs. Septimus Haze, who sat, arrayed in a
black velvet dinner-gown trimmed with white
lace, and certainly of somewhat immodest
cut for a parson's wife, in the front row of
all, waved with much majesty a large red
fan.

Also well in the front row of all sat the
Pringles — Mrs. Prince, Jill, and Hetty —
who commanded a large share of public
observation, and who looked, too, as if they
were conscious of the fact, from an assembly
which was increasing with every minute.

The Prince party were attended by Mr.
Headstone Payne, who on that evening had
dined with them at the Mills ; and Mrs.
Prince, whose face and neck, chiefly from the
heat of the room and the inconvenience of a
frightfully tight new gown, were flaming
poppy-colour, was also flaming inwardly, oa

account of Sir Garth Gilroy's flat refusal to
accompany them to the entertainment.

Sir Garth, it was true, was fond enough of
a stall in the third row at the " Gaiety " when
Beaumont, Judice, or Nelly Barren queened it
over the boards in front of him ; but to stir
after dinner, on a warm May evening, in
order to be in time for a " show " at the
Coverley Athenaeum, to listen to the dismal
achievements of fifth-rate country amateurs,
principally milliners and counter-jumpers,,
piping and grimacing to the tinkling of an old
piano out of tune— No ! Gilroy had borne,
in one direction or another, a good deal of
late ; but there are limits to the endurance
of every man. A quiet cigar and a bottle of
claret, even with no better companionship
than that of Solomon Prince, his future
father-in-law, was preferable to such a couple
of hours' awful misery as was suggested by
Mrs. Prince's amiable proposition. For Mrs.
Prince had quite reckoned upon stepping
out of the carriage and marching into the
Athenaeum that night, followed by her two
daughters and Sir Garth Gilroy. And now
Mrs. Prince was exceeding wroth, and
snubbed the smiling Headstone Payne unmercifully.
She knew that everyone was
staring at them — perhaps laughing at them —
and whispering about Hetty and Sir Garth ;

and she breathed very hard in her smothered
rage, and the stitches in the new gown
crackled ominously.

It was five minutes to eight.

The performers were arriving one after
another ; some with a bold mien, some with
a downcast, nervous air, and somehow all more
or less looking, thought Madeline, as if fresh
from vigorous and hurried ablutions in
strong yellow soap and water. They were
unquestionably clean and smart and shiny,
and most of them had brought rolls of music
in their hands.

There was quite a little flutter of excitement
amongst the audience as the performers
took their places in the front chairs, which
had been especially kept for their accommodation
by the indefatigable young secretary
of the Athenaeum — a business-youth, this,
of much alertness and energy, who showed
the company into their places and handed
them programmes afterwards, with a civility
and a politeness of action which won for him
universal commendation. His name, Miss
Bishop whispered to Madeline, was Johnny
Jennings ; and the harmless ambition of
Johnny's life was to stand well in the opinion
of the Coverley *' little big folk." Miss
Eager added, in her well-known manner,
that a patronising word from Mrs. Septimus

Haze, a gracious smile from a Miss Maltover
or from a Miss Bilfil, a condescending nod
from Major Longworth, or even from poor
old one-armed Mr. Singleton, was sufficient
to intoxicate Johnny Jennings with a sense
of his own importance, and to render him
deliriously happy for a month at least !

Whereat Madeline laughed outright, and
said truly there were some curious natives to
be found in Coverley-on-Dane. The inhabitants
were amusing — unconsciously so — if
nothing else.

On this gala evening — when the proceeds
of the entertainment were to be handed over
to the Cottage Hospital in South Street, and
when, in order to keep them " select," the
price of the reserved seats had been popped
up to eighteen-pence ; on ordinary occasions
they were a shilling — young Mr. Jennings
bad donned his dress-suit, and, with a white
flower in his button-hole and a pair of brand-new
pale primrose gloves, looked the secretary
of the Athenaeum and the faithful
adorer of the "little big folk," every inch of
him, remarked Miss Bishop drily.

Just as the boys in the gallery — it being
eight o'clock, the hour of commencement —
were beginning to manifest signs of impatience,
by stamping and thumping and
calling out disrespectfully — " Look alive

down there ! " the Reverend Felix and Mrs.
scamper arrived, followed shortly by Miss
Snaffle herself.

Miss Snaffle wore gracefully the badge of
her vocation ; the same style of simple
bonnet, long veil, and trailing, close-clinging
raiment as that worn by the common nurses
at the Cottage Hospital. The style of garb
was precisely the same ; the material, however,
out of which it was fashioned was
altogether different.

Miss Snaffle's garments were very fine in
texture, very noiseless, and fitted her exquisitely
in every particular. She entered
the hall with delicate tread and lowered eyelids
; a soft and saintlike smile just touching
her demure small mouth ; her hands folded
meekly in front of her as she walked. Who
regarding that serene Madonna face, with
its sweet smile of resignation to a not unpleasant
world, could tor a moment believe
those startling rumours about the sausage
suppers and the flighty curates and the wild
romps after dusk in the parish schools ? No,
no ! those amazing tales were pure fiction,
maliciously invented by the wicked tongues
which wagged without restraint in Coverley.

Major Longworth of Morel's Court had
been begged — of course by Johnny Jennings
— to take the chair, and as chairman, on this

praiseworthy occasion, to direct the evening's
proceedings. The Major was a short, blond
little man, with a somewhat halting mode of
speech and a decidedly limited vocabulary.
An eyeglass screwed into one eye made him
look a great deal more fierce than he really
was — being a yeomanry Major only.

He told everybody present, in what was
intended for an opening speech, that the
Cottage Hospital was an admirable institution,
admirably conducted, and admirably —
and admirably — yes, admirably — well, in
short, it was — er — er — in short, it was a
most valuable acquisition to a town like
Coverley. In fact. Major Longworth didn't
know of a more admirable institution for a
small town like Coverley-on-Dane than a
Cottage Hospital —

Here came in rather unexpectedly a derisive
groaning and giggling from a remote
corner of the gallery ; and the little blond
Major, his flow of eloquence checked by the
interruption, called out angrily, glaring up
through his eyeglass :

Order, upstairs there, if you please, or
you'll all be turned out, as you were last
time!"

Whereupon the jeering and the groaning
were repeated more loudly and offensively
than before ; so the Major — deeming it wiser

to ignore the rude behaviour of the gallery —
stated almost savagely, without further preamble,
that Mr. Cornelius Walker would at
once open the entertainment by favouring
the company with a Shakespearean reading :
namely, the Trial Scene from the Merchant
of Venice.

Mr. Cornelius Walker is the young man
at the library in High Street — hasn't an
h ' about him," whispered Miss Eager to
Madeline.

After which reading, announced the Major,
Miss Frisk — he saw on referring to the programme
before him — would sing " Ever of
Thee I'm fondly dreaming." Major Long-worth
then sat down abruptly by the little
baize-covered table on the platform, with its
water-bottle and glass; this latter announcement
being received — particularly by a group
of the lady's male friends who lounged around
the door of the hall — with much applause.
For Miss Frisk was a great favourite with
Coverley audiences. Miss Frisk was chic in
her way.

'' You see that fair grenadier-like woman
who presides at the piano ? " whispered Miss
Bishop to Madeline.

** Yes, I see her," answered Madeline,
with an amused smile. " Who is she ? "

She is Hephzibah Piper — cousin or something

to the wife of the organist of St. Eve's
has been a noted character in her day —
husband-mad, and all that," said Miss Bishop
hurriedly. " She is suspected of advertising
occasionally in the Matrimonial News — Hush !
I will tell you more about her another day.
Mr. Cornelius Walker is about to favour us."
The young man at the library, with beads
of perspiration dropping from him visibly,
had struggled through his ambitious task,
and was at last able to sit down again,
hardly conscious whether he was upon his
head or upon his heels ; Miss Frisk, with
many a smirk and curtsey right and left, just
like any real professional — said Miss Frisk's
admirers — had warbled " Never of Thee," as
she called it, with all her old fascination of
manner ; for if Mr. Cornelius Walker, in his
Shakespearean effort, had disdained the use
of every aspirate, the sparkling Miss Frisk,
when her turn came, lavishly atoned for the
deficiency — and now Hephzibah Piper, with
rare spirit, was dashing off a wonderful
operatic piece, full of scales and shakes and
terrific chords, banging and thumping without
mercy the wheezy old instrument before
which she was perched, as if determined to
make it give out, for the benefit of her
listeners and the Cottage Hospital, as much
sound as it was capable of yielding.

When the fair Hephzibah had brought her
operatic fantasia to a crashing; and triumphant
finale, and had bowed her smiling acknowledgments
to the genteel hand-clapping of
the reserved seats, and to the gallery " catcalls
" and yells of delight which in that
quarter greeted the conclusion of her muscular
display, a melancholy old gentleman
stepped on to the stage ; introduced —
though he was as well-known in Coverley
as the town-pump — by Major Longworth
as Mr. Joseph Grinder.

Old Mr. Joseph Grinder had come prepared
to delight his fellow-townsfolk with a
reading from The Old Curiosity Shop ; one of
those chapters of deathless humour and
pathos which deal with the friendship of Dick
Driveller and the Marchioness in the underground
kitchen of the Brasses' abode.

Mr. Joseph Grinder was a retired grocer
and oilman, who never had once known a
happy hour since the day when he and his
shop had parted company. He did not look
happy ; he looked profoundly miserable.
He comprehended not the meaning of
pathos ; humour to him was as a word ina
dead tongue. All the same, the mournful
old gentleman was going to read about Dick
Driveller and the Marchioness ; and so, with
that purpose in view, he settled his spectacles

upon his nose, and mopped repeatedly his
bald head and forehead with a straw-coloured
silk pocket-handkerchief.

He was very particular as to the lights by
which he was going to read ; and shifted the
position of the candles many times before he
appeared to be satisfied. He was a long
while in finding his place ; and, having
found it, a long while in clearing his throat.
But at last he was ready. No ! He must
blow his nose like a trumpet; pull up his
old-fashioned shirt-collar an inch or two
higher ; fold down the corner of the coming
page in order that it should be ready for him
then he wanted to turn over ; and then ultimately,
warned by a dissatisfied scraping of
thick shod, impatient feet upon the gallery
floor, Mr. Joseph Grinder did actually make
a beginning.

Shade of our glorious Dickens ! One
might have been pardoned for imagining —
had one not known to the contrary — that
Mr. Joseph Grinder was reading the Burial
Service.

For a miracle, the audience tolerated Mr.
Grinder with unusual indulgence, considering
that his so-called reading occupied a long
half-hour.

After Mr. Grinder came a Coverley wag
with a comic song of unmistakable music-hall

type. The gallery forthwith became
wildly elated at the appearance upon the
platform of this popular favourite — whose
fame indeed, in a manner, exceeded that of
Miss Frisk — and insisted, much to the distrust
of the reserved seats, upon joining in with
the chorus of the song.

It was really a far from choice chorus, but
the gallery joined in vociferously. Nobody,
it seemed, could stop them; and the popular
favourite was observed, on the slj, to wink at
them in encouragement of their disgraceful
behaviour. In vain did Major Longworth
screw in his glass, spring from his wooden
chair, stamp, and shout, " Order up there ! "
In vain did the Vicar and Mrs. Septimus
Haze, with the Miss Maltoyers and the Miss
Bilfils, and many more equally scandalized,
glare round with the utmost indignation — in
vain, too, did irascible Lawyer Billil himself
jump up from his seat and menace the rebels
with a constable and ejection — all, alas ! of
no use. The gallery audience this time was
not to be silenced ; and join in it would, and
did, with the chorus of that odious song.

Madeline was declaring to herself that it
was quite the queerest evening that she had
eyer spent in her life; and Kate was laughing
— she could not help it — at the bewildered
expression upon Madeline's sweet face.

Miss Eager was delighted, and remarked
audibly :

"I am sorry the young men are so late;
your brother, Kate, and Mr. Chance, I mean.
They would have enjoyed the fun as much as
I do."

I do not think that it will now be honor

o

before they arrive'' was Kate's reply. "They
promised to be here soon after nine o'clock."

As a matter of course the comic young
man was encored with nothing short of
frenzy, and was obliged to repeat the last
verse of his song. And not until he had
done this was order completely restored. He
sat down, so to speak, covered with glory —
notwithstanding the freezing stares and indignant
frowns levelled at him from the
"little big folk" — and presently two extremely
showy damsels filled the place he
had quitted on the stage.

They were a couple of milliner's apprentices,
these two, and had never before " appeared
in public." They were sadly overdressed,
and wore knots of hothouse flowers
upon their shoulders and in their hair.

They had elected to sing a duett together,
called " Two Wandering Stars." In spite of
her fine feathers, one of them was obviously
suffering from acute stage-fright, and was
wondering helplessly why she had not died

before she had suffered herself to be cajoled
by that wheedling Johnny Jennings into
coming out as a performer at the Athenaeum.


The other was stricken with a cold in the
head, or something curiously like it; seeing
that, it being her lot to open the duett, she
began accordingly :

Within the guy at evedig,"

and so on throughout her share of the music.

Two Wandering Stars," it is needless to
record, was a failure — a dismal failure ; and
yet those two unhappy young women, during
the past fortnight, had diligently practised
their duett together quite forty times over
at least ; each fondly trusting, nay, believing
in her secret heart, that it would prove on
the eventful night a thrilling success ! They
were safe to get an encore . . . they would
be compelled to sing again . . . perhaps
somebody would throw them a bouquet !
. . Perhaps . . . Alas ! for the weakness
of human vanity — the vanity of petty ambition
and desire !

The damsel who suffered so painfully from
stage-fright opened her mouth when her
turn came ; opened it again ; but no note or
sound of any kind whatever was heard to
issue therefrom.

VOL. II. p

She gasped ; turned awfully pale ; tottered.
And Major Longworth, thinking that she
was about to faint, sprang up and poured
out a glass of water.

An embarrassing silence reigned in the
hall ; everybody wondered what was going
to happen next.

Miss Piper, perceiving that it was useless
to continue the accompaniment of the " Two
Wandering Stars," had screwed herself
round upon the music-stool to look at the
fainting young woman sipping her glass
of water.

Everybody knows that, in this strange
world, it is the unexpected which comes to
pass ; that every day sees tragedy tripping
up comedy's heels, tears following laughter,
night engulfing day.

Upon that silence within the building, in
which now more than one unfeeling titter
was distinctly audible, fell a murmur from
the street outside; a murmur which with
every instant became stronger, grew louder,
more terribly plain.

There was the tramp of many feet; the
rush of a multitude; every indication, in fact,
of a gathering and an ungovernable crowd.
Was it fire ?

All sitting there in the Athenaeum forgot
the fainting milliner on the stage, and gazed
inquiringly, fearfully, one at another. Already

the mob in the gallery had scrambled from
their places, and, animated by the common
desire to join the outside rush, were clattering,
shoving, tumbling over each other down
the narrow staircase, like so many cattle
released from a railway truck, in their hot
eagerness to gain the street.

The May night was warm ; the long room
was stifling; the windows of the hall behind
their buff blinds were open to let in the air.
And ever and anon, above the roar and
tramp of the crowd, one word, one blood-chilling
word, was wafted upward more
plainly than all others.

But the word was not " Fire."

Some kept their chairs, trembling ; some
stood up ; some ran out into the street, following
on the heels of the gallery gang. It
was clear that the entertainment was broken
up, had come to a summary ending.

Madeline Dexter's heart turned cold;
seemed to stop beating. She felt sick with
a nameless dread.

Miss Bishop was holding her smelling-bottle
to Miss Eager's nose. The fainting
milliner fainted outright. Nobody cared,
though ; nobody heeded her.

Mrs. Prince, gripping Headstone Payne
by the arm, declared that she too felt as
if she were s'oinof to swoon.

Hetty, leaving Jill to attend to their

mother, came flying over to Kate Harland,
Every trace of colour had faded from
Hetty's round bright face.

"Kate," she cried, awe-stricken, "how
shocking, isn't it ! Who can it be ? "

That one ghastly word which everybody
could hear flung hither and thither in the
hurrying street crowd, was — " Murder."

Eee another minute lead passed, Roger Har-land
and Barton Chance had appeared on the
scene upstairs.

They pushed their way through the crowd
in the hall, and their arrival was hailed with
intense relief by the girls and their old maid
friends.

We were just wondering how we were
going to get out of this," said Miss Bishop
What in the world is the matter ? "

Wait until we get outside," replied Har-land.
" Come along."

Roger, with Miss Bishop and Madeline,
went first; Barton followed with Kate and
Miss Eager.

They gained the street with difficulty. The
mob were still running past the Athenaeum
in the direction of High Street ; not far from
which locality, it appeared, the murder had
been done.

When the spinster ladies' house was
reached, and not before, the young menin

a few words, explained to their frightened
party what had happened.

Nothing much ; nothing very extraordinary,
some perhaps would say; merely a
thing of everyday occurrence, which will goon
happening so long as earth and earthly
evil-doing shall last together.

A sot — in his cups more brute or devil
than man — had, in his drunken passion,
kicked and battered out the life of a woman ;
in this case, an old and a defenceless creature,
whose feeble steps already were tottering
towards the grave.

Bocky Oakum at last had done what
Trinder's Yard and the hapless old soul
herself had all along predicted he would do
he had killed his grandmother ; had done
her to death with brutal kicks and with
blows which had scattered the old woman's
brains. He had come home, mad-drunk, to
his hovel in the Yard, and had finished his
day's work with bloody hands.

The girls — Miss Bishop and Miss Eager
insisted upon it — entered the house for a
few minutes ; whilst Eoger and Barton ran
back to Trinder's Yard, to ascertain what
was being done there now and whether or
not the murderer was secured.

We will not be long," Eoger promised
Madeline, whose veins were still chilled by

the memory of that haunting word. For it
still rang in her ears, like a knell ; swam
before her eyes in letters of the colour of
blood. Those dark pathetic eyes of hers followed
him wistfully and unconsciously —
somehow she felt that there was danger in
the air when Roger was absent from her
side.

We'll have some sherry and sandwiches'*
said Miss Bishop, promptly. " We
want something after what we have gone
through." And speaking, she rang the bell
for sour Susan, their middle-aged maid.

What a shame it was to spoil the entertainment,"
said Miss Eager, with a little
resentful croak. She was feeling better, and
no longer required the smelling-bottle. " I
was just beginning to enjoy myself," declared
she.

I hope you won't take cold, Rachel —
that's all ; coming out of that fearfully hot
room," remarked Miss Bishop, having given
her orders about the sandwiches to the grim
Susan.

Poor old Granny Oakum ! " sighed Kate,
as if to herself. " Well, she has found rest
at last."

*' Goodness gracious ! let us forget it for
to-night and talk of something else," cried
out Miss Bishop testily ; ''or I shall dream

of murder and get up with a headache in the
morning ! "

Again the word made Madeline shiver —
shiver from head to foot. It seemed actually
to enter her body and to touch her cold heart.
She felt on that night that the future ahead
of her was full of gloom and horror, and she
quailed at the bare thought of ever having to
meet it.

The horrid event had depressed her
strangely.

When Roger came back to take the girls
home, he came back alone.

Have they got that wretch of a Bocky
safely locked up ? " asked Miss Eager.

iso, I am sorry to say," was Harland's
answer. '' He has somehow contrived to
give the police the slip — in fact, he has got
clean away. Can't be found anywhere."

The monster ! " screamed Miss Eager.
And Miss Bishop cried out suddenly :

«« Why, what have you done with Mr.
Chance ? "

A pause ; a slight silence.

"I never saw such a good-looking young
man in my life," added Miss Bishop emphatically.
" If I were a little bit younger than
I am I should be head-overseers in love
with him. Where's he got to ? Roger, help
yourself to a glass of sherry."

Roger did so ; saying carelessly as he put
down the decanter :

Barton ? Oh, there are a good many
fellows at ' The Grig,' you know ; of course
talking over this horrible affair. Barton
Chance is among the lot, I believe. Come,
Madeline and Kate — I am ready now''

The days went by ; but no Bocky Oakum
could be found.

A pitiful reward of a few pounds was
offered to anyone that should give information
that would lead to the apprehending of
the murderer ; but neither murderer nor
informer was forthcoming.

Only a few pitiful pounds. And was it not
enough? Granny Oakum was merely a poor
lean old pauper, of no consequence, of no use
to anybody in the world ; and so handbills
were printed — " £20 Reward. Whereas,"
etc., etc.— and were stuck on five-barred gate
posts, and upon tumble-down barn doors,
and upon tree trunks in lonely country lanes,
along which nobody was ever seen to go ;
and there the matter ended. And it soon
came to pass that, on one sunny afternoon,
they bore her corpse from Trinder's Yard,
and briskly " rattled her bones over the
stones" and laid her in the narrow hole

which had been dug to receive her body.
Poor old Granny Oakum ! She was far
happier out of the world than in it. In her
cheap paupers coffin, and in her lowly
pauper's grave, she sleeps as well as though
that coffin were of oak and of silver, and a
marble slab with sculptured urn marked the
spot where the green earth alone covers her.

Just as the old woman had left it, so her
hovel remained. No one in the Yard now
could be induced to enter the place. Bloodstains
were still upon door and wall ; bloodstains
were still visible upon the foul brick
floor. A heap of dead ashes strewed the
black hearth; and the fagot which she
had gathered on the day of her death yet lay
in one corner of the dismal abode.

The more imaginative of the Yard's inhabitants
swore that at night Granny Oakum's
ghost was to be seen wringing its hands at
the upper window; and accordingly the
house was shunned by everybody more completely
than if pestilence had reigned there
within it.

What had become of Bocky ? Nobody
knew; nobody cared. Some said he was
hidden in a London slum ; others believed
that he had got off to America — perhaps to
Australia. Wherever he was, said his particular
friends, he was safe, " before he had
done, to end on the gallows." For the present

he had cheated the hangman of a job ; nevertheless,
sooner or later, he would find the
rope round his neck.

In a week's time the murder was forgotten,
and Coverley began to talk of the
approaching Eaces. This year they were
fixed to take place at the beginning of the
third week in June ; and the first week of
the month was already over.

Coverley-on-Dane was now full of strangers
anticipating the event ; and the hotels and
lodging-houses — especially those by the riverside
— were doing a thriving trade. This was
their usual luck if the weather was propitious ;
and the present month was a really glorious
June.

In these heavenly blue days Madeline
grew terribly restless, and any settled occupation
seemed unspeakably irksome to her.
she wandered in the morning about the
meadows of Woldney ; she sketched in a
desultory fashion by the riverside.

Of an afternoon she would sit and talk
with old Adam Ford, and watch the pleasure
boats pass through the Lock ; some going
down stream to Coverley-on-Dane, others
going up the river Margrave way.

Her eyes carried in them daily an expression
of feverish expectancy. She looked
sometimes as if she was listening for a footstep
— waiting for a knock — or watching fora

letter that must come ere long. The month
of further grace which she had granted to Sir
Garth Gilroy was drawing to a close. What
would he do? How would he keep his
promise ? What would the end of that month
bring to Madeline ? With intense anxiety she
saw the given days go by ; and prayed for,
and yet feared, the dawn of the last of them
which should let in light upon the long-buried
truth. There was so much at stake ;
so much to be hoped ; so much to be feared !
What — and this was the question which now
was never absent from her brain — what would
Sir Garth do to enlighten the world; in
what manner, wondered Madeline, would he
reveal the truth ? She could only wait.

She had not once seen him since the night
when, in the twilight, they had talked together
by the river's edge ; that night on which he
had, so to speak, shown her and thrown up
his cards, and acknowledged her mistress of
the game.

She had heard, however, that Sir Garth
was frequently at Borough Mills, in the
character of Hetty Prince's recognised
lover, and knew that the rumour must be
true. And people still said that the marriage
would shortly take place; for Solomon
Prince himself said so, told everybody he
met the same thing. His daughter Hetty
was soon to be made Lady Gilroy.

Madeline could only wait. But the fever
in her veins was telling upon her health. She
looked very wan and troubled sometimes.

Her only hours of ease and peace were
those when Roger was by her side. That
strange cold sense of coming calamity was
lifted then from her heart; and, forgetting
that she feared the future, her soul was
tranquillized with the consciousness of Roger's
love and strength.

Nor was Kate Harland happy in these long
sunny June days ; far from it. She, like
Madeline, had learned to dread the future ;
though it was not for herself that she trembled.
No, not for herself.

Now that the Race-week was close at hand,
the Harlands' house of an evening saw little
of Barton Chance. Kate commented not
upon his absence ; neither did Madeline,
whose woman's instinct divined aright the
nature of Kate's trouble, and whose woman's
tender heart ached with its keen sympathy
for her friend. But Kate, in her way, was as
proud as Madeline ; and Madeline knew it.
If Kate Harland should yearn for an open
display of sympathy, she would straightway
go for it to Madeline Dexter. But she did
not so yearn ; she preferred to face and to
fight her sorrow in secret. And Madeline
understood.

Roger himself, in this matter, was equally

quiet. In these long summer days of anxiety
and apprehension, the name of Barton Chance
hardly ever passed his lips. What he knew
of Chance's backsliding he kept, after his own
reserved fashion, to himself. What good could
be done by idle chattering ? He had reasoned
with, he had pleaded with, nay, on one occasion
losing all patience with the culprit, he
had sworn outright at Barton for his folly in
going his own blind way. But his breath had
been wasted ; no good result achieved ; and
Roger had lost both heart and temper in
striving to save Barton from that worst enemy
of his — himself.

If he was bent upon rushing headlong to
his own destruction, why, he must go. Roger
had done a staunch friend's utmost to hold
him back from the abyss. He loved the
young fellow as well as it is possible for one
man to love another, and he grieved bitterly
over a downfall which seemed inevitable.

But Harland, like his sister, grieved in
secret ; yet, although Barton's name was
seldom uttered by either, each knew, each
felt, that the scapegrace was continually in
the thoughts of the other. Well, Roger had
done his best for him. He could do no
more.

Such reticence, however, with regard to the
doings of the happy-go-lucky Barton, prevailed
not in the kitchen at the Little Mills.

Said Dan'l Drake thoughtfully, one evening
at tea-time, to his mate Naomi :

That young man, Naomi, according' to all
'counts, is going on fuss and fuss."

"What young man, Dan'l?" said Naomi.

Why him at the Moat, to be sure*'
answered Dan'l, shaking his old head slowly,
as he left off stirring his tea to gaze into the
kitchen grate, which was polished and shone
most beautifully, being filled with fresh green
boughs. The only fire in the house, now that
summer was come, was kept burning in the
outer kitchen ; and the scullery door being set
wide open, the twittering of many birds came
drowsily in, with a flood of warm light from
the setting sun and the rustling of the willows
in the lane.

Ah, him at the Moat," echoed Naomi,
gloomily. " No, Dan'l ; his goings-on, I know,
certainly ain't what they should be. Far from
it."

'' And he is such an 'handsome young man,"
sighed Hannah.

Hold your silly tongue, gal," cried Naomi,
sharply. '' Haven't I told you often that you
are too young by half to get thinking o' young
men ? I'm sure I don't know what gals are
made of now-a-days, everlasting a-dreaming
o' young men."

Hannah was reflecting that Naomi must
have dreamed of Dan'l once ; but not daring

to give utterance to this reasonable supposition,
she sighed again and held her peace.

Only t'other night," continued Dan'l, " I
met him staggering along home, outside in
the lane here, drunk as a lord. If Sir Garth
was like anybody else, he'd ha' sent the
young chap about his business long ago."

'' Perhaps he don't know," said Naomi.
** And if he did know, I expect he wouldn't
care. He cares only for himself."

It's all them plaguey Races," Dan'l remarked.
" He — that young Mr. Chance, I
mean — is up at ' The Gig ' every blessed
night of his lis e, a-betting and a-drinking — "

"Drink's at the bottom of all the mischief
in creation, Dan'l," threw in Naomi, grimly.
Look at that wretch of a Bocky Oakum."

Ah, it is so — 'tis so. You are right there,
my lass," agreed Dan'l, meekly. " You never
said a brewer word in your life."

"Then, Dan'l," said his gaunt old lass,
fixing her bard eyes upon him as she spoke,
I wonder, that I do, how you can be so
fond yourself o' turning in at the ' Red-Hot
Poker ' — a nasty low evil place, I call it —
whenever you goes up with the waggon into
Coverley."

Now and agen, Naomi, only now and
agen," murmured Dan'l, with an apologetic
air, rising somewhat unexpectedly and peering

about the kitchen for his old white cap.
By-the-bye, Naomi, haven't it struck you
that that young lady from Squire Prince's
side of the water have been here on our side
a tidy while now ? I should think that there
'ud pretty soon be a wedding in the family —
on this side as well as on t'other."

May be you're right, Dan'l — ^I don't say
you ain't," answered Naomi, sullenly; " but
I was talking o' ' The Red-Hot Poker.' "

''A wedding ! " echoed Hannah, her full-moon
face and flat honest features all as'low
at the bare suggestion — " well, if I haven't
often said to myself that it 'ud come to that!
I hopes they'll be happy with all my — "

Naomi turned with her customary acidity
upon the simple yet offending Hannah, and
once more silenced that strapping maiden
with her hard old eyes.

As I was saying, Dan'l," she then continued,
stonily, *sit's when you goes into
Coverley with the waggon — "

But Dan'l, having found his white cap,
was gone ; had vanished through the scullery
doorway. The Little Mills, however, were not
working on this calm summer evening ; and
Dan'l had taken himself off to the Lock, to
lend, as he often did when not in the mill, a
helping hand to Adam Ford.

VOL. II. Q

Mrs, PRmGLB was in despair; that is to say,
she was in a violent temper with everyone
about her, snubbing husband, daughters, and
servants alike — so that they were having a
rather bad time of it at Borough Mills just
now.

It was the E ace week — the Monday of the
Each-week. The actual Eaces began on
Wednesday, and continued until Saturday,
when they ended. It was the annual custom
of the Pringles to invite a large house-party
for the event ; and the accommodation of
their fine big house would, by the Tuesday
evening, be taxed to its utmost.

Fashionable new gowns and bonnets had
been ordered; an infinite variety of good
things got together; everything, in short,
had been done in the Prince household to
make the famous Each-week a success.
Amongst the numerous guests that were
coming to Borough Mills were Louisa Farleigh
and her husband — Louisa Prince that

was ; but quaint little Tommy and Joey
would not accompany their parents. They
were at present too young for the Races, and
were to be left at home. Some of the
Prince party would go to Coverley in a
drag ; others, preferring a steam-launch,
would be carried thither by water. And
every evening after dinner at Borough Mills
there was to be a dance, or charades, or
something delightful, as a sort of wind-up
to the glory of the day.

Still Mrs. Prince was not happy ; and the
reason of her discontent was this. For days
past Sir Grarth Gilroy had been in a singularly
unpleasant and unsociable mood. The
Pringles could '' make nothing of him," they
said anxiously amongst themselves. What
was the matter with him ? Steer much of a
talker, never in the least degree — at this date
of his life — animated or emotional, too absolutely
selfish to exert himself for the pleasure
or benefit of others, he had of late become so
gloomy, so morose, so altogether ill-tempered
and savage-looking, that the bride-expectant
declared that she was positively afraid of Sir
Garth. His pale clean-cut features and close-cropped
gray hair, which were in such startling
contrast with his crisp black beard and
moustache, all helped, said Hetty, with a
shudder that was partly affected and partly

real, to make his dark looks appear more
darkling. What could he be brooding upon ?
Nothing pleasant surely !

If you are afraid of him now," said Julia
spitefully, " how will it be, my dear, when
you've married him ? "

*when I've married him, my dear," retorted
Hetty, with an insolent movement of
her round dimpled chin, " I intend to make
him afraid of me. As Lady Milroy, bless
you, I mean to astonish you all ! "

"I dare say," sneered Jill. "How will
you set about it, pray ? "

By finding you a husband, perhaps, my
poor old Jill — if you're good. Why, wouldn't
that astonish everybody ? " replied Hetty,
with a shrill little laugh, marching nonchalantly
through an open window into the
river-girt garden beyond it.

Then Milroy had capped his misdemeanours
by openly stating that he should not go to the
Races.

What ! " had nearly screamed Mrs.
Prince, real tears of disappointment and
mortification starting to her eyes — " not goto
the Eaces with us ? Oh, but you must. Sir
Garth ; indeed I can't hear of your stopping
away ! "

Gracious goodness ! what would everybody
say if Sir Garth Gilroy were not of their

house-party? thought Mrs. Prince rapidly,
seeing that she had told Jill — who was
generally her mother's amanuensis — to write
in a postscript to every letter of invitation :
Sir Garth Milroy will of course be with us."
Be sure you dash ' of course,' Jill," had
said Mrs. Prince ; and Jill had italicised the
words accordingly.

And now what was this that the man was
so coolly saying ? Why, it would be a
thousand times worse than if he had not
come to their New Year dance of the past
winter. He was not their future son-in-law
then. He was now. And was not there a
talk of the wedding's taking place towards
the end of the summer ? Oh, his behaviour
was unbearable !

Indeed, indeed I can't hear of such a
thing ! " cried Mrs. Prince, piteously.

I am very sorry," Milroy answered,
briefly. " But I shall be in town — and elsewhere
— during the Race week."

But surely you can manage to be back,
to be at our 'ouse, for one of the days, at
least ? Say Thursday, Sir Garth ; say that
you will be with us on Thursday ? Thursday,
you know, is the Cup-day ; and we shall
have a dance here on that evening."

Will not you understand, madam, that it
is impossible " — rising, with irritation, to go.

My movements are uncertain for some days
to come. I may be at home ; or I may not.
And, as I told you the other evening, I abhor
the very name of the Coverley Races."

Oh, Sir Garth, they're lovely, I'm sure ! "
almost sobbed Mrs. Prince, thinking of the
gorgeous combination of moss green satin
and silk, with trimmings of silver cord and
tassels — of the moss-green satin bonnet, with
a huge silver dagger piercing the crown of
it, to match the gown — in which it was her
intention to appear at and captivate all
Coverley on the Cup-day. "And the dear
girls. Sir Garth — think of the dear girls' disappointment
! My poor sensitive little Hetty
will be quite heart-broken if you do not
accompany us on one day at least of the-week."


I fancy she'll survive it," said Gilroy,
grimly. Then he took his leave, an ugly
frown knitting his sombre brows, an evil
light lurking in his deep-set eyes.

And so Mrs. Prince was in '' despair ; "^
contriving, in that suffering condition, to
make life a burthen to everybody about her.

On the Monday evening, touching the
subject of the Races, Roger Harland said ta
the girls :

'* Which is it to be? Shall we go, or stop
at home ? "

For my own part, I would rather stop at
home," said Kate, cheerfully. The truth being
that she had no heart for the Races this year.

And you, Madeline?" inquired Harland.

Is it anything like Ascot? — I have been
there," replied Madehne, with a preoccupied
smile, '' once, long ago."

In one respect it is like Ascot," said Kate.
"You meet the Ascot gowns and parasols with
the first bloom and freshness taken off them.
They are good enough for Coverley, I suppose
their owners think. I don't know that
.Coverley resembles Ascot in any other particular
— for the Races themselves are distinctly
different — does it, Roger?"

Well, there's always a big crowd and
plenty of dust, unless a thunderstorm comes
on — which happens as often as not — and
settles the whole affair for the time being.
It's good fun then," said Roger, from a man's
brutal point of view, '* to watch the female
stampede which ensues ; particularly if one
chances to be in a safe and sheltered corner
one's self."

I can see that you do not care about
going," said Madeline, with an air of relief.
Thank you — I too would much rather stay
at home, if I may say so — I mean — I mean,
here at the Little Mills," added she, blushing
beautifully.

"Is there any distinction, then?" quizzically-asked
Kate.

The lovely colour deepened in Madeline's
cheeks.

You and Roger have made me love the
Little Mills as dearly as if it were my own
home," she answered, quietly.

And Roger said, in a not quite steady voice :

Nothing makes me happier, Madeline, than
to hear you speak of the Little Mills as your
home. You know — Kate knows — that, without
you, the place could never be home to me
again."

And yet, in the after years ! . . .

Late on the next evening — Tuesday — they
were again sitting together at the Little Mills.
The dining-room window was open ; the soft
twilight air, laden with the breath of roses,
blew in every now and then from the river.

The mills were hushed ; the hollow voice of
the weir fell mournfully upon the silence of
approaching night.

Sometimes a boat shot past upon the wide
and dimly-gleaming water; sometimes a bat
swept low by the sill of the open window.
The blundering chafers too were abroad, but
the time of the nightingales was past ; the
young birds were hatched and flown.

Through the trees across the river many
lights were twinkling in the mansion of the
Pringles. Their house-party had assembled
for the Eaces ; but Sir Garth Gilroy was not
there.

The day had been a sultry one, and in
the afternoon Roger had rowed the two girls
up stream as far as Margrave ; where, at a
delightful old inn by the river-side, they had
had their tea. In the cool of the evening he
rowed them home — leisurely, smoothly, at
times tranquilly drifting, for the stream was
with them on their return, and Roger had
scarcely to exert himself at all.

And now the long and sultry day was
nearly over ; the quiet purple darkness
of mid-June was gradually covering the
earth.

The girl Hannah was gone to Coverley upon
some errand or another connected with finery,
and should have been back hours ago. But it
was the Race-week; the place was full of
strangers, bustle and excitement; and Hannah,
who had called on a friend, partly for the sake
of a gossip, and partly for the purpose of
exhibiting her purchases in the artificial-flower
line, found it hard to tear herself away
from the seductive liveliness of the town to
face again the solitude of the Little Mills.

So tall old Naomi was spreading the supper-cloth

; and there was a rod in pickle for
Hannah.

Roger was smoking his pipe by the window ;
Madeline, dreaming though awake, was sitting
near him. Kate had just risen from her chair
and gone over to the great old sideboard at
the end of the room, saying that it was time
to light the lamp.

Hullo ! " Roger suddenly called out,
who's this ? "

Kate had lighted the lamp, turned it
slightly down — letting it remain in the
shadow upon the sideboard — and now came
back to Roger's side.

Perhaps it is Hannah," said Kate.

** That gal knows better. Miss Kate, than
to come traversing in the front way," calmly
observed Naomi, who had not yet left the
room, with the freedom of an old and a
despotic servant. Then she, too, peering
over her mistress's shoulder, looked out into
the twilight garden.

The person who had come thus late to the
Little Mills was a female, .who had evidently
arrayed herself in some haste for her visit ;
for her apron fluttered behind her, and her
bonnet had partly slipped from her head.
Evidently, too, she had been running. She
had a note in her hand, and was out of
breath.

"Why, sakes alive, Miss Kate," exclaimed
Naomi, " I do believe it's Phoebe Thatcher —
Mrs. James's scullery-maid at the Moat ! "

Phoebe Thatcher opened the garden gate
and hurried up the gravel path. Roger
shouted to her to come to the window ; and
Mrs. James's messenger obeyed, panting.

Kate's heart had sunk with swift apprehension.
She divined at once that the note
contained evil tidings, and involuntarily she
stretched out her hand to take it.

It's for Mr. Harland, miss," said Phoebe,
as articulately as she could with the little
breath that was left in her. '' 'Souse me, miss
sir — I've run all the way alert the
meadows — Mrs. James said I was to step it
and I have."

Roger tore open the missive, and Kate
and he together perused the few lines it
contained. There was neither date nor
address ; and it was plain from the style
of the penmanship and composition that
Mrs. James at the moment of writing was
well, to put it kindly — not quite herself.
At least, she was as she was generally found
to be at that hour of the evening when bedtime
was drawing near.

"Mr. Harland, sir" — ran very crookedly
this curious note, with many a blot and
smear as well — " we all anyhow at the Moat

here. Pray come as soon ever can. Sir
Garth heave gone to London, don't know-where,
nobody don't know, and Mr. Chance
have got attack on veterum tremens that
awful wild we afraid to stop in the house.
We don't know what to do. Mr. Badger
hold him down as well as can, and Matthew
have rode off for the doctor. Please, sir,
some as soon as can and excuse all mistakes
I am that upset with fright, from your
obedient servant to command,

Eliza James."

For a second or two Kate Harland's senses
reeled ; and she clutched her chair-back for
support. The blow had fallen ; though
perhaps it had not fallen wholly unexpected.

Roger — I shall — I shall go with you ; I
must — I will," she said, when she could
command her voice. " He shall not be left
to the sole care and mercy of that wretched
old woman there. Let us start directly I "

She began to move feverishly about the
room, pressing her hands together.

Naomi, my dear good soul, for pity's
sake don't stand there staring at me. Go —
quick ! — and put a few things into my bag.
You know what I want."

Harland had handed the note to Madeline,
who was now anxiously reading it.

Kate," Eoger said quietly, " you don't

know what you are proposing. The Moat
just now is no place for you."

Here Naomi sullenly quitted the room,
muttering that the master was right — the
Moat that night was no place for anyone
like Miss Kate. Nevertheless, the stern
old woman stalked upstairs and performed
Kate's bidding ; for she knew that her
mistress was a young woman of determined
character, that when she resolved to do a
thing she did it. And so the bag was carefully
packed in case it should be wanted after all.

Roger, don't be hard on me," Kate
said, piteously ; ** because — because, dear,
I cannot obey you if you say that I am
not to go. You know how friendless he
is. Though all the world were against mein
this matter, I would not keep from him
in so terrible an hour of need."

'madeline, what do you say?" asked
Harland.

Madeline crossed the room to Kate's side,
and put her arm about her waist.

*' I say ' Go,' " she replied, in a firm low
voice.

Roger at once leant out of the window.
Phoebe Thatcher, in the summer darkness
outside, still stood waiting for her answer,
and still breathing hard from her scamper
across the dewy meadows.

Phoebe," said the young man, " here is a

two-shilling piece for you. Now run back as
hard as you can tear and tell Mrs. James that
Miss Harland and her brother will be at the
Moat almost immediately. You don't know, I
suppose, when Sir Garth is expected back ? "

No ; Phoebe did not.

'* I ain't heard neither Mrs. James nor Mr.
Badger say, and I'm sure they don't know,
sir," said she.

All right. Good-night, Phoebe."

Thank you, sir. Good-night."

And Phoebe, having hastened down the
path and banged the iron gate, scampered
off again as fast as her legs could carry her
back to Woldney Moat.

Roger then drew himself into the lighted
room, and found that Madeline was insisting
upon Kate's drinking a glass of wine before
she set out with her brother for the Moat.

'' Sir Garth may return without warning
at any hour, Kate," said he, gloomily, as he
went into his own den to get a hat from the
pegs there. " You know how uncertain he
is. Besides, he may object to your presence in
his house — to your being installed by poor
Bart's bedside in the character of a professional
nurse. How then ?"

'' If he chooses to eject me by violence, he
can try to do it," returned Kate, vehemently.
*' Otherwise I do not stir. I am going with,
you, Roger."

They were soon ready. The girls clung
affectionately to each other, and Madeline
accompanied the brother and sister down to
the green garden-gate.

How fair and serene, how exquisitely
peaceful and still, was the midsummer night!
How impenetrably dark were the gloom and
shadow which lay upon the other side of the
river ! How cruelly cold here and there
gleamed the deep water; how chillily the
night wind played over the pebbly shallows !
"When the breeze travelled through the
shrinking reeds they whispered together
like living things as they bowed themselves
before it.

'' Madeline," Kate said, trying to smile,
*' recollect you are mistress in my absence
only you mustn't tell Naomi so. I do not
know how long I may be away."

'' Dearest friend, I will do my best," Madeline
whispered.

Then Kate hastened on and gained the old
wooden bridge; Eoger lingering a moment
alone with Madeline.

With his strong protecting arm he drew
her to him, and her head found its dear
resting-place upon Roger's breast.

"You do not mind our leaving you here
for a little while ? I, at any rate, will soon
return, in less than an hour, perhaps, Madeline,
to tell you what is happening at the

Moat. You are not afraid, my dear one ? "
the young man said.

"No — no, Roger," she answered, "I do
not think that I am afraid. At all events, I
will try to be brave." Then she added, not
without an accent of fear in her voice :
Roger, the month I told you about is
nearly gone ; in two days from this it will
be over ! Yet — yet I have had no sign from
Sir Garth Gilroy. Roger, where is he ? '*

Ah, how should I know, Madeline ? "

"I have a horrible presentiment — the old
horror and dread are returning — that he
means harm in some way ; that he will play
me false in the end. I have said so before,
you know," she murmured, despairingly.

I swear that he shall not hurt a hair of
your dear head," answered Roger, holding
her to his heart. *' I, too, have sworn that
before. I cannot guess what power or influence
this man may have over you, Madeline
; nevertheless — "

He is in my power," she interrupted,
proudly ; '' not I in his. Roger, with all my
heart do I pray that you may know everything
— all— soon ! "

She uttered the words with a half-sob.
All," indeed, meant so much ! Truth and
falsehood, darkness and light — did not '' all"
signify a life's tragedy ?

Who can pray that, my dear, more fervently

than I ? " said the young man, wistfully.
" I am not fond of crooked paths."

He left her reluctantly, and strode after
Kate.

Madeline stood there at the gate, listening
until the sound of their footsteps upon the
planks of the ancient bridge had died away
into silence ; then only the quivering of the
rushes by the river and the chilly rippling of
the broad dark stream broke the heavenly
quietude of the night.

Madeline re-entered the house, and sat
down in Roger's chair by the open window,
there to wait for Eoger's return. Even now
she still could hear the everlasting sighing
of the tremulous reeds, and she fancied, in
her loneliness, that their voice, travelling
mysteriously over the meadows upon the
little light wind, was like the voice of her
beloved brother, her brother Roy, whispering,
crying to her very mournfully — "How
long, my Minna, my beautiful sister ? . . .
Come back to me ; I miss you sorely. . I
am sick and lonely without you. . . . Come
back to me, dearest, my Minnehaha. ."

Hark ! Was it really Roy's voice crying
to her so plaintively ? Was he in distress
. . danger ?

She trembled like the slender river-reeds
themselves, and covered her face with her hands.

VOL. II. B

'' It is certainly very strange," mused Mrs.
De Lisle aloud.

I feel better to-day and quite strong
enough to travel," said Roy, with unwonted
energy for him, " and go we will. Aunt
Helen. Plainly Minna wants us at Lonefield
Grange, or she would not have sent the
telegram."

I cannot imagine," said Mrs. De Lisle,
looking exceedingly perplexed and rubbing
the bridge of her nose with her gold-rimmed
pince-nez the telegram from Minna still held
in her hand, " what can have taken her to
Lonefield Grange. Why in the name of all
that is curious should she have gone down
there instead of coming — if she had anything
of importance to tell us — straight to us here ?
Cumberland Square is so much nearer to
Coverley than Lonefield Grange."

It is no use to waste time in connect



turing," said Roj, rather testily. " If we
want to get to the bottom of the mystery,
let us start, Aunt Helen, at once for Warwickshire.
Minna herself will make it all
clear."

But, my dear boy," said Mrs. De Lisle,
are you really sure that you are strong
enough to undertake the journey ? You
were very poorly last night, remember,"
added she, anxiously.

Yes, yes, quite sure," he replied. So
saying, the handsome fragile-looking youth
rose from his couch and rang the bell to give
-directions about the immediate packing of a
portmanteau.

'' Well, just as you please, dear'' rejoined
the indolent sweet-tempered lady, half-sighing
notwithstanding at the prospect of a by
no means short railway journey on that cloudless
June afternoon. The carriage had been
ordered, just as Minna's telegram arrived,
and Roy and Mrs. De Lisle were going into
the Park. Now, however, they mast drive
instead to the sultry noisy Paddington terminus
and be boxed for the next two or
three hours within a dusty and stuffy .
'' Of course it is just as you
like, dear lad," repeated Mrs. De Lisle, in
her amiable way.

There was a railway-guide amongst the

magazine and newspaper litter upon a table
near her — the were in Roy's own beautiful
room — and Aunt Helen took up the book to
consult it.

IS^ow then, let me see," said she, leisurely
fixing her glasses on her nose as if the whole
day lay before them in which to make arrangements.
" Hem — hem — hem — ah, here we are I
The Great Western Railway,' Now then "
her smooth white finger moving slowly
down the page — " hem — hem — hem; I never
can understand these things — "

I think we ought to be quick," threw in
Roy, impatiently. " It is already past four
o'clock. Aunt Helen."

<« Very well, dear Roy," she answered,
placidly. " I am looking out the train as
fast as I can. Yes, I have it at last — it is
an express too. How fortunate ! It leaves
Paddington at 5.10, and gets to Leamington
that is our station, Roy — between seven
and eight o'clock."

"Do, then, get ready at once. Aunt Helen,"
said Roy, restlessly. " We have no time to
lose. You must know how terribly anxious
I am to join Minna."

'' Yes, yes, of course, Roy, I understand,"
replied Mrs. De Lisle, shutting the railway-guide
as she spoke. She thoughtfully took
up the telegram again and once more

scanned the message it contained. It ran
as follows : —

■"'From— ''To—

M. Dexter, GUroy Dexter, JE^q.

Lonefield Grange, 17, Cumberland Square

Burcot, London,

Nr. Leamington'* WP

I am here. Come to me at once."

That was all.

She doesn't say a word about me," commented
Mrs. De Lisle, wonderingly. " I
suppose she took it for granted — "

'' Minna is perfectly aware that I cannot
travel alone ; and a telegram is not a letter'*
interrupted Roy, wearily. '' For goodness*
sake, Aunt Helen, put on your bonnet. I am
ready myself, or shall be so in a couple of
minutes."

The carriage was already standing before
the door in the square. The sleek black
horses were champing their glittering bits
and tossing their glossy heads in the hot
sunshine.

I shall be ready in five minutes, dear,"
said Mrs. De Lisle. But it was fully twenty
before she came downstairs.

The footman waiting by the carriage-step
of course showed no astonishment when he
saw the luggage brought out ; merely touched
Jais hat obediently when Mrs. De Lisle said :

Not to the Park to-day, Bing. To Paddington
Station."

** And look sharp, please," added Eoy, in
his gentle voice. " You must catch the 5.10
express."

The young man's wan handsome face, with
its delicate lines and dark languorous eyes,
was now lit up with a faint uncertain flush,
which seemed to come and go almost with
every breath. His thin hands moved nervously
; the undue excitement of this sudden;
journey was palpably telling upon him.

Bad Minna been wise in acting as she had
done, in summoning Eoy thus unexpectedly
to join her at Lonefield Grange? Mrs. devise
was thinking uneasily as she looked at
the delicate lad she loved so well. It was
scarcely like Minna to act so inconsiderately
Minna who understood better than anyone
the weakness, the exceeding sensitiveness and
delicacy of this idolised brother. Mrs. De
Lisle was beginning to feel troubled. She
said nothing, however, of her vague qualms
of anxiety ; for, truth to tell, she was also
feeling drowsy. The afternoon out-of-doors
was very warm.

In answer to his master s mandate, Bing
again touched his hat and swung himself up
neatly to the coachman's side.

They drove off at a brisk pace from Cumberland

Square and caught their train at
Paddington with a good five minutes to
spare.

Leamington ! '*

What, are we here already ! " cried Mrs.
De Lisle.

She had been sound asleep — the had
secured a compartment to themselves —
during the latter part of the journey ; nay,
she even declared that she had no recollection
of passing either Oxford or Banbury; and
now she awoke with a positive jump.

E-oy, on the contrary, was awake — painfully
awake — though he was weary enough
with much feverish thought. He could not
compose his mind to look at the heap of
society journals and other railway literature
for which, before leaving Paddington, he had
despatched the footman to the bookstall. One
after another he tossed the papers aside, and
lay back in his comfortably cushioned corner ;
the window down, and the fresh summer air
air so vastly different from the heated
garish atmosphere of the London streets and
parks — blowing refreshingly in upon his forehead
and hair.

As in a dream he noted the lovely landscapes,
the soothing country scenes, through

which they were rushing at dizzy speed; the
snug farms, the beautiful woods, the ripening
cornfields, and the cool lush meadows. Sometimes
the pastures were dotted with cattle;
in some of them the hay-makers were busily
at work. More than once during the journey
had the broad and silvery Dane flashed into
view, winding through town and hamlet,
between hills finely wooded and dim-blue far-reaching
fields, to join and to be lost in the
mighty sea. It was the same bright, beautiful
stream, Roy knew, upon which Minna's
eyes, for months past, had looked every day.
Yes, thought the young man dreamily, the
sweet fresh fields and dense green woods,
after London in June, were exquisite indeed
to behold. Verily God made the country and
man the town ! Yet all the while his reverie
was full of Minna, and of the strangeness of
her sending to him from Lonefield Grange.
How came she there ? What had she done
what had she been doing of late ? What
would she have to tell him when they should
meet, as they so soon would now ?

Then he thought very bitterly of the old
manor-house called Lonefield Grange — for
was it not at Lonefield Grange, more than
twenty years before, that his mother had been
perfidiously deserted by the man who had
brought her thither ?

Roy Dexter set his teeth hard. The faint
flush died out of his face and left it deadly
white.

What, again and again he wondered, could
have taken Minna to that desolate old house ?
Could Roy Dexter have guessed the truth !
At that moment when Roy, in thinking of
his sister, almost uttered her name aloud,
Minna was far away from the decayed old
Warwickshire mansion, whither they were
travelling to find her. At that self-same
moment, in Roger Harland's boat, she, with
Roger himself and Kate, was drifting, with
the glory of the setting-sun pouring upon
her, homeward to the Little Mills !

For this was the Tuesday in the Coverley
Race-week; the Tuesday on which Barton
Chance, at Woldney Moat, had been stricken
by his terrible illness.

So Leamington having been reached, Mrs.
De Lisle and Roy alighted on the station
platform. A porter at once came to their
assistance, and collected the small amount
of luggage which they had brought with
them from town. They had not the remotest
idea how long Minna would wish
them to remain with her at the Grange.
Her telegram had been so brief.

"Shall I get you a car, sir?" said the
porter.

Eoy's large melancholy eyes rested upon
the man in a wondering stare. He was feeling
rather hurt perhaps that Minna should
have failed to meet them here at Leamington.
She must have concluded that they would
leave London by the first quick train they
could catch.

You may call a cab for us if you will'*
he replied, in his gentle way.

The man now in his turn stared at Roy ;
then stooped and picked up the two small
portmanteaux, one in each hand.

We have no cabs here, sir'' said he,
stolidly ; " we calls 'em cars."

Get us a car, then, by all means," put in
Mrs. De Lisle. " We want to hurry on."

She could see how white and exhausted
Eoy was looking, and was desirous to reach
Lonefield Grange as speedily as practicable.
Of course Minna would have made — at least,
so far as might lie within her power to do so
all necessary preparations for their arrival;
although, through some cause or other, she
had been unable to meet them at the station.
On that score Aunt Helen entertained no
fear. For Roy's dear sake Minna would
have done her best.

Seated within the rickety old landau,
which in that part of the world was known,
it appeared, as a '' car," and which smelt so

pungently of horse-cloths and damp hay,
Mrs. De Lisle leant over the carriage-side
and inquired of the porter if it was far ta
Lonefield Grange. The man, having received
a liberal 'tip" from Roy, was inclined to he
as communicative as they pleased.

No, ma'am," he replied, civilly, " 'ain't
what you may call far. Perhaps it may be-about
five mile from here — perhaps more.
It lies out Burcot way, you know."

No ; I don't really know, my good man.
I am altogether a stranger here," said Mrs.
De Lisle. " I suppose, however, we could
not have done better than to get out at
Leamington ? "

Couldn't have done better, ma'am," said
the man, " for Birmingham, by the train
you come by, is the next stopping-place to
this. And there's no line out Burcot way."
Then, emboldened by the gracious manner
of this affable lady, the porter added :
Since you are a stranger to these parts,
ma'am, I may take it that you have never
before been to Lonefield Grange ? "

JVo ; never in my life," answered Mrs.
De Lisle. And perceiving that Roy had
roused himself, and was looking interested
in what was being said, she continued
quickly — " Who lives now at Lonefield
Grange ; anybody ? Can you tell me that'*

The man gazed thoughtfully down at his
feet, as though pondering well the question
before replying to it. At last he said :

I never heard, ma'am, as anybody lived
there — except a very old woman, 'tween
seventy and eighty, called Mrs. Oliver ; who
is stone-deaf and nearly blind, and who takes
care of the house for Sir Garth Gilroy — I
think that is the gentleman's name — the
owner of it. Not that anybody hereabout
would know him if they was to see him ; for
he never comes near the place ; and they say
he lives abroad. It must have been a fine
old house in its day, though it's nothing buta
ruin, as you may say, now. I was strolling
about the park t'other Sunday, and I
noticed some mighty big jack in the mere
there, ma'am," said the man. " Anybody
may go in and out the grounds of the
Grange, and nobody seems to take any
'count of it."

Ah, I daresay," answered Mrs. De Lisle,
nodding cordially. "Thank you for your
information — we are very much obliged to
you. And now will you kindly tell the flyman
to drive us to Lonefield Grange ? "

They rattled out of the station gates;
and, turning, jogged on to the old Warwick
road. Soon the grand gray Castle loomed insight,
with a faint blue haze wreathed about

its rugged base, and its countless windows
all flashing in the blinding fire which lit up
the western skj.

It is a lovely evening, dear Roj," remarked
Mrs. De Lisle. "And what a lovely-country
Warwickshire is, too ! "

*' Yes — it is all very lovely," answered
Eoy, absently.

I wonder on which day Minna arrived
here," pursued the good lady, her smooth
brow resuming its unaccustomed pucker of
perplexity ; " and I wonder how on earth it
was that she did not let us know of her intention
to come hither ? ''

'' Ah, I also wonder, Aunt Helen," said
Koy.

It must be a very dreary abode," observed
Mrs. De Lisle, with a little shudder
that she could not repress — "according to
our friend the porter, Roy."

Very dreary," agreed Roy, bitterly.
One would marvel, I think, if it were not."

The clocks in the good town of Warwick,
as they neared it, were striking eight; one
more accomplished than the rest, high up in
its ancient steeple, began to jangle out its
monotonous hymn-tune. The gnats were
abroad in their usual thick gray clouds; the
hedgerows were crowned with wild flowering:
creepers, festooning the tallest boughs. A

dewy smell of freshly-cut clover sweetly
filled all the air.

Some children were playing upon the
venerable bridge near to the Castle grounds;
others, perched perilously upon the stone
parapet, were fishing, with very primitive
tackle, for minnows in the stream beneath it.
The rickety " car " from the Leamington
station turned sharply to the left ; thus leaving
the bridge behind it. The children
shouted lustily after the vehicle as it
vanished along the shadowy road which led
to Burcot village.

It was deepening twilight when Roy and
Mrs. De Lisle, having passed through Burcot,
arrived at the wilderness of a park which
surrounded Lonefield Grange; and quite
dusk when they alighted at the great nail-studded
door which evidently was the chief
entrance of the house. Mrs. De Lisle said
pleasantly that Roy's arrival at the Grange
was like '^ the heir coming home to his own."
But Roy himself was a great deal too fatigued
to look much about him to-night ; his first
desire, his dominant longing, was to see
Minna. Mrs. De Lisle, however, made use
of her eyes as well as she could ; and whilst
their driver was engaged in tugging at the
rusty bell-handle which hung dejectedly beside
the monastic-looking door, she put up
her glasses and stared around her.

To her right she beheld an expanse of
water gleaming like steel in the dusk
through its black belting trees ; she could
tell that the park and gardens were in most
deplorable plight ; moss thickly crusted the
gravel-sweep before the gloomy house.
Indeed, the wheels of their rickety " car "
had made scarcely any sound thereon ;
they had left their mark upon it — that
was all. She looked up then and saw
that ivy drooped heavily from the gabled
roof; that the ivy-stems clung to the mansion's
mouldering walls like grotesque and
withered gray goblin limbs. All the windows
were closed and shuttered ; no solitary
light beamed forth from any one of them.
Their man tugged a second time at the jangling
rusty bell-handle; but they could hear
no sound of a bell within. All was silent —
horribly silent.

This is very singular," muttered Roy.

*' It is indeed, dear lad," said Aunt Helen,
who had overheard the remark.

Shall I pull again, sir ? " said the man.
The ole gal inside, I should say " — evidently
he knew of the existence of the
ancient caretaker — " be either asleep or
dead."

Even as the fellow grinned over his gruesome
suggestion a slow and slipshod step
was heard traversing the floor of the hall ;

and by-and-by chains were rattled clumsily,
and bolts and bars were slowly withdrawn,
and the hinges of the great old door began
to creak hideously.

A mau, quite hidden in the black shadow
cast by the trees which belted the mere,
stealthily watched the flickering light dart
out upon the doorstep of Lonefield Grange.

The massive door of the Grange was dragged
slowly backward, and an old woman — a very
old woman she seemed — holding a small
lamp in her withered claw, stood revealed in
the arched doorway.

So Mrs. De Lisle at once set about dismissing
their flyman, and he drove away —
having first stepped into the hall and deposited
the portmanteaux upon its bare oak
floor.

The old woman was so old indeed, that
she could hardly walk or stand without
support. She was accustomed to grope her
way as she went along ; and now stood palsied
clutching the door post.

Mrs. De Lisle recollected that the porter
at the station had mentioned that the housekeeper
at the Grange was called Mrs. Oliver;
and, moreover, that the poor old creature
was stone-deaf and nearly blind as well.
Plainly the porter had spoken only the truth.

We are come to see Miss Dexter," said

VOL. II. s

Mrs. De Lisle, raising her voice. '' I believe
you are Mrs. Oliver ? "

The old woman shook her head slowly, and
her large limp cap-frills flapped in a hopeless
kind of manner ; for it was really nothing
but a big and not over-clean nightcap
which adorned her hairless skull ; her other
visible garments being a blue-and-white
check gown, a dingy little shawl pinned
three-corner-wise over her shoulders, and an
immense white apron. No word did she
utter; but she held back the door as wide
and as securely as her strength would permit
for the visitors to come in.

"I'm hard o' hearing," she mumbled presently
— "I'm hard o' hearing, mum, and
ain't so young as I was. You must speak
up a bit if you wants me to hear'*

They entered the hall ; and Mrs. Oliver
letting go her feeble hold on the ponderous
door, it swung-to immediately with a
thunderous clanging sound which seemed to
reverberate throughout the great still house.
It closed as some heavy prison door might
close. Roy Dexter turned faint ; and his
left hand went swiftly to his heart. Where
was Minna — where could she be ? He gazed
round him almost fearfully. The hall was
like a decaying church, he thought ; chill as
death, mouldering, unutterably dismal. It

smelt like a grave-digger's tool-house might
smell. Where was Minna — his beautiful
devoted sister? Why did she not come to
him ? He saw at that moment a rat steal
out from the wainscot near the staircase,
and then vanish precipitately down a hole
farther on. The old woman's lamp shed a
weird halo around them; the shadows beyond
took terrific shapes. The aged caretaker
of the Grange herself looked yellow
and witch-like in its wan light.

Are you Mrs. Oliver ? " said Mrs. De
Lisle, shouting close to her ear now.

This time the old woman heard.

"Yes," said she, "I'm Mrs. Oliver. I've
lived at the Grange, mum, now for upward
o' sixty year. Well do I remember Sir
Garth a-coming here years ago, bless ye !
when we had servants and that about the
place, and bringing with him a pretty, fine-glowed
buxom lass as he give out was his
wife. Alack ! alack ! we none of us believed
it, you know, mum, although she behaved
with us quite like the lady, and never a word
agen her would I — "

Yes — yes, my good soul," interrupted
Mrs. De Lisle, speaking with her hand to
her throat, being so unaccustomed to pitch
her voice to this trying key; "we'll hear
about it presently, if you don't mind. Miss

Dexter, I am sure, cannot know of our
arrival. Will you take us to her, please ? '*

You must speak up a bit, mum, if you
wants me to hear, I tell y'. Oh, yes ! quite
like the lady, bless ye," continued the deaf
old housekeeper, her dim and rheumy gaze
fixed on space, her cloudy white cap-frills
flapping with every movement of her restless
jaws ; " but Lord, mum, he wasn't what ye
may call kind to her towards the last. He
tired of her, we alius said, and they parted;
and what become of her we never snowed.
Poor young critter ! She wasn't strong like,
wi' all her fine lusty looks ; and well do I
remember, on that night as they — "

Just then Mrs. De Lisle heard a short
gasping cry at her side ; and turning quickly,
she beheld Roy in the act of stretching
his arms towards her, his face livid and
drawn, his eyes closed. She caught him
upon her breast ere he fell to the bare oak
floor.

Some twenty minutes later, when Roy
Dexter again opened his eyes, he found that
he was lying upon a sofa in the library of the
old Grange — the dilapidated old Grange
which would one day, if he lived, be his
own. With difficulty the two women between

them lead borne bim thither ; Mrs. De
Lisle feeling unspeakably thankful that she
had remembered — in case of need — to bring
with her Roy's usual restoratives. It was,
indeed, fortunate ; for Aunt Helen had discovered
that there was not a drain of brandy
in the place — at any rate, not a drain that
could be got at by the ancient caretaker.
It was true that, when they had succeeded
in placing Roy upon the couch, Mrs. Oliver
had tottered off to her own regions, and had
by-and-by reappeared bringing with her a
black bottle half full of something which she
called " rum ; " the sticky mouth of which
she would have inserted between the young
man's pallid lips, had not Mrs. De Lisle
promptly interfered with her intent.

She saw that there was a light meal spread
upon an oval table in the centre of the room
a cold fowl, a tongue, a loaf, and a bottle
of claret being amongst the first things
which caught her eye ; and she had got Mrs.
Oliver to kindle a fire upon the hearth, for
the library was as chilly as the great entrance
hall. The room had not for years been lived
in, and one felt at once that it had not.

The furniture, and the books within their
wire cages, were dim with the dust of years ;
the once-red hangings were faded, and were
.clearly rotting as they hung. But the

Gilroy crest — the doves and the Bloody
Hand — stood out bold and plain as ever
carved there upon the tall oak mantelpiece.
Tn that self-same room, more than twenty
years back, had Sir Garth and Lady Gilroy
spoken an eternal farewell.

Mrs. De Lisle had become thoroughly
alarmed.

Whilst Eoy remained unconscious, or
nearly so — it was not that however which
scared the kind lady so much, she being-used
to the young man's fainting attacks,
and well knowing how to treat them — she
had gathered sufficient from the palsied
housekeeper to really disquiet her dreadfully.
Mrs. De Lisle could hear absolutely
nothing of Minna at Lonefield Grange.
Either the housekeeper did not or could
not hear, could not or would not understand,
when Mrs. De Lisle questioned her
about Miss Dexter's being at, or having
lately come to, the Grange.

Oh, yes," said the old woman, in answer
to her interrogator — nodding and muttering
together — " she knew as how company was
expected, and she had prepared accordingly ;.
leastways, as well as she could do it, everything
considered. Sir Garth had made her
understand that much, that company was
expected that night at Lonefield Grange — "

Sir Garth Gilroy ! " exclaimed Mrs. De
Lisle, very much astonished. " Do you
mean to tell me that he too has been here?"

"She didn't know a bit where he was
now," the old woman continued, heedless of
the interruption — " he had come and he had
gone. Yes, he went himself down below
somewhere or other — the Lord only knew
where, for she didn't — and rummaged out
that there bottle o' winde which they see
upon the table ; and as for the fowl, why
he was a beauty, and had been a-struttin'
in the courtyard at nine o'clock in the morning
of that very day. But she had wrung
his neck for him afore ten, and — well, she
had done her best, that she had, to make
things comfortable like, not being used to
company for so many long years — "

'but Miss Dexter? Where is she?" cried
Mrs. De Lisle, helplessly. '' That, ray good
creature, is what we are waiting to hear."

And she hoped, with her duty, as they
would find it all comfortable. She had done
her best; she could do no more; and she
was dead-beat, that she was. Upstairs there
was a couple of rooms," said the housekeeper,
" which she had got ready for the
company. Sir Garth himself had showed her
which they was to be, for he daresay, he
said, as two 'ud be wanted — "

Thank you," interrupted Mrs. De Lisle
once more, with more spirit than she was in
the habit o£ putting into her sweet-tempered
utterances — " none of your ill-aired rooms
and damp beds for us, Mrs. Oliver ! We
stop where we are at present, for to-night ;
and in the morning — well, we shall see
what the morning brings. I am inclined
to believe'' she mentally added, " that we
shall be thankful in the morning to get away
from this horrible old house as quickly as
we can manage to do it. There's something
wrong — very wrong, I am afraid." Then
aloud again : " Do you understand, Mrs.
Oliver ? We shall not go to bed. We intend
to stay where we are for to-night. I shall
occupy that big easy chair yonder, and my
nephew can rest where he is upon the sofa.
Be good enough, please, though, before you
go to bed yourself, to bring us another light
of some kind, and some more wood ; and
also to draw the curtains over the window.
The shutters are already up and barred, I
see. Then that will do."

By dint of screaming until she was hoarse,
and of much wearisome iteration as well,
poor Mrs. De Lisle did at last succeed in
making this groping strange old person comprehend
all that she desired of her. She
tried and tried in vain to learn something of

Minna's movements ; though she was wholly
convinced now that Minna was not in the
house. Either Mrs. Oliver had never in her
life heard the name of Miss Dexter, or else,
decided Mrs. De Lisle — though in reality she
wrongfully suspected the quite harmless and
dim-witted old soul — the housekeeper was a
crafty old wretch, and knew a vast deal more
than she meant to reveal.

Perhaps, thought Aunt Helen, with a cold
sinking sense of apprehension about her
heart, this utter deafness and stupidity, for
some dark purpose or other, were, for the time
being, feigned ! Could it actually be so ?

The old woman groped herself out of the
room, grumbling and muttering something
about *' having had all her precious bother
and trouble for nothing; and that she
shouldn't forget that blessed night in a
hurry, that she shouldn't" — and shut the
library door.

Mrs. De Lisle, feeling more anxious and
bewildered than she had ever felt in all her
past experience of life and its catastrophes,
sat down by E-oy's sofa and endeavoured to
think out " the mystery. But he spoke
her name ; and she immediately gave him
her whole attention.

Are you feeling better, dear boy ? " said
she.

Yes," he replied, faintly. " I was completely
worn out, I suspect. I am not used
you see, to these hurried journeys — "

'*No, of coarse not, my dear," she answered,
as cheerfully as she could. Adding,
with anxiety : " You don't find this room
damp or chilly, Eoy, I hope ? Fires in mid-june
are occasionally indispensable — are they
not ? "

It appears so. I say. Aunt Helen,
where on earth can Minna be?"

Mrs. De Lisle had settled it in her mind
that Roy should not, in any case, be made as
nervous and as uneasy as she herself had
grown within the past half-hour. She determined
that it would be wiser by far not to
mention at all the name of Sir vlarth Gilroy
in conjunction with this extraordinary visit of
theirs to Lonefield Grange. To hear that he
had, together with Minna, been at the Grange
would merely disquiet and excite Roy to no
good end whatever. Clothing more could be
done; they could not act until the morrow.
So, at all events, for that night. Sir Garth
should be kept in the background ; and when
morning came — well, as Mrs. De Lisle said,
they would see then what the morning had
in store for them. In all probability it
would be another telegram or a letter from
Minna explaining everything, particularly

her absence from Lonefield G-range ; telling
them, too, what to do next. Kind Aunt Helen
had persuaded herself that there could be no
positive guilt in employing a little deception
in dealing with Eoy to-night. Anything to
ensure for him a few hours of untroubled
repose after his exhausting journey from
their home in town to this dreary old house
down in Warwickshire.

Minna, did you say, Roy ? " faltered Mrs.
De Lisle. " No, my dear, she is not here
now, it is evident. Though — though from
what I can glean of this affair — I mean,
from that very trying old creature here, Mrs.
Oliver — I fancy that Minna is gone to — to
Warwick; on urgent business doubtless.
There are, of course, many tiresome things
to be done ; matters which you and I, Roy,
do not dream of, I dare say ; in this arduous
task, you know, dear, which she has undertaken
to accomplish. She — she will be back
early tomorrow, the old woman seems to
think, so rest assured that we shall see her
early tomorrow morning," concluded Aunt
Helen, fibbing cheerily.

I think she might have left a note or a
message for us with the housekeeper," said
Roy, fretfully. " Don't you ? "

Of course she left a message. It is not
likely that she would go running off to — to

Warwick, 'Roy dear, and not leave one," said
Mrs. De Lisle promptly ; " only 1 defy you
to make anything out of that terrible old
woman. I am quite husky, as you hear, with
shouting at her. She is the most trying old
person I ever met ! "

*' Well, upon my word, I cannot understand
it," said Roy restlessly, for about the
twentieth time ; " it is very singular, and it
worries me awfully. I almost wish, Aunt
Helen, that we hadn't come."

'' No, no," Aunt Helen hastened to say.
*' Take my advice and do not worry yourself
any more, dear boy. Let us wait patiently
until tomorrow. Have a little supper now
see ! here is a beautiful chicken ; Minna,
at all events, has not forgotten our creature
comforts ; and afterwards try to go to
sleep."

She told him then that she deemed it more
prudent for them to rest for the night where
they were, for that she had grave doubts as
to the wisdom of entrusting themselves to
Mrs. Oliver's beds. They might be aired, or
they might not — far likelier not. The old
woman seemed barely capable of performing
any work trustworthy. They had much
better wait until they had seen Minna herself
before venturing to lie between bed-clothes
*' aired " by the housekeeper of the Grange.

Roj Dexter was exactly in that condition
of physical weariness when one will acquiesce
in any proposal that will save one further
bodily exertion. So he expressed himself as
more than content to pass the night in the
musty library, with Mrs. De Lisle in her
large arm-chair to keep guard by the side of
his couch.

Fatigued as was Mrs. De Lisle herself, she
was by no means too tired to eat ; and she,
at any rate, did ample justice to Mrs. Oliver's
cold fowl and tongue.

An unearthly quiet reigned throughout the
house, save when a rat was heard gnawing
behind the wainscot or an ember dropped to
and broke upon the hearth. Mrs. Oliver was
gone to bed. The night out-of-doors was
likewise steeped in silence, " a starry silence,"
save when an owl in the boathouse rafters
hooted to its mate upon the other side of the
mere ; or a clucking dab-chick, sailing out
from the sedge, pitched with a sudden splash
to the weedy depths below.

There was now no lurking figure visible
amongst the thick growth of trees which
belted the mere.

All at once her knife and fork fell with a
clatter from Aunt Helen's fingers. She
pushed the wine-glass from beside her plate,
and the dark wine itself, which a minute

before she had been sipping with relish, was
spilled in a pool upon the table-cloth.

*' What is the matter, Aunt Helen ? " asked
Roy, looking at her in listless surprise.

B.OJ was getting drowsy. He was very
weary. He would soon be asleep and dreaming
of Minna.

But the next instant Mrs. De Lisle — fearful
lest her folly should have alarmed Roy —
had with an effort recovered herself. She
laughed nervously, and slowly took up her
knife and fork assail.

'' I — I shivered, dear," sbe replied ; " that
was all. I greatly fear this room is damp.
ewe must put on more wood directly. Really
it is a r/jarvel that the fire burns as well as it
does, considering that the chimney must have
been a stranger to smoke for goodness knows
low many years."

Mrs. De Lisle afterwards declared that for
the life of her she could not conceive why so
dreadful an idea should strike her brain. Notwithstanding,
though she could in no wise
account for the sudden terror, it had certainly
flashed across her mind, as she sat there with
Roy in the library at Lonefield Grange,
that the bottle of claret which Sir Garth
Gilroy for their benefit had unearthed from
some darksome corner or other of the vaults
beneath that mysterious old house, might

prove dangerous — perhaps fatal — to touch.
Was it drugged or poisoned — which ?

A few minutes later, however, the horrible
dread had quite died out; and Aunt Helen,
in her heart, was laughing at herself.

She refilled her glass to make up for that
which she had spilled, and, being really very
hungry, went on with her supper.

In some remote part of Lonefield Grange
a wheezy and time-worn eight-day clock
struck the mid-night hour; twelve slow
jarring strokes as if the death-rattle were in
that old clock's throat.

Young Roy Dexter slept heavily ; too
heavily indeed for dreams. He looked almost
as if he was sleeping that last deep sleep which
knows no awakening in this world.

By the sofa on which he lay, in a large armchair,
reclined Mrs. De Lisle. She also was
sleeping soundly. Her head was thrown
back against the cushion of her chair, her
mouth was open, and Mrs. De Lisle was
snoring unmistakably.

Upon the oval table, in the middle of the
room, the remnants of the supper still stood
there as they had left them. The lamp
amongst the debris of it all burnt but dimly
now, yet showed a lean mouse creeping

hither and thither upon the table-cloth, feasting
right royally on the banquet it had so unexpectedly
found. The fire was in a sinking*
state, and would soon be lifeless and gray.

Was Lonefield Grange haunted ?

Surely — could they have heard it — something
more substantial than a ghost was
moving in the corridor above the library. It
sounded like a stealthy footfall. The oaken
boards creaked beneath it.

The figure of a man — no ghost, but a living
man — moving as cautiously as he could down
that dim and dusty corridor, stopped at the
doors of two sleeping-rooms which were
scarcely a foot apart.

He carried no light ; the stars alone
twinkled in through a long bare lattice at the
gallery end.

He was aware that there were huge bolts
upon the inside panels, and he took it for
granted that those bolts were securely
drawn.

Noiselessly two keys were fitted to the
locks of the two doors, and with a firm
white hand were turned upon the outer side.

Then at the keyhole, for perhaps twenty
seconds, the man listened breathlessly ; and
having heard no sound stirring within the
locked doors, he vanished from the corridor
as stealthily as he had appeared.

Murderers are often the sorriest of
bunglers.

Where — what — was the awful sound ?

A mighty crackling — a hideous roar — a
stifling warmth and sense of suffocation such
as might be felt at a furnace-mouth.

Volumes of densest smoke rolled upward
into the air ; fierce tongues of flame leaped
wildly skyward. The lovely pale tints of
earliest summer dawn were veiled, killed by
the bold and terrible light.

Three or four labourers from the village of
Burcot, plodding forth in the day's small
hours to their dewy field-work, beheld the
dawn sullied by that furious glare.

Flinging down their scythes and baskets,
they ran as swiftly as they were able, in their
coarse clothing and heavy boots, across the
dim sweet clover-fields to Lonefield Grange.

But the burning house, even as the crow
flies, was a mile or so off ; and the towering
smoke and the quivering flames seemed to
play together mockingly in the misty morning
air, as if defying all human effort to cope
with their strength and fury.

'' There be nobody in the old barrack butt'
old woman," said one of the mowers;
'' still, if us can save her we 'full."

VOL. II. T

The Grange be hundreds and hundreds o'
years old, I've heard," said another. '* It
goes like tinder, see ! "

So they hurried onward, with the doomed
house in front of them, hazily certain nevertheless
that it would be little enough they
could do when they should get to it. For the
nearest fire-engine was at Stratford or at
Warwick ; there was nothing of the kind to
be got at Burcot.

The mighty crackling, the hideous roar,
were in the ears of Mrs. De Lisle ; yet at first
she heard the sounds as one hears sounds ina
dream. In fact, she was dreaming — dreaming
that she stood, lost and alone, in the midst
of a great forest ; caught in a terrific storm,
with lightning and thunder and a rushing
moaning wind.

Then, starting violently, she awoke; sprang
from her deep arm-chair, but realised that,
without aid, she could scarcely stand.

Great Heaven ! what was the matter ?

Her head ached dully, but painfully ; the
tightness across her forehead was intense.
Her throat was parched ; her eyes felt swollen
and stiff, as though she had wept much overnight.
She pressed her hands upon them and
tried to collect her wits ; and the strange,
inexplicable foreboding of the past night once
more flashed upon her mind.

Mrs. De Lisle now felt absolutely convinced
that the wine which they had drunk overnight
had been drugged. Were they, then, on all
sides surrounded by danger ; by treachery of
the worst description ? Had Sir Garth Gilroy,
for dark reasons of his own, planned this
diabolical trap —

Stay ! those sounds ? They were not, it
seemed, dream-sounds after all ! It began to
break in upon her that the air of the room
was heated to suffocation, and fast filling with
smoke. The dreadful roaring and crackling
and falling of heavy timber, now that she
was more acutely awake, were distinct and
unmistakably so. The truth in an instant
rushed upon Mrs. De Lisle.

In a frenzy of dismay and helplessness she
knelt by Roy Dexter's sofa. He still slept ;
knew nothing of the frightful peril which
hemmed him round in that hour.

Roy, Roy, wake up ! " cried the poor
lady, grasping one of his thin white hands ;
let us get out of this horrible old house — let
us get away from it this very minute, dear.
It is on fire I We shall be burnt to death ! "

The room was almost dark; the lamp was
gone out ; the shutters and the hangings
about the great old mullions window excluded
all sign of the broadening dawn.

Mrs. De Lisle, perceiving that Roy did not

stir, staggered to her feet, wringing her hands
despairingly. Gathering her strength together,
she hastened to the library door.
The ring-shaped handle, large as a horseshoe,
scorched her hand and blistered it.
Yet somehow she contrived to get the door
open a couple of inches or so, but immediately
afterwards she flung it to violently in
her fear, and with a cry of horror fell back
from the threshold of the hall. The oak
staircase was gone. The hall itself was like
the mouth of hell, belching forth black
rolling smoke with an appalling rush of flame.
The fire-tongues had licked round the partly-open
door and had singed her eyebrows and
hair. Aunt Helen shuddered to think what
their sure fate must have been, had they
passed the night in the bed-chambers which
Mrs. Oliver had prepared for them.

Ah ! thank God, there was still the window ;
and Mrs. De Lisle remembered that it opened
to the ground !

She fled across to the window and tore
apart the mouldering hangings. Then she
wrenched at, wrestled with, the ponderous
shutters until her delicate flesh was bruised
with the bars and the nails of her hands were
bleeding.

The roaring and the crashing in the blazing
old hall meanwhile increased with every

second. Oh ! that they might be permitted
to escape ere the roof should fall in and bury
them in the ruins.

At last the shutters were unfastened,
dragged backward, and daylight flooded the
stifling room. The sun was lighting up the
eastern sky ; those wan lovely streaks of
earliest day were taking more brilliant
hues.

Aunt Helen then beheld with unspeakable
relief the Burcot mowers hurrying towards
the Grange. With quivering hands she unfastened
the window, and shrieked — " Help !
help ! " as loudly as her failing nerves would
let her.

Then she ran back to Eoy.

He still slept.

Dear lad, dear lad ! " cried Aunt Helen,
in an agony of distress, ** wake up — indeed
you must wake ! We shall be buried else in
the ruins of the burning house ! "

She put her arms around him, but she could
not lift him. Terror, she found, had robbed
her of her strength.

One of the Burcot men was standing by
her side.

"You must make haste, ma'am," said he,
if you wants to get out of this alive."

Speechless, she pointed to the young man
upon the couch, who lay there so quiet, so

white, so unconscious of his danger, his long
dark eyelashes sweeping his pale cheek.

*' Carry — carry him for me," gasped Mrs.
De Lisle. And forthwith the stalwart fellow
lifted Roy in his arms and bore him out into
the fresh cool air.

Barely had they quitted the library when
the roof of the Grange crashed downward,
and a vast cloud of smoke and sparks commingled,
leaped high and darkened the fair
morning sky.

We're too late, after all, to save the poor
old woman," remarked one of the men, looking
ruefully up to where the gaunt gables of
Lonefield Grange had once pointed to the
heavens their ivy-wreathed peaks. '' She
must be burnt to a cinder if she shep' up
there."

Scorched black like a rat in a 'ole," said
another.

There's plenty o' water over yonder,
see," said the one who had borne Roy in his
bare brown arms. " But what's the use o'
water out o' twenty lakes without the means
o' — " He scratched his head thoughtfully,
and finished his speech thus.

With his utmost care he had laid Roy
Dexter upon the dewy turf, which had once
been garden-land where roses grew, and from
which a lark had lately soared to trill its song

of praise before Heaven's crystal gates, and
tenderly as a mother Mrs. De Lisle bent over
him.

The fumes of the drugged wine, she
thought, had not yet passed from his brain ;
but surely he would awaken now that the
beautiful morning wind was kissing his ivory
brow ?

"We are safe, Roy dearest," she whispered;
and Minna, I trust, will soon be with us."

Yet he answered not; neither did he stir.

Then something about the sweet serenity
of the lad's closed lips, something about the
perfect quiet of the dark-fringed eyes, smote
Aunt Helen's breast with a new and swift
dismay.

She raised his head to her knee ; she kissed
his ice-cold lips ; she put her hand upon the
dear lad's heart.

But the " pitiful white-winged angel "
had in the night-time passed over Lonefield
Grange ; and, laying his kind chill hand upon
that tired young heart, had calmed it, had
eased it so mercifully that it would never beat
again.

END OF VOL. II.

WAED AND DOWNEY'S

P^fo §0011^ at eII likaru.s attire |300fej)'cIIcr.^\

SONGS FROM THE NOVELISTS, FROM

ELIZABETH TO VICTORIA. Edited, and with Introduction
and Notes, by W. Davenport Adams. [just ready.

PHILOSOPHY IN THE KITCHEN. By "The

Old Bohemian." 1 Vol. [just ready.

UNDER THE TZARS. By Stepniak, Author of

Underground Russia." Demy 8vo.

LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL

CORRESPONDENT. By John Augustus O'Shea. 2 Vols.,
with a Portrait of the Author. 21s.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; oe, LONDON

UNDER THE FIRST GEORGES. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOY. Crown Svo. 6s.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; or, LONDON

UNDER THE LAST GEORGES. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOY. Crown Svo. 6s.

A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN, AND OTHER

STORIES. By the Author of " Phyllis," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

MORNING GREY. By the Author of " Ate."

3 Vols. 31s. 6d. [In April.

THE FLOWER OF DOOM. By M. Bethany

Author of " Kitty," &c. Crown Svo. 6s. [Shortly.

LIL LORIMER. By Theoo Gift, Author of ''A

Matter-of-fact Girl," &c. 3 Vols. 3l8. 6d.

SOME STAINED PAGES. By the Author of

The New Mistress," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

WARD and DOWNEY, 12, York Street, Covent Garden.

LIKE LOST SHEEP. By the Author of 'the

Wild Warringtonss." 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

NOT EVERY DAY : A LOVE OCTAVE. By

Constance MacEwen, Author of " Miss Beauchamp : a
Philistine," &c. 2 Vols. 21s.

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW. By

Mabel Collins. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

JOHN FORD. By Frank Barrett, Author of

Folly Morrison," &c. 2 Vols. 12s.

THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. By B.

L. Farjeon. Third Edition. 6s.

GREAT PORTER SQUARE: A MYSTERY. By

B. L. Farjeon, Author of " Grief," &c. Fourth Edition. 6s.

PROPER PRIDE. By B. M. Croker, Author of

Pretty Miss Neville," &c. Fourth Edition. 6s.

FOLLY MORRISON. By Frank Barrett, Author

of " John Ford," &c. 3s. 6d.

GRIF: A STORY OF AUSTRALIAN LIFE.

By B. L. Farjeon. 3s. 6d.

THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. By Richard

Bowling. Picture Boards. 2s.

HONEST DAVIE. By Frank Barrett.

In the Press.

IT IS NO WONDER. By J. Fitzgerald Molly.

\ In the Press.

WARD and DOWNEY, 12, York Street, Covent Garden,

jtatmmmm

I

M ii H wr ii ni iii wi I' l I ji {H I )i II I iiiii i <yiiiy<ii)^ip^ipi>;»^iif^^

iMMMlMlintMi

ai B R.ARY

OF Thou
N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

&23 ^
Q,79Zl

£„i^r^

BY

ARNOLD GRAY

AUTHOR OF "THE WILD Warrington," &C.

Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small ;
Though with patience He stands waiting, with exactness grinds He ail.

N THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

Lotion :
WARD AND DOWNEY

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1885.
[AIL Rights Reserved.]

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I
CHAPTER II
CHAPTER III
CHAPTER IV
CHAPTER V
CHAPTER VI
CHAPTER VII
CHAPTER VIII
CHAPTER IX
CHAPTER X
CHAPTER XI
CHAPTER XII
CHAPTER XIII
CHAPTER XIV

PAGE

I





















CHAPTER I.

Madeline was alone at the Little Mills ;
alone, since Kate was still at Woldney Moat
engaged in her sorrowful labour of love by
the bedside of Barton Chance, and Roger was
away in Redtown on business, at which place,
he had told Madeline before starting, that
same business would detain him until a late
hour.

She was in the garden behind the house —
a pleasant, cool, old-fashioned garden, with
an abundance of gnarled fruit trees, and with
espaliers and hollyhocks bordering the grass
paths — sitting by the brook which tinkled
and sang at the bottom of it, sparkling and
glancing through the nut-trees which separated
the garden from the meadows.

Though a volume lay open upon her knee,

VOL. TII. B

she was not reading. She was thinking of
Eoy.

Only on the morning of that very day —
Wednesday — had she written to Cumberland
Square, a long fond letter, as those from her
pen to this much-loved brother always were,
telling Roy that the weary waiting-time would
soon be over, ber difficult and distasteful task
soon done; would be done, she trusted, ere
they both were many hours older ; when the
world would at last know the truth with regard
to herself and Roy, which for so many
years now had remained unsuspected. The
month of further grace which she had granted
to Sir Garth Gilroy, had expired.

Her letter, she knew, would reach London
that evening; but Roy was no longer at
Cumberland Square.

The sun was setting over the hills beyond
Coverley ; a shaft of its fiery light, striking
through the cool and dusky nut-boughs, lay
quivering athwart the shallow brook. The
shoals of minnows which darkened its pebbly
bed, palpitated with joy in the golden warmth.
The evening was very quiet ; all " the world '*
for miles round had gone to the Coverley
Races.

Presently Madehne, hearing the " swish "
of a garment on the grass near her, awoke

from her reverie and looked up. Hannah
was coming to her with a little trap, and
upon it there lay a note for Miss Dexter.

A young groora-cliap from the Moat have
just brought this for ye, Miss, and says he's
to wait for an answer," announced Hannah,
full-grin. For the young groom from the
Moat was a good-looking and an impudent
young man ; and he having made wicked
glances at Hannah, Hannah had in no wise
been behindhand in making back wicked
glances at him.

Madeline, rising, took the note eagerly and
broke the crested seal.

*' I will be on the bridge this evening, at
the Woldney end, at 9.15," read Madeline's
rapid glance. " Should the bearer of this
find you at home, send an answer by him to
say that you will come to me there.

"G-AETH GiLROY."

That was all. No date, nor anything else.
So Gilroy was back at the Moat ! Where
had he been, how had he been occupied,
during the past few days ? Madeline went
indoors immediately, and, sitting down to
her desk, wrote three words in answer, and
three words only : —

I will come."

She folded and safely sealed this brief reply,
and sent it out by Hannah to the waiting
messenger. Then she went back to the cool
old garden, there to pace restlessly the grassy
walks between the espaliers until it should
be time to present herself at the rendezvous
which Sir Garth had named.

Punctually at a quarter-past nine by her
watch she put on her hat and sable tippet,
and left the Harlands' house.

It was rapidly growing dusk ; the mist
was rising on the river; a few small stars
had already appeared, twinkling wanly and
wonderingly down upon earth. Gilroy was
first at the meeting-place. As Madeline approached
the spot where he awaited her, she
saw that he leaned upon the wooden rail of
the bridge, his arms folded upon it, a
crumpled newspaper in one hand, and was
staring at the water which flowed beneath
him.

It was a gloomy picture in the gathering
dusk.

Brave and resolute as she could be at times,
and indeed was now, she was conscious notwithstanding
that her limbs were beginning
to tremble. In her heart she knew that she
feared the man.

He seemed to be lost in thought. He did

not change his position until Madeline was
close to him.

I am here," said she, as calmly as she
was able. '' What have you done — what
have you to tell me ? "

Then he started, lifting his hat. But he
did not offer her his hand, because he knew
that she would ignore the action were he to
attempt to perform it.

It was still light enough for each to see
distinctly the face of the other ; and an exclamation
of compassion escaped the girl
involuntarily. Her soul, though in it there was
naught but aversion for the man before her
aversion that would soon be deepened to
absolute loathing and horror — was yet the
soul of a true and tender-hearted woman.

*' Sir Grarth, you are ill ! " she said.

He laughed carelessly; and resumed his
meditative attitude upon the rail of the
bridge, staring down again at the water
below.

*not a bit of it," he answered; *' what
makes you think so. Miss Dexter ? I recollect,
you perceive, that you prefer my calling you
'Miss Dexter'"

You are pale — very pale to-night," she
answered, more coldly. " That is all."

*' So haggard and strange-looking likewise,"

with truth she might have added, but
did not.

Am I not always pale ? " Gilroy said,
musingly, but not looking at Madeline as he
spoke. " To-night, I suppose, I am a little
fagged — I have been travelling all day ;
have been at home scarcely an hour. I wa
anxious to reach Woldney this evening, you
see, knowing that every moment you would
be expecting to hear from me. The month
you granted to me expires to-night, I think.
Miss Dexter," he smiled absently.

Is it likely that I have forgotten ? " she
asked, with scorn. After a moment's pause
" Have you been in London, Sir Garth ? "
said she, abruptly.

'' In London ? " he echoed, in the same
preoccupied tone. " Yes, I have been in
London, and — and elsewhere — "

He stopped and looked at her again
Madeline shivered in spite of herself. Never
before had she beheld that face so ghastly
white as it was to-night.

'* Have you seen the evening papers ? "
Gilroy inquired suddenly.

Impatiently she shook her head, as she
answered :

I never see an evening paper here. Sir
Garth. Now kindly tell me, if you please""

continued the girl, firmly, " what you intend
to do towards wiping the cruel stain from;
the name of Minna Ford, so that that dear
name shall at last be rightly known to the
world as Minna Milroy — What was that ? "
she broke off, in a quick and troubled voice,
looking around her in the twilight. " Did
you not hear it ?"

*' I heard nothing."

So saying, Gilroy, with an odd smile
curling his lips, dropped the crumpled newspaper
upon the unruffled surface of the river.
Swiftly, with the noiselessness of a ghost, it
glided under the bridge — they were standing
with their faces turned towards Woldney
Moat — to be presently borne along, carried
over upon the current of the weir, aud
dashed into pulp and nothingness amidst
the pool of its savage waters.

On the Woldney side of the bridge the
broad stream was smooth, swift-flowing, and
deep — horribly deep it was known to be.
On the other side, a few feet to the left of
Sir Garth and Madeline, were the clear and
stony shallows of the weir ; in the reedy
neighbourhood of which, of late, it was
whispered that more than one fine trout had
been captured by not altogether legitimate
means. Owing to the indolence of the

master of the Moat, this surreptitious
angling had long prevailed unchecked in
the vicinity of Woldney.

'you are mistaken, I fancy; I heard
nothing myself," said Gilroy again, seeing
that Madeline still appeared to be listening
intently. " What, pray, did you think you
heard ? "

I thought," answered she, in a slow, low
tone, *' that I heard a muffled kind of cry ;
and yet it was not like a cry either. It — it
seemed to be immediately near us — " She
hesitated, again looking anxiously about her.
'' I suppose, however, that I was mistaken,"
admitted Madeline, " for there is no soul
upon the bridge save ourselves."

Just then a great deal of hilarious shouting
and laughter, accompanied by cries of " Lock
lock — lock," came borne to them, from
Coverley way, on the soft dusk evening air.
A steam-launch, freighted with a boisterous
crew, was returning homeward from the
Coverley Races.

That is what you heard," observed Sir
Garth.

It may be so," replied Madeline, still in
doubt upon the point.

I sent to you this evening, Miss Dexter,"
leisurely continued Gilroy, once more turning

his eyes downward to the smooth-flowing
stream, as if its dark and awful depths held
for him some singular fascination, " because
I felt certain that sou would not be gone to
Coverley — like the rest of our neighbours
hereabout — since your friend Miss Harland
has come to the Moat for a time. At least,
so it would seem ; for I hear from Mrs.
James that she — Miss Harland — is in the
house, occupied in nursing that young fool
of an agent of mine ; I mean Mr. Chance ;
who has seen fit to drink himself mad, or
something like it. You know young Barton
Chance, I believe ? "

'' Yes."

I naturally, of course, imagine that a
tendresse stronger than common exists between
him and this Miss Harland," murmured
Gilroy. '^ Otherwise, surely, she would
scarcely take upon herself to play the part
she is just now engaged in ? Is it so, do
you know ?"

*' I cannot tell you."

'rit is not an ordinary role for a young
unmarried lady to assume, at all events,
unless she have within her a tendency towards
the sick-nursing sisterhood ? " cynically
observed Sir Garth. "Do Miss Harland's
views at all tend in that direction ? "

I do not know."

Well," said Gilroy, rousing liimself-^he
stood erect, with arms now folded upon his
chest, and leant his back against the rail of
the bridge — '' well, the moment he recovers
I must send him about his business ; it seems
that I can't depend upon him. I am sorry ;
for I knew and liked his father. After my
marriage there must certainly be an alteration
in affairs at the Moat. I must look out fora
safer man than Mr. Barton Chance."

Ah ! " exclaimed Madeline, with eyes
kindling, " you will, after all, persist, then,
in the carrying out of this wild marriage-scheme
? "

Assuredly — if it be a wild thing, Miss
Dexter, for a man to try to mend his
broken fortunes. Mine, Heaven knows, at
the present time are bad enough, and
couldn't well be worse ! "

In what spirit, I wonder," cried Madeline,
unconsciously raising her voice in the
pain and passion of the moment, " will the
second wife listen to the story of the wrongs
of the first ? In what spirit. Sir Garth
Gilroy, do you imagine that she will hear
that the name of the first wife was Minna
Ford ? She shall be told all — the heartlessness
of you, the falseness, the perfidy, the

cruelty — nothing shall be concealed. I owe
you neither respect nor obedience ; and I, at
any cost, will speak the plain truth if you do
not ! "

Minna," said he, coolly, '' perhaps you
are not aware of it, but you are curiously
like your mother — particularly to-night. She,
I soon discovered, had a devil of a temper of
her own. We never could have pulled together
for life, she and I."

The brutal comment served to recall the
girl to herself. It was with a strong effort
that Madeline Dexter got back her self-control,
and, with something like a sob, she
brought her voice to obey her in a calmer
key.

If you speak of my dear mother at all — ■
though her name upon your lips is nothing
short of profanity in my ears — will you be
good enough to remember, for her daughter's
sake, to speak that name with the respect
which is its due ? " said Madeline, with
dignity. " Also, may I again remind you. Sir
Garth, that I am never ' Minna ' to you ?"

I really beg your pardon," he replied,
with a saturnine smile. '' My memory. Miss
Dexter, I am afraid, is a hopelessly short
one after all. For the future I will endeavour
I promise you, to — "

Ah, what was I saying a moment ago ? "
interrupted the girl, with weariness in her
voice, putting her hand to her forehead as
if her wits were straying.

Nothing very polite or very pleasant —
would it be ? " suggested Gilroy, blandly.

I remember," she said rapidly, determined
that no taunt or callous word of his
should stir her hardly-governed wrath again,
'• I remember ; I was wondering — was I
not ? — whether your future wife will be
greatly amazed to hear the true story of
your treatment of Minna Ford — the story of
her brief sad married life — the bitter history
of that old man's wrongs, robbed of his all
in a weak and childish old age — "

The last words, in a stifled cry of alarm,
almost died upon Madeline's lips. Fearfully
she glanced over her shoulder ; and, scarcely
knowing what she did, she clutched Milroy
by the coat-sleeve.

That noise — that voice again ! " she
whispered, trembling excessively. " Sir Garth,
there is someone near us, close to us here on
the bridge — I am certain of it — we are not
alone ! I heard it distinctly that time — "

Gilroy shook off the girl's clinging hand.

Have you taken leave of your senses,
Miss Dexter ? " he asked, roughly. Her

sudden clutch and frightened gasping voice
had given his own nerves — which, perhaps,
were somewhat highly-strung and shaky tonight
— an unpleasant shock. " How on
earth can there be anyone near us upon the
bridge, v^hen it is not yet so dark but that
one can see plainly from this end of the place
to the other ? It is impossible. There is no
one here but ourselves."

It was a groan — a voice," said Madeline,
faintly but obstinately. " I heard words
moaned out as if the speaker were in mortal
anguish. The voice was quite near us — at
least — at least, it seemed so. You cannot
convince me to the contrary."

Sir Grarth smiled in quiet derision.

'' It was a voice in the weir that you
heard," he said.

A voice in the weir ? " echoed Madeline,
wonderingly. " I do not understand."

*' Have you never heard of voices in the
weir ? " said Gilroy, with an affected ease of
manner which was meant to reassure his
companion. It was growing late. He
wished the interview over and done with.
Nervous and imaginative people often hear
them at dawn and in the twilight, and say
that they are the ghost-voices of folks who
have been drowned near the spot."

The girl shivered and remained silent.
Her resolute young heart was quailing ; her
courage was gradually forsaking her, as it
occasionally did. Indeed it was invariably
so with Madeline after a spell of ungovernable
excitement; and the excitement had
now been intensified by a spasm of shadowy
but really acute terror.

Her fear having in a measure died out, a
sensation of docility, languor almost, stole
over her, and she could have dropped her
head to the rough rail of the bridge and
have wept freely in the heart-weariness
which possessed her.

'' Perhaps you are right," she said, tired.
*' Perhaps it was a voice in the weir — I do
not know."

'' Of course it was a voice in the weir — if
it was anything. Be rational. Now listen,
Miss Dexter. I am going to tell you what
you must do."

'' I am listening."

'' No soul around us in the neighbourhood,
I believe, suspects that you are the daughter
of Minna Ford ? " he asked, somewhat suspiciously
nevertheless.

'' No soul around us in this neighbourhood
suspects that I am the daughter of
Minna Milroy," corrected Madeline.

Put it as sou will," he said, impatiently.
Not even your friends the Harlands ? "

I put it in the only way that it can be
put — the right way," said Madeline. ''No;
not even my friends the Harlands."

Let them, then, with the rest of the
world, remain in ignorance a little while
longer. My plan is this. The surest and
the easiest way to make the truth quite
publicly known will be for you, Miss Dexter,
to come to Woldney Moat and take up your
abode beneath my roof. Then it will be — "

Proudly she straightened her slight small
figure. Her courage was returning. Her
nerves were growing steadier.

Impossible," she was beginning. " I
have told you before to-night that I would
rather — "

I say again — be rational," interrupted
Gilroy, calmly. " It is the best course to
adopt in an awkward business. It goes
without saying that you need not remain
at the Moat an instant longer than you
please or there may be occasion for. From
the Moat I will write to the Prince family,
and reveal to them the story of my past
life, and will, moreover, make them comprehend
that — my — my daughter is with meat
Woldney — "

And that your son and heir, whom you
will publicly acknowledge at the same time,
is living in London," interjected Madeline,
firmly. ''Do not deceive yourself, Sir
Garth. We shall not spare you in any one
particular which relates to that shameful
past of yours."

For some seconds there was utter silence
between them. Gilroy was leaning heavily
against the bridge, his pallid face turned
from Madeline. Before he again spoke he
was obliged to clear his throat; it had, it
seemed, during those few seconds, become
hoarse and dry.

That is understood — of course," he
assented; a vague assent which might
mean anything. Then he continued more
hurriedly — " From the Moat, you perceive,
you can write to the Harlands, and to — to
- — to your people in town, and can tell
them that at last you are beneath your
father's roof."

Madeline was pondering this plan. It
appeared to her a feasible one; she could
suggest no better. Sir Garth watched her
narrowly meanwhile. Her profile, clean-cut
as a profile in cameo, was framed in the
starlit gloom. Their two figures were
mirrored in the dark starlit river which

glided beneath the old bridge. And once
more sounds of wild jocularity came to
them — softened by distance — from pleasure-boats
late returning from the Coverley
Races.

'' Two questions I would ask you," said
Madeline by-and-by. " The first of which
is : How am I to account to — to Mr. Har-land
for my quitting the shelter of his house
in exchange for that of yours ? The second
is : When shall I come to Woldney Moat ? "

'* One question at a time," replied Gilroy,
deliberately. " You can explain to young
Harland that I have invited you to the
Moat — and I do now invite you — to stay
there for a day or so with his sister. She
has no over-joyous time of it just now, I
should imagine, and will be glad of your
society. There will be no actual falsehood
in telling your friend that."

Very well," faltered Madeline—" I will
tell him that."

Another lie more or less now — what did it
matter, thought she drearily ? Did not she
know how thoroughly Roger detested all
crooked paths ? But for Madeline now there
was no turning back — she was lost in a
maze of them !

And with regard to your coming to the

VOL. Il c

Moat," went on Sir Garth, in the same
deliberate manner ; *' come to me 
— will you ? — say, at the identical
hour at which you met me here this evening.
Come between nine o'clock and half-past ;
and I will be waiting for you at the wicket
in the meadows'

Not before the evening ? " inquired
Madeline, with a little frown.

"I think not. I shall be in town on
business during the whole of the day, and
cannot possibly return until a late train.
Besides it will be more seemly — will it not ?
everything considered'* said Gilroy, not
without an ironical inflection which Madeline
was quick to detect and to resent,
that you should arrive at your father's
house when he is at home to bid you
welcome."

I will come at the time you name," she
answered, with calm hauteur. " And now, I
think, there is nothing more for the present
to be said on either side. Good-night — "

Stay a moment ! " he interposed. " You
recollect those pearls that you wore on the
night of the Pringles' dance last winter —
you recollect, I mean, how they attracted
my attention, so that I felt constrained to
inquire of you, Miss Dexter, stranger though

you were to me then, how the necklace and
bracelets had come into your possession'*

'' I recollect perfectly."

Well, T — I — I have other jewels at the
Moat which belonged to Minna Ford — "

Which belonged, you mean, to Lady
Gilroy. Yes?"

Sir Garth breathed a horrible curse.

Yes, I mean," he assented aloud, " which
belonged to Lady Gilroy. You would naturally
be glad to have them ? "

Naturally — if they really were once my
dear mother's I should be glad to have
them," replied Madeline, coldly.

Very well ; you shall. It is but right
that you should. And, oh, by-the-bye, that
er — er — that black locket and its contents
which you once showed to me," said Gilroy,
with some hesitation, — '' do you still — er —
er — may I ask — wear it upon its ribbon
round your neck ? "

The inquiry directly struck Madeline
as a curious one ; both curious and irrelevant
; and insensibly her right hand crept
upward and pressed the black locket to her
bosom. she could feel that it was safe therein
its hiding-place beneath the laces on her
gown.

Certainly, I still wear it," she replied ;

"and shall continue to wear it as long as
I live'"
All ! "

*' May I, in my turn, Sir Garth, ask why
you wish to know ? "

"For the simplest reason in the world,"
he answered, carelessly. " Amongst the
jewelry I mentioned a minute ago there is
a large gold locket monogrammed in brilliant
and emeralds. It was a passing idea
of mine that you might be glad to discard
that shabby old jet affair for something
prettier and costlier, that would answer your
purpose just as well. That was all. All
women, I know, love costly toys," he said.

The shabby old jet affair, as you term it,
was my mother's first gift to me. On that
account I prize the locket more than anything
else I possess. On that account, too, I
may tell you, I entrust to its keeping," said
the girl, defiantly, " its sacred contents."

Please yourself," sneered Gilroy. "Experience
has shown me, Miss Dexter, that
you are a woman with a will. It is not
difficult to understand whence you got it — "

"Unluckily for you, Sir Garth, I am,"
retorted she, quickly. " Good-bye — until tomorrow
evening."

Good-bye, Miss Dexter — until tomorrow

evening," mockingly echoed Sir Garth
Gilroy.

He took off his hat ; Madeline bowed ; and
thus they separated — enemies — as they had
met, with the iron glove thrown down
between them. Homeward she sped along
the creaking old wooden bridge, half fearful,
and yet half ashamed of her terror, lest the
ghost voices in the weir should for a third
time assail her ears. "With a shiver she
prayed that she might never again hear the
sound, even though that mournful cry were
but the trick of a fevered brain.

As she hurried past the Lock a familiar
voice sang out — " Goodnight, miss ! "

Good-night, Dan'l," she answered back
at once.

She glanced at the two upper windows of
the Lock cottage. They were in darkness ;
no light shone in either of them. So Madeline
concluded that Adam, worn out with the
toil of an unusually hard day — for during the
Coverley Each-week river-boats of every description
were constantly passing through
Borough Lock — had gone earlier than common
to his bed ; and that Roger's foreman, as he
so often did in the summer-time, had good-naturedly
consented, for a few hours, to fill
the old lock-keeper's place.

Madeline, having reached the Harlands*
house, learnt, to her astonishment, that it
was nearly eleven o'clock. The hall-door
was open ; the night was so balmy and fair.
The lamp stood lighted upon the table in the
dining-room, with the supper spread around
it.

Naomi, hearing someone enter the hall
came in from the kitchen to ascertain who it
was. She was not in the most amiable of
tempers ; neither, for the matter of that, did
she look in the least amiable. Dan'l was
''fiddle-faddling" over at the Lock yonder
just when it was time to be thinking of bed ;.
and as for Hannah — which was nothing fresh
she was in disgrace.

Oh, it's you. Miss Dexter, is it ? " said
the tall old woman, in her unceremonious
fashion. '' What, ain't Mr. Roger come in
as well ? "

For Naomi had pardonably settled it that
the master and Miss Dexter had been gallivanting
about in the meadows together ; else
they would have been indoors before.

Then I suppose Mr. Harland has got
back from Eedtown?" Madeline remarked,
as she took off her hat and tippet.

Yes, miss," Naomi told her, " he got
back here soon after you went out. But

when he heard as you weren't at home, he
jest step up in the dog-cart again and drum
off to Woldney Moat. He said as he was
going to see how Miss Kate was getting
along — leastways Mr. Chance. I told him,
'however, that a note had come to you from
the Moat, and I believed as you was gone
there on the same arrant."

Madeline's brain was in a turmoil. An
interview with Sir Garth always served to
unnerve her for many hours. She was
unspeakably heartsick and depressed, and
longed to be alone with her thoughts —
locked away from everybody within her own
chamber. She knew that she could not
sleep ; but in her bed she could lie awake
and think. She was almost thankful, for
many reasons, that she had returned before
Eoger ; that she need not meet him tonight.
Without delay she would go to her
room.

I am very tired, Naomi," said the girl,
wistfully. "Will you, please — do — do you
mind ? — bring me a cup of coffee upstairs. I
do not want any supper."

'coffee is about the fuss thing in the
world you could take, miss, at this time o'
night," said Naomi, bluntly.

** Never mind if it is," returned Madeline,

sighing. '' I prefer it to anything else. But
do not you trouble, Naomi. Let Hannah get
it for me."

"Hannah's gone to bed a little quicker
than she bargained for," said the grim old
woman, darkly.

Indeed," answered Madeline, with a
little weary smile. " What then has Hannah
been doing ? "

"Why, making a fool o' herself, miss,"
cried Naomi, irefully. " She has her supper
along o' me, and presently out she goes into
the lane for a breath o' fresh air, she says.
But it's after the chaps — that's what she
goes for really. I know her ! 'However, she
ain't been gone more 'an five minutes when
back she comes with a rush, a-screaming and
a-hallooing with all her might and main.
She gave me a regular turn inside out like,
Miss Dexter. She was jest like a gal wi'
hysterics."

But something surely was the matter,"
said Madeline, kindly. " She would not
scream for nothing."

Why, what she said was," replied Naomi,
scornfully, " that she had run agen Bocky
Oakum in the dark, skulking about in the
lane by the willows ; him as murdered his
grandmother, you know, Miss Dexter, up in

Trinder's Yard at Coverley. Stooped, fanciful
hussy ! She don't play such tom-fool
games as that with me for nothing. So I
boxed her ears well, and told her as she had
met a chap she hadn't reckoned on, and
packed her off upstairs."

Poor Hannah ! " said Madeline, gently.
'' Perhaps, after all, Naomi, you were rather
harsh with her. People, I well know, sometimes
cannot help being a little fanciful."

Madeline, with a thrill of horror, thought
of the voices in the weir.

On the following morning Roger and Madeline
were seated at breakfast together.

She had slept badly, and looked wan and
ill ; but Harland, having heard that, on
the previous evening, she had been in the
company of the master of the Moat, and
knowing from past observation — an observation
sharpened by the keen eyes of love
how sorely an interview with this man
always tried her, forbore to worry Madeline
with inquiries as to her health.

So he ate his breakfast in silence, and
buried himself in his newspaper, thus leaving
Madeline likewise in undisturbed quiet to
read the two or three letters which the early
post had brought her.

Roger was wanted in the mill, and had
time only for a cursory glance through his
Telegraph.

So skimming the morning's news, a certain
short paragraph, which was squeezed into a

lower corner of the third page of the newspaper,
failed to catch Roger's roving eye.

It was a paragraph merely of a few lines,
telling the world that a deserted old manor-house
in Warwickshire, called Lonefield
Grange, which was said to be the property
of Sir Garth Gilroy, had, late on Tuesday
night or early on Wednesday morning, been
burnt to the ground upon which it stood.

Newspaper news, however, is not always
correct ; and the paragraph went on to say
that the sole occupant of the Grange, at the
time of the fire, was an aged person named
Oliver, who acted as caretaker in the tumbledown
old house, and whose charred remains,
after close searching, had at last been discovered
amongst the ruins. It was believed
that the fire must have originated in the
attic in which the old woman slept, doubtless
through the overturning by the bed-clothes of
a paraffin lamp. Being both nearly blind and
wholly deaf, she was probably suffocated in her
sleep. Lonefield Grange, the paragraph had
every reason to believe, was not insured.

No news in the paper this morning worth
speaking of, Madeline," remarked Roger,
cheerily, holding out his Telegraph. " Do
you care to see it ? "

''No, thank you; I will take your word

for it," said she, trying to smile. After a
pause, Madeline said, as she took Harland's
coffee-cup to refill it — '' Roger, how are Kate
and her patient ? You have not told me how
you found them last night."

"Kate," answered the young man, gloomily
" bless her brave heart ! — is as well and as
strong as one can reasonably expect to see
her. As for Barton — poor fellow ! — he is
still frightfully ill; but Headstone Payne,
who was at the Moat last night, assured me
that if good nursing can save a man stricken
like Barton, Kate's unwearied pluck at his
bedside will do it. This will be a lesson to
him, I pray, Madeline, that he won't readily
forget ; in fact, it should do for him more
than my poor preaching has ever been able
to do."

Roger," faltered Madeline, bending her
wan face low over the plate before her, " has
has she — Kate — proper help in the duties
she has undertaken ? Because — because — "

*' Oh, yes," put in Roger, more genially ;
•* Mr. Payne has seen to that. He very
soon perceived that that tipsy old Mrs.
James was of no use; that Badger, the
butler, was little better than another old
woman ; and so he promptly sent to Kate's
assistance one ot Miss Snaffle's most experienced

nurses from the Cottage Hospital. In
spite of sundry little weaknesses, Headstone
Payne is a kind, good-hearted fellow, and is
sure to do well in the world, as he deserves
to."

Yes — yes, I believe so," answered Madeline,
at random. " Roger, I — I was only
about to say that if — that if Kate should in
any way want help, perhaps, I could be of —
of some use — "

"You, Madeline!"

*eyes," she went on, timorously; "last
night Sir Garth asked me to go to the Moat
to go this evening, Roger — and to remain
there for a day or two, in order to — to — "

What, to stop with Kate ! " conjectured
Roger, looking yet more astonished, and thus
unexpectedly helping her out in the best way
that he could have done it. " 'Pon my word,
it is very considerate on his part. Knowing
what the man is, I shouldn't have expected it
of him, Madeline."

"No; no one would, I know," said she,
hastily. She drew a breath of relief. Intaking
the false words, as it were, from
between her own lips, Roger had unconsciously
saved her no small amount of pain,
** You do not — do not mind my going?" she
said.

He came over to her chair, and stood by
it, resting a hand upon its back. His miller's
sap was in his other hand.

ISFot if it is your wish to go, Madeline,"
he answered.

She looked up at him half-piteously, and he
saw then that shadow of fear which lay in
her pathetic eyes.

Only for a day or two, perhaps; not, I
am almost certain, for longer," she whispered.


And then you will return to the Little
Mills ? "

Her upturned eyes fell before his ; her
lips were almost trembling; her voice was
so low he could hardly hear it.

I will write to you from the Moat tonight,"
she said — " and you shall hear."

And that mysterious ' month of waiting,'
dear, which you told me about," said Roger
here he put his hand upon her shoulder:* —
when is that to be over, Madeline ? Is it
not already gone ? "

Yes, it is already gone."

'* Then," cried he, eagerly, "there is no
further need of this hateful mystery ! Madeline,
you can tell me everything ! "

I will make it all clear when I write to
you to-night," she said. She took within

both lier own the strong warm hand which
lay upon her shoulder and held it against
her cold white cheek. " When you know
everything, Roger," she added, drearily, 'you
will be able to decide whether or not you
would care for me to return to the Little
Mills."

'' You say this to me, Madeline, after all
that has passed between us ! "

Roger," was her evasive and tremulous
rejoinder, " you have trusted me for so long,
trust me now for yet another day. I ask no
more."

For answer he bent over her and pressed
his lips lingeringly upon her thick soft hair.
Then he quitted her presence hurriedly and
went out to his mill.

Left alone, Madeline's head dropped to her
locked hands ; and for some minutes, in utter
silence, she remained at the table seated thus.
Seeing her there, one would have said that
she was weeping; but no tears came to the
relief of her full and troubled heart. Soon,
however, thank Grot, she would know the
worst !

Madeline got through the day somehow —
yet how she hardly knew.

When the sun had gone down and twilight
broadened over the river, and the corncrake
had raised his harsh voice in a distant field,
she prepared to start for Woldney Moat.

The few things that she would require for
her brief sojourn there Eoger had promised
should speedily follow her from the Little
Mills.

I shall accompany you, Madeline," said
he, when she was ready. and so quietly
saying, Harland wenfc into that sanctum of
his which led out of the dining-room, and
exchanged his dusty cap and coat for more
respectable gear.

Thank you," she answered, nervously.
Sir Garth will meet me at the wicket in the
meadows."

They walked towards Woldney in silence ;
it seemed that language to-night was difficult
for both of them. Across the twilight river
came sounds of revelry from the Pringles'
house ; for to-day had been the grand day of
the week, the Cup-day at Coverley-on-Dane,
and Mrs. Prince's Race ball was to be given
on that evening, But of course the Har-lands
had received no invitation to the dance.
The broken friendship between the two
families — if friendship it could be called —
could never be mended or patched up at all

SO long as Miss Dexter stayed on at the
Little Mills. Madeline — so to speak — was
still the red rag, and Mrs. Prince's temper
with regard to it was still bull-like in the
extreme.

The night was by no means so fair and
serene as that of the previous day. The
clouds were lower and inclined to gather
tempestuously ; the martins twittered peevishly
as they skimmed the leaden river.
A little freakish wind, the chilly harbinger
perhaps of rain, every now and then crept
out from the rushes and troubled the surface
of the water. Here and there through the
travelling clouds a star dimly peeped forth ;
then all at once it would disappear, and the
wide cold stream, as the wrinkling breeze
passed over it, would take a steely hue.

Madeline before starting had found the
evening chilly, and so had wrapped herself
in her fur-lined cloak. The heavens seemed
to grow more overcast as they neared Woldney
Moat; the wind too was growing
stronger. They could hear the creaking
and soughing of the trees which hid the
gloomy old house.

Madeline halted suddenly in the winding
meadow-path.

'' Eager," she said, " you must leave me

VOL. in. D

now. Cone no farther. See ! Yonder is
the wicket, and — and, as I told you, Sir
Garth will meet me there'*

Dimly, very dimly, in the stormy gray light,
she could see the little gate, framed in the
sombre foliage of the thicket into which it
gave entrance from the meadows. Standing
there behind the wicket she fancied that she
could distinguish also the figure of a man.

She knew that the figure must be Sir
Garth Gilroy.

There is Sir Garth waiting for me — I
can see him," she had added feverishly, in
the next second. " Roger, good-bye ! "

He took her in his arms and held her
against his heart. She clung to him then as
if she could not let him go, her face hidden
upon his breast.

"My dear one, when shall I see you
again ? " murmured Harland.

Soon — soon, I hope'' was all that she
could say. And the words were almost
sobs. How soon indeed she would see him
again, she little dreamed at that moment !

And you promise that you will write tome,
Madeline, and will tell me the truth ? "

I will write out for you and Kate the
whole truth," she answered ; " will write it
out before I close my eyes to-night. My
letter shall reach you in the morning —

Hark ! " lie broke off, in a trembling
whisper, remembering the ghost-voices of
yesternight, the drowned voices in the weir
'' did you hear nothing, Roger? "

He raised his head ; looked around him ;
listened attentively.

No ; there is nothing," he whispered back
reassuringly. '' What did you hear, Madeline?"


A footstep in the grass," she breathed.
'rit — it passed quite near to us, Roger! A
stealthy, shuffling step it seemed."

The wind in the grass, or someone,
perhaps, upon the towing-path," suggested
Harlot, now straining his eyes through the
gloom towards the river-bank.

*' No ; it was quite near — nearer than
that," answered the girl nervously, still
trembling and clinging to Roger's arm.
Look I Roger; I was not mistaken," she
whispered breathlessly — " there is a figure
creeping along — crouching by the hedge of
the plantation. Ab ! it has vanished now —
disappeared amongst the trees ! "

'' A poacher, then," said Roger, confidently.
'' He is after his lines in the
Woldney back-water. He won't harm you,
Madeline ; he would be only too glad to
keep out of our way."

'* How stupidly nervous I have grown

within the past few months ! " she ejaculated,
wearily. "Yet when I came to
Borough Mills, I believed that no braver
woman lived than I. I was actually vain of
my courage, Roger ! "

''I do not want you to be brave, my
darling," said he simply. ''I want you to
feel the need of me. The first great desire
of my life, Madeline, is to cherish and to
shield you always. You know it — you
know it ! " he murmured passionately.

"With a close and lingering embrace they
parted ; Roger, full of thought, to return to
the Little Mills ; and Madeline to meet the
man she dreaded at the shadowy wicket in
the copse.

As Madeline approached the small gate in the
thicket, Sir Garth Grilroj, advancing out of
the plantation shadow, held the wicket back
for his visitor to pass through.

'' So you are come, and you are punctual'*
were the words with which he greeted her.

I am come, as you observe, and I believe
that I am punctual," she replied mechanically.


It was very dark in the plantation ; so dark,
in fact, that for either of them to see clearly
the face of the other was impossible. Madeline
waited until the growth of timber around
them became, as they moved onward in the
direction of the house, less thick and intricate,
and then, walking in proud silence by Milroy's
side, she glanced at his face again.

The collar of the summer overcoat he was
wearing was turned up about his ears ; his
hat was pulled low over his brows. Beneath
the brim of his hat she saw his eyes gleam
wolfishly.

Having got clear of the plantation, and
gained the open and grassy ground which
lay upon the southern side of the house, and
which sloped away down to the rotten brickwork
of the moat, Sir Garth, instead of turning
towards a garden-door through which — it
being open — the light from within streamed
out upon the outside darkness, was about to
lead the way towards another lonesome grove
which, near to the moat, stood a little to their
left. But Madehne halted.

I would rather go in at once, if you
please'' said she. " For one thing, I am
cold ; and I am impatient to speak to my
friend Miss Harland, for another. Is there
any reason why we should remain out here ? "
she asked quietly.

He laughed, and turned his back upon the
garden-door.

Yes — there is a reason. Follow me, and
you shall hear it," he said.

Something in the voice of Gilroy smote
disagreeably upon the girl's sense of hearing


I will not follow you," she cried, indignantly.
" Where is the necessity ? There is
nothing more to be said between us. We
perfectly understand each other. I am going
straightway into the house."

He laid a detaining hand heavily upon her
arm.

Gently, Miss Dexter," he said, calmly.
Listen to me. My plans have been altered,
my mind has changed since I saw you last
night. Will you hear — *'

Madeline's breath came fast ; her eyes
shone ; her nervousness and dismay then and
there were lost, sunk as it were, in a wave of
indignant wrath. Just anger gave to the girl
the right degree of valour of which, on that
terrible night, she found herself in such desperate
need.

Your plans are altered ! Your mind is
changed 1 " she echoed incredulously. '' Sir
Garth, I demand — I will have an instant
explanation ! "

So you may," he rejoined. " First, however,
may I ask you to pitch your voice in a
somewhat lower key ? You would not, I
presume, care for the servants to overhear
you.^

All the world may overhear me," was her
quick reply. " All the world tomorrow
shall — "

He checked her again.

Come this way," he said. " You will not
let me explain."

*' No explanation should he required; and

I trust you will make it as brief as possible.
Our plans were settled last night."

*' Come," he said again impatiently ; and
moved without further parley towards the
grove by the moat, where the hollow splash
of a frog or a rat alone broke the silence
about the sluggish water when the soughing of
the trees was hushed.

Scarcely conscious that she obeyed — in the
rush of conflicting emotions which filled her
breast — she followed him, until they stood
together there, face to face, within the shadow
of the lonely grove. They were now well
out of earshot of any prying domestic ; they
could hear the moaning of the river beyond
the Moat grounds.

Sir Garth, I am waiting," said Madeline,
as quietly as she could. "What, pray, do you
mean by this extraordinary conduct ? Enlighten
me at once, if you please. If your
plans are changed since last night, mine, let
me assure you, are not ; and I am impatient
to carry them out. Faithfully, too, shall they
be carried out — do not fear ! " she added, her
voice quivering, hard as she tried to control it.

He slightly inclined his head, in token, it
would seem, either of his indifference or of his
assent.

"Miss Dexter," he replied as quietly as
she — "I defy you. That is my explanation !

I refuse, absolutely refuse, to receive you at
Woldney Moat. Therefore you may return,
as soon as you please, to your friends the
Harlands, and " — with a shrug — '' do your
worst. I repeat, I defy you ! "

At first, in her amazement, she could not
speak. She became faint and giddy. The
darkness around her seemed to take a bloodred
tinge; the air to be filled with strange
humming noises.

You do not appear to comprehend me ? "
said Gilroy.

By an intense effort she got back her
shattered wits, and conquered the faintness
which threatened to overwhelm her. The
blow he had dealt her was so sudden, so
staggering, so unlooked-for — and yet not
wholly unlooked-for either. For had not
she warned herself all along that he would
play her false in the end ? And the instinct
had proved a true one — she had read the man
aright !

*' You mean," she said, or rather panted —
** you mean when you say that you defy me,
Sir Garth, that you not only refuse to receive
me at Woldney Moat, but likewise decline to
acknowledge me as your lawful daughter, or
my brother Roy as your lawful heir ? This
this is what I am to understand ? "

'' Precisely. I find that, after all, it will

not suit me to have the business settled in
the charmingly simple and straightforward
fashion so lately discussed and arranged between
us," coolly replied Gilroy.

** But you have owned— have confessed tome
— have already acknowledged that — "

''I do not care a straw what I have acknowledged,"
he threw in. '* I have now
determined to repudiate every charge in
connection with your trumped-up story — to
treat the whole affair, in short, as I told you
once before, as a vile conspiracy on the part
of you and yours. We will fight it out in
that way, Miss Dexter, and see who wins."

You cannot, you dare not ! " cried Madeline,
contemptuously. " It is absurd, in the
face of the proof I hold, to dream of such a
course ! I will bring Roy down here — sick
and weak as my dear lad is — to Woldney
Moat ; and, side by side, we will fight you
Sir Garth Gilroy, for our rights — coward
that you are ! — together. Yes, Roy and I
together will humble you to the dust — "

Find him first* ! " retorted Gilroy
savagely, stung into incautious outburst
by the girl's resolute speech and indomitable
spirit, *' and carry out your fine threat
afterwards ! ''

Instantly a horrible fear took possession

of Madeline's soul. Like lightning the possible
truth flashed across her brain. Treachery
to Roy ! Could it be so ? . . . Milroy had
sought and had found her darling, and in
some diabolically subtle manner, perhaps,
worthy of one who bore the hated name,
had crushed him in the path in which his
young life was a hindrance as ruthlessly as
lie would have crushed a worm ! Sir Garth,
she well knew, was a desperate man in
desperate straits, and was capable of dark
doings if thwarted in his schemes.

This terrible conviction took fierce and
swift hold of Madeline, and spurred her to
immediate action. What was the attainment
of their rights in comparison with her
cherished brother's safety ? The matter of
restitution must stand over, must wait, nay,
everything must give place, since Roy's wellbeing
was more vital to Madeline than aught
else in the world.

The horror of the conception which had so
suddenly seized the girl seemed to daze and
to choke her ; and yet she was fully conscious
of what she meant to do. She could not,
would not live another minute which was
not spent in flying to Roy !

As instantly as the idea of danger to her
brother had come to Madeline, so was her

mind made up. Great Heaven ! at that very
moment was Roy living or dead ?

The doubt was anguish, torture unspeakable
to Madeline.

Before Milroy knew what had happened,
ere he could stretch forth his hand — as he
would have done — to detain her in her flight,
he stood within the shadow of the lonely
grove — alone ! And she was gone !

A dreadful oath broke from him.

With winged feet the girl sped across the
grounds, stumbling now and then over the
grassy hillocks which abounded in that desolate
wilderness, and gained the open garden-door
from which the light shone out, and
which in the darkness had served her as a
guide.

As she entered Woldney Moat — though
Madeline in her agonised haste heard not
the sound — a sharp and sudden cry, twice
uttered, rang out upon the breezy darkness.
It came from the neighbourhood of the copse
by the moat, close to which Eoy Dexter's
sister had just left Sir Garth to his own
reflections.

The capricious wind caught up the cry and
flung it over the sullen river; then all was
still again. The voices of wind and stream
together rose up and filled the air.

Madeline found herself in a narrow

panelled passage that led into the great
hall of Woldney Moat. She looked neither
to the right nor to the left. She noticed
naught around her.

Coming leisurely down the stairs, bearing
a tray upon which Kate Harlan d's supper
had been taken up, Madeline saw one of Mrs.
James's scanty staff of domestics. It was
the scullery-wench, Phoebe Thatcher ; and
Phoebe, who was quite aware that she had
no business to be descending this staircase
when Sir Garth was at home at the Moat,
gave a strangled shriek at sight of Madeline ;
for in the poor light of the dark old hall she
mistook the young lady for Mrs. James.
And Mrs. James, when bedtime drew nigh —
as Phoebe knew to her cost — could be an
exceedingly unpleasant old person if she was
upset. Indeed, she thought nothing of pulling
Phoebe's nose, or of pinching her fat
arm blue, after her last glass but one of hot
gin-and-water. The damsel, in stifling a
scream, very nearly dropped her tray.

Miss Dexter, however, soon set Phoebe's
mind at rest.

Advancing rapidly towards the young-woman,
she said :

'' You are Phoebe Thatcher — I remember
you. You brought a note the other evening
to the Little Mills ?"

*' Yes, miss," replied Phoebe, drawing a
full breath of relief. '' Oh, lor' ! what a
turn, miss, you did give me, to be sure. I
thought you was Mrs. James, that I did, and
she is so tight to-night."

How strange and wild the young lady
looked, thought Phoebe ! Almost — almost
as if she was going out of her mind !

It doesn't matter," said Madeline,
vaguely. Her very knees shook beneath
her in her agony of impatience and anxiety.
I want to see Miss Harland directly.
Where shall I find her ? "

She is in Mr. Chance's room, with that
that female from Coverley, a professional
ness they calls her," answered Phoebe. " He's
getting a bit quieter now, miss, but he have
been rampaging awful again most of the evening,
and have blacked one of Mr. Badger's
eyes, who was a-helping with Matthew
to hold him down, because he wanted to
chuck himself out o' window, Mr. Badger
says, and all the while kep' a-screaming out
about snakes and rats and devils, miss,"
said Phoebe, breathlessly, " enough to make
your flesh regular creep on your bones, Mr.
Badger says — "

Yes, yes," Madeline broke in, " but
which is Mr. Chance's room ? Quick — tell
me, Phoebe ! "

The if door down the south corridor,"
answered Phoebe, glancing over her shoulder
and nodding up the wide and shadowy stairs.
*' Keep straight on when you gets to the top,
miss, and then turn to your right."

Oh, thank you ! "

Soon Madeline, with trembling fingers,
was tapping at the door of Barton Chance's
room. Although the door itself was stout
enough, sounds sickening to the ear and soul
could be heard distinctly in the room beyond
it as one stood in the corridor without.

A man was shrieking out that Zulus and
horned devils were crowding and mouthing
about his bedside ; that serpents were coiling
themselves around his burning throat, and
would shortly throttle him if someone did
not tear them off; that a huge black dog,
with eyes like living coals, was crouching ina
corner by the wardrobe; that rats that
showed their yellow teeth as they ran were
rushing in hundreds across the bedclothes.
And, in his fevered imagination, he plucked
at the vermin as they ran.

In answer to Madeline's knock Kate herself
appeared. She came out quickly from
the sick-room, and locked the door behind
her. She was extremely pale ; no trace of
colour was in her cheeks. Nevertheless,
she was apparently calm, and her purpose

remained as firm as ever. She did not at
first recognise her visitor — Madeline looked
so white and wild ; indeed, as if she had
met a ghost in that groined and gloomy
corridor of "Woldney Moat.

When Kate understood that it was really
Madeline, she was greatly astonished. For
since her arrival at the Moat she had never
once set eyes upon Sir Garth Milroy ; nor
had she received from him a message of any
kind to the effect that Miss Dexter was expected
at the house. Kate Harland grasped
her friend by both hands, and kissed her
upon either cheek.

My dear, my dear," she whispered, " what
are you doing here ? Is anything wrong at
home ? " she added, anxiously, an instant
afterwards.

Madeline's state of mind was such, her
eagerness to be up and doing, as it were, was
so intense, that she could not wait to choose
the words which would express coherently
what she wished to say. In a sort of
frenzied haste she returned Kate's caress,
and answered :

"No, no; nothing at home is wrong; but
everything is wrong for me ! I came here
to-night to see Sir Garth, and now — and now
something cruel and dreadful has happened
I know it ! — and I must go to London tonight

— yes, this very night — every moment is
precious — may mean either life or death. I
must get away at once ! "

*' Good gracious ! What, at once — to-night,
dear Madeline?" echoed Kate, more and more
amazed. " It is not possible, I think."

It must be made possible," cried Madeline,
with despairing energy. '' Roger will
help me."

*' Of course he will if he can," said Kate,
soothingly. '* But, dearest friend, cannot you
tell me more ? "

Not now — I must not, dare not wait,"
returned Madeline. She pressed her forehead
for a moment to Kate's bosom. Kate
held her close by the waist. " When I come
back — if I should ever come back — then —
then — I ran up here merely to say good-bye,"
she broke off. '' And now I must go."

'' Do not talk so wildly ; of course you will
come back," said Kate, gravely. " Still I
wish, my dear, that 1 was less in the dark —
as it is, I can do so little to help or to comfort
you ! "

No," replied the other, " you cannot help
me. Oh, Kate, Kate, I am odiously selfish !
In the midst of my own distress, I entirely
forget that you have troubles of your own.
Is it — is it very fearful in that room ? "

VOL. III. E

'* Very fearful," answered Kate, gently.
But, with Heaven's aid, I do not mean to
lose heart."

Surely there is hope r " Madeline whispered.
" He is not so ill but that — but
that— "

No, no, no ! I pray not. Do not suggest
it," said Kate, shivering. And she
hastily covered her eyes with her hand, as if
she would so shut out the cruel picture which
Madeline's solicitude had conjured up.

Dearest friend, God help both you and
him! And now — good-bye," murmured
Madeline.

She was gone. Kate Harland could see the
slight dark shape hurrying away down the
gloomy corridor.

And Madeline, wringing her hands, muttered
:

"Is he dead? . Is it murder? . . .
My darling, I am coming. . . . Minna, your
own loving Minna, is coming to you, Roy.
If this suspense does not kill me, I shall
soon know the truth . . . the worst . . .
whatever it be . . .''

And that one horrid word, the word
murder," alone stole back to Kate Har-land's
ears, as she stood — herself dumb in
her sorrow — without the locked door of
Barton Chance's room.

Eager Harland, disinclined for bed and sleep,
sat, with the lamp at his elbow, pipe in mouth,
and with his head supported on his hands,
trying hard to fix his mind upon the open
page before him.

He had, in a bookcase in his den, a fairly-represented
company of the best fiction-spinners
; foremost amongst whom, perhaps,
in Roger Harland's love, stood Walter Scott,
the good and great.

To-night he had taken down from its place
on the shelves an old favourite of his boyhood's
— Woodstock. But even Cavalier
Wildrake, in Roger's present mood, somehow
failed to grip his attention; and for "Alice
Lee " he read *' Madeline," and the printed
letters which spelled " Woodstock " seemed
to dissolve under his eyes into " Woldney
Moat."

Presently, in a lull of the wind, he heard
the click of the garden-gate, followed by a
swift light step upon the gravel path, fle

UI\II\/FP.9ITV nc n I n

raised his rough head and listened. Somebody
was tapping on the window panes.

Putting his pipe aside, he went immediately
to the front door. It was quite dark. Murky
clouds had spread themselves over the sky;
neither moon nor star was visible now ; and
rain was falling steadily and pattered on the
thirsty leaves : those of a creeper about the
door-posts shone moistly in the light which
danced out from the hall.

Who's there ? " called Eoger.

Then Madeline stepped out of the shadow,
her head covered with her hood.

Eoger," said she, breathlessly, " it is I —
come back to you — come back to you in need
of your instant help. You will help me, I
know. Oh ! do not say that it cannot bo
done."

If possible, Harland's amazement exceeded
that of Kate. Like Kate, too, he noticed
directly how white and wild-looking were
Madeline's features.

'madeline!" he ejaculated. And at first
could say no more. Then perceiving that
she was near to fainting from bodily exhaustion
and mental anguish combined, he drew
her into the house, got her wine, and compelled
her to drink it. Just then it was the
best and kindest thing he could do.

When she had in some measure recovered
her strength, she made him comprehend —
albeit in hurried and incoherent language —
what it was that she wanted him to do for
her.

*' Something dreadful, Roger — I — I know
what ; I mean, Roger, I — I hardly know
what — has happened, and I must leave this
place, must start for London at once ! Oh,
if you love me, do not tell me that it cannot
be done I Surely there is a way — say that
there are means by which I can start on my
journey to-night ! — start, I mean, late as it is,
without further loss of time ? "

What is there that a strong and true man
will not do and suffer — or, at any rate,
attempt to do and suffer — for the woman he
loves ?

Seeing her agony of impatience, he forbore,
pardonably curious as he might feel, to question
her yet with regard to her reappearance — •
so strangely unexpected as it was after all
that had gone before — at the Little Mills that
night; and promptly went into his den to
consult a Bradshaw there.

Yes, Madeline," he called out, cheerily,
from that small inner apartment to the girl
who sat shivering and waiting in the diningroom
: " I think we can manage it — don't

worry. It is now " — looking at his watch —
a quarter to eleven. It is of course impossible
to get a train, dear, at this time o'
night, either at Coverley or at Twycross ; but
I see that a London midnight fast train stops
at Eedtown at 11.55, and gets to Paddington
at 12.50. By making the mare step it, we
can be at Redtown in little better than half-an-hour.
So make haste to exchange those
damp garments for dry ones, and I will go
and see about the dog-cart."

He did not mention that Dan'l was over at
the Lock ; that the other mill-men and the
women-servants were all gone to bed ; so
that practically for Roger " seeing about the
dog-cart " meant nothing more or less than
going out and unearthing a lantern from
some beetle-haunted scullery corner or other,
harnessing the mare, and putting her between
the shafts with his own hands. But
it was not the first time that he had done so
simple a job for himself ; and now it was for
Madeline.

'* Oh, Roger," she sighed, nearly sobbed,
*' how good you are to me ! I am so grateful
— so grateful — "

He came back to her in the dining-room,
a wistful light in his clear and honest eyes.

*' Nonsense ! " said he ; and his kind voice

sounded perhaps a trifle brusque, for he was
keenly disappointed in the turn which events
had taken. More delay, more inexplicable
putting-ose was then, it appeared after all,
necessary, before the shadow between them
could be swept away, and the mystery which
he hated could give place to open truth.
By-the-bye, those things of yours, Madeline,
have gone to the Moat," he added.

It does not matter, Eoger," she replied.
Then she said, with a kind of shuddering
irrelevancy — " Never, never again do I want
to go to Woldney Moat ! "

With no other word either of comment or
inquiry he went out and got ready the mare
and dog-cart. Across the black and moaning
river the Pringles' house, through the
trees, showed a block of blazing windows;
for at that hour Mrs. Prince's Race-ball was
in full and jocund swing. But Harland,
though he noticed those beacons of festivity,
really failed now to comprehend what they
meant. He had forgotten that it was the
Coverley Race-week; forgotten the very
existence of his neighbours the Pringles ;
and had active thought only for Madeline
and her troubles, which it almost seemed, he
reflected bitterly, that he was never to be
permitted to share. Was it, wondered he,

to be for ever and ever thus — " Strangers

yet?"

A few minutes later, well sheltered and
wrapped up, she was sitting in the dog-cart
by Eoger's side ; being borne, as fast as the
-willing mare could go, through the wet and
moonless night along the Redtown road.

Harland, upon his lofty cushioned place,
looked in the night-gloom very big and
strong and masterful ; and Madeline, on the
lower seat, with a comforting sense of his
strength and devotion, nestled close to his
side and pressed her cheek to his arm. The
gnawing anxiety and dread in her heart were
not so hard to endure, now that, with every
hoof-beat of the animal before them, the
distance between herself and Roy grew
momentarily less and less.

As long as she lived Madeline would remember,
with a thrill of mingled misery and
joy, that wild wet windy drive at midnight
to catch the London train.

Roger felt the tender pressure against his
arm, and sidewise he bent down to her.
Said he :

Madeline, when shall we meet again, my
dear ? "

I — I do not know," was her desolate
reply. No ; mercifully she did not know !

Is it your wish, then, that to-night we
part for ever ? " he asked gently.

Roger, why hurt me like that ! Would
you break my heart ? " she cried.

Am I never to learn the truth concerning
the tie between yourself, Madeline, and
that man at Woldney Moat ? " said Roger,
in a sterner voice. '* Do not you think that
I have been patient long enough — nay, tried
enough ? Is it never to be made clear ?
Only an hour or so ago, did you not promise
that you would write to me from the Moat,
and would reveal — "

'' Had that man — Sir Garth Gilroy — not
played me false, as you know, Roger, I have
all along dreaded that he would," interrupted
the girl, earnestly, "I should by this time
have written out the story of my life, and
the letter by some means would have reached
you tomorrow morning. Indeed, indeed I
meant to keep my promise ! "

He has played you false then ? " said
Roger.

Not only me," she replied, with a catch
in her breath. *' but I believe — I — I have
every reason to believe — that— that he has
dealt in some treacherous manner with my
brother also. I cannot conceive in what
manner — I can only tremble with the

vaguest apprehension. Nor can I know
another moment of peace until my fears
are either set at rest — or — or are confirmed.
Hence my journey to-night."

*' My darling," said Harland wistfully,
why not tell me your story now ? — here,
now, as we drive along ? No one can interrupt
us."

No, no, no ! " she returned quickly, with
a kind of shrinking terror in her voice. " Not
now — the tale, Roger, is too long and too —
too painful. I have no heart now for the
telling of it ; indeed I have not ; let it wait.
I can do nothing, can think of nothing, until
I have ascertained whether Roy is safe or
not."

He urged her no farther.

Beneath a smart flick or two of the whip
the horse increased its speed. The lights of
Redtown came in sight and lit up the wet
darkness around. A word from Madeline,
and Roger would instantly have so ordered
affairs that he would be able to accompany
her to her journey's end ; or to the world's
end, if need were. But, for various reasons,
Madeline did not say that word — for one
thing, her love was as unselfish as it was
deep. And Harland, naturally shy and sensitive,
was too proud in his reserve to suggest

an arrangement which would probably land
him in a home and amongst people that were
alike utterly unknown to him.

When they reached the Redtown station
they heard the roar of the approaching train.
They had no time to spare.

Punctually at 11.55 the London express
steamed alongside of the platform at which it
was expected. The fairly spacious station
was draughty and very gloomy, and quite
deserted save for the presence of two or
three porters whom duty compelled to be
where they were. The refreshment-rooms,
at this late hour, were closed and dark ; the
bookstall was shut up ; a solitary lamp here
and there flickered dismally and made queer
noises in the draught.

Madeline, it appeared, was the only passenger
at Redtown who was going up to
London by the midnight train.

Her ticket was taken. Roger had found
for her an empty first-class compartment.
There would be no more stopping until
Melbourne Park was reached.

The guard was about to blow his whistle;
the hissing engine to speed on its way again.
E-oger, standing by the carriage-door, held
Madeline's little band close-clasped within
his own.

Madeline — dear love — surely you will
tell me one thing," said lie hoarsely, " will
ease my mind in one direction, before we
part to-night?"

Yes — what is it ? " she said nervously,
with pathetic questioning eyes meeting his.

Tell me this — only this," said Roger ;
the wheels were groaning, the train was
beginning to move — " what is the relationship,
if any relationship there be between
you, which binds you to Sir Grarth Milroy ?
Since you cannot tell me more now, in
Heaven's name relieve my suspense, my
doubt, and tell me that. Madeline, it is not
much ! "

After a few seconds of scarcely perceptible
hesitation, she said firmly, forgetting in the
hurry of the moment how much her words
might imply :

I will, Roger ; that now — and more soon
all creation may know. He is my father ! "

She marvelled greatly, as their hands fell
apart, at the strange, dazed expression which
flashed over Roger's features; at the pain,
incredulity, and bewilderment in his dear
kind eyes. Her name was 'dexter;" but
Sir Garth Gilroy of Woldney Moat was her
father ! How could that be so . . . unless
. . unless . . .

There was neither time nor chance for
another word. All further explanation must
wait until — well, until only Heaven knew
when.

The midnight express was bearing Madeline
through the wet wild darkness nearer
and nearer every minute to Roy ; and Har-land
stood, stunned and alone, upon the
platform of the Redtown station.

And stunned and alone, with his head and
broad shoulders ducked to the driving wind
and rain, he galloped his stout mare home to
the Little Mills.

With Kate away, and Madeline gone, how
desolate would that home be now !

*' Hansom!"

A cab in answer to the call came rattling
over the stones, and the Paddington porter
who had run to Madeline's assistance now
hastened to throw back the doors for the lady
to step into the vehicle.

"Where to, if you please 'm?" he inquired,
with the utmost complaisance, having
pocketed the coin which Madeline had put
into his hand. It might have been a half-sovereign
for aught the girl knew or cared in
her present perturbed condition of mind.

"17, Cumberland Square," she said.

"Right 'm. 17, Cumberland Square,"
shouted upward the porter to the cabby;
and Madeline, as she went jolting off from
the Great Western terminus, heard the
clocks in the west-end church-spires striking,
in various tones, the hour of one.

The rain had ceased to fall ; but the night,
or rather the early morning, was yet at its

darkest. The chilly wind had given place to
a muggy breeze, which by-and-by would
winnow the ebon clouds and lift them in fragments
from the pallid east.

It was the time of the London season, and
the season was at its height. Many a town
mansion of the west was ablaze from basement
to attic, the inmates of which houses, in
all probability, had spent the day at .


The Coverley Cup-day was a modest Ascot ;
and as such, indeed, was the occasion regarded
by the rich and gay town world.
But, unlike Ascot, Coverley had never as yet
received the cachet of Royalty's smile ; and so
at Coverley fine London dames and damsels
wore their old Ascot gowns.

And many a hansom crawled by the deserted
pavements in the hope of picking up a
late fare. Even two or three of the great
houses in their own quiet and majestic square,
Madeline noticed, were to-night lit up in every
window.

But No. 17 was still and dark; awfully
still, it seemed to Madeline's excited imagination.
The blinds were all down; the hall-light
was extinguished. It needed but a hatchment
upon the outer walls to silently proclaim
that Death had reissued within them.

Madeline paid and dismissed her cabman,
and then called up sufficient courage to lay
her hand upon the knocker. At first she
knocked timidly enough; then rang as
timorously. She waited. No answer, no
light, no footstep — either upon the stair or in
the hall. She knocked again; then rang
again — a long, continuous peak But still no
token, no sound of life stirred within the
great quiet house. Then Madeline, in a
kind of sick despair, seized with both hands
the big knocker, and awoke, with a vengeance,
the echoes of Cumberland Square.

A policeman, stationary at a corner some
distance off, hearing the disturbance which
Madeline was creating, with heavy and
measured tread strolled up to the steps of
No. 17, and turned his bull's-eye full upon
her.

At that instant a pale, greenish gleam
flickered upon the fanlight, and a footstep
became just audible on the other side of the
door.

The policeman, perceiving that the disturber
of the square's august servitude was
a lady, said with respectful mien :

I believe, madam, the family's away. I
saw the carriage, with some luggage, drive
off only the other afternoon."

Ere her lips could form any reply to this
staggering piece of information, the door
was unchained and unbolted and opened to
about four inches width ; the scared and
astonished face of Bing the footman appearing,
beneath a flat-candlestick which he held
over his head, in the narrow lighted aperture
made by the just-opened door. Directly
Bing — in curious dishabille — recognised his
young mistress, he flung the great door
wide open.

Madeline tottered into the hall and fell
upon the first chair she came to; whilst the
man-servant stared at her in an amazement
that was at first too intense for speech. At
last — for once forgetting his manners and
training — lie exclaimed :

Gracious goodness me. Miss Minna —
Miss Dexter — what a fright you have give
us all to be sure ! "

Here a clacking sort of step sounded upon
the stairs, and Hobson, Mrs. De Lisle's
maid, with another bed-room candlestick —
in old slippers and a demi-toilette more
curious by far than Bing's — cautiously appeared
upon the scene.

*' What lever is the matter, Mr. Bing ! "
said Hobson, in a sepulchral whisper — " not
burglars, is it ? "

VOL. III. r

Would Hobson have been visible there if
such bad really been the case ?

A moment afterwards she ejaculated like
Bing himself:

"Law gracious me, it's — sit's Miss Minna!"

' Madeline ' there — ' Minna ' here ! Oh,
the tangled web, the tangled web ! " heartbroken
she moaned to herself.

"You are ill, Miss Minna, I'm afraid?"
said Hobson, anxiously.

"Hobson — Bing," gasped the girl; "tell me!
Tell me, is it right, is it true, that Mr. Roy and
Mrs. De Lisle are away ? — gone without
sending me word ? Oh, it cannot be — there
is a mistake somewhere," she broke off incoherently,
turning her piteous gaze first on
one domestic, then on the other. Both Bing
and Hobson, in all sincerity, sympathised with
their young mistress in her evident distress ;
though they failed to look sympathetic, owing
perhaps in a measure to the queer appearance
they presented in their hastily-donned
attire. Moreover, as a matter of course, they
were exceedingly curious to discover what
had happened in the family, what the matter
was, what was wrong. Something must have
happened, something must be wrong, for
Miss Dexter to arrive without warning at
Cumberland Square at the unearthly hour of

one o'clock in the morning — not knowing,
either, that Mrs. De Lisle and Mr. Roy had
together left town on last Tuesday afternoon
! So curiosity waxing stronger than
sympathy, Hobson lost no time in saying :

Law, Miss Minna, you actually are not
aware, then, that Mrs. De Lisle and Mr. Roy-left
here in a dreadful fluster last Tuesday?"

Yes, Miss, in a terrible fluster," added
Bing, with concern. " There was no time
for nothing, as you may say; and we haven't
the least idea where they're gone to."

*' I — I did not know it," said the girl,
faintly.

She slowly rose from the chair in the hall
and moved instinctively towards the door of
Roy's room, which Bing, anticipating her
desire, made haste to open for his mistress ;
and then the man lighted one of the lamps
and placed it upon the table near to Minna —
so that they might see what they were about,
he whispered feelingly to Hobson, Hobson
nodded, and again looked compassionately at
Minna.

She sat quite still for a little while, sat
there upon Roy's especial couch, wondering
what on earth she should do next. A kind
of stupor had fallen upon her and temporarily
deadened her senses. She stared almost

vacantly about the familiar room, with its
books, busts, pictures, and subdued Oriental
colouring ; every artistic treasure which
adorned the walls around her seeming to
breathe eloquently of the absent E-oy. In
this dull, strange way she noticed that the
flowers in the bowls and vases were dead ;
that dust lay gray upon books and piano.
The withered flowers smelled like flowers that
have withered in a church; the piano and
the books scattered here and there looked
as if they had not been opened for years.

Then Minna remembered that it was Roy's
fanciful desire that no servant, when at anytime
he was absent from home, should ever
enter his room to meddle with his things —
hence the dust and the litter and the beautiful
room remaining as Eoy himself had left it.
And yet — and yet could it be that her dear
brother had occupied that room so lately as
on the Tuesday which had just gone by?
Why now, then, did it seem so forlorn ?

Hobson could not brook this silent state
of affairs. Hobson was an old and a tried
servant, and she meant to find out something
if she could.

Bing," said she reproachfully, " go and
make a fire somewhere. Miss Dexter would
like something after her long journey, I'll be

bound," hazarded Hobson. " And Bing, now
you're about it, you may as well step upstairs
and tell cook and the rest that it's only Miss
Minna come home. Cook was like to die o'
fright when I came down just now."

Bing vanished obediently; his braces —
though he knew it not — dangling elegantly
in the rear of him as he went.

I am sure you must be tired after your
journey, Miss Minna, and would be glad to
get to bed," persisted the lady's-maid.
*rand would you like some tea, Miss
Minna, or what ? "

Hobson was itching to discover whence
had been taken this singular journey which
had landed the young lady, luggageless, in
Cumberland Square at such an uncomfortable
hour.

Minna awoke, as it were, with a start.

*' Bed ? " she echoed, impatiently — ■" no,
no, no ! What is the use of going to bed ?
Get me some coffee, please, Hobson, and I
will rest here until — Are you sure," she broke
off, with a kind of feverish disbelief, *' are
you quite sure that not one of the servants
knows where they are gone ? "

Quite positive certain. Miss Minna," was
Hobson's rather aggrieved reply. " Mrs. De
Lisle would have told me 'fore anybody."

Minna turned away her head and laid it
against the soft cushions of her brother's
couch.

** Eoy, Koy, my beloved, where are you ?"
she murmured** Are you in danger, my
brother, or are you safe ? Kind Heaven t
would that I knew. What shall I do —
whither can I go? Oh, Eoy, it was cruel
of you not to let me know ! "

** I will bring you the coffee as soon as
ever I can. Miss Minna," said Hobson, perceiving
that Miss Dexter was by no means in
the humour to gratify an idle curiosity. ** I'll
go at once and see what Bing's about downstairs
— I won't be longer than I can help,
Miss Minna."

** Thank you," said Minna, her head still
pressed down upon the pillows of Eoy's
couch.

Hobson, in her ancient slippers, went
clacking off on her errand ; and the girl was
left alone in the lofty and silent room.

** * Miss Minna — Miss Minna,' " she echoed
drearily; **my own name, in my own ears, has
got to sound strange and unnatural since —
since — "

It would seem that the thoughts warring
within her were too tumultuous to be calmly
borne, or perhaps the mournful solitude of

Eoy's lovely old study had become irksome
and unendurable to Minna's nerves ; for
sitting up suddenly, she pushed back the
hair from her hot temples, and then sprang
to her feet and began to walk about the
room.

In this restless pacing up and down, she
passed twice, ere her eyes fell upon it, a
small oak table, exquisitely carved and quite
black with age, which was usually strewed —
as indeed Minna found it now — with magazines,
reviews, a mass of periodical literature,
which Roy Dexter at all times was so fond
of collecting about him. Upon this magazine
litter lay three or four letters which the
post had brought for him since Roy had left
town.

Minna halted in her going to and fro when
she at last caught sight of these letters —
halted and examined the envelopes one after
another. The third that she took up she
immediately saw was one from herself. It
was the one which she had so lately written
at the Little Mills, telling .Roy, in hopeful
language, that the weary waiting-time would
soon be over ; that the work of restitution
and justice which she had undertaken to accomplish
would soon be done.

And now ? Ah, now ! . . .

A little sharp cry escaped her ; the letter
dropped from her hand. Half hidden, on
that littered table, between a number of the
Saturday Review and the Century for the
current month, Minna espied a crumpled slip
of paper of pinkish tint, which the next
instant she had snatched from its lurking
place and was holding before her eyes.

It was the false telegram — the false
message which had summoned Eoy Dexter,
on that Tuesday afternoon, to join his sister
Minna at Lonefield Grange !

Treachery — treachery — I knew it ! Sir
Garth — that man — has killed him — in someway
has caused him to be murdered ! Oh,
my brother ! — my brother — '^

The words came from between her white
lips in a quick harsh whisper, as if an
assassin's grip were at her own throat, and
she were being stifled.

Her eyes were haggard and tearless. She
raised them heavenward, the written lie
crushed in her hand.

*' Heaven, hear me ! " she said, in the same
hoarse, difficult whisper. " I will have revenge.
If my mother was balked of her
life's longing, I will not be. Yes, revenge !
I will avenge the wrongs of both. If Roy
be dead — slain through any evil act of his —

yes I though he is my father, I will not rest,
I will hunt him through the whole world
I swear it ! — until— until — the hangman's
rope —

In a paroxysm of despair Minna fell upon
her knees, flung her arms across the Uttered
table, and laid her head upon them.

In this desolate attitude Hobson discovered
her young mistress when she presently
entered the room with the coffee.

The first fast train in the morning that
left Paddington for Birmingham, stopping
en route at Leamington, steamed forth from
the Great Western terminus punctually at
10 o'clock.

Among the passengers who were leaving
town for Warwickshire by that morning express
was a slender girlish figure, darkly-clad
and closely-veiled, her sole luggage being the-small
travelling-bag which her maid carried
in her hand.

Hobson had driven to the station with
Miss Dexter, had taken her ticket, and had
suggested the buying of a new novel at the
bookstall, and so forth ; but she was not to
accompany Miss Dexter upon her journey
into Warwickshire, any more than she had
accompanied Mrs. De Lisle.

Very curious indeed was Hobson concerning
this journey of Minna's ; for Mrs. De
Lisle and Mr. Key then, it appeared, were
also down in that part of the world I What

were they all doing there, wondered Hobson
to herself ? — and thirsted greatly to know.

Miss Dexter herself seemed to be so
terribly upset about the whole business,
that the visit could not possibly be one of
pleasure, decided the abigail.

She and Bing had remembered perfectly
the circumstance of the telegram being
brought to Cumberland Square, when questioned
upon the matter by Minna.

Yes — it was on the Tuesday afternoon,
and the carriage, at the time of the telegraphed's
arrival, was standing at the
door, Hobson recollected. Mrs. De Lisle
and Mr. Roy were about to drive in the Park.
Instead of doing that, however, they had had
a few things packed up in a scrambling
hurry, and the carriage, with Bing and Davis,
had been driven with all possible speed to
Paddington station.

Of course it was all on account of the
telegram, said Hobson ; it was plain now ;
and marvelled how she could have been so
stupid as not to remember before the fact of
the telegraphed's coming to the house.

If she could have found and read the
message, reflected the lady's-maid — if the
precious thing had not been buried and lost
amongst all those publishing books and
papers — she would doubtless have recollected

more clearly than she did certain things
which had happened on that Tuesday afternoon.


Then, again, Mrs. De Lisle herself had
gone to the booking-office. Bing had not
seen the tickets at all.

As Hobson was arranging Miss Dexter s
belongings in the corner of the railways
which her young mistress had
selected, Minna said suddenly, glancing at a
clock in the station :

*' Stay here and guard my place, Hobson.
I must go and write a telegram."

Another telegram ! Gracious me !" was
the abigail's inward comment. Aloud : '' Let
me go and send it off. Miss Minna," said she
eagerly; "you tell me what to say. You
will lose your train else."

Minna answered, " No, no," decisively —
*' there are fully five minutes yet ; " and
hurried into the telegraph-office.

She had not once raised her thick veil
since quitting Cumberland Square ; for she
feared that the dead white pallor of her face,
the lines about her lips, and her woful eyes,
would attract the public gaze.

She had suffered so intensely during the
past twelve hours, more acutely by far than
she had ever suffered in all her experience of
life thitherto, that she felt sure that all which

she had endured in those hours of horror —
the passion, the agony, the gnawing suspense
which bad destroyed every possibility of rest
and sleep, must have left upon her wan features
a perhaps lasting and sorrowful trace.
So, quailing from the inquisitive stare of the
vulgar, she kept her veil down. She felt
almost as if grief and sick disappointment
had dazed her, had wrought mischief to her
brain, as if her youth and beauty were gone,
and she had grown old in a night.

Time was short; and so, with a swift
though tremulous hand, she wrote the following
words :

'from— "To—

M. D., Roger Harland, Esq.,

17, Cumberland Square, Little Borough Mills,

PT." Cjverley-on-Bane"

Am in the deepest trouble, and know not
when we shall meet again. Am now starting
for Lonefield Grange. Yet believe me unchanged
through all."

A thought struck her. She seized a second
message-form and wrote as hurriedly, but this
time more firmly :

"From— "To—

M. Baxter, Sir Garth Gilroy,

17, Cumberland Square, Woldney Moat,

W." Coverley-on-Dane."

I know everything. Expect no mercy."

Then instantly another thought killed, as
it were, the first ; ad the message to Woldney
Moat was torn into scraps and scattered
upon tie office floor.

'' No," she muttered ; " shall he be
warned ? It would be folly. He would get
away — leave the country. Let him remain
where he is — he is most likely to be there
found when wanted."

Therefore she handed but one telegram to
the clerk, and left the office in time to hear
the ringing of the bell which announced the
immediate departure of the Birmingham express.


Soon Minna was being borne out of the
great dingy station, and Hobson stood upon
the platform whence the train had started
staring discontentedly after the vanishing
guards-box.

On this journey Minna was not so fortunate
as to be the sole occupant of the compartment
she had chosen ; and of course, in
the presence of her fellow-travellers, her
bitter passion and anguish of uncertainty had
somehow to be controlled under a semblance
of serenity.

She lay back quite quiet in her corner, her
eyes closed, her hands locked in her lap, and
her white face hidden by the veil she wore.

Eut something in the girl's attitude, something
perhaps in the long quivering breath
which every now and then she drew unconsciously,
moved a plump motherly soul, who
occupied the opposite corner, to lean across
and say kindly to Minna :

I fear that you are not well, ray dear. I
have some wine in my bag here. May I offer
it to you ? "

The kind-hearted lady was bound for a
place some distance beyond Birmingham, and
had provided herself with a parcel of sandwiches
and a flask of good old brown sherry
to wash them down.

Minna's thoughts were far away, so that
the strange voice speaking so near to her
awakened her somewhat painfully from her
reverie.

Thank you — I — I am quite well," she
said simply, with a poor enough little smile.
*' I did not go to bed last night, and I am
very tired, you see. That is all."

Dear me ! " said the stout stranger with
much interest, being evidently ripe for a chat.
May I ask whether it was a ball ? "

Fo ; it was not a ball," answered Madeline
gently. And she drew down the window
blind to shade her face, and closed her eyes
again, thus intimating to her would-be friend

that she was in no mood for railway-carriage
conversation.

Over the same ground, past the same calm
scenes of rural life — homesteads, pastures,
winding canals, and cornfields ripening
under a summer sky — as those past which,
barely three days before, at Minna's apparent
bidding, Mrs. De Lisle and Roy Dexter had
sped, was Minna herself, in agonised quest of
them, now being whirled by the Birmingham
express.

But she noticed nothing of the charming
landscapes through which, at such headlong
speed, she was being borne on that bright
June morning ; for day had dawned upon the
refreshed earth with no lingering trace of the
past night's storm, and the sky was blue
again, the dust was washed from the leaves,
and frolicsome cloud-shadows went sailing
over the corn, which bowed and rustled joyously
in the light cool wind.

Leamington at last !

It was not long ere Minna was seated in an
open "car," and being driven along the old
Warwick road. As it chanced, her coachman
was somewhat of a blockhead, who, a stranger
to the dandy Warwickshire town, knew
nothing, either, of its outlying neighbourhood.

No. The man had never heard of Lone-field

Grange, but he could '' asthis way," he
had no doubt, said he, scratching his head
thoughtfully, and " essay he'd find it afore
he'd done."

Then someone loitering by the station gates
who, thought Minna, certainly stared rather
hard and curiously at her when the man on the
*' car " inquired of him the way to the Grange
had pointed out the direction of Barcot
village ; and so, in order to get to Burcot,
they drove along the old Warwick road.

Sweet and enticing as this fair country
looked, the girl had still neither eyes nor
attention for the pastoral loveliness which
surrounded her on every side, though she put
up her veil now to let the breeze fan her wan
face.

She saw the famous Castle, and the idle
swans upon the water hard by ; the glorious
foliage of the grand old park, with the noonday
sun pouring down upon all. But the picture,
stately as it was, had neither meaning
nor delight for Minna ; her soul was sick with
longing and fear ; her spirit and her body, as
it were, were dwelling apart that day.

*' Roy, I am coming to you," she had murmured
again and again, as if the dear object
of her constant thoughts were able to hear
her voice. " Whether you be living or dead,

VOL. III. G

my darling, Minna your Minnehaha, will
soon be with you ! "

An inquiry of an old dame gathering
sticks here, a question put to another sitting
at her cottage door there, a few words exchanged
with a yokel over the hedge, and
Burcot village was reached by-and-by.

It was a pretty hamlet, " far from the
maddening crowd," with a water-cress brook
running through the middle of it ; its dwellings
consisting chiefly of drowsy-looking cottages
built apparently of coarse white plaster,
brown beams, and lichened thatch, up to
which wild roses climbed in loving fashion to
greet and mingle with the abundant honeysuckle
which clustered over the queer little
lattices half smothered in the heavy thatch
above them.

In the gardens, amongst the vegetables,
were hollyhocks and peonies, southern-wood
and cabbage-roses. Here and there, beneath
an apple-tree, bee-hives peeped forth in snug
array.

At the farther end of Burcot — as on
entered the village from Warwick way — the
high road broadened, as also did the brook.
Here women came with wooden pails to dip
out water for household purposes. Here, too,
opposite the water-cress course, stood the

village inn, which was the only hostelry that
Burcot boasted, and which was known to the
natives as " The Swan of Avon," though
naturally the sign by everybody was abbreviated
to " The Swan " alone.

Artists of the nomadic tribe — and occasionally
American spinsters on a scribbling
tour — often in the summer-time, for weeks
together, sojourned at '' The Swan of Avon; "
for the fare to be obtained there was cheap,
clean, and excellent of its kind, and the
scenery round about Burcot village was some
of the fairest and most home-like in England.
Moreover, Burcot — if one strolled across the
meadows and through Lonefield wood — was
but an inconsiderable distance from sweet old
Stratford itself. This was its chief recommendation
in the eves of the American

«/

ladies.

Minna, in her dusty " car," went jogging
past " The Swan of Avon." She would not
have noticed the quaint old wayside inn, with
its spotless lattices and comfortable porch,
had she not heard, to her indescribable amazement,
her own name uttered shrilly, as it at
first seemed to her, by a voice somewhere in
the air.

*' Minna— Minna— Minna ! "

'* Stop ! " cried the girl breathlessly to her

coaclimaii, her stupefied faculties waking ta
sudden alertness. '' Someone called me —
stop ! I say."

The man obeyed, pulling up by the trough
and sign-board of '' The Swan of Avon." A
very fine and graceful picture had the bird
once presented, painted as it originally had
been in bright yellow upon a purplish ground
or rather water, with a fringe of emerald-green
rushes ; but the colours were cracked
and faded now, weather and time between
them having wrought their usual ruin.

"It's the lady up there. Miss, as wants
ye," said the man, pointing upward with his
whip as he spoke. And Minna, lifting her
eyes to the upper front windows of the inn
beheld, to her speechless relief, the face of
Mrs. De Lisle.

Minna, Minna, we are — I am here, my
child ! Don't go any farther ! Thank
Heaven ! you have come at last — "

Minna waited to hear no more. She
sprang unassisted from the carriage, and
disappeared down the inn's entrance-place — a
wide passage with boarded walls, an uneven
brick-floor, and with a back door leading out
into a green and sunny garden ; a passage
beautifully clean and airy, though smelling
undeniably of beer and stale tobacco smoke.

a good wholesome English smell — in which
the girl was immediately confronted by the
landlady of "The Swan " herself.

The landlady — like so many real born and
bred country landladies — was stout, very
stout, and florid. She wore an immense
white house-wifely apron, and had a skimmer
in her hand. She was frying eggs and ham
for dinner, and, for some reason or other, she
appeared to walk on tiptoe.

'' Ah," in a wheezy whisper said the landlady,
whose name was Mrs. Bluff — as '' Mrs.
Bluff o' Burcot " she was known for miles
round " The Swan " — a feeling and mournful
whisper which at any other time, in a total
stranger, would assuredly have struck Minna
as being remarkable — "Ah, you are the young
lady, o' course, as the pore dear lady upstairs
have been expecting to come," said Mrs.
Bluff — " leastways, hoping and praying every
hour as you'd come. I'm sure, Miss, I'm
very glad, that I am; for the pore dear — ''

"How — where shall I find her?" Minna
managed to say. " You must kindly — kindly
pay the man for me — I — I cannot — "

Then Mrs. Bluff unlatched a door in the
passage wall and pointed, with a deeply-concerned
air, to a dusky uncarpeted stairway —
the boards of which were milk-white, and

Avhieh led up to the rooms above. At the
stairhead, waiting for her, and quivering in
every vein, Minna beheld Mrs. De Lisle.

In the next minute the two were locked m
each other's arms.

'* Roy — Aunt Helen — Roy ! " said Minna,
when she could speak. " Is he safe — well —
or — oh, pity me 1"

But Aunt Helen was weeping heartbroken,
and just then could utter no word.
She drew the girl into the sitting-room — a
lavender scented old room, with a hideous
wall-paper, antiquated furniture, and monstrous
china ornaments upon mantelpiece
and sideboard, from the open casement of
which she had seen Minna in her '' car "
driving past " The Swan " on her way to
Lonefield Grange — and tried between the
sobs which choked her utterance to tell her
tale coherently.

My dear, I am so thankful — so thankful
— to see you ! I have been so lonely, so
frightened, so ill — waiting, waiting for you
to come. I have lived an age in the past
two or three days — indeed, ever since the
arrival of that dreadful telegram, which was
the means, you know, of bringing us down
here—"

It was not I who sent that telegram'*

interrupted Marina, hoarsely. " You must,
by this time, have discovered that, Aunt
Helen."

I didn't know, dear, I didn't know
for certain — how could I tell ? I have
suspected terrible things, it is true ; for, as
you will admit, there was every reason to
suspect terrible things — Oh ! Minna, child, I
have so longed for you to come. If you
were down in Warwickshire too — as the
telegram led us to believe — I knew that you
would find us — me out soon. I have been
too unwell from the shock, dear, to write,"
rambled on the excited lady — '* indeed I did
not in the least know where you were, so
how could I write ? After coming to the
Grange, and not finding you there after all,
what were we — what was I to do ? I could
not telegraph back — I could only wait and
watch for you, since you were not at Lone-field
G-range. Oh, Minna, I knew, I was
certain that you would come and find us out
if you really were in Warwickshire. They
were very good and kind, the people about
here; they brought us to this house after —
after — "

Hush, dear Aunt Helen, do not cry so !
Let me hear the worst — I am here to bear
it. Roy — how — where is he ? "

She gently freed herself from Aunt Helen's
hysterical embrace ; and, throwing aside her
hat, she pressed her hands tightly upon her
bowed head. Oh, that its throbbing would
cease !

Tell me the worst," she said again. " I
can bear it. Is he — is he dead f "

For answer Mrs. De Lisle, her handkerchief
to her mouth, motioned — it was all that
she could do — for Minna to come with her.

They left the sitting-room and crossed the
lauding; Mrs. De Lisle unlocking the door
of another room, which was at the back of
the house, and which looked into the inn
garden.

Flowers in quaint old vases were set
everywhere in that neat little room, and a
holy quiet reigned within it. Flowers, too,
were strewed upon the white bed. The
blind was drawn down ; but the window was
open ; and sweet and sunny garden smells
were wafted subtly in.

Mrs. De Lisle pointed to the bed — pointed
to it without a word.

Upon it, with hands folded on his breast,
and with a smile of heaven upon his face,
lay all that remained of Roy Dexter — '' white,
beautiful, serenely still, and at rest for evermore."


Minna uttered no cry. She was not
unprepared for the blow. Her grief was
tragic in its voiceless calm.

Reverently she crouched by the bedside,
and spread her arms over the corpse. It
was hers — her own. His soul was with Godin
heaven ; but his body, for yet a little while
longer on earth, could be her very own.

Leave us together, Aunt Helen — will
you ? " she said. Her voice was quiet and
hollow, with never a sign of tears. " I will
will come to you again presently."

So Mrs. De Lisle stole softly out, and left
Minna alone with her dead.

Evening was come ; the evening of the same
day.

In their little upstairs parlour at " The
Swan of Avon " sat Minna and Mrs. De
Lisle ; the dusk closing around them, the
grasshopper beginning to stir, and the even-instar,
visible through the open casement,
looking mildly into the room.

Minna's presence in the house, the blessed
sense of rest and security which the girl's
appearance at Burcot had given to the
heart of Mrs. De Lisle, had done wonders
towards restoring to the kind and amiable
lady her natural equanimity.

She could speak of Roy without weeping,
now that Minna, brave and resolute even in
her crushing sorrow — for she had thought
many times of Roger and of his great love,
and the mere thought of him had brought
comfort and peace — was by her side ; could
speak of him with a placid melancholy disturbed

hardly by a sigh, as of one not " lost "
to them here, but only " gone before."

Verily time and nature are the greatest of
all physicians. Often do they ease the pain
of grief so quickly that their healing skill to
the bewildered mourner seems almost cruel.

For hours had Minna knelt by her dead
brother, her sorrow still voiceless, the
fountain of her tears dried, unconscious
that hours, not minutes, were fleeting by,
that day was going and evening coming
on. If passionate kisses, if fervid prayers,
breathed from a breaking heart, had power
to reanimate the beloved dead, then would
Roy have awakened from his marble sleep
like the cherished son of the widow of
Zarephath.

At length Mrs. De Lisle, growing very
anxious, crept back to that quiet room. The
sun was setting; the village urchins were
playing noisily by the brook and sailing
paper-boats among the water-cress ; the
crows, with many a solemn caw, were
travelling slowly homeward athwart the
fading sky.

Minna's attitude, Aunt Helen found, was
unchanged. So bending over the girl, she
forced her to rise, and told her gently, but
firmly, that she must come and eat.

Oil, my darling," whispered Aunt Helen,
folding Minna on her bosom, "if I could
but see you cry ! It would ease your heart,
my poor child, and do you good, you know.
And you look so ill, my dear, so very ill.
Cry, Minna — cry out your grief in my
arms ! "

No," she answered forlornly, '' I cannot,
I will not — I dare not give way. Once let
the tears come, they would get the upper-hand,
and I should weep away my life. And
I want to live. Aunt Helen ; do you understand
? — to keep my strength ; not to die.
There is a terrible debt to be paid, and paid
it shall be to the uttermost farthing."

'* My child, what do you mean ? "

Revenge I " cried Minna, fiercely — " the
debt of revenge ! It was that for which my
mother plotted, longed, and prayed ; but the
prayer was never granted — she died too soon
and her legacy of vengeance has fallen tome.
I will do that which was denied to
her." She lifted her locked hands high
above the lad's dead body ; raised, too, her
eyes, haggard and passionate, heavenward.
*' I swear it — Heaven hear and help me ! "
she said, with a kind of wild solemnity
in voice and mien. " I devote my life — my
whole life, if it be necessary — to the paying

of the debt of vengeance which I owe to Sir
Garth Giiroy. If he be a murderer, no kinship
between us shall save him — I will hunt
him, will track him to the world's end, will
bring it home to him — and he shall die a
murderer's death ! "

Mrs. De Lisle shuddered.

*' Do not, pray do not," she begged,
weakly. " You frighten me, Minna. Come
away, dear ; you must be faint with fasting.
And — and there is so much to be talked
over and settled now that you are here.
You know — you know, my darling child,
what I mean. Come away, Minna, and
let us talk it over together."

So saying. Aunt Helen had succeeded in
leading Minna away from that darkened room
of death, and had coaxed her into taking a
morsel of food and drinking a little wine.

And, by-and-by, as the twilight deepened
and the last blood-red streak died out of the
tranquil sky, as the shouting of the children
by the brook gradually ceased, and the chirping
of the grasshopper grew wither and
stronger with the " fading of the glimmering
landscape " and the appearance of the
leathery bat, Mrs. De Lisle related to Minna
the history of the false telegram which had
hurried them off into Warwickshire in search

of Lonefield Grange ; how at dusk they had
arrived at the dismal old country-house, and
how amazed and troubled they had been at
not finding Minna there to welcome them.

Mrs. De Lisle shivered as she recounted
to Minna how, fearing to entrust themselves
the aged caretaker's beds, they had passed
the night in the library of the Grange ; how
convinced she was that, for some motive or
other, the wine which they had drunk had
been drugged before their arrival ; how, the
fire breaking out whilst they slept, they had
narrowly escaped a most horrible death.
Then Aunt Helen repeated her previous
statement as to the kindness and the sympathy
which she had received in her distress
from the village folk of Burcot generally, and
from worthy Mrs. Bluff of " The Swan " in
particular. How sure she felt that Minna —
of course always believing that it was she who
had sent the telegram to Cumberland Square,
and that she must therefore be somewhere
in the neighbourhood of the Grange in company
perhaps with Sir Garth Gilroy — would,
on hearing of the fire and the death of Roy,
lose no time in hastening to seek them out.
No, there had been, would be no inquest,
said Aunt Helen timidly, in answer to
Minna's stern, tearless question* ; it was

wholly unnecessary, said both the coroner
and the doctor from Warwick. Roy's end
had been peaceful and painless enough ; the
beating of his tired heart had simply ceased ;
his spirit whilst he slept had soared from
earth to heaven. Ah, yes, upon the charred
remains of the poor old deaf and blind caretaker
there had, Mrs. De Lisle believed, been
some sort of inquiry held in the tap-room of
*' The Swan of Avon ; " and they — the burnt
bones Ois the unfortunate old creature — were
to be buried on the morrow in Burcot churchyard.


The tale was told in Mrs. De Lisle's own
simple rambling language, and with a note
of bewilderment in her voice as if her own
narrative perplexed her sorely ; but Minna's
quick comprehension grasping the significance
of all that she heard, the girl at once
astonished Mrs. De Lisle by the shifting of
facts into a quite different light. Where before
it had been darkness and doubt for Aunt
Helen, Minna's wit let daylight in.

*' 1 see it all," she said, with that unnatural
calm and fortitude which in the circumstances
were terrible to witness ; such tearless tranquillity
could not last. Aunt Helen told herself
mournfully — it was impossible. She could
not continue to bear up in that iron fashion

when the grief at her heart was of so deep a
nature. " I see it all, Aunt Helen," said
Minna. " It was Sir Garth himself who sent
that telegram in order to get you and Roy into
his power; that is clear. He was hidden
here at the time ; he was not at Woldney
Moat. It was his hand that drugged the
wine ; his hand that fired the Grange ; and,
beyond all doubt, had you and my dear lost
lad unwisely slept in the rooms which he had
had prepared for you, there would then have
been for you no shred of hope — no possible
escape from a sure and an awful death."

Horrible, horrible ! " murmured Mrs. De
Lisle, trembling. 'but — but, my dear,"
added she, helplessly, ''I do not understand.
Why should he be so wicked ? You wanted
want nothing of him. Nothing, Minna,
save that which is just and right. It is
merely a question of justice, dear."

When I first made myself known to
him," answered she, with passionate disdain
and flashing eyes, 'when I told him our
strange history — the whole truth about our
mother, myself, and Roy — I clearly perceived
that it would be a hard fight ; that there
must be caution in whatever I did. He tried
at first to meet scorn with scorn. But it
would not do. The proof I hold " — pressing

her hand upon the hidden locket in her
bosom — '' was all-convincing. He was found
out at last, he knew. Over and over again
as I have told you in my many letters —
he asked for time to arrange his affairs, and
to prepare the world — his world — for the
confession he would make; and over andover
again, as you know, Aunt Helen, I have
granted what he asked. I would that I had
defied him," cried Minna wildly, " ere it
ended, as it has done, in his defying me !
For all too plainly do I now see that during
these past months of temporising, of futile
delay, he has been merely pondering, secretly
scheming, how best and completely he could,
as it were sweep, the past from his path.
His debts were to be paid, he was about to
contract a new marriage — in brief, with that
new matrimonial arrangement he would
begin his life again ; albeit, the better half
of that misspent life was done with for Sir
Garth Gilroy. How, then — do you conceive,
Aunt Helen ? — was all this to go on, without
risk and confusion to the prospects he was
counting upon, when that shameful past of
his was about to be unearthed and drafted
upward to the full light of day ? No ! No
spectres of the past, at any cost ! That must
be prevented — and he would halt at nothing,
VOL. III. H

not even bloodshed, provided he could go
undetected in crime, in order to gain his
ends. Ah, dear Aunt Helen, your gentle
nature cannot understand what a bad and
crafty man is this ! How hard to deal with,
how cruel in his quiet craftiness ! "

Then in a few rapid sentences she gave
Mrs. De Lisle, sitting there before her, in a
state of mind in which horrified curiosity,
wonderment, and awe were strangely blended,
a sketch of her two latest interviews with
the master of the Moat.

'last night, in the Moat garden, when he
defied me, when he dared me to do my
worst," continued Minna, in the same wild,
eager tone, leaving her seat to pace the little
parlour, '' he believed that Roy was for ever
silenced, and that his — Sir Garth's — own
wicked act could never be suspected or in
any way brought home to him ; and the conviction
now breaks upon me. Aunt Helen —
and rid myself of it I cannot — that had not
1 fled from the man when I did, terrified
beyond measure at the few taunting words
which he involuntarily let fall with regard to
our darling's safety, then and there determined
that not another second should elapse
which was not spent in flying to you and Roy,
or, at all events, in trying to find you — I say

that had I not instantly escaped from the
garden, I never should have left the Moat
alive. I know it. I feel it. He would have
murdered me there in the darkness — "

"Oh, my child," half sobbed Mrs. De
Lisle, '' do not imagine such shocking things I
You scare me out of my wits — do not, I pray
you, Minna ! Remember what I have gone
through within the last few days ; I cannot
bear it, indeed I cannot ! "

Nonsense, dear," cried the girl, as if
reckless in her misery, in her " climbing
sorrow," but dauntless and firm nevertheless
in the purpose which filled her mind, and
still pacing up and down the inn-parlour as
she had paced up and down in Roy's forsaken
room on her arrival before dawn at
Cumberland Square — "Nonsense, dear heart!
I do but divine the truth. Would a wretch
who has not hesitated over one black deed
hesitate over another ? No, no, no ! If
things were so planned by him, that Sii*
Garth fancied that discovery was impossible
or, at any rate, impossible so far as he
himself were concerned — believe me, he
would never falter in aught that he had
resolved to do. Self, self. Aunt Helen, is
his god, his constant creed, and he cares
not a straw who is sacrificed so long as he is

spared. Had not I suddenly quitted his side-last
night, without a word of warning as to my
intention, I should not, I am certain, be herewith
you now. He would have strangled mein
all likelihood, with his own lithe white
hands, and have buried me there in the copse
by the Moat. Who knows ? — perhaps my
grave was already dug, and I all the while
was standing near it."

A slight sobbing noise came from Mrs. De
Lisle, who sank back in her chair with her
handkerchief to her eyes.

'' Oh, try to be calm — to — to look at
things from a less horrible point of view I
Do, dear ; or I am sure that you will be ill.
This strain and excitement will kill you.
Recollect, you have not slept or rested for
many hours, and have been travelling night
and day, and have taken but little food — or
or anything," rambled on the poor lady.
Rest now, dear Minna ; try to rest both
body and brain ; and tomorrow — "

The girl laughed — a strange laugh, soft
and incredulous. Somehow Mrs. De Lisle's
blood, as she heard it, seemed to run cold in
her veins. She dropped her handkerchief
mechanically, and gazed with keenest
anxiety at the slight dark shape pacing
to and fro in the twilit room.

'' Sleep ! Rest ! " echoed Minna. " I feel
that I can never rest or sleep again until I
have done that which I mean to do; until
Sir Garth Gilroy is lodged within a felon's
cell, and has suffered a felon's doom. Is nob
he a murderer? Is not it the law of the
land that a murderer shall die ? What cared
he for the life of that unhappy old creature
at the Grange whom you have told me about?
Nothing. She was in the way — she must
perish — and her blood is upon his hands as
surely as yours. Aunt Helen, and Roy's
would have been, had not a merciful Providence
intervened and saved you from the
burning Grange. Nay, it is he who has
killed Roy ; and he shall have no mercy.
Do not you conceive that the fatigue and
excitement of that unexpected journey from
London, to say nothing of the disappointment
and apprehension which he must have
felt on reaching the Grange and finding no
sign of my presence there — and the horrid
narcotic which poisoned the wine he drank
on that night — were not more than enough,
for one so weak and delicate as he, to
hasten the end of his frail life? Have
not the doctors in town been unanimous, in
Roy's case, in forbidding the use of all
opiates ? — precisely as our own dear Doctor

Dexter, in his lifetime, ever forbade the use
of them to our mother. No matter how*
acute the pain might be at times, kindly but
firmly, I remember, he always forbade her
to touch such things. And was not Eoy's
malady the same as that of our dear mother?
And did we not know that, sooner or later,
it would rob us of him, just as in our childhood
it robbed him aud me of her'? Clearly,,
then. Sir Garth Gilroy is guilty of — Listen,
Aunt Helen ! "

Minna paused in her restless gliding to
and fro ; likewise paused abruptly in her
rapid talk; and held up her hand to enjoin
silence.

Hark ! " she whispered then.

Mrs. De Lisle was shaking all over.
Minna's strange feverish manner, her torrent
of wild words about crime and vengeance
and the just death which was a murderer's
due, had again so thoroughly unnerved the
poor lady, that the girl's gesture, sudden and
ghostly as it was, caused Aunt Helen to half
spring from her arm-chair, to clutch the side
of it for support, and to glance fearfully over
her shoulder at the shadowy door.

"What — what is it?" gasped she.
** Minna, you will — you will frighten me to
death ! »

Wheels," answered Minna, in the same
hashed, mysterious way — '' do you not hear
them? Hark!"

She stood quite still in the centre of the
room ; her head held side wise and slightly
bent towards the open casement ; her hand
still uplifted — listening intently.

The little inn-parlour was filled with the
gloaming ; the moon was coming up behind
Lonefield wood. Lights here and there in the
village twinkled out from the lattices in the
thatch ; the sweet dewy smell of freshly-cut
clover rose on the evening air. Burcot
church clock chimed half-past nine.

Below, in Mrs. Bluff's snug bar and tap-room,
could be heard the continuous murmur
of voices gruff and deep. The rustic customers
of " The Swan of Avon " spoke, however, in
as subdued a fashion as they could ; for they
knew of the dead youth lying upstairs, and
had heard moreover from Mrs. Bluff of the
arrival at " The Swan " of the young lady
who appeared to be heart-broken at his
death.

Amongst that assemblage of homely Bur-cot
folk, bucolic and content with their
pipes and beer, was the stalwart mower who
had carried Roy's lifeless form out from the
burning house.

They were talking now of the dead lad,
and of the inquest which had been held upon
the remains of the ancient house-keeper, Mrs.
Oliver. Indeed, at this time, the fire at
Lonefield Arrange was the only topic that
Burcot could find to talk about.

But there was no sound of wheels ; at
least, so far as Mrs. De Lisle could hear ; so
she said, in an affrighted, almost fretful
tone :

My dear child, it is likely that you do
hear wheels. This is a country road, you
know, a turnpike road ; and Warwick and
Stratford people often come driving along
here in their carts and things, on market-days
particularly — "

It is like the wheels of a hearse, or of
a prison-van," said Minna, dreamily ; " a
rumbling sound coming nearer and nearer
along the road — There ! it has stopped.
Perhaps after all I was mistaken. What
was I saying. Aunt Helen ? '* — recommencing
her weary march, her face snowdrop-white
in the dark, her eyes shining with an
unearthly brilliancy — " ah, I recollect — "

Here Mrs. De Lisle made a vigorous effort
to conquer the vague terror which was creeping
over her, and to control her perturbed
wits. She was really alarmed at Minna's

manner, apprehending she scarcely knew
what. She was inclined to fear that the loss
of Roy had affected the rain of Minna.

** Now, my dearest child," she interrupted,
as severely as she knew how to speak, " you
must go to bed — I insist upon it. What you
want more than anything is rest, and rest
you must have ; or, as I have said before,
you will, Minna, be dangerously ill."

*' Do not say that. I do not want to be
ill. I want to keep strong and well. I
have so much to do," answered the girl,
drearily. And as she moved about hither
and thither, she raised her arms and dropped
them forlornly upon the crown of her head.
*' So much to do — you know what I mean,
Aunt Helen. First, however, we must bury
our dear lad here — here in some sweet and
shady corner of Burcot churchyard ; where
the robins sing in the yews and the moss and
violets grow beneath them ; for will he not
rest as well at Burcot as he would elsewhere?
And we can come often, you know, to his
grave, and bring with us the flowers that
in life he loved best. . . . And then when
Roy is no longer with us, straightway will I
go to Woldney Moat — who can tell ? perhaps
I may arrive there on his wedding-day — and
denounce the man who killed him. Sir Garth

Gilroj is a murderer," she cried , with something
of the old passionate inflection of loathing
and disdain, " and he shall die a murderer's
death — Ha ! those wheels. I hear
them still. They are coming on again,
nearer and nearer. Yes ! I am right."

She went to the window and leaned out ;
and Mrs. De Lisle, in her anxiety and alarm,
deeming it wiser to humour the girl's sick
imagination, threw her arm round Minna and
leaned out too.

But Minna was right.

A carriage, with lit lamps, came rattling
up to the door of "The Swan of Avon;"
and Mrs. Bluff, hearing that the vehicle had
stopped, bustled out to the porch to see if
aught was wanted in the way of refreshment.
The light poured out from the mn-passage
behind her.

'' It is the same man that drove me here
this mornings," exclaimed Minna, in a wondering
undertone ; meaning the man on the box
of the '' car''

Who can they be, and what can they
want?" speculated Aunt Helen, in a somewhat
awestricken whisper.

For two male figures, one tall and wiry-looking,
the other shorter and stouter, had
stepped briskly out of the hired vehicle and

were now in confabulation with Mrs. Bluff in
the porch.

Minna and Mrs. De Lisle withdrew from
the window and stood in the dark, breathless
and listening, with their faces now
turned towards the door. Had anything
fresh and dreadful happened, Mrs. De Lisle
was wondering fearfully ? Indeed in her
heart Aunt Helen had jumped to the notion
that Sir Garth Gilroy, who truly seemed
capable of any wickedness, had, in her
absence, been up to London and set fire to
their house in Cumberland Square; and now
someone was come from town to break the
evil tidings to her !

Hush," breathed Minna, gripping Mrs.
De Lisle's wrist in a clasp of fire. " Hush,
Aunt dear ! What can it mean ? Those
men have entered the house. Listen ! They
are tramping upstairs. Merciful Heaven ! "
she broke off wildly — '' his door ; the door
of our darling's room ! Is it locked ? — Have
you the key? — "

Yes, yes ; you need not fear, dear child.
These men can want nothing of us," said
Mrs. De Lisle, soothingly.

May not they be body-snatches ? "
said Minna, convulsively — '' there are such
wretches ; are not there ? I — I have heard

of them — Sir Garth may have sent them to
carry off — "

Ere what she would say could be uttered, the
door of their parlour opened and Mrs. Bluff
appeared, bringing with her a lamp which she
set upon the table. She was evidently much
flurried; and the florid cheeks of the good
woman, behind the lamp, looked pale. She
was immediately followed by the two men,
who were similarly dressed in rather dingy
dark clothes, with coats buttoned close over
their chests. The tall and wiry-looking one
had his right hand lodged in his breast ; the
hands of the shorter of the two, who had a
thick throat and a stubbly head and chin,
were kept thrust down in the pockets of the
overcoat he wore.

The gruff yet subdued voices in the bar
below had risen, within the last minute or
two, to Babel-pitch. The honest Burcot folk,
it would seem, had forgotten over their
pewter pots the dead lad lying above.

Ma'am," said Mrs. Bluff, faintly, " here
are two — two gentlemen come to see you.
Step up they would ; they wouldn't wait below
whilst I ran up to tell you."

We want to see Miss Dexter," announced
the tall man.

And as he spoke he drew a folded paper

from his breast-pocket and tapped it on the
palm of his left hand. His companion said
nothing ; but stood a little in the rear near to
the door.

Which of the two ladies, may I ask, is
Miss Dexter ? " said the tall man, politely.

Minna at once went forward. There was
fearless hauteur in her deathly white face ;
there was the gleam of delirium in her great
dark eyes.

I am Miss Dexter," said she. " What
do you want here?"

Mrs. De Lisle clung helplessly to her ; but
could utter no word. She could only stare
affrighted at the two strange men, and
wonder dimly what fresh calamity was in
store for herself and Minna. As for the
buxom landlady of " The Swan'' she looked,
as indeed she felt, as if she knew not whether
she was set upon her head or upon her heels.

The tall man bowed.

What do we want here, madam ? " said
he, pleasantly and quickly. *' That is soon
told. He took another step towards her, and
laid a firm hand upon Minna's shoulder. ** Weare
armed with a warrant for your apprehension,
Miss Dexter — "

She shrank with unspeakable horror from
the fellow's familiar touch ; but he did not

remove his hand. A shriek came from the
lips of Mrs. De Lisle.

For your apprehension, Miss Dexter, on
the charge of murder," he continued, quietly
" either as the actual assassin or as a near
accomplice in the crime."

Lord, save us ! " ejaculated the landlady
of " The Swan." And she rushed forthwith to
the assistance of the elder lady, who she
thought was about to faint.

Minna's glowing eyes were fixed and
dilated — fixed upon the face of the detective.
Her gray lips parted slowly.

Murder ! " she said, her words coming
huskily and with the utmost difficulty.
*' Who then has been murdered ? You must
tell me — tell me that before — "

Really, Miss, you had better come along
quietly and give us no trouble," threw in the
burly thickset man in the background, now
speaking for the first time. " We don't want
to be obliged to have to use these 'ere on a
lady."

He jangled something like big keys in his
pockets; and, doing so, placed himself by the
side of his chief.

The name — the name of the person ! I
will — I will not stir an inch until I know it,"
she cried frantically. But quiver and shrink

as she would, the detective's wiry hand remained
upon her shoulder.

He smiled indulgently.

We must humour you, I suppose, young
lady," said he, '' since you profess to be
ignorant that the name of the murdered
gentleman is Sir Garth Gilroy."

'' Great Heaven, it is not possible ! — "

Now, Miss Dexter, let me advise you to
be careful as to what you say. It is always
best to be careful in a case of this kind. How
soon can you be ready ? We must catch a
fast train back to London or to Redtown tonight
; and you — willing or unwilling — must
go with us. That's flat ! "

The glitter in her eyes waxed fiercer. She
felt like a hunted animal at bay, with Fate
too strong for her at every turn.

I will not go with you. I am innocent.
I know nothing of this deed of which you
speak," cried Minna, rapidly. " If what you
say, however, be true, a just Providence has
at last seen fit to — "

The man from Scotland Yard pulled out
his watch.

Come, young lady, we have had enough
of this," he interrupted, brusquely now.
Resistance is folly — time's short. It's
dark, and no one will see you ; so you

needn't mind. You won't ? Well, there is
no help for it, it seems. Saunders, do your
duty."

The thick short man instantly whipped
out the handcuffs from his pockets, and as
instantly did Minna, divining his intention,
writhe from the clutch of the tall detective
and place the table between herself and the
men.

At sight of those horrid '' bracelets " Mrs.
De Lisle shrieked again and sank half senseless
upon an old chintz-covered sofa near to
which she had been standing, and buried her
face in its pillows; whilst the landlady of
The Swan," rushing from the room,
screamed " Help ! " three times at the top
of her lungs.

Then only too glad of an excuse for so
doing, the rustic company in the bar below
came trooping upstairs to see what was
going on ; making much clutter with their
thick-shod feet.

One moment — only one moment — and I
will go quietly," promised Minna, despairingly,
" since you are determined to drag
me, innocent, guiltless as I am, from this
place. Do not put those fearful things upon
me, I pray you ! My brother is — is in
another room; I must say — say good-bye
to him before I go ! "

*' Your brother can come to you here,
madam," said the detective, drily. " No
need for you to go to him."

"Hush!" she whispered, piteously, her
finger pressed upon her lips. " He cannot
come to me— do not you understand? I
must go to him — he is dead. Dead ! Killed
by Sir Garth Gilroy — "

The men believed that she was feigning insanity.


Pshaw ! " said the taller of the two.
'* Saunders, do your duty now, and look
sharp about it. The lady has only herself
to thank for the unpleasantness. It might
all have been avoided, all managed neatly
enough, if she'd liked. As it is, it is no
fault of ours that — "

Even as he spoke, indeed before he could
finish what he was about to say, sounds were
audible in the porch and entrance-place
which plainly denoted that another traveller
had hurriedly arrived at " The Swan." In
the hubbub and confusion which prevailed
upstairs nobody had caught the noise of
more wheels rattling at furious speed along
the Burcot road ; the stopping of another
vehicle at the Burcot inn.

Somebody was springing up the stairs
three steps at a bound. Somebody, strong

VOL. III. I

and active, was flinging aside the gaping
rustics who were crowding round and blocking
up the inn-parlour door.

And ere Saunders could "do his duty,"
and so obey the mandate of his chief, Roger
Harland, travel-soiled, breathless with mad
haste, and haggard from the agitation and
excitement of the day, had burst into the
little room. Struck dumb for the moment
with surprise, the men fell back.

Madeline ! "

Roger ! "

With a shrill cry of joy she flew to him ;
and the next instant his strong arms were
wound about her, and her face was hidden on
his breast.

Mrs. De Lisle took heart, and looked up
from her ostrich-like position among the sofa-pillows.
Who, she wondered as one stunned,
was this big, square-shouldered young man
who had arrived so opportunely upon the
scene of their great distress, and who had
got Minna clasped in his arms as if it were
Eis right to do so. And yet — and yet, was it
possible that he could be in his right mind,
this big masterful young man, seeing that he
had called the dear child " Madeline " r
Madeline ! What did he mean ? Just then
—and no wonder — she had forgotten that

Minna had never been "Minna" away from
Cumberland Square.

Oh, Minna, Minna ! " moaned Aunt
Helen feebly, " is it all a mistake ? Are you
safe ? Thank Heaven, with all my heart ! "

Swiftly and inquiringly Harland looked at
Mrs. De Lisle. Was this friend of Madeline's
crazy ? was the thought which darted through
the young man's mind, seeing that she had
called his dear love " Minna." Minna ! of
all names in the world. What on earth did
she mean ?

Then Roger said aloud, so that all around
him there might hear, but addressing himself
directly to the two detectives :

This lady is wholly guiltless. You may
take yourselves off as soon as ever you please
back, in fact, to the bidding of those whoso
cleverly set you upon a wrong scent — a
track," he said, passionately, '' as false
as — " He checked himself, and continued
more calmly : 'the real murderer has made
a clean breast of it ; has confessed everything;
he is now safe in the hands of
the Coverley police. His name is Adam
Ford."

Eoger felt a convulsive shudder pass
through the slender form in his arms ; a
groan came from the girl's ashen lips. She

opened her eyes and stared wildly upward
into his.

Adam Ford ! " she muttered — " Adam
Ford has kept his vow. Poor Adam Ford ! '*

Reason, Roger then perceived, was gone
from those dear eyes, and consciousness as
well was fast dying out of them. In another
moment her troubles were forgotten, and the
hunted heart was at rest. Insensibly he
tightened his passionate hold, or she would
have slipped from his embrace to the floor.

Sir Garth Gilroy of Woldney Moat was
dead and buried ; but the sensation created
by his tragic end was still at its height in
Coverley and its vicinity.

Adam Ford, the lock-keeper, upon his
own confession of murder, was in prison
awaiting this trial. The ghastly thing be had
done, the haunting horror of the deed, had
completed the wreck of his already partly-shattered
brain ; and Adam Ford was a madman.


Early on the morning that followed the
night of the murder he had been discovered
in his kitchen at the Lock, crouching and
gibbering over a handful of fire, with the
boathook with which he had crashed in his
victim's skull still clutched in his palsied
hands.

The boathook was clotted with blood and
hair ; Adam's clothes were bespattered, nay,
saturated in such a fashion, that it was all

too horribly clear what his night's work had
been.

There were few, however, who were inclined
to give credence to the wild tale of wrong
and vengeance — a vengeance delayed through
long and lonely years — which Adam poured
forth in the Justice Room at Coverley when
first brought up for examination. They
could not check him ; they could not silence
him ; with all his strength he shouted out
his wrongs and thanked Heaven fervidly that
he had been spared to avenge them. Ah !
cried Adam, what living creature on Grot's
earth could have guessed that Sir Garth
Gilroy was the man ? And throughout the
many long and lonely years of his waiting,
that man, after all, had been perpetually near
him ! Never mind. The debt was paid now
paid in full. The wrongs of his child, his
Minna, his beautiful Minnehaha, were amply
avenged at last.

And of those who heard the unhappy old
man, there were some that regarded him with
compassion, others with loathing ; but all
more or less looked upon his story as the
diseased out-pouring of a madman's brain.

The family mausoleum of the Milroy had,
for some forgotten reason or other, been built
in Margrave churchyard ; and thither, with

much sombre pomp, was the corpse of Sir
Garth conveyed — that is to sap, that, although
the " mourners " were necessarily few (for
the master of the Moat was said to be the
last of his race, and the dead man, of late
years, had possessed scarcely a friend worthy
to be so called) every family of importance
in the county, on the day of interment, had
sent their carriage to swell the funeral procession.
Now that Sir Garth was dead, he
could not marry the " miller's daughter,"
and so the county forgave him.

Solomon Prince, self-invited, went as a
mourner," and his wife, smothered in costly
trappings of woe, with every blind in the
house pulled down, and prostrate with rage
and disappointment — " plunged in despair
and grief," she called it — remained at
Borough Mills with her " girls."

At first Mrs. Prince had determined that,
supported by Jill and Hetty, she too would
follow in their carriage with the rest; but as
the burying-day approached, her resolution
wavered, and ultimately she was persuaded
by her daughters to remain in decent retirement
at home.

Perhaps a bitter portion of the Pringles'
disappointment lay in the failure of their
attempt to in any wise connect Miss Dexter

with Sir Garth Gilroy's murder. They had
certainly done their utmost, when the news
of what had happened at the Moat spread
like wildfire, to fasten on to the girl they detested
the commission of the dark act ; and
Solomon Prince, incited to that end by his
wife, had lost no time in starting the bloodhounds
of the law upon a scent which they —
the Pringles themselves — heartily trusted
would really prove the right one. For it was
speedily known everywhere that Miss Dexter
servants at Woldney Moat could testify to
the fact — was the person who had been last
seen in the company of their master. Indeed,
on the night of his death, she had been found
in Sir Garth's own house in a state of great
perturbation — immediately, too, after the
doing of the deed, as it proved — and then
had she not fled back to the Little Mills
to persuade Eoger Harland to drive her to
E/edtown in order to catch a midnight express
? Certainly things looked black for
Miss Dexter. Even Roger Harland and his
sister, infatuated as they were about
the girl, must admit that. And so the
Pringles, remembering her London address,
found it a by no means difficult matter to at
once set to work to run Miss Dexter to earth.
Money was of no object to them, said Mrs.
Prince, loftily.

Then, when the true rumour got abroad
that Adam Ford was in custody, and, moreover,
was beyond all doubt the actual criminal,
Mrs. Pringie could have danced like a dervish.
Of course, with Hetty and Jill, she
professed to treat with high disdain the old
lock-keeper's vehement tale. What ? Sir
Grarth Gilroy was the man who in years gone
by had allured Minna Ford from her home at
the Lock ? Pooh ! That the girl whom they
had all known at Borough Mills as Miss
Dexter was the child of the disgraceful
union? Ridiculous! What next? If crazy
old Adam was to be allowed to babble to
anyone that would listen to him such rank
nonsense as this, why, the sooner he was
hanged and out of the way the better, cried
Mrs. Pringie, violently.

As for Hetty Pringie, she bore her loss
and disappointment in an admirably philosophical
spirit, and pictured to herself the
style of the new fashionable black gowns she
meant to wear, with much real inward satisfaction.


Still", reflected she, ruefully, " how much
nicer it would have been if I could have been
his widow ! Though I never cared for him,
and never could of course, nor meant to try
to either, I did, yes, I certainly did, count
upon being Lady Gilroy ! "

To all Jill's sneers and gibes, nevertheless
Hetty offered a smiling front.

My dear," said she, " your pity, I assure
you, is entirely thrown away — not being
wanted, you see. Had our positions been
reversed, now, it would all have been very
different. It would have been your one
chance, my dear, don't you know, and you
would never have got another — truly a case
calling for sisterly commiseration ! As forme
" — Hetty shrugged her plump shoulders
" well, I have not the least doubt that I
shall look simply fetching in black, and shall
marry, I'll bet you anything you please,,
before the year is out. You, poor old Jill !
take my advice, and bottle up your pity for
yourself; for" — with a nod — "you'll want
it by-and-by, depend upon it ; and I, perhaps,
shan't be able to feel for you as you so
kindly do for me."

Little cat ! " cried Jill, viciously. " I'll
be even with you some day — see if I am
not!"

Hetty hummed a tune ; said nonchalantly
that she hoped so with all her heart — but
doubted it ; and began to drum with her
idle fingers an accompaniment to her song
upon the window panes.

Jill got up, stalked out of the room, and

banged the door after her in most elegant
style.

Then Hetty laughed softly, and went on
thinking about her new black gowns and
what kind of expression her features ought
to assume when she should first venture forth
in her mourning robes. Full well she knew
with what interest and curiosity all Coverley
would then regard her.

"Oh dear, oh dear ! " she ruminated aloud
" if I had only been his widow it would
have been easy enough. I could have looked
the young widow to a T. As it is — "

Again she shrugged her shoulders, and left
her sentence unfinished.

When, too, it had come to the ears of Mrs.
Prince that Roger Harland had likewise
gone rushing off in quest of Miss Dexter —
his object, of course, being to reach her place
of refuge before the Scotland Yard men themselves
could get there, in order to spare the
girl all possible indignity and alarm, knowing
her to be as innocent as the day of the foul
charge imputed to her — her indignation was
boundless.

I should just like to give Eoger Harland
a bit of my mind," said Mrs. Prince, wagging
her head in her wrath — '* I should. And
as for that baggage, his sister Kate, taking

upon herself to go and nurse that tipsy, good-for-nothing
young Chance there at the Moat
through an attack of D. T., why, it would
give me infinite satisfaction to tar-ands feather
her and whip her through Coverley at a cart's
tail — as they used to whip all such baggages
in my grandmother's time ; and him after
her into the bargain, if he was well enough to
run. I drop 'em for good after this, them
Harlands, and my girls shall cut her dead."
Altogether, just now, while Sir Garth
Gilroy was lying stark and still in a grand
and mouldy chamber at Woldney Moat, life
at Borough Mills, with Mrs. Prince " plunged
in despair" over the event, was not exactly a
lively business ; or rather, perhaps, it was felt
by some of those around her to be a great
deal too lively to be pleasant.

Gn the evening of the day of Sir Garth
Gilroy's funeral — in order to see which many
of the inhabitants of Coverley-on-Dane had
trudged beneath a baking midsummer sky
all the way to Margrave — a girl sat alone in a
room of a house in Trinder's Yard.

Her once-bright face was bloated ; her
once-clear and innocent eyes were blood-shot
and bold. Her lips which in childhood had
been taught to pray at the knee of a simple,
God-fearing mother, could now give glib
utterance to oaths and language as shocking
as any to be heard in the Yard.

She had not always dwelt in that evil
place.

To her associates this girl was known as
Eackety Nell; sometimes Nell Racket, byway
of a change ; and her companion and
'' pal," Surly Sal as she was called, wha
shared the two-roomed hovel with Nell, had
in the afternoon gone off to Redtown to visit

some friends there who were doubtless as
disreputable as herself.

Surly Sal would not return until the
following day, for one of her Coverley friends
was on the morrow — having " served his
time " — to be released from Redtown jail ;
and Sal would then escort him back in
triumph to Trinder's Yard. Of course both
Sal and her friend would arrive home quite
drunk — that was to be the crowning-part of
the day's rejoicing.

These two young women who dwelt together
in the Yard were the same two to
whom Roger Harland and Barton Chance
had spoken on that night of the past winter,
when, as the young men, homeward bound,
passed through the alley, they had heard the
shrieks for help and mercy which issued from
Granny Oakum's abode.

Though the night was foully close — at
least it was so in Trinder's Yard — and, fora
wonder, quiet, Nell in her loneliness felt
chilly and out of sorts. So she lighted a bit
of fire in the rusty grate, and got out a stone
jar from a cupboard near the fireplace.

The room was filthy beyond description ;
the floor was of brick, yet it might have been
of earth; a pair of huge and nailed boots,
familiar with grease but unacquainted with

blacking, sprawled in one corner ; a fur-cap
with lappets, suggestive of rat-catching and
burglarious enterprise, hung upon a nail in
the door.

Nell, having " hitched down " a mug from
the cranky dresser, refreshed herself copiously
from the stone bottle ; and then crouched
close to the fire. She sat there nose and
knees together, with her arms hugging her
shins and her eyes fixed on the grate. The
fire burned but dully as yet, and was not a
cheering spectacle.

Nell was dressed. That is to say, she was
arrayed in her battered hat with its limp load
of soiled artificial wreaths, her black-wandered
plaid shawl and large white apron, with blue
glass earrings in her ears and blue glass
beads round her neck. For the last half-hour
she had been vainly trying to make up
her mind as to whether or not she should
wander forth for a stroll and a " look in " at
'' The Red-Hot Poker."

It was half-past nine, and nearly dark. No
good going to bed yet, she reflected — she
wasn't sleepy. She missed Sal somehow ;
missed her terribly to-night ; and wondered
what she was doing at that hour in Redtown
wondered, too, how long it would be before
Sal's unlucky friend was back again in Red-town

jail. As a rule, for various reasons, he
went thither about twice a year.

Humph ! If I sets moping here," said
Nell aloud, ''I shall get screwed. If I goe
out to The * Poker' I shall get screwed.
That's certain sure. So I'll just toss up
and settle which way it shall be. Heads — I
stays in. Tails— I'm off to ' The Poker'"

She took a coin from her pocket and
adroitly sent it spinning into the air. She
caught it as deftly ; looked at it.

Tails ! " cried she, with unprintable
language ; and rose from her rush-bottomed
chair. "Well, perhaps I shall see Luke
there, if he's got back from PangbournOy
which ain't very likely — "

No sooner had she risen, however, than
she fell back with a scream. A face flattened
against the window outside was peering into
the room. Immediately afterwards, by the
uncertain firelight, she had recognised the
face ; and exclaimed :

** Bocky ! Bocky Oakum, is it really you ! "

He heard her, and nodded.

Let me in," he said, in a hoarse whisper.

Her presence of mind returned as quickly
as it had deserted her ; and she went directly
to the door. Bocky lurched in, and gripped
Nell by the wrist.

Bar up winder and door — look sharp ! ''
he said, huskily, "or I be a dead man,
Nell."

Eackety Nell was prompt to obey him, for
she fully knew how needful was promptitude
of action in a desperate case like Bocky's.

Whilst she was occupied in fixing the
shutter over the curtailed lattice, securely
drawing the bolts of the door, and getting a
tallow candle, Bocky, having espied that stone
jar of Nell's, was moistening his parched
throat with a portion of its contents.

The fiery poison seemed to do him good.
His hand stopped quivering ; his teeth ceased
to chatter. He took off his cap and flung it
on the floor ; whilst Nell herself, in rough
playfulness, came behind him and turned
down the ragged coat-collar which, for precaution's
sake, he had pulled high about his
poll and ears.

Never remarkable, in any direction, for
beauty or cleanliness, Bocky presented now
a grim and an unwashed figure enough. The
brutal face, with its small and wicked eyes,
its coarse nostrils and heavy jaw, had gone
for weeks unshaved ; the clothes, if clothes
they could be called, which covered his body
were in tatters ; his scarred feet were visible
in the old boots he wore. Unspeakably foul

VOL. III. K

and unsavoury altogether, at intervals lie
scratched himself with savage clutch.

*' "Well," said Nell, having refilled her mug
and resumed her seat, Bocky Oakum taking
another near her — "lucky for you, Bocky,
as you found me in ; I was jest going out
when you give me that turn at the winder.
What have you got to say for yourself now
you be come back ? "

A good deal," replied Bocky, with a crafty
grin.

The tone adopted between them was inclined
to be a bantering one; all the same,
they spoke low and with caution, conscious
that danger might be lurking without, and
that in the circumstances they could not be
too discreet.

We all thought you was gone to Orstraly,"
said Nell.

"Did you? Well, I ain't, you see —
though I won't say what I may do now. It
depends mainly on you, Nell."

On me ! " said rickety Nell, opening her
bold eyes to their widest. ** 'Ow on me
Bocky?"

*' You wait a minute."

Nell had not exerted herself to the extent
of " hitching down " for Becky's benefit
another mug from the dresser shelves ; and

SO, as manners were of not much. consequence
in Trinder's Yard, Bocky was free to put his
lips to the mouth of the stone jar. " Ha !
lovey doves, that's better," said he, after a
second draught considerably deeper than the
first ; and he smacked his lips and nodded to
Rackety Nell, and drew his ragged sleeve
across his hairy jaw. "Now, Nell, answer
me a few questions — "

Repose you wait a bit," she interrupted.
*' You be a bold chap to get showing herself
here, Bocky. Do you know as there's a
reward o' twenty pound offered to anybody
as'll hand you over to the service ? And once
you was nabbed, my eye ! it would be all U. P.
with you then, old cock, and no mistake. You
don't know, perhaps ? "

"Don't know'* scoffed Bocky. "Don't
I ? Ain't I seen them cussed bills stuck on
every cussed wall, barn-door, and five-barred
gate as I've run agen ever since I — I — ever
since I left this cussed yard?" The word
Bocky used, however, in this indignant outburst
was by no means so mild as " cussed."
I should be a cussed fool if I hadn't. Why,
I've read 'em by moonlight hunters o' times.
But I trusts you, Nell ; you an' me was alius
friends — wasn't us ? " he said, lowering his
voice again. *' You wouldn't round on a

cove, would you, Nell ? — just for the sake of
a dirty twenty pound ? "

*' A dirty twenty pound ! " echoed she.
I don't know about ' dirty.' Twenty pound
is twenty pound, and ain't to be had for the
skin' every day o' the week."

But Nell," he repeated, a trifle anxiously,
you ain't the sort to round on a cove, are
you ? You never was, ole gal."

Before answering she carried her mug
slowly and somewhat unsteadily to her mouth ;
and as slowly drained what it held. Then she
wiped her lips with the fringe of her 
shawl, and said thoughtfully :

Not me, Bocky." But she gazed at the
fire as she spoke. She did not look at him*
A short silence followed. He broke it.

Where's Zack ?" he said, suddenly.

Eackety Nell looked up with a start.

Zack ? " she echoed. " Oh, he's in quod
still ! Leastways, he is to-day ; he won't be
tomorrow, though. Sal '11 meet him and
bring him home tomorrow. It won't be for
long, o' course," she added, with a harsh laugh.

Then Surly Sal's at Redtown?"

Yes. She went this afternoon."

And Luke — where's he ? "

At Pangbourne with the barge," replied
Nell.

Another pause. Then Bocky said :

Then you're all alone to-night, Nell ?"

She nodded.

** All alone, old cocky," said Rackety Nell.

Her sprightly wit quite captivated Bocky ;
and he edged his chair nearer to hers. He
bent towards her with a leer in his small and
wicked eyes.

Nell," he whispered, " you was alius the
hap pie o' my eye, as the saying is. I alius
cared for you more 'an for any other gal in
the yard — I did, 'pon my Sam ! But you
took up wi* Luke and chucked me overboard,
and — and — o' course you was at perfeck
liberty to please herself. He was better todo
'an me, Luke was, I know ; and I don't
blame you. I never did ; 'twas nat'ral. But
but it's all different now ; I'm a better
man 'an Luke ; and, Nell, look here, ole gal,
you must chuck him over now and come
along o' me. My turn have come round and
I've got the pull o' Luke. I'm a rich man,
Nell, and we'll start for Orstraly, if you like,
this very night. I'm in earnest, lovey, and
you 'ave only got to say the word."

Bocky garnished this extraordinary proposition
with many a vigorous oath ; but
Nell stared at him up and down, not without
contempt.

You're drunk, you fool I '' said she
briefly.

I ain't ; I never was soberer in my life,"
he rejoined eagerly. " Look here ! "

He thrust his hand into some hiding-place
or other in the breast of his tattered coat,
and drew out therefrom a bundle of Bank of
England notes. They were new, crisp, and
only slightly soiled. He flourished them,
crackled them before the astonished eyes of
Rackety Nell ; and the ejaculation which
broke from her, when at last she did speak,
must be imagined since it cannot be recorded.

Didn't I tell you, ole gal, as I was a
millionaire ? " cried Bocky triumphantly.
Where's Luke now ? Where's Luke — eh,
Nell? — wi' his eighteen bob a- week. Now
you knows why I can talk of a dirty twenty
pound, Nell, my duck, when I've got a clean
two hunted on 'em here. Only think of it,
Nell ! Two hunted pound ! I ain't touched
a penny of it; and it's all for you, sweetheart,
if you'll have it. I come to you as
soon as ever I could — I couldn't come no
sooner. Somehow them cussed bobbies
seemed alius in the way; but I've done
'em to-night, done 'em prime ; and, better
still, have had the good luck, Nell, to find
you at home alone I "

Eackety Nell, by force of will, struggled
with and conquered her amazement. She no
longer stared open-mouthed at her companion.
There was an avaricious glitter in
her brazen eyes now.

Such a pot o' money, Bocky," she said
with intense admiration. " ^Owliever did you
pick it up ? Tell us, Bocky dear, and then — "

And then," he interrupted insinuatingly,
you'll hook it wf me, won't you, Nell ?
We'll bolt right off to Orstraly together,
you and me, and take a farm, and settle
down, aud make more money, and forget —
and forget, lovey, as we ever lived in Trinder s
Yard."

She shook her head impatiently.

'* I'll say presently," she replied, frowning.
** I want to hear — "

"No," said Bocky doggedly, "you say
first. You take yer sodium oath as you'll
chuck over Luke and hook it wi' me to
Orstraly this very night, and then you shall
hear the gospel truth. That's my bargain."

After a few seconds of intent reflection
Nell swore in terrific language that she was
prepared to do as Bocky desired. He heard
her with pride.

That's right," he said, approvingly.
"Nell, I'll believe you." And he took her

coarse red hand, upon the third finger of
which there shone a broad silver ring —
Luke's ring — and fondled it within his own
two filthy paws. 'rit's a rum tale," he
went on, dropping his voice yet lower and
glancing apprehensively round at the shuttered
window — " a rum tale, and one as you
don't — "

It's all right, bless ye," put in Rackety
Nell. " Nobody can see us nor hear us
neither. It's all right if you speak low. Goon,
man."

Bocky released her hand and took another
pull at the stone jar on the table. Being
polite, and in love, he did not forget to replenish
his sweetheart's cup.

"Nell!" said he!

Can't ye see I'm listening," she retorted.
You be a gallus long time, Bocky, a-getting
along wi' this story o' your."

Bocky 's answer was somewhat irrelevant.

He was a bad 'un, if you like — a regular
out-an'-outer," said he mysteriously — " him,
I mean, as they put under the ground at
Margrave to-day."

What ! " she cried, with quickened curiosity.
" Why, you don't mean to say, Bocky,
as you got the money from — from Sir — "

Hush, Nell ; not so loud I Yes ; I got it
from Sir Garth Gilroy."

When Bocky Oakum had once made a
beginning, the story he was relating to
Eackety Nell flowed along easily enough ;
flowed along, that is to say, in the choice
phraseology employed by Bocky in his narrative.


Nell's first comment was by no means a
flattering one.

Well, you was a blooming' fool to go and
give herself up like that," said she.

"If I hadn't ha' been a blooming fool,"
retorted Bocky, with his most seductive leer,
should I " — fingering lovingly the banknotes
upon his knee ; Nell's eyes also fell
tenderly upon those bank-notes — " be a
millionaire now? Should we be jest a-
starting for Orstraly together ? Should we
ha' been able to take a farm when we got
there ? Should I ha' been able to have for
my missus the nicest gal as ever was ? It
seems to me, Nell," said Bocky, importantly.

that it was about the best stroke o' business
I ever did when I went and made myself a
blooming' fool, as you call it."

'' I dunno," said the girl, absently. " Goon."


No — that's jest it. You dunno, Nell,
what it is," answered Bocky, feelingly, " to
be alius a-hiding in ditches, in saw-pits, in
ole sheds, in damp woods, with nothing' to
cover you, with nothing to warm you inside
or out ; without a crust for days together ;
no money, starved, miserable, wore out,
a-trembling at every footstep day an' night ;
and then if ye does ha' the luck to git a wink
o' sleep, to be for ever a-dreaming o' the
gallows and the hangman, and the black flag
a-flying on the jail ! " Bocky shuddered.
"And then, too, Nell, the ole woman was
alius wi' me — alius o' nights 'specially. I
could see her pore ole face in the dark as
plainly as I can see your now, with her
white hair all loose like, and the blood
a-streaming down her forehead. And she'd
clap her ole hands together and screech out,
• Don't, Bocky ! Don't kill me, lad ! ' till I
couldn't bide it no longer. I couldn't, Nell.
Another week o' that kind o' thing and I
should ha' been a regular mad lunatic,"
shivered Bocky, once more having recourse

to the stone bottle in order to steady his
nerves. " No. Human nature' can stand a
good deal, but there's an overdose of every-think.
And so I made up my mind as I'd
do what many another chap like me ha' done
before. I'd give myself up."

You shouldn't ha' brained the poor ole
critter," said Nell, harshly. " It were a nasty
cruel thing to do, Bocky."

What's done can't be undone," said he
sullenly. " It's no good grunting over it
now — so don't jaw, Nell."

Eackety Nell was about to retort with her
customary force and spirit, but her eyes
falling again upon the bank-notes on Becky's
knee, close guarded as they were by his
toad-like hand, she bit her lip and kept silent.
The clock in the tower of St. Eve's chimed
half-past ten.

There goes the half-hour," he observed,
with something between a hiccough and a
curse. " I must hurry on a bit if we means
to start to-night, lovey."

Nell still kept silent. So Bocky continued
:

Well, it was one night, jest about this
time, I repose, and I'd been a-hiding and
skulking about all day, a-making up my
mind, Nell, as I'd give myself up. I was

dazed like and starved — I didn't know where
I was — I didn't care. I had tramped and
skulked till I could tramp and skulk no
longer ; I felt as I wanted to lay down and
die— jest like that. And presently I found
myself in a wildish sort o' place, full o' trees
and brambles, and I guessed it was a park
belonging to some big county cove — a swell
as was a magistri perhaps ; and if so, why,
so much the better. ' Here goes,' says I to
myself, and makes for the house which I sees
a-lighted up amongst the trees.

*' Straight afore me there was a window
which touched the ground. I kep' on, the
window in front of me ; I crew' close to it,
and looked in — jest as I looked in on ye
to-night, Nell, in this 'ere room ; and there I
see a gentleman sitting at a table, writing',
with newspapers and books and things all
about him, and a lamp by his side."

I wonder if you give him a turn, Bocky,"
laughed Nell; but her manner was again
preoccupied, as if her thoughts and her
speech were not running together — " like
you did me when you looked in here ? ''

I did," replied Bocky, confidently, " jest
about ! When he sees me a-standing outside,
he jumps up sharp, his face the colour of —
of — well, of that there taller candle, and I see

then that the gentleman is Sir Garth Gilroy,
and I knows then that somehow or other I've
got to Woldnej Moat. He pulls open a
drawer, takes summit out ; I hears a kind o'
double click — for the window was a bit open
and directly after that I see a pistol, Nell,
pointing straight at my head."

"What then?" said Nell.

' Who the devil are you, and what do you
want here ? ' he says. Come a step farther
and I'll blow your — '

I drags open the window, and manages to
say:

' Don't, Sir Garth ; don't ! I mean no
harm, sir ; I didn't even know I was got to
the Moat. I'm only a poor vagabond — weak
as a rat — starving to death ! I'm Bocky
Oakum, sir,' I says, ' what killed the ole
woman in Trinder's Yard — you ain't forgotten
perhaps — and I've come to give myself
up.'

'' He looks at me hard and haughty like.
He puts the pistol slowly down on the table.
He wasn't half so taller as he was at first.

«« « Why do you come to me ?' he says.

' I didn't know, sir, as I had come to
you,' I answered humbly. ' I've been
hiding all day, for many a day, sir, and I
wandered here by accident like. I ain't

tasted food for nigh on eight-ands forty hours,
sir, and I'll take my oath I didn't know I was
at the Moat till sou looked up and pointed
that thing at nay head, sir.'

' How did you know I was a magistrate?'
he said, sharply.

' I didn't know,' I says. * But you are,
sir, ain't you ? '

"never mind,' he says, ' whether I am or
not. Perhaps I can be of help to you in
either case. Come in, and drink this.'

'* He ketches up a glass bottle and pours
me out a tumbler o' summit which makes a
new man of me in no time.

'* Whilst I'm drinking it, he quietly goes
and locks the door, fastens the window, pulls
down the blind, and comes back to me again.

' Feel better ? ' he says, more amiable.

' A lot, sir,' says I.

* Feel as though you would still like to
give yourself up ? ' says he.

Summit in his manner, Nell, made me
grin.

' I think I have pretty well done that,'
I said, looking round at the shut window and
door and then at the pistol, full-cocked, lying
there under his hand.

"humph ! ' he says, considering like. ' I
suppose the fact of the matter is, you want

to give yourself up because you have no
money to help you to get away from this
neighbourhood ? Is that it ? '

' Yes; that's about it,' I says, wondering
what was coming next.

When he spoke again, it was with a 
- come - mind-what - you're-about
sort o' way.

' You're a murderer — a downright bad
'un ? ' he says, quite fierce.

"about as bad as they make 'em, I guess,'
says I. For you see, Nell, the liquor he give
me — and gallus good liquor it was too — had
made me a sort o*" bold and cheeky, and I felt
as I didn't care a brass garden for a dozen Sir
Garth Grilroys.

' Pshaw ! ' says he, helping himself this
time. ' A man, I take it, who has done one
murder wouldn't stick at another ? '

He goes on talking then as fast as you
please ; and by-and-by it comes over me — I
begin to understand him, Nell — that I am
jest the man he wanted, had been on the lookout
for, and that there's a woman in the case.

There alius is," threw in Rackety Nell.

Well, to cut the story short," continued
Bocky — *' though I couldn't azackly make
out who the woman was — "

Yes, Bocky, I think you had better cut

the story as short as you can," Nell interrupted,
*' for the bottle's dry, and if you want
more drink I shall have to go and find it for
y'. There's no getting in at * The Poker '
after eleven, you know, unless ye go sneaking
round the back way, and then there's alius
the chance o' being nabbed by a bobby. So
hurry along, Bocky darling', and finish your
tale, and then I'll skip round to *The Poker.'

Nell spoke now with briskness and decision.
In her own mind she had solved the
riddle with which for the last half-hour she
had been tormenting herself ; and was impatient
to act, having determined on her
course of action.

All right, sweetheart," said Bocky — " I
will. As I was a-saying," he went on,
though I couldn't azackly make out who the
woman was, or what she was to him, it was
clear enough, and no mistake, that Sir Garth
wanted to be rid of her, to get her out of the
way.

' Will you undertake the job ? ' says he,
hissing out the question like quite close to
my ear. ' I'll make it worth your while.'

' How much ? ' said I.

* I'm a poor man — devilish poor,' he says
jest like that — 'but I'll give you a hundred
pounds, a cool hundred, on condition, of

course, that you make yourself scarce as soon
as you can, and keep a quiet tongue in your
head for the rest of your life. But I don't
suppose that you're likely to blab, with that
other little affair we know of hanging over
your head.'

' A hunted ! ' says I, as 'aught as he.
Not enough, m' lord. Make it two, and I'm
your man ; pervaded, o' course, it can be done
easily and quietly, and I can get away afterwards
safe and sound wi' my money.'

He flew into a rage, and offered to make
it a hunted and fifty. But I know'd he
couldn't do without me, and wasn't going to
give in.

' No,' says I. ' It's two hunted down
or nothing ; and '' nothing '' means you must
either find somebody else or do the job herself.'


He relieved himself then by swearing
pretty tidy ; and it seems to me, Nell, ole
gal, that the swells, in that line, when they
lets themselves go, can beat us hollow and
leave us nowhere ; and ended, as I know'd he
would, by agreeing to the two hunted quid.

' For the next few days,' he says, when
he'd cooled down a bit, ' you must keep here.
You will be safe, at any rate, and the lodging
I can give you, if not over-luxurious, will at

VOL. III. L

least be better than that which, from your
own account, you have lately been accustomed
to put up with.'

"So saying, he goes over to a corner of the
room and lifts up the edge of the carpet.
Underneath, in the boards, there's a small
trap-door, so cunningly done as you'd never
notice it, which he pulls up and shows me a
narrer flight o' stone steps.

' That leads,' says my fine gentleman,
down to a place below, of the existence of
which I don't believe a soul here now at the
Moat is aware. The little room in its time
has been put to various odd purposes — it was
last used, I fancy, as a gardener's hut; and
in it you will find a door, which, upon the
outer side, is hidden by weeds and brambles.
The door is on the southern side of the house,
where the ground is low; and from it, at
night, with due caution, you will be able to
come forth for a breath of air. I am going
away for a few days tomorrow, and on my
return home I will — well, will arrange matters
more definitely with you. Before I start,
however, an ample stock of provisions shall
be got together for your accommodation, so
that you need no longer starve in your new
place of concealment — '

• And don't forget the liquor, sir,' says I.

I shall want summit, in that hole down
there, to keep up my spirits till you come
back,' I says.

' I won't forget. Good-night,' he says.
And points to the trap-door.

' I'm a bit peckish now,' said I. ' I ain't
tasted food for nigh on two — '

'' He cuts me short like, and goes out of
the room ; locking me in. Presently he
comes back with some cold meat and a black
bottle.

' You must make this do for the present,*
he says ; ' and tomorrow you shall fare
better.'

So I takes the grub and goes down the
steps.

"any rats below, sir?' says I, with my
pate level with the floor.

*' ' Shouldn't wonder,' says he, coolly — ' as
likely as not. Good-night.' And with that he
lets down the trap a-top o' me ; and I hears
him a-spreading the carpet over it again.

'* It was pitch-dark down below there ; but
the steps, I could feel, were cold as ice, and
wound round twice, and then come to a stop.
Altogether there was about fifteen steps, maybe
more. At the bottom of 'em I groped
about and found some old matting. Here I
had my supper and curled up for the night."

Obviously interested as was Rackety Nell
in all that Bocky Oakum was telling her, her
foot nevertheless tapped the floor as she
listened, betokening an impatience ill-restrained
for his story's end.

Every now and then her glance, full of
covetous lust, fell on the bank-notes which
Bocky still clutched with both hands upon his
knee; every now and then her bold eyes,
eloquent with loathing, wandered upward to
the swart, unconscious profile of the wretch
beside her. "What a black villain was he,
thought the girl, what a black villain ! Why,
Luke and Zack were bad enough sometimes ;
but in comparison with Bocky they were
saints indeed. Abhorred as he was, and had
always been, by her, she had been inclined to
wax " larky " and to get drunk when Bocky
first came in ; but Nell, within the last hour,
had got sobered, was sober enough now, and
for very good reasons of her own she meant
to keep so.

Bocky resumed his narrative.

In the morning," said he, " the daylight
came in through a chink in the little door
among the brambles, and so I could begin to
make out what my new quarters were like.
It was a room bigger than this, Nell. There
was a heap o' ole sacks lying about ; some

garden tools ; a pile o' broken flower-pots ;
some dried-up seeds ; and a battered watering-can
or two. The place had a grave-like smell,
'tis true, but 'twas none the fuss on that account;
and there was no rats after all. I
stopped there altogether for more 'an a week,
lovey, and fared all the time like the millionaire
I be. 0' nights I used to steal out
of my miller for a stroll in the park; and
feeling bold and easy like and prosperous at
the thought of the pile o' money as was
coming to me soon, I perhaps wandered farther
sometimes than I had got any business to.
But it was all right ; nothing happened.

At last my fine and noble gentleman
turns up again at Woldney Moat. Where
he'd been, and what he'd been up to, o'
course I don't know — but to no good, I'll
warrant, Nell. Whatever he had to say tome
he said down the trap in the liberty floor ;
and I alius come partly up them winding
steps when I heard him tapping on the
boards overhead.

One night 'however he comes down the
steps to me ; and he says quite coolly :

* Are you ready ? ' he says ; ' because
I'm ready for you.'

** ' I'm ready,' says I.

' To-night, my friend, I mean,' says he.

'* * To-night, wi' all my 'earth I says.

But how about the two hunted quid ? •'

' I've got that here,' he says, patting a
pocket in his coat. ' Listen to me.'

Then he tells me what I've got to do for
my money.

' You know the round plantation by the
moat at the bottom of the sloping lawn ? ' he
says. 'Very well. You must hide yourself
in the firs there, and wait till I
come. I shall not be alone, however; the
person who by-and-by will accompany me
to the spot is — is — is the person who is an
insufferable nuisance to me. You understand
me perfectly, I presume ? ' he says, coldly.

Say so if you don't.'

'' I shuts one eye and grins. I can t help
it.

' I ain't such a fool as I looks, perhaps,*
says I.

* Very good,' he says. Then he takes out
a little bottle from his weskit pocket and
a clean pocket-handkerchief from another.
He gives 'em both to me. ' Be careful of
them,' he says, whatever you do. We shall
come down to the plantation together,' he
says, 'this person I have told you about
and myself ; we may be engaged in conversation
for some little while ; but the instant I

quit her side and leave her alone there, seize
your opportunity, and do what I tell you todo.
Now attend to me well.'

'' ' I'm attending sir; both ears,' said I.

' Saturate this handkerchief with the
entire contents of the phial,' he says, * and
hold it tight over her face. You are strong ;
the effect of the chloroform will be instantaneous.
Your work should be easy enough,'
he says, ' if you set about it properly and
don't bungle,' he says. 'But, mind, no
violence — be quick about it, but no violence ;
for violence will be unnecessary. I wish the
body, when found, to present merely the appearance
of that of a person who has
stumbled by accident into the river — whose
death has come about by drowning alone ;
as indeed will be the case. Can't you comprehend
? ' he says, impatiently.

I gives a low whistle.

** ' I see ! ' says I. * That's how I am to
finish the job, is it ? I'm to hold her underwater,
then, until — '

' How otherwise, you fool ? ' he breaks
out. ' Why, you're thicker than I took you
to be ! '

' Oh, no, I ain't,' says I ; ' but it wasn't
quite clear before, sir. It's all right enough
now.'

the river's handy — just across the
moat, you know he goes on, calm and
cool again ; * but not the back-water, mind
• — the main stream. The body must drift
downward to Borough Mills.'

' Azackly,' says I. ' It would if chucked
in up here. Anything more, sir, in a small
way ?*

* Yes. I had nearly forgotten,' he says,
frowning. * There's a locket which this —
this person always wears. It is round her
neck on a ribbon night and day. I must
have that locket ; do you hear ? '

' You shall have it I said. * Anything
more ? '

* Nothing more ; except,' he says, ' as to
the reward of your services, which — '

' That's jest what I'm waiting to hear,'
I tells bim. ' I don't budge a inch in the
matter, Sir Garth,' I says, ' unless I know — '

* Bah ! ' he interrupts ; ' do you imagine
that I expect you to ? As I have not the
faintest desire ever to see you again, or to
hold any communication whatsoever with
you after to-night, I will put the money
under this flower-pot — so ! Do you perceive ?
When you have earned it, come back to this
place, and you shall find it here in Bank of
England notes awaiting you as I describe.'

*• * On yer oath ? ' says I, inclined to doubt
my honest gentleman.

' Certainly on my oath, if you like,' he
says, carelessly. ' Is it likely that I should
fail to keep my word with you after all that
has passed between us ? '

' No. Not very likely,' I admits, with a
laugh. Then I up and says boldly, ' You are
playing a pretty dangerous game, it strikes
me, Sir Garth ; but o* course it ain't no consequence
o' mine.'

' Not of the slightest consequence to you
he says, quite haughty. * A man, my friend,
on his way through life is often called upon to
play a dangerous game; and if he doesn't
win — why, he loses ; that is all. Now be off
with you ; and, above everything, keep your
wits. The night is dark and blusterous ; the
coast is clear. If you thoroughly comprehend
my instructions, I've nothing more to say.
You have the phial and the handkerchief
safe ? ' he says.

' All serene. Sir Garth,' said I.

' Go now, then,' he says. ' Bring back
the locket and ribbon I have mentioned to
you, and place them under the flower-pot
here; and take from under the flower-pot
the wages you will have earned. It's sufficiently
simple — merely an exchange ; and in

conclusion, hear my parting advice. As soon
as you can — now that the means to do so are
within your power — put the sea between yourself
and the country which has the honour to be
your native one. We shall meet again shortly
indeed, almost immediately, I have no
doubt — but I will say farewell to you now.'

*'I know'd what he meant, Nell, and nodded
in reply. So he, without saying more, points
to the little door amongst the brambles, and
out I goes to do as I am bid.

I hid myself in the round plantation by
the moat there, and I waited for Sir Garth
Gilroy."

And was this the very night," wondered
Rackety Nell, 'ras he was done for himself
by that cracky old chap up at the Lock ? "

The very same night, sweetheart," Bocky
answered. " And that, to my thinking, is tho
rummest part of the whole business. But soit
was, ole gal, and I saw it done. The lady
gets off wi'out a 'air o' her 'eat being 'armed,
whilst my knowing gentleman has his own
skull smashed in when he least expects to
have it."

'rand serve him jolly well right, too,"
cried Nell, with energy. " And who was the
lady, Bocky, as you was so willing' to put out
of the way for him?" adding below hep-breath
— " you blooming' scoundrel, you ! "

I dunno," said Bock, with a leer. *' It
wasn't light enough for me to see ; but I set
her down, Nell, as a ole sweetheart o' his what
had inconveniently cropped up from somewhere
or other. There's nothing' in life so
inconvenient as a ole sweetheart what ain't
wanted, what crops up at the wrong time."

"You're about right there," said the
girl, with a meaning that was lost upon her
brutal swain. " It's all over Coverley that a
daughter o' Sir Garth's have lately turned
up ; that it was him and nobody else as years
ago run away wi' Adam Ford's gal, and that's
why the ole man brained him. Perhaps the
lady as you was hired to do for was her,
Bocky ? "

Dunno, I'm sure. All I knows is that I
got the money safe and sound — and here it
is ! that the lady escaped wi'out a ha'poth o*'
harm, and my clever gentleman dropped in
for it instead."

'well, hurry along, Bocky; it's getting
late," said Nell, quickly.

Where was I ? Oh, I remember. I went
and hid myself, according' to instructions,
down there in the round plantation by the
moat, and waited to see what 'ud happen.

Presently I heard voices. They come
nearer and nearer; my lord and my lady,
thinks I to myself, are quarrelling. They

stopped close to me ; I could ha' put out my
arm and touched 'em as they stood. What
they was driving at I couldn't quite make
out; but certain 'twas they was having words,
and pretty high 'uns too. I got ready. The
handkerchief in one hand, the bottle o' stuff
in the other, when all in a minute — before
he can get away from her, as I know'd he
meant to do — she cuts away like a bird from
him. Instead o' her being left alone by the
moat, there he stands all by himself, cussing
and swearing like a dozen troopers. Here's
a tidy go, thinks I ! What the douce am I
to do now ? Things have turned out ockard
with a vengeance, and as sure as fate I shall
lose the two hunted quid — Hullo ! What's
this ? Out from the trees, somewhere not far
from me, another man rushes like a mad
lunatic, whirling something above his head,
Nell, and something gleams in the dark.
Then comes an awful crash — a shriek — a
gurgling noise. Sir Garth Milroy is upon
the ground, and the other man's a-standing
over him. But I didn't know at the time
that the other man was Adam Ford. Then
comes more blows upon his head as ain't very
pleasant to hear; and so, as it was certain
sure that murder had been done, I takes to
my heels and leaves 'em together. It's no
good now my biding there too.

*' Once safe back again in the underground
toolhouse, I gropes about for the flower-pot
on the seed-bench, and finds it there at last
all right. ISTell, I gives a shout o' Hallelujah
I can't help it — for sure enough the money
is safe under the flower-pot ; Sir Garth Gil-roy
has kep' his word, and I've been paid
free gratis for nothing ! It's the first stroke
of real luck as I ever had in my life.

After the murder the bobbies o' course
come to the Moat, and looked precious wise,
I'll bet, as if they knew a lot ; and poked
about by the round plantation ; and there
was a good deal o' fuss and stir in the house.
I could hear voices often in the liberty over
my head. I crept up the steps and listened
once, and then I heard 'em say as it was
Adam Ford that had killed Sir Garth, and
that he had done the job with a boat-hook.

I heard too when the funeral was to
take place; and I heard as well that there
was a young chap in the house, a-dying o'
D. T. I repose it is that young Mr. Chance,
Nell, who was alius something' of a fish. I've
seen him tight at ' The Gig ' scores o' times
only where a poor devil like me 'ud get
run in for 't, a gentleman like him goes scotfree.


Well, lovey, I watched my opportunity,
for I was pining' to fly to ye, and to show ye

the fortune I'd come in for ; but twice I see
a bobby on the Redtown road, and twice I
was obliged to turn back to the Moat.
'Oweyer, I had got some victuals and drink
still left in my little parler ; and so I didn't
starve — and me and my money, you see, was
safe there. To-night, darling' mine," concluded
the amorous Bocky, " I succeeded ;
and here I am wi' ye in Trinder's Yard."

Hem, Bocky," observed the girl thoughtfully
— " that's a real wonderful tale o' yours;
real wonderful, I must say. I have alius
heard tell that Sir Garth Gilroy was a baddish
lot ; but I never thought he was such
an out-an-outer as that. I am glad you
didn't touch the lady, Bocky, whoever she
was; very glad — one's enough," said Nell
vaguely. " What did you do with the
stuff and the handkerchief ? " she inquired,
abruptly.

Why, it was like this," replied he. " I
didn't half like 'em about me ; they was
dangerous. So last night I wrapped the
bottle round in the handkerchief, tied 'em
both to a flint, stole down to the riverside —
the main stream — and flung 'em into the
water as far out as ever I could. They'll
never be seen no more, Nell."

That's a pity," said she involuntarily.

Why ? " said Bocky, not without
suspicion perhaps.

'' Oh, never mind ! It don't matter o'
course. What we've got to think about and
settle now, Bocky ducky," cried Nell, with
sudden hilarity, " is how best and quickest
we can get off to Orstraly."

"I've thought about that, my beauty,"
said Bocky affectionately. " I must go in
petticoats — anyhow till we're well shot o'
Coverley. In the dark nobody 'ud guess I
wasn't a woman ; and by daybreak we shall
be a good many miles away from ."


Nell gazed rather dubiously at her grimy
lover.

My togs wouldn't fit you," she said.

*' But Sal's might," said he eagerly.
Let's try some o' Sal's."

"Hem, Sal's might," replied Nell, as if
relieved at the idea. " Now about the money,
Bocky lovey " — putting her arm heavily round
his neck — '* hadn't I better sew it in my stays?
That's quite the safest plan I can think of. I
have got enough in the house for us to start
with, and we shan't want to touch yours yet
awhile. It'll be safer than anywhere sewed
into my stays, Bocky dear ; and then we shall
be sure that nobody '11 rob us on the journey.

I've got a little bag which will jest do for it,
and I'll sew it in directly."

Her hand was upon Bocky's knee ; her
fingers were touching the bank notes ; but
he was loath, very loath indeed, to see his
treasure pass from his own possession into
hers.

You don't love me after all, Bocky, it
seems,' ^ said Nell, reproachfully, *' if you
can't trust me — that's plain."

Instantly Bocky melted into pliant tenderness,
and turned to give her a hug. As he
did so she gently drew the notes from
beneath his hand, rolled them up swiftly,
and thrust them down into her bosom.

There," said she cheerfully ; " now you
know where they are; and we'll make 'em
safer still by-and-by with needle and thread."
She jumped up as she spoke. " There's
eleven striking, dash me if there ain't I
Bocky, do you want more liquor ? — 'cause if
so, 1 must look sharp."

Of course Bocky wanted more liquor ; and
also suggested that as cooked souse and
trotters were both procurable at " The Red-hot
Poker," Nell might as well bring a dish
of 'em home with her when she was about it
whichever she could get; Bocky didn't
care ; for he was peckish, declared he.

I will, my own trew love," cried Eackety
Nell. " I'll bring ye home a beautiful surprise,
never fear ! "

She took the door-key from its nail in the
wall ; set her tawdry hat — which had been
somewhat disarranged by Bocky's fondling
straight upon her head; caught up the
empty stone jar from the table, and prepared
to start for " The Poker."

At the door she paused a moment to shake
her fist at Bocky's unconscious back. Turning
his head unexpectedly, he very nearly
caught her in the act.

'' Nell ; come here ! " cried he.

*' I shall be too late, Bocky," she objected
hastily ; but went back to him nevertheless.

*' Nell," said he again, taking her hand,
door-key and all, into his — the hand that
was adorned with the broad silver ring, of
which Eackety Nell was extremely vain —
you'll stick to me, won't you, through
everything ? No turning back, mind, to
Luke, when once we gets to Orstraly.
You'll stick to Bocky Oakum through thick
and thin ? "

'' Oh, ain't I promised that I will ! " she
said impatiently.

With something like a sigh he let her go.
He was tired ; his draughts from the stone

VOL. III. M

bottle had been deep ; he was beginning to
feel drowsy.

'' Take — take care of the money, Nell," he
said nervously.

She put her head round the door to answer
him.

Never you fear, Bocky dear," said she ;
I'll do that." And was gone.

He heard the key turn in the lock when
Nell had shut the door, and he fancied that
a woman, passing down the Yard, laughed
out loud and long. Who was she, this
woman, he wondered sleepily ? Would Nell
stop and gossip with her for a moment
before hurrying on to " The Poker," and
perhaps throw out a mysterious hint or two
about going a journey over the sea? He
knew that women's tongues were slippery
things over which they themselves even had
seldom, if ever, the least control ; and Bocky
heartily trusted that Nell would not at any
rate be fool enough to get throwing out
hints to anybody concerning the two hundred
pounds in new bank notes. He began to feel
a trifle uneasy, and to wish that he had
not been " soft " enough to let the precious
money go out of his own keeping. But after
all, what did it matter ? Nell was true. Nell
was to be trusted. What was his was hers

now; for were they not going to Orstraly
together?

Bocky was nodding in his chair ; his chin
was sunk on his breast. . . . Was not Nell
a rather long time gone ? . . . Perhaps
The Poker " was closed and she could not
get in. . . . Perhaps the bobbies were on the
watch, for "The Poker" was always in
trouble with regard to surreptitious traffic
and closing-time, and she had been obliged
to sneak round to the back-door, as she had
half feared she would have to. . . . Perhaps
a deep and swinish grunt here broke from
Becky's throat. Snore after snore followed
and he was sound asleep.

Then Bocky Oakum had a dream ; doubtless
associative influences — time and place —
had something to do with it; for just across
the Yard was Becky's old home, still shut
up and uninhabited, in which, a few weeks
gone by, he had so brutally slain his helpless
old grandmother.

He dreamed that he was back again in the
garden tool house beneath the library floor at
Woldney Moat; that some dark fluid came
trickling sluggishly down the winding stone
steps which led to his secret hiding-place.
He touched the dark stream curiously with
his hand, and recoiled in horror — for it was

blood ! Then from out of the gloom of the
winding stairway there uprose gradually a
well-remembered form ; the form of a haggard
and witch-like old woman, with sunk
wild eyes and flying gray hair, and with wet
blood smearing her fierce white face. Blood
too bedaubed her lank gray hair.

Nearer and nearer to him floated the
ghostly shape, with those terrible eyes fixed
upon him, and with bony hands outspread
menacingly. Bocky, paralysed in his terror
could not move. The old woman's clutch
was upon him; her face staring straight
into his. The dreadful skeleton hands were
creeping over him — creeping higher and
higher — they touched his throat. They
gripped around it; and the nails, sharp a&
vultures' talons, pierced his flesh.

Life by those bony claws was being
choked out of him, he knew. He struggled
he tried to shriek — he leaped from his
chair, half sleep-bound, half awake ; giddy,
bewildered, for the moment with the light
and noise around him.

Where was he ?

Surely not in Eackety Nell's room in
Trinder's Yard ?

For the place was full of a gibing mob,
and two huge policemen had got him roughly

by the shoulders. Then trying to throw out
his hands and to lift them to his dazed head,
Bocky found that he was unable to do so, for
his wrists were fast held in iron grip. He
was handcuffed.

Foremost in the jeering crowd was Rackety
Nell, shouting recklessly :

Not only the two hundred quid, Bocky
dear, but the ' dirty twenty pound ' into the
bargain ! And be sure that Luke and mel
drink yer health tomorrow and wish ye a
pleasant voyage to Orstraly ! "

The truth rushed upon the infuriated
Bocky, and with murderous intent he would
have flung himself headlong upon the woman
who had betrayed him, had not he been held
back, impotent, in the policemen's unyielding
grasp.

Horrible language then burst from Bocky
Oakum; and every terrific oath which fell
from his foaming lips was met by Rackety
Nell with loud and derisive laughter. Nay ;
she even took something — a small roll of
crisp white paper — from the bosom of her
gown, and flourished it triumphantly under
the wretched Becky's nose.

Cursing and blaspheming, he was hustled
out of the Yard, with the mob hooting at his
heels.

Miss Bishop and Miss Eager had determined
to give a party.

What with the Eaces, the many visitors
they had brought into the town and neighbourhood,
and other by far more interesting
events, so much of late had been happening
in Coverley that the two spinster ladies had
agreed together that they could not do better
than give a party.

They had numerous friends in ,
naturally chiefly ladies, and at one
of their well-known parties, with tea and
cards, and with a light supper and a little
music afterwards to wind up with — which,
indeed, was the usual routine of the evening
— the news of the hour could be talked over
delightfully. For what Miss Bishop and
Miss Eager themselves did not know, they
could easily learn of their gossip-loving
neighbours; and that which their neighbours
had haply failed to hear, Miss Bishop

and Miss Eager — if they were able — would
be only too pleased to impart to them.

To begin with, there was the startling
news abroad that the Reverend Felix Scamper
had just eloped with Miss Snaffle ; they
having bolted together goodness knew
whither, after evening service, on the night
of the Sunday which followed the Race week.
Yes ! alas, the sausage suppers and the
primrose-gathering in Chalkhill wood, and
the form-jumping after dusk in the parish
schools, had at last resulted in this disgraceful
climax ; and the Cottage Hospital in
South Street had lost its Lady Principal.

Great was the commotion over this event.
Mrs. Septimus Haze — though nobody could
quite understand why — had at once written
off a most indignant letter to her cousin the
archdeacon of the diocese ; the Reverend
Septimus Haze himself was greatly shocked,
or professed to be so, and said dreamily that
it was sad — very sad indeed! — and that
somehow he had always been inclined to
mistrust the Lads Principal of his Cottage
Hospital.

The poor old gentleman, however, dared
not confess that he had always found Miss
Snaffle extremely fascinating, and hardly
wondered at the Reverend Felix's indiscretion.

That, for divers reasons, would never
have done ; and so the little Yicar contented
himself with saying mildly that it was very
sad. And so in reality it was. For poor
forsaken Mrs. Scamper — said Coverley — was
distraught with grief at the loss of her husband,
bad goods though he was ; two of the
Miss Singletons and the second Miss Malt-over
had taken to their beds with rage and
disappointment, and vowed, in the privacy of
their virginal chambers, that once, let them
catch hold of that abominable Miss Snaffle,
they would scratch her eyes out, and
many other dreadful things besides. And,
worse than all, the little town now was convulsed
with laughter at, and made pitiless
jests over, the morals of the Coverley church-going
damsels and the flighty curates of St.
Eve's.

Oh, fie ! on the little big folks, cried everybody
who was not in the little big folks' set.

Then Mrs. Septimus Haze, it was whispered,
having once spent a holiday in
Germany, had lately written a novel, which
was to be called " Aunt A. : A Tale of thuringia
And Hephzibah Piper had at last
got a husband through the medium of the
Matrimonial News, Headstone Payne, too,
a little bird recently had gone about whispering',

was thinking seriously of a wealthy
Jamaica cousin. If this were true, alas !
for the hopes of Julia Prince.

But what were these incidents in the lives
of Coverley folk in comparison with the
murder of Sir Garth Gilroy?

In fact, the murder at Woldney Moat, and
the astonishing reports to which the event had
given birth — all this was the favourite topic
undoubtedly in Coverley-on-Dane just now.
People in discussing the tragic end of Sir
Garth, the disappointment and chagrin of
the Prince family, the strange flight of Miss
Dexter, and the guilt and the apprehending
of Adam Ford, forgot Miss Snaffle and the
Eeverend Felix Scamper, and such trivial
matters — trivial, of course, in comparison —
as the publication of *' Aunt A. : A Tale of
Thuringia

It so happened that the party which Miss
Bishop and Miss Eager had determined to
give to a few especial friends took place on
the very evening of Bocky Oakum's reappearance
in Trinder's Yard ; when he had
told his guilty tale to Rackety ISFell, and had
been so perfidiously betrayed by her when
that tale was ended.

As a matter of course they were all of
the gentler sex who came on that evening

to drink tea at half-past six o'clock with
Miss Bishop and Miss Eager at their clean
and cozy house in the High Street.

Some of them were matrons ; but the
majority of the company were not ; but they
one and all were alike in this respect — they
dearly loved a gossip and an agreeable cup
of tea.

About fourteen ladies altogether, of doubtful
age, seated themselves punctually, or
nearly so, at the half-hour after six, at the
large round table in the spinsters' best parlour
; and they spread their skirts, and
jingled their bracelets, and simpered most
amiably when asked whether they took sugar
and cream.

The spotless room had been smartened up
for the occasion; the stiff mahogany furniture
shining with the brightness of the
chimney-glass itself.

There was a new ornament — a chaste
arrangement in white and gold — in the
grate ; there were fresh nosegays in the
vases; there were clean lace curtains over
the window.

Both Miss Bishop and Miss Eager had put
on a Sunday gown ; as, indeed, had all the
other ladies who had come so willingly to
drink tea with them.

Upon the round table there were muffins

and cake, thin — exquisitely thin — bread-and-butter,
and cut-glass dishes of jam and marmalade
; and sour Susan, the maid, who was
also smartened up in her Sunday gown and a
new cap with a lilac bow on the top of it — •
for no gayer colour than this would Susan
suffer to decorate her prim headgear — was infrequent
attendance in the room ; being summoned
thither by the bell either for more hot
coffee or for more fresh tea.

Perhaps the entertainment at first somewhat
resembled the spinsters' best parlour
furniture ; that is to say, it was just a trifle
stiff. But after the first cup of tea had gone
round and been disposed of, when the second
was almost finished by some, and others were
ready for a third, the social ice was thoroughly
broken, and all stiffness and restraint had
disappeared.

Then the ladies' tongues, once loosened,
wagged with a will.

Did you go to the funeral to-day, Mrs.
King? " Miss Bishop, in her deep bass, was
inquiring of the lady on her left. " I heard
that a great crowd went from Coverley, in
spite of the dust and the heat."

It was a lovely day for a funeral," threw
in Miss Eager, drily, in her thin asthmatic
voice. " Couldn't have had a better."

Oh, Miss Eager ! " cried the younger

spinster ladies, in arch chorus — 'how can
you ? A lovely day for a funeral indeed !
What an idea ! "

Mrs. King was a little sweet-tempered
woman, with wide-open vacant eyes and a
perpetual smile. When Miss Bishop addressed
her, the little woman's mouth was
full of bread-and-butter and marmalade.
Having got rid of it however, she smiled
and said, quite simply :

No ; I didn't go. But nurse and the
children went. They came home smothered
in dust."

Ah, I daresay," replied Miss Bishop.
The Margrave road on a summer day is
something quite too awful to think about."

Yet we hear that crowds went all the
same," observed Miss Eager.

Oh, yes ; there were crowds there in the
churchyard, nurse said," smiled Mrs. King.
But I don't think the children enjoyed
themselves much ; the heat was so intense."

A young lady of thirty seven or so giggled,
and buried her nose in her tea-cup.

Miss Eager called out ironically :

"If I had gone, I should have gone in a
boat. One might have enjoyed one's self
then ! "

"Ah, so one might," said simple little

Mrs. King. '' I never thought of that ; or
nurse and the children should have had a
boat, and I would have hired a man to row
them."

It was a very grand funeral, was it not ? "
said Miss Bishop. (''More cream, Susan, if
you please")

Oh, exceedingly grand ! " gushed a certain
Miss Peckitt, who wore her pale hair in
long limp ringlets, and who had a bunch of
lilies of the valley at her waist. " My brother
drove me in his gig, you know ; and I never
before in all my life saw so many private
carriages at a funeral. Charles said so too.
One would have thought that Sir Garth
Gilroy had been a duke or a lord at least."

Sir Garth Gilroy ! " exclaimed Miss Bishop
gruffly, who wielded the teapot — ('* Susan,
some more hot water, please.) — If what that
crazy old lock-keeper who is now in custody
persists in saying is true, why. Sir Garth
Gilroy must have been a regular wretch.
Fancy that girl, Miss Dexter, being — as it
seems she is — his own daughter ! the child of
Minna Ford ! I believe it myself ; for I have
always felt quite certain that there was a
mystery about the girl which would come to
light sooner or later. You see, to begin
with, her name can't be ' Dexter,' after all.

if her father was Sir Garth Gilroj and her
mother was Minna Ford."

How dreadful, in that case, to suspect
her of the murder ! " cried Miss Peckitt,
clasping her hands and pressing them to her
flat chest. " His own daughter ! "

She shouldn't have run away then as she
did," croaked Miss Eager, who at her tray-presided
over the coffee. " Her actions, to
say the least of it, on the night of the crime
were as suspicious as they well could be. I
dare say when the trial comes off we shall
hear the real facts of the case — and an
edifying case, I expect, it will prove to be,
too ! "

I always thought her so lovely," said
little Mrs. King.

Oh, I didn't," cried Miss Peckitt sharply.
** She always struck me as being rather plain
than otherwise."

I think you are quite right. Miss
Peckitt," cried several ladies in a breath —
** decidedly plain."

It was not in Mrs. King's nature to argue.
So, with her funny little vacant smile, she
said:

And where is Miss Dexter now ? "

'* Bless me, do not you know ? " cried
Miss Bishop loudly. " She is down in Warwickshire

at present, lying dangerously ill
of brain fever at some little country inn or
other there ; near — let me see — Stratford, or
Leamington, or Warwick — I really forget
which ; but it don't much signify. They
say, you know, that she had a brother ; and
that's curious, everything considered, isn't it ?
For one can't help wondering whether he too
went by the name of '^ Dexter,' or anything
else. And they say that, for some reason
best known to herself, she rushed off on that
terrible night to visit this brother of hers —
he was down in Warwickshire for his health,
I believe. When she got to — to — well, to
wherever it was, she found he was dead, had
died suddenly. Shocking, wasn't it ? A few
hours afterwards the poor girl was actually
taken into custody on suspicion of being
concerned in the murder of Sir Garth ; but
Eoger Harland, who, it appears, had received
a telegram from her earlier in the day, knew
where she was gone, or managed to find out,
and succeeded in arriving at the inn only justa
few minutes later than the police themselves
got there. He had heard, you see,
sooner than the Pringles, that Adam Ford
was the real murderer; that Miss Dexter
was innocent; but he arrived, all the same,
barely in time to save her from being dragged

back to Coverley — or London, or wherever it
was they wanted to take her — in the charge of
the two detectives whom the Pringles, it seems,
had set to hunt her down. I know that
what I am telling you is perfectly correct ;
for I got it out of Eoger Harlan d himself —
not without much pumping, I admit — when
Eachel and I met him in High Street yesterday
afternoon."

Yes ; you are right there, Maria," cackled
Miss Eager. " The young man wanted a deal
of pumping ; but I fancy that we managed it
pretty well between us."

I think we did, Eachel," agreed Miss
Bishop significantly ; " though it was like
getting blood out of a flint."

Poor young thing ! "

Brain fever, too, and no wonder ! "

Of course she's engaged to Eoger Har-land?"


Well, I did hear that he had gone down
to Warwickshire again to-day."

*why, I heard that he came back only
two days ago."

That brother — Miss Dexter's brother —
I can't make him out at all ! "

I wonder whether he, too, goes by the
name of Dexter, or Gilroy, or Ford, or
what?"

Don't you hear ? — he's dead. You mean
when he was alive."

Of course — when he was alive."

I never knew that Minna Ford had left
a child."

Nor anyone else."

They do say now that she was really
Lady Milroy."

'' Extraordinary ! "

What became of her, then, when she
left the Lock ? "

Goodness knows ! Fancy Sir Garth
Gilroy being the man with whom Minna
Ford ran away ! "

Yes — only fancy that ! "

I wonder whether they will hang the
old man ?"

I wonder how on earth, after all these
years, he got at the truth at last ? "

Ah ! 1, too, wonder indeed."

Everybody in Coverley, I think, is
wondering the same thing."

I do hope that Miss Dexter will recover,"
smiled little Mrs. King, " and then she and
Mr. Roger Harland can be married and live
happy with each other for ever and ever."

During this feminine Babel of comments
and ejaculations which arose and buzzed
around the table at the conclusion of Miss

VOL. III. N

Bishop's last speech, tea was discovered to
be finished — everyone was quite sure that
she would take nothing more — and accordingly
the ladies all rose from their chairs,
like so many ants disturbed in their ant-hill,
and a movement to the breakfast-room was
proposed.

The spinners' pleasant breakfast-room was
at the back of the house, and looked out
upon a neat little strip of garden, with a
neat little greenhouse at the end of it, upon
which was erected a tiny weathercock that
now flashed in the setting sun.

It was an established custom with Miss
Bishop and Miss Eager, whenever they gave
a party, to transform this pleasant apartment
into a card-room ; the card-tables being set
out, in time-honoured places, before the
arrival of their guests ; just as, before the
guests' arrival, the supper — which consisted
invariably of cold fowl and tongue, a mould
of jelly, another of blancmange, and a dish
of raspberry-tarts — was always spread in
the dining-room, and the door kept locked.
That is to say, the snowy cloth, the bright
old silver and glass, and the fine damask
services were all in readiness upon the
table; the good things to eat being still
in the cool pantry, whence Susan had only
to fetch them.

In the card-room, into which from the
small garden the perfume of mignonette
every now and then was wafted, the feminine
Babel continued ; nay, waxed infinitely
stronger, for a decanter of port and another
of sherry here speedily made their appearance.
And the ladies were enjoying themselves
prodigiously.

Some played whist ; some '' loved " cribbage
; others were "passionately fond" of
vingt-et-un ; and a few preferred speculation.
But amidst the wine-sipping, the card-dealing,
and the giggling and whispering of the
younger damsels who " went partners " in a
game and formed a common " bank," the
gossip and the pleasure therein abated not
one jot.

No; notwithstanding such exclamations
and interruptions as " Two by tricks —
honours divided," " Fifteen-two, fifteen-four,
fifteen-six, and a pair are eight," " One
for his nob," " Two for his heels," " Sympathy
or antipathy?" 'who'll buy my
turn-up ? " " Oh, law ! who can stand against
such luck as this. Why, Miss Bishop, I
declare, you have all the picture-cards in
the pack ! " — notwithstanding all such distracting
cackle, which would have sorely
tried the patience of dear stern old Sarah
Battle, the two Coverley spinsters and their

friends meanwhile kept the main object
of this delightful gathering well in view ;
which was to discuss amongst themselves
the latest Coverley news.

Miss Snaffle and the Reverend Felix
Scamper, Hephzibah Piper and the Matrimonial
News the Yicar and Mrs. Septimus
Haze, and her '^ Aunt A. : A Tale of Thuringia''
and the Popish practices of St. Eve's ; the
Miss Bilfils, the Miss Maltovers, the Miss
Singletons, and the flighty, flirting curates
all in turn or together were brought on
the tapis, with a relish in the talk that was
simply marvellous, considering the number
of times it had been enjoyed before.

Still, after all, the favourite theme of the
evening was that touching the Pringles and
Sir Garth Gilroy.

Miss Peckitt said that she had heard, on
the very best authority, that Solomon Prince,
his ambitious schemes overthrown by the
death of Sir Garth, intended to sell his
house and business at Borough Mills, and
to " retire," with his amassed wealth, to
some fashionable watering-place not too far
from London. At the seaside, where nobody
knew him, he would purchase a large house ;
endeavour to get into " society ; '' whilst
Mrs. Prince herself would move heaven
and earth to catch " swell " husbands for

Hetty and Jill. With their money to back
them up, and on a fresh hunting-ground
where their antecedents were absolutely unknown,
the good woman and her " dear
girls " might possibly be successful in the
husband-chase.

So said Miss Peckitt, not without spite ; and
others of the party, it appeared, had heard
pretty much the same rumour of the Pringles'
movements.

Nor did Kate Harlan d and Barton Chance
escape the dissecting-knife ; and the elder
ladies frowned and shook their heads and
muttered dark things about Kate's un-maidenly
conduct.

She has placed herself in an equivocal
position, I consider, my dear," said a stout
married lady to another, whilst the younger
and unmarried ones pricked up their ears in
spite of much innocent outward show of
being absorbed in their game. " A most
equivocal position indeed ! Such a disgraceful
illness to go and nurse a young man
through — and such a wild, unprincipled,
good-for-nothing young man too ! It was
not as if she was a professional nurse;
though I have been told that she has had the
assistance of one of Miss Snaffle's young
women."

Oh, that brazen Miss Snaffle ! " cried out

all the younger unmarried ladies virtuously ;
pretending, of course, that it was merely the
name of the Lady Principal that they had
chanced to overhear.

"what a handsome young man he is,"
put in sunny-tempered little Mrs. King, her
eyes and her perpetual smile more wide and
vacant than ever. " I never saw a handsomer.
Such curved red lips, and such a
golden moustache, with bright wavy hair to
match ! — and such a beautiful complexion as
I never yet saw in any mortal woman ! Are
they engaged, I wonder ? — Miss Harland and
this Mr. Barton Chance."

If they are not, they ought to be," said
the stout married lady, sternly — '' that is all
I can say. Mrs. Fowler, it's my deal, I
believe. You cut to me, if you please."

Mrs. Fowler being deaf, the stout married
lady repeated her request, shouting it into
Mrs. Fowler's ear.

Mrs. Fowler leaped in her chair, and Mrs.
King said, softly :

Well, I hope with all my heart the poor
dear young man will not die. We did hear
at home one day that he was so ill that there
was really little prospect of his ever getting
better. It would be a great pity if he were
to die," smiled little Mrs. King; "he is so
handsome I '*

Here all the younger unmarried ladies —
not one of whom would ever again see her
five-ands thirtieth birthday — sighed and looked
pensive ; their maiden eyes were full of compassion.
Every one of them knew Barton
Chance at least by sight, and admired him
intensely ; and every one of them, in her
heart, envied Kate Harland her ministering
post by the young man's sick couch at
Woldney Moat. A handsome man — no
matter what be his faults and his follies — in
sickness or in distress, is sure of the sympathy
of women ; of plain women especially ; precisely
as the sorrows of a lovely woman
appeal more forcibly to the hearts of men
than do the woes of a homelier-featured sister.
Such is the power of beauty ; the strongest
power in the world.

By-and-by supper was announced, and the
party went crowding and buzzing into the
dining-room; where Miss Bishop, with much
skill, at one end of the table, carved the fowl,
aud Miss Eager, at the other, dispensed her
slices of tongue. Of course someone ventured
to air her feeble little joke respecting
the latter dish ; and of course, too, everyone,
being in high good humour, laughed at and
applauded the small stale jest as if it had
been the brightest witticism ever uttered.
Curiously enough, it failed to strike all

present that, so far, the evening had been a
perpetual feast of tongue.

Supper over, back the all trooped to the
best parlour for the "little music" and glass
of wine with which the evening, as it was
wont to do, would conclude. The lamp was
lighted upon the round table ; lighted wax-candles
in lustres adorned piano and mantelpiece
alike. Music-cases were produced, and
bashful damsels pressed to perform.

Miss Peckitt, after much persuasion, consented
to sing " Sore is my Heart " ; but
overcome by the pathos of her own achievement,
she broke down in the middle of it,
and was compelled to turn her head aside in
order to hide the tears which were fast
dropping from her eyes. Her long limp
ringlets gracefully hid those tears, though the
ladies naturally were too well-bred to notice
Miss Peckitt's emotion.

Then a niece of deaf Mrs. Fowler, byname
Miss Crane, was flattered into obliging
the company with her well-known rendering
of " Airs from the Opera of II Rotatory'
with variations upon the same — which was
indeed a wonderful performance, full of
octaves, trills, and frantic rushes up and down
the key-board, and well worthy of the warm
applause which greeted its crashing finale.

Then Miss Peckitt, who bj this time had
mastered her " foolish agitation "was she herself
termed it — came to the fore again, and
with much true feeling sang the sweet and
popular ballad " Forlorn." But she did not
weep this time, however strong may have been
the temptation to give way ; and everybody
whispered one to the other, at the conclusion
of the ballad, " How exquisitely Miss Peckitt
sings, to be sure ! " Then aloud to the fair
songstress, " Pray do not move from the piano,
Miss Peckitt ; it is such a treat to hear you ! "
And yet, on various occasions, for the past
fifteen years or more. Miss Peckitt had been
singing in Coverley best-parlours her two pet
songs — " Sore is my Heart " and " Forlorn."

Eleven o'clock had struck. It was time to
think about cloaks and shawls. The eldest
matron of the assembly, who was the stout
married lady, had already risen, and given the
signal for a general departure, when a clamour
which increased with every moment, in the
street outside, caused each dame and damsel
present to turn involuntarily towards the
window.

A mob of roughs was evidently swarming
up the High Street in the direction of the
town-hall. Miss Eager pulled aside the 
and looked out.

It's some tipsy rascal being taken to the
lock-up, I fancy," said she.

At that moment, even as Miss Eager
spoke, a brisk " rat-a-tat, tat, tat tat," came
from the brass knocker upon the street-door.

All curiosity. Miss Bishop herself hastened
to answer it; and in — hat in hand, and bowing
right and left — walked Mr. Headstone
Payiie.

His manner was unusually excited; and
his occasional lisp, perhaps, was more noticeable
than common.

A thousand pardons," cried he, " my
dear With Bishop — my dear With Eager — for
looking in on you at this unconscionably late
hour ; but passing and seeing lights in your
lower windows, I knew that you could not begone
to bed, and I thought you would like to
hear the neath. Ah ! you have a party, I
see. I am terrier than ever to intrude, I do
assure you ! "

Don't mention it, pray, Mr. Payne," cried
Miss Bishop, promptly. " We are always
delighted to see you, you know."

Come along in, Mr. Payne, and have a
glass of sherry," said Miss Eager, with
equal promptitude. " I, for one, am dying
to hear the news, and I am certain that all
the rest of us here are likewise."

Thank you, you are too kind," replied
the affable youn surgeon; "but I really
mutlin't stay long — hardly a second in fact ; "
and smiling and bowing, he went quickly round
the room and shook hands most cordially withall
the guests ; for to all of them he was
well known, and several of them were his
patients.

And the unmarried ones blushed and
simpered, and looked as charming as they
knew how — • which alas ! poor faded Coverley
spinsters, was not very charming — for Headstone
Payne was a bachelor, and the wealthy
Jamaica cousin might turn out to be a myth
after all ; and eligible and matrimonially inclined
bachelors were scarce in .


Upstairs, later on, when she was putting
on her hat. Miss Peckitt vowed in a whisper
to Miss Crane that Mr. Payne had squeezed
her hand ; really squeezed it in such a fashion
that she had with difficulty refrained from
screaming out ; " but Miss Crane, though
for reply she had looked exceedingly arch and
sympathetic, and said, " Oh, Miss Peckitt ! "
did not, however, believe a syllable of that
damsel's coy assertion. He might, of course
have squeezed Miss Crane's hand ; but Miss
Peckitt' s — never !

So Headstone Payne, with a glass of sherry
in one hand and his hat in the other, imparted
the latest news to Miss Bishop, Miss Eager,
and their friends; which was that Bocky
Oakum had been captured in Trinder's Yard
and was now safely locked up in a police-station
cell.

And he has, it appears," said Mr.
Payne, mysteriously dropping his cheery
voice, " made strange and terrible accusations
against Sir Garth Gilroy."

Why, he was only buried to-day," remarked
Miss Bishop, in her loud way ; as
if that fact had anything to do with the deadman's
iniquity.

And lucky for him perhaps that he was,"
replied Mr. Payne, with a dark smile. " And
now I must go ; I really must. I am in a
tremendous hurry and cannot stop a moment
longer."

All the fourteen ladies crowded eagerly
round him.

Oh, don't go yet, Mr. Payne ! Tell us
more, please ! You've plenty of time to
spare, I'm sure ! Oh, what about Sir Garth
Gilroy ! " exclaimed they breathlessly, in
various accents of entreaty.

Positively I cannot wait now. I dare
that it will be all over the town tomorrow,"

said Headstone Payne. "I am now off to
Woldney Moat."

"To Woldney Moat ! " echoed the fourteen
ladies.

Yes," replied he, shaking hands rapidly
all round again. "Mr. Barton Chance is
worse to-night — has had a relapse. Miss
Harland has just sent a messenger to the
surgery, and I have promised to go immediately.
My gig is waiting outside."

I SHALL be sorry, very sorry after all,
to leave the old place, much as I have abused
it at times*' said Barton Chance, dreamily.
'' I have been awfully happy here, Kate — a
lot happier, I dare say, than I have deserved."

Kate Harland, with her own bright smile,
looked up from her needle-work. An open
magazine lay face downward upon her knee,
from the pages of which, a short time before,
she had been reading aloud to her patient;
now happily convalescent, though as yet far
from strong ; until he had declared that he
was tired of the story and wanted to talk
awhile instead of listen.

Ah, but you will come back soon — I — I
mean some day," said she, lightly ; and
Barton never guessed how heavily her heart
was beating even as she smiled at him.
For Roger's sake you won't desert us entirely.
Barton ? "

When I come back, dear, it won't be
exactly for Roger's sake," he answered, his

beautiful eyes, sunk and melancholy enough
now, fixed upon a glimpse of the calm river
visible like molten silver under the westering
sun through the abundant late summer
foliage. *' Still — still, Kate, you know, I
can never, in the natural course of things,
come back to Woldney Moat."

But to Little Borough Mills, Barton,"
she said, gently — " you will come again some
day, ' for old sake's sake ' — will you not ? —
to the Little Mills."

*' Yes, my dear old woman, I pray so," he
answered. "I am a man in years, it is true;
but I want to be a man in discretion. When
I am wiser, Kate, than I have been for a
long while past — when I have struck out a
fresh path in life, can see whither it is definitely
leading me, in brief, when, like a
man, I am man enough to make a home
worthy of your acceptance, my dear, I shall
return then to the Little Mills and ask you
to share that home with me."

Kate's eyes fell ; though they were full of
a beautiful love, that love in expression was a
sorrowful one, and tears gradually dimmed
its lustre. Her needle flew fast.

Kate, do not you believe me ? "

Yes, I know that you are in earnest,
Barton."

If you will not share my home in the
future, old woman, who shall, I should like
to hear ? ''

Come to me, Barton, when you have
made that home, and I will give you my
answer then," she said.

"You will wait for me, Kate?" he said,
after a pause, turning his dark-blue eyes
slowly upon her.

Her head was bent. Her lips were not
quite firm, though he did not notice it.

If it were possible, I would wait for you
a hundred years. Barton'* she answered,
quietly. " What more can I say ? "

Kate, dear love," said the young fellow,
earnestly, bending towards her, " I am satisfied.
You shall not — so Heaven help me I
be disappointed in me. The coming
years, Kate, if I live, shall prove me."

Amen ! " she murmured, with something
like a sob in her heart.

The month of August had arrived ; the
excitement and commotion aroused by the
death of the master of the Moat had come to
be things of the past, were buried in it, were
almost forgotten. Though the world now
knew Sir Garth Gilroy for what he actually
was in life, no one had conceived until after
he was dead and gone, the extent his wickedness

had touched on all sides ; his fellow-men
had wearied of his sins and their consequences,
and put away, so to speak, the recollection
thereof, as one is only too glad, when one canto
put away noxious memories.

Mrs. Prince stood alone in her championship
of the dead man, and would never hear
a syllable uttered against him ; wretch
though she now knew him to have been.

De mortis nile nicer honum,^^ she would
say with comic dignity. " He was a great
friend of ours, and would, if he had been
spared, have been something nearer and
dearer. Pray say no more ; the subject is
too painful for my ears, whatever it may befor
other people's."

Whereupon Hetty, if she were present,
would make a disrespectful grimace at her
mother's broad back. To do Hetty Prince
justice, she rather congratulated herself upon
being " shot " — as she elegantly phrased it —
of a "precious bad bargain." She was free
to try her luck again, and Hetty rejoiced in
her freedom. Now that Sir Grarth stood out
in his true colours, she no longer regretted
that she could not be Lady Gilroy.

Nor would Mrs. Prince tolerate in her
hearing the mention of the name of *' Miss
Dexter." People still called her Miss Dexter;

VOL. III. o

though Coverley gossips, who liked to get to
the bottom of everything, amongst themselves
declared that for the life of them they
could not understand why she should not be
called " Miss Ford," or '' Miss Gilroy," for
the matter of that. Surely she must be
either one or the other. Anyway she
couldn't be Miss Dexter.

And it threw Mrs. Prince into a passion
merely to hear "Madeline's" name; for to
herself she reasoned that it was absolutely
owing to 'madeline Dexter" that Hetty
was not Lady Gilroy. Miss Dexter and her
abominable secrets were at the bottom of
all the mischief that had happened, and Mrs.
Prince hated her accordingly with a hatred
which touched ferocity.

Mrs. Prince and her daughters, in these
sunny August days, were away at the seaside
; and Solomon Prince, at home in
solitary state, was waiting until he should
receive a "thumping offer" for his fine
house and business at Borough Mills.
Both were in the market. For he had
quite decided to retire into private life,
and to assist his wife — on behalf of Hetty
and Jill — in the husband-chase which she
would shortly enter upon. Surely, with their
wealth, they might catch another Baronet ;

particularly i£ he were a needy one like the
late Sir Garth ? Still, on the whole, transactions
— both monetary and matrimonial —
with the master of the Moat had proved
somewhat of a bitter pill to Solomon
Prince. Needy Baronets, in the future,
must be tackled very differently, decided
Solomon, with a wry look about the mouth.

Bocky Oakum, securely lodged in Red-town
jail, would shortly expiate his crimes
upon the scaffold ; whilst Rackety Nell and
her mate Luke had actually sailed for
Australia together, to begin a new life in a
new world, with Bocky's two hundred pounds
to start them.

At Borough Lock a new lock-keeper had
taken up his abode ; and poor old Adam
Ford, an inmate of the county lunatic-asylum,
was doomed to imprisonment for
life. His sanity could never be questioned
now.

As for Roger Harlan d, of late he had been
far from idle ; his time, in one direction and
another, had been fully occupied; but it
was not upon his own account that he had
been working so industriously, travelling so
zealously hither and thither, with one dear
dream-face ever before his eyes to bear him
company.

Mrs. De Lisle was now Roger's staunchest
friend — thus in the course of events had it
come about — and helped him all she could.
She had told him much ; she trusted him
implicitly ; nevertheless, until Minna herself
should be well and strong enough to speak
of the long-dead past, and of the sad and bitter
memories connected with it, the story of the
life of the woman he loved must for Harland,
in a measure, remain incomplete. More than
one portion of it troubled him greatly. He
wanted the story direct from Minna's own
lips; but Eoger was as patient as he was
strong, and could wait. It being summertime,
he had ample leisure for running down
to Burcot, and had become quite a favourite
with Mrs. Bluff.

It sounds so funny to me to hear you
call Minna 'Madeline' sometimes," said Mrs.
De Lisle one day to him, when the sick
girl was still invisible, though fast regaining
strength. " Her name is Minna, really Minna,
you know — her mother s name."

Yes, I know," answered Roger, gently.
*but being so used to 'Madeline,' it will
slip out, I suppose."

"Poor child, she thought it best to keep
her own name secret ; and, I dare say, will
tell you all about it when she is well," said

Aunt Helen, in lier vague, sweet-tempered
way. " Of course it was very hard and cruel
for her to feel compelled to tell you that her
name was ' Madeline ' when it wasn't ; but inspirit
she was always resolute and self-reliant,
Roger — Tut, tut, tut, why, what am
I thinking of ! " cried Aunt Helen, blushing
a pretty pink. " I really beg your pardon,
Mr. Harland ; I have heard your name so
often, you see, in Minna's delirium, during
the past few weeks, that — that — it escaped
me quite naturally ; it positively did. You
must forgive an old woman's slip of the
tongue."

And Mrs. De Lisle laid her soft white
jewelled hand upon Roger's great brown
one. He covered it with his other.

Call me Roger," he said, earnestly. " I
wish you would."

May I ? I should like to very much if I
may," replied Mrs. De Lisle — " you look like
a ' Roger,' " added she, naively. " Your
coming here so often whilst Minna was lying
ill has been a great comfort to me. Indeed,
I cannot imagine what I should have done
without you, all alone with my dear girl in
this out-of-the-way place ; though, to be
sure, that excellent woman Mrs. Bluff has
been motherly kindness itself. Your help

and advice, in every way, have been invaluable
to me — Eoger."

That is right," said he, with his serious
smile.

*' I was saying just now, Eoger, or meant
to say, that Minna has always been resolute
and self-reliant. In fact, she was ever so asa
child. Had she not been so, she never,
poor dear, could have gone through and
suffered all that she has borne in this year.
Whatever she may have said or done, cogent
reasons, I am sure, Roger, have guided her
actions throughout. Eoy — our dear lost lad
who lies in Burcot churchyard yonder,
always used to say that Minna's nature was
strong and brave like that of a man ; whilst
he was weak and pliant like a woman. In
this he was not altogether wrong. Brave,
however, as dear Minna has been, she overestimated
her strength, I think. She is
but a woman after all."

'her troubles are ended now, thank God,"^
said Roger, reverently.

When he left " The Swan of Avon " that
day, he said as usual :

'' Good-bye, Mrs. De Lisle."

She looked up into his brown face, with
its fine brow and clear manly eyes, and said
wistfully :

** And why not * Aunt Helen,' Roger ? "

A dusky flush overspread the young man's
features.

*rit rests with Mad — with Minna, I
mean," he answered, almost sadly. " By-and-by,
when she is well, she must determine
how it shall be."

I am certain that Minna is the last
person in the world to raise any objection —
why should she?" cried Aunt Helen, wonderingly.


And Rooster for answer wrung: her delicate
hand, as if he had been grasping that of
a man, and departed hurriedly to catch his
train. He left Mrs. De Lisle a little bewildered
at his manner ; and she protested to
herself that, much as she liked him, he was a
rather singular young man.

During Kate's long absence from the
Little Mills, grim and gaunt old Naomi
Drake had — in her own language — " looked
after the master's comfort at home." And
well had Naomi, a faithful servant of an
order passed away, performed her domestic
task. Servants there are now-a-days, it is
true ; but the trusty servant who is a friend
as well is a rara avis indeed.

So that Roger — had he not missed her
cheery voice in the house, her blithe refreshing

presence at meal-times when he came in
from the mill — would hardly have known
that Kate was at the Moat and not in her
own home.

On the morrow, however, Naomi would be
called upon to abdicate in favour of the lawful
mistress. Kate Harland was coming home
to the Little Mills.

Barton, by an early train, was going to
Torquay, where, until he could find fresh
employment, he would sojourn at the house
of his guardian — as he still called the friend
of his dead parents, to whose care, as a youth,
Barton had been committed.

The young fellow's " guardian " had taken
a house for the summer-months at Torquay,
whence he had written to Barton to say that,
since Sir Garth Gilroy was dead, and he —
Barton — was consequently out of a berth, he
had better, as soon as he could bear the
fatigue of a railway journey, come down to
the sea for change of air. It would do him
good after his illness, and set him up for work
when he should find it.

Barton's guardian little dreamed what the
young man's illness had been.

A low and lingering fever had followed
upon the heels of that terrible sickness ;
and Kate, ever cheery and patient, had

never once deserted him. Through it all
she had remained with him, cool-headed and
vigilant, and nursed him back to life and hope.
She cared not a straw for the opinion of the
little Coverley world; her work was good
work, she knew, and none of which a true
woman need be ashamed.

And so Barton, thanks to Kate, did not
die, as all around him had prophesied he
would.

At the time of the tragedy at Woldney
Moat, life for Barton Chance was trembling
in the balance ; he was conscious of nought ;
the world and its events were as nothing to
him. But in his convalescent days Kate had
told him all.

On this lovely August evening, the last
which they would ever in their two lives
spend together at Woldney Moat, they were
sitting out of doors upon the sloping southern
lawn. Kate had carried from the house a
couple of easy-chairs, two or three rugs, and
a heap of papers and magazines ; some new
and some old.

Lately she had made it her custom always
to read aloud to Barton after his light dinner;
a meal which Kate invariably prepared and
cooked with her own hands. Nothing that
her dear patient had eaten throughout his

illness had ever once been touched by old
boozy and untrustworthy Mrs. James.

And Barton often dozed whilst Kate read;
and awoke refreshed, with a grateful smile,
to take his tea from her hand.

Before them, at the bottom of the sloping
lawn, lay the sluggish moat and the round
plantation ; in the gloomy shelter of which,
on that stormy night in June, Bocky Oakum
had laid in wait for his intended prey, and
the secret slayer of Sir Garth had likewise
found friendly covert.

Behind them stood the great old house,
sad with many a shuttered window, decaying,
silent as the grave ; the tinted casements
glowing blood-red in the light of the setting
sun ; the rooks cawing lazily now and then
in the elms beyond the moat which bordered
the river.

Every servant had fled from Woldney
except Mrs. James, who remained there as
caretaker. She, too, would take her departure
for a home elsewhere as soon as ever it
was settled by those in authority what should
be done with the old mansion.

Barton, after his passionate protestation
that he would mend his life, begin it anew,
and prove himself worthy of Kate's great
love, had lain back in his chair and turned

his face aside ; his thin white hands clasped
listlessly about his knee. She believed that
his eyes were closed ; but she did not know.
She gazed at him very earnestly, letting her
own hands for a moment rest idly in her lap,
and with difficulty kept down the tears from
her eyes.

How pale now was his cheek, which had
once been so glorious with the burning flush
of health ; how wan were the once-red
perfect lips that ever in the old days had
been wont to smile in continual and careless
mirth. The evening sunshine touched his
yellow hair, and turned it suddenly to
radiant gold. His was the beauty of an
archangel clothing a soul the frailest among
men.

Barton, are you asleep ? " said Kate,
softly.

He roused himself; looked at her with a
tender light in his beautiful sad eyes.

Not asleep, dear old woman," said he —
but dreaming. Paradoxical somewhat, is
it not ? "

Rather so, Barton," she said, with a
gaiety of demeanour she was far from feeling.
I hope they were pleasant dreams ? "

They were. I was dreaming of you, old
woman."

After a few seconds Kate said cheerily,
sewing fast meanwhile :

"Ofme?'^

Of whom else should I dream, either
asleep or awake ? I was wondering how I
should ever repay you for all — "

Kate interrupted him, not without passion.

Hush, Barton," she said, stretching out
to him her hand, which he clasped and kissed
impulsively. '* If I have done anything
that merits the least repayment, you know
*— did we not settle it a little while ago ? —
how best the debt can be discharged. Let
us talk no more of it. We understand each
other. The future is ahead of us — let us,
dear, dream only of that ; and let the dream
be a bright and an earnest one."

Kate," he cried, more passionately than
she, "you are the noblest of women, and
worthy — "

But again she interrupted him ; laughed,
though tears still stood in her eyes ; and would
not let him go on. Persistently she talked
of other things ; and Barton by-and-by
caught the spirit of her cheerfulness, and
his laugh mingled with hers.

"Did not you tell me," he asked, "that
Roger is in Warwickshire to-day ?"

"Yes," Kate replied; "and he returns

this evening to the Little Mills. I expect he
will be here shortly to — to say good-bye toto
see you, Barton. All this week he has
been exceedingly energetic. He has visited
the asylum where Adam Ford is confined,
and has arranged that every comfort allowable
there shall be supplied to him as long
as he lives. He has been to the Registry in
Bloomsbury where Minna Ford and Sir Garth
Gilroy were married more than twenty years
ago. He has also paid a visit to some very old
woman — I think he said that she was called
Mrs. Knibb — who lives in Prince's Street,
Brompton, at whose house Lady Gilroy, it
appears, lodged for a long while after her
husband deserted her ; and where, too, Minna
and her brother were born. He has done a
hundred and one things besides. Barton, I
assure you, all more or less connected with
the unravelling of the story of Lady Gilroy' s
brief and unhappy married life."

And all, of course'' cried Barton, with a
flicker of his old mirthful smile, " ' for a
woman's sake' — to please, to satisfy Miss
Dexter?"

Yes, all of course to please Madeline —
Minna, I mean," nodded Kate.

Why in the world did she give out that
her name was Madeline ? " said Barton — " if
her name all the while was really Minna ? *'

Oh, I imagine to preserve the secret of
her identity ! " said Kate lightly.

Which, I suppose, was likewise the
reason of her taking the name of Dexter ? "
laughed Barton.

No, Barton. Her name really is Dexter,"
said Kate, with a comical look.

Oh, nonsense, oW woman!" cried Chance;
that will not do. How can it possibly be
so? Her actual name must be Minna
Gilroy."

Eoger said that it was not," Kate maintained
— '' that her actual name is Minna
Dexter; though what is queerer still, he as
yet can give no explanation of the fact."

A riddle ! " said Barton — " that time, I
suspect, will solve."

*well, I am a woman," laughed Kate;
and I confess that my woman's natural
curiosity is sorely piqued in the matter. I
am longing for Mad — for Minna to get quite
well (and Eoger says in his letter of this
morning that she is now nearly herself again)
in order that T too may go down into Warwickshire,
and find out the things I am thirsting
to know."

Another riddle for you, my dear old
woman," observed Barton, listlessly. "If
Sir Garth and Lady Gilroy lived together

at Lonefield Grange only for the first
few months of their married life — which
it turns out was the case — how comes it, I
should like to hear, that their only daughter
had a brother ? "

Kate shook her head in mock despair.

"I give it up, Barton," said she, "until Minna
herself is well enough to explain everything.
It is worse than the tantalizing ' blind beggar
and his brother' of my nursery days."

'« And this ' brother ' of Sir Garth Gilroy's
only daughter," said Barton, with a slow
smile, partly quizzical, partly incredulous —
did he likewise, Kate, do you know, call
himself ' Dexter ' ? "

Yes. Roger said that Minna's brother
was Roy Dexter, and I myself have frequently
heard Minna speak of her brother Roy ; have
seen, too, her letters addressed to him," was
Kate's reply. " They were deeply attached
to each other."

Well, it's rather mixed, to put it mildly,"
said the young man, letting his fair head fall
back upon the scarlet rug over his chair, and
staring thoughtfully upward at the pale,
almost sea-green evening-sky, wherein, like
tinsel dots, the stars here and there were
dimly revealing themselves. '' Anyway, the
children must have been proud of their

father — if he was their father," added
Barton, emphatically.

Of course he was their father," cried
Kate, without reflection.

That is just what I doubt," went on
Chance, lazily. *' But supposing Miss Dexter
to be the sole remaining representative of
the Gilroy family, her inheritance, to my
thinking, is a rather grim one. Still — still,
I very much wonder what she will do with
the poor old Moat."

Kate Harland looked suddenly grave.
Perhaps she was thinking just then of
Roger ; especially of Roger's future.

"Whatever is done at Woldney Moat,"
said she, gently, " I promise you that you
shall hear of it. I — I suppose you will write
to — to us occasionally, Barton ? "

Kate, I will write to you every day," he
returned, impetuously.

She looked at him with a sweet and serious
expression upon her features. Her calm
face, framed as it was in the soft gray
twilight, looked almost beautiful.

"So often!" she said. "What a rash
promise. Barton."

Nevertheless," declared he, " it shall be
kept."

The gloaming deepened with every minute.

A fragrant summer darkness was stealing*
over the land. A mist was rising by the
riverside, and the " cluck-cluck " of the
timorous dab-chick came from the reedy
moat hard by. It was time for Barton to go
indoors, and Kate told him so.

As she rose to collect the wraps and
the scattered books, he stretched out his
arms and drew her by her gown towards
him.

She sank on her knees at his feet, and
pressed her head to his side. Oh ! God, the
anguish of losing him. How could she bear
the wrench ? How say " Good-bye ? "

His arm was about her waist. She felt
his tears falling upon her hair.

It will not be for long, Kate," he
whispered. '' Cheer up, my darling ! T
shall win my way, never fear."

Oh, my love — my love ! " she whispered
back, " be firm, be brave. Act, Barton, for
my sake, act; and do not dream for ever.
Make good resolutions, and keep them.
Live, dear, wisely, as a true man should."

Her reproach — if reproach it could be
called — went no farther.

Trust me, Kate, trust me ! " he murmured.
" I have sworn, for your dear sake,

VOL. III. p

to be a better fellow, and I will keep my
vow."

Then they beard Koger's voice in the bouse,
and knew that their last evening together
was over.

A last good-bye had still to be said ; but
that would come with the morrow.

At last !

Roger Harland was to hear at last the truth
in the only way in which he cared to hear it
from the lips of Minna Dexter herself.

It was mid-August. Kate was back again
at Little Borough Mills. Barton Chance,
away at Torquay, his health and his spirits
fully restored, was enjoying himself — so he
wrote — prodigiously. He said nothing, however,
about work.

Minna, too, had been pronounced by the
fashionable Leamington doctor, who had attended
her throughout her fever, to be quite
well in every respect, and perfectly free to
return to town as soon as she felt inclined to
travel.

But Minna displayed not the least impatience
for a migration back to Cumberland
Square. She was more than content for the
present to linger on at Burcot. She had
grown deeply to love the pretty old-fashioned
village ; for her dear lost lad was at rest

there in Biircot- churchyard, and she felfc that
she could not go away from the place and
leave him lonely in his quiet grave.

Whatever Minna wished Mrs. De Lisle
ever amiable, desired likewise. If Minna
could not yet bring herself to turn her back
upon Burcot, Mrs. De Lisle was quite ready
to declare that she also would be more than
grieved when the day should come that would
take them home to London.

*' I do not see wh}^ we need ever leave
Burcot," said the girl dreamily one morning
to Mrs. De Lisle. '' Where Roy is I
should like to remain. I should be very unhappy,
Aunt Helen, you know, if I could not
visit his grave as often as I pleased, to
garland fresh flowers about his cross. Where
Eoy is I should like always to be, so that,
when I die, 1 may rest near him. I should
like the same grass to grow over us both."

But we cannot always stay on, can we,
my child, in a — a — a public-house?" said
Aunt Helen, rather helplessly.

A little serious smile flitted over Minna's
face.

'* This is hardly like a public-house," she
said ; " is it ? It is so sweet and fresh and
clean and quiet. One would hardly know it
was an inn."

"They were rather noisy, though, downstairs
last night," said Mrs. De Lisle, confidentially.
^' They were singing a song with a chorus,
I fancy ; and Mrs. Bluff went and stopped
them. I heard her do so distinctly."

I heard nothing," smiled Minna.

I know that Mrs. Bluff would be very
sorry to lose us," said Aunt Helen, meditatively,
as if she were really considering the
practicability of their making a permanent
home in apartments at " The Swan of Avon'*
" and 1 am sure that nobody could have
behaved more kindly than she has done ; and
such a good cook, too ! No wonder everybody
about here speaks so highly of Mrs.
Bluff of Burcot."

Yes ; she is a dear good creature,"
answered Minna, gratefully.

But what do you think of doing — would
you like to buy, or perhaps build, a house
down here ? " inquired Aunt Helen, simply.

I scarcely know — yet," replied Minna.
This afternoon, dear, 1 — I am going to talk
to Koger."

For on that day Roger Harland was expected
at Burcot; and would stay for the
night — as he had often done during the past
two months — sat "The Swan of Avon." In
the afternoon, when luncheon was over, he and

Minna were going for their first long stroll
with each other; that is to say, their first
really long stroll since Minna's convalescence
had become established.

"I want to show you Lonefield Grange,
Eoger," she said to him later on — " or rather
the ruins of the old house. I was there
yesterday with Aunt Helen. I know the
way, and it is not too far."

So along the sweet old country lanes,
Minna s hand resting on Roger's arm — where-the
tree-tops met and rustled overhead, and
little chubby men and maids, bare-legged,
bare-headed, and with ragged pinafores full
of hedge-flowers, stared shyly upward at the
lovely pale lady and the big brown gentleman,
whom they all by sight had got to know so
well; over sweet broad pastures, where
motherly cows, stout and loud-chewing and
standing knee-deep in a running stream,
stared at them as seriously as the little
children — these twain wandered together ;
until they came to the wild and wooded
meadow-land which surrounded Lonefield
Grange.

Rabbits, they saw, were frisking over the
neglected lawns ; a cock-pheasant ran screeching
from the long grass about the sun-dial
Starlings had taken possession of the empty

and blackened walls, and were chattering
and screaming around them in hiofh delight.

Not a casement or a chimney-stack or an
oaken floor remained ; the hot afternoon sunshine,
straight from heaven, poured down
upon the charred and desolate ruin.

The handiwork of the man who was my
father ! " said Minna, very bitterly. " Oh,
Roger, it was here that he perpetrated that
atrocious act ; but — but Heaven was good —
intervened — and took my dear lad in His own
merciful way. And to reflect that on that
night, in the garden at Woldney Moat, when
he met so unexpectedly with his own end,
whilst — whilst he had plotted so subtly to
accomplish my — my — Oh ! Roger, it is all
too awful to think of — " She pressed her
face upon his arm and broke into sobs.

We will not speak of him, my Minna,"
said the young man, soothingly. " He is
dead and gone. Let him rest. Forget him."

She quickly dried her tears and regained
her self-control.

I cannot forget. I must speak of him,"
she answered more calmly. " At last I am
able to tell you, Roger, the history of my
mother's broken life, and of the deed she
planned and tried to execute in arrangement
of the wrongs she suffered at the hands of

Sir Garth Gilroy. She trusted him, loved
him, believed in him absolutely for a time;
her love and trust and belief were repaid with
indifference, cruelty, and scorn. It is the
old, old story, dear, of woman's faith and
man's perfidy — let us get it over as quickly
as possible. See, Roger," she cried, " yonder
is the mere. Let us sit down upon the bank ;
it is cool and shady there."

The lonely lake was as deep and as peaceful
as ever; the water-lilies, where the mere was
deepest, floated stilly upon its unruffled surface.
Where the trees cast their darkest
shadow athwart the water, the airy swallows
skimmed and wheeled and chattered as they
passed each other. Here and there the sunlight,
piercing the foliage, lit up the cool
forest of dark green weeds which, seemingly
fathoms down, spread over the bed of the
mere ; here and there, too, among those
weeds a monster pike was dimly visible,
motionless, slumbering, in over-fed content.
It was a place in which it " seemed always
afternoon ; " the heavy silence being disturbed
only by an occasional mighty splash —
where the water-flies were gliding fantastically
hither and thither — beneath the dipping
branches of the great old trees.

Roger and Minna sat down upon the bank ;

and tossing her hat to the grass by her side,
she leaned her head resentfully against his
shoulder. Her soft dark hair had been cutoff
in her illness ; and her short locks now-curled
about her small head like the locks of
a pretty boy. Roger, with his big brown
hand, touched it reverently.

In other respects Minna was little changed.
She was still pale and somewhat fragile
looking ; but there was now in the beautiful
face a look of '' sweet sadness," of peace, of
repose, which Roger had never seen in it in
the days which were gone. Like the fond and
foolish young man that he was, he was thinking
unconsciously that sickness had but enhanced
her delicate loveliness, and that Minna
was more beautiful than ever.

*' Minna," he said suddenly, " why did
you tell me that your name was Madeline ? "

"You shall learn by-and-by," she answered,
with a faint pained blush. " Let me go on."

Harland sighed without knowing it.

I have learned to call you ' Minna ' very
easily," he remarked, almost sadly. " And
I used to think that ' Madeline ' was the
sweetest name in the world ! Ah, my darling
! if only — if, only — "

He stopped. She looked up at him with
fearful eyes.

Roger, you are not happy — in good
spirits this afternoon ? I have fancied so
more than once since you arrived ; and now
I am sure of it. What is the matter ? "

He answered her gently in her own words.

You shall learn by-and-by, Minna," ha
said. '' I am waiting to hear your story ;
afterwards you shall hear mine. Mine, at all
events, will not take long.

She nestled more closely to him, and went
on :

I suppose," she said, " it is very sinful
to thirst so unweariedly for revenge; to live
and scheme for that alone, as my mother,
when alive, lived and schemed. I, too, have
felt, wicked though it be, the same fierce
longing for justice, for vengeance, and — and,
I think, Roger, that under the sense of a
great injury one's moral perceptions get
blunted in spite of one's self — one's passion
blinds one, carries one away as it were — and
it becomes very difficult to leave resignedly
to Heaven, to await Heaven's own good time
for, the arrangement of the wrong which may
have embittered one's whole existence.

My mother was not a tame-spirited
woman ; far from it. Revenge grew to bethe
one thing she lived for.

"What strange accidents time brings to

pass ! It was upon this very mere, Roger,
on an August evening some months before I
was born, that Sir Garth and mj mother
quarrelled for the last time ; and disputes
between them, I have been told, towards the
end of the short while they lived together,
were, alas ! of constant occurrence. On that
August night, years ago, they parted never
to meet again. Now they are gone — and you
and I are here !

*' She had known for some time past,
whilst living here at the Grange with Sir
Garth — he brought her hither immediately
after their marriage — that it was likely that
in time a little child would be born to her.
But knowing full well likewise that his love
for her was cooling, and that in all probability
he would shortly desert her, she determined
very jealously to guard her secret,
and so to await events. The future ahead
of her was dark indeed ! What had it in
store for her ? She had already begun to
dream of revenge.

On that August night, when she was
drifting upon the mere with Sir Garth, light
broke through darkness as it were, and she
saw, as if by magic power, far into the
shadowy future.

He was casting her off then ; was taking

base advantage of her helplessness and ignorance
to deny, to repudiate a sacred tie.
They were to part for evermore on that
night. He would allow her so much a-year
to live upon; she was to trouble him no
more ; she was to keep out of his way
thenceforward.

Very well. So be it. She would agree
to his heartless proposal ; but she would be a
match for him in the end.

She would go to London, she resolved ;
would hide herself there in the great city ; and
would wait until her little child was born.

*' If she lived, she could perfect her plan of
vengeance. If she died — well, perhaps so
much the better, after all. Dear heart ! she
was sick and weary of life ; and she was far
from strong at that time.

'•' When she fled to London, she met on
her journey thither a person who recommended
to her the rooms in the house of
Mrs. Knibb, of Prince's Street, Brompton.
And to Mrs. Knibb's house my mother
accordingly went.

A few months afterwards Eoy and I
were born — "

*'Ah!" Eoger drew a deep breath as he
interrupted her. " Now, Minna, I am beginning
to understand. I confess that your

brother always puzzled me," he said, in a
low tone.

What ! " she cried, surprised in her turn.
Did not you know ? Has not Aunt Helen
yet explained to you that Roy and I were
twins ? Hence, I suppose, Roger," she added
softly, " our deep, our intense affection for
each other."

*' No," he answered, slowly. " Mrs. De
Lisle has never told me that; perhaps she
imagined that T was aware of the fact ; and
I am now hearing for the first time a great
deal that I did not know before. Go on,
Minna."

She was very, very ill," continued
Minna; "but sick, and weary, and brokenhearted
as she was, she did not in reality
wish to die. She wanted to live, in order to
be able to punish Sir Garth.

She was happily in no want of money.
She could afford any luxury that was necessary
to her then. And so she secured the
attendance of one of the cleverest and
wealthiest physicians to be found anywhere
in London — Doctor Dexter, of Cumberland
Square.

It was by pure chance that she elected
to summon Doctor Dexter to her aid; yet
he afterwards became our staunchest and

dearest friend on earth. He was one of
Nature's noblemen, alike great and good ;
though I suppose the world would censure
him for his share in the conspiracy which
our mother eventually conceived and successfully
carried out.

There was also lodging, in those days,
in Mrs. Knibb's house at Brompton, a
certain Grace Randal, whose sorrowful
history was similar to that of our own
dear mother ; Mrs. Sandal's husband having
left her and gone to America — his wife
might starve, for aught that he cared about
her. She was now earning her living by
means of ber cleverness in fine-art needlework,
in which, indeed, she possessed great
skill.

My mother was continually brooding on
the one aim of her life ; pondering, too, how
she, all ignorant of huge London as she
was, might discover the Registry where Sir
Garth Gilroy had married her, and so obtain
a copy of her marriage certificate ; and this
Mrs. Randal, who was dying of consumption,
and who had become our mother's
close friend, having been with her and
nursed her when Roy and I were born,
often and often talked it all over with her.

Sympathy for each other drew them

together. The life of both had been spoilt,
wrecked, from the same sole cause. The
had given up all in life for a man's sake,
and the man, in each instance, had cruelly
failed them.

With each other they solemnly arranged
that when Grace Randal should die — and it
was wholly impossible that she could live
much longer; she was hurrying daily towards
the grave ; and she had none on the wide
earth now, save my mother, who would
mourn her loss when she was gone — between
them they solemnly agreed that their names
and conditions should be changed ; that
Grace should be buried as Minna Ford; a
notice of the death of Minna Ford should
be sent to all the newspapers ; and that
Minna Ford thenceforward should call herself
' Mrs. Randal ' instead of ' Mrs. Ford,'
as she had called herself thitherto.

The scheme was easy enough to carry
out ; Mrs. Knibb being in the secret, bribed ;
for my mother had made not a single friend
in London, since her separation from Sir
Garth Gilroy, save Mrs. Randal and Doctor
Dexter.

*' She had saved sufficient money out of
the liberal allowance which was sent to her
quarterly through his solicitors by Sir Garth,

to maintain herself and children, with
economy, for some years forward ; and now
that she was believed, by all who had ever
known her, to be dead and buried, and her
pitiful story to be buried with her, she
trusted and even prayed that Sir Garth
might be tempted to marry again, and that
more children might be born to him by a
second wife. But that second wife would
be no wife, and her children would have
no claim to the name of Gilroy.

She — our mother— she knew, was the
true Lady Gilroy. Roy and I were the true
heirs. The other, whoever she might be,
would have no right to the title ; her children
could never inherit. So Adam Ford's
daughter mapped out her revenge."

"Minna, Minna," groaned Harland, staring
hard into the deep and limpid mere and
at the leaf-shadows quivering upon the
water, "it is a bad and sad story. I did
not think that it was so bad as this."

*' Roger, I know it," she answered, very
sorrowfully ; '* but the past is irrevocable
and cannot be undone. Hear me to the end,
Roger, and — and after this afternoon we will
never speak of it again."

Never again, dear," said he, gently.
Best not."

Shyly she lifted his hand and held it for a
second or two against her pale cheek. Then
she continued :

Nearly four years had elapsed since Sir
Garth Gilroy's desertion of his wife, when,
on one summer day, my poor old grandfather
from Borough Lock appeared at 30,
Prince's Street, Brompton. He had seen ina
newspaper the notice of the death of
Minnehaha, the daughter of Adam Ford,'
and he had hurried up to London, with
hardly a moment's preparation for the
journey, in the hope that he might not be
too late for the funeral.

He was not too late ; but my mother
was scarcely prepared for his coming to
Prince's Street. She thought that, believing
in the evil said of her, he had cast her
off for ever.

Mrs. Knibb, the landlady, told the 
visitor a story which was a curious
jumble of perverted facts ; told him about
Mrs. Randal's ' affection for ' Mrs. Ford ; '
a story, however, true in the main — and he
and ' Mrs. Randal,' who was closely veiled,
alone together in a mourning-coach attended
the funeral on the following day. The old
man never dreamed that it was his own, his
living daughter whom he saw there before

VOL. III. Q

him ; and my mother heard the burial service
read over her whilst yet alive, as she stood
in the cemetery by the side of her father,
who was almost dumb with anguish at the
loss of his child.

"Nor did the old man dream that the
patter of little feet, and the sound of childish
voices, which he heard in that dull old lodge
in Prince's Street, were the feet
and the voices of his own grand-children;
the twin-children of his daughter Mines


That burying-day was a terrible ordeal
to my mother ; indeed it almost killed her ;
for her health had been breaking surely, if
slowly, during those past four years — she
was dying of a broken heart. And from
that day of Grace Randal's funeral, when
she was buried in Brompton cemetery as
Minna Ford, my mother to her poor lonely old
father at Borough Lock was dead indeed !

Meanwhile Doctor Dexter, the wealthy
West-end physician, who visited *Mrs.
Sandal' constantly — but as a disinterested
friend only — had gradually grown deeply
attached to his patient in Prince's Street;
had, in fact, grown to love her with a great
and noble love, the like of which I cannot
conceive to be common in this selfish world.

We were ever his first thought in those
days; ever his first care. Though he was
extremely rich — recently a large fortune had
come to him from a relative abroad — and
much sought after by great people in
London ; though his time meant gold, and
his friends and patients elsewhere were innumerable
; not a day passed by which did
not see him in Prince's Street. He had
made ' Mrs. Randal's ' health, he used to
say in his grave, kind way, his especial
charge. How good and kind indeed, how
inimitably generous he was to Roy and tome,
Roger, I cannot tell you. No poor
words of mine can do justice to the good
Doctor's memory.

To speak the plain truth, he did not
believe that our mother was a wife ; a 
wife. He believed that she
had been deceived by Sir Garth Gilroy ;
tricked into going through some mock
ceremony with him; or he — Sir Garth —
would never have ventured to desert her
in so base a manner. Virtually he must
have been free, or he would not have acted
as he had done.

"This was Doctor Dexter's fixed belief;
and he nobly offered to make her his own
wife, to place her in a high and an honourable

position, and to let the sad past be utterly
forgotten as one would forget an ugly dream.

This was bis daily prayer to our mother.

But she was as firm as a rock — as firm
in her own conviction as the Doctor was in
his.

' I know that I am the lawful wife of Sir
Garth Gilroy,' she would say. ' Nevertheless,
if I be wrong, if you can prove to me
beyond doubt that I am no wife, then will I
do what you wish. I will marry you, and will
be eternally grateful to you. Your generosity
has conquered me. For if I am no wife, my
revenge will be impossible.'

"So, Roger, they made a compact thus ;
and Doctor Dexter, certain of success, forthwith
set to work to unearth the truth. My
mother herself could not help him in the
least. She knew no more than the dead in
what part of London the marriage had taken
place. It was before some London registrar,
she maintained ; and that was all she
knew.

But the Doctor went a right and sure
way to work, calling to his assistance the
shrewdest of private-inquiry people, who
were not long in finding out the actual truth.

At a certain Registry, in the parish of
Bloomsbury, Garth Gilroy and Minnehaha

Ford had been made man and wife. There
had been no flaw in the ceremony ; the whole
was strictly correct. The identical place
was discovered ; a copy of the certificate procured
; it is that self-same copy which at this
moment, Eoger, I am wearing in a locket
round my neck.

'' My mother was right. She was indubitably
Lady Milroy.

She could never — unless death intervened
in her favour — be the wife of Doctor Dexter
now !

He was stricken with sorrow and disappointment;
but he bore the blow like a
man. Only his own heart knew that bitter,
bitter disappointment.

Since he could not be the husband of the
woman he loved so devotedly, he would be to
her a life-long friend.

And his friendship for us, Roger, never
once faltered — never ! It was a great and
a holy friendship, which would end only with
his life ; and not even with life itself, as you
will hear.

** My darling brother was delicate — fearfully
delicate — from his birth ; and was baptized
almost as soon as he was born. My
mother did not certainly know then, as she
afterwards came to know beyond all shadow

of doubt or question, that her baby^boy had
strict right to his father's name. So she
would herself give him that right in at any
rate one way, and christen him Milroy. And
accordingly, at a hurried baptism, he received
his father's surname. We always called him
Eoy ' for brief. I, at the font later on, was
given my mother s name.

One day, when we were still quite young
children, and whilst our mother was yet occupied
with her gloomy and unchanging
thoughts of revenge, she died suddenly of
heart-disease. And we — Roy and I, twin
brother and sister — were left alone in the
world.

What should we then have done but for
the good Doctor ? He took us home at once
to his beautiful house in Cumberland Square,
where there lived with him his step-sister,
Mrs. De Lisle, who, having recently lost her
husband, was at that time a wealthy young
widow.

There was nothing on earth that Doctor
Dexter would not have done for Eoy and forme,
for the cherished sake of our dear dead
mother. So we left Prince's Street and went
to live in Cumberland Square; and, in our
new and beautiful home, were known thenceforward
by our legitimate name — that of
Gilroy.

The Doctor loved us dearly ; fed us,
clothed us, educated us thoroughly, and was
in every sense to us both a wise and an excellent
father. To an inquisitive world he
gave out that we were his twin wards ; the
children left to his care by a dear dead friend.
Some believed the Doctor ; others did not.
The world of course was at liberty to think
what it pleased.

When he considered us old enough — we
were nearly sixteen — alike to hear and to
comprehend it. Doctor Dexter related to us
the true history of our mother's life; impressing
upon us both — for his health had
begun to fail ; he was getting an old man ;
and he felt that, in the natural course of
things, he could not live much longer to look
after us himself — the wisdom, the necessity
of keeping ourselves alert with regard to our
interests at Woldney Moat. There were
right and wrong in the world, he said, and it
was right that we should inherit our own.

"The story of our dear mother's wrongs
and sufferings made an indelible impression
upon Roy's imagination and upon mine ; and
with each other we resolved that, when we
could see our way to battle as it were, it
should be war to the knife between ourselves
and Sir Garth Milroy. We were all in all to
each other — Roy and I.

When Doctor Dexter died, he bequeathed
having few living relatives whom he cared
for, save his step-sister Mrs. De Lisle, ' Aunt
Helen,' as we always called her, who, having
an ample fortune of her own, wanted nothing
more — nearly all that he possessed ' to his two
well-beloved adopted children, Gilroy and
Minnehaha, in equal shares, on the condition
that they should take instead of, or, if they
chose, in addition to, their own name, that of
Dexter; the name which he had fondly
hoped and prayed that their dear mother
herself would one day bear.' That, Roger,
was how the Doctor had it set down in his
will.

The name of Gilroy was odious in our
ears. That of Dexter was for us associated
with every quality that was noble and good.
As soon as ever the matter could be legally
accomplished, we gladly discarded the detested
name of our father, abandoned it forever,
and took instead the surname of our
generous benefactor. We were Eoy and
Minna Dexter thenceforward — Roy and
Minna Gilroy nevermore."

Ah, I perceive," put in Harland, slowly
and sadly. " What a maze, Minna — what a
maze I "

"It is, Roger," she humbly confessed.

We had begun forsooth to weave a ' tangled
web,' never dreaming into what a labyrinth
of deception and suffering the weaving would
ultimately lead us.

Doctor Dexter died before our eighteenth
birthday came ; and after the sorrowful event
we continued with Aunt Helen to live on at
the house in Cumberland Square. That house
in reality belonged now to Roy and me.

"^ Often and often we talked over together
how best we could apprise Sir Garth of the
stern truth ; and, moreover, do something for
the benefit of our poor old grandfather at the
Lock. But with every day it became more
grievously apparent that what had to be done
must be done by me alone. My darling
brother would never be able to take any
active share in the work of obtaining justice
for the memory of Minna Ford ; nor in the
task of winning justice for himself and me.
It was with Eoy as Doctor Dexter had always
feared that it would be. He had inherited
our mother's fatal malady. His heart was
hopelessly touched with disease.

Frailer and more delicate he grew as
time went on ; and though Aunt Helen and
I tried to shut our eyes to the cruel fact, we
knew that slowly, but all too surely, he was
fading away to a better world. For days

together he would lie upon his couch, unable
to move, almost unable to speak; and yet
would be so gentle and so patient always,
notwithstanding the pain he endured. With
my whole heart I thank Heaven, Roger, that
he has eternal rest now'*

Amen," said Eoger, simply.

Sometimes we used to think," continued
Minna, dreamily, " that we would go and live
somewhere in the neighbourhood of Coverley
; in order that we might be near Sir
Garth and Woldney Moat. But divining
from the little we knew of the man that our
father was a person to be approached with
caution — an enemy to be attacked as it were
with all possible strategy — we hesitated to
adopt so bold a course. In the first place,
Roy, in appearance, bore a strong resemblance
to Sir Garth ; Doctor Dexter said so,
and it was our mother who had told him this ;
and should we go to Coverley, the fact of so
strange a likeness might arouse instant suspicion.
Eager, too, as my brother was to act
without further delay, he yet shrank, with
curious aversion, from meeting Sir Garth
Gilroy. And then, again, Roy's fragile condition
forbade the risk of anything approaching
excitement. What should we do ? You
can readily imagine, Roger, now that you

know her, how willing was Aunt Helen to aid
us in any plan we might form.

A day came, at the beginning of last
winter, when quite by accident I took up a
newspaper and read that the people at
Borough Mills were in want of a governess
for two little girls there. Borough Mills was
in the vicinity of Coverley-on-Dane ; and
close, I knew, to Woldney Moat. Here then
could I but obtain a footing in the Pringles'
household — was a chance of reconnoitring
the enemy's ' country that was not to be
despised, and that might never occur again.

In short, with Roy's consent and Aunt
Helen's assistance, I determined to get to
Borough Mills. You need not remind me,
Roger," said the girl wearily, " that the
step involved much falsehood and deceit ;
and — and — do I not know how utterly hateful
to you are the dark and devious paths I
have trodden of late ? But the Milroy have
been ever a false and deceitful race ; and I,
I suppose, after all, am a true Gilroy," said
she bitterly. " I cannot help it ! — though
happily I have been able to cast off an odious
name, I cannot drain out the tainted blood in
my veins. And, oh, Roger ! believe me —
believe me — when I say that all I have done
in this unhappy struggle has not been for my

own sake — never, never, never ! " she cried
passionately — " bat for Eoy's."

I do believe you, my poor darling," said
Eoger, very kindly.

Again she pressed her face upon his arm.

It was an unequal warfare," she moaned,
from the first. I would to Heaven that I
had never begun it!"

It is over and done with now, Minna,"
said Eoger, gently.

And at what a cost ! " she said.

After a pause, she looked wistfully upward
into Harland's serious eyes.

Eoger, you remember the night when I
arrived by mistake at the Little Mills? "

'' Of course."

"And you remember also the night on
which I left the Pringles' house and came
again to the Little Mills — not by mistake the
second time ; but of my own accord ? "

Is it likely, dear, that I should ever forget?"


You will recollect, too, that on that same
night I went to Woldney Moat ? "

Yes, I remember," he said, " as if it
were only yesterday."

Well, that was the beginning of the contest,
Eoger. On that very night I found Sir
Garth alone ; and then, for the first time in

his life, lie heard the truth. I told him who
I was. 1 informed him of the existence of
my brother — of our mother's scheme for
vengeance, and all that had followed upon
the suppression of that scheme ; death having
cut short her patient planning. I showed him
my copy of her marriage-certificate ; I
assured him that I would have justice for
my brother and for myself; and though he
affected to view the whole matter in the
light of a gross conspiracy, I could perceive
that he knew he was found out at last.
Why go over again the weary old ground,
Eoger ; you know well enough all that has
happened since that time — all the dark and
terrible days of doubt, treachery, and suspense,
which have been the consequence of
that night's revelation ? If — if it were not
for you, dear," she said, pathetically, " I
should pray — ah! so fervently — that I might
die and be at rest. I feel so sick and tired
sometimes ! Beneath the grass, in quiet
Burcot churchyard, there by Eoy's side, I
might know, as he knows now, the peace and
calm of heaven."

"Madeline!" Harland was beginning:.
The old sweet name escaped him involuntarily.
Sighing, she interrupted him ; laying
her wan hand upon his.

It was one more lie, Roger, in a long
chain of falsehoods," she said — "the name
of Madeline, I mean. What could I do?
What did it signify, I argued recklessly;
just another falsehood, more or less, in a
case in which already so many had been
uttered ?

When I plotted to get to Borough Mills
as governess to Mrs. Prince's grandchildren,
I never dreamed that I should meet with
such dear and true friends as you and Kate
have been to me. No, Eoger ; I did not
bargain for that. However, I soon perceived
that the time must arrive when Kate
would surely wish to know my name ; and
how, living under false colours as I was,
could I confess to her, without arousing
strange conjecture, that my name was the
same curious Christian name as that which
Adam Ford's daughter had borne — Mines
I was horribly puzzled how to act
for the best.

At Christmas I returned home for a few
days to Cumberland Square. E-oy was, at
that date, reading a popular tale called
Madeline, in which the heroine, he declared,
in his loving fashion, in every point of her
character reminded him of me, Roger !

I was at first amused at, afterwards

struck with, the idea. It should serve me,
I eventually determined, in a strait that I
had never reckoned upon. Supposing that
I was like the * Madeline ' whom Roy admired
in the book, why could I not be
Madeline ' in reality, for a while at least ?

When I again, after my brief visit to
town, appeared at Borough Mills, Kate once
more — it was the second time — asked me to
tell her my Christian name. It was on the
night, I well recollect, of the Pringles' New
Year ball, and when the dreaded question had
become imminent, I was certainly not altogether
unprepared for it ; nor was I wholly
prepared. Madeline began with ' M ' —
nevertheless, when the moment at last came,
I shrank unspeakably from uttering the lie
in cold blood, and shuddered to think of its
possible consequences. Roger, dear Roger,
forgive me ! 1 was hemmed, so to speak, ina
corner ; and — and — never seeing the rocks
and pitfalls ahead — I said that my name was
Madeline ! "

The young man, as he sat on the grass by
her side, bent forward and shaded his eyes
with his hand. He remained thus silent for
seconds.

Minna thought that he was hopelessly
grieved.

Cannot you pardon the offence ? " she
whispered, piteously. '' Who has suffered
for it more than I ? "

Eoger uncovered his eyes and looked at
her long and intently.

My dear," said he, in the sad kind voice
in which he had spoken throughout the afternoon,
" I was not thinking of that. Let the
offence, if offence it be, be buried and forgotten
wit?i all the rest. So dark and so
sorrowful a past is better forgotten — and if
forgiven, why remember it ? No, Minna ; I
have been thinking of something else. This
afternoon you asked me why I was not
happier — in cheerfully spirits. I will tell
you."

She met his intent gaze with one anxious
and questioning ; and waited.

I never have asked you, Minna, to be my
wife ; have I ? " he said.

Instantly a burning rush of colour overspread
her pale lovely face.

'' Ko — never," stammered she.

What I have declared to you has been
this: That for me you were the only woman
in creation ; that you were more precious tome
than life itself ; that I should love you,
and you only, more deeply than words could
express until my life's end."

Eoger, was not that enough ? " she murmured.


Minna, you are a very rich woman, are
you not?" he said, ignoring her tender
whisper.

Yes," was her melancholy yet naive reply.
" Now that my darling brother is — is
gone, I suppose that I am very rich indeed."

Minna, you are free ! "

'' Roger ! "

I am in earnest, my dear one," said he,
less harshly. '•' How could I guess, when I
told you how I loved you, that you had so
inch wealth of your own; that you were the
daughter of Sir Grarth Gilroy — "

She stopped him in accents of passionate
reproach.

"Is it that you would be ashamed of meas
your wife that you remind me of my relationship
to that bad man ? " she demanded.
*' He was my father, I know ; yet when I
remember that most unhappy fact, the disgrace
of it nearly kills me. As for my
money, of what use can it ever be to me, if
the accident of possessing it is to ruin my
happiness ?"

"I am but a simple yeoman," said Harland.

*' And my mother, Roger, was Minna
Lord," Minna Dexter made swift reply.

VOL. TII. li

"Reflect," he said, "on all that you will
sacrifice if you give yourself to a simple
fellow like me. Think of the position you
might take in the world — that world, I mean,
of which I know absolutely nothing — endowed
with so large a fortune as yours seems
to be ! I never could be happy, I do assure
you, dear, in a sphere where all is pleasure
and no work ; whilst you, Minna, with your
riches and your loveliness, would be courted
and honoured and made much of by everybody.
Consider, Minna! Take a whole
year, if you like, in which to think it over
in which to weigh it all well — and do not
decide rashly. A life-long regret, you know,
may follow a too-hasty decision''

With infinite humility she crept close to
him ; and, with a sob, she put her arms about
his neck, Her tears meanwhile rained fast
upon his breast.

What is the loss of the whole world,
Roger, in comparison with the loss of your
love ? " she said. " If you will not let me
be your wife, why, it would be better indeed
for me if I were dead, and lying by Eoy's
side. I can conceive no higher honour than
to be your wife. There is not an hour in
the day in which I do not remember very
gratefully your nobility, your goodness tome,

all that you have done for me in the
dreadful past. Oh, Eoger, Roger ! is my
future, then, to be yet more dreary and
awful. Surely you cannot be so hard! How
often have you declared to me that I was, in
your heart, the one woman of all living
women ! I plead with you very humbly for
mercy, Roger ; and tell you that, in my
heart, you are the one man of all living men.
Your love is to me as the ' shadow of a great
rock in a weary land.' Take me ; or I do
not care to live ! I can say no more.
Perhaps I have already said too much."

But her last words were scarcely audible ;
for he had drawn her to his heart and now
held her firmly there. His strong arms were
round her ; she could feel his heart-beats ;
thenceforward the strength of that loyal
heart would be her shield for ever.

She had conquered.

The sun was westering and the dew rising
when they rose from the bank of the mere to
go back to " The Swan of Avon."

The big fish were on the feed beneath the
dipping boughs ; gray clouds of gnats were
hovering above the sunlit shallows. The
blackened ruin that was once Lonefield

Grange stood silent and forlorn in the
golden evening light ; the screaming starling
flock had gone to roost in the ivied holes
which were numerous in the charred and
crumbling walls. But the cock-pheasant
had returned to the mossy old sun-dial, and
the rabbits still frolicked with one another
amongst the trailing rose-bushes and the
billowy grass. Through the great old trees
which belted the mere the evening wind
travelled softly now and then.

With her arm resting once more on his,
the small white hand covered by Harland's
big palm, Minna and Roger took their homeward
way to Burcot. Her lovely eyes shone
with a joyful light ; no trace of tears or of
sorrow now lingered within their dark
depths. She was chatting with sweet
gravity as they wandered through the
meadows ; and Roger was bending down
his head to listen to the dear voice.

"And so, Minna, you would like our
future home to be at Lonefield Grange?"
he remarked presently. "Here, my dearest,
rather than anywhere else ? "

Yes," she answered wistfully. " Roy's
grave is near; our mother lived here. I
should be happier here, Roger, than anywhere
else. We will rebuild it. Not a dark

and haunted-looking old house, as it was
before; but we will make it light and airy
and beautiful, with a solid and comfortable
beauty, as a home should be. Neither shall
it be too large. I want our home to be
home,' Roger, in every sense of the word."

*' You do not, I know, like 
? " said he, with something like a sigh ;
though he smiled.

No, no, no," she cried quickly-—'' much
as, for your sake, I love bhe Little Mills."
But she quietly added immediately after : " I
will live at Coverley if you wish it, though,
Roger. Still — still, I do nob think that I
could make my home at Woldney Moat,"
shivered Minna.

My darling," said he, '' your life's happiness
— as far as I am concerned — is the one
thing to make certain. All else must give
place to that, and ever shall. Your wish is
enough ; it is settled. We will live at Lone-field
Grange," he added, cheerily.

Thank you, Roger," she said. " You
have made me very, very happy."

He bent his head yet lower, and their lips
met ; met in a long, close kiss.

So, my own, we seal the promise," said
he.

Burcot church clock chimed a quarter to

eight. Guiltily they started apart, staring
blankly at each other.

Aunt Helen ! " exclaimed Minna.

Dinner ! " ejaculated Roger.

Yes," said Minna, trying to look contrite
and not succeeding very well ; *' we faithfully
promised her, did we not ? that we would be
home by six o'clock ! "

'' Two good hours late we shall be,"
laughed Roger, heartlessly. " Poor Aunt
Helen ! She will be very hungry by the
time we get back to * The Swan.' "

We will run' said Minna, " and make up
for lost time."

*' That we will not," was Roger s sturdy
rejoinder; " for then we should lose something
which is of far greater consequence
than dinner."

'' Oh, Roger, what is that ? " she asked,
demurely.

He dropped his hands heavily upon her
shoulders, and smiled gravely into her radiant
eyes.

"Why, our few remaining moments alone
with each other," said he. " Are not they
of greater consequence than dinner ? "

Much may happen in a single year. A great
deal may happen in three.

At Ooverley-on-Dane many curious things
have come to pass — Time in the famous little
riverside town has by no means '' stood still"
since the flight of Miss Snaffle with the
Reverend Felix Scamper, and the murder of
Sir Garth Gilroy.

One never bears of sausage-suppers in
South Street now-a-days, or of form-jumping
after dusk in the parish schools. The curates
of St. Eve's, however, are as lawn-tennis and
afternoon-tea mad as ever they were, and the
Coverley spinsters still hunt those curates
with a zeal that is, perhaps, worthy of a
better cause.

One of the Miss Maltovers, for a wonder,
is married; one of the Miss Singletons — a
greater miracle still — is engaged ; but the
Miss Bilfils are still the Miss Bilfils, and ill-natured
Coverley gossips say that they are

likely to remain so. Poor Lawyer Bilfil
thinks that it is very hard !

Mrs. Septimus Haze has written another
novel, which bears the extraordinary title of
Running for the Bed Hat : A Passage in the
Life of a Parson. In it, they say, she has
caricatured her own dreamy little Yicar with
a skill that has quite startled Coverley.

As for Miss Bishop and Miss Eager, they
are both of them alive and well, and continue,
as of yore, to give an occasional party
that is to say, whenever there is sufficient
news afloat to warrant the extravagance —
consisting, as in the old days, of tea, cards,
and supper, and a little agreeable music with
which to wind up the evening.

In spite of Miss Eager's asthma, she is
likely to live for many a year to come ; for
she is wiry and cheerful, and makes the best
of life — such as it is in Ooverley-on-Dane.

From Borough Mills the Pringles have
long since disappeared ; and the smart large
house and business have passed into other
hands. A similar fate, soon after the
Pringles' departure from the neighbourhood,
befell the Little Mills upon the other
side of the water.

Yes. The Harlands have likewise vanished ;
and the Little Mills are in the hands of
strangers.

The Prince family elected to pitch their
sent at Brighton, where they bought as big a
house as they could find vacant, and there in
it they now live in great splendour. But
strange to say, both Jill and Hetty are yet
unmarried ; though it is certainly no fault
either of their own or of their mother's, says
malicious rumour, that they are Jill and
Hetty Prince still. The long looked-for
Baronet, it would seem, the dream of Mrs.
Prince's Hfe, is a long time turning up ; but
the worthy woman has not yet begun to
despair — though Jill is growing positively
stout, and Hetty's bloom is fading.

Headstone Payne, meanwhile, the blithe
young Coverley surgeon, has married his rich
Jamaica cousin ; and last year she presented
him with a son and heir.

Strangers, too, dwell at Woldney Moat;
and its old master and his evil-doing are there
forgotten. Wonders in the way of restoration
have been done for the fine old mansion.
The park and grounds are now in perfect
order, the sloping gardens in the summertime
are dazzling, bewilderingly brilliant, with
the newest horticultural designs in " bedding
out'' Brambles and weeds are no longer
known there ; and gold fish swim in the clearwater
of the moat.

No one would recognise in the Woldney

Moat of to-day the gloomy, crime-haunted old
barrack of a few years ago.

The tenant of the place is a stock-broker,
who goes up to town every morning. He
would be glad, at any price, to purchase the
Moat ; so charming is its situation, he considers,
on the banks of the beautiful Dane.
But the owner of Woldney Moat — Mrs.
Roger Harland — cannot part with the house
even if she would ; the estate being strictly
tied to the Milroy family.

Mr. and Mrs. Roger Harland themselves
live at Lonefield Grange, near to Burcot, in
Warwickshire ; and a beautiful home is theirs.

The house is really new, but it has not a
new appearance. It is a " home " in every
sense of the word, as Minna Dexter, before
her marriage, had declared to her lover that
it should be.

As he was her lover in those days, so is he
her lover still.

Sweetness and light, conjoined with every
earthly comfort, reign at Lonefield Grange.
Given these blessings, seasoned with mutual
love, life there is necessarily one of perfect
peace. How can it be aught else ?

When Roger married and settled down at
Burcot as a hard-working and conscientious
country squire, his sister Kate went to live
in London with " Aunt Helen " — as they all

now called her — at Minna's house in Cumberland
Square.

From the very hour that Mrs. De Lisle was
introduced to Kate Harland, she had conceived
a great affection for Roger's sister.
The attraction was reciprocal ; and the two
eventually became dear friends.

Therefore when Mrs. De Lisle, on Roger's
wedding-day, said helplessly to Kate after
church — the quiet wedding had been solemnized
in London — " What I shall do in this
great house all by myself, my dear, I can't
for the life of me imagine. Now that I have
lost Minna, I shall indeed be lonely. How I
wish — how heartily I wish, Kate, that you
would stay with me here, and make up your
mind to live in Cumberland Square ! "

Do you really mean it ? " said Kate
eagerly.

I shouldn't say so, my dear, if I didn't,"
replied Aunt Helen gently. " I never have
been used to live alone ; in fact, I couldn't
do it. So if you won't take pity on me, I
shall advertise for a companion — and oh,
dear ! oh, dear ! I shan't like that."

Then I will stay here with pleasure,"
answered Kate, in grateful accents. " You
have solved for me a troublesome riddle.
Aunt Helen."

It had been the sincere desire of Roger and

of Minna that Kate should live with them at
Lonefield Grange. But Kate Harland was
by far too sensible a woman to agree to such
an arrangement ; she preferred to cast in her
lot with that of Mrs. De Lisle, knowing that
to do so would be the more prudent course
in the end.

Kate, in these days, is not quite the Kate
Harland of some three years or so ago. Her
kind clear eyes have a settled sadness in
them ; her abundant hair, when she lets it all
down about her shoulders, reveals here and
there a silver thread. Notwithstanding her
laugh is as pleasant to hear as of yore — when
she does laugh ; and the world around her at
any rate does not suspect how sore and full
her heart is at times.

There are moments, it is true, when her
sorrow finds its voice ; but they are moments
when it and she are alone with each other,
and no mortal eye can see them.

More than one excellent offer of marriage
has Kate Harland received since she has
lived with Mrs. De Lisle in Cumberland
Square. But her wooers have been dismissed
kindly but firmly ; she had no love
to bestow upon any of them, and she frankly
told them so.

She is true to the memory of a dream, as it

were. She knows not whether Barton
Chance be dead or alive.

Never once has she beheld him since the
day on which they parted at Woldney Moat ;
it is but a few brief years ago, but to Kate it
seems like a century.

At first his letters used to come, if not
every day," at any rate regularly enough
to satisfy her. Then their advent by degrees
grew less frequent ; gradually less frequent
still; until at last they ceased to come at all.
It was over.

So the dream ended, as such dreams alas !
often do end, when the man to whom a loving
woman pins her faith is a man like Barton
Chance.

No. Kate knew not whether he was living
or dead; at home or abroad. One thing,
however, she did know ; and that was that,
cruelly as she had suffered through loving
him too well, she nevertheless loved him
still.

Three persons, and three only, knew Kate's
story — Roger and Minna and Mrs. De Lisle.
But the name of Barton Chance was never
named among them.

« « « « «

One bright morning, in early autumn, the

letter-bag as usual was brought to Lonefield
Grange. It came however a little later than
common; and when Roger unlocked it, he
and Minna had nearly finished breakfast.

He looked grave as he took out the letters
and papers.

My dear," he said to his wife, " here is
another for you from Doctor Foote, I believe.
I am afraid it contains bad news,
another following so quickly on the one of
yesterday morning."

Minna turned a shade paler than the
warm paleness '* which was her natural
complexion ; and her hand trembled visibly
as she broke open the envelope. Upon its
seal, which was raised in dark-blue, the word
Asylum " stood out distinctly in letters of
white.

There were only a few lines, which Minna
read at a glance.

'rit is not from Doctor Foote; it — it is
from the chaplain himself, Roger," she said,
the tears starting to her eyes. " My grandfather
is dying. If we wish to see him alive,
we must start at once."

They rose immediately from the table.

My dear one," said Roger quietly, '' I am
ready to start now."

In the old tender fashion she put up her
arms to his brown neck and drew down his

teat to a level with lier own. Lie kissed
him for thanks, and hurriedly left the room.

Eoger pulled out his watch. They could
catch with ease the ten o'clock express, if
they drove direct to Leamington station.

Twenty minutes later husband and wife
were ready for the journey; Roger standing
in the hall of the Grange and drawing on a
pair of driving-gloves; Minna, richly but
very neatly attired and wearing a veil, descending
the handsome staircase.

A moment, dear," she said to her husband.
I must see Roy before I go."

She spoke to the servant who was clearing
away the breakfast-things. He bowed and
disappeared.

Soon down the staircase came a broad and
blooming damsel, bearing in her ruddy arms
a crowing youngster, sweet and fresh as a
daisy from his morning bath. Whilst all ina
fluster, at the stair-head, there appeared a
gaunt old female, in stiff white cap and apron,
screaming out angrily :

Take care, Hanner gal, or you'll drop
him ! You'd no business to ketch him up
all of a whirl like that wi'out my leave.
Dan'l told me you nearly let 'un fall the other
day, you careless hussy, you ! "

The tall old woman was none other than
Naomi Drake ; the girl was Hannah, who

was shortly to be married to one of Roger's
grooms, and whose daily spirits were wild and
ungovernable in consequence ; and the child
was Minna's first-born and Roger's heir, to
whom they had given the name of Roy.

He was a splendid little chap, nearly two
years old, and the picture of lusty health.
He had his mother's soft dark hair and
beautiful eyes. Before she went down the
hall-steps she smothered the child's plump
sweet neck with kisses, and strained him to
her bosom in a passion of love. Over his
mother's shoulder meanwhile the small rascal
grabbed playfully at Roger's nose.

Harland's own dog-cart and thorough-bred
chestnut were waiting at the door; and
Hannah's smart young man was standing at
the horse's head.

It will be better — quicker than the carriage,"
Harland said; and Minna answered:
You know best, Roger."

The next minute she was seated by his
side, and they were off ; past the mere and
down the park, with Hannah's young man,
rigid with folded arms and cockade, perched
aloft behind them.

The asylum in which Adam Ford was confined
was not far from London ; and soon
after one o'clock in the afternoon of that day
Minna and Roger had arrived at their destination.

They had telegraphed from Leamington
in answer to the letter; so that the
governor and the chaplain were in readiness
to receive them and to conduct them at once
to the old man's room.

'' Are we in time ? " was Minna's first
question. Yes. They were not too late,
they were gravely assured.

Down cold stone passages, along vast corridors
with many strong doors on either side,
they were silently ushered, until they reached
the apartment wherein the old lock-keeper
was dying. On their way thither more than
one dull thud, more than one frightful shriek
and blood-curdling yell, had assailed their
ears, in spite of stout walls and doors. But
the sounds were not wholly new to Minna ;
she and Roger had visited the asylum on
many a previous occasion ; and as she had
always had his dear arm to cling to throughout
the ordeal, she had never been afraid.

The room to which they were conducted
was a familiar one. At the door of it the
governor and the chaplain withdrew — the
latter courteously observing that he was
close by if wanted. Minna and Roger
entered together.

Everything there was exquisitely neat and
clean; and the heavily-barred window was

VOL. m. s

open to let in the air. Comfortable armchairs
had been wheeled to the bedside ; and
fruit, flowers, jelly, and champagne were
upon a table conveniently near. Evidently
Adam Ford had been supplied with every
luxury, had been allowed to want for nothing
that money could procure.

A doctor was bending over the old man's
pillow, and smoothing back with kindly touch
from his forehead the long damp locks of
snow-white hair. Dr. Foote straightened
himself as Minna softly approached, and said :

Ah, I am glad to see you, Mrs. Harland
very glad ! He has uttered your name
repeatedly within the last half-hour."

He is harmless, Doctor, to-day, I hope ?"
said E/Oger, in a low, anxious undertone, ashe
shook hands with Doctor Foote.

"Oh, my dear sir, pray have no fear ! "
replied the madhouse doctor, in a cheery reassuring
whisper. " He has not the strength
of a child — pray take my word for it ! Half-an-hour
will about end it. A happy release,
my dear sir; a truly happy release."

So said smug Doctor Foote, and went on
chatting in a whisper about Adam. He was
perfectly acquainted, of course, with the facts
of the lock-keeper's case ; and so used was
he in his calling to horrors and deathbed

scenes of all kinds, that the day for him was
long since gone by when a dissolution so
mild as that of the poor maniac before him
could in the slightest degree ruffle his professional
equanimity.

Minna meanwhile had sunk upon her knees
by the pillows, and had raised very gently
the old man's head on her arm.

Grandfather," she said, controlling her
voice as well as she could — " grandfather
dear, you remember me to-day, do you not ?
I — I am never going to leave you any more
never again, grandfather, never again ! "

He rolled his dim, wild gaze upon her;
and a ray of light, for the first time for many
months, seemed to strike athwart his clouded
brain. The dimming eyes lit up with a gleam
of unspeakable love. Minna saw it, and was
thankful. She prayed fervently that he
might recognise her, if only for a moment,
before those poor restless eyes were shut forever
— to gaze upon her never again.

Doctor Foote, too, had noticed that sudden
gleam in the eyes of the maniac ; and he
stopped in his blithe whispered chat with
Eoger, to say quietly :

"Humour him, Mrs. Harland — humour
him in whatever he says or fancies. Pray
take my word for it, it is the wiser way*'

She looked up piteously, and nodded acquiescence.


Yes, I remember you — why haven't you
come before, my Minna, my beautiful Mines
the old man was saying. He put
out his quivering hand and laid it upon her
hair; caressed with infinitely tender touch
its soft dark waves. "My child, my one
ewe-lamb, why haven't you come sooner to
your poor old father ? Why have you left
him so lonely all these long, long years ? . . .
Hark, Minna ! A barge is coming down
stream. Lock — lock — clock ! " he shouted
with all his strength, half lifting himself in
his bed. " Minna, we will go and wind back
the great gates, dear, together — you and I —
as we used to wind 'em back in the dear old
days."

Doctor Foote here quitted Koger, and went
nimbly round to the bedside. Could it be,
he wondered, that he was wrong, after all, in
his reckoning, and that the old man's exit
would not be of so mild a nature as he
Doctor Foote — had anticipated? The
patient's voice was stronger than it had
been for weeks.

Minna could hardly speak. She knew now
that it was her mother, and not herself, that
Adam believed had at last come back to him.

They — they told me you were dead,"
he rambled on more feebly. " Yes, Minna,
and — and they showed me your grave in
London — "

Grandfather, it was a lying grave ; for
years the name upon that grave was a lie,"
she tried to tell him. " It has been altered —
it is made right and just now — "

But Adam could not understand. He did
not heed her.

'' I was at your funeral, child— it was
many years ago ; but I remember now," he
said. " And yet — and yet, how is it ? You
have come back to me. . . . And your lover,
where is he ? . . . your false lover, where is
he ? Ah ! " yelled the old man, " I know, I
recollect . . . that night on the bridge — you
were with him in the twilight — I saw you,
heard you — "

In a brief access of nervous power he
sprang this time right up ; his eyes gleaming
dangerously ; his breath coming fast.
There was foam upon his lips and upon his
ragged beard. With one bony hand he
gripped Minna's wrist; the other clenched
and palsied fist he raised high in air, as
if in the act to strike some spectre shape
before him.
• *' Roger ! " cried Minna, faintly.

He was with her almost before she had
spoken ; and quietly loosening the madman's
clutch, he freed his trembling wife and drew
her safely upward to his side.

Do you know," said the old lock-keeper,
huskily, " how I found out . . . found out
that Sir Garth Gilroy was the man who took
away my child ? After all those years of
weary waiting and watching for him — all
those years in which, all the while, we had
been close to each other . . . the villain !
do you know ? " he asked, in a kind of
hissing whisper, leaning sidewise towards
Minna as he put the feverish question —
how I found out ? "

Clinging to Roger with her left hand, she
drew quite close to the bed again; and,
bending over her grandfather, she wiped with
her handkerchief the gathering froth from
his lips and beard.

"No, father," she said, soothingly. "I
do not know; I never have known. How
did you find out ? "

Doctor Foote, who, opposite to her, had
furtively possessed himself of the arm which
the madman had raised menacingly above his
head, nodded approval across to Minna at the
mode of address she had so compassionately
employed.

'that is right" — "his lips formed the
words in silence — " call him ' father.' "

You were on the bridge with him, Minna,
late one summer evening — do you recollect ?
close to the shallows near the weir where
the trout lay. . , . Child, do you remember
it was the Coverley Race-week ? "

Father, I remember," she said, battling
with her emotion.

Roger stood with her, listening, his arm
encircling her waist.

"You were with him on the bridge that
night, Minna," went on the old man, fiercely.
I was beneath it with my lines, in the
shallows near the weir. I heard your two
voices, yours and his ; sometimes the roar of
the water drowned them . . . sometimes
they came to me loud and clear. . . . Minna,
Minna, on that night I learned for the first
time that . . . that Sir Garth Gilroy was the
man ! That Sir Garth was the man who
took Minna Ford from her home ! . . .
Minna Ford . . . Minnehaha . I heard
the dear name splash up in the laughing
waters of the weir ! "

Scarcely conscious of what she did or
uttered, she broke from Roger s restraining
arm and dropped again upon her knees by the
bed. Vividly came back to her the memory

of that night, when she had stood with Sir
Garth upon the wooden bridge, and had
heard, with a spasm of almost agonised
terror, the eerie "voice in the weir." Ah,
she understood now !

Grandfather, she was a lawfully-wedded
wife— she was Minna Gilroy," cried Minna
Harland. " Believe that, and die happy ! It
is the truth — the solemn truth ! I am her
child."

Part only of the meaning of her 
words pierced the shadowed
brain of the dying lock-keeper.

'' So he said . so he said on that night
I heard him," he panted savagely ; '' but I
did not believe him, Minna . it was a lie
. . the Milroy were always liars — bad
husbands — bad wives — a bad lot ! I would
have killed him then and there on that night,
as I had sworn that I would do . . . but I
could not move from the place. . I had
no strength . . . the shock had stunned me,
Minna. . . . Revenge ! Revenge is sweet ;
and after years of waiting for it, my time
had come at last ! "

Tears were streaming from Minna Har-land'
s eyes.

'* Grandfather — oh ! grandfather dearest,
do not, in this hour, talk of revenge. It is

wrong to hunger so keenly for vengeance — I
know it now — it is a terrible hunger. There
is no peace where it dwells — there cannot be.
Yes, well do I know it now ; the past years
have brought it very bitterly home to me —
that it is better to leave the arrangement of
our injuries in the hands of Him who will
repay in His own good time. Think now,
grandfather, try to think now of Him and of
His infinite mercy, and not of revenge ! "

But I had sworn to have the life of the
man who took away my daughter," hissed
Adam Ford, between his hard gasps for
breath, his wild gaze roving hither and thither
over the room — " and I kept my vow ! Let
me go; let me go ! — and I will show you how
I killed him."

He struggled then to leave his bed ; but
Eoger and the madhouse doctor were prompt
to hinder the attempt.

"Minna," continued the old man feebly,
sinking back exhausted upon his pillows, " on
the next night after that one on the
bridge . . . you went to him at the Moat ;
I heard him tell you to come there
I followed you ; saw you meet him at the gate
in the copse . I watched you go down to
the moat with him, and I hid myself close to
you in the round plantation hard by. . . .

You quarrelled . . . you left him. . . . He
was alone ! At last, at last, thank God !
He was alone, and I rushed upon him
I struck him to the earth ; I battered in his

skull with my hook Blow after blow,

blow after blow, until he lay dead there on
the grass at my feet ! . . . ."

Shuddering, Minna Harland hid her face
as she knelt ; clasped her hands, and tried to
pray — to pray for the soul of Adam Ford.
Yet somehow before her shut and agonised
eyes the innocent face of her child took shape ;
and she found her lips moving in a wild appeal
to Heaven that, in the years to come, when he
should grow to be a man, the passion of
revenge, the godless thirst for vengeance,
might never, never enter and sully his young
heart. 'let him be like his father," she
prayed — " strong, tender, and good ! "

A scream from the old man recalled her to
her surroundings. Rising quickly to her feet,
she saw that Adam, with a last flicker of
strength, had leapt once more to a sitting
posture, and with his shaking hand was pointing
to a corner of the room.

Look, Minna— look ! " he cried. " He
has risen from his grave to mock me ! His
hair is dabbled with blood. . . His hands,
too — like mine — are smeared red ! See ! he

moves this way . . . nearer and nearer
he comes. . . . Ah, no ! I am wrong. It
is the beautiful face of Minnehaha — my own
daughter — that beams so sweetly upon me
not Ms. . . . She is like an angel
from Heaven . . . she smiles . . . she
beckons ! Minna, Minna, I am coming . .

. coming ."

The arms of the living Minna were wound
about her grandfather ; her head, in speechless
grief, drooped to his shoulder. But no
loving human clasp could hold the old
man back from the " straight and dreadful
pass."

A radiant Hight seemed to spread over his
gray face ; the fierce fire of madness died out
of his closing eyes.

Dr. Foote touched twice a hand-bell upon
the table near him. The chaplain, hearing it,
immediately entered.

But he was too late. He was not wanted.
For the old man lay dead upon Minna's
breast.

One bleak late January day — a Saturday
morning — dull yet freezing, when a small
wind, keen as steel, blew steadily from the

north-east, threatening snow, Mrs. De Lisle
and Kate Harland, snugly shut in their warm
carriage, drove, on an errand connected with
money matters, to Courts' bank in the Strand.
Eoger, Minna, and the children — there were
now three youngsters at Lonefield Grange
(Roy, Madeline, and baby Kate respectively)
had spent the past Christmas in Cumberland
Square ; for young Eoy Harland was,
by this date, old enough to go to pantomimes,
and his fixed ambition at the age of
six and a half was to be a clown at Drury
Lane.

Kate and Aunt Helen were shortly going
down into Warwickshire to pay a return
visit at the Grange ; and the former to-day,
at a certain famous toy shop in Regent Street,
intended to buy a wonderful rattle with silver
bells for her little god-child, who was not yet
a twelvemonth old.

It was mid-day. The Strand was blocked
with traffic; with vans, omnibuses, cabs,
pedestrians, in apparently inextricable confusion.
Near to the entrance of the bank a
large crowd had gathered — had collected ina
moment after the surprising manner of
London street crowds — and hence the extraordinary
block in the thoroughfare.

A frightful accident, it appeared, had

happened. Two hansoms, upon the slippery
asphalte, had come into violent collision ; and
the driver of one of them — who, so said a
policeman to a shivering wretch out of employment,
at the time was driving recklessly, and
moreover was not sober — had been pitched
from the high seat of his vehicle head foremost
to the pavement below. He was flung
with crashing force upon the curbstone, and
was picked up by a passer-by — dead !

Finding the carriage at a standstill, Mrs.
De Lisle let down the window and looked
out. She could see the dingy old bank well
enough ; but there was little prospect of their
being able to reach it yet awhile.

I think we had better alight and walk
these few yards, my dear," said Aunt Helen
"or Courts' will be closed before we get
there. At this rate we may sit here
until Doomsday. I wonder what has occurred
? "

Kate, being perfectly willing, down jumped
the footman and opened the carriage door,
and the two ladies got out to walk the few
steps to the bank.

The policemen, as Kate and Mrs. De Lisle
with difficulty made their path along the
thronged pavement, were just in the act of
lifting the unfortunate man from the ground,

to place him in a cab, and to take him — since
there might be in him a lingering glimmer
of life — to Charing Cross Hospital.

Another policeman, seeing the two ladies'
predicament, roughly parted the crowd in
order to let them pass through.

Then in an instant Kate Harland's glance
fell upon the dead man's face. The shabby
old opera-hat that he had been wearing was
gone, trampled under foot ; his yellow hair,
bright as ever, was blown about in the bleak
winter wind. His clothes, of fashionable cut,
were horribly poor and threadbare ; the flesh
was wasted from his bones. Drink and sin
and dissipation had done their fiendish work;
and no trace of the glorious beauty which had
once been his remained upon that human
wreck.

Only the mother that bore him — had she
been alive — or she whose love is yet greater
than that of a mother, would have recognised
the man to-day.

A woman's heart-broken cry had rung out
above the din around her ; a woman had
thrust her despairing way through the unwholesome
and hindering crowd. Fainting,
she sank upon the pavement, with her face
upon the dead man's lips.

That wreck of manhood — the dissolute

driver of a London hansom — was Barton
Chance.

At Lonefield Grange the busy and useful
years go by, and life there is more like a
beautiful dream, full of peace and content.


In the summer months Aunt Kate and
Aunt Helen are always at the Arrange, and
by the children their advent is hailed with a
sort of frenzied delight. Perhaps, however,
wonderful London presents and confectionery
may have something to do with the welcome
!

With Aunt Kate Harland, who is so cheerful
and wise, so sweet-tempered and kind, there
is boating on the mere in a punt which is —
says ancient Dan'l Drake — as safe as the Ark ;
with tea in the meadows among the haycocks,
and romps on the straw in the barns.

And Aunt Kate, when she reads to them
on Sunday afternoons, never forgets to tell
the boys to be good boys, so that when they
grow up they may be good men.

If you are good, dears, you will be happy,
depend upon it," says Aunt Kate — " not
unless." She smiles as she speaks ; though
her eyes are full of a pathos which is above the

children's comprehension. And then sometimes,
after a long day in the clover-fields,
the J will all go together — yes, papa, mamma
and all — to Burcot churchyard, there to
strew fresh flowers upon " Uncle Roy's **
grave.

THE END.

WAED AND DOWNEY'S

i;^fo "§001% at eII SikmcH mxh ^§oohtlkxn,

SONGS FROM THE NOVELISTS, FROM

ELIZABETH TO VICTORIA. Edited, and with Introduction
and Notes, by W. Davenport Adams. [just readri.

PHILOSOPHY IN THE KITCHEN. By ^^The

Old Bohemian." 1 Vol. [just readij.

UNDER THE TZARS. By Stepniak, Author of

Underground Russia." Demy 8vo.

LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL

CORRESPONDENT. By John Augustus O'Shea. 2 A^ols.,
with a Portrait of the Author. 21s.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; oe, LONDON

UNDER THE FIRST GEORGES. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOY. Crown 8vo. 6s.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; or, LONDON

UNDER THE LAST GEORGES. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOY. Crown 8vo. 6s.

A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN, AND OTHER

STORIES. By the Author of " Phyllis," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

MORNING GREY. By the Author of '^ Ade.'^

3 Vols. 31s. 6d. [In April.

THE FLOWER OF DOOM. By M. Bethany

Author of " Kitty," &c. Crown Svo. Qs. [Shortly.

LIL LORIMER. By Theoo Gift, Author of ^'A

Matter-of-fact Girl," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

SOME STAINED PAGES. By the Author of

The New Mistress," &c. 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

WARD AND DOWNEY, 12, York Street, Covent Garden.

LIKE LOST SHEEP. By the Author of 'the

Wild Warringtonss." 3 Vols. 31s. 6d.

NOT EVERY DAY : A LOVE OCTAVE. By

Constance MacEwen, Author of " Miss Beauchamp : a
Philistine," &c. 2 Vols. 2l8.

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW. By

Mabel Collins. 3 Vols. 3l8. 6d.

JOHN FORD. By Frank Barrett, Author of

Folly Morrison," &c. 2 Vols. 12s.

THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. By B.

L. Farjeon. . Third Edition. 6s.

GREAT PORTER SQUARE: A MYSTERY. By

B. L. Farjeon, Author of •' Grief," &c. Fourth Edition. ■ 68.

PROPER PRIDE. By B. M. Croker, Author of

Pretty Miss Neville," &c. Fourth Edition. 6s.

FOLLY MORRISON. By Frank Barrett, Author

of " John Ford," &c. 3s. 6d.

GRIF: A STORY OF AUSTRALIAN LIFE.

By B. L. Farjeon. Ss. 6d.

THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. By Richard

DowLiNG. Picture Boards. 2s.

HONEST DAVIE. By Frank Barrett.

[In the Press.

IT IS NO WONDER. By J. Fitzgerald Molly.

In the Press.

WARD and DOWNEY, 12, York Street, Covent Garden.
