G8(ol-.
•A

^^&^

t^

1 ^■-'^■

W ' ^'j

^«£r-

/c^^.,. ?;

V^:-//

- ^ <1.

V -^ •;.:

.^ ^ <L

'L<i-^- 'r-.

C'L^

: ^'':

/■ y !

■iyiy '/:

^V" »/(?•!.■

v^

V\(^-::.

COUSIN AND BRIDE.
VOL. I.

COUSIN AND BRIDE.

BY

Percy GREG

AUTHOR OP

"ACROSS THE ZODIAC," "ERRANT,"

&c., &c.

For Love himself took part against himself."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1881.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

Qj
o

O

.J

-0


IP

)^

r
§

r

OP

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

FERN DALE HOLM.

L ESTRANGE!" I exclaimed. "Surely,
Cleveland, that is a curious selection V
I was spending a brief holiday at Ferndale
Holm, partly to discuss with its master the
arrangements of a London daily journal recently
purchased by an association of Tory capitalists, of
I whom Cleveland was in importance and personal
influence, though by no means in pecuniary
interest one of the principal.

I think, on the whole," he rejoined, " it is

the best I can make. My colleagues have very

wisely decided to leave the choice exclusively ina

single hand, instead of attempting an election

VOL. I. B

by vote; and after carefully' considering all his
qualifications and all the objections you have in

view, I can fix on no better man. V will

not take it : you could not ; and Leaf, perhaps in
other respects the best qualified of all, has not
the capacity of dealing with men that the position
requires. You could not find a better Editor if he
had to deal only with writings, and not with
writers."

xA.nd yet," I said, " Leaf is generally liked,
I think, and certainly meade no enemies when he
held a quasi-editorial post on the Trumpet

No," said Cleveland ; " but he cooled everybody
a little. He made a certain amount of
needless friction : and you must remember that the

ultimate control remained in the hands of ,

who, though far inferior to Leaf in knowledge
and in intellect, was perhaps the most conciliatory
and kindly man that within my memory has filled
such a post. Yet you know that there was not
under their joint rule that kind of active, hearty
co-operation that there had been in former days.
You will have Leaf for a colleague. He takes
what in his hands will be the second place, the
Foreign Editorship ; and I look to him to make

the Courier in a few years the highest authority
upon Continental politics."

I hoped," said I, " that you were to have
been our chief."

Did you ? I thought you knew me better.
Nothing that English life has to offer would
induce me to live in London. I have twice
refused to contest a parliamentary constituency,
the last time with something more than a fair
chance of success. And, despite my twelve years'
experience of journalism, I hardly think I could
endure the toil of editorship— the hurry, worry,
and fatigue, the constant excitement, the inevitable
exaggeration of trifles, and the poverty of the
result."

A successful newspaper is a great power, and
gives its Editor a great position."

True; but the man himself must be damaged,
and his work must be inferior. He has not time
to think clearly or to write — or even to direct his
staff— carefully and wisely. He must live in the
midst of a perpetual ' tempest in a teapot j' his
judgments are inevitably half-considered, and his
information one-sided. I like to be sure what J
do think before I speak ; you, I know, care more

B 2

to have an opinion than to be sure of its soundness.
You are pugnacious by instinct, and, so you
are fighting under the old colours, never care to
examine your ground — I mean as a journalist.
It is true that my colleagues offered me the place
almost on my own terms. But I don't know that
I could have done the work better than Estrange ;
and I was astonished that anyone should have
asked me to give up a life thoroughly congenial
to me for money, which after all I don't
want. But why do you object so strongly to
Estrange f

I should be sorry to object now I know he is
to be my chief, scan get on with him, especially
in the department you have assigned to me. But
I should have thought him less likely to win your
approval than my own''

You and he have too much in common to
appreciate each other thoroughly I am in no
danger of exaggerating his defects, because I can't
imagine myself ever led astray by them ; and can
measure his character truly, because my sympathy
with him is purely intellectual. I grant you that
he writes more bitterly, stings more deeply and
lastingly, than any other writer of our day ; but

that is in virtue of his force and keenness, rather
than his venom. There are abundance of reptiles
who, with poison bags ten times bigger,
never get the credit of ill-nature, because their
fangs are blunt and their jaws impotent. I know
he often frightened your late chief; but I have
no fear of his violence when he is in command.
He has one or two very rare faculties. First, he
knows himself, and is, I think, a little too distrustful
of his own judgment. His critical instinct
is quite impersonal ; he judges his own work as
equitably as another's, and may be trusted to
overrule his own crotchets and curb his own
humours as strictly as yours or Everett's ; though,
when another held the bridle, he was simply as
bitter as he knew how to be, trusting Leaf to
moderate any excess of vitriol. And, remember,
bitter as he is, irritable as is his temper, he never
made a personal enemy — has not, I believe, a
personal enemy in his own profession, or indeed
outside his own family. A family quarrel so
sharp as his may argue, generally does indicate,
want of temper or judgment ; but such quarrels
may be forced on anyone, and outsiders can only
judge by the character of the men. Estrange's

.stands far higher than that of any of those with
whom he has quarrelled. He is reputed by all
who have known and dealt with him a nan of
stainless chivalric loyalty and honour. His
enemies certainly are not. Till lately most of
those who have-worked with him or under him
have been his warm personal friends. Perhaps
his most remarkable and exceptional peculiarity
is his readiness to do full and generous justice
to the work of others. Most of us have a chance
in life ; his was a splendid one, came when he
was not twenty-five, and he missed it by twelve
hours. He would have been where Ferrol is, or
higher. Well, we were talking of Ferrol the
other day, and Estrange said, in his quiet
matter-of-fact way, ' I never saw but one instance
of what people call special providence ; when he
stepped over my head. We should never have
known it, but we should have lost the best
journalist in Europe.' That temper is about the
highest qualification an Editor could have. I see
you smile. It is rare ; but it is the one quality
which induces subalterns to work like chiefs : and
I have known that quality, by getting the best
out of the best men, make a successful Editor

without critical tact, political knowledge, intellectual
force, or even industry."

"Well," I said, "if Estrange can keep his
temper with his staff, and will not write, or will
get some one else to look over his own articles, I
can conceive that he might five years ago have
been fit for the place. But surely his health is
too utterly broken to endure long the work from
which you yourself seem to flinch f

*' Very likely. He may be quite right in saying
that he will not live five years ; but in that
time he will have made the Courier; and the
question concerns him rather than his friends.
He is willing, for the sake of a wife and children
he will never see again, to seize a chance of
making a fortune, or at least a competence, in the
few years left to him. But he has misgivings
on that score, not for himself, but for the paper ;
and he has made a condition not very easy to
fulfil. I must find him ' a right hand, or rather a
body ;' a man who can, under his direction, do all
the physical and mechanical work, from taking
down articles and confidential letters in shorthand
to answering ordinary correspondence, correcting
proofs, revising editorial copy, attending in the

Gallery and the Lobby ; in short, an amanuensis,
private secretary and deputy-editor in one.
Estrange can always think and speak clearly —
thanks to opium — but very often he can neither
walk nor write for weeks at a time. His alter
ego must have the ability, if not the experience,
of a special correspondent or a secondary leader-writer;
must be capable of actually editing the
Courier for a day or two, at need ; and yet he
must be content with absolute subordination —
content to be no more than a secretary, and in
that capacity to be absolutely, generously loyal
to his chief; to do his utmost to postpone his own
inevitable succession."

A white crow, if not a Phoenix."

A black swan, perhaps," said Cleveland,
laughing. "But Australia is almost next door
now-a-days; and you may see my black swan
or white crow nearer than the Zoological Gardens.
You will be yet more incredulous when you hear
his name. Do you know Ethert Glynn?"

Not personally," I replied. " As a reviewer,
I have read, I believe, all his writings, and
should certainly have thought him loo ambitious
to accept such a post."

"Clever as they are," said Cleveland.
Gl3^i]ne's books have scarcely paid. Certainly
he could not live by them. For some reason
which I may guess, but am not at liberty to
guess aloud, he wishes to make within the next
three years a secure position, social and
pecuniary; and of course Estrange proposes to
pay well for such peculiar service. Glynnee is
scarcely thirty, and his experience in journalism
has been limited. If he married he must give
up the fellowship on which he has hitherto
depended. His two years' experience in the
Gallery has given him a facility in shorthand
writing which will be most serviceable, and if,
as I think he will, he accepts the post, he is a
man who will be thoroughly, earnestly loyal;
a man who, with his own eccentric temper and
somewhat mystical ideas, is not unlikely to feel
a strong personal sympathy for Estrange. I
am going to see him to-day: will you walk with
me r

Our walk, along hills that overlooked two of
the loveliest of English lakes, was a pleasant,
though it threatened to be a somewhat fatiguing
one. Ethert Glynnee was now staying at hi

mother's cottage, some ten miles from Ferndale
Holm. In consideration for myself, not practised
as he was in the daily exercise of a mountaineer,
Cleveland proposed to return by boat from Thorn-hurst,
a village with a landing-place on the lake,
nearly a mile from Mrs. Glynnee's home. But
about half-way, at the junction of two mountain
roads, we encountered a little party, all of whom
evidently recognized my companion. The eldest
of the three — whom by Cleveland's " There he
is !" I judged to be the object of our quest, was
a man of middle height ; of form somewhat
slight and spare, but erect and well made, indicating
in step and bearing the vigour produced
and sustained b}^ constant exercise in the open
air ; of countenance in nowise remarkable, though
at a second glance the capacious skull and ample
forehead were suggestive of more than average
intelligence — a suggestion very often deceptive.
Only the eyes attracted especial notice from an
observer stimulated to careful examination by
such an acquaintance with the man's achievements
in my own field as I possessed. Unusually
dark in colour, clear, and of exceptional brightness
— a brightness which seemed to arrest your

scrutiny at their outer surface — their large orbs
fixed at once on the countenance of him who
addressed Ethert Gl^mne, or to whom the latter
spoke, seeming at first to look you through and
through ; then, so speedily as to give the sense
of interruption long before his scrutiny was
finished, that intent purpose faded out of them ;
and you were conscious that they were occupied,
not with you, but with something far beyond —
some scene very remote in time, place, or
imagination ; until perchance his interest was
recalled by some passage in the conversation
that touched his sympathies or provoked his
antagonism.

One of his companions was a lad of eighteen ;
a sixth-form boy from some public school, I
guessed, by a certain self-respect that hardly
belongs to a boy of that age who has lagged
behind ; bright and intelligent, but probably
more renowned in the eleven than in the classroom
; more interested in the athletics of which
he might be an ornament, than in the books he
would be ashamed to neglect; tall, vigorous,
active, but somewhat loosely built, and, as
soldiers say, ill set-up. A physiologist would

have said that, if his parents were sound in
mind and body there was yet some constitutional
defect not worked out of the lineage. There was
a distant family resemblance between the pair.

The third member of the group had no
likeness to either. A young girl — so young
that the earnest courtesy of Cleveland's greeting
to her, and the formality with which
he introduced to "Miss Mordant" a man
much more than old enough to be her father,
seemed a little incongruous. Her dress and
manner, till the latter grew dignified as he
turned to her, bespoke her still a child — certainly
in the schoolroom, and likely to remain therefor
some years her figure and features had the
look of incompleteness, imperfection characteristic
of her actual age, had lost the grace and beauty
of childhood without having as yet attained
anything of the regular form and rounded delicacy
of dawning womanhood. Yet, ere our brief
converse ended, I ceased to be surprised at
Cleveland's manifest interest in her. Undeveloped
in actual shape, her countenance, in its outlines
and evident character, gave promise of a rare
and very impressive beauty — of a very uncommon

union of regular, almost faultless form with, life
and mobility of expression.

Even now, when the eye had lost the sense
of that " unfinished" condition which belonged to
a stage of growth through which even the
most absolute feminine beauty must pass, the
face was more than pretty, and was deeply interesting.
Perhaps a principal cause of the
feeling of incongruity it had inspired at first
sight was that which would one day be its
especial and distinctive beauty ; the unusual
combination of colour ; a fair complexion and
brilliant colour, with long loose abundant locks
of tawny gold — even at her age most girls would
have done more justice to such an ornament — and
eyes of a deep clear brown, with dark brows and
long dark lashes. The broad expanse of the
forehead was perhaps too ample, the head a
thought too large, as the form wanted stature to
suit its proportions perfectly; but such defects
two or three years might well correct, and would
certainly compensate. The small rosy mouth had
not quite relaxed from a distinctly petulant expression
; there was more of thought, and even of
moodiness, than of maidenly sweetness or childish

softness in the entire meaning of the face and
attitude; and I had observed that she walked
on the side farthest from Ethert, though she had
not seemed to be attending to her younger companion.
She could be out of humour, evidently:
apparently too, she hardly appreciated the attention
of a man like Glynn e to one not yet
entitled to expect such attention in right of sex,
though she was visibly gratified by the notice
and flattered by the courtesy of a comparative
stranger like Cleveland.

A few words from the latter relieved the boyish
awkwardness of Charlie Glynnee, who was reading
during the long vacation with his elder cousin,
preparatory to matriculation at Oxford. Ethert
and I shook hands not more cordially and
sincerely, but perhaps more unconstrained, than
we might have done had Glynnee known which
of the reviews he had no doubt read and re-read
with intense attention were due to my pen ; or
had I not been perfectly assured of his

Ignorance.

I was coming to call on you, Glynnee," said
Cleveland. " I wanted to talk business with you.
I have heard of something that may or may not

meet the views j^ou mentioned the other day.
Can yon turn back with us ? My friend would
be glad to escape a prolongation of our walk."

Charlie," said Glynn, turning to his cousin,
*' will you take Margaret home ? — at once, please;
and ask my mother not to wait for me, I cannot
tell when I shall return."

There was a very slight emphasis on the
instruction given to the youth, as if his heedlessness
or the young lady's wilfulness might require
a special warning ; and then parting from them,
we turned to walk back to Ferndale Holm.

Cleveland explained carefully and distinctly the
nature, especially dwelling on the drawbacks and
disadvantages, of the proposed situation. It was
a maxim of his that the worst side of an offer
should always be pressed on a man, the best on a
woman, if you wished that it should be willingly
accepted and contentedly retained. Glynnee
accepted at once, but by no means enthusiastically,
remarking only that the position would afford an
exceptionally complete professional training and
experience.

Then they passed on to discuss its duties and
demands in detail ; and I was struck to observe

how well versed was Cleveland — like myself, a
writer only, and unlike myself, a writer unfamiliar
with the mere technical task work of leader-writing
— in the entire theory and practice of
journalism. The truth is, he has known men, and
learned from them whatever books could not and
experience did not chance to teach him. Equally
notable was his insight into the personality of
the two men for whom he was preparing so
intimate a relation.

So conversing we reached Ferndale Holm. Its
young mistress received the new-comer with
something different from, I cannot say more than,
the kindly cordial welcome she ever gave to her
husband's friends. I could see that either Ethert
was a personal favourite of hers, or something
in his works, his character, or his situation had
attracted her especial interest and sympathy
Despite her invitation, however, Glynnee refused
to remain for Cleveland's usual dinner hour,
which was always late enough, except in the very
middle of summer, to allow us to enjoy the last
rays of sunlight, to remain out of doors as long as
the air was pleasant ; and Mrs. Cleveland left us
to add some more solid refreshment to the afternoon

tea, which she presently brought us with
her own hands as we lay on the lawn. I noticed
too when Ethert left, that he carried in his
buttonhole one of the last rosebuds of the season,
from a tree which none but herself was allowed
to touch, an especial protege and favourite of her
own.

In her absence we had fallen into talk about a
recent work of tiny own, whose failure to obtain
popularity had been a greater mortification than
with my experience any such incident should
have been.

I shall never' I said, " do anything
better."

"Probably not," replied Cleveland, " for there
I recognised not the intentional creation of a
month or a year, but the embodied realization of
day-dreams, fancies, hopes, and alarms, garnered
and talked over for half a lifetime. That harvest
of course cannot be reaped twice, and it is that
long unconscious incubation which has given the
fulness recognised by most of your critics to a
book completed from first to last, you told mein
six months. It was daring, too ; especially
your half-length picture of a polygamy home,"

VOL. I. C

That," said Glynnee, " seemed to me the most
startling of all the thousand impossibilities of a
story not intended to be possible."

And why?" enquired Cleveland. " I suppose
most men would be polygamists if they had the
courage ? And we know that women do contrive
to endure it."

That was not my objection," the other replied.
I can manage to understand the distribution of
masculine love ; and still more easily the
secondary love given in that case to one or two
ladies less angelic and more earth-like than the
favourite. What seems false to nature is the
relation of the Adventurer to wives he despised
and disliked, yet who are sorry to part with
him."

You think they must have found him
our

I don't know that that would so much matter.
But I can conceive nothing but misery from first
to last in a union devoid of conjugal love ; nothing
more loathsome than the position of the man,
except that of the woman."

And yet," said Cleveland, " we know that
marriages of interest, of convenience, are sometimes

made ; and, according to some cynical
moralists — our friend Estrange has often argued
the point with me — are not more unhappy in the
long run than most marriages for love. And
there, Glynnee, is, I think, a fault in your last
work. The marriage of interest had everything
to recommend it — ambition, need, the hero's
taste for wealth and dread of poverty. The lady
was not by any means unattractive; and yet one
never feels he is tempted for a moment, or wavers
even unconsciously."

Simply," replied Glynnee, " that I cannot
understand the temptation. What satisfaction to
a man's pride, ambition, love of power, fame, or
luxury, could compensate, could render endurable,
the necessity of maintaining — I might say, could
render it possible to maintain — the most intimate
relations with a woman he could never love, however
coldly f

*' And yet," observed Cleveland, " we know that
half the marriages of European society, and perhaps
most of those of Asia, are marriages of convenience
; and if not happy they are not found
intolerable'

That," said Glynnee, thoughtfully, '* is for

c 2

me one of the standing puzzles of life. I suppose
each of us could specify things which he knows,
but can't believe ; and the satisfaction found in a
mercenary marriage is to me the chief of incredible
certainties. The phrase which compares
such marriages with the worst form of lawless
sensuality seems to me a literal truth, and both
are as unintelligible as all other ' sins against
nature.' "

Can you not understand, then," I asked,
*' one of the most familiar phenomena of domestic
life ; the love that survives respect or esteem,
that sometimes seems to have dispensed with them
from the first ?"

"Yes," returned Ethert, after a minute's consideration.
"But love has always seemed to me
one of those man'' distinctions between man and
the brutes which testify most powerfully to a
spiritual element in humanity, wanting or but
very slightly developed in the lower creation.
Between their passion and ours I recognize not
analogy but contrast. AVith birds and beasts that
do pair I suppose the choice of mates is little
more than an accident, and a lost one is easily and
completely replaced. To man, unless brutalized,

the one woman is not clear for lier womanhood
so much as womanhood sacred, interesting,
attractive only for or through its reflection of
the one woman we love. Is it not a spiritual
affection that incarnates itself in the instinct,
rather than the instinct that is elevated and purified
by a supervening spiritual relation f

Ideally, perhaps, it should be so," rejoined
Cleveland, seeming to suppress an ironical smile.
*' Practically, it is exactly the reverse, save in one
case out of ten thousand."

Mrs. Cleveland's approach terminated an argument
to me barely comprehensible. We walked
again a short way homeward with Glynnee, and
as we returned Cleveland observed, in a reflective
tone :

Now I begin to understand that man's poetry,
where it has always seemed to me artificial. It
is not, as I thought, that he depicts untruthfully
a common sentiment, but depicts truthfully one
so uncommon that few of us can understand it ;
and I think there is a part of Estrange's nature
with which Glynnee will he in very deep accord.
You remember * Procyon's' saying, 'There is in
one current word of this refined ag-e a coarseness

that surpasses the worst impurities of Martial
or Rabelais — that is to these what the Poses
Plastiques were to the nudity of Olympus. A
generation that calls women " females" has forgotten
the instinct of human decency. Who
could hear his mother or daughter so defined*?
It is the phrase of men who have lost the ideal
of womanhood, and of women who never had
it f He and Gl^mne must have much in
common."

I can't say that I understood him ; some of my
readers possibly may.

CHAPTER II.

A WAYWARD WARD.

STOP, Charlie," said the young girl, as trespassed
a small inn upon the lake's side,
where two or three light rowing-boats were drawn
up on the beach, " let us go home by the lake ;
you can row, and 1 like it far better than walking."

The lad hesitated.

1 am afraid it won't do, Meta. Ethert told
me to take you straight home ; and that is not
all. Though he has not told me never to take
you out on the lake, I am sure he would not
like it, especially after what he said overnight."

"I don't care," Meta answered, petulantly.
If he chose to forbid it in so many words, I
suppose I must obey ; at any rate, Mrs. Glynnee
would be very angry with me if I did not. But
I don't see that, except for what she might say,

I am bound to obey his wishes, when they are
not commands'

"I am, at any rate," said her companion,
gravely. " I am very sorry to disoblige yon,
Meta, but I cannot abuse Ethert's trust ; nor,
where you are concerned, can I do what I know
he would not like."

It is all nonsense !" she exclaimed, angrily.
He is out of humour with me, or means to pay me
out, because of what happened last evening. He
had told me to hold the sheet, but I didn't care
to be bothered by it, and fastened it. Then there
came a squall, and he found out what I had done.
He cut it loose with his knife, and rated me like
a naughty child. Three years ago — but that
Ethert never did get me into trouble at home — I
should have made sure of being whipped and sent
to bed."

And serve you right," cried Charlie. " If my
fag did such a thing, wouldn't I lick him ! I gave
you credit for more knowledge of the lake, Meta.
Don't you know it is worse in that way than the
sea? The squalls come down these mountain
gullies and strike the lake often half-a-mile from
the shore, so that they may catch you before you

are warned, even if you happen to be looking to
windward, by their ruffling the surface. Ethert
might well scold ; you must have had a narrow
escape from drowning."

"Nonsense!" the girl answered, though for a
moment a little startled by her companion's
emphatic denunciation. ''I can swim, and Ethert
knows it, for he taught me."

Yes ; how were you dressed then ? Nay,
don't be vexed ; but Ivy asked him, for she would
have liked to learn. I mean, it was one thing
to swim in that light serge, fitting close from
neck to knees, and leaving every limb quite free,
and a very different one indeed with your everyday
clothes clinging round you. When those
skirts were once drenched, you might as well
attempt to swim in irons. Ethert himself couldn't
swim a hundred yards in them."

"I don't care; I had as soon be drowned once
for all as forbidden to go out for the chance of it.
But he knows I should be safe when you had no
sail, and only the oars. It is only done to punish
me''

She gave way, however, and they walked on
without more words for a while ; the lad evidently

meditating something in silence which perhaps he
was afraid or hardly knew how to say.

"Meta," he began at last, ''I don't want to
offend or quarrel with you — but I am not like
Ethert ; you can scold, or cry, as you please, and
it will not break my heart. We have been
friends since I was a fourth-form lad, and you a
child of ten ; and you must know that nothing
you say, whether against me or anyone else, will
make me like you the less; but I think I ought
to tell you what nobody else will. I know you,
and I know how much you mean ; other people
don't; and any one who heard you speak of
Ethert, or even of my aunt, as you speak to me —
and I fear you sometimes say the same kind of
thing to strangers— would think very ill of you
indeed."

I don't care, and I don't see it," she answered.
Of course I must not speak ill of one who
stands in place of a mother to me ; but I don't
see that Ethert has any right to control me, or
that if he scolds me as he did, and speaks of meas
he must have done to you, I should not say
what I think of it."

Her companion looked in downright amazement

into the girls face. Young as he was, he
had sense to see that she spoke with more good
faith than he at first thought possible ; not in the
mere childish sullenness which refuses to recognise
in words obligations of which the speaker cannot
but be secretly conscious, not in the sheer
shameless ingratitude so common to her sex.
On the other hand the evident surprise she saw
in his look startled her into reflection.

"No," she said, after a minute's pause. "I
don't see ; unless it be that he is Mrs. Glynnee's
son. And she is always angering me by speaking
as you do, as if I ought to think even more of
Ethert's wishes than of hers. After all, she is
not my mother, and he is nothing to me."

"Do you know what you are saying, Meta?
It is not only for being born that children owe
respect and gratitude to their parents. Ethert
says the first and more obvious duty rests on
those who have brought them into the world. But
when they have done their best for us, you
would be shocked to hear Ivy, or me, speak
slightingly of our mother or father. Yet they
have only cared for their own. How much more,
deeper, is your debt to those who have done as

much, in their own way, for one who did not
belong to them — had no claim on them ? And
as for Ethert, he is so good a fellow, he has
been so kind to me, that I could not bear to hear
anyone speak of him in that tone without getting
angry. But from you, Meta, it is too bad ; you
cannot mean what you say. You must know that
all a girl could well owe to a man, you owe to
Ethert."

Her face grew grave at once, but also
calm ; the angry light fading from the eyes
as much of the colour faded from her bright
cheeks.

What do you mean ?"

*' Mean ?" He checked himself suddenly. " If
it is news to you, I suppose I ought never to have
said it ; if you don't know, it must be because
Ethert has taken pains you never should."

Tell me," she said. *' You have said too much
already to be silent now. If you will not tell
me,'^ as he remained silent and perplexed, " I can
only ask Mrs. Glynnee, and I am sure it will make
her very angry."

I don't think," he replied, with much hesitation,
" that I have any right to tell you what it

is clear that neither Ethert nor my Aunt intended
that you should know."

How do you know it then ? If Ethert told
you, and did not tell you not to tell me, you have
a right to speak."

I don't know that I should ; but Ethert told
me nothing, nor my Aunt either, only 1 seem
always to have known all about it. And you are
quite wrong, Meta," he added, trying to turn the
conversation, " in thinking that Ethert said
anything unkind, spoke as if blaming you in the
least, last night. I did not know that anything
unpleasant or awkward had happened ; but he
said something about the dangers of the lake, and
that if I would go out alone I must never take
the responsibility of any one else's safety."

Never mind : if what you have said just now
is true — I beg your pardon, I mean if you are not
mistaken — Ethert had a right to say what he
pleased, and I have no right to resent it."

You may be very sure you have not, Meta.
Do you not know, do you not see every day, how
differently Ethert behaves to you than to any
other child ? — Oh, I am not to call you a child ?
very well — to any other young lady ?"

What do you mean ? Does he not speak tome
and treat me just as he does your sister V

Ivy is his cousin ; and Ivy is three years
older than you, which makes a great difference
just now, whatever it may do three years hence.
No, he is very fond of Ivy, makes very much of
her, and I don't suppose he would hurt her for
the world. I never saw him so disturbed as
when something he said and she misunderstood
set her off crying. But he don't pick and choose
his words with her, and — well, he does treat her
like a child, and you — like the Princess of a fairy-tale.
With other young ladies he gives himself
rather less trouble than most men do ; not that
he is not polite, but he does not care a twopenny
straw whether they like it or not."
Nor whether they like him, either ?"
Perhaps," answered Charlie. *' And so, Meta
you may judge how much he cares either that you
should like him, or, it may be, that he should give
you no cause to do otherwise."

*then," observed Margaret reflectively, " if he
felt that, why should he keep back what must
oblige me to like him, and more than like him,
however he might treat me ?"

I am sure you can answer that question
yourself, if you will think a little. No man
would Uke to remind a girl how much she owes
to him ; no generous person, man or woman — nay
you yourself, I was going to say again, child as
you are — you would not care to enforce anyone's
affection by letting them know that you had done
for them more than they could ever hope to repay.
The more they owed you, the more you would
wish to win their affection, if you cared for it,
independently of that."

I understand," she replied, after a moment's
consideration; *' and that is just like Ethert.
Whatever he has done for me — and he has often
taken great trouble to give me pleasure— he never
likes to have much said about it. He would
rather see that I am pleased, or get ' thank you '
and a kiss in earnest — " she stopped, colouring
with the consciousness natural to her character and
feelings, half childish, half womanly. '' Charlie,
you must tell me ! You have said all, you have
made me understand whatever Ethert did not
wish me to find out. Now it is only fair to tell
me the exact truth, and let me perceive how I
ought to feel and behave. If, as you say, people

think ill of me for behaving as I have done, is it
fair to keep me in ignorance, when they think I
know and judge me as if I did ?"

Perhaps you are right ; at any rate, Meta, I
don't want to vex you more than I can help, when
you have taken so kindly' what I thought would
make you very angry. Don't you remember j-our
father ?"

*• Yes — not very well. I never saw very
much of him ; Mamma said he was always so
busy."

I daresay he was. Well, you know, he was
Ethert's tutor. I believe he was doing well, but
when he married he lost his fellowship, of com-se,
and had nothing but what he could earn. Just
when Ether t took his degree, or rather I think
when he got his fellowship, which was before
he took his degree — a very rare honour — your
father died of a brain-fever. He was with a
reading party hereabouts when it seized him ; and
when Ethert heard of it he came down and
nursed him entirely till your mother came, and
helped her afterwards till the last. Well, you
know, she only survived him a few months ;
she was consumptive, I believe, at the time.

Her brother offered to get you into an orphan
asylum ; I don't know that he could do more, he
has a family of his own, and is not very well
off. But Ethert would not have it. He said he
could live on less than his fellowship and could
earn something, and that he never would have
got the fellowship so soon except for your
father's teaching. So he came down to us ; Aunt
Flora was with us then — the only time she has
ever stayed at Glynnehurst that I remember,
and Ivy heard a little of their talk and repeated
it to me, who, young as I was, understood it a
little better. But of course I understood very
Httle, only I know from that and from what
Mamma has said since, that Ethert persuaded my
Aunt to take charge of you, providing for you
himself so far as money went."

There was a little want of delicacy and consideration
in the boy's frank explanation ; due
less to any essential lack of kindness and good
feeling than to a certain roughness or deficient
sensibility ; partly no doubt the effect of school
and home training, partly perhaps inherited from
parents, neither of them remarkable for refined
or chivalric sentiment. He was sorry at once

VOL. I. D

when he saw in her quivering lip, her deepened
colour and tearful eyes, how much his words
had affected his childish companion.

*' I did not mean to hurt you, Meta. Remember,
you would have the story. Of course
it was no fault of your father's ; he had done
his best, and worked very hard indeed — I believe
they said his overwork killed him ; — and you
cannot be ashamed to have received the kindness
of which you knew nothing."

I might have known, though," she said in a
low tone and with evident effort. " If I had
cared to think I must have known that, since I
was not Mrs. Glynnee's child, it was most kind
of her to give me a home and to care for me :
and I ought to have, requited it very differently.
And even for Ethert, though I could not know
that I owed everything to his charity, I ought to
have felt how very, very kind he was to a child
who could be nothing but a trouble to him ; how
patient and gentle with tempers that Mrs. Glynnee
would not put up with."

Don't talk in that way, Meta. If only
because you have made me tell you, Ethert will
be vexed enough ; he would be grieved to the

heart to hear you use such words — speak so
bitterly of what was certainly not ' charity' in
him. You have read his last story ; don't you
remember what he says, that it is so much
harder to receive kindness generously than to
render it?"

Ah !" she said. " And that is not a generous
way to receive his. Thank you, Charlie. Now
please don't say anything, either to him or to
your Aunt."

That won't do, Meta. It would be cowardly,
having done what I know will vex him, to flinch
from telling him."

You did not do it willingly. You thought 1
knew, and you did not find out till you had said
so much that I could wring the rest from you.
But do you suppose I can let them think I do not
know now, or help telling him how differently
I should have behaved, I hope, if I had
known f

I wish you would not, you will only grieve
Ethert — I don't know about my Aunt. I daresay
she would have told you if he would have let
her ; I have heard her say that secrets are foolish
things J that it is best to have the truth known

D 2

and understood even when it seems awkward.
It is not that I am afraid what Ethert will say
to me, but I am sm-e he will be hurt by what
you will say. Think, Meta ; will it not be far «-
pleasant to him if you behave as you would
wish to do, without letting him know that it is
only because you have found out your debt to
him?"

Yes, perhaps ; but it would not be honest.
He would think that I was better, more grateful
for his present everyday kindness, that I had
learnt to be ashamed of being cross and uncivil
to him without the painful lesson that I have
needed— that Providence has sent me through
you. No, Charlie, I must tell the truth ; but I
shall tell it fairly, and if I know Ethert rightly he
will say nothing to you."

They had reached the gate that gave admittance
into the grounds of Pine Combe Cottage, a
small ivied building of limestone in the midst of
a garden occupying a nearly level platform of
about an acre. The latter rose almost precipitously
some five or six feet above the surrounding
ground, which was rough and broken, occupied
partly by a sort of meadow of the somewhat

poor grass peculiar to the limestone country of
the Lakes, partly by clumps of Scotch iir and
groves of hazel and other brush and underwood.
Thus the garden and cottage were entirely
secluded. The grounds were of some little extent ;
but all that required care, the garden, the cow,
the pony that drew Mrs. Glynnee's little phaeton,
was well within the strength of the elderly man
who with his wife and daughter formed the household,
and had been in Mrs. Glynnee's service for
more than twenty years. As they approached along
the gravelled path that, skirting one side of the
garden, reached the upper level about the middle
thereof, a lady seated under the shade of a large
sycamore in the centre of the lawn rose to meet
them. She had long passed her fiftieth, year, but
having spent a wholesome quiet life in the
country, retained somewhat of the form and
beauty of earlier middle age. As tall as her son,
a stature not remarkable in a man gave dignity
and grace to a woman. Her countenance much resembled
his, but, perhaps because feminine, seemed
even more notably intellectual ; pale and worn a
little, as if by suffering or sorrow rather than by
time. Her dark hair slightly sprinkled with grey,

her compressed lips, and even her dress — which,
without the affectation of perpetual widow's weeds,
was still distinctly that appropriated to bereavement,
black relieved here and there only by white
without a single vestige of colour — gave a certain
severity to her whole aspect; which might
account for the sort of nervous anxiety perceptible
in Charlie's manner and face before she spoke,
and even in those of his fair companion, distinctly
more independent and high-spirited, but
just now subdued by the impression which their
conversation had left upon her mind.

How is this V the lady said. " Has Ethert
left you ? Or how come you to have returned
alone r

It was to Meta that she addressed herself ; but
for once the young lady left to her companion
the task of answering, in which, as a rule,
she was sufficiently ready.

We met Mr. Cleveland and a friend of his,
and Ethert turned back with them, desiring me to
bring Meta here directly, as I have done, and to
beg you not to wait for him, that he could not
say when he would return. It wants two hours
to dinner yet, does it not. Aunt ? If I can do

nothing for you or Meta, I should like to go down
to the lake with my fishing-rod for that
time."

You can do nothing for us, unless you can
bring us some trout," the lady answered, without
a smile. " Meta," as soon as she was left alone
with her ward, " it might be as well if you would
remember that though Charles Glynnee is my
nephew, he is not your cousin."

The girl started and coloured ; then bit her lip,
and in a few moments answered, suppressing all
outward signs of that temper which her monitress
evidently expected and was prepared to
rebuke.

"I don't understand, Mrs. Glynnee. It was
Ethert who put me in his charge ; and if there
has been anything else that has displeased you,
will you not tell me what it is ? I will take care
not to repeat it."

The respectful tone, the patient gentleness with
which the young girl received a reproof not very
gently or considerately worded, evidently surprised
the hearer.

No, Meta ; I have no right to be displeased,
because you have done nothing but what you

have been used to do ; and if there be fault, it is
Ethert's rather than yours. Only' you are no
longer quite a child, and Mr. Glynnee," with some
emphasis on the name, "is no longer a mere
schoolboy. Those who see and hear you with
one another remember that you are not near relations,
without remembering how you have become
accustomed to consider one another almost in that
light''

Am I to call him Mr. Glynnee ?" Meta said,
simply. " That will seem a little awkward, will
it not ? especially when Ethert is here, and everyone
about is accustomed to call him by that
name."

Ethert has chosen," said his mother, " that you
should speak to him and of him by his Christian
name ; and you do right to comply, in one thing at
least, with his wish. But of course Sir Charles'
son is Mr. Glynnee, and would be so called by
any one who remembered who he is, or was accustomed
to regard the formal usages of society."

Will you not tell me then," said Meta, still
controlling herself, and suppressing not only the
irritation she might naturally have shown the day
before, but a disposition to manifest her pain by

tears, with the more difficulty that after what
she had just heard her guardian's implied reproof
and coldness of manner deeply affected her, " whatever
at any time there is that you do not approve ?
and," as Mrs. Glynnee expressed her assent rather
by silence and gesture than by a half spoken
word, "if you think, and I am afraid you are
right, that I have not regarded Ethert's wishes as
I should have done, remember I had never known
exactly why I was bound to think so much of
them."

She turned away as she spoke ; and as Mrs.
Glynnee at first attached no particular meaning to
her words, and only after a minute's reflection
began to wonder what the child could have
intended — whether accident or instinct had
afforded her some insight into facts which her
protector had persistently concealed, contrary to
his mother's counsel— Meta was not recalled till
she had reached her own room, and there given
way in natural feminine fashion to mingled
feelings which she was more impatient to relieve
than careful to analyse.

CHAPTER III.

DREAMER AND CRITIC.

DON'T keep me out longer than need be,
Ethert," said his mother, as, after his
late meal, they stepped forth from the window
of their little dining-parlour.

Are you afraid of the night air, mother ? I
must not risk giving you cold ; shall we go in ?"
he asked, in a tone whose anxious tenderness
seemed held in check by habitual reserve or awe.

No, I have never found it very trying at this
season, though I must not, as you know, run
risks— at least while my life is of some moment
to you and to your ward. I think the fear of
night air out of doors— as if it were daylight air
within — is either a folly or an affectation when
there is no actual cold or damp to fear. But I

don't care to leave Meta and Charlie tete-astute
very long, especially after the long solitary walk
you gave them this afternoon. Ether t, I wish
you had not brought him here this time ; and
as you have brought him, T must beg you not to
throw them together in the way you have done
hitherto. I had to remind Meta to-day that after
all they are not cousins ; and though Meta behaved
with unusual good sense and temper, I
could not help feeling that it was hard on her,
that the fault was rather yours than hers."

Ethert turned round sharply, as if he would
have spoken almost in anger, then checked himself,
and a few moments passed before he replied,
in a tone that betrayed annoyance held under
strict control :

I wish you had spoken to me first. Since
they meet so often, and he is more of a companion
to Meta than I, it is natural that she should
behave as she has always done, and a little hard
on her to be blamed for what after all is, as you
say, my fault."

I know," said his mother, " you always think
me hard on your favourite. A man would always
spoil a young girl, perhaps a child like Meta even

more than one a few years older. Ethert, you
must make up your mind very soon what line you
really mean to take. If Meta is to be in form
what she has been hitherto in fact, your adopted
child, treat her as you have done, only with
more of authority less of that deference and
consideration which always make her fancy herself
more of the young lady than she yet is or
ought to be ; and make up your mind that she
must know what her position is and has been,
and what she owes to you. I suspect she has
caught a glimpse of that already."

"I hope not!" Ethert exclaimed, now really
and openly irritated. " Mother, you promised
me that should never be hinted to her."

"I promised you, Ethert, that would never
hint it, or knowingly allow it to be hinted ; and
have you ever known me break or evade my
word?"

She paused, evidently expecting the formal
apology which her son made as a matter of
course.

But," he added, " why do you think she has
guessed anything, or who could have told her?"

*' Does she need to be told ? As she grows old

enough to think, must she not perceive that her
relation to us is anomalous ? And does she not
remember enough to know that I had never seen
her till she came here ; that j^ou, and not I, were
her father's friend ?"

Probably," said Ethert : " but that would not
suggest the only thing I am anxious she should
not guess — that she owes anything to me apart
from yourself. My adopted child she never was
or will be ; whether she is to be more or less, time
and she must decide."

And you mean that she shall be much more ?
Ethert, if I could take your fancy seriously it
would distress me ; and I am aware, at your age,
it is more serious than it would be with a boy
who had not seen the world. You want to marry,
not from your heart, but from your imagination ;
you are seeking a wife who will love you, not
one whom you can certainly and constantly love.
You could not make a greater blunder on the
point on which men of your wayward, romantic
temper always contrive to blunder most perversely.
If you are really in love with any
woman of simple womanly nature, you may trust
her to love you — after marriage, if not before.

I am not so sure of a girl like Meta, whose fancy,
like yours, is the dominant part of her character.
Of course you can make sure of her hand, because
she will not know her own heart. The
girls that interest poets as young girls, and
especially as children— who, at Meta's age, have
what you call * fire,' ' intelligence,' ' romance'
enough to admire your writings and sympathise
with your ideas — will be the wives to make
you thoroughly miserable. Meta's temper is
trying enough now to me who have to
control it, however it may amuse and interest
you. But after all, a child's petulance, even
when she out-grows the discipline of childhood,
is not a very grave matter; a petulant,
quick-tempered wife is a serious trial to any
man, an intolerable one to men like you and
your father. Sensitive yourselves as women,
keenly alive to tones, looks, little signs of anger
or unkindness that sterner men would disregard,
you would be happiest with one who had sufficient
mind to appreciate yours without trying to
follow it, and common sense and practical worldly
wisdom enough to make up for your own
deficiency ; happier with a kindly good-tempered

woman of only sense sufficient for the ordinary
business of life, than with a romantic, sentimental,
passionate temperament far too like your
own."

With such a wife as you describe, mother,
my life would be simply thrown away. Caring
far more for money, and what money can buy,
than for fame, caring nothing at all for all that
makes life worth living to me, such a woman
would be a heavy drag at best upon my ambition,
would check and damp all my aspirations. She
would make me feel the indulgence of my own
taste, the cultivation of my own genius, if I have
any, a wrong or unkindness to her. Her want
of sympathy would dishearten me for any serious
efforts, her influence confine me to those lower-walks
of my profession in which alone money is
really to be made. For her sake I should feel
compelled to think what paid in a way that
she would care for. Time and effort given
to work not lucrative would seem doubly
stolen from her, and I could do nothing worth
doing under such discouragement; in fact, I
should sink into a regular literary drudge.
You will not be so sorry to hear as I am to

tell you that for Meta's sake, or rather for my
own, in order to be able when the time comes to
ask her to share my future, I have accepted a
position of that practical kind. Cleveland and
some of his friends have purchased the Courier,
and placed Estrange— the man whose articles
over the signature of Procyon we have discussed
so often and differed about so much — in charge of
it. He wants an assistant to help him, to be,
as he phrases it, his right hand at all times, a
right hand that will work for a while automatically,
under the impulse he has given, when his health
or strength may fail him ; and to my surprise
Cleveland has thought me fit for the place — so I
start for London the day after tomorrow. I
shall go home with Charlie for a day or two, and
then must take up my work at once. Are you
quite resolved not to accept Aunt Caroline's
invitation for yourself or Meta?"

Quite," she replied. " I don't care that Meta
should be intimate there — until or unless she goes
there as your wife. Then it will be your affair.
And for myself, you know I do not care to accept
even ordinary social courtesies from Sir Charles
or his wife."

I know, mother ; but I could never understand
why. My uncle has been, as you yourself
admit, most kind, most generous to me."

I don't see that he has done anything for you
more than, with his means and his small family,
it was decent that the head of the house should
do for his only brother's only child. But I grant
he has done more than I ever expected, ver'
much more than he ever did for your father ; and
knowing w4iat I know of him, I cannot but suppose
that he has good reason for conduct so little
in keeping with his general character."

I cannot bear," replied Ethert, " to discuss
with you a subject on which we both feel so
strongly and differ so entirely. At any rate, I
must judge a man by his conduct to me ; or if
you cannot allow that, at least you will admit
that, having accepted his kindness, I must
behave as a dutiful nephew to such an uncle."

I would not," rejoined his mother, " have you
other than respectful to the head of your family
But, remember, you owe him little as yet ; I have
done my best, not unsuccessfully, to prevent your
placing yourself under obligations that might
fetter you hereafter. Pray remember this,

VOL. I. E

Ethert, and beware of accepting anything that
might render you dependent on the continuance
of his good-will, or hamper you if you had to
assert rights of your own against him or
his."

"How could that be, mother?"

"I can't tell you how it could be," she
answered ; *' but I know your uncle too well to
doubt that he foresees at least possible contingencies
in which it might suit him to have
secured your good-will — to be able to put forward
what would seem to you, with your exaggerated
sensibility, strong claims on your practical consideration.
I never knew him to do a generous or
unselfish thing to any but yourself; certainly not,
as I have told you, to your father. Lady Glynnee
dislikes me as I her, and I am at a loss to understand
the anxiety she has shown for many years
past, first to make up what never was a quarrel,
and never could be other than coldness between
us, and next, when that was impossible, to win
your favour or affection. 1 am sorry you are
to leave us so soon ; I am glad you have found
regular practical work, and if it do not end in
the accomplishment of your particular object, it

will, I think, have done you good upon the
whole."

Very likely," replied her son. " At any rate
I am not sorry that fate or Providence has taken
the shaping of my career out of my own hands
Mother, I shall not see much of you or of Meta
now. I shall be closely tied to my desk in
London. Don't misunderstand me if I ask you
not to let my Pearl miss what you call my
spoiling ; to be a little more indulgent to her —
rather perhaps to her fancies and her sensitiveness
— now that she is, as you say yourself, no
longer quite a child."

*' I am afraid," she returned, coldly, but without
any sign of that displeasure which Ethert
had evidently intended to deprecate, " that there
can never be anything like sympathy between me
and that wayward child. It is a pity, perhaps,
that she has no companion who will be indulgent
to her moods, and sympathise with her romance
more than I, if less than you do. But depend
upon it, Ethert, if you really wish to win her love
as a woman, it is well that you should cease to see
so much of her while you can hardly consider
her more than a child, and she necessarily looks

E 2 UNIVERSITY OF ILUNOb
LIBRARY

upon you rather as a guardian than in any more
romantic light — while her affection must be necessarily
filial or sisterly."

That she doesn't regard me as a guardian,"
returned Ethert, smiling, " I think her keen
resentment of any approach to control or reproof
from me sufficiently demonstrates. But for the rest
no doubt you are right, though I can hardly help
fretting that I shall see so little of either of you
for years to come. Well, let her be still to me a
child till I do go ; let us enjoy one more
holiday together before that change in our
relations comes that must be, and that absence
will render easier and more natural."

They re-entered the house, and Mrs. Glynnee's
eyes turned at once upon her ward, and observed,
somewhat to her surprise, and certainly to her
satisfaction, that Meta was not as usual engaged
in chat, or rather chatter, or on her favourite
game of chess, with Charlie. He was reading
somewhat listlessly and with many yawns his
cousin's last prose work, a book which he honestly
endeavoured to admire for its author's sake, while
of his incapacity to understand it he was sincerely
and loyally ashamed; which Meta bad enjoyed,

understood, and, to the writer's intense though
secret delight, cried over with sympathy and
appreciation as earnest, if not with as full a
comprehension, as a woman of twice her years
might have shown. Meta herself was occupied,
conscientiously but wearily, with needlework, an
occupation which she detested so heartily that
even Mrs. Glynnee's authority could hardly enforce
attentive perseverance thereat in her own absence.
The latter, approaching her nephew, expressed,
with an evident effort to be kindly and cordial,
her regret at their speedy parting ; while Ethert,
bending over Meta, spoke low, gently, with
a sort of studied, not affected, deference and
courtesy.

I go up to town the day after tomorrow,
Pearl, and I am not likely to be here again for
many months to come ; certainly not till Christmas,
perhaps not till next summer. I should
have dearly liked to pass my last day among
these Lakes in one of those excursions you used
to like as well as I. Have you so far forgiven
me for yesterday that I may entreat your company?"


The young girl looked up quickly, half shyly.

and to his surprise her colour had deepened, and
her eyes were full of tears.

"Don't talk so, Ethert. Forgive me my
petulance ; indeed I am heartily ashamed of it,
and you said much less than I deserved."

The humility, the earnestness, if not the
frankness of her apology were so unusual that
Ethert, used to the simple child-like ease of her
penitence as to her passionate outbreaks of wayward
humour, was actually startled.

Has my mother heard, and been scolding
her?" he thought. "But it is hardly like Pearl
to be the more repentant if she had done penance
against her will — I was frightened, and with
reason," he answered. " There was more risk
than you knew, Pearl, and I could not but be
angry even with you while I felt how narrowly
you had escaped a serious danger. If anyone else
had exposed you to such a chance of drowning,
you would have seen how differently I should
have spoken, how hard I should have found it to
forgive ; but even fear for yourself should not
have led me to speak so sharply to a lady."

I am not a lady, yet," she answered, frankly
and half-smiling, " and no one but you ever seems

to fancy me so. It is like you, who have a right
to treat me as a child, that you are always the
most polite as well as the kindest to me. Yes, if
you will take me with you, and your mother does
not object, I should like it so much. I should
have been very sorry if yesterday's were to have
been our last excursion together."

CHAPTER IV.

A poet's holiday.

'' A RE you going with us ?" Meta said, with
-lX no little surprise, and with a slight but
manifest chagrin in her tone, as, loitering in the
garden, awaiting Ethert's leisure shortly after
their early breakfast, she was joined by Charlie
with his fishing rod and creel.

Charles Glynnee laughed good-humouredly.
"You don't want me, Meta, that's very plain.
But it is your fault I have got to go with you sofar.
Evidently Ethert won't put up the sail again,
and I am to help him to row you across ; then
I shall stay fishing till you return ; or — no— it's
so clear you don't want me, I'll take care to get
tired before you come back, and leave him to find
a boat at the ferry."

*' I am very sorry'' said Meta, colouring. '' I
did not mean — but "

Now don't be vexed, and don't try to explain
away," said the lad, kindly and laughingly. " I
am sure it is very natural you should wish to
have Ethert to yourself on his last day ; and in
truth, Meta, I am pretty certain that Ethert
wants me just as little as you do. But I am
sorry my aunt will not bring j^ou to Glynn
; can't you persuade her ? It is a very
beautiful old-fashioned place ; the castle, though
it is small, is interesting to strangers, as most
castles are, and comfortable, as they scarcely ever
seem to be. Ivy wants to see you again very
much indeed, and if she thinks I have not done
my best to bring you and my aunt, I shall not
have a very cordial welcome home ; and my mother
I know pressed most earnestly. If Aunt Flora
won't come herself she might let you."

"Hardly," replied Meta. "If Mrs. Glynnee
would go, I should be very glad indeed to see Ivy
again, and should like above all things to see
Glynnehurst, as Ethert has described it so often.
It is the original, is it not, of the ' Old Castle ' in
his second book?"

Upon my word," said Charlie. " I don't
know. It is very stupid of me, but I never
thought. I am so dull ; I can understand and
enjoy Ethert's society and talk exceedingly
when we are alone or there is no clever person of
the company ; but when Cleveland, or Gerard, or
Sterne are with us I find myself going ofi" into a
dream, not understanding a word ; and even when
he is talking with you, I find it often nearly as
hard to follow as his books." .

Nonsense ! I am sure you must understand
whatever I can."

Indeed I done, Meta. For instance, now, I
can understand why you should not come to
Glynnehurst, even if my aunt will not."

Do you, after the way you scolded me
yesterday," returned Meta, half earnestly, half
playfully, " think that I ought even to wish to
leave her alone here ?"

Oh, if it is a case of ' ought,' I have nothing
to say. So long as you do wish it, I may have
some hope after all."

Ethert joined them here, and the trio walked
down towards the landing-place, about a mile
distant.

Ethert," said his cousin, " my mother will be
so vexed that Aunt Flora won't come to us this
year. She has not been to Glynnehurst for
seven or eight years ; and at any rate if she will not
come you might bring Meta, and leave her there."

My mother must decide ; and I am afraid she
has made up her mind that she cannot leave
home, and will not part with Meta."

They reached the boat and unlocked the oars.
As Charlie was about to remove the mast with sail
wrapped round it that lay in the bottom, Ethert
caught sight of the downcast eyes and deepening
colour of his fair charge.

*' Leave them, Charlie. Only promise me you
will not put them up when you are alone ; it takes
two hands to manage helm and sail safely. The
wind is against us crossing, and we shall make
more progress with the oars."

Meta understood his motive; and tears of
affectionate penitence came into her eyes as she
recalled more than one similar instance of studious
consideration for her childish sensitiveness, unnoticed
or ungraciously received at the time.
She took the tiller ropes, steering carefully
among the many boats of various size moored or

fastened in the little bay, and between the islands,
as the men vigorously plied the oars. Charlie's
athletic eagerness impelled him to pull with a
needless energy, which obliged Ethert on his part
to put forth his full strength, and neither had
leisure or breath for speech. Meta, too familiar
with the beautiful scene to be long absorbed in
its contemplation, gradually fell into a sort of
reverie — perhaps rather reflection, meditating on
the explanation she desired to effect with her
guardian when they should be alone — inconsistent
with the vigilant performance of her duty : and
was first aroused to a consciousness of her neglect
by an exclamation from Charlie, and a sudden
inclination of the right-hand gunwale almost to the
level of the water, as the boat ran on a sunken rock
with whose locality she was not unacquainted.

*' Are you asleep or dreaming, Meta ?" cried
her younger companion sharply, as, dropping his
oar, the boat was righted by a vigorous pull from
Ethert. " If he were not here, I should tell you
you deserved — what you talked of yesterday."

"You are very rude, Sir," the girl answered,
but with perfect good temper, not even at the
moment disposed to resent the rough criticism of

her playfellow as she had done the gentler reprimand
of her guardian on a similar occasion. " If
we had been alone, as you say, I should not have
cared if I had given you a ducking."

Take care, Pearl," said Ethert, looking round.
Remember we have not eyes at the back of our
heads; don't run us aground on yonder shoal."
"I bet you eve could clear it," said Charlie.
You may try when you are alone ; you will
find the lake is two inches too low."
Try, Meta," said the boy, laughing.
I am not going to set the example of mutiny,"
she answered, " especially after your hint.
Ethert, are we going to land at the ferry, or in
the bay yonder V

"Which you please, if you don't mind the
scramble ashore in the bay."

Meta silently exercised the choice assigned to
her in favour of the natural shore, where the
birches, rooted among the low rocks, dipped their
long graceful foliage into the water that just
allowed the boat's stern to float while her bow
touched the ground. Springing out, Ethert
caught her as she was about to step on the wet
stones, and swung her clear on to the ledge of

rock that afforded a dry convenient landing
place.

"We shall not see you from here, Charlie. I
suppose we shall get back to the ferry about four :
if we cannot see and hail you then, we must hire
a boat."

You won't see me," said Charlie, somewhat
mischievously ; " Meta has let me know she doesn't
wish to see any more of me to-day. I think she
means to claim the whole of your last afternoon
at home."

A day or two before the suggestion would have
seemed to Meta simply natural ; in her kindlier
moods, she would have preferred the claim
with perfect frankness. Some change of feeling
that she could not have explained to herself made
her shy and silent as, without deigning to reply
to Charlie's nonsense, Ethert assisted her through
the underwood and over the stones till they
reached the shady lane that wound at some few
yards' distance along the shore of the lake, between
the rocky bank and the gradual slopes — thorn
and grass covered, shaded by hazel, birch, mountain
ash, and here and there by larches or Scotch
firs— of the low western fells.

Will you venture on a scramble, Pearl, or
shall we wait till we reach the path ? Perhaps
you will mind tearing your dress now, more than
you did when we made our way through this
brush last year ?"

'*I remember," she answered, " how completely
that was my own fault ; how much care you took
to beat the brambles down and clear me when
they caught me, if I had not been too impatient
to wait for your help. And my frock would have
been drenched and muddied as well as torn, if
you had not lifted me in my own despite across
the stream. Ethert, I wondered even that day,
after we got home, why and how you could be so
patient and so polite to an ill-tempered child. I
used to suppose that grown men never got angry
or careless with girls, and that it was only
schoolboys like Charlie who could be provoked to
answer one — as I deserved ; or I should have
thought more of your kindness."

And what has enlightened you now f he
asked, smiling. " Have you seen so much of the
ways of other grown men 1"

Yery little, as you know. But your mother
used to tell me, though I never minded it much,

No one else will ever put up with you as Etliert
does and the more you petted the more she
seemed resolved to check me. No ; don't you
suppose even I must think a little as I grow older,
and ask the reason of things I used to take for
granted ?"

The tone in which her last words were spoken
had become so grave and earnest that her
companion looked at her with observant though
brief and carefully concealed scrutiny

And what," he said, lightly, " has your new
thoughtful ness suggested ? Or what has been
put into your head to give you new views of what
seemed matter of course ?"

"Your mother said yesterday that your cousin
is not quite a schoolboy. I suppose now he is as
civil to me as most young men would be ; and
though of course he is never rude, do you think
I don't see the difference between his ways and
yours 1 He says what comes into his head, he
does not care whether I like it or not. He
as good as told me so; and if I am cross to
him he laughs at me, or gives it me back again.

I am afraid," he answered, smiling, " that I
too have shown that I can be cross."

Ethert, that just touches what I mean. Will
you tell me that another man in your place would
not have spoken quite as sharply, without caring
whether it hurt me, or dreaming of — well, almost
apologising for it afterwards? And, don't think
nie presumptuous, you do seem to care, not only
whether you hurt me, but that I hurt you. I
hope it is not so ; I shall be very glad if you will
tell me that when my wayward humours, my
rude speeches make you look so grave and sad,
you do not really mind."

Would not that be to tell you, Pearl, that I do
not care for her who was my pet as a little child,
and has become my companion and friend of late ?
Of course it pains me for the moment when
you seem to think that I have treated you
unkindly; when I seem to have given you
pain."

"Why should you care?" she asked, impetuously.
"If I had nothing else to thank
you for, you have been so kind in every little
incident of every-day life, you make the time
so pleasant, so bright for me when you are at
home, you have taken so much trouble for me —
that you ought to treat my temper, even if }'ou

VOL. L F

were as young as Charlie, or I were not a child,
only as wilful, ungrateful naughtiness; instead
of fancying that you can have been unkind or that
I can think you so. But when you know what I
really owe you, what could you do, after that, that
could give me right or reason to complain ; that 1
ought nut to bear, if you had ever given me anything
to hear, without returning, without presuming
to resent it f

What has been said to you ? What are you
talking of?" he asked quickly.

"Ethert, you must not be angry except with
me, for it was my fault, and only mine. I was
cross when Charlie said you would not let him
take me home by the lake ; I spoke so ungrateful
that he was shocked, and in scolding me
he said something that made me insist on
knowing what he meant ; and he really could not
keep it back."

What could he tell you. Pearl ? No"— as her
lips parted and the light in her eyes showed that
she was about to answer with passionate eagerness
— " he could only tell you that I owed very
much to your father's kindness and care ; that
when ney tutor's child, who had been my pet

and plaything in the holidays, was left alone, I
was only too glad to, bring her to brighten my
home and my mother's. I am very sorry you
have heard anything, thought anything of this

yet."

How can you say so ? Would you have had
me go on so thoughtlessly, so ungratefully, till
even a boy like Charlie was shocked and ashamed
of me, that I could speak so angrily, disrespectfully
of your mother, who had done a mother's
part for me, of you to whose kindness I owe not
only my bread — that is a less thing — but a home
home tenderness and happiness instead of the
dreary life of a school or an asylum? Ethert,
it makes me bitterly ashamed how T have behaved
to you, though I did not know — but I might
have known if I had cared to think."

'* Don't exaggerate, Pearl. You will find, when
you are a few years older, that no one would
wonder, no one fancy that I at any rate had done
anything of which you need think much. Don't
talk of gratitude or ingratitude, child — that can
only pain me; but be sure that if you can,
instead, give us the same simple home-affection
you would have given to a mother and a brother,

F 2

we shall both feel, shall be more than repaid for
any trouble we have taken for you."

But say," she urged earnestly, " say that
you believe, you know I would not have behaved
so to you, if I had known or thought that — "

*' I know, Pearl, you would never say or do
an unkind thing if you did but think ; that you
never had an unkind thought for either of
us."

And you forgive me ?"

"If I have anything to forgive, assuredly.
Now, Pearl, in kindness to me never speak of
this again. Think, speak, behave to me, 1 will
not say as you always have done, but as if
nothing had ever occurred to you that you had
not thought of before now. See, we have reached
our favourite resting-place. Look at the bright
clear picture of the opposite hills and woods in
the lake, smooth as glass just now ; and the bright
golden light just there, where the windows of
the Castle flash back the sunshine upon the
surface. I don't like to think how long it will be
Before we shall see this scene together again. The
time I have spent in London has always seemed
to me, especially in Spring and Summer, simply

as so much cut wholly out of my life ; and when
in April or May I see the limes in the park
clothed with their bright fresh green foliage, and
hear the chirping of the sparrows, which
reminds me of the music that fills our woods,
I can scarcely keep the tears out of my
eyes."

And yet," she replied, " you choose of your
own accord to go back and to live, you say, for
years in London, and scarcely to come here but
for a rare holiday. Why ?"

Why does anyone live in London who can
help it, except those who care for balls and
theatres more than for scenes like this, that no
painter, if he gave a lifetime to it, could equal,
and walks like ours among these hills ? Simply
because one can earn money in town ; one can
hardly do more than spend it in the country."

*but you don't care so much for money?" she
said, inquiringly. " You do not seem to wish for
anything you have not. Ethert, it is not for my
sake, it is not that you have enough for yourself,
but not enough to do what you have always
done by me ? I could not bear to think that !
It is not your kindness to me that forces you to

leave your home and live in a place you hate

so?"

And to leave you and my mother, whom I

love better than any place, even this ? No, Pearl ;

I cannot explain now. Ask me three years
hence, and I hope I may be able to tell you, to

show you that I am neither avaricious nor selfish;
no, nor yet making a sacrifice for you : you have
never cost me one yet."

They had reached the highest point on that
line of fells, having emerged some time before
from the wood, which seldom reaches the summit
even of the lower hills ; and where they stood had
a clear unbroken view for some fifteen miles of
one of the most beautiful, perhaps the most
perfectly beautiful scene in England. The upper
portion of the lake, immediately at their feet, was
more than a mile in width, and for three or four
miles of its length unbroken by islands,
surrounded on either side by hills ; their lower
slopes densely wooded, their upper ridges standing
out, covered for the most part with brown heather
or greyish-green grass, crowned commonly by
masses of grey rock near the actual summit. Far
to the left rose the highest hills of Cumberland,

their slopes almost entirely naked, so distant that
only their graceful or rugged outlines were
distinguishable. To the right, the lower part of
the lake so narrowed that among and below the
islands it seemed rather to resemble a river, buta
river wider than any to be seen in England, or
indeed in Western Europe. It was one of those
rare afternoons when not a breath of wind
disturbs the perfect evenness of the surface,
which, not like that of the calmest sea ruffled by
a continual swell, was actually smooth and clear
as glass, reflecting every object, every detail of
the surrounding scenery, as distinctly as the most
polished mirror could have done. Both turned
and looked upon the scene for some moments in
silence, Meta appreciating its exquisite and varied
beauty quite as keenly as could the most romantic
or artistic lady long since emerged from the
childhood which she had not yet left behind.
Glancing up at last into the face of her
companion, she was painfully struck by the
intense sadness of its expression. Ethert knew,
as she did not, the dreariness, dulness, dispiriting
effect of a town life to a lover of nature; understood
and felt, while she could only imagine, all

that he was giving up. The years already spent
in London had been unspeakably wearisome, and
such pleasures as they had afforded had long
since utterly palled upon his taste. London
had for him none of the consolation that Meta
could fancy in picture-galleries, museums, and
libraries, even more than in its distinctly social
enjoyments.

*' You must have very strong reason," she said,
timidly but earnestly ; " but I must not ask you
what it is. But I am very sorry, both for your
sake and for my own."

He pressed her little hand, but did not answer ;
and after a pause of two or three minutes she
spoke again in a lighter tone, but with equally
deep and yet more unselfish sympathy, desiring
to divert his mind from thoughts that were
evidently painful.

Ethert, I wish 1 could paint these views for
you, to console you in your London lodging.
Why would j^ou never teach me to draw ?"

Can you not guess V he said with a smile.

I am afraid I can," she answered, gravely.
For the same reason that you would never teach
me anything except swimming ; and that I

suppose only because I would venture on
the lake, and you thought it too dangerous if I
could not swim ; and nobody else could teach
me."

True, Pearl. I have been thoroughly selfish
in the division I made with my mother, leaving
to her all that was disagreeable and troublesome
in her charge, and taking to myself all I could
that was only pleasant, that could leave none but
agreeable memories with you."

"And you think all lessons must have left
unpleasant ones ? Well, I dare say I deserve it :
but we had no trouble that I remember over the
one thing you did teach me."

How could we, Pearl ? unless you had been
as great a coward as many young ladies, in which
case I am afraid I should not have tried the
experiment."

They were the only lessons that never cost
me a tear," she said ; " and I think that was not
the only reason. But now I wish you had taught
me to draw, whatever trouble it had given us
both, as your mother cannot. And is it really
true that most girls are such cowards ? What in
the world was there to be afraid of? You would

not let me drown, I knew ; and if you had, they
always say it is not a painful death."

*' No, the painful thing is coming back to life.
But most people, women at least, fear death itself
more than the pain that attends it."

I cannot understand that. What is there to
fear, unless indeed one expects— what you never
would let me learn to think possible ? I remember
once, soon after I erst came here, Mr. Whitefield's
sermons did make me horribly afraid to die, made
me so frightened in the darkness. Your mother
cured me of screaming ; but till she gave me a
light I lay awake night after night crying silently
with terror. I always wondered what made her
give Away about it, after she had been so severe ;
for I never dared to tell her what really frightened
me so."

You told me, Pearl, and I never forgave Mr.
Whitefield. Don't you remember, it was your
account of your terrors and your dreams that
made me talk to you of death, and what
may lie beyond it — the only subject of the
kind on which I have ever cared to speak to
you?"

I have taken all my thoughts on those subjects

from yon, I think," she answered, " or from
Mr. Yere."

Who," said Ethert, lightly, " never mentions
hell to ears polite."

For shame, Ethert ! Mr. Yere never conceals,
never neglects to insist that evil must be
punished, and that its punishment must in some
sense be eternal, since the mischief it has done to
ourselves, to our own natures, can never be quite
undone, must always throw us back behind those
who have not erred so much, perhaps may
separate us from them for ever. That is terrible
enough, and I think would frighten me now more
than Mr. Whitefield's flames and red-hot scourges.
But surely we can trust ourselves, our future, to
the Power that has made this life so fall of
beauty? and unless we distrust Him I cannot see
why we should be afraid of passing into another
state, where many of our troubles here must, I
suppose, be left behind."

Do you really feel that. Pearl I Did you
ever think of death, try to realise it? I hope
you do not, but I did before I was your age.
Are sou not afraid? Do you not shrink
from it more than from any possible pain?"

Not at all," she answered ; " I don't understand
when I read of people enduring terrible
operations rather than die, like Dr. Johnson.
Ethert, what can there be to fear, and why does
the Church teach us to pray against sudden
death r

'' That," he answered, " is, like most of the
prayers in our Liturgy, borrowed I suppose
from Rome. She taught that salvation might
depend upon death-bed absolution. There I agree
with you entirely. I would rather die without
having time to fear or suffer."

"I don't think I should prefer that," she
answered, thoughtfully ; " I should like to know,
to have a few words to say, perhaps, after I knew
that all was over here. But so long as people
really believe in Heaven I cannot understand
why they are afraid of going there, or why they
are heart-broken when their friends or children
are gone there. Perhaps they don't remember
how many hard things there are in childhood ;
they have forgotten their own, or they would not
be so bitterly grieved to think that their children
are happy where they will rejoin them in a few
years."

I am afraid," he replied, deeply touched, and
avoiding the graver aspect of her remarks, " that
you have had for many reasons a harder childhood
than others. Of course it must be so;
nothing can make up to an orphan the loss of
father and mother."

You should not say that, Ethert. It is my
fault, not yours — or," she added, more constrainedly,
and as if from a sense of duty rather
than from cordial feeling, "your mother's — if I
have not been as happy as any child could be.
But was it only that you would not teach me

drawing yourself? May I learn it if I can
find a teacher at any time, and your mother
agrees ?"

Most certainly ; and if I had time now I
would try to teach you myself— on condition,
Pearl, that I should give it up on our
first, or, at least, our second, quarrel over it."

Ethert, that is so strange a word for you to
use ! It struck me last night : what other man of
your age, in your position, would talk of quarrelling
with a child ?"

*' I ought to be ashamed of it, certainly," he
answered, smiling.

No, no : it ought not to have been possible
for me. I ought not to have dared, any more
than with your mother. And you never quarrel
that has been all on my side."

Hardly, dear ; and I am afraid it would not
be, even after our last experience, if you should
frighten me again as you did then."

Were you frightened for yourself, Ethert, or
only for me V

Both, Pearl. I should dislike exceedingly to
be drowned, apart from the humiliation of perishing,
as strangers on these lakes often do, by
sheer neglect or ignorance. If they had found
the sheet fast, every Salesman would have said,
'Well, he knew better !' But I believe honestly,
so far as I can tell, that it was of you, and not of
myself, that I thought at the moment."

"It was of me that you spoke, certainly, and
I fancy that you were too much startled just
then not to say exactly what you thought. Well,
that was our last quarrel, as you chose to call it.
When you tell me three years hence why you
leave us, remember and say whether I have
quarrelled with you, or given you cause to
quarrel with me, again."

CHAPTER Y.

COUSINHOOD.

WE will walk then, Charlie, if you have no
objection, and the trap shall take our
luggage only."

How is my father, Thomas V said the youth,
addressing the liveried servant, who with some
little difficulty reined in the high-spirited horse
while Charlie's holiday baggage and Ethert's
small portmanteau were piled in the dog-cart sent
from Glynnehurst to meet them at the nearest
railway-station, some three miles distant.

Not so well, Sir, I am afraid," said the
groom, touching his hat. "Sir Charles has not
been out, except in the garden, for three weeks
past, and I have not seen him at all this last
week. Jackson said that he had been troubled
again ; could not say what he seemed to mean to."

Then," said Charlie to his cousin, as they
walked on, "I understand why Ivy wrote as if
she wished I were at home, before your sudden
change of plans. I suppose the Governor is really
worse ; I know that thin frightened Mamma
before."

"And well it might !" said his elder and better-informed
companion, " if I understand the man
rightly. You never told me of this, Charlie ;
my Uncle's fit must have been something graver
than you led me to suppose, or than I inferred
from my Aunt's letter. That symptom means
mischief."

Mamma don't like to talk about it, I know.
Surely there's nothing in his hesitating and
blundering about words? And Orme never said
a word to me, only to Mamma, something — that
he had feared paralysis. But that can't be, you
know ; he has been about, and even on horseback,
since then. But he was nervous, certainly, and
didn't care to take his fences ; and now you
make me think of it, he told me I might
take Prince Rupert. You know how fiery
Rupert is, and my father would not let anyone
else ride him. It looked, I thought, as if

he felt himself getting too old for such a
beast."

*more than that, I am afraid. Charlie, if I
were you I would put off Oxford for three
months, unless he is better."

"You don't mean that you think there is
danger ?" exclaimed the younger cousin, a sufficiently
dutiful if not a very affectionate son to
the father who had shown less than ordinary
paternal interest in his only son and heir.

We shall know better, perhaps, tomorrow ;
and at any rate we will speak of it again before
I go. I am rather sorry, if it turns out so, that
I cannot stay after Monday."

They had reached the gates of the park, beautifully
kept, with splendid old native and many
rare and carefully cultivated exotic trees : broken
too by woods some hundred years old and by deep
narrow glades and ravines, the beds cut by immemorial
streamlets through the soft chalk, as well as
by dales filled with thick bracken fern, among which
a few deer, almost tame, were couched. These
sprang up, but scarcely cared to start away as the
pair passed close to their haunts. The park was
of no great extent, neither the house nor its

VOL. I. G

appurtenances being proportionate to the present
wealth of its owners.

The Glances had held their actual estates, or
the greater part thereof, since the founder of the
family first emerged from the state of a city
merchant in the reign of Elizabeth. But at that
time the value of their land had not been great.
Careful cultivation, the drainage of swamps, the
reclamation of wastes, and the growth of town
populations at no great distance, as well as the
discovery of valuable minerals on an outlying part
of their domain, had greatly increased the fortunes
of a family always careful and thrifty, till their
present representative, after a long minority,
succeeded to the property. Sir Charles had been
a man of pleasure, of expensive tastes, but he had
never been a gambler ; he had lost his first wife
not many years after their marriage, after having
lived with her almost exclusively abroad, and he
had not married his second and present wife till
he had reached middle age. If, therefore, he had
spent his full income and saved little or nothing,
he had not seriously impaired the value of his
property. Some tenants, as Ethert happened to
know, had recently asked and even pressed for

expensive improvements, which they had failed to
obtain. But if Sir Charles were embarrassed,
which there was no other reason to suppose, it
was not by the size of his mansion or the style of
his establishment ; which, under the management
of the second Lady Glynnee, though comfortable
and sufficient, was distinctly modest and even
economical.

The house or castle stood on the edge of a
portion of the park which rose some fifty feet
above the level of the rest, where a chalk cliff,
almost precipitous, broke for some miles the
general surface of the country, otherwise level or
undulating. It embodied a part of an older
feudal fortress of secondary importance, the
modern portion of the building having been
skilfully constructed in the same general style,
but of smaller dimensions, and with sole regard to
comfort and convenience in the arrangement of
the interior. The front, close to the edge of the
cliff, was bounded at either extremity by a tower
of four stories in height, the one to the left of
those who now faced it ancient and worn, the
other of Tudor and Stuart date, both projecting
far beyond the line and actually touching the

G 2

precipice, so as to render the terrace between them
inaccessible save from the house itself. The
entrance was in the modem part of the dwelling,
in the centre of the side front, approached from
the lower land by a road cut in the chalk ; which
ascended at an incline the face of the cliff, and
then passed round the Spring or south-eastward
garden, separating it from the rest of the
grounds.

The gardens and lawns were kept in the most
perfect order, shaded by large and ancient trees,
among which grew some of the first Welling-tonics
and many of the first rhododendrons ever
introduced into this country. Though not of
great extent, yet whenever in the absence of the
family opened to public inspection, they attracted
numerous visitors from the neighbouring town,
and Ethert had always found in them new and
strong attractions on every successive visit.
These had, since his entrance at the great public

school of made him in some measure his

own master, been frequent. Both Sir Charles
and Lady Glynnee had pressed him to spend with
them first his brief Easter holidays, during which
he had hardly leisure to reach his distant home,

afterwards a portion at least of each Christmas
vacation, when the Lakes were least attractive,
and latterly had induced him to pass more than
one summer month at Gl3mnehurst. Both had
always treated him with signal kindness and consideration.
If Sir Charles could not put himself
out of the way for any one, could not take the
trouble or derange his own habits for more important
personages than a schoolboy nephew who
was not his heir, he had taken care that all besides,
grooms, gamekeepers, horses, should be at his young
guest's service ; and had tipped him on his every
return to school with a liberality that, to the son
of a widowed mother with a straitened income,
was almost as surprising as satisfactory. When
on his removal to Oxford he had necessarily declined
this kind of favour, Sir Charles had written
to his mother, insisting on his right as head of
the family to increase his nephew's allowance,
if not to defray altogether the expense of his
education ; and when Ethert distinguished himself
by gaining an open University scholarship, his
Uncle had not only written a letter of what
seemed — especially in a man by no means
studious— exaggerated praise and congratulation,

but had enclosed a cheque of pecuniary value
greater than that of the scholarship itself.

But from the first, Ethert, always a considerate
and unobtrusive guest, had observed and been
affected by the personal kindness and affectionate
regard of his Aunt more than even by his Uncle's
generosity. Quiet, grave, somewhat languid, and
not demonstrative even with her own children,
though almost always soft and kindly lady Glynnee
had shown to her nephew a consideration, a half-maternal
tenderness, that won his boyish heart
the more from its contrast to the cold and
somewhat stern manner which, since her widowhood,
his mother could never lay aside. Perhaps
the Aunt's kindness and goodwill, her anxious
care to render her nephew's visits as pleasant as
possible, were more natural than they seemed to
the unfriendly observation of her sister-in-law.
Even as a schoolboy Ethert was distinguished
by two peculiarities rare in boss, and not very
common now-a-days even in young men. He was
as by instinct punctiliously courteous to ladies,
and, what probably impressed Lady Glynnee yet
more favourably, fond of children.

From their very cradles Charlie and Ivy took

cordially to the only relative they knew, clung
about him, accompanied him everywhere within
the bounds to which they were necessarily
confined ; and as they grew older relied on his
protection in more distant excursions, only
permitted when he was with them. He never
seemed impatient of the trouble they gave, or
weary of their company ; he had helped Charlie
alike with his lessons and his sports, had taught
him to fish and to row, if not to ride. Both
cousins looked forward to his visits quite as
eagerly as himself, and were loud in their
complaints when his college vacations or the rarer
leisure of his later life were devoted to his mother
and Margaret rather than to themselves. With
an elder brother they could not have been more
fully at ease, and would probably have been less
consistently and invariably indulged. Charlie
looked up to and admired his elder cousin, as boys
are apt to look up to men who, if only in right of
age, excel in all the pursuits they are beginning to
understand and enjoy. But Ivy's quieter affection
was, as Ethert and her mother at least well
understood, a much deeper, rarer, more tenacious
feeling; and had lasted through infancy,

childhood, and girlhood, as such attachments
seldom can last. Educated entirely at home, and
even now too young for general society, Ivy had
been far more than most young girls secluded
from the habitual companionship of her youthful
neighbours. This seclusion was due mainly to
accidental circumstances, partly to her mother's
evident but hitherto inexplicable shrinking from
anything like intimate association with ladies of
her own rank, but partly also to her own sensitive
shyness. Her father had been indifferent and
impatient ; her mother gentle, affectionate, but
given to a kind of subdued irritability or suppressed
querulousness necessarily unintelligible to her
daughter, apt also to suggest by snatches of
half-confidential talk a curiosity which frightened
her back into silence and capricious repression.
Charlie was simply and thoroughly boyish, a
schoolboy of the rougher Rugboean type, fond of
his sister, but not willing to be " bothered " by her
claims; seldom wilfully unkind or teasing for
teasing's sake, but contemptuous of girlish
helplessness and cowardice, and prone to bully her
for her own good. He would have made a tomboy
of a high-spirited only sister, ^vho would

simply have adored him ; but he rather cowed and
frightened one too nervous to like rough play and
too soft to bear rough words. Ethert only, lonelier
than herself, had taken an earnest loving interest
in the solitary child, had found or made in her an
object of thought and conscious affection, a source
of occupation and of happiness. His baby cousin
was his first, and till he reached manhood, his only
pet" — the only creature he was free to fondle, to
protect, to make happy, to take thought and
trouble for. Himself pensive and sensitive even
in boyhood, he felt far more attracted by her than
by her active, daring, noisy brother ; he was
intensely gratified by her infantine fondness, early
won and firmly held ; delighted in the lisping
syllables of tenderness linked with his name, the
soft clinging caresses of the tiny arms that could
not yet meet around his neck ; and year by year
the hold of each on the heart of the other had
grown unconsciously faster and closer. Neither
mother, nor nurse, nor even governess could fail
to observe how restless, how eager the dull quiet
child became, when the anticipation of Ethert's
holiday visit came within the narrow horizon that
bounds our vision of the future at eight years

old ; how intense and intent was her hour-long
watch for his arrival at the furthest point to which
she and Charlie might go to meet him, how much
happier, livelier, more intelligent, even stronger in
health and spirits she seemed whilst his visit lasted,
how silently she drooped and pined when it was
over. It surprised the most observant and
thoughtful of her teachers to see that Lad 3^ Glynnee
rather indulged and favoured a depth and
exclusiveness of attachment which most mothers
would have done their best for the child's sake to
weaken. But it might have proved impossible, it
certainly would have been cruel to attempt roughly
or hastily to sever that strange tie. As for
Ethert, Ivy was the first thing he had dearly
loved with that protecting love, conscious of
superiority, which is ever the strongest in a
masculine nature, so Ethert seemed to Ivy the
one person who really '^ cared for her ;" to whom
her happiness (not merely her moral and physical
well-being) was an object of active solicitude.
Her mother compassionate her fears, her father
scolded her, her brother teased and laughed at her
for them ; Ethert understood, sympathised with,
averted them, would not let her be frightened.



and had effectually deterred others from practising
on her nerves. Ethert she knew was never too
busy to attend to her, never too eager to hear her
call or catch her look of appeal. Her timidity
when mounted even on her quiet Shetland pony
irritated her father's impatient temper, and provoked
the ridicule of her daring brother. But
Ethert would always walk beside her, and, when
his patient teaching and gentle encouragement
had brought her to dispense with such close
attendance, was content to forego his own pleasure
in a ride across country, or a gallop on the roadside
turf, to hold her leading rein and keep the
pace that suited her, Ethert only was never
angry with her slowness of movement or of apprehension
; and yet, she thought, how good a right he
had ; how much cleverer was he, who could always
understand, was never impatient, than those who
evidently thought and sometimes called her a fool !
Ethert could even make her school hours tolerable ;
if she could but bring a lesson to him before she
had to present it, she felt safe. He could always
enlighten and explain where her teachers could
but repeat the set explanation that only bewildered
her still further ; could but perplex, frighten, sand

punish. And, indeed, no one liked to deal harshly
with Ivv, stubborn and wilful as her fits of dulness
sometimes seemed, when her cousin was at hand ;
so touching was the child's unselfish anxiety that
Ethert should not he pained by knowing her in
trouble or disgrace, so evidently earnest was the
man's sympathy with the passing sorrows of the
sensitive child. To scold Ivy in Ethert's actual
presence was what, somehow, none but Sir
Charles would wittingly have ventured.

As she grew towards those inconvenient years
when young men hardly know how to bear themselves
toward young maidens who are neither
strangers nor sisters — the earliest teens, when
girls are not children, yet are not young ladies, no
longer open to the freedom of play, but incapable
of conversation, and not yet licensed to flirt —
his mother's warnings, tinged with the gravity
that gave exaggerated force to her every reproof
or admonition, and sharpened by her instinctive
distrust of her brother and sister-in-law, startled
and disturbed Ethert. His own childhood had
known no girl playmate ; he had never made
acquaintance with the younger sisters of his
schoolfellows ; and so interpreting his mother's

counsel as to feel that he must lose, when she
passed completely into the schoolroom, the sister-like
cousin who had been his darling since he
first lifted her from her cradle, he turned for
solace and compensation to Meta, then for the
first time a companion as well as an object of
compassionate interest.

But on his next visit to Glynnehurst the constraint
and awkwardness of his first meeting
with Ivy at once revealed to Lady Glynnee what
had passed. She knew as well as if she had
heard it what her sister-in-law had said; knew
what came from her, what was the work of
Ethert's own imagination, and was amused to
think that the poet and critic of five-and-twenty
had little more knowledge of life, little more
command of countenance and manner than the
schoolboy of fifteen. It pleased or it suited her
to restore the affectionate ease and intimacy of
old, and she had the tact, the instinctive insight
into character, that taught her how thoroughly
both cousins might be trusted without a word of
guidance to fulfil one safe rule of conduct — the
only one that could be given or obeyed without
awakening self-consciousness in her child's mind

to act when alone exactly as they acted in her
presence.

Finding that his constraint only hurt and surprised
Ivy, that her welcome was as simply,
frankly affectionate, her manner the same sweet
compound of shyness and confidence as ever, and
reading in her mother's face no sign of coming
rebuke to her — bidden as freely as ever to take
Ivy walking, riding, or driving wherever it was
still seemly that she should go — "and Charlie
has no patience with the pony's paces, he is sure
to desert you " — Ethert fell back at once into
the pleasant ways of former years, pleasant
than ever, because Ivy's mind, opening under the
influence of the encouragement she received from
him alone, disclosed charms of natural grace,
visions wherein maiden fancy mingled strangely
with childish ignorance and absolute innocence of
evil, that were, even to Ethert, utterly novel and
wholly individual. On one well remembered occasion
Charlie and Ivy had been indulged with a tour
among the Lakes, in part of which Ethert was
induced to accompany them ; and on which, almost
for the first time, they made the acquaintance of
their Aunt, whom they feared and somewhat

avoided, and of Margaret, whom Charlie
patronized and Ivy admired, petted, and pitied.
Latterly the boy had been often at the Lakes,
nominally as Ethert's pupil. If he did not learn
as much as his tutor might have wished, at least
he never grumbled at the doom which punished
his school idleness by requiring him to spend a
considerable portion of his holidays under his
cousin's instruction. Perhaps his sister did not so
cordially approve an arrangement which not
only deprived her of her brother's company, but
rendered her cousin's visits to Glynnehurst shorter
and less frequent.

Their luggage preceded and announced the
visitors, and as they approached the house they
saw, on a gravelled terrace which crossed the
garden at some fifty yards from the entrance, a
few feet above the general level, two female figures,
both in the light dress and light straw hats that
suited the lingering warmth of summer. The
face of the elder, so far as it was visible, seemed
to Ethert's more discerning and observant eyes
somewhat sad, worn, and anxious, and her movements
were slow, as if with physical or mental
weariness. Much younger than his mother, and

unaffected by the bereavement and lifelong loneliness
the latter had endured so firmly, as free
from the failing health of her later years. Lady
Glj'nne had about her far more of the languor of
an invalid, and if less of severe gravity, more of
that kind of depressed melancholy which indicates
weakness of character often er and more distinctly
than physical suffering or actual misfortune.
By her side, when she first caught sight
of the young men, was another slighter, more
signally graceful, and more youthful figure.

The fashion of the day, which neither she nor
her mother had carried into its straightest ugliness,
just served to display the grace and beauty
of that slender, delicate, exquisitely-proportioned
form. Very young, and looking younger than she
was, almost childish, though no one but her
mother could have called or thought her still a
child, the girl's light summer dress of pure white,
relieved only by a broad belt of rose-coloured
ribbon and some admixture of the same colour
about the throat and arms, her simple head-gear,
her long, loose, dark curls, preserving the more
natural and far more elegant fashion of an earlier
time, confirmed the first impression of extreme

youthfulness suggested by her form and carriage.
This impression was in some degree corrected on
closer observation by the sweet but somewhat grave
character of hur face, b}' a certain pallor, or rather
absence of colour, which was not due to lack of health,
but natural to her complexion, and by the expressiveness
of the dark brown eyes when they were
not veiled, through shyness or timidity, by the long
black lashes. Faultless in every other feature —
the perfect, clearly-pencilled arch of the dark eyebrows,
the straight fine nose, the short upper-lip,
soft dimpled chin, and beautiful outline of the
face, just sufficiently oval to save it from the
defect of actual roundness — the only objection
a critic of feminine beauty could have taken to
her countenance was a similar lack of bright colour
in the soft lips, now parted with a smile to greet her
approaching relatives.

Charlie sprang forward eagerly to receive his
mother's and sister's welcome, meeting the latter
as she ran down the terrace steps with a warm
but somewhat hasty caress, and passing on to
embrace the former, and to enquire after the
father, fordham Ethert's remarks had rendered him
anxious. Hardly delayed by her brother's .

I. H

ing, Ivy ran on to meet with equal frankness and
freedom — perhaps, though certainly she was not
aware of it, with even greater eagerness — the
cousin she had not seen for many months, whose
plaything she had been in infancy, whose
favourite intimate companion in earliest girlhood.
There had been no interruption in their acquaintance,
no such long absence at the second critical
period, when the schoolgirl slowly or suddenly
passes into the maiden grown, as might have
changed the feeling or the manner of either.

If Ethert's embrace were less close than
Charlie's had been, it was less hasty; if he kissed
her brow, and not her lips, that had always been
his habit, even when he had carried her in his
arms over all the rough places in the park where
the child might have slipped and soiled her frock
or torn her soft dainty palms; and Ivy's smile
and spoken greeting were as cordial and free
from self-consciousness as those she had bestowed
on her brother. AVhen they reached the terrace,
Lady Glynnee, leaving her son, placed her hand
upon her nephew's arm, and allowed her
children to precede her towards the house,
while she turned and paced the terrace once

or twice with Ethert before she followed
them.

"How is my Uncle f the visitor enquired.
"I had not gathered that there was cause for uneasiness,
till something Charlie let fall just now
made me star that the attack had been more
serious than I was aware."

Very serious, I am afraid," Lady Glynnee
answered, gravely. " Not for its actual consequences
so much as the probability of its recurrence.
It was distinctly paralytic in character,
and though Sir Charles seemed to have shaken
off its effects, Mr. Orme warned me that another
might occur almost at any time, and for several
weeks past your uncle's energy and strength have
been visibly failing. It was on his account,
Etbert, that I pressed you so earnestly to come
here, and I wish you could have given us a longer
visit. He is always greatly pleased by your
company, and this time he has been most anxious
to see you : I think partly on business."

Business V^ her nephew said, somewhat surprised
; and turning to her he observed a certain
embarrassment in her face, which, while it
enhanced his wonder, forbade him to follow up

H 2

the subject. " Well, of course if I can be of any
service to my uncle I shall be only too glad.
But you know, Aunt Caroline, I have now chosen
my career, somewhat late perhaps ; but I have
taken up a regular fixed work, and I am afraid
shall have but few opportunities of quitting it.
Journalism allows fewer and shorter holidays
than most professions, and my post will require

very close and assiduous attention."
*' I cannot think why you should have accepted

such a position," she answered. " It affords no
opening to your ambition, no chance, as I understand,
of making a name, and less even of interesting
or independent work than most newspaper
writers appear to find, and surely you might look
to something better and more hopeful ? What
has made you adopt a career that can hardly be

to your taste f

'* What determines the choice of most men, I

suppose, Aunt. My books did not pay, and this

will."

"But the pay must be poor, and while you are

not married money cannot be a great object to

you, Ethert. I am sure if you are in any difficulty,

if you want money at once, it could be arranged

for you, and with your own proved talent and
your uncle's Interest you could have done very
much better than this."

*' A man must earn his living, Aunt, for himself,
and as kind as my Uncle has always been, and as
you are, I should be sorry to wrong Charlie, still
more Ivy, of a penny that Is rightfully theirs.
You will find, when Charlie goes to college, he
will want a larger allowance than might suffice
young men with smaller expectations, and whatever
it is, my Uncle must count on having
to pay it at least twice over'

I am sorry to hear you say so," she
answered gravely. *' Charlie will have to learn
better."

Nay, Aunt, I never said or thought that he
was extravagant, considering his position. But
he will find every encouragement to spend, no
one disposed to press for payment, and will hardly
know what he is spending till experience has
forced the fact upon him. You cannot force him
to pinch, and it is best to give him no motive for
postponing payment, the most expensive of all
forms of extravagance."

He must not do it," she answered, with an

earnestness that under the circumstances seemed
somewhat unreasonable. Then, as if conscious of
real or apparent exaggeration, she sought to
explain. "You know, or you may guess, Ether,
that with his elections, his seat in Parliament, his
political subscriptions, and his indisposition to
small economies, your uncle has always spent
nearly his whole income. It is only of late
that we have saved anything, and whatever
we can save is due to Ivy. It will be little
enough."

There will be your jointure, Aunt, of course.
Besides, I hope and trust my Uncle will live till
Charlie comes of age, and then of course a proper
settlement can be made on his sister. Charlie is
not selfish, and he will be ready enough to do her
justice."

'sit will not do to trust to that," she answered,
evidently much disturbed. " He must learn not
to waste money, if only' in justice to her. If he
really cares either for her or me he must prove it
by abstaining from waste or debts which will
hamper him fatally in the future. By the way,"
she said, breaking off a subject on which she
seemed impelled to say more than she could

explain or justify, "you know Mr. Brand — I
mean personally ? Of course you know him as
your Uncle's solicitor f

"My Uncle introduced me to him in London
some years ago, when I was eating my way to
the Bar. He was very kind, and very willing to
have helped me forward, hut he was less surprised,
or less willing to express his surprise,
than I expected when I gave up the idea of becoming
a lawyer in earnest."

Well, you will meet him here tomorrow ;
he is our only other guest at present. Strangers
worry and fatigue your Uncle too much."

Ethert did not see Sir Charles Glynnee till the
party assembled in the drawing-room before
dinner, and was then struck by the manifest
change that had come over the old man since
they last met, a change which to him appeared
fully to justify Lady Glynnee's apprehensions. The
baronet listened with less attention and cheerfulness
than usual to Charley's chatter, and seemed
needlessly impatient of little errors or delays, of
which indeed there were few, Lady Glynnee's
household management being as good and strict
as her gentle and rather languid temper permitted.

She, and still more her daughter,
were, thought Ethert, more than usually
timid and silent. Ivy had always been most shy
and reserved in her father's presence, not understanding
perhaps, at any rate afraid of him ; and
now, on any little contretemps in conversation or
otherwise, however trivial, she looked towards
him almost furtively with a frightened glance, as
if she expected to be scolded herself, or to hear
such an outbreak as, though directed against
another, might disturb her comfort or her
mother's.

"I am sorry," said Sir Charles, when the ladies
left them, "that Charlie has taken to smoking
already, in spite of all I could say. I would not
listen to advice on the subject, and I suppose he
is right, or it serves me right that he disregards
my warning. But no lad can begin that vice
be fore he is one-and-twenty without having cause
to repent it. However, it is as well that politeness
will not deprive you of your cigar, as I cannot
enjoy it in your company ; will you smoke in
his den or on the terrace, as I know you will
not take an^^ more wine ?"

My cigar is not a pressing necessity as with

some men, Uncle; I can put it off indefinitely if
my company would be agreeable to you."

'' Thank you, Ethert," said the baronet, with
more of real cordiality in his tone than was usual
even when his kindness to his nephew had been
most substantial, "but T am sleepy now after
dinner, and what talk I want with you may wait
till tomorrow. Cannot you stay a while longer
with us r

Impossible, I am sorry to say. I have made
my engagement, and am bound to take up my
work on Monday evening."

*ray, I remember; Ethert, it was a stupid
thing for you to do."

I don't think so. Uncle."

Well, well, we won't discuss it now. Charlie,
take this key ; get out some of my regalia ; but
mind, don't smoke more than one yourself, they'll
do you nothing but harm. Mind, Ethert," as his
son left the room shrugging his shoulders, " the
reason I gave Charlie is the real one. I have ten
times as many of those old regalia as I shall
ever smoke now, and if you don't smoke them
here I shall send half of them to your London
address."

His Uncle had been commonly less given to
small courtesies and kindnesses of this kind, involving
personal thoughtfulness, than to more
serious favours ; and there was something in the
old man's manner, as well as in the words which,
lightly as they were spoken, implied a conscious
abandonment of many of life's pleasures and
interests, that touched one who, if he could not
greatly respect his relative's character, was sincerely
grateful for goodwill shown and kindness
rendered to himself.

What do you think of the governor ?" said
Charlie, as they reached the terrace.

'*I think," answered Ethert, reluctantly, " more
and more what I told you. You had better not
go up to Oxford yet, if you can possibly help
it.^'

"Do you think sos said Charlie, seriously
disturbed. " I hope not, but Mamma looks very
grave indeed, and even Ivy is frightened about
something ; I wish I knew what. ^^ hy, I
declare, there she is I and she has put on her hat
and scarf. She meant to catch us here — or you,
Ethert. I fancy she'll talk to you more than tome.
She thinks me giddy ; perhaps I am when

there's nothing special to sober me. I think I
will leave yon presently — not just yet, or she will
feel that she has driven me away. Well, Ivy,
do yon want a cigarette? Or if you will go for
it in earnest, ask Ethert for one of the governor's
regalia. He wouldn't allow me a second."

Ivy had smiled with natural brightness and
liveliness at her brother's first saucy word ; the
reference to her father clouded her sweet face at
once.

I am afraid Papa has ceased to enjoy them.
It is not only that Mr. Orme objects — he doesn't
seem to care. The doctor said one after breakfast
and dinner would not hurt him, but I go into the
library twice a day to seal and direct his letters —
Mamma has given that up to me — and I generally
see the cigar lying beside him half smoked
or not lighted. Ethert, you are not putting down
yours ? You know if you do that it is sending
me away."

I did not remember, Ivy. The truth is, I
never learned to smoke in a lady's presence,
except yours''

*what!" she answered, smiling, "not in
Meta's? I cannot imagine that any one would

venture to think of a cigar in Aunt Floras
presence. But surely in you long walks and
sails with Meta you are not so punctilious?"

*' Yes, lie is, though, Ivy," answered her
brother ; " unless it be affected to keep me in
order. I never saw him take out his pipe when
she was by, and I have seen him put it
out half a dozen times when sbe joined us."

"Really?" enquired Ivy, much amused.
Ether t, are you really more polite to her than
to me f '

If it is a point of politeness," he answered,
again laying his cigar on the low wall of the
terrace, ''I must postpone the indulgence
now."

Nonsense, Ethert," she answered, half-eagerly,
half laughing, taking up the regalia
herself, and forcing it between his lips with
perfect sisterly playfulness, " only I wonder that
you should so flatter — shall I say Meta or
myself?"

Whichever you please, my little cousin !
The difference is simply this. You have been,
since you were a baby, almost my sister, and Meta
is nothing of the kind."



No ?" she said ; " what then f

"That I cannot tell you, Ivy; but so much or
so little that I think it best to err on the side of
treating her too little, perhaps, as a child. Mind,
she has no brother to teach her to expect men to
smoke in her presence, as you have."

Charlie," she answered, laughing, " gave me
to understand that I must endure his cigar or
dispense with his company."

It is too bad, Ivy, to tell tales out of school in
this way. But you always did so. How many
times did you make Ethert thrash me for bullying
you ? Now I don't mean to be bullied any more,
certainly not out of my cigar. I shall go where I
may smoke in peace."

She let him depart without even a playful
remonstrance. As soon as he was out of hearing,
she turned gravely and earnestly to her cousin,
pressing, to demand his attention, the arm on
which she had placed her slender, unloved
fingers.

Ethert, can you not tell me what is the
matter here ? Even Mamma will not trust me ;
she forgets that I am no child now. But you will;
you will tell me what it is f

Surely you know, Ivy ? Yon must have seen
so much as to know more than I had guessed till
I saw your mother this afternoon. Your father's
illness was a serious one ; the attack may return,
and might be " he paused, but Ivy had understood
him full3\

"I know," she said, 'rand that is bad enough.
But I have realised that for some time now. That
is not all, Ethert. There is some mystery, some
trouble besides, something I think that depends
upon chat, which I don't understand. ]\Iamma
seems so troubled and anxious, and has let fall
words as if that meant some terrible change
beyond, to herself and me, perhaps to Charlie.
What can it mean f

I don't know, ma petite. I don't think it can
mean much, beyond what you know. My Aunt
does not fully appreciate Charlie, and no doubt he
is very young, and perhaps a little heedless, to bethe
head of a family, the owner of so great a
property. But she is safe, and even if no proper
provision has yet been made for you, I think
you will agree with me that Charlie may be
trusted to do you justice."

"Of course," she answered, half-indignantly.

But Mamma would know that. There must be
something more."

*'I think not. I don't see what there can be.
M}^ Uncle has been more explicit with me than
most men would be under the circumstances, and
I know he can hardly be embarrassed. Your
mother is naturally nervous and verj^ anxious,
and no doubt her fears for your father have made
her more susceptible just now."

Tien, Ethert, do talk to her and set her mind
at rest. I cannot. She has never spoken to meat
all about business or about family concerns ;
but do tell her that there is nothing to fear, if you
know it is so ; and if it is for me she is fretting,
tell her I am sure Charlie will be just to me, but
if he were not, I should be far more hurt by the
unkindness than by any injury he could do me.
And do — can you not? — make her renjeniber that
I am old enough to be trusted, to be a comfort to
her if she would only trust me."

I am sure you would, dear child, the greatest
comfort; and depend upon it in real trouble she
will turn to you and find it so. But while it is
only fearing what can neither be helped nor
delayed, what may or may not come, I daresay

she feels loth to talk about it even to
you."

I don't know," Ivy replied, sadly. " You will
see, Ethert. I am so glad you are here; but
I cannot help thinking there is something more.
You see I am not clever — not as clever even as
your little Meta. I read and like your books
because they are yours, and now and then T find
something in them that reminds me of you,
of things you have said and done ; and particularly
when you write of children, it reminds
me of the days we have spent together, of all
your kindness to Charlie and me, and still more
perhaps of her ; but I cannot understand or
follow your thoughts as she does. I am so
dull."

But you are good and sensible, my dear Ivy ;
and even were you not so much older than Meta,
you have a temper, a consideration for others, a
gentleness and a quiet good sense of your own,
which after all do more for women, and especially
do more to make you a comfort to others in
trouble, than any talent can do."

Do you really think so t Or do you say it to
please me, to console me f Her eyes brightened,

her cheek flushed a little, and a slight change of
tone and bearing showed how much she was comforted
and gratified by her cousin's praise, even if
she were not quite confident in its sincerity.
You see, Ethert, when I read your books I
always think : ' His ladies are so clever ; even
his young girls are as clever as men. How
stupid, how dull a companion he must think
me !' "

I never found you so, ma petites he answered,
amused and touched at once. " You are a severe
critic, dear child. Only one or two of my critics
in print have hit on the blot that seems so
palpable to you."

"Ethert, you know 1 did not mean that; I
could not pretend to find fault, and it would be
very impertinent if I did. But I do so wish I
had been clever, could understand all those clever
things I read in books or hear Papa's friends talk
with him."

It is not cleverness, dear, that you want. The
men you think of are concerned with things you
do not happen to know anything about. But in
their way they are no cleverer, though they are

VOL. I. I

Ministers or Members of Parliament, than those
you might meet every day here or in London, and
would understand perfectly because they would
speak on subjects you happened to comprehend."


You are very kind, Ethert, but it won't do.
Ever since I saw Meta and heard her talk to
you, I have understood what a difference there is
between us. She is three years at least younger
than I, but she is ten years quicker and better
read''

"Perhaps that is because I have chosen her
books, and she has had less of amusement and
interest from other sources than you."

I wish, then, you would find me books that 1
I can understand ; that would tell me about the
things you say I do not know. Will you

not r

I don't think I should care to make a female
politician of you, dear child. I like yoU far too
well as you are, my little cousin, to change you
in any way."

Touched by the half-tearful eyes, the wistful
expression of her countenance, he stooped and
kissed her forehead.

Now, ma petite, I had better take you in. I
have finished my cigar; and your mother will
think me inattentive to her, as well as forgetful of
you, if I keep you out longer in the night air, and
with this heavy dew falling."

I 2

CHAPTER VI.

THE FIRST ALARM.

THE proposed conversation between Sir diaries
and his nephew was again postponed next
morning. Mr. Brand had arrived late the night
before and spent the greater part of the daj' with
his client, insisting on the necessity of his return
to town that evening.

Ethert," said his Aunt, after breakfast, " I
know you don't care much for riding across
country ; I am sure I don't wonder ; but Charlie
will go out to-day, and he has got his father to let
him ride that fiery chestnut I wish you were
going with him, unless you can persuade him to
leave Prince Rupert in the stable."

He won't do that, Aunt. But of course I will
go out if it will be any relief to you. Not that I
should be of use. Charlie is a far better rider
than myself, and knows it."

As, booted and spurred for riding, Ethert passed
through the garden, he was intercepted by Ivy.

Are you going to ride f she said, " Will you
not take me with you? Mamma wants me to
call on the Vavasor; and I am so afraid of
them, I put it off till you would go with me.
Mamma contrives to excuse herself very much
from going out now ; it is hard on me, and Charlie
is no help, or very little. He has nothing to say,
and he is as much afraid of Miss Vavasour as
I am."

I am very sorry, dearest, hut I promised your
mother to go out with Charlie, to see whether he
breaks his neck or Prince Rupert's back ; not that
I could prevent him from doing either."

Then I shall see nothing of you," she said.
"I did think we might have one ride or walk
together, if you really must go on Monday."

Will it not do," he asked, looking into her face
and touched as well as flattered by its expression
of affectionate disappointment, "if I engage to
take you to Church tomorrow ? We can walk if
it is fine, and coming back— well, I suppose we
may be allowed to make a round-about return
through the fields f

Allowed ? I suppose so !" she answered.
What do you mean ? But you always avoid
Church, Ethert, I know — unless you think that
self-sacrifice must always be meritorious."

I am afraid," he replied, laughing, " I could
not plead any such excuse. An hour's walk with
you will make up for two of Dr. Whimper's
droning. Since you and Miss Vavasour took the
choir in hand, it don't set one's teeth on edge
quite as it used to do."

The ride was prolonged, so that the two young
men did not return till late, though no accident
occurred to justify Lady Glynnee's anxiety.
Ethert, however, noticed how hard his cousin's
steed pulled, how uncontrollably he was wont to
rush at his fences, and spoke a word or two of
serious warning, which had as much effect as such
counsels from their elders commonly have on
spirited lads of Charlie's age. As they came in,
Mr. Brand the solicitor was about to start.

Mr. Ethert," he said, " I am glad to have

caught you. Can you spare an hour to walk
down with me to the station ? I have time to
walk if you will give me your company."

With pleasure," said Ethert, very insincerely ;

for, besides that he was tired, he would decidedly
have preferred the company of his aunt and cousin
to that of the kindly and well-meaning but not
very interesting lawyer. Something, however, in
the tone and manner of the latter, and the half-conscious
anxiety inspired by Ivy's questionings
and his Aunt's peculiar observations, made him feel
that the request was not one to be refused. Yet at
first it seemed as if the lawyer had nothing
important to says, or did not know how to begin.
He had entered on more than one topic and
dropped it somewhat awkwardly, before a political
observation afforded him an opportunity of
asking ; —

'* 1 suppose a seat in Parliament is the height

of your present ambition, though it might be only
a step to a much higher one V

"I dream of such a thing, but hardly as a
practical possibility, for some day twenty years
hence or more, when I may have made a name
and Parliament may no longer require a
fortune."

It would cost you very little to get in for
Stapleton, if your Uncle should withdraw or resign
the seat, as he soon must."

Perhaps not. Sir Charles's influence is very
great there, I know ; but I have no reason to
think that he would exert it in my favour. And
if he did, Mr. Brand, you are surely aware that I
could not afford the other expenses of the costliest
of all luxuries— political ambition ; nor have I
time to work as a man must work who means to
get on in Parliament. For years at least he
should do nothing else, and I have my bread to
earn."

I don't know that you need," remarked the
other. " If anything happened to Charles, you
are of course your Uncle's heir."

'' Heir to the title, not the estates. For which
reason, if for no other, I sincerely hope Charlie
will survive me."

Your Uncle," observed the lawyer, " would be
glad, I fancy, to do something for you ; and at
any rate there is one course which might reconcile
all interests and avoid all difficulties, while fully
gratifying your ambition. Why don't you marry
your cousin ?"

This was not the first occasion on which Ethert
had observed Mr. Brand's peculiar method of
introducing a startling idea. What must amaze

and might offend he would state with such
absolute abruptness, such nonchalant coolness,
that the hearer was too utterly astounded to
express either surprise or anger, and generally
committed himself by an effort to imitate the
other's matter-of-course tone and premeditated
indifference. But Ethert was too completely
confounded to speak at aU until a silence, lasting
full two minutes, had given him leisure to realise
first the audacious impertinence of the advice,
and next the certainty that such impertinence
had not been idly ventured.

'^ There are several reasons," he said, when he
found voice to answer, "but one is sufficient. I
don't wish Sir Charles to kick me downstairs,
or my Aunt to forbid my further intercourse
with a cousin I greatly respect and
esteem."

And who would make you a very good wife,"
said the other, as coolly as before.

A wife whom any man might be proud to
win. But, while I would never marry money
to be accused of marrying for money, I should
presume that my cousin could as little afford to
accept a penniless suitor as I to marry a lady

brought up as she has been ; or indeed to marryat
all."

No other, perhaps ; but for bis nephew and
possible heir there are things Sir Charles
might be able to arrange, which it would be
difficult, if not impossible, to do for a stranger."

Mr. Brand," said Ethert, stopping and looking
his companion full in the face, " if you were
not my Uncle's solicitor I should treat your
suggestion as a simple impertinence. Being his
solicitor, if I did not know something of your
relations with him, I should think it even worse.
I must suppose you think you have a right so
to speak. I decline to believe that you are
really warranted in such a suggestion."

"Ask Sir Charles for his daughter's hand,"
replied the lawyer, coolly, "and if no arrangement
that will render your marriage possible
and convenient, even in your eyes, be proposed
to you, come and see me. Otherwise, as you
must be aware, I can say no more."

I have no wish to hear any more ; except
that I am fond of my cousin, and should be
sorry to think that she was likely to meet with
less than justice from her father or brother, asher

mother seemed to fear. For the rest, neither
ambition, nor fortune, nor even regard for her
would induce me to he guilty of the presumption
3''ou suggest."

Mr. Brand made no rejoinder, and presently
turned the conversation ; nor was another word
said on the subject before they parted.

After dinner Sir Charles invited his nephew
to smoke a cigar in his own study. Taking one
himself, but laying it aside after a few whiffs,
he said: —

I hope, Ethert, you will find reason to
give up the strange fancy you have adopted.
Journalism is not a profession that pays well
either in honour or in money ; and I had rather,
if it pinched me, give you out of my own pocket
what you expect to earn till we can find you
something better in both respects. But if that
won't do, this at least you cannot refuse to
accept, for it would be a convenience to both.
I cannot at present give up my chambers in
Victoria Street, and shall not want them again
till spring, if ever — which is not likely. They
are larger of course than you want. Lady
Glynnee has stayed there with me, and even

Ivy — of course it was a crush to get her in.
But I must keep them up, and I must pay the
wages and board of Edwards and his wife. He
is a good valet and she a capital cook, and you
can live there rent free at no greater cost than
in lodgings. I don't want them left empty so
long ; it would really suit me best that you
should occupy them."

It was evident that the old man was thoroughly
in earnest, and Ethert felt it would be ungracious
to refuse an offer so kindly intended and one
that imposed no serious obligation. He accepted
it therefore with simple courteous thanks, and
this acceptance seemed to encourage Sir Charles
and loosen his somewhat fettered tongue or embarrassed
mind.

You are ambitious, Ethert," he said, after
a while ; " and you have, I think, the brains,
certainly the industry, to get on in any career.
L should like to see you adopt that which would
give you the highest field and the best rewards.
I should have applied for the Chiltern Hundreds
three months ago but for two reasons ; first on
party grounds, next that I have thought how
the vacancy might be filled. I can never sit

again. "Would it suit you to come forward in
our interest for Stapleton ? It shall cost you
nothing."

Despite the recent conversation with the
solicitor, Ethert was a second time taken by
surprise. The offer was the most tempting that
could have been made to him. An eager
politician, by temperament an orator rather thana
writer — the distinction between the poet and
the orator is often little more than an accident
of early training — ambitious, self-confident, he
had seen enough of Parliamentary life from the
Gallery to excite, not sober, his imagination.
It was in the last degree imprudent to accept ;
and yet, unmarried, unencumbered, unpledged —
why should he not! If he failed, he could
surely secure, as the price of retirement, a
position better than he could earn in any other
way. Such were his first thoughts; then, the
suggestion which the lawyer had coupled with
this recurring to his mind, he fell back at once
into the mental attitude of a fencer on guard,
and replied with a cold reserve whose motive
his uncle could hardly misconceive, if he had
any idea what had passed that afternoon :

"My professional work will fill my hands,
and though a seat in Parliament would be intensely
gratifying to my ambition, I cannot possibly
afford it."

Sir Charles hesitated more and more ashe
seemed to approach a subject yet more
important, but much more difficult even to hint
at, clearly not accepting as yet his nephew's
refusal.

Ethert, it is useless to conceal and unmanly
to avoid plain facts. I know, and you cannot but
guess, that I shall not last much longer. None
of our house are long-lived — many die young,
and if anything happen to Charlie you inherit the
title, which from your point of view would be
simply a burden."

A terrible burden, uncle, and one which I
sincerely hope may never fall upon me. I trust
you will wear it longer than you think, and if
Prince Rupert does not break his neck, Charlie
has every chance of outliving me by ten or
twenty years. God send he may !"

"Charlie is not wise, and is younger even than
his years. I cannot but wish to see all things
settled whilst I live— the future of all provided

for, yourself as well as your cousins ; for,
Ethert, I think you can believe I do like you ?"

You have been as kind to me as a father,"
said Ether t, much moved, and not very careful
to keep the expression of his genuine gratitude
and affection within the exact limits of accuracy.
I can take care of myself, Uncle ; and for Ivy,
I trust that Charlie will do full justice to her, if
you have not been able to do so."

There lies my worst anxiety," the old baronet
answered, looking with troubled eyes for a
moment into his nephew's face, and then letting
his glance sink again. " She is not clever,
Ethert, but she is good and kind, and will make
a good wife to any man who has sense and kindliness
to take good care of her. I would rather
see her married to one who had talent and character,
if he had nothing else, than to a man of
even higher fortune and station than my own,
and above all I would rather see her safely
married while I live than leave her to the chance
of the most brilliant fortune afterwards."

If you think fit," said Ethert, parrying the
thrust he felt to be intended, " to make me one
of her guardians, you may be very sure I will do

my part by Ivy as loyally and anxiously as I
would by a sister of my own."

Ethert, I cannot provide for you both — separately
— and you know it is by no means im-likely
that the title should come to you ; the
estates are entailed''

He paused, and Ethert still resolutely avoiding
all recognition of the hint, pointed as it had
been, and speaking only of his own future as
sufficiently assured, his uncle sighed and let the
subject drop.

"I told you," said Lady Glynnee, after her
nephew had returned to town. "I told you,
Charles, that you were taking the wrong line.
Tell Ethert the truth, tell him that Ivy's only
chance of safety and honour is in marrying him,
and liking for her and gratitude to you, and what
young men call chivalry, may very probably
induce him to — to consent. Put to him what he
must regard as a proposal to marry for money—
what he must see will appear to everyone else
as well as to himself in that light — and he cannot
for very shame''

''■ Do you really think, Caroline, that all that is
anything more than talk ? Some men want a

more decent pretext than others for making a
prudent and selfish marriage, and I gave him
excuse enough. But tell him that it is not his
interest, that the estates as well as the title are
really his — what should he marry Ivy for, who
may have his choice, if he cares to marryat
all, among the rank and beauty of London
society f

"You don't understand him, Charles. You
have failed, and Brand tells you his hint, which
seems to have been plain enough, was even indignantly
rejected. Remember, the secret will be
kept only whilst you Eve ; when it comes out it
will be too late. Tell Ethert, put it to him as
the only means to save the family from scandal,
and Ivy and myself from disgrace, and— very
likely he may refuse, he has a right to do so —
but that is the only chance."

"Bah!" said Sir Charles, "I don't at all
despair of his proposing to Ivy the next time he
sees her."

I wish you had seen what I have," his wife
replied, sadly and earnestly. "When he came
here he greeted her as he had always done — too
much like a brother, of course, but kindly and

VOL. I. K

affectionately ; and Ivy brightened, was happier,
more lively than she had been since your illness.
He was as fond of her company, as frank in
showing his affection and kindness for her as
before, till after he had talked with Brand and
you. I thought there was something cold and
constrained in the way he wished her good night
that evening, but it might be fancy. Next morning
she reminded him that he had promised to
take her to Church. He tried to get out of it,
and when he saw that it hurt her he first tried to
persuade me to go, and afterwards fairly bullied
Charlie into it. He was determined that day not
to be again alone with her. That evening his
manner had evidently saddened and perplexed
her; she cares more for him than she knows.
Our plan would be no sacrifice to her. But she
rallied after dinner, when he evidently made an
effort to talk to her naturally and as usual in the
drawing-room, till he gave her her candle and
bade her good night in the same careful, measured
manner, as if he dared not be natural ; and when
next morning lie parted from her again without
offering to kiss her— I don't think such a thing had
happened since she was born — she, knowing they

would not meet again for months, was so hurt,
wondering what she could have done to displease
him — I am sure he saw it, and if he had not
made up his mind to avoid her, not felt that you
had put a fatal constraint between them, he could
not have done it. Well, you have had your way
this time. Wait, if you will, and see what
follows ; but if another and a last chance is
given us, remember that you have failed, and try
my plan. It can do no harm then ; for remember,
Charles, the secret cannot and will not be kept
when once his right becomes practical and
present. You have been fairly warned of that.
I cannot say that Brand is wrong ; it would be
making himself a party to a fraud, and if Brand
did not betray it you know who certainly
would."

Not he," said her husband, hard as he was
evidently avoiding to look in her face, into
which a painful flush had come as she spoke the
last words. " It is not bis interest, and malicious
as he is he cares more for money than for
malice."

K 2

CHAPTER Iii.

BEHIND THE SCENES.

I WAS surprised and well pleased to receive, in
an envelope bearing the stamp of the Courier,
a thoroughly legible letter ; and I suppose that
most of my colleagues blessed the fortune which
had obliged or induced Estrange to, as Leaf said,
set up a private secretary who had learnt to write,
and was not journalist enough to have unlearnt
the art'' The formal commencement, suited to
Glynnee's position, and aptly fitted to the variety
of topics he had to treat on Estrange's behalf,
had evidently been well considered : —

*'I am instructed to ask your attention to
several matters of more or less importance. Will
you be good enough to make a point of attending
our meetings on Friday afternoon ? Please consider
whether ' Christian Effeminacy ' had not

better be given to Yere. Would it not be best
answered by a thorough believer? Except during
a Presidential election, the American correspondence
and articles should be kept within some three
columns per. week at most. Can you take up the
Copyright debate? It begins on Tuesday next,
and will probably be adjourned. Government
will be asked to give a day. If they consent it
will be on Monday or Thursday of the next week
next Thursday is engaged. Estrange agrees
with you that as a rule it is absurd to make a
point of reviewing important books before you
have time to read them ; but for the first year of
the Courier s new existence begs you to prefer
promptitude to thoroughness. Please hint to our
New York correspondent that he is too strong a
Southern partisan, now the Civil War is forgotten
here. Can you explain in a half-column leader
the whole history of the Virginia debt?" and soon,
and so on.

Yours truly,

Ethert Glynnee."

At three on the next Friday afternoon I joined
for the first time the informal assemblage of the

leading members of Estrange's staff. We
gathered in a sort of common room, bare enough
of other furniture than bookshelves, table, writing
and a few lounging chairs, spittoons, cigar boxes,
pipes, and so forth. The older among us for the
most part refused other beverage than coffee at
that hour. One or two veterans wbo bad by force
of original constitutional strength outlived scores
of their colleagues of similar habits, and some of
our younger friends, prided themselves a little on
an '^ athletic " preference for ale or brandy and
soda. " Among these I was glad for bis sake to
observe was not Glynnee, who sat next to the head
of the table, immediately on the left of our chief.
The latter lounged, or perhaps it would be more
just to say reclined, in an easy chair, his appearance
more than confirming my apprehensions for
his health. Of quite average height, he was, I
should think, the lightest weight of the party ;
wasted almost to a skeleton, with thin long white
hands and face almost equally pale, rendering the
contrast of his dark eager e3^es, except when
weariness or indifference dimmed their fire, very
striking and almost startling. His long loose
hair was not actually white, but much more than

grey, and his long beard was almost equally
divided between streaks of black and silver. His
restrained impatience, the difficulty with which he
refrained from interrupting or hurrying a slow
speaker or cutting short an irrelevant or inappropriate
argument, were marked by a certain quivering
of the under-lip, and now and then an almost
irritable beating of his right hand on the table.
As a colleague and equal be had been too prone
to hasty interruption, especially when he thought
himself imperfectly comprehended, or was irritated
by the slow expression of views he could himself
have summed up in half a sentence. He
recognised as a chief the imperative necessity of
self-control ; not merely out of courtesy, but because
he fully appreciated the importance of eliciting
full and free discussion and unblessed criticism.

Next lira on the right sat Leaf, by far the
best informed, coolest, most reliable among u s
seldom or never wrong on a point of fact, never
ungrammatical or incorrect, but apt to be brief
and bald in utterance, especially on paper : the
only journalist I ever knew who felt a difficulty
in expanding his thoughts to the full space of
the prescribed column.

Opposite him, next to Glj^nne, sat Everett, in
charge of the Indian and Colonial Department,
a large, tall, powerful, and rather heavy-looking
man; quiet and a little slow in speech; somewhat
impetuous as a writer. Half his life had
been spent out of England, and his knowledge,
though geographically limited, was practical and
varied within the range of his experience beyond
that of most adventurers in journalism.

Beside him was a man much younger, and
looking younger than he was : a soldier by
education, a war-correspondent of no mean
distinction for several years ; to whom Estrange
looked for accurate information and effective
criticism on military and naval administration ;
somewhat too partial, perhaps, to inventors,
certainly too bitter and arrogant in his criticism
on the action of responsible commanders in the
field and at home ; but possessing one rare merit,
that his criticisms were not governed by popular
clamour or practical results. He could do as
full justice to a soldier who had failed in an
impossible task as to one who had succeeded
brilliantly in a feat more easy than it appeared.
The wing-like continuation of his moustache —

the one martial affectation in his attire or appearance
— constantly caught and teased my eye,
especially when a draught of air blew the wide,
thin stream of hair backwards and forwards, and
presented an effect at which I found it difficult
not actually to smile.

At the further end of the table, besides some
junior personages, whose duties answered to those
of the general-utility performer on the stage,
were two gentlemen who filled posts of extreme
if not always fully-acknowledged importance.
The chief of our reporting staff had for thirty
years written the best Parliamentary summary
in London, and knew perhaps, as much of the
rules and practice of Parliament as Mr. Speaker
himself. He had supplied sense and grammar
to a whole generation of self-esteemed statesmen
and would-be orators, but had for himself
little to say, and generally said that little ill.

Next him sat the experienced, careful, silent,
somewhat irritable sub-editor — wiry, enduring
strength the most notable characteristic of his
physique ; who played on the newspaper the
same part which the Financial Secretary of the
Treasury plays in the Commons ; who must

come early and stay till the very last, must fill
up and fit in everything, do everything that was
nobody else's especial duty, and everything
that those whose duty it was might have failed
in or forgotten; who got less credit, less notice
than any of his co-operators, save from our
chief, but on whom, next to our chief, more
depended than on anyone. He was wont to say
that " a newspaper killed an editor every twelve
years, a sub-editor every six," and that he himself
had survived three successions of those who
filled similar posts in London journalism.

Glynnee was remarkable only as the most
thoroughly gentlemanlike in manner and appearance
of the whole staff", the one man whom
no journalist would have picked out as an
aristocrat, no man of the world as belonging to
a profession in which affectations and eccentricities
have a traditional licence. Certainly the
best dressed of the party except the soldier, he
was the one man whose dress could b}^ no
possibility attract notice. When we were all
assembled, Estrange first lighted his own huge
cheroot as a sort of invitation to us, and passed
the boxes around the table.

This," he said, " is the first time we have all
met, and I may perhaps as well repeat what I
said at our first meeting. The organisation of
the Courier is Cleveland's, not mine ; hut the'
plan is one in which T heartily agree. In giving
each department into a single hand, in leaving
to each principal the charge, not merely of
leaders on his own subject, but of all the
correspondence and information that bear upon
it, we have made a complete innovation on
newspaper practice. It is for us so to co-operate
that innovation may for once be improvement.
It is not less but more necessary that the chief
of such a cabinet should be not a constitutional
prime minister, but a despotic sovereign. I
assume I shall be wrong in half my decisions,
but that doesn't matter. Somebody must decide ;
and on a newspaper it is a trifle to be wrong,
it is fatal to be slow or irresolute. One great
difficulty in all cases is to keep writers who have
all minds and views of their own from contradicting
one another more or less directly ; to
adhere to a common policy, a common set of
ideaS' — the ideas not of individuals, nor even
of the Editor, but of the newspaper.

"For example, Everett must bear in mind ttiat
our course in regard to Colonial marriage legislation
must be governed, not by Colonial, but by
English considerations. This question has to be
treated next week, and I think it may be well
to hear other opinions on it than my own. I
don't see how a Conservative journal can do
otherwise than defend the existing law ; but that
law may be defended on two entirely different
grounds, and we must choose ours. Are we to
affirm that marriages of affinity are un-Christian,
and should therefore be forbidden in a Christian
land ; or, avoiding to assume either that the
country is Christian or the marriages are not, to
rest simply on social necessity and the certainty
that one infraction of the principle must speedily
sweep away affinity altogether?"

Leaf, that very raraavis in modern journalism,
a man thoroughly orthodox in divinity, not
merely for want of thought, but as the
result of thought, spoke a few earnest,
almost indignant, sentences in support of the
former view. Everett denounced the practical
injustice of interference with personal liberty on
merely theoretical grounds; and then our chief

called upon myself, probably as the strongest
supporter of the strictest doctrine for the laxest
reasons,

I see," said I, " no direct reasons why a
widower should not marry his sister-in-law. I
think it an intolerable evil that a wife should
look on lier sister as her possible successor. The
advocates of change argue as if we had only
to consider the widower's case, and this
proves them thoroughly disingenuous. For one
family in which the aunt is a desirable stepmother
there are twenty in which the brother-in-law
is the best or the only guardian. For the sake
of a hundred second marriages, you would make
ten thousand first marriages uncomfortable,
deprive a thousand young girls of their only
home, and soil the whole idea of English family
life. The impossibility of marriage is the safeguard
of domestic affection : it extinguishes desire.
Except among the savages who haunt the
moral outskirts of civilization, forbidden unions
are the rarest of all crimes."

'ray," said Estrange. *' But ^A^sg marriages
are just frequent enough to take from the sister-in-law
both social and moral security."

A poor reason," I retorted, " for altering the
law to suit and reward the law-breakers who
have deprived us of its benefits. And that is
not all. Infringe the principle of affinity at one
point, and it must be swept away altogether. At
present most men regard a sister-in-law — all men,
I suppose, except Lord Granville, a step-daughter
or a wife's niece — precisely as a sister, child, or
niece of their own. What a revolution in
domestic life, wdiat an inroad on social intercourse
and social morality, if the wife's relations are
henceforth to be strangers to the husband and
his to her ! For the sake of home comfort and
social peace and purity, religion altogether apart,
I would resist to the death the first step to
such a change. And if the present law be ineffective
to secure its end, strengthen instead of
destroying it — punish forbidden marriages like
other crimes."

After some further debate Estrange summed
up.

We must take your line, I think," he said tome
; " and you had best take it yourself. Only
w rite from your brain, not from your heart, not as
if every opponent were a Republican, an ,

or a teetotaller. And now for a
subject of more general and, except for you,

more exciting interest. What of the General



Election evidently at hand ? It won't do to say
that we shall be beaten. Now-a-days nothing-succeeds
like success ; the Democracy have not,
as the upper and middle classes always had,
loyalty and pluck to light a losing battle; they
desert by thousands, to the luckier colours."

If I remember rightly, every second person present
expressed an opinion of his own entirely different
from that of every One else ; and held to it with
an obstinacy the more remarkable that none of us
could give a tangible reason, drawn from real
valuable knowledge of any society outside of
London and its suburbs. Estrange turned to
his secretary, who had remained silent.
*' And what do you think, Glynn?"
"I know nothing," Glynnee answered. "But I
have not been in London for some years, and it
seems to me that you all take London for England.
London thought may be, and probably is sounder
than that of any provincial society ; certainly less
prejudiced, less narrow, formed on wider knowledge,
far larger and more general opportunities of

intercourse with men of all views and characters.
But it is the provinces, not London, that decide a
general election ; and in the north, speaking as a
"Westmoreland man not wholly unacquainted with
Lancashire, I think we shall lose heavily. But
this is only an impression, derived I don't know
how in the absence of anything like personal
experience, and may be worth nothing."

'' I think," said Estrange, " it is worth more
than any of ours, for the one reason you give ;
and unhappily Cleveland agrees with you. The
probability is ahvaj^s against us, because we are
right and the majority is generally wrong. I
should think ill of my political creed if it were
that of the multitude. Moreover, I can never
take our present Prime Minister seriously'*

"His enemies don't agree with you," said
Leaf.

I suppose not, or they would not be so rabid.
I don't like to imitate their arrogance. There is
something almost too contemptible for anger,
almost too irritating for contempt, in the sublime
conceit of third-rate magazine-writers, who set
down * the Duke's ' dislike of reform to ' blind
prejudice,' and second-rate professors who habitually

speak of the universities, that is of the elite
of English intellect, as * always wrong,' because
scholars and thinkers presume to differ from
Beetles and Dikes. It is still more offensive, if
not quite so silly, to talk of a constituency * disgracing
itself by daring to prefer a Tory gentleman
to a brawling demagogue. But I shall not
be surprised if in this case the constituencies do
in some sense disgrace themselves. It will not
be honourable to England if we are beaten''

And why V asked Ethert.

Because, if it be so, this will be the first great
contest in English history since the Revolution
which has been carried simply by hard lying. I
suppose I must not say so in print f

I should think not," said Leaf, the only one
among us who felt sufficiently on equal terms
with our chief to exercise that kind of friendly
control of which all knew, and none better than
himself, that Estrange sometimes stood in need.

No, I suppose not. But this I will do. I will
show that their leaders have made such charges,
used such language as should exclude either
themselves or those they assail from the society
of gentlemen."

VOL. I. li

'' What do yon mean," asked Everett, " by
saying that you cannot take the Prime Minister
seriously f

Well, is he not a practical joke ? Does not
Vivian Grey feel himself a living sarcasm, an
incarnate piece of irony? — he who believes in
nothing except the superiority of the Semite races,
who had ridiculed Conservatism at large and
everything Conservatives most cherish except the
monarchy — the chief of the Conservative party,
the representative of EngKsh Imperial pride and
national self-will ; he, the cosmopolitan by birth
and temper, the exponent of the most John
Bullish phase of John Bull feeling! Is he ever
in earnest when he addresses himself directly to
Parliament or to the public? For my part, I
believe that his politics are a fiction, and that his
fictions represent all that is real in his politics,
and that is but skin deep."

I think," said Leaf, somewhat indignantly,
he is a sounder and better man than his
rival."

" I agree with you ; the one is a hypocrite, the
other only a humbug. Well, I must write the
election articles myself; but. Leaf, will you be

good enough to look them over ? They should
not embody one man's views or reflect one man's
temper." .

Another council of the same kind held a
few weeks later was disturbed in a manner
which left its impression on the mind of more
than one among us. Estrange had forbidden
interruption, except on very grave occasion,
during these councils, and we were k little surprised
when the office-messenger entered, saying
that Mr. Glynnee's presence was urgently requested
by a Mr. Brand. He did not return till
we were on the point of breaking up; then
entered somewhat hastily, with a face in which
surprise, distress, and even horror were painfully
manifest, and handed to his chief an open
telegram.

I am very sorry to hear it," said Estrange,
with a sympathy so earnest as, to those who
knew him, to imply either a very serious and
startling misfortune, or a liking for his young
assistant such as he had seldom shown for old
and steady friends. " Well, there is no help l?lr
it; of course you must go."

I need not go yet. Mr. Brand, my uncle's

L 2

solicitor, is going down at once ; but I must be
there for the funeral, and probably the day before,
and I am afraid I shall have some difficulty in
getting back^at once. How long can you spare me?"
*' I will spare you as long as you think it
right to stay. I can trust you, Glynnee, not to
inter-estimate the binding character of professional
obligations like yours. Stay while you
are more wanted there than here; only let me
know as soon as you can exactly what I am to
expect. Will not this," he continued, when they
were left alone together, " deprive me altogether
of your services'? Of course it must greatly
change your position ?"

"Not at all, so far as I know," Ethert
answered, "except for the worse. The estates
are entailed on Sir Charles's daughter, now his
only surviving child. I am afraid the shock to
my uncle will prove even more serious than this
telegram suggests, and in that case I shall be
burdened with a baronetcy without the slightest
means of supporting it. Please don't let anything
get out ; if so, I shall drop the title as
absolutely as my acquaintances and my enemies
will permit. I am terribly distressed about this

in every way'* he went on, after a short pause,
speaking with manifest emotion. " Charlie was
a capital fellow. I have known him well from
his infancy, and I cannot help feeling as if I
were to blame for this. He was accustomed to
set some store by my advice, though less in the
field than anywhere else. His mother begged me
to warn him against the horse, and I ought no
doubt to have said more than I liked to say ; but
I thought him so sure to disregard advice on
that point that I did not care to press it."

Of course not," Estrange answered. " Don't,
for your own sake and the sake of your future usefulness,
yield to this kind of superstitious self-reproach.
It is of no use to say you did your
best, because when the consequence turns out
ill one always doubts if it was one's best. But if
you felt content with yourself then, never reconsider
the counsel after the event. If you do, you
learn either to shirk responsibility, or to advise for
safety, not for truth ; and inability to take responsibility
boldly and firmly is perhaps the worst of
those feminine faults which impair the strength
and usefulness of manhood, since hardly any man
is so humbly placed but that he may have to

decide questions irretrievably affecting the happiness
of other lives."

I don't know. Perhaps, though I might have
made him more obstinate at the moment, the
recollection of my advice might have turned the
scale."

"It might of course, or it might have done
exactly the reverse. You did what you thought
best, and if it has turned out ill you cannot help
that. Well, we had better drop the subject, and
keep to our work till sou have to go. Of course
if this, or the funeral and all its distressing
incidents, have unnerved or should unnerve you, T
don't want you to take up your work again till you
feel fit for it. But, as a rule, I think the sooner
one can return to regular occupation — even after
the gravest of those domestic calamities that
make an actual void in our daily life — the
better."

CHAPTER Vir.

THE SKELETON.

N the evening after his cousin's mangled form

had been consigned to the family vault,
Ethert paced thoughtfully and sadly a path more
remote from the house than the Eastern terrace,
on which he and his lost relative had so often
walked together. His loss was the loss of a well-loved
companion, but one too young to be an
Intimate personal friend. It affected him keenly,
but rather through pity for the life so bright, so
promising, so early closed, and as it seemed to
him so recklessly and uselessly sacrificed, through
compassion and sympathy for those whose own
lives must at any rate for years to come be more
or less saddened and overshadowed thereby, than
through a sense of personal bereavement. The
calamity, though from every other point of view
grave indeed, was one of those which, according

to Estrange's practical distinction, would not
create a void in his daily life — would not take
from him anything that he must hourly miss,
would not be recalled to his mind by daily incidents
or omissions. It concerned his personal
welfare chiefly as it threatened him at no distant
date with the burden of a barren and most unwelcome
honour. Whatever property independent
of the entailed estates might have been
designed for Ivy would have been doubtless transferred
to himself, but that his uncle's present
state would hardly justify, even did it legally
permit, any alteration in testamentary or other
dispositions already made. At any rate he could
not consent to accept any change in his own
favour made, as it would inevitably seem, under
his own influence, however just in itself to a
nephew and the heir of the title, however cordially
it might have been approved by Ivy and
her mother as well as 'by the world. Still less
could he allow the heiress hereafter to carry out
any views, however clearly evidenced, which she
might suppose her father to have entertained in
his behoof. From such reflections he soon reverted
to softer memories and deeper musings ;

absorbed in which, he was almost violently
startled by a light step immediately behind him,
and turned abruptly as soft fingers gently and
even timidly touched his ai-m. Ivy was in deep
mourning, her face pale with sleeplessness and
sorrow, her eyes swollen with frequent tears ; but
there was more than sorrow, more than the sense
of dependence which, sorrow and especially bereavement,
so deepens and quickens in soft and
clinging feminine natures — there was something of
direct, anxious, though shy and almost unconscious
appeal for comfort and sympathy — in the look
turned upward to his countenance.

You came here to be alone, Ethert, did you
not ? Forgive me for troubling you ; I will not
stay long."

What can you mean, Ivy ? You cannot suppose
me selfish enough to have come here out of
your way, if I had thought I could give you the
slightest help or comfort? I fancied both you
and my aunt would prefer to be troubled with no
other company ; and I have seen my uncle just
now, and found that the effort to talk in his
present state is too much for him. Indeed, the
doctor forbade him to attempt it this afternoon,

anxious as he seemed to say something he could
hardly make intelligible."

May he not feel, Ethert, that he must speak
and has little time ? . It is not one loss only.
I shall have no one left in the world but
Mamma — and you — if we are anything to you
still."

Ethert could not maintain, could hardly remember
at that moment the guarded coldness of
manner which the hints of Mr. Brand and Sir
Charles had caused him to assume, partly in conscious
precaution, partly perhaps in unconscious
irritation. Ivy at least was perfectly innocent of
a proposal which would have revolted her feminine
modesty as much as it had offended his
pride and self-respect ; and doubtless aU ideas
of that kind, if not set at rest b}^ his peremptory
refusal, had been dispelled by her changed position.
Now she was safe and wealthy, and could
look for a far better match than a cousin who
could offer her nothing but the family title.

My aunt has been as kind to me as a mother.
You, Ivy, have been as a favourite sister from
the first days I carried you, almost before you
could walk, through these gardens. Except my

mother and Meta, do you think anything in this
world can ever be half as much to me as you
are?"

Then, Ethert, what did I do when you were
last here? for certainly something had changed
you, had made you displeased, or more than displeased,
with me. I thought till then, if I did
offend you, you would tell me, scold me if you
chose ; you know I should have listened, and been
only anxious to amend whatever had annoyed
you."

Ethert's heart smote him ; natural and necessary
as it had seemed at the time to disregard
the pain that his changed manner might give to
one whose affection, perfectly childlike and sisterly
as he believed it, he had dearly prized and
warmly returned.

'* Don't reproach me with that now, Ivy ; I
should like to say that you were altogether mistaken,
but you would not believe me. Certainly
you had done nothing to offend, nor did I mean
to seem unkind or angry ; but I cannot explain,
dear. Try to forgive and forget. Is there anything
I can do for you now ? "

Do ? Only be kind to me, treat me as you had

always done till then. Yes — just one thing.
Ethert, do stay a little while with us. I know
Mamma wants you very much, though I cannot
fully understand why. She has not liked to say
so just yet ; hut when something was said about
your going tomorrow or the next day in my
father's hearing, he was so excited and vexed, he
tried so hard to speak and protest, I am sure you
would not have thought of going if you had seen
how much it disturbed him."

You know, dear child, that I am much wanted
in London. My employer is an invalid and
greatly dependent on my help. Without me his
work is almost too much for him, and I am the
more bound to remember this because he has been
so kind in offering to release me. But I will stay
so long as there seems any real occasion ; so long
as you or my aunt do not feel you can spare me."

'• Mamma would not like to spare you for a
long time if she could help it. But you will see,
Ethert. I am sure Papa has something to say to
you if he can manage to speak. At any rate you
will not go tomorrow ? For my sake," she
added, seeing that he hesitated to give a positive
promise.

No, I will not, Ivy ; if it be only you that
feel as if you needed me. Your loss, dear, is a
very heavy one ; what it must be to my aunt and
uncle neither you nor I could bear to think, even
if we could realise it."

To mamma, yes," Ivy answered. *' Charlie
was always her favourite, though something lately
seemed to trouble her and make her anxious, I
thought almost unreasonable with him. But
perhaps she knew better than I. But I did not
think it would have crushed Papa so utterly. I
suppose it was only his manner — that he really
loved us much as she. But — do you know,
Ethert, I could have thought he cared more for
you than for either of us ? He never showed
so much feeling, or talked quite to us as he did to
you."

"You forget, dear, that he looked on you as
children — that he had grown to treat me more asa
friend, and in some things almost as an adviser.
I was sure this blow would be terrible to him,
and — I think, Ivy, you are prepared "

** I hope so," she answered, very gravely, but
with more perhaps of anxiety and of solemnity
than of the bitter grief and fear of an affectionate

child, apprehending in the midst of a present
bereavement the probable speedy loss of a beloved
parent. " I am afraid, very much afraid, for
Mamma. She expects it, but I do not know how
she is to bear it."

"She has expected it longer than you have,
and it will not come to her as the sudden,
fearful shock that this has been."

He had drawn her hand within his arm ; and.
her fear of intrusion forgotten, sensible only of
the comfort derived from his affection and sympathy,
Ivy had remained with her cousin for
more than an hour, lapsing gradually into talk of
past memories in which the lost one had filled
a kindly and pleasant part, when a servant
approached them.

Mr. Glynnee," he said — and Ethert almost
started at the name, formally given to him in
that house for the first time — *' my lady has asked
for you. She wishes, when you are at liberty, to
see you in her boudoir."

"I will come at once'' he answered. "Ivy,
will you go with me ?"

I think not," she answered. " I think
Mamma will want to see you alone. I know

ever since — after the first day, she spoke of you
and was anxious for your conning ; half-afraid at
first that you would not be able to get away, and

then, I thought, fretting that you could not come

«

sooner. Remember what I told you : I am sure
there was something when you were here last
besides Papa's illness, and there is something now
that I do not understand."

The reminder was unfortunate, recalling to
Ethert the strange proposition that had followed
on Ivy's former expressions of apprehension ; that
he had, though till now unconsciously, connected
therewith. He made no reply, and few words
were exchanged before they re-entered the house ;
but even in these Ivy felt or fancied a return
of the coolness that had so pained her
before.

Lady Glynnee seemed to have no little
difficulty in addressing her nephew ; and yet it
was not that she could not command her voice or
her feelings on the subject that might be supposed
entirely to exclude all others from her
thoughts. On the contrary, the few sentences
interchanged on this topic were on her part almost
absently spoken, as if uttered in a sort of routine

preparation for something that really weighed
upon her mind, to which she was anxious yet
feared to come at once.

*' Ethert," she said at last, abruptly, " when
you were here last something passed between
you and your uncle, perhaps with Mr. Brand
also, about — about family arrangements?"

Yes," he replied, reluctantly, as she paused
for his answer, and would not be satisfied with
silent acquiescence. " But surely, Aunt, there
can be no need to revert to that now ? If you
heard what passed, you know that what my
uncle meant in exaggerated kindness to me would
not have suited my pride or my Independence,
even had it been less certain to be jet more
repugnant to another."

"You are mistaken there," she said hastily.
Ivy likes — I mean. Ivy would have obeyed her
father's wishes and mine with no painful feeling.
Of course she has not thought of such a thing ;
it has not been put into her head ; but I know
her and you well enough to wish that you could
have thought differently."

At any rate. Aunt," said Ethert, not a little
surprised and somewhat annoyed by her persistent

reference to such a topic at a time so unsuitable,
the situation is now entirely changed, and there
can be no occasion to return to a subject which
was painful at the time; and which I could not
bear to discuss with you. Only, you will not
think that I do not appreciate Ivy, that I do
not dearly love my cousin, because I — I — — "

** Ethert, you know now that the title must be
yours — may be yours within a few weeks, or even
days. Are you still of the same mind ? Do you
not feel that the arrangement your uncle then
desired has become yet more desirable now f

It is of course," he answered, " a great misfortune
to me; but that cannot be helped. I
may think it hard that the title should have been
entailed without any means of supporting it ;
but I have always known the state of the entail ;
my uncle was always frank about that, kindly
intending, I think, to spare me the disappointment
of unfounded expectations'

You know'' she said, hastily, " the entail was
not your uncle's work. He was almost an intent
when Sir Herbert made that disposition. We
think as you do. Need you scruple, need you
think it beneath you to accept an arrangement

VOL. L M

which would oiil}^ give you what we all feel to be
your right ?*'

You go too far, Aunt. I don't complain ; and
in no case could I dream of redressing an unjust
settlement by an interested marriage. Now please
drop the subject."

I cannot, Ethert," she answered, more embarrassed
and pained than ever, but persisting,
to bis infinite astonishment, despite a refusal so
peremptory that but for the studied softening
of his tone and his manifest reluctance to offend
it must have been almost insulting. " I thought
then, as I see now, that Sir Charles had put the
question to you in the wrong way and in the
wrong light. I told him you would never accepta
wife for the sake of her fortune — that sour
heart was only to be reached through your
sympathy and feeling for others. Ethert, you
have always been a good nephew to me; you
have seemed fond both of Ivy and of^iim. You
would make, I think, a sacrifice of pride and of
feeling, much more a sacrifice of interest if that
were needed, for the honour of the family name :
to save me from disgrace and Ivy from a terrible
calamity."

*' My dear Aunt, I should be only too glad to
make any return in my power for your kindness
and my uncle's ; and Ivy is as dear to me as I
think a sister of my own well could be. For no
kindness of yours am I so grateful as for the
confidence that entrusted her to me as to an
elder brother ; and all you could ask of a brother
it would be my delight to do for her. Unfortunately,
I don't see how she can need more
than that friendly guardianship which any
titular head of a family must give as of course
to its daughter."

No, you do not see, Ethert, and I must tell
you. Do not look at me" — the daylight was
growing very dim, but Ethert had noticed, though
without surprise, that his aunt had not rung for
the lamp, or. even asked him to light the candles
that stood upon the mantelpiece. It was natural,
he thought, that in sorrow so deep and so recent
the dim light should be more congenial to her.
But her present words gave a new meaning to
this natural preference — " Do not look at me : I
cannot bear it while I have to tell "such a
story."

Need you tell me anything, Aunt ? Be sure

:\i 2

I will do all 1 can for you : I have no wish to
know any secret it is painful to you to tell. Can
you not trust me without explanation f

No, Ethert, you can help me only by doing
what you will not do unless you recognise its
absolute necessity. And — and, besides, you must
be. told. You think you refused to — to make
what you call a mercenary marriage. It would
not be so, Ethert. If— on Sir Charles's death—
the estates wil pass to you, not to Ivy."

"Aunt, you must be, you are mistaken! I
know the terms of the entail, and my uncle himself
explained to me how Charlie could, oncoming
of age, cut it off and resettle it. I know
you are mistaken. The estates are entailed
on Sir Charles's children, not only on his
sons."

The'' would not have passed to Charlie !
And, Ethert, that is not all. There is no provision
worth the name for Ivy, or even for me.
Can you not understand, without my explaining,
how that can be ?"

"Aunt— no; only — I could not insult you by
thinking of the only possible case."

But it is so," she said, her voice failing, her

face half-averted, so that he could hardly hear
her words distinctly. "Do you remember anything
of your uncle's first marriage f

"It was before I was born, you know; and
she died abroad soon after my father's marriage.
I think they had never lived in England. No, I
may say I know nothing about it except the
date, and some little of her family history, or
rather of its absences'

"Do yon know,' she said, "that her father
died insane f

No, I did not know it. But how is that to
the point f

You say, Ethert, that she died abroad before
your birth. You are mistaken— she is living

yet."

Ethert was utterly struck dumb — astounded.
Forgetful for a moment of his aunt's injunction,
he could only turn and look earnestly at her,
doubting whether he heard aright the low,
broken, brief sentence it took so long to utter ;
or whether her reason had not been upset. He
could speak no word of reply and ask no
question. The silence had lasted for two or
three minutes before she, could continue; and

by that time he had realized that the story must
be true, though without understanding how it
could be so.

"Nothing was known of her — and it suited
Sir Charles to publish everywhere that she was
dead. She was always violent, passionately
unreasonable, and made him very uncomfortable
and wretched. At last, while they were in a
remote part of Austria, her insanity became
absolutely certain and incurable. She was put
under restraint — became worse and worse — and
has remained in confinement ever since — absolutely
devoid of reason — and remembering little
or nothing of the past. Of course I did not
know this when — but it is true I suspected
something — knew — or guessed — or understood
that there were painful and awkward circumstances
in your uncle's history — that he did not
care to publish at first the fact of his marriage
with me — did not choose to marry in England.
It was not till after both your cousins were
born that I learnt the truths And then of course
I ought to have left him — of course it was a
crime — but — how could I publish my own shame
and my children's ?"

She had spoken with a strong persistent effort,
in broken sentences, uttered at considerable
intervals. The story had thus come out in fragments,
not in coherent and connected words ; and
for that reason perhaps each isolated fact had
made a deeper, more distinct impression upon
the hearer's mind.

"You see, then," she said, "that my boj^'s
death has saved him from much trouble, it maybe

from It is in your hands, Ethert, that

it may spare Ivy — yes, it is of Ivy I think more
than of myself— indelible disgrace. How Sir
Charles thought that the secret could be kept,
if you married while your cousin lived, I can
hardly understand. Probably he thought you
might come to terms. But now — Ethert, Mr.
Brand knows, and one other man ; but I think
that is all, and . it is in your power. Of course
the estates are yours, and will remain yours if
you marry her. I ask no settlement for her,
nothing for myself, but what you may be pleased
to give. Of course my jointure is forfeited, or
rather was never more than waste paper, since
the marriage was void. But in this way, and
in this way alone, the secret can be kept."

*'No, not in that way alone," Etliert replied
at last. " I must take time to think ; but it is
open to me to preserve the secret by doing as
evidently Sir Charles hoped I should do but for
this last misfortune ; to leave things as they are
and say nothing."

Ethert," she answered, " you do not suppose
I have not thought of that ? I do not think you
would make up your mind to so extreme and
unreasonable a sacrifice ; nor if you did, and Ivy
knew it, would she or could she accept it. You
will see on reflection, you will find if you talk
to Mr. Brand, that that is impracticable. You
do not think that that possibility has been
absent from my mind? I have discussed the
subject with your uncle and with Mr. Brand
in every point of view long ago — before this
happened ; and I have seen, as Mr. Brand did,
that you could not simply and in secret give
what is yours, or any part of it, to sour cousin.
The truth must come out, unless — now — it be
concealed in that one way. If after all it did
come out years hence, when she is your wife,
when I may be at rest and safe from the censures
of this world, it would be less disastrous, it

would not greatly injure her then ; and for me —
it would not matter. But do not deceive yourself,
Ethert ; understand clearly what it is you
have to decide. You can save me from infamy,
Ivy from indelible disgrace and from utter
worldly ruin, only in this one way. If you
decline that, yoa take the estates with the title ;
and Ivy is known at once as an illegitimate

child, and her mother as . Ethert, can you

bear to brand me and Ivy with that intolerable,
unutterable dishonour? Canyon bear to let the
world give us for your sake, to vindicate your
right, the name I cannot bear to speak — that
you — I believe, I am sure, Ethert, could not
yourself endure to utter, or even to hear ?"

"Do you think," he answered, in a faltering
tone, after a few moments' pause, wondering at
the resolute sternness with which his aunt, generally
weak and somewhat soft, easily moved to
weep, restrained her feelings as she stated her
case— with passionate earnestness, indeed, but
without a sign of tears, and with scarcely a sob
in her voice, " can you think, Aunt, that I honour
you the less because you were deceived, or Ivy for
what may have been her father's sin— though I

do not presume to judge him, considering his
temptation, the terrible misfortune of his early
life — but certainly was no fault of hers or of her
mother's ? You must give me time, Aunt ; time
to think, and to see whether my uncle and Mr.
Brand view this matter as you do ; whether the
simple and straightforward way of dealing with
it be not still practicable."

Ethert, you cannot have long to consider.
Your uncle is dying; that he knows, and the
doctor knows ; and he is eager beyond all things
to see this matter settled, to know what Ivy's fate
is to be, to see it assured before he dies. You
must give him your answer when you see him
next, or you will kill him. And it is only while
he lives that such an arrangement can be carried
out"

Aunt !"

"Mind, Ethert, this is his thought, not mine.
I would be content with your word once given,
but he will urge by all the kindness he has ever
shown you, by all your feeling for the family
honour and for ours, that all should be settled,
done at once, and while he lives. Afterwards
there would be difficulty — it would be too late."

Ethert made no other answer than to rise, bend
over his aunt where she sat with averted countenance,
and taking her hand in his, to press an
earnest kiss upon her forehead.

"I will see you again before we sleep," he
said , " I think I can give you my answer then.
Now I will see Mr. Brand ; afterwards, perhaps,
my uncle. — Aunt, what about Ivy 1 You say she
knows nothing either of her misfortune, of that I
am sure, or of your — of her father's wish. Till I
have decided, you will not give her a hint of
either V

She bent her head, giving the promise required
by gesture, though not in words.

If — if things are settled otherwise, you will
not tell her that you have made such a suggestion,
or that I — objected to it? You will not let
her know that such a thought has ever occurred
to us, and it will never occur to her. If — but of
what is to be done in that case, which I hope
and believe will not arise, we need not speak
now."

CHAPTER IX.

A CRUEL DILEMMA.

WHEN Ivy knew that her cousin had been
closeted for some two hours with Mr
Brand, she had expected him to come at once, or
almost at once to herself. He knew her state of
mind, was probably now acquainted with the
truth, and she hoped from his sympathy" and consideration
for herself prompt relief for her
anxiety would surely be eager to set her at
rest respecting the mystery which weighed all
the more heavily on her spirits that she was
utterly unable to conjecture its character. That
some terrible trouble pressed upon her mother's
mind, that something affecting deeply the future
fate of both was there and then to be decided,
Lady Glynnee's manner and her few words had
rendered painfully apparent during the time that

elapsed before, unable to endure the effort of
self-control, much more unable to keep up indifferent
conversation even with her daughter, she
shut herself up in her own room. Left thus
alone, Ivy was all the more harassed by distressing
anxiety as well as by sorrowful remembrances;
anxiety far less for herself than for her mother.
It surprised and pained her that, after his long
interview with the lawyer, her cousin's step,
pausing for a moment at the door of the drawing-room
where she sat, passed on.

He must know that I am here, that if Mamma
is not with me I am alone. If he thought she
were here surely he would come, and if he knows
I am alone he might care to comfort me ; would,
if . . Can it be that this mystery, whatever
it is, has changed his feeling for me ; that he
learnt something, when he was here before, that
I do not know 1 I think he could make it so much
easier, whatever it may be, if he would let me
lean on him ; if he would explain in his kind
gentle way, would pity and advise me — I could
bear it, whatever there may be to bear. But to
have lost so much — if Mamma and I are left
alone, and Ethert does not care — what will

before of me ? He told me I should be a comfort
to her: but I know without his support I cannot :
I shall only break down and make things worse
for her. She would lean on him — she will always
lean on somebody — but I am not strong
enough."

It was well that Ivy could not hear, could
not dream of that which was passing in the
meantime, in the boudoir, to which her cousin had
gone directly, after a brief interview with his
uncle in the presence of the family solicitor.

Aunt," he said gravely but quickly, realizing
instinctively her intense eagerness to know her
fate, the torturing suspense she had already
endured so long, the agony of impatience she
would feel in listening to any long preface, any
preliminary explanation of his motives — " I
believe I must say — yes ! I am sorry to find that
Mr. Brand agrees to the full in your view ; sorrier
to be compelled to own that, after hearing all he
has to say, I am unable to answer or dispute his
conclusion ; that the secret cannot be kept, that
the renunciation of my legal claims would be
practically very difficult, and perhaps in the long
run ineffectual : in short, that the choice lies as

sou put it, between the revelation more or less
immediate of your painful secret and the
formal identification of Ivy's interest and my
own. I have seen my uncle and have heard, sofar
as it was possible for him to speak or for Mr.
Brand to explain what he was unable to say at
length, the motives that rendered him so anxious
for an immediate, I might say an instant, arrangement.
The heir of the house is bound to be as
jealous of your good name and Ivy's as her
brother would have been. God knows," he went
on, in a voice broken by passion into spasms that
were almost sobs, 'whether I would willingly
wrong her : He may know, I don't, how I am to
help it. If I could escape by renouncing all
claims, all interest in the family property— but it
seems that cannot be. I offered it, urged it again
and again. To me, either side of the dilemma
seems cruelly hard ; and if Ivy feels it less than I,
it will be only because she has less idea what she
is doing. If I refuse to sacrifice my whole
existence, I seem the selfish asserter of a legal
right ; enriching myself by robbing a young girl,
whose natural guardian and protector I am, not
only of fortune but name and fame, dishonouring

near and dear relatives for my own profit. If I
make the sacrifice of my life, my peace of mind,
I seem to take a mean advantage of a parent's
humour — it will be said of a sick man's weakness
and a child's simplicity — to snatch her fortune ;
and after all I shall probably render her as
miserable as myself. In anj^ case I shall look
like a cur, and in no case can I feel satisfied with
my own conduct. Aunt, it is cruelly hard on me :
I don't affect to underrate the sacrifice I am
making before you who know why I make it. But
I will not make it unconditionally. I will not
help to wrong another; and I submit to so
much wrong myself, that I will endure none
against which I can provide. I obey your wish
and my uncle's ; I am entitled to ask that you
win carry out earnestly and faithfully what I
require in return."

The words were harder than the tone, which
was grave, sad, perhaps cold, but not angry or
severe. In truth, Ethert judged his Aunt somewhat
too hardly. He underrated, if she
exaggerated the horror of the impending exposure.
The same feeling, half-conscientious, half-chivalric,
that induced him to admit her claim, quickened

his sense of her selfish injustice in enforcing it.
He could not but perceive that the past kindness,
which had seemed so generous towards a junior
scion of the family, looked very differently as
rendered to an heir of whose claims his uncle and
aunt had been from the first fully aware. It
was most painful to believe, but not easy to
doubt, that their apparent affection and liberality
had been interested, if not necessarily insincere.
Ethert could not bear to think that his relatives,
and especially his aunt, in the sympathetic
natural seeming tenderness that had endeared her
to him, had been simply acting a part : could not
bear to lose so utterly some of the sweetest remembrances
of his own rather dreary life. He
could not, would not think that Lady Glynnee,
when she entrusted his cousin so frankly to his
care in childhood, to his companionship of late,
had constantly kept in view the day when she
might put an unscrupulous pressure on the
affection she had fostered ; but he felt none the
less that the pressure was unscrupulous, the
pretext disloyal. All of chivalrous or poetic
romance that tinged his character, all his respect
for maidenhood and for maternity, revolted from
VOL. L N

the selfishness that, to escape from open scandal
and from extravagant reproach, sacrificed a
kinsman's future and a daughter's happiness.
Herein he did his aunt some injustice. She
had persuaded herself that the wound inflicted
on her child's feelings, if sharp, would not be
deep ; that the violence done to her instincts was
sentimental rather than essential, was humbling
to maiden pride rather than fatal to wedded
happiness. She believed that, under the influence
of conjugal duty and conjugal intimacy,
Ivy's present affection for her cousin would
quickly ripen into warm wifely love. And
though her fear for her daughter's fame and
peace was secondary to her more selfish terror,
it was both more genuine and better grounded
than Ethert supposed.

It is generous of you," she said, as he paused.
I hope you will not in the end have cause to
repent : and of course you have a right to impose
whatever terms may mate your position easier,
and to count on my doing my utmost to satisfy
you."

There was something in her words and
manner that to Ethert's sore and sensitive spirit

seemed to disparage the sacrifice she had extorted.
Of course she did not know, could in no case
have understood its full bitterness. How fondly
he had cherished the hope or dream of a future
of which Meta was to be the paramount object,
the supreme inspiration, he knew at this moment
as he had never known before ; and this remembrance
embittered his tone more than he was
aware.

My sacrifice, and it is the bitterest I could
make in this world, is made for Ivy and for Ivy's
mother. She must never say that I helped to
sacrifice her. The hardship might well be as
great — might, if an enforced marriage were all it
exacts of me, seem greater — to her than to me.
Aunt Caroline, my first condition is that she shall
understand distinctly what she does, and why. I
don't mean that she shall know the real reason :
I would not for Worlds that she should learn the
meaning of such shame and sorrow as you have
suffered, should know their very name. She shall
not come to me — if she would come — so pained,
shocked, and humiliated ; but she shall be told, by
the one person she must believe, that it is a sacrifice
made for her as well as by her. She shall

N 2

ivy.

never say, now or hereafter, that I married her for
money— the one imputation I could never forgive.
And she shall not be forced. Aunt, I know,
though I can never understand it, that there is a
coercion which crushes and compels a young girl's
will as forcibly as physical punishment. It shall
be her choice in the same sense in which it is mine.
It is very hard on her at best, so young, so timid,
so innocent, to bind her to a man like myself, even
if I desired it. But she must understand all she
can understand, that it is her parents' wish, for
her sake — at any rate not for mine ; a marriage of
necessity, and no more of interest than of
inclination."

Ethert, you are wrong. Ivy would be very
likely to accept you if you asked her simply, without
any pressure ; but how can she be persuaded if
she is to be told that you submit to it as a painful
necessity, and is not to be told why it is
necessary ?"

That you must manage, Aunt. The thing is
cruel enough : I will be no party to the more cruel
wrong of deception. And further, I renounce all
that could make marriage a blessing ; it must not
be a daily misery and disgrace. I might say to

you, I have the right to exact submission, since I
cannot hope for affection ; — that I am fully entitled
to make what terms I please. But that is not
what I feel. If I will have no domestic quarrel,
no cat and dog contest, it is as much for Ivy's
sake as my own. Better for her that I should
play the tyrant than she the rebel. She must
understand, then, that — since the very condition
of our marriage is that there is no confidence
between us, that she cannot be trusted and consulted
as she ought to be ; since she cannot be

expected to yield from natural affection — she must
obey implicitly as a child. Put it as pleasantly
as you will : best that she accept the compact as
part of an arrangement, no part of which can be
other than hateful to her."

But, Ethert, you have always liked Ivy : she
has learnt to look up to you, has often, I know,
sought and relied on your advice and help. Why
expect trouble with her, gentle, simple, trustful as
she is ? Above all, why proclaim your distrust
by exacting formally what should be matter of
course — what she promises and must expect to
render by the very terms of her marriage
vow?"

You know how nmch. that vow is generally
worth ! If a wife obeys, it is either because she
loves, or because she fears — not because she has
promised. In our case the whole marriage vow
is a solemn fiction — a hollow form. And as the
secret must be kept from her quite as closely as
from the world, as one chief object with me is to
spare her the pain and humiliation she would feel
in the knowledge even were it confined to her own
breast, as I will not have her filial reverence disturbed
or let her fancy herself degraded or abased
in my eyes— as she cannot know why sam compelled
to marry without love — she cannot but
resent the falsehood and chafe under the seeming
affront. She cannot submit from love ; she shall
not be controlled by fear ; therefore she must give
me beforehand, and independently of promises I
cannot pretend to treat as serious, the right and
the authority to maintain peace and avoid discussions
between us. And when I have to act
with or for her, I must needs demand from duty
the obedience I cannot claim from loving confidence.
I ask no more ; — none of the lies byword
or deed that I refuse to speak or act myself,
nothing that she should be loth to yield. You

know what Ivy cannot understand — exactly ivy I
must give her my hand. If she accept it, and
enable me to fulfil that one end, I shall grudge
nothing that can soften or lessen her sacrifice ; I
make no claim on her affection or her duty, and
she need never dream that there could be a
demand on her gratitude."

The words were spoken in a tone, emphasized
by a look, which not a little disturbed the mother.
But it suited her to regard them as no more than
the expression of strong disinclination ; as giving
vent only to a keen sense of the hollo ness of a bond
not secured by voluntary choice and mutual love.
Ethert, the fewer of such words used the
better. Ivy will give all you can ask : she will,
she must be content to take only what you can
give."

"But she must know — God help us both! —
how little that is ; must understand that in return
I pretend to nothing that is not nominated in the
bond : I don't treat her formal promises as
binding and real while my own are avowedly untrue.
However, I cannot reason ; I can only say
I do for her sake and yours what you desire ;
you must do for me what I think it necessary to

ask. You, not I, must obtain, and obtain of her
own free will, Ivy's consent to this marriage, and,
if need be, to that haste upon which her father
insists. And it must be made plain to her if not
what are, at any rate what are not, my motives,
and what condition I require."

Do you mean to say, Ethert, that you will
not ask her to be your wife ? " Lady Glynnee
enquired in great dismay.

Most distinctly. I join her in lying to the
world : I will not lie to her. Nor can I insult
her, nor would I insult any woman whom I respected
far less than I respect my cousin, by the
brutal plainness of the truth. You know what
the truth is : swill not tell it her. I hope you
may be able to satisfy her natural surprise and
scruples without making it too apparent to her ;
but 1 will not lead her to expect what cannot
exist, and what, if without explanation I asked
for her hand, she has a right to take for granted.
When my cousin has made up her mind — that I
suppose must be soon— I must see her, and see
her alone. Till after our interview no word must
be said to others, neither of us held to be finally
committed. After that, I leave it to you and to

her to arrange matters as you will, to fix the time
and circumstances of the ceremony. I presume
the reasons that make Sir Charles so anxious to
hasten it will render it necessarily private.
Before or after that I must return to London ; I
cannot leave Estrange long to himself, and Ivy
would not wish to quit her home while her
father Hes as at present almost between life and
death."

He rose to leave the room. Then for the first
time some touch of really natural, generous
feeling appeared in Lady Glynn e's manner and
conduct. She rose, and arresting his departure,
laying her hand on his arm and looking up
earnestly in his face, she said :

Ethert, you know I am grateful, if I seem
selfish. It is more for Ivy's sake than my own.
But you love her, you have l^een kind to her so
long ; you will be kind to her still ? Ethert, it is
not her fault."

Not her fault — her misfortune, and mine."

CHAPTER X.

THE CRUELTY OF COWARDICE.

HEE mother's summons was a most welcome
relief to Iv3^'s momently increasing distress.
It lead been painful to feel herself for a
long time excluded from her parents' confidence
on matters in which she could not but believe
herself personally interested. It was not that she
resented or was aggrieved by slight or neglect.
From her father she had never received anything
approaching to that confidence which, as their
daughters grow up, judicious and forecasting
fathers as well as mothers will gradually extend.
Her mother, soft and affectionate, at times confidential,
had always maintained a certain reserve,
the more apparent because it was wont to come
now and then as a sudden unforeseen check,

breaking the thread of partial explanations, suppressing
appeals to her children's sympathy. But
the roost absolutely trustful and trusted child
could not have been better content than Ivy to
leave her future in the hands of those for whom
she felt true filial submission and deference, if not
the warm filial affection that only a parental
tenderness and control, justifying themselves to
the intelligence as well as the hearts of children,
can secure.

What had grieved her so deeply was that she
seemed forbidden to know or even to sympathise
with her mother's sorrows and anxieties, instinctively
as she felt that that mother did not lean
upon her husband with such entire sympathy,
such assurance of support, as could enable her to
dispense with any other. It was yet more cruel
now to feel herself isolated, kept as It were at
arm's-length by her parent, in the midst of their
deep common sorrow. But when at last her
mother's message invited her presence, she was
eager at once to believe that what had seemed like
coldness or forgetfulness of her was due only to
the intense sensitiveness which could not bear the
tenderest touch on a recent wound ; to reproach

herself for exaggerated self-conscious sensibility
rather than her mother for self-absorption or unkindness.


Such being her thought, she failed altogether
to understand the meaning of the strange embarrassment,
hesitation, and trouble visible in
that mother's look and manner. She could only
think that, while desiring to invite sympathy, the
bereaved parent could hardly trust herself to
speak or hear of him whom they had lost ; and
her first words of intended consolation, pity, and
fellow-feeling were broken and half articulate.
There was something timid rather than tender in
the caress, something almost pleading in the look
and tone of Lady Glynnee, as she passed her arm
round the shoulder of her kneeling daughter and
gazed earnestly and anxiously into her face ;
something that jarred on Ivy's sensitive expectancy
as she answered, after a few moments'
silence :

Iv}^ death, even for those who are left behind,
is not always the worst or hardest thing.
Children may cause their parents worse griefs
than this, bitter as it is ; and the dead, at any
rate, are safe themselves from sin and from its

consequences — safe from the sorrow they leave
behind them."

But," said Ivy, " Charlie was always a comfort,
always kind and good ; there was nothing to
fear from him or for him."

From him — no. And it was not of the
trouble that some children bring upon mothers
through their folly or ill-conduct that 1 thought
and spoke. But, Ivy, there is so much possible
trouble before us, so much that might have been
even worse for him — I cannot help feeling that
Heaven has taken him from a trial that would
have been only harder for us if he had shared
it."

He would have helped you to bear it, whatever
it may be," Ivy said, much startled, and all
her vague alarms re-awakened and intensified, by
such a reference at such a moment.

Perhaps, Ivy ; but the difficulty would have
been greater. Now it falls on you — you take his
place ; and it may be harder on you, but there
is a mode of escape for you that might not, perhaps
would not have been possible had he
lived."

What is your trouble, Mamma ? I have been

afraid, almost sure for some time past that there
was something; and I cannot help fearing it
must be a very great trouble if it dwells so much
on your mind, even to-day. Can you not trust
me"? you might be sure of me. You know I
should not speak of anything, should not say anything
to hurt you, knowingly. Would it not comfort
you to talk to me openly ? I know I can
only feel with you and feel for you, I cannot
help you. . . . Well then, will you not talk to
Ethert ? He has been so much with us, always
so kind to him; and you know he will be thoughtful
and considerate for you, especially now. And
after all it is he who really fills Charlie's place. . . .
Is it that, Mamma? Is it that Ethert will be
Papa's successor? No, that would not — and it
cannot be that ; you were troubled about something
before now."

I have talked to Ethert, dear, and he knows
everything now. I am glad you trust and like
him so thoroughly. Ivy ; for it rests with him and
you to relieve my trouble."

*' With me ? What can I do ? You know if I
could do anything to comfort you, to help you,
I would try my very utmost. But I know I can

do SO Kettle, I always feel so weak, and now I am
so lonely. If you could have Ethert here oftener,
he — perhaps he will, now that so much will
depend on him."

He will succeed to the title, of course. And
—Ivy, it is there that my difficulty, my fear
begins ; for you, darling, as much as for myself."


Why ? I am sure you may trust Ethert just
as you might have trusted Charlie," replied Ivy,
with a certain slight unconscious touch of indignation
in her tone ; feeling her mother's
apparent mistrust rather as a wrong to those
she loved than as evidence of over-careful anxiety
for herself.

"I cannot explain everything, dear child, though
I must try to tell you all I can. What I cannot
tell, you must take for granted. My daughter
will take her mother's assurance ; will not press
for explanations I could not bear to give V^

Of course, dearest mother," said Ivy, clasping
caressingly her mother's waist, and looking up
fondly into the sad, harassed face and wistful but
half-evasive eyes. " Only I wish you were not
so much afraid for me. Is it that you think me

too much spoilt by jour indulgence to bear any
trouble, to have courage for difficulty or misfortune
r

Lady Glynnee hardly cared to face her daughter's
look, affectionate, dutiful, trusting as it was ;
conscious of her intention to represent things
not as they were but as they might most
favourably impress Ivy's mind ; as the proposed
course might appear least selfish, most just or
advantageous to Ethert as well as to herself.
Hardly appreciating the young girl's thoroughly
unselfish, loving, devoted nature, she knew
at least that an appeal to mere self-interest
was more likely to revolt than to coerce
her.

You cannot understand, darling, but it is
worse than misfortune. You suppose that the
property would of course go with the title, as
it has always done. But — your grandfather
married twice, and his uncle, the last baronet,
disliked Ethert's grandmother and her family ;
and settled the estate not on your father's sons
only but on all his children."

You don't mean that it is to be mine ? How
shamefully unjust ! Would Sir Herbert ever have

had it if daughters had not been put aside for
him r

1 suppose not, and it is hard on Ethert ; hut
it seems as hard on you to be deprived of your
father's inheritance. But it comes to this, Ivy ;
neither you nor Ethert can well take the estate
from the other. He would have to say why he
disputed your right, and that would bring out a
very shameful story, whether he succeeded or
not ; and if he let you keep it, others would
think him wronged and tell the story to prove
his right."

Mamma, I am sure Ethert would never hurt
us."

Wait, Ivy," said her mother, impatiently.
*' Hear me to the end. You cannot expect
Ethert not to feel that the property ought to be
his and try to claim it ; and whether he be right
or not the story would be told. And, Ivy, that
means shame such as you cannot understand
or imagine ; — shame that we had better die than
endure."

But, Mamma, let Ethert have it without
any dispute. Do you think T wish to rob
him ?"

VOL. I.

Nonsense, Iv}^ ! Whichever way it goes, if
it is to be decided by law the truth must come
out. You know Ethert could not take the
estates as a gift from you ; and if they are not
yours i^ can be only because this terrible thing
is true. After your father, either you or Ethert
must be the heir, — which, is the question that
depends on this story. Ivy, that question must
never be asked ; the matter must be settled while
your father lives. Afterwards, you could do
nothing for four years ; and to keep the secret
things must be arranged at once, so that your
interest and Ethert's shall be the same. You
could not even arrange that when once — your
father's ownership is at an end. They tell me
the Court of Chancery would interfere to protect
your interest, and then all would come out.
No, people must not know whether the estates
come to Ethert directly or through you "

"What do you mean. Mamma?" Ivy exclaimed,
in the first impulse of sheer wondering perplexity.
She checked herself, as a faint dubious
perception of the meaning dawned on her mind.
After a few moments of silent thought she rose,
averting her face, and walked to the closed and

curtained window, studiously turning away from
the lamp that now lighted the room. The
anxious, harassed, excited woman could see only
her young daughter's bent head, the long dark
curls that shrouded her hidden face, the slight
tremor of her slender form, and the unconscious
nervous movement of her small white hands.
The silence lasted so long that the mother could
endure the suspense no more, tortured as she
had already been by the protracted expectancy of
which this scene was but the climax.

Iv}^ must I plead to my child ; entreat her
to spare me shame and suffering worse than
death, to save her own honour and fortune ? Is
it so terrible a price to pay ? You know no man
you like better ; you have, you can have, no other
fancy ; and what do you resign ? You will hardly
have another chance if the truth became known ;
and Ethert, in character as well as in rank and
fortune, is all that any girl's fancy, any mother's
heart could desire. Another girl would be only
too glad of such an offer, if she had nothing to
lose by refusing. Am I so cruel, so selfish in
asking you to save yourself and me from ruin by
accepting what any lady might be glad and

o 2

proud to take? He might have rebelled, have
objected, perhaps, with reason ; but you — if you
have no pity for me, gratitude to him might forbid
you to hesitates

In a storm of anxious excitement very alien to
her native temper, and therefore the less controllable,
feeling that she bad reached that
decisive crisis the expectation of which had long
harassed her days and disturbed her nights,
conscious that the security or misery of the future
hung on that moment's issue, the speaker had lost
her head — had forgotten womanly tact and prudence
as well as motherly kindness, and gave
way to that real contempt for her sex which so
often underlies the assumed dignity and self-respect
of womanhood. She spoke to one whose
truthful, genuine humility was the strength and
safeguard of a truer dignity, a far deeper delicacy ;
and her words utterly outraged both.

Ivy turned, flushing to the brow with passionate
indignation ; amazed, stung to the quick,
and feeling herself for the first time in her life
directly and outrageously insulted. But the sight
of her mother's agitated, almost terrified countenance,
the strange, eager vehemence of one

usually quiet and even languid, startled her with
a sense of some urgent, unknown motive ; some
peril whose nature she could not imagine, but
which must be terrible indeed. Filial affection
and sympathy as well as habitual respect checked
the unwonted impulse of natural anger; restrained
the instinctive revolt of feminine pride
and maiden dignity against such harsh depreciation;
against the cruel and even coarse expression
of a view in itself coarse and worldly. In
another moment the girl's keen sense of truth
and justice made her ask herself whether, rough,
unfeeling as her mother's language sounded, it
were not literally accurate ? No one could be too
good for Ethert ; beauty, rank, and fortune would
not entitle any lady to look down on such a
suitor : and she, she told herself sincerely, though
not truly, possessed none of these attractions.
She had nothing to give in return for all that
was offered her— if indeed it were offered, not
extorted. Lady Glynnee's eagerness had overshot
the mark. The moment that Ivy ceased to
resent the humiliating truth, she felt the
wrong inflicted on her cousin, if he were
induced from tenderness to her, gratitude

to her parents, or regard to family honour
to accept a match of whose inequality her
own mother could so speak. She could give him
neither equal companionship, intelligent appreciation
and encouragement, nor even the poor
compensation of personal charms ; for Ivy, simply
sweet, graceful and lovely, never realized the
loveliness which did not assert itself to her own
senses as striking or signal beauty.

You are hard on me. Mamma," she said at
last, with quivering lip, moist eyes and tremulous
voice, the indignant colour still lingering in her
cheek, the subdued passion in her manner; looking
like a high-spirited child coerced to reluctant
submission by cruel punishment. " I would not
think of myself; I would do anything to comfort
and spare you, that did not seem wrong. But if
Ethert has so much to give and I so little : —
because I know what he is, how kind and clever
and thoughtful, and I am so silly and childish and
shall never be fit to understand or help him — it
cannot be right. Why should he marry me to
save us from what you say would be disgrace ?
I' suppose it would not hurt him if all were
known ?"

Let Ethert judge of that, Ivy," replied her
mother, well aware by this time of her error, and
secretly thankful for the sweet submissive temper
that had never before been subjected to so severe
a trial. " The honour of his family cannot be a
matter of indifference to its future head. Leave
him to judge whether a quiet settlement of all
doubts and disputes, the certain enjoyment of
your fortune, the avoidance of scandal, be worth
his while. Leave him to make up his mind
whether he do not love his pet cousin well enough
to be happy with her for a wife. Men of genius,
Ivy, want peace and quiet, not clever talk and
learned discussion, in their homes. Poets look
for gentleness, tenderness, comfort in the companions
of their leisure ; and if you love and
admire Ethert, he will never fret because you do
not always understand him. Do you remember,
he read to us a review of his book said to be
written by his friend Mr. Estrange? The
reviewer said that the very last bride a poet
or novelist should choose would be iiis favourite
heroine."

The last sentence was far more telling than the
speaker could have guessed : for Ivy had divined

in the half-infantine heroine of Ethert's favourite
tale the idealized portrait of Meta, of whom she
was quite unawares half submissively-envious,
half admiringly-jealous. The suggestion, that she
could be more to her cousin than Meta could be,
touched her facings in their most sensitive point.
Of this however she was not herself conscious, as
after a long thoughtful pause she answered : —

If Ethert thought so, if he felt under no compulsion,
if he wished for me for my own sake— or
even if he thought it would be best for him — if I
could give him wealth and leisure and the life he
prefers, if I were an heiress or a beauty — but why
should he ? — except that he would not be unkind ;
he could not bear to take my home, and what
might have been mine, away from me. Mamma,
if he wanted me, Ethert should have me, and do
as he pleased with me if he were disappointed in
me ; but he shall not take me out of pity !"

Though the last words amounted to a direct
denial of the very thing she was really striving to
accomplish, they greatly encouraged Lady Glynnee.
She saw or fancied that the poor child — used all
her life long to find her chief happiness in Ethert's
gentle and considerate kindness — was nowise disinclined

to the proposed marriage ; that she would
at heart he glad of a pretext that might content
her conscience and her unselfish admiring affection.
Seizing the hint that Ivy's doubts afforded
her, she mingled truth and fiction as adroitly as
she could and dared in her reply.

*aether would be ashamed to profit by the
chances of the law, if the law decided in his favour,
to enrich himself at your cost. It could not look
well for him to bring a suit that must reveal a
family scandal, for the purpose of ruining a young
girl both in name and fortune. By marrying you
he reconciles everything : he obtains without
delay or doubt or reproach all that the law could
give him. It is well worth his While, dearest. If
you had been undoubtedly your father's heiress,
he might have feared to seem a fortune-hunter.
As it is, no one can reproach him, and yet he is
certainly the gainer. And, Ivy, he did not speak
of your want of knowledge or talent, when he
looked in the face all the reasons on either side.
He did consider what difficulties or objections there
might be : he made one — shall I call it demand
or condition ? — that yom promise of obedience
should be real, made and kept in earnest. He

said truly that there were things of which he
could never speak, things he could not explain,
upon which you must obey like a child, without
reasons. Will that seem very hard to you. Ivy ?
1 think not. And if that were the only thing he
cared to mention, the only doubt he had that he
would be happy with you, you need hardly be
troubled. He will be content with you as you are,
my darling."

Did the Father of Lies dictate the happy phrase
that once more told With an effect of which the
speaker could know nothing 1 Ivy remembered
Ethert's own words to her, and fancied that she
recognised his own thought.

Mamma," she said, after another long pause,
is this quite fair to me ? Can you not tell me
what you have told Ethert?— tell me what is the
reproach we have to dread, the terrible secret that
must be kept at such a cost?"

No, Ivy ; and you ought never to have asked
it. If its disclosure to the world would so shame
me that I would rather die ten times than bear it,
how could I tell my own child ? How can you
wish to make your mother blush in her daughter's
presence f

The girl was deeply hurt by the stern, sharp
reproof she had not consciously merited ; a reproof
calculated to wound to the uttermost a nature
whose sensitive delicacy was one of its deepest
charms.

I don't understand," she said, sadly and
quietly. "If I must decide for myself, it did
seem as if I ought to know the reasons on which
I am to act. If you could — if you will command
me, I suppose I ought to, at any rate I will,
obey ; but it hardly seems just that I should
have to decide for myself without knowing
why."

You know that your parents both desire this
marriage, both tell you that it is for your own
safety, your own welfare. Your mother tells you
that nothing else can shield her from intolerable
disgrace. The cousin you profess so to esteem
and trust sees no other escape from a dilemma of
which either alternative seems impossible. Do
you think Ethert has not considered everything,
or that the calamity from which he would protect
us in this way is a trifle ? I dare not tell
you ; if I could and would, Ethert distinctly and
deliberately forbade me. He at least thinks the

secret unfit for you to know. Ask him, Ivy, and
see how he answers you ; only, after that, do not
expect me to meet again the child who could
demand the secret of her parent's shame."

Cruel !" exclaimed Ivy, tried beyond even her
endurance. " You know I cannot guess what the
secret is ; I could not know why it is unfit to be
told me. But I will never ask again. I take you
at your word, mother, though I cannot believe
that there can he any real disgrace resting on
you. You could never knowingly have done a
shameful thing ; there can be no act or thought
of yours that you could be ashamed to tell me or
that it could wound me to hear."

Again Ivy was silent, again averting her
countenance ; and for a while her mother was
silenced by her last words, spoken in true, trustful,
filial reverence, but for that very reason
stinging with such bitterness of irony her who
knew how ill that perfect trust was founded.
But once more the long suspense, though she
could hardly now doubt the issue, became intolerable
to her over-wrought nerves and half-distracted
brain.

Well, Ivy, may I know my fate ; or will you

wait for more counsel, more entreaty, when you
know what all who best love you, and know most
of the truth, desire for your own sake f

At last that gentle docile spirit was fairly
roused; stung to uncontrollable indignation by
the cold ironical tone that struggling irritability
assumed. Her mother, with true feminine injustice,
probably strove by adopting an injured
air to conceal from herself the tyrannical if not
cruel coercion she was exercising over her
daughter's will, her present feelings, her future
destiny ; the systematic misrepresentation by
which that tyranny had been enforced.

'* I do not see that I have anything to say —
yet — and to you. If Ethert asks me to
be his wife have you not said enough —
can you not leave me to answer him f

Lady Glynnee was at once made aware how
thoroughly, in her eagerness to coerce her
daughter's will, she had overlooked the effect she
might produce upon her daughter's feelings.
She saw how the mood of pain and humiliation
which her language was calculated to produce,
while it was favourable to the submission she
desired and had thus far secured, might enhance

the difficulty that had still to be overcome. She
had so stung and wounded Iv3^'s spirit that such
another drop of bitterness as that she had next
to administer might cause the girls indignation
fairly to overflow. She was confounded by the
recollection that, while her nephew would not
play the suitor, Ivy was not even yet prepared to
dispense with — it would be less just to say the
compliment than — the guarantee of a personal
request.

Was it not but too probable that, after
what lead passed, its absence might excite her
suspicion of Ethert's real willingness, as well as
exasperate her wounded self-respect ? And Ivy
must meet Ethert in person and alone ; while, to
secure their union, it must be already taken for
granted in that critical meeting.

She was sorely perplexed and embarrassed.
With another girl the task might have been
simply impossible. Perhaps Ivy's unselfish temper
and exacting modesty might be successfully
wrought upon to accept the formal, as she had,
whether consciously or not, submitted to the
essential humiliation imposed on her. The
situation might be so represented as to appeal

effectually to a heart so gentle and so generous ;
Ivy might be persuaded that Ethert's motives in
avoiding to prefer a personal suit were such as
implied no reluctance on his part and no wilful
slight to her.

"I don't think you could expect Ethert to say
more than he has already said to me. He could
not speak to you, of course, without explaining ;
and he could no more bear to have told than you
to hear from him all that he left me to explain.
Now that you know how things stand, and understand
your own position, what would you have
him say to you *? Remember, he cannot allow
that, as I have told you, the quiet admission of
his claims is a great gain to him ; to allow that
would be to confess that his title is doubtful.
He offers to save us both from beggary and disgrace
— from utter ruin ; he offers you home and
rank and fortune. Would you have him pretend
to forget all this, and speak as if there were nothing
amiss, nothing strange, or forced, or
hurried ; as if you could afford to answer him as
you chose ? Would you have him sue to you to
accept all at his hands '? I believe he would doit,
if he did not feel you would think it a

mockery; that he leaves me to speak for him,
because he cannot bear to speak, and not to sue.
Would sou have him stoop to plead ? And if he
would, have you thought — I am sure he has —
what refusal would involve ? He offers you so
much, and you are so utterly in need of what he
offers, that a refusal could only mean that the
very worst that can befall a woman is less hateful
to you than the idea of belonging to him. And
after that, if his claim be sustained, you are —
we both are — dependent on him for daily bread.
He means that, if you are mad enough to refuse,
you should still remain his cousin, his ward.
Nothing would make him unkind to you ; but he
will not let you so insult him that you could not
be happy in accepting his kindness. It is out of
consideration for us — out of delicacy to you — that
he has left it to me to tell you all he could not
endure to tell, and to learn your determination."


Ivy's varying colour, the light that flashed and
faded in her eyes, showed the conflict and change
of feeling, as with some hesitation her mother
pressed an argument so strange, founded on misrepresentations
which of course the daughter

could not detect, but wholly inconsistent with
those just before employed. She felt, however,
that there was something kept back from her,
something concealed or unspoken as yet. She would
not admit to herself the thought that her mother
could be paltering with the truth, especially at so
critical a moment.

"Is that quite accurate. Mamma? Is it really
Ethert's wish, his own suggestion, and not yours ?
"Was it his wish, without any hint from you, not
to speak — not to see me himself?"

This question, as the reader knows, could be
answered without any violation of truth, at
which under less exciting circumstances, when
her conscience was less completely overpowered
by fear and anxiety, the mother would
have scrupled.

It was Ethert's own unblessed determination
not to ask you himself. I hardly see how he
could have done so. He could not tell you that
he would have spoken at this time if there had
been no kind of compulsion upon either of you,
no need for haste or secrecy; and he could not
have explained the necessity — could not have told
you what he left me to tell. But he will see you

VOL. L P

of course he expects to see you — if you mean
to agree to that which we all feel to be
necessary for the sake of all. You can say to him
what you will, then ; only of course you will not
affront him by seeming to doubt his sincerity,
or me by doubting that I have told you the
truth."

In any other matter Ivy could hardly have
been so imposed upon or bewildered ; but where
her feeling towards Ethert was concerned she
could hardly as yet be perfectly straightforward
and truthful with herself. The light in which
she was now called upon to regard him was so
novel, the circumstances so painful and perplexing,
that she was conscious of no one clear
definite wish or conviction. Could she have
analysed, have stated to herself her own thought,
her own desire, she might have found that she
wished earnestly to believe that Ethert really
loved her ; really cared for her so far as to be at
least a willing party to the marriage, independently
of the pressure of family necessity. If he
were a willing, even though not an ardent suitor,
she could not be an unwilling bride. Perhaps
she trusted unconsciously to the truth of her own

affection, her own intended loyalty and devotion
to him, to win a warmer love than he probably
felt at present. But the one thing most intolerable
to her affection, as to her delicacy, would
be to be forced upon a reluctant bridegroom
accepting her from necessity, or, worse still, from
compassion. She was, however, shy even with
herself, ashamed to think what she did feel or
wish, confused by the conflict of her own half-conscious
emotions ; and therefore the more easily
bewildered by her mother's sophistry.

Answer me one thing, one thing only,
Mamma, but quite truly, quite frankly, keeping
back nothing, not telling me half the truth and
hiding something to spare my feelings. Is this
Ethert's own wish, or has he yielded only to your
wishes and my father's f

It is his own wish, Ivy. He sees, as we see,
no other possible escape from a position in which
he would be forced to do what he would feel discreditable
and dishonouring to him, as it would
be disgraceful beyond words to us. And for his
feeling towards you — you know what you have
found him : are you vain enough to think that
your conversation or company could have had

P 2

such charms for him, had he not loved you
dearly?"

He was kind — yes, I think he was fond of
me. But it was just as he was fond of me five or
ten years ago. Mamma, does it follow he will
like me, that he will not he annoyed, impatient of
me as a — as things stand now, because he liked
me as a cousin and a child V*

I think you may trust Ethert," her mother
replied evasively. "Yes, Ivy, the wish, the
decision is his, all things heard and considered.
You must not wonder that he left it to me to
speak for him. However much he might have
washed it — and I do not know what he would have
wished had Charlie lived — you must remember
that the idea, the need of acting in such a moment
and in such haste, took him by surprise. It is
almost as awkward and painful for him as for
you ; and it is natural that he should be chafed
and vexed by finding himself so driven and
hurried, and shrink from proposing such a thing
to you. But he wishes it, on all accounts.
You had better not ask him such a question,
but if you do he will tell you that it is his
wish."

Then, Mamma, 1 will do what Ethert wishes :
I will try to please him in this as in everything
else. But — " and here she utterly broke down.
It may be hoped that her burst of tears relieved
her sorely tried, cruelly strained spirit — "it is
very, very hard ! I did think a girl might know

that she is loved before she is asked to

If Ethert had said one word before he knew

this "

For the moment her mother dared hardly speak,
and could do little to soothe her. Many minutes
had elapsed before, still considerate, still gentle
and thoughtful for one who had shown little
tenderness for her, Ivy regained perforce her self-control
; and glancing at the clock bade good night
to the mother of whose long and weary watchings
during the last few nights she was fully
aware.

One minute, darling," the mother said, compunction
and something approaching to remorse
giving a yet softer tenderness to her tone than it
generally possessed even in her kindest moods :
*^a more anxious, earnest searching look to her
eyes. " Is this — this marriage really so hard upon
you, so painful to you'? I know, though you

may' not believe it for some time to come, that I
have advised you for your own good, that in the
end you would have bitterly repented if you had
acted otherwise. Don't think i doubt or underrate
the sacrifice of pride, of feeling, of delicacy
even, you are making for me, for I know that as
yet it is for me ; you cannot dream how far what
is necessary to my peace of mind is also needful
to your own. But it would grieve me to think
that the sacrifice was one of affection and permanent
happiness, as well as of the feelings of the
moment. Ivy, you have always liked Ethert;
there is no one you like better; — there cannot be.
You are not unhappy at marrying him, surely ?
only at being in some sense forced to do so T

Ivy turned away the face her mother strove
with natural anxiety to read, but answered with a
very strong effort and in a low tone. Her words
conveyed to the mother's heart such comfort as
the consciousness of a hard somewhat selfish part
harshly performed — consciousness too of the
terrible responsibility involved in a decision not
only enforced by pressure, but obtained by what
was little better than deliberate falsehood— had
left her capable of receiving.

It is not that I am to marry Ethert, not even
that I am forced to it. I could have borne that,
especially if he had been the one to enforce it.
It is that I fear— I fear, though of course you do
not know it— but though you have not pressed
him, if you have told Ethert all and he sees
things as you do, I fear he is so generous, he
has always been so grateful to you, and so tender
to me — I fear it is not that I am forced, but —
that he is."

CHAPTER XL

TENDER OR TRUE?

IT was late when Ethert retired that evening ;
but, as he well knew, sleep was out of the
question. For a long time he paced his room
without even an attempt to rest. Thoroughly
displeased with his aunt, and scarcely less dissatisfied
with himself, the utterly intolerable
character of either possible alternative forced
itself in turn upon his mind.

He grew hourly more and more provoked by
his utter inability to decide even what he really
wished to happen. His fancy for a future marriage
with Meta seemed, like all day-dreams of
romance, stronger, sweeter, and dearer, perhaps
more real, now that it must be abandoned forever.


The affection he had felt since her very babyhood

for his cousin, warmer and deeper than he
was himself aware — truer perhaps, certainly
more impulsive, instructive, and less fanciful, and
probably more finally rooted, than his regard for
her rival — vanished, if it were not yet exchanged
for actual antipathy, when he was forced to think
of her as a wife ; and a wife thrust upon him by
circumstances, by her parents, by gratitude for
kindness which now proved to have been by no
means disinterested, by a delicacy which his
cooler judgment half condemned as overstrained,
by care for a question of family honour that
hardly touched his own. He could see, however,
no third solution of the problem that day so
suddenly forced upon his consideration. If the
marriage would be hateful and would seem
discreditable, yet infinitely worse in appearance
if not in fact was the only alternative course — a
course which might yet be virtually imposed upon
him.

He, a strong man, who had always prided
himself on his power to care for himself under
any circumstances in which he could probably be
thrown — he to snatch fortune, fame, social position,
from a young and soon to be fatherless girl ;

he to proclaim her illegitimate, and her mother
the mistress, where she had for twenty years been
received as the wife, of the head of his own
family ! He dared not wish that Ivy should
refuse, yet he could not endure to contemplate
the position in which her consent would place
him. He knew that the social sneers his marriage
might provoke would be inspired quite as
much by envy as by disapprobation ; but he could
not bear to feel that, if not deserved, they were
unanswerable. He could despise the world's
opinion — so long as the world must feel that he
had the right ; he could defy censure — if he could
have felt the power to make his defiance effective.
But he could not bear that fortune-hunters
should be entitled to fancy him, not the Quixotic
fool he might be, but a hypocrite like themselves.


Nothing galled his pride more than the recollection
of the bitter uncompromising language
in which, as novelist and poet, he had held upto
scorn the very thing he must now submit to
seem. The marriage, really a sacrifice most
trying and cruel, a sacrifice of liberty, of love,
even of interest, must, to all but Ivy and her

parents, appear a selfish and interested bargain.
Nay, could he be sure that Iv}^ herself would
understand it ; could he trust her mother to tell
the truth, or could he stoop himself to explain,
or even to enquire how far it was understood 1
And afterwards, when the sacrifice had been made
for her, would he not, as he had too truly said,
have made her utterly miserable ?

What could their future be? A formal marriage
formally and immediately repudiated by
any overt act — the idea which had at first dimly
and sagely occurred to him— would be worse
than useless. Not only would it inflict on Ivy
an unprovoked affront, an unwarrantable stigma ;
it would fail, and more than fail, to achieve its
only purpose. The world, startled by so violent
a contradiction to its natural inferences, would
be piqued to tenfold curiosity ; and if it did not
detect the truth, would invent some yet more
Injurious explanation. But the prospect of an
actual union was too cruel to be fairly and manfully
faced.

Its pain would be enhanced, exacerbated, by all
that would have rendered a marriage of love with
one like Ivy especially sweet and happy ; by the

charms of person and of character that would
have endeared her to a stranger, by all the
recollections and associations that entwined her
image with many of the brightest and happiest
scenes of a not very bright or cheerful life.
Ethert had known bat two close and cherished
ties — that which bound him to the ward whose
love he must renounce, and that which attached
him quite as strongly to the cousin whom in
marrying he would lose for ever.

The death of those we love is a light, a soft
affliction compared with the death of love ; with
that change of life-long feelings which not only
embitters the present and darkens the future, but
robs us of the past. And the absence of love
Alas not the worst. Ethert felt as if he must
inevitably hate the wife he had not chosen. The
conflict of feeling was sure to engender a bitterness
that must break out in taunts, reproaches,
quarrels — a prospect ugly enough in any eyes,
inevitably hideous to one whose nature rendered
peace at home not merely the paramount object
of desire, the first necessity of mental comfort,
but the indispensable condition of intellectual
efficiency

If Ethert had less appreciated his cousin, he
would have shrunk with less horror from the
necessity of making her his wife. As it was, to
the poignancy of his own disgust, his own misery,
was added an anticipatory sting of remorse and
regret for her — for the clinging tenderness that
must be torn and withered, the childlike innocence
that must be soiled, the sweetness that
must be soured and embittered, in a position the
most fatal to all that was best and loveliest in
womanhood. Yet the idea of loyally accepting
the situation, and, having made Ivy his wife, of
honestly trying to treat and love her as such,
never entered his mind. Not that he was
wanting either in conscience or compassion, but
that the situation seemed, to his deepest and
strongest instincts, too intensely abhorrent for
such acceptance.

It was in truth his very affection for Ivy that
rendered this marriage so repugnant. That affection
had been so thoroughly and loyally fraternal
the intimacy subsisting and encouraged since
her infancy had so distinctly required as well as
fostered such a sentiment — honour and duty as
well as habit had so peremptorily excluded the

possibility of passion, and almost of romance, from
a relation so confidential — that the closer but
utterly different and incompatible union now
forced upon him was felt, if not seen, to be unnatural,
and the feelings that belonged to it were
impulsively rejected as wrong and impossible.
He was not clearly conscious of such an inward
conviction ; but it lay deeply rooted at the base
of the instinctive reluctance and aversion which
actuated him, and paralysed his conscience by
rendering its utterances incoherent and self-contradictory.


The morning light had stolen into his room
before he fell into a restless slumber ; and it was
late indeed when, suddenly starting from disturbed
dreams, he awoke to the consciousness of
that which lay before him, and became aware
that, according to the habits of any life but that
of poetics, journalism, or London fashion, the
hour was past when men should be out at their
work or sport, and women left to domestic duties
or drawing-room dawdling. But his supposed
laziness would ensure him an escape for the
moment from a meeting that might have been
very awkward.

Nothing could be worse than to meet his aunt
and Ivy at the breakfast-table, while still ignorant
of his cousin's decision ; to go through the form
of unconstrained indifferent conversation with
that one thought in all their minds to which none
could refer. Yes, there was one thing worse ;
and of course that was exactly what happened.
Lady Glynnee was not in the breakfast-room, and
her daughter was.

It was eminently characteristic of Ivy's sweet
native courtesy and unselfish simplicity that she
had never dreamed of evading so awkward a
meeting. It was for her a thing of course that
she should wait to give her cousin and guest his
breakfast ; and it never occurred to her to avail
herself either of the formal excuse afforded by
her recent affliction — formal, because that of itself
would but have drawn her closer to Ethert — or of
the plea which, if she could not prefer, he must
have assumed and accepted though unspoken
But despite the strange and novel constraint, the
intolerable awkwardness of their mutual position,
while as yet the question has neither been asked
nor answered, she felt as if even on this subject
she could better trust to Ethert's considerate

silence or gentleness of speech than to her
mother's forbearance or her father's mercy.
Ethert would know, as he had always known,
how to spare and set her at ease. Her presence
therefore seemed to herself a mere duty of
domestic courtesy, and she ascribed his start,
his manifest discomfiture, only to embarrassment,
and in no wise to surprise at seeing her
there.

Left alone with Ivy, Ethert felt even less at ease
than she. He had never supposed that she would
choose to meethim alone till the decisive and formal
interview should be forced upon her ; and in his
dismay at finding her there, almost assumed that
she had come to some unforeseen and probably inconvenient
resolve. The momentary impulse to
question her, as a man feels impelled to fling himself
over the precipice to which he has come too
close, was Instantly exchanged for an intense
apprehension of the approaching disclosure. It
was one thing to hold the language of practical
truth to the mother, who had no especial claim to
have it softened for her ear ; it was another and
a very different one to deal with the half conscious
motives and half-spoken feelings of a young and

sensitive girl. He would fain have escaped when
his hasty meal was ended, without a word of
reference to the subject which engrossed the
thoughts and fettered the tongues of both ; and
Ivy, naturally averse to anticipate the scene she
could not but dread, and feeling of course that it
was not for her Burst to approach the subject,
would willingly have let him do so. But her
perfect simplicity, her utter freedom from all
affectation, gave her at this moment a clearness
of judgment, a gentle courage which were wanting
to others. After all, she had been told that
Ethert would not ask her ; had been forced to
content herself with the question as already put
through her mother. It only remained that she
should give to himself her reply to that question :
and, painful as this would be, no scene with
Ethert could be half so distressing as another
appeal from her mother either to him or to
herself. Her soft, low, wavering accents arrested
him as his hand was on the door.

Ethert — you will not go away without
Mamma will want you . . . and" — she contrived
to say at last distinctly, though with tremulous
voice and faint but painful blushes— "I believe

VOL. I. Q

I understood you wished to speak tome
this morning."

He had sense and good feeling enough to
appreciate the effort, to understand the perfect
innocence and loyalty of nature that had made it
possible ; and while once more fretting against
the curb, strove to exhibit neither reluctance nor
impatience before her.

I shall not go beyond the garden, Ivy, in case
I am wanted."

Some impulse made him look back, and feel
rather than see her glance, half of pained surprise,
half of reproachful appeal. That glance
shamed him instantly out of the masculine
cowardice or unconscious resentment which would
have thrown on her an initiative befitting neither
her years nor her sex.

'' I beg your pardon, Ivy. Yes ; I must ask
to speak to you presently, when you can make it
convenient."

Papa," she said, " sent to desire me to come
to him as soon as your breakfast was over. I
suppose I shall not be very long with him,
and then I will come to you wherever you
please."

Will the library or the garden suit you best,
Ivy?"

She could not have told what there was in the
question, and in all the brief conversation, that
chilled and stung her heart, making it hard to
restrain tears of wounded feeling ; and she reproached
herself with unprovoked petulance.
Ethert's tone was cold and constrained ; but that
was not all. Quite unawares, Ivy felt without
observing two slight but very significant omissions
— the absence of a few trivial syllables
which she would hardly have noticed, yet missed
none the less ; and yet more, the studied avoidance
of the unconscious kindly direction to which
all her life long, she had been accustomed
in her intercourse with one so much her
elder.

"May I find you in our old favourite walk
under the beeches — where I came to you yesterday
f she replied, in a low shy and faltering
voice.

Ethert felt that there was much of sweet natural
sentiment in the choice ; perhaps an unconscious
appeal to the associations of a past whose tenderness
might be estranged, but could hardly be foro

2

gotten. Ill as it suited his own mood, it could not
but soften his heart towards her.

As yon please, of course," he said, in a somewhat
altered tone. " I will wait as long as j^oii
like, Iv' ; don't hurry yourself."

Profoundly embarrassed, intensely irritated,
Ethert, as he paced the familiar path, instinctively
turned, though no inveterate smoker, to the one
resource wherein, belying proverb and poetry,
men now-a-days seek help in difficulty counsel in
need, and comfort in trouble. Poets may say
what they please ; in practice, like the rest of us,
they tacitly own that woman is life's chief source
of vexation, and tobacco its best solace. Unhappily,
like other "ministering angels" it has its
caprices; like the drugs of the acknowledged
pharmacy, it is least effective when most wanted.
Sir Charles's choice regalia had no flavour ; for
the first time in Ethert's experience, they would
not burn steadily. One had been angrily thrown
away, another twice righted, before Iv}^ appeared.
True to her sweet genuine simplicity, to that
highest courtesy which springs from unconscious
habitual consideration for others, she had not indulged
for a moment her natural shrinking from

an interview to which she could not but look with
discomfort and embarrassment, even while she
hoped and believed that it would be made less
painful in fact than it seemed in prospect. Her
trust in Ethert's kindness was not yet shaken, and
anxious to learn his real feelings, she had full
faith that in any case he would make her trying
task, the hard alternative before her, as easy as
the situation itself allowed. As soon as released
by her father, she had hastened to put on her hat,
cloak, and gloves; allowing herself only that necessary
interval to recover from the effect of a scene
which had jarred and grated on her feelings. Sir
Charles Glynnee's way of treating such a subject
would at any time have been repugnant to her
sensitive spirit ; and his anxiety had made him
harsh and imperious ; but his paternal commands
had not strained and tried his daughter's endurance
as had her mother's less authoritative and
dictatorial but — partly perhaps for that reason —
more searching and painful pressure.

There were traces of recent tears in the girl's
eyes, and her step was slower than usual; not
that she consciously sought respite or delay, but that
the distress and disquiet of her spirit were involuntarily

reflected in lier movement and bearing.
Ethert noticed her altered carriage and demeanour
as she approached ; not without pain. Other
trifles of the same kind affected him still more
painfully ; for he was not consistent enough to
observe without being hurt thereby those symptoms
of change in Ivy's feelings which corresponded
most closely to the change in his own.
It wounded him to miss the upward glance of
confident affection, the trustful smile of simple
open pleasure, with which she had been wont
to invite or accept his companionship— the light
touch of the little hand upon his arm, typical at
once of the perfect ease and the loving dependence
that had characterized their intimacy. Ivy on
her part felt a sort of evil omen in a yet more
trivial incident, as she saw Ethert fling away his
cigar ; it had especially pleased her to learn that
on this minute point of etiquette she had hitherto
been treated with less ceremony than a childish
ward like Meta. She walked beside him for a
few moments in silence, with bent head and half-averted
countenance. It was hardly her part, as
Ethert inwardly acknowledged, to speak first ;
though in truth he had asked for the interview

not to utter his mind, but to hear hers ; though
all he had chosen to say had already been communicated
to her, and he had only to learn her
decision.

"Iv}^," he said at last— his own voice sounded
to himself painfully cold and strange, echoing
the discord in his heart produced by the jarring
notes of habitual tenderness and actual resentment,
of respect and pity for Ivy herself, impatient
irritation under the compulsion of which
she was the object and instrument—" I suppose I
have nothing to tell you ? You have heard from
your mother — what I only learnt when she sent
hither for me last evening — what has been
thought necessary in the interest of . .
of the family — to what hurried measure I am
compelled to ask your consent f

Her faint, timid " Yes" was so nearly inaudible
that he paused till it was reluctantly
repeated.

"Forgive me, Ivy, if I seem unkind or discourteous.
You know, do you not, that this has
taken me as completely by surprise as yourself?
It is not my fault that we . . that I am forced
to act so hastily and at a time so unsuitable. I

suppose I have but two questions to ask
you must not be hurt or offended if in so strange
a position I seem wanting in consideration. . . .
The thing I most care for is, not to deceive you.
Pardon me if my first question is not . . . . what
you would expect. You know what is required
of us, and required at once. Do you understand
why — that we must choose between this — this
hurried step and disclosures that should
not be risked, for others' sake as well as . .
our own?"

The last two words, totally unexpected, made
on that account the sharper impression on her
mind. Perhaps she unconsciously sought to postpone
the more difficult part of her task, or hoped
that Ethert's explanation might help her over it.

*' Our own ? No, Ethert, I did not know
I thought it was only Mamma and I that had
anything to fear ; I understood Nothing
could touch you, could it f

"I cannot separate my interest, my honour,
from yours. Anything that touched the women
of my house must touch me to the quick ; and it
would disgrace me to be the means of injuring
you."

"Ah, yes I remember. Mamma said
you could not claim your rights without bringing
shame on us. You mean— you cannot bear to do
that ?"

Ethert felt that they were on very dangerous
ground.

Scornful of his Aunt's social cowardice, he
had been coerced by a horror of the threatened
disclosure deeper than her own. All the world
might have known it, if he could have kept Ivy
innocent of a knowledge so fatal to her stainless
purity of soul. His reverence for maidenhood in
general might be extravagantly credulous, but
there was no exaggeration in his poetic apprehension
of Ivy's maiden innocence; and he simply
could not endure that any glimpse of the truth,
any vague shadow of shame or sin, should darken
that snowy chastity of thought, or startle that
perfect ignorance of evil which was for him the
deepest charm of her exquisite nature. Alarmed
by her approach to the point of peril, he spoke
hastily and heedlessly ;

Enough, Ivy, if you understand that this is
not a question of money, of selfish interest
merely. If that were all, I would never have

insulted you by such a suggestion. But you
know there are secrets which it is essential to
keep, and which can only be kept in this way ?"

"Yes, I think so. Mamma told me that; she
would tell me no more. Ethert," she added with
a sudden effort and in a less tremulous voice,
'* Mamma said — I understood her — that you
would not have me told any more. Don't misunderstand
me. I promised — even if you would
tell me what it is, I must not hear. But only —
if I must decide — do you really think I ought to
have to decide without knowing wh}^ what it is
that compels ? . . . Ethert, was it your desire that
I should not know ?"

He realized for the first time how unjust that
obligation to decide upon imperfect knowledge
must seem to the helpless girl ; nay, how cruelly
unjust it actually was. But that injustice was
an inevitable incident of the position. He felt
also, what certainly Ivy had not intended, that
her anxious desire for fuller information implied
under what sense of compulsion she would yield,
if she consented at all, to a marriage which she
appeared to regard with a repugnance as deep as
his own.

I am very sorry that you should be forced to
decide without knowing what it is that you
purchase at such a price. But — you cannot be
told. It would be most cruel to your mother,
almost as cruel as to let all the world know ; and
for my sake and for your own I could not bear
that you shouldst would not have my — I could
not let you be pained, wounded by such knowledge.
If you consent to this sacrifice— I well
understand how bitter a sacrifice it is — it must
be on trust; on your parents' assurance that this
is better, less terrible than the disclosure which
they think can be prevented in no other
way."

Do you think so, Ethert ?" she asked quickly,
unconsciously betraying how much more weight
she attached to his counsel than to theirs.

Yes, Ivy. I hoped at first it might be possible
to protect you without — without telling you
anything ; but when all was considered and
discussed, I had to own that it was beyond my
power to make you safe in any other way. Dome
the justice, Cousin's he added earnestly, with
a voice that trembled almost as much as hers had
done, " do me the justice to believe that I would

be no party to such an exaction if I thought it
possible otherwise to avoid — what I cannot bear
to let you suffer."

Ethert had no idea how fatally decisive were
the expressions he used ; for he had no adequate
conception of Ivy's implicit trust in himself, nor
did he realize the exaggerated nature of the
terrors he confirmed. Here, as throughout, his
determination to leave explanation to another,
and the impossibility of full, frank confidence
between the cousins in this critical interview,
placed them hopelessly at cross purposes. Had
Ethert made his offer in person, though he could
never have told or hinted at the facts, all the
better would he have conveyed a just idea of
their actual weight to a mind which the facts
themselves would simply have shocked and
terrified out of all self-possession.

Informed and guided by a clear-headed man
over-contemptuous of the world's opinion, instead
of an eager, excited, frightened woman whom
fear of that opinion had driven frantic. Ivy would
have escaped the infection of her mother's panic,
she would not have felt that sense of a terror
the more appalling because unknown, a necessity

the more cogent that she could not estimate the
penalty enforcing it, hy which she had been
practically almost deprived of choice. At any
rate, she would not have been misled by the
apparent concurrence of views really as distinct,
as well could be views of the same facts leading
to the same issue. Few sentiments could be less
alike than Lady Glynnee's abject dread of worldly
scandal, and Ethert's passionate shrinking from a
revelation that would bring home the sense of
disgrace and dishonour, the consciousness of shame,
to herself. But this difference of meaning, wide
as it was, Ivy necessarily failed to perceive ; so
that her cousin's measured sentences only served
to impress on her spirit the conviction that her
mother had scarcely exaggerated the evil she
apprehended, or the necessity of the only alternative.


As regarded that alternative itself, the cousins
were again at cross-purposes. Ivy had felt, as the
simplest maiden must have felt, a keen instinctive
dread of being accepted rather than sought, of
owing the offered marriage to the generosity or
compassion of an unwilling bridegroom ; and this
feeling was deepened by her own warm, pure, trustful

affection for Ethert. If only it were his wish,
or even his will, for his ownsake and not hers, she
would have been more than content ; confident of
her actual and little doubtful of her ultimate place
in his heart. She would not have enquired too
closely into his motives, so only she were wooed,
even at second-hand, and not forced upon him.
The extreme youth, the absolute inexperience and
ignorance of life which alone had rendered
possible her mother's mingled deception and
coercion, precluded her from reading Ethert's
feeling through his words, transparent as, to a
girl a little older and less absolutely innocent,
these must have been. To reach Ivy's understanding,
he must have spoken with a distinctness
possible to few men in such a position, and
doubles impossible to him. Mutual misconception
was almost inevitable : the nature of that misconception
which actually occurred was due to
Ethert's peculiar character. Most men would
have detected Ivy's willingness and misconstrued
it : her cousin, appreciating her
child-like innocence, her maiden delicacy, inferred
even before she had spoken a reluctance
at least as strong as his own. But in truth.

despite her fear that loving her as a cousin he
might not like her as a wife — a distinction suggested
by what she had read or heard rather than
native to her consciousness — she never guessed,
could not at present have conceived the total
difference, the little less than contradiction
between a kinsman's affection and a lover's
passion. Her own heart gave her no clue to such
a distinction.

Ethert was associated with all the pleasantness
experiences, the dearest recollections of her past.
He had always brought her comfort in trouble,
had turned dulness or depression into brightness
and pleasure : from his presence she had ever
drawn confidence and courage. And now, to be
his companion for life, the inmate of his home,
simply promised her a perpetuity of the holiday
happiness connected with his visits; and a shelter
from that strange unknown terror which without
him she dared not face — with him, she could not
fear. She loved him better than anyone on
earth — had so loved him ever since she could
remember. She could imagine no truer paradise
than to be shielded and petted as she had always
been by him, and she looked no further and no

deeper. If only Ethert wished it— if only he would
be what he had always been till the recent cloud
whose presence she had felt so keenly, whose nature
she could so little comprehend, had darkened
and chilled the tenderness which had made the
sunshine of her life !

"But, Ethert, do you wish its Ivy faltered
timidly and low, raising her eyes for one moment
to his and then turning them on the ground,
while the faint rose colour flushed her pale soft
cheeks.

He hesitated, scarcely less embarrassed by the
strangeness of the situation than she by doubt or
shyness. The question brought him face to face
with the dilemma he had sought to escape by
throwing on her mother the task of explanation
and proposal — offered if it did not yet enforce
the cruel alternative of brutal truth or courteous
falsehood. In Ivy's absence the former had been
possible, if not easy ; in the presence of that sweet,
loving, clinging nature, with that soft voice in his
ears, looking on that fragile form, associated since
her babyhood with all that could appeal to the
tenderness of home-affection, to manhood's protective
instincts, to chivalrous deference for ideal

maidenhood — it was impossible not to lie by
tone and manner at least, if not in direct
words.

Need you ask me, Ivy ? You know that I
should not have dared, should not have dreamed
of such a thing; I should never have wounded
you by the very mention of a step so hasty and
so painful and at a time so unseemly — if I had
thought it less than necessary. If my aunt has
kept her promise, you know all that I could tell
you. I cannot help it : forgive me my share in
your sacrifice."

She felt that her question had not been fairly
answered, and walked on beside him slowly and
in silence ; till even to him the long pause, the
indecision it seemed to imply, became almost intolerable.
In the crises of life, men and women
alike feel that suspense is the one thing they
cannot bear.

Do you understand what is asked of you,
Ivy ? that not only must your answer be
given to-days, but it it must take
effect at once — while your father lives. After
his death we could not act for ourselves;
your interests would be under the pro-vol.
I. R

section of the Courts, the question of title would
be raised ; and that is what we must avoid. Do
you understand ? . . . . It is shocking, startling,
I know you must feel it cruelly. But,
Ivy, you know me too well to think I would be a
party to such a proposal if I were not convinced
that your parents are right — that there is really
no other way."

She found voice at last.

No other for me, Ethert ;— but for you ? Do
you wish it?"

No way for either, Ivy. If^^ou refuse— it is
from my hand, in my interest, that the blow
would come ; and it would dishonour me to bethe
means, the cause of harm to you."

I cannot understand, Ethert. Cannot you
take what is yours ? we should not dispute
it." .

No, Ivy. The truth would come out. I
wished, I offered to make over my claims to you ;
but it cannot be. There must be nothing
to show the world whether Glynnehurst be yours
or mine — unless you prefer to face the terrible
revelation that I cannot bear to think of.
I am sorry, ashamed beyond what words can say ;

but that is , . . . the only alternative.
It is for you to decide-it is not for me to urge
you to either sacrifice."

*' Ethert, if you wish it, do not call it by such
names ; do not speak as if I were so ungrateful.
Of course this — the talking of it now — the

haste " She broke down for a moment, and

a few tears fell, a sob was half suppressed.
But if it must be, I ought not to complain of
that. I am sure j^ou would not hurt me if you
could help it ; and I suppose that is almost as
disagreeable to you as . . . .'*

She paused, faltered, and actually coloured with
distress as she realized what she had been about
to say. She had never meant to imply the shrinking
reluctance that her repeated questions suggested
to Ethert's apprehension. She had always so
looked up to him, and she had so thoroughly, so
simply accepted her mother's intimation that his
offer had laid her under deep obligation, that she
felt as if he must be hurt, had at least good
reason to be offended, by the involuntary betrayal of
her natural aversion to the precipitate action
forced on both. He perceived her forbearance,
though he could hardly fathom her meaning or

R 2

motive, and was much moved and touched by
her considerate simplicity.

"As it is to you" he said, completing her
sentence. " I fear, I know it must be unspeakably
distressing to you ; but if it is to be, Ivy,
it must be immediately"

If it is to be !" she repeated, in actual
surprise. Then, suddenly remembering that as
yet she had not expressed the assent she had in
truth taken for granted throughout, she stopped,
flushed crimson with painful blushes, and burst
into tears — tears that Ethert could not endure
to witness. He could not kiss them away, as he
might have ventured to do not so very long since;
but, for the first time since the lawyer's hint had
brought constraint between them, he took her
hand in his own, and held it as he had been
wont, closely and tenderly, till she recovered
her self-command.

"You have answered that question to your
mother?" he said very gently, when her sobs
had ceased, though her bosom still heaved painfully,
and tears overflowed the eyes she could
not raise from the ground. " You have told her?
But you know, Ivy, I have not seen her to-day ;

and besides, I told her that I must have your
answer from yourself."

His voice had instinctively softened into its
caressing tone of old, and Ivy drew close to him
and rested her head against his shoulder ; not asa
maiden yielding to a lover the consent she will
not speak in words, but as the child who had
always been wont to lean on his unfailing sympathy.
But the gesture was none the less conclusive,
though he understood how absolutely
unconscious she was of the answer it conveyed.


It is to be, then V he asked, in a tone that
had unintentionally become almost cold. "I believe
you are right. Ivy ; only let me be sure it is
your choice in so far as choice is possible ; that if
forced, it is by circumstances, by your own judgment,
and not . . . ."

"Forced?" she said, half wonderingly, half
doubtfully. "Ethert — Mamma says, and I am
sure she thinks, this is your wish. Of course you
would tell her so, I know ; whatever you felt,
you would not let her see you did it unwillingly ;
and you would still less tell me if I did not ask,
entreat you to let me know the truth. I don't

know what it is Mamma fears ; but I think nothing
could be so dreadful as — Ethert, say that
j^ou wish it ! . . . that you are not doing it only
out of pity for us — for me."

Ethert had more scruple than gentlemen commonly
have in telling the falsehoods frequently
required by courtesy and consideration to women ;
but he was aware that lying was an almost inevitable
incident of the situation. The marriage
itself was so monstrous, so atrocious a fiction that
any minor lie was hardly worth the trouble of a
thought. One only falsehood he was resolved
not to tell ; he would not profess or promise a
love he did not feel. But in regard to her present
question, he was by no means sure at the moment
what the truth was; and quite sure that be the
truth what it might it was the last thing to be
told. He had realized clearly, since the conversation
began, what had seemed less certain till
now — that, since he could not endure to proclaim
his cousin's illegitimacy, this marriage was for
him as well as for her the only safe, the only'
tolerable course. In that sense he wished it; and
if that were not the sense of her question, it must
suflScc for his reply.

Yes, Ivy ; under the circumstances, I must
wish it. I don't see what other course is open tome.
I wish it — if you are willing, or if you
choose, to make so great a sacrifice to your
mother's feelings, your mother's interests and
your own, where both are so terribly involved.
I could not wish — what must be the consequence
of your refusal."

"You think it right, then, Ethert? But if it
is right, do not speak of the sacrifice I make. I
I am almost a child, and an ignorant, dull,
rather foolish child ; I have nothing to give you ;
I hardly understand whether I have even the
least thing of all, money ; I am neither clever nor
companionable, nor even pretty And you
you have been my only friend except my
parents and Charlie ; and you were always
kind, have always done so much to make
the time pleasant, to make me happy while
you were here. If I dared hope that I could
make you happy, Ethert, I don't think I
ought to let you speak of a sacrifice on my
part."

He was deeply touched, fully understanding
alike the considerate feeling, the kindly recollections,

and the conscientious love of truth which
had prompted her disclaimer.

A sacrifice, Ivy," he said gently, " because if
there had been no such necessity, if things had
stood as we thought they stood a short time ago,
none of us would have dreamed of this. You
are forced to wish it as I — \\^sh it," he concluded,
giving a new turn to the sentence as he felt, justin
time, how brutal would sound in his own ears
the words he had well-nigh uttered. He had
meant, did mean, that she should understand the
truth. He had insisted that she should know
that, to lira as to herself, the marriage was a
painful necessity : and he supposed that, in language
more or less explicit, this had been conveyed
to her. But he could not repeat it. Face
to face with her, he simply could not say : " You
are forced as I am forced." It was his fatal mistake,
the mistake to which I\'y was sacrificed.
She was throughout the victim not more of her
mother's deception than of Ethert's misplaced
delicacy Could he have been frank at the cost
of courtesy and even of kindness, she would at
least have escaped the misconception under which,
intending simply to follow Ethert's guidance, she

seemed to him to accept the sacrifice exacted
from him on her behalf and yielded for her sake
a sacrifice he could make, but could not forgive.
Now, having made up her mind that, if he so
willed, her mother's purpose was to be carried
out with full acquiescence on her side — and
gathered from his words that at any rate, if not
exactly his wish, it was distinctly and decidedly
his will — she was very slow to catch any hint
that contradicted the view thus impressed on
her.

There was a long pause. Ivy could not feel
satisfied, but knew not how to repeat her questions.
It was probably in an unconscious effort to
obtain something like an answer, to her heart if not
her ear, that she put out timidly the hand he had
dropped. He took and pressed it, and in that
pressure she understood what he certainly had not
meant to imply.

One thing more," he added, hesitating and
almost faltering, so great was the effect of Ivy's
actual presence — so impossible seemed it, while
his eyes rested on that countenance of which
feminine gentleness and submission were scarcely
less characteristic than child-like grace and

purity, to name what in her absence it had seemed
natural and necessary to stipulate — " One thing
more your mother promised to tell you. I should
be very sorry if it hurt you, sorry you should
fancy either that I distrust you or mean
to try you more hardly than need be ;
but "

Yes," she interrupted, willing to spare him
what he seemed scarcely able to speak. " Could
you doubt me, Ethert ; doubt that I should keep
faithfully the promises I must make V

*' That one at least," he answered, glad to
lighten the subject with a half jest, "ladies
construe generally in a non-natural sense. But,
Ivy, that is not all. In making that promise
merely as others make it, you would expect, and
rightly expect, to be consulted, to be heard ;
expect that I should give you my reasons and
listen to yours, even if I set them aside. That
is just what I cannot do. I fear that even you
will find silent unreasoned obedience hard to
render. ' You treat me like a child' is, I believe,
the usual excuse of conjugal rebels ; and like a
a child in many ways I shall have to treat
you."

"1 have always been — I am still ' almost — a
cliiid with yon, Ethert ; and if you will not treat
me more hardly than a child "

No revolt, no indignant outburst would have
been half so disconcerting as her simple unaffected
submission.

You misunderstand me, Ivy. It is that we
begin with a secret between us, without the confidence
that if it were possible would be your
right ; and that I must stipulate for that which
under happier circumstances you would be the last
to withhold — which should have been rendered
easy by mutual trust and mutual choice. But on
the other hand that is all I ask. I can give so
little, it is so hard on you in every way, that, if
only you are amenable to guidance and refrain
from quarrelling, 1 have no right to expect more.
You need not fear that I shall ever forget how
little I can claim, how much is due to one who is
forced into marriage— not I hope by threats or
scolding, but forced nevertheless."

*' I don't understand trifling with a promise ;
especially " — she coloured and faltered a little —
with such promises. I am sorry you seem to
think I might — and for the very reasons which

should make me more careful. But I can only
saj^ I will do my best, and if I fail, Ethert, I do
not think you will be too hard on me ; only,
don't repeat that I am forced, and do say that
you are not."

Here, for the first and last time, the question
was fairly put ; here came the opportunity, perhaps
even the obligation to speak the truth, at
any rate a direct alternative between truth and
falsehood. But it seemed too late for frankness,
especially after he had unwittingly elicited from
Ivy a consent the comparative willingness of
which, though of course affected only in delicacy
towards himself, surely called for at least equal
consideration on his part. Moreover to avow the
truth would sting, almost drive her to revolt ;
and thus and at this stage to throw upon her the
responsibility of a rupture would be a mean,
unmanly, and ungenerous evasion. And so Ethert
threw away the last chance of sparing her and
himself pain far keener and more lasting than the
harshest utterance of the plain truth could have
inflicted.

If I could have borne to palter with sou,
Ivy, I would not have done what seems so

strangely discourteous ; I would not have left my
aunt to say what you must naturally have thought
should have come from me. I am forced — to
believe that this is best, wisest for both of us.
In truth, Ivy, the thought that has troubled me
most has not been that I have no choice, but
that you have none. At any rate let me hope,
let me be sure that it is your decision — that you
have not been pressed, teased, scolded into if?
If you repent, if you shrink from it even now,
it is not too late. I know that your mother was
terrified, excited, and she might force or frighten
you more than she would mean. I can believe
that my uncle might be stern and hard where
he is so bent on his purpose, where he thinks, as
we do, the necessity is so strong and so clear
and you are shy and timid. Have you been
frightened — forgive me if I say, bullied — into
this ? If you have — it is too hard on you : — tell
me — say you would rather not, and you shall
have nothing to fear that I can spare you, not
even a word of reproach from any one — I will
take it all on myself. I have not promised : I
am not bound to any one but you, as yet. It was
lest you should be hurried into unwilling submission

that I insisted upon hearing sour determination
from yourself, and said I would not
answer finally till I had seen you alone. If thisbe
not your own choice, knowing all you can
know — Ivy, would you wish me to tell your
parents that, even if you would agree — / will
not?"

He thought that he had told the truth, had
given her freedom of choice as nearly as
the circumstances allowed, as courtesy and kindness
would permit. In words perhaps he had
done so. But once more his fatal consideration,
partly for her sex, partly for her own sensitive
feelings, her maiden dignity, came into play. His
aversion to suggest to a woman, above all to a
young girl, and one he had been accustomed to
treat so tenderly, the idea most offensive to
womanly pride — the thought that feminine
willingness avowed or betrayed had been met by
rejection or reluctance — gave an unintentional
unstudied softness, tenderness to his voice,
manner, and even words that wholly deceived
her ; deceived her the more easily that they
seemed a natural renewal of the kindness that
had so long since won her heart. Consoled and

re-assured by his first sentences, Ivy was touched
b}^ what seemed to her the considerate delicacy of
the final offer. Far too generous and trustful to
imagine a concealed slight, far too loyal and
simple untruly to affect such a fancy, the proposal
that might have broken her mother's meshes was
actually that which knotted them fast and finally
around her.

It is very kind of you, dear Ethert : it is as
you have always been to me. No ; I gave
Mamma my word willingly — if only I were sure
of you. And now " — and here her hand voluntarily
rested on his arm, though she did not
look up into his face, but bent her head and
kept her eyes fixed on the ground, while a
slight colour returned to her pale cheek
as she murmured — " now I am not less — no
I am much more willing than when I came
to you here, I know you will be good to me, as
you always were — it was foolish of me to doubt."

Ethert could not answer, could not have borne
to repudiate that sweet and simple trust. Perhaps
for the moment he had forgotten its new
meaning; forgotten that even in the old sense he
could never affect to be good to her again.

CHAPTER XII.

"TO LOVE, HONOUR, AND CHERISH."

T SEE no help for it," said Estrange. " It
-i- must be reviewed at once, and you
don't know anyone who could do it better than
yourself."

Or worse," I replied. " I cannot sneer in
print ; and though the book might deserve it, the
author has earned exemption from contempt.
Critics consider themselves licensed to retail abuse
and ridicule on all able men who take unpopular
views ; but this is not a man whom I could stoop
to insult. He is out of his depth this time, but —
so am I."

** It seems to me shallow — all froth and foam*'
returned Estrange; "but I admit that a
journalist's or even a theologian's right to be
drunk on th premises ' don't apply to his, intoxicating

or bewildering as they seem. Can't
you answer him ? You know as mach as most
amateurs ; — enough perhaps to gauge your own
ignorance :■"

Exactly. Breve might tr}^ if you choose to
chance the consequences."

'*No doubt; but Breve always proves too
much ; demonstrates too clearly that Philhellen is
a dunce, and Darwin an addle-pated ignoramus.
Before he found out who Procyon was, he exposed
soothingly Procyon's boyish inexperience of life,
and proved especially that the ' poor young
fellow ' had never seen the inside of a newspaper

office. But what is 's thesis : ' what does it

prove'"

I don't know — the argument is transcendental
to the utmost limits of meaning — unless it be
that creation is a sort of a kind of vision of the
Universal Mind ; and, if That were to wake, 1
suppose we should all ' go out,' like Carroll's
Alice in the Bed King's Dream'"

Turning the tables on those who say that the
Creator is a dream of His creatures ? But the
idea is not new ; and if it were true, no one could
believe it. Can't the man see that — except by the

VOL. I. S

Universal Mind — it is necessarily unthinkable?
It has one recommendation though; it would
account for the suspension of development with
the appearance of Man."
*' How so f

Because humanity must have been the nightmare
of the Demiurge ; and when civilization was
evolved, the hideous spectacle must have made
Him awaken with a "cosmic" scream. Not that
the step from brute to Aryan is so very wide.
After all, men are curs and women cats."

'• Take the book in hand yourself and develop
that thesis," I said, laughing. " That number of
the Courier would sell."

"No; I never tell cynical truths and I never
write heresy, except over my own signature.
Within this office the Thirty-nine Articles are the
basis of all truth and the measure of all novelties :
and I only indulge my cynicism by proving now
and then that some novel and undeniable truth is
an old and damnable heresy. Moreover, however
tempting the subject, I cannot write three lines
till Glynnee returns. My right arm, as you see, is
useless ; and Thomas cannot be trusted with
words of more than two syllables. Try Glynnee,

by the way, when he comes back : mysticism has
always charms for him."

Talk of the first Whig," said I, " and -"

as, to our chiefs great surprise, his assistant
entered the room.

Well," said Estrange, cordially holding out
his left hand, " I could not be more glad to see
you : but I as much expected to see the Arch-radical
in person'*

I had promised my— I had intended," replied
Glynnee, with unaccountable but unmistakable
embarrassment, " to stay over to-night at any
rate ; but — I have business of — my uncle's todo
in London, and I am sorry to say I must
go back on Friday; so I thought it best to
return to my post at once. Of course, till
Friday afternoon, I am entirely at your disposal."


Finding that Glynnee had not read the book
in question, and would not have time to do it
justice, I accepted the task imposed on me and
left the room.

Here is a private letter for you, Glynnee," said
Estrange. "When you have read it, there are a
whole pile on business."

S 2

The communication thus handed to Ethert
came from Meta.

Your mother," she wrote, " does not feel equal
to writing herself; and, Ethert, I am glad she
lets me do it. She has talked of coming to town

to see Dr. , but less decidedly than she is

used to speak of anything. Do press her to do
so, and soon ; and unless you can take care of her
entirely, get her to bring me. I don't want
to frighten you, but she seems very ill, and I am
sure she ought not to be alone."

His mother's character, the least caressing and
the coldest in external demeanour that he had
ever found in woman, had tended from the first to
suppress, if not to repel, her son's affection, to
produce not merely reserve in the expression, but
I certain coldness in the inward temper of an
attachment that was really deep and strong. No
doubt, reaction from that domestic repression had
done much to render Glynnehurst so especially
attractive ; to make Ethert' s tone and manner yet
softer and more affectionate towards those with
whom, as with Ivy and Meta, his heart was at
ease, his indulgence and utterance of feeling unconstrained.
But his filial regard was eai-nest

and profound, and he was much disturbed, if
not altogether surprised, by Meta's warning.
Estrange, more observant than people commonly
supposed, noted with what difficulty his
secretary turned to the work before him.

Your mind," he said, " runs on something
else — I fancy on the letter you have received. If
so, answer that first : get it off your mind to
begin with, as far as you can."

Estrange was generally charged with hardness
of feeling and coldness of heart— partly but not
wholly, I think, because his cynical sincerity refused
to affect sympathy with sorrows more
decorous than deep. When this charge was once
preferred in his presence, Glynnee answered
warmly :

"Estrange is too busy to observe, and has
suffered too much to care for, trifles ; but I never
received so many kindnesses, great and small,
from any other living man or woman."

Certainly the Editor of the Courier could
hardly be called selfish in the usual acceptation
of the word. His indifference to others never
seemed to spring from exaggerated regard for
himself. In delicate health, frequently unable to

sleep, and, as I chanced to know, passionately'
fond of flowers, grass, birds, all the attractions of
the country, it must have been a sacrifice of
everything that made his solitary life endurable
to live, as he had chosen to do, in two or three
small rooms within the building that contained
the offices of the Courier. But he had determined
that this would enable him to do his work more
satisfactorily ; that, living at any distance, he
could hardly give a close, constant supervision to
the difficult task of creating what was in fact a
new journal ; and seeing this, he had made the
sacrifice without hesitation and without a word of
complaint. He was distinctly less exacting towards
others than towards himself It was, I
think, the consciousness of this enforced upon us
all that enabled him to maintain a discipline, to
insist on or obtain without insistance a devoted
attention to their several duties from all the
members of his staff, to which I bereave the success
of the Courier was mainly due.

At our meeting on the next Friday I observed
that Glynnee was certainly pale, and either overworked
or mentally harassed ; the former probably,
I supposed, since I knew how close, how

protracted, had been Estrange's own labours,
how absolutely he was dependent on the eyes, the
hands, and in great measure on the practical
thought and memory of his subordinate. Before
the council was half over, he turned to his
secretary :

*' You had better go now, Glynnee ; there is
nothing more that you need do. Catch your
train at your leisure. Now then," when Glynnee
had left us, " what do you think. Leaf, of the
news from the Levant ? how, I mean, will it
affect our prospects ? The crimson toga will be
hoisted very soon, and perhaps suddenly."

Leaf answered with more bitterness than he
was wont to show :

It will give the measure of Blight's impartial
humanity and Philhellen's moral indignation.
It ought to teach every man who has eyes to
read and sense to understand that the one only
loved the Russians as the hereditary enemies of
England, and the other only hated the Turk as
the protege of Endymion. But those men have
the public ear, and have deafened it to everything
so trivial and so troublesome as a fact. Their
clients have outdone tenfold all the crimes, real

and fictitious, charged on ours; but they, wlw)
bellowed execrations when rebels were massacred
by the soldiers of a Power standing with its back
to the wall, will not speak a word to condemn or
lift a finger to restrain the rebels who in profound
peace are butchering loyal subjects."

"Well, we always knew," replied Estrange,
that hatred of his country was Blight's ruling
passion, and personal enmity the key to Phil-helen's
policy. The latter is almost frantic in
his rage against his rival, maddened by his own
failure and Endymion's success. Nothing that
can happen now will enlighten those who have
not seen long ago that van it" and vindictiveness
give the clue to every strange winding of that
man's tortuous career. Expulsion from Oxford
was the final cause of Disestablishment; defeat in
South Lancashire, not Fenian outrages, originated
the Landlords' Robbery Act. It was Lord Derby's
preference of Vivian Grey that made him a
Radical, and supersession by Palmerston all but
turned him back into a Tory. But I asked not
what you thought of the Eastern conflagration,
but what shadows it will cast here in the
West."

Shadows enough, truly ; it will enlighten
nobody ! A populace that cheered Castro because
they knew him to be the butcher Morton, and
hooted those who denied his claim to be Roger
Tichborne, that made an M.P. of Keenly and
will make one of Bradlaugh, may well believe in
Blight's patriotism and Philhellen's Christian
charity. Common sense has a poor chance
against the thunder of B.'s invective and the fireworks
of P.'s eloquence. There are fools — enough
to turn the scale in fifty English boroughs — who
really believe that Toryism had something to do
"with the depression of trade, and that a Radical
Ministry will give us a warm summer and a
splendid harvest. That, you will find, is the
creed of more electors than turned the balance
in 74."

Before leaving London, Ethert had very unwillingly
arranged for the leave of absence which
he knew that he might require. He had not chosen
to announce his marriage even to Estrange.
Indeed, he had not communicated it to his mother
or to Meta till the very morning of the appointed
day ; persistently arguing with himself that something
might yet break off an arrangement so

repugnant to both the parties principally concerned.
In his heart he knew that, while left to
the influence of her parents, nothing could give
Ivy courage to recall her pledge of compliance.
He knew almost equally well that, her word once
passed to himself, nothing — short of that discovery
which he dreaded no less than the marriage
whereby he had consented to avert it, or a distinct
avowal of his own dislike — would induce her to
forfeit her promise. It might be that he would
not endure to realize in imagination a future so
abhorrent ; it might be that he could not believe
in the certainty of an event that seemed more
hateful as it drew nearer : it might be that the
extreme haste, and the hurry of the measures he
was forced to take, had left him neither time nor
composure to think quietly of his position. But,
from whatever cause, he found that he did not and
could not accept the prospect as a sure or even a
probable reality. He had an inward assurance, a
presentiment that it would not be — something
would, must occur to prevent or postpone it.
Therefore he had simply told Strange that he
feared lest family business might prevent his return
to work for three weeks at least.

"Yery well' his chief had answered. "lean
give you a month from to-day, but not a day
longer, if I am to depend on your return, and not
to fill your place. Leaf has long since arranged
to take a holiday next month, and while he is
absent yon will be Indispensable. If your return
be uncertain, tell me at once and give me time to
find a substitute."

"I engage positively," had been his assistant's
reply, " to return on this day month at latest ;
it is quite possible that I may find a long leave of
absence unnecessary"

By absenting himself entirely during the brief
interval that necessarily separated the betrothal
from the marriage day, Ethert had probably done
well, and — assuming that the marriage was to be
even kindly by Ivy, as he had certainly spared
himself much trouble and many trying scenes.
Too short for the natural growth of a new
relation, the time would have been too long for
the persistent avoidance at once of self-betrayal
and self-committal ; too long, probably, for the
effectual concealment of his chafing under the
yoke. There was not leisure to dispel Ivy's
painful consciousness of enforced and unseemly

haste : there would have been more than enough
to let her find out that she had lost a friend
without gaining a lover. The wedding was fixed
by special license for the first possible evening,
and Ethert had so timed his return that there was
no opportunity for a private interview with his
bride. The cousins met in presence of Ivy's
parents and of the family solicitor, and the
party had not been assembled half-arbour ere
they were summoned to take their places in the
room adjoining that of Sir Charles, now absolutely
confined to the couch he never expected again to
leave. Here, that he might witness it through
the open door, the ceremony was to be performed.


The agitation and excitement of the paralytic
were obvious and somewhat alarming to his
nephew ; though due probably rather to the weakness
of his mind and his loss of self-command than
to any deep affection for the daughter whose
fate was at stake, or any excessive sensibility
to that which might be said of himself, if after
his death the truth should be revealed. Ethert
was startled — not altogether unpleasantly — by
the reflection that her father's state, though not

affording an excuse for the postponement of the
marriage — a proposal which would probably
have given a mortal blow to one so eagerly
bent on its completion — might yet prove an
obstacle to Ivy's departure from home. At any
rate it might hinder or abbreviate that bridal
holiday for which she had scarcely been able
to prepare, and which he had refused to contemplate
till, just before the summons cut
short their hurried discussions, her mother had
referred to it.

Much disturbed by various conflicting feelings,
that uppermost in his mind was certainly
discontent, if not resentment. His sense of
wrong — his consciousness of being forced into a
sacrifice he could hardly refuse when demanded,
but which no one had a right to demand
from him — had been quickened by the extreme
difficulty he had found in informing his mother
of that which was about to take place. He
had been able to state nothing beyond the bare
fact ; since genuine explanation was of course
impossible, and any pretence thereof would only
have rendered more evident to Mrs. Glynnee's
keen intelligence the existence of some painful

secret. Angry with himself for a curtness which
seemed not less insulting because it was
inevitable, still more angry with those who
had forced him to abandon the hope he had
cherished against hope till the moment that
finally extinguished it, it was in no bridal mood
that he obeyed the summons and took his place
in front of the low table which was to serve as an
altar for the occasion.

But an unintentional momentary glance at the
drooping figure beside him shocked and surprised
him for a while out of the resentment that had
grown to include if not to centre upon his
bride.

Ivy had had leisure during his absence to
ponder all that had passed, to remember that
he had spoken no word of love, and few even
of tenderness, in the critical interview ; while he
had parted from her on his return to London
with a haste excused only by the urgency of the
legal steps to be taken at so short a notice.
Yet she could not ascribe to haste that parting
without the kiss, without even the caressing
words and looks, which — till his unexplained
estrangement — had always expressed his regret

at leaving, and comforted her ; and whose omission
on each subsequent occasion had pained and
perplexed her with wondering enquiries what
could have caused that seemingly capricious
change. Now, she could not hut connect his
altered manner with the mystery of which her
marriage was the consequence and consummation
; feeling more and more fearful that Ethert's
wish " for that marriage had implied no
willingness. It might well have been that
he had no time to write during his brief
and busy absence. He could have nothing to
say ; and yet — he might, he surely' would have
written if . .

The very kindness and consideration to which
her cousin had accustomed her had made her
doubly sensitive to everything that could look
like slight or neglect from her betrothed ; it was
not like Ethert to be forgetful or careless of her
feelings. She had been too shy, too timid to
offer on his return the greeting she was nervously
eager to receive and return. The presence of a
stranger might account for the formality of his
bearing ; but it so chilled her that she could
hardly speak the few sentences required from her

in the brief business conversation that followed.
When her hand rested on his arm she felt
instinctively the absence of tenderness and
sympathy in his breast ; when her look furtively,
tremulously sought his, and sought in vain, her
dismay, her terror at the thought that she was
about to give herself to a husband not merely
reluctant but resentful — so resentful that all the
tried affection of a lifetime was forgotten in aversion
to her new claim on him — where such that her limbs
almost failed to support her.

Thus, when at length, as they stood before
the priest who was to bless a union that no
priestly blessing could hallow, Ethert caught
a glimpse of her white face and trembling
form, the sight of her distress recalled suddenly
and irresistibly the habitual feelings so lately
interrupted, the instincts of compassion and
tenderness associated all his life long with one so
loving and so dependent. It was by an involuntary,
almost unconscious impulse that his
hand found hers, and closed with the quiet, firm,
lingering clasp she remembered so well over the
cold moist palm and slender icy fingers. Their
touch startled him, as his clasp comforted and

encouraged her. It awakened all his natural
Sympathy and affection for the sister-like cousin
forgotten in the unwelcome bride. He could not
speak, of course; but it needed no whispered
syllable of tenderness, hardly needed even the
softened look she felt though she could not see
it, to convey to Ivy's heart the comfort that
for one instant it was his only thought to
afford.

Happily, he had released her hand before the
clergyman's voice reminded him once more of
the hated change; and she did not feel the
shudder which it needed all his presence of mind
and force of will so to repress that it should not
•be actually visible. But she knew that the chill
had come between them again. Thereafter to
both the service, brief as it was, seemed terribly
long ; certain phrases almost appalled the bridegroom
as these, and these alone, reached his
inner consciousness through the strange dulness
that had numbed the outer sense.

In the few words that each was required to
speak. Ivy's voice was hardly lower or more
tremulous than his. They had risen, she had
half-consciously placed her hand on Ethert's arm,

VOL. I. T

and he was about to lead her from the room ;
when, turning accidentally towards the open door
near which his uncle lay, he was startled, appalled
by the change that had come over the invalid's
countenance.

A moment, and he had so recovered his presence
of mind as to lead Ivy from the chamber
without a word, and to place her still unalarmed
in her mother's care, before, with a hasty "Pardon
me, Ivy," he returned to the sufferer's bedside.

Lady Glynnee had been too much absorbed in
the ceremony, too exclusively interested in the
feelings of the daughter for whom she would fain
believe that it involved only a temporary trial
and sacrifice, to observe any other performer or
spectator of the scene. But the doctor in attendance,
who had of course been present on this
occasion among the very few witnesses, had been
even more observant and prompter than Ethert,
and the latter found him beside the patient.
When at last it was possible to leave the sickroom
even for a moment, drawing Ethert beyond
the hearing of one whom nevertheless he believed
insensible to all that passed around, the practitioner
spoke :

"Another seizure: probably the last. How
long he may linger I cannot yet tell ; but there
can, I feel sure, be no recovery, hardly a return
of consciousness, certainly not of speech. Mr.
Glynnee, you must judge what, under the circumstances,
is to be done."

"If you are right," Ethert replied, with much
hesitation, " I can do nothing. But I presume no
case could arise in which mj presence could be
necessary or even of comfort to him ?"

Impossible, I should say ; but we shall know
absolutely in a few hours."

Then," said Ethert after a pause, " his wife
and daughter cannot well leave him ; you had
better prepare them, doctor. To Lady Glynnee
it may be a shock, but can hardly be a surprise ;
and even — even my cousin must have expected it
to occur before very long."

There was something in Ethert's tone, even
more than in his words, that caused the other to
turn upon him a doubtful and curious glance.
He knew less of his present companion than of
any other member of the family, but even Ethert
he knew well. With Sir Charles and Lady Glynnee
he had been in constant social and professional

T 2

intercourse for the last eighteen years. He had
watched Ivy from the very moment of her birth ;
and. aware that her brother had inherited more of
physical energy than of sound health or vitality,
had always looked forward with a faint conjectural
interest to the possibility of some such contingency
as the present.

Of late, Sir Charles' intense eagerness about
the marriage, perhaps some words half-consciously
let fall, had suggested to one whose long experience
had been turned to account b}^ a mind
naturally quick and observant, that this was
neither an ordinary love-match nor an ordinary
family arrangement.

The doctor, now caught a glimpse, though of
course a faint and uncertain glimpse, of the truth.
Had the marriage been made under some unknown
compulsion ; had it, instead of binding together
two hearts really or in their own real belief
attached, simply deepened and embittered the
estrangement of those who had been forced together
against their will? If so, the task of
breaking to Ivy and her mother the news of Sir
Charles' critical state should not be thrown upon
the unwilling bridegroom of an hour. But they

vere spared occasion either for doubt or
decision.

Almost before the drawing-room door had
closed behind Ethert, Ivy had thrown herself at
her mother's feet and, hiding her face in her lap,
burst into a passion of sobs. Lady Prynne was
not at first surprised or alarmed, though naturally
affected ; she hardly knew what to say, with what
words to offer comfort or consolation in a distress
natural and inevitable, a distress however whose
depth and meaning she wholly failed to understand.
The few words she spoke meant no more
than the maternal caresses by which she sought
to soothe and quiet her daughter's agitation.
But after a while Ivy became instinctively aware
how inaptly her mother's sympathy was directed,
how little she felt the true character or apprehended
the cause of the young bride's misery and
dismay.

"Mamma, Mamma !" she faltered at last through
her sobs. " Oh, what have I done ?"

Still the mother gained no glimpse into the
daughter's mind.

'* It is very hard, darling, I know. You have
been so hurried, so taken by surprise ; I don't

wonder that it seems strange and terrible. But,
dear, you may be sure Ethert will be patient and
considerate ; he will not expect that you should
be prepared, will not wonder that you shrink
from the suddenness, the shock. He knows, he
will feel for you ; and, daring, he will hardly
press you to — shall I ask him to leave you with
me till tomorrow? You should have time to
compose yourself, to recover — and he will be
patient with you."

Mamma — oh, you misunderstand — all ! — Have
you seen nothing all this time? You told me —
yes, he said — he wished it ; but — Oh, I am
sure now he only meant — he wished to save me.
He would never have done it but for that ; he
hated it, and now — he could never have treated
me so, if he did not hate me for it."

Lady Glynnee, of course, knew far better than
did her daughter what solid grounds might well
exist for so cruel an apprehension. But on the
one hand she persistently told herself that
Ethert could not be so unreasonable, so hard as
some words of his had suggested ; on the other,
she felt sure, for better reasons, that Ivy had no
rational, assignable cause for her fears ; that if

she had caught a glimpse of her bridegroom's
mind, it had been by instinct, by sympathy, not
through any word or act of his. The decisive
interview had left the poor child fairly content and
hopeful; since then the cousins had not been
alone, save for the few moments of their leave-taking
on the same afternoon. The mother had
witnessed all that had passed between them since ;
and was confident that even in that hviei tete-astute
Ethert had said nothing, done nothing, that could
not for the present be explained away. However
truly Iv}^ might have interpreted his mood, she
could have no tangible evidence of unkindness or
aversion. Herself surprised b}^ his sudden departure,
the mother had caught the hurried half-articulate
apology that escaped the bride's
notice.

*' Nonsense, child," she answered, her troubled
conscience giving to her tone a sharpness of
which she was not aware. " Don't be so extravagantly
foolish; don't make yourself miserable
with such an impossible idea, and don't do such
Wrong to Ethert. What but affection for you
brought him year after year to Glynnehurst,
made him always so glad to come, so sorry to

leave when he thought it would hurt his mother,
would look like neglect, if he stay-ed longer?
Except her, Ivy, he has loved nothing in this
world so well as you. And now, remember, he
was as much taken by surprise as you were, was
called on to decide quite as suddenly ; and since
then he has been hurried as you have not been, has
scarcely had time to do all that had to be done.
I am sure he has said no unkind, no unloving
word to you ; and if he had, surely you can forgive
him if his temper were tried at such a time as

this r

"Mamma, I wish he had; but he spoke so
carefully. No, he has been kind — it is just that —
because I am a girl, and because he is sorry forme.
But if he did not hate this ; if he did not
dislike me because he was forced to — to it,
why?"

She checked herself, partly from habit, partly
from a sudden instinctive consciousness of her
novel duty ; a feeling that, as she had never been
wont to complain of any fancied offence or provocation
from one so invariably kind to her, so she
was now forbidden by wifely loyalty to betray the
evidences of coldness she had too distinctly felt.

But her mother had seen something of Ethert's
change of manner, and guessed to what trivial
but all the more significant symptoms of estrangement
Ivy's memory had reverted.

''I think I know what you mean, Iv}^ and
perhaps I could guess ' why ' ; but I cannot
explain. I can only tell you that Ethert has been
ill at ease, perhaps constrained with you, not for
any fault of yours, and certainly not that he
loved you less. Could he have given a stronger
proof how much he cared for you 1 Would he have
married, even for money, if he had disliked, nay,
if he had not dearly liked you ?"

No, no I" Ivy exclaimed, the suggestion
rousing her indignation, not on her own behalf,
but his. ''He wanted nothing of me, but it was
to save — me."

"Did not that show how much he thought of
you. Ivy? He would have pitied, have taken
trouble for any woman in sorrow or danger ; he
would have done much, no doubt, only because
he is my nephew and your cousin. But would
he have married any other woman to protect her
from whatever peril ?"

*' Then, Mamma, why — you say you can guess

why has he become strange to rae, and why . . . ?
Ethert was never hasty, never inconsiderate ; why
should he leave me now, the instant after . . .
unless . . . unless lie could not bear f

''I don't know why, l\j. But did sou not
hear his * pardon me'? Something hurried him ;
I hope — I am afraid — "

She paused, as it flashed across her mind what
might well have been the cause of Ethert's
sudden action. His abruptness had startled her
almost as much as her daughter; the more that it
contrasted punctilious habits of courtesy, themselves
contrasting the manners with which she
was more familiar. The motive whose possibility
now occurred to her brought at once relief and
dismay. She remembered with some sense of
self-reproach that she had never thought, never
observed what might be the effect of such a trial
in her husband's actual state. But Ivy's future,
Ethert's feeling, interested her more intensely and
more deeply. His long absence must mean something,
and any cause was better than none. The
worst, most distressing conjecture was more
tolerable than the dread that resentment had rendered
him for the first time indifferent to common

courtesy ; that he would rather put an open and
signal slight upon his bride than affect tenderness
or even dissemble aversion.

With a few hardly intelligible words, rather of
excuse than of explanation, she left her daughter ;
and fearing almost as much to find that nothing
was the matter as to learn the worst, she sought
her husband's chamber. On her way thither she
necessarily passed through that in which Ethert
and the doctor were still in consultation, and
looking in the countenance of the latter, she
caught at once the meaning of the composed,
perhaps studied gravity it had worn as of course
on so many similar occasions.

The combined effect of self-reproach, fatigue,
anxiety, varied emotion long protracted, rather
than the suddenness or the bitterness of the
actual shock, overpowered her completely. She
sank into the nearest chair and gave way to
almost hysterical weeping. Ethert felt of course
as helpless as men usually are in such a case.
Mr. Orme, promptly rendering the little help he
could, saw at once that Ivy must be summoned,
that she alone could soothe or help her mother.
He felt at the same time that only one person

could properly undertake the errand ; and he
perhaps the last who could so perform it, so
announce to the young bride the news of her
approaching bereavement, as to soften the force, to
lessen the pain of such a blow coming at such a
moment.

Her daughter should be told," he whispered
aside to Ethert. " It would be useless pain for
either to see Sir Charles now. Mr. Glynnee, will
you bring Mrs. Glynnee here, and ask her to persuade
her mother to retire ?"

Ethert hesitated, as in truth he might have
done under less abnormal circumstances. It was
not that his uncle's approaching death, long expected
as it had been, so overwhelmed him, whether
on his own account or even on Ivy's, as to shake
his composure ; but the ominous coincidence was
distressing to himself, and would he felt be
doubly distressing to her. To carry such tidings
to a bride in the first hour of the happiest marriage
would be a hard and painful task, even for
one who felt the fullest power to soothe and comfort.
But, despite the violence of her agitation,
Lady Glynnee had not for a moment lost hold of
the one paramount anxiety. She was still alive

to all that bore on the possible consequences of
the action she had so imperiously enforced. She
discerned what was passing, guessed what might
be the meaning of Ethert's reluctance ; and, conscious
of the painful situation for which she was
responsible, roused herself for Ivy's sake to
thought and self-control.

'' Ethert," she said, endeavouring to rise,
will you give me your arm ? If I may go to
him . . . ."

*' You had better not, Lady Glynnee," said Mr.
Orme gently. "If there be a change I will send
for you at once, but as yet it is hardly likely ;
and he is quite unconscious, could not recognise
you. At present it is better that both you and
Mrs. Glynnee should be away."

Then, Ethert," said his aunt, " will you
take me to my own room ; and " — almost in a
whisper — " you will see, you will tell Ivy, or
bring her to me f

He did not answer ; and when he parted from
his aunt in her boudoir she paused for a moment,
still resting her hand on his arm, and looked up
in his face as if she would have repeated her
request. But whether it were something she read

there, rather perhaps something wanting, or
whether simply silenced by that conscience which
is said to make cowards of more courageous
sinners, her parted lips closed again without a
word, though with a deep sigh, as she turned
away.

Much as he shrank from the task, painful
and awkward as his next meeting with his bride
must under any circumstances have been, Ethert
felt that to avoid that scene, to leave to any other
the duty of breaking the shock, would be not merely
discourteous but unmanly' ; would be an unkindness,
a slight as unworthy of himself as undeserved by
her. Very reluctantly, knowing not how to speak,
how to convey the painful tidings, or how to
deal with the outbreak of grief and horror that
must follow, he nevertheless dared not risk the
possibility that by delay or hesitation he might
allow another, perhaps a servant, to carry the
news that should certainly come from his own
lips. That he had been thus anticipated was his
first thought when, entering the room where he
had left her, he saw Ivy's slight figure thrown
on a couch, her face buried in the cushions, her
form unmistakably shaken by violent though inaudible

sobs. She knew his step, however, at
once ; and as he approached her rose with a
desperate effort at composure.

Deeply touched by a distress greater than he
had expected, and reproaching himself for having,
as he supposed, allowed the tidings to reach her
in his absence, Ethert forgot all but the desire to
make amends for the neglect ; to afford comfort,
not only to natural sorrow, but to the equally
natural and yet more painful horror which the
close coincidence of such a calamity with such a
marriage could not have failed to inspire. And
as Ivy sat still, too timid or too deeply pained to
volunteer any gesture of greeting, and simply
unable to speak, he placed himself beside her,
passing one hand round her waist and taking
hers in the other. His embrace, the first for
so long a time, caused a sudden and utter revulsion
of feeling, seeming to revert as naturally to
the intimate affection and tenderness of old as if
the recent estrangement had been a mistake or a
dream. Almost fancying it such — reproaching
herself with unjust, unkind suspicion, yet scarcely
able to feel a pang on that account amid the joy
and comfort of Ethert's renewed kindness, mindful

of nothing save the absolute unspeakable happiness
of restored confidence and love — she threw
the disengaged arm around his neck ; and hiding
her face on his shoulder, gave way to tears
once more, but to tears of relief and delight.


The meaning of those tears, of that caress,
was of course lost upon Ethert. He understood
only that, if the news had as hee supposed reached
her, the neglect which had allowed it to come
through another had been unfelt or forgiven ;
understood only the still unshaken, uninterrupted
trust and tenderness that now as ever clung to
him in trouble, that found shelter in his presence
and consolation in his sympathy; the simple
faith which felt it easy to pardon, to forget his
coldness — possible to believe anything except that
he could be wilfully indifferent or unkind. Not
lor a moment did he suppose that on that account
their enforced union was the less repugnant to
her. He ascribed her altered mood of the moment
to that which would really have been her feeling,
her impulse, if she had known, as he fancied
she did know, the tidings as yet uncovered ;
he understood that in the sudden shock of grief

and dismay, the overwhelming distress of the
moment, she had forgotten the alienation, repulsion
inspired by their new relation in the life-long
habits of the old, had forgotten the husband of
an hour in the fraternal confidant and friend of
seventeen years.

Presently, of course, the strangeness of Ethert's
silence, a consciousness that his manner was
rather compassionate than caressing, pitying
more than loving, awakened a sense of doubt
and surprise in Ivy^s mind ; and when she sofar
regained composure as to look up in his face,
the mingled expression of timid affection and
half-pained, half-trustful enquiry in her eyes
assured Ethert that he had mistaken the nature
of her feelings, the cause of her emotion.

You have not heard V he said ; and her
start of surprise and alarm at once answered his
question. " Poor child ! it is very painful, cruelly
distressing for you at such a moment. But,
after all, it was because he expected it that he
was so bent — no, he is living, Ivy ; but it is another
stroke, and the doctor fears "

Her tears, which had scarcely ceased to fall,
were checked at once ; her whitening face and

VOL. I. U

lips, the shii(Mer that came over her whole form,
the limbs that trembled even when that shudder
was passed, told Ethert that the impression — of
horror rather than of pain or grief — was even
deeper than he had feared. He did not attempt
for some minutes to speak another word of consolation,
hoping that this especially painful and
even alarming mood would pass; that the horror-stricken
silence would be broken by a renewed
outburst of the more natural and less distressing
agitation he had so lately witnessed. But at
last he felt it best to disturb that fixed, frozen
stillness by diverting, in whatever direction,
through whatever emotion, the current of her
thought.

It must have bet^n, Ivy — would have been, in
an' case. I don't think that to-day's scene has
hastened it; certainly any endeavour to put it
off on his account would have been infinitely
worse for him. You will have the comfort to
remember that the last thing he knew was that
on which his heart had been set, the one thing
he cared to see accomplished while he lived.
And will it not help to comfort you for your own
sacrifice, that you have given him the best, the

only comfort in your power ; that as you were
so good, so dutiful a child throughout, so at the
last you had given the hardest, truest proof of
filial love and obedience f

She could not answer, hardly tried to speak ;
but the expression of her face, and especially her
eyes, had changed completely. The fixed, almost
glazed stare of horror had left them, the look into
his was one of doubt, of enquiry, as if some part
of his meaning perplexed her, suggested a question
to which she would fain have found an answer
there.

Ivy, I hope you will not fancy — will not
connect this with with ourselves ; will not
think there was anything strange, alarming, in
the happening of two such incongruous things —
at once. It was because he knew his own time
was short that — the other was hurried on. I
daresay it may have agitated him, but — Ivy, if
you had refused, if you had even put it off I
may tell you now, my aunt said it would kill
him."

Ethert ! and you did not tell me ; and I
might *'

I could not tell you, Ivy ; and it would not

u 2

have been ri|>;ht. You ought not to have been
coerced by any such fear."

Oh, Ethert ! but if I had And was that

your reason ? You knew that; and you could not,
you would not dare Then I understand
why ; however much you hated it . . . ."

"No, indeed, Ivy. I thought of 3'ou, of my
aunt; but I am afraid I never took that into
account. No, my cousin ! don't seek for reasons
now ; at least for mine. Be content that " — it
seemed that the words would hardly come — "for
no other Avoman would I have done — what I did
from affection for you.^'

Once more she looked up eagerly, doubtfully,
mournfully into his eyes. Their expression did
not give a tenderer meaning, a warmer assurance
to words that were too carefully chosen to be
wholly satisfactory. If Ivy were partly comforted
she was also perplexed, certainly not satisfied.
Happily' her sensitive conscience diverted her
thought, at least her attention, from questions on
which Ethert, even if he could have made up his
mind to lie, would have found it hard to deceive her.

"I forgot Oh, I am grieved, ashamed,
Ethert ! Let me go to bim."

No, Ivy. Mr. Orme begged that neither you
nor your mother would go at present. He is
quite unconscious, knows nobody, can neither
hear nor speak ; and it would be useless
pain."

"Is not Mamma there, then? Ethert, let me
go to her. I ought ; she will want me."

You will find her in her boudoir," Ethert
said. Then recollecting himself, as Ivy rose
without again looking at him, and moved towards
the door; " I will take you to her. You will be
summoned if there is a change. If not — I may
not see you again, for I hope you will neither of
you sit up — in that case, good night."

CHAPTER XIII.

CHAFING.

AFTER an other momentary interview with the
doctor, heated, weary, perplexed, and excited,
Ethert not unnaturally felt the craving for the
fresh air of the evening, the coolness of a late
twilight passing into night, that after prolonged
trial of nerve and spirit is common to most of us.
He had scarcely reached the Eastern terrace,
whereon he had found his aunt and Ivy on his
arrival with Charlie, when he encountered Mr.
Brand, who by the same kind of instinct had sought
the same refreshment.

Mr. Glynn e," said the latter, with a pointed
precision which grated somewhat on Ethert's ear,
reminding him of another change of address too
probably near at hand — " I suppose you understand
pretty correctly what must be the legal

consequences of a marriage so arranged and so
hurried f

*' You mean that there are no settlements ?
neither being in a position to make them without
betraying the truth or recording a falsehood,
even had you had time to prepare them."

Yes, but that is not all. We have escaped
the necessity of publishing the state of the title.
But in dealing with the property we have, in the
interests of all, present and future — your children's
as well as your own and Mrs. Glynnee's — to bear
in mind the real ownership ; and I am afraid that
in some form or other the truth must be recorded.
Otherwise there is no existing proof of
your right. Only one person besides myself is ina
position to swear to the survival of the first
Lady Gl3mne ; and thirty or forty years hence,
that fact forgotten or unknown, every subsisting
document would go to establish Mrs. Glynnee's
sole title."

The object of— our object to-day," said Ethert,
was simply to secure that title, to reinstate my
cousin in the position she would have enjoyed but
for that — accident. Of course you will draw the
settlements as for Sir Charles's heiress."

You cannot mean that literally, Mr. Glynnee.
That would throw away the opportunity of setting
right Sir Herbert's settlement and doing justice
to future baronets."

Ethert's face set sternly. " The world supposes
that I marry the heiress of Gl3'nnehurst. I know
that, if I do not, it is through a legal flaw — of
which I decline to take advantage. The estate
must be hers for her life, and afterwards go to her
heirs, or those who ought to be such. Of those I
suppose I stand first ; and the title, I believe, dies
with me ?"

The lawyer smiled. " You forget, Mr. Glynnee,
those whom to-day's arrangement principally contemplated.
The settlements you propose would
wrong yourself if you survive Mrs. Glynnee, your
children in the opposite event."

Ethert's countenance darkened still more angrily;
his movement was part involuntary shudder, part
gesture of impatience.

Never mind those who may never be. The
estate is my cousin's : I will have nothing to do
with it, except as her heir."

"Mr. Glynnee, in no case should her issue succeed
until after your death. Even were she her

father's heiress, the marriage settlements would
give you a life-interest."

'' I decline it."

Then, Mr. Glynnee, you must employ another
solicitor. As Sir Charles's adviser I could not
seem to take so unfair an advantage ; as the
family solicitor, I cannot be responsible for an
arrangement so clearly injurious to its interests'*

Very well," Ethert replied, after a pause. " I
consent to succeed my cousin if . . . But the estate
must be hers absolutely for her life, and pass to
her heirs. My interest must come in only as her
heir, or as a life-interest under the settlement.
And the dissolution of our marriage must operate
as my death would do, to leave her in sole possession.
There should be nothing in the settlements
to suggest the real state of the title, or give
a clue to the secret."

Yon must remember, Mr. Glynnee, that the
betrayal of that secret is always possible."

*' I understand," Ethert answered, after a
moment's reflection. " But for the present the same
motives that have kept the accomplice silent will
continue to operate. While the victim lives, I
suppose we must fulfil Sir Charles's contract.

whatever it may be ; on her death, he must take
a much smaller bribe to hold his tongue. By the
way, Mr. Brand, you say you know personally
that she is living ? You must take care to be
informed and assured of her death."

"I have seen her," the lawyer answered,
"repeatedly. Indeed, I have never made the
yearly payment without ascertaining that she is
alive. I know of no one else who could recognize
her: and that, by the ways might create some
difficulty were she to survive me. Happily that
does not seem possible; her health is breaking
fast. AVhen both the parties are beyond the
reach of trouble, then the man must take our
terms, not we his. You must not allow yourself
to be bullied by threats of publications''

True," said Ethert ; " the man's position Till
be very different when he can threaten only an
unpleasant disclosure, a scandal, not a criminal
prosecution."

They passed on into conversation still professional,
but relating to details with regard to the
management of the property, wherewith it is not
necessary to trouble the reader. They were
interrupted at last by a message from the doctor.

"Mr. Glynnee," the latter said as Etliert entered
the ante-room, which, as he observed with a pain •
ful sense of incongruity, was still left as it had
been arranged for the ceremony — " I must tell
you that everything confirms my original impression.
It is scarcely conceivable that Sir Charles
should recover consciousness ; it is possible, and
even probable that the end may come at any
moment ; but should it not occur within the next
few hours it is more likely to be postponed for
days. It is for you to judge whether you will
summon further aid from London ; but I may
say without hesitation that the ablest physician
in England could at present tell you no more than
I have told, and certainly could do nothing."

That last point," said Ethert after a few
moments' consideration, " I think Lady Glynnee
must determine ; it would be only for her comfort
of mind, or her daughter's, if anything of the
kind were done. I suppose, for the few hours
you mention, I ought to remain within call ; but
if the uncertainty may be prolonged, pray induce
the ladies to retire for the night at their usual
hour."

Remaining within cal, Ethert was summoned

once during the night to what the experienced
practitioner thought must be the closing scene.
It was not so, however. A physical vitality
greater than the doctor had anticipated sustained
the animal functions of life long after life in any
human sense was over. Towards noon the next
day, Ethert, who had fallen asleep on the sofa
in the library, was awakened by Mr. Orme's
entrance.

Is there a change ?" he said, springing up.

No, Mr. Glynnee. If I had supposed you
were asleep I would not have disturbed you.
There may be, I think will be, no change for
some days : at the same time, the end might come
with very short warning indeed."

"I can be of no practical use to him, I suppose,"
observed Ethert presently. " And if not . . .
but of course I must be guided by the wishes of
those who cannot leave a husband or father under
such circumstances. Do you know if Lady
Glynnee has left her room f

"She is with Sir Charles at present. Mrs.
Glynnee has been there, but the scene was very distressing,
and uselessly distressing, to her. I hope
you will persuade her not to return to the room,

unless for some brief daily visit. In trntli, my
patient is living only in so far that he still
breathes. Mind, consciousness, even of the lowest
animal kind, there is none: and will I think be
none to the end."

When my aunt is at liberty," replied Ethert,
*' will you ask her to give me an interview? I
have slept " — he added, observing some surprise
in the manner of the other, who knew that Ethert
could hardly have seen his bride, save for a few
minutes, since their marriage — " longer than I
had any idea. I think they brought me some
coffee about eight, but I remember nothing
since."

Fearing for the moment again to encounter
Iv3^, Ethert, was content to make a partial and
hasty toilet in a lavatory nearly adjoining the
library. Lady Glynnee's coming was delayed
longer than he expected, and the delay afforded
him leisure to think somewhat more composedly
than he had been able to do since his marriage of
the position in which that marriage and his impending
accession to the title and estates had
placed him. As is the case with many men of
his susceptible and poetic temperament, his

thoughts flowed most freely, his inventive faculties
were most alert, his imagination most active
at night ; but experience had taught him that he
could not rely on a conclusion then reached ;
that the excitement which quickened the flow of
fancy impaired the soundness of judgment. But
one thought that had forcibly impressed itself
on his imagination over-night remained equally
present when he woke, refreshed and clear. Sir
Charles's death, if indeed soon followed bv
that of his first wife, would reduce within narrow
and manageable limits the danger to avert which
the cousins had been hurried into so severe a
sacrifice. It was in that case only with Sir
Charles's successor that the holder of the secret
could deal ; and a secret directly affecting only the
dead, and indirectly touching the heir of the title
only through his wife's parents, would seem to a
stranger a less powerful instrument of extortion
than Ethert felt it to be. Silence might be
cheaply and surely bought. The necessity for the
identification of Ivy's interest with his own was
involved in the fact of her illegitimacy, in the
mere possibility, not the probability, of its disclosure.
But if it were in his power effectually

to ensure the silence of the living witnesses, and
the utter disappearance of the evidence with their
death — in that case, was the marriage needed for
any other purpose than as a basis for the
marriage-settlement ; and possibly as security
against the contingency of his marriage with
another ? Was it needful to exact the '' consideration"
for the bargain which restored Ivy's
inheritance; the price of an act of justice?
And if needless — would it not be wanton
cruelty ? On this point his whole mind was bent,
as he paced the library floor while awaiting with
contented patience his aunt's arrival.

But the original objection to a formal and
immediate separation seemed still insuperable.
It must be known at once to the world.
Sir Charles Glynnee's social and political
position, the importance of Glynn hurst from
every point of view that could attract public
interest, were such that the fact of the marriage
would be known and remembered by all the world
to which he and his bride belonged ; would be
canvassed in every club and in half the drawing-rooms
of London ; would be mentioned, perhaps
with more or less of surprised and curious

comment, in fifty newspapers. An instant or
very speedy separation would be equally notorious,
and, as he had seen at first, might well appear
insulting to his bride's feelings and fatally
injurious to her reputation. He was not, or
believed he was not, swayed by his own desire of
freedom : he had, or thought he had, given up forever
the dream he had till yesterday so fondly
cherished ; aud hateful as must be the obligation
of living with a wife he would not have chosen,
had it affected himself alone, he could hardly have
refused to accept it as imperative and inevitable.
But, unhappily, when his own and everj^ other
person's wishes were left out of the question,
the omission hardly simplified the problem. Ivy's
interests in the matter were hopelessly conflicting
and not a little ambiguous — ambiguous because
they depended in no small manner on the preservation
of the secret. If that could be certainly,
assuredly, permanently kept, then, it seemed to
him, her happiness would be best consulted by a
course which would allow her to look back on
her marriage only as a strange nightmare, at
whose crisis, as commonly" happens in dreams
intolerably painful or terrible, she had been

timeously awakened. Her position, thus debarred
with marriage with another, would be cruel
enough ; but surely every woman, and especially
one like Ivy, would prefer lifelong maidenhood to
an unwilling, unloving marriage ? But while disclosure
was possible, it was possible that she
might have real and bitter need of all that the
security and dignity of recognised and honoured
wedlock could do to protect her fame, fortune, and
peace of mind. And again, the impossibility of
actually consulting her greatly affected the question
; what, conceded to her avowed desire, would
be the consummation of kindness and considerate
loyalty, might if thrust upon her be felt only as
the bitterest insult and indignity.

Instinctively Ethert felt that nothing could be
said to, no co-operation expected from, her mother.
The terror of public scandal had been so deeply
burnt into Lady Glynnee's spirit, was now so completely
the ruling idea of her mind, that no regard
for her daughter's happiness, no appreciation of
the misery of an unwilling union, would dispose
her to face the comments of the world upon an
arrangement that must pique its curiosity to the
utmost. All that was at the moment obvious and

vol; I. X

certain was the desirability of postponing any
decisive utterance or action, so far and so long as
could be done without giving needless pain to Ivy,
or exciting suspicion in others. For such postponement
Sir Charles Glynnee's critical condition
afforded a plausible — something more than plau-
sible—opportunity. It would surely be possible
to assume the necessity of Ivy's presence at home
in such a manner as not to hurt her; and his own
absence would seem, except perhaps to her, a
natural consequence.

Yet Ethert sorely feared that such a separation,
however welcome in itself — much more any attempt
to prolong it, however represented — would be felt
by one so sensitive as Ivy as an unkindness, a
slight, if not an indignity. He understood her well
enough to know that, however reluctantly she
might have assented to the marriage, her assent
must have been sincerely and loyally given ; that
she could have entertained no other idea than that
of fulfilling her duty, of accepting her position as
his wife with absolute truth, in undoubting,
unbounded faith. All that might seem to impair
its reality, to weaken the obligation in more
critical eyes, would only deepen her sense of the

duty she had undertaken ; render her more watchful,
more anxious to fulfil every other spoken and
implied promise to the uttermost, if she were consciously
unable to give the love she had pledged.
Her sweet submissive temper made the prospect
tenfold more intolerable. If only she would resent
what she had good right to quarrel with ! — but to
meet the wistful look in those soft tearful eyes,
to refuse an answer to her questions, spoken or
unspoken, why she should be so hardly treated,
what offence she could have given ; to see her turn
away almost heartbroken to spare him the sight
of the anguish she could no longer restrain— he felt
that, if such should be the nature of her appeal to
the heart which, however hard to her present
claims, could never shake off the hold she had
acquired in the past, he could hardly trust his own
resolve or consistency. His perplexity as regarded
both the immediate and the ultimate future grew
deeper moment by moment; and, embarrassing as
threatened to be his interview with his aunt, her
approach was a welcome interruption to his own
thoughts.

Lady Glynnee had evidently been weeping, but
not as it would seem with the violent over

2

While . . . while this — suspense lasts. Aunt, I
take it for granted that Ivy will not, cannot well
leave you, or rather m^^ uncle. It seems certain
that he will hardly be able to recognize any of
us again : but nevertheless she could not be
willing. . I understand from Mr. Orme that

you do not wish to send for Sir B. C , or I

would telegraph at once; or if you prefer it I
would see him in London, and if he thinks
there can be a doubt would return with
him."

Of course, Aunt, if I could be of service, or
if my presence could be of the slightest use or
comfort to my uncle, I should not dream of leaving
him or you. It is true I am much wanted at
the office. My absence is so inconvenient to my
chief, whose consideration for me binds me to
consider him, that no mere formal propriety
should keep me long from my post. But, after
ail, I expected and told him that it might be impossible
for me to return for some three or four
seeks. After that I am pledged to resume my
duties. On the other hand, I have felt so much
at home here, and you have been so kind to me,
that under other circumstances I might fancy
myself a comfort to you ; and if so" — her gesture
left no doubt on this point — " if so, I would not
have left you. But, as things are, Ivy's position
must be our first consideration ; and to have her
to yourself for the present, with no other claim
on her attention, would surely be best for both of

you."

I don't think so, Ethert, and I am very
sure that Ivy will not feel it so. You cannot

think that she would wish you to leave her

now.'^

I know she would never say so, and perhaps
she Plight not be aware of it. But I think, on
reflection, you will agree with me that while her
father's state continues, while the idea of leaving
home would be shocking and cruel — I could not
name it, and I am sure you would not — it is best
. . . that my presence should be dispensed with.
The change in our relations will come far more
naturally and easily if it be as little as possible
obtruded on her now ; if it take place much in
the same manner as it would have done in
ordinary circumstances I mean, of course,
when you can spare her, and when there is
no conflict of ties and duties."

There was a certain undeniable common sense
in what Ethert said ; still more force in what he
obviously forbore to say. This Lady Glynnee
could not refuse to recognize ; and yet she felt
that neither what was uttered nor what was im-pied
expressed the speaker's real thought. Had
he loved his bride, had he believed in her wifelike
love, he was the last man to have dwelt on
such considerations. He would have forgotten

utterly the formal in recollection of the natural
tie between them. He could not have wished
to leave Ivy in the midst of her distress and
loneliness, in mourning for a brother, in daily
expectation of a father's death ; his last thought
would have been that his absence at such a
moment could be a relief to her.

But, Ethert, all is utterly uncertain. If you
went tomorrow morning, you might be recalled
before night. Surely — and Ivy will feel your
going very keenly, however it might be explained.
Wait ; at any rate take no decision to-days, and
see and soothe her. It hurt her not to see you
again last night; and till she knew that you had
been up so long and were asleep, I saw she
wondered and fretted over your absence this
morning."

I am very sorry," Ethert answered earnestly,
if I have really grieved or hurt her. But —
Aunt, I must leave you to explain, but if I
blunder or forget she must — I am sure she will
believe that it is blundering, forgetting,
and no indifference, no disregard of her. But
misconception is so easy, and as things
stand must give so much pain, make so much

mischief, that I cannot but wish myself elsewhere."


Ethert's arguments were such as it was equally
impossible to dispute in words and to accept at
heai-t. The mother could no more demur to his
plausible assumption than avow the secret misgivings
inspired by his evident anxiety to depart.
In truth, both knew well that neither was or
could be thoroughly sincere. In their reference
to Sir Charles's state there was and must be a
certain decorous exaggeration, of which Ethert,
perhaps unconsciously, was taking advantage.
Ivy's father had not so interwoven his own life
with that of his children, had not been so much
to them, or perhaps even to their mother, that no
other and happier thought could really enter their
minds, that no other and stronger influence
could sway their feelings, while he lingered
between life and death. But this truth, known
to both, could be avowed by neither; nay,
both felt compelled perforce to assume the
contrary.

At any rate, Ethert, you must not think, you
will not speak of going to-day ; and you will see
Ivy, you will talk to and comfort her, after I

have said the little you seem to wish me to say to
her?"

"I will see her, of course," Ethert replied, in a
tone however that conveyed more of shrinking
from the proposed interview than he at all intended.
" But don't send her to me — don't let
her send for me, directly and formally."

"Send for you?" Lady Glynnee rejoined.
"Ethert, is that like Ivy? I have only to tell
her where you are, to let her see that she will
not be unwelcome, and you know that she welcome
to you at once."

*' As you please," he answered ; as the servant
brought in the breakfast which both he and his
hostess had forgotten, but of which Ivy's natural
consideration had thought, even while her mind
dwelt so painfully on her father's state, so
anxiously, wonderingly on Ethert's apparent
neglect. " I had rather, if you can help it, she
should not come to me here. I shall be in the
garden half-an-hour hence : let us meet naturally,
and if possible accidentally. You might well
urge her not to let the day pass without the
relief to health and spirits that fresh air will
give."

With her hand on the door-handle, Lady
Glynnee, under a sudden irapluse of maternal
misgiving, turned and spoke — quickly, though ina
faltering and timid voice :

But you will be kind to her, Ethert ? Remember
— it is a hard position ; it would have been
too hard, too cruel, but for her simple trust in her
cousin's kindness. She had learnt to expect
nothing but tenderness and indulgence from
you J you will remember that? She is not to
blame."

The interposition, however natural, was most
injudicious and untimely. Ethert, though embarrassed
and perhaps vexed with himself, was
not conscious of irritation or ill-will, and only
wished to show Ivy all the kindness, and even
tenderness, that consistency would permit, that
might not mislead her or misinterpret his feeling.
But his aunt's plea angered him, galled him, none
the less that it was so obviously just. It implied
a distrust the more exasperating that it was not
quite unreasonable ; and it came from one whose
right to ask more than she had already exacted
he was not disposed to admit. In truth, the
more acutely he felt the injustice of resentment

towards Ivy, the more his suppressed impatience
was directed against her who now appealed to him
on Ivy's behalf.

She is not to blame," he answered curtly,
and it is hard on both. But if you have kept
faith with me" — looking keenly and suddenly
into a countenance that manifestly changed under
his glance — " Ivy will expect no sentiment, no
professions from me. Aunt Caroline — you know
what passed between ourselves ; you, and only
you, know how Ivy was brought to consent. If
she were half as bitterly conscious as I of
coercion, compulsion — if you forced her will as
mine was forced— God forgive you, for I never
can."

The lady was this time less at a loss
than before, and there was plausibility, if
not truth, in the retort which might well
have been prompted by genuine womanly resentment.


Do you not see how unkind is your implied
question, what a dilemma you would force on me?
Ethert, what would you have me say ? Am I to
tell you that your wife would not have married
you if she could have refused ; or would you have

her mother say that she was more willing than
yourself?"

This was unanswerable; and Lady Glynnee
quitted the room with the feminine satisfaction of
feeling that she had enjoyed the last word, — and
left its sting behind.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London: Printed by A. Shulde, 13, Poland Street.

i>N

s^ V 'x

J^:>' /

mm

-^'\^'

:^^^

:v^<^

'^ >

^1^^

v-,. ^

'■^-m

w/^:.

:^^

- ^-^Y^)

"/.^-

•^^^

'^^m>^,:

^i^->^

3 0112 046413776

.■<//■

v - \

■

SLk

COUSIN AND BRIDE.

VOL. II.

COUSIN AND BRIDE

BY

PERCY GREG

AUTHOR OF

"ACROSS THE ZODIAC," "ERRANT,'

&c, &c.

For Love himself took part against himself."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1881.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER » e

I. — Astray 1

II. — Evasion 35

III. — Respite *"*

IV.— Held Fast 87>

V.— Last Hours of Home 128

VI.— "Till Death Us Part" 160

VII. — Una de Hultis 194

VIII. — Appearances 225

IX.— InPacem 249

CHAPTER I.

ASTRAY.

Ether hardly knew all the motives that
led him to prefer the garden, to select
the Eastern terrace in full view of the house
for the coming interview with his bride. But
he knew how easily, certainly, and deeply anything
like coolness or repulsion on his side would
wound her whom he honestly and earnestly
desired to spare, and wished that the place
and conditions of their meeting should be such
as obviously to preclude any demonstration of
tenderness. He understood as few men could
have done the beauty, purity, and sweetness
of his cousin's nature ; indeed he alone had had
VOL. II. B

the chance of understanding it, he alone had
ever penetrated beyond the fragile outer shell
of graceful, silent, shy commonplace formed
over that delicate, tender, refined loving spirit
by the formal instruction of the school-room, and
the accidental training of circumstances and surroundings.
With him alone Iv r had learned
to converse; he alone had ever drawn out ber
mind, giving her confidence to think by giving
her encouragement to talk in the assurance
that she would find a willing and interested
listener.

Ethert never, if he could help it, snubbed
even a child's questions with the selfish idleness
of the common answer, " You can't understand
it;" an answer which almost always
means, u I won't take the trouble, first to
make it out myself, and then to explain it to
you." And by some native instinct of absolute
innocence, Ivy never approached the few
questions to which no other answer can be
given in a child's hearing. He had been therefore
the recipient of her thoughts, the confidant
even of her waking dreams. She had spoken
all the more trustfully, the more freely to him

that she spoke so little to any other ; and Ether t
alone could have told that she had anything to
say.

Perhaps he understood her the more fully
that he had done so much, consciously and
unconsciously, to mould and direct her growing
intelligence. His books were, as she had said,
often beyond her comprehension ; but being his, she
could not bear to lay them aside, and learnt
from them very much more than she herself
was aware. Above all, she had learnt from
them to study, and not merely to read. Striving
to see what Ethert meant, she gained the habit
of seeking to master the sense of other writers,
instead of passively taking in their words, to
remember or to forget as might happen. Her
introduction to Meta, mere child as the latter
was, had again assisted to quicken the action of
her mind, to teach her to compare and criticise ;
for Ethert constantly thought aloud to his infant
ward, and thus unintentionally gave her what
three-fourths of her sex never acquire their whole
life long — a perception of the nature and working
of the intellectual machinery, even a glimpse of
the methods of the creative imagination. But

B 2

it was not Ethert's intellect that had enabled
him to dominate Ivy's spirit, and in much to
mould her character. It was well for her that
he was a writer of elegance and a poet of almost
fantastic purity. For whatever Ethert thought
and wrote would needs have formed her first
original standard of excellence.

And Ethert's was, with all its faults, one of
the few masculine characters that could have
done justice to Ivy's, that could have realized
the exquisite delicacy and beauty of a nature
whereof the lily of poetry is the true emblem
" the lily that dies of a stain." Had the
danger of so terrible a revelation threatened
any other girl, Ethert might have regarded it
differently. Certainly he contemplated the possibility
of such a shock, a stain to her ideal
innocence, as very few men would regard the
prospect of such a disclosure to a young maiden ;
with a horror which probably few maidens
deserve that men should feel. It would have
seemed to him like the destruction before his
eyes of some choice, precious, absolutely irreplaceable
creation of ancient art, but a creation
endowed with a soul capable of suffering in

being thus shattered. It seemed to him that,
after the inmost shrine of that virgin nature had
been so roughly profaned, it could never again
be the same ; its sanctity, its beauty, would not
merely be desecrated but destroyed.

On the other hand, the same feeling of reverence
for that ideal purity made the step by which
he had been forced to protect it the more intensely
abhorrent. An enforced marriage would in his
view have been an outrage hardly to be suggested
to any young girl ; to Ivy one which, as we
have seen, he simply could not himself suggest,
which it shocked and pained him to permit
another to propose. But while he appreciated,
realized the innocence that was not mere ignorance
but instinctive repulsion of every shadow of
evil, Ethert was — as those who have eaten of
the forbidden fruit, have listened to the voice
of the serpent, must ever be — unable fully and
clearly to comprehend what must be passing in
such a mind; and one practical mistake, the
source directly or indirectly' of much needless
pain to both, w 7 as due to this inevitable divergence
of manhood's inferences and maidenhood's
actual imaginings.

The one thing that did not and could not
occur to him was what— so far at least — was
really Ivy's wish and expectation. The chill,
the constraint, the estrangement that had come
between them, whereof — unknown to her — the
suggestion of this marriage had been the cause,
had deeply pained and perplexed her. But
even this she would have been content to forget,
content to forego explanation ; only hoping, and
from time to time believing, that now at least
whatever had grieved or angered Ether t was
forgiven ; wishing only that he would treat her
as he had always done, that she might be once
more the favourite cousin, the trusted and trusting
friend, might find in him the affectionate,
gentle, ever attentive and considerate counsellor,
companion, and protector she had looked up to
and relied on from her cradle. The one thing
she wished and expected, in a word, was that
they should be, as surely they still were,
intimates and cousins; and this was of course
the one thing to Ethert simply and obviously
impossible. Thus in the present anomalous
situation, as ever since the first fatal hint of the
lawyer, they were at cross purposes, and seemed

too likely to be at cross purposes throughout.


Unable to meet her as he would have done
six months ago, as she was prepared and wishful
to find him, he considered somewhat anxiously —
fearing every moment to see her slender figure,
whose mourning drapery so sadly contrasted that
in which he recently remembered her, and so
oppressed his spirit, emerge from the hushed
and darkened house — bow he could render that
meeting the least painful to both. Pausing in
his walk to and fro at the top of the steps,
he observed at some distance in the flower-garden
below a few winter flowers still lingering,
a few spring blossoms early opened in sheltered
nooks, familiar favourites of Ivy's as of his
own.

The associations recalled by the sight suggested
an attention which might perhaps be the
easiest means of veiling the awkwardness of
the first greeting. He had gathered and arranged
the flowers amid green fronds of fern into a little
bouquet, and had again reached the foot of
the steps, when looking up he saw the expected
figure on the terrace. If the memory of their

last meeting at that point some weeks before
flashed for a moment across his mind, it impressed
itself more forcibly, dwelt longer and
more deeply on hers.

A very trifle, but a characteristic trifle revealed
to Ethert how little she was disposed even now
to resent the coldness she could not but have
felt in their last parting. Instead of awaiting
him on the terrace, she descended to meet him, not
as on the former occasion, quickly, confidently,
joyously, but with slow, hesitating movement
and timid, well-nigh shrinking demeanour. Turning
her questioning, almost beseeching looks to
his countenance as he came forward to meet
her, promptly but gravely and quietly, she
felt at once through all her nature the completeness
of the change that had passed between
them. Her only comfort at that moment lay
in a half-consciousness of her own constrained
manner ; in an inference, felt not reasoned, that
his constraint might be, like hers, the effect of
mere embarrassment, not of coldness nor unkindness.


Yet as the flowers were given, the "good
morning" spoken, Ivy was inexpressibly chilled,

almost stung, by the vivid painful contrast
between the present and the recent well-remembered
past. Why was it, she thought — always
anxious to take blame to herself rather than
to lay it on him — why was it that the bride
should feel so acutely the omissions which the
cousin could have met with playful reproach as
mere forgetfulness ? Why was it that as she
turned back with him she strove in vain to
speak? She could not, happily, understand
herself or him ; but she walked beside him the
whole length of the terrace in silence, unable
to lay her trembling hand on his arm as of
old, to draw close to his side as she had been
wont. It was in low faltering tones that she
spoke at last.

Ethert, you do not mean — Mamma says you
talk of going back to town. Surely you will not,
you cannot leave me in trouble and sorrow, and
so soon after after yesterday ? It is not
like you — and . it is so strange, so sad. Ethert,
will you not do give me a little time."

The words were most unfortunate in their
ambiguity. It was natural that Ivy should use
them in one sense ; almost as natural that Ethert

should understand them in another. His answer
certainly was not meant to be unkind.

I thought that was just what I was doing."

I did not mean that," she answered hastily,
understanding but half his meaning, yet much
hurt by the misconception, and still more by
the tone in which he spoke. " We are cousins
still, surely. Can you not spare me now a
few days of the tenderness, the kindness you
always showed your cousin till till the day
after we met here a few weeks ago ? You have
never been the same to me since that da}-,
except now and then for a few minutes. Why,
Ethert *? do tell me ! What could I have done
to offend, to displease you V

This renewal of the question perplexed him
not a little. He could not again meet it with
a mere refusal to answer; but truthful explanation
seemed even more impossible.

It was then," he answered, with a hasty
attempt at evasion, " that I was first reminded
that my cousin was a child no longer."

But," Ivy returned quickly, " she was your
cousin still! Ethert"— she faltered, a painful
colour suffusing the pale cheek that seldom

blushed so deeply with natural ease — "you

cannot mean that I was who reminded you,

and what was said? Not Mamma — she would
have spoken to me; and if she did not, who
had a right to find fault? What do you
mean ?"

Ethert felt at once the full extent of his
blunder. Direct falsehood generally answers
better than equivocation. Either may serve
their purpose between those who are not intimate
enough to press home a question evidently
unwelcome. But between intimate friends or
near relatives, equivocation ever defeats its own
end. when that end is the avoidance of the pain
which the truth might give. Wishing simply
to escape the necessity of fixing Ivy's attention
on the change of manner which had so much hurt
her, which had dwelt so long in her memory,
by a direct refusal to explain, be had contrived
to wound her most cruelly and, as it seemed
to her, most wantonly. For both knew that
his answer was not, could not be frankly and
wholly truthful.

Their cousinhood had always belonged to
that closer form of the relation which in some

families is scarcely less close or less secure
than that of brother and sister. Their several
ages had contributed to render his manner
and conduct towards her those of fraternal
affection. Nor would anything but the one
suggestion that is necessarily fatal to such
intimacy have interrupted the ease of their
intercourse. Conscious of this, fully assured
that her mother had known, observed, and
approved the terms on which they had stood,
Ivy was cruelly, keenly stung by what she
understood as a reproach, however unintentional
— an intimation that Ethert had in that
painfully-remembered visit felt and acted on
a necessity of reserve which had not occurred
to herself.

Their new relation rendered such a hint
from his lips, now that they first spoke together
as husband and wife, peculiarly galling,
intolerably humiliating. Ethert, perceiving how
his excuse had been understood, inwardly and
intensely cursing his own stupidity and want
of tact, hastily endeavoured to explain away his
explanation.

"You know there are things I cannot tell

you, that there is, that there always has been,
a painful secret. But — what I meant was . . .
then, Ivy, then it was that I had the first hint
that . . . that any one could wish us more than
cousins."

The usual penalty of insincerity had overtaken
him. At every word he was floundering
deeper into the quicksands of evasion
and obvious unreality, at every word giving
fresh pain of the kind he could least endure to
inflict.

And it was that f y Ivy said slowly, in a
tone that told at once how deep the
unintended stab had gone. " You were cold
to your cousin that you might show how
ill you could bear to call her — your wife !"

In his bitterest and least rational mood,
Ethert retained a gentleman's reverence for
feminine self-respect, even in the least estimable
of the sex. He would not willingly
have betrayed to any woman that her hand
had been tendered and refused ; and least of
all women could he have borne so to wound
Ivy, of whose maiden pride and delicacy, of
whose dignity as woman and wife he was

jealously heedful. It was by sheer ill-luck
that he had managed in two successive sentences
to inflict two distinct and cruel wounds
upon her feelings, and he felt their both almost
as keenly as she did.

It was but a hint," he said, almost stammering
in his perplexity and distress. " And
Ivy, what angered me was . it was not that
I should seek you for yourself — but for the
money you would bring me."

She started. " But you knew," she said presently,
" that while Charlie lived I had none."

I cannot explain, Ivy. It was put to mein
that way."

"But how could it, Ethert? It was while
you were here that Mamma spoke of the
position in which I should be left — that Papa
had saved so little for me."

The doubt she appeared to imply, the extreme
awkwardness of the position in which he had
entangled himself, gave a tone of unintentional
irritation to his reply :

"You knew from the first there were things
I could not explain. On that account I
asked you to obey without reasons. But,

Ivy, I will not ask you to trust. Believe
me a liar if you choose."

"Ethert, how can you say such a thing tome?"
she exclaimed, her eyes filling with tears:
to me who always trusted you with all my heart !
Did I not believe you when — was it not because
I trusted you that I obeyed my mother
when — no, she would not tell me to obey, she
would not command — but I gave up asking why,
when she said you thought it best, you wished it."

She had not meant to remind him — present
as the fact was to her own consciousness —
that she had yielded to his counsel and his
will rather than to her mother's ; but he accepted
her words in that sense, and instantly repudiated
the suggestion.

"Ivy, you should not say that. Remember
what I asked you before it was too late —
was it really your own doing? If you had
spoken then of command or obedience, you
would have been free at once. I had
insisted that you should not be forced
or overborne, and you assured me that it was
not so."

I said I would do what you wished' she

replied, bewildered, distressed, and almost
terrified.

But the responsibility thus thrown on horn
the very burden he had so resolutely refused
to assume — was too intolerable to allow Ethert
to speak with his usual gentleness and
consideration.

Ivy, that cannot pass. I will not be told
that I am answerable for your choice, that I
pressed or counselled you ; you know better.
Much as it wounded me to treat you so discourteously,
I would not even ask, lest I
should seem to influence or mislead. You
know that at the last I showed you, urged
on you the way to escape without seeming
to refuse. Your consent was not of my extorting,
and you have no right to represent it as
my fault."

Ethertt, Ethertt ! Oh, what have I done
that you should speak to me like this? the
first unkind word you ever gave me, the
unkindness I had ever heard till that day!
Oh, what has changed you so? Listen to me,
Ethert; surely I have not deserved this? Oh,
what have I done, to bring on myself all that

I have had to bear ? My mother's words stung
like blows, or worse ; and then . . . then I came
to you, and you made me almost content, almost
happy to obey. I thought you wished — well, if
I must not say that, I thought you agreed
with Mamma that it must be— was to be. Do
tell me . if I have deserved all this . . . what
have I done ? Oh, what shall I do — what can
I say? Ethert, I did not mean — God knows
I did not mean to do wrong ! I tried to do
what Mamma told me, what you seemed to wish ;
and I thought it must be right, because it was so
hard."

Her tears, the piteous appeal of her words,
touched and softened Ethert's heart at once.
He could see only the cousin he had petted so
long, had taught to trust so thoroughly in his
kindness ; forgot for the moment the bride he
had almost learned to hate in the last few bitter
days.

Indeed," he said penitently, " I did not
mean to blame you, Ivy ; only, don't blame
me, don't make me answerable if you repent
your sacrifice already. No, it was not your
fault ; you w T ere only too ready to trust, to

VOL. II. C

yield your own wishes, your own feelings.
h was not your fault ; I only hope it was
not mine. Now don't cry so, ma petite"
resting his hand on her shoulder as he had
been wont to do in soothing her childish
troubles. " God does know, and I know, Ivy,
you could never mean to be other than kind
and dutiful. Only I feel it is so hard on
you, I cannot bear to be told that your
consent was my doing ; I have enough to answer
for myself."

The words were cold enough ; but the altered
tone, the caress, slight as it was, and the pet
name, disused ever since the moment when at
the lawyer's first hint he had caught the alarm
now too fatally verified, were all so ultimately
interwoven with the pleasantness, dearest associations
of Ivy's childhood, so recalled her habitual
expectation of comfort and sympathy from
Ethert, that they calmed and soothed her
strangely; the more that there was so much
of sheer bewilderment in her distress. To be
harshly treated, to be scolded by the protector
and playmate of her childish holidays, the friend
and companion of her girlhood, the one who

had never seemed impatient with weaknesses
that had tried the patience of her father
and brother — was so novel, incredible an experience
that Ivy could less easily believe in
its reality than fancy that she had misunderstood
the words, plain and harsh as
they had been, that she had heard.

Ethert, I don't understand," she said
piteously, as soon as she could command her
voice. " I have nothing to repent, unless
you repent it ; and you know I did not mean
to complain, to call you unkind because you
I could not, you know, now. I could not
think to myself, much less say to you, that I
am sorry . . . sorry to be — and when you speak
and look as you used to do such a very few
weeks ago, do you fancy I am not content?
Only, Ethert, do say one word — you never
scolded me before, do comfort me a little now.
You cannot think how terribly you hurt and
frightened me— I know — you never would, you
never meant it— only I am so easily frightened,
and it is all so strange. Do say that you
don't repent ; say at any rate you forgive me
if I ought to have done differently. But

C 2

indeed I don't see, now, what 1 have done or said
amiss."

The admixture of true maidenly instinct
with almost infantine simplicity, the relapse
from the woman into the child of one who
was as yet more child than woman, natural
as it was, took Ethert wholly by surprise.
He felt much more keenly than he had yet
done the injury inflicted on her by the
marriage accepted for her sake, and felt
too for the time that any wrong he had
suffered was far less than hers. If Ivy had
remained no more than the cousin she was
three months before, every new revelation of
her character and feeling under the bitter
trial of present circumstances would have more
and more endeared her to him ; especially
since, while loving her as a child, he had
thought her somewhat too much the child for
her actual years. But, forced at every other
word to remember that she was no longer
the favourite he had petted as a child-sister,
but the wife whom he had not chosen, he saw
not so much the development of her former
self as the contrast with his ideal, and was

hardened against her charms by a feeling
of constancy to the image of his dream.

To the wife he could no longer offer what
she would have been so well content to retain,
the tenderness that had been almost fraternal ;
while as a wife she had no place in his
affection, and he would not pretend what he
did not feel, and had refused to promise. Yet
the claim he would not acknowledge necessarily
chafed him, irritated him perhaps into a practical
denial of pretensions which the name alone
seemed to assert. He would not speak another
unkind word, he was only too wishful to unsay
all that had grieved her ; yet he could hardly help
wounding and stinging her afresh, while the
phrases and looks of caressing tenderness
that would have soothed and almost satisfied
her, that till now her tears had never
failed to call forth, seemed intentionally withheld.


I don't repent," he said with a forced
smile, " what I did so deliberately not twenty-four
hours ago. And, Ivy, you have done
nothing to be forgiven, nothing that was not
kindly, trustful, thoughtful for others rather

than yourself. I did not mean to vex you ;
certainly not to scold. I could not let you
make me answerable for your choice. I did
not press you — did I, Ivy ?"

A faint shadow of a smile on the pale
lips answered the question, as both remembered
how very distinctly anything like pressure,
even like the form of courtship or entreaty, had
been avoided.

And if I had, I could not ask or hope
for your forgiveness. No, you have done nothing
amiss; your troubles have been utterly undeserved.
If I did frighten or hurt you, I am
very sorry ; it is not easy always to help it
now. Don't misunderstand me if you can
possibly avoid it ; there is so much you cannot
understand and I must not explain. I know
I must seem unkind, perhaps unfeeling ; there
is nothing natural or comfortable about the
whole business, and perhaps no one has acted
well except yourself. Never doubt," he went
on, feeling distinctly his utter failure to satisfy
or set her mind at rest, and striving to reinforce
the conscious weakness of his words by multiplying
phrases of consolation, each of which rather

deepened the painful impression made by that
which was wanting in all, "never doubt that
I feel and remember how hard this has been for
you, how great your sacrifice has been. It is
because I feel that that I could not bear to be
made answerable for it. It is enough to have
been the instrument, to bear my part And
no doubt, cousin, you did think what I wished,
what I thought best. I only hope we judged
well for you, since we could not, would not,
let you have the means of judging for
yourself."

She understood that he wished, was trying
to soothe and content her, and reproached
herself that she felt still so dissatisfied, so little
sure that what he called a sacrifice had not
been at least a blunder. Her silence, the
quivering lip, the tears which in her own despite
still fell one by one from her downcast eyes,
showed but too clearly how completely his
efforts to console her had failed ; and now that
words were well nigh exhausted he felt the
constraint, the strangeness, of his own manner
and hers, the unwonted physical as well as moral
distance between them.

As they turned at the end of the terrace,
by an impulse almost as much of habit as
of kindness, or even of pity, he took her
little hand in his and drew it within his
arm. Once more a token of kindness, the
slightest perhaps that the mere courtesy of
compassion could have given, touched Ivy's
sorely troubled heart and reversed the current
of her feeling. Once more this effect was due
to the memories that associated Ethert's look,
touch, and voice with all she had known of
consoling, careful, considerate tenderness. In
Ethert's arms she had been carried mile after
mile in days so early that they had left
behind only one or two vivid remembrances —
pictures isolated by utter forgetfulness of the
years that had intervened and followed, yet so
burnt in upon the mind in infancy that they can
never fade, never be effaced by the more exciting
but less impressive recollections of riper age.
Mother or nurse had never contented the
b'dbj girl when Ethert was in sight. To
Ethert's fingers the child had clung so habitually
that almost ere she could speak plainly
she manifested a sense of property therein ;

and even Charlie in her presence might not
usurp "my hand." By that hand she had
been led till such guidance hardly suited the
dignity of her twelfth year - T on that arm she
had leaned in all the walks, near or distant,
that had been the holiday pleasures of her
girlhood, claiming its support so naturally, so
constantly that neither ever thought of suggesting
fatigue or rough ground as an excuse.
Not to have claimed or received it would
have seemed to mark conscious formality, if
not coolness.

Only within the last few weeks would either
willingly have foregone the habit that drew
them so close. Perhaps Ivy had not quite
liked to see Meta take the same place, when
on steep fells or dry water-courses Ethert's
assistance was really useful. And now, the
silent invitation where she had been wont to
need none, the look that almost seemed to
plead for a liberty so lately assumed of course,
not only re-assured her doubts, but awakened a self-reproach
or self-questioning entirely undeserved.
When Ethert thus broke through the unseen, indefinite
barrier between them, Ivy wondered

whether that barrier might not have been her
own creation, whether the constraint of which
she was painfully 7 conscious had not begun on
her own side. So absolute had been till very
recently the ease between them that, as she
hardly knew which had been wont to offer, so
she was hardly sure which had first withdrawn
the little signs of domestic affection and confidence.
Her maiden instinct had been true
and keen ; she had obeyed it perforce in foregoing
at once all that Ethert had silently withheld,
shrinking instantly into a reserve more
complete than his own. But her obedience had
been so unconscious, unquestioning that she
could not retrace the process which had
not been one of reasoning, but of feeling. She
almost accused herself of the coldness that
had chilled their intercourse; asked herself why,
on what provocation, she had become so distant
towards one who certainly never had and never
would have repelled her.

There had been nothing tangible, nothing she
could repeat to herself to prove the unkindness,
the estrangement she had so quickly taken for
granted. The kiss forgotten at parting, whenas

she now knew, his mind had been painfully
pre-occupied — the caressing words to which her
ear was used, omitted while he knew not
whether they would be addressed to a sister
or a future wife, naturally withheld from one
who might yet have rejected his offered hand
these were the utmost evidences on which
she had convicted of unkindness and punished
by ungrateful coldness a friend whose tenderness
and consideration had never failed her
during seventeen happy years. And now,
as a wife, was it not her part to ask pardon
if she had unwittingly offended, to confess and
try to atone for the constraint that must have
pained him ?

The instinctive delicacy and dignity of the
maiden bride were strong enough to control
the utterance of such a feeling even when
quickened by her sense of conjugal duty : she
simply could not offer a renewal of the loving
frankness which, despite all her sweet inward
sophistry, she felt that Ethert had voluntarily
interrupted ; but she could meet with ready
warmth of affection, with utter absence of
resentment, his first advance. Her slender

fingers closed as of old in a soft lingering
pressure on the arm they held, and their clasp
spoke to Ethert's heart her unconscious forgiveness
of all he had made her suffer, her
glad acceptance of all that he was willing to
restore.

At that moment Ethert was thankful for the
publicity of the scene, for the possible presence
of unseen eyes, that restrained his natural impulse
to cast away constraint and precaution,
to give and woo the kiss that would have dried
Ivy's tears, soothed the aching of her heart,
and the stings that tortured his own, and
restored the pleasant ease and intimacy of their
cousinhood. And in so far he did well and
unselfishly from his own point of view. His
reserve might be harsh in seeming ; indulgence
to the impulses of a tenderness which was not
love would have been selfish in essence. The
easiest, pleasantness course the one that masculine
heartlessness would certainly have taken,
would have been to revert easily to their former
freedom, careless of its effect on Ivy's feeling,
reckless of the aspect it might give, in her eyes
especially, to their present relation.

With all that was false in his views, all that
was dangerously unsound in his morality, all
that was weak, fretful, foolish in his conduct,
Ethert was loyal in spirit. His passions and
wishes might blind his judgment, but could not
pervert his conscience. He misunderstood Ivy's
sentiment, misconceived her interests ; but it
was on his estimate of these that he acted.
Within certain bounds he was earnestly bent
to do his duty by her, so long as what was best
for her did not demand the one effort he held
impossible, the one humiliation he could not
endure. Two things only he would not do
for her. He might seem to enjoy her fortune ;
but while the world held it to be hers he would
not touch it. He had renounced every other
hope, renounced alike love and the personal
liberty some men surrender reluctantly even as
the price of love itself, in order to give her the
legal security and social protection he could
confer only by giving her his hand ; but he
was most unwilling to give more — or, as he
would truthfully have described the feeling of
which he was most clearly conscious, unwilling to
take anything in return.

For no one else could he have sacrificed so
much ; indeed, he could hardly have carried the
sacrifice so far, at such cost to his sensitive
feelings and punctilious pride, had not his
affection for Ivy been much warmer and more
real than he was aware. Incomparably fonder
and softer than his regard for his mother — more
natural and less fanciful, more of the heart and
less of the imagination than his dream-love for
Meta — that affection for his youthful cousin
was probably on the whole the deepest and
strongest, the truest and tenderest he had ever
known.

In the nature of a poet and romanticist,
whose conscious loves had ever a strong element
of fantasy, an affection of slow, insensible, unconscious
growth, of domestic habit, took deep
root and clung with extreme tenacity. For his
mother Ethert would have given life at need as a
matter of duty too plain to admit of liking or
disliking ; for Meta he would have encountered
death with chivalrous enthusiasm, crossed by a
lurking doubt — inseparable from the latent
critical judgment necessary to a true poet — that
he was playing the fool ; exaggerating a passion,

if not acting a part. For Ivy he had done far
more than risk life or limb ; had accepted a
situation from which he would gladly have
been released by death — but accepted it sullenly,
grudgingly, under a keen sense of compulsion
and injustice.

Yet after all the essence of the compulsion,
the really coercive force, was simply a
regard for Ivy stronger than his care for all
that he surrendered to save her. He could
bear to resign Meta, as men endure to lose a
limb; he could submit, as men submit to toothache
or cancer, to be accused of a mercenary
marriage ; he could bear, as men bear a sentence
of lifelong penal servitude, the prospect of ridicule
and contempt, of future trouble and scandal, of all
the miseries which his vivid fancy and sensitive
temper discerned in a loveless marriage and an
unhappy home — he simply could not bear to
see Ivy suffering, shamed, degraded in the world's
eyes and her own, and still less to assist in and
profit by her ruin.

But the very depth of his half-conscious
attachment — his reverence and regard for her
who impersonated to his eyes the ideal perfection

of maiden innocence — rendered simple
natural kindness in the actual situation impossible
to him. He did not see his way ;
and could not, dared not tamper with the
treasury of virginal affections, the sanctuary of
a young girl's inner nature, whereof the key
was given into his hand. Barely indeed has
such an opportunity been afforded to a professed
student of the mysteries of maiden feeling ; for
Ethert well knew that all the inmost secrets of
Ivy's spirit were as fully at his command as if
the veil had been rent by the passionate impulses
of bridal tenderness. The less she loved, the
more conscious of the hollowness of her vows,
the more absolute and complete would be her self-surrender
; and Ethert held a clue that few
wedded lovers can have, in his intimate knowledge
of his bride's mental history from her very
cradle.

But it would have been sacrilege to profane
with irreverent look, unloving touch, the peneti^alia
of the shrine. He would not even press or
draw her on to betray what it much concerned
him to know — the actual state of her feelings
towards himself; the net result of the

conflicting emotions that must agitate her; the
struggle between the loathing anticipations of an
unwilling marriage, and fond recollections of an
affection close and confidential as that of a
favourite sister. The very frankness and eagerness
of that life-long affection showed that Ivy
had never dreamed of that which men and
women commonly mean when they speak of
love ; did she dream of it even now ? He
thought not ; her efforts to concert aversion and
unhappiness were crossed by no shadow of fear
or shame, such as a bride must feel who, dreaming
of love, knows herself neither loved nor
loving— yet wedded. That without dreaming of
it she could be close to its verge — that verge
where girlish affection and maiden love approach
so nearly that the first whispers of a lover's
passion can change the one into the other —that
already any demonstration of fondness on his
side would give to her tenderness as much of
passion as her nature allowed or his would have
desired — this truth the poet who had sketched so
many phases of maiden love — who had traced it
from its first unconscious fluttering to the very
portals of the bridal chamber, half-conscious
VOL. II. D

even there — missed as completely as any disciple
of Swinburne or Walt Whitman ; as completely,
but very narrowly, and for far other
reasons.

Convinced that a girl's first love is often,
perhaps usually, untinged by passion, and is
rarely indeed conscious of such a tinge, he was
the more confident that it is alw r says deeply and
consciously coloured by romance ; and of romance
there had been no trace in Ivy's open, innocent,
trustful devotion. Of the dominating, controlling
influence he had wielded over her from infancy —
which had given form to her every idea, to her
whole nature, even to her love for him — which
would have enabled him at will to make
that love the reflex image, the feminine
counterpart of his own — he had never been
fully aware, and was now wholly forgetful.

CHAPTER II.

EVASION.

NEVER had Ethert been so thankful for a
trifling accident as for that summons on
some matter of household business which interrupted
their tete-astute at this most difficult
and critical moment. For the rest of that clay,
he contrived with no little difficulty not to be
alone with his bride. Her mother's presence
during the evening made it possible, if not easy,
to maintain a perfectly neutral attitude, to avoid
every word that could either be false to his own
thought or incompatible with the nominal
situation, that could either wound or deceive his
cousin. But the " good night " again brought back
the difficulty, the harassing sense of constraint,
and made him dread the morning greeting.

D 2

Ivy, doubtful what might be his mood, took
care to spare there both the enhanced awkwardness
and pain that the presence of a witness to
their parting would have involved; and with
equal consideration contrived to meet him and
afford the opportunity of a hasty " good morning
" before they entered the breakfast room
together. There he found letters, whereof one
afforded so obvious and satisfactory a means of
escape from a situation which must hourly
become more perplexing and painful that he
could hardly help starting as he realized its
purport.

I am very sorry," wrote Estrange, " that
Everett's communication of this morning was
not made yesterday before you left. It might
have spared trouble, and would certainly have
saved time. The Editorship of the Australian
has been offered to him, and, subject to my
consent, he had accepted it before he cane to me.
He must leave at once, which, of course he had
no right to do ; but I could not call upon him
to fulfil his engagement with me at such a
sacrifice. I have not been satisfied with the
working of our arrangement as regarded the

Colonial department, and I shall not attempt
again to place the whole in a single hand.
Our Literary Editor will take charge of our
American Colonies, as he has done from the
first of the United States ; and I must make
other changes in detail, which I need not and
cannot fully explain in writing. Can you forego
your holiday and return at once ? If so, I can
give you a new and much more satisfactory
position, one that will be in fact a Parliamentary
Editorship. But you must answer at once by
telegraph and return this evening or tomorrow ;
or, if this he out of the question, you had
better resign immediately and entirely. Of
course I don't want you to do the latter, unless
circumstances are likely to render it very soon
convenient. It is reported this morning that
the seat for Stapleton, perhaps something more,
must speedily be vacant."

As he laid down the letter Ethert caught
Ivy's eyes fixed on his face with an anxious
look, in wistful if unintentional enquiry. She
saw that something had occurred, that some
news he had received had greatly interested
him. Six months ago she would have questioned

him frankly, expecting his confidence, perfectly sure
that if not given it would be kindly withheld.
The wife felt that what concerned him must
concern her, that she should be able at least to
offer sympathy if she did not presume to
counsel ; but felt at the same time that she
could put no question, ask no confidence that
was not volunteered. The look disturbed him
not a little. His impulse had been, as before,
to speak, not to Ivy, but to her mother, to leave
to the latter the duty of making a communication
that could hardly be agreeable. He now knew
that his motive would be apparent to Ivy, and
would pain if not offend her. He could not
make up his mind so to vex or disappoint her ;
still less could he resolve to speak in the first
place to herself. In this perplexity he remained
silent until both the ladies had left the room,
Ivy lingering for a moment and turning upon
him as she reluctantly departed a glance which
was appealing, and which he fancied reproachful.
He could take counsel for the moment only
with his cigar, and withdrew for that purpose
to a part of the gardens in which he thought
he was hardly likely to be disturbed. Here

however lie presently encountered Mr. Orme,
who had paid an early and prolonged visit to his
patient.

There is nothing," said the latter, in answer
to Ethert's formal enquiry, " to exhaust such vital
powers as remain ; and therefore he may linger
for several days. There seems no possibility
that the lost consciousness, even the power
of recognizing those about him, should return."


Then," said Ethert inquiringly, " I am useless
here? My cousin cannot leave him at present,
of course, and I have received a letter which
makes it very desirable that I should return to
London immediately. If I understand you
rightly, there is nothing to prevent it ?"

Of that' replied the other gravely, " you
must of course be the judge. I can only tell
you that Sir Charles will not be aware of your
absence."

Ethert paused and pondered for a few minutes.
There had been in the doctor's tone something
that in his ears sounded like surprise or reproof.
He was conscious of no unkindness, no defect
of sympathy towards Ivy, and yet half afraid

that his absence might make on others an
impression which, if she perceived it, would be
most painful to her.

"Have you seen my aunt yet?" he enquired
at last. " Mr. Orme, I want to speak to her,
and without making . . . my cousin aware of it.
Can you see her alone and tell her so ?"

The doctor quietly assented; and after a somewhat
long interval Lady Glyune contrived to
meet her nephew in the manner he had indicated.


"When I left London," said Ethert, after a
few words of course had passed, " I had naturally
made arrangements for an absence of three or
four weeks. Unfortunately I had absolutely
promised to return at the end of that time,
not anticipating what has actually happened ;
fancying that, if it were necessary to take a
leave at all, that leave would be wanted immediately,
and not, as now seems probable, at
some uncertain and distant date. Now, this
morning, I am asked if possible to return,
owing to changes that have taken place in the
office and which will materially improve my
own position there. In short, I must return or

resign, and to resign I should be most reluctant."


But, Ethert, why Surely you will give

up that . . . now ?"

"I have no such intention," Ethert replied
coolly : " certainly not at present'

His aunt was almost angry, and not unnaturally.
It might be decorous to affect, it
was absurd to act upon, any doubt, any reluctance
to anticipate his proximate inheritance.


These are mere words, Ethert," she answered.
"You know how very soon you must be the
owner of Glynnehurst."

Glynnehurst, while Ivy lives, is, as you
know, hers, and not mine."

Ethert !"

"Aunt Caroline, what you have told Ivy,
under what impression she consented to a marriage
whose haste left her property at my
disposal, I do not and scarcely wish to know.
But as she does not, cannot know the legal
flaw in her title, I will never give her the power,
the excuse to think or say — what the world
will, — that I married her for money."

You know her too well, Ethert," the mother
answered indignantly, " to believe that she
would so insult you either by word or
thought !"

"Put it as you please. As she cannot guess
the motives that really governed us, even an
angel — and in unwillingness, incapacity to think
evil, an angel could hardly be purer than she —
must come to suspect But we need not
discuss that point. It is well, as I think you
yourself feel, for her sake and mine, that I
should leave her to you for the present. I
want you to tell her, to satisfy her that
I must go, and not to let her feel that
my going means neglect or unkindness to
her'

Ethert, she will believe much more readily
what you tell her yourself."

"Aunt, you may, I cannot, prevent Ivy's
saying — what you see ; — that the . . . the husband
of the heiress of Glynnehurst could and might
naturally give up his profession. She must not
put that question to me. I do not know what
her impressions may be : you who know exactly
what she has been told, what she believes, maybe

able to meet or to turn such questions as
she may naturally ask ; I cannot."

But, Ethert, can you not see that to throw
such a communication on me is in itself to
wound her more than by anything you might
say? No one but yourself can possibly reconcile
her to your leaving her now."

Let her see that her mother thinks it right
and natural ; let the future take care of itself.
Of course I shall return the moment that occasion
comes ; either you or Orme will summon me at
once."

"And then, Ethert, you cannot of course leave
her again. And you must not now suggest to
Ivy an indefinite, uncertain delay. You will
claim her when . . . when she is released from her
duty here ?"

"It is not for me to judge of that: that is a
question for her decision, and hers alone. The
story is strange enough — yes, I know what you
would say ; we must give no occasion for further
comment or conjecture at present — but my absence
just now would be less awkward for her
than my presence."

Lady Glynnee sighed. " Perhaps so ; but you

will let her understand that is only till she is released
r

"I suppose," replied Ethert reluctantly, "I
must — well, I will claim her when you tell me
that she would really wish it. But remember,
she is to do exactly as she pleases ; I neither
expect nor desire any further sacrifice or concession
on her part. And as to taking her from
home immediately afterwards — I could not propose
such a thing, if you can. I could not tell
her that I intend to claim a bride in her first
mourning. But I leave you to explain things
as you think fit. Her mother, I suppose, can
best deal with all that must and all that must
not be said ; can best spare Ivy's feelings while
making sure that she understands all she need
understand. You know, and must make her
feel your conviction that I am not unkind or
neglectful, that I feel for her. You must
take care that she does not misconceive
or take amiss what is meant as best for
both."

Lady Glynnee again felt more than she chose
to understand in his language — felt it unsafe
further to press or question him. " Perhaps it

is as well," she said reluctantly. " But, Ethert,
Ivy felt very deeply yesterday your proposal
to leave her; and it will depend on yourself,
on your manner, your tone to her, more than
on your actual explanation, how she will feel it
now."

Both parties had been naturally, and not
altogether unreasonably, irritated by this discussion.
Each was sure that the other had
been insincere ; each thought that the other
should have understood and recognized what
was not and hardly could be said. She distrusted
his intention : he perceived and resented
her distrust, and she perhaps resented his
resentment. On his part, holding that his
absence was appropriate, he refused to remember
how differently it must appear when suggested
by himself, and not, as it might in another
case have been, by his bride's mother on her
behalf. Indeed, Lady Glynnee herself could not
but reflect, that if stated to any utter stranger,
Ethert's wish would have seemed reasonable,
and her own task comparatively easy. As it
was, she greatly distrusted her ability to reconcile
Ivy's mind to that which the latter would

feel less as a slight to the bride than an unkindness
to the cousin. She succeeded but
ill in the duty forced upon her ; succeeded only
in impressing upon Ivy's mind the idea that
the secret which had cost them all so dear,
which had caused her so much inexplicable
pain and perplexity, involved at every step new
and increasingly harassing constraint and concealment.


It was in a state of excitement and almost
irritation very unwonted with, one so gentle
and submissive, that she awaited Ethert's coming.
Her mother had wished her spontaneously
to seek him, if not to ask the explanation he
was ready to give ; but with this suggestion
Ivy for once refused to comply, hardly understanding
the motive of her own refusal. And
Ethert felt that it was beyond question his part
to seek her out. to show every mark of deference
and consideration that might soothe or reconcile
her. She rose hastily as he entered the drawing-room,
and her eyes almost asked the question
from which instinct restrained her tongue.

Ivy," he said, in a tone that of itself conveyed
not a little of comfort and confidence to

her troubled spirit, "you chose the other day
our favourite walk under the beeches for a
painful, at any rate a trying, conversation. I
am afraid what I have to say cannot be wholly
pleasant to you anywhere. I should like to
speak where you will least be able to think
that I mean anything unkind to my cousin ;
will you get your hat and cloak and come outwith
me V 1

Watching her face as he spoke, he saw how
much the sentiment of the proposal had pleased
her, how instantly it had reached a sensitive
somewhat over-fanciful heart. She did not
answer in words, but the look turned to his
face, as she moved quickly and lightly from
the room to comply with his request, assured
him that so far he had begun well the awkward
task he had undertaken. Waiting for her at
the foot of the stairs, he noticed with no little
pleasure that once more, by habit doubtless
rather than by conscious intention, she took his
arm as she had been wont to do ; at least she
had forgotten the constraint that had of late
rendered her conscious of such a trifle.

I know," he said when the door had closed

behind them, " I know it seems to you somewhat
unkind, or at least unnecessary, that I
should leave you, even for a few days, just now.
Can you not believe me, Ivy, if I tell you that
I mean no unkindness ; that I think, though
you may not now, you would soon begin to
feel my presence inconvenient ? I think it has
never been so yet ; I have flattered myself at
least that it has been a pleasure to you, as your
society has been the deepest, best of all enjoyments
to me ; and I should not like it even fora
few days to be otherwise."

Ethert, how can you think such a thing,
because we are in sorrow, in trouble? Do you
not know that I have always looked to you for
sympathy, for comfort? It did seem very
unkind, very unlike you, and I could not help
feeling it as I should not have done before.
It is only now that I could have believed that
you meant to be unkind to me, and I know when
you say it is not so you mean it. Only I can
hardly believe you think I would rather be without
you."

"I don't think you are aware of it, Ivy. I
think you would presently, and — well, ask your

mother whether . . . whether any other girl would
not be likely to feel so."

She coloured a little, as if she had understood
him better than he expected; her first
words however showed that this was not the
case.

"That is just what Mamma said. I cannot
understand, but when you both say it I suppose,
I am sure, you are right. I am sorry you think
it best, that it should be best, Ethert; but
now now I am content. It is not " — and
her eyes earnestly looking up into his own
repeated and enforced the question — "it is not
that you want to get rid of me, even for a
little while? Only you are wanted in London,
and you think — you cannot think that I do
not want you— that you had better leave
me to Mamma, or rather leave Mamma tome
T

It was hard to meet and answer that look
frankly enough to sustain the impression his
words were meant to convey.

"It is that, Ivy, and nothing else. And I
am very much wanted in London. I had a
letter from Estrange this morning almost telling

VOL. II. E

me that I must either go back now or resign
altogether."

"And why should you not, Ethert? Your
work has not been, 1 believe, very interesting;
not as if you could write yourself, take part
in the subjects you care for. Mamma called
it drudgery, and Papa wondered you would
stoop to it. And — " she hesitated, " you know,
surely you know, you will be wanted here
by-and-bye. Even if Papa were better I
am afraid he could never attend to things
again."

"I know I shall be wanted presently," he
answered, deliberately misconceiving her, " and
then of course I shall return at once."

She did not perceive the evasion, but she did
realize the inconsistency.

But, Ethert, if you have to return so soon,
surely you can be of little use ; it can hardly be
worth your while or others' that you should go
back there for so short a time."

"We cannot discuss, we cannot settle anything
for the future now, Ivy ; not even how and
where I shall be most useful hereafter. But of the
drudgery you speak of, I think, there will be an

end. There are changes in the office, and
Estrange offers me a new position, and one that
will give me more useful and more interesting
work."

I am glad of that," she answered with ready
sympathy. " Ethert — forgive me if 1 have been
unjust, hasty in thinking you could be unkind tome.
But — you know there has been so much
lately I could not understand."

Yery much, Iv}^ and I am very sorry for it.
No, you have nothing for which to ask forgiveness.
If you had not been very good, very
patient with me you must have taken offence,
naturally, if not justly, at much that I could not
and cannot explain. And you will forgive me
now — forgive my going, and believe that, even if
you think me mistaken, I mean to do what is
kindest by you V

The deeper meaning of which he was half-conscious
gave a graver tone than he intended
to a sentence meant to refer only to the immediate
subject of their conversation. The gravity
conveyed to Ivy's mind only the thought that
her misconception of his feeling had pained
Ethert more than she was aware, that he had

E 2

IJfUJl/LDoi-

expected and rightfully expected a trust that
would not have been shaken by evidences of
coldness or neglect so slight as those on which
she had judged him ; and the penitence which
was the natural fruit of her affectionate habitual
confidence found expression so warm and earnest
as to convey the keenest reproach to him,
conscious how ill-deserved that trust had lately
been.

Ethert, I have hurt you ; and I don't wonder,
when you have just done so much for me, have
been so troubled, and I have thought only of the
little things that seemed — that I allowed to vex
me now, forgetting what you have been to me all
my life long. Now, do forgive me, and say you
forgive me ; I will not be so quick to think you
unkind again."

She looked up eagerly, almost fondly, as she
spoke ; very sure of the forgiveness for which
she asked, and equally sure, as Ethert instantly
felt, how it would, must be expressed.
To disappoint that natural, confident
expectation would have been to undo all he
had accomplished, to revive all the doubts,
re-awaken all the distress he had with, so much

difficulty allayed. Yery unwillingly — because
Ethert could never without extreme reluctance
depart from a course he had once marked
out for himself, but with a kind of unwillingness
so distinctly, exclusively intellectual
that she neither saw nor felt it — he stooped
and pressed upon her forehead such a kiss
as would have sealed a similar reconciliation
months before, if till now a quarrel or misunderstanding
between them had been possible.


CHAPTER III.

Respite.

POLITENESS forbids me to condole,
sincerity will not let me congratulate
you, Glynnee." Such was Estrange's greeting
when, a few hours after the last conversation
with his bride, Ethert entered the Editorial
room. "But I do heartily wish you happy."

What do you mean— or rather how came
you to know?" enquired Ethert sharply, taken
completely by surprise.

I don't generally read the column of
calamities," his chief replied, more deeply and
reasonably amazed ; " but if I had not caught
a familiar name, do you suppose I should not
have been told of it ere now ?"

"Do you mean that it is in the papers? —
that is too bad !"

Ethert checked himself so suddenly that
Estrange, while more and more astonished, had
yet the tact to let the last words pass as if
unheard. In the meantime, conscious at once
of his own imprudence, Glynnee had taken up
his usual work, had opened and noted some
half dozen letters before, having thus gained
a few moments for reflection, he spoke
again.

"1 was taken by surprise, as you must
understand. To no one else shall I say a
word, good or bad ; but to you after what
you have seen, I had better say just this
my . . . my cousin is one whose hand any
man might be proud and happy to win for
herself alone."

As his face was averted, Estrange did not
instantly repress the very slight but very
sarcastic smile that curled his thin lips. He
was a man to appreciate exactly the feeling
that had prompted the last sentence, to understand
how much bitterness and dislike, if not
to the lady yet certainly to the marriage, that
formal, earnest commendation implied. Ethert
had simply intended to render justice to his

bride; bat to Estrange' s perception, naturally
prompt, sharpened by experience, and in this
case quickened by the consciousness that Ethert
had spoken exactly as he himself would have
done, the very idea of such a tribute proved
that the speaker could not and did not expect
his friends to take the happiness of his marriage
for granted. Ethert of course had no idea how
much he had betrayed to the keen watchful eyes
of his chief.

"Well, then," said Estrange, some half-hour
later, " I suppose it is hardly worth while to
explain to you how I had proposed in future
to avail myself of your services % I pay you no
empty compliment when I say I shall be sorry
to lose them."

I am sorry," replied Ethert, " and a little
surprised to learn that you intend to dismiss
me."

Estrange fortunately could not whistle, or
some such sound would have expressed the
consummation of his utter astonishment. Then,
he thought, the incident in his friend's life
which had taken him and all besides so utterly
by surprise was yet stranger than he had

supposed. Not only were its motives, the
cause of its suddenness and its secrecy, wholly
unaccountable, but it did not mean, even for the
future, what had seemed its most obvious consequence.
The unknown story was yet more
perplexing, if not more romantic, than it had first
appeared.

Coupling the advertisement with a paragraph
in this morning's Courier" he observed, after a
full minute's silence, " I had assumed that a
very few weeks at most would place you ina
position quite incompatible with that I was
about to propose to you. The owner of Glynn
and probable Member for Stapleton would
hardly care for an assistant's post even on a more
prosperous paper."

Possibly ; but I am neither, nor, so far as I
know, likely to be."

Indeed ! Then the writer of this paragraph
deserves a pretty sharp reprimand. There is
nothing more damaging to a paper's credit than
to publish unfounded pieces of personal gossip
respecting public men. But I did think that
Sir Charles Glynnee's illness was as serious
as reported. He did not appear in Parliament

last Session, and told us he would not stand

again."

Ethert did not reply, and Estrange took up a
little volume that lay under his hand ; a Parliamentary
Companion interleaved with careful notes
on the character of the constituencies, and remarks
in cipher respecting the character, health, and
circumstances of the members.

Our electioneering information comes from
headquarters, and has never yet been wrong," he
said. " Will you tell me how far this report of
the present state of the Member for Stapleton is
exaggerated ?"

Ethert glanced hastily over the paragraph.

It could hardly be exaggerated'' he said :
and on that account I fear I shall have
to leave you again before long, and at very
short notice. Of course I must not merely attend
but arrange for the last ceremony."

The paragraph reports," said Estrange,
that Sir Charles Glynnee is at least incapacitated
from even taking part in the councils of his
political friends."

It is true," replied Ethert, quietly.

I am sorry to hear it, sorry that you anticipate

such a necessity, and so soon," replied
Estrange, in the cold formal tone he always
used when called upon to express the decorous
regret which men are expected to affect for losses
not likely on the whole to impair the happiness
of their friends. " But if it be so, Glynnee, I
don't understand the answer you have just given
me. But, pardon me for saying it, there is
something of greater and more instant moment
that must demand your attention. Have arrangements
been made to secure the seat ? The writ
must issue, you know, immediately, if the House
be sitting, and it is of the more consequence that
a General Election will follow within a few
months or weeks."

Nothing has been said to me on the subject."


"Then," inferred his chief, quickly, "nothing
has been done. Of course it would be
indecent to take any open action while the
present Member lives and retains his seat;
but when once a speedy vacancy is expected
all possible steps are taken on both sides in
anticipation of the writ. Indeed, Glynnee, you
cannot afford to waste time. You are not, I

fancy T , experienced in elections ; I assure }'ou that
even in a place like Stapleton the enemy will be
on the qui vive, ready to snap at the smallest
chance that slackness on your part may afford.
Really, pardon my interference, but this is a very
serious matter ; you must not lose the seat to
your party."

At this moment the office boy brought ina
telegram addressed to Mr. Glynnee, announcing
that the messenger awaited a prepaid
reply :—

John Verner, Stapleton.
To Ethert Glynnee, Esq., Courier Office, London.
Much disappointed not to find you at
Glynnehurst this afternoon. Pray come down
at once ; but telegraph whether you will
stand yourself, or whom you would recommend."


"Well," said Estrange, when Ethert handed
him the paper, "you see there is no time to
lose."

For all answer Ethert laid before him his brief
reply : —

I cannot act for Sir Charles Glynnee without
the authority he cannot give. I have no title
and no wish to interfere either with the
electors of Stapleton or with my uncle's
tenants."

There was something in his friend's manner
and in the expression of his countenance that
compelled Estrange to repress, though with
difficulty, the intense vexation he felt. He would
heartily have liked to see Glynnee himself in
Parliament ; but the idea that so grave a question
as the selection of a successor should be
left to chance, that the seat might possibly
be lost through Ethert's mere eccentric humour
for Estrange felt sure that no political
puritanism or Quixotry dictated his abstinence
was intolerably provoking. The veteran
politician could no more understand such trifling
with a political struggle than a general could
comprehend, except as sheer treason, the perversity
or obstinacy that would risk the loss
of a battle. With very obvious impatience
he turned to the work before him, in which
Glynnee co-operated for some time as steadily

and with as much concentrated attention as
if neither Stapleton nor Glynnehurst contained
anything that concerned him. When
their most pressing business was disposed of,
Estrange at last reverted, speaking with some
evident though repressed irritability, to Ethert's
personal intentions.

"Am I seriously to understand," he said,
that you wish to retain your connection with the
Courier V*

Certainly," was the reply, " unless the Editor
of the Courier thinks that he could better dispense
with me."

You must not trifle with me, Glynnee. It
would not suit me to have to make another
change a few weeks hence. The duties of
the post I propose to you are chiefly Parliamentary
: I cannot myself attend the House,
nor can I leave it solely to the care of our
reporting or leader-writing staff. Some one
must take charge, must learn each afternoon on
the spot what the business is to be, must
attend to any sudden diversion, must see those
party managers and independent members with
whom w 7 e are necessarily in communication,

and must remain here till the last moment to
revise the Parliamentary leaders. The most
critical of these he would do well to write
himself. You see the work is very interesting
and very important. Next to myself, and in
some sense even more than myself, the holder
of such a post will be to the political world
the representative of the paper. I must not
be forced to change him ; and unless you are
quite resolved, unless you see your way, you
must not take the office. If you do you will
feel bound in honour not to abandon it for your
own caprice or convenience."

"Of course not," Ethert replied. "It would
suit me thoroughly, if you think me as well suited
to it."

"You are the man for the place," Estrange
answered, " if you are in earnest. I wish to ask no
questions ; but naturally it seems almost impossible
that you should seriously intend to retain it."

I can give you no explanation," Ethert
replied ; " but, while my health and your
approval last, I will not fail you."

The next day brought two letters, both of
which Ethert opened with a nervous uncomfortable

feeling such as the handwriting had
never before excited.

I am intensely, painfully startled, but in
some sense not surprised. I will not annoy
you by enquiry or conjecture, since the thing
is, I suppose, done and cannot be helped. But
I can conceive of no revelation that could
have entitled Lady Glynnee or Sir Charles
to insist upon this marriage ; nor can I
believe that, if Ivy's hand held securely the
title-deeds and rent-roll of Glynnehurst, it
would have been conceded to, much less
pressed upon you. That it has been so pressed
I can hardly doubt, since you certainly had
no intention of this kind when you left us ;
and had you formed one in the meantime I
cannot think that you would have kept mein
ignorance. I still hope to avoid the necessity
of coming to London. But you know I
never think concealment or misrepresentation
expedient in the family circle. I have grave
cause to believe that before many months have
passed you will have to decide on another home
for Meta."

Such was almost the whole of his mother's
reply to the brief explanatory announcement
of his intended marriage. Meta's letter
was scarcely longer, was written with an evident
and very unusual constraint, and dwelt chiefly
and very earnestly on the illness, daily increasing,
and the manifest weakness and suffering of her
protectress. Of the news which Ethert himself
had conveyed to her she spoke only in a few
final lines.

It was kind of you to tell me yourself.
Of course I was astonished; it must have
been very sudden. But you always liked" —
two or three blots showed that Meta had
hesitated, and decided at last on the formal —
Miss Glynnee very much ; and I do hope
and pray you may be happy. I am more
glad than you will be to think that Glynnehurst
is to be yours, that you have not to live in
London."

Ethert never felt his disappointment more
keenly than at that moment. He knew Meta
well enough to appreciate the tact that had
inspired, the trouble that had perfected her
terse congratulation. She could not tell him

VOL. II. F

directly what she felt he would most wish to
hear — that she would never suspect him of a
mercenary or selfish motive. She had, child as
she was, found means of conveying the assurance
with a discretion, a delicacy that Ivy herself
could not have attained ; and it was most
unfortunate for the latter that Ethert should
thus again be reminded how much, in expectation
if not in the present, she had cost
him. He bit his lip hard, as he read and re-read
the few simple phrases, to keep the tears from
his eyes, and failed after all.

His new employment interested him profoundly,
occupied bis mind, completely enlisted
and excited his feelings in the political contest
going on. Parliament had just met after an
Autumn and Winter stormy with such passionate
political agitation as England and
Scotland had not witnessed for many a year.
The people perhaps were not really stirred
as they had been on occasions when much
less effort had been made to move them ; but
those practically engaged in the party strife
were roused to the uttermost when the leader
of Opposition, the former Prime Minister, the

greatest orator of his generation, took the stump
in the fashion of an American aspirant to power ;
and harangued the crowded audiences that such
a speaker can always command in language more
extreme, entertained them with charges more
virulent and extravagant, than the abler sort
of British demagogues commonly employ. He
had aroused the drooping spirits, the failing
hopes of his own party ; he had bitterly
angered those against whose leaders he had used
invective, had preferred accusations which logically
required, as Estrange had said, that either they
or he should be for the future excluded from the
society of gentlemen ; which, if sustained, were
morally damning to them — if not, entailed on
him a yet deeper and more indelible disgrace.
It was expected that he would repeat and
attempt to maintain them in Parliament; the
more so that many of his adherents had made
direct pointed charges upon matters of fact which
in former years must have been proved on the
floor of the House of Commons, or visited
with such Parliamentary reprobation as would
have crushed the hardened offenders who uttered
them.

F 2

Ethert, who was somewhat too sensitive for a
politician in these democratic clays, who would fain
have forced the accusers to answer at the mouth
of the pistol for assertions one or two of which
he deemed obviously and impudently untrue,
was soon absorbed in the contest, in the interest
of debate or of its absence. Estrange, himself
bitter and vehement in feeling and expression,
but, as Cleveland had said, careful and moderate
under the weight of responsibility, was somewhat
surprised, and now and then a little
embarrassed by the ardour of his colleague.
It was probable, he thought, that Glynnee's
passionate indignation was not altogether
attributable to political warmth ; that he vented
on the leaders of Opposition the angry feelings
that might have been originally called forth by
a painful personal position. He was pleased,
however, to perceive how keenly his friend's
political and parliamentary ambition was enkindled,
how evidently he would have given a
limb to bear his part with tongue and vote
rather than with his pen in the struggle that
so profoundly interested him.

The writ for Stapleton of course could not

issue while its nominal member lived, and lived
in a condition which incapacitated him from
taking the legal steps to vacate his seat; and
Estrange hoped that, before the vacancy could
occur, Glynn e might be stimulated to a degree of
eagerness that would overcome the scruple or
crotchet which prevented his attempting to claim
a seat almost as much a part of his inheritance
as Glynnehurst itself.

Sir Charles Glynnee, however, lingered on, " a
still warm corpse and yet unbearable," longer
than any one had thought possible. Days were
added to days, week followed week, and the
spark of existence grew fainter, sickened, but
did not expire. Tt was evident that Ivy might
well have left Glynnehurst for a period long
enough to satisfy all social usages, without
exposing herself to the reproach of having
deserted her father's last hours. To her alone
no such thought occurred. Lady Glynnee daily
repented her reticence, hourly wished that she
had found courage at the outset to press a
proposal which, if urged by her, could hardly
have been resisted.

Ethert, fully and clearly realizing the falsehood

of that formal observance by which he
had profited — aware that Sir Charles was and
would remain utterly insensible of his daughter's
presence, that if conscious for an hour after the
ceremony he would have vehemently insisted on
her departure — could hardly help despising his
own insincerity and his aunt's cowardice. He
was glad of the insight which assured him that
neither would ever be discerned by Ivy ; that it
would have shocked and pained her had she
been urged to admit and act upon the truth — to
recognize that to all human purpose her father
had ceased to live, that her filial duty was paid,
not to his living self, but to the senseless form,
in direct disobedience to his last conscious
wishes.

At the end of a fortnight Ethert wrote
privately to Mr. Orme, feeling that the delay
had already assumed the character of suspense
rather than respite. The answer was : " It can
hardly last forty-eight hours longer." It did
last ten days. The separation, meant to be brief,
prolonged from day to day in hourly expectation
of the end, began to wear an awkward and
almost injurious aspect. Estranged knowledge

of the case perhaps prevented actual comment
among his staff; but the conscious embarrassment
he felt in presence of his colleagues, and of all
with whom his duties brought him into contact,
warned Ethert what must be the surprise and
wonder of society. He could not blame Mr.
Brand for the announcement of his marriage;
the lawyer could not have foreseen how inconvenient
its publication would actually become,
and a long delay therein would by itself have
excited curiosity when the date must at last have
been given.

So unpleasant became the sense of incongruity,
of a situation false in itself and sure to
attract attention, that Ethert became almost
impatient of that which had been at first a
welcome reprieve ; impatient even for the crisis
of his fate, the day which must determine the
whole course of his future, though unable as
ever to make up his mind how he would act
when the moment should arrive. Each morning
his first waking thought was of the news
which might await him, each business message
made his heart beat with anxious anticipation.
When at last on his late breakfast table he saw

side by side a telegraphic message from Mr.
Orme, a letter sent by hand, with deep mourning
edge, directed in his aunt's handwriting, it was
with a sense almost exclusively of relief that
he knew that the end had come at
last.

It is over, Ethert ; and I cannot pretend to
regret it, for his sake or my own ; still less for
yours or Ivy's. Of course you will come down,
and at once 1 For her sake, let there be no
further delay ; come to her forthwith. Only
her implicit faith, her submissive loyalty, made
it possible for her to believe in the kindly intention
of your absence. The fewness, the
brevity, I fear the tone, of your letters have
greatly distressed her. She asks me, not why
you are cold or hard, but what her fault has
been, how she has deserved your displeasure ?
That you intend to punish her she takes for
granted; that you could do so without cause she
cannot conceive.

"I have told her what I suppose is in
some sense true, that the same motives which
induced you to leave her to me make you avoid

all reference to your new relation. But your
letters have been too evidently unlike what
even your mutual affection as cousins and
intimate companions might have made them,
remind her too painfully of all that has
pained her since the first suggestion of your
marriage. It is well that she has so few former
letters with which to contrast them. Ethert, if
she do not prove as dutiful, as affectionate as if
she had been won by love alone — all that you
could desire, all that the most devoted and
loving wife could be — I don't say ' it will not
be her fault,' I say it will be your own doing ;
I might almost add, your own deliberate
choice."

Like every intercession prompted by Lady
Glynnee's uneasy conscience or maternal solicitude,
this letter was profoundly injudicious and
entirely mischievous. It angered and embittered
one who needed no admonition to remind him of
his wife's blamelessness. It failed to affect his
rooted belief in her intense aversion to their
marriage. He was too just consciously to
turn his irritation on Ivy, yet in his own despite

he could not but feel the less kindly towards
the subject of so much annoyance, the guiltless
instrument of so much pain and bitterness.


This will never do ! Ivy is in her right.
She might be wiser not to complain ; but — whose
clog am I, that I should find fault, if she will not
affect the conjugal loyalty she cannot feel ?
Poor child ! It would be hard enough if we had
loved each other ; and as it is . . But my
aunt must and shall mind her own business. To
screen her name and secure Ivy's patrimony, she
chose that we should marry without love. She at
least must accept the situation for which she is
responsible."

His brief reply to Lady Glynnee, containing no
word of reference to Ivy, administered with
telling effect the rebuke of silence. It explained
shortly the necessity which detained him in
London till he had seen Mr. Brand, and till
certain funeral preparations had been ordered.
On other matters he wrote to instruct the agent,
who observed with surprise that no phrase in a
tolerably long letter betrayed the owner ; that
the tone was such as would rather have suited

the executor of the deceased, the guardian of
the heiress. It was a harder task, and one that
under other circumstances he would have deemed
impossible, to compose a fitting letter to Ivy
herself; a letter that should be kind without
being false, cousinly and not conjugal ; that
should give comfort and avoid inflicting pain,
without breaking the rule he had laid down
for himself. He thought it possible, however,
to offer what would seem natural consolation
and kindness on an occasion like the
present.

Dear Ivy,
I shall be with you, I hope, before you could
answer this ; but I could not bear to leave you
for a day in doubt, if you could doubt, how
completely my thoughts, my heart, are with you
in a sorrow I know you feel so deeply. I wish
I could hope that you will suffer less because
there is in truth nothing new to grieve for ;
because, even before the loss that finally struck
him down, your father had lived out his life.
Even before that, he spoke to me as one whose
part in this world was played out ; and afterwards

his only care was to see your future
assured. I never knew, never understood, Ivy,
how much he cared for you, how large a place you
filled in his thoughts, till he spoke to me on that
subject.

From me, to whom he was always kind and
generous, he naturally expected that I would
do what he judged best for his only daughter.
But it will please you to know that it was not
only of you he thought, that even while he
hoped that his own son would be his successor,
he was anxious for my future as well as yours ;
and he believed that the step he pressed upon
us was equally necessary to both. Your affectionate
attention made the pleasure of his last days,
comforted him for his loss ; and that his last conscious
hours were content and happy was due to
your unselfish submission.

After all, Ivy, this is not the real blow, the
true parting. That parting took place when he
gave us his blessing as we stood beside his bed ;
when his look followed you so anxiously to the
altar, and his eyes rested on the fulfilment of
his last earthly desire. So passing from the
cares, the knowledge of this world, he was perfectly

content, and that content he owed to you.
Let that thought comfort you, dear cousin, both
for your present loss and for the sacrifice you
made at his command. A father's blessing cannot
be wholly unavailing, and no child ever earned it
better than you have done."

The letter was not strictly true, or even
thoroughly sincere. But, as has been said before,
Ethert refused .to believe that the kindness he
had enjoyed for so many years had been
altogether selfish and interested — had been one
long hypocrisy. He could not have borne so
to give up the dearest recollections of the past,
the associations that had made Glynnehurst
almost more precious to him than his home.
If he exaggerated the interest his uncle had
expressed in himself, if he had suppressed
entirely his belief that that interest was not
wholly sincere, he was perhaps quite as truthful
as any of us think it meet to be in presence
of death, in face of the sacred sorrow of
orphanhood. He honestly hoped that his letter
would content Ivy. Had she read it as she
read the hundred other notes of condolence

she had to peruse, it might have done so ; and as it
was she could not account for her dissatisfaction,
and reproached herself with exacting susceptibility.
The letter was kind as well as
compassionate, sympathising and comforting ;
but it seemed the sympathy of a stranger,
the kindness of a friend. And yet Ivy could
find nothing amiss, unless it were the omission
of those few scattered terms of domestic affection
which Mr. Brand's hint had scared from Ethert's
written and spoken language.

To show the letter to her mother was wholly
incompatible with her sense of conjugal loyalty.
She knew not why ; perhaps that, as she could
not have revealed the words of endearment, she
could still less bear to betray their absence.
Otherwise she would fain have seen how the
letter impressed an experienced, sympathising,
but comparatively impartial reader.

Ethert was glad that on his arrival the pressure
of business left him so little leisure to
bestow on his relatives. That leisure, however,
was less awkward than he had expected. His
aunt seemed only anxious to postpone all
possible occasion of discussion ; Ivy, though

depressed, sad, disheartened as he had never
seen and was grieved to see her, evinced no
shadow of anger or resentment ; unless it were
displeasure that prompted her so quietly to
acquiesce in, if not even to second, the manoeuvres
by which he endeavoured to avoid a tete-astute.
In others' presence it was possible to speak
and act at least with natural kindness for his
fatherless cousin : alone with her, his own sense
of what was due to his bride — certainly no
claim preferred directly or indirectly by herself
produced a constraint plainly evident to both.
Ethert felt that he must seem unkind, and
took for granted the discontent she never hinted.
Silence, sadness, a timid shrinking from notice
betrayed Ivy's consciousness of the painful situation.


Despite a private reputation by no means
sans reproche, despite much recent neglect of
his duties as landlord and representative, Sir
Charles Glynnee had remained popular both with
his tenantry and his constituents, and a large
number of both claimed the right to pay him
the last tribute of respect. On this ground
Ethert rested his earnest request that the ladies

would not attempt to attend the funeral. Lady
Glynn e was not sorry to avail herself of a
sufficient excuse ; Ivy was content to obey when
assured that she was not failing in filial
duty.

Even in their absence, Ethert found it sufficiently
difficult to play for the first time a
leading part in a ceremony necessarily painful
and practically public. It was still harder,
when the late baronet's remains were once
consigned to the Elizabethan vault of the family,
to receive and answer the numerous speeches
of mingled condolence and congratulation which
reminded the successor at once of his title, his
marriage, and his inheritance. Impossible to
have maintained befittingly before those interested
and watchful hundreds the appearance
of tenderness, compassion, and contentment due
to the orphaned bride — intolerable to have
failed therein ; well indeed that she was
absent !

The funeral cortege dispersed, Ethert acknowledged
to himself very unwillingly the immediate
necessity of seeking his aunt and cousin,
whom he had scarcely seen that morning. This

meeting would probably be critical. Even if
without evident discourtesy, without trying too
far Ivy's unquestioning patience, he could still
maintain his ambiguous attitude, still avoid all
direct recognition of their actual relation, he felt
sure that he would not be permitted to do
so. Studiously silent as she had been since his
return, he was aware that Lady Glynnee was
but awaiting this moment to force him to an
instant and decisive avowal — if necessary by a
direct and very embarrassing question ; and he
had not yet determined what he meant to say,
scarcely even what he wished to do. So
paramount was his sheer nervous dread of that
meeting, that it was with a strong sense of
relief that he received the announcement of
a visit involving another but a secondary embarrassment.
The card brought to him in
the library was that of Mr. Verner, the chief
of his uncle's supporters, the leader of the
Tories of Stapleton ; the first after the funeral
to greet the new possessor of Glynnehurst
formally by his title, as the representative at
once of Sir Charles's political friends and of his
non-agricultural tenantry.

VOL. n. G

Sir Ethert," said the manufacturer, a man
of practical business intelligence and of somewhat
more than average culture, " I ought
perhaps to apologise for the manner in which
I pressed by telegraph and by letter for an
answer to a question that might seem untimely.
Pardon me if I say that politics, like
war, require a certain suppression of personal
feeling. Too much is at stake in the interest
of the living to allow us to think primarily
of respect to the dead. But perhaps my
question was addressed too directly to the
owner of so large a property in Stapleton,
and too little, as would have been more appropriate,
to the representative of the late
member's family."

"Your question," replied Ethert, suppressing
as completely as possible the vexation and
discomfort he felt, " was as appropriately putas
I had hoped my answer was explicit. I
can only say once more that my marriage
with Sir Charles's daughter gives me no
shadow of right to interfere in the politics
of Stapleton, or to control the votes of her
tenantry."

Of course, of course, Sir Etbert," returned
the other, in the tone in which a man of
business accepts a proper but meaningless
formality. " But, that understood, may we
not assume that under the circumstances, if
you do not care to appear on the hustings,
you will consent to be nominated as Sir Charles's
successor f"

"I appreciate the compliment, but I thought
I had declined it distinctly enough."

We are sure to carry you, Sir Ethert. Indeed
I do not think there will be any opposition— to

you."

I must beg you, Mr. Verner, to take me at
my word."

It is true that the General Election cannot be
far off; but any one whom we bring forward
now will feel a little cavalierly treated when
called upon to make way for you; or
you might have some scruple in ousting
him."

Mr, Verner," Ethert returned, speaking more
peremptorily and with less of formal courtesy
than before, " I have no idea of standing for
Stapleton under any circumstances whatever.

G 2

It is never wise to give an absolute pledge
for the future ; but I can hardly conceive the
ease in which I should feel entitled to
oust a Conservative freely chosen by your
votes."

•' Sir Ethert, there is hardly another seat left
like this. The owner of Glynuehurst, unless he
should wantonly offend the feeling of the
electorate, may be absolutely sure of holding
it for life, and mays vote with more freedom
than almost any other man in the
House."

I am quite aware of it, but I must
beg you to take my answer as absolute and
final."

The visitor looked much disappointed and nota
little perplexed. "I had supposed you a
keen politician, Sir Ethert : but at any rate,
if you will not stand yourself, you will tellus
whom you would recommend, to whom
your interest will be most willingly given f

"I have done my best," replied Ethert, somewhat
annoyed by this persistency, "to explain
that I have no interest, and no right to interfere.
I shall be glad to hear of the return

of any gentleman on whom the choice of my
uncle's friends may fall. If I had a preference
in the matter, which I am not entitled to
express," he continued — feeling for the moment
as if the political influence of Glynnehurst
were a part of Ivy's inheritance which on her
behalf he had no right to throw away by
offending its most influential supporter — "no
result would give me more pleasure than to
see my uncle's oldest and best friend in the
borough succeed him as its representative."

The compliment, appealing to his own secret
ambition, restrained as that had been by circumstances,
almost compensated Mr. Werner
for what had appeared to horn the perverse
silence of his powerful neighbour.

"I could not," he replied after suitably
acknowledging the courtesy, " I could not
at present leave my business, Sir Ethert, for
half the year, and I therefore am out of the
question. But if you have really resolved
not to stand yourself, I suppose you have
thought of a successor to Sir Charles?"

Certainly not ! It is your business, not
mine."

Then, may 7 we make it understood that
your influence, your wishes will be given
to any candidate brought forward by the
party T

I have no vote," Ethert returned, " and no
pretension to influence the opinion of a single
elector Really, Mr. Verner, I thought I had
spoken plainly enough in my letter, and I
can only repeat as plainly what I then
said."

Wholly ignorant of the circumstances which
made the speaker more unwilling to assume a
right apparently derived through his wife than if
it had really so come to him, the local politician
could only suppose that some personal
disgust had rendered Sir Ethert Glynnee secretly
averse to forward the interests of the party
whose colours he could not openly desert. It was
with manifest mortification that he took his leave,
without being able to elicit a more favourable
reply.

CHAPTER IY.

HELD FAST.

AFTER Mr. Verner's departure, though the
conversation had left him in a mood yet
more irritable and uncomfortable than before —
the sacrifice he had made to pride and consistency
deepening and embittering the determination
on which he had acted — Ethert felt
that he could no longer withhold the attention
due, if not to his bride or her mother, certainly
to the widow of him whose remains had just
been consigned to the family vault ; to the
mistress of the house in which, if he would
not assume the master, he must consider himself
a guest.

A few sentences of course had passed before
his aunt put the question the answer to which,

as she knew, Ivy anxiously expected, though
she could not find courage herself to ask it.

Mr. Verner has been with you, Ethert, has
he not ? They want you to stand for Stapleton !
I know from your boyhood a seat in Parliament
was the summit of your ambition, and this" —
speaking in a lower tone — " Ivy would not wish
you, would not like you to sacrifice such an
opportunity to formal consideration for the
occasion."

"In this case at least," Ethert, replied, disdaining
to affect a conventional scruple he did
not feel, or avail himself of a false excuse, "in
this case, and probably for life, I must forego
an ambition which I share with most educated
Englishmen."

"You don't mean that you have refused,
Ethert?" Ivy said, surprised into interposition.
"Mamma heard' she added timidly, "though
rather roundabout, that they were sure to return
you ; they had waited only for for to-day to
propose it. Ethert, why ? . . . . surely it is not —
you cannot think it would please me that you
should decline I"

"Does it not? You can hardly know what

Parliamentary life is, then, Ivy ; and I can
afford neither the cost nor the time. My professional
work is as much as I can manage, and
occupies me during nearly all the hours that
the House sits, and many besides."

Ivy was simply perplexed. She had a pretty
accurate idea, though how formed she hardly
knew, of the amount of Ethert's professional
earnings; and little as she knew of her own
pecuniary position, she was aware that those
earnings could hardly be a matter of consequence,
certainly not worth the sacrifice of a
great political opportunity, to the owner of
Glynnehurst. It had never occurred to her
that Ethert would not at once resign a post
so laborious, compelling him to live in London,
which as she knew he intensely disliked, and
incompatible with the duties of a resident proprietor.
That residence was a duty T , on an
estate which had for several years been not a
little neglected, she had insensibly and imperfectly
learnt — chiefly from Ethert himself.


Ethert, you don't mean that you have not
given that up ? At any rate you will ? That

could not prevent your going into Parliament if
you had wished it."

"I have as little idea of giving up my profession
as of sitting for Stapleton," he answered,
with a coldness and sternness that startled his
timid bride, but were really the expression of
discomfort and apprehension. This discussion,
he felt, was sure to lead to a declaration of his
views on other points ; and in a manner peculiarly
awkward.

But, Ethert, why ? Surely you mean to live
here, not in London V

The frightened perplexed expression of her
face, the faltering tone, made him anxious to
answer as gently, to startle her as little as he
could.

I am sorry," he said quietly, " if you dislike
the idea of a London life so much. I thought
young ladies generally looked forward to it very
eagerly at first, however weary of it they may
become after a few seasons."

"You know I have been in London twice,
Ethert, with Papa and Mamma. They took
me nearly everywhere, and — I did not care
for it. I should never care for any London

pleasures half as much as for our home here.
But, Ethert, you know I was not thinking of
that, of myself; surely you are wanted here?
You have often spoken of the importance of a
landlord's position and influence ; that was perhaps
what I best understood in your story, in
which Charlie said you had described Glynn
And, Mamma, has there not been a
good deal here that has been neglected, that
wants Ethert's presence and attention to set it
right I"

I am afraid so, Ivy," Lady Glynnee replied,
not a little disturbed by Ethert's unexpected
determination, and feeling even more apprehensive
than himself as to the probable turn of the
conversation.

Glynnehurst, Ivy, is yours, not mine. It
would not suit me, or any man who respects
himself, to be simply the steward of his wife's
property."

Happily for Ivy, the very idea underlying
this speech was so utterly strange to her that
Ethert's meaning failed to reach her mind. She
understood only that he chose to regard and treat
her as indisputably the heiress of Glynnehurst, in

fact as well as in name ; and this she accepted asa
proof of delicate and considerate generosity.
But to her thought her rights, her possessions,
even if they were hers, were not merely shared
with hut transferred to her husband — had become
on their marriage as completely his as had they
been unquestionably his by birth. That what
he could earn was in any more especial sense
his own, that earning nothing he could have
deemed himself less independent, was a thought
which happily had no meaning for her. Could
she have realized it, it would have wounded
even more than at present it bewildered her.
Though hurt, therefore, rather by his tone than
his words, she was infinitely less hurt than most
women would have been by a similar expression ;
and her pain was less acute than her sense of his
courtesy in abdicating the right which — as she
at least strongly suspected — he believed to be his
own.

Ethert, 1 don't understand, but I know you
mean that kindly ; but it does not seem quite
kind — and you know in any case Glynnehurst is
yours now. And surely you cannot speak as if
you would be idle here. I heard you say to

Charlie, more than once, there was quite
enough to do on an estate like this ; as
much as its owner can find time and strength
for."

If Ivy did not understand, her mother did :
and had listened in speechless dismay. A seat
in Parliament had, as she truly said, been from
boyhood the avowed and supreme object of
Ether t's ambition. His refusal to accept that
which for two centuries had been the appanage of
Glynnehurst could hardly mean anything but a
peremptory, probably a public repudiation of
Glynnehurst itself; and gave a serious and
painful significance to his declaration that her
father's inheritance was Ivy's, and not his. And
his obstinate retention of an obscure laborious
employment, obliging him to the London Life
which he avowedly abhorred, could have no other
motive ; it must mean that, at any cost to both,
he would avoid the necessity of appropriating to
his personal use a penny of the income that was
nominally his wife's. His earnings could hardly
defray the mere personal expenses suited to his
real position.

Was Ivy to learn, as her first conjugal

experience, that her husband would not touch
her fortune? — she whose pride and whose
conscience had been reconciled to the marriage
by the prospect of enriching him ! The young
bride could not but be cruelly, deeply wounded
when she should come to understand an intention
so strange ; and the wound was one that by its
very nature could never be healed or forgotten.
Worst of all — what lay before her if Ethert's
resentment were so deep, so bitter, so hard as
such a resolve would imply ? And, occupied
night after night with the regular desk work of
London journalism, did he mean to abandon a
wife of seventeen to the utter dreariness of a
solitary home, or to the peril and inconvenience of
a separate life in London society, while neither at
home nor abroad could she be her husband's companion?
Yet he must mean this, or much
worse — unless — did he perhaps intend that the
mother should be her daughter's guest and
chaperon ?

Selfish as fear could on occasion render her,
Lady Glynnee's selfishness was not of the kind
that could reconcile her to such an idea. She
now knew but too well that Ivy had yet to win

her husband's heart; she had begun to understand
that without this conquest her child's
affectionate nature, perhaps her actual love for
Ethert, would render her utterly miserable ; and
her only chance was that she should be left,
at least for the first months or years of their
married life, alone with and dependent upon him.
The mother could not speak; she felt instinctively
that her presence could do no more
than restrain the free expression both of Ethert's
and of Ivy's meaning. In her absence it was
possible that, before he was committed by any
declaration such as the young bride could and
must understand, her evident affection, her unhesitating
loyalty, the appeal which alone with
him she might probably venture to his conscience
and his feeling, might reach a heart on which she
could not yet have lost her hold. It was for
once a judicious impulse on which Lady Glynnee
acted, in seizing the best excuse she could invent
at the moment for leaving the young couple
alone.

Don't be vexed with me, Ethert," said Ivy
timidly, as soon as she felt herself no longer
constrained by her mother's presence, " if I

say that I am disappointed. I did think you
would have chosen — I knew you wished to get
into Parliament. I had dreamed of that for you :
I thought that new . . . that that had been made
possible."

"Are you so ambitious, Ivy 1 Do you think
that any social importance a seat in Parliament,
or even Parliamentary eminence, can
confer on a member's wife would be worth
the trouble, the labour, the late hours and
the confinement that Parliamentary life involves
r

Ethert, somehow I don't seem now to understand
half you say. It is my fault of course,
and I know I am dull; but I used to understand
you. Surely you know I did not think
of myself: it was for you I was ambitious
how could I be ambitious for myself?"

Her simplicity and singleness of heart could
not but touch him, the more that he felt how
thoroughly truthful was her repudiation of those
lower objects of female ambition which she could
not even comprehend.

I will not trifle with you : I will not tell
you that I have ceased to care for politics or

ceased to think that I could succeed in Parliament.
But I have chosen another line of work,
one with which Parliamentary ambition is not
compatible, and I cannot or will not give it up."

Then, Ethert," she asked timidly, but more
than half hopefully, and as if the new thought
that had occurred to her would easily console
her for the abandonment of her dream of unselfish
ambition, " if you will not go into Parliament,
you can stay here always — I mean," seeing
a negative in his face, " except when you care
to go up for a while, when you want to see things
or people in town. That would be so pleasant,
Ethert : I know you love the country and
Glynnehurst, and — I should be happy anywhere
with you, but I think you would be happiest
here."

This time, Ivy, you certainly don't understand
me. It is not that I mean' to be idle, or
am too lazy for the hard work and late
hours of Parliament. My own work is quite
as hard, and I do not mean to give it up."

At last she did understand his purpose, not
his motive ; and her dismay was evident in her
face.

VOL. II. H

Ethert, I don't mean to be presuming or
inquisitive. I don't ask anything you do not
choose to tell me ; only I cannot understand that,
I cannot see . . . surely it is not necessary —
surely you earn nothing that we could not spare ?
Indeed, indeed I would rather give up anything
that you think we can. You know Mamma never
taught me to be extravagant ; surely you can
do without that ? And your hours, your work,
I feel sure, are far harder than Papa's were when
Parliament was busiest. Three or four nights
in the week he was at leisure; and you
seem to be engaged every night till near
morning'

Six nights a week, Ivy, at any rate. Yes, it
is harder work than Parliament."

Then will you not consider, Ethert ; will you
not try? I cannot bear to ask you about money,
especially when you say. . . Ethert, it is not mine;
and if you call it so, I cannot speak. But if
Papa could afford to live here and to be in Parliament
— I know the elections cost him a great
deal— surely you can afford it without Parliament?
Indeed I will try to manage as well
as Mamma has always done : and I would

give up anything, everything, rather than let
you go on with that work. Can you not try, at
least ?"

Ethert was deeply embarrassed. He could
not bear to accept Ivy's renunciation of her
natural right to enquire, to hear the full truth as
to the amount and expenditure of her own income.
He could neither silence nor evade her
simple pointed appeal. Yet to answer her
frankly w r as to admit clearly and distinctly the
absolute needlessness of the sacrifice on which he
insisted, to force upon her the perception of his
motive.

A man must have his own work, his profession,
Ivy ; and having chosen it, it is hardly a
man's part to throw it up."

•' True, Ethert, perhaps ; if Glynnehurst had
not come to you, if Charlie had lived. But
surely, when Providence has sent you other
work, and wealth that I suppose must make
your earnings indifferent to you— surely you
may? And, Ethert, surely your duty is here?
Forgive me, do forgive me," she added, observing
his change of countenance and unable to
understand it, but fearing that her urgency

H 2

had given offence, that her insistence on a duty
of which he was the fitting and much more competent
judge had been presumptuous and unbecoming
; " I daresay I ought not to have said it
do not be angry, Ethert."

You have said not a word, Ivy, you have
asked nothing that it is not your right to
says, and my duty to answer. As regards
your income and expenditure — what you have,
and what you can afford, and what you would
wish to do — you shall have a full, clear explanation."


"Mine, Ethert!" she interposed, "I wish you
would not say that."

Yours, Ivy, most distinctly. I must tell
you frankly that it is not a mere question of
what you can afford, though there are, I fear,
demands on your income— the estate requires
expenses, outlay that has been neglected for
years — that will render your real income much
less than the nominal rent-roll, at least for
the present. But I can hardly make you
understand why J do not choose to give up
my profession : and if you will pardon me,
I would rather not discuss it with you."

"But, Ethert, will you not think it over
again ? I know you hate London life, and I
am sure we should he so much happier — at least
you have always made me so happy here ; and if

your hours are so long and so late, surely "

She checked herself, hardly knowing how to
express her meaning without seeming selfish or
exacting. Her thought was " how much we
shall be apart," but she feared to convey to
him only how dreary it would be for her.

"I know, Ivy, you would find London life
very hard under the conditions of mine, and
I do not wish that you should try it. Remember
that Glynnehurst will always be kept
up. Though I am tied to London, you need not
be ; and here, I suppose, you will have your
mother's company."

One part of his speech was so strange,
so perplexing, that it reached Ivy's mental
sense but slowly ; and before she had realized its
meaning her attention was diverted for a moment
by the last suggestion.

Do you mean that ? Do you wish it, really ?
Mamma spoke as if she must leave the house
presently — at any rate before we returned toit.

I could not answer ; I knew I must
not speak till I was sure what you intended.
Ethert, do not be displeased with me — is she
right ?"

What do you wish, Ivy % It is your concern
in every way. I could not interfere, unless it
were to save you the pain or awkwardness of
saying what you mean."

"Interfere? But, Ethert, I do not think I
ought to express, to have a wish, till I know
what you would desire. And what can you
mean ? You speak as if I could leave you
as if — you had forgotten — everything. You
speak not of ' us' but ' you' and 4 me and you
seem to fear that I shall think it hard when you
are busy, because I must be lonely. Surely you
do not think it was for that that I asked you ! . . .
Ethert, if you had asked me of your own
accord to be your wife, should I have
made conditions, wanted you to give up anything?
And now when I am yours, when
it has been I am sorely afraid, more afraid
every hour, for my sake rather than your own,
do you suppose . . . ? No, Ethert, I cannot understands'


He was silent, fully realizing for the first
time how sincerely, how loyally Ivy was prepared
to accept her new relation, how absolutely she
acknowledged its reality ; that she would see in
its origin only a deeper reason for implicit conjugal
devotion — and he foresaw clearly the
difficulty and danger of attempting to palter with
obligations which she accepted in such absolute
good faith. If to her mind their union was as
complete, as real as anything could make it, if
she would not even admit to her own mind any
separate right, any distinct interest of her own,
it would obviously be no easy thing to maintain
that complete severance of their rights and possessions,
that repudiation of all control over hers,
on which his sensitive pride was bent.

He could take his own way on such a point,
but he could not command her acquiescence ; she
would evidently misconceive his idea of independence,
and feel that in rejecting the dowry
he was in spirit and at heart repudiating the
bride. And evidently the same principle would
govern her view of the more delicate and more
pressing question. She might cling to her home
and to her mother; might fear his temper; might

dread and hate the duty she fulfilled; but only
at the cost of something painfully like a quarrel
would he be able to leave Glynnehurst without
her.

As he would not explain, Ivy forbore to
press her questions, somewhat hurt, but more or
less conscious that Ethert was in a sore and
resentful mood ; and thinking that the only
thing she could do, the best and kindest,
was to pass over not merely without complaint,
but without notice*, expressions which, as she
began to recognize, had reference to the
conditions of their marriage ; to treat these as
mere expletives of pain or irritation, such as her
father had been wont to use in physical suffering.


There is another thing," she said presently,
not without hesitation. " Perhaps I ought not
to say it ; but if I did not speak, Mamma would ;
and somehow, though that would be easier forme,
I think we had better be open with each
other. I begged her to leave it to me."

It would be well," he interposed, " if you
would always take that course I do not pretend
to claim from you, treated as you have been, the

loyalty, the silence that are matter of simple duty
with other wives. I do not presume to blame you
for complain hug of me to your mother. But I
will notice no complaints that come to me at
second-hand, however just and reasonable. If
you have cause to find fault with me, do so to
myself; I will always hear you patiently and
respectfully. But if you again make her the
mouthpiece of your displeasure, you must not
expect me to answer either of you."

What do you mean, Ethert % Complain of
you? Of what? And what has Mamma said?
What could she say? Do you think I gave her a
message to you, as if I could not write or speak
myself? Was I wrong not to write first? I
thought — I wished — it was not pride, Ethert,
but I thought — I feared if you wished to
hear you would have written. I answered
you as soon — at once — when you did
write."

You did, Ivy. But it was from your mother
that the complaint of my letters came ; it was
she who found fault with their number and with
their tone."

u Ethert, how could she ? She never saw

them, not a word. And what . . . Complain !
Was I wrong — perhaps I was — to ask her advice?
I would not have done so if you had been with
me, or if I had known how to write it. But I
never thought, I never meant she should say it
to you : I would have told you myself — I will
tell you now. I asked what I could have done,
what offence I could have given, as I had asked
you. I thought you did not like to tell me, to
find fault so soon, and I asked her — she knows of
course all that I do not know, and it was to her
you spoke and trusted everything — why you were
so different, why you did not speak to me as
when . we were only cousins ? I did not see—
I don't see now, but I suppose I was wrong : I
suppose it seemed like complaint. Yes ; I ought
to have kept it to myself; I ought not to
have told her that you were displeased with
me, or that it was you made me unhappy ; but I
did not understand. Now, Ethert, do forgive me;
I will never say a word again."

There is nothing to forgive," he answered,
thoroughly ashamed, " except my own ungenerous
temper. I ought to have understood how natural
it was, especially in my absence, that you should

speak ; how natural that she should not be wise
enough to keep your counsel. Forgive me, Ivy."

"No, Ethert, I was wrong ; but I did not see.
Now, may I ask you? Mamma— no, it was my
own thought, but it came — I wish to be quite true
it came of something I think you said to her ;
as if I should not — as if you could not bear my . . .
my mourning now."

Your mourning !" he said, puzzled for the
moment, till he remembered the manner in which
his thought had been conveyed to the mother.
The word, not the thought, had it seemed
been repeated. " No, Ivy, that was not what I
meant."

Then you will not ask me — I mean you do
not wish me — to put it aside ? I would rather
not, but I know it is strange. But it was
not that. Ethert— you will not go back, you
will not leave me here again V

She was, to use his own phrase, in her right.
Even to Ethert's peculiar temper and fastidious
sentiment, the request might under other circumstances
have seemed becoming and dutiful. The
tone in which it was preferred was gentle, deferential,
and almost timid. It would have been

frightened and faltering, had Ivy dreamed how
unwelcome was her proposal, or had she realized
even yet the possibility that Ethert could answer
her harshly, or refuse a reasonable entreaty
from her lips.

He actually started, surprised and shocked at
the moment by a suggestion so utterly unexpected
from her. That her mother would attempt to
force his hand by some such demand openly or
insidiously preferred, he had anticipated, and was
in a humour to resist any such pressure with all
the force of his will. But Ivy's personal appeal,
though it offended his taste, grated on his
feelings, and was intensely repugnant to his
present mood, was much more difficult to
meet.

Happily she had not seen his start. Her eyes
had naturally been cast down as she spoke ; and
it was not until his silence had somewhat
surprised her in her turn that she looked upto
seek her answer in his countenance. Impossible
then to misconceive her motives; doubly
impossible for Ethert, with his profound faith
in the purity, his thorough insight into the
perfect simplicity of her nature. The sweet

serenity of the trembling mouth, the loyal
frankness of the upturned eyes, even the slight
colour that had touched the cheeks, giving to
that lovely face the only beauty it seemed to
lack, bore conclusive testimony to the absolute
singleness of her thought. It was her conscience,
hardly even her heart that appealed to his ; it
was her duty, not her right, that she had claimed.
If she thought at all of what was due to herself,
it was not to deprecate neglect or coldness,
but to protest against a separation that must
wound her self-respect and wrong her loyalty;
a wholly unmerited indignity to her feelings as
woman and wife, proclaiming either that Ethert
did not want her, or that, as it seemed to her,
she could flinch from the first sacrifice of self-will
or personal convenience required by her
marriage.

Ethert did her justice at once— understood
her so well that he was quite unable to answer.
Indeed, if she were as sure of her ground asher
request would seem to indicate, — if she had
spoken not on the impulse of the moment, but
on deliberate reflection or consultation with her
mother— what answer could there be ? He had

himself declared that the question was one for
her sole decision ; if that decision were spontaneous,
there was an end of the matter. But
spontaneous, sincere, genuine it could not be;
she was surely coerced once more, either by her
mother's urgency or by the force of her remembered
vow. Pride and pity, conscience, compassion
and instinct alike revolted from the
acceptance of a sacrifice no less hateful, whether
extorted by physical or spiritual compulsion ; a
sacrifice whose full horror of darkness would
surely be realized when too late. And yet —
argument w T as impossible and objection ungenerous
and insulting ; what could he say ?

What I told your mother," he said at last,
evasively reverting to the point she had originally
misconceived, "was this — that I could not and
would not pretend to claim a bride in her first
mourning for a father."

It was like you, Ethert ; it was kindly and
considerately meant. But, in mourning or not,
I am your wife, and my place is with you. It
was my duty ; it was your right to have claimed
it at once. Papa would have said so himself;
and now Besides, Ethert, it is mistaken

kindness. While you could stay here I might
have wished it for Mamma's sake— but I find
she does not wish it ; and for myself. . . Ethert . . .
1 have always been happiest with you, and . it
is right . . . ."

This time he did not understand her; rather
he understood one aspect of her thought so well
that he lost all clue to the other. In speaking
of her own feelings her voice had sunk almost to
a whisper, her cheek flushed, and her downcast
eyes filled with tears. But had she been conscious
of a new element in those feelings, of a
love different from that she had ever borne to
her cousin, Ethert judged rightly that she could
not have spoken at all. He ascribed her novel
shyness to the struggle between duty and repugnance.
It never occurred to him that duty
had been sweetened, doubt and fear allayed,
repugnance prevented by the unconscious, open,
confident love of the young girl for her near
relative, her only intimate friend ; that there was
now no struggle, no effort in her conjugal
fealty.

Would it look well, Ivy?"

She was hurt, and showed it, though the pain

was not that which such an evasion, such a
hint might well have caused.

Does that signify, if it is well, Ethert % It
will not hurt Mamma ; and . it would be a false
pretence of feeling. If it is my crape— I told
you I would leave that off if . if you really
wish it."

No, no, Ivy," he answered quickly. " Nothing
that can hurt your feelings could meet
my wish; and for forms of that kind either
way I care . . . less perhaps than I ought. But
when — when I came down last, I had obtained
leave of absence for a month, expecting to
want it. Then Estrange told me and I agreed
that in a month I must return ; and now, while
Parliament is sitting, I cannot be absent, I must
go back at once."

Very well, Ethert ; I am ready, whenever it is
necessary."

"Yes; I know 7 , Ivy, you would always be
ready to do what you think your duty. But I
should feel it most unkind and unjust to exact
such a sacrifice. I did not expect it, and . I
have never known what to expect, so as to
make any arrangement for you. Of course

you would prefer to wait — I don't quite think
it would be wise to go to the expense of furnishing
a house, at least until you see how
London suits you — but with your mother's help
you might find a furnished house for this
year. There is no reason why you should not
wait till you can do that — till we see our
way."

What is there to see, Ethert V* she enquired,
perplexed and almost dismayed ; speaking softly
and gently as ever, but unable to restrain the
trembling voice, the quivering lip that betrayed
her wonder and distress. " If you do not wish
to have me with you . I promised to obey . . .
Of course I must stay here if you command it.
But that means . . . Ethert, what is the matter?
You know I must feel, if you leave me here, that
you are showing displeasure, keeping me in disgrace
; and if you do that, surely you will tell me
why ? Indeed, indeed I don't know — what have
I done?"

Few women appreciate the power that lies in
absolute submission — or perhaps few wives care
to rely on a strength that only avails them when
not clearly in the wrong. Ethert could have

VOL. II. I

wished that his young bride would have broken
into passionate rebellion. Had she resented his
consideration as a slight, he would gladly have
left with her the responsibility of a justifiable
quarrel — have accepted the blame of an open
rupture. Had she insisted on her right, he could
have raised difficulties ; but even the caprice of
Oriental despotism could hardly punish and
refuse the reason. By accepting his will, while
showing that she distinctly recognized not
forbearance offered but humiliation inflicted,
Ivy had rendered any such humiliation impossible.


If you take it in that light, Ivy, I can say
no more. No fault of yours could give me
the right to show displeasure" — he did not
choose to answer her look of surprise and deprecation
— " and in so far you are altogether faultless.
Pray don't misunderstand me ; I did not
mean, I should be sorry and ashamed to hurt
you — especially at such a moment and . . . and
in such a matter as this . . . Only remember I do
not ask, I could not ask you to leave your
home at present. I claim nothing, I expect
nothing that is painful to yourself; and when you

repent your proposal you are free to revoke it. I
shall not be surprised, and certainly I shall not
complain."

"Ethert, what do you mean? Surely you
would tell me if I had vexed you ; and you know
my home is with you. Do you think I do not
wish it? Or . do you forget .? If London
is not so pleasant as Glynnehurst, what you
must bear is surely good enough for . . . your
wife."

The gentle emphasis on the last syllable rendered
Ethert instantly and thoroughly ashamed
of his ungracious response to her loyal self-sacrifice.
It grieved as well as embarrassed him
to recognize how sincerely she accepted, how
earnestly she sought to fulfil her share of a
thankless, unwilling, unreal compact; and for the
moment he felt more acutely the immediate unkindness
and discourtesy of reluctance than the
deeper cruelty of acquiescence.

"Forgive me, cousin, if you cannot understand;
and don't underrate yourself so far as
to fancy that your companionship could ever be
unwelcome. I am afraid you will very soon
see why I could not bear to take you from such

I 2

a home. Meanwhile, forgive me, Ivy. I did
not mean it, though you have felt it, as a
slight."

"Not a slight," she replied gently, "but asa
mark of your displeasure, and one not easy to
bear. You reproved me, and quite justly, for
letting Mamma see when I thought you were
angry with me. Surely, if you meant to punish
me, you would not wish every body to know
it."

"And therefore," he answered quickly, much
moved, and eager to soften the pain still evident
in her voice and look, " you might be sure no
such thought was in my mind. But if I were
not afraid to hurt you, I should still beg
you to reconsider. It is not your duty, Ivy,
unless unless you are willing. There is no
need — I mean — your sacrifice need not and shall
not be enforced — be carried faster or further than
you choose."

Her mother had carefully withheld from Ivy
her own misgivings — had indeed, in dread of
rendering her alive to the meaning of words and
incidents, observed a strict and careful reticence
since first the subject of the marriage had

been mooted ; and plainer language than Ethert's
would have failed to give his girlish bride the
slightest glimpse of his thought.

"Ethert, if you would not dwell upon that—
I know you mean it so kindly, but I hardly feel
true when I let you say so . . I could not
like it, neither did you but that is over.
My sacrifice at any rate is made done with.
And now, do you not know . . . . 1 at any rate
you need not forget that you are speaking
to the cousin you were so so kind to
and always made so much of while she was
with you."

"And whom I loved from her cradle as a
favourite sister," he answered; knowing what
word would have been substituted for " kind" had
Ivy dared now to feel sure even of his past
"fondness," and eager to give the one loving-assurance
that would not be a lie. Again
he misunderstood the reluctance Ivy confessed,
failed to understand that her admission of
dislike referred to the haste which had
shocked and startled her, and to which she
ascribed his own expressions of regret and compassion.


Well, Ivy, Glynnetmrst is always yours, your
home ; always within your reach ; and I suppose
your mother will be here to make it easy for you
to return at will."

You mean that ? You really wish it, Ethert !
I mean about Mamma."

"If it be your wish, Ivy. It is your business,
not mine ; it is for you to decide. But if you
feel no awkwardness, if you and she can arrange
without difficulty how the management of the
household is to remain in her hands or to pass
to yours, I shall be glad, more even for your sake
than for hers, that you should have her company,
her help and counsel, as long as you wish it yourself."


But," she said shyly — encouraged, as she was
ever so easily encouraged, at any word that
seemed like a renewal of the kindness she had
so long taken for granted — "I shall have you
to myself in London. It is only here— and,
Ethert, it is not that I want any other company
than yours ; but somehow it does seem so unkind
to turn a mother out of her home when her husband
is gone and her own children succeed to it.
Of course I have seen it happen in other homes ;

but it has always seemed to me so strange that
any man can bear to treat his mother, or even his
wife's mother, so."

"A mother-in-law," said Ethert, suppressing
a smile, " would hardly, I think, do wisely to
remain under the same roof, with her son's
wife as its mistress. With your own mother of
course the case is different. At any rate I could
not ask you, could not wish you to part with her,
even if she and I had not always got on so
well."

Thank you," Ivy answered earnestly. " It
is very kind of you ; you are always so kind
when there is anything to do, anything to
decide. I suppose it is only fancy that makes
me feel as if . . well, as if I had done
something to change you very much since you
were fond of your child-cousin. Well then,
Ethert, when you must go back you will
tell me, and I will be ready whenever you
please."

I must not desert my post, Ivy, and throw
my duties upon my chief a day longer than is
absolutely necessary. I ought to return almost
immediately ; but I am ashamed and most unwilling

to take you from such a home to a place
and a life that have nothing of home about
them. I am afraid you will find the solitude intolerable."


Ethert, I wish you would not say such things,
as if you thought so ill of me— that . . . that I cared
so much for everything else, and so little for my
duty to you. Will it be more lonely for me than
for other wives I— I suppose many men who work
as you do are married !"

Few, I hope, to ladies so young as you are :
and their wives complain sorely."

Weil," she answered cheerfully, " I cannot.
You have told me before-hand what I am to
expect ; and if I seem dull, if I am stupid,
Ethert, you will be patient with me, I am
sure."

Here the discussion dropped. However vexed,
for her sake and his own, to find himself so easily
and so completely baffled, the conversation had
left Ethert better disposed towards his bride, if
nowise more reconciled to the marriage that
wronged them both. He felt that he had never
fully appreciated her before; certainly he had
never given her credit for such clearness of perception,

for so much womanly courage. He knew
her to be, according to the received distinction, a
moral as well as a physical coward, far beyond the
wont of her sex ; afraid of pain or peril, more
afraid of ridicule, difficulty, or disaster. He knew
moreover that she was still more susceptible to a
kind of personal fear often mistaken for either
form of cowardice, yet distinct from both ; the
dread of human anger apart from its possible consequences
— an intense shrinking from harsh words,
from scornful sneers or stormy looks. She had
once encountered a dangerous fall rather than
interrupt her father's conversation by calling
Ethert to disentangle her bridle.

She had quailed before Sir Charles's sharp
words and sudden frowns ; and even her brother
had latterly been checked and softened by finding
it so easy to frighten and so hard to re-assure her.
And yet she had now ventured in pure simplicity
on a step from which even high-spirited girls
might have shrunk ; had pressed her point and
pleaded her cause firmly and successfully.
And again, gentle as her temper had ever
been, the sweet reasonableness, the unresentful
submission she had shown ever since

their marriage, and especially in this trying scene,
has far surpassed his expectation. But the more
he admired and approved her conduct, the more
cruel it seemed to accept a sacrifice that would bethe
heavier as her nature proved finer, firmer,
more womanly and less conventional, under
the circumstances which tried and developed it.

The subject was renewed when the trio were
once more assembled after dinner.

And when," said Lady Glynnee (the daughter
must still be distinguished by her Christian
name), " when am I to part with you
both T

Having evinced her desire to fulfil her part
and obtained Ethert's promise, Ivy had been
content to leave the rest in his hands. Not so
her mother. Nervously afraid of every possible
miscarriage, and restless perhaps under the
influence of an uneasy conscience, she was eager
to press Ethert home, to force him to a definite
declaration ; knowing that if hurried into action
or promise he could only answer in one way,
while if left to himself he might possibly postpone
and procrastinate till some disastrous revelation
or some actual quarrel should open the door

of total escape. If once Ivy left her home as his
wife, they could hardly be parted : till then, it was
always possible that even a partial discovery
of the truth should practically annul the
marriage.

It seems cruel to you, and still more cruel to
Ivy," Ethert replied ; " but Ivy refuses to recognize
the unkindness I am afraid she will feel but
too distinctly and too soon. But if she will not
allow me to go back to London even for a few
days and return to fetch her, I can only ask
whether she can be ready the day after tomorrow
?"

"I will take care that she can," replied
her mother : and so once more the subject
rested.

It happened that evening that Ivy, intentionally
or otherwise, had taken leave of Ethert
and retired from the drawing-room during her
mother's temporary absence, so that it seemed
natural enough that she should come to wish the
latter good night in her dressing-room. She
lingered, however, as if resolute not to withdraw ;
and seeing this Lady Glynnee dismissed her maid
as early as she conveniently could, though not

without a misgiving that some awkward enquiry,
some question or remark she would willingly
escape, was reserved for the moment when they
should be alone.

"Mamma, what had you said — what did you
write to Ethert ?"

Partly in surprise, partly in conscious recollection
of her own imprudence, chiefly perhaps
because afraid what more might follow, the
mother remained silent ; and seeing this, Ivy
continued :

I suppose, I am sure, you meant it kindly.
But — well, perhaps it is best ; best that I should
be taught at once that I must not ask advice
or help from any one, child as I am. It seems
hard, but I see it is right, it is necessary.
Mamma, when T . . . when you . . . you knew he
must do as he pleased, that you must leave me
to him. It is natural he should be hurt when
you told him that he was unkind, as if 1 had
complained of him. Mamma, I shall never say
another word ; but if I am weak or foolish — if
you fancy remember, I cannot take it kindly
another time. If Ethert could be angry with
me, severe to me, I should be sure I deserved it :

but even if I had not, nothing that he could say
or do could be so hard to bear as interference.
I could not bear . I would not allow any one to
plead with him — for his wife. Leave us to one
another, and do not speak again . . . unless it be
to tell me of my faults, to remind me why —
how much I owe to him, and how little I have a
right to expect."

Ivy's patient loyalty, her unaffected half-conscious
confidence in Ethert, saved her from much
immediate suffering and many painful doubts
and apprehensions. It was but for a moment
that she had been forced to suspect him of wilful
evasion, of a desire on his own account to escape
or postpone the fulfilment of his bond ; and what
might have struck another as especially unkind,
at least inconsiderate — his omission to secure a
holiday, however brief, for the commencement of a
wedded life beginning under circumstances so
strange and trying — appeared to her simply in
the light in which he had chosen to present it,
as an inevitable necessity. Perhaps she fancied
that under her present bereavement she ought
not to enjoy or desire anything like pleasure-seeking,

sorely as she needed some such refreshment
of heart and spirits, and felt her
need.

Her mother for once was wise enough not to
enlighten her. To her elder experience and
cooler observation, it was evident that Ethert's
mood was one which it would be in the last
degree dangerous to embitter by remonstrance or
exaction. She began to suspect that, hurried
headlong into the first fatal step, he had reconciled
himself by a vague, half-formed mental
reservation which had thus far constantly failed
him. She feared that dislike to the marriage
was settling and hardening into direct personal
resentment towards his bride ; a feeling likely
in such a nature to be especially tenacious and
insuperable. And yet, half re-assured by the
remembrance of his life-long affection for his
cousin, and by proofs occurring from time to time
of the respect and esteem in which he still held
her — relying too on Ivy's charms of mind and
person, and particularly on an attachment which
Ethert could hardly fail sooner or later to
appreciate and return— she still hoped that she

had not, in securing her child's good name,
exposed her to the heart-breaking misery of an
unloving marriage; tried perhaps to see things
as she wished rather than as they were.

CHAPTER V.

LAST HOURS OF HOME.

IT was probably her mother's unusual restlessness,
rather than Ethert's shrinking from
an avoidable tete-astute, that disappointed Ivy's
intention to meet the latter alone at the breakfast-table.
The mother could not help discerning or
fancying something of nervous expectancy in her
daughter's manner; an impression which was
confirmed when Ethert appeared, by the rising
colour in cheeks now even paler than usual, the
unsteadiness, almost trembling of the small
hands busy with the breakfast-service, which
showed as much agitation as a young bride might
have been expected to manifest on the very
morning of her nuptials.

There was no corresponding sign of interest in
Ethert's manner ; his hasty salutation to both,

his immediate absorption in the newspapers and
correspondence that awaited him, were so exactly
what Lady Glynnee had been used to from her
husband and son that, except in Ethert, they
might have seemed matter of course. But
unluckily her nephew's somewhat punctilious
courtesy — the effect of a leisurely life and of
early maternal training — had, by very force of
contrast, made a strong impression on her
memory. Ceremonious she had been wont to
consider him, and she was instantly conscious
that a want of ceremony natural in another
was in him deliberately affected. It was not
meant to wound or slight them — the man
must be both brute and fool who would
bludgeon women with rudeness, when cool
courtesy may be made to sting like a horsewhip.


What did Ethert want to conceal? She
glanced at Ivy ; the agitation of hope or fear
was evidently changed for the comparative
composure of assured mortification. Could
they have quarrelled ? Had her child already
suffered for the provoking maternal interference
against which she had protested? If

VOL. II. K

so, as she had left the cousins engaged in
perfectly 7, amicable talk but ten minutes before
they parted for the night, Ethert must have
spoken or Ivy answered with very unwonted
bitterness or violence. Or had there been a
comparison of experiences ; had her misrepresentations
provoked some angry contradiction ?
Only her conscious insincerity could have
prompted such an apprehension. This most
dangerous form of conjugal quarrel was out
of the question in the present case. Ivy would
have believed Ethert's word against her own
senses : Ethert had said, in one of Ivy's last
school-room scrapes, " You will frighten la petite
out of her wits, but even then you won't frighten
her into a lier''

The mother was quite as nervous, as much
discomposed as her daughter had been : and it
was just as well that neither of her companions
had leisure to mark the sudden changes
of her countenance when Ethert unexpectedly laid
down the paper and turned to his cousin.

The day does not promise well, Ivy ; and
unfortunately I shall be busy the whole morning.
In the afternoon I must ask you to give

an hour or so to some matters of business.
But in the meantime — after my work is done,
and before yours need begin — Ivy, can you
spare me the whole afternoon ? It is hardly a
reasonable request, when I have left you so
little time ; but — if you don't mind the weather,
or if it be at all practicable, I should like a
last ride with you. We need not go beyond
your own lands ; there are places I should like
to visit together once more."

But for the last observation, Ivy would have
forgotten altogether her conventional aversion
to be seen abroad so shortly after her father's
funeral : forgotten everything in the one feeling
that suffused her' cheek with colour and her
eyes with tears. That feeling was unmixed
delight, delight less in the prospect of a pleasure
she had not enjoyed for many weeks — a pleasure
never altogEthertt pleasant except in Ethert's
company, but with him the greatest of pleasures
than in the fact and the manner of the
proposal. She had never forgotten her bitter
disappointment, almost the first ever suffered at
his hands, when the promised Sunday afternoon's
walk had been, not indeed refused, but

K 2

completely spoilt, by his determined evasion
of the privacy that would have been its
charm.

That day had been an epoch in her heart's
history. From that first unkindness, that first
symptom of constraint and estrangement between
them, she dated the succession of calamities that
had since darkened her whole life. Till then they
had never hurt, never misunderstood each other ;
since then they had never met and parted
without some incident that had renewed the
pain, the sense of misconception or alienation.
Since then Ethert had never offered,
she had never again felt it possible to ask
for, such an invitation. Now that it was
not given as a favour, but solicited at her
hands, it seemed as if he meant that this
the last day of her girlhood, the last on
which the ways of old could retain their old
sentiment and significance— should renew the
pleasantness memories of the past.

Poor child ! how should she understand that
the past had been destroyed beyond retrieval
by the fatal hint of that still recent day ; that
much more or much less Ethert might be to

her and she to him, but the same never
again 1 The weather ! as if she would know
whether it were warm or cold, wet or dry,
while her eyes and heart were fixed on the
countenance that made the storm and sunshine
of her life — as if she would forego that ride,
refuse his invitation so spoken, though, in
Luther's phrase, " it should rain Duke Georges,"
or, what she feared infinitely more, newts and
black-beetles ! She forgot to answer, but Ethert
at least could not misread the expression of her
countenance, and was deeply touched, not more
by the evidence it afforded of the present
pleasure he had given than by the recollection
of pain to which that pleasure bore conclusive
testimony.

She was ready half an hour before the time
he had fixed, but had tact to spare him the
mortification of having kept her waiting, the
necessity of an apology. But, watching from
her window as the horses were brought round,
her figure caught his eye, and he knew at once
what her eagerness for the promised pleasure
had been — how profound would presently be
her indifference to the threatening of the sky.

It might pour if it pleased when once they had
gone too far to turn back : all she feared, had
feared the whole morning with more than the
anxiety of her childhood, was that the rain might
come too quickly and too sharply to allow them
to set out.

Her favourite steed was little more thana
pony, and as Ethert swung her into her
saddle, just as he had been wont to lift the child,
the act and its associations so brought back the
old feeling of confidence to her heart, the old
look, the brightness of childhood to her eyes and
cheeks, that, looking into her face, Ethert almost
wondered at the change; was almost surprised
by the novel beauty of expression too often
banished by shyness if not depression, the beauty
to which happiness is more or less essential. Ashe
had promised, they did not ride far, but there
were several points within their limited circuit
to which he seemed to direct her especial attention
; neglected buildings, undrained fields, places
that evidently demanded the proprietor's care,
and, as he once or twice explained, no inconsiderable
expenditure. The rain came later
than it had been expected, but came at last

in earnest, and both were drenched to the
skin before Ethert lifted her again from her
saddle at the door of Glynnehurst.

Don't loiter a moment, Ivy, in your wet
things ; but, when it suits you, you will find
me in the library. I have one or two papers
to show you, and some matters of business to
which I must ask your attention before you
leave."

Throughout their ride his tone had been so
thoroughly natural and cordial — perhaps the
associations of the past affected him almost as
much as herself, perhaps he was consciously
anxious to make amends for inevitable but to
her unintelligible coldness — that she had returned
with a lighter heart than she had borne
for many a day. Something that might be
formal in his present request, perhaps merely
the strangeness of his direct proposal to consult
her on matters of business for the first time in
her life, somewhat startled and chilled her.
She chid herself, however, when alone for
what seemed so unreasonable a feeling, and
it was almost without apprehension, it was
certainly with a bright fearless look that she

came down an hour later to the proposed
interview.

Will you sit down, Ivy ?" he said, placing
her chair at the head of the writing-table,
where a number of papers formally endorsed
and docketed had been arranged. " I have
spent the morning with Mr. Lawson, and now
I will show you the results of our work. I
had meant that you should have seen him
yourself, heard all at first-hand ; in future I
hope you will do so. But I thought on the
whole it was better this first time to explain
things to you myself, and not to trouble
you with details. It will be easier for
you to understand these another time, if
you will trust me for the principal facts now.
See, these papers bear Mr. Lawson's initials,
though I drew them out for you from his
figures ; so you may yq\j on them, — unless,"
he added with a smile, somewhat forced — " we
w r ere both in a conspiracy to deceive you.
You will see exactly how your affairs stand :
the rental of the estates, what we think and
Mr. Brand thinks ought to be spent upon them,
what it will cost to keep up Glynnehurst under

your mother's charge while you choose to remain
in London, and what is left you at last to spend
there. I am very sorry it seems so little, Ivy ;
but there are heavy claims we can hardly
overlook or refuse, claims that, acting simply
as your guardian, I must feel bound to admit.
In truth, your father has done nothing for the
last five years, of all that the tenantry have
reasonably wanted, — the draining those meadows
on Porter's farm, the new buildings that were
promised at Elmdale and Weatherglass, and a
whole list of repairs in Stapleton. And you
see we cannot take up money 7 on mortgage,
since we must not raise the question which of
us has the right. Everything must be paid
out of income. It is for you to decide, Ivy,
but I think you would rather pinch yourself
than not do all that is thought due to your
tenantry."

"But, Ethert, what have I to do with it?
Of course I must know what I may spend on
all you leave in my charge. But why cannot
you tell me that, and only that ; give me so
much for the things I have to manage ? Do
you think I shall ask you why you cannot

give me more? What have I to do with all
the rest ? That is your business. If, as you
say, you had been my guardian, you would
not trouble me, consult me I mean, about these
things."

Yes, I should, Ivy, from the first. I should
choose to make you as fully acquainted with
your affairs by degrees as you would have to
be when my trust was over. But now you are
in some sense of age, if in another you cannot
be of age whilst I live ; and the less I take
upon myself in regard to your affairs the
better in every way — certainly the more satisfactory
to my feelings. Of course I will give
you all the help I can ; but it is your affair, not
mine."

Ethert, how can that be 1 You know . . . was
it not the very reason . . . was it not what my
mother urged — that then it would be yours without
dispute V

Did you think, then, that . . . that I meant to
take your inheritance? I thought that at least
was made clear ! If not, your mother has
deceived us both ; certainly she has broken
faith with me. I insisted that you should be told

the truth, on that point. I . . . consented in
order to secure your right, to secure the estate
to you in what seemed the only possible way.
Then, Ivy, after all, you think, in spite of
my aunt's promise, that I — that I married for
money !"

Ethert ! how can you ? Should I have
thought that if you had asked . if it had
been done before, if I had never known anything?
I know there was a doubt — a secret
that for our sake you wished to keep ;
and . . ."

She had great difficulty in commanding her
voice, and felt herself utterly unable to express
her meaning. But Ethert began to understand
the kind of deception that had been
practised upon both, and answered calmly, if
coldly :

"It is much the same, Ivy. You think that
I doubted, thought that the estates were probably
if not certainly yours ; at any rate did
not think — well, that I chose to make sure
of them in this way % No ! I will have no
evasion. You would not stoop, at any rate yet,
to say that that was my motive ; but you suppose

that that was the truth ; that I thought neither
your claim nor my own unquestionable, and
put an end to the doubt by — Is this your
belief, Ivy ? Answer in one word ; yes or
no?"

But, Ethert, I know you meant to spare
Mamma, to spare me — I don't know what,
and . . ."

Pardon me, Ivy ; answer my question !
I know," he added, with an effort not to let
his resentment seem to extend to her who was
in any case wholly innocent, " I know you were
perfectly true and unselfish; but I ask what
was the belief under which you consented? Did
you understand that I made a doubtful claim
sure, in my own interest, by marrying your
father's child? In one word, Ivy — yes, or
no?"

Ivy felt it very hard to give the categorical
answer required; almost sure that it must be
misconstrued, dreading that it might justify and
possibly turn upon herself the anger she felt
too plainly in his manner, but could not understand.
But this was the first occasion on
which the promised obedience had been demanded,

and she thought, " I must, I said I
would."

Yes," she faltered, " I thought so — was it
not true? Ethert, you know how ignorant and
stupid I am ; forgive me if I misunderstood
. . ."

That is enough, Ivy. Don't distress yourself;
the misunderstanding was no fault of
yours. I see it all now ; what you thought of
my conduct, and what you fancied you were
doing for me. That explains your saying that
you obeyed my wishes ! It is too late for
explanation ; you will know better one day than
to think that I would enrich myself by marriage,
even if ' little hand and mickle gold '
could have been frankly sued for and freely
given. The property is yours, not mine ; it
is yours to all intents while I Eve, it shall
be your own legally and absolutely afterwards."


No, no ! what do you mean ? Do you think
I did not wish you to have it ? I was so vexed
when I heard of Sir Herbert's will ; I knew
it ought to be yours. Ethert, don't you believe
me? It can never be mine, it must go with

the title. I could not bear to wrong any one as
you were wronged."

"There is nobody to wrong. The title dies
with me; and you— Sir Charles's daughter
would be next after me in the entail, if Sir
Herbert had settled the estates in the usual way.
You ought to be my heiress."

"Not if" — Ivy stopped, colouring painfully.
She knew that both baronetcy and estates would
descend to Ethert's sons ; now for the first time
it occurred to her who would be the mother
of those sons. She could not allude to the
claims of her own possible offspring ; and
another and prior question touched her more
closely.

Ethert, do you mean . . . Mamma half owned
that there was — that you might, would think
that the estates were yours : that the law would
give them to you. Do you think that would vex
me ? But at any rate they are yours now ;
surely it makes no difference whose they were
before ?"

No difference ! Is it the same thing
whether you were forced into this for my
advantage or for your own? The world will

say, of course, that I married a young heiress
too young to have a judgment or a will
of her own — for her money ; that I took a shameful
and dishonourable advantage — but you never
shall."

"Oh, Ethert!" she exclaimed, too deeply
shocked by this sudden insight into a new
aspect of the sacrifice he had made for her
to feel at once the sting of his last words.
If I had known, if I could have thought of that
but they cannot say it : no one who knows you
could think it."

T only know one man," he replied, " who
seems to doubt ; and every one else, in the
very words of their congratulations, implied
that I was a fortunate and enviable —
scoundrel."

Then," she said, with unusual firmness,
after a pause of a full minute, " let the truth
be told, Ethert, whatever it is. Let us bear
the shame that seems to attach to us, however
terrible it may be, rather than you should
submit to a false accusation, and one you feel so
bitterly."

I accepted that disgrace, Ivy, knowingly

and intentionally; it is too late to clear myself
at your cost, if I could ever have done
so. My bride's honour is mine, her mother's
reputation is as precious as my own mother's
to me. To let you be humiliated would be to
degrade myself."

There was something in this first identification
of their interests, in a higher and more
than material sense, that softened, and more
than softened, the pangs of wounded affection.
But Ivy felt extreme pain in realizing how
bitterly the outward appearance of their relation
had affected Ethert ; while to her feminine
simplicity, her almost childish inexperience,
the preference of his own dishonour to hers
appeared more generous than it really was.
She knew not what to think or feel, to hope
or fear ; she only understood that as his
sacrifice had been greater, so his bitterness
was deeper and more reasonable than she had
hitherto conceived. "Would he ever be reconciled?
What must be his present feeling towards
her who had cost him so much, and
could give him nothing but the love he had
not asked — had almost seemed to repel ?

Ethert," she said at last, in a voice
trembling with emotion almost beyond self-control,
" how little I knew what you were
doing for us— for me ! You might well revolt
from it, while you were too generous to
refuse ; you might well seem hard and cold !
I understand now why Ethert, if you
hate me, I cannot wonder now."

Her eyes were full of tears ; her tone,
attitude, colour, betrayed the passionate feelings
that could find no adequate expression
in words ; that were feebly represented even
in the appealing look into his countenance
which accompanied her last sentence — which dared
not meet his own, or read in his face the answer
it implored.

"But I don't, my little cousin," he answered
; lightly, because he dreaded above all
things such a storm of hysterical or sentimental
passion as must ensue if her self-command
were tried too far ; kindly, because
he pitied and really wished to soothe her.
Give me credit for meaning to do what
was best for you, as you wished to advantage

me. Well, do you understand?" after a
VOL. II. L

pause. " Mr. Lawson and Mr. Brand say,
and I think, you ought to spend so much on
the estates. Glynnehurst will cost so much, and
there is only the remainder for all your London
expenses. This account is quite simple, you see
do you understand it ?"
1 think so."

Well, and do you agree ?"
"Agree to what? What have I to do but
accept what you have decided 1"

"You have to judge whether you will spend
so much money on the estate as they advise, or
starve the improvements to avoid being tied down
to such close economy yourself. You must take
their word that the money is really wanted
here."

That sounds like asking me whether I would
do my duty ! Ethert, you know what I should
say ; but it is your business."

Then say it, Ivy. It is not my business,
and I cannot well urge you ; for I have a
direct though very remote interest in the
matter. I am your heir, as you are or should be

mine."

'■' Indeed, I don't understand."

"If . . Don't you know, if my uncle had
left no child, the estates would come to me ; and
whatever you spend on them adds to their value
hereafter V

"Ethert, that is too unkind! How can it
ever be more yours than it is ? I am very
ignorant, I know, but I feel sure about that
Whatever was mine is yours now, what was
yours is yours still. Is it not so ? Could you
not spend every penny as you chose, even if I
did not like it ? Don't tell me about the law ;
but, is it not so, Ethert? Well, then, why use
such words, when it is all words? Don't tell me
of mine and myself; it is yours, if you cannot
endure to say ' ours.' Is that only because of
what you say people think of you ? If that were
all, might you not speak kindly now we are
alone together ? And — if it were mine, are you
not master? Do I wish anything but to please
you ; or can I do anything but what you will,
even if I did not wish? Have you forgotten
already the promise you were so careful to
require V

Do you think, Ivy, that I ever dreamed
of turning that promise to profit ? You know

L 2

better. But we will not quarrel — that was the
one thing I did quean to make impossible. You
see what will be left for all London expenses.
It is little enough; it will take one-fourth, I
suppose, to pay the rent of a furnished house
and the cost of your carriage. It will be different
from this, from anything you had a right to
expect. But you see here in this account that
that" — pointing to the total in question — "is
all that is left us?" The pronoun, used in very
reluctant compliance with her reasonable remonstrances,
gave her a new glimpse of his
meaning on a point she had distinctly misunderstood.


Left us ? Please don't be angry, Ethert,
but I thought — of course you have expenses —
and that' pointing to a row of figures beneath
the one with which they were dealing:, "I
thought — do forgive me, Ethert, if I am blundering
— that was to cover yours."

It was impossible not to be touched by her
timid piteous pleading, more earnestly expressed
in her look than even in her words ; difficult
on the other hand not to be vexed at so
persistent a misconception of his own clearly

implied resolve. But the aspect of the mistake
that most forcibly impressed itself for
the moment on Ethert's mind was simply
ludicrous. The utter disproportion between
what Ivy accepted for herself and what she
would have allotted to him conveyed an unconscious
sarcasm on masculine selfishness, so
pointed in its unintentional irony, and so absurdly
out of place in the present instance, that
Ethert could not but smile as he answered :

' I never spent a sixth of that on myself,
Ivy — never had it to spend. No, I have nothing
to do with that. I cannot explain, except that
there are payments on your father's account . . .
which .which for the present you must continue.
I am afraid I must ask you to trust —
no, I need not, for these payments are made
through Mr. Brand, and you shall see his
voucher. Of every penny of your income, Ivy,
you shall have a full account."

My income ? Account to me ?" she repeated,
in a low sad tone, more of pain than of perplexity.
Then, struck by a new and yet
more painful thought, " Ethert, what do you
keep for yourself?"

What I earn, Ivy."

"And I think I know what that is; and I
know you provide for Meta ! And, Ethert, is
it true that marriage forfeits a fellowship ? Then
then you lose that by— on my account ! You
cannot mean that you will keep no part of all
this money for yourself; you could not be so
unkind."

"You forget, Ivy, how I burden and impoverish
you, if you must live in London on
what would make you rich here. How could I
reduce your means by another penny?"

"I see! I see — too late! You could live herein
comfort, far better than in London; you like
the place, the life, you have enough to do : you
know you are wanted here, it is your duty ;
and you are sorry for my life in town, and
hate it yourself! But you vntt be able to say
to yourself —what you would not stoop to say to
those who may misjudge you : ' I gain nothing
by my marriage in any case ; I should be richer
if I had given up all to Ivy as I wished todo'.
. . . And, Ethert, it is not that you are too
proud to touch a wife's fortune, though it were
all her own, if you loved her. It is . it is

that you will not touch what ' you married me
to secure to me;' you will not share — though
it really is your own, you will not seem to share
with a wife you . . ."

She could not speak the bitter word ; and
once more Ethert was simply compelled to do
his best to pacify her ; compelled b> sheer terror
of an outbreak with which he no longer knew
how to deal. It was not in his nature to stand
by in obdurate silence, an indifferent witness of
any young girl's real and bitter sorrow; certainly
not w 7 hen the sufferer w r as one whom he had so
lately been wont to coax and console in lighter
troubles. He could not now kiss away Ivy's
tears, and calm her sobs with caressing w 7 ord
and touch ; neither could he depend on his own
self-command if hers gave way. He dared not
trust himself in presence of an unrestrained
outburst of her pent-up passion of grief and
indignation.

Ivy, don't exaggerate ; don't make that utterly
miserable which as yet is only unfortunate. You
need not think that — what was forced on both —
was more repugnant to me than to yourself
Since I could not choose my wife, I may well be

thankful that the one I must accept is the clearest
of all I should not have chosen — is one whom I
loved dearly as a cousin and a friend ; one worthy
of a better man than I, even had I . . . . But, if I
give little, I will try to exact as little in return ;
and if I seem sore and jealous of my independence,
can you not understand ! Compelled to
take the hand without the heart, could I take
anything else? Could a man, with any manhood
in him, accept any gift from one who gave herself
under compulsion % Men are not so dull, so coarse,
Ivy; not so blunt but that we can feel how
much there is to make an enforced marriage seem
far more cruel, far more loathsome to girls than
even to ourselves. The } T oke shall rest on you as
lightly as I can make it press. Do not ask me to
add to its weight the galling burden of a money
obligation."

The words, however kindly meant, were most
unfortunately chosen. The thought that prompted
the latter sentences was so remote from Ivy's
mind that she failed altogether to appreciate their
general truth ; and only realized the terrible
hardness, violence of the language in which
Ethert, endeavouring to assume her greater aversion

to their marriage, implicitly avowed his own.
If no word be fitter to express a woman's feeling
under a really reluctant and repugnant union,
none can so sting and torture her, when even indirectly
and by implication employed to describe
the reciprocal feeling of the other sex. Needless
to say that this implied meaning had not been
present to Ethert's mind ; but, conscious how untruly
he described her feelings towards him, she
recognized the more clearly the hideous force of
the term which betrayed his antipathy. She
was too deeply pained, shocked, wounded to attempt
reply ; and there was something in the
supposed revelation —the more fearful that she
was aware that it had hardly been intended —
which made even tears impossible.

"May I go now?" she asked, rising and half
turning from him ; but not as it seemed intending
to manifest anger, rather to conceal whatever might
be the feeling of the moment. " Ethert, I know
I cannot have understood you rightly ; but I am
too much hurt, it seems too hard I cannot
ask you anything more now."

There is nothing for which I need detain you
longer. I am sorry to have given you trouble :

more than sorry if, as I fear, I have given you
pain or offence. Believe me, it was not my intention.
I ought not to have been led or driven
into speaking of — what is better left unspoken,
even between ourselves, while what is done is not
to be undone. I know that you cannot feel for
my position ; your own seems, is, from your point
of view, incomparably harder. You have been
very good, very considerate, in trying to ignore
these things ; in future, let us take them for
granted — in silence. Forgive me if you can ; the
truth is so hard, so offensive, that I could hardly
allude to it without seeming wantonly discourteous."


The last word perhaps stung Ivy at the moment
more than all that had preceded it. There was
a look not exactly of reproach, still less of scorn,
but it might be of wonder — a look that might
seem to say : rt How can you stoop to a word so
utterly out of place, so untrue to your thought ?"
in her eyes, as she turned them upon him for one
moment, while he held the door for her ; and it
was not till they were compelled to meet at the
dinner-table that he saw Ivy again that day.

That evening — the last her daughter was to

spend with her in the home of her childhood, the
eve of their first parting — Lady Glynnee was naturally
disposed to linger longer with her in the
drawing-room ; naturally on her guard against an
inclination she could not but feel to he somewhat
selfish. But once more she found, after a brief
absence on some matter of detail connected with
the preparations for Ivy's departure, that the
latter had escaped to her own room. Then for
the first time occurred to her mind a suspicion,
which instinct rather than reflection deepened into
conviction, that Ivy had deliberately, ever since
the first night of Ethert's return, avoided alike
the morning greeting and the evening parting in
her mother's presence. It could hardly be mere
shyness ; the cousins had been all their lives on
terms of intimacy more affectionate than, so far
as she had seen, appeared to exist between them
now. She would fain have persuaded herself to
the contrary, but could not help feeling reluctantly
sure that, in thus evading her mother's observation,
Ivy had sought an opportunity not of winning
a momentary tenderness, but of concealing its
absence. She could not resist the temptation to
profit by the motive, whatever it was, which left

her alone at the last with her nephew, in order
once more to plead her daughter's cause.

u Ethert, I cannot let you go without thanking
you for your kindness and consideration in sparing
me that hasty parting with my home of so many
years, which I confess would have been painful,
but to which of course all ladies in my position
must look forward. You have been better tome
by far than I deserve. I know you feel,
you must feel that if you are not, you have
the right to be bitterly resentful towards me.
But, Ethert, if you do resent, remember it must
be, it can be, only against me ; Ivy — you know,
Ethert— Ivy has done nothing that should displease
you. If she has erred at all, it has been
only in too great deference to her mother's
anxiety, her mother's weakness and fear ; and
perhaps too great a readiness to believe in your
affection, because it seemed, it could not but
seem, natural that you should return hers . . .
Ethert— you will be kind to her V*

Under the circumstances, it was not unnatural
that the mother's anxiety for the fate of the
child she had exposed to so much pain and peril
should find utterance in these repeated entreaties.

It was certainly natural that Ethert should be
deeply irritated by their iteration. Which
of the two, so far, had been unkind to
Ivy?

Aunt Caroline," he replied, very coldly, in
the slow hard tone of difficult self-restraint,
yon may have reason enough to mistrust me,
but I hardly discern the wisdom of expressing
your distrust so strongly — now. You knew me,
you knew my temper, you were aware what I
felt and what you were risking, when you chose
to expose Ivy to the chances of my humour, to
make her dependent on my kindness or unkindness.
It is too late to doubt and fear and
plead for her, now — unless — However ill she
may be treated, there is only one form of interference
that ever is or can be of service to
a woman, when once you have given her into a
husband's hands. If you are afraid for her, take
that course now — I will not dispute your right
or her pleasure — and act while as yet she has
suffered nothing at my hands."

The words were emphasized by a look that
Lady Glynnee failed to understand. It was not
angry, or even sarcastic, still less menacing ; but

it was grave and impressive ; the look of a man
who meant that his words should be heeded.
But she could not face it. She had never
dreamed of coming into such perilous conflict
with her nephew's resolute will as serious interference
between him and Ivy must involve:
she knew that she could not have induced the
young bride to rebel if she would, and she dared
not if she could. A quarrel or separation now,
before cause of dissension could have arisen out
of the incidents of their married life, could hut
defeat every object of the marriage ; proclaim to
the world that in the marriage itself the cousins
or one of them — had found something utterly
intolerable. The scandal would be the talk of
London — the favourite conundrum of every
drawing-room in Mayfair and Belgravia, every
smoking-room around St. James's — till its solution
was discovered !

Her look of dismay recalled to Ethert's memory
the considerations that his anger had for a
moment forgotten ; and he regretted what might
have sounded like a defiance to one so utterly
helpless.

After all," he added in a different tone, " as

you think it necessary to remind me, Ivy is
my cousin; it is to her only living kinsman
that you entrust her. If I make her miserable,
I can hardly be very happy. It is natural that
you should remember only how hard all this has
been on her ; that she, who alone is innocent of
all responsibility, must bear the chief share of
punishment. It is very hard on Iv r ; nevertheless,
if you mean to treat her as my wife,
you must accept the hardship as she has done.
Leave us, leave her to make the best of
the very bad bargain which was not her choice
nor mine."

CHAPTER VI.

TILL DEATH US PART."

A Most every incident of Ivy's first depart
ture from home was painful, inauspicious,
suggestive of evil to that superstition of sentiment
from which few women still capable of
sentiment, few lovers of either sex, are wholly
free. Every detail in the circumstances and
surroundings of this bridal journey was funereal
rather than bridal ; and to every gloomy symbol
without a cruel significance was given by
the inward dread that her marriage had been
scarcely happier in its meaning and motives
than in its external accidents. The scene was
so utterly unlike any similar occasion that
she had witnessed or heard of, fancied or
dreamed ; — I suppose even girls as simple and
childlike as Ivy dream of such things, imagination

supplying the place of experience,
and stimulated by curiosity rather than by
instinct.

It seemed ominous that she entered the
carriage in deepest mourning, the nuptial veil
heavy with funereal crape ; and perhaps the
very pains she had taken to soften the sombre
effect of her dress rendered her more conscious
of its inappropriate character. There was,
there could be, no gathering even of her
humbler friends and well-wishers, no open
demonstration of the goodwill, the sympathy,
the friendly hopes of which Ivy carried with
her as large a share as many a bride who sees
no shadow on her path, no cloud on the sky
of her honeymoon. Known for seventeen years
to every tenant and neighbour, servant and
labourer about the home she had seldom
quitted even for a few weeks, she was hardly
more closely associated in their thoughts and
memories with the father and brother she
had lost than with the cousin she had
married.

No man of middle age but had often and
often met them together on foot or on horse-vol.

II. M

back ; had watched Ethert linger by the child's
bridle-rein, while her parents and Charlie, impatient
of her timidity, had ridden on before,
guiding the little pony that was but too well
aware of its mistress's fears, or teaching her
to conquer it and them. Not a farmer's wife
but had seen them, returning from long rambles,
the boyish heir and the vigorous youth alike
muddy, torn, weary, the little girl on Ethert's
shoulder as neat and fresh as when they started;
had thought of this very marriage when the
trio, of late years, had called to enquire after
an aged mother or an ailing child, or come
in to rest after a summer stroll ; noting that
the young lady's hand always rested on her
cousin's, net her brother's, arm, and that, if
Charlie had been too impatient or too idle
to attend her, Ethert never was.

The unexpected and terrible death of the
natural heir had shocked and grieved them
all ; the sudden marriage had bewildered and
astounded them ; the ill-omened nuptial journey
called forth many a gloomy prediction or
conjecture ; but none doubted that Sir Ethert
Glynnee's accession would be the date of new

things, the beginning of a better time for the
neglected estate ; or that, whatever other clouds
might overhang the future of the young couple,
they were happy in the fullest mutual love
and confidence.

A few of the elder were sure that Glynn
was entailed on Ivy ; all the rest insisted
on believing that the hasty marriage had been
concerted in order that Sir Charles might
see his daughter secured in possession of her
ancestral home, safe under the care of
the best husband to whose charge she could
have been entrusted, and so might depart in
peace.

Therefore, as they drove slowly through
the Park and by the lanes that intersected
the estate on their way to the station, Ivy
became aware that they had passed one small
group after another of her own people; never
standing as if formally on the watch, always
seeming to be there by chance or by occupation,
but so many that no mere coincidence
could have placed them all on the same
route.

Quietly, unostentatiously, but with a mania

2

fest kindness of intent that touched her more
than the noisiest demonstration of enthusiasm
could have done, they took an affectionate
leave of the young bride and the new lord
of Glynnehurst. Ivy heard a hearty " God
bless you both" from one aged couple, whose
grand-daughter with her husband had assisted
them to a seat beneath a great cedar, just
where the road descended the cliff : she remembered
how she had last seen that group when
Ethert, as representing the House in her
brother's absence, had followed their son to
the grave: and after that she dared not raise
her veil or wave her hand, lest all should
see the emotion she would no longer be able
to control. But, ever conscious of his every
word and look and motion, she was comforted
and encouraged by seeing that her
companion had chosen to forget all that was
painful or exceptional in the situation, save
the recent bereavement that would have made
anything like levity or rejoicing out of place ;
that he answered each silent salute, each low-voiced
blessing, with a grave earnest kindness
of phrase or gesture that seemed to her

exactly suited to the occasion, or to what the
occasion would have been, if there had been
no deeper, more rankling grief in either heart
than those of which the lookers-on were
cognizant.

The last greeting was given by the stationmaster,
who for sixteen summers had been
wont to give Ethert a cordial welcome, and
valued his frank shake of the hand far above
"golden fee," as he closed upon them the
door of the compartment reserved by his forethought.


As the train moved, Ethert drew down the
blinds ; and for the first time since their
marriage, nearly a month before, the pair were
really and permanently, not incidentally and
for a chance half-hour, alone together.

Now, as it seemed to Ivy, her wedded duty
really began. Now, as Ethert felt, the falsehood
hitherto limited to the utterance of a
formal perjury became the burden of daily life.
It had to be dealt with, for good or evil, as the
foundation of a claim that must either be admitted
or denied; and he had not yet made
up his mind either to abide by or to denounce

the lie he had uttered at the altar. Before
the world, however, they were now bound; the
bond was riveted on both, no longer to be
evaded, no more to be broken without violence,
without shame and scandal; never perhaps in
this life to be wholly severed. And still he
was drifting, as he had drifted from the first,
save when his irresolution had allowed a feebler
hand to grasp the helm and direct his
course

But the moment had its immediate demands.
Something was due, in common courtesy, in
mere human kindness, to his companion. " It
was not her fault ;" and she must not
be consciously, intentionally punished for it.
But how to speak without lying and without
wounding, how to be at once true and natural
in a position that was neither . . . Well for
both that Ivy's sweet temper and absolute
truthfulness rendered her generous where other
women are exacting; just and considerate
where they only think of the consideration
due to them. She felt that Ethert must beat
least as much embarrassed as herself, since
his constraint arose from conflicting feelings

and wishes, her own chiefly from the perception
of his. She knew that she must
expect no demonstration of passionate fondness,
hardly even the kindness and confidence of
their eousinhood; and perhaps her strongest,
clearest wish was to make him aware that she
desired to exact nothing ; to show herself ready
to accept just so much of regard and tenderness
as he chose to give, and expect no more,
so as to remove that apprehensive reserve
which rendered him so much colder and more
formal, so much, less frank and kindly, than
seemed to her reasonable or natural.

He had placed her in the most convenient
seat by the shaded window ; she drew off, with
some half-superstitious feeling, the black glove
from her left hand, leaving her wedding-ring
and its pearl guard uncovered, while she shyly
watched his movements, almost fearing that in
such a trifle as the choice of his seat she
might discern some new sign of alienation.
She saw that the rings and the pretty, slender
hand they adorned had caught his eye — with
what effect she doubted, till he took his seat,
not opposite, but beside her ; the place he had

so invariably chosen in drives and excursions,
at the Lakes and at Glynnehurst, whoever
might be their companions, that she had felt
it a sort of usurpation if another anticipated
him.

This trifle, with such associations, gave
her hope and courage ; and very shyly, very
timidly, she laid the unloved hand on his.
She neither enforced the silent appeal by a
look, nor turned her eyes away as if afraid to
meet his own ; but her heart beat fast as she
wondered how this first advance would be
answered. She rather longed than hoped to feel
once more the gentle, close, somewhat lingering-clasp
she so well remembered. Was it possible
that he would retain the little hand in his as he
had often done when, in others' presence and preoccupied
with the elders' talk, he would thus assure
the child that her presence was not forgotten,
that any wish of hers should have his attention
as soon as might be?

She hardly knew whether she was grateful or
disappointed, could hardly interpret his thought
or her own, when, instead of that affectionate
pressure that had meant so much to both, he

lifted the soft slender fingers to his lips, and
kissed them twice or thrice. She had often seen
him so salute his mother, to whose distant
gravity such courtesy seemed appropriate — sometimes
his aunt, to whom he had always, till lately,
been sincerely attached ; but never had he treated
herself, nor, while she knew their ways, Meta,
with this graceful ceremony. Was it natural,
she asked herself for a moment, that the nearer
relation should render him more reserved ; was it
possible, as she had wondered once or twice
before, that the caress frankly given to the
cousin who had been almost a sister should seem
too familiar for the betrothed'? Perhaps; she
had never seen an engaged pair of her own rank ;
but surely such should not, would not have been
a lover's first kiss when first alone with his bride ?
No : she felt that it would have seemed kindlier,
more hopeful, if her hand had been merely
detained for a few seconds with the half-absent
familiar frankness of old.

"It is a strange and painful commencement,
Ivy ; I will not call it ill-omened, for you have
real sorrows in the past, real troubles to endure
in the present and the future, that need no

aggravation from superstitious fears or fancies.
Only — never suppose that I do not know and feel
how hard your part is— how cruelly you are tried.
You know why : and I dare say your mother
judged rightly for you — I hope so, I know you
thought only of doing your duty, and much more
than your duty, to me. Only do remember that it
was not I who called upon you to leave home today.
I never intended to hold you to any
promise you could wish to forget."

Ethert, why will you say such things ! Indeed
you shall not find your wife more
troublesome, more in the way, than the cousin
you never wearied of, never were impatient
with. At all events, do believe that I am
content ; I only wish to keep all my promises to
you, to make things as little unpleasant for you
as I can, if I cannot please you. The most cruel
thing you could have done would have been to
leave me — to show that you did not want
me."

Not that, not that, Ivy ! I felt I had no
right— it was too hard upon you," he replied,
in a tone whose mingled resentment, compassion,
and remorse she failed to distinguish.

But — I suppose it had to be — only remember,
I never wish you to give up your own wishes
or feelings to mine, unless I tell you it is necessary
; and I will do my utmost to render your
life endurable. My leisure shall be at your
command, and yours you will employ as you
please : — you would never wish to do what I
should be forced to object to as unsafe or unbecoming."


Ivy's heart sank for a moment, more oppressed
perhaps by what she did not than
by what she did understand. Ethert assumed
that her unhappiness would be well nigh intolerable
; but from the first Ethert had seemed,
if not to pity her over much, yet to pity
her amiss. If he did not love her, he certainly
would not ill-use or neglect her; and if without
his love she must be unhappy, she would
rather be unhappy with him than elsewhere.
But the persistent, the absolute conviction
of coming evil in his tone more or less dismayed
her. She perceived that he distrusted
the future as he resented the past. Fortunately
for both, she sought no explanation,
desired no insight into the mysteries of a

spirit evidently full of bitterness that she
only wished to soothe and soften.

She was conscious of one earnest resolve ; to
fulfil to the uttermost every word of her marriage
vows ; to repay Ethert's sacrifice, to atone for her
one irreparable fault, by a more absolute conjugal
loyalty, by stricter obedience, more patient
endurance, more vigilant if not warmer love,
than he could have expected from the wife
of his free choice — to reconcile him, or pray
God to release him. Of no other release
could she dream. She shrank instinctively
from hints that seemed to question her faith
or her endurance; to suggest some possible
treason to her inviolable obligation. She could
not answer, could not discuss them ; best
now and ever to leave them obscure, unheard,
unheeded. In this single-hearted resolve
was her strength ; in this wise and gentle silence
her safety under long and bitter trial. Her
voice was sweet and kind as ever, if it trembled a
little.

Your work is quite hard enough without
increasing your fatigue on my account. All I
ask is that you will let me try to be of use, of

comfort to you, as I ought. Of course you
want your leisure hours to be hours of rest.
Please do not fancy that I could bear to tire you
more ; that I will ask you to take me out when
you would rather be quiet at home, or that I
shall think it hard, sulk, or be pettish because
you don't propose it — if only you will let me help
to make your home comfortable."

Ethert was both surprised and touched. He
was assured that Ivy knew — she must know,
even if she had not been told— what an empty
falsehood were their marriage-vows ; he had
done and said little to soften the harshness of
that cruel knowledge ; yet from the first she had
only shown herself anxious to do a wife's part
with absolute loyalty ; she had given up without
a murmur the home he would not share,
and now thought only of cheering the dreary
life, of sweetening and lightening the toil, in
which he persevered chiefly that he might
not even seem to accept a favour from her
hand.

I cannot imagine you sullen or pettish, Ivy,
even under sore provocation. If you were, I
have learnt to smile — well, it would not be kind

to say at sulkiness, but— at humours more wayward
than yours have ever been. But I am
sorry and afraid for you. You do not, cannot
know how dreary is the life before you, even if
it were undertaken out of . . Well, I can
only say, not that I shall not complain — I
could never do that — but that I shall not be surprised
if, after a single week's experience, you
insist on returning home."

"Then, Ethert, Glynnehurst is home still?"
Ivy said, turning aside a sentence full of peril
and provocation with a tact born of absolute
simplicity, a perfect sweetness of temper, by
which Ethert was simply astounded. " I hope
you will let it always be so. If we can
only spend one month in twelve there,
you will call, you will feel that ' going
home ?' "

He wondered whether she had understood
the thought she so gracefully evaded, the suggestion
she had so completely inverted ; but
whether or not, he could not but admire the
exquisite taste and true feeling of the reply by
which the young wife had identified the interests
he had meant to dissever, and intertwined them

with the home which, in calling it hers, he had
so clearly renounced for himself. There was
more than pity and regret on her account — a
shame-faced look of penitence and discomfort on
his own part — as he introduced her to the abode
that was to be its substitute. He could not
silence the sting of self-reproach as he compared
the two. True, he had neither asked nor wished
Ivy to exchange Glynnehurst for Victoria Street ;
but he had so placed her that conjugal loyalty
left her no alternative but to share the dwelling
he would not give up, or tacitly renounce,
for an indefinite time, her position and her duty
as a wife.

Poor child !" he thought, as he led her in
silence up the stairs to the entresol that was occupied
by his chambers, " she won't bear it long.
After all, a year, long as it seems when the end
is not plainly visible, soon passes even at seventeen
; and less than twelve months will probably
see her sole mistress of her father's home, with
only the ring to remind her that her marriage
was more than an ugly dream."

He was genuinely sorry that her reception was
even more gloomy, more devoid of bridal cheerfulness,

than had been her departure from home.
The servants were of course in mourning ; and
the sudden sight of their sombre raiment sent a
thrill of painful apprehension — the strange feeling
inspired by what we call an evil omen — to
Ivy's heart. They were hardly less shocked by
the first appearance of the young bride in her
heavy crape dress and dense black veil. Five
years later, black may suit Ivy's peculiar beauty
well ; as yet, it gave to the slight form and girlish
face a look of absolute childhood befitting thirteen
rather than seventeen years, and had all the
especially sad and incongruous effect that attaches
to the deep mourning of a child. There was
everything in the entourage to depress Ivy, and
nothing to cheer her. Ethert had not intended
this : had he contemplated the presence of his
bride on his return to his chambers, he would
have taken pains to give them such brightness as
flowers and colours could afford, and to provide
obvious occupation for her too ample leisure.
From first to last, he would have done anything
to please and comfort — not the wife, but the
favourite cousin. But he had never so made
up his mind to the future as to prepare for it.

Till they stood at the improvised altar, he
had clung to the hope that some chance would
postpone or prevent the marriage. Till this
morning he had refused to assure himself that
Ivy would really leave her home with him —
she would at last be stung into revolt, would
give way to some explosion of natural displeasure,
would shrink from trusting herself
to one who did not affect to love her. The
one thing he had never anticipated was that
simple silent fulfilment of the unwilling compact,
which, with a nature like Ivy's, under
the guidance of her own principles and her
mother's self-conscious interest, was really
matter of course ; hardly to be prevented by any
means short of such actual repudiation on his
side as must absolve her, or such discovery of
the motives of the marriage as would have
driven her to consider release a debt of honour
to him. So he had drifted from one point to
another along the regularly indicated course,
without ever clearly considering how he meant
to act ; conscious of, perhaps relying on, only
two distinct convictions — his own intense and
increasing aversion to each successive step
vol. n. N

that bound the chain more firmly round him,
Ivy's silent and dutifully repressed but surely
equal repugnance and disgust.

"I am very sorry," be said, with genuine
feeling, as they stood in the dull-looking parlour
that served as drawing-room and library. "I
had never intended that you should come to
these rooms. It is not for long ; but at least
you shall have books — those are all political or
professional— and a piano ; we will see to that
tomorrow. And you shall have a carriage, of
course; unless you prefer to hire a brougham
by the week till we can find a house and settle
the establishment to your liking. But you will
have tea now ; and afterwards — would you care
to pay a visit to Covent Garden — the market,
not the theatre ? We can get flowers there,
which, arranged as you know how, will brighten
these rooms a little ; make them less like the
Courier Office, if not more like home."

A few weeks ago, Ivy might have been
more impressed by the unhomelike, dingy
appearance of the bachelor dwelling, and less
alive to, less comforted by Ethert's sympathy ;
if only because she would have taken that

sympathy for granted. Now, Ethert's feeling-was
the one paramount consideration ; the
question in which all her interest centred,
which she strove in vain to answer, while
deeply, painfully conscious that her peace or
wretchedness depended on its solution. The
darkest office-den would have been preferable
to the brightest home, if its gloom elicited
such proof of his kindness and concern. He
was really troubled, really felt and showed
compassion for the young girl he had brought
from the surroundings of Paradise to those
of Purgatory; and the kindlier tone and look,
the earnest seeking to cheer and comfort her,
would have reconciled Ivy to Limbo, if not
to the Inferno itself.

"I should like Covent Garden very much,

Ethert, if . No, thank you, I am not tired

at all , but I must not tire you, unless I
mean, if you have your work to begin afterwards''


Ethert started, and stood for a few moments
in visible confusion and dismay.

It is too bad, Ivy. When I told Estrange
that I should return this evening, I did not

N 2

mean that you should return with me ; and
afterwards I forgot to withdraw my promise.
I hope — at any rate I will ring for tea, and
take you to Covent Garden afterwards, before I
go down to the office. Do not, pray do not
think that I intended this, Ivy ; it would have
been an unpardonable discourtesy."

It was on other occasions unfortunate for
himself, perhaps for her, that Ethert could not
look a lie, if he were forced to speak one.
But now the discomfiture and confusion he
felt were too evident for distrust, even had
Ivy been less thoroughly trustful and unsuspicious.


Don't apologize in that way, Ethert," she
said, kindly, as he opened the door of the
sitting-room, and pointed out to her that of
her own chamber. " Of course your work is
the first thing, and I knew you could not afford
a holiday just now."

He could not but repeat his excuses when
she returned, her dress arranged with all its
usual indoor neatness, yet so that she might
be promptly ready for the proposed excursion.
But she gently interrupted him.

"I know you could not mean to treat me
unkindly. Of course I am sorry we cannot
spend our first evening together. But I could
not expect to have your company as in your
holidays at Glynnehurst. I hope you will take
one when you can, and take me with you ;
and meantime do you think I am not content
to be the companion of your working days, if
only you would let me help to make your
leisure a little more cheerful ? Of course I know
a wife cannot expect to have a man's first
attention, to have things put aside for her, as
you used . . . ."

She could not go on. She wished to express
the feeling of a contented and loving wife,
satisfied to share her husband's home, and
looking on his work, not as a rival, but as in
itself the truest of all attentions to her. But
the happiest bride could hardly give free utterance
to her affection unless her shyness were
encouraged, her faltering sentences filled in
and completed, by her husband's caressing
look and touch, if not by words of fondness ;
and Ethert did not seem even to understand
her.

"You think that marriage dispenses with
politeness," he said, with a somewhat forced
smile. "I am sorry that I seem to have given
some countenance to a common error. Ah ! you
are startled ; you have forgotten the London
postman's knock."

"No," Ivy replied, pleasantly, striving to conceal
her disappointment as she found her effort
so ill-appreciated ; glancing at the brown envelope
brought in on a worn and shabby tray : — " it is
a telegram, not a letter. What is the matter?"
for Ethert's countenance betrayed something like
consternation as he perused the message. " Is
it bad news, Ether

You are not used to London ways yet. A
telegram at Glynnehurst was generally of some
importance ; here it only means a letter that
has no time to lose. My instructions generally
come by telegraph. Read this, and say if
you can forgive me for having received it
to-day."

She complied somewhat reluctantly, and read
the words aloud.

' African debate very important — watch it
closely. Division will be wired about two ; be

here by twelve-thirty.' I don't understand it at
all, Ethert."

"I am ashamed to explain how ill I shall'
have to use you. Well — if you have finished, will
you still care to go to Covent Garden, when
T tell you what this telegram really does
mean !"

How can you ask, Ethert 1 No ; you shall
not tell me till we have started, and if you
find me child enough to be cross about it,"
she added, playfully, " you shall bring me home
and leave me at once."

Utterly unused to London, save on the occasions
above mentioned, and even then unused to
walk in the street, the crowd and noise frightened
and bewildered Ivy. But Ethert noticed, not
without self-reproach, that she did not, as had
been her wont, cling at once and of course to
the arm that had so generally supported her
when and where assistance was much less needed.
He was half afraid that the offer might have
been refused, and was touched by the simple,
cheerful sweetness of the look that thanked
him for it. But they had reached the open
grassy square between the Abbey and the Palace

of Westminster before he had found courage to
explain to her the meaning of the telegram.
Then as she asked, " Is not that Westminster
Hall ; and where are the Houses f" the word recalled
the matter to her mind.

Are you to go to the House of Commons this
evening, then 1" she asked timidly.

It is too bad, Ivy, but I must. And that
is not all. I shall not get back for many
hours'

Oh, Ethert !" she exclaimed, involuntarily
betraying her pain and surprise.

I don't wonder you are angry, Ivy ; and
I have nothing to say for myself, if you chose
to go back to Glynnehurst at once."

Ethert, it is not your fault — only I am very,
very sorry."

Her perfect frankness, her utter simplicity,
embarrassed and added to Ethert's self-reproach
as no taunt, no sullenness, no complaint,
however well merited, could possibly have
done.

It is my fault in great measure, Ivy. Sofar
as there is fault it is mine entirely. If
Estrange had thought you would be with me, he

would never have dreamed of sending me such a
summons this evening."

That is not reasonable, Ethert. I know you
must attend to your duties first ; I could not
expect him to think of me so long as you must
continue that work. I must not ask you
again to give it up; only — when will you get
back r

M I don't suppose they will divide before
two, and I shall not . I cannot possibly get home
for au hour after that," he answered, very reluctantly.


This time Ivy was able to suppress the natural
exclamation of indignation or mortified surprise ;
but by a momentary impulse she drew her hand
from his arm. It was replaced, however, in less
than half a minute, not because the crowd in the
Strand scared as they jostled her, but because it
was not in Ivy's nature to resent anything short
of obviously intentional affront by the slightest
act of coldness or discourtesy. A minute or two
had elapsed, however, before Ethert found courage
to say :

The debate between eight and ten is seldom
important, and now you are there— I used to

dine in the gallery at that hour, we have a
refreshment room of our own — Ivy, may I
dare to come home at that time for an
hour!"

Ethert, what words you do use ! If you
can, if you will — can you always come home
then? — and then we might have our dinner
together, at least."

The cost of flowers that at home had seemed
to cost nothing startled Ivy ; and, little as she
knew of the value of money, she could not help
remonstrating at the outlay by which in truth
Ethert was endeavouring to make some little
reparation, whether to her or to his own conscience,
for a neglect which if not actually
intentional ought to have been avoided — a call
upon his time which was not so unwelcome ashe
could not but tell himself it should have
been.

He could not wait to watch the pains with
which she watered and arranged the collection
of brilliantly coloured plants wherewith he had
filled the cab in which they returned. It was
with a nervous feeling of distrust and uneasiness,
as if during the interval she must have

repented of her pardon, that, soon after eight
that evening, Ethert re-entered his chambers.
But Ivy's smile of welcome was as ready as the
meal she had taken pains to have prepared
exactly for the moment of his arrival ; her manner
displayed as much anxiety to render his brief
stay pleasant as the pains she had taken with
every detail of the arrangement of rooms, now
very much brighter and pleasant than had
seemed possible a few hours before. The dinner
over : —

Must you go back now?" she said, as he rose.
I thought you said till ten, and it is only ten
minutes' walk, is it % Oh, I understand ! Of
course, after so long and tiring a confinement,
I know you want your cigar more than your
dinner. But, Ethert, you would not go out for
that?"

I did want it, I confess, Ivy, badly. But
the penance serves me right ; it would be inexcusable
to leave you a minute sooner on that
account."

"Why should you?" she answered simply.
"I knew Mamma had put a box of those
Regalia among our luggage. See, I have

found and put them ready for you. Now,
you will light one here, will you not?"

How few weeks had passed, as he could not
but remember, since, when courtesy or her own
playful remarks had caused him to lay aside
one of the same favourite cigars, his cousin
had herself thrust the abandoned weed between
his lips ! It had been her wont at that time,
whenever within doors or without she had been
permitted to remain with her brother and
himself while indulging in the habitual solace,
herself to select Ethert's cigar, carefully choosing
one free from damp and defect, and of the exact
hue he fancied as indicating the most perfect
condition. Often she had cut off the end before
giving it; always she had lighted the match
or spill, and held it at a convenient distance till
the weed was fully ignited. There was no sign
of resentment, coolness, or even formality in her
altered manner. It seemed rather as if shyness
and a doubt of her probable reception restrained
the old familiar playfulness ; prompted her to
hand the box for his own choice, and place the
strip of cedar, which even now she carefully
lighted, in his hand.

No, I will not smoke here, Ivy. The rooms
are small enough at best, and the place would
soon be even more unpleasant to you than
fumes of tobacco, the ghosts of past cigars still
haunting it, must make it even now ; though I
believe Edwards and his wife have taken some
pains to purify it in expectation of your
arrival."

Have you not observed the white curtains,"
she said, " which I have put up since we came ?
That change disposes of whatever smell there
was ; and, Ethert, you cannot suppose that
because I am here I could bear you to give up
your own habits, to go without the indulgence
you have enjoyed here as a matter of course.
Is it because of what I did not say, but you seemed
to think I meant — that men are not polite to
their wives % What did you say of ' the courtesy
that scorches like frozen steel V Don't you know
that nothing, not even rudeness, could sting like
these little ceremonious unkindness ? What
do you want to hurt me for, Ethert 1" her voice
quivering, her eyes filling with tear. " What
have I done ? If you can't forgive me for being
your wife, can't you forget it ? Surely I am still

the cousin you liked too well to treat even so
formally as Meta ; can't you let me be the same
still?"

"Only too gladly, dear little cousin," he
answered eagerly, touched by the pain he had
inflicted in mere perverse temper, and but half-conscious
that he spoke his mind aloud. Then,
startled by his own words and by her evident
surprise, he changed his tone, tempted for once to
an inconsistency of which he was half ashamed
even at the moment. " But — behave as my
cousin used to do ; give me the cigar as you did
before — thanks, cousin ; and once more, thanks
for your indulgence in a matter in which, as I
always feel, men are less than courteous to
women, and ladies more considerate than considered."


The table finally cleared, the gas lighted, the
lace curtains drawn completely across the window,
an arrangement by which, as Ethert felt, Ivy
added greatly to the prettiness and apparent
privacy of the apartment, she left the room fora
moment; and returned carrying from the
other sitting-room a small low rocking-chair,
which had always seemed to Ethert signally

incongruous with the rest of the furniture.


This was my own' she said, " when I was
here," as he sprang up to take it from her. " No,
Ethert, do remember it is my place now to
wait on you when you come home. Here by the
fire-place," she said, leading him to place the
chair she still held, so that as he resumed his
own place she sat almost at his feet, and could
look up freely into his face ; the light falling
upon her own, somewhat wistful, a little sad, and
perhaps somewhat anxious and perplexed. But
she was true to the proffer so unconsciously
made; no word or look reminded him that his
favourite cousin felt she had cause of complaint ;
she was perforce a little quiet, but not in the
slightest degree cold or sullen — evidently wishing
only to render the brief interruption of his
labours as cheerful and unconstrained as possible :
till he was unpleasantly startled by the sound
from the great clock that announced the last
quarter before ten. He had not thought that
now, in Ivy's company, the time could pass
so pleasantly, so very much as it had done
when six or twelve months before the cousins

might have been similarly for a short time
alone together.

Good night — it must be good night, Ivy, for
you must not attempt to keep my hours. If
you will close the double doors, I think I can
promise you shall hear no sound to break
your rest."

If she felt pain, there was now no look of
reproach or remonstrance, no glance that appealed
for more or tenderer courtesy of adieu
than was proffered. She parted from him
with nothing of resentful coldness, seeming as
if resolved simply to accept his mood, to obey
his wish and make their intercourse as comfortable
to him as he himself would permit. For
once, therefore, if her image haunted him persistently,
as it had often done since the possibility
of marriage with her had first been
forced upon his consideration, it was not altogether
an object of repugnance. For once he
did not turn as he had hitherto done impatiently
to any other image that fancy could
call up, to banish that which legitimately
claimed his thoughts ; and it may be that his
mind wandered more than once to the chambers

where her presence was so little welcome as
it had never done before; till the exciting and
impassioned debate absorbed, as is always the
case, all the attention of an eagerly and deeply
interested politician.

VOL. IL

CHAPTER VII.

UNA DE Milt IS.

''TTTELL, Ivy, that exhausts my list. Is

» » there any of these that will suit you. or
must we make further enquiry?"

Any of them would do of course, Ethert, that
you think we can afford; and some of them I like
quite as well as I suppose I should ever like a
furnished and a London house."

Well, then, will you choose, or must
we go back over those you think most suitable?"


"Don't try to make me choose, Ethert.
It was the same with the carriage ; you have
not given me any help — no, that is not true,
you have helped me all you could, have done
everything in taking trouble and telling me
what would not do ; but you have never told

roe, never let me guess what you like.
And yet you know, Ethert, the less I can
do to please you the more I wish to do what I
can."

The remonstrance was in this particular instance
a little out of place ; and Ethert,
conscious how persistent, how patient had been
Ivy's efforts to find something in which she
could gratify his wishes, how resolutely they
had been defeated, was glad on this one point to
feel himself in the right.

Ivy, these are all matters that concern you,
and you almost alone. It would be very unfair
if I were to bias your choice, and I see already
that if I did express a preference you would not
like to set it aside."

Well, then, you might tell me what you
think would suit me best; you know so much
more about it, and I know nothing except what
rooms look pretty and clean."

"I think then, Ivy, you will not like any
of those in regular streets. Nor is Bloomsbury,
I fancy, more to your taste than my own, while
all we have seen at the "West End are somewhat
expensive. The rent of the little house near



St. James's Park is no doubt as high in proportion,
but it will not cost so much perhaps in
the end as many of lower rent but greater size ;
and the out-look is pretty, especially from your
drawing-room and bed-room."

But, Ethert, I have been thinking — w T hy
should we take a house at all ? Why not be
content with, your chambers ? If they would
do for Papa all the time he was in London, —
and Mamma spent half of one session there
when he was ill and she could scarcely go out —
they might do for us ; I am sure I should be content."


"I should not be content for you. Well,
make your choice. Does that one seem to
your mind? Well, then, let us go back
there and you can arrange exactly what
you will do, and plan your household on the
spot."

"But, indeed, you must please do that forme.
You know 1 cannot tell what anything
costs ; and surely that is always a husband's
part. It is for you to say what I may
spend on each thing, and what for myself."


That last item at any rate, 1 distinctly 7 '
decline to settle, or even to suggest. It is
not for me to limit what I do not give ; but I
will, so far as I can, tell you what you can
and cannot comfortably manage, especially I
will guard you against the greatest of all mistakes
to which young housekeepers are liable —
forgetting what is called the margin. Arrange
your house, your own expenses to cost two-thirds
of what you mean to spend, and count that the
other third will not more than provide for
things you have forgotten or that occur unforeseen
I shall get rid of the rooms very
promptly. The demand for chambers in that
situation is great among Parliamentary officials,
counsel, and members ; and if you like to keep
Edwards and his wife, you could not have a
better beginning of a household — and she will
take, I doubt not, very much trouble off
your hands, and save you from very much
cheating."

Perhaps no young wife ever submitted so
cheerfully to the disappointment of her natural
expectations, accepted with such unaffected
willingness a smaller menage, a much lower

rate of expenditure than that to which she had
been accustomed and might naturally have
looked forward. The more conscious Ivy was
that this necessity was entirely of Ethert's
creation, the more distinctly she understood what
he had frankly explained, that at Glynnehurst
their income would have been ample for all
reasonable wishes, the more careful was she
never to remind him directly or indirectly of the
truth.

Her chief care in all arrangements, in all
the discussions in which whether he would or not
he could not but take part, was to suggest no
expense which he might have to pronounce impracticable,
to express no wish that he could have
the pain of denying ; and Ethert's own tastes
being distinctly simple and unostentatious perhaps
no young couple of means so much below
the lady's home-standard ever began their married
life with a more perfect freedom from
pecuniary troubles or difficulties, a more ample
margin for contingent needs or the fancies of
the hour.

It gave him no little gratification to assent
to, and it would have given him peculiar pain

to refuse on the ground of expense, any of
Ivy's timid suggestions, or enquiries whether
this or that little indulgence were altogether
prudent.

That no purchase, no pleasure could give
any material satisfaction to her was, however,
only too plain. She accepted, not merely
willingly, but with thankfulness in which something
of an effort might be discerned, every
pleasure that Ethert could propose; and he
was ever anxious to afford her every one that
his scanty leisure permitted them to share.

But without him Ivy would never go out ;

she would never accept an invitation where

his work forbade him to attend her; and

this determination, which nothing but a positive

command such as he could not venture to

utter would have overridden, confined her

necessarily to the house on nearly every

evening of the week, save the one for which,

always free, he had invariably provided some

form of amusement out of doors.

I must ask your pardon, Ivy," he said
one Saturday morning as, descending later
than usual, he found her still seated before

the urn, painfully keeping warm and as comfortable
as she could every article of a meal
that had been originally prepared nearly an
hour before. " I am shamefully late ; but I
was very tired, and this time I have overslept
myself. Pardon me, I will try that it
shall not happen again, if you will not consent
to breakfast by yourself at a more reasonable
hour."

Please don't ask me to do that again ;
I can't, indeed — unless you say I must. Do
you forget how very little I see of you, how
little I can do ? But I am afraid you think
too much of that," she added, remorsefully ;
that you make too great an effort always
to come clown, however tired you are, that
you may not keep me waiting. This is the
first time you have been unpunctual, and I
cannot but doubt that I am terribly exacting
when I remember how irregular my father was
after work less hard than yours. Ethert, you
are not well to-day do give up the
theatre to-night. We have not had one
evening together at home, and 1 am sure you
are not well enough tc enjoy it."

"Do not you enjoy it, Ivy?" lie said suddenly,
looking at her keenly.

She was well-nigh taken by surprise, startled
into an admission of the truth. She did
enjoy very much an amusement of which she
had known very little till now. But with all
its constraint and discomfort, one quiet day's
enjoyment of Ethert's society would have, she
felt, far greater charm for her; and his
question, the present languor and weariness
which he could not conceal, and the recollection
that more than once he had had
evident difficulty in keeping awake through
what seemed to her a most interesting
performance, gave her a glimpse of a fact she
had never guessed before — that these Saturday
evenings were sacrifices to her claims, not a
pleasure to her husband.

u Ethert, I thought, since you made a point
of spending your one free evening in the week
in that way — I thought you enjoyed it ; I
forgot how dull, how poor these things would
seem to a critic like yourself. If I had known
it was for my sake, I should have begged
you before now to stay at home when you

can. Now, do promise me; do stay this
evening."

I should only be too glad to indulge my
own indolent mood, Ivy. But it is too hard
on you, who have but this one night's pleasure
in the seven."

You speak so much of pleasure, Ethert,
and you seem to think that must be a lady's
idea of it. I have heard one or two ladies
speak in the same way, as if the pleasures of
their life were to be numbered by their parties
or their visits to the Opera and the theatre
and the like. I cannot understand it. According
to that I had no pleasure at all in my
life, except the little time that I was in
London before before now ; and I am sure
home, and our visit to the Lakes, were far, far
the pleasantness times I have ever had."

She checked herself and coloured, sorry she
had almost avowed a painful but what must
be a self-evident truth.

"Don't you know, Ivy," he said, smiling,
"the saying of one of the cleverest, perhaps
one of the wisest men of our own age, but
one very little known and very much underrated,

that 'life would be very tolerable but
for its pleasures V "

Then, Ethert, you don't care to go out ; you
have done it for me, and you would as soon
or sooner have stayed at home?"

This was not exactly true. If Ethert were
something more than indifferent to the amusements
of London life, yet, far more than the
fatigue and tedium they involved, he dreaded the
constraint of his home. He had not yet learned
to trust in Ivy's tact and endurance for the
avoidance of such painful scenes as the mere
absence of all pretence of love might well
provoke. And, feeling that this was perhaps
bis paramount motive — though he would have
considered every possible indulgence that could
be afforded her as a simple debt to Ivy — he
could not take credit for the unselfishness she
ascribed to him,

"Don't look too closely into motives, Ivy.
I must confess I don't enjoy the theatre as
you do; but do not be offended if I say
1 am sadly afraid that nothing else would
keep me awake on a Saturday evening ; and
I could not forgive myself the rudeness

of dozing through an evening alone with
yon."

It might seem that a bride so considerate as
Ivy — the more bent on proving her affection that
it was so persistently ignored, the more dutiful
that nothing seemed to be expected, that very
little was accepted from her — should have understood
in such a confession much more than
it was meant to convey. It was not for want
of thought, hardly even for want of experience
in Ethert's ways and character that she failed
to realize its full meaning. But she had seen
nothing of the working world, nothing above
all of the life of brain-work. She had lived
exclusively among those who are born to eat
the bread, and not to earn it. She believed
certainly that Ethert was, must be, overworked ;
she was most anxious to spare him, most earnestly
wished to persuade him to abandon labours
she knew to be severe and trying. But she
had no practical idea what over-work of brain
means, no notion of the symptoms that betray
it, so unlike those of physical fatigue. Above
all she knew nothing of the peculiar and
perilous connection between excess of mental

labour and insufficiency of sleep — the way that
each re acts to aggravate the other.

She had long realized that he seemed always
tired, that neither in spirit nor in bodily
strength, was he what he had been six or even
three months before ; but she supposed that
London life could not be wholesome, that a
man en gaged for eight or ten hours at a desk,
or in the far more trying atmosphere of the
House, especially by night, could not enjoy the
health, and energy' he had preserved amid the
Cumbrian mountains, or in the free air, the outdoor
work and sport, the quiet pleasant indolence
in which his holidays at Glynnehurst had been
spent.

It troubled, but did not alarm her as yet, to
find that Ethert was so drowsy on every holiday
evening, so languid morning after morning ; nor
could she guess how much of the irritability he
could repress, but not conceal, was due to the
combination of two trials, either of which maybe
endured alone, but both of which, at once no
brain has ever long endured — exhausting mental
work abroad with harassing restless heart ache
at home.

Before they had risen from table the second
post brought a letter for Ethert, from which — she
thought with some little embarrassment— he took
a small enclosure for Ivy.

From Meta !" she said eagerly. " Ah ! that
is kind of her ; I did not fancy she would write so
soon. I wrote to her : I hope I was not wrong,
Ethert. It was in the evening, and I meant to
ask you before I sent it ; but leaving it on your
desk it was posted with yours before you came
down, and — I forgot, or — perhaps I was afraid —
I am sorry, Ethert, 1 ought to have told you at
once."

"Why, Ivy ? It was no business of mine. But
it was kind and thoughtful of you to remember
Meta; and naturally she must be pleased and
nattered by your attention."

The tone of somewhat exaggerated, elaborate
deference, by which she had been more than once
reminded that the Lady of Glynnehurst was no
longer the young cousin whom Ethert had treated
with less ceremony than Meta herself, was
another of those changes that Ivy could least
understand ; so much easier was it to comprehend
and make allowance for the direct effects of resentment

and mortification than to interpret their
manner of working by contradiction in a mind
like Ethert's. Like all the ceremonious formality
that marked estrangement and distance, this tone
of careful respect grieved her not a little, but it
hardly admitted of deprecation or remonstrance.
She turned to the note :

"What can she mean? — 'I hope I shall see
something of you, though I know it can only bea
little, if Mrs. Glynnee allows me to accompany
her, as I think now she will You told me your
mother was ill, and I had fancied she could not
leave home. What is it, Ethert? Does she
mean to go abroad, and will she pass through
London ?"

Ivy paused, for as she turned to him for explanation
the expression of his face perplexed her.
She read there not merely pain and anxiety, but
mixed with these an embarrassment, almost
amounting to distress, that she could not interpret.
It no longer seemed strange that he avoided to
look at her; he generally shrank from meeting
eyes whose saddened expression conveyed a silent
reproach all the more felt because unintentional,
whose appeal or enquiry he could no longer

answer with the frank affectionate kindness
of former days ; but it was a new and strange
thing that he found so much difficulty in
speaking.

"Is she worse? Oh, Ethert, I am so
sorry !"

The words were spoken in a pleading tone,
as if she entreated leave to share and comfort
his sorrow, her eyes moist with the earnest
sympathy she dared not more directly offer.
Her experience of his temper was confined to its
happiest and its bitterest moods ; she could not
but be hurt and frightened as, at a moment when
most would have been especially open to sympathy,
Ethert's countenance set in its sternest
expression, and his voice took the cold, low,
measured tone she had learnt to connect with
strong feeling sharply repressed. It was one of
her most frequently recurring troubles that his
resolution never to express displeasure left her
to fancy it in every change of his face. She knew
neither how she could have offended, nor what,
unless it were some unconscious offence of hers,
could have given that manifest hardness to look
and manner.

Forgive me that I cannot show you my
mother's letter. She is ill; how ill I do not
know, but — I fear. Meta and I have persuaded
her to consult the only doctor who can do # her
good — if anything can do that now."

She had begun to apprehend or to feel how T
much suppressed pain and intense anxiety were
concealed under the few careful words and hard
accent; and was almost startled by the utter
change of tone when — turning as it were from a
matter concerning himself only to that which
touched her — he continued :—

So I suppose you may see Meta next week,
if you wish it. My mother speaks of reaching
town on Wednesday or Thursday."

If I wish it ? — Surely — Ethert, of course
they will come to us 1 She could not refuse you
that, especially if she is ill ; or" — as a new and
most painful thought crossed her — " it is on my
account that . Is it that she will not come
to me T

She could not control the trembling of voice
and hand, the quivering lip, the unbidden tears
that filled and all but overflowed her eyes : and

VOL. II. P

once more Ether t dreaded that the outbreak
he had ever since their marriage expected,
and so anxiously avoided, must come at
last. .

My mother would not dream of so wounding
you, so slighting me" he answered ; and Ivy could
not help wondering at the peculiar emphasis on the
pronouns that seemed so exactly misplaced. "If
you think fit to ask her, of course she would accept ;
but you hardly know how much you would be
undertaking, what a burden in so small a household
is the care of an invalid so helpless as .
I fear she is now."

Ethert, you don't, you cannot mean that you
would not — no, I know you love your mother ;
and it is our duty, of course. What do you
mean ?"

Is it your duty, Ivy ? At any rate I could
not ask you. . ."

Ask — for your mother ! — is it my duty V* she
repeated, at first simply bewildered. "Ah!"
interrupting herself, in a tone of profound sadness,
I understand now — It is always the same,
always 'yon,' 'yours;' never 'ours,' even when
you speak of our home . . . Have you breakfasted?

Then will you ring, and excuse
me?"

Her face was averted, and a desperate effort at
self-command so controlled her voice that Ethert
did not perceive the cause of her hasty retreat,
till some twenty minutes afterwards she returned;
when all her care failed to conceal the traces of
bitter weeping, and scarcely availed to restrain
the utterance of passionate feeling, the impulses of
a spirit wounded to the quick, as she asked in a
low tone : —

"May I write at once, then, and ask your
mother and Meta to come to us and stay with us
as long as they can remain in town ? Ethert, I
had no idea I had so behaved that you could
doubt "

Thank you, Ivy. It is very kind of
you, and I am only sorry to put such a
burden upon you."

Ethert ! you . I understand you less and
less every day. I know you would do all you
could for your mother. I know how fond you
are of Meta; and . I did not think you could
doubt that I should wish to do my best, that

P 2

I should grudge any trouble for your mother, anymore
than for my own."

No, Ivy ! I could hardly doubt that you would
always wish to do, to be all that is best and
kindest. But . at any rate it was for you to
offer ; I have no right to expect anything from
you for me or mine. And — will you choose to
have Meta here? It is not necessary now;
though, if you had not asked her to come to
you, I could not have allowed my mother to
be alone. But I am afraid Meta cannot take
much trouble off your hands."

Has Meta done anything to displease yon,
Ethert ? I cannot understand at all. Surely you
wish to see her ? — And it would seem so. strange,
so unkind to leave her out. May I not ask
her?"

Whatever you can do for either of them, Ivy,
is the greatest kindness you can render me.
Thanks — you have taken no little trouble off
my mind, but I am afraid you are taking more
on yourself than you know."

Please say no more of that, Ethert. I
cannot bear to hear you speak as if — Surely,
either you think me utterly heartless, altogether

selfish and undutiful, or you forget that
3 7 ou are speaking in your own home, and to
your wife ? As for Meta — if you are willing,
you know it will be a great pleasure to me
to have her here— the only girl-friend I ever
had. Surely you know how fond we were
of each other — if I was silly enough to be
mortified sometimes when I found how much
more she knew, when she wondered that I
could not understand what was plain to her.
Then I may ask her too f

"Will you read my letter V she said, some half
hour later. " Please see that it is all it should
be. You know I was always a little afraid of
my aunt ; and she is so accomplished, so accurate
herself, I should not like her to be ashamed of
me now."

I am quite sure, Ivy, your letter will be what
I could not improve. No, I had rather not read
it; it should be all your own. But once more,
thank you."

Ivy felt that angry reproof or bitter irony
could hardly have stung so keenly as these
reiterated expressions of a gratitude evidently in
its way sincere — certainly not meant to wound.

She could understand by this time the perverse
pedantic consistency that refused at any point to
identify his right or interest with hers, refused
even to assume the master in the home maintained
at her expense. Such persistent, deliberate,
pointed manifestation of estrangement not only
hurt her bitterly, but made it difficult at times
not to despise what looked like sheer feminine
petulance in the man she had pledged herself to
honour. But she never fathomed, never even
perceived or guessed the deeper feeling that,
beneath all superficial irritation, lay at the root of
everything that seemed most unkind and unnatural
in his conduct and attitude. Resolved to
treat all his references to the compulsion they
had both suffered as mere ebullitions of bitterness,
mere outcries of mental pain, she had,
fortunately perhaps for both, missed the clue
that these would have afforded to his thought.
She never asked herself even what meant the
phrase most frequently repeated, "I cannot take
all where I give nothing." She never realized
that Ethert — utterly contemptuous of his aunt's
hints, and imputing her own deprecatory answers
at first, her timid though persevering efforts to

please ever since, to native kindliness and a sense
of duty that forbade her to speak a truth
apparently undutiful — regarded her assent to their
marriage as no less extorted than his own; extorted
by fear of consequences, as his had been by
chivalric pity and by his natural shrinking from
the only alternative.

It never occurred to her that he took for
granted, not only her original unwillingness, but
her present and permanent however carefully
suppressed longing for release ; that he was prepared
for a total separation when they should
have been long enough together to throw
curiosity off the scent as to the cause of the
rupture.

Her only thought was to do all he would
permit for him, to endure in silence all he gave
her to bear — to make his home comfortable, her
presence therein endurable to him while his
resentment should continue ; hoping, with frequent
intervals of despair, but hoping on the
whole with a confidence whose source she could
hardly have explained, that her absolute devotion,
her quiet, silent, loyal submission must at last
win back the old affectionate tenderness ; she

hardly hoped for more, or would have understood
why that should no longer suffice for her
happiness.

To leave him, under any provocation, was
the last idea she could have entertained. Deal
with her as he would, she was his wife : however
he might practically set it aside, she herself
would never forego her claim but with her life.
So deep was their contradiction of thought and
feeling, so profoundly did the cross purposes perceptible
enough upon the surface penetrate and
pervade their whole relation.

Called away for a while by household duties,
she found on her return that Ethert had for once
abandoned the effort to conceal his exhaustion
and suffering, and thrown himself on the sofa ;
too prostrate with pain and weakness to rise, ashe
would punctiliously have done at another
time, on her approach. Her timid endeavours
to find some means of relief, to render the little
kindly offices and soothing services of household
affection, were received in a manner and spirit
that greatly pleased and comforted her, so easily
was she influenced, affected by every sign of
feeling, kindly or unkind, on his part. Any one

else Ethert would have dismissed, gratefully but
decisively. In pain, and especially in depression
such as pain had now brought on, he always
preferred to be alone ; and Ivy's ministrations
were of course doubly unwelcome. But her
patient endurance, her persevering loyalty, had
so touched his heart, so appealed to his conscience,
so perchance recalled still cherished
memories of a pleasant past, that he could
not bear again to repulse or mortify
her.

True, he ascribed her attentions only to a
strong sense of conjugal duty, or to that native
feminine tenderness which could not leave
physical suffering ungenteel or unpitied. That
they could be the spontaneous impulses of
simple natural affection he did not dream ; but
he responded to them with less of formal
courtesy, with something much more like the
habitual kindness and sympathy of old, than he
had ever shown since their betrothal ; and this
gave Ivy courage for an equally unwonted effort
of frankness and confidence. Drawing near and
placing herself, as she had never done since
the first evening in his chambers, on a stool by

his feet, though unable now to look up steadily
into his face, she spoke at last in a low hesitating
tone.

Ethert, of course I know you have made
up your mind to punish me. I suppose you
could see no other way; for if you could, you
must feel that none could be so hard, that there
was none I would not have chosen rather than
this."

"Punish you! What do you mean?" he interrupted.
" Have I ever spoken a word of complaint
or fault-finding ? 1 take no credit for that,
of course ; you never gave me a chance, if I had
wished to do so. But have I ever given you
reason to think me displeased ; have I ever
denied a wish of yours, neglected your requests,
or spent an hour elsewhere that I could give
your

Ethert, that is not worthy of you. Do
you not know how deeply you have made
me feel your displeasure, dissatisfaction ! Yes ;
you have denied me everything I really wished
or cared for. But I know what my fault
is — too well ; I know I must deserve it, or
you would not do it. Only, however I may

deserve it, it does seem hard to be punished
without seeing an end, to suffer without
hope.

"I cannot help thinking how very differently
you would treat a child if she had
been ever so wicked — and I was a child
such a little while ago. Then, whatever I
had done, you could never bear that I
should suffer one half hour of pain and
shame ; then if you had been forced to
leave me in disgrace for a whole day, you
would have been quite as sorry as I, you
would have been so eager to forgive. Of
course it is different now. But even the
worst criminal is sentenced for so many
months or years, and knows she will be
released ; and yet I dare not ask you how
long, lest you should say you will never
forgive the injury that I can never
undo.

But do not be angry : indeed I did
not mean to complain, only to remind you
of something you said yourself one day.
Once when Meta was in disgrace, the only
time I ever heard you contradict or differ

from your mother aloud, you said — do you
remember — ' Household discipline should be
kept to ourselves : it is too bad to shame
her before strangers.' Ethert, you will remember
that, when they are here? For me,
I have never spoken, written a word, never
let even Mamma see or guess that I was
not happy. And now . . . you will spare me before
them T

Such a plea, preferred in such a tone, so
illustrated and enforced, touched Ethert to the
quick. Had the request, the warning been
needed, this implicit submission, this unresisting
unquestioning humility would have been
perfectly irresistible. Much more than that,
they must have quelled his pride and won his
heart at once and for ever— if he could have
believed in their absolute sincerity. But —
truth is not always plausible." That Ivy's
one thought was to accept with perfect lo T ally
her husband's will; to accept her wrongs whatever
they might be, in the only light in which
she could help acknowledging them in her
own heart as wrongs — that she was resolute
to recognize neither tyrannical caprice nor

wanton unkindness in anything Ethert chose
to do — this was the literal truth ; but a truth
which especially now, when feminine submission
and conjugal obedience are so entirely
antiquated and obsolete, might well seem
incredible. Ethert felt that if Ivy regarded asa
deliberate infliction the punctilious reserve
which covered his instinctive revolt from the
intolerable falsehood of their life, it must seem
to her not even ruthless justice but cruel and
most ungenerous revenge. She must mean the
reproach she forbore to speak ; and so her gentle
appeal, interpreted by the voice of his own
conscience, stung him with all the venom of
the bitterest irony.

You have a right to taunt me, Ivy, I
must confess. Only, remember, if I have given
you nothing I have claimed almost as little.
But while we have to maintain appearances you
are quite right — we should avoid all that can
enlighten others ; and as you remind me, you
have set a faultless example in that respect. 1
think you might have trusted me to follow it. I
esteem and respect you far too highly to slight
or affront you intentionally ; and if I fail inconsideration

before others, my failure would
grieve and shame me as much as it could wound
you."

Ethert, I am very sorry I spoke, if you take
m}' words in that spirit. Child as I am, I only
asked you to spare me at seventeen the humiliation
you could not bear to see Meta suffer at
eleven ; and I would not have asked that but
that I think, I do think you would wish to spare
me, if you remembered. I dare say men don't
see — but women would, and even a girl like
Meta. Remember they, especially Meta, know
what you were before — before you began to
be afraid to be kind to me. She would
see the change, and I hardly think you would
wish them to know — to see me suffering and
humbled."

Ivy, no other woman, no other girl even so
young as you, would dream of using such terms,
or regarding things in that light. You may
trust me to respect at least the name I have
given you ; to do and say nothing before others
that could cause you pain or offence. But
besides that, however much you must suffer in a
marriage made for you without or against your

will, you cannot possibly believe that I wish to
hurt, or, as you say, to punish you, where you
were not in fault ; and if I were so unjust and
ungenerous, you could not feel humbled by my
unkindness.

I never pretended that I could give you
more than the respect and consideration which
would be due to your womanhood, even if you
had not yourself so thoroughly deserved them.
If I have failed in either, if I have given you
cause to think that I could willingly slight you
or treat you discourteously, the disgrace, the
humiliation falls not on you but on myself.
But indeed, Ivy, I did not know that I
had ever been so wanting in loyalty or good
breeding."

Ethert, your own words say all there is to
say. "What I asked you was not to show, before
the quick eyes of a woman and a young girl
who know you well, that, as you say, you can
give me nothing but what you call respect.
Surely they need not know that? It is true
you have not failed — I wish you would. That —
that care to treat me as a lady, to show in everything
the same punctilious attention you would

pay to a guest, to a stranger, helps to make me
realize more what you really feel, and to make
your own feeling harder. I should have some
hope but for that. Better, if I may be nothing
else, to have been your slave, to have at least
so much of a wife's position as to be spared all
this ceremony and consideration, to be treated as
something that did at any rate belong to you,
that ought to be useful, that could not be a
trouble and a fetter. But forgive me, Ethert, I
know it is useless to complain, and I did not
mean to do so — only, you will remember when
they are here ?"

CHAPTER VIII.

APPEARANCES.

« T AM glad you are here earlier than usual,"
J- said Estrange to me. " I found out
yesterday that Lady Glynnee, — I mean ot course
our friend's wife, not her mother — has been
some weeks in town ; and I want you to accompany
me, as I of course must call upon her,
and you ought to do so. You know how
strangely and suddenly she was married,
poor child — beside what proved her father's
death-bed. Sir Charles was a good Tory,
but I never heard that he had any other merit.
I knew him pretty well as a politician : I
have seen both his wife and his daughter,
but when the latter (who can be even
now little more) was quite a child; a
sweet, quiet, pretty child, but always seeming
VOL. II. Q

cowed in his presence. I suppose her brother's
death made the marriage convenient for
family reasons. Now, I want to make her
acquaintance : but we are pretty sure to
find Glynnee there. Take off his attention
if you will, and let me have ten minutes'
talk with her. Something is wrong with
him : either his work is too much for
him, or there is worry as well as work.
If it goes on for many weeks longer I
doubt he will break down, and that I cannot
afford."

I was much touched and interested by
the quiet, simple girlish courtesy with which
the young bride, at first alone, received
us ; and there was something especially
noteworthy, almost affecting, in the mixture
of timidity, anxiety to please, and what
seemed almost like a wish to appeal for
some favour or consideration to her husband's
chief.

Sir Ethert speedily joined us, and I fulfilled
Estrange's injunction to the best of
my ability by inviting his attention to one
or two recently published works ; for which,

as entrusted with the literary department
of the Courier, it had been nay business to
find reviewers, and one of which I thought
he might have undertaken. He never looked
towards Lady Glynnee, as many recently
married men on such an occasion might
have done ; but I observed that his attention
wandered once or twice, as if he wished not
to seem to watch her, but at the same time
to be ready to support or relieve her,
should the conversation prove too much
for the shyness of one little used to
society.

Estrange, however, spoke to her in his
gentlest, kindliest manner : not so much that
which I had seen him assume towards young
and pretty women, whose attractions rendered
the attention they claimed less troublesome
or fatiguing than usual, as that I had
once observed in his conversation with his
own eldest, a girl then just emerging from the
school-room ; a union of gracious courtesy
to the opening womanhood, with simple
encouraging frankness, free from all assumption
of patronage, towards one who had

Q 2

not shaken off the timidity of childhood.


I know," he said after awhile, " I must
represent to you, not exactly your husband's
evil genius, but the tyranny and hardship
of his life. It is so hard that, sorely
as I shall miss him, I shall not pretend to
wonder, I hope 1 shall not be selfish enough
to regret when you persuade him to abandon
it."

He seems too much attached to it," she
answered, something of sadness as well as
of hesitation perceptible in her tone ; " and
I must not be selfish enough to fret or
tease him about it. I suppose it is not much
worse than was my father's life in Parliament?"


"Very much worse, Lady Glynnee: twice as
hard for him at least, and infinitely more
trying to you."

Mr. Estrange," she said, and I caught a
nervous look towards us (closely engaged as
by this time we were in conversation, a
conversation, in which I intentionally left the
leading part to Glynnee) as she somewhat

lowered her tone, always low and soft,
"May I ask one thing? Is not . have
you noticed whEthertt Ethert is not . . . has not
found his work very hard of late V 9

You mean," said Estrange, catching her
meaning at once, imperfectly as it had been
expressed, " whether he is not overworked
or ill? Yes, I have noticed, and I am
glad you can so far trust me as a friend.
I have had a long experience of journalism,
remember, and," he added, " you may remember
too, or perhaps you do not know,
I have" — and I who could not see his
face caught the intense though suppressed
pain in his tone — "a daughter a little older,
I think, than you can be yet. Since a time
some years before her birth, I have worked
much as your husband and I are working
now, and I think I could guess what he
finds beyond his strength."

Can you ?" said Ivy eagerly. " Oh, I
wish you would tell me." She checked herself
at once, as if conscious of indiscretion ; a consciousness
of which Estrange was evidently
anxious to relieve her.

A man can work, Lady Glynnee, while he
can sleep. For some reason or other, perhaps
only because he is not yet seasoned to our unnatural
hours and exciting work, your husband
probably suffers from sleeplessness or insufficient
sleep. Now I shall ask no question, shall say
no more. You have my guess and must deal
with it as you can. Only, there is one saying
which contains more falsehood and mischief than
all the proverbs which, from the time of Solomon
downwards, have compressed ignorance into
epigram — that six hours of sleep is enough fora
man, seven for a woman, and eight for a
child or a fool. This last is about the least
that will keep a journalist permanently in
working condition. I have known scores who
did with much less. I don't remember one of
them who has reached my own age — outside
a lunatic asylum. Of course Glynnee will
hear what I have told you ; but perhaps you
will find my counsel of more use if you can
have it followed before he knows who gave
it."

Sir Ethert accompanied us as we walked
to the office, and I had no opportunity for

some time afterwards of asking Estrange the
motive or result of his practical tete-astute.
But that evening Ethert observed his wife
busy for some little time with a pencil and a
sheet of paper on which she seemed to have
noted a very few figures that, considering
their paucity, seemed to trouble her
strangely.

What harasses you, Ivy V 9 he said, not as
in another might have seemed natural attempting
to look unbidden at the work that engaged
her. " You are not drawing, nor I think
writing: are those household accounts that
are too much for you ? You know, if I can
help you, I shall be only too glad to give
any assistance that may not look like interference."


She did not answer; her lip quivered, her
eyes were so closely fixed upon the paper and
she so shaded them with her hand that
Ethert became aware that she was seriously
troubled. It did not occur to him that his
own words, rather than the matter in band,
whatever it was, were answerable for her
distress.

"What is it, Ivy? If you have got into any
difficulty, you cannot think . . . you cannot be
afraid to trust me, to count on assistance from
me without one word of fault-finding ? One
expects a young housekeeper, and especially one
who has been left so much to her own guidance,
to learn management by mistakes."

Ethert, will you promise not to be angry —
I do not mean to scold but to be displeased — if I
tell you what 1 have just been doing ; what it
is about?"

I promise unhesitatingly, Ivy. I can hardly
imagine anything you could do that, as things
stand, would give me the right to be either
surprised or displeased."

Ethert, I had rather . . . rather you beat me
than speak like that ! Can anything be worse
than to be told that you will not express displeasure
if you cannot help feeling it?"

You remind me," he answered with a forced
smile, " of the old Russian story of the lady
who cried over the indifference proved by her
English husband's abstinence from personal
correction, and who found that, beginning

with the stick, he speedily ended with the
poker."

There might be worse things," she answered
gravely, showing more clearly in tone and
manner how keenly she was stung than she
had ever done before. " I beg your pardon,
Ethert ; I know that is not the way to get you
to consider kindly, to forgive what I wanted to
say. But — do you know how much sleep you do
get ?"

"I should know: — what has put that into
your head, Ivy ?"

Because I see what an effort it is to you
to keep awake. You would fall asleep every
afternoon, if you were not so determined to
make me feel that you are more punctilious,
more constrained with your wife than you ever
were with your cousin, or, I should think,
with your mother. But, forgive me, I know
I ought not to have said that : only I don't
see how you can get more than six hours' sleep
any night but Saturday, and I am sure it is
making you ill."

"I must make the best of it then, for it is
all I can get," he answered wearily, but with

such quiet decision that Ivy, easily discouraged,
did not then dare pursue the subject. She had
tried in vain to win permission to adapt her
hours to his own. With more reason than she
was aware, that proposal had been silenced by
the only peremptory injunction that had yet
appealed to her promise of unreasoning obedience.


Perhaps' she thought, " his mother may
see, may be able to persuade him."

Had Ivy's experience of domestic relations
been somewhat wider, she would have perceived
at once how very little was to be expected
from maternal influence over a son of thirty*,
when she witnessed the meeting to which she
had looked forward with many mingled feelings.
The cold formal manner of her aunt, even
with her only child, the sort of constrained
respect which on Ethert's part either concealed or
took the place of filial affection, had more
than once struck her painfully, even as a child.
It seemed to her still more marked, still
stranger, when for the first time her husband
received his mother in his own house as
the head of the family. A more experienced

observer might have known that where so
much formality, so little ease existed there-could
be little or nothing of that kind of
soothing insensible influence which alone
women can exercise over men, or even youths
once emancipated from actual authority.

On a matter of business within the range
of her experience, on a point of practical
prudence, the selection of a career, the amount
of trust to be placed in a stranger, man or
woman, Ethert would have thought no counsel
likely to be much more sound and valuable
than his mother's. To no one living would
he have been so unwilling to turn for sympathy,
or for that kind of advice wherein sympathy
is an essential element, Where his own health
or personal comfort were concerned, where a
domestic problem involving feeling as well
as policy had to be solved, in short wherever
sentiment, even of the simplest, most universal
kind, might come in, he would have turned
for help or suggestion to his aunt, to Ivy herself,
even to Meta, or, if that were possible,
to a male friend like Estrange rather than
to one who had never been able, perhaps had

never tried to pretend to feel with him on
any subject ; who was always the severest and
least appreciative critic of his writings, who
had done her best to curb — not so much by
ridicule, as by hard practical analysis which
annoyed and stung infinitely more than ridicule
itself could have done — her son's romantic
humour and mystical fancy.

The young wife was herself awed by the
recollection partly of her aunt's stern gravity,
partly of what had seemed to her almost more
than severity towards Meta; but she could
hardly understand how much the same influences
had acted on Ethert's character, formed his
manner and governed the tone of his feeling
towards his mother. Ivy could not believe
Ethert afraid of any one, if she could scarcely
suppose that any one could be at ease with
Aunt Flora. What took her more completely
by surprise was the meeting between Ethert
and Meta. That his Pearl had been the object
of Ethert's strongest and deepest interest, that
for years he had thought, cared, planned for her
as he had occasion to do for no one else; that
he had in his mother's phrase, petted and

spoilt her, no less than his cousin in the days
when she was simply the object of manly
tenderness to a childish favourite — Ivy had
always known or assumed. That his marriage
could make the slightest difference in his
feelings, or that he could dream of concealing
or repressing them for fear of offending or
wounding her — that he could fancy her jealous
of his regard for a child because it contrasted
with his indifference, or more than indifference, to
his wife— she could not conceive. That because
he did not like the bride who had been
forced upon him he should be less fond of,
or more careful not to show fondness for,
the orphan to whom she had never grudged
his affection, was a thought that would never
have entered her mind ; one which it would
have been difficult for her to understand if
suggested by another. And Ethert sufficiently
appreciated Ivy not to feel embarrassed by
any apprehension of ungenerous or unworthy
feeling on her part.

Such constraint as there was arose partly
from the recollection of the hopes he had
been compelled to abandon, partly from a

sense of what was due to Ivy — a sense the
keener that she herself was so unlikely to
assert her claims, or express resentment even
should she feel it. But after all the constraint
was far less than Ivy fancied.

Ethert had been especially anxious to receive
Meta kindly and naturally — to betray by no
outward sign the mental change she could
not and must not understand ; and had succeeded
about as well as conscious efforts to
be natural ever do. In truth, the young
wife forgot that Meta was absolutely a child
when she had last seen the two together,
and had been struck by the studied consideration
and courtesy that mingled with
Ethert's simple and sincere affection for his
orphan charge; nor could she have anticipated
the change of his manner towards the girl of
fourteen, remembering as she did the unchanged
character of their own affectionate and confidential
friendship till within a few weeks of
their marriage. Needless to say that the existence
of a somewhat similar reason for his altered
bearing towards Meta never occurred to her.

I thought," was her first reflection, " he

would have been so pleased to see her, so glad
to have her compare again for the very little
time he has to spare ; and he seems as
if he hardly cared, as if she were no longer
to him anything of what she used to be."

This reflection, made or rather flashing
through her mind in the moment when Ivy
watched her husband's brief greetings, was
interrupted. She had shrunk into the background
; and he, observing this instantly, with
even more of earnest consideration than of
formal courtesy, interposed at once to restore
her to her fitting place.

Mother, if I ask you to love my wife for
my sake, it is but for a moment. No one can
know Ivy and not learn to love her for her own."

A happy bride might have taken the compliment
for granted ; a more exacting or more
critical nature might have found the phrase
commonplace, the appeal perhaps a little derogatory
to her dignity. But to Ivy's ear, one
word was so significant that the rest mattered
little. That word, so often and so resolutely
avoided, now so warmly spoken, was sweet
and precious to her beyond description. Her

wounded heart and humbled spirit were
unspeakably soothed and comforted when she,
who had dreaded yet more her husband's grave
tone of distant courtesy than the cold glance of
the stern unloving eyes it would draw upon
her, she who had pleaded so piteously that her
sorrow or humiliation should not be exposed to
their scrutiny, felt herself drawn forward for
the first time within her husband's arm to be
presented to her formidable guest in language
that was almost fond, and by the name she had
longed for in vain.

My wife !"

The rush of emotion produced by that one
word, spoken in his voice, in a tone not of
reluctant acknowledgment but of firm assertion,
of voluntary kindness, almost overpowered her
self-possession. She understood even what was
not soft or tender in his manner ; a certain
emphasis of determination — felt that he desired
to affirm her claims against the possibility of
neglect or disparagement.

Ethert had determined that his mother's
contempt for the parents should not be extended
to the daughter. She might think

what she chose of the strange and hasty
marriage, but it should not affect her reception
of one who was as much as himself
the victim of selfish exaction. And his purpose
was at once secured. Ivy alone could
perceive the only symptom that belied the
earnestness of his words and demeanour ;
the absence of personal feeling in the caress
evinced when the fingers forbore to close on
the soft slender form that the arm embraced
so closely.

Mrs. Glynnee had known Ethert's ways
too long and too intimately to assume that
this introduction by any means disproved
his aversion to the sudden and inexplicable
union ; but she saw at once that he would
never enlighten her on the subject. Whether
he loved or hated his young wife, he was
obviously resolute to maintain before all
others her right to a wife's privilege, a
wife's position in the family of which he
was the chief, a wife's place everywhere —
save it might be in his own heart. The
mother understood her son far too well not

VOL. II. R

to accept at once and implicitly the view he chose
to present.

It might have seemed less necessary to conform
care full 7 to his tone and attitude had
she believed more confidently iu the thorough
sincerity of his language. He might have
been bitterly hurt by a slight in which
conjugal love would have made him a sharer ;
an affront to a lady he did not love, but
whose dignity was in his charge, he would
resent with the unforgiving sternness of
those for whom resentment is a point of
honour.

Ivy had not believed that her aunt's greeting
could have been so cordial, so nearly
affectionate ; and her simple unsuspicious nature
was forced to suppose that Mrs. Glynnee had
no conception of the real manner in which her
son's marriage had been effected.

Then Ethert turned to Meta, drawing her
forward with one hand while still holding his
wife with the other.

Meta, if Lady Glynnee had forgotten her
own child-companion, she would be kind to
mine."

Of all who beard it Ivy was the most surprised
and the most hurt by the form of the
commendation. The mother was simply baffled ;
unable to divine whether dread of Ivy's jealousy
or consciousness of memories that might have
excused it, love for and pride in his wife ora
resolve to exaggerate the outward consideration
that might conceal their absence, had
prompted a tone so unusual ; or what other
motive could have induced Ethert so studiously
to define the new relation of those who had
last met on equal terms as almost equally
children. She understood Ethert's temper, like
her own only when intensely embittered, well
enough to comprehend how likely he was in
torturing himself to torture those he best
loved. She guessed too that an unloving
marriage would not make him cling the
more fondly to other and earlier attachments,
but simply sear his heart against all affection.


Meta was for a moment keenly mortified,
feeling Ethert's determination to mark the
distinction between the wife and the childish
protegee ; but she felt it chiefly as reminding her

R 2

that her guardian's wife was no longer her
equal playmate ; and if hurt, dreamed not for a
moment of being angry with him for what she
supposed to be prompted by a simple sense of
duty. She could not like any one who stood
between her and Ethert; but her love had been
too childish, not indeed to admit of jealousy —
children can be well nigh as jealous as women —
but to allow of any sentimental self-conscious
pain or offence.

Wholly unaware of the half-real, half-fanciful
sentiment in regard to the future that
had mingled in his genuine present affection
for her, her strongest feeling was a disposition
to resent by accepting with even exaggerated
and formal submission, the pretension which as
she supposed Ivy had asserted through her husband
to the superiority of maidenhood, of rank
and age. Needless to say that Ivy had no such
thought, that she was prepared to welcome her
friend of some three years back as simply,
warmly, frankly as ever, and that the manner
in which Ethert reminded both of their altered
position only startled and embarrassed her.
But while attending her guests to their rooms

she exerted herself to the utmost to set Meta,
who seemed even more constrained with her
than with Ethert— and was really much more
so, since she recognized no change in Ethert
save the formality of that re-introduction —
thoroughly at her ease.

On her return to the drawing-room she had
to devote herself to her aunt, interchanging
with her slow brief sentences that left her still
able to turn her thoughts and eyes elsewhere
from time to time. Thus she caught her husband's
look fixed upon Meta as the latter
sat at some little distance from all the
rest.

The force of suppressed feeling betrayed
in that look perplexed and almost alarmed
her; not that she misconstrued or mistrusted
the depth and warmth of Ethert's affection for
his ward, but that she could not conceive the
motive for its stringent repression. Unhappy
enough to dread new trouble in everything she
could not understand, to connect with herself
every sign of constraint or dissatisfaction in her
husband's demeanour, she would have drawn
auguries of comfort from a frank display of his

pleasure in Meta's visit ; she was frightened by
a look which evinced more of pain and bitterness
than either of affection or interest. There
were actual tears in Ethert's eyes, the first she
had ever seen there, and an expression of sternness
in the whole countenance which she was
well assured was not intended for or provoked by
Meta.

What could have induced him to receive at
first so coldly, to introduce in a manner almost
suggestive of slight or warning, one from whom
his regard had certainly not been withdrawn %
And why was Meta herself so silent, so
depressed; so unlike not only the bright
self-reliant companion of the pleasant hours
they had spent alone togEthertt or with Ethert
and Charlie, but even the child, cowed indeed
into quietude, but evidently repressed with
difficulty and ever restless under repression,
that she remembered so well in the chilling
atmosphere of what had seemed to her her
aunt's downright tyranny 1

Ivy could not but fret under the necessity
which compelled her to give her chief attention
to her aunt, so anxious was she to talk toto

cheer, to make Meta feel, as she said to
herself, " at home with us ;" consciously from
affection and syrnpahty for her friend, unconsciously
perhaps from a timid, anxious hope that,
assured of her own kindness and of Meta's
comfort and satisfaction therein, Ethert might
be pleased with her ; might at least speak and
act naturally, without the guarded reserve
which, as the look she had surprised assured
her, was intentionally assumed, and assumed, if
not for her sake, yet from some motive that
regarded herself.

"Meta must think," Ivy said to herself,
"that she is not so welcome to Ethert as she
expected to be. Perhaps, though, it is only
what will seem natural to her, that he is
anxious about his mother, and, she will
fancy, more occupied with me. But I do
wish she understood how little I can be
changed to her, not as if I must feel something
so different, so much older and so much
less her friend and companion now that —
and she called me Lady Glynnee; but I daresay
that was my aunt's doing; it was quite
like her." And Ivy's heart almost sank. Sho

could not repent, but the duty she had
undertaken so loyally did seem hard and
alarming to her, as she became conscious
of the cloud of oppression and formality
that her aunt's presence must bring over
a life sufficiently clouded already.

We must make her welcome, must get
her to stay as long as London doctors can do
her any good, or as she can enjoy Ethert's
company ; and — oh dear ! what shall I do with
her?"

CHAPTER IX.

IN PACEM.

IT was an infinite relief to Ivy's mind when,
the next morning, Mrs. Glynnee, with
sufficient consideration and kindness, but quite
distinctly, made evident her wish to dispense
with the company of her daughter-in-law
in her visit to the skilled specialist to
whose professional care she had been recommended.


Ethert will take me there, if you can
spare him, Ivy ; and I hope we shall not
detain your carriage a couple of hours at
most — unless, indeed, it take Ethert on to
the city?"

"Will you, Ethert?" the young wife said.
She had almost let slip the fact that Ethert
had never availed himself of the convenience

or luxury appropriated with, careful exclusiveness
to her own use, and felt how natural
and yet how unfortunate such a slip would have
been.

I shall walk, thank you," he answered.
I should get very little exercise, Ivy, if I
allowed your consideration to deprive me of
the walk to and fro which is all I do
get."

"And Ivy," said her aunt, "I must not,
will not keep you at home. I could not have
accepted your invitation to burden you with
the formal duties of a hostess towards an
invalid. You must consider Meta and the day
at your own disposal, as if I were not here.
Ethert, you will take care that your wife takes
me at my word?"

Ivy felt it difficult to do this. Yet she read
in Ethert's face the conviction that his mother
meant what she said ; that she would insist upon
a condition that was no more than due to the
young and inexperienced girl who had volunteered
so dutifully a charge which might have
been made a most wearisome burden. She
delighted in the prospect of having Meta's

company, of enjoying for several hours of each
solitary day the society of a friend, not indeed
of her own age, but by intelligence, liveliness,
and spirit capable of almost equal companionship.


Ethert," said his mother when they were
alone in the carriage, " I am not at all sure
that I have done well in yielding to your and
Meta's entreaties. That the best medical
advice in London can be of service to me I
do not believe ; but I wished so much to see
you once more, to have one glimpse of the
home you have — of your home, and to see
with you the daughter-in-law who wrote to me
so kindly, so dutifully. But I am afraid
I have run a risk which may be cruel to
her'

<; To her, mother ? Nothing would have
been so cruel to Ivy as if you had made
her feel that you would not accept from
her what was so plainly the duty of a
daughters''

Ivy," she answered, lapsing into the
same cold, grave tone as of old, suppressing
or merely cooling from the warmer

feeling that had softened it in her first
words, " Ivy is evidently sensitive and impressible,
as she is very young even for
her years. She has seen death ; but from
what you have written to me I gather
that she has seen little of pain. And if
I can, Ethert, I should wish to return home
in time ; but till I hear what Sir B. C.
may say I do not know how long a time
may be given me."

Mother," said Ethert, greatly startled and
deeply shocked, " I hope, I must believe
there can be no ground for such fears.
But you cannot mean that if it were soif
there were danger so immediate, you could
dream of wishing to leave us on that
account?"

Not to leave you, Ethert. Both as a
man and as a son, I have a right to expect
from you the courage and the kindness to bear
what may be a painful trial as well as a trouble.
And' she added more gently, " I do not think
it would be a kindness to you to spare you
that. But I do feel that it is hardly right to

inflict on Ivy what may seriously affect her
health and spirits.

My son, you know I have never flinched from
any inevitable prospect any more than from a
painful duty. I have always, thank God, been
able to look firmly in the face the worst He
may be pleased to send me, and you cannot
think that for my own sake I have anything
to fear. There has never been an hour in the
last thirty years when, except for your sake, and
later for Meta's, the tidings I expect to hear confirmed
to-day would not have had more of relief,
of comfort, I might almost say of joy,
than of terror. That utter loneliness, utter
weariness of life is the price I pay for the
two years of such happiness as I think
are not often given to women like myself,
with little of that softness that men so
prize in us ; and," she added with momentary
passion — while looking with unusually
earnest affection into her face, Ethert's
eyes or fancy saw it almost transfigured
into tenderness and comparative youthfulness
as she spoke—" they were well worth
the cost. If I were sure that I am to

rejoin your father, I could only be impatient
for the hour, through whatever anguish
it may come. And if not, what can you
suppose there has been in my life for
thirty years that I should be sorry to leave?
Spare me and yourself those affectations or
exaggerations which the world thinks becoming
in these matters. No one can grieve very
deeply to part with me — I cannot help
feeling that I have not deserved that they
should. I allowed myself to be so hardened,
so chilled by that one wrench to my
heart-strings, that I have never felt or shown
that tenderness which wins the love as it
is necessary to the happiness of children. I
was conscious of that when I saw how
little reluctant you were to go to school,
how completely your return to me in the
holidays, your preference of the Lakes to
Glynnehurst was a matter of duty, or of affection
for the place ; and when you asked me
to take charge of Meta, I told you that I
undertook such a task most unwillingly. 1
doubted my fitness, my power to fulfil it.
I could not say so much on that subject

then as I can now. When so brief a space
of life remains, one cares little to conceal
what it might not be so well to speak if
our relations had long to last ; and I
felt then — I have felt more and more deeply
since — that I was even less fit to make
life bright and happy to a girl than to form
the character of a boy."

Ethert understood for the first time what
had been the motive of that which had
seemed to him a somewhat selfish, unkindly
reluctance to accept the charge of
a solitary orphan ; a mere shrinking from
trouble. He recalled to mind how unwillingly
his mother had yielded to his entreaties,
how decisive at last had been the consideration
that no other refuge but the utter
dreariness of an orphan asylum was open
to the child; and remembered with keen
penitence how completely he had misunderstood
her, how much injustice he had done
to what proved to have been a cold, somewhat
hard, but practical sense of duty, and
even a feeling of kindness.

Their conversation was cut short here.

Ethert's engagements would not allow him to
wait for the conclusion of his mother's interview
with the physician or to escort heron
her return ; and he felt more or less
consciously that it would he easier to her to
tell and for him to hear the verdict, when
some hours should have elapsed after it had
been hinted probably rather than announced
to her whom it immediately concerned.


Ivy meantime had been not a little disappointed
in that sole enjoyment of Meta's
company to which she had so eagerly looked
forward. Not that the presence of such a
companion was not a very welcome change
from the solitude o% her usual life, a most
grateful contrast to the awkward and tedious
duty which she had anticipated with an alarm
she strove to repress with all her po\\ T er of
will, as unkind and unfeeling. But it was
impossible to revive at once the pleasant sense
of affectionate ease, of frank native confidence
that had existed between the child of eleven
and the young girl of fourteen, scarcely less
childish. There was nothing of sullenness,

little even of coldness in Meta's reserve; but
that it was reserve, even when Ivy's kindness
was most fully recognized, was uncomfortably
apparent. There was no longer the unconscious
simple freedom, the sense of equality in childhood,
too equal to entertain the idea of
distinction of years or social position. In its
stead there was a conscious acknowledgment
of kindness received, that in itself mortified
and chilled Ivy's affectionate impulses ; a tone
of deference and respect, whether to the young
matron and hostess or to the wife of her own
guardian and benefactor, that was not less
manifest even when, in compliance with Ivy's
express deprecation, it was not evinced in set
formal thanks or in the name whose employment
marked so forcibly Meta's sense of their
altered relation. Not that Meta would not
talk, and talk with almost as much freedom and
liveliness, with even more intelligence than
of old ; but she would talk only as the conversation
was led by her companion, and
avoided carefully and absolutely all expression
of her own feelings, all reference to her own
daily life, except in so far as it concerned
vol. n. S

the protectress for whose health she was
deeply and avowedly anxious ; though neither
of the girls was at all aware how severe
and hopeless was the suffering, how near and how
sure the end.

Ivy was not surprised that her aunt
volunteered no account of her visit to the
physician, and scarcely answered, except in
such phrases as courtesy required, her own
timid and hesitating enquiries. But it was
not a little strange to her that Meta herself hardly
ventured on a question, and even when she
had been left for an hour alone with Mrs.
Glynnee seemed to know no more, though
her fears were evidently more distinct and
deeper than before. But though at first rather
repelled than encouraged, Ivy's attentions were
so kind, so constant, so unobtrusive, her dutiful
regard for Ethert's mother, her anxious care
for the invalid guest, so simply, so naturally
manifested, that, almost in her own despite,
her aunt's manner could not but soften towards
her. Whether from a sort of cold consideration
characteristic of her nature, or from some
sense of the necessity of solitude to herself,

the sufferer chose to remain much alone,
leaving Meta with her hostess. But gradually
her thanks for each kindly service rendered,
her answer to each timid enquiry, became
less formal and more kindly ; and Ivy was
almost as much surprised as gratified when,
on the fourth evening of their stay, her aunt's
good night " was accompanied by a caressing
touch smoothing her dark curls, such as she
had never seen bestowed even on Ethert or
Meta.

Good night. You have been very good
to me, my child ; and Ethert is more fortunate
than — Ivy, I am very glad to have
seen you ; God send you the happiness you
deserve !"

There was something of sadness and doubt,
nothing of enquiry, in the maternal blessing.
In truth, a woman's keen perception had
enabled Mrs. Glynnee to draw inferences she
would not on any account have betrayed to
Iv r , whEthertt for Ethert's sake or for that
of one whom, as Ethert had said, it was
impossible — except for her husband — to know
even for a short time, and not to loves

2

Prepared to dislike the daughter of parents
she not merely disliked but cordially despised,
to distrust the bride who must have been
more or less forced upon her son, she had
watched closely in the expectation of detecting
rather the reason than the evidence of
the coldness she suspected and almost assumed.
She saw no fault, nothing that even jealous
unfriendly construction could suppose a fault,
on Ivy's part, no omission of kindness or
courtesy on Ethert's ; but she could observe
what to a woman who had been, though long
years before Ivy was born, passionately loved
during a very brief but very happy union,
was hardly other than conclusive proof of
estrangement.

"Ivy," she said to herself, "is afraid— is ill
at ease : and it is not mere native timidity,
or even the shyness of a young bride,
deepened by all that must have been strange
and painful in the suddenness of her marriage.
If she loves Ethert— and I think she
does — she fears him; she feels no confidence
in her own position, no hold on him ; she
dares not show affection even if she is conscious

of it. She is strangely afraid of him,
considering how confidently she used to rely
on his kindness, and how fond he certainly
was of her. And that is not the worst sign.
Ethert would soon win her to perfect ease
and confidence — if he chose. But he is as
punctiliously courteous as if he hated her
profoundly. In passion, if not in love, there is
always something of roughness ; and there is
no shade of that — not so much as a touch, a
look, that betrays love's consciousness of possession,
manhood's sense of mastery — in Ethert's
manner with her."

Wiser than her sister-in-law, she knew that
a word, a hint to her son could only tend to
anger him : and that his anger must, intentionally
or not, be ultimately visited upon Ivy. If
she had pity, sorrow for either of the young
couple so strangely forced together, it was not
her son that she most compassionate, it was not
Ivy that she was inclined, however lightly, to
censure.

Ivy had no opportunity of conversation with
Ethert on the evening of the first visit to
the physician ; was never alone with him till

the fifth day of her aunt's stay ; when after
taking leave of his mother and Meta for the
evening as he was about to depart to his
usual work, he turned to her without the
formality whereto she was now so accustomed
that it had ceased to pain her as at first ; with
an abruptness which in that presence she felt asa
distinct kindness, an inverted mark of consideration
for her feelings, perhaps of compliance
with her request.
Ivy, I want you."

She followed him into his study and stood
silent, a little surprised and waiting somewhat
timidly to understand the meaning of the
summons.

Will you sit down ? I have little
time to spare, but what I have to say
will I am afraid trouble you not a little,
and I must not startle you if I can help
it."

"Oh, Ethert !— have I done anything!"
her first thought turning at once to the
probability of some offence unconsciously given
by herself — a symptom too significant not to
annoy him.

"Ivy, do you ever 'do anything' — you had
better not have done? Have you ever given
me occasion of displeasure, or have I ever
seemed to think so?"

Then," she said, remembering suddenly a
letter she had seen in her mother's handwriting
among those she had laid out for him
on the breakfast-table, " Ethert, is anything the
matter with Mamma?"

He hesitated, and she repeated her question
in a still more anxious, almost excited
tone.

No, no, Ivy ; and I am very sorry I
cannot show you her letter. I know it does
not seem kind."

"But, Ethert, you never do show me your
letters — and I do wish you would read
mine."

This one was entirely on business ; the
only one, I think, that has been written to me,
and not to you. But it was not of her that
I had to speak — Ivy, my mother lias proposed
to leave us."

She looked up, startled in spite of his
endeavour to avoid surprising or alarming her,

and once more afraid that some error of
her own was the cause of an incident
which, as he announced it, seemed to have
disturbed hin even more seriously than she could
understand at once.

Ethert, why ? If she is not comfortable
here, if I have seemed to neglect her, indeed
I have done my best ; it was her own doing ;
I tried to do what she wished or said she
wished."

Don't distress yourself in this way, Ivy.
Why should you, who have never yet deserved
or received a reproof, a word of distrust or
censure, fancy yourself to blame, or likely to
be blamed, as soon as anything goes amiss !
As you know that you have done your best
most patiently and most devotedly — your
nervous excuses sound like reproaches to me ;
show that you expect me to be unjust. And
yet — have I ever found or hinted a fault ! —
as I said before, 1 could in no case have the
right."

Ethert, that is the reason. As you would
not speak if you were angry, I never feel
sure "

"Trust your own heart, Ivy. My mother
speaks of you as you deserve ; it is for your
sake, it is to spare you, that she wishes to leave
us. She thinks, it may be with reason, that
in a few days more she might not be able todo
so ; and that — what may come at any time,
and must come very soon, would try you more
than she is willing to do."

Ethert, you don't mean that she is . in
danger . . . and that if she were — she would
leave us? She has been so calm ; and
though she did — has seemed to suffer, she
has said nothing. Surely she could not
be .?"

;t You do not know her, Ivy. She has
more firmness, more courage, more power of
self-suppression than I have seen in any one
else — with one exception ; more than any man,
but one, I know. But she does suffer fearfully.
It is for that reason, I fancy, that
she insists so much on being alone, that
she will not allow you to give her more of a
presence that she prizes, Ivy, very highly. And
she knows, she has been told, that she has not
long to suffer."

Having had little experience of her husband's
character since old enough to observe it, and
as yet having scarcely seen him under
trial that deeply affected his feelings without
irritating his temper, Ivy totally failed to
understand the depth and force of feeling
that was marked only by a set sternness
of look, a slow, deliberate, low utterance of
words that seemed in themselves cold and
indifferent. The announcement shocked her
all the more for the apparent calmness with
which it was conveyed, and some moments
had passed before her agitation was sufficiently
controlled to enable her to ask coherently
and earnestly :

But, Ethert, you will not let her go?"

"Not if I can help it — but, Ivy, it is for
you she feels ; and it is for you to tell her, if
you choose, that her going would pain you more
than anything that can happen."

But, Ethert, how can she think of such a
thing? Not only would it be cruel to you,
even to me, but how cruel to Meta !"

Again you do not understand, Ivy. If she
had gone, it was her wish to go without telling

any one but myself the truth, and to leave
Meta with you. That I could not allow ;
but it is like her, and like, very like one
other person I know ; one who said to me :
1 understand so well the last feeling, the last
impulse of the wild creatures ; to run away
and hide themselves to die — in secret.' "

"Ethert, what a horrible thought, what a
dreadful wish for a human being — to wish toto
die alone, without care or pity or sympathy !
Who could be so hard, so bitter?"

One, Ivy, who has more softness of heart,
at least for others, than many men and
women of much softer manner; my chief,
Estrange."

He could not have meant it !" Ivy exclaimed,
in utter horror; a horror deepened
by her sense of Estrange's kindness to herself.


The thought was simply terrible to the
young wife, clinging, dependent, and sympathetic
by nature even more than the generality
of her sex ; and there was a certain intense
and profounder awe in her manner, still more
in her spirit when, after Ethert had left her,

she returned to the room where now her aunt
was alone.

The cold stern calmness with which the
woman— accustomed so long to an almost
solitary life, a life even when not actually
lonely yet absolutely alone in the sense of
exclusion from close human sympathy— suppressed
all manifestation of feeling, made it
seem almost impossible to Ivy to touch on the
subject she could not leave unnoticed. Indeed
she had hardly power of utterance, and she
remained silent so long that Mrs. Glynnee at
last felt that it was easier for herself, strange and
painful as the position was, to speak the first
word ; the more so that the agitation and
distress she could not but perceive in Ivy's
manner rendered it impossible for either
to enter upon any indifferent topic.

You tremble, my child ; I am afraid Ethert
has been inconsiderate and hasty. He has not
learned from me to understand how women's
feelings need to be spared."

fc 'Aunt, you could not expect him to think

of mine when he Oh, is it true . . . that you

have suffered so all this time and would not

let fine know it . . . would not even let me
try to comfort, if I could do nothing for
you T

You could have done nothing, dear child,"
Mrs. Glynnee answered ; touched and moved by
that simple, sincere, wondering compassion, less
probably for her pain than for her loneliness of
heart, as she had not, perhaps, been touched by
human sympathy, moved by strong personal
feeling, since the one great loss that had
darkened her life. " And you do not know,
you can hardly have seen as yet, and perhaps
may never see, what such suffering is. I
have done my best to spare even Meta that
knowledge ; and Meta could doubtless bear the
sight more easily than you."

Oh, Aunt, how can you think so % She is
like your own child!"

Perhaps," the other answered, with a deep
sigh. "I am afraid my own child knew
too little of a mother's tenderness ; and
Meta has known nothing. I may wish
perhaps, now, I had been less stern, had
thought more of her present happiness, and
not believed so confidently in the possibility

and wisdom of moulding: her to what I
thought something safer and stronger than
the character that God had given her — of
anticipating the discipline of the world. But
Meta could only be shocked, grieved ; she
could not possibly feel the affection that, if
it makes the sight of pain more painful
perhaps at the moment, relieves, softens the
impression on memory. No, Ivy ! whether in
fact or not, in feeling at any rate, those who
have lived so much alone as I have must be
content to suffer and to die alone. I know
very well that you, like Ethert, thought
me hard, almost cruel to Meta. Ivy, if
she does not seem to feel much after
the first surprise, remember that and do her
justice."

Intensely affected— less perhaps by the stern,
strong sense of justice to others which was
so thoroughly in keeping with a character
wherein so much of masculine strength and
masculine hardness mingled with and concealed
what was truly womanly, than by the
repentance equally manifest in the calm, sad
tone as in the words ; the melancholy acknowledgment

that the solitude of spirit now
at last painfully felt had been bitterly-deserved
— Ivy looked with earnest, longing
eyes, eager to afford consolation, if only she
could know how, into the face from which
till now she had generally shrunk with more
or less of fear — fear so great as to produce
all but dislike. So looking, she became aware
of that which she had not previously noticed for
want of sympathising scrutiny, the presence of
sternly repressed pain.

"Aunt," she said, bursting into tears, and
finding in the intensity of her compassion
courage for an open utterance of feeling
which a few hours ago she could not have
thought possible in that presence ; clasping
and supporting against her own the thin,
wasted, quivering form, " how can you bear
to think, to feel so? And you are wrong —
Meta does love you. I remember Charlie
said, when you could not come to Glynn
last year, he had begged Meta and
Ethert to persuade you that she might come;
and Meta would not, she said she ought not
to leave you. Oh, Aunt Flora, do not think

we do not care, if . if we have not known
how . . . what to say."

"I should be the last," Mrs. Glynnee
answered presently, returning the embrace
with truer tenderness than she had often
shown or perhaps felt, " I should be the
last to mistake silence for want of feeling.
And, Ivy — forgive me if I speak
as if you could want counsel or warning
where your husband is concerned —
but do not forget that in his case.
Not only is he my son, but in all
that relates to self-control he is in great
measure my pupil. Never suppose that he
does not feel because he is silent. If
Ethert feels anything so keenly that it
really tries, tortures him, that it is painful,
unbearably painful, he will avoid to
speak of it at all. If a few days hence
Ivy, it can be no more ! — you find that
he does not speak of me, if from his
words and manner, from his absorption
in other things, his return to all the
usual duties of his life, you would say
to yourself that he did not remember or

that he never cared for me, then— my
son loves me better than I have ever
believed."

The end of that strong, sad nature
was as strange, as characteristic, as had
been the life. Meta, whose room though
close to Mrs. Glynnee's did not communicate
with it, had been too anxious to
sleep soundly through the night, and had
more than once crossed the passage to
listen ; but had heard no sound from
within the chamber where, while she
could raise herself from her bed to seek
whatever she might require, Mrs. Glynn e
would allow no attendant to remain. She
was startled by Ethert's step on the stair
at his usual late, or rather early hour,
when he was too near to allow her to
retreat unobserved.

Have you been with her V he said in a low
whisper.

No," Meta answered. " I dare not go in,
but I have been listening ; I have not heard her
move — She would not like ."

Has she been alone then all night,

VOL. II. T

Meta? I must take the responsibility if you
chance to startle or awaken her. Go in,
gently."

Meta obeyed, creeping in so quietly, with
such anxious care not to disturb slumbers she
knew to be light, that she dared not close
the door. Ethert therefore, waiting for her
report, was aware at once when no sound
was heard within the room, when she did
not return immediately, that something had
occurred. The first object on which his eyes
fell as he entered — Meta's slight white-robed
form crouched together, seeming ready to sink
to the ground, yet neither falling nor trembling,
paralysed or frozen in that attitude by intense
horror— prepared him for what he saw next.
It was not with him as with her the first sight
of death ; but of death so occurring and so
encountered few of us have had experience ;
lew men have courage and consideration to die
as the lonely woman had done. She lay as
in sleep, the form rigid, however not yet with
the stiffness of death, but with the strong
effort that had restrained the convulsions of
pain.

As in sleep— only, the face was set, the
lips drawn tight over the hard-closed teeth,
the hands— grasping one the post of the bed,
the other a portrait attached around her neck
by a black ribbon — were clenched as in the
resolve to control the spasm of suffering, or
the cry that might naturally have revealed
it and alarmed the house. Perhaps from a
strange kind of personal sensitiveness, shrinking
from exhibiting to others a spectacle of
suffering she could not wholly control, perhaps
as much from genuine desire to spare the
feelings of a girl so young as Meta, and one
so intensely sensitive as Ivy, the invalid had
chosen deliberately to pass through the last
mortal agony in absolute silence and solitude.


To Meta the mercy was perhaps doubtful.
The shock might have been less had she
been allowed to watch over and to soothe
the suffering of those long days and nights.
But from the time when her pain first
became unendurable, and her fate to her own
mind certain, Ethert learnt that his mother
had studiously excluded her adopted child on

T 2

every occasion when the severity of her
suffering must have made itself evident. Meta
therefore was taken utterly by surprise, except
in so far as her own observation had prepared
her, not for so sudden and terrible an
end, but for the possibility of a final sinking
that might be, probably was, not very
remote.

Ivy's feeling was perhaps less grief than
intense pity, a pity which none could feel so
deeply as the only person who had received
anything like confidence from the sufferer in
her last days ; to whom alone she had
betrayed the true woman's heart concealed,
almost crushed, under the effort to sustain
utterly alone the burden of lifelong sorrow.
Warned by his mother's words, she watched
closely, though careful that he should not
detect her watching, Ethert's manner and
bearing. Depression, sadness he could not
wholly conceal. He was silent, often absent
as he had never been before. But even during
the few days when a conventional propriety
he would not violate detained him from his
usual occupation, he took up as earnestly as

ever his favourite studies or the most pressing
part of the work he could do at home. It
was only such close observation as hers that
could have detected the slight but significant
symptoms which belied his quietude — the
repeated turning back to pages read in vain
while the mind was elsewhere — the sudden
start and shudder that told to what idea
of horror it had wandered — the absolute
unnatural abstinence from the subject uppermost
in all their thoughts, which must be
frequently forced on his. Above all, the
preference for solitude that, but for the
suggestion of the dead, would have seemed
to Ivy a fresh and most painful proof of
estrangement from herself, and which surprised
and pained even Meta, betrayed the real
intensity of sorrow proved only by its severe
repression; the depth of feelings which almost
any other man or woman would have felt ita
relief to show and share, which those who
are much less affected by them think it decent
to display.

These days gave her a totally new insight
into her husband's character — into that side of

it which so signally resembled the nature of
the only parent he had ever known. It troubled
her sorely, deeply tried her loving, pitying spirit,
that in this steady repression of all emotion,
this affectation, if not of indifference, yet of
absolute composure, there was nothing that
that seemed to invite, nothing that gave her
courage to offer comfort or sympathy. Only
once, when for the last time Ethert led in
Meta to look on the face scarcely softened in
death, with whose stern expression they were
both so familiar, did his wife find an opportunity
of tendering a proof that she could understand
and would have wished to share his
sorrow.

She had stolen into the room to place at
that last moment a little bouquet of her own
favourite lily flowers on the still breast;
and when she had done so, looking up into
his face, which bore at that moment a resemblance
she had never noticed before to that
now about to disappear for ever from their
eyes, something in its expression seemed to
demand, at least to excuse her intervention.
As Ivy placed her hand on his, Meta instinctively

released that which she held; and
not she but his wife drew him from the room
which he would not enter again while those
remains were still present with them.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

London : Printed by A. Shulde, 13, Poland Street.

i 7 'f I '

\ ^1

^ -

v ■ - -J.

a*,:



S.

\]r

I

v /

x : v

/f "/■

\m^k



^y

\\L

//

If

x.

X,V

/>.' ^l/t >\ ^\

3 0112 0464





Si \vr f^^'k

^l!f

A

'^ ^ P \'

'^^.

COUSIN AND Beside.

VOL. III.

COUSIN AND BRIDE.

BY

PERCY GREG

AUTHOR OF

"ACROSS THE ZODIAC," "ERRANT,'

&c., &c.

For Love himself took part against himself."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1^81.

.■lU rifj/iia reicrced.

CONTENTS

OP

THE THIRD VOLUME

CHAPTER I.

WIFE AND WARD.

A BOUT a week after the funeral, Ethert came
-^^ unexpectedly into the drawing-room, where
its mistress was alone.

Ivy' he said, his face half turned from her,
will you pardon my asking you to give me
half an hour alone with Meta this morning?
Perhaps, if you will not mind it, she had best
come to me in the study ; it will be easier and
less trying to her, I think, that she should hear
what I have to say at first hand from me."

*what is the matter, Ethert? You are not
going to scold her now, whatever she has done ?"

"I never scolded Pearl in her life, Ivy ; but
once, by the way, when she nearly drowned us

VOL. III. B

both. What is the matter ? Nothing that you
may not hear if you choose, nothing but what
she must repeat if you desire her, very little indeed
beyond what I should tell you if she did
not. But still I think, if you do not object, you
had better let me speak to her alone in the first
instance."

Ethert, if you would only tell me what I do
to make you speak in this way ! No, you never
find fault — I wish you would ; but you always
make me feel in fault, feel that you expect me
to behave so ill. Can you think that I wonder
what you have to say to Meta, or why you
want her to yourself? I have not dared to say
it, but I have so wished this last week that you
would talk to her. Of course you can sympathise
with each other in this sorrow as I hardly
can, though I feel so much for both of you. I
cannot comfort her or you as you could each
other. It does seem hard on her that she
should be left to me, that you never seem to
want her, never think how she must miss your
kindness after you had made so much of her for
years, ever since she can remember ; and now,
when she feels so sadly alone. I like her very

much ; I wish she could, would be better friends
with me ; but we were only together twice, and
then only a day or two at a time for a few
weeks — and of course she feels strange with
me. And, Ethert, I don't suppose you could
see it but it is a little hard on me."

*' On you ? I am very sorry if Meta has been
a burden on you. Remember I did not ask
you to invite her, and I will take care she does
not trouble you long — though "

Ethert !" she broke out, for once interrupting
him in her passion of distress and perplexity,
" why is it you never understand me?
Is it my fault ? But it is only now, only since —
Before, I could always make you see what I
meant, I never had to try ; you never used to
misunderstand me like this. Am 1 so heartless
? Meta and I were friends long before ;
was I not glad to have her ? Or is it that I
ought not to have wished for a companion
Ashen you are so much away? And, now she
is in sorrow, would I not take any trouble, if
only I knew how to comfort her? And, if I
did not love her for herself, she is your Pearl ;
it was you who first brought her to see me, and

B 2

said, ' Be kind to my little orphan for my sake.
Have you forgotten ? Or do you think I forget

that r

Is she trying to be better than a woman
can be?" wondered Ethert. '^Or is she only
striving unconsciously to deceive herself?"

"Ethert," she went on '^ don't you understand
that it is hard even on me to see to feel
what she thinks ? I see her wistful look when
lie knows you are at home and alone, when
you come in and leave us and scarcely speak to
her. I know how happy, how comforted she
would be if I were to say, ' Meta, I think Ethert
would like to have you for awhile.' I know she
thinks I might send her to you, that it is my
place, — your first words made her think so
much of that, — that it is I who will not, or do
not remember. It seems so unkind of me, and
I must not tell her that I dare not interfere. I
tried to leave her with you, but you have always
gone away at once, and I have thought
you were not pleased. And now, how can you
fancy I want to know? Do you think I stand
between you ; or how could I ask, and ask her,
what you have said ? She is your charge, not

mine ; except so far as you will let me love her,
let her be something to me because she was
your mother's, because she has been so much to

you."

'• Thank you. Ivy," he said, earnestly. Yet
the thanks, though coming from the heart and
warmly spoken, were but a fresh wound to her.
^'I thank you sincerely, heartily, for my own
sake, and still more for Meta's. If you will be
kind to her now and then, if you will try to do
what no one else now can — not to let her feel
that she has lost everything — you could do meno
greater kindness. You must see how hard
it is on her, even if you cannot understand, if I
cannot expect you to own how / must feel it ;
how difficult, how painful it is to give up a
charge that was one of duty as well as affection
— to be forced almost to ill-use her."

Ivy certainly could not understand, and
would have missed his meaning entirely but
for the suppressed bitterness, the ring of real,
intense pain in the tone of his last words. For
in this Ethert was perfectly sincere and loyal.
It was the wrong to another, the enforced betrayal
of a trust, that wounded him so keenly.

In manning, be had made up his mind at once
to the sacrifice, in thought as in fact, of all his
dreams of the future, of the present pleasure he
felt in the mutual affection between himself and
Meta. But now when dependent wholly on
himself, the cruelty to her — the injustice of
taking from her the protection that was or
seemed her right, on which at any rate she
had been taught to rely — was far more bitter
than any personal sacrifice could have been.
The sense of her unhappiness, her helpless
misery, and the consciousness that she must
think him heartless, stung him to the quick.

"Ethert, what is it? No, you would not, you
cannot, give up your charge, your duty to
Meta. It would break her heart as well as
yours. I know you cannot mean that, and I
won't ask what you do mean. I will send her
to you at once ; only, Ethert, you are so bitter
in pain and sorrow — don't let her feel that. I
know what it is ; but she is so sensitive, and
she has no one else."

Ethert's interview with Meta lasted longer
than he had anticipated. He had intended to
avoid any immediate encounter with Ivy afterwards

; aware perhaps of his inability to control
that bitterness of which she had too truly
spoken, if forced to any conversation with herat
a moment especially bitter. But it happened
that, before he could leave the house for the
evening, he was obliged to return for a few
minutes to the drawing-room where Ivy was ;
and though he spoke but few words, and these
mere matter of course, avoiding to look at her
as he spoke, she was keenly alive to the cold,
hard ring of his voice, the disturbed, clouded
face, still more the stern expression of resolute
endurance perceptible alike in tone, look, and
manner. She would, a month ago, have been
simply pained and frightened thereby; now, she
had learnt better how to read the countenance
of one who inherited from his mother's house
the characteristic trait, described by a famous
social observer in words that had become a
family proverb — perhaps a family boast — "A
Vipont meets sorrow like a personal enemy."

Ethert's perverse introduction still hindered
and chilled the intimacy of the two girls. Provoking
the one to studied formality, it intensified
the painful shyness and timidity that veiled

the deep personal tenderness, the warm affection,
the gentle compassion and eager sympathy
of the other. Without such warning, Meta
would have been quick to feel that her guardian's
wife, placed by her marriage, as it were,
almost on his own level of age and authority,
was not her childlike companion of three years
ago. Far too proud and sensitive ever in any
circumstances to expose herself to humiliation
by assuming a position that might be denied
her, she would certainly have given Ivy all the
deference that rank and maidenhood could
claim, till invited to resume her former intimacy.
After Ethert's pointed hint, which she
resolutely ascribed to Ivy's influence, if not to
her inspiration, Meta's respect had worn an air
of almost vindictive punctiliousness. Neither
ungracious nor ungrateful, she had contrived to
make Ivy's kindness appear, even to Ivy herself,
the patronage of superior age and station,
rather than the familiar tenderness of a friend.
Her reserve had re-acted on Ivy ; and the latter
now shrank from going at once to her guest,
as if it might seem more like curiosity than
sympathy.

Perfectly free from the slightest taint of inquisitive
or jealous feeling, Ivy could never
have dreamed that either her husband or his
ward could fancy her desirous of invading their
confidence, till Ethert's own apologies seemed
to take for granted feelings of which she knew
herself incapable. Fear of misconstruction
checked the natural impulses of feminine sympathy
and sisterly interest, till more than an
hour had passed, and Meta did not appear, even
when she should have joined her hostess at the
tea-table. Then Ivy forgot all such apprehensions
in the stronger, more real fear lest the
orphan girl should feel herself neglected. Shy
as she was by nature and habit — rendered tenfold
more so by the absence of ease and confidence
in her domestic life, the incessant fear of
displeasing one who would never express displeasure
— no selfish or self-conscious feeling
could countervail her paramount instinct of
considerate kindness to others ; and for Meta
consideration was softened and deepened into
anxious tenderness. She would not let the
servant carry her message, but went herself to
seek her young guest, first in the library, and

then in her own room. The door was fastened,
and her first tap was unnoticed ; to the second
Meta answered, but in a voice that seemed
tremulous and broken.

"May I not come in, Meta? I only came to
tell you that tea is ready. Will you not comedown
?"

I beg your pardon," the girl answered from
within; "I will come down in one minute, if
you will excuse me."

Not one but many minutes had Ivy waited ;
and, convinced by the voice and manner that
her first apprehension had been true, that Meta
was in distress and sorrow, that her interview
with Ethert had, for some reason or other, been
bitterly painful, the young hostess was about
again to seek her friends again to plead for admission,
when Meta at last appeared. Her eyes
were fixed on the ground, and she spoke in a
low voice, and with something like an effort,
though with forced steadiness, her apology for
delay. But when — sure now of the truth, and
yielding to the impulse of affectionate compassion
for one so young, so lonely, in which
reserve and shyness were simply forgotten —

Ivy took her by the hand and drew her to a
seat on her own sofa, Meta's self-command gave
way, and she burst into a flood of tears.

*' What is it ? What is the matter, dearest ?
I don't want you to tell me anything you do
not wish to say ; but can I not help or comfort
you ? Meta, if Ethert has said anything that
seems hard, if he has — he said he would not — if
he has seemed to find fault with you, do not
grieve in this way. You know he cannot, he
would not for worlds be unkind to you ; and it
would grieve him bitterly to think that he had
distressed you so much."

'• Sir Ethert," said Meta, and Ivy was struck
by the use of the title, though in her presence
Meta had carefully avoided the old familiar
form — " Sir Ethert is always as kind as he can
be, but — of course I ought to have expected it
but — and I am sure it did grieve him very
much. Don't tell him, please, Lady Glynnee. I
ought not to have given way, but it was all I
could do to command myself before him ; and, if
you had not been so kind, I should have borne
it better now."

"Meta may you not tell me what it is, what

Ethert has said? He cannot have meant to
hurt you ; and can you not, will you not, treat
me as a friend? will you not remember, and
speak to me as you used three years ago ? If
we are both older than then, Meta, the change
is greater to you than to me ; and surely you
need not mark as you do that it is three years
since we were friends and playmates ? Can
you not understand that it hurts me, is hardly
kind to me, when Ethert's favourite and my
own companion of old treats me as a stranger
might do — speaks as girls are never used to
speak to one another ? Do trust me, Meta ; let
me know what grieves you so. Ethert said
you might tell me; but I would never have
asked you if it had not made you unhappy. I
only ask that you will give me the power to
comfort you."

She had drawn the young girl close to her,
and, almost timidly, had laid her hand as she
spoke on the long, dishevelled, tawny locks,
and kissed the broad open brow. It pained
her that Meta, though she nowise repelled,
would not seem to return the caress. But she
was surprised and almost startled when, feeling

perhaps that she could not refuse to express her
sense of intended kindness, yet could not utter
it in words Meta, half turning from her, took
in her own and kissed the hand that rested on
her head.

What is it, dear ?" Ivy said again, after a.
pause of a minute or two. '' Surely you may
tell me some part at least of what grieves
you r

You know, of course, all that Sir Ethert has
said — at least, all that signifies," Meta answered
at last, 'what he intends, what arrangements
he has made. And that is all. It is wrong and
foolish of me to grieve in this way. ind you
will not tell him?"

"You are not afraid of Ethert, Meta?"

"Afraid? No. But he is grieved already,
and I should not like him to know how much it
hurt me, because he cannot help it."

"Help what, dear? I cannot think of anything
which should give you so much pain, that
Ethert would not try to spare you, or that he-cannot
if he will. If you fancy you have displeased
or grieved him, you may be sure it is
mere fancy. Have I not known all these years-betters

perhaps, than you — how much he has
thought and cared to please and spare you,
how much all your troubles as a child troubled
him, though he could not say so to you?"

*' I have no right — I ought to have none — it
must be. But it is almost the very thing he
was so kind, so careful, to spare me years ago,
and it seems — but of course he cannot help it.
But, Lady Glynnee, if I seem so weak, so foolish
I am an orphan, I had nothing else in the

world, and it is " She broke down again,

and Ivy quick by sympathy to perceive pain,
not intellectually quick enough to divine its
cause, was as much perplexed as ever.

*but, Meta, if you feel, as you must feel,
very keenly what you have lost, yet can you
not trust to Ethert's affection ? And can you
not believe that I can do something to make upto
you ; and will do all I can, for your own sake
as well as for his? Can you not think you
will be, in the end, as happy with us as with
her?"

Meta started.

Then you do not know, Lady Glynnee —
yes, but you must, as I ought to have known —

what Sir Ethert has told me this afternoon *? "

I have no idea, Meta. But of this you maybe
very sure, that you shall miss nothing that
Ethert or I can repair." She paused, as it suddenly
struck her that Meta's grief over the loss
of her protectress, though natural and sincere,
had not been so passionate, so inconsolable, and
that this was a newly-caused and probably self-regarding
outburst of sorrow. '^I cannot understand,
Meta. Is there something new, something
since your loss, that has so grieved you V'

"Ah! but think, Lady Glynnee, what a loss it
is! It is all — home, his care, his kindness as
well. And I am very foolish. Other girls, I
know, are not afraid of school, but I have
always been; and I think she would have sent
me, if he had not known that before. I wish
he had let her, now.^'

Ivy began to guess rather than to understand
the cause of Meta's distress, but remained for
the moment wholly incredulous.

You cannot mean, Meta — I am sure you
are wrong — that Ethert would send you to
school now f

Of course, Lady Glynnee. What else could

he do? But I ought but it took me
by surprise. I had not thought — forgive me, I
never meant to let you see "

I am sure you must be — you are mistaken
Ivy began ; then checked herself. Sure as she
had felt at first, felt even now, what Ethert's
real wish must be, she had no such trust in her
own knowledge as could warrant so positive an
assurance, no such hold on his confidence as
could give her a right to promise even intervention,
intercession, much less the reversal of
a sentence actually pronounced. " Are you
sure, Meta ? I can hardly believe it."

Sure., of course. Lady Glynnee. And, as I
say I ought to have known it must be''

*^I don't see why. But, Meta, you know
Ethert must decide such a question. But I
cannot — at any rate, darling, you must feel,
you are sure I do not wish it?"

*' You do not ?" Meta said, looking up suddenly,
with a change of expression and tone,
an evident incredulous astonishment, that at
first simply surprised, and presently, as she
came to realize its meaning, deeply pained her
companion.

You thought it was tiny doing — mine ! You
thought, Meta — you thought that I "

Meta's distrust, Meta's evident belief in her
selfishness, or in some other still less creditable
feeling, was painful enough to one who had
never had an unkind thought for a fellow-creature
— much less for an orphan child, so sensitive,
so dependent, so solitary, with whose feelings
she could sympathise so profoundly. But there
was more than this. What had Ethert felt ?
what had he thought, that could prompt or
force him to inflict such pain on one he had
loved so dearly, pain that he himself must feel
at least as keenly ? And Meta, startled by the
sudden silence, preceded by so marked a change
of tone, looking once more into her friend's
face, saw the lip quiver, the eyes full of tears
there was scarcely power to repress.

'^ You are sorry for me," she said. " But,
Lady Glynnee, it is quite right. It would of
course be your wish, and could not but be his,
now. I know I ought to have thought of that
before ; I ought never, and I never meant, tolet
you know how foolish I was. But you were

VOL. III. C

so kind, you spoke so tenderly I could not
help it."

'* Darling, I can say nothing that can much
comfort you till I see and talk to Ethert. But,
Meta, will you not believe me that this has
taken me no less by surprise than yourself?"

There was something of persistent incredulity,
renewed mistrust in Meta's look — she did
not attempt to answer in words — that again
much hurt Ivy ; but the latter was too just not
to understand how difficult her companion must
find it to believe that, especially on such a
subject, the wife had not been in her husband's
confidence.

'* I assure you, Meta, it is so. The thought
is quite new to me, and very painful. I had
been so glad to have you here; and if only" you
would have been the same as before, if you
would speak to me as you used, if we might be
Ivy and Pearl to each other — I thought I might
call you by the name that Ethert always gave
you, but I could not now when you "

'don't you remember?" Meta answered, completely
won by Ivy's kindly sympathy ; quite
understanding how entirely anything like reserve

or coolness between them had been of
her own causing, and anxious to make amends
for unspoken doubts and silent unkindness.
'^ Don't you remember 1 It was Sir Ethert's
own words that reminded me you were no
longer a girl like myself, and how I ought to
speak to you. I only obeyed his hint."

"He did not mean tJiat,'' Ivy said, feeling,
however unreasonably, quite sure on this point
what had been her husband's intention. " I
was sorry he spoke exactly in that way, Meta ;
but, after all these years, I do think you
might take Ethert's kindness to you for granted,
might be sure that he never means a
thought, a word that can hurt you more than
girls — yes, Meta, and girls older than you — must
expect to be hurt now and then by the reproofs
we draw upon ourselves. Where you are conscious
of no fault, you may be very sure he
never means to mortify or vex you. And t/iat
is the very last thing Ethert would have
thought or wished. His own title is a vexation
rather than a satisfaction to him ; and can you
not understand how I dislike mine, when I
have all my life been used to hear it given to

c2

my mother? At least, I ought not to bear it
from you, in whom I hoped and expected to find
a sister, as I have never had one. But you
believe me, Meta, do you not? This was no
thought, no wish of mine. Then, if you believe
me, kiss me, darling; and be sure, if we cannot
change Ethert's mind, it will grieve me — as
much, I think, as yourself."

Ethert," Ivy said, next morning after
breakfast, when, at a sign from her, Meta had
left them alone, speaking with as much firmness
of tone as she could command, doubtful as
she felt of the manner in which her intercession
might be received ; so fearing to provoke her
husband's silent displeasure that only regard
for another would have given her courage to
enter on the subject — the more fearful that she
knew Ethert's feeling to be so deeply involved,
and instinctively shrank from encountering that
bitterness which was apt to overflow on others
from the bitterness of his own pain — '' you are
not in a hurry yet, are you ? I do want you to
listen to me, and to try to understand this
time."

*' I should be very sony, Ivy, to seem neglectful
of your right to the little time we can
spend together, and if there were other claims
upon it, they must wait when you really desire
my attention. And if I do misunderstand you —
and it is far less often than you seem to think
I must own the fault lies entirely with myself."


*' But, Ethert, you will not be angry if I — if
I seem to ask you to change — if I wonder at —
<im sorry for what you seem to have done or
intended? I never asked you to change your
mind about anything yet. Do consider now ; I
can hardly believe that you have told Meta she
is to go to school."

'* And why not. Ivy ? What else could I
well tell her? I could not expect you to
burden yourself with such a charge, even if you
thought, or I, that it would not be in more
than one respect a very serious trouble."

Ethert, do you think I do not wish, wish
before all things, to please you, to spare you
pain? Do you think I should not be very,
very sorry that you should do what I know
you hate to do, should cause pain you will feel

even more than she to one you cannot bear to
hurt, for my sake — if it were for mine? Even if
it were a trouble to me, is it kind to think I
would not take trouble for you, and never even
to ask me?"

I know, Ivy, how anxious you always are
to give me comfort or pleasure, how little you
would think of yourself, or measure what it
cost you ; and for that reason I am the more
bound to consider you, and never to ask what
you would not like to refuse. Meta has no
claim on you, and I — of all things, perhaps,
that is the last that I ought to ask or expect
from yoa."

"I cannot understand, Ethert. Anything
that you feel so deeply about, you might surely
expect from your wife. You might well have
taken it for granted. But surely it was hard
to take for granted that I would not do my
part , that I should be undutiful to you and
most unkind to her?"

"I did not think you either the one or the
other. Ivy. I did not doubt that, if I had asked
you to let Meta remain, you would have yielded,
and yielded without a Avoid or a look to

mark your annoyance. But you would have felt,
and justly felt, that I had no right to make any
such demand upon your complaisance, that you
ought to have the power of refusal. If I had
a better right to rely upon your kindness, I
do not think a husband should ever ask what a
wife Avould be justified in refusing ; and, if 1
could ask a favour of you, this would be the
last I could dream of asking."

'* Do you think, Ethert, it is pleasant for me
to be reminded how terrible a sacrifice you
have made; to feel every day more and more
how absolute that sacrifice was, how much it has
cost you, and never to be allowed in any way,
I do not say to repay the least part of it, but
to show that I am grateful for it? Is it kind
not to allow me to do anything for you, who
have done so much for me and mine".

The sacrifice, Ivy, was perhaps in every
way, certainly in all that you can understand,
harder on you than on me ; and assuredly I will
never make it the ground, the pretext of a
demand on your kindness. If I had a sister of
my own, I would not ask such a favour for her —
of you. As it is, whatever Meta's claim may be

upon my kindness, it does not extend, as under
other circumstances a sister's might have done,
to you."

"I cannot see how that can be, Ethert.

Surely every claim, and especially a girl's

claim, upon a man must be quite as much a

claim on his wife? But please do not speak of

claims ; will you not believe that I wish, wish

more than for any other thing you could give

me, to do this for you? Will you not allow it?"

*'No, Ivy. You shall never make a sacrifice

for me that I can prevent, and this least of all."

Bitterly disappointed — for her first deepest,

most earnest interest in the question, though

she was hardly aware that it was so, was to

give some proof of affection and regard for her

husband, to render some kindness that he would

feel as such, however she might regard it as a

simple act of conjugal duty's Ivy felt that she

must shift her ground ; that, resolved to accept

nothing from her, this loss, for some reason, the

last thing that he would receive as a favour to

himself.

Ethert, when you speak in that way you
make me feel again how little you understand

me ! But this time I know it is my fault. I
have spoken — I did not mean it — as if I should
give tip something, should sacrifice, or, at least,
should be doing something only for your sake ;
and you must know that is not true, so you may
well be angry with me for seeming to put it in
that way. Indeed, I did not mean it. You
know I love Meta, your Pearl, very dearly —
will you not let me call her by the name you
gave her? You let me years ago — and it will
grieve me more than I can say to let her go.
Not only that ; I know it tortures you, I know
you will never look at me kindly when you
remember that I have cost you that. But that
is not all — that is not the way I ought to have
said it. If you did not care, if only it would
not annoy you, I should wish to have her, to
keep her here. Do you — you weill not be displeased
— you know I am alone so much ?"

Yes, Ivy, and I am very sorry for it. Remember,
whenever you will return to Glynn
"

'' Ethert ! I never did say such a thing, and I
hardly like now ; but — do you think I have any
right, any claim — that there is anything due to

my feelings — auy consideration I may fairly
expect '^. Perhaps not ; but if you do — if I may
ask anything because I am a Avoman, because I
am your wife — if you have any pity, any respect
for me — never say that to me again, as you have
said it before. I should not like to seem to
complain — I suppose I ought not to feel an insult
in anything you think fit to say or do ; but
that does wound, sting, shame me — I am afraid
110 other word will make you understand — it
does insult me as nothing else could do. You
say so often you can accept nothing, because
you have given me nothing but your hand, your
name — well, that means to take them away, and
tell all the world you have done so! No; if
you speak of that I cannot say another word!
Ethert, if you have any feeling for me, auy
regard for the cousin you did seem fond of, any
consideration for her to whom you gave the
name of wife — never, never again speak tome

of ''

The passionate indignation of the first outburst
was soon controlled ; she spoke low and
quietly, but quite clearly ; her voice, despite a
certain tremulous quiver of repressed emotion.

was calm and steady, and there was in its tones
a firm, resolute emphasis he had never heard
before. For a full minute he could not reply in
words ; only he bent his head silently, in involuntary
submission to a demand it was impossible
to dispute or trifle with.

I beg your pardon, Ivy," he said at last,,
simply and earnestly'. " I did not wish to wound
you ; assuredly I never dreamt of insulting your
gentle, generous patience by — what to another
woman would have seemed simple justice. But
while you feel so differently, I am very sorry I
spoke ; and I will not wilfully offend again. It
would be unpardonable in me to repeat a single
word that sounds in your ears like affront or
unkindness."

Ivy had been too deeply stung, too thoroughly
roused, for fear or constraint ; but her words
once spoken, the indignant impulse exhausted,
she felt how far she had gone, expected rebuke
or anger, and was simply grateful for the frank,
almost kindly admission of her claim. She did
not know how to answer ; but there was a
happier, more confident tone in her voice as
she renewed her petition.

*' Then, Ethert, you know I am so much alone,
and must be — it should not displease you, should
it? Other wives wish for society, companionship,
and their husbands do not think on that
account they are discontented. Now, I have
no friend, no real friend, except Meta — may I
not have her with me ?"

Surely, Ivy, 1 could never complain that
you find your solitude irksome ; but as surely
Meta is the last companion who would relieve
it. Ask your mother to come to us if you
please."

'' Never, Ethert ! I love Mamma, but I would
rather be alone, quite alone, than bring her here
now ; and I could have, I could bear no hired
companion, no stranger. No, Meta is the only
one; and I do so wish, so long to have her;
one besides you whom I love, one whom perhaps
some day I might persuade to be fond of
me."

Ivy," he said, feeling the last touching
words, and all they implied, to render resolute
resistance all but impossible, " if you asked for
an}^ companion who would be nothing else,
who would give you help and comfort, not

trouble and vexation, I should be bound, and I
should be glad to further your wish at once.
But a child — or something worse than a child,
a girl who is just past simple nursery or schoolroom
management, whom you will not quite
like to dismiss when she is in the way, whom
you must watch, educate, control, and yet who
cannot be simply handed over to a governess,
or coerced at once when she gives trouble —
what you are asking is not real companionship,
but an anxious and troublesome charge."

I shall not feel it so ; and do not speak of
her in that way, Ethert. She is scarcely more
of a child than I ; in intelligence, in characterless
so perhaps, or less than I was a few months
ago. And you do not suppose I mean — I think
of treating her as a child, as other than a friend
and sister? I don't expect or wish her to obey,
to look up to me — of course she can't. But
no lady grown up and better informed than
myself — no one else — could be half so true a
companion, so real a friend to me as Meta ; and
at any rate Ethert^t^ there is no one else I could
bear. Will you not let me have her? I would
not ask it if I thought it would be disagreeable

to you ; I know, I know so well it is, would be
almost as great a pleasure to you to see her
here, or even to know she was here, as to me ;
and I do dread the thought of parting with
her."

Ivy, if you will not believe me, ask your
mother, ask any lady, whether you can take
any child of Meta's age — much more a wilful,
Away ward, sensitive girl, whose temper, however
I might be amused by or sympathise with it,
sorely tried my mother's patience, without
having constantly to control, and now and
then in your own despite to reprove her."

"Ethert, if you will pardon me, I would
rather not ask my mother any question about
our household ; and I want no counsel but
yours. You seem to have a strange idea of girls.
Have I been so difficult to control ? ind Meta
has more sense and would want less guidance
than I."

"But you, not I, would have to guide her,"
he replied, with a smile. " And you are wrong
altogether. Ivy. Meta would give thrice the
trouble to any feminine guardian that you ever
would have done ; and the responsibility, the

anxiety, sometimes the actual difficulty, will be
no little burden to you."

I cannot think it, Ethert. At any rate, I
never asked you anything yet for myself. I
do ask this ; do let me keep Meta !"

KxQ you at all sure, Ivy, that she will not
be in every way rather a grief than a pleasure
to you ? — that her presence will not make you
feel still less well pleased with me, Avill not
raise questions or doubts between us ; that you
will not suspect me of being over-thoughtful,
over-indulgent to here"

•' 1 don't understand. I cannot imagine what
you think of me, Ethert ! Do you fancy I
grudge Meta any of the affection you have
given her, or think you would like me any the
better if you did not like her ? And if you
spoil her, that is your affair : it may make
trouble for you, perhaps, though I can hardly
think it."

I shall not spoil her in that sense, Ivy. If
you keep her, she is your charge, not mine ;
and I shall never interfere or intercede for her.
But neither must you ask me to do what I have
never pretended to do heretofore — to correct her

petulance, to control her temper. If you find
her beyond your management, we come back to
the same point at which we stood yesterday —
you must send her to school; and remember
she will feel it harder then.''^

"Then you will let me keep her?" Ivy said,
eagerly, too delighted in the evidence of yielding
afforded by her husband's conditional warning
to note the position he assigned to Meta
and to herself, a view of their relation utterly
different from her own.

*'I must, if you insist. But, Ivy, I think you
will repent it before long. If you do, remember
what has passed to-day, and promise me
this — that without debate, without complaining
of me, or of her to me, you will send her at
once to school."

She must go if you desire it, of course
Ethert. But you will let me try, at any rate ?"

"If you are of the same mind tomorrow,
Ivy, having thought it over. But, once more,
it is not my wish, and I fear it will not long
be sours."

CHAPTER II.

Mermaid.

*' Pearl," said Ethert, the next morning, as
-^ they rose from the breakfast-table, ^' will
you leave us for the present ? I must ask you
to spare Ivy to me for a little while."

Meta had not ventured to question Ivy, and
Ivy, feeling that her husband's consent to her
wishes had not been full and unconditional,
that she had no right to commit him until
after the period of reflection he himself had
assigned, had not dared to offer any consolation
or encouragement that might seem to suggest
a promise which might involve a bitter disappointment.
Her compassionate, caressing
manner had only impressed Meta the more with
the dread that she had failed, that Ethert's decision
remained unaltered. Still she could not but

VOL. III. D

wish to hope. Her dismissal, more abrupt than
quite accorded with Ethert's usual courtesy,
would in itself perhaps have surprised her a
little, so seldom had he appeared to desire a
tete-astute with Ivy ; and it now gave her some
ground, however slight, to believe at least that
her fate was still under consideration, that
Ethert had listened to, had not finally refused,
the petition she believed that Ivy had intended
to prefer. Her dread of school, or rather of
being sent to school by Ethert under present
circumstances, was not, could not be, the dread
felt by a timid or petted child at exchanging
the indulgence of an affectionate home for the
strange company and formal discipline of a
young ladies' school. She felt tolerably sure
that she would not meet with colder demeanour,
with less demonstration of kindness, and
certainly not with severer measure to her faults,
or less indulgence for her fancies, than she had
heretofore received. But, like most wayward,
fanciful, solitary children, she feared and shrank
from forced and constant association with companions
not of her own selection ; felt that not
to be alone by night or day would in itself be a

terrible trial. Still, she had courage to bear
the ordinary trials that school could present to
the fancy of another girl of her age equally
sensitive. If it had been, as for another , a
question only whether three-quarters of the
year, for three or four years, should be spent
in uncongenial company or under unaccustomed
restraints, assuredly for no such pain or
fear would she have betrayed her feelings as
she had done to one whom, despite her studious
kindness and softness of manner, she had been
disposed to regard with jealousy and distrust.
To her school meant now all that to Ethert , on
her behalf, an orphan asylum had meant some
seven years before. It meant the loss of home
and home-life altogether, utter loneliness, absolute
separation from the only friend, loss of
the only protection that was now left to her
in the world; and the dreariness of the
prospect would have utterly appalled her,
apart from the anxiety few children of her
age would have felt, and which, well ashe
knew her, it never occurred to Ethert
that she would feel, as to her future. If he
would no longer act as her immediate and perdu



sonal guardian, if he could no longer give her a
home, what was to become of her, even when
her school-life was over ?

The least self-reliant of her sex could not
have had less confidence in her power to face
the world alone, to make her owen way therein,
than Meta, intelligent and high-spirited as she
was. She was far too thoroughly feminine to
feel any of that independence which is perhaps
the fundamental characteristic of the unfeminine
character we call strong-minded. It was
no wonder that, especially after the severe
shock her nerves had so lately sustained, this
prospect should utterly frighten, dishearten
even one who had never been in any sense a
spoiled or indulged child. Perhaps she dreaded
to be thrown upon the world the more that
she had met with so little of gentleness or tenderness,
except from Ethert ; and unconsciously
measured the general character of her own sex
by that of the one woman she had familiarly
known. To lose Ethert, to be thrown entirely
among, dependent to a great extent on the
mercies of, women like his mother, not even
bound to her as his mother had been — even her

brief experience of Ivy's kindly companionship
in earlier days, Ivy's affectionate consideration
of late , could not render the thought otherwise
than intolerable. She had well-nigh broken
down and given way to hopeless weeping
again before, hearing her hostess's step approach
the drawing-room door, she hastily
dried her tears, and drew herself up into an
attitude unconsciously expressive of hard cold
endurance. Ivy^s sensitive sympathy felt
rather than saw this, and there was even
greater tenderness than usual in her manner,
much more of protection, of proffered help and
comfort in her demeanour than she had ever
before ventured to show towards Meta, as,
when the latter rose on her approach, she passed
her arm caressingly around her, and kissed
her brow while she drew her forward. Meta
looked up shyly, timidly, but hopefully, into
her face, and reading in the half smile on the
lips, in the soft colour, slight as it ever was,
on the cheeks, and the light in the large, dark,
soft eyes, a kindly pleasure, whose meaning
she could hardly doubt — a momentary gleam of
unselfish happiness contrasting the usual quiet

gravity, if not sadness, of Ivy's countenance —
she was encouraged to speak.

"Have you, will you persuade him , Lady
Glynn e ; if only that I am not to lose everything
altogether?"

"You could never do that, dear child. You
could never lose Ethert^s love fur you, or, if
you cared for that, my own. I don't know why
you fear so ; but I told Ethert I would leave it
to him to tell you. It is his doing, and I will
not — it is for him to tell you."

What she was to hear, however, Meta again
doubted exceedingly when, as Ivy led her into
the room and drew her close to her guardians
chair , she noted the grave and a little troubled
expression of his face, and, she thought, a certain
shadow of sternness thereon that it had
never before worn for her.

^' Pearl, Lady Glynnee is kind enough to wish,
to tell me she wishes, that you should remain
with her for the present. She thinks you will
wish it, and she knows how naturally you fear
the loneliness, the strangeness of school-life
without a home. I hope you will feel how
very much you owe to her kindness. She tries

she wishes at any rate, to do what is perhaps
the greatest service, the greatest kindness that
can be rendered to a young girl— perhaps, too,
the greatest effort a lady can make for one — to
give you a home."

"It is very, very kind of her," Meta said,
earnestly, clasping warmly and closely the
hand that still held hers. ''I never thought,
never hoped, that even she would be so good
to me. But, Ethert," — lapsing unconsciously,
in the earnestness and warmth of her feeling,
into the habitual familiarity she had studiously
dropped of late, — ^' do you wish it ? do you
think it right ? I should not like to encroach
on her kindness or on yours."

Lady Glynnee wishes it, Pearl, and I am as
grateful for her kindness as — you should be,
and I hope you are. You know how much
pained I was to be forced to do what gave you
pain, and seemed, perhaps, hardly kind on my
part ; but I should be the more grieved, the
more ashamed, if she had ever reason to regret
her kindness to both of us."

I will try, indeed I will, to give her no
cause," Meta replied, looking frankly and gratefully

into Ivy's face which seemed somewhat
troubled, the young girl hardly understood
why, by her husband's words.

I know you will ; I have no fear." Ivy
answered, drawing her young companion still
closer to her.

You must remember, however. Pearl,"
Ethert went on, "what hitherto I have done
my best to let — to make you forget , that I am
your guardian, that you are my ward, or, as
ray mother used to call you, though never in
your presence, my adopted child ; and as I
become bound in some sense for your good behaviour,"
he added, smiling, "it is conceivable
now that I might have to give a command, or
even a scolding, without giving you the right
to resent it so fiercely as of old. And, of course,
in taking upon her my mother's charge, I need
not tell you that Lady Glynn succeeds to all
my mother's authority ; that she must exercise
it exactly as she thinks fit, and that, if she finds
its exercise unpleasant, she can only undo at
once what she has done to-day. And understand.
Pearl, it is her doing, not mine. I
could not have ventured to ask what I am

almost ashamed to accept, even for yon."
If the pointed reminder was not exactly
agreeable to Meta's feeling, its reasonableness
and justice were too plain to allow her to resent
or even to feel hurt by the words which thus
distinctly defined her future relation to a protectress
so little older than herself. Ivy, however,
was not merely embarrassed, but, for more
reasons than she could have given, not a little
pained. It was not only that the position in
which Ethert placed her was so little congenial
to her own intention or feeling ; perhaps in the
studied decision with which he asserted for her
an authority she would never have dreamed of
assuming, as in the reiterated expression of his
gratitude to herself, there was a formality, a
tone, if not of estrangement, yet of separation,
that, if Meta could not perceive, she herself
could not but feel. It was not, she thought,
the tone in which one who loved and trusted
her would have accepted what to her seemed
only the natural and obvious part of a wife towards
her husband's ward and dependent.
She would have preferred that Ethert should
have taken for granted her willingness, and

more than willingness, to spare him the pain of
parting with his favourite, to assist him in the
performance of his duty. If he could not do
that he might, she thought, have asked her ; or,
if he waited for her to make the offer, might
have treated it as natural and simply becoming.
The formal expression of what seemed to her
exaggerated thanks reminded her but too painfully
of that which, though enforced upon her
more than once in words, and constantly in actor
omission, she could never bear to remember
Ethert's declaration that he made and could
make no claim upon her affection or her duty.

But she was certainly more surprised, and
perhaps additionally pained, when she saw in
his manner that he had no more to say to Meta,
no intention to mark in any kindlier way the
renewal of their relation, it might be said her
first actual adoption as a member of his own
household. She had intentionally, though quite
naturally, drawn Meta up to his seat, so as to
place her between them, and in close contact
with both ; and now, as she saw that Ethert
considered the incident closed, her look of disappointments
almost of reproach, made her

meaning and her expectation perfectly clear to
his apprehension. He was touched as well as
surprised, not only by the simple warmth of her
affection for Meta, free from every tinge of doubt
or jealousy, but yet more by her frank recognition
of his own still warmer interest as a thing
of course, a feeling not merely natural and inevitable
but almost obligatory. It was impossible
not to comply with what was evidently
her expectation and intention, though it had
not occurred to him. Ivy's feminine instinct
was so true, or her sympathy so perfect, that
the kiss which she had tacitly claimed for another
— though she had long ceased to hope,
almost ceased to miss it herself — healed entirely
whatever sting the distinctly implied warning,
the measured precision of his words, might
have left in Meta's mind ; and rendered the
young girl simply and entirely happy in the
common, united kindness and affection of both
her guardians, the cordiality of her adoption
into their home.

"Ivy," Ethert said, when they were next
alone, "I could not have allowed you to do
this thing for my sake, as an act of kindness

to me, any more than I could have asked it.
But you must not on that account fancy that I
do not fully feel the true kindness you have
done me as well as Meta, the bitter pain you
have spared me. It will, as you said, be an
unspeakable comfort to me to know that she is
with you, that she has a home, and the best
and happiest — unless by her own fault she
makes it otherwise — that I could have desired
for her. If I had not grown so fond of her in
all these years, it would still have been very
hard to feel myself forced to desert a duty I
had undertaken, to disappoint expectations she
had a right to form — could not have helped
forming — to inflict what was cruel at best, and
what she would have felt with even exaggerated
sensitiveness. Whatever may happen hereafter,
believe me, I never shall or can forget
this ; nothing can cancel the debt I owe you for
her sake."

One loving look or touch, one caressing
word, would have been worth more than all
the warmest thanks he could give her ; and yet
this time the profound, almost pathetic sincerity
of those thanks, the presence of something

kinder and warmer than the set phrases
of courtesy that had so galled and stung heron
former occasions, pleased and comforted
Iv}^; for a moment she felt that Ethert meant
all he said, and much more than she could have
expected. She had obtained, almost wrung
from him his consent, only as a personal favour
to herself, after he had peremptorily refused it
alike on his own behalf and on Meta's ; yet lie
seemed resolved to forget this, and not only
before Meta, but between themselves, had
generously given her full credit as for an act of
pure disinterested kindness — a service rendered,
almost a sacrifice made. Glad to have secured
a companion, to have changed Meta's sorrow
into joy — glad, above all, to have given Ethert
pleasure — it was unhoped-for delight to find
his sense of relief so frankly and warmly acknowledged.
Only, why could he not take her
fealty, her anxiety to help and comfort him, asa
thing of course? Why did he persistently
remind her, even more in act than in word, and
not least distinctly when, as now, he felt most
kindly, that he expected nothing from her
Must she believe that this renunciation of her

love, of her duty, almost of herself, was no
phrase, no metaphor, but a bitter, literal truth?
And his reference to the future — *• whatever
may happen" — almost frightened her. as it
suggested the probability of something worse
than the present of alienation more complete,
estrangement more bitter. What, how that
could be, she could not conceive ; to her any
hint that she might and doubtless would break
as far as was possible — the bond which had
well-nigh fulfilled its purpose, seemed merely
wanton, because utterly unmeaning unkindness.
I wish," she answered, timidly — " I do wish,
Ethert, that you would not speak in that way,
as if you did not know, could not believe how
truly I do long and try to please you ; how hard
I strive to keep the spirit of that promise you
seemed to think so much of, but will never use
to comply with your wishes whenever I can
guess what they are. But can you not feel,
can you not see that it is not kind — that it is
not doing as I suppose you wish to do, making
rae happier for having done what pleases you —
when you thank me in this way ? It only reminds
me that you will not love me any the

better for it. If you cared for me, it would
seem only natural ; you would have expected,
have taken for granted all I could do for you
or yours. And if you cannot, will not do that,
do not take so much pains to remind me of —
what I wish I could forget."

^' I could not, Ivy, take a thing like this for
granted in any case. There are not many
wives who would have done it; and from you
I can only repeat, happen what may hereafter,
I can never forget, never cease to be
grateful for what you have done to-day."

Once again, for the first time since she had
shared his home, he took her hand in his, and
kissed it with as much of warmth and kindness
as of mere courtesy. It touched and gratified
her more that he did not instantly release it ; in
the close, lingering pressure before he did so
she felt a momentary return of the confidence
and affection of earlier and happier days, when
no unwelcome artificial bond had superseded the
natural ties of kindred and habitual intimacy.
He had dropped her hand and left the house
before she could find words to answer, or even
courage to return the clasp ; and she feared that

she had seemed cold or resentful. She could
not hope, till the morrow, to guess from his
look or tone whether he had so construed the
omission ; but her heart was lighter, her lonely
rest haunted by less painful dreams and waking
fancies, than for many a day and night.

CHAPTER III.

REAL AND IDEAL.

ic TYY," her husband suddenly asked, some
-^ weeks later, " have you taken note of the
theatrical advertisements lately ? You see what
is to be the opera at Covent Garden next Saturday?
It is so long since you have had any
indulgence of that kind, and you said once you
should so like — I suppose it was from mere
curiosity — a box there. We can have one, and
it is not a very unreasonable extravagance.
Would you like it ?"

There was little need for Ivy's lips to repeat
the answer which her eyes, her whole expression
and attitude, had already given.

*'0h! Ethert — if only it is not so tiring to
you — because it is the only evening you need
not sit up so late. And — yes, I should, if you

VOL. Il E

don't mind, because Meta has never seen an
opera; and she would enjoy it so much, with all
her love of music, as she loves everything that
is beautiful in nature and art. It would be such
a treat to her that, if I did not care so much
myself, it would be a delight to watch her
pleasure for the first time."

"Meta!" he said. "I had no thought of
taking her."

Surely, Ethert , you would never dream of
leaving her at home ? And it would seem such
needless unkindness, simply going out of our
way to mortify her."

I hardly think it is usual — I am sure it is
not a thing that young girls of her age expect, or
ought to expect as matter of course, even from
their own parents."

"Ethert, why should you wish — but you
don't; and you cannot think — surely you cannot
— that I should grudge her such a pleasure,
even if it could interfere with my own ? No, I
would rather give it up than not take Meta. It
would look, it would be, like deliberate and
very cruel punishment."

If it did, she has deserved it, Ivy ; and, if

you choose you may put it to her in that
light."

"What for, Ethert? What has she done?
Do you mean — I saw you were vexed last
night, but I thought, surely, you were vexed
with my stupidity, not with her memory and
quickness."

It was natural you should not remember,
Ivy ; it was natural that a girl still in the schoolroom
should ; and her way of correcting your
error was so unbecoming that, if I took no
notice, it was only that I might not seem to
interfere with your authority. And I certainly
took it for granted she would hear of it afterwards."


'* Ethert," said Ivy, after a brief pause, " do
you expect me to forget how nearly Meta and
I are of the same age, and how much her cleverness,
her thoughtfulness, and my want of both
make up the little difference there is ? Can you
think she would bear that I should assume,
should treat her as your mother might have
done — as you might do ? What makes you so
sharp, so hard on her? She might have been
much more pert — it would have been pertness

E 2

• UNIVERSITY OMUmOUi

then — to you, and I am sure you would only
have smiled. Is it for my sake — to please me ?
It is not only that you are ready, as you never
were, to find fault — not to her, but you speak as
if I should — but you never talk to her, you
scarcely ask about her studies. When she
asked you about the drawing, reminded you
Why you had never given her lessons, and
would have liked to ask you now, you put it
down at once. You have given her one game
of chess since she came — you used to play every
evening, and enjoy it as much as she — and that
was when I asked you. I might say you do
not look at her , if I had not seen your look the
first evening. And you used to make so much
of her, you know how much you are to her, yet
you have changed to her almost as much as tome.
But that change, I know, is only in
manner ; you are as fond of her as ever, really.
Do you think it does not grieve her almost as
much as yourself ? What has she done? — she

has not What !" as she saw him bite his

lip to conceal a smile, not sarcastic, but, in the
true sense of a mis-used word, sardonic, painful,
" is it on my account ? Is it because you

cannot pretend to care for me that you pretend
not to care for her? Do you think it would
hurt me more to see you treat her simply
and naturally, or are you afraid that I should
make her suffer for it? What can you think of
me, Ethert ? What has made you think so ill
of me, expect things I could not dream of?"

I think," he returned, as lightly as he could,
'' that you are a woman, ivy ; and if I do you
wrong, it is only because you are so much more
womanly than most."

For shame, Ethert !" she answered, replying
almost passionately to his forced levity. "Can
you think I wish, because your marriage is a
misery, that you should have no comfort ? Because
I make your life so dreary — so sad that
if I had dreamed of it no terror, no shame
should have induced me to do it — should I
grudge you that one bit of sunshine? Because
you have no happiness in your wife's affection,
can I wish to spoil your pleasure in the affection
of a child ? And if I did if I could be so
unworthy and ungenerous, do you think that
I am deceived ?"

'^ Deceived !" he repeated, sharply, almost

angrily; then, carefully controlling his tone,
"I never lied to you, Ivy, by word or deed. At
any rate, you don't fancy Pearl has anything
to conceal, or would dream of concealing it?
Find out from her whether I do not treat her,
when we are alone together, — you know how
seldom that is, — exactly as in your presence."

Ethert !" That one word was all the rebuke
she deigned. " I wish you did not ; but I
begin to understand you, only I am so sorry to
see it. You will give me no love, you will not
allow — and no doubt you are right there ; married
against your will, I have no claim to it.
But you think I have a. right to forbid your
loving anybody else, to deny you any natural
kindly feeling for any one, from any one, that I
should not grudge for a moment if we were
happy, if you cared for me. And you really
think it can be any compensation, any satisfaction
to see you torture yourself, and grieve Pearl,
and make her fancy, as I know she does, that I
I don't quite know what she thinks, whether
I complain of her, or am so exacting of your
attention ; but she thinks it is my doing, and
I could not, if I dared, tell her that it is not.

She would only be the more hurt that you are
so changed to her of your own accord. Well,
I know it is no use ; but, Ethert, you will take
her? And do be kind to her, do behave to her
as you used. Remember, I have seen you together
in the old days, when you were kind tome
just as you were to her, and I know you
feel just the same now for her. You will take
her r

'' You shall take her, Ivy, and she shall understand
that it is your doing, that her pleasure —
and I know how pleased she will be — is your
gift. And you are quite right. You know that
I shall enjoy her pleasure almost as much as you
will, and I have, to thank you for that delight."

Ivy had her way in some measure after this
scene, but in a manner she certainly had not
foreseen, and one that more than rewarded an
effort of which, if effort there had been, she was
wholly unconscious. Too loyal to take advantage
of a declaration which seemed, so far as
words could go, to renounce the conjugal privilege
of jealousy — alive on the one hand to the
twofold danger of appearing to evince his
natural interest in his ward more frankly in

Ivy's absence ; on the other hand, too considerate
or too rational to take the latter quite at
]her word, and expose her patience and faith to
the severe trial of such a contrast as a really
natural manner towards Meta would present to
his treatment of herself — Ethert did thenceforth
resume much of his former interest in Meta's
pursuits, re-invite in some measure her frank
fluent confidence of old ; but always in Ivy\s
presence, and so as to draw her into every
interchange of thought and feeling. She found
herself participating in all their conversation,
found herself united — identified to Meta's eyes
and Meta's consciousness — with Ethert in every
favour bestowed, in every proof afforded of
interest in Meta's ideas, tasks, studies , and
pleasures ; and this joint care, this common
occupation with another, if it still left the same
estrangement, if it could not remove the narrow,
invisible, absolute barrier between them, yet did
much to brighten a great part of their household
life, at times almost enabled Ivy to forget
the chilling cloud that overhung it.

They were little alone together now, to
Ethert's infinite relief, and to Ivy's comfort, if

not exactly to her satisfaction. To lovers, even
to a married pair long accustomed to the calmer
atmosphere of conjugal life such constant presence
of a third person could not have been other
than a burden, a constraint. But where profound
estrangement exists — making itself most
keenly felt precisely in those hours when confidence
and affection would naturally be most
outspoken, most freely manifested, and are
therefore most missed — the presence of another
serves to conceal from each the pain and embarrassment
of the other if not his or her own ;
and the want is less perceptible because the
occasions when it is most forcibly revealed are
thus avoided. Nothing is so terribly irksome
as the sole companionship of an unloving or
estranged couple. For this very reason it is
that such sole companionship is so desired by
both, even though the desire be not avowed to
themselves, when, despite a temporary quarrel
however bitter, a temporary estrangement
however marked, love, or a yearning sense of
lost love, still survives in both hearts. Then,
if thrown much and alone together, the subject
of dispute ^or coldness is so near to the

hearts and lips of both that if only through
taunt and reproach, explanation is sure to come
break out, it may be, in sheer rebellion against
the intolerable embarrassment of its avoidance,
leading most often to reconciliation, sometimes,
perhaps, to that final separation which is at any
rate, more endurable than the silent separation
of heart which has preceded it.

But when explanation is out of the question,
when on one side at least there is no love to be
won back, when the other is forced to feel that
appeal is useless, and that discussion can only
widen the breach, only deepen an aversion too
cold and resolute to be swept away by the
most passionate of one-sided impulses — and
this was Ivy's present case, whatever her hope
that her patient loyalty must at last prevail, —
then the presence of another, especially of one
in whom both are interested, who affords to
both a ground upon which they can meet without
a disposition to quarrel or reproach, is felt
as a security ; and tends to mutual ease, and
perhaps to gradual rapprochement. Such a common
ground, such a neutral interest, can seldom
indeed be supplied to husband and wife save

by their own children ; the last person to afford
it to a young pair would be a girl in whom the
wife might well apprehend a rival, if not in her
husband's love, equally denied to both yet in
his interest and attention. But Ivy was as
perfectly free from the feminine vice of jealousy
as it is in the nature of a woman who loves to
be ; too pure too inexperienced perhaps to
entertain the shadow of doubt respecting the
loyalty either of her husband or of her ward.

Perhaps the faith that could in no case have
failed was unconsciously confirmed by the
guarantee that the character of one, the age of
the other, the position of both afforded
Ethert's withered romance had never had much
connection with his real and present affection
for a pretty, intelligent, wayward, affectionate
child whose attachment to him was wholly
childlike ; and by no possibility could he have
cherished a thought, a wish that, if disloyal to
his wife, must have been dishonourable to himself
and dishonouring to his orphan charge.
This restraint apart, to have fallen in love they
must have ceased to love each other as of old,
or at least must have been parted at the critical

period when the child was growing into the
feelings, instincts, consciousness of womanhood.
Brought together again so soon, their relation
reverted to its old character, with somewhat
more of authority on the guardian's side,
of grateful deference on the girl's.

With this relation Ivy, loving and trusting both,
found herself happily associated, the partner of
Ethert's kindness to Meta, the sharer of Meta's
thankful and innocent devotion. Accustomed
to Ethert's literary confidences, Pearl resumed
her eager enquiries and fearless criticism.
Ethert was ever careful to include Ivy in the
conversation thus introduced, and in this way,
for the first time, the young wife became
familiar with and interested in her husband's
work and thoughts, learned to appreciate and
enjoy what both Ethert and herself had deemed
beyond the scope of her intelligence or her
sympathy.

Thus in a few months there grew up between
them a mutual comprehension, an intellectual
intimacy which, without some such medium of
encouragement to Ivy's timidity and mental
indolence, some such intrusion on Ethert's

reserve, years of loving conjugal life might
have failed to produce. Insensibly drawn onto
subjects she had fancied too high for her,
Ivy rapidly gained a real insight into her husbands
mind ; led into explanation and discussion,
Ethert learned to believe in her capacity
to understand and sympathise with him even
in these fanciful and somewhat mystic speculations,
these poetic dreams from which, yet
more than from the highest kind of practical or
scientific thought, he would have supposed herby
nature excluded. Still by far the greater
part of Ivy^s and of Meta's leisure was spent by
themselves, for of Ethert's hours but a few were
or could be bestowed on them ; still on principle
and of set purpose he paid to Ivy every attention,
every courtesy in his power with a punctiliousness,
a devotion far more absolute than-love
would either have exacted or inspired; and
still, whenever a question involving either
arose, she was pointedly reminded that Meta
was considered as her charge,, as amenable to
her counsel and control, and not to Ethert's.
But as there was no room in her breast for
jealousy or suspicion, this surrender of authority

gave her no satisfaction, while it often troubled
her : especially as Meta, wayward and wilful by
nature, was by no means in thorough accord
with the governess whom Ether t had selected
for her, and under whose instruction and direction
she spent some hours of five mornings in
the week.

Meta," Ivy said, one Saturday, as they sat
togEthertt awaiting Ethert at the late breakfast-table,
" pray, pray do not be stubborn now. I
dare say you may have been right in the main.
I can quite believe that Miss Compton is hard
and provoking, and misunderstands you more
easily than need be, more than most women
would. But do not be angry with me for
telling you that you have put yourself in the
wrong ; and, whether you will believe me in
that or not, do apologise, since she insists upon
it."

The compression of Metals naturally soft and
rather pouting lips, the light visible for a moment
in the eyes before the half-lowered lids
gave the face a somewhat obstinate expression,
and the indignant colour in her cheeks, promised
no compliance with this entreaty; which,

nevertheless, she could not hear unmoved from
one who had been so uniformly kind, affectionate,
indulgent to her every whim and humour.

"Do give way, Pearl," Ivy repeated — using
her husband's pet name for his favourite, but
shyly, and in a half-apologetic tone, as she had
done before when she sought to be especially
caressing and tender — " for my sake, if not for
your own or Miss Comp ton's, and for Ethert's,
if not for mine. Do you not see it must come
to him, if sou persist ? I cannot let Miss
Compton go, as she threatens, without a word
to him. Do not force me to tell, to speak to
him as if I could not — as if you were — unmanageable."


The epithet might be unfortunately chosen,
though Ivy had selected her every word with
most anxious care to avoid that assumption of
authority which, however inseparable from responsibility,
she thought likely to wound Meta's
pride and embitter her temper; which, considering
their respective ages, she fancied her
charge certain to resent. But it was not only,
or chiefly, the form of expression which provoked
the feeling that at this moment gave to

Meta's face its least pleasing expression — a
resolute resistance to reason or force, which,
however natural under the strong control to
which she had been accustomed, seemed simply
wanton unkindness and ingratitude towards
one so gentle, so yielding, and so anxious to
soothe and spare as was Ivy.

''If you do that, Lady Glynnee," she said,
'• you know what will be the consequence."

Ivy failed to understand the meaning either
of the words or of the evident apprehension
that mingled with, perhaps deepened, the stubborn
expression of her companion's countenance.


'* You are not afraid of Ethert, Meta ? You
cannot think that he will be hard upon you,
that he will not make every possible excuse for
you. I should be very sorry indeed to seem to
complain of you. But what can I do? Miss
Compton insists that you shall ask her pardon,
that we shall mark our displeasure if you will
not, or that she will throw up her charge. If
you will not yield, what can I do? Ethert
must hear of it."

You must do as you please. But, if you

appeal to him, you know, as I know, the
consequences."

The repetition of this phrase a little startled
Ivy, seeming very much more applicable to
Meta's former experiences than to her relation
with either of her present guardians.

"Then," she answered, "if you fear so much
what Ethert will say, spare me what I shall
feel quite as painfully as yourself."

*' No, Lady Glynnee," Meta said, replying-resolutely
to an argument which an older and
more experienced, if not more sympathetic,
guardian would have known to be sure to fail
with such a character ; " I will not do for fear
Avhat I would not do because you wished it or
because I thought it right. You must do as you
please. Forgive me if I cannot but feel that
the punishment you will bring upon me comes
from your own hand."

By the time that Ethert's " good morning "
terminated the controversy. Ivy had become
reluctantly and painfully convinced of the immobility
of Meta's determination. Her heart
beat fast, and she found it hard to control her
tones and looks so completely as not to render
VOL. III. F

her husband aware that something had seriously
troubled her, before she had time to makeup
her own mind. It was not long, however,
before impatience of suspense, perhaps, rather
than deliberate judgment, drove her to enter as
quickly as possible on the scene that she dreaded,
but felt to be inevitable. Meta purposely
left them together, resolved to display no
shrinking from that appeal she had already
deprecated as earnestly as her pride would
permit ; and, as soon as they were alone. Ivy
stated the case as briefly as she could, as truthfully
as her extreme anxiety to spare at once
Meta's feelings and her husband's tenderness
for his ward would permit.

'* Don't misunderstand me this time, Ether''
she concluded. " It is always hard enough, but
it would make me miserable if you were to
misunderstand me about Meta. I know how it
would pain you, and I am sure you would
never forgive me if I seemed to make trouble
between you."

'' I told you, Ivy, from the first how grateful
I was for your kindness, how doubtful I felt
whether its endurance would be possible ; but I

hoped you were more comfortable, less troubled
than I had ventured to expect. But why appeal
to me ? If you do so, if you bring her tome
as a rebel you cannot control, I have only
one course."

"Why Ethert? And what do you mean?"
enquired Ivy more frightened than ever by a
phrase so like Meta's that it recalled and seemed
to justify the young girl's evident alarm.

What can 1 do with a girl of her age ? She
might possibly obey me ; but after refusing
you, I could not accept that. If you tell me
you cannot manage hers she must go to school ;
and, if she is to be sent away in disgrace, I had
rather it were your doing."

Ethert, that is unkind ; and is it quite fair ?
It means, you know it means that, happen what
may, I must never come to you for help or support
; and that seems hard, after you warned
me yourself that she might need counsel and —
control."

*' But why appeal to me if she does ? She
knows that she is entirely in your hands."

'but she is not' Ivy urged. "I wanted her
to ask pardon ; for, if Miss Compton was 



reasonable and exacting, Meta lost bei* temper
and was rude. But indeed, Ethert^t^ I cannot
persuade her."

'' Probably not," he answered, drily. " I
don't suppose I could and my mother would
never have tried."

"Is it the same thing — with me? I was so
sorry you spoke to her in that way at first. I
wanted a friend and companion, and sou have
given me a jealous, resentful child. Naturally,
if she thinks I am giving myself matronly airs
towards a schoolgirl, it shuts her heart and ears
at once. I have never treated her so, but she
seems always to expect it. Before that, she
would always listen to me, though she must
know how much cleverer, more intelligent, she
is. She would yield to please me ; but now,
when her face sets as it used against your
mother, and when she says ' Lady Glynnee,' " —
unconsciously mimicking Meta's tone and manner,
— "I feel in despair. Then I know I might
as well talk to Miss Compton — or to you. You
know I would not seem to complain of her, I
would not come to you about such schoolgirl

squabbles ; but — Miss Compton insists, and Meta
won't — and — what am I to do ?"

Ethert was not a little vexed by this appeal ;
the more vexed that he could scarcely help
smiling. He was a man to feel keenly all that
is vexatious in such domestic demands on masculine
authority ; thoroughly sensible of the
awkwardness, acutely alive to the ridicule of
any serious conflict with a young girl's wayward
humours, yet aware that to women such
collisions are by no means a laughing matter.
But what annoyed him most was to have the
object of his lately-abandoned romance thus
brought before him as a child to be corrected, a
rebel against school-room discipline ; a piece of
practical irony all the more telling because ashe
well knew, wholly unconscious and unintentional,
which, rendering his fancy supremely
ridiculous in his own eyes, chafed him as ridicule
ever chafes romance.

Whatever you choose," he answered, coolly.
*' You don't need my help to deal with her as
summarily as you please ; and, if you are at a
loss for a sufficient penalty, I don't doubt Miss
Compton can find one."

What do you mean ? Ethert, can yon think
I meant to get her into trouble with you ? Do
you fancy I wish to hurt her ? Or, as you say
I must deal with her, did you think I wished
you to tell me beforehand to punish her ? As
if I could bear it, or she would ever endure the
very word from me ! And I must seem so false
when I have talked kindly and tried simply
to persuade her, and then put things to you so
that you talk of . . Oh, Ethert, you are so
hard on me !"

'' Nonsense ! I beg your pardon. Ivy ; but
this is absurd exaggeration. Sensitive as Pearl
is, she has been used to a strong hand, and she
knows well enough that she must be amenable
to your government ; or, if not, that you, not I,,
must correct her. Of course, if she actually
rebels, you must send her to school — or I shall,
tomorrow."

*' No, no, Ethert ! that would be too cruel !
She could hardly deserve it if she had been ever
so troublesome, if you had tried everything else
in vain for months ; and even then I would
never bring her to it. And you who are so
fond of her, how can you — for almost her first

fault ? You know there is no punishment she
would not bear ten times over rather than that."

Then give her one, Ivy, and have done with
it. Once more, Pearl is in your hands — not
Miss Compton's, please ! — and they are too light
to hurt and too soft to sting."

Why Ivy should, at the moment, have given
a literal construction to the complimentary
metaphor, she could not have told ; perhaps because
Ethert's look had been turned on the
limbs whose physical beauty had suggested it.
The rising colour in her cheek, the indignant
light in her eyes as she lifted them for an instant
to his own, betrayed the misconception ;
and manifested a pain and displeasure that
should have found utterance in words, but for
the restraint imposed less by her native timidity
than by that dread of offending Ethert which
had now become an ever-present instinct. Half
amused by, half admiring the spirit he had as
little intended to provoke as to quell, and remembering
the debt he owed on Meta's account
to her who had given the young girl the supreme
boon of a home, he concluded, in an
altered tone :

Ivy, let us have no misconception about
Pearl. It was because you are so young, and
lie somewhat wilful, that I intentionally insisted
on your authority ; and if you think her
likely to resent its exercise, the more reason
that she should learn to submit absolutely to
you without reference to myself. If either of
you are to doubt on that point — if you cannot
trust me to leave her entirely in your hands, or
if she fancies you are afraid to act without
securing my support beforehand — she must
leave us at once, and that would pain me
deeply. Now, settle with her yourself, the
sooner and more decisively the better. Nothing
you will do is worth such a discussion
between us ; and this must be the last."

But, Ethert, tell me what I am to do —
what "

No, indeed, Ivy ! Pearl shall make her submission
to yourself; you are not to take the
sting out of her penance by giving it in ray
name. If her spirit really resent a rule like
yours, it is not the spirit for which I gave her
credit ; and pride so out of place deserves more
humiliation than you will ever be provoked to

inflict. And, Ivy, if yoa care to give her a
less exacting teacher, Pearl shall owe the
change to your intercession."

Ivy felt that there was nothing more to be
said. The decisive expression of her husband's
confidence in her kindness to Meta had surprised
hardly less than gratified her. With all
her tenderness for her young companion, fear
of Ethert's displeasure had contributed to her
extreme aversion from the appeal to him. She
had understood from the first that he would
make no excuse or intercession for Pearl ; that,
had she Ravished to deal severely with the
offender, she would have his full sanction, and
would never hear a word imputing blame or
harshness to herself. But she had felt almost
equally sure that at heart he would condemn
her, that he would never forgive any real trouble
in which she might involve his orphan
favourite. She saw that his trust was no less
genuine than just; he had been perfectly kind
to her, and yet there had been at first a bitterness,
an irritation in his tone, whose meaning
escaped her, ignorant as she necessarily was of
the irony of the situation.

When che rejoined Meta, it was with a manifest
embarrassment, a hesitation to speak or
act, that gave the latter an opportunity for
which she had apparently waited, and which
she seized at once.

May I speak first, Lady Glynnee ? I should
like to speak as I ought, and I don't know that
I could — afterwards. It was very kind of you
to keep me at all, and I am sorry this has come.
I would say I deserved it if I thought so, but
indeed I cannot. I cannot help feeling that
this is too great a punishment ; it would have
been far easier to go at once than to be sent
away now in disgrace."

"Meta, if that ever happens, it will be not
because you deserve it only, but because you
have left Ethert no choice. It shall not be as
long as I can plead for you. But to-day, dearest,
do yield before I have to say any more.
You know, you must know, I could not put
things before Ethert so that he should approve
or excuse you."

Of course not ; and if he do not send me
away. Lady Glynnee, I know that is your doing.
A word from you would have done it ; I daresay

only your word could have prevented it.
Thank you, if you have spared me that. I can
bear anything else he thinks I deserve : it comes
from him."

No, Meta ; I wish it did. It would be
easier for both of us , darling. It is not my
doing — I cannot help it ; but you remember
how especially, how distinctly Ethert made you
my charge ? You have made me feel more
than once how you resented it. Do you think
I wished it ? I have been so careful ever since
not to say a word you could take as if I pretended
to control you, to find fault, even once
or twice when I was afraid that Ethert would
observe it and be displeased. And, Meta, you
must not think he does not see because he is
silent. But to-day he will do nothing ; he expects
me — darling, for my sake give way ; don't
drive me to what would be so painful to us
both. I would spare your pride if I could, dear ;
I would gladly apologise to Miss Compton for
you, but you know I cannot. Meta, do yield
this time."

Meta, long used to a rule that had never
softened harsh measures by any avowal of

sympathy, was not only much impressed by
her companion's tenderness, but alarmed by her
earnest pleading for permission to pardon. Her
colour rose, her lip trembled in spite of her
efforts at self-control, as she replied,

Let me understand. Lady Glynnee. Sir
Ethert gave me full warning that I was in
your hands, and he means me to feel it now.
It is you I have disobeyed, and you do not
need his leave to correct me. Well, he is quite
right. It is kind of you to be so anxious to
spare me, very kind ; but you will do as you
please — you know I must submit."

"No, darling; I could not bear it! You
will spare us both what I know you would
never forgive ? I have tried so hard to be only
your friend, your sister, to make you happy
and at home with me. You will do this one
thing for me ?"

"And if not. Lady Glynnee, what will you
do?"

Ivy, holding her ward in an embrace as close
as the latter would permit, and clasping one
hand in her own, had instinctively felt how far
her pleading penetrated ; and, confidently expecting

it to prevail, was now bitterly disappointed.


You ought not to ask' she said, in a sad
and somewhat colder tone, into which, for the
first time, unconsciously to herself, something
of authority entered. "What does that matter?
You know I should be careful to spare your
feelings as completely as possible ; but, whatever
I may do, you know that you will resent
it at my hands more than anything my aunt or
Ethert could have done. You will never forgive
me the most trivial annoyance, the lightest
restraint which we should have to call —
punishment."

To Ivy's infinite surprise, Meta sprang from
her relaxing embrace, threw herself on her
knees beside her friend, and, clasping both her
bands, covered them with passionate kisses.

You are quite wrong, Ivy," she cried, half
sobbing. " You shall punish me as you please ,
and I will only say that any one else would
have been glad of the opportunity. You have
been so kind, so careful to spare me, even when
I have repaid you with distance and sullenness.
It is not to escape having to submit to you, but

because you tell me, I will ask Miss Compton's
pardon ; not for her — I hate her, — but for you.
You are too good, too generous, Ivy — let me
call you Ivy this time, at least, because it was
in temper, and what Ethert calls ' the pride that
apes humility' that I would say ' Lady Glynnee.'
It serves me right if now you are no longer the
affectionate , kind, consoling companion that
Ivy always was to me."

"Always, my darling Pearl — if Ethert's wife
may use Ethert's name for you."

CHAPTER IV.

POLITICAL.

*' That do you think of this, Estrange I
' enquired, when the dissolution of Parliament
was announced by a manifesto that
threw down the gauntlet to a faction whose
meditated treason, "biding its time to shoot
the Empire from behind an Irish hedge," to use
our chief's own phrase, was the open secret of
party politics. "It seems we are to fight the
campaign out on your own lines."

*' No," replied the Editor. " This time he has
forgotten to educate his party ; he has taken
even his supporters by surprise, and the country
will neither understand nor believe him. No!
an agitator (at least, at Birmingham or Edinburgh)
may say anything he likes, a newspaper
anything it knows, a statesman — what he can

prove. A charge of high treason should be
tried at the Old Bailey, not on the hustings.
The traitors will 'put themselves on their
country,' and, though at this moment the desks
of a dozen Rapparees contain papers that
would hang half the leaders of the Left Centre,
the Crown can't seize them, the indictment
can't be published, the witnesses can't be produced,
and the country must acquit. Worse
still, this will hammer the enemy's forces into
solid order. It will frighten the traitors enough
to bring them to terms, and afford them an
excuse for joining their friends; Radicals and
Rapparees, Russians and Rats will make common
cause with the chief who avowed that the
end and aim of his political being was hatred of
Endymion, the charge not proven will be considered
not founded, and we shall be beaten all
along the line. Our leader is the best Parliamentary
tactician living, and since 1874 he has shown
himself a great ruler; but, like some other
chiefs accustomed only to command small
armies, he can't move a hundred thousand
men ; he fails on the great scale and in the
open field."

*rit was 1868 that paved the way for 1874,"
observed Leaf.

*' I don't feel sure of that," rejoined Estrange.
"Tory democracy is, I fear, a mere illusion.
The mob were tired of Aristides in '74;
this time they will avenge bad harvests and
bad trade on us, as if the Government controlled
the weather, or as if this unparalleled
period of commercial depression were not the
reaction of the insane speculations which the
late ministry fostered and gloried in."

"Then you think," I asked, " that the mob is
Liberal V

No, it is simply changeable and incalculable.
I am not sure, but I think no ministry
will in future hold office for two successive
Parliaments. True, we stand at one permanent
disadvantage. Our strength lies chiefly in the
counties, and the counties vote last. With us
now, as in Rome of old, the omen of the prerogative
tribe is seldom falsified."

"And yet," said Glynnee, "I fancy that the
working men are nearly, if not quite, as staunch
partisans as the shopkeepers."

Perhaps," replied Estrange. " But, you

A^-QL. III. G

see, a very small percentage turns the scale ;
and there is always a margin of utterly uncertain,
motiveless votes sufficient to do that. anyone
of the dozen lies so diligently circulated
for the last twelve months might suffice."

"Such lies," said Leaf, '^''I never heard of.
Philhellen has deliberately falsified the story
of the Eastern War. He must know that the
Servia rebellion was simply the work of the
Russian Court, paid for with Russian gold,
carried on by Russian volunteers — pirates and
assassins by public law and international morality
; that the Bulgarian massacres were the
acts of a nation standing with its back to the
wall — as we did in the Indian Mutiny. He
knows too that, till Russia stirred them up to
treason, the Bulgarians throve and prospered
sunder Turkish rule ; that they repaid the lenity
of that rule by systematic, unprovoked, wanton
robbery and massacre ; that they have outdone
all the crimes ever imputed to their late masters.
But every one of these facts, notorious to him,
he has deliberately suppressed."

And," I added, " another of their leaders has
publicly alleged that Sir Battle Free acted

under secret instructions exactly opposite to his
public orders. If the speaker does not know
that he is lying, every one of his colleagues and
friends must ; but not one of them has contradicted
him. The fellow should be forced to
repeat the charge in Parliament, or apologise on
his knees."

*'Do you remember," retorted Estrange,
"that one of their men — one who will be a
Commissioner of something should they come
in — invented a deliberate fiction respecting the
late appointment to the Sealing-wax Office? that
the falsehood was disproved circumstantially
from end to end, and yet the offender refused to
retract or apologize, and neither chief nor colleague
expressed disapproval or disgust ?"

It seems to me," I said, "judging not merely
by Liberal language and Liberal allegations,
but by Liberal sympathies, as manifested in
public and private, abroad and at home, that
there is something vulgarizing in Liberal associations
and ideas. Read the Fortnightly, for
example. One would think a Liberal gradually
forgot how to be a gentleman."

If I were to apply that doctrine personally,"

g2

replied Estrange, " I know who would make
it a point of honour to quarrel with me."

No doubt. At one time certain sects and
classes, with whom manly honour and female
chastity were family traditions, were Liberals
by the necessity of their position ; and it takes
time to work personal honesty out of the breeds
But I have heard one of the men you mean
apologize for General Butler, and another
justify Sumner and O'Connell for refusing"
satisfaction,' and yet using language of personal
insult to gentlemen. And not one of
their party, from the lowest of its tagrag and
bobtail upwards, has ever lost credit with
his chief or colleagues for the most outrageous-insolence
or the most clearly proven slanders."

How can they," said Estrange, " when the
worst offender of all is the second man, not
in official rank, but in personal weight and
oratorical power, among them ?"

Our business was settled, and the assembly
broke up. I was left alone for a few minutes
with our chief.

I suppose," I said, " Glynue will stand this
time for Stapleton T

'you may ask him," returned Estrange, *^if
you like. 1 can't — or won't.'^

'sand yet' I observed, " we can't afford to risk
a seat ; and I have heard him wish often and
passionately that he could have answered this,
or rebuked that, which he has heard in the
Gallery. If you don't like to press him, can't
you try through his wife ? Women are always
ambitious."

Estrange turned and looked hard at me — a
look which, as I well understood, conveyed
profounder contempt and astonishment than he
would have cared to utter in words.

*' Well," he said at last, " I did not think it
-could be necessary to warn you. Don't mention
Stapleton or the election to her, or in her
presence."

There was, however, one to whom no such
warning could be conveyed, and who knew no
better than I. The renewal of Meta's frank,
outspoken confidence had more than once
entailed a kind of awkwardness for which
neither Ivy nor Ethert had been fully prepared.
She had tact enough to know that there were
things to be simply taken for granted, however

greatly they surprised her, or, rather, because
they were so utterly inexplicable. Ethert's life
of ill-requited exhausting drudgery, his residence
in London, must have motives which it
was not for her to question. But, precisely
because she had no conception of the truth,
because the most painful aspects of the domestic
life with which she was so intimate were so
utterly concealed from her, she was liable now
and then to make blunders that taxed Ethert's
self-possession and coolness to the uttermost,
that made Ivy flush and quiver with dismay.
The conditions of Ethert's professional life, the
vigilant guard observed in every trifle that
might have betrayed their secrets, above all
that formal courtesy of manner to which his
awe of his mother and his intentional demeanour
to herself had accustomed her, prevented her
seeing anything strained or constrained in his
intercourse with Ivy ; the more completely that
the secluded life she had led allowed her no
chance of comparing their ways with those of
any other married couple. It happened, however,
that she had taken for granted what
seemed to her the obvious reason of those

points in Atheist's conduct which had most perplexed
his friends. To her childish simplicity it
seemed not quite unnatural, though very generous,
that Glynnehurst should be left to its
former mistress ; quite natural that Ethert's
delicacy towards his bride, if not his own
personal sorrow, should have prevented his
consenting to stand for Stapleton immediately
after the deaths of his uncle and cousin. It did
not at first occur to her to make any enquiry on
the subject in the midst of the intense excitement
of the general election, though she had
often asked whether his experience in the
Gallery did not render him eager to take a
personal part in the contest that went on below.
But one morning, when by chance Lvj had left
to her the distribution of the letters, her notice
was attracted by the postmark of Stapleton
and the signature of the sitting member on an
envelope addressed to her guardian ; and, as
soon as he had laid down his letters, she asked,
abruptly,

Ethert, do you not mean to stand for
Stapleton this time V

Certainly not. Pearl."

And why not ?" she said. " What a pity !"
It chanced that as she spoke she caught his
eye fixed on Ivy, and, turning her own instinctively
in the same direction, saw in the trembling
lip, the struggling flush that coloured the
pale cheek, such distress, perplexity, dismay as
rendered her aware, not quite for the first time ,
that she had trespassed on some painful topic.
It was not, however, her question so much as
the dread of Ethert's reply — though never yet
had he in Meta's presence been surprised or
irritated into one of the speeches she feared —
that so troubled the young wife. But, forcing a
smile, Ethert threw across the table the letter
that had prompted Meta's enquiry.

"Read that Ivy, and I think even your
ambition for me would hardly make you wish
that I should act ungenerously by one who so
generously offers to make way for me in what
he is pleased to call — our own borough."

Ivy hardly knew what she read. All she
cared was to know whether on this occasion
Ethert had spoken sincerely, or only to spare
her feelings before Meta. Her widening experience,
the gradual acquaintance she had acquired

with the usages of public life and the
general facts of politics, made her aware that
Ethert^s refusal in the first instance had been
even more significant than she had then felt it.
He might, she now knew, have accepted such a
favour from any friend or political partisan :
why not, then, from her, if he chose to consider
even the political influence of Glynnehurst as
hers exclusively?

Ethert," she said, as soon as Miss Compton's
summons to her pupil had left them alone,
^' was your answer to Meta quite sincere V

'' Could it be otherwise. Ivy ?" He endeavoured
to answer in a frank and open tone, but
something suggested to her quick apprehension
of his every feeling that the reply was evasive.
*' Do you not feel yourself that I could not

accept T 's offer to retire in my favour, after

once allowing him to win the seat?"

"I don't understand these things. I have no
doubt you are right, and, of course, you mean
what you say, so far. But, Ethert, if the seat
had been vacant, would you have accepted it?
and, if not, why not ? You would have no
objection to come forward in the interest of a

friend, or even of a stranger, who wanted to
see you in Parliament, and could command a
seat; why not in mine, if you will call it mine?"

It was not easy to answer truthfully, impossible
to answer at once truly and kindly ; but
Ethert had grown more and more reluctant to
repeat needlessly the resolves with which Ivy
had been so painfully familiarized, yet whose
repetition always appeared to inflict a fresh
wound. And once more he strove to evade the
point he perfectly understood.

"A stranger, Ivy, could choose; the offer
would obviously, notoriously be voluntary'.
Whatever I accept from my wife, I should
seem to take."

'aether, you know, and everybody would
feel that your wife cannot, does not wish to
have a right, an interest apart from your own ;
wishes that all that is hers — if it were hers —
should be yours. Would you like them not to
think so ? Then why cannot you deal with
what you call mine at my request — at least as
you would if it were offered by a stranger —
unless — do you not see I must feel that it is
because I am worse than a stranger to you ?"'

The deep and cruel pain apparent in the last
low-voiced question was more than Ethert
could endure to see her suffer; yet how to
soothe it he hardly knew, only half aware that
the motive she imputed was not the true one.

"It is not that, Ivy."

What is it then? Would not any wife wish
her husband to profit by the influence of her
family : would it not be taken for granted that
I must wish it as much as you could ? And
what must people think now ? Every one who
knows you, knows how you care ; wonders that
you are not in Parliament. And, when you
refuse the seat my father held so long, does not
everybody know you are refusing it ; and will
they not understand why ? Perhaps not from
that alone — that must make them wonder and
talk — but because it is the same in everything.
Must they not guess that you ?"

She could scarcely check the tears that
silenced her.

He mused for a few moments, seeking perhaps
in his own mind what was the true answer
to the question she would not permit him
to evade.

** Perhaps, Ivy," he said, turning at the same
time to leave the room, 'for the reason I have
assigned so often — where I have given nothing,
I can take nothing. Perhaps — I have not so
treated you that I could bear to receive a favour
at your hands."

CHAPTER V.

INTERFERENCE.

"pETURNlNG home one night at an hour
-^^ somewhat earlier than usual, though so
late that he had counted as confidently as ever
on entering without disturbing the slumbers of
the household, Ethert, as he sat down to the
meal left in his study , was startled by a tap at
the door. Ivy made her appearance in her
dressing-gown, her unbound hair streaming far
below her waist, displaying to his eyes, as it
happened for the first time, the beauty of an
ornament which Ethert greatly prized — without
which, he was wont to say, no woman was
really beautiful ; of which few women knew
how to make the most, which indeed a fashion,
set by women conscious of their own disadvantage,
has of late rendered worse than useless —

all but a disfigurement. It had never before
struck him that his young wife, if not as beautiful
as Meta might one day be, was yet one of
the loveliest girls of her age he had ever seen.
Her appearance there and then not a little
surprised and perhaps somewhat alarmed him.
He fully understood how carefully she would
Tinder ordinary circumstances have avoided
what her timidity would have regarded almost
as an intrusion ; certainly as an advance, not
to be expected from her, across the insensibly
deepening if not widening gulf that parted
them. Her face betrayed more embarrassment
than distress or disturbance, but it was clear
that she was troubled ; and Ethert's anxiety
naturally turned to the one person in whom he
"was deeply interested, besides her whose presence
avouched her safety.

What is it, Ivy ? Is anything the matter
with Meta ?"

No, Ethert, and I am sorry if I startled
you. But I could not wait till morning to tell
you, if . . . and you might chance to hear it
from some one else. Mamma is here. You
know I could not help asking her to stay when

I knew she had come on purpose to see you.
And I am afraid something has gone wrong . . .
I don't know what."

He had sprung up at her entrance. Now, as,
in her anxiety and uneasiness, she came close
to one from whom she could at least expect
protection and help in trouble, he moved his
own chair towards her, and, taking another himself,
spoke gently, but with evident constraint.

"Sit down, Ivy; but there is not much to
say. If you don't know why my aunt has come,
I can guess, and — of course you would ask her I
If you did not know how entirely you are
mistress here, and that an}- guest of yours must
be welcome, surely in this case there could be
no reason to spoil your rest in order to tell me
what you had donee Can you honestly tell
me. Ivy, that you thought there was any need
for such a precaution ?"

He spoke with intentional levity of tone,
suspecting her of a certain degree of feminine
malice or domestic retaliation ; but she seemed
so painfully disconcerted by the implied reproof,
gently as it was hinted, that another possible
motive occurred to him.

I am sorry that I cannot explain what your
mother has not chosen to tell you ; but, if you
can trust my assurance, it is nothing that need
disturb you. I do not know the exact purport
of her visit, but I can guess pretty certainly the
general nature of the matter about which she
wants to consult me. It is no new trouble,
Ivy ; she is nervous as of old, and exaggerates
everything connected with the subject. Indeed
you may believe me ; there is no cause for
uneasiness."

Less from his words than from his manner,
which was hesitating and awkward, yet evidently
strove to be kind, Ivy gathered that her
mother's present secret was indeed no novelty;
that it was at most a new phase, a further consequence
of that fatal mystery which had sa
suddenly enveloped her young life in an ice-cold
darkness — a mystery so terrible that it had
quelled Ethert's resolute temper, overborne his
judgment, bewildered his conscience, and compelled
him not merely to take himself, but to
urge upon her, a step he had abhorred — she had
learnt too late how bitterly. She was silent fora
moment, and rather pale ; then a slight flush

coloured her face, her h'p quivered, and tears
trembled in her soft, wistful eyes.

I understand — too well, Ethert ; you cannot
tell me, and I must not ask. But do let me
say one word; do not, pray do not, make anymore
sacrifices for us. I ought not to say it,
perhaps, because I do not know what it was ;
but I can think of no danger, no sorrow, that
would have been worth the price you have paid
to avoid it."

'* Or you, Ivy," he answered, sadly. " God
forgive me if I erred ; but we have paid too
dearly for the keeping of this secret not to keep
it to the end — if possible. But — I would bear
very much to keep it; still there are things a
man must not — that it is not wise to bear. 1
shall do my best ; but, if ever you do learn the
truth, don't hastily conclude that it is my fault.
I may make mistakes, but it will not be from
grudging anything necessary for the object that
that was once thought worth so cruel a wrong
to you."

*'A wrong to both of us, I think," she answered,
very gently, and not unkindly or even
bitterly, turning half aside to conceal the tears

VOL. III. H

that would not be kept back. " And yet, if you
had felt differently, if you could have forgiven ,
I should hardly have thought of it — certainly I
should never have told you, by word or look
or deed, that I had anything to complain of or
regret , much less repent. Then — good night,
then, Ethert."

If Lvy felt some natural pain the next morning
at her distinct exclusion from the conference
held in her husband's study — the confidence
between the two nearest and dearest to her in
the world, which so deeply, so certainly affected
herself, yet from which she was shut out — she
was at once too just and too humble to dream
of complaint or resentment. Ethert's words
had left one clear impression on her mind : it
was for her sake, it was out of tenderness or
pity for her that he would not permit her to
know, while it could possibly be kept, anything
of the secret that had cost her so dearly.

Yes, I see," Ethert said, after perusing a
letter placed in his hand by Lady Glynnee. " It
is the same thing, Aunt, and you must leave it
in my hands and Mr. Brand's. The man feels
that he has lost his hold upon us, now that he

can no longer threaten a prosecution for felony.
He has tried to deal with Brand and failed ; he
thinks I do not know, or chooses to pretend to
think so, and fancies he can extort money from
you — that you will not see so clearly as men do
how utterly powerless he is. He cannot tell
his story without branding himself as an accomplice
and a scoundrel, without ruining his
position and his own fortune."

"Are you sure of that, Ethert? Has he so
much to lose? And would an ugly story in
England damage him very much abroad where
he might tell it as he pleased?"

Mr. Brand thinks so, Aunt : and, at any
rate, we cannot allow ourselves to be bullied ;
still less can we allow him to pass us over and
deal with you. It was a part of our compact
that the matter should be left in my hands.
You may be very sure I shall not lightly run
the risk of a disclosure which we thought it
worth such a price to avoid."

Ethert , it pains me to hear you still speak
in that bitter resentful tone. It was of course
a terrible, perhaps an unjust sacrifice, that 1
asked from you then. But surely novo — surely

h2

Ivy cannot have given you further cause ta
repent it; and if not "

she could not go on, could not express in
words the strong and natural maternal feeling,
that her daughter's husband had hardly right
or reason still to resent the compulsion that
had given him such a wife as Ivy. And while
Ethert felt that the reality was even worse
than the anticipation — that the worst was
perhaps yet to come, and that disappointment,
irritation, and unhappiness were envenomed by
the daily tortures of remorse — he felt also that,,
even before her own mother, he was bound to
regard Ivy's feelings rather than his own ; that
her perfect loyalty and all-enduring patience
must silence resentment even where it was
most keenly felt and most justly directed.

*' The sacrifice to me," he said, " was at the
time greater than you knew or could have
understood. But let that pass. What you
might, perhaps should, remember, what makes
me feel that my marriage has bound me to
regard the keeping of your secret as almost the
paramount duty of my life, is not what it ha
cost me, but — what it has cost Ivy."

The mother chose deliberately to pass over
the latter words, conveying as they did a reproach,
to which there was no answer. She
could not but feel more doubtful now than at
first whether she had not really sacrificed forever
her daughter's happiness ; whether, in remembering
and relying on Ivy's affection for
her cousin, she had not utterly overlooked the
possibility that that affection might only render
more painful, more intensely susceptible, her
consciousness of Ethert's reluctance, indifference,
or antipathy. A new alarm impelled her to ask
hastily : —

Do you mean, Ethert, that you had made
another choice which you were forced to
forego ?"

"Do you think, if I had, I should answer
such a question now?" he replied, indignantly.
At any rate, negatively at least, in heart as in
act, I am loyal to my promise ; and Ivy has and
shall have no rival. That addition to her
wrongs I can spare her."

It was a venturous, perhaps an impracticable
promise ; or might seem so to those whose
theories of love are derived from poetry and

fiction, rather than from the experience of life.
But Ethert felt, and was probably right in feeling
that, at least to a temper like his own, a
marriage without love tended not to render
illegitimate or wandering affections attractive,
but rather to make all women hateful by the
bitterness and pain inseparably associated with
her who must of necessity more or less represent
her sex to him.

I wish," he added, after a pause, " you
would send the man's letters in future to Brand,
and not here. Ivy sav that you had written
when you enclosed his last, announcing his
patient's death. Some wives would have opened
the letter ; and it is not fair to Ivy or to me
to remind us both of the want of confidence
between us."

You think he will write again ? Oh ! Ethert,
I am frightened ! And if the man comes over
as he threatens to do, and comes down to
Glynnehurst while I am there alone . I wish
you would live there — I should be only too glad
to leave it. You do not like London ; I do not
think Ivy is well here ; and, whatever your feeling
may be, surely you will not persist in sacrificing

both your own comfort and hers to a
mere sentiment or punctilio of pride V You
know you must overcome it soon or late — why
not at once ?"

"I never mean to abandon my profession*
If you can persuade Ivy to return with you,
so much the better; I dare not suggest it."

But, Ethert, are you sure ? Do you believe
these letters ? Is she really dead ; or is it some
trick to spring a mine upon us at some future
moment?"

My dear Aunt, that is mere nervous distrust,
however natural. What could he do '? Yes, we
have made the fact and the date of her death
only too certain."

"Did you ever doubt? Ethert, was there
ever a chance, a possibility ?" she said, eagerly.

No, Aunt. Do you think I was not fully
satisfied,, absolutely certain of that before I — do
you think I left a shadow of doubt as to the
necessity ?"

Ivy," said her mother, when they were left
alone for awhile, Meta's tact or a pride that
supplied its place keeping her even more out of

the way than Ivy wished or liked, "London
does not suit either you or Ethert. Can you
not persuade him to leave it ?"

You think he is looking ill ?" Ivy asked, anxiously,
and evading the question.

Yes, I am sure of it, dearest. x\nd — I don't
want to frighten you, and I don't suppose there
is any reason for fear — but there is something,
a change in his manner, a sort of eager, half
irritable excitement that reminds me — it is only
very distantly — of your father's state months
before the first attack."

*' Mamma!" Ivy exclaimed, in a terror which,
for the moment, rather gratified than pained
her mother, as indicating a deeper, warmer
feeling than she had supposed still to exist.
There was no indifference while a mere hint of
danger to Ethert could so whiten a face whose
colour did not change easily or quickly, and
even the soft, rosy lips.

I only meant this, Ivy : At that time your
father could scarcely sleep, and Mr. Orme told
me that that was often the first sign of mischief,
seldom very dangerous where it was
dealt with in time, except with men of your

father's age and shattered constitution. Unless
Ethert's rest is disturbed — and that you must
know, — my doubt has no meaning, and if it is,
you can get him to take advice ; or, if he would
leave London, that alone would no doubt restore
his health entirely, and I am sure you
need the change too."

Ivy remained for a minute or more absolutely
silent, and then, passing over the details of the
suggestion that had seemed at first so deeply
to disturb her, only answered,

I am afraid it is useless ; Ethert has made
up his mind. But," endeavouring to turn the
conversation, " 1 am well enough, and he is
careful that I shall not find London too dull."

Very dissatisfied with the match she had
made, and, with true feminine injustice, ready
to blame any one rather than herself, Lady
Glynnee would by preference no doubt have
accused Ethert of ill-temper, unkindness, want
of feeling, for not appreciating Ivy's sweetness.
But she was almost as willing to accuse Ivy of
selfishness and indifference, if she could so
throw the responsibility of the unhappiness she
strove not to recognize as such upon another

than herself, even upon her daughter. She
would not acquiesce in or accept the intended
evasion.

'* Is that all you think of"? I daresay you
fancy, and perhaps you have, reason to complain
; but you knew what you were doing.
You could not expect from Ethert at once the
warm eager affection he would have given to
a wife of his own choice ; but, even if he did
not care for you, or you for him, a wife should
have sufficient sense of duty to regard what
concerns her husband's health."

Ivy was offended, almost angered, not by
the injustice of the reproach, but by the words
that implied, presumed some coldness, some
discontent existing between her husband and
herself.

"It may be that I have not done my duty
by Ethert, and I will say nothing about that ;
but, Mamma, I will not allow any one, even
you, to suggest that Ethert has not been all,
more than all I could have hoped or wished.
He has never crossed a fi\ncv of mine, has been
kind, indulgent to a fault, and, if he is not so
well, I think it is chiefly because, after all his

hard night work, he will think only of giving
me all the time, all the attention he can, all the
pleasure he can find for me, and never of resting,
of sparing himself. And, if I have been
careless, inconsiderate, that is another thing ;
but you have no right to say, to think that 1 do
not love him with all my heart ! Mamma, I do
not want to say anything I should not say to
you, but I will never hear a word, a hint of that
kind again."

The indignant words, and still more the passionate
expression in the eyes, the slight flush
which, in Ivy's somewhat colourless face sufficed
to manifest unusual warmth of feeling,
conveyed a rebuke that once more rather comforted
than hurt her mother. If under the
impulse of selfish terror she had lightly regarded
her daughter's rights or even her
daughter's welfare. Lady Glynnee yet loved her
as sincerely as so weak a nature well could
love ; and certainly wished to believe that she
had not, in protecting her own and her child's
honour, insured Ivy's lifelong misery. Silenced
for the time, she was not so impressed as to be
on her guard for the future against the kind of

intrusion to which, in proportion to the unreality
of the conjugal contentment she affected,
Ivy was sure to be sensitive.

You must find a girl like Meta a somewhat
troublesome charge, or, at any rate, a somewhat
awkward encumbrance, Ivy? I can understand
how reasonable Ethert's wish to give her a
home after his mother's death would seem to
you, how difficult it would be to object ; but I
am sorry it has been done. It hardly shows
the consideration I should have expected from
him ; and if, or when, an opportunity offers, my
child, you will do well quietly to relieve yourself
of such a charge."

The recollection of her last outbreak rendered
Ivy comparatively patient, averse at first to
interrupt, reluctant at last to say more than
seemed absolutely necessary.

*' I am most glad of Meta's society," she said.
She is a great comfort, a great pleasure tome
; and it was my doing, not Ethert's."

Yes, you would think he expected, looked
for it from you. But Meta is very pretty, very
interesting, and, as she grows older, is just one
to attract the fancy of a poetic dreamer ; and

men in middle life think more of, are more attracted
by, extreme youth than are very young
men. And you or Charlie told me that Meta
was the heroine of one of Ethert's romances.
I had not recognised her myself, knowing so
little of her. Ivy, for your own peace, I think
you will be wise to find an opportunity of parting
with her while as yet she is too nearly a
child for Ethert to care very much."

*' You ought to know," Ivy began, in a tone
so calm, so self-controlled, that, not looking in
her face, Lady Glynnee thought her counsel had
made some impression — " you ought to know,
whatever else you may fail to appreciate in
him, that Ethert is true — that he would never
do underhand what he would not do openly.
If he had chosen that I should keep Meta with
me whether I liked or not, he would have told
me, and I should have obeyed. If he had
wished me to wish it, he would have asked me,
persuaded me, and I should have been too glad
to please him. A ivoman would be ashamed to
steal a favour in that way. How can you know
him so little, after all ? But it was ray doing,,
against Ethert's will ; not only because I knew

low fond he is of Meta — and well he may be —
nor only because she was his ward, and would
always have been part of his home, as she had
been till his marriage ; but because I love her,
and because, his work leaving me so much
alone, I wanted such a companion. He seemed
to think of me as ill as you do, and now I begin
to understand his objections. I suppose he
thought I could be jealous, as you think he
could give me cause. Now, Mamma, this is
the last, the very last, time I will speak to you
or hear ^^ou speak about any matter that concerns
Ethert, or me, or our household. You
have gone too far, and I believe I ought to
tell Ethert what you have said. He would
have good right to be angry with me for listening
to it ; he would not care to show his
anger if he were angry with you. But understand,
please, however I have failed, as you
say, in my duty to him, I am true, I am loyal
to my husband ; and whatever he did, if he
could stoop to be harsh or unkind, I would
never appeal — no, I mean I would never allow
a word, a look, to pity me or reproach him.
As it is, I know, and you ought to know it, he

will do what is right and just : and if not, his
fault will always be as it has been, to be too
thoughtful , too indulgent to me. I do not
know that I ought even to say so much, but I
will never speak or hear again good or ill about
him from you or from any one else. I belong
to him, and it is not your business what he
shall do with his own."

Ivy's temper was so thoroughly roused that,
contrary to her wont even in the keenest excitement
of which she was capable, her voice
had risen and become almost shrill — it could
never be loud or sharp — in the last sentences.
As she ended, she rose hastily and left the
roonij conscious that her self-control was too
utterly exhausted, her spirit too much aroused,
to enable her to preserve the appearance of filial
respect, if any further provocation should be
offered to her wifely loyalty.

They were now so seldom alone together that
Ivy had no opportunity of repeating her
mother's accusations to Ethert till after Lady
Glynnee had left town — not for Glynneeehurst, but
for what seemed likely to be a somewhat protracted
round of visits. By that time the young

Avise had had leisure to reflect, to perceive that
the confidence she had half-promised could dono
good, and was likely to entail consequences
from which she shrank with exaggerated timidity.
She knew Ethert too well to fear angry
words or looks or even sarcasm ; but — would
lie not misunderstand her motive, fancy that
she agreed with — was disturbed by her mother's
hints? might he not suppose — she knew not
what ? Had they been on happier terms, she
would hardly have hesitated to keep silence,
or feared to speak. As it was, her very alarm
impressed upon lier sensitive conscience the
idea that confession was the more obligatory :
she must be to blame if she were afraid or
ashamed to tell anything to her husband.

*' Ethert, will you hear me kindly? I don't
ask you not to scold me, if I deserve it ; but
don't misunderstand ; do believe that I mean
only what I say, and have only one motive for
speaking — because I can't bear to be afraid to
tell you anything. Do be kind to me this
once."

*^ I am not given to credulity. Ivy ; and 1 should
find it very hard to believe you — untrue or insincere,

But why tell me anything that needs such
a preface ? Remember, I have no right to your
confidence — as I could have no right to be displeased
with you for anything that may have
happened."

No right that your wife should tell you the
truth — no right to be displeased with her conduct?
You might as well say I don't belong
to you ! Is that kind, Ethert 1 Have I deserved

itr

I did not mean it unkindly. You have
deserved — that I should trust without calling
you to account, and absolve you without exacting
a confession. Unless you want my help or
advice, there is no reason why you should say
anything you do not wish to tell."

She looked up, shyly and timidly, but encouraged
and comforted by the gradual softening
of his tone. It had lost all touch of sarcasm
or bitterness ; and when his eyes met her
own, and answered her appeal with something
that was almost a smile, she read therein a
confidence perfectly sincere and kindly. It was
in such looks and tones that she found the
scanty comfort of her life. She could not

VOL. 111. I

clearly interpret their expression, full of reverence
for her truth and purity, often of almost
remorseful compassion for her hard position, of
gratitude for the patient submission and unwavering
loyalty that had been so ill-requited.
She felt that Ethert trusted and esteemed her ;
she failed at such times to understand that the
trust implied no cordial sympathy, the esteem
no Jove.

'' Yon will be kind, and tell me where I was
wrong? I cannot see ; but I feel that a wife
must be in fault when any one can blame her
husband in her presence."

I understand perfectly. Ivy ; you need tell
me nothing. Don't you see that it is a comfort
to your mother to throw on me as much as she
can of a burden which otherwise must rest on
her own shoulders 1 Or do you suppose I think
it strange either that you betray your unhappiness,
or that you cannot quite reject her
sympathy?"

"Reject ! Indeed, I did my best to stop her ;
and I don't think she will speak again. Will
you not believe that I am loyal to you, Ethert;
that I would not let anybody else pity me, whatever

you were to do ? But she did not begin
in that way. She asked a question I could not
answer, and then supposed I did not care, because
you — were not fond of me ; and afterwards
she spoke about Meta — almost as you
did — as if I could wish you did not like her, or
thought "

Remember, Ivy, I did not wish you to keep
her; I foresaw that you would think so.
:Now ''

'^ Ethert ! Did 1 not beg you to be kind — to
trust me — not to misunderstand ? That was
the one thing that made me fear to speak !
Oh, do not be so hard ! do believe me ; did I
ever lie to you ? I was ashamed, indignant,
sorry ; I could not help telling you, because I
did not think . . . How can you and mamma both
think so ill of me ? What have I ever said or
done to deserve it ? Oh Ethert ! how can you
not believe me?"

I believe you with all my heart' he answered,
warmly and earnestly. " You could
not bear not to tell me that you had listened to
reproaches against me ; but you feared lest I
should think you meant to hint — perhaps to ask

I 2

me indirectly if there were any truth in your
mother's fears. You mean that you were only
surprised that she and I both saw a danger that
you cannot recognise. I believe that is just
what you thought, neither more nor less. Are
you content?"

"Ah^yes! Thank you, Ethert ; you understand
better than I can tell you ! Ah, if you
would always understand and believe me ! — But
you will never speak again of parting with
Meta ? You see I must feel that it is not her
fault, but mine ; not that you are displeased with
her, but that you have ceased to think well of
me. You will never suspect me of that?"

'• I am sure at present, Ivy, you are * too
wholly true to dream untruth ' in me. I wish it
may always be so : for — remembering what
Meta is to both of us, and how she came to fill
the place of a younger sister to both — I could
no more forgive the suspicion than you could
pardon the sin."

CHAPTER VI.

THE FIRST FLASH.

*' Stave you seen this paragraph in the Age,
^■^ Estrange?" I said one afternoon, when
we happened to be alone. " I suppose it is
levelled at Glynnee ? It is a blackguard thing.
Ten years ago it would have been held to disgrace
any newspaper, but these ' Society journals
' have brought in the hateful American
fashion of attacking or praising individual
journalists, not the papers they represent."

'' That is not so new," he replied. " 1 remember
a quarter of a century ago, when the
teetotallers threatened to avenge a sarcastic
article of mine in the Biennial Review by publishing
that it was my writing, and that I was
the author of certain so-called Atheistic speculations
in another journal. Yes, I have seen the
Age:'

Is it meant for Glynnee ?" I said, reading it
out.

Baronets have undertaken all sorts of work,
from the stage-coach to the stage, but hitherto,
Ave believe, always from that pecuniary necessity
from which the ' blood-red hand ' confers
no universal exemption. It is strange, but we
believe true, that one of the order is at thu's
moment employed in a secondary position on a
somewhat struggling contemporary. Even bucolic
intellect may well reach the level of our
contemporary's literary requirements. The
strange part of the story is that the gentleman
in question, just before his accession to the title,
acquired by marriage the extensive and very
valuable estates hitherto attached to it. For
some reason or other, however, he did not succeed
to a seat in Parliament which had been
considered for many generations quite as much
an appanage of the House as its mansion or its
mines ; and the circumstances are altogether so
peculiar that society may expect oneida to be
entertained with a piquant, and perhaps even
an original, chronique scandalous'

Now," said Estrange, *' where is the point,

the wit, the pith, the interest of that ? Except
that there is a story somewhere and that the
hero of that story is a man of position and fortune,
there is nothing to pique curiosity, to
interest or amuse anybody. And yet a dozen
such paragraphs form the real raison d'etre of
that paper, and sell it so well that it can afford
a monthly thrashing and a quarterly libel suit'*
Has Butler got thrashed lately ?"
Don't you know ?" said Estrange. " He
keeps a prize-fighter on the premises ; but his
vanity is too strong for his prudence. He must
go down to the True Blue Club, to prove that
that somewhat exclusive body cannot get rid
of one who has been black-balled at half the
others ; and there Glynnee caught him, and
caned him sans phrase yesterday."

1 gave Glynnee credit for more good sense."
So did I," said Estrange, coolly, " till
lately. But he is losing his head, 1 think ; certainly
more than merely his temper. Of course
we know there is something strange. It would
not be strange that he should choose to express
his political opinions in the press, if he will not
go into Parliament. It is very strange that he

has not only refused a safe parliamentary seat,
but persists in doing the mill-horse work of an
Editor's assistant for an insignificant pittance,
and, if I am not far wrong, at a cost no money
can compensate. The kindest thing I could do
would be to quarrel with him. My doctor saw
him here the other day, and confirmed my own
apprehension that either over-work, or sleeplessness,
or some form of irritation, is telling on
his brain. Six months ago he would not have
touched a cad like Butler on much stronger
provocation. But mystery alone is likely to
involve irritation ; what looks worse is that his
memory, his quickness, his judgment, as well
as his temper and nerve, are failing him. I
wish he would give up, but I cannot go further
than to tell him that he is doing worse than
killing himself."

What is the matter, Estrange ? What is
his story ?"

'^If I knew, of course I could not tell you. I
know no more than we all know : that he married,
very suddenly, his uncle's very young
heiress, almost immediately after her brother's
death, and before her father's. Evidently it

was a family arrangement, by which he came
into a splendid fortune with that for which men
of thrice his wealth would give half their incomes
— a certain family seat in Parliament.
Everyone, of course, said that he married for
money, a thing to which Glynnee of all men
would be keenly sensitive ; and yet neither
money nor interest has done anything for him.
He works scarcely less hard than a reporter,
for something like a first-rate reporter's salary ;
and has not only refused to enter Parliament,
but has actually thrown away the patronage of
the seat for Stapleton, a patronage which might
have purchased a peerage if he cared for it.
Those who heard the story at third-hand said,
equally of course, that a marriage so sudden,
hasty, almost secret, with so very young a girl
was a monstrous injustice, a scandalous advantage
taken of her ; and yet it was taken by her
own parents. Now I suppose you can make of
these facts just as much and as little as I can ?"

And what is that ?"

First, the thing is not what it looks ; I
don't believe that Glvnne would do, could do
what he seems to have done. If there is a man

ill this world who would not marry for money,
even under the provocation of an impecuniou.s
title, it is he. Some men who would marry for
money would hesitate to entrap so young a
girl ; and of all men Glynnee is the least likely
to have done it. Evidently he is furious, embittered
by the consciousness that he seems to
have done the very things by which he would
feel most righteously disgraced, and yet cannot
explain or deny ; and takes it out in demonstrating
to himself, if not to the world, that he
gains nothing by his marriage ; — I wish it may
not be that he cares nothing for his bride.
Poor thing ! if she saved a family law-suit,
which is the obvious inference, it was cruel to
marry a child of seventeen with no choice, no
knowledge of men or life, to a man of thirty
who, if I am not mistaken, bitterly resents
what, for some reason or other, he could not
refuse."

All the facts look the other way, Estrange,
Surely a marriage for money is an every-day
thing ; and, if the girl's parents approved, few
men would scruple to take an advantage
against which tJiey did not protest."

"I believe," be answered, "in moral move
than in circumstantial evidence, because we can
know the one and can never confidently interpret
the other. If there be such a thing as
moral impossibility, that Glynnee should have
sold his hand, and taken an ungenerous advantage
of his bride's youth and inexperience, is
doubly impossible. Besides, she loves him ; I
can't be wrong there. I may not live, you Avill,
to see that esclandre which Butler has paid for
predicting. Then, remember what 1 say ; it
will prove that Glynnee has been the dupe of
an intrigue, or more probably the martyr of a
Quixotism. I would hazard an even bet, moreover,
that, like most Quixotism, it has been a
thorough blunder, failing in the very purpose
for which it was intended."

You think that Quixotism, or what Glynnee
and I should call chivalry, is always a blunder
f

Generally, for this reason — that it is never
thoroughly carried out ; it involves an endeavour
to do something beyond ordinary human
virtue, and a man conscious of such supererogatory
merit is pretty sure to take it out in

some form of petty injustice or unkindness —
veiled from his eyes as from others by the blaze
of his generosity — which mars the whole."

A foreign gentleman wishes to see the
Editor."

I will see him," said Estrange. " No,
don't leave the office " (to me), and, as the
stranger entered, in a lower tone, " Sit down
and seem to take no notice. This looks like a
case for eye-witness."

I half caught my chief's meaning. The newcomer
certainly looked a rascal, a well-dressed
man whose dress so contrasted his countenance
and bearing as to suggest disguise — a croupier,
marine-store dealer, or black-leg masquerading
in the garb of a gentleman. I could instinctively
understand that he was one with whom
Estrange, compelled, as Editor, to hold amicable
or at least civil conversation with men
whom, as an individual, he would have preferred
to kick, did not choose to be alone ; that he chose
to preclude the risk either of a false report or
of dispute with such a personage as to what
might really pass between them. The visitor's
thick, crisp, curly, black hair, close cut all over

his head, was well, rather more than well, oiled ;
his face had a strong Jewish cast, though not
stronger than I have seen in some that owed
nothing of their cunning to the blood of the
Supplanter ; and there was a sort of dangerous,
serpent-like look in the eyes that faced yours
with a conscious effort, steady enough and
never quailing, but always drooping when, fora
moment, the necessity to sustain their gaze
was forgotten.

"Mr. Hartog?" said Estrange, glancing at
his card.

*' Yes, sir," said the stranger, with an accent
half American, half German. " I understand
that this paper has changed hands, has a way
to make, and I can offer you what will help to
sell your journal, to make it read and talked
about — a good scandal about a distinguished
English family, a late member of Parliament.
No fear of libel, sir ; it is a truth, and a truth
that ought to be published. It is a case in
which there should have been what you call a
criminal procedure — proceeding; but it is too
late, for the man is dead. But there has been
a great fraud, and a nobleman has been tricked
into a disreputable marriage."

Indeed !" Estrange said, with a light in
his eye, a very slight sarcastic curl of the lip,
which, to me, who watched him furtively from
behind my paper, indicated a dangerous mood,
of which the stranger was wholly unconscious.
"Had you not better go to the police?"

'' No, sir. The police will not pay for my
secret, and neither will the man who should
have bought it. He had the insolence to send
me to his solicitor. He shall repent of it ! See,
in the year 1844, an English baronet, a member
of Parliament, married a German lady in
America. Here is a copy of the certificate — it
was all in order. He came back ; he lived a
little while with her as his wife in London, and
came abroad. Then she grew troublesome, or
they quarrelled, and he kept her out of the way
of his English friends. He did not come back
to England for some years. Then in 1860 he
did come back, and did marry in Paris, saying
that his first wife was dead ; and, indeed,
the story of her death had been published in
your papers before. He had a son and daughter.
The son was killed, and the daughter
married, married very quick, to the heir, so to

snap him up , lest the story should be told, while
he thought she was a fortune. Now I know,
and I can prove that all this while the first wife
was living, but was shut up in a hospital, what
you call a lunatic asylum, in South Germany.
Now, Sir Carl paid well to have the secret kept
while he could be punished for bigamy; but,
now he is dead, his solicitor says the heir will
pay nothing, and when I write to the widow —
or who calls herself the widow — she answers me
through the solicitor, and will give me nothing.
Now, what will you give me to put these in
your hands ? All the papers, see ! and here is
the name, Sir Charles Glynnee, Baronet, M.P.
for Stapleton."

What will I give you V said Estrange,
quietly. " We will talk about that in a minute ;
let me see the papers. Yes — and you are the
keeper of the asylum in question ; no other
authority would be sufficient ; besides, you have
admitted it."

I do not admit it, sir, but you may assume
it."

Very well ; are you aware that you have
been an accomplice ; that in this country you

are liable to prosecution as an accessary before
the fact to the bigamy ?"

I thought Estrange's law somewhat doubtful,
but knew better than to interfere, leaving
him to play his game in his own way.

The stranger was startled. *' No, sir, I do
not know it, and I do not think so ; besides, I
do not care. I shall put these papers in your
hands when we shall come to terms, and you
will make your game of them, whether to make
them pay you to hold your tongue, or unfold
your pen — ha, ha ! or to publish the story and
maintain public virtue, and the circulation of
your paper. But , of course, you will pay me
handsomely — something down, well, and something,
say one-half of what he gives you, or she
gives you, and — or something down altogether,
say five hundred pounds."

Estrange's sharp ring of the bell was answered
by a stalwart porter, long in his service,
and accustomed to obey very implicitly hi
quaint and uncertain humours.

"Five hundred pounds," said Estrange.
*' How much did you receive from this Sir
Charles whilst he was living?"

'* That was for the care of the lady, sir; one
thousand a year."

'rand what has the solicitor offered you at
present ?"

He had the insolence, sir, to offer me two
hundred a year for my life only ; and I would
far rather take one thousand down, but he
would give me nothing except so long as the
secret was kept."

I understand," Estrange replied ; in a tone
so cool, so quiet that I, who knew how utterly
revolting, how intensely offensive to him must
have been the proposal which assumed him to
be a scoundrel — having, moreover, that general
experience which has taught any man by the
time he reaches middle life that when a quarrel
may impend it is silence, not loud and furious
language, that threatens violence — became nota
little alarmed ; measuring the probable force
of the explosion by that of the suppression, of
which I alone was aware. " So I am to give
you five hundred pounds, and to recoup myself
by the power these papers will afford me over
the honour and happiness of a family — the
power of dishonouring a respectable matron, a

VOL. Il K

young wife, and a husband of rank, fortune, and
character ?"

Yes, sir, you see it exactly as it is."

"That is, you propose to rae to levy blackmail
on joint account by a practice of which the
vilest paper in England or America — the Age
or the New York Chanticleer — might be ashamed ;
and you ask what I will give you ? I have told
you what the English law will give you, if you
are found in England when, a few hours hence,
the solicitor knows what you have proposed tome."


"Sir!" said the German. "You have not
listened to me to betray me?"

"I have listened to a felon with the full
intention of handing him over to justice.
But, as you say, I owe you something on my
own account, and you shall have it at once.
Maddox, kick this fellow downstairs — rich him,
soundly !"

Five seconds had elapsed before, grasping
the scoundrel by the coat-collar and waistband,
Maddox had ejected him from the room ; and
the sound of scuffling, clattering, howling, and
blows outside, gradually descending the long

winding staircase from the second floor to the
street, rendered us aware how literally Le-strange's
servant was executing his command.
He came up presently, less out of breath with
the exertion than was Estrange with passion,
and I myself with mingled surprise, amusement,
and consternation. Estrange had certainly
rendered himself liable to an action for assault ;
but I apprehended more the possibility of retaliatory
violence he was equally unfit to resist
or to endure.

I have kicked him out, sir. Waited a
minute; he didn't seem to want any more."

Thank you' Estrange said, quietly, counting
out five sovereigns from the drawer where
he kept what was entered as " editorial petty
cash " in the books, what he called the " secret
service fund." "If he comes back, repeat the
dose, and I will repeat the fee. Now' to me,
when the well-satisfied porter had departed,
"the fellow, of course, will not dare to complain
; but whether he will believe what I told
him is another thing. I should be very sorry
to have the truth leak out ; I would not have
Glynnee hear of it, if that can be avoided. How

k2

much, I wonder, does he know ? If I knew that
I should see my way. But if the secret has
been kept from him wholly or partially — if he
has only known that the estates were his
through some informality, and could not bear
to take them from his cousin, I cannot tell him

that his wife is illegitimate — and her mother

Brand, the family solicitor, must know, I suppose
; it may be best to sound him."

What does it all mean f I said.

Don't you see, this explains all ? The
girl, being the daughter of an illegal, invalid
marriage, or no marriage, could not inherit asher
father's child. For Glynnee to claim the
estates was to tell the story; and, if he knew
that, he has preferred to bear the accusation,
which to his mind must be so intolerably galling,
of marrying for her money a girl too young
to know what she was doing. I don't wonder
he has been bitter, savage, sore, ever since; I
only hope no share of the punishment has fallen
on that poor girl."

'• Does that explain another thing that
puzzled me : — why she consented to adopt
that pretty child?"

"A very pretty kitten indeed, but, if I am
not utterly ignorant of physiognomy, one that
can scratch. A woman of five and twenty,
especially one who would slap her hard on occasion
in the master's absence, might have
found her a sufficiently pleasant plaything ; but
that young girl had either no choice, or a
simple, trustful courage one sometimes finds
most perfect in the softest women. Her story
might furnish you the plot and the characters
of a quieter novel than your last."

Hardly, Estrange, while critics will insist
that my hero is my ideal of manly sense and
dignity. It Avould be easy to idealise the
little we know of Lady Glynnee into a faultless
heroine of the softer feminine type ; but there
is nothing of the hero about her husband."

He has a fine and, in some points, a very
generous character ; but he has far too much
of that feminine element which, as some man of
genius said, is always characteristic of the poetic
type of genius. Like a woman above all in
this — he is never reasonable. Clear-sighted,
gifted with rare powers of expression, sensitive,
susceptible, sympathetic, after a woman's

fashion, with those characters which he can
understand ; but perverse petulant, wilful almost
to a womanly degree. And of one thing
you may be quite sure, if you attempt to describe
Ethert Glynnee truthfully — that nine critics
in ten will pronounce the character inconsistent
and impossible. I never met a man at all like
him, and I never expect to meet another. I
know many men who think like women ; I never
met a man who felt so much more after a woman's
fashion than that of ordinary manhood.
Well, I must — not sleep, that I never do, but —
lie awake over it. Now that I hold the clue,
perhaps I may find a way to further the happy
solution of the plot. I hope Cleveland will
bring his wife to town — do you know?"

"I did not know he was coming up. When?"
This week. Now, have you looked carefully
into those Fortune Bay papers ? If you have,
say what you think, not what you feel. Write
as if Jefferson Davis were in the State Office at
Washington."

CHAPTER VII.

THREATENING OF THE STORM.

'''HTEERT, you are ill, worn out! Yes, I
•^ have seen it ; I have watched and feared
ever since I spoke first, though I dared not
speak again, and Mamma noticed it when she
was here. Now, Parliament will be up presently,
and already, Mr. Lestrauge says, nobody
cares to read about it. You might, you surely
might take a holiday, a rest, if only a short
rest. Ether t, you know you can if you will.
You love the country ; you used to love
Glynnehurst as dearly as I do. I saw myself —
what Meta once told me, what you owned to
her — how unhappy, how depressed the Spring in
London made you, how sad you have been ever
since the horse-chestnuts were in bloom in the
parks. Now, because I love it, because you

wish — I think you wish — to be kind to me
when it — when you can without seeming to
care for me— it would be so great a pleasure,
so much comfort if you would take us there
now, before its summer beauty fades , while the
gardens are still at their brightest. Or else, if you
will not go there because — because you hate it
for being — because you call it mine, both you
and Meta love the Lakes so dearly, and I was
so happy there with you both ; — let us go there.
Will you not, Ethert? Remember, it is only
the second time I have asked you to do anything
for me."

"When was the first, Ivy? Oh! you mean
Pearl ? And this too is really for my sake, not
your own. It would be much harder to refuse,
Ivy, if you did ask anything for yourself. Of
course you shall go whenever you please — nay.
Ivy, I did not mean to hurt you ; for, even while
your mother is away, if you were at Glynn
Avilh Meta, I could accept the offer that
was made me last week; the only difficulty
was that I could not leave you in London.
Estrange wants a confidential account of
matters in France. It would give me a capital

opportunity of making acquaintance with the
chiefs of the Right ; and, if you were at Glynn
I could go''

Ethert , is that kind — is it right ? I should
not be happy, I should not feel safe for a day if
you were away alone. No ; unless you command
its I will never go to Glynnehurst without
you, and I do not think you will command
me; you feel that 1 am right."

He could not contradict her. She was unquestionably
right from her standpoint, and in
all these months he had not brought her a step
nearer to his own. Nothing had shaken the
simple, silent resolve of her conscience. To
her, as to most English wives, the marriage tie
had all the sacramental sanctity with which
Roman tradition has invested it ; for her, as for
most English wives, it derived that character
from the religious ceremonial, the sacerdotal
sanction, the formal vows which are historically
and theologically incidents only, if not mere
accidents of the Catholic sacrament. This conviction
was so profoundly rooted in her very
being, so evidently unquestioning and unquestionable,
that he was forced to doubt whether

her intense instinctive sense of the inherent
verity of the bond, rather than the repugnance
he had inferred from the presence of compulsion
and the absence of love, might not have
afforded the truer clue to the feelings he had
honestly thought to S2:)are. If she must hold
herself irrevocably bound, would it not have
been better for her, for both, if he could have
resolved at the outset to accept the situation
and assume that she must do so ; could have
treated her as a willing bride, and by so
treating her have made her, in time,
thoroughly, loyally, lovingly his own? From
the simple truth he was as far as ever, and
meantime every mention of Glynnehurst
brought home the vexed questions to his heart
and conscience with more painful sharpness.
As he remained silent. Ivy saw that she had
made an impression, though she had not the
remotest idea of the working of his mind, of
the considerations that gave weight to her
argument and point to her entreaties. Hope
gave her courage, and she urged her appeal
more firmly, more earnestly than she had yet
dared to do.

Ethert, I am not asking you to break your
resolution. If you will not touch what you call
your wife's — Ethert, what would you think of
me if I could speak, if I could remember what
was yours, not mine? — you have your mother's
fortune. Is not that more than you spend on
yourself and on Meta too ? If you will not
give up your profession, you can afford to give
up your present employment, if that were
necessary. You are independent, as you call
it, both of that and of . . Oh Ethert ! that
is so hard ; that makes every day of my life, all
that happens, every pleasure, every luxury I
enjoy, a fresh taunt, a continual reproach.
Everything reminds me that you will not share
with me — my rooms, my carriage, all you have
taken care to give me — it is always ' mine ' !
And it is not even true I Ethert, dare you tell
me, as you would speak to a man of your own
rank — as you say, * on the word of a gentleman
' — that it was mine, and not yours ? It
comes at every turn. Even about Pearl you are
so punctilious ; not that you are unkind about
her, or jealous, not that you even wish her to
know that she belongs to you — but her expenses

must be yours, yours only; and I can hardly
give her a present for fear you should reckon
with me about it. And now, do you really
mean to keep me, shut me out from our home
because you are resolved that it shall not be
yours ? You are too honest to say that it is my
own fault — do you mean that I shall not go
there unless I will give way ? Do you not see,
feel that your wife cannot go there unless you
take her? But if you hate Glynnehurst because
it reminds you — of your marriage — if you
cannot bear to see your mother's home without
her — Ethert, do you know that Iter last word
called me daughter? — then let us go abroad
with you. You are not fit to be alone."

There, as Ethert felt, she was wrong. Her
presence was the danger, the exciting influence
that he was anxious to escape. But of this she
could not dream, nor, had she known, could she
have understood it. The symptom that would
have assured an experienced woman how near
she was to victory would have broken the
young girl's heart.

You are mistaken on every point, Ivy. I
love Glynnehurst almost as dearly as you do.

and because we spent so many happy days there
together ; and — if on consideration yon really
wish it — our first holiday shall be spent there.
But I cannot leave my work while Parliament
is pitting — and, Ivy, my mother's fortune does
not render me independent. I always meant it
to be Meta's, and she must not be a loser by my
our marriage."

Ethert, how could she have accepted such a
gift from you ; I mean before V Now, 1 suppose
it is a different thing V

Certainly : Pearl may accept from her guardians
without shame or scruple whatever we
could give to a younger sister."

"We, Ethert? If it were we ! May it be
owr gift? because if you will allow that "

"No; I could accept nothing for her anymore
than for myself. It would be the same
thing. And what I can give her is little
enough, because — I am forced to take from it
sufficient to secure myself against the possibility
of involuntary dependence if my power of work
should fail. I will take no more."

Ivy understood his meaning more clearly
than he had intended. He had spoken without

reflection, and had wounded her more cruelly
than he would willingly have done. Then,
looking in the face the worst of all human
calamities — for, partly through Estrange's
warnings, partly by combiningher own observations
with her mother's hints, she knew in what
direction Ethert's fear of incapacitation pointed,
and not without reason — then the first thought
of the husband she loved so loyally, of the
cousin who had at any rate a brother's claim on
his nearest relative, was to escape the humiliation
of being, even in that most terrible and
palpable need, dependent on her abounding
wealth ! For a full minute she could not speak ;
she could only press her hand on her tortured
heart, and struggle to keep down the passionate
impulses of pain and mortification. But presently
the consciousness of peril to him, the perception
that he himself was aware of and had
owned it, gave her strength to enforce her plea,
earnestly but almost calmly

Meta needs nothing now; while she
remains with us she can hardly need more than
she has already. Without injuring her, you
could afford to rest for years, to look out for

other employment. And can yon be so cruel
to Tiers Can you not see what she would feel
when she came to know? Do think : how can
you be so hard to me ? Think, if — if you should
die or break down, if you sacrifice health and
usefulness out of dislike to your wife ! Ethert,
how can you make me so utterly miserable?
You can be spared : your own chief has told you
so, told you to go abroad. And that is not
all. Ethert, I cannot bear not to be true, however
angry you may be. 1 never before concealed
a thought from you, or betrayed it to
any one else ; but I could not help it, I could
bear it no longer ; and he was so kind to me,
so loyal to you. When I begged of you to call
on Dr. A., or Sir B. C, it was Mr. Estrange's
advice. 1 cannot think how any woman could
have borne to leave, could have helped loving
him ! He gave me leave — no, he told me — to
tell you every word he had said ; he has told
you — they are his own words — that you had
better '^ — there was a sob in her voice as she
spoke — "better kill yourself at once than goon.
' He has said everything that one man can
say to another ; all that your relations, that his

regard for you, that thirty years' experience
could give him the right to say.' — Ethert, have
you seen a doctor ?"

As Ivy ceased and looked eagerly into his
eyes for her answer , the warning voice of the
wisest of living physicians sounded once more
in his ears — " You will not die ; but, if you goon
as at present for a few weeks more, your
mind will give way for a time or for ever: — " and
the grave face seemed visible behind his wife's
slight figure.

And," she presently continued, passionately,
as he would not give in words the
answer his countenance could not withhold,
*' Ethert, Mr. Estrange would not speak, would
not look it, but I could see why . . . what was
in his mind I . . . . You are showing him and
every one else what it is. Do you think that
you can avoid Glynnehurst in this way forever,
and that people will not notice ; that
everyone will not know, soon or late, that those
who know anything of us do not understand
now? You are telling everybody the truth —
that you hate me I It is bitter enough for me
to know it; but it is not kind, it is not like you,

to let all the world see and feel it. Do you
think Meta is not learning — not that, I will not
let her — but that something is wrong ?"

Ivy, you are unreasonable. I do not mean
that your advice is not sound, or that you ask
more than you ought to do ; but your own good
sense must show you how much you wrong
me, how you misrepresent my feelings. Have
I ever spoken an angry word to you, ever refused
a request of yours apart from this one
thing, that you should think I feel less kindly
to you than when . . . we accepted the necessity
that has made you so unhappy ? You are
too honest to say, as other women might, that
I did that out of spite, in order to have the
power of making you miserable. If I had borne
you ill-will, if I had not wished to do my very
best for you — for the cousin I loved as well as
anything in this world — should we be in this
position to-day ? I may have judged ill. Ivy ;
but I could not intend anything save kindness
to you. You will not say, even now, that I
wanted your "

*' No, Ethert ; you are not mean. I do not
know — the only thing I can feel about that is

VOL. III. L

that it could hardly be true kindness ; or it was
such kindness as you might show to a girl, even
though you did hate her. If you were so sorry
for me then, how is it sou have no pity for me
now, when my heart is breaking? I was never
much loved or made of. Papa did not seem to
care for any of us, and Mamma liked Charlie so
much better; I used to feel, to fancy myself
neglected and alone. I used to think I would
like to change even with Meta — though she
was so much more severely treated, and I knew
how frightened and crushed I should be in her
place — but only to be loved as you always
loved your little Pearl. And . I looked
forward to jour visits so eagerly . . . because
you were never cross, or hasty, or impatient ;
you had always time to be kind to me, and so
I fancied you were fond of me. But now,
can you not think, can you not feel, what it is
never to hear a kind, a loving word, if it were
not for Pearl ? And even Pearl seems half to
doubt me. She thinks I make you unhappy,
and I know too well how true that is. You
think you are not cruel ;— not like men who beat
their wives whenever they are provoked. Even

if I had done this great wrong to you on purpose,
you would be ashamed, shocked at such a
thought. Is that only because you are a gentleman,
because you must not strike a woman '^
Or, if you could stoop to it, would you find any
pleasure in taking your revenge in that way ?
Would it not grieve you to see me so hurt, so
shamed'' And is not this far worse ? Is it nota
far more merciless punishment to be taught
every day that you hate me, and to see that
you are teaching others the same ?"

'don't exaggerate so, Ivy. How can you
say such things ?"

"Do I exaggerate? I did not mean to do
so. Where is the exaggerations Do you not
hate me? Or do you think I exaggerate if I
say that I would rather be beaten, a thousand
times rather, if that were any satisfaction to
you r

He did not intend that Ivy should see the
slight, ironical smile that curled his lip ; but she
caught it, and answered with passionate vehemence
the thought he had not meant her to
discern.

What do you fancy makes beating so dread



ful to women, Ethert? The smart of the blows,
the disgrace that seems to lie in them, or the
pain and humiliation endured from those who
should love and protect us ? Yes ! Does it
seem so strange that I would rather feel your
arm grasp me ever so roughly, than see that
you will never touch me? I know you think I
do not observe,, do not remember, how long it
is since you touched me even in passing."

*' Nonsense, Ivy !"

'' It is true. I know you hand me into my
carriage ; but, Ethert, even then I can always
feel how it distresses you, how much you
would do to avoid it, how glad you are that
Meta is there whenever you have to go with
me, so that you can take the other seat. And
it is not a year since you always took the place
next me till it seemed yours — at table, and at
church, and when we went out ; and now, even
at the theatre, you always put Pearl next me,
not that you may talk to her — you are careful
to show by your silence it is not that, as if I
should not like to listen to you both — but only
that you may keep away from me."

Nonsense, Ivy !" he answered, once more.
« That is too absurd."

No, Ethert, it is true. And in everything
it ifs the same. You will take any trouble to
avoid treating me like a wife, and to conceal
that you do avoid it. Even your kindness,
your courtesies all mean the same thing. The
second day we had this house you had lit your
cigar here, in your study ; you had forgotten, it
was a habit, and when I chanced to come in
you threw it away , and since then you have
never even lighted one indoors. You are worn
out, tired till you can scarcely keep awake ; but
if you are resting when I come into the room,
you rise as you would for a stranger. You
come down at the hour you made me fix for
breakfast, when I see you would give anything
for another hour's sleep. You would feel my
absence like a release from slavery, that you
might be at rest, that you might be at liberty
to be ill ! I have seen once or twice when you
mistook my step for Meta's. Then you were
quiet, you would have taken no notice of her ;
but when you saw it was — your wife, then your
manner, your attitude, everything changed;
then you were on ceremony at once."

Ivy, if you choose to watch in this way, to

note everything I do or leave undone, and turn
it into an affront, no man could avoid offending'
you."

Offend! Ethert, that is not worthy of you.
What have I said that is not quite true ? I
know how you hate lying ; but I know, too, you
would lie rather than confess a truth so cruel.
But do you think I do not feel — feel so that no
words could deceive me? If it were that one
thing alone — men may not feel; I suppose they
don't."

Yes, that is a woman's idea. Because we
don't scream, we have skins less sensitive than
yours. But, Ivy, the thing has been tested,
and a man's sensations are quicker , keener thana
woman's."

I don't know, Ethert; but I don't think you
could treat me so if you knew how easily I
recognise, how I feel it by instinct, as one
knows in the dark whether one is alone. You
accuse me of exaggerating, because I say you
hate me. If not, what is it makes you shrink
from my touch ? Or do you think a woman
does not feel <7iai through and through? And
if I knew you would always do it, I might keep

away ; but — Ethert, you would think it very
cruel to strike one sharp blow now and then,
when I came near you, without telling me,
without letting me know why or when it was
coming. Is not this far more cruel ? At
times, I suppose when you are not on your
guard, or if I take you by surprise, I can feel
you shrink from my touch as I should shrink
from some loathsome creature — a snake or a
toad. No ! 3'ou don't flinch, draw away — you
Avould not be so discourteous to any woman ;
and you can control that, you can help shivering,
but you cannot help the feeling, and you
cannot help my feeling it."

"Ivy, you must know that all that is wild
exaggeration. If this were true, if I could
insult you so brutally, you would have told me
of it before now."

"No, Ethert; because it is only of late that
I have been sure of it myself. 1 don't mean
that you hate me more — 1 hope it is not so ; I
think I should die if I believed that — but you do
show it as you did not show it at first. Perhaps
it is that you are ill, and so more sensitive
or less able to hide what you feel. But

you do — you know yourself that you do —
often, not always — shrink from my touch, even
if ray dress touches you as I come near. You
would as soon it were some — you feel just as
they say some people feel, who have such a
loathing for a cat that they know if one is
hidden in the room, and turn faint and sick.
You flinch in yourself when I come near you,
just in that way. What could you do that
could be so hard to bear — so cruel? — so — only
that you do not mean me to feel it."

How can I answer such an accusation,
Ivy ?" he replied ; conscious nevertheless of the
effort it cost him to look into the wistful, tearful
eyes that so earnestly seconded her passionate
expostulation — to meet their searching
glance at once kindles and firmly, and maintain
the denial he was bound to give to the charge.
*' How can I deal with such painful fancies ?
If you can believe such things, you will hardly
believe my contradiction ; and I cannot prove
what I think when I am silent, what I feel
when I do nothing. But I never had an unkind,
an angry thought or feeling towards you,
since I learned, in the library at Glynnehurst,

how you had been cheated into the belief on
which you acted, how kind and unselfish was
your real intention. Why should you fancy
me so foolish and so brutal ?"

Yes, Ethert ! all that would sound so just,
so reasonable, if it were spoken to a stranger !
Do you mean to say that we cannot understand
each other, feel one another's thought, without
a word, without a sign that any one else could
perceive? Will you tell me, loyally and honestly,
that I am wrong? Do you not shrink
from my touch ? I don't say you move or
shiver ; you are strong enough to prevent that,
but you prevent it by an effort — sometimes
you can hardly help it. Can you tell me — tell
me so that you can expect me to believe you —
that that is not true ?"

No woman should put a man's truthfulness
to so hard a trial, and blame him for lying.
Few men would scruple at a deliberate falsehood,
when it seemed due to a woman's honour
or a woman's feelings, so much as did Ethert
Glynnee. But on this occasion, even if he had
felt sure that Ivy spoke the truth, he could
have done nothing but give truth itself the lie.

After a moment's reflection, he took suddenly
and by surprise the hand which, had she known
his intention she might probably have withheld,
and raised it to his lips, with a sense of
some unreality, which was hardly unwillingness
or repugnance, in the performance of the
courtesy. He held it firmly for a few moments
as he replied :

No, Ivy, I am conscious of no such feeling ;
and you underrate yourself strangely if you
think that any man could so feel towards you.
Do be reasonable ; how is it possible to live
from day to day if every motion, every look, is
to be so scanned and so exaggerated ? I don't
complain that you reproach me — that is natural
enough, and I must bear it for the present : but
pray do try not to distress yourself vf^ifh such
extravagant fancies. I cannot stoop to touch
a penny of the fortune for which all around us
say and think that I hurried, cheated a young-girl
into an unfair, almost an unequal, marriage.
Can you wonder at that feeling? — can you not
understand and forgive it? But, beyond that,
anything I can do to dispel your painful illusion,
to prove that I do not requite so cruelly.

SO ungenerously, your gentle forbearance, your
exquisite sweetness of temper, in a situation so
hard and trying, I will do. If you insist — no,
if it will please you and relieve your mind — I
will take you to Glynnehurst myself; I have
always wished that you should regard it as
your home."

"Thank you, Ethert. Yes, you mean to behind
And you will take Pearl V"

*' No, Ivy, 1 cannot take her ; you will do as
you please about it."

Once more, Ethert, I see ! You will come
to Glynnehurst because you could have come
there if we — in any case ; but you will come
there, not as its master, but as my guest and
you will make me feel that Meta is my guest,
not ours. Indeed it is very hard, and so needlessly
hard. Do think ; forgive me if I have
said an angry, an unkind word ; I have not
meant to. But, Ethert, do think — is it not
true that Jo\^ are letting all about us know?
Is it not certain that in a little while you will
let the world understand, if you will not act as
if you persist in making it so plain to all
that what is mine, or what they suppose to be

mine, shall not be yours ? If you are so benton
proving that you hate the money which is
called your wife's, you are proving at the same
time that you hate your wife for the money's
sake. Is it not so? And, if it is so, Ethert, do
you wish that it shall be ? Forgive me, and do
consider."

Ethert did consider — could by no means help
considering, as he walked slowly along the
Embankment towards the scene of his immediate
duties in that narrow region north and east
of the Temple which is the local habitation of
the Fourth Estate — all that Ivy had urged ;
asking himself how far his conscience must
plead guilty to the reproaches so long restrained,
and uttered at last with so little of reproachful
purpose. Some things she had said were
certainly true ; trifles of which he had hardly
been conscious, which he had never supposed
perceptible to her, but which, when recalled to
his memory, he could not doubt or deny. It
'Was true that of late he had frequently, though
not of set purpose but on the impulse of the
moment, avoided to take the place immediately
beside her — equally true that of old he had never

-willingly taken any other. Why ? — what did the
change mean ? Had he really learnt to hate-her,
as she had affirmed with such painful depth
of conviction, such unresentful, piteous iteration
? Impossible ! What could hatred mean —
what could such a feeling be like — between a
man in the vigour of youthful manhood, full of
romance and poetic sentiment, and a young girl
daily developing before his eyes the freshest
sweetest, purest charms of early womanhood,
perfect in spiritual as in physical beauty, whose
constant effort wan to please, whose deepest fear
to offend him ?

He had long since ceased to see in her an obstacle
to his own hopes ; for his former fancy had
withered, vanished beyond the possibility of regret.
His affection forget was as cordial as ever
but it was affection for a reality very different
indeed from the image he had conceived ; for the
child companion and adopted sister growing up
into healthy, high-spirited, wilful girlhood, not for
the intellectual, thoughtful, spiritual mistress of
his dreams. In truth, whether or not she had
insensibly modified his ideal. Ivy was visibly
much the more capable of representing if not

actually fulfilling it. In any difference or dispute
between the two, his heart as well as his
conscience sided instinctively with his wife
rather than his ward. It was delicate consideration
for her dependence, not sympathy with her
or doubt as to her deserts, that had more than
once spared Meta some unpleasantly distinct
evidence of his invariable assumption that she
was petulant and wayward towards a protectress
only too gentle and patient.

If he were still persuaded that Ivy must desire
such release as might yet be possible, that at any
rate it must be welcome if she could but believe
herself entitled to accept it, he no longer cared
to dwell upon the thought; was no longer impatient
to believe that the time was at hand when
her sacrifice would have fulfilled its purpose. It
grieved him, wounded him to the heart , to
witness the unhappiness he had caused ; and
this day at least he had been strongly tempted
to vindicate himself, if he could have found
words which she could understand, yet which he
could utter in her presence. If only she were
not associated with all that had galled his pride
and outraged his feelings ; with the occasion

driven to contempt and calumny, with the
act Which gave the lie direct before the world
to his publicly paraded denunciation of interested
marriages ! If he had been free, had been
allowed to love her and to win her love before
he was forced to ask and she to give her hand
—if only she had not seemed an heiress, or
their union had not been needful to protect her
name and fortune ! In the olden days how
pleasant she had made every holiday they
shared together ; what pride and pleasure he
had taken in the eager affection, the almost
passionate welcome of the child, the simple,
happy confidence and frank kindness of the
growing maiden ; how sweet had been their
loyal friendship, their unrestrained untroubled
companionship, till the unwelcome suggestion
of marriage had cast over it the shadow of distrust
and untruth ; and how innocent she was
of the selfish guile which had turned his long-cherished
fraternal fondness against himself,
and made capital of the affection it had encouraged
and fostered !

Resentment and suspicion had not falsified
Ethert's intellectual conscience or perverted the

directness of his insight. For a few weeks he
had believed Ivy so far participant in his aunt's
selfishness as to have accepted his hand simply
to secure herself and her mother from a peril
she could not understand ; and had marvelled
how her conscience had been reconciled to such
a step. The truth had come out only by slow
and almost imperceptible degrees ; but, never
doubting Ivy's perfect truthfulness, he had
caught sight of one chief motive in the first conversation
that touched on the disposal of her
fortune, and then understood bv what sort of

■' ml

misrepresentation she had been bewildered into
a confused belief that in accepting his sacrifice
she was in some measure requiting it.
How readily. Iiow honestly she had admitted
the humiliating truth ; how patiently she had
endured, how loyally she had fulfilled to the
uttermost the promises made but for form's
sake ! She could not love him of course — that"
was no more her fault than his — but the most
loving and loved wife could not have been
more true more devoted, more forbearing.

It was natural that she should feel the change
from the affectionate intimacy of their happier

days even more bitterly than he did ; inevitable
that she should impute it to wilful unkindness,
or even to personal dislike. What else could
she think? Long experience of married life
is necessary to give men and women much insight
into each other's feelings where they needs
must feel diversely ; and even that experience
fails to enable either party to anticipate the
other's sensations in a wholly novel situation,
flow was it possible for a girl so young, so
simple, so childlike as Ivy to understand why
the wife could not possibly be what the sister-like
cousin had been — no less, and no more ?
It was the withdrawal of wonted regard, not
the absence of a more passionate tenderness,
that had inflicted so deep a wound, had made
so painful and so false an impression on her
mind.

No sense of wrong could have provoked her
to retaliate injustice, no affront have stung
her into conscious insincerity or wilful exaggeration
; her belief in his dislike was evidently
sincere. Worse still, she believed in that personal
repugnance which requires no aggravation
from disappointed hope or mortified affect

III. M

tion to render it exquisitely, intensely galling
to feminine pride and womanly instinct; which,
in any relation close enough to render it possible,
is the most intolerable aspect of aversion,
the most stinging and rankling of insults.
Yet even this she could recognize could speak
of without resentment, only pleading that it
should not be made manifest to others. Was
there another of her sex, without one of the
moral and personal attractions of which she
could not be wholly unconscious, who could
have so felt and spoken ? Nay, could he himself
— as man — have endured similar repulsion
on her part ?

Truly had Cleveland remarked on the peculiar
vein of Ethert's love-poems and love-stories.
They won him the favour and admiration of
women, because the love they breathed was
that of which women prefer to speak and hear
the love that draws its life from imagination,
not from passion ; that is rooted in the spiritual
rather than in the earthly elements of human
nature. And yet — as he took his ideal from his
own visions rather than from observation and
experience — he failed at the critical moment to

interpret a girl's heart ; failed to read his own
aright. Estrange, less observant than Cleveland,
but educated by more varied and painful
personal experiences, had written of his future
secretary's sweetest idol, "As delicate, touching,
and true a picture of maiden love as ever
visited a maiden's dream under the influence
of the Faery Queen ; as incomplete, unsubstantial,
fantastic a phantom of masculine passion
as ever escaped pursuit in the nightmare of a
lady's sensation-novel." How came the author
to lose sight of that distinction, in which half
the love-tragedies of real life find their plot,
which furnishes so many models to fiction, yet
which most poets and novelists ignore, and
hardly one clearly recognizes — the sex-difference
which renders all genuine forms of platonic
or impassioned affection so safe to men, so
perilous to women ?

How came the skilful painter of " first love "
to ignore that radical distinction which makes
girlish regard pass so easily into womanly love
and conjugal devotion, and almost insures the
youth who has reciprocated the first against the
chance of returning the second ? Why the girl

M 2

who has warmly liked a man (as friend or
brother, not as father or tutor) so easily learns
to love him, while the man who has simply
loved a fair young cousin or intimate neighbour
so rarely *' falls in love " with her, is a
problem beyond my powers. Probably the
secret is closely akin to that on which rests
the security and comfort of one marriage in
three; in virtue whereof the girl who in May
would have accepted with equal willingness
any one of half a dozen admirers, is in December
the exclusively-devoted wife of the
one who chanced to ask her. Yet the writer
whose favourite and most successful theme was
maiden love could not, in his own case, realize
the possibility that Ivy had willingly accepted,
had been more than willing to love with all
the tenderness and devotion of her nature, the
husband who had been before marriage the
object of her warmest affection, her closest
confidence and most absolute trust. Chiefly,
perhaps, because his own vehement revolt from
the marriage enforced upon him, if only as
enforced, at first absorbed his thought, and
he read her feelings, interpreted her every act

-and word by the light of that angry fire within
his own soul : because of late the storm of
contradictory passion in his breast distorted
every image that fell on the agitated surface.

Whither now set the main current even of
his own feelings, Ethert was in no mood clearly
or correctly to discern. His was the last character
to be able to turn on the tempest of his
emotions the clear light of an undisturbed intellect;
to analyse coolly and indifferently the
elements of a moral situation in which indifference
was the one temper utterly impossible.
His whole nature was perturbed and embittered
by the conflict of principles and passions, by
the struggle of pride with duty, affectionate
remembrances with recent resentment, admiration
and pity with sullen consistency. Overworked
and sleepless, the brain over-tasked
while the heart was harassed and tortured, his
physical condition had re-acted on the mind
Which had originally disturbed the bodily frame.
He was excited and irritated to the verge of a
nervous fever — of what in a less powerful
mental constitution would long ago have been,
what in his case, if relief were long delayed,

would soon become actual insanity — by the recurrent
vexations and chronic discontent inseparable
from the hopelessly false position in
which he had wantonly entangled himself, cooperating
with severe and unwholesome intellectual
labour. He was savage with self-reproach,
and stung to fury by a wholly exaggerated sense
of reproach or ridicule from others.

Of one thing he was certain : Ivy misconceived
and wronged him when she accused him of
hating her. Was she wrong when she said
that he shrank from her? Was it not true that
her presence, her voice, the touch of her soft
cool hand, even at times the contact of her
dress, thrilled his every nerve, every fibre of
his frame, with sensations as powerful and painful
as the mysterious antipathies with which she
had compared them? Perhaps the feeling of
which he was conscious more resembled the
convulsive distress produced, under some conditions
of constitutional or artificial hypera^s-
thesis, by that strange sudden reversal of the
psychical currents known as cross-mesmerism.

Starting from that mystic speculation as the
practical question recurred to his mind — was it

true, he asked himself again, that — not by any
trivial error easily corrected, but by the whole
tenor of his conduct as based on the one distinct
resolve with which he had married, and on
which he had acted throughout — by his refusal
to touch the property supposed to be hers, he
was betraying to others, if not dislike of his
wife, at least resentment of his marriage ? Such
self-betrayal he felt, even in his present frame
of mind, to be no less incompatible with his
self-respect than with the consideration due to
Ivy^s position ; and doubly due to the faultless
loyalty of her own conduct in that position,
trying as he had made it. But — was she right
as regarded the fact? — and, if so, what was he
to do? The necessity of taking up his daily
drudgery, had it been ten times more repulsive,
was a welcome interruption to such self-questionings.


CHAPTER VIII.

weather-WARNINGS.

T RECEIVED that evening two somewhat
-*- urgent telegraphic messages ; one from
Cleveland, announcing his arrival in London, and
desiring me to meet him and one or two other
of the proprietors at the office of the Courier ;
the other from Leaf — " Don't fail to breakfast
with me at twelve before you go to the
Couriers

"You know," said the latter, when four or
five of us had assembled round his table, "that
there has been a discussion among our proprietors?
Some of them are not satisfied, and
one or two in particular are irritated on two
points. They are vexed that we have not followed
their leader's counsel, that our opposition
has been as stubborn, uncompromising, as if the

majority were not large enough to carry anything
they please ; as if our best chance were

not, as Lord said, to moderate and mould

rather than to resist their measures. On this
point, as you know, I differed with Lestrauge,
as many of us did. Their other grievance lies
in our personal treatment of themselves. They
are too ignorant of journalism to see how important
it is that we should seem to be wholly
independent alike of the party and of individual
members. Now, whether we agree with our
chief or not, I think we are bound to be loyal
to him ; to hold together as a Cabinet would,
and, if he resigns, to resign with him. There
is no point in our course that he has not frankly
and fully discussed with us, none to which I do
not hold that we are all bound by the result of
the consultation."

'' But," said another " Estrange has always
taken his own way at last ; has never put anything
to a vote by which the minority might be
pledged."

Of course not," said Leaf, somewhat significantly.
"Do you forget the fundamental
maxim of true Conservatism, that you must

weigh votes, and not count them ? There are
three votes at that council that must outweigh
all the rest, if only because the Courier could
not, if it would, dispense with them. But it is
not true that Estrange has taken his own
course. He has decided for himself, no doubt,
but he has never taken his own way in the
teeth of the general opinion of his colleagues.
The policy of the Courier is the common policy
of its staff, and I repeat that in my opinion we
must stand or fall with our chief."

To this, after a few more words, we all
agreed.

"Is there going to be trouble then' I asked.

I don't knows' replied Leaf. *' Cleveland
is sure to stand by us on the second point, and
probably Estrange will yield on the first if
Cleveland differs with him. What the result
will be I cannot guess ; probably it depends on
the temper of the man who presides, and on
the answer to a question I mean to put."

Walking down, we where joined by Cleveland,
who, after a brief conference with Leaf, fell
back and walked with me, my colleagues
somewhat in front.

The way," he said, " to deal with reasoning
creatures in an unreasonable mood is — at least,
so I have always found — to let them talk out
their unreason. Then, if you don't contradict
them, they will talk themselves either into
palpable absurdity or into common sense, at
any rate into good temper. Therefore, pray
don't interfere to-day with the attacks on your
chief. I know Estrange will hold his tongue
and keep his temper as long as perhaps he
ought. I confess I am rather afraid of Leaf and
yourself."

"Why?" 1 asked, "unless you know what
has passed to-day? Leaf and I both agreed
rather with Estrange's critics than With himself
upon one point, and upon the other you
ought to be able to convince the malcontents."


-• They will be silenced, I think," said Cleveland,
" because I shall tell you to cut up my
last book in the same style in which the Courier
cut up Everglade's speech. But it is just
where you don't agree with your chief that
men like you and Leaf are likely to support
him somewhat hotly."

"Is Mrs. Cleveland with you?" I asked.
'" Then — may I call on her this evening ?"

You will see her at the office, I think,"
said Cleveland. " We met Lady Glynnee, Sir
Ethert's mother-in-law, at Everglade Park a
month ago ; and something she said, or did not
say, has rendered Ida very anxious to see
Estrange. The friendship between them has
always amused and a little perplexed me;
what is the foundation of their mutual sympathy
even I, who know both so well can
hardly guess. But Ida is the only woman for
whom Estrange softens and almost suppresses
his bitter misogynisra, before whom he never
speaks contemptuously of the religion he not
merely disbelieves but hates ; and he is the
only man who could carry cynicism half so far
without shocking, if not offending her."

I thought," I said, " Estrange was rather
a favourite with the ladies V

'• Those who don't know him," answered
Cleveland, " with whom he is not sufficiently
intimate to be cynical. Always at first they
think he likes their society ; and there is a
certain vein of chivalry about him Which is incurious

contrast to his real opinions, if not to
his feeling. But no man is so hated by the
whole of the shrieking sisterhood, and no man
has said more stinging and bitter things about
them — the phrase 'public women' was his
invention. And moreover, Estrange, as a
rule, is contemptuous and sarcastic towards
women in exact proportion to their intelligence.
I suppose he thinks that having no souls — as
Mahomet did not say — they have no right to
minds either."

Only some half a dozen of our staff assembled
in the council-room, and of these Sir Ethert
Glynnee was not one. Of the proprietors four
were present : Lord Everglade, a late Cabinet
minister, Sir Philip Vere, a man of great
weight in the House, who had repeatedly refused
office Cleveland himself, and Lord Penrith.
The last, like Lord Everglade, had held
high office in the late Government ; and like
Cleveland, had in early life, while as yet a
younger son, served his apprenticeship in journalism.
At Cleveland's suggestion Lord Penrith
took the chair. Estrange sat on his left,
Leaf and myself beside him ; Yere and Lord.

Everglade immediately on the right of the
chair, and Cleveland next them.

I would ask," said Leaf, after a few introductory
words from Lord Penrith, which meant
as little as a Queen's speech, " whether we are
here to receive orders or to take counsel ?"

I should have thought you knew," returned
Cleveland rather sharply. " If the proprietary
had orders to give they would he given to your
chief, and to him alone."

•' And," said Lord Penrith, " I think it has
been understood from the outset that the possible
wishes of the proprietary should, in the
first instance at least, be communicated through
Mr. Cleveland. But I think, and I hope my
partners agree with me, that anything like a
separate resolve of the proprietary should as far
as possible be avoided. What we wish is that
the views of all parties should be freely interchanged
and understood. In that way probably
any difference may be either avoided, or at
least explained and accepted ; whereas, if our
views are once formulated in a vote, there is
less room for mutual accommodation afterwards.
I have ever found small bodies or

boards work best where a vote was as far as
possible avoided. And, to begin with, I must
express on my own behalf, and that of the
proprietors generally, the thorough satisfaction
we feel with the general management of the
Courier, Its success , the power and attention
it has already acquired, is far greater than we
would have expected ; and if it has cost more
than we altogether anticipated, I believe we are
all inclined to think that the Editor has given
abundant proof of his fitness to judge what is
and what is not worth the outlay it requires."

Certainly," said Lord Everglade, with an
emphasis so marked that I saw a cloud come
over the face of Leaf, the only one among us
who knew him intimately. I interpreted that
cloud to mean — ^' By the emphasis of his assent
where he must approve, we may measure the
force of his indignation on the personal question.
It is the justice or the courtesy of an
enemy."

I am not surprised," said Vere. " I expected
from Mr. Estrange exactly what we have
received — thoroughly good work, abundant
cleverness, telling hits, and — in their aim a

certain want of discrimination between friend
and foe."

Considering," observed Lord Everglade, after
a pause, seeing that Estrange made no other
reply than a bow of acknowledgment — " considering
that there is but one thoroughly Tory
journal in London, and considering how we
have been treated by those opposed to us, I
think we at least might have expected defence
rather than ridicule from our own organ."

"Lord Everglade," rejoined Leaf, "there are
among the proprietors present two who are
journalists as well as politicians; one equally
eminent in both vocations. I will ask Lord
Penrith and Mr. Cleveland whether independence,
visible and even ostentatious, be not the
first necessity of effective party journalism ? —
whether we can defend or help you to any
purpose till we have proved that we are free to
criticise ?"

"I agree with you cordially," said Lord Penrith,
" but I am not surprised that my colleagues
feel somewhat differently ; and I do think that
ridicule or contempt is not the fitting way of
marking independence in the case of eminent
members of the party."

"There," interposed Leaf, "I must take
blame to myself. I "

Lestrauge laid a hand upon his shoulder.

I decline to allow any of my staff, even my
second in command, to accept the shadow of
responsibility for anything I have allowed to
pass."

It may, however' continued Lord Penrith,
*'be of service, prevent feelings of personal irritations
to let Lord Everglade particularly understand
how these things are done. I will venture
to conjecture, though I will not ask anyone
to confirm or correct me, that the article on
Lord Everglade's speech was written by one
who profoundly understood Continental politics,
one so thoroughly master of that subject that
an Editor might well flinch from modifying
seriously anything he had written."

'* I must say," replied Lord Everglade, " that
though I can understand the necessity, should
never dream of denying the right of independent
criticism in the journal with which
I am connected, I should have expected to
receive more of personal courtesy."

*' Then, Lord Everglade/' said Leaf, "in spite

VOL. III. N

of my chief's prohibition, I must speak. You
will hardly think that I intended personal discourtesy
to my first and firmest political patron;
and the article to which you object was mine,
and the sentences in question were, I think,
somewhat softened by the Editor."

Lord Everglade's face, hitherto rather stern,
and marking a sense of personal displeasure
which had seemed to me to threaten serious
difficulty, relaxed at this confession.

"I shall remember that the next time you
ask me for information or assistance," he said,
with a half smile. " Mr. Estrange, I owe you
an apology, and I make it frankly". I thought
myself indebted to you personally for a criticism
which perhaps I felt more than an experienced
politician ought to have done. You will believe
after this that I am in no wise actuated by any
personal feeling when I express my regret that
the Courier has pursued a course different from
that recommended by our leader, and likely to
be followed by the party in both Houses."

"There," replied Sir Philip, "I must say I agree
with the Courier rather than with our leader.
Seeing that we shall be beaten in any case, that

the Prime Minister is, at least for the present,
an absolute dictator, that none of his followers
dare call their souls or seats their own, even in
Committee, I should have preferred to offer a
sturdy and what the Ministerial organs call a
sullen resistance."

I differ with you," rejoined Lord Penrith.
We must try to render their measures as little
mischievous as possible, since pass they will ;
and if you cannot carry an amendment in your
House, you may show such reason, such strength
in its favour, as may enable us to insert and
insist upon it. There is another thing that I
would note. On questions merely political, I
think contemptuous ridicule often a most effective
weapon. But more than one of the great
questions of this year have been religious or
politico-religious. They enlist very strong
feelings no doubt, on both sides. Earnest hostility
even vituperation however fiercely resented
at the time, would soon be forgotten by
opponents, and might gratify friends. But I
was sorry to see feelings which, just or not,
are so deep and so natural, treated with such
profound contempt — a contempt which has, as

n2

you will have observed, been called, both in
the House of Commons and in the press, ' insolent.'
I don't think it pleases the best of our
own men, it provokes bitter feeling out of doors,
when this paper — which will soon be recognised
as the especial organ of the Opposition — writes
of Nonconformists in true Moslem tone ; evidently
thinks, if it do not say, * those dogs of
Dissenters.' Even to Churchmen it suggests
the lofty superiority of self-satisfied unbelief
rather than earnest Churchmanship. In such
matters ridicule stings and rankles venomously."


Most of us who knew the truth could not
refrain from a smile. Leaf was for once embarrassed,
but Estrange preserved his gravity


'^I can promise to change the hand," he said ;
but, as matter of fact, the articles in question
were written by a zealous Churchman —
one of the few sincerely orthodox Christians to
be found, I believe, in the ranks of our profession."


This second hit thoroughly discomfited those
who had come prepared to censure, and the

elevate passed on to the general question as to
the nature of the opposition to be offered to
Ministerial measures — hard resistance or practical
criticism. Cleveland, as well as both the
ex-ministers, declared strongly in favour of the
latter ; and Estrange, who knew that the same
opinion prevailed among his staff, yielded at
last in a few words with marked grace and
dignity. Then the council broke up, much
more amicably than any of us had at first anticipated,
after the thanks of the proprietary had
been formally offered by Lord Penrith, and
warmly endorsed by all his colleagues. As the
party dispersed, I observed that Cleveland had
first left us. I was alone with Estrange by
the time he returned, leading his wife.

Estrange, Mrs. Cleveland wants you to
show her the office ; and then perhaps you can
give her lunch. I have business in the City,
but hope to return for her in the course of an
hour or so."

After escorting Mrs. Cleveland throughout
the offices — from the advertising and book-keeping
departments to the composing-room, and
the great basement space where the actual

printing was performed by three huge machines
which, each supplied with paper by a single
boy printed and folded automatically some
fifty thousand copies per hour — Estrange led
her to his own outer sitting-rooms wherein most
of his immediate work was done, through that
in which I still remained.

You will join us ?" he said to me.

"No*' interposed Mrs. Cleveland. "I know you
Avill not be offended : — I want to talk to Mr.
Estrange. Excuse me ; I will join you in one
minute " (to him) ; then to me, as we were left
alone, in a low voice, " You have seen Sir
Ethert Glynnee's wife ? What do you think of
her?"

'' A very charming, very simple, thoroughly
girlish creature; rather shy, and I should say
depressed and nervous in company. But Le-strange,
who baa been greatly taken with her,
has seen more of her than I."

She put, as I afterwards learnt, much the
same question to my chief, and his partiality
was even more warmly expressed.

Why does Sir Ethert persist in a career
"which can have few attractions for him — which

must be, I presume, roost laborious, and without
reward, except in money, which he cannot
want?"

If I knew, Mrs. Cleveland, of course I could
not tell you. As I know nothing, I may be
permitted to tell it. Glynne^s temper is, like
my own, intensely contradictious. He cannot
tell the world that he did not marry for money.
I don't know that he would care to tell his
friends ; but I fancy he chooses to repeat it to
himself in the most emphatic manner."

^'Or to her?"

'•' I don't know ; it may be so.^^

"Why? Is she capable of suspecting him
already V

I should have said — uo^ '^ Estrange answered.
" I should think her simply perfect ;
all that a man could desire in — a slave. But
unless she is an admirable actress, unless she is
at home a troublesome and rebellious slave, I
don't know why, with a man like Glynnee, the
cowhide should be in such constant requests

"How much do you mean by that?" Mrs.
Cleveland asked, gravely.

About as much as you will take it to mean

from me, Mrs. Cleveland. I should have said it
to no one else, not even to your husband, and
you would have understood it differently' if any
other man had said it.^'

"There is a secret, of course'' she observed,
reflectively.

Estrange's face grew grave at once, and he
made no answer. She repeated her question,
and seemed to consider his persistent silence
the best possible reply.

*' And you know it?" she said.

'^ Yes, Mrs. Cleveland," he replied at last.
*' But Glynnee is not aware that I know, and I
can hardly tell lira. I will tell you what I
should not dare to say to any other. I know it
through an accident that may at any time
recur, for the secret is in the keeping of a vindictive
scoundrel''

Cleveland did not appear at the time
appointed, and after waiting some minutes his
wife resolved to return home alone. Ethert
met her as she was leaving the office, and at
her request escorted her to her carriage; which
could not approach the door by which she had
entered, but remained some score or two of

yards away, where a foot-passage from the
the back of our offices opened upon a principal
street.

'you will call on Lady Glynnee, will you not,
Mrs. Cleveland V he asked, after a few words of
course had been interchanged in a tone somewhat
graver or more distant than had usually
characterised their friendship.

I am afraid, Sir Ethert, you have made that
almost impossible," she replied.

What do you mean, Mrs. Cleveland?"

"I might have fancied," she said, gravely,
'that you were only taking a somewhat perverse
way to disprove the suspicion that your marriage
had been one of interest. But the eagerness of her
parents satisfied from the first all who knew the
facts, and your conduct has of course no tendency
to undeceive strangers, even if you cared
to do so. What your friends are forced to observe
is, that you think it right to mark very distinctly
and openly dissatisfaction or resentment.
I could hardly be civil, and no more, to Lady
Olynne;! cannot become intimate with a lady
who, truly or not, appears to be so condemned
by her husband and the head of her family's

Lady Glynnee is simply faultless." he answered,
almost indignantly.

You are bound to say so, and therefore such
words cannot be weighed against your own
conduct. I am forced to know , perhaps before
the world has realised it, that you will not reside
at the family seat, you will not touch the
fortune you have received with her, and you
think it right to make this clear to us all."

You misunderstand me altogether, Mrs,
Cleveland ; and are thoroughly unjust to here's

I cannot help it. And, Sir Ethert, as your
own and your mother's friend, I will tell you
another thing which it may concern you to
know. That a family secret was involved, no
one, least of all a lady, could well doubt. What
that secret is I neither know nor wish to know.
But it is known to others, and may any day be
made public."

It would be indeed a friend's part to tell
me that," he answered, much startled. " But,
Mrs. Cleveland, are you sure?"

"Absolutely sure. What, do you think it
strange that this should reach you from a lady's
lips ? Do you not see that men will not betray

a knowledge which might render their relations
with you strained or awkward? Sir Ethert,
I guessed what may have made your marriage
doubly trying. No one who knew you so welland
had read your books by the light of that
knowledge, could well doubt what your fancy
for the future was; for whom you chose to
achieve a competence in such uncongenial labour.
But for that reason, as for others, permit
a friend to tell you that you have need to be
careful, if you do not wish the world to
believe the very worst that may be said, not
of yourself, but of the lady of whose reputation,
I am sure, whatever your personal feeling,
you will be more jealous than of your own."

It was no slight effort of courage and resolve
for any lady, especially one some years younger
than himself, to speak so plainly, so directly
to a man like Ethert Glynnee ; and Mrs. Cleveland
probably felt the awkwardness, and what
might have been the impropriety, of the interference
as much as any woman could have
done. But her feminine instinct had read between
the lines of Ethert's character and conduct
what had puzzled men better informed

of the facts than herself. She was sure that
his home relations could not but be strained,
if not unhappy, while he maintained such an.
attitude before the world ; and, interested in
him, probably more interested in his young
wife, whom she had seen so lately as a child,
she was determined to indicate to him — as no
one else could, or at any rate would have
done — the danger and injustice of the course
he was bent on pursuing. And Ethert had the
sense not to resent from her what he would
hardly have borne from any other living friend
of either sex.

I hope," he said, as he placed her in her
carriage, " you wall reconsider your resolve,
and call upon my wife. I give you my word,
Mrs. Cleveland, you will never have occasion,
even from your unusually severe standpoint,
to think that you have made a mistake. You
may greatly regret hereafter having passed
what will look like a slight upon her. And''
he added, in a lower tone, ^' however kindly
your warning now has been intended, I cannot
own a friend who refuses to be hers."

CHAPTER IX.

HOME.

TT was in no pleasant mood that Etbert
-*- returned to the office, and took up the
preliminary work of the evening. We were
accustomed to the snappishness of our hard-worked
and hurried sub-editor, who had alla
cook's prescriptive right to be ill-tempered.
But the rest of us were not given to exhibitions
of irritability, and Glynnee was one of the
gentlest among us. To-night, however he
was so much inclined to quarrel with himself
that it would have been a relief to fix a quarrel
on some one else. I was reminded of the
secret known but to two of us, by Estrange's
quiet smile at an unusually tart reply to a
necessary question; and felt no inclination to
be angry when his assistant almost flung the-parliamentary

Orders at ray own head. Even
on the exceptionally interesting debate of that
night Ethert could hardly fix his attention.
Mrs. Cleveland's warning had startled him nota
little, and, the more he considered what she
had said, the deeper did its significance appear.
It was in truth more opportune than the
speaker herself could possibly be aware. Her
interpretation of his conduct came in forcible
and timely confirmation of Ivy's earnest though
gently-worded remonstrance ; proving that his
refusal to accept the natural and palpable advantages
of his marriage had attracted notice,
had suggested the very inference which, on his
wife's part, had seemed a mere alarm of overstrained
sensibility. Alienation or aversion was
apparent to the keen insight of women, if not
to the slower apprehension or less generous
interest of men. Clearly he had no right, from
whatever personal motive, to expose Ivy to the
wrong and mortification of such misconstruction.
To say that she had been faultless was but a
cold, imperfect expression of the truth. No
sacrifice of pride or consistency that might be
necessary to her peace of mind, to the protection

of their domestic secrets, was more than
her patient loyalty had deserved and demanded
; and if the betrayal of the original
secret had occurred in the most obvious manner,
through the greed or malice of its disappointed
depository, its complete publication was always
possible, was too probably a question of time.
He might repent having followed Mr. Brand's
advice, and resisted the extortionate claim of a
malicious scoundrel ; but it was now too late to
raise the offered and evidently inadequate bribe.
It might happen, then, at any moment that
the secret, to protect which Ivy had been
sacrificed, would be made public, and it
could not then be long unknown to her. He
would not endure to contemplate the effect on-her
sensitive spirit. When it became a question,
not of public scandal attaching to his aunt,
but of personal shame brought home to his bride,
staining her unsullied innocence of mind, her
snowy chastity of nature, he was quite as much
disturbed and terrified as Lady Glynnee herself
had been, if not so utterly distracted and bewildered
by fear. And Ivy must learn not
only that her name was dishonoured, but

that her happiness had been sacrificed in vain.
No ! — the thought flashed across his mind with
a sudden thrill of satisfaction — not wholly in
vain ! His own sacrifice had atheist purchased the
right and the power to protect her from public
affront, if not from personal humiliation. The
name she bore was now hers by a title that no
disclosure could invalidate ; her inheritance, if
lost to Sir Charles's daughter, was secured to
the wife of his successor. The mistress of
Glynnehurst held, in his right, if not in her
own, a social position that even illegitimacy
would not permanently affect. And — once
again, and stronger still, came that thrill of
satisfaction, and almost of delight — the danger
of such a revelation changed at once her interest
and his duty. While the world believed
her, while she could remain in effect the heiress
of a splendid fortune, her marriage was a hardship,
if not a wrong ; when her name and inheritance
were in peril, it became what it had
been in intention and to his knowledge from
the first, her security and her guarantee. She
would have need of all the consolation, all the
shelter, all the sense of comfort and support

that a husband's love and tenderness, as well
as a husband's name, could afford.

Now for the first time Ethert felt that,
once needed, that love could be given without
effort and without stint ; that, the barrier
of pride and resentment once removed, he
loved his portionless bride, his nameless, fatherless
cousin, as he had never dreamed of loving
any visionary or embodied ideal ; that, till now,
he had never known what love could and should
be. He loved indeed too dearly, too devoutly,
to desire the satisfaction of his love. He could
better bear, even now, that his heart should be
broken over a final parting than that the
maiden whiteness of her soul should be soiled
by the knowledge of the truth, though that
knowledge alone could vindicate the unselfishness
of his affection ; even now he would not
declare a love that was not so proven. He
could not bear the thought either of her probable
humiliation or of her possible distrust. She
must not know the shadow of shame, nor must
he be able to doubt that she could doubt him.
That her love had endured through the sorest
trial, that her trust in his truth could no more

VOL. III. O

fail than bis belief in ber purity, did not even
yet occur to bim.

It was in some sense unfortunate that he did
not meet Ivy while the emotions excited by the
partial revelation of bis secret, by the first
consciousness of bis real feeling towards her,
and by the confirmation of ber fears afforded
through Mrs. Cleveland's rebuke, were still
fresh. Ere morning he bad recovered the self-control
they bad overthrown ; he was still resolute
not to seem to profit by bis marriage, to
take no step that could tend to fetter Ivy's
future fi-edom, while he could still hope that
the revelation of the truth might be confined to
those whose silence could be trusted or purchased.
The night's reflection had shown him
from whom Mrs. Cleveland must have acquired
ber limited information. It was, he thought,
quite in keeping with Estrange's character to
take this means of conveying the kindly warning,
while avoiding the indelicacy of forcing his
friend's confidence; and he knew bow close and
intimate were Estrange's relations, both with
Mrs. Cleveland and her husband. He meant to
.see that day the three persons who must know

most of the truth — the lady herself, her probable
informant, and Mr. Brand. But on the
breakfast-table he found letters that imperatively
demanded an immediate decision on
their contents, and a decision that could hardly
fail to affect more or less directly the paramount
and pressing question of his life.

The first announced the intention of the
Lord-lieutenant of the county to recommend
the owner of Glynnehurst for the magistracy ;
and Ethert knew that the bench of that district
much needed to be strengthened even in
ordinary times. A report from Mr. Lawson
informed him that the industrial disturbances,
which had for some time given much trouble in
Stapleton, had extended to the mines in which,
through his bride, he was largely concerned.
And finally, a letter from Mr. Verner advised
him that the strike at the latter's factory, and
others of less importance in the town, had
assumed a grave aspect, and threatened riots
whose ultimate consequences none could pretend
to calculate.

It was clear that he must go to Glynnehurst,
and at once. To leave matters in Mr. Lawson's



hands was, as he perfectly understood, to
identify himself with the Masters' Association,
and to fight out the battle on their lines ;
whereas Ethert's convictions and feelings alike
determined him to deal with his own people in
his own way. Resolute to treat the chiefs of
the Trades Union as impertinent intermeddlers,
disposed at any cost to put an instant and
pointed slight upon them, and aware that this
was an opportunity which could not recur —
holding it a plain duty to his cousin to protect
her property and conciliate her tenantry, — he
must take the helm in person ; and, if he meant
to act, it was probably desirable that he should
be armed with the authority of the magistracy.
Yet he was most unwilling to depart, under no
necessity that Ivy could appreciate, from the
principle on which he had acted in regard to
the representation of Stapleton ; most averse to
treat her property as giving him any qualification
for public position, or any personal interest
in local affairs. She could not of course understand
the apprehension that made him loth to
repeat that practical disclaimer at a moment
when the real state of the case might so soon

lee publicly known. Would it not be inferred
from his attitude that he had not known the
truth, that in his marriage he had been a
dupe, even if Ivy had been guiltless of the deception
? Again, in regard to the whole case,
;she ought to be consulted ; and yet the conversation
was almost as certain to give her pain
in one aspect as to frighten her in another.
True, there was no actual necessity for explanation,
still less for debate. If Ivy were simply
told that his presence was required at Glynn
and that she must be ready to start at a
fixed hour, she would ask no questions, would
show no resentment. On the contrary, Ethert
suspected, and not without cause, that such
a peremptory command would have been
more welcome than the carefully deferential
requests which tacitly disclaimed the right to
expect compliance as of course. Both perhaps
felt that the obedience so willingly promised, so
studiously left in abeyance, belonged to the
relation whose formal duties the young bride
was the more watchful to fulfil that these alone
were within her power.

Ethert was unusually silent during the morning

meal, answering Meta's lively talk or eager
questions so briefly , so absently that Ivy was
at first surprised and afterwards almost annoyed
by the young girl's unconscious persistence. At
last, ever apprehensive of a displeasure she had
never actually encountered, she became convinced
that her husband was angry, and of
course angry with her. She could hardly fear
to be scolded ; she did dread, though half
reproaching herself for an apprehension that had
never been justihecl, to receive one of the sharp
stinging phrases that had now and then
supported her own authority against Meta's
petulance or a servant's neglect, but always
frightened her almost into tears ; yet dreaded
most of all to be left as usual in absolute
ignorance how or whether she was to blame.
Her suspense and alarm constantly increased,
till the servant had left the room and Meta had
been summoned to her lessons ; then, assured
by his unusual loitering that he meant to speak,
and to speak to her alone, her nervous dismay
became so uncontrollable that Ethert^s first
glance must detect it.

*• Ivy," he began — looked up from the papers

in his hand, and paused in surprise. " Come
here, child. What is the matter? Sit down,"
placing her favourite low chair beside his
own, '•! wanted to talk to you; but, if you are
in any trouble, let me hear your story first.
Surely whatever may have happened — if all
your servants had given notice together, or if
Miss Compton and Meta have quarrelled again
it could not be worth so much distress."

There was such evident kindness in his tone,
and so much of sympathy mixed with his
amusement at the anticipated exaggeration of
some terrific trifle, that Ivy was almost reassured.


Indeed there is nothing, Ethert — if only —
you are sure you are not angry, not displeased
with me V

The smile faded at once from his face. Her
constant extravagant fear of him — fear as it
seemed of harshness she had never suffered —
appeared to him a severe, an almost wholly undeserved
reproach. When most uncomfortable,
most impatient of the situation, most irritable
With others, he had never given her a rough
word ; and yet she trembled before him like a

child expecting instant punishment for faults
she knew not how to avoid.

*' Once for all, Ivy, you might dismiss that
fear from your mind. You have never done
anything that should make any rational being-vexed
with you, and you could do nothing that
would give me the right to be angry."

'aether, how can I be at ease while you say
that? It means that, however angry I may
make you, you will not tell me — you will
neither forgive me nor set me right. What
have I done now"? Do tell me?"

He could not suppress a smile, so ludicrously
misplaced was the pathos of her entreaty.

"Everything you could, Ivy — to make me
wish T could forget that my bride was neither
wooed nor won. Angry? When we part, I
shall have to say, like Louis XIV., ' It is the
first time she ever vexed me.' '^

Missing the only point that could have given
her pain, entertaining no idea of any separation
but the last and least cruel, Ivy was comforted
and encouraged beyond expression. The dark,
soft eyes were moist but brilliant as she lifted
them to his ; and by a sudden impulse — as

suddenly checked , not by resentment but by
timidity — her hand touched that which rested
within its reach on the arm of his chair. He
felt the touch with a thrill that reached his inmost
soul; but she only saw the kind of irrepressible
quiver it excited, and shrank into herself
with a sadness that was not comforted
even by the earnest, cordial, grateful clasp
which, but half a second too late, had answered
hers.

*' Well then Ivy, if you have nothing to say,
I must speak to you ; and I am afraid I must
ask you for a rather hurried decision. Perhaps
it will make amends that my proposal is almost
that for which you were so wishful the other
-day. You will see from these letters that, as
your representative, my presence is required at
Olynnehurst. I am afraid I must go, and at
once ; will you choose to accompany me ?
Don't exaggerate the trouble," he added, still
withholding the letters he was about to place
in her hand ; '* this sort of thing happens everywhere
from time to time, and no harm need
come of it ; only the representative of a property
so much affected ought to be on the spot, and

it may be some time before, once there, 1 can
return to London."

There is no reason, I suppose," she said, ina
low, hesitating tone, without glancing at the
letters, though they were already in her hand,
^^'^^y you should take me unless you choose ?
Ethert, you know I should wish — it would be a
great pleasure to me, but you must not misunderstand
me again. You know I have
nothing, I will have nothing to do, except what
you tell me I must, with business or with
Glynnehurst ; but if you are going, and above
all if there is danger, you know it would not
be kind to leave me."

There is nothing worth calling danger, Ivy;
and certainly I should be sorry to leave you, if
you can be ready in time. But read, and then
decide for yourself; only I must try to see Le-strange
at once, and explain to him, and then
we ought to lose no time in going."

"Before you go down to the office, then,
Ethert, say whEthertt you will take us, and I
promise to be ready as soon as yourself. Of
course we must take Meta — and — you will not
mind her having a holiday now? And — might

it not be Do you remember what you said

about Miss Compton V"

It might be an opportunity, certainly, to
terminate her engagement civilly and satisfactorily
— to Meta's satisfaction assuredly, and
probably to your own. In truth, Ivy, I know
nothing; I cannot tell how long we may be
kept there, and that vexes me much, since "

He paused ; she had opened the letters at
last, and he was glad to postpone any discussion
of a point upon which he foresaw what
his determination must be. What he had refused
to yield to her entreaties and to Le-strange's
advice was forced upon him now.
The resignation of his post on the Courier
would be inevitable, in view of an indefinite
detention at Glynnehurst ; and set perhaps at
heart he was but half sorry to be forced to a
step to which there was but one sentimental
objection, and which was on so many grounds
desirable in itself.

'riot!" Ivy exclaimed, much dismayed and
agitated by her perusal of the letters. " But,
Ethert, you have nothing to do with that ;
that is Mr. Verner's affair — you will not meddle
with it r

I could not help it, Ivy. The whole question
is intermixed. The strike there has connections
with the trouble at the mines ; and
moreover, it does concern — us, even as owners
of property in Stapleton ; much more because if
there should be riot there it is likely to extend
to the miners, now that they have turned out.
I am afraid Mr. Lawson has made a mistake —
no, that is not fair ; but he has not acted as I
should have done — should have been disposed
to do — had I been on the spot. And again,
Ivy, look at this official letter. I suppose I
must tell you, it is usual to make all considerable
landowners magistrates in their own district
; and the Lord-lieutenant has written that
he intends to recommend me to Her Majesty asa

Justice of the Peace for shire, as if

Glynnehurst were "

'aether, if you will say that to me, surely
you will not say it again to others? I asked
you to think — have you not thought? can you
say it is not true that, when you tell people by
your conduct, if not in words, that you will not
speak or act as the owner of what you call your
wife's property, you show that you are not

friends with her ? Is it not so, Ethert V as he
remained silent.

I suppose it would be so, Ivy, if I were to

refuse Lord 's offer; and perhaps that

would be carrying independence further than
there is any need. I can hardly do justice to
onr interests if I am not a magistrate intimes
like these."

Then, Ethert, you will thank Lord ,

and say nothing about And — you see
how you are wanted there — will you not give
up what you cannot attend to without neglecting
the property? You say yourself things

would have gone differently, if " She

could not bear to utter a reproach of which,
till it was half spoken, she had been quite
unconscious. She had never meant to remind
Ethert that, from his own point of view, the
present trouble was partly due to his obstinate
neglect of duties which, had he been acting
merely as her guardian, he certainly could not
have thought himself entitled to ignore.

I am afraid I must. Ivy. As I said, I can
have no idea how long this business may require
our presence there ; but, remember, I can

at any time return, can always find work here.
You must not think that — that you owe me
anything — that Glynnehurst is less exclusively
yours because, at a time like this, I am forced
to give up any other engagement to attend toit."


Ethert, you let me understand once that
you would think it really yours if — after my
death. Would you have me think — not that
you wish for that ; I am sure you don't — but
how much better it would be for you ?"

God forbid !" he exclaimed, startled into an
expression of feeling whose sincerity was evident,
even to her, in tone and look. It was
after half a minute's silence that he was able to
continue, with apparent levity. " Do you
think all the wealth of England could ever
have reconciled me to part with my favourite
cousin? And now — well, will you go down
with me? We ought to go to-day, and we
must go tomorrow."

I will be ready this afternoon, Ethert, if
you will allow — if you are not unwilling that I
should go with you. Only you will not think
that it is because — that I mean to have anything
to do with "

"1 shall not think, Ivy, that you mean to do
anything but what is kind and right — what you
think your duty to me. Thank you ; I am
glad to think the question is settled for us, and
settled as you wish. We shall be 'at home,'
then, to-night. I hope you will enjoy the
change, the return as much as you expected —
as much as I shall'

It would not be easy to describe Meta's
delight when summoned from her lessons to
prepare for a wholly unexpected and doubly
delightful holiday. London was almost as
hateful to her as to Ethert, almost as dreary
as to Ivy ; and her release from a companionship,
a control daily more irksome — though, for
Ivy's sake, she had so restrained her temper
that no further collision with her governess had
occurred — was the more pleasant because so
wholly unlocked for. Pleased with the first
glimpse of the country in its summer dress,
pleased to compare each passing scene with
those Northern landscapes wherewith she was
more familiar, her delight culminated when the
carriage which met them at the station, passing
through the park-gates, brought them in

full view of the beautiful scenery and fine
antique residence.

Meta's pleasure either infected Ivy, or through
her ever ready unselfish sympathy with others
led her thoughts away from the less agreeable
associations of this return to her home.
She could smile frankly and kindly at her
companion's eager expressions of childish glee,
could answer cheerfully the look of welcome
on the few familiar faces they passed, the
greetings of the tenantry and labourers about
the park. But her countenance had grown
grave and almost sad before they reached the
door, and Ethert sprang out to hand her from
her carriage. He had watched for the last few
minutes the changing expression of her once,
trying to read there the cause or character of
such nervous apprehensions as she had that
morning betrayed. The last cloud that passed
over it recalled him to a recollection of her probable
frame of mind, to the sense of what was
due to her on an occasion with which too possibly
so many painful feelings and still more
painful fears were associated. She would have
paused to bring Meta forward with her, but

Ethert, never before neglectful of their orphan
protegee, felt justly enough that her feelings
were at present matter of comparatively slight
importance. Many of the household were assembled
in the hall to receive their young mistress
on her first return to the home she had left
under such strange, ill-omened circumstances
as a bride. It must be his sole care that,
before them at least, nothing should be wanting
to mark her husband's full and cordial
sympathy ; to give every possible appearance
of cheerfulness, of content, if of a certain subdued
feeling, to the first occasion on which they
entered as their own the seat of their forefathers,
the home of her youth and childhood.
So, drawing Ivy's hand within his arm, he led
her up the steps and into the hall, leaving it
to the ancient butler and major-domo to hand
Meta from the carriage. The latter would not
be easily hurt by a trivial neglect of formal
attention, and, if she were, her mortification
would be easily and speedily relieved. For the
moment he must have thought and eyes only
for his wife.

Welcome home. Ivy !" he said earnestly, as,
VOL. III. P

for the first time, she entered that home as its
mistress.

Sensitive as ever to his every word, to every
inflection of his voice and every change in his
manner, Ivy felt, understood all of kindness of
sympathy that was intended, all that look and
tone could throw into the brief sentence ; though
one which could hardly in common courtesy
have been omitted, vet one which to her ear
and heart spoke all that at the moment words
could have said. The cloud had vanished from
her face, her smile had no trace of sadness
which those around could detect, as she answered
hastily but kindly the greetings of her
household, and then turned to welcome Meta
with an earnest and affectionate embrace.

*' I am so glad to bring you here, dearest.
If it is not as pretty as your old home, I hope
we may make you as happy here ; and at any
rate it will be a pleasant change from London."

CHAPTER X.

HAILSTONES.

*' 4 S you please, Meta. As Ivy says nothing,
-^ I suppose I have no right to say more —
whatever I may think. Ivy you will have
the day to yourself, I fear. If you like to drive
out, you might call on the Vavasor ; but on
no account come near Stapleton or the mines.
I suppose I am pretty sure to be back for dinner
; but if not, I cannot tell how long I shall
be detained, so you must not wait or be
alarmed."

Ethert's horse stood, held by a groom at the
hall door, and Ivy, roused from a reverie by his
hasty departure, hurried to the window of the
breakfast-room just in time to catch another
glimpse of his figure as he started — alone. At
another time she would not have noticed this,

p2

little accustomed to any mere affectation of
state or formality ; but now, wishing for safety's
sake that a servant had attended Ethert, she
was reminded of the kind of humour that might
have induced him to refuse such attendance
from the household he would not acknowledge
as his own. Looking after him anxiously, she-had
almost sunk into another dreamy mood,
from which she was, however, quickly awakened
by Meta's half-amused, half-indignant tone.

Ethert " — she had learnt since her schoolroom
scrape had established a cordial understanding
with Ivy, to resume the old familiar
address towards both — " Ethert is always cross
now, and he never used to be. This morning,
if you had not been here, Ivy, and he had not
made it such a point that I am your charge
and not his, I should have caught it."

Ivy was in a humour in which even this kind
of thoughtless, unintentional slight or disrespect
to her husband, in her presence, could hardly
fail to rouse as much displeasure as her gentle
temper was capable of manifesting.

I understand, then ; and no wonder he was
displeased with me if he expected me to interfere

; but I did not hear what passed. Meta, I
am sure you deserved it, then ; and it is time I
.should remind you in some fashion, if he will
-not, to whom you speak."

She meant, of course, " that you speak of
Ethertt to Ethertt's wife." But Meta, already
half offended and somewhat wounded by Ethertt's
irritability — not aware like Ivy how much,
how entirely as regarded herself, his impatience
was due to chronic vexation of spirit
and physical discomfort — was not in a frame of
mind to interpret a phrase apparently harsh by
the recollection of her friend's uniform gentleness
and consideration.

'' It was your own doing if I ever forgot it.
Lady Glynnee. You shall not have occasion to
remind me again."

What is the matter?" Ivy said, startled, not
exactly remembering the words she had used,
but perfectly aware that there had been nothing
in her meaning that even Meta could well resent.
But Meta had hastily left the room. She
did not re-appear till directly invited to join
Ivy in her drive ; for, restless at home in her
vague anxiety and apprehension for Ethert's

safety, over-rating of course a danger she-could
not understand, Ivy had snatched at the
only diversion of thought within her reach.
Meta chose, however, to take the invitation asa
command, in the same spirit in which she had
almost persuaded herself by this time that Ivy's
hasty reproof had implied something like menaces
as well as a rough, ungenerous assertion of
superiority. Persistent silence and the formality
of her few words marked in a manner
very painful to the elder girl , the offence that
had been given by a sentence Ivy endeavoured
in vain to recall. Could she have remembered,
she would not have hesitated to explain or
apologise for it ; but as all she could recollect
was her intention to remind Meta at once of the
respect due to her guardian, and the impropriety
of complaint against him addressed to his wife,,
she felt compelled to endure in silence the
sullenness she was unconscious of deserving,,
and only hoped by degrees to dissipate.

It was perhaps this sullenness that, making
their tete-astute so irksome, overcame Ivy's^
dread of a formal call on formal neighbours.
Even a visit at Vavasour Hall might break the

intolerable monotony of a drive with a companion
who would only answer when spoken
to. and then chiefly in monosyllables. The
threatening attitude of the lower classes of
Stapleton and its neighbourhood, and the strike
in the mines, in one of which Mr. Vavasour was
interested, were the chief subjects of conversation
among the ladies ; and before she left. Ivy's
fears, already exaggerated, had been intensified
to a degree that rendered her scarcely able to
control her agitation. This Meta observed, and
the distress of one from whom she had never
received anything but studied tenderness and
indulgence appealed to her good feeling and
good sense too strongly not to overcome the
ill-temper of which Ivy's forbearance had already
rendered her half ashamed. It was with
the hesitation of repentant timidity, rather than
of imperfectly vanquished ill-humour, that she
laid her hand on Ivy's when they were once
more in the carriage ; and, answered by a kindly
pressure and an enquiring glance from those
soft eyes, her reserve broke down altogether.

You were quite right. Ivy ; and, if it was
not quite so kind a way of saying it as usual, it

was only because you have always been so kind
that I was foolish enough to be hurt."

I don't remember what I said," Ivy answered,
half absently, *' but I know I did not mean
to hurt you. Only you must not speak in that
tone of Ethert — and least of all to me."

'*I never thought of that," Meta returned,
frankly, " though, of course, that was what you
meant, and I ought to have known. But Ivy,
you are frightened more than you will say. I
can't fancy that really there is much danger. I
heard what they said, and I saw that Miss
Vavasour was not half so frightened as her
mother, and once or twice tried to check her,
thinking she was exaggerating ; only, I remember,
when you spoke of Ethert being on horseback
she seemed a little startled. Will you go
round, not by the mines, but by that village she
said he would pass through in coming home,
and where she thought there might be — something
? Then he might leave his horse and come
back with us ; it would be safer."

I am afraid he would not be pleased," Ivy
said, hesitating between her anxiety to assure
herself of her husband's safety, if not to contribute

to it, and her nervous terror of offending
him.

"Bat it is not so near the mines, is it ? And
he did not tell you not to go there : and if he
did, throw the blame on me. Nays seeing that
this suggestion gave pain, not pleasure or comfort,
'' I dare say he would be more angry with
me, bat it won't matter. He will only think mean
impertinent child, and if I am well scolded —
I have deserved it twice to-day. May I tell
them to drive round by Ellington '?"

As Ivy did not forbid it, Meta took upon herself
to give the order. She half repented
before they had reached the village, as they
met not a few angry-looking faces on the road,
and saw more than one group decidedly the
worse for drink as well as excited by heated
ora-tory or mutual discussion of their grievances.
The village street as they passed up it seemed
more and more crowded, and under the projecting
window above the door of the little inn the
frightened horses and their almost equally
frightened coachman came to a standstill. At
this moment Ethert, accompanied by two or
three other gentlemen, around whom gathered a

number of farmers, managers, foremen, and other
members of the party of order, rode up.

'' What has brought you here, Ivy?" he asked,
more sharply than he was aware, as alarm for
her made him forgetful of his usual ceremonious
courtesy.

Before she had time to answer, his attention
was diverted. The sight of the carriage had
drawn the crowd closer. The mounted party
and their friends on foot were almost enclosed,
and a rough miner had laid hold on the bridle
of a nervous hunter, whose rider lifted his
whip.

"Don't strike," said Ethert, quickly and low.
That is the wildest thing to do in a case like
this. The first blow struck may cost bloodshed.
My friend' — to the miner — " you had
better let go : that horse bites."

The hunter was so fidgety under the annoyance
that the man, though with a sneer and a
blasphemy, thought it prudent to obey the
warning, which was altogether an invention of
the moment. But some collision had taken
place at another point, and in a moment it was
evident that serious mischief might be impending.

*' Get down, and get into the inn !" Ethert
cried, as one or two stones were flung. " Take
the carriage into the yard, James. The ladies
can get out through the garden at the back,
and you must meet them in the lane."

Before they could obey the counsel, however,
the shower of stones aimed at the most
unpopular of the horsemen became more serious.
None of the pebbles flung were heavy, but
more than one was dangerously sharp ; and one
of the smaller struck Meta on the forehead,
cutting the skin, not deeply, but for some
distance just above the eye, and covering her
face with blood. The women of the inn rushed
forward to draw Lady Glynnee and her companion
into the comparative security afforded
by their door ; but before she was lifted from
the carriage Meta had seen what dispelled all
care for her own injury. Ethert, exasperated
by the outrage, and losing at once the control
over himself and others he had hitherto exercised,
swinging the heavy riding-whip he carried,,
had dashed at the stone-thrower he had
marked ; and striking his cap from his head
with the handle, had lashed him about the face

and shoulders with the thong, till, breaking the
weapon and the man's head in one downright
blow, he found himself separated from his
friends and alone in the midst of the mob. The
rougher sort, enraged by the chastisement
inflicted on their companion, and not aware of
the provocation, were ready to drag him from
his horse, and might probably in their fury have
murdered him before they were aware.

Having hurried the ladies up into the room
whose window, as we have said, projected above
the front door, the landlady was pressing Meta to
wash the blood from her face , and held a basin
and towel for the purpose. But Meta, much
more anxious for her guardian than either
frightened or shaken by the wound, hastened
to the window and flung it open. The
appearance of a lady in the midst of such peril
attracted at once the gaze of part of the crowd ;
the sight of the blood shocked many of those
among them who had not wholly lost their
senses with passion. These eagerly interposed
to stop further stone-throwing; and their
change of action and manner, the consciousness
of a division among themselves, diverted for a

moment the attention and silenced partially the
rage of the crowd. Ethert availed himself of
the opportunity to back his horse towards the
friends who were already forcing their way to
his assistance. With a presence of mind which
a woman of twice her years and ten times her
experience might have failed to command at
the critical moment , Meta seized the opportunity
to make her voice heard, for the very
few words with which she could hope to reach
the ears and understanding of the mob.

'* Men, he saw me struck, and he thrashed the
man who did it. Would you hurt him for that ?
AVhich of you would not have done the same
for your own sisters f

The indignant tone, the feminine courage,
more striking to them who knew better than
did Meta the real danger she had incurred, the
brevity and force of her language, appealed in
exactly the right manner and at the right
moment to the best feelings of the crowd.
They answered with a hearty cheer ; and before
another change of temper could occur, before
another attack could be made by those who had
not caught or were not impressed by Meta's

appeal, Ethert's friends had rejoined and formed
around him, and he, aware that the pause had
afforded at least a chance of a hearing, addressed
the populace. Knowing better than
Meta why and how the use of the whip had
given such mortal offence, knowing that it is
the most exasperating and perhaps the most
dangerous weapon that can be used against a
iDob or any of its members, he came to the
point at once.

If," he said, " a Peer of England had struck
a woman, one of your own wives, in my presence,
I would have thrashed him as I thrashed
that fellow. A whip is the only weapon for
curs who will hurt women : those that men
use against men are not for such cowards as he.
If we come to fighting, it won't be with horsewhips.
Meantime, will you hear me?"

By this time the owner of Glynnehurst, the
head of a family long popular in the district,
had been generally recognized ; and, what made
a still greater impression on the crowd, Meta
had brought Ivy forward to the window. She
trembled too violently to appeal by speech or
even by gesture to their feelings, as Meta had

done ; but the presence of the young wife was
in itself no small protection to her husband, and
it was plain at once that Ethert could command
41 hearing.

Now, my friends, let us reason out the
matter. If you choose to strike for higher
wages or shorter hours, you have a perfect
right to do so, and I at least, if I don't agree
with you, shall never quarrel with yon or think
the worse of you for that. I am sorry that in
so doing you take the bread and butter from
your children, that in winter you have to sit by
fireless hearths. But you must judge for yourselves
on that point. But when you talk of
wrecking property, of damaging the mines
permanently, or of sacking factories, just reflect
what you are really doing. It is not Mr.
Verner, it is not I who will suffer ; the county
will have to make good all you destroy ; and,
as you cannot expect Englishmen to stand
quietly by and see their property ravaged,
you may be sure that lives will be lost, wives
widowed and children orphaned, all to no purpose
but pure evil. We shall be paid in full ;
but it is not so sure that we shall re-open the

mines or re-build the factories you have destroyed.
You will probably have ruined yourselves,
and done little or no harm to us. Think
of this, keep your tempers, and choose men of
your own — Ellington men, Stapleton men, not
mischief-makers from a distance — and let them
come and talk it out with us."

"They would not hear us, Sir Ethert," cried
a voice from the crowd. " They are too proud
to shake our dirty hands, to talk with the men
who earn their fortunes."

How much would you earn without the
machinery we pay for How many screws to
one man could you make with your own hands?
How much coal or ironstone could one of you
get, or what use would they be, without our
shafts and furnaces ? You could no more do
without us that we without you. And as to
being proud, I, at any rate, will always hear
what my own people have to say. I have
nothing to do with strangers from London, or
Manchester, or Birmingham — with Unionists
that bully you before they try to use you to
bully us."

The masters have a Union, Sir Ethert,

and you are one of them. Why should not
we?"

If you like, of course. Only I will not talk
to strangers about your affairs. My name was
put down as a member of the Masters' Union.
I did not authorise it; I have withdrawn it.
Their Union may settle with the Union of their
men ; I will deal face to face with those I
employ, with my wife's tenantry, and with
nobody else. But this is not the time or place
for such a talk. If it is too far to come to meat
Glynnehurst, I will meet you at Stapleton
tomorrow."

The temper of the crowd had been turned
for the moment, but Ethert knew well how
likely it was that a popular mob-orator might
in five minutes undo, and more than undo, all
that he had accomplished. Giving his horse
to the son of one of his smaller tenants who
happened to be present, he passed into the inn,
joined Ivy for a moment at the window, and
then hurried her and Meta through the garden
to re-enter the carriage that, as he had directed,
now waited for them in a back lane, out of
sight of the mob.

VOL. III. Q

"It was too dangerous, Ivy. You neither
should have come here, nor shown yourself at
the window. But you saved me then."

"Not I," Ivy answered, still trembling so
that she could hardly sneak. " I had no courage
; I could not have thought It was
Meta who, hurt as she was, first calmed them,
and then brought me forward, while I hardly
knew where I was."

Ethert's look of thanks, his few words of
praise to Meta, were not in the least grudged
by Ivy's frank and generous spirit ; and would
not have been grudged even had not her husband
presently turned to her with equal pride,
and, she could almost have thought, with at
least equal kindness.

"You know how to do justice in the hardest
case, Ivy — justice to one who succeeded where
you failed. A lady here and there might have
equalled Meta; I know no other who, in
your place, could have praised her. Besides,
much as Meta's courage pleased them, much as
she did for me, it was your presence, your name
that ensured me a hearing, and stopped the
pelting. They might possibly have killed

Meta's champion under her eyes — they would
not hurt the husband of Sir Charles Glynnee's
daughter in his wife's presence."

q2

CHAPTER XL

"RAIN, RAIN AND SUN!"

** That on earth do you want with that

'^ club, Ethert ?"

Call it a staff, please, Pearl. That is the
correct and legal word. After all, it is only
the upper end of a heavy walking-stick, which
would have been too long and a little too
weighty for use."

*for what use? And what is that strap
for? Are you going to have another fight?
Oh, Ethert! Ivy will be frightened. I am
more afraid than I should like her to see."

They sat together on the terrace, once before
mentioned, immediately overlooking the cliff,
on which a side window of Ethert's own apartments,
formerly his uncle's, opened ; and a servant
had just brought to his master the weapon

whose formidable appearance had elicited Meta's
suspicious questions.

"I will put it away," he said, 'before she has
the chance to see it. I dare say there will be a
row to-day, and that black patch on your forehead
reminds me that I owe some of them a
debt I shall not be sorry to pays"

They would have murdered you, Ethert,
and they may do it yet ! Besides, that was an
accident, and when they saw what they had
done, they were sorry. And I cannot help
feeling for them and with them, more than
with Mr. Verner and the other gentlemen who
were here last night. No doubt it must make
you angry to have your property attacked ;
but it is much harder for them to see their
wives and children hungry."

"That is their own fault, Meta. But it is
not the danger to property that makes me
angry, though that seems to exasperate some
of the manufacturers bitterly. What I will
never tolerate, while I can help to put it down,
is rebellion, violent resistance to the law and
to the Queen's authority. For that I have as
little mercy as Estrange, who says there is

one only remedy for riot or mob-violence —

"Ethert, I don't think you are quite yourself,
or you would hardly sa" such a thing.
That was not the spirit of your speech to the
men at Ellington."

No, and it is not the spirit in which I am
acting. We have cavalry in reserve, and I
have got the magistrates to promise that, if
they have to act, they shall act effectually.
But I have also brought them to agree that the
soldiers shall come in only in the last resort —
after we have been beaten. We have sworn in
four hundred special constables, and they are
officered by men who, except myself, have all
seen actual service. I think I have kept the
miners back ; their leaders promised me to keep
them out of Stapleton to-day if possible. But
there will be a great meeting of the men on
strike in the town itself, and our spies tell us
they mean to attack Verner's factory. In that
case we must fight. Their first idea was to
close the gates, barricade them, and defend
the place with fire-arras till the soldiers came
up. Now I want to avoid that. If we shed

blood in that way, if half a dozen men are
killed in fight with deadly weapons, there will
be not only frightful mischief at the time, perhaps
a fury that will not give way even before
a charge of cavalry — and after all a squadron
could do little if the mob stood firm, — but such
bitter hatred for years to come as will be worse
than the worst present havoc could be. Let
"US fight it out with the constable's staff, and,
though nearly as much harm may be done and
more men hurt, there will not be the same
savage feeling on either side when it is over."

But, Ethert, yon will be frightfully outnumbered.
They said there where two thousand
of them the other day."

"Not fifteen hundred, dear child. But they
are not disciplined will not act under orders
and together as we shall."

Then it will be almost a battle. Oh,
Ethert !"

He laughed ; but the laugh was suddenly and
sharply checked as a light, trembling touch
upon his shoulder warned him that the last
sentences had fallen into ears for which they
certainly were not intended. Ivy had purposely

left the twain alone, having observed how carefully,
as she thought, Ethert had avoided in her
presence any further expression of thanks or
admiration for Meta's courageous interference,
and even any indirect recognition thereof intone
or manner. She fancied that he was thus
reserved lest she should be hurt by the recollection
of her own cowardice, or by the contrast
between his natural kindness to his ward and
his ceremonious deference to herself. She felt
that Meta's service should have been more
warmly acknowledged, and her own sensitiveness
to coldness or neglect only made her the
more anxious to spare another. That Ethert
would take occasion to repair all omissions in
her absence she took for granted ; and in returning
she had no idea of listening unobserved.
At the same time she was too simple
and trustful, too absolutely innocent of suspicion,
too utterly free from jealousy to apprehend
that anything might pass which she
could disapprove or dislike, which either Ethert
or Meta could desire to withhold from her
except in consideration for herself. If she had
known how much more openly Ethert had

spoken to Meta than while she was present,
she would have recognized and appreciated
with perfect justice, and without an afterthought
of distrust or annoyance, his consideration
for her weaker nerves or keener anxiety.
It never occurred to her that he could wish to
be apprised of her approach, or displeased by
sudden interruption ; she no more dreamed of
avoiding to overhear their talk than of trying
to surprise it. Thus, returning through one of
the rooms not opening like Ethert's on the end
of the terrace, but directly facing the cliff, she
had approached unobserved and unheard, and
Lad been too much startled by the first words
that reached her ear to give other warning of
her presence. She regretted this instantly as
Ethert started under her touch ; fancying in
that start the repugnance she had felt or supposed
on former occasions, and not the actual
surprise and alarm due to the suddenness of
her appearance and to instant recollection of
the words she must have caught. Pain, therefore,
as well as fear and distress, was visible in
the agitated face into which he looked up ; and,
on his part, uneasiness and sympathy for Ivy

deepened and prolonged that disturbance of
manner which she misconstrued.

I beg your pardon, Ethert. Indeed I did
not mean — and I would not have touched you,
only" I was so frightened. I see your horse is
at the door, and I have brought you a note ; I
fancy it is from Mr. Verner, is it not? Oh
Ethert! what is the matter?"

*• Very little,, Ivy, to make so much of. Yes,"
opening the note. " Well, this only hurries mea
little. Meta, will you take the thing you admired
so much and leave it for me on the hall
table? Good-bye," as she rose, taking the hint
intended as much to secure her absence as to
keep the weapon he had laid aside in his study
out of Ivy's sight. " Don't be foolish yourself,
and don't encourage Ivy's fears."

The farewell to Meta. spoken with studied
lightness as it was, confirmed and intensified
Ivy's alarm.

Ethert, you are expecting danger ! Ah !
must you go ? Do think — do take care. Think
how terrible it would be to me — to us, if . .
Oh Ethert ! I wish you would not go !"

"You want me to play the coward, Ivy? I

came here because there was — 1 cannot say
danger, but trouble of this very kind ; and there
is nothing now to be more afraid of than at
ElHngtou — less, as you will not be within reach
of danger."

Ivy mistook his meaning once more, and answered,
in a tone through whose submission
the pain she felt in the supposed reproach was
but too evident,

I know I am a coward, Ethert ; I am afraid
I shall always be a coward when there seems to
be danger. But, before you go, say you are
not angry with me. I did not intend "

What do you mean, Ivy? You startled me
because I did not know you were near, and, as
it happened, I did not intend you to hear what
I knew would frighten you. Nor should I have
told Meta, but that an accident made her aware
that we expected, or rather thought it possible,
that there might be some disturbance to-day at
Stapleton."

Ethert, do have pity — do think how dreadful
it would be, how cruel to me, if — if anything
happened ; and now, when you have just
shown what you really feel, how you shrink

from me when you are not on your guard !"

His movement of surprise, his look of wonder
and almost of horror, were, even to her eyes,
evidently sincere and unaffected.

That was your thought, Ivy? What can I
say, what am I to do with one who can wrong
me and torment herself with such extravagant
fancies ? You complain that I misconceive you
sometimes ; I am sure this misunderstanding is
far worse, far more cruel than I was ever guilty
of. Sit down here," drawing her close beside
him, into Meta's vacant seat. " I must spare
five minutes to make my peace with you — I
cannot leave you to think so unkindly of me
even for a few hours, to grieve over such a
delusion ; and Larval " (his horse) " must makeup
for it."

Ethert, I wish you would not ride. Do
take the carriage this time. Miss Vavasour
thought there was so much more danger on
horseback."

I am not going to ride into the crowd,
Ivy ; and we shall have a strong force gathered
before we enter Stapleton. All those of your
tenants who are sworn in are to meet me half

a mile outside the toAvu, and you may trust mein
their care."

Ethert, if there is danger, I know you will
not think of yourself; and you will be the first
if it comes to blows."

1 hope so. But, Ivy, do not let us part
even for a day with such a cloud between us.
Can you not believe "

It was difficult to him at this moment to
speak openly of a misconception so offensive,
plainly as she had acknowledged it ; and it
seemed at once an easier, more natural, and
more satisfactory answer to a thought so painful
to take her hand in his own and hold it ashe
went on : —

'' Really you make me ashamed, not exactly
of your fears, but of having seemed to admit
that there can be any ground for them. I half
wish there were more. It could be no such
terrible calamity if — if a chance blow did
solve all difficulties once for all. And, Ivy, I
know you would not say what you did not
mean, but I think you sometimes try hard to
feel what you wish to say. I believe you
would be sorry for me at the moment ; I am

sure you would not wish me hurt : but wh}^
take pains to make yourself miserable over —
the very best thing that could befall you V

"Oh! Ethert, how cruel!" The poor girl
could say no more, but Ethert fancied her
shocked rather than grieved or wounded.

'' Nap', why try so earnestly to feel, to throw
yourself into, a part that cannot be real ? Do
you imagine that I am so selfishly unjust as to
expect it of you — that I wish you to go on
suffering and fretting as you do one day longer
than is needful, or think you ought to be sorry
to be set free ? My death, if there were any
chance of that, would free you safely and silently,
and secure your inheritance beyond all
risk. I know that you don't, you can't bear to
wish for it, you can't feel unkindly even to me ;
but why try to persuade yourself to fear it?
A chance blow that should give me rest and
peace would be no disaster to me ; and for your
release without pain, debate, or scandal I ought
to be — should be thankful."

Ethert, how can you f she answered, hardly
able to command her voice, and quite unable to

keep back her tears. '' Would you not grieve
at the thought of losing me ?"

Almost any other woman would have reversed
the question ; but Ivy was too thoroughly generous
and too transparently truthful to allow
even the most natural resentment to provoke a
taunt in which she did not believe. On this
one point at least she had read her husband's
feeling, from the first hour of their marriage,
more truly than he himself had done. Her
question forced Ethert to realise suddenly and
with painful sharpness, that however coolly he
had contemplated the rupture of the tie between
them, such as it was, — whether by his
own death or by that revolt on her part which
he had always anticipated, if of late with more
and more of reluctance,, — there had never been
a moment when he could have borne the idea
that the formal bond should be broken by the
early termination of that other lifcj so pure, so
harmless so unhappy. Why, he could not have
told. Perhaps that such a conclusion would
have shocked the native instincts of justice,
perhaps that the remorse of which he was as

yet scarcely conscious would have been stung"
when too late into intolerable activity. She
saw, and was much moved to see, that he actually
shivered at her simple question, which for
some reason brought the idea before him with
terrible vividness and reality, as if the suggested
loss were immediately probable.

*' You would be sorry? Then, Ethert, how
is it you always judge me so hardly ? If you
had — had been content with me — if 1 had made
you happy' — if I had any pleasant memories to
live on, any loving word to remember, since you
ceased to like and make much of your child-cousin
— still it would be too cruel, too terrible !
I could not bear it, I could not endure to dream
of it ! But as it is, if I were left alone, utterly
alone in the world, to remember how lonely I
had been even with you, that I was never anything
but a pain and vexation to you — to feel
that I had spoilt your whole life beyond hope
of reparation, that it had all been sacrificed tome
; if you left me without a word of pardon, if
I could never hope to hear you say you had
forgiven me — Ethert, I cannot think Providence
could ever be so hard on me ; for I think even

you would pity me, would spare me that, if you
could feel what it would be."

*' Even you !" The sting was the sharper
that the speaker was so evidently unconscious
of it, so innocent of any wish to wound. A
few moments elapsed before he could answer
her calmly.

You are so soft, so good, Ivy, that you cannot
bear the thought of harm to one you once
loved so well. But do not speak as if I could-think
only of my own trials, as if I did not feel
for yours. I have always thought, have always
owned, that you were even more hardly treated,
more cruelly compelled than myself; and
though I must feel that after the first shock
you would rejoice in any means of release — nay,
if you claim release at any price before long — I
could not blame you ; I could hardly dare to
wish it otherwise."

You say these things — I don't know, and I
don't wish to know, what you mean. But I
know what a sacrifice you made for me and
that you find it more intolerable than you expected.
Am I to be less grateful, less dutiful,
for that ? If — if you had married me . . . be-vol.

III. K

cause it pleased yoii . I should have loved
you, have done all I could to satisfy you, and I
should have been miserable if I had failed. But
now, do you think I do not feel how much more
I ought to do, do not know that I must bear
anything and everything, when you sacrificed
yourself instead of pleasing yourself? Do you
think I forget what 1 promised, that you speak
as if I could — as if I thought, or cared, or wished
for anything but that you will bear with rae
now, and some day — will forgive me?"

'• Tvy, if you had ever been in fault, I could
have nothing to forgive — in you. You speak
of your promises. I don't forget; but — T know
what our understanding was, and I should be
ashamed to exact anything, even a show of regard
or interest in me, in right of pledges we
both knew to be a form. You were told that,
before one word had passed between ourselves.
Your reference to your own vows can only be
meant to remind me of mine, and I repeat, you
knew those to be unreal. If we were forced to
lie before others, I told no lie to you."

Nor I, Ethert," she answered, very gently,
but with a sorely puzzled and frightened air.

^' I meant every word I said ; and indeed, indeed
I thought I had kept my faith. Oh, Ethert ! if
you think not, tell me where I have not been
true r

'' What matter what was said, Ivy ? We
both knew that nothing was meant, and your
forced promise could never have been binding."


If I had been forced, would that alter my
duty afterwards ? If I had been child enough
to yield for fear of scolding, or of anything they
could do — what difference would that make?
But you took care — do you forget ? — that T
could say no if I chose. Ethert^t^ did you want
me to say it ? I thought not — I only wished todo
what you would have me. No, I was not
forced."

You were not beaten or threatened ; but
you were compelled none the less. And , if it
had not been so, I could not find a flaw in the
way you have kept your faith."

"And then you say — no, you take for granted
that I do not love you, do not care even for
your safety, for your life ! How can you,
Ethert ? If you had asked me before — when I

r2

knew nothing — then I might have been careless,
then there might have been some excuse if
1 sometimes forgot. I should have thought I
did not need to remember. What could I do
but love and honour? But when I knew all
was not well, and when you showed you did
not trust me — even in the least thing of all — of
course I considered, recollected all I was to
promise ; then I knew I must be careful watchful
to keep my word to the uttermost. Do tell
me, Ethert, where I have seemed to fail? Have
I ever disobeyed you when I could guess your
wishes? Do I not honour you? Do I not
accept your will, and try to think it must be
right because it is yours ? Or — can you really
doubt whether I love you? I suppose you
must mean that, when you say — I could bear —
to lose you. What can yoii think of me? Do
you think, night after night, when I knew only
that you were not at home, did not know where
you might be, I could have lain down alone —
could ever have slept, if I had not prayed for
you ? Or do you think 1 dare speak to Him
with a lie in my heart? Dare I kneel at all, if
I thought I was false to one word of my marriage

vow, unless I had asked your forgiveness
as well as His ? Do you forget, Etbert — I know
you do not think so much of it, but — when your
mother was in London, do you forget inhere we
knelt together ? Do you think what it is you
have said — what I must feel in hearing it — what
a wife's shame is if she is not loyal in her love,
not true to those promises?"

Her tone, low and quiet as it was, was so
passionately earnest, so simply solemn as she
-appealed to the absolute sincerity of her religious
faith, so faltering in the last emphatic sentences,
that the answer died on Ethert's lips.
He saw that the final remonstrance was as
utterly loyal in its almost infantine innocence
as those that had preceded it. Ivy could draw
no distinction between the parts of one engagement
equally sacred throughout ; she could
not practically conceive, could not entertain the
thought of that deeper, darker breach of conjugal
faith whose formless, unseen horror cast a
shadow of awe over the lighter sin of which she
thought herself accused.

I see. Ivy," he replied at last, with no
common effort, " how cruelly I have wronged

you throughout ; how much more cruel was the
wrong iu which I had no wilful share. Then
were you not told why I would not ask your
consent myself — that I could not insult you with
the truth, and would not cheat you with a lie ?
Were you never warned that my promise did
not pretend to be true ? Have you not understood
why I shrank fi-om the iniquity of claiming
all in return for nothing — that I had no
right to expect or exact anything more than
the compliance that was as necessary to your
comfort and welfare as to mine? No? God
forgive me, then ! Indeed I thought that had
been made plain enough !"

^•Ethert/* she said — not a little encouraged
and soothed by his altered and softened tone.
and this first evidence of repentant tenderness
towards herself, while frightened at the passion
of his words and manner, at the indignation, at
once embittered and restrained by remorse,
which she could not understand — '* I don't think
I was told anything very clearly, except I
understood that you wished me — that you
agreed with Mamma — that I was obeying your
will as well as hers. But — if you are not angry

with rae still for that — if you believe that I am,
that I have tried to be true— does the rest
matter now '^ Does it signify what I fancied,
why I — agreed, then V

'' Does it matter — whether I lied deliberately
to you, as well as for 3'ou ! You speak of your
vow. Ivy ; if you took mine for a reality, what
must you think of me V

*' It was very hard on you, Ethert. You could
not help being very angry, very bitter, when
you found yourself forced into such a sacrifice
against your will, your feelings — and then
slandered for it. And it is not the same thing;
that vow always means so much more to women
No, I did not mean to complain
in the least. I never will, however you think
it right that I should suffer for such a wrong.
Only, Ethert, do not speak as if T could ever
forget what you did, as if I could rebel, could
do anything but try to please you, to make it
endurable to you, and wait till you can forget
And now, you will have pity; you will remember
what I must feel if — if anything happens,
and you have not forgiven me ?"

Forgiven — i/ou !"

He had taken both her hands in his own,
and looked into her eyes, as if doubting whether
she could possibly mean what, nevertheless,
she had spoken, not for the first time, so
simply and so earnestly. His look caught and
fascinated hers She felt therein what
i?he could not understand — not merely penitence,
pity, restored affection, but something
deeper and different ; something which no experience
of hers could possibly interpret. The
spirits were reconciled ; between the minds, the
hearts, there was but a film of doubt, which
in another instant a touch, a clasp, a kiss must
have dissolved. But they were interrupted.
Meta, who had the tact to apprehend that the
intrusion of a servant on that interview might
be even less welcome than her own, had taken
care not to repeat Ivy's mistake, and approached
through the study, where her figure was at
once visible to Ivy, if not to Ethert, who. in
turning to his wife, had turned away from the
window.

'aether, there is another messenger. They
want you to go at once."

*' Good-bye then, dear Ivy. Be content ;

there is no danger. Pearl," — at a sign from
him, she followed through the study — " you
remember our favourite drama, ' Philip van
Artevelde'? If by chance anything did happen
to me, find the Regent's farewell to
Elena, and show Ivy the three lines you
thought so touching."

' If not, I know that I shall fall forgiven !' "
she said. " Ethert, you think there is more
danger than you will own !"

"No, not at all," he answered, lightly, as he
mounted. But Meta thought that the care
with which he adjusted the thong of his staff
about his wrist somewhat belied his words.
But accident is always possible, and I had
not time to say what I should have liked her to
remember."

CHAPTER XII.

STORM.

rriHE tenantry of Glynueliurst, numbering
-■- more than one hundred stalwart men,
all in the prime of life, all armed with weapons
much resembling the ordinary constable's
staff, or short loaded cudgels, most of them
drilled by the volunteer movement into very
tolerable discipline and cohesion, greeted their
young leader with a cordial cheer. They were
in the highest spirits, inspired by the true English
love of fighting — so different from the
Irish love of a row or riot, and yet in effect
so closely resembling it — perfectly indifferent
te that inferiority of numbers of which they
were fully aware, and which weighed somewhat
heavily on the mind of their chief. The road
by which they were to approach the scene of

action led to the back of the extensive range
of buildings all enclosed within a high and
tolerably strong brick wall, that formed Mr.
Werner's factory. In front was an extensive
open space into which the principal street of
Stapleton debouched ; and across this, their right
resting on the gates of the factory, were drawn
up the regular police of the district, supported
by some two hundred special constables in the
rear. Along the side of the works, opening
into the street just before it entered the wide
space above mentioned, ran a somewhat narrow,
dingy back lane, with blank walls on
either side. The main street was already
filled with a rabble, partly consisting of the
men on strike partly as is always the case,
of sight-seers, men, women, and even children.
Such are always drawn into the stream b}^ a
curiosity which is excited by the approach of
danger, and yet never takes account of that
danger — a curiosity not so much indifferent to
peril as unconscious of it. The presence of this
element in a crowd is always a chief difficulty
for the defenders of order, since any vigorous
measures taken against the rioters are sure

to involve and often fall most heavily upon
those who are guilty of inquisitive folly only',
especially upon those whom sex or infancy
renders helpless. Within call, but quite out of
sight, was a squadron of Her Majesty's 36th
Lancers, unluckily the only cavalry force
within reach. The cooler of the magistrates,
like Ethert, regretted the nature of the weapon
with which the soldiers were armed, as likely
to do more harm and cause less of panic terror
than the sabre. As they reached a somewhat
narrow, open space at the back of the works,
Ethert's men were halted by the official in
charge, a subaltern of police, formerly a 
in the army.

You must guard the back of the factory,
sir, in case any attack should be made on this
side, of which we have no warning. We think
and hope that the mob, if they do attack, will
come up the main street, where we are prepared
to meet them. But there are among
them two or three men who have been concerned
in serious riots before — they say one
who served in the American army, — and they
may have the sense to attack on both sides, in

which case there will be trouble. If that happens,
probably the sooner the soldiers are sent
for the better."

"Avoid that as long as you can, till nothing
else can avert defeat and bloodshed ; and for
heaven's sake let us have no use of weapons
except by the soldiers."

"Major Sweden (the chief of the police) and
Colonel Revert have agreed with the magistrates
on that point. Sir Ethert. The soldiers
will come down before the factory can be
forced. Well, you will not stir from here till
you know that no attack is to be made on the
rear; then you will support us."

*'I thought we were to have one of your
officers in command here f

*'No, sir. At least , I know nothing of that.
My orders are to give you my message, and
then return to the front."

"How many can pass abreast up that lane?"
said Ethert to a young volunteer officer beside
him, who had with difficulty been restrained
from putting on his volunteer uniform on this
occasion.

"Four, Sir Ethert, hardly more."

'' Then form the men four deep, so that if need
be we can wheel at once and pass up the lane.
I won't dismount till the last moment. Now,
men, steady, silence ! behave as if you were on
parade."

So large a part of his little force consisted of
volunteers, or men who had passed through the
volunteer battalion of the district, that the
order was understood and obeyed implicitly.
The men stood at attention, their staves ready,
for more than an hour, before a sudden cr}^ and
rattle in the front told that the attack had
begun with a shovv^er of stones. Ethert, riding
up the lane on his right, perceived at once that
the mob, though furious, were afraid to advance ;
and were endeavouring to provoke an attack,
as well as to disorganise the ranks of the
defenders of order, by these missiles.

That was well thought of," he said. " I am
afraid the mob have leaders who know what
they are about."

A second volley of stones, which did no little
mischief, was answered by a charge from the
police. They broke some heads, by no means
always the right ones ; and Ethert, still watching

the fight in front, but able from his seat on
horseback to command the approach to the rear
also, saw to his great annoyance that the fringe
of sight-seers still attended and to some extent
sheltered the flanks of the mob. Many of the
latter were armed with hammers or bludgeons
of dangerous length and weight, and after their
first repulse began to form more compactly,
with an evident disposition to use their formidable
weapons. Suddenly, evidently under
orders, the uniformed policemen fell back; and
their chief on horseback rode forward, indifferent
to the volley of stones with which he was
received, and which his horse endured almost
as firmly as the rider.

'those of you who don't mean mischief," he
shouted, " out of the way ; and those who do,
let the women and children make their way
back out of danger."

x\n English mob is above the cowardly trick,
common with Frenchmen and Irishmen, of placing
women in the van to embarrass the movements
of the soldiery and police. One of the leaders
of the rioters, a tall, stalwart, brawny navvy,
stepped forward, raising his hand to keep back

his comrades and check the shower of missiles,
Keep back sour men , sir, for five minutes,
and we will try to get the women and children
out of the way."

It was a curious sort of exchange of courtesies,
a sending of flags of truce between the
rioters and the defenders of the law, a recognition
as it were of belligerent rights on the
part of the former utterly inconsistent alike
With law and decorum. The chief of police
was fully conscious of the responsibility involved
in so awkward and unusual a concession ; buta
gentleman by birth and a soldier by profession,
he was far too anxious for the safety of
the helpless creatures now wedged in between
the mob which filled the centre of the street
and the closed doors of the houses, to flinch
from any opprobrium , any responsibility, that
might fall upon himself, so only he could protect
them. When the five minutes had elapsed
the front of the mob presented a more formidable
appearance than ever. There were no
women or children among them, and few sightseers.
As far as the eye of the rider could seethe
street was filled by a dense mass of men.

all evidently belonging to the class engaged in
the strike, or to that much worse, and, when
once riot is let loose, much more dangerous
order who fringe the skirts of organized and
disciplined labour.

*now, sir," said the leader of the mob, again
stepping forward, " we are ready. Go back to
your men."

If you have sense enough to do what you
have done," said the Chief Constable , "you have
surely sense enough to understand the folly
you are committing. You know nothing but
evil to yourselves can come of this. Even
should you wreck that factory, you know you
have a heavy reckoning to pay afterwards ; and
before you can do serious mischief the soldiers
will be upon you."

We have calculated all that. We mean to
give yonder capitalist tyrant a lesson, cost what
it may. Go back, sir."

The discipline of the mob was not such that
their leader could prevent the enforcement of
this warning by some half-dozen stones, thrown
probably rather as threats than with deliberate
intention to injure, since not one of them touch-vol.

III. S

ed either the horse or the rider. The officer
obeyed the injunction, and fell back to take his
place at the head of his force. Then the mob
rushed forward, so far disciplined and arrayed
that all their front rank were well armed. In
another minute one half of the open space in
front of the factory was filled by the rabble,
who surged over into the lane ; and their van
was engaged in a hand-to-hand struggle with
the police, and the body of special constables
who supported them. Ethert fell back to the
head of his party.

There is no appearance of an attack in this
direction," he said. " Mr. Lawson," to the
volunteer subaltern, the son of his agent, " keep
half your men here, and be prepared in case of
danger. If you are beaten, fall back into the
factory, and close the gate in the rear. You
will only have to hold it till the soldiers come
up. Right face ! The first twelve ranks follow
me."

He dismounted, and, placing himself at their
head, led them at the double-quick up the lane,
charging right into the flank of the mob.

"Strike hard 1" was his order. "Do all the
damage you can at this point, and we may have

^ chance to break them altogether before worse
comes of it."

This attack took the rioters utterly by surprise.
They were not prepared to meet any
other enemy than those in their front. Their
leaders, all in advance, could give no directions ;
and in five minutes not only had Ethert and
his party cut their way completely across the
street, but the rabble in front, aware that their
rear was attacked, and fancying that the
soldiers had fallen upon them in that quarter,
were struck with panic and gave way ; sweeping
away with them, however, most of the
small body of special constables who had forced
their way into the midst, and among them
Ethert himself. At first the retreating rioters
were not aware of this, as no marked distinction
of dress, like that either of volunteers
or regular policemen , indicated the enemies in
their midst ; and for awhile the crush was such
that no exchange of blows within the crowd
itself would have been possible. Presently,
however, those farthest from the danger reached
a point where the meeting of four roads allowed
of dispersion ; and here, seeing no immediate

s2

peril, they took courage. Ether t, with half a
dozen of his party immediately around him,
was endeavouring to extricate himself as quietly
and quickly as possible, and had reached a point
where the ranks of the mob were loose enough
to promise a practicable path, when some of
the rioters, noting the dress and bearing of a
gentleman, recognised an enemy. Among these
was Meta's assailant, still wearing a patch over
the wound received from the handle of Ethert's
riding-whip ; and, under his instigation, several
of his comrades made straight at the small
party. The latter drew back at once, till,
setting their backs against the wall and standing
shoulder to shoulder, they prepared for a
fight in which the chance of serious consequences
was even greater than it appeared, no
friends being near, the number of their assailants
overwhelming, and many of their weapons
quite as deadly as those used on the battlefield
in the days of armour. Sledge-hammers
that would have cracked a helmet like a nutshell,
and mallets, pickaxe handles, and the like
all wielded by stouter arms than those of the
factory operatives of the North, might well
inflict a fatal wound ; while those of the special

<30D stables were at once shorter and less formidable.
The man whom Ethert had thrashed
carried about the most dangerous weapon of alla
broken pickaxe ; and with this aimed a stroke
that might well have made him a murderer.
His purpose was thwarted, however, by the
skill and promptitude of the man next to
Ethert, who, as the weapon was lifted, closed,
and struck with all his force on the back of the
hand that held it, so bruising and crushing the
knuckles that the fellow let the instrument drop
with a howl ; and Ethert, seizing the chance,
struck him so heavily and directly in the face
that he fell, if not stunned, at any rate cowed,
quelled for the moment. But this first disaster
only infuriated the assailants, and before two
minutes had passed the little party were completely
overpowered and separated. No serious
blow had actually touched Ethert ; but, parted
from his friends, grasped on both sides by three
or four stout arms, he had given himself up for
lost, when — a sudden sound, a cry from what
had been the front of the crowd, a clatter and
crash, sent a new thrill of panic through the
whole mass. Ethert was thrown to the ground,
bruised and stunned; but, before he could attempt

to rise, was conscious that his assailants
had withdrawn, that his chief danger lay in the
feet that were recklessly trampling over him.
An .accidental blow from one of these deprived
him temporarily of all recollection. AVhen he
regained consciousness, the street was clear of
all but some half dozen more or less seriously
wounded men. The soldiers, called in, not to
repair defeat, but to complete the victory of
the civilians, had been ordered or provoked
to charge ; and had swept away the rabble as
cavalry can generally do, with somewhat more
mischief from the points of the lances than the
sabre, unless used with savage and deadly intention,
would have been likely to inflict. One
of his tenants, kneeling beside him , was trying
to force between his teeth a small flask of
brandy but desisted on seeing that the patient
bad regained consciousness.

Are you badly hurt, Sir Ethert?"
"1 think not," he answered, still dizzy, and
by no means sure of his own safety. " None of
their blows came home, but they trod over me
and trampled me not a little. Help me up ; I
think I can stand."

By the time he had ascertained that no boue

were broken, that even the blow on the head
had not been serious, and was endeavouring to
shake off the dust from his clothes, the Chief
Constable and a party of his men, who followed
to pick up for judgment the victims of the soldiers'
weapons and if possible the ringleaders of
the riot, had come up. Under their guidance,
Ethert speedily reached the inn where the
magistrates and the chief manufacturers were
assembled, and, after cleansing his clothes and
person, and bathing his bruised face and head,
joined their council. The officer of police and
the Colonel of the Lancers were present ; all,
except the military men, in a more or less excited
and angry mood. The energy with which
Ethert pleaded for peace and pardon to the
vanquished not a little surprised many of those
who knew how vigorously he had exerted himself
for the enforcement of order ; how urgently
he had insisted that if, on the defeat of the civil
defenders of order, the soldiers were called
upon, they should use their weapons in earnest.
Yes' said Ethert, in answer to a remark
on the latter point, " I would not have had the
soldiers called in at all as things went. They
should always be our last resort, but their appearance

should always be decisive. If infantry
fire over the heads of the rabble, or cavalry
charge without hurting, without effectually dispersing
them, a fatal lesson is taught, a fatal
encouragement given to disorder. As a rule,
an English mob believes that the soldiers are
irresistible, and that is the one great check
upon them. Teach them the contrary, and nothing
but artillery — which means in most cases
an interval of anarchy and havoc, and always
horrible slaughter — will convince and quell
them. Now, they had been beaten in fair fight
with us ; and, if you had not brought down the
Lancers, I believe there would have been no
malice borne. As it is, if no one is killed, and
you let those who have been wounded escape
with the punishment they have already received,
I fancy a compromise may be reached in a few
days ; and if not, the strike will pass off without
another outbreak."

This was not the view of the majority, or
that which prevailed. But Ethert's intervention
had nevertheless a thoroughly wholesome
effect, not only conciliating towards himself an
amount of trust which might probably enable

him to interpose on many futile occasions as an
arbitrator between the capitalist and the workman,
but moderating an injudicious severity
which would have borne fruit in lasting resentment
and ill-will. As the mob, whatever they
had intended, had done no serious mischief, the
angry feeling of the magistrates and gentry
was inspired simply by fear. Vengeance taken
by fear, when once the excitement of conflict is
over, is neither satisfactory to English feeling
nor effective even for its immediate purpose,
since the vanquished feel that the terror it is
intended to strike is at least reciprocal.

As the meeting dispersed, Ethert noticed a
certain whispering among three or four, of whom
Mr.Verner was one, and glances directed towards
himself. As he left the building, the last-named
gentleman followed and stopped him.

"I am sorry — I hope you will forgive me. Sir
Ether, if . . but I thought it was a more
friendly part to let you know at once what
you would see or hear of soon, and what — perhaps
knowing it at once may enable you to
take some step to crush the mischief."

He placed in Ethert's hand a copy of the
number of the Age published that day, folded

in such a manner that the following paragraph
at once caught the eye : —

"A new light, and with it a darker cloud, has
been thrown on the character and position of
the wealthy baronet whose connection with the
press is a subject of so much curiosity to others,
who has shown himself so furiously ashamed
of that most creditable incident in a career of
personal and literary insignificance. It seems
that the author of and , the deputy
sub-editor of a Tory contemporary, has
made one of those mistakes which even charity
can hardly compassionate. In the marriage
into which he hurried the infant heiress of the
family estates, over her brother's grave and
beside her father's death-bed, the fortune-hunter
involuntarily played the dupe, and not the
duper. The lady is, it seems, the illegitimate
daughter of a bigamist, whose real wife died
only a few weeks ago in the foreign lunatic
asylum in which she had suffered a life-long
captivity. Our readers may imagine the disgust
and dismay of the fortunate bridegroom
on learning that he had been the victim of his
own greed and haste ; that he had needlessly
encumbered himself with a portionless bride.

if not with a dubious succession. His mortification
may perhaps account for extravagances
of conduct which, to those who lacked
the clue, seemed at first sight to demand the
indulgence we give to incipient insanity."

Mr. Verner had, as Ethert noticed on raising
his head from the perusal of these sentences,
considerately disappeared. As he mounted his
horse to return home, he instinctively clenched
his hand on the handle of his horsewhip.

*' I should like to repeat the flogging I gave
that cur. This is, of course, his revenge ;

but Good God ! if she should hear of it I

And how — how is it to be kept from her"?
Or, if she does not hear, she will see suspect
something in the manner of all our neighbours.

And of course her mother What is to be

done? I wish now I had paid. Her peace of
mind was worth far more ; but, after all, one
can't submit to limitless extortion ; and, when
once you pay hush-money, as Brand said, demand
follows demand, the secret comes out
at last, and the disgrace is multiplied tenfold
by the evidence of fear one has given. But
what is to be done? She would never see the
Age . but, in some form or other, she will hear

or she will feel the truth. Poor Ivy — hard
indeed if all has been done, all endured for
nothing ! After all, though, who will care
now '{ It is not for her, at least, as it would
have been when this would have left her nameless.
When the first scandal is over, the nine
days' wonder talked out, no one will care to
remember that the present Lady Glynn e was
not the legitimate daughter of the late baronet
This alters, settles everything ; if

only Another woman would turn

upon me ; retaliate neglect and aversion
pretend to fancy that I had repented of disinterestedness,
not of coldness and estrangement
; and even Ivy will find it hard to forgive
But no matter : — this makes our
marriage plainly and obviously a benefit to
her; clears me before the world for the future,
if not for the past It was not her fault
if it brought me nothing but trouble, irritation,
discredit ; she was ready to fulfil her share
of the compact, poor child ! She never seems
to have known what it meant ; and she hasa
right to the fullest advantage of it — to all
the comfort and support I can give her, at
home as well as abroad, now."

CHAPTER XIII.

SEEN BY LIGHTNING.

*^ ll/fETA," said Ivy, when they were left alone
■^^ togEthertt, " what did Ethert mean ?
What had frightened yon"

Meta hesitated, at first inclined to withhold
an answer ; an easy thing, since the moment
after she had spoken, Ivy remembered her own
former disclaimer of any right or wish to inquire
into confidences exchanged between her
husband and their ward. But Meta had grown
partially, vaguely conscious of something strained,
some defect of ease and openness in the
terms on which Ivy stood with Ethert, which
might make her draw from such apparent
reserve inferences more distressing than the
simple truth need be.

''No, you need not tell me," Ivy continued,
** and perhaps I ought not to have asked."

"Indeed, Ivy, there was nothing to alarm

you, nothing Ethert would not have said to
you, only he fancies you more timid than you
are. He had his special constable's staff, and I
had questioned him about it. Indeed that was
all."

Ivy was not satisfied, but at this moment
their conversation was interrupted as the letters
of the late posture brought in. One of these was
directed in a foreign hand, and bore a scarcely
legible foreign postmark. It was directed to
"Milady Glynnee," and for a moment Ivy wondered
whether it was meant for herself or for
her mother.

I don't like to open it without knowing,"
she said to Meta, " and yet I should not like to
send it to Mamma if it belongs to me."

'• I cannot make out the postmark," Meta
observed. " And did not Ethert say something
about some French silks you were to
order — or he was to write for you ?"

He — that was to — I dare say it may be that,
Meta. At any rate, I will venture to open it."

The first words almost convinced Ivy that
the letter had not been intended for her, but so
riveted her attention that she could not withdraw
it till she had taken in all the contents of

the brief, brutal menace, and perceived, as by a
sudden lightnings-flash of unconscious reasoning,
how fearfully they explained everything
she had been unable to understand, how certainly,
hopelessly they were confirmed by every
incident connected with her marriage that had
been most painfully burnt into her memory.

Milady,

"After I served Sir Glynnee so many
years, after I saved him from a felon's prison, I
asked you for the payment of his debt. You
refer me to your avoue, and Mr. Brand puts me
off with a miserable hundred or two. And you
think I will bear this, that I will not punish
your insolence? I tell you, madam, young Sir
Glynnee shall know, and all England, all the
English world shall know , that the real milady
lived and died, after your daughter's marriage,
in my house ; that you are only the harlot, that
Sir Glynnee has married, not the heiress, but the
bastard of the feu baronet. You will see something
of it in the papers. Let that teach you
all shall be printed, if you do not pay at once

all you owe me.

Carl Hartog."

'what is the matter, Ivy?" cried Meta, asher
friend sank into a chair, her face white to
the lips, her hands closely pressed upon her
heart, dropping the terrible letter upon the
floor. Meta picked it up, and, with a self-restraint,
a loyalty the more commendable in sa
young a girls folded it unseen, replaced it in
the envelope, and thrust this into its owner's
pocket before she repeated her question ; endeavouring
at the same time to support Ivy's
frame, as she seemed sinking into a sort of
swoon, and to soothe her by caresses not
fonder or softer than her tone itself.

"What is it, Ivy, darling? What has happened?"


I cannot tell you, Meta. Oh ! I know it all
now. He may well loathe and hate me ! Oh,
Ethert, if I had known what I was doing''

Meta was horror-struck. She would never
have guessed that there was more, at worst,
than a certain coldness — it did not seem possible
that the grave courtesy of the one or the
gentleness of the other could admit of a quarrel
between her guardian and his wife. But she
had seen enough to realize, when thus enlightened,

that the wild half conscious words conveyed
a terrible if an exaggerated truth — that
Ivy certainly believed in her husband's complete
estrangement, and something more than estrangement.
Still, though her first impulse
was to console her friend by a passionate
denial, she had tact enough to restrain it — to
perceive that while she knew so little it was
best to recognize nothing. A moment's reflection
warned her not to seem to have heard or
understood words whose utterance Ivy might
bitterly repent, if not allowed to forget it ;
warned her not to do mischief that might
prove irreparable, by accepting the knowledge
of a conjugal secret thus unconsciously revealed
in a moment of agony.

'livy, dear, you don't know what you say.
I was wrong to ask you; only try, try to becalm,
dear, till Ethert comes — I am sure he can
help and comfort you. He never failed, never
could but help and pity any one in trouble, and
you of course above all. Don't say anything
till he comes ; only " — as Ivy rose, and, feeling
with her hands as if unable to see, moved towards
the door — " don't go away and shut

VOL. III. T

yourself up alone, dearest ; do let me stay with
you !"

^' I cannot, Meta, I cannot ! You must let me
be alone. Oh! my God! what have I done?
And I thought him so hard — and he knew —

this r

During the long hours that followed, Meta
was perhaps almost as much to be pitied as Ivy
herself; crushed and well-nigh stunned as was
the latter by the terrible blow so suddenly dealt,
the revelation so unexpected, so unspeakably
shocking to that purity of mind, that absolute
innocence from which as yet all knowledge of
evil had been repelled by the spirit's utter inability
to assimilate it. Refused admittance to
Ivy's room, hearing from time to time a low
moaning within, yet more appalled by the more
frequent silence, the poor child could not rest,
could hardly be still for an instant ; and yet
struggled hard not to make still more clear to
the household the existence of some terrible
trouble, some strange and painful family secret.
The more intelligent of the servants, whose
curiosity had been excited to the uttermost by
the mystery of the sudden marriage, must be

conscious of something unusual in the long and
absolute seclusion which their young mistress
would not permit any one to interrupt.

When Ivy would not descend to luncheon,
would not even open her door, would not answer
Meta's appeal, the young girl's position
became painful indeed. Her distress in feeling
or fancying the wondering, enquiring eyes of
the servants upon her seemed hourly more and
more intolerable. But when evening arrived,
and Ethert was still absent, Ivy still obstinately
deaf to her entreaties, Meta's eagerness to find
some help, attempt something — her terror of
some fearful result to one she loved (more
dearly than she had been hitherto aware, as Ivy
won, quietly as surely, the love of all around
her) — and her sense at once of serious responsibility
and of utter helplessness, drove her almost
beside herself. She must do something — she could
do nothing — and . . . what might happen any
moment ? She could not even send to Ethert, she
knew not what had become of him ; she dared
not, though the thought occurred to her more
than once, summon the doctor, of whose long
and intimate acquaintance with the family she

twas

of course ignorant. Pacing restlessly to and
fro, listening eagerly for any sound that could
bear on the subject of her excitement, she was
deaf and blend to all else that passed around
her. But long before, in a less over-strained
state of the nerves, she could have heard them,
she was roused by a sound of hoofs on the
gravel of the road through the park. Then
came silence, as they passed on to the turf — then
the deadened beat as they approached so near
that, even on the turf, her strained hearing
could distinguish them ; and, before Ethert had
dismounted, she stood in the porch, her hair
fallen over her shoulders, her flushed cheeks
and outstretched hands betraying, even in the
deep twilight, her intense excitement and distress.
He sprang down, exceedingly alarmed ;
instantly guessing what had happened, and
fearing even worse.

Ivy?" he asked, gasping for breath. *■' What
is it, Pearl, and where is she ?"

In her room, Ethert."

*' What has happened ?"

She had a letter. Of course I did not see
it; but "

He threw oj6f the hand she had laid on his

arm, not to detain him, but in the intense
anxiety of the moment, and had reached the
door of his wife's chamber before he had even
thought what was to be said — nay, how much
she actually knew. His first knock was unanswered
; his second answered only an hysterical
cry, which made his heart beat more
violently, which sent a thrill of deeper terror
through his frame than any previous peril or
surprise had ever been able to do.

"Ivy!" he called ; but his fright and excitement
gave to his tone a sharpness which evidently
increased the agitation, the terror, whatever
was the emotion that restrained her from answering
or attempting to admit him. He
heard, in reply, only a low wail ; then, as he
repeated her name, a terrified, " No, no ; do
leave me !" in which he felt the shudder that
had shaken her frame as she spoke, and simply
dared not press her further. In helpless alarm
and distress he turned away to seek for Meta,
whose energy and high spirit he knew and
trusted, who alone could possibly serve him in
that strait ; and on whose power to exercise
over Ivy's shattered nerves and distracted
spirit the calming, controlling influence he had

evidently forfeited, he relied rather by instinct
than from reflection. He had not far to go.
Three or four steps brought him almost directly
above her as she stood, tearful and trembling,
on the stairs, just out of sight of the closed
door, but as near as she could come without
fear of intrusion ; either unable to bear her own
prolonged suspense and alarm, or aware that
such help as she could render might be needed.

She will not see — she will not speak to me,
Pearl! What am I to do?"

Ethert, do you know what it is ? Of
course' she went on, speaking quickly, '' T
don't want you to tell me — I do not know
anything. But, if you know, you will be kind ;
you will speak very gently ?"

Such an appeal from a third person, from
Meta above all, on his wife's behalf, would at
another moment have shocked both his conscience
and his instincts of good breeding —
would have made him even more angry with
himself than with her who had thus betrayed
her knowledge of his shortcoming. But at
this moment, though he recognised and was
stung by the incongruity, his all-absorbing
anxiety, almost rising into terror, left him

leisure for no lesser thought — left him hardly
energy to be displeased or impatient.

Don't talk nonsense, Pearl ; what can I do ?
She will not listen — she will not see me, and
my very voice seems to frighten her . . . Cannot
you persuade her V

Since she got that letter," Meta answered,
still speaking as rapidly as she could consistently
with distinct utterance, " she will not let
me come near her. She has locked herself up
there, and she only moans or is silent. Etbert,
you must see her ; and — she thinks so much
of — of doing what you wish — tell her she

WMS^."

But, Meta, I told you she is utterly terrified
at my voice. I am afraid to alarm her more.
Cannot you f

I will try," Meta said, simply. " If I can
get at her, will you wait for her in her boudoir?"


Ethert, obeying implicitly, in his utter helplessness,
the directions even of a young girl,
listened with intense anxiety as Meta, in a
quiet, gentle, but very decided tone, delivered
the message she had taken upon herself to
frame.

'' Ivy, Ethert wants you. He says you are
to come to him — at once, please, dear."

He could hear her hand laid very softly on
the handle of the door, then, after some moments,
heard it open. He shivered from head
to foot, almost as intensely agitated as either
of the girls, when Meta, herself controlling with
no little effort the emotion that whitened her
cheek, entered ; leading or supporting Ivy, who
seemed but half conscious, save for the violent
shudder that shook her frame as she raised her
downcast eyes for a moment and recognised
her husband's presence. Then, as Ethert came
forward, leaving her to him, Meta turned, quitted
the room at once, and closed the door.
But Ivy withdrew hastily, with a shrinking
that but too painfully recalled the recent past,
from the support she needed so much, and
sank helplessly on to the sofa. Then, turning
away from him, she buried in the cushions the
face she had covered with her hands, and burst
into violent, almost hysterical sobbing ; shivering
still more at his touch, as, kneeling beside
her, he strove gently to remove her hands and
raise her in his arms.

"No, no, Ethert ! do not touch me now ! Ah,

you might well — you might well shrink from

me I"

*' Ivy, ma petite, how can you ? T can guess
what you have heard. You can have heard
nothing I have not known — nothing I did not
know from the first."

You knew it ?" with almost a scream. " Ah,
yes — and that . no wonder you hate me !"

"Nonsense," he said, decidedly, though with
a trembling voice, softening the rough word by
a tone which made it sound to her ears scarcely
less tender than the pet name, never used since
their marriage, that was so full of sweet associations
for her ; and this time, overcoming perforce
hsr reluctance, he lifted her from the
cushions and, seating himself beside her, held
her within his arm. " I would have kept this
from you — you know I would, Ivy. You shall
tell me when you can what it is, how much you
have learnt ; but meantime remember it was to
spare you this that I allowed you to be coerced
and kept in ignorance. This was the secret of
our marriage. To keep it from the world you
were hurried into tJiat; to keep it from yourself
I forbade the explanation you so naturally desired.
Dear Ivy, even if you think that was

not true kindness, you must see you must feel,
that it was the act of one who felt kindly and
tenderly towards you. You must own how unreasonable
has been your fancy that even then
I disliked — did not care for you; and now,
you know . . . ."

Still shivering or trembling all over, still half
averting her face, Ivy controlled herself by a
strenuous and prolonged effort so far as to
make some sort of hesitating, half coherent
reply.

I see now ; I begin to understand all . . .
everything I thought so hard. Oh Ethert , I
am so shamed, so grieved ! No, not for myself,
not because this has come upon me, but
that I should have ever thought, ever felt, as if
I had anything to complain of. If I had only
known, had dreamed, what you were really
doing, what cause you had for every word that
sounded so bitter, so cold ! — And how can you
hold me now? . . . how could you, Ethert? —
how could you ever bear to give me your hand
your name? . . . yes, only because I had none
of my own. Mamma spoke of shame ; but if I
could have thought how great was the shame
from which you would have saved me, you

know . . . Oh Ethert ! what a dreadful shocking
thing I let you do ! How could you do it?
you, too, who think so much of other 
of rank and race? I remember
your laughing at Tennyson's pretty
romances ; you said you would always fancy a
scent of the soil about the gardener's daughter,
that Cophetua's beggar-maid could be no more
to you than a negress. x\h, I have remembered
all those things in these long, dreadful hours !
How could you stoop to one so much lower
than your own servants ? — you who called
honour ' this world's pearl of price,' how could
you accept such dishonour ? Was it mere
generosity to womanhood? Was it pity for a
young girl's ignorance of the terrible shame
and sorrow that were threatening her ? Or did
you still care, care so tenderly, feel so deeply,
for a . . . for one you had indulged and petted
while you thought her your cousin — that you
could stoop so low ?"

Hush, hush. Ivy! my cousin always ! There
could be no stooping on either side."

Ethert, that is not so ; you know it is not !
If — now I understand — I could not inherit from
my father, because — lam not his daughter . . .

I have no relations . . . unless . . . can I call
her my mother still ?"

The question so utterly surprised him that
he hesitated awhile, and she half consciously
sought her answer in his eyes. The mingled
perplexity, shame, distress in her look touched
him to the very quick — touched him with terror
as well as with pity. Was her mind shaken by
the suddenness and horror of the blow ?

You are bewildered, poor child — and no
wonder ! But you don't understand what you
are saying. That phrase has no meaning except
in law, and means in law only that, as you
say, you cannot inherit. But, except for that,
nothing is changed, there is no difference ; you
are the same to her, to me, as ever . as weever
thought you."

'' No, no ! it is that you are too kind to tell
me the truth, Ethert. This is the shame
Mamma said — might well say — was worse than
death ! Ah, do not touch me !" and, unexpectedly
drawing herself from his arm, she slid
down to the ground, and, crouching there, hid
her face on the sofa beside his knee ; still unconsciously
feeling safety, shelter in nearness to
him, trusting his compassion if she could neither

believe in his affection nor any longer dare to
desire it. " Ethert, how could you take — such
a wife ? And I ought to have been grateful
that you would own me at all, I should have
been thankful for the shelter of your roof, for
your silence even — and I was so wicked, so
presumptuous that I was not satisfied even with
your name. And you accepted the burden of
my disgrace ! — you, to whom all belonged,
could submit to receive all from me, to treat
me as the heiress even between ourselves — to be
told that you had married me for that, and
never to answer ! And all the time I had no
right — and all was yours, and if you had
given me anything it was — not a cousin's kindness,
but a stranger's charity ! How could you
let me be so insolent, so ungrateful ? how could
you let me fret and complain and reproach you
in my heart, and never be provoked to speak the
truth ; never warn me that I was far, far more
your debtor, your dependent, than Meta ; never
tell me that I owed to your charity not only a
home but the position, the name you would not
let me lose ? Yes ! and — and you could propose
to send her away, her whom you do like —
and thank me so kindly, so earnestly, forgiving

her what was yours, as I knew even
then, to give or withhold ! How could you,
Ethert? knowing all the time that I was not fit
to be her companion, that T was something-lower
than a peasant or a slave !"

'look up, Ivy' taking her hands, "and
don't talk such utter nonsense. What has
happened, after all ? What is it you have
learnt? Will you give me the letter Meta says-you
have received T

She released her hand and felt for it instinctively
where without her knowledge Meta had
at once placed it. Then, as he took it from her,
she sank down again once more, hiding her face
in her hands. He glanced over the letter, and
with difficulty repressed a bitter imprecation.

"Well, Ivy, what is it? Simply, at worst,
that your father having a wife from whom a
cruel law refused to release him — a wife wha
could be no wife — made a second marriage that,
as the law stands, was not legal."

That, as the letter says, my mother was not
his wife, nor we his children ! And I dared to
complain, to think it hard that I was punished
as I was ; and you knew all the time that whatever
you chose to inflict, whatever condition

you had made, I must have submitted. You
let me speak as if it were too cruel to be
humbled — if you should show how you shrank
from me — before your mother ; and you were so
careful to spare me. Ah, Ether' she continued,
after a pause, looking up for one moment
into his face, *^ I deserve this. I thought, I am
afraid I called you hard — and all the time you
were so merciful, so tender; and you never
spoke ! But Providence is just, and He chose
that I should be humbled to the very dust in
spite of all your care. No wonder you disliked
to see me — you could not bear to touch me ;
and that one word I thought so terribly harsh
and cruel was simply just — the only just word
you ever spoke to me. How could you help
loathing in your home, with the name of your
wife, a "

He silenced her this time by force, laying his
hand gently but firmly on her lips.

I never used such a word. Ivy ! How can
you ? At any rate, I am a gentleman ; I could
not so speak to any woman who had not dishonoured
womanhood itself."

You did not say * I loathe you,' Ethert ; you
felt, but you were too gentle to say it. I don't

think you would have shown it more than you
could help ; and I have only been sure of it, felt
it in all your ways, since you were ill and could
not be always on your guard. But you said
that girls must loathe such a marriage even
more than you did."

Ethert remembered the idea, though he could
not recall the words.

You did not understand me, Ivy, dearest.
The thought was one that has never occurred
to you. But I did feel, I always owned that,
but for one thing, you were much more cruelly
wronged than I. I knew that, soon or late,
you would feel this, would insist on a release ;
that the only redress I could give you was to
claim nothing in right of a forced union and of
unwilling vows."

^' Mine were not unwilling, Ethert ; for I
knew nothing, and I thought you consented
of your own will. Surely you will
believe me? If I had guessed the truth, or
even a little part of it — if I had known that
you were giving all and receiving nothing —
no, no ! far worse than nothing ! — I never
would, could have done such a cruel, wicked,

heartless thing. Oh, Ethert, you do not think
that, even in terror of this, I could have been
so utterly selfish V

"Remember, my child, I chose my course
deliberately, knowing all this. When I chose
it I insisted that you should not know. I
would not have you frightened into what you
might repent, and I would not take a wife
shamed, humbled feeling — as you seem to feel
now. Darling , I have been much to blame,
or you never should have known it. I ought
to have paid anything rather than provoke
the cruel, cowardly spite that has told you,
and told you in such a brutal way. But I was
angry at his threats, his trying to extort money
from your mother. I would not be bullied,
and Brand advised me to resist; but I feel
now how selfish I have been."

"Selfish You! Ethert, it is best that I
know the truth, know all I owe to you : why
you hated your marriage, why you despised
me, shrank from me . . . why you — loathe me."

"Hush, hush, Iv}^, ma petite! In mercy tome,
hush ! It is riot true."
But Ivy took the tears in his eyes, the trem-

VOL. III. U

being of his voice, as mere pity, and persisted.
'^ But I knows and you know it is true ; bow-could
it be otherwise ? But, Ether what can
I do ? Can I release you in any way now —
except '? I hoped, till to-day, 1 thought
when I had atoned — no ! I could not do
that ; but when you were too sorry for me to
go on — I thought you were angry', resentful ;
and that when you would see and knows
how it hurt I hoped you would forgive
some day, if it were only at the end if
only I might have one day of happiness
if only once you would say, ' Ivy, I forgive,'
that I might feel your arms round me
before I died. But now — oh, Ethert, tell me,
what can I do ? I am such a coward I
am afraid to I dare not kill myself
and is it right ? Ethert, tell me to do
so, and I will tr}^ to obey. I hope God will
forgive me, if I obey you. Will you not?" —
for Ethert simply could not command voice
to answer. " I hope it is so dreadful
surely I cannot bear this long . . . .
surely I shall not live long to make you unhappy
? Ethert, if I die soon, you will forgive?

It is not a year of your life I have cost you yet.
Will you not then, at the last, try to forget for
one day what I am talk to me, and kiss
me, at the very last, as if I were — the cousin
you used to love — to make so happy ? Or —
oh, Ethert ! I never thought of that — the ' one
thing ' that made it so cruel. You loved someone,
and — is she lost to you now '^ Ethert,
then you never will, you never can forgive !
then you will hate me to the end, and
even after I . . . ."

The thought overpowered what little self-command,
what little power of endurance was
left her, and she sank to the floor at his feet.
The, stooping, Ethert lifted her perforce in his
arms, drew her on his knee, and held her
crushed and strained to his breast for more thana
minute, before he could command power of
reply.

'^ Ivy J my own ! my darling, my wife ! No,
no ! my child, if I had a dream, a fancy, it
was a dream and no more ; and never half so
dear even to my fancy as you are now to my
heart. Forgive, forget it, love, as I have forgotten.
Try to forgive, darling, all I have

u 2

made you suffer ; try to love but half as well
as you have forced me at last to love you I"

*' Ethert, you forget ; you are so tender, so
sorry for me. You should not give me a name
that shames you so ; you must not say what
you cannot feel. You should not stoop to
touch — what you have always known me to
be — what I know myself now."

For the first time since their betrothal, Ethert
bent his head till his lips touched the face half
hidden on his shoulder and silenced her with
passionate kisses.

'^ Hush I hush ! darling ! I cannot bear to
hear you. Forgive me, my own ! Do you
think the hardest heart could be proof against
such patience, such submission, such tenderness
as yours has been ? Indeed, Ivy, before to-day
you had taught me to love you as I never
thought to love any woman — if I had been able
to tell you so. If I am sorry that the truth is
known, it is for your sake only. For myself,
I should be well pleased to have occasion to
say, to prove that I am as proud as you have
taught me to be fond of you! My darling! if
it seemed a sacrifice at first, it will be requited

a thousand-fold, if only I may hope from your
duty the pardon I could hardly ask even from
a heart like yours ; if you will let me try to
teach you to love me, as I have learned to love
the wife that a Providence far wiser than my
own choice has given me."

Forgive you ! Learn to love you ! If only
it did not so dishonour you — do you not know
how I have loved you since — ah ! Ethert, when
did I not love you? And, if you are not

ashamed of my love Forgive? when I

know what you have done, what you have
borne, and all to save me this ! And if you had
not told me that your wife's shame must be
your own — I know you would feel this almost as
I do ! Forgive you ? Ethert, if you will love
me only a little, — if I may cling to you for
shelter when people look hardly on me, if you
can hold me before them as you did when I
was so foolishly afraid and distrustful before
your mother; and if — if you mean that I shall
be your wife in something more than the name
I had no right to, that I owe to you — what have
I to wish, to ask for? If I were to die now,
with your first kiss on my lips, held close for

the first time to your heart — is it not worth all I
have suffered'? If you can forget . . . the

shame "

My daring ! if only I can make amends to
you, can make you happy! Ivy, the world will
care very little when or of whom my wife, the
mistress of Glynnehurst, was born. I, who have
known it so long, never honoured you the less*
and do not love you the less now. If you wall
put the thought out of your mind, no one will
ever dare suggest it, and very soon no one
will remember it. Try, darling, to forget
the past, only to believe that I wish, only let
me try to make your future happy."

Ethert, do you mean that ? Will you treat

me as you are doing now ? You will not change

again, you will not thrust me away, now you

have once held me to your heart ? Then —

Avhat else do I want, what else can signify?

What do I care what others may say, unless it

hurts you? Should I mind, while you care forme,

what all the world might think ? Would

it matter to me if I never saw any one, if no one

would speak to me, so only you speak kindly?

Only, may I ask you one thing, Ethert, one

favour ? If I am in fault again, if you are

displeased with me, do what you like , only —
you will uot punish me in that way any more?
Ah ! thank you , Ethert ; you are so good tome!"


The effect of these words, the culmination
of her all-enduring, all-forgiving love and loyalty,
astonished and almost terrified her. Ethert
had been worn and overstrained for weeks by
protracted mental irritation. The physical
fatigue and exhaustion of the day had tried his
nerves to the uttermost. The mental shock
given by the sudden production of the insulting
paragraph, the prolonged and intense anxiety for
her during his homeward ride, had ill prepared
him to endure any further trial ; and every incident
of the present painful scene had still further
strained and shaken a spirit naturally sensitive,
and now wrought up to the extremest tension.
He could no longer command himself in presence
of the accumulated evidence of his wife's suffering
and humiliation, endured with such exquisite
patience — with a tenderness for his feelings even
while her own were so cruelly tortured, a forbearance
not only from spoken reproach but
even from resentful thought, which was not

only inexpressibly touching, but appealed more
forcibly than the most righteous complaint
could have done to his own memory and conscience.
Gradually, but none the less keenly, he
realized all that she had borne so patiently upto
the moment when she had last pleaded and
first seemed to hope for his " forgiveness " —
conceived her cruel, hopeless isolation when the
instantly succeeding shock revealed to her the
meaning of her sacrifice and the extent of his,
and seemed to account not only for her marriage,
but for his aversion. Her submissive gratitude,
while her spirit still quivered under so deep a
Around to womanly pride, to her tenacious
affection, was more than the instincts of manhood
could endure. Ethert fairly broke down,
and Ivy was utterly confounded by the outburst
of emotion which all his strength could
no longer control, the actual tears, the hardly
suppressed sobs that almost choked his struggling,
half articulated words.

*' Good to you ? My darling ! my poor child !
how cruel, how heartless I have been, and —
and if you loved me after all . . . and through
all . . ."

Such a burst of passion, such a storm of
uncontrollable feeling from Ethert, her ideal of
stern self-repression, Ethert, whose self-command
even the piteous horror of his mother's
death had not shaken, — she had not seen the
reaction when, after calming her own grief and
quieting Meta's convulsive agitation, he had
been able to lock himself in his study, — Ivy
could not understand, could hardly believe.
For a moment she was simply frightened.
Then the ruling instinct of that sweet, generous
nature — ever possessing a source of strength
and composure at hand in its absolute unselfishness
— regained its ascendency. Shyness is
ever self-conscious ; but Ivy always forgot herself
when the distress of another was in question.
Ethert's softest words his fondest
caresses had not given her the courage and
confidence she unconsciously found in his tears
the courage to soothe, the assurance that
now her tenderness could not be unwelcome or
unneeded.

'aEthertt, dear Ethert, how can you say so; what
could you have done? You could not love me,
and you would not lie. Remember, you never

gave me a rough word, an angry look — no man
could have been more gentle, more considerate
to a wife so forced upon him. Oh no, Ethert ;
you have been kind, most kind ! — and now, if
only you can care for me . . . not because you
pity me . . ."

As the last words were faltered almost inaudibly,
the hands that had clung to him with
something of the old childlike trusting affection
had fallen back, the eyes whose earnest,
pleading gaze had been more eloquent than
her speech were once more hidden b}^ the
drooping lids ; but her tonOj look, touch had
done their wifely part, had calmed and comforted
as they sought to do.

"Care for 3"0u — my own, my darling!"
He could say no more ; but the voice, trembling
with tenderness, vibrating to the unmistakable
note of true passion, conveyed more
than fluent words could have expressed to Ivy's
inmost heart. Shyly as tenderly her arm stole
round his neck, her hand sought his ; and
the timid, coaxing caress was answered by one
more passionate embrace, by renewed kisses
such as Ethert's lips had never given, such a»

had never touched hers before this evening.

"Ethert," she said, after a few minutes'
silence, low and softly, in a tone of pensive
perplexity, " I wonder — if . . . Why did you
marry me ?"

Her face was half hidden from his eyes asher
lips murmured the question in his ear.

It was the only way, my own ; it was impossible
to give up my rights in silence as I
wished, and to question yours was to disclose
all. Indeed, love, I told you truly — there was
no other way."

None for me, Ethert ; but for you ?" repeating
unconsciously the very question she had
asked at the time.

'* None for either, darling. What could I
do? Could I rob a young girl of name and
fortune — shame her that I might plunder her —
and that girl my own only cousin ?"

Rob ! — it was your own ; and," in a tone
of eager though momentary gladness, " it is all
yours, always was yours, and yon can never break
my heart again by telling me it is mine ! I
have nothing —nothing but what you give me,
Ethert ; I am so glad of that !"

He could not answer for very shame, remembering
the contrast she had not meant to suggest.
That that contrast occurred to her was
presently evident in her change of colour and
look of manifest embarrassment. Presently : —

Ethert^t^ was that all ? Did you really sacrifice
all, only that people might not talk of me,
knowing they would talk almost as ill of you?"

*' I have often asked myself that question,
Ivy, No ! if the world's talk had been all, I
don't know — I might have flinched — have
grudged If I could have done it myself,
Ivy, for such a reason, I could not have taken
on myself to tell you that it ought to be done.
But when I sacrificed your right, your happiness,
it was to keep the secret from yourself ; I
could not bear that you should be shocked,
wounded by the truth ; I could not have you
humbled in your own eyes."

*rand yet," she said, half inquiringly, half
pensively, "you did not love me? Then —
why what love could be truer, tenderer,
could understand better, could care more forme
? — who could have done, have given more fora
girl than you did for me? Ethert, would
you have done it for any girl?"

I am afraid not. Ivy. But what other girl
could have been what you were to me? If
you had spent seventeen years in watching, tending
one exquisite lily, the whitest, purest, loveliest
in the world, could you have endured to
see it soiled, crushed, defaced? — and my lily
- could feel the stain."

"And you say that was not love?" she repeated,
slowly, wonderingly. " Ethert, what
could I do for you more than you have done
for me ? And yet — do you not know I love
you ?"

He could not quite restrain a slight smile,
though thoroughly aware that her perplexity
was wholly sincere. It was of the very essence
of his peculiar creed that such women as he
could think worthy of love need never realise —
that a girl so innocent, stainless, chaste in
thought as his young bride would not conceive,
could not understand — the distinction between
the passion and the affection which, in
the highest mood of both, are called by the
same sacred name.

"Ethert," she implored presently, in a yet
more earnest tone and manner, hesitating, almost

faltering, with feeling as deep, anxiety as
eager, as had moved her at any other moment
of this trying day, " will you promise to answer
one question truly, whether it hurt me or not —
quite truly, frankly, from your heart?"

"Must I, dearest? Well, I think I can trust
you not to ask what you should not, and not
to give the sting of misconstruction to my
answer. Yes Ivy ; at least, I will answer truly
or not at all."

Then , Ethert, now that the truth is known
now that Glynnehurst is yours, and I am

nothing to it or to you, but "

My cousin and the daughter of the house ;
my darling, my companion, from your cradle
upwards I No, Ivy ; you cannot shake yourself
free either of our cousinhood or the memories
of our past!"

As if I wished I But — is that true ? — are
we really cousins ? Then, Ethert, forget your
wife, and answer your cousin truly, loyally, in
the spirit of her question. If you could be released
— free in conscience and in law — if, these
things known, you could make me safe , could
give me a sister's place and portion . . . ether,

would you — not out of pity, not from any
secret motive . . . would you wish — would you
ask to-day . . . what you have never asked
yet — what you refused to ask from your cousin
their

Even yet prompt to fear that she had offended,
Ivy shivered, coloured, trembled as he
gently but quickly put her aside, disengaged
himself, and rose from the sofa on which he had
seated her. But a sudden warm pulse of wifely
joy and womanly pride thrilled all her frame —
throbbed in every vein, made every nerve
quiver, and seemed to herself to flush face,
neck, and bosom with almost painful heat — when
Ethert, kneeling before her, rested his left arm
around her waist, clasped with his right hand
that which wore the golden badge of her
nominal maidenhood, and looking up into her
eyes with all the passion of love, tenderness,
reverence that — under the impulse of a first
true attachment — could speak from the heart
and through the eyes of manhood, answered ;

I love you. Ivy — love you as never in dream
or vision or real life, never in fact or fancy, did
I think it possible to love another ; — as I never

thought any other girl could deserve to beloved
! Love me, cousin — for my sake, not for
yours ; be my wife in heart and truth as in
name and honour — and 1 shall thank God from
my soul for such love, such happiness, as no
choice of my own could ever have given me.^'

Far too much affected to speak, her eyebright
with the sweetest tears they had ever
known, her cheeks suffused with their soft rose
blush, she bent forward, resting the little hand
he left disengaged on his shoulder; her heart
now at length content, confident, satisfied.
Every restless doubt appeased, every aching
wound healed at last, it was perfect, absolute
happiness to resign herself to the embrace, now
wholly passionate and nowise pitying, that
clasped her closely, eagerly to his breast. No-avoids
could pass her lips for many minutes.

"Ah, Ethert — you do love me — again ! I am
so happy, now."

THE End.

■J^w^;^

-T./-^;' .

.^•V^\"^

%'s5 \ ■-

^1 '

•*- ' -^

'^^ 'MJ;%

/ n c^ ^

■^^,

m^^.

:-'nr

^1

• \ . j ■\.\

it^v- A

:^^>.,:#
