^

^ //a^J)/>^^-^rrr(^lm^^

rr « ,., . C

Oh //k Y'MhAA^ .

1(

L I B R.ARY

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8S3

A NOVEL.

BY

OLIVER GREY.

VOL. I.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

3:1 n (t a

REMINGTON & CO., PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

18 8 6.

YAH R'ujhts rcserved.'\

V. 1

TO

E. M. E.

THESE PAGES,

WHICH MAY SERVE TO RECALL SOME

EARLY AND HAPPY HOURS,

ARE

y'\ AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.

<3v

^

CHAPTER I

Pack

INTRODUCTORY, . 1

Chapter II.

STIRRING EVENTS, 24

CHAPTER III.

MY LAST DAY ON THE BATTLEFIELD, . 5^

CHAPTER IV.

WHO IS SHE? 76

CHAPTER V.

MY OWN REFLECTIONS, AND WHAT FOLLOWED, . . 95

CHAPTER YI.

CARTHEWIN CASTLE, 115

CHAPTER Iii.

Page

OUR HEROINE, 137

CHAPTER VIII.

I GET INTO SAD DISGRACE, . . . . .160

CHAPTER IX.

I EXTRICATE MYSELF FROM THE DIFFICULTY, . .195

CHAPTER X.

OUR heroine's STEP-SISTER, . . . . .219

C H A P T E R X I.

TWO ROSES, . . . . . . . . 244

CHAPTER XII.

PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE, . . . 265

(To be continued.)

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

Reader, — Have you amongst your circle

of acquaintance, that which is generally

understood to represent a " True Friend,"

one who has grown up with, and is, as it

were, a part of you ; a friendship that

quickened in youth, leavened with the

dearest and happiest associations of your

early life, and is still nearer and dearer to

you ; which time has cemented more closely,
VOL. I. A

a disinterested love, well defined, peculiar
in itself for the absence of any motive ;
a friendship growing apace, more and more
serene and lasting? I pause,— the word
last written gives peculiar force to the
meaning, and perhaps will convey to your
mind infinitely more than anything I can
herein describe. Lasting ! — yes ! " Firm
as a rock ! ! " — we will leave it there with
two notes of admiration, and, as it were,
with bayonets fixed, keeping guard over the
words. Let these our watchwords be.

Have you such a friend ? Could you
put your hand upon one, amongst your
numerous acquaintances, without the least
doubt or difficulty ? Can you walk leisurely
amidst a throng of friends (so called by
courtesy, and otherwise), and feel a magnetic
influence steal over you, and your
heart beat with a true and lively feeling
for one out of the number? If so, bear

with me, whilst, in the most unostentatious
way, I take you, from chapter to chapter,
through this narrative. We shall not journey
in these pages as " intimate friends,"
but, I trust, and have the vanity to hope
and believe, that we shall be better friends
long before I close this story ; under any
circumstances, I will, with your permission,
take such for granted, and start de novo as
^' Novel Friends 1 "

Lasting ! " — how one ignores the fact
that, in the very best and happiest sense
of the word, it is but fleeting : to-day, here
is friendship, side by side, in great variety,
confiding, full of love, hope, charity, and
sympathy, imparting pleasure, and sharing
grief : tomorrow, it is cut down by the
certain, restless scythe, that, in its onward
course, sweeps all before it into vast eternity,
and, like the green wheat-stalks that
daily thrive under the agriculturist's careful

manipulation, warmed by the penetrating
rays of the summer sun, moistened with
the dew-breath of heaven, ripen, bear their
increase, and yield in turn to the season
that asks them to surrender, — so with everything
this side of the grave !

True friend ! " Of whom do I speak,
and well may it be asked, dio represents
the personal pronoun ? At this juncture I
must pause for a moment, to solicit the
indulgence of my critics, in a matter which
requires a little explanation.

When first commencing this narrative, it
was my intention to write it as an imaginary
autobiography ; but, finding the construction
in that form difficult to maintain in its entirety
(insomuch as many characters had to
be introduced), I departed from the fixed
rule, using the personal pronoun, and occasionally
writing in the third person, when
chronicling surrounding events. I therefore

trust that my critics (who are ever ready
to deal gently with those who have the
moral courage to admit a defect) will accord
me their forbearance.

True friend ! " — and apropos of the pronoun
"I" — the first question is very easily
answered ; but to follow it up, in the delineation
of the virtues of the fair-haired
stripling of whom I have the pleasure and
privilege of speaking, is a task which I feel
almost incapable of performing. But, in my
anxiety to portray a correct reflex of my
lamented friend's excellent qualities, I &11
short, and stumble over the only tribute I
san offer to his memory.

The second question can be answered by
this deponent offhand, without hesitation,
or, using a well-hackneyed, homely phrase,
"" beating; about the bush," for I am what
I am ; and I have a horror of appearing, in
the eyes of people, what I am not. Therefore,

as my journey with you, courteous
reader, will, I trust, be a fairly long one,
shut up together, so to speak, in the coach
for a considerable time, whilst the wheels
fly round, and the boxes occasionally get
hot for the want of more oil, or the curb
from the leader's bit should be lost on the
way, I must claim your indulgence over the
rough macadamised road that wee shall have
to traverse.

First, I am the son of a lord, — yes, a
live lord ! — but I hasten to qualify that observation
by saying, the only claim my
father had to such a distinguished title, rests
on the silly appellation given to him by
still more silly Manchester men, who dubbed
him a '' Cotton Lord," in consequence of
his enormous dealings in that description of
merchandise ; so I reduce myself at once to
the " Commoners," take my name out of the
book of ''Whos Who" and jot myself down

plain Oliver Grey, or, in other words, as
some of ni' facetious subalterns at mess were
pleased occasionally to designate me, " the
noble and gallant captain ! "

I said my father was called a " Cotton
Lord ; " be it observed that the sobriquet
was most offensive to him. I well remember,
on one occasion, when extravagance
brought the contents of my purse to extreme
low-water mark, and necessitated my
appealing to his generosity, in the hope of
having it replenished, I stupidly but jocosely
referred, in some playful way, to the obnoxious
title, just as he was " finishing " an
extraordinary flourish of his, which was invariably
the conclusion of his signature to
all cheques, when he calmly looked into my
face, surveyed me from head to foot, shrugged
his shoulders, arched his eyebrows, and
deliberately tore the bilious-looking strip of
stamped paper into small pieces, throwing

them into the waste basket. Although he
did not actually use the words, '' Call again
tomorrow," his dark, flashing eyes told me
how offensive my allusion to the '' Cotton
Lord " was, — which allusion cost me, at
least, two hundred bright sovereigns, and
taught me a practical lesson, which I have
never forgotten. Thinking that his high
dudgeon was ephemeral, I did call again on
the morrow, but found my father as " firm
as a rock," and therefore had to wait, with
an empty purse, for the coming round of my
next quarterly allowance — about the most
humiliating and unpleasant financial process
I ever remember to have scrambled through
in my early days.

Whilst I am writing; a history of some
portion of my life, and introducing other
persons with whom I have been intimately
associated, also making, en passant, a cursory
reference to numerous odd people I

have encountered, I may perhaps be excused,
on the score of running too near the danger
signal of egotism, from entering into, or
venturing ujDon, very minute details as regards
myself, leaving one's actions, which
not unfrequently speak unutterable things,
to be the best test of true friendship.

Should I be permitted in these pages to
feebly discharge obligations I owe, and produce
some faithful portraits of loving friends,
exhibiting their reflex as nearly as an unpractised
brush can portray on the canvas,
the finishing' touch — soft tints and fine lines,
I will leave to be filled in by an abler
and better painter than myself, or, in other
words, to the imagination of the reader, who
will doubtless gather up the flowers as they
dire strewn, so to speak, broadcast over these
pages, and, may be, enjoy their fragrance
in some idle moments. There will, however,
as a common result of all the workings

and ramifications in the history of this
troubled life, be found here and there, from
bud to bloom, cultivated flowers, wild flowers,
briars, and a conglomeration of entanglements.
Various pleasures and griefs, too,
are bound up in this volume ; a medley of
facts and fiction are also recorded herein,
but the whole being thoroughly leavened
with fiction, it is as well that my indulgent
readers may not be able with certainty to
discriminate between counterfeit and real.

I will pass over my early life — those joyous,
bright, and never-to-be-forgotten days
of youth, the wild oats season, college experience,
graduating, and all that sort of thing
and plunge at once into the battle of life,
that bleak wilderness of ours, with all its
surroundings and blandishments.

When I attained my twenty-second birthday,
I was a subaltern in the — th Regiment,
in which I subsequently saw some

active service in the Crimean War, was
present and took part in the storming of

also at the carrying of , where

I was twice wounded, and had two horses
shot under me, for which service I received
a medal, clasp, and my captaincy, a gaping
sabre wound in the fleshy j^art of my sword
arm, ditto, the result of a gun-shot, which
ploughed up an inch or two of the dexter
side of my breast, and lastly, from a
stamp of my charger's shoe, as a remembrance
of the red roan, or his mark, preparatory
to his receiving the coup de grace
from a round-shot which hailed from the
Eussian battery. So much for the early part
of the campaign, — my dangers, achievements,
and laurels various !

A spell of three weeks' comparatively easy
work, a general brushing up and restoration of
my glorious men, who had hitherto earned
fur themselves considerable distinction, brome

to the memorable night of the — th

before .

Those who are left, alas ! how few of my
brave fellows, that band of highly-tempered
steel and perfection of training under canvas,
and, be it recorded, under fire, will remember
with pride and sadness, the men who led
them into the very jaws of the cannon that
belched forth its torrents of destruction, making
many wives widows, children fatherless,
and parents childless. Good God ! how they
withered ! cut into shreds, so to speak, like
the grass before the scythe ; again and again
to the attack, noble fellows ! " Onward " was
our watchword ; but the last grand charge !
that cheer ! — those empty saddles ! — that
reckless stampede of the enemy, like chaff
before the wind ! That sudden wrench, and
the leap into the trenches, where Nelson,
my charger, with his side riddled like a
calendar with bullets, took his final, fatal

jump, negotiating an earthwork, quite his
height, and landing on the top of his grave 1

'where he died like a warrior brave."

When I first obtained my commission in
the — th, the Gazette of that week contained
the announcement of Percival Snowdon's appointment
to the same regiment, and, in due
course, we met officially (though not by any
means for the first time) in the mess-room

of Barracks, full of youth, vigour, life,

spirits, and hope. He was an Eton boy ;
I was an Oxford one. We had been competitors
on the river, and also in gymnasium
; and verily he was an ugly " customer
" at anything when biceps and
endurance played a prominent part. He
could fairly well hold his own, too, against
all comers either at single-stick, boxing,
rackets, cricket, and other pastime ; his massive
head, muscular development, width of

chest, healthy complexion, lofty forehead,
expressive eyes, and the cut of a determined
lip), were sure indications of the life
he was peculiarly fitted and trained for, and
which he so nobly followed, until cruel fate
separated us.

Let me take you back, friendly reader, to
the camping-ground, and into our tent on the

slopes of , within sight of the Eussian

battery and strong earthwork entrenchments,
on the night preceding the memorable — th,
and there introduce you to my subaltern, the
boy I loved ! I dubbed him " boy," as he
playfully styled me, — it was our habit to
address each other as " my dear old boy,"
ignoring altogether the absurd epithet !

Chance, and a spice of good luck, once
enabled me to render some valuable service
in the midst of a scrambling fray with the

enemy. When the saddle of General 's

aide-de-camp was emptied, I took the poor

fellow's place, and contrived, after cutting my
way through the Eussian lines, to convey the
general's orders to a battery of Royal Horse
Artillery, in (it was said) an incredibly short
time, for which piece of luck I was promoted.
I name this little coincidence, as fortune only
placed me a " peg " higher in rank than my
friend, whom I always considered an abler
and better soldier than myself

It was a glorious night, that — th, as we
sat round the camp fire, wrapped in our greatcoats.
"We were most of us full of hope and
spirits, telling long tales of j^ast stirring
events, home scenes, and the merry maids of
England. But there were ugly gaps in our
ranks ; the dark mantle of war had left its
sure and certain mark ; the stentorian voice
of our lamented and gallant captain, that once
filled the whole camp with merry sounds, was
not to be heard, — it was silenced for ever in
this world, — he is " slumbering on earth's cold

pillow," with " his martial cloak thrown o'er
him," and the pale-faced moon shining over
his grave.

I saw that soldier fall, and the tear that
dimmed his eye."

The flames from our camp fire shot np
high into the air, and crackled fiercely, casting
their lurid light on the surrounding scene,
verily a motley group, smoking their meerschaums,
and staring vacantly into the burning
embers, imagination conjuring up endless
battle scenes, castles, forests, homes,
sweethearts, and wives !

'' Captain," said Percy, " sing us once more
that song you composed."

I am not much in a singing humour, my
dear fellow," I replied, pulling away at my
well-coloured pipe, with great emphasis.

Come old boy, T know you will, if only
to oblige me, particularly, after my setting
the words to music for you," said Percy.

I will tomorrow."

To-morrow ! why it may never come,
Oliver, to either of us, at least in this world ;
you may be knocked completely out of tune,
and I may be out of time, and perhaps out
of—"

He paused. It was a long, dismal, unsatisfactory
pause, and suggestive of many
interpretations. I took his hand beneath
m}^ military cloak, pressed it, and gently
whispered, —

'•' Never, Percy, never ! brave, noble fellow \
As long: as I have a mind to call mine owai,
your memory will be revered, if that is wdiat
you were alluding to."

Percy threw up his large, blue eyes full into
my face. I perceived by the light of the
flame as it shot up from our camp fire, that
they were suffused with tears ; and I also
observed, for the first time during the campaign,
a certain amount of depression in his

VOL. I. B

spirits ; his attention appeared much divided ;
and during our colloquy on several matters
relating to the war, his answers to my queries
were remarkable for the absence of that
enthusiasm which invariably shone out so
brightly in his usual temperament, lighting
up and cheering the whole camp, at times
when success was not quite our portion.

What is the matter with you to-night, old
boy ? " I said, slapping him on the shoulder.

Nothing — why ? " dismally.

Well, it occurred to me for the moment,
that you had lately received a large legacy,
and did not know what to do with it,"
jocosely.

I wish I had," said Percy, stretching his
hands above his head, and clenching his fists,
■ — a peculiar habit he had whenever anything
closely touched his heart.

'' Why ? " I replied, my curiosity being
excited.

"Because I should, without the least
hesitation, find a good use for it," said
Percy.

** Exactly ; 20 to 4 on Valentine for the
Derby," I suggested playfully.

No ! " said Percy, vehemently. " No,
Oliver, nothing of the sort. It is my wish,
before I leave this world, to do one good act
in my life that will benefit — "

Others, of course," I interrupted, knowing
too well that his whole life hitherto had been
-devoted to everyone but himself.

"Yes," continued Percy, leisurely refilling
his pipe, " if only but one small drojD in the
stream, it will help to turn the mill."

What is your fancy this time, Percy ? "

A donation to the widows of those brave
fellows, who were so unmercifully sliced up
in that horrible trench I so recklessly led
them."

"You have, however," I replied, "the satisfaction

of knowing that, notwithstanding positive
orders, your fluke turned out to be of
inestimable value, and your promotion will be
as certain as — "

Come, come ; your song, Oliver, your
song," interrupted Percy. " I should like to
hear it once more before I — "

The Captain's song'' from twenty voices.

As I composed most of my songs, which
were set to music by Percy, and our intelligent
bandmaster, they always created unusual interest
in our camp, and I soon had many
scores of brave fellows to listen. It was said,
too, that I had a fine voice, which, however,
did not quite accord with my beloved mother's
notion of her youngest son's vocal powers.
She always considered my rendering of songs
more like a "bee in a pitcher" than anything
else. I have a shrewd suspicion she
was right. Be it so ; nevertheless, let the
bee hum.

BIRDS OF Prey.

Promise, ye sons cf old England !

Keep a watchful and sharp look-out ;
Eagles are soaring above us,

And vultures are flying about.

Awake, then, ye sons of Old England !

Britannia's dear brothers of steel,
Let your swords fly out of their scabbards.

Let us give them a jolly good meal.

Up rouse, then, ye boys of Old England !

Let the lion's loud roaring be heard.
The wag of whose tail I'm sure cannot fail

To scare such a treacherous bird.

Uprouse, ye good fathers of England !

Who have wives and dear daughters at home.
Just clip both the wings of these vampires,

And skin them all clean to the bone.

Ul^rouse, "one and all" of fair England !

Let the voice of your rifles be heard ;
Leave not a feather of plumage

On the wings of the ghastly old bird.

Bravo ! bravo ! encore, encore," from a
hundred voices.

Pipes are refilled, and, it is needless tO'
add, I repeated my song.

Now Percy, my lad," I said, 'strike up,
none of your dismal if you please ; let us
have one of yours ; come, ' Sound the Trumpet
boldly.' "

I need no pressing, Oliver, particularly
as I have a presentiment it will be the last
I shall ever sino."

Those words, uttered in a measured, decided
voice, fell upon a score of ears like
a funeral knell, and vibrated with intense
and painful sensation through our hearts,
for we all loved the brave fellow, yea
verily ! from the drummer to the colonel.

Come, come, Percy, you are dry, lad
you are dry," I exclaimed, handing him my
brandy-flask; 'pull at this; a long pull
and a strong pull, drink to our sweethearts-and
— "

Wives," eagerly interrupted Percy ,

seizing the flask, and half finishing its
contents.

Shall I ever forget the look he gave me,
or the last song; the clear fellow sang; ? —
Never !

As the concluding words fell from my
brave comrade's lips, the bugle sounded.
We knocked out the contents of our pipes,
and turned into our tents, with anxious
thoughts for the morrow.

STIRRING EVENTS.

Those sounds that bid the life-blood start,
Swift to the mantling cheek and beating heart,
The clang of echoing steel, the charger's neigh,
The measured tread of hosts in war's array.
And oh ! that music, whose exulting breath,
Speaks but of glory on the road to death."

Mrs Hemans.

Somehow, I could not sleep for more than
an hour together, and whenever I awoke,
I quietly took a peep at Percy, — the small
glimmering pendant lamp swinging from the
top of our tent threw its dismal light on
the features of my friend. His bright eyes
seemed to me brighter than usual. He
smiled, apostrophised a few words, drew a

locket from under this waistcoat, which he
opened and kissed repeatedly. I knew all
about it: it was "the same old story told
again," though, this time, at two o'clock in
the morning;. I knew whose reflex he
treasured up next his heart in that circle
of gold. Many a pipe had been smoked
over that portrait ; doubts and difficulties
solved, hopes enlivened, and fears scattered,
by the soothing influence of the narcotic
contents of our black meerschaums, which
always had a potent charm for allaying
grief.

I say I knew all about it ; at least, I
thought I did. Percy invariably came tome
for advice, and made me his confidant.
In like manner I looked towards him, whose
heart I knew to be the casket of those little
secrets I had to impart, which, I must
confess, were but few, and at the most,
extended to my father, mother, and financial

matters. As for loving any girl, other than
my sister, such never entered my head ;
besides, I was not altogether the most presentable
fellow in the county. My father
declared that, in the presence of the fair
sex, I was surly, ill-conditioned, clumsy, and,
I believe, he went once so far as to say,
thick-headed boy in creation. He used also
to observe — and I never doubted for a moment
his veracity, — " Give Oliver his fishing-rod,
two ounces of bird's-eye and cavendish
mixed, a bottle of milk, and his mother's
blessing, and all his wants are supplied ; " —
barring the milk, which was jocosely included
in the quarter of sundry enjoyments,
every word was gospel.

That I was my own dear mother's "broth
of a boy " I admit, and that she — Heaven
bless her ! — was my " all in all," are the
brightest, happiest, and most comforting
recollections of my past life. Her good

advice was my daily support ; her pattern
and the valuable precedents she established
in my young mind, have been mighty
bulwarks — bulwarks that have proved impervious
to the raking shot and shell that
are sometimes recklessly hurled by designing
men at our frail natures ; a mainstay in
the hour of peril, a guiding - star in the
camp, my shield and buckler under a
galling fire, and — I digress.

How apt one is on loving themes to dwell;
The mind will wander where we cannot tell !
Take wings and fly from here to there,
And bask in other atmosphere.

I again feigned sleep ; now and then watching
poor Percy, as he restlessly tossed himself
from side to side on his camp bed ; at times
I thought I could discern, by the flickering-lamp
that was almost extinguished, a bright
crimson flush on either side of his face. I
was uneasy, feeling that these were symptoms

of an approaching fever, which accounted for
his extraordinary manner and absence of
mind during the last few hours. I revolved
it all silently in my mind, as I lay rolled in
the blankets, inwardly hoping that he might
fall into a sound sleep, which I knew would
do more towards restoring him than anything
else. His mind was, manifestly, much disturbed,
indeed, it had not been tranquil for
some time, and my experience in such matters,
led me to believe he was about to succumb
to a malignant fever, that was just then
raging with great intensity in different parts
of the camp. An interval of half-an-hour
elapsed, during which time, not a sound fell
upon my ear, other than the snoring of our
comrades ; the steady step of the sentinel,
as he tramped up and down the well-trodden
path ; the watch ward given to the relief;
and the neighing of the picketed horses.
At last, finding that sleep had entirely forsaken

me, and that the pendant light was
making desperate efforts to resuscitate itself
by periodical spasmodic jerks, I resolved, before
we subsided into darkness, to have another
look at Percy, and see, as far as I could
judge, how matters really stood. Slowly and
gently raising myself in bed, I bent over my
friend, hoping to find him soundly sleeping ;
but his large eyes were gazing meditatively into
mine, and, as it were, contemplating what was
passing within me. For a moment we looked
in silence at each other. I was endeavouring
to read his thoughts, to anticipate his wants
and wishes, thinking to lay down some well-devised
plan for checking the consuming
fever, that I felt was insidiously beginning
its devouring work through all the ramifications
of his veins, when he put forth his
hand, took mine in his, and said, —
''I have seen her, old boy."
Whom have you seen, Percy ? "

My—" he paused.

My what ? " I continued.

"My— my— Nora," softly.

Of course you have, old fellow, many,
many times," I replied. *' Turn on your side,
lad, and endeavour to sleep, for you may
require some strength tomorrow, ere the sunrise
over the brow of the east hill."

"You mistake me, Oliver."

I don't, upon my soul. Go to sleep,"
I said.

I tell you Oliver, I saw her, yes, as
plainly as I see you at this moment. It is
no delusion of the brain ; I have not closed
my eyes to-night, therefore it is no dream,
wild imagination, or flight of the senses. I
saw her — yes I saw her, — oh, that look ! that
placid angelic look. She came dressed as a
bride adorned for her husband, to show me
the plain circle of gold around her finger. It
was a little worn ; — a keeper, too — 1 placed

them there. I gave her the watchword, yes,
the same as we agreed upon, long, long ago,
when we sat in the shrubbery, and the lark,
as it were, heard the vows that were solemnly
plighted, thrilling his delicious notes, shooting
higher and higher into the dusky vault
above, and warbling the glad tidings of our
love to the angels in heaven. Oh ! that
watchword ! — it was — "

He stopped, it was a full stop, marked
with peculiar emphasis.

"What was it, Percy?" I said, having
now no doubt in my mind that approaching
symptoms of a bad fever were surely doing
their mischievous and deadly work.

Some other day, Oliver. I — I — I mean
some other hour," significantly.

I wish you fellows would ' shut up ' your
intolerable noise. Who on earth can sleep
whilst you two are ' jawing ' away at this
hour?" said Lieutenant , who was sharing

tent, and whose presence during the whole
of the night, was particularly conspicuous,
in consequence of his sonorous renderings in
sundry snoring duets with Captain .

I was too much occupied with more
serious thoughts to make any reply at the
moment, but quietly slipping out of bed,
throwing a military cloak over my shoulders,
and jumping into my long regulation boots,
I glided out of the tent, determined to lookup
the doctor, who was sleeping in his own
quarters, some distance off near the staff.

The moon, which had been skulking
most of the night behind some ominous-looking
dark clouds, was now slowly disappearing,
and the grey streaks of the
earliest dawn were forcing; their way, almost
imperceptibly, through the long mass of
straggling:, travelling;, dismal - looking scuds,
that were floating away in the dusky
firmament with the northerly breeze.

With a light step, but heavy heart, I
rapidly wended my way through the group
of white tents that were spotted about in
all directions.

I had not travelled far, and was certainly

not absent long, when my attention was

suddenly arrested by the firing of shots by

the outposts ; it was repeated again and

ao'ain. In a few moments the bugle

sounded — " To horse." Good heavens ! I

held my breath to listen. Yes, 'tis true,

there is no mistaking those sounds ; even

the very animals snort and paw the ground

in eager anticipation of wdiat is to follow.

'Tis too true, the Russians in considerable

force are sweeping down on us, not two

miles distant ; no time was to be lost. I

made a dash for our tent, and on my

arrival I found my orderly with first

charger buckling up the second girth.

Such was our system and discipline, that
VOL. I. c

we were rarely if ever caught " napping."


I rushed into the tent, and shouted, —
*' Percy, Percy ; Lieutenant Snowdon, where
is Lieutenant Snowdon ? "

In his saddle, sir, bringing up his men
and waiting orders," was the prompt reply
of the sergeant-major, who had just galloped
in.

Two more w^ ell-known sounds of the bugle,
and saddles are filled ; cavalry sweep round,
infantry come on at the double, column
after column, with great impetuosity. The
bugle again sounds in another direction,
more men leap into their saddles ; endless
jerks of horses as they spring into collars ;
rattling of chains, lumbering of guns, ammunition
and ambulance waggons ; every man
is at his post like clock-work, dashing away,
and we are face to face with the enemy,
who had stealthily crept on under cover

of night, in the hope of finding our division
unprepared for an attack, instead of
which we were "all there," and not only
so, but, in camp phraseology, " fresh as
paint," and " fit."

I found that Lieutenant Snowdon had
his men well in hand. He sat his charter,
notwithstanding his illness, as " firm as a
rock ; " but I could see when he saluted me
on mv driving; orders, that his cheeks looked
as crimson as the red sun that was slowly
rising, so to speak, out of the bowels of
the earth, taking a last look at the glittering
belt of steel and mass of human beings
that hurried up with great speed. We were
under orders to charge 'slaughter Hill"
fas we afterwards dubbed it), an important
position, which was already bristling with
thousands of Russian bayonets ; the bright
steel of the swords and helmets flashed, and
told their own peculiar tale of impending

6 A Virgin Widow.

horror. Our riflemen, or sharp-shooters, were
spread out in all directions ; they had commenced
their "picking off" work of destruction,
and had already emptied many a saddle
of its brave occupant.

Just before the — th field battery received
orders to commence operations, and cover us
in the work we had to do, I heard Lieutenant
Snow don distinctly say to the menin
a low but audible voice, as he gaily
trotted up, threading in and out of the
ranks, a few significant monosyllables. The
words were, —

Men, be firm as a rock'' Percy knew
too well (no one better) that we were under
orders to do a "bis; thing!"

** Lieutenant Snowdon," I said, galloping upto
him, "you are — " I hesitated. I was on
the point of commanding him to fall out and
proceed to hospital, for manifestly the fever
was on him. " Lieutenant Snowdon," I continued,

gaining fresh courage, and taking advantage
of a momentary lull, " you are ill ;
you had better — "

Never better in my life, sir ; never so
fit," was the prompt reply, accompanied by
the usual salute.

I ^Yish to heaven I had been firm in my
first resolution ; but a cheer from the front
rank (though contrary to strict discipline)
and a murmur of approval from some officers
close by, at the conclusion of Lieutenant
Snowdon's words, prevented my saying more.
The flash of his eyes, lit up the hateful
hectic flush on his cheeks, told me plainly
what was passing within, — the war notes had
vibrated, and he would not be denied.

At this moment General 's aide-de-camp
cantered up and gave pressing orders.

Never ! " I said. " Impossible ! "

Those are my instructions, sir."

*' Are you positive ? " I replied.

*' Positive, sir."

''AVill admit of no doubt?"

None whatever, sir."

Repeat them, please, in the presence of
Lieutenant Snowdon."

As the step to be taken was unusually
dangerous, and sheer madness (as I thought)
to attempt, I was sceptical. The order being
repeated and ratified by another aide-de-camp,
I passed it to my subaltern and brave
fellows ; then, ramming spurs into my charger,
and holding them well in the sore, we
dashed headlong into the most desperate
struggle I encountered during the whole of
the campaign.

I could give in detail a long and thrilling
account of that ever - memorable and
glorious charge ; but I pause, lest in doing
so I should be building up, as it were,
something which may come under the appellation
of egotism. Therefore, all I say

is, that never in the history of any charge
upon record is there one to be accounted
more brilliant than that of my brave menon
the memorable — th. Alas ! how few
there are left to tell the tale, and journey
with me ag-ain over the events of that
thrilling day. How I rejoice whenever I
meet one of those o^^Uant fellows of highly
steel, those hearts of oak, who
bore, so to speak, a charmed life amidst
the hail of red-hot iron and torrents of
lead, as they cut in their mighty flight
long straight lanes in our ranks. But our
watchword was "Forward!" And in our
journey we staggered, — rallied, — wrenched !
and finally cheered one continuous cheer,
which echoed from hill to hill, and vied
with the thundering artillery that roared
in the distance, as it were, approvingly,
as our standard (shot into shreds) floated
triumphantly in the northerly breeze on thew.



top of the earthwork, and the ray of the
morning sun pierced the dense volume of
dusky smoke, which curled and curled into
circles and semicircles, passing into infini-dismal
particles, exposing a plain of death
and destruction !

I received two or three wounds, but, happily,
felt nothing seriously shattered, neither
had my limbs thoroughly given away.
Several of my men rushed forward, and
carried me off on their shoulders. I recollect
" Big Paddy " (as he was jocosely
called) saying, — '' Bead, captain, we will
make sure of ye this time, anyhow, or, by
the powers, a bit of a massinger will be coming
this way, requiring your service in the
other kingdom that is to come."

On my road to hospital 1 met Sergeant
Gregory, spread on a litter. He had distinguished
himself immensely. I said, cheerfully


Halloa, sergeant ! where are you going,
lad ? "

'^ Homeward bound, sir," was the prompt
reply.

*' Are you much hurt ? " I continued.

'' I have dropped an arm somewhere, sir,
on the road ; but it don't much matter, captain,
I shan't want it again," he replied, with
great sang froid.

Brave fellow," I said, at the same time
eagerly asking him if he had seen Lieutenant
Snowdon.

Down, sir, down. Dead as a door
nail"

How — when — where ? " I asked.

Poor Sergeant Gregory had said all he had
to say in this world, fired his last shot ; his
last cartridge was spent. He fainted — it was
a long swoon, through a long valley, from
which he never returned.

"Big Paddy " and others carried me to

camp. The doctor soon removed my uniform,
sewed up a small aperture or two ;
all of which, except loss of blood, were, I
thought at the time, apparently trifling
matters, and he ordered me to hospital ;
but as I felt I had not finished my work
for the day, I would not hear of it, so wriggling
again into my deeply-stained garments,
taking a long and strong pull at the brandy
flask, also the arm of our kind-hearted and
estimable doctor, I proceeded in search of
poor Percy.

It was a dismal journey, limping along
amongst heaps of dead and dying, seeking
for one of the best fellows in creation ; but I
felt, notwithstanding poor Gregory's informa-nation
as to the '' door nail," that there was
just a chance of finding him living ; and
such proved to be the case, for in a few
moments I espied his grey charger, doubled
up, and occasionally making desperate plunges

to get upon his legs, but, with his hind
limb completely shattered, the poor brute
found it a physical impossibility to accomplish.
About fifty yards from the animal, I
discovered Percy, seated on the ground,
leaning; his head on the breast of a runner,
who was bathing his temples, and doing his
best to keep life in him.

The moment I set eyes on my friend, I
knew that he had received "notice to quit,'^
for I had too much experience in such matters.
The death-like cast of countenance, the
film over the eyes, peculiar hue on the lips,
cold perspiration, and other signs, where all unmistakable
evidences of a speedy dissolution.

The doctor placed his finger on his pulse,
and whispered something dismally in my ear,
my worst fears were confirmed.

"Why, Percy, my dear old boy," I said,
trying, with a jerk, to be cheerful, "what,
taking your rest, lad, after a hard gallop ? "

The sound of my voice rallied him wonderfully.


What has given way ? " I asked, smoothing
my hand across his handsome, marble-like
forehead, and wiping the perspiration
from his face with my handkerchief.

He looked up, smiled, and said, —

*only scratched."

Where ? " I eagerly asked, endeavouring
to ascertain for myself the extent of his injury,
ignoring altogether, in my anxiety, the
presence of the surgeon.

"Only tapped one of my lungs, that's
all," he replied.

By this time the surgeon knew all about
it, and had prepared a capital arrangement,
on which my poor dying subaltern was
placed, and carried away by four stalwart
fellows to my tent, where the doctor undressed
him, and found a small wound in
the right breast. On further examination,

a corresponding wound was seen near the
blade bone, evidently caused by a bullet
passing, in its onward course, completely
through the lung ; but, strange to say, there
was scarcely any external haemorrhage.

After propping him well up, and the
surgeon having given him a powerful restorative,
I took the latter on one side,
and asked him what he thought of the
case.

He may live an hour or so," was the
reply.

** Not longer ? " I ventured.

Can't say ; the whole thing is very problematical
; he is bleeding internally, and
nothing can be done for him," replied the
surgeon, hurrying off to attend scores of
other cases that demanded immediate attention.


I took my camp chair and placed it by
the side of poor Percy's bed.

'rare you thirsty, my dear old boy!" I
asked.

'every," was the meek and feeble rejoinder
; " but I know something that will
help to quench it."

I was about to prepare a refreshing draught,
when he took from under his pillow a small
pocket Bible, and handed it to me. I knew
what he wanted. I opened the book where
a marker was placed, the latter being a strip
of perforated cardboard, used by ladies in
their fancy needlework, on which were a
cross and the words, '' Firm as a Rock ; " also
in the margin of the sacred book there was
sketched a small hand, which pointed to the
fifty-fifth chapter of Isaiah, — " Ho every one
that thirsted," etc.

T read him, at his request, the chapter
partly through, when he stopped me, and
said, in a scarcely audible voice, —

Oliver, I am loath to interrupt you, for

I could listen, were I permitted, to those
comforting words for hours, but hours are
not for me — barely minutes."

He paused for a while ; I bathed his
temples, lifted him higher upon the pillow ;
I was nearly choking, but did not dare to
speak, being anxious to drink in every
word he had breath left to give utterance
to.

His faithful servant, Martin, was standing
at the foot of the bed. Percy motioned
him to leave the tent, when he slowly
continued, —

''My dear old boy, the Author of that
book, from which you have just read, is now
about to fulfil His promise. He is going to
present me with a new life in exchange for
the old one."

Another long pause ; I could not reply.
Unhappily, I felt out of my depth ; his researches
in that Holy Book, my shortcomings

; his eyes open, mine closed ; his perception
clear, mine cloudy, are wholesome
facts, established, I trust, in my memory
for ever.

He continued very slowly, —

I have endeavoured, Oliver, to keep
good company in this world, but I hope
soon to move in better, and more lasting.
I am enduring at this moment three distinct
wrenches. I — I — "

I administered some brandy, and with ita
bumping tear, that somehow or other
promiscuously rolled into the glass, which
I am not ashamed to own, for if ever in
this world a tear of friendship tumbled out
of the eye of man, I shed one then.

Poor Percy had no tears left, they where
all " wiped away from his eyes." The
stimulant I administered somewhat revived
him, and he continued, —

I have three wrenches — three loved ones

to part with, Oliver " — and, taking the
locket from his breast, where it hung by
a piece of black ribbon, he touched the
spring ; it flew open, and putting it to his
lips again and again, clasped his hands
together, apparently in great agony of mind,
uttering feebly the following words : — " My
Nora — my — my — yes. My — and yet not
my—

Your what ? " I whispered entreatingly.

My — never mind ; come nearer, old boy,
nearer still ; put your head close to
mine."

Thinking that he wished to communicate
something of importance, I placed my
ear near his mouth, when he threw the
ribbon around my neck, attached to which
was the locket holding Nora's portrait,
saying, —

Wear it, Oliver — this ' Shadow in the

Gold ' — wear it for my sake, and dien you
VOL. I. D

look on the reflex of the fair face of my
Nora in that little circle, it may remind
you of the closest and dearest tie of your
devoted friend. Should you in your travels,
And yourself face to face with the original,
give her this Bible and marker, and say
that the former was the most precious gift
I ever possessed ; tell her it proved a healing
balm to the ugly wound here ; and it
has fortified my soul for its journey through
the long valley I am now entering."

*' Anything more can I say ? " I interrupted
dismally.

"Yes, yes, something more, though but
little ; yet much — post this letter ; and should
you meet my Nora, say — say — ' Firm as a
Eock.'"

Anything more, dear Percy ? "

'not in that quarter. I have disposed
of one matter, and there is not much time
left for me. Give my fondest love to the

darling who gave me birth ; tell her that
I have endeavoured to keep the name I
own without blemish, and those early and
loving admonitions which she inculcated into
my mind, have proved of inestimable value
in my journey to the threshold of my
new and eternal home, to which I am
now hastening."

Perceiving' that he was fast sinking
entreated him to be quiet and rest a
while, when he held up his finger, and
continued, —

"It is nearly finished. I have but one
more wrench, and that is parting from you
my friend, my faithful, devoted companion."

God bless you, Percy," I stammered.

"He has blessed me," replied Percy,
with a voice scarcely audible. " I am as
happy, Oliver, as the sweetest songster that
ever soar'd in yon firmament, and I owe
it all to that blessed Book — my mothers

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

tender and careful development, and my —
my — yes, my Nora. Don't forget to — to
tell her — 'Firm as a — a — a — Eock.' "

I am alone with the corpse of the once
brave and faithful Percival Snowdon.

MY LAST DAY ON THE BATTLEFIELD.

Erect I stood, folded my arms, and gazed
a long abstracted gaze on the lifeless form
of my departed friend, who, a few moments
before, breathed forth such sensible and
loving words ; who so recently mingled,
heart and soul, in the battle fray, and
carried (with a handful of men) all before
him, now for ever beyond the reach of
further shot and shell.

Alone with the dead !

One would imagine that death at this
juncture could be nothing to me, could
create no unusual sensation of horror other

than that which always associates itself with
the battlefield. I had only to wander a
few steps from my tent and witness it in
all its appalling and ghastly form, piled up
in places waist deep ; surely, then, it would
seem to a superficial observer that death
could be nothing to me in the midst of
broad acres of it losing scattered here and
there ; what, then, was the meaning of those
bumping tears ? I imagine I hear some
fellow say (who may one day ramble promiscuously
over these pages), '' A soldier's tear
indeed ! and on the battlefield, too ! All
bosh ! moonshine ! sensational ! "

I fancy, too, that there may be — nay, I
will take it for granted, there will be
others who will dip into this narrative with
something more than a cursory glance,.
and shed tears to the memory of the
brave ; those beloved ones whom they
have lost on the plains of a battlefield ; —

a husband, father, brother, son, or true
friend.

Such readers will have the clearest possible
conception of the intensity of my
feelings, as I stood bending over the inanimate
form of my once brave companion
and faithful colleague, realising my loss, and
contemplating the havoc which a few short
hours had made, robbing parents of a loving
and promising son ; a fond girl of her
lover ; his country of a host in himself ;
and your humble servant of a friend !

Poor Percy ! " I muttered in half-broken
accents, the mighty roar and swing
of the battlefield, seeking for glory and
honour ! '' Now thou art gone, it will be
sorry work for me. I have lost a stimulant
that always spurred me on the road
to victory ; an example that helped me to
earn some little distinction on the battlefield."
How anxiously he looked forward to

promotion ; how bis eyes used to sparkle
with delight when he contemplated it, and
spoke of his Nora sharing with him the
honours ; how rejoiced he was when I
stepped up the ladder, — noble, unselfish
fellow ! He has his reward, though elsewhere,
on the 'staff" above those azure
skies ; he is promoted to a rank considerably
higher than our gracious sovereign
could have bestowed upon him. Had he
lived, a Victoria cross would, assuredly,
have adorned his breast. There is, however,
another cross, infinitely greater, of
inestimable value, and far more precious,
that is now, doubtless, his ; a glory, too,
that awaited him, surpassing all knowledge ;
a glory which illuminates a crown set with
gems of his own procuring on earth. Jewels
of the first water that from time to time
he picked up, here and there, amongst
some of the ungodly rabble of our army.

whom he converted from the paths of dissipation
; gems of unknown worth, lustrous
beyond description, all cut into the most
beautiful facets, and set by the hand of
the greatest lapidary.

Who cares to seek the worhi's renown,

Such products of mortality ;
With such a cross, and such a crown.

There's nothing like reality.

I felt lost in profound reverie when a
hand was j^l^'^ced on my shoulder : it was
the doctor, together with the sergeant-major,
quarter-master sergeant, and four drummers ;
verily, a procession of dismal undertakers,
with their impromptu bier !

Typhus fever rendered it absolutely necessary
that there should be a speedy burial ;
indeed, the stringent rules laid down admitted
of no elasticity in our arrangements,
neither was it desirable, under the circumstances,
that there should be any delay.

It was a dismal, slow march as we conveyed
the remains of Lieutenant Snowdon
to his last six feet of narrow soil for the
repose of his bones, over the very ground
he galloped with his men but a few hours
before with so much dash : a large number
of dead were still scattered about in all
directions, heaped up where they fell, in all
manner of forms, standing out in bold relief
on the brow of the hill, fitting monuments
of the ghastly carnage that had made
many a beloved wife a widow, and many
a child fatherless. We laid him with pride
and sadness in a narrow grave, with his
arms folded on his breast. I took one long
look at that placid face, lit up, though in
death, with a beautiful smile which seemed
to strike the chords of my heart, and speak
one last farewell, when a military cloak
was thrown over the body, and shut out,
for ever, in this world, the once brio-ht

and happy face of Lieutenant Percival
Snowdon.

A firing party of our best and oldest
men completed the only outward honours
that could be offered to the brave hero of
Slaughter Hill ; " but, within those massive
veteran heads, that bent silently over the
grave, there could be found some good
material ; loving thoughts, too-were working
in their own form and fashion ; and
within those sadly worn and sunken eyes,
there were, undoubtedly, manifestations of
grief and solemnity.

Beside that little grave.
Stood many a warrior brave,
With frames as hard as steel,
But hearts that fondly feel.

Yes, many bumping tears glistened in
the sunshine that morning, and were brushed
away by the hard brown hands of those menas
they looked down for the last time on

the form that led them so nobly to victory,
earning for himself such distinction, and
whose memory will be handed down to posterity.


And they turn'd their heads away
From the form they held so dear,

'' And lent upon their rifles,
And wiped away a tear."

Enough — death-bed scenes, ghastly sights,
(and alarming events are not altogether inviting
themes to dwell upon in any narrative,
but, in compiling the reminiscences
of these memorable days, I do so as
the only tribute I can offer to the brave
hero of " Slaughter Hill," and I shall cherish
up in my heart, with a loving remembrance,
the joys and pleasures of our young,
and be it said, active, happy life, on duty
and off duty, at home and abroad ; in doing
so, I look back with the most lively satisfaction,

and can safely place it on record,
that Percival Snowdon's friendship was faithful
— yes — *' Firm as a Rock."

Should the reader, in his travels, ever
reach that corner of the Crimea, the plot
of sacred Ground which no Englishman can
regard without feelings of jDride and sadness,
the last resting-place of many departed
heroes of the campaign, he may, perchance,
drop a silent tear over the spot where

The flowers of the country entwine o'er his grave."

I directed my steps towards our tent, forby
this time, I found my wounds " crying
aloud for help ; " feeling faint, weak, and low
in spirits, I threw myself on my camp bedstead,
and requested the attendance of the
surgeon, who promptly came to my assistance.
As night drew on, feverish symptoms
of a violent character presented themselves,

followed by delirium, which stubbornly continued
for a long period — battles were fought,
lost and won, marching and counter-marching
proceeded ; it made, however, little difference
to me, for I was utterly incapable
of knowing anything that was going on
from the 8th to the 19th. On the morning
of the latter day, I awoke, as it were,
from a dream, the outcome of a second
attack of the same description of fever I
had before experienced, and which was
considerably aggravated by the painful
scenes I had recently passed through — my
wounds, loss of blood, exposure to bitterly
cold weather, and various privations consequent
on the rapid and uncertain movements
of our army.

When I opened my eyes, with fairly
healthy faculties, I saw my faithful Irish
servant Curtis busily engaged in preparing
a compress, and soaking it in a chloroform

compound, or some such mixture, and at
intervals slowly apostrophising a few words
in a mechanical sort of way.

I could discern through my casement the
hard lines of the mountainous hills, and
their undulations standing out prominently,
with their summits tipped with pyramids of
driven snow, which sparkled in the rays of
the morning sun, and seemed to vie with
the white silvery scuds as they floated promiscuously
in the firmament, casting their
shadows in long streaks in the valley beneath.
Some cattle were browsing the
slopes, vigorously nipping off, with determined
jerks, the scant, russet-brown herbage
on which they were pasturing ; the juvenile
and more agile herd were gamboling with
each other merrily up and down the side-land,
butting, leaping, playfully biting, and
enjoying other frolics. My eyes wandered
from one object to another, whilst Curtis,

who had hold of his lip) between his teeth,
seemed lost in thought.

Where on earth can I be ? " I muttered ;
"not on the battle-field for certain, for I
am in a quaint-looking room in some farmhouse,
a Russian one too, judging from the
peculiar furniture that is arranged about the
place. I am not altogether with strangers,
for there is Curtis, my old and valued Irish
servant. There are no sudden clouds and
whiffs of that everlasting gunpowder, which,
for months past, I had been inhaling. No
bugle sounds, roaring of mortars, howitzers,
tramping of regiments, roll of fife and drum,
galloping of horses, rattling of chains, piling
arms, and other sounds so familiar to my
ear ; all, except the frolicsome cattle in the
iceland close by, and the monotonous bleating
of sheep, was as still as the grave.
Even my servant seemed to have suddenly
subsided into a piece of domestic furniture ;

but for a deep sigh which I heard the poor
fellow •'' dig up," I should almost have
thought he had been transmogrified into
the traditional pilLar !

Lost anything ? " I said, in a feeble
voice.

•' Oh, good Lord ! by the powers ! who's
that ? " was the reply.

Where the deuce am I, Curtis % "

"Lord bless ye, master! by the powers I
if I didn't just about think ye where well
nigh in distant lands ; sure alive, Lm glad
ye are come to life again. All I have to
say is, lie still, or ye will be just going
off again on your old rounds for sure, and
there will be no stopping ye."

"Where am I, Curtis?" I continue.

'faith, in good quarters, anyhow; and

be satisfied, captain, and don't be after

asking any more questions."

If you will only — "

VOL. I. E

Weakness asserted its rights, and arrested
my speech.

"To be sure I will," replied Curtis,
sharply, taking up the "running"; "just
anything in this blessed world, if ye will
only just turn round on that pleasant little
heart of your own, and be still as a mouse
in a corner for an hour, and I will be
fetching someone to see ye, anyhow."

I squeezed the faithful fellow's hand, and
felt thankful I was under his care ; but a
sudden termination of blood to the head
affected my brain, a sharp spasm attacked
my heart, followed by cold shivers. I
closed my eyes, and sank again into an
unconscious state.

History reports me to have swooned or
slejDt the whole of that day and a part of
the night. When I again opened my eyes,
I found myself almost in total darkness.
There was, however, a small trimmer of

lioiit which hailed from a smoiiklerino; 
wood in an arrangement which was suggestive
of a fire-grate. I gazed a long time
at the crimson spark that occasionally shot
up and crackled in the stillness of the
nio'ht, and collected mv thoughts as well as
I could. I felt much revived ; the sound
sleep had very considerably refreshed me.
I could easily connect some past events and
fairly well retain them without the risk of
wandering. My wounds began to give me
pain for the first time ; this I considered a
good sign. Having, in the most satisfactory
manner, assured myself of this, I tried to
penetrate the surrounding darkness and see
how matters stood. Folio win o- the faint

o

streak of red light from the embers that
threw their dismal glimmer across the
twelve-feet apartment in spasmodic jerks, it
fell on a human face.
Such a face !

For the monsieur I was absorbed in endeavouring
to trace the features. " Is it
Curtis ? No, it cannot be. Curtis hasn't
long, thick, flowing hair." I heard my
heart thumping away with a peculiar thud.
At this moment a burning ember slipped
down. A red light suddenly revealed the
features of a beautiful girl seated on the
floor, her arms folded across her breast,
and her large coal-black eyes wandered at
intervals from me to the smouldering firewood.
All was silent, except the monotonous
tick, tick, tick of an old clock on
the mantelpiece. Who hasn't at some period
of his life felt an irresistible impression of
some unknown influence steal over the
soul, awaken and stir up the best feelings
of our nature in a foreign land ? Languishing
on a bed of sickness, and amongst
strangers, one would naturally feel all the
force of love and gratitude for those who

come to one's rescue, and, like ministering
angels, keep watch through the night !

My conscience ! " I murmured, " whoever
can it be ? " As a kind of preliminary
or notification of my existence in
the world, T kicked the bedclothes, and
cleared my throat with some emphasis.
It had the desired effect, for the brunette
was at my side in a moment.

I felt a soft hand pass gently over my
forehead and press back the straggling hair
that had promiscuously fallen over my brow.

"Where am I?" I softly asked, at the
same time feebly taking hold of the wrist
of the girl • "to whom am I indebted for
such kindness ? "

The nurse placed her finger vertically
across her lips as a sign of silence, bathed
my temples with some refreshing mixture,
which sent forth a balmy odour, and then
immediately left the apartment.

"Jewel!" I muttered.

In a few moments Curtis was at my
side, groping away at my pulse, and blowing
in my face like distraction.

"Try your bellows on the fire," I said,.
'' and let us have some light on the subject.


The Lord be praised ! " ejaculated Curtis,
clasping his hands, and making a desperate
effort to delight the oil-lamp.

Now, old fellow, where am I ? " I asked.

Faith now, ye'll have the politeness
just to keep that little wandering musical
tongue of yours quiet a bit, or, bead, if
ye won't be after yer old pranks, and
leaving; us in the lurch ao^ain, and o;oimx
away on yer own ' hook ' on another visit
to that blessed Nora."

Where ? to whom ? " I eagerly inquired ^
wiping a coal stream of perspiration from
my forehead.

I only wish the hussy and all her
little bairns had been at the bottom of
the briny sea, a-dancing ' Irish jigs like
evermore ' with the mermaids, than bothering
yer honour with her tomfoolery from
sunrise till sundown. Sure alive, ye haven't
had a morsel of pace for her."

What on earth are you talking about,
Curtis ? "

Never mind, master, for, sure then.
Some fine evening; I will be after a-telling
ye all about it."

You have greatly excited my curiosity,
Curtis ; for heaven's sake tell me — "

Excited yer what, did ye say ? Bother !
Just take a long pull at this ' pick me
up ' that the doctor left for ye a moon
since, for ye to pay yer addresses to just
dien circumstances require it, — to be shaken
before taken."

It is needless to add that I cao-erlv

drank the mixture. Its magic influence
soon reported itself favourably to my poor
shattered nerves. I rested awhile in deej^
thought, meditating on the past, pondering
over the brunette, and anticipating
the future. At Last I thought I would
try a little finesse with my servant, and
continued, —

"AVhat about Flora, Curtis?"
'• Bother," he replied, '' ye know very
well ye haven't had any dealings with a
Flora at all ; and my advice to ye, master,
is, that, judging from what I have been able
to 'pick out' on yer long journey, ye had
better cut that lady's company, for she hasn't
done ve any brood, for certain."

"But, Curtis," I feebly remonstrated, "I

don't know any such person as No]'a ; I

never saw her in my life," at the same

time asking for another dose of the cordial.

"Bother! sure, then, ye can recollect,

master, that 'isn't Flora, anyhow ; ye had
just better be leaving off yer flemings,
and compose yer dear self a bit, or I won't
answer for the company yell be next
keeping, if ye are off again on yer ' marching
order ; ' sure alive, 'tis all * open order '
wit ye."

"I tell you, Curtis, I never saw Nora,
that I know of."

"Nor her likeness, I suppose, that is
tucked U23 so snug to yer heart under
yer flannel waistcoat ; and, by the powers !
if the name Nora isn't chiseled out at
the back of it, and night after night ye
have been crying out for the ' Shadow in
the Gold'"

After this piece .of elegant peroration,
Curtis left the room, and I soon heard him
conversing with some one downstairs, who
was busily engaged m beating up an egg.

"Yes, sure enough, this is the identical picture,"

I soliloquised (as I drew forth Nora's
portrait from its hiding-place), " that dear
Percy, in the last moments of his life, threw
around my neck, entreatingly asking me to
wear it for his sake, and that if ever, in
my travels, I came face to face with the
original, to look upon her as his ' nearest
and dearest tie ' — how significant, ' nearest
tie ! ' — two words sus^ofestive of much."

I revolved in my mind all my early conversation
with Percy, and connected one
event with another ; fitted link to link —
one, however, was missing, an important
one, too, in the chain of his life, which,
alas ! so soon parted.

Whilst I gazed on the reflex of the fair
face of the " angel girl " (as Percy called
her) in the circle of gold, I dwelt upon
the memory of my lamented friend — of my
affection for him — of his sincerity for me ;
and I was carried away to foreign climes,

where we wandered tog;etliei\ and where he
told, re-told, and never grew weary of relating,
long joyous days he had passed in the
society of his dearest Nora ; the love that
he had plighted, and how it had been accepted
; the anguish they both experienced
on separating ; the secret — the grand secret
of his life — that he said he had some day
to impart to me. His last dying words are,
and ever will be, uppermost in my thoughts.
Foret them ? bid the forest birds foro-et
their sweetest tune."

Those words ! so full of touching; sorrow,
will ever live in my memory as

"As FIRM AS A Rock."

WHO IS SHE ?

A MOST uneventful week elapsed since the
close of the last chapter, certainly so far
as I was concerned ; but, in order that one
may fairly well clear up straggling events
as we proceed, and that there may be no
unreasonable gap in my narrative, it is as
well to explain to the reader exactly what
happened after I succumbed to the violent
fever on the memorable — th, when prostration
and delirium set in. During the whole
of that time, I am not aware of having experienced
one rational moment, neither have
1 the remotest recollection of anything that

occurred after my return from Percy's
funeral.

I am informed by my servant Curtis that
I first fainted, or, to use his own familiar
words, "went clean off my head, sure;" he
also reports that my mind travelled " heaven
knows where." From the very lucid and
graphic description he gave of the whole
matter, I did not for a moment doubt his
veracity.

The brilliant success of our battalion on
the — th somewhat cleared the atmosphere,
and a temporary lull ensued, the spell of
which, however, was soon broken, for orders

were given for a forced march on , to

the immediate relief of General , who

at that time was sorely ^^i^essed and losing
ground. The desperate condition I was in,
rendered it impossible to take me any great
distance from the ground we then occupied,
without imperious my life. Jolting along

rough roads, over a mountainous country,
in an ambulance waggon, would, the doctor
considered, have jolted out the last spark
of life that was flickering within me ; ' and
as I had contributed my fair share, conjointly
with many brave fellows, towards
the achievements of the last struggle with
the enemy. Great anxiety, consideration,
and forbearance were manifested by the
"staff" on my behalf, consequently I was
transferred from under canvas to a small
Russian farm, situated about three miles
distant from the scene of action. The
colonel having previously solicited and obtained
from the owner a faithful promise
to thoroughly look after me, at the same
time assuring him that " money was no
object," a piece of information (coupled
with a presentation of something tangible)
that greatly accelerated the farmer's hospitable
movements, wound up his generosity,

and probably it was (in a great measure)
the means of saving my life.

My old and valued servant Curtis, who
had providentially managed through the
campaign to keep clear of the hearken messengers
of death, and who also escaped the
distressing cholera and fever then 23re wailing,
was told off to wait upon me. Sundry well-known
specifics in the way of physic, with
almost every conceivable restorative that

the kind-hearted and estimable Doctor

could think of, and spare from his store,
together with minute written instructions,
were left with Curtis, who, in the most indefatigable
manner, discharged the duties
entrusted to him ; and a good Samaritan he
proved to be, for through long days and
lonely nights his sleepless eyes watched
over my burning frame.

Also the dear girl of whom I shall have
the privilege of speaking, joined hand to

hand in the labour that my desperate state
of health forced upon them, and through
dint of the greatest care and watchfulness,
contrived, with God's blessing, to pull me
through ; and I rejoice in making a record
in these pages, of my everlasting indebtedness
to my faithful old servant Curtis, and
the beautiful little brunette of — — , for
their loving and untiring attention to the
wants of a helpless, wounded, fever-stricken
soldier ; whilst life exists, Heaven knows,
that my gratitude will be lasting !

In the course of time, I gained sufficient
strength to bear the fatigue of being dressed
by my Irish valet, who, by-the-bye, was
uncommonly shy of conversing upon any
subject whatever ; from what I gathered, he
had received positive orders not to talk in
my presence, or permit me to do so, and
as my excessive weakness rendered every
word I uttered distressing, it is not at

all surprising that I greatly preferred
quietude.

For hours together I sat in my little room
wrapped in meditation, sometimes sinking
down in the troubled waters of this life ; at
others, building '•' castles in the air," in
lively anticipation of the future, and earnestly
lonoinor to be on the move, at the
head of my brave fellows again ; but the
fetters of disease and my wounds arrested
my best resolutions and clamped my ardour,
but a renewal of hope gave consolation.

I had a few books with, me, notably a
small pocket edition of Shakespeare, my
vade-meciim, which was a library in itself
a " crumb of comfort " in health and in
sickness ; there was another book too in
my possession, of which I have previously
spoken ; it had a marker in it. I held it
in trust, to be delivered to Xora. I don't
quite know why, but certainly there was a

VOL. I. F

charm about that little volume, an irresistible
attraction, a magnetic influence that
bound me, as it were, to every leaf; sensitively
operating upon, and working a mighty
power within me, such as I never before
experienced. Was it the outcome of the
struggle that I recently passed through between
life and death ? Was it the outcome of
the reminiscences of my lamented friend ? —
or was it the outcome of the anticipation of
some day taking the hand of the fair owner
of that sacred book and marker, and depositing
its wealth within her tiny grass), and
personally delivering her lover's last words, —
*' Firm as a Eock " ? I pause — and will leave
it where it is for the present, to be revealed,
as far as it can be made manifest, in the
pages that are to follow.

A gentle knock at the door.

Come in ; is that you, Curtis ? "

'^ And sure 'tis my very own self, yer
honour," was the reply.

Come here, Curtis ; sit down, I want to
talk with you."

Then, indeed to goodness, ye are just
very much mistaken, if ye think I am arrived
here to hold gossip with ye, anyhow,
for ye are not strong enough, captain, in
the back yet ; and the doctor just about gave
me orders not to have yer tongue middle
with ; and bother, if that Nora isn't after
ye, directly ye close yer weary eyes in
the cradle of sleep, and yer cheeks get
like thumping red potatoes. Sure she is no
good company, anyhow ; bad luck to her,
and—" .

I request that you discontinue such remarks,
Curtis," I vehemently replied, " and
speak not lightly of that name."

Och ! bother! then I know master, now,
which way the wind blows ; the little straw

that I threw up caught well in the breeze,
and faith I know which way it is flying."

'' Hush ! " I say ; '' you annoy me. I'll have
no more of it. Who was that gipsy-looking
woman that I saw sitting in my bedroom,
maybe days, weeks, perhaps months since ?
for, ■ alas ! of late I have kept no reckoning
of time."

A long pause — no reply.

Do you hear me, Curtis ? "

Never heard anything plainer, sir."

'' Tell me then," sharply.

Woman did ye say, yer honour ? "

Yes ; that very dark woman, who sat
up with me, bathed my temples, quenched
my thirst with a cooling draught, knelt at
my bedside ; and, although I addressed her,
she positively left the room without uttering
a word."

Sure, then, it wasn't a woman at all."
" You perverter of the truth ! " I exclaimed,

in the most irritable manner; "do
you think that disease has so robbed me
of my senses that I do not know a man
from a woman ? "

Sure, then, it wasn't a woman at all,
I tell ye again."

Then you tell me a lie — a wicked — "

Faith, yer honour, by the powers ! I
wouldn't take such an unwarrantable liberty
with ye, or with any creature under the sun."

Who then was it, you idiot, that sat at
my bedside ? Was it a man, woman, beast,
angel, or the " I replied, savagely.

"Neither the one nor the other, master."

Then I was dreaming," I said.

Never wider awake in yer life, master,
than ye were that blessed night."

Then I was mad ; yes, mad as a march hare."

Never more sane in yer life, captain,"
was the laconic reply.

I suggested, by way of a last gasp, that

it was a ghost paying her Doctrinal visits,
and, in my then hasty and irritable temper,
was about to show the fellow the door, when
he continued, —

Sure then, yer honour, I have gazed ye
enough ; but I ventured to hope, with the
very best intentions, so that I should just
about steer ye clear of the information yeare
after. But, as ye won't take no for
an answer, I'll be after telling ye, by way
of a short cut, just a morsel of the knowledge
ye are fishing with yer hook for ;
but ye haven't got the proper bait at the
end of yer line, and the fish won't bite ;
and if it would, ve haven't o-ot the strength
to take it, and land it ; but as ye have just
about tickled the trout, I'll help ye with my
landing-net, and give ye a peep at her fin."
All right," I replied ; " proceed."
The woman ye spake of isn't a woman
at all."

What then ? Come now, Curtis," entreatingly.


Sure, then, it was a lady'" he continued,
at the same time grinning;, and
displaying a set of the most irregular
teeth.

A lady ! " I exclaimed.

"Faith, a live lady !"

"But a lady is a woman," I replied;
"did I not declare that — "

"But a woman, your honour — excuse my
liberty — isn't always a lady in our country ;
and we wouldn't offer such a hastily compliment
to highborn persons in County Kildare
as to call a lady a woman."

Lady ! who ? — what ! where is she ? "
I asked, in one breath. "' Keep me no
longer in suspense."

"There's your thumping red potatoes
coming again, like flashes of fork-lightning,
in your face, and the perspiring properties

are standing like marrapat peas on your
forehead. If ye bother me so, yer honour,
I'll be just after leaving ye to yer o\Yn
reflections.

"Where is that lady, and who is she?" I
again asked, at the same time helping myself
to a drop more brandy, by way of fortifying
myself for the climax ; but, as per
usual, the old man gently put a stopper on
the supply.

Fellow 1 " I continued, " where is
she ? "

"Bedfellow you mean, yer honour; sure,
then, I belong to the ancient order of
Foresters, and I carry the staff and banner
of old Ireland and liberty for ever."

Good Curtis," I responded, and awaited
the continuation of his narrative.

Now you promise, captain, to be very
quiet, and drop all your excitement ? "

I promise," I replied, familiarly slapping

the fellow's shoulder as an earnest of my
2:ood-feeling^.

Hearken, then. That live hxdy that ye
saw when ye ' come to ' in the middle of
that bitter night, when the flakes of snow
were falling fast and thick, and the howling
wind was blowing straight from the
steppes of Scythia, is lying — ''

*' Lying where ? " I shouted.

'* Lying downstairs, captain."

What ! " I gasped ; '' not dead ? "

Not yet ; but I don't quite know, captain,
how long it will be before her darling
soul takes flight, for she has been almost
devoured by inches with the horrid fever
she took of ye, and no mistake."

Good heavens ! let me go to her, without
a moment's delay, and see for myself," I
exclaimed, springing vigorously to my feet.

I have locked the door, yer honour ;
and what is more, I have got the key in

my pocket, so ye just can't go anyhow,"
said Curtis.

I am well, man, I am well ; I am as
strong as a lion, and as — '

Weak as a little ' ba-lamb,' " was Curtis's
rejoinder. ''No, yer honor, ye must be
quiet, and all may come right and tight in a
little while. The ' broth ' of a child is justa
shade better this morning ; and when she
tossed up her black eyes, I fancied she knew
me a little bit, the darling, she did, sure."

"Her name?" I asked wildly, clutching
the wrist of my servant with some earnestness.


'' Constance Templar ; and a mighty good
templar she has proved herself to be, anyhow."

Ministering angels protect her ! " I exclaimed.


The Eed Cross, yer honour."

The Eed Cross ! Constance Templar I
Cannot be true, man, cannot be. How is it

she sojourns here, and why is she not \Yith
the army ? "

Miss Templar was invalided, master, and
found refugee in this farmhouse before ye
were brought here. She was getting better,
and preparing for another flight and fresh
work with the division ; but when we carried
ye up the steps on a litter, she met yer
honour's body at the porch, and she sighed a
long, deep, heavy sort of sigh, like my poor
Biddy of Tipperary used to do, and said she
had her work cut out again, and she made a
vow that she would not leave what was left
of the noble hero of ' Slaughter Hill,' as
she called ye, until she had landed ye high
and dry, or put ye in ' port ' in yer last
little home, — the darling! that's what she did,
sure ! And anyhow, she kept her word, for
she took her turn day and night, and did
for ye, faith, like a tinder mother would do
for her sickly babe. From sunrise to sundown

she was on the watch. When the moon
rose, she rose ; and the night and the day
was never too long for her ; but the darling
daisy was soon cut down, and she began to
wither like the pretty flowers that she placed
on yer honour's bed. Scorched and burnt
almost to death by the raging fever, she tossed
her little restless bones about on her hard
couch ; and the Eussian mother downstairs,
bless her ! has taken her under her wings day
and night, and kept her body and so id together."

There was a long pause following this
painful and sensational narrative ; a dismal
lookout over the broad plain. Curtis's head
was turned one way, mine another. Neither
of us wished to portray what was passing
within our hearts, — gathering: within the
folds of our eyelids, or show, in any way,
the reflex of our thoughts.

But poor Curtis buried his face in his
big brown hand, and wept like a child.

MY OWN REFLECTIONS, AND WHAT
FOLLOWED.

To be found untired,
Watching the stars out by the bed of pain,

With a pale cheek, and yet a brow inspired,
And a true heart of hope ; though hope be vain.

Meekly to bear with wrong, to cheer decay.
And oh ! to live through all things, — therefore pray ! "

Mrs Hemans.

I AM alone, — left, as Curtis remarked, " to
my own reflections." The Irish valet has
taken my wounded surviving charger for
an airing.' As the poor brute limited
along under my lattice window, with several
ugly wounds staring me in the face, I almost
wished, at the moment, I had given him his
coup-de-grace on the — th, and thus ended
his military career and misery for ever ; but,

on second consideration, I was anxious to
take the noble steed to the home of my
fathers ; for bravely he carried me through
torrents of shot and fire, — "landing" me
safely at last.

"No," I said to myself, " we will not part.
If 1 can heal thy wounds, which, like my own,
seem stubborn enough, I will journey with
thee once more to the front, and again try
our luck ; but if fate should decide against
us, and we don't put our harness together in
volumes of smoke, then, I say, in ' volumes '
of type thy deeds, ' Rob Roy,' shall be recorded.
Poor brute ! thou cannot speak for
thyself, but happily thy master, who knows
thy worth, is spared to sound the trumpet
boldly, and sing thy praises for thee, — gay,
springy, plucky, light-mouthed ' Rob Roy ; '
the very paragon of a horse in all thy paces ;
thy good manners and fearless dash are well
known ; when thou art grown old, thy bright

eyes dim, and thou art unable to carry me,
then on the green pastures of our home park,
under the shadow of thy master's house thou
shalt graze, and spend the residue of thy life
undisturbed."

Alone with my own reflections !

What are they ? Torrents of thought pour
upon me !

I have suddenly experienced a heavy weight
a responsibility which is quite new. I have
a duty to perform — a duty which has devolved
upon me by sheer accident ; I have a debt to
pay — a debt of gratitude. God willing, I will
discharge the obligation I owe to the uttermost.


Yes, downstairs, according to my servant's
description, there is the dear girl who, through
long days and nights, tenderly watched over
and nursed me, and exposed herself to the
treacherous disease that was hourly consuming
my body, — which malady she has taken

in its most violent form, — whilst the object of
her care has been spared to tell this narrative.
I revolve it all in my mind, and seriously
ponder over the best means to adopt in the
hope of restoring Miss Templar to health.
Though excessively weak, I am much better.
I must see her at once, and judge for myself.
A medical man must be procured without
loss of time. She may have a fond
mother, whose prayers invoke Heaven for her
child far away ; she may have a father proud
of his daughter's glory and honour, with a
heart overflowing with affection for her safety
on the battle-field ; a lover too, who — I
pause in my meditation, and take another
long look out over the snow-clad land in the
distance, rising, as it were, by gentle and imperceptible
degrees, and which every day displays
some new feature of beauty and sublimity,
with interminable ranges of coast, and
promontory after promontory.

Curtis is away with " Rob Eoy." I'll grope
my way downstairs, and find the Russian
mother, who shall at once take me to the
bedside of the fever-stricken girl.

Suiting the action to the apostrophised
words, I seized my impromptu crutches, took
a nip of cognac, and was soon at the bottom
of the winding staircase, where I stopped
awhile to take breath. The door in the passage
was open ; and I shall not readily forget
how rejoiced I was when I felt the light,
renovating air from the hills pouring down on
my pale face. How delicious ! How invigorating
! I suddenly seemed to leap) from a
sick couch, at a bound, into the open, and lo ■
I breathed again.

A girl was on her knees in the porch,
whitening the flagstones ; an exorbitant
black cat approached, familiarly raised her
back and tail in the most insinuating manner,
— voluntarily introducing herself to my

VOL. I. G

notice by vigorously brushing my leg with
her sleek side, which piece of performance she
coaxingly repeated several times. I, of course,
recognise her endearment, not by a kick, buta
good fondle in my arms. We twain were
particular friends from that hour ! The girl
at last observed me. She sprang to her
feet, and, in her haste to beat a rapid retreat,
upset the galvanised pail of water. I
motioned her to stop, but she flew the faster;
and I heard her gibbering away in the Eussian
tongue to someone in the dairy.

Soon a short, comely woman, with an exceedingly
short dress, came forth, and, dropping
a curtsey, made signs (by lifting her
hands and arching her eyebrows) of evident
amazement at my venturing out alone in
such a weak state. In fact it was manifest
that she considered me a most refractory
invalid, and wound up the whole performance
by good-temperedly shaking her head

in a most suggestive way. She then led
me into her spacious kitchen, in the corner
of which, ensconced in an enormous fireplace,
sat the provident farmer, smoking his
pipe ; and on either knee frolicked a curly-headed,
bouncing boy, both rubicund, and
looking the picture of health. On observing
me, the father made a peculiar grunt of recognition.
Judging from the sound, one
would imagine that he had acquired it by
being constantly in proximity to an old sow,
who was domiciled close by in the farmyard.
I limped up to the little boys, patted their
round, polished faces, and gave them each
a biscuit, which I happened to have in
my pocket. We trio were friends from
that hour ; but I cannot say so much for
the farmer, who, on that and all future occasions,
appeared grumpy, and seldom disposed
to fraternise in the least degree. Probably
it was the outcome of the fearful strus^Sfle

then existing between his country and ours,
which, as a common result, was most disastrous
to his farming prospects ; anyhow, he
always looked " daggers ! "

The Eussian mother now fetched the
domestic, and to my great delight and
surprise, I discovered that she spoke a
little English. I afterwards found she had
been living with her uncle at Berlin ; he
had married an American woman, and from
her the girl had picked up a fairly good
smattering of our language. I expressed
my wish to see Miss Templar at once.

Pardon, please, sir, she don't sleep here,"
was the reply.

I further express my desire by signs and
in much plainer terms.

Oh me do see, me comprehend ; yea, yea,
me do see," interrupted the girl ; and
turning to her mistress, she said something
in their own language, and then continued,

" The captain he do say he do ayant
have sight, dat is, he want to look upon
the Lady Red Cross."

The oriel and the Russian mother held
another short colloquy in the most earnest
manner, during; which time I was " nowhere,"
not understanding their lingo ; but I evidently
showed signs of impatience, having
visions of Curtis returning. The woman
reckoned me to follow her, notwithstanding
^ stentorian o-runt from the farmer in the
corner, which was unquestionably suggestive
of disapproval.

After traversing two or three intricate
passages, bumping the top of my cranium
against sundry beams, and climbing up some
dilapidated steps, which creaked on every
tread, we came to a rouo-h- looking door
dotted over with ]argue iron nut - headed
nails. The woman paused, placed her ear
close to the key-hole, and listened attentively

for a few seconds ; then making ^
signal for me to remain where I was, she
quietly lifted the latch, and on tip - toe
entered the room alone. Returning in a
few moments, she took my hand and led
me to the bedside of the invalid.

It would be an effort to find words to
express the force of my feelings at this
moment. Pillowed on a scanty bedstead
lay the brunette I had seen in my room
but a short time since. How changed ! and
yet how exquisitely beautiful, with her
wealth of black hair falling loosely in circles
and semi-circles over a spotless breast, and
terminating promiscuously on the lily-white
sheet ; her symmetrical arm, naked to the
shoulder, was coiled around her head as if
to support it ; her dark hazel, hollow e3^es
had lost much of their brilliant flash, the
light that animated them but a short time
since had toned down under the pressure of

a fevered brain, to a somewhat vacant stare ;
her finely - cut lips, parched ^Yith burning
heat, were parted, displaying a set of the
whitest and most regular teeth, which seemed
to light up her pallid, Grecian face, the
lines of which were well defined ; and notwithstanding
her illness, and its direful
ravages on her poor frame, she was nevertheless
beautiful to behold !

"This is Constance Templar," I said to
myself, "of whom I have read and heard
so much ; who has earned for herself on the
battlefield and in hospital so much esteem
and notoriety, now stricken almost to death.
Fate has so ordained it, that the little hand
which fed me day and night should, for a
while, lie helpless at her side, whilst mine
is growing hourly more vigorous."

I involuntarily pressed her almost transparent
fingers, and felt the life blood tingle
through my veins. I breathed a vow — a

solemn vow ; it was — no matter what ; in
heaven, I have no doubt, it was registered!

'' How are you, Miss Templar ? " I ventured
very softly, still holding her hand in mine.

That hand !

A sudden flicker of brilliancy lit up her
eyes ; a flush of crimson suffused a small
patch on either side of her face ; she smiled
but in a moment all was " straight and cold
again."

That smile !

Don't you think you are a trifle better ? "
I continued, hardly for the moment knowing
what I said, at the same time placing a flower
which I had in my coat on her pillow.

Who spoke ? Curtis ? — is that you,
Curtis ? "

No ; it is I."

Who's I ?" replied Constance, disengaging
her tiny hand from mine, and with it shading
the light, that she may discern more clearly.

Have you forgotten me, Miss Templar ?"
I continued.

Forgotten whom ? " doubtfully.

Your patient."

Patient," replied Constance, " patient !
What patient ? I have had so many, that
it is hard to call events to my mind. Are
you the little drummer of the — th ? "

('' Not likely," I soliloquise, '' considering
that I am more than six feet in my stockings")

*' No, Miss Templar," I replied ; " I am the
person who was so fortunate as to receive
your kind attention during a prolonged and
dangerous illness in this farmhouse ; and I
have found my way here, with this good
woman, to express to you my intense gratitude
for — "

"Hush," interrupted Constance, 'hush!
I have now faint glimmerings of you. Yes,
of course, I know you. How silly of me —
dear, dear, how silly — how silly."

God be praised ! " I said, in an audible
voice, " she has her senses."

The Russian mother administered some
egg and brandy ; and the domestic, who
was also present, interpreted to me her
mistress's wish that I should not talk anymore
to the patient just then, which piece of
advice I considered thoughtful, aud was preparing
to leave the room, on my crutches,
when the invalid, with most surprising
strength, rose from her pillow, and, fixing
her placid eyes on me, said, —

"Poor fellow! poor fellow!" and beckoning
me to return, she whispered feebly; "tomorrow,
come tomorrow. I have had a
strange dream, I will impart it. Mind and
bring Nora with you."

Good Lord ! " I ejaculated, sotto voce ; and
gently squeezing her hand, and raising it to
my lips, I left the room, with my heart, so to
speak, in my throat.

Who is that man standing in the passage
outside the door ?

Only Curtis !

Sure then, I thought it was yer ghost,
master, prowling about these draught places ;
faith I can hardly believe my own eyes."

Hold your tongue," I say, " and get me
some food."

By the powers, ye will have some food
presently, that ye won't be able to digest, if
ye are after following up such ' flemings *
as this."

"All right, Curtis," I replied; "I shall
not take cold."

Bother ! ye don't know at all what ye
may take away, or what ye may bring to
the darling in that cupboard, or leastwise
just what is left of her. God knows, 'isn't
much to look at ; and what little there is,
ye'll be after taking it, and taking it, until
there is nothing to be seen except a bright

little speck a long, long way up somewhere
above those flying clouds."

God forbid," I murmured, at the same
time greatly admiring the honest disposition
of the man before me.

The various colloquies between Curtis and
myself may not unreasonably strike the reader
as somewhat improbable, and bring to his or
her mind the well-known maxim, that one
used, by way of exercise, to record in one's
copying book in early days, '' Nimis familiarities
contempt part," which, as a rule, one
should not ignore ; but my relations with the
faithful Irishman have been brought about
under such very exceptional circumstances,
that I have not the heart to take him down
a "peg," seeing how he struggled day and
night to lift me up many pegs, and how far
he succeeded in landing me " high and dry "
on the shores of health, so I let him have the
full swing of his tether. The fellow, in his

own way, is a strange composition, and by no
means scrupulous in what he says, though his
judgment is sound, his intentions are good,
his heart is faithful. He has no motive in
the background other than affection for me ;
and should I be spared, he shall surely have
his reward, for, if I don't go to the front-again,
I will buy him out, and he and his
Tipperary consort shall find an asylum for
life in one of our lodges at home.

Now tell me, Curtis," I said, letting my
weak body down as carefully as I could
into an antiquated arm-chair, covered with
dimity, "how fares 'Rob Roy'? Are his
wounds healing to your satisfaction ? "

I thought how it would be. Ye just can't
breathe a bit, and ye are gasping away as
if it were the last morsel of air that's been
dealt out to ye ; and the perspiration, like
peas, is cropping all out on yer forehead
like the steam on the windows of Mother

Blarney's cook shop at AVoolwich ; and yer
legs seem as if they didn't belong to ye,
and are terrified out of their very senses, for
they are shivering and shaking like evermore!"

"Any letters ? " I interrupt, not wishing
to continue the conversation.

Faith, a pile of them in mail bag, sir,
and no mistake."

Bravo ! " I reply. " By-the-bye, have you
heard, Curtis, from your people since you have
been here ? "

People ! did ye say, master ? I have
but one blessed soul upon the face of the
earth that's got a thought for Mike Curtis,
and that is the Tipperary girl who took
advantage of me one fine morning, and
asked me if I had anything to part with ;
and I said to her, yer honour, * AVell, nothing,
Biddy, worth having.' ' Haven't ye
now?' she said. 'Sure, then, 1 haven't,' I
replied. ' You don't mane it ? ' she cont

1 1

tinned, putting her arm round my neck
with the greatest possible affection. ' What
are ye after, ye little monkey ? ' ' Well,'
she said, ' I'm just come down from the
hills to ask ye, before ye go and put yourself
up as a target to be shot at, to leave
me a wee bit of something.' ' Sure, then,
Biddy,' I said, ' name what ye will, and if
it belongs to me, and sure my own property,
ye shall have it all.' ' No, Mike,' she said,
with hot tears in her eyes, ' it isn't all that
I want, 'tis only a half.' ' Out with it,
Biddy,' I replied, ' and don't ye be after
taking me so.' * Well,' says she, again putting
both arms round my neck, ' if you will just
give me half yer name, and take the best
half herself away with ye, ye will never
regret it as long as ye live, for whilst yeare
in distant lands in the wars, no harm
shall ever come to yer name, anyhow, this
side of the father, for Biddy Flanagan is

as true as the finest gold, and, sure then,
don't ye know it, Mike ? ' I couldn't
doubt her words, yer honour ; her pretty
face and coral lips, and breath like the
fresh air on the mountain side, cheeks like
scarlet runners, and teeth as white as the
fox hounds in Squire Sweeny's kennels, did
the trick, sure enough ; faith I couldn't refuse
her at all, at all ; so I just caught her up
in my arms, sealed the bargain in a very
modest way upon her lips, put a life stamp,
as I call it, on the little document, and
registered it in heaven."

Well," I said inquiringly ; '' go on, Curtis'

I just sent for Father O'Connor, sir, and
sure then we both relieved ourselves of all our
imperfections ; and Biddy Flanagan, bless her t
relieved me of just one half of my name."

A pause.

Proceed," 1 interrupted ; " let me have
the whole of the story."

Twelve winters, yer honour, and twelve
summers have passed away, and my Biddy,
my rose of old Ireland, my shamrock of
Tipperary, kept her word, and Heaven knows
that Mike Curtis has kept his ; and though
tarnation big stones have rolled now and then
in our path, and blackthorns have sprung up
in our way, wee have got over them, and wee
love each other now dearer than ever ; and
we both bless and reverence the day that
Father O'Connor cut my name in a half."

Another full stop.

I am charmed, Curtis, with your graphic
description of the past and present ; may
your future, my good fellow, partake of the
fragrance of the same lovely spring flowers
that you culled in early life," I said, forgetting
for the moment to idiom I was speaking

I am not ' up,' yer honour, in flowery
language, but I am ' up,' to many things
though, as ye know. I am up to ' snuff,*

VOL. I. H

and ' up ' to doing a tiny bit of good when
I can get the chance, and I am ' up ' to
give ye this advice, yer honour, if I maybe
allowed most respectfully to offer it ; it
is this : — if ye lever marry that blessed
Nora that I've heard ye talk so much about
in yer sleep, or the Daisy darling lying in
yon chamber, just come to me, and, if you
won't despise poor Mike's advice, I'll tell yea
thing or two that clenched our happiness,
that pickled it in the very best of pickles,
and made it keep ! "

All right, old fellow," I said complacently ;
^' run downstairs now and get my dinner in
an hour, during which time I wish to be quiet."

Although we had entirely (by my wish)
dropped '' shop " since my illness, Mike pulled
himself together, saluted me, then "right
about turn," " left wheel," and he marched
down the back stairs, humming the tune of —
The drl I left behind me."

CAETHEWIN CASTLE.

If travellers hailing from the north take
train at Gloucester, or those from the south
via Bristol, New Passage, cross the Severn
to Portskewet, and from thence book for

the primitive little village of , they will,

on arriving at their destination, find themselves
within two miles of Carthewin Castle,
a tall turreted castellated building, formerly
the residence of the traditional Macdonald
family of chivalrous renown, who maintained
the fame of their ancestors, and whose descendants,
so late as the present generation?
endeavoured (conjointly with the lamented

Jarl of ) to revive the tournament, in

which, however, they signally failed, very
much to the disappointment of a large
number of young noblemen and squires of
notoriety, who were prepared to throw their
heart, soul, and wealth into the pastime,
and, in a modified form, at the flourish of
clarion and trumpets, array such a goodly
host of knights-errant, and others, as ever
bore lance point fair against the shield and
crest of opposing forces.

Carthewin Castle and manor have long
since passed into other hands ; in 1740 it
was sold by private contract to one Percy
St Clare Townshend, a gentleman then full of
years, and who did not long survive the
purchase. He, however, left issue, and the
present owner (of whom wee shall have to
speak) is the grandson, in direct line ; his
name is Godfrey Townshend. He married
twice ; by his first wife he had one daughter.

Nora — now living ; by his second wife, one
daughter, Gertrude, their ages being twenty-two
and fourteen years respectively.

It will be well, perhaps, for the present,
not to dilate in great minuteness on the
personal attractions of Nora and Gertrude, as
in giving a description in detail, it is quite
possible that one or the other of those fair
daughters of England may unintentionally be
placed slightly in the shade. Suffice it to say
that they are two beautiful girls, — the elder
is stepping on the borders of womanhood,
and already feeling the sunshine of bright and
Happy prospects, also the effect produced by
the gathering of some of life's dark clouds,
that have been and are still hovering over her.
she is of a highly-sensitive disposition, which,
united with remarkable talent and grace of
manner, simple demeanour and unaffected
hoiihomie always make her a special favourite.

The younger is of tender years ; — like a

rosebud, just opening and spreading its tinted
leaves before the warmth of a summer's morn ;
the rude tempest has not yet nipped a leaf;
no cold nights have robbed it of its beauty
and fragrance ; it is yet under culture, unfolding
more and more, advancing step by
step, by careful manipulation, to maturity.
Who will pluck it ? — nourish it when gathered,
and protect it from the wild blast of the
world ? Echo answers — Who ?

Of the virtues of these twain — " bloom and
bud " — let silence for once be the characteristic
feature, until events, past, present, and
future, are recorded, — words spoken in love
and anger are revealed ; and actions, which
speak louder than any words, leave their sure
and certain mark behind ; then, and not until
then, will the reader have a clear perception
of the love, charity, virtue, and shortcomings
of the two half-sisters, Nora and Gertrude.

Just one passing tribute to the memory of

Nora's mother. She was a lady horn and
bred ; of the most refined taste ; endowed
with inestimable virtues ; of a gentle and forbearing
disposition, and a mind susceptible of
the most elevated and generous impressions,
with a pious and sensitive heart. She loved
her husband with all the tenderness of her
fond nature ; her hopes were centred in her
only child, who was the pride of her life ; and
last, but not least, in the strictest sense of the
word, she loved her neighbour. But a black
east wind, " many and many a year ago,"
chilled the parent flower ; the keen blast
withered the stalk, killing the root ; it
drooped, and bent its head submissively to
the Divine will ; the leaves fell one by one,
but they left a fragrance behind that will
hang around the scenes of her loving memory,
— the little offshoot, with its blossom,
was separated from the standard. That
blossom is Nora, the heroine of our tale.

Mr Townshend remained single for seven
years; but when his child began to grow up,
his stringent resolution as to celibacy relaxed
by degrees, and he ultimately became enamoured
of a lady in Cumberland, one Julia
Kodway, daughter of a rich banker, to whom
he was married, it is said, with some precipitation.
Her jointure being large, she brought
increased wealth to coffers already well filled,
and in course of time presented her husband
with a daughter, of idiom we have already
spoken.

There is nothing particular to be said, byway
of preliminary, of Godfrey .Townshend,
except that he is deserving the appellation
commonly given, of being

"A fine old English gentleman.
One of the olden time,"

a kind-hearted, genial, easy-going country
squire, with eight thousand broad acres surrounding
his noble domain. He has been

a thorough fox-hunting man in his early
days, and always ignored "doing" the lanes,
when rattling good fences had to be negotiated.
He rode clever Irish horses, that could
top " exorbitant walls and big fences in a
banking country in fine form and fashion ; he
was a capital shot, and, what is more, a keen
sportsman ; and, in his day, a steady bat and
good oar. He entertained his friends hospitably,
and always relished the society of men
dio spoke the truth, lived correctly ; and
who hated anything approaching humbug.
His manners were refined and courteous.
Through life he had mingled with the world
in all its facial attractions, and felt its
pleasures, excitement, and dangers. He was
never known to suffer his steward to put the
*' screw," so to speak, upon any of his poorer
tenants. If, from accident, or through any
unforeseen circumstance, they couldn't, with a
long family, make a "do" of it, he came personally

to the rescue, found the rusty nail
that was choking the mill, extracted it, repaired
the internal arrangements, oiled the
wheels, set the mill again in motion, and
made many hearts glad. He was a staunch
friend to the poor widow, — a prop to the
fatherless, — a refuge for the oppressed ; his
friendship lasting, and his counsel sought for
and valued. Such, in the abstract, is the
character of Nora's father. Whether it was
sound judgment to venture upon a second
marriage, and thus mix the family of children,
or, in other words, the "brood," is a matter
which will probably be disclosed in the forthcoming
pages ; though one must not disregard
the old aphorism and philosophical household
words, that " all things that happen are for
the best." This, however, requires qualifying,
and to which should be added, — Provided
we endeavour to do what is right.

The trees are in leaf, the shrubs are in
flower, and the birds are in song : it is the
middle of May. The green slopes in the
home park, stretching away for two or three
miles, intersected here and there with a wide
drive or footpath, are covered with rich pasturage.
The silent deer, in small herds, are
dotted about over the land ; at the sound of
noise, or any unusual sight, they lightly
tread, and with a jaunty air move slowly
and majestically on, following the stag; as the
noise increases, or the strange object draws
near, they bound away together, and fly up
over the iceland, like "chaff" before the wind."

Carthewin Castle stands on a promontory
half way up the park ; it is surrounded by
a wide terrace, and approached by three
lodge entrances of the most remote architecture,
and from the south side, through an
avenue of cedars of Lebanon ; on the northern
boundary, at some distance, are rocks,

precipices, brakes, and thickets, which terminate
in a wild mountainous country, knee
deep in gorse and heather, with here aud
there a well-trodden path or rugged defile.

The sun rises with great glory over the
vast domain, and throws his brilliant rays
into the east rooms of Carthewin Castle long
before the inmates are stirring; • higher and
higher he rises over the giant elms and oaks
in the park, throwing gaunt shadows on the
green sward beneath, where the deer are
nipping off the young grass, which is bathed
in dew, and the fawns are gaily sporting
with each other in the early sunshine.

The notes of the blackbird and thrush are
heard almost in every direction. The cry
of the curlew sounds in the distance, and
the lambs are careering on the green knolls.
The pretty swallow is skimming overhead,
and with graceful sweep, scoops the air, now
poised, as it were, high up, then fluttering

in a promiscuous kind of way, and darting
on all sides, he is soon out of sight ; others
are homeward bound, industriously engaged
in making endless journeys to some favourite
spot, where suitable building materials are to
be found for the erection of their granite-like
dwellings. What lessons of industry they
teach ! how cruel to destroy their little homesteads,
those exquisite pieces of architecture
and fruits of so much labour.

Later in the day, in the quaint old library
of Carthewin Castle were seated the lord of
the manor and his consort. The former was
taking a cursory glance at the contents of
some dusty book he had found on the top
range ; but now and then he paused, and ina
careless kind of way turned over the leaves,
not reading a single line. A person of quick
discernment would arrive at the conclusion
that his attention was much divided — in
other words, that he was considerably lost

in thought. His spouse was seated on a
low lounging chair, with several rich velvet
cushions pillowed luxuriously at her back,
and her feet were resting on an embroidered
footstool, by the side of which were curled
up two French poodle dogs (tres hands),
their tiny heads resting on their paws, whilst
their round, limpid black eyes took in every
movement in the room with considerable
accuracy ; dogs, no doubt, think unutterable
things sometimes, and not unfrequently carry
out their thoughts by way of sympathy or
otherwise.

Mrs Townshend was busily engaged " casting
on" some wool knitting; her attention, too,
was divided. She was trying to count the
stitches in a restless manner, but for the life
of her she could not arrive at a satisfactory
conclusion.

Things are come now to a pretty pass,
upon my word," said Mrs Townshend, trying

m.

another count, and drawing herself up with
an elevated demeanour.

Poodle number one wagged his tail
approvingly.

Can't you make it right, Julia ? " said
her husband, carelessly looking over his gold
spectacles.

I am not speaking of my work, Godfrey."

What, then, love ? " affectionately.

Your daughter, sir."

Our daughter, you mean, dear," significantly.


Indeed, I do not ; I have never taken
upon myself that immense responsibility,
Mr T.; and at my time of life, and delicate
state of health, it is hardly likely that I am
going to try the experiment at this juncture."

Juncture ! — what juncture ? "

Climax, if you prefer it," continued Mrs
Townshend, trying another count.

Climax !— AVhat climax ? "

Fatality, then — anything you like," snappishly.


Fatality ! Good heavens ! Julia, what
do—"

Oh yes, of course, you pretend not to
comprehend my meaning, Godfrey ; very
convenient sometimes."

I don't, upon my soul. I — "

Hush, Mr T. I wish you would not
be so fond of talking so lightly about your
soul. We cannot have a little rational conversation
together on domestic matters without
your introducing, in the most frivolous
manner, that invisible part of you."

"Now, don't put yourself in a pet, dear.
You know it makes you cough and ill for
days. I will endeavour for the future to
keep my soul to myself," said Mr Towns-end,
smiling ; " but tell me, what about this
'juncture,' 'climax,' and 'fatality?"

Have you seen your daughter this morning;



? " said Mrs Town send, at the same time
winding off some wool with great rapidity.

'' I have not had that pleasure yet," replied
Mr Townshend. ** I am afraid she is
seriously indisposed ; indeed, I know the
announcement of the death of poor Snowdon
has been a crushing blow to her."

'' Crushing fiddlestick ! " interrupted Mrs
Townshend. " Crushing blow, indeed ! "

In the midst of it all," continued Godfrey,
" I feel for Nora with all my heart ;
and if I had ever dreamt of young Snowdon
turning out such a noble and brave fellow
on the battlefield, I would never have withheld
my sanction to their marriage ; he should
have had Nora, he should, ujDon my so — "

*' There you are again, with your soul," interrupted
Mrs Townshend warmly; *' fie upon you!"
Pardon me, Julia, I feel strongly in this
matter, and therefore, perhaps, speak somewhat
hastily."

VOL. I. I

'' And indiscreetly, Godfrey."

Probably I do ; but you must make
allowances for a father's feelings."

Yes, Godfrey," replied Mrs Townshend,
with evident signs of temper, " and there are
very considerable allowances to be made fora
mother s feelings ; but that, of course, does
not for a moment occur to you."

Julia," said Mr Townshend, taking off his
spectacles, and slipping them leisurely into a
tortoiseshell case, which he closed with some
emphasis, " let us, as man and wife, reason
together. Difficulties have, no doubt, been
created through a little indiscretion on the
part of Nora ; but to ^ err is human,' and the
very best of us fall short of the landmarks
that are placed for our guidance. Her present
sorrow, the cup of which is running
over, is known only to her poor heart : it
has sprung up in a brief season ; her sensitive
nature has yielded to the withering blow,

struck by a mighty hand. Let us go, clear,
to the rescue ; like the father who met his
prodigal son, let us, as far as we can, endeavour
to bind up the broken heart, first
of all removing the worm that is preying
upon it."

*' But she absolutely refuses to come near
us, Godfrey, — locks herself in her boudoir,
and weill see none of the household but her
maid, who, in all matters, is ridiculously
reticent : it is simply monstrous ! "

The bird, Julia, that is wounded will
naturally flutter and limp away to the first
hedgerow, and will there conceal the damage
it has received, suffering in loneliness, while
its life-blood is slowly ebbing away."

It is no use talking," replied Mrs Towns-end
; "I have not common patience with
Nora. First of all she had no rio-ht, without
our sanction, to form an attachment with a
young man of such small pretensions, and one

who was not, strictly speaking, a 'county'
man, — whose pedigree, as far as I can ascertain,
cannot be traced back, with any degree
of certainty, beyond his grandfather ; and
his mother's antecedents, judging from what
I heard the other day at Lady Bole's, are
very questionable indeed. To think that your
Nora — the lovely and accomplished Nora, as
you designate her — should have so far descended
in the scale of society as to clara
our name by the introduction of a person
of somewhat obscure origin into our circle,
is really most provoking and heartrending."

Not likely in your case," said Mr Towns-end,
sotto voce.

Did you speak, Mr T. ? "

''No, dear, at least nothing of importance,"
was the meek rejoinder.

I don't relish that mumbling to yourself,
Godfrey : that vague way you have of
apostrophising words is most objectionable ;

I prefer hearing in a loud and audible voice
what you have to say ; in short, I positively
detest such smothering of language ; it is not
kind to keep from me anything that is in
your heart."

Years ago, Julia, I gave you all that
was there. You then thought that an exchange
of hearts, so to speak, would not be
altogether amiss. You promised to be a fond
mother to my Nora ; she was to be your
child, as well as mine. Her every reasonable
desire you undertook to grant ; her education
to superintend ; her general training
to cultivate ; and, in fine, to launch the
motherless child in the world, as an
ornament to society. How far you have
hinted up to those solemn promises, you best
know."

I have been a good wife to you, Godfrey,
and a good mother to our daughter Gertrude,"
said Mrs Townshend, aspiring to tears,

in which piece of performance, both poodles
contributed and sympathised immensely.

You have been, I grant, fond and true,"
continued Mr Townshend, " and I trust I know
how to value a heart that is, and has been,
wholly mine. I am not unmindful, Julia, of
all your goodness, or insensible of my debt
of gratitude ; and if there have been any
shortcomings on your part in the attention
which I reasonably looked for as due to
Nora, it is partly counterbalanced by your
unbounded and undying love for our daughter
Gertrude ; but," continued Mr Townshend,
walking over to his wife, and placing his
hand affectionately on her shoulder, " remember,
Julia, in the chancel of yonder
church, under that white marble monument
which we look upon every Sal)batb, there
lies the mother of my Nora, the fond parent
who adored her child, — who clung to the
little offshoot even in the agony of death, —

entwined her infant hands around her neck,
and then, with eyes beaming with love and
admiration for her suckling, she handed the
charge upon trust to me, with these words, —
Take her, thine owen, Godfrey. God in His
benignity has considered it wise to separate
the branch from the tree : it is, however, only
for a short time ; the germ will not die, it
will quicken again ; the sap will sjDriug up ;
and we, I trust, shall be reunited ! but in
the interim that may be accorded you and
our beloved offspring, for the affection you
bear me, for the vows you plighted, religiously
discharge your promise, by the careful
culture of our beloved daughter ; and Godfrey,
dear, let me implore you, whilst your
paternal roof shelters our child, the object
of my most earnest solicitation, whilst you
temper your love with the seeds of indulgence
and your correction with duty, sow them,
Godfrey, by way of example, in good ground,

that our daughter, as she grows into womanhood,
may see the fruits of your work, and
reap a rich reward from them. Above all,
be " Firm as a Eock ! " ' Those," continued
Mr Townshend, in a solemn voice, " where
my lamented and ever-beloved wife's last
Avoids," and burying his massive head in
both hands, he left the room.

OUR HEROINE.

*^ She is far from the land where her young hero sleeps,
And lovers around her are sighing ;
But coldly she turns from their gaze, and weeps,
For her heart in his grave is lying.

She sings the wild songs of her dear native plains,

Every note which he loved awaking ;
Ah ! little they think who delight in her strains.

How the heart of the minstrel is breaking.

He had lived for his love, for his country he died.
These were all that to life had entwined him ;

'Nov soon shall the tears of his country be dried,
"Nor long will his love stay behind him."

Floors.

Spring, in all its beauty, has now fully
appeared. The dark and russet - brown
branches of the oak, elm, and ash have
put on their summer clothing ; the buds
have unfolded into leaf ; the orchards and

kitchen gardens are gay with the richest
blossoms, which, at every rude gust of wind,
throw off a shower of variegated leaves which
cumber the ground ; privet and common
hedgerows are thickly set ; holly berries,
that have fed so many birds through a
dreary winter, have now well - niofh disappeared
; ivy berries have changed colour,
and are ripening fast ; large pink and white
May trees stand boldly forth, here and
there, and seem to vie with each other for
supremacy. There are old feelings, old associations,
happy reminiscences of our childhood
entwined, as it were, around the
branches of those May trees. Perhaps we
have sported under their shadow ; have
climbed to their limbs and summit, at the
cost of many a severe scratch and tumble \
have culled from the hard-wooded branches
pretty bits for a mother, sister, or lover ;
and we have enjoyed their sweet fragrance

in the o-loamino; of a summer's eve, when
the gentle breeze carried with it an odorous
perfume, which spoke its own language,
denoting the time of year, the bright and
happy season, opening in all its loveliness
and elegance before us !

The birds, too, with their wild, delicious
notes, pour forth brilliant renderings of sweet
summer's honor, answering; each other from
the lilac bush to the orchard, the orchard
to the meadow, the meadow to the shrubbery,
the shrubbery to the park, where the high
notes of our beautiful songster, the thrush,
as he lifts his little beak towards heaven,
arrests the traveller's attention, awakening
the soul of the lover of nature to a keen
sense of the supreme work of the Creator,
as he listens and enjoys the amenity of the
wild songs of the birds, — admires the gay
clothing of the trees, — the rich verdure on
which he is treading, — the ultramarine vault

above, with its silvery clouds floating silently
overhead ; and the broad, glassy trout stream
beneath, on the bosom of which majestically
sail before the wind the lady of the lake
and her consort, those beautiful white
swans, decked out in the richest of plumage.
All this is lovely to behold : such
sounds are charming; to the ear ; such sights
delightful to the eye, and food for the mind.
It wants no enthusiastic soaring of the
imagination to contemplate this supreme
work : it is before us in all its glorious
reality ; and one cannot but pity the unfortunate
individual whose soul falls short of
realising its splendour !

It was a delightful evenings, with such
surroundings as described, that a beautiful
girl, draped in the deepest crape, sauntered
along the banks of the glassy lake. The
young May moon, with pale-faced crescent,
faintly beamed on the dusky form that glided

noiselessly across the sward ; the birds were
singing their dulce domus, ever so sweetly;
the lambs in the meadow vere skipping
blithely round their mothers, whose long
fleeces of wooL denoted the approaching
season for shearing.

But who is this beautiful girl in black,
with the pensive countenance, pallid face,
and golden hair flowing over her crape
shoulders, gazing so abstractedly on the
shadows of the huge trees, as they swayed
to and fro ? It is Nora, the heiress of
Carthewin Castle. Draw closer, friendly
reader, nearer and nearer to her heart and
thoughts. She is lonely and sad, for —

Her heart for her minstrel is breaking."

"Happy couple," soliloquised Nora, as her
eyes dreamily followed the swans, dio gracefully
breasted the stream towards her, stretching
forth their crane-like necks in the hope

of receiving the usual broken biscuit from
her gentle hand. " Happiness itself'" said
she ; " would that I could take at this moment
such spotless plumage as thine, and
glide away with you twain on these peaceful
waters, and so get rid of the tearing
pains of anguish I am enduring. It seems
but yesterday, dear birds, that my lamented
Percy enticingly stretched forth his hand to
feed you. Little did I think that the ' crumbs
of comfort ' which you eagerly took were to
be his last offering. Oft in the summer's
eve, in the gloaming, have we traversed these
paths together. It was here, by this cooling
stream, we plighted our love ; it was here
we invoked Heaven to grant us our desire,
and make us one. The dark clouds parted
in the firmament, the sun smiled upon us,
the atmosphere cleared, the summer looked
gay, the birds were in song, and oh, how
happy we were ! But the new moon came,

and with it dense clouds ; and then I walked
these banks alone — my noble boy, my beloved
, and yet not my , went to

the wars ; darkness truly has set in on the
early morn of my life, on the spring-tide
of my womanhood, and left me sad and
desolate."

Desolate ! " said a deep-toned voice,
that seemed to echo through the colonnade
of trees, " desolate ! dost say, girl ? " continued
the lord of the soil, who had crept
lip unobserved ; '' come, come, I'll have none
of this ; desolation is unknown whilst the
owner of Carthewin Castle and his fair
daughters' voices can ring in the hall of
our forefathers ; come, come, Nora, throw
dull sorrow away, tear the veil of grief
from thy sad heart."

My beloved father," sobbed Nora, " my
heart will surely break."

Your mind, my child, can be read on

your brow. I know all about your trouble,
Nora, and from my very soul I sympathise
with you, because I feel that I have helped
to bring it about, by allowing Snowdon to
go to the Crimea ; but have courage, child,
have courage."

You don't know all about my trouble,
dear father, and it is impossible for you to
sympathise with me, utterly impossible. I
must bear that grief to myself: it is of my
own seeking. The thunderbolt has struck
the child of disobedience, and the lightning
of God's vengeance has rent my heart ia
twain."

That is precisely what He does, Nora,
to the children of disobedience, to humble
them before He binds up the broken heart
again," said Mr Townshend, gently placing
his arm around his sobbing child's neck.

'* My own dear father," gasped Nora,
resting her head on his broad manly breast.

and raising her liquid blue eyes full in his
face in the most pitiful manner,

'come, come, my daughter, what ails
thee ? Have done, have done, or thy
mother's spirit will come from her grave tous."


Hush, dear father," said the trembling
girl, timidly looking around in all directions,
speak that name beneath the breath ; I
have offered an indignity to her memory ; I
have not adhered to her written injunctions,
that letter containing a stream of never-endings
love. Her affectionate warnings her
anxiety for me, has been ignored ; all of
which I should have treasured up in my
mind as a beacon wherein I could find
shelter when no other counsel was near.
Oh, how richly do I deserve the pain and
sorrow which I now endure ! Had you
listened to my earnest pleadings, father, 1 — "

"Be calm, my daughter, be calm; it is

VOL. I. K

never too late to mend. Your voice, your
language, your very look denote reparation.
The fountain of your heart is flowing in the
right direction. I breathe more freely. I
have you still, my own dear child, by my
side, unsullied, untouched by the rough
hand of time, and in all your youthful
simplicity. Look into my face, show me
those features where the reflex of thy
lamented mother is portrayed in all its
grace and beauty."

Nora tore herself from her father's embrace,
stepped from him two or three paces, pressed
back with both hands the waving wealth of
hair that had fallen promiscuously over her
face, and said vehemently, —

'' I cannot, I dare not receive another
caress until I have told you all ; yes, all,
dear father. T am undeserving the confidence
you reposed in me ; I must hasten from your
presence until a suitable opportunity presents

itself for disclosing to you, sir, how far I have
forfeited your love and esteem."

There was a bewildering pause. A shudder
ran through the bulky frame of Godfrey
Townshend as the last words fell from the
quivering lips of his daughter. The shrill,
well-remembered voice of his termagant wife
rang out the words, as it were, 'juncture!"
''' climax ! " and " fatality ! " The blood rushed
to his face and back ag-ain to his heart with

o

mighty force, leaving a countenance deadly
pale. The soft rays from the young moon fell
faintly on father and child as they stood
gazing tearfully at each other in distressing
silence.

Nora was about to fly from her parentis
presence, when he intercepted her, and drawing
himself up with an elevated demeanour,
he pointed to the turreted castle and battlements
that stood out in bold relief under
the woodland, and said, —

Listen to me, Nora, listen to what I have
to say. Mark well, and inwardly digest. In
yonder walls, from time out of mind, our
people have lived and brought up their children
with credit and distinction ; not one dark
spot has ever stained the escutcheon of our
family ; and if a blemish is to sully our
fair name, then truly your father's grey hairs
will go down in sorrow to the grave. Speak,
child, I implore you."

Nora appeared riveted to the earth, and,,
with hands clasped, was lost in silent reverie.
She listened to the solemn words of her
father ; she was a witness to his disturbed
state of mind. She realised her position in
all its intensity, and felt that the "juncture,"
the "climax," and the "fatality" had arrived
with a vengeance. Now, or never, must the
secret be disclosed.

There was another long pause. Not a
sound could be heard except the delicious

notes of the black-cap) warbler on a distant
bough of a tree, who poured forth
from his little throat a shower of diamonds
that echoed through the valley of the
park.

Say on, Nora, say on ; I am impatient ;
I am prepared for the worst," said Mr Towns-end,
tattooing the ground with his foot in
an excited state.

Lord give me strength ! " murmured Nora,
placing her hand upon her heart, which was
violently beating. " Father, dear father, I —
I— I—"

I what ? " shouted Mr Townshend.

I what ? " again interrupted her father
vehemently.

I — I am a widow ! "
*' A widow ! Nora ? " dubiously.
"Yes, sir, a widow!" impressively.
^'Oh! is that all?"

All ? I do not comprehend you," rejoined
Nora, sobbing loudly.

•' Only married ? " continued Mr Towns-end,
evidently greatly relieved.

'* Married, sir, and yet not married," timidly

Legally, Nora ? "

legally."

Where ? " said Mr Townshend eagerly.

At the registrar's office."

When ? " anxiously.

Ten minutes before, we parted for ever""

God be praised it is no worse ! " ejaculated
Mr Townshend. " I comprehend it all."

Then — father and child were locked in
each other's arms.

The weight of trouble that had pressed so-heavily
on Nora's heart is lifted ; the secret
known only to herself and a lady friend is
disclosed. The fond parent whose heart
thumped so loudly against the pale face of

the '' Virgin Widow," has not, in the hour
of intense grief, turned from her with the
ominous word — Begone ! He is still the tree
of her life, so to speak, whose branches she
can cling to, whose shelter she can seek when
the blasts of the world drive her to look for
repose under its boughs ; or when the clouds
of adversity, sickness, or sorrow shall gather
around her, she can climb to its centre, and
nestle there as in days of yore !

Poor Nora, she had no mother to counsel
her ! — no fond parent, at that sure and certain
age of life when the young mind, green as
the twig just cut, can be bent to any
shape ; like the ivy that promiscuously forces
its way through an aperture in the wall, can
be trained by a careful hand and watchful
eye in the way it should go. Though Nora's
governess, a lady of rank and high attainments,
had brought her acquirements to bear upon
her pupil, yet the fringe only of her gentle

nature could be touched, the heart coukl not
be reached, and its inmost recesses searched
and purified by any other person with the
same precision and results as by the tender
manipulation of a mother, who can, in most
cases, mysteriously define the way her offspring
should go ; whilst a stranger, however
estimable, talented, virtuous, and loving she
may be, will fall considerably short of the mark.
So it was with the Honourable Mrs Mac-kenzie,
who had the conduct of Nora's advancement.
This lady seemed charged with
determination, and with the important duty
of educating her pupil to opera pitch ; orin
other words, to the highest pressure. It
was study, study, from Monday morning
until Saturday night, — the same old story
over and over again, with little intermission
or recreation. At last it became exceedingly
painful: the constant 'cramming" surfeited
Nora's young mind. As the morning dawned,

instead of bringing with it sunshine, happiness,
health, and spirits, the days seemed
irksome. She longed for other scenes, for
the sunny side of life, for a heart she could
sall her own, and her flesh cried aloud for
rescue.

When Nora was seven years of age, her
stepmother cast her anchor within the walls
of Carthewin Castle, — a lady, be it said, of
considerable talent and personal attractions,
who was always looked upon in Cumberland
as a thorough "blue stocking," and who, atone
time, was likely to remain true to
her maiden name for the rest of her days.
Though on her preferment, and in the prime
of her life, none of her relations or friends
ever dreamt of her (using a homely phrase)
settling " in life. Her nephews and nieces
adored their maiden Aunt Julia : she was
such a "jolly good soul." They never went
to see her without a ten-pound note was

quietly slipped into some pocket, which was
conveniently left open for the occasion ; or
the folds of the dress so arranged that there
was not much difficulty in finding a safe
repository for " sovereign remedies ! "

Apropos of marriage, ladies not unfrequently
change their minds, and they have,
undoubtedly, a right so to do. At one time,
Julia did not altogether believe in men : she
considered them vain, selfish creatures, and
abominable deceivers ; there was only one
dear soul on the face of the earth, in her
estimation, who was worth a " rag," and that
was her father, Cuthbert Rodway, old " Ready
Money," as the people used in vulgar parlance
to call him, a kind of sobriquet which
he rather liked than otherwise, for he was
never known to be annoyed with anyone
for taking such familiarity. But the said
father could not live for ever, and in the
usual course of events, in the fluxion of

time, he departed this life, full of years,
greatly respected, and much beloved ! at
least history so records it on piles of black-edged
cards, which were freely circulated at
the time. Legatees too, placed their hands
significantly on their hearts, and spoke in
the highest and most endearing terms of
the lamented Mr E., and the "reward that
was surely his. " There was another class,
too, that spoke freely and unreservedly, some
disappointed "loafers," whose pockets are
turned inside out, as an emblem of dissatisfaction
; this very " select circle " are rather
sceptical as to the whereabouts or repose of
the soul of old " Ready Money ; " they shake
their heads ominously, and express their
views freely that things would, no doubt,
have been better with the late proprietor of
Otway Hall," had he remembered them
in a corner of his will !

Nevertheless Cuthbert Otway was a good

than in the eyes of the world ! He was a
fond parent, an excellent friend, and good
to the poor ; therefore, peace to his memory !

At the death of her father, Julia, with a
quarter of a million of the current coin of
the realm, began to revolve in her mind
as to whether there could not be found in
the county a thoroughly reliable, presentable,
and, in every sense, advantageous
suitor. So Julia, in courses of time, just
at that period when it was " becoming," the
correct thing," and the usual formalities
had been scrupulously complied with, by
placing aside deep crape for half mourning,
and finally slight ditto, she availed herself
of the approaching Easter season, and again
reappeared in the most recherche costume,
direct from the distinguished firm of Misses
Eobealls, of Regent Street, who had obtained
great notoriety for close fit, ease, and elegance
! Customers had only to apply to



that firm, personally, and they could be re-juvenile
to a most extraordinary extent.
Money being no object, Julia (prompted
inwardly by a desire to cut the acquaintance
of celibacy at the earliest possible
moment consistent with the conventionalities
of society) went " in " extensively for
the counterfeit method of being made
*' beautiful for ever," and it was not the
fault of the house of the Misses Robealls
if the brilliant and artful display of costume
they brought to bear, did not earn
for Julia Otway considerable reputation asa
lady of beauty and leading fashion !

In time, garden parties were organised with
gorgeous display, great variety of entertainment,
and marked selection of " circle,"
which, it is needless to add, were all
county." A new archery club was instituted,
to be held periodically in the
picturesque grounds of Otway Hall, under

the immediate control of Julia, at which
place assembled all the " big " people (so-called)
of the neighbourhood.

At one of these garden entertainments or
greensward soirees given by Julia Rodway,
appeared the lord of the manor of Carthewin,
and his lovely little daughter Nora, who
was then a child of seven years. It is
needless to add that the handsome widower
and the late rich banker's daughter thought
it advisable to form an alliance. The lady
claimed for herself great attainments, and
her wealth was undisputed ; added to which,
she was in possession of her fair share of
other adornments in the way of good looks ;
but had Godfrey Townshend, like a far-seeing
and sensible man (as he had the credit of
being), sent some good and pious sister to
spend just one month with his fiancee
they never would have married. Those
sisters ! how clever they are ! How they can

pry, dive, dig, uproot, sift, and weed ; indeed,
where a brother's interest and future happiness
are concerned, no one so fit as a sister
to discover weak points, facial disposition,
and evil tempers, thereby not unfrequently
arresting at an early stage, matches which
may prove to be unequal, unsound, ill-assorted,
and fraught with many dangerous
breakers ahead.

I GET INTO SAD DISGRACE.

Oup^ surgeon managed, during rather an easy
time at headquarters, to gallop over to the form.
He pronounced me to be very much better,
though by no means (in camp phraseology)
fit," except to go home on leave, for I
had a deep sabre wound that refused to heal
to the doctor's satisfaction, much less to my
own ; nevertheless I felt that I was picking
up my " crumbs," and that my general
health was mending apace, notwithstanding
the doctors disagreed on the subject. Such
being the present position of matters, I most
reluctantly gave up all hope and thought of
going again to the front, and have determined,
at the earliest possible moment consistent

with prudence, to bid good-day to
my Russian landlady and her precious surroundings,
and embark with Curtis and " Eob
Roy " for England, to my father's seat in
Gloucestershire.

But there is just the slightest attraction
here, a magnetic influence, which I can only
express by saying that —

"I feel just here, but I cannot tell how."

Now I have intimated before in this narrative
that such a thing as loving a girl,
other than with a brotherly love for my
sister, never for one moment entered my
head, neither have I the vanity to suppose
that any of England's fair daughters ever
cared a "straw" for me; notwithstanding, I
felt an inclination to sojourn for a while in
these quarters. I also had a desire to get
home, and by way of an attempt to make
a clean breast of it, I will simply say, —

VOL. I. L

That picture !

That brunette !

It is a trite saying that "a wheel cannot
run in two ruts, nor a man keep opposite
sets of intimates ; " but how true it is
that expectation will darken to disappointment,
disappointment to anxiety, anxiety
to despair, but the renewal of hope will
generally revive all, and give consolation,
and the man who abides with shrinking
firmness the bitterest blasts that fall upon
our poor frail nature, may indeed be said
to have achieved much worth possessing.

Around my neck is suspended in a circle
of gold (or, as poor Percy called it, the
*' Shadow in the Gold") a likeness of certainly
one of the fairest and most beautiful
girls that eyes ever looked upon. If it bea
faithful representation of Nora, she must
be intensely exquisite, and her graceful
figure the most charming to behold. One

is carried back to some words in the Irish
melodies, —

'^ my Norah Crena dear,

My mild, my bashful Norah Crena ;
Beauty lies in woman's eyes,

But love in yours, my Norah Crena."

"How extraordinary," I soliloquise, "that
my friend Percy should have invested me
with this miniature portrait, — decorated me
with all that was dear to him, requesting
me to see the original, — to deliver that Bible,
the marker too, and to repeat his dying
words. Then again, that sealed letter, addressed
to " Nora," Cart he win Castle, South
Wales, which he charged me to post immediately
after his death. Heaven and the dear
girl only know its contents. I shall have
little peace of mind until I visit Carthewin
Castle and discharge the duty entrusted tome.
How vividly I call to remembrance
those long chats with Percy, which not

unfrequently ran into the small hours of the
morning, the prevailing conversation being
Nora, Nora ; if we branched oft' to other
subjects, back he came with increased vehemence
to the old and favourite story. Somehow
I seldom if ever grew tired of listening:
I loved the brave fellow, and felt an increasing
pleasure in loving anything that he
loved, disliking whatever he disliked, and
opposing whatever he opposed. I had confidence
in him, and he in me. Long travel,
and the closest intimacy, brought out the
reflex of our hearts, and exhibited to each
other, as in a mirror, that which was passing
within ; — also the nature, value, and durability
of our friendship, which time had cemented
more and more closely.

Yes, as soon as my health will admit, I
must contrive to see this lovely girl, — look,
if only but once, upon the idol of my
lamented friend. The little creature haunts

me day and night ; yea, verily, when my
eyes were closed in sleep she appeared tome
in a dream more like an angel in heaven,
with tears of affection for her slaughtered
lover coursing one another down her pallid
-cheeks. She came, and, as it were, leant over
me, spoke not, but looked unutterable things,
and then smiled sadly — that smile I — combed
her long wealth of hair between her tiny
fingers, pointed to the book-marker and then
to heaven, showed me a wound in her breast,
and vanished from my bedside.
That dream !

'* In slumbers, I prythee, how is it,
That souls are oft taking the air,
And paying each other a visit,

Whilst bodies are Heaven knows where?"

But, God willing, I will see the original,
and, if I can help, in the most disinterested
way, to heal the wound that must be preying
on Nora's heart, I will religiously do so.

Whatever may have been the inward
thoughts and wishes (to say nothing of the
outward manifestations) of my dear friend,
as to my future, in connection with his Nora,
it is idle to conjecture. I will offer no indignity
to his memory by seeking his beloved
w^itli any feelings charged with aught
save the purest friendship ; to do otherwise
would be to draw upon her affection by
discounting the materials I have at my
command. No ; I will dismiss from my
thoughts all that is past, and leave the
future in whig-her hands. It shall never be
recorded that Oliver Grey made " capital "
out of the dying words of his friend.

The path of sorrow, aucl that path alone.
Leads to the land where sorrow is unknown."

As yet I have disclosed but a brief outline
of the thoughts that are passing through my
mind. Vw yonder woods, leaning on the arm
of her servant, is Constance Templar, taking

an airing. She has so far recovered as to
admit of venturing for a walk, but she has
hardly strength to drag her jjoor bones in
the sunshine, and is manifestly making desperate
efforts to pull through the tedious illness
from which she has barely escaped with
her life. How I long to run up and put my
hand forth to help her, and enjoy a tete-d-tcte,
but the little creature has o-rown of late so
confoundedly reserved that it is with difficulty
I can induce her to hold more than a
few minutes' conversation with me ; she invariably
has some important letter to write,
which will admit of no delay, or the cold
blast from the mountain is too much for
her — she must return to the firm ; and down
go those black eyelashes fringed on her cheeks
as she glides from my presence, leaving me
simply " nowhere ! " But never was there a
more benevolent heart, or a more simple, sincere
disposition. Dear girl ! how she watched over

me, how earnestly she attended to my wants,
which she considered to be her duty ; but it
was all for the " red cross." Now her work
is at an end, — she is pining for other scenes
of labour : I, of course, am nothing to her.
She may be nothing to me, but there are
springs of the heart that will not easily dry
up ; and so long as Constance Templar lives,
so long I shall consider that I owe a debt of
gratitude not sufficiently repaid. I feel that
were I like many other men in disposition,
I should be very quickly " coquetting " with
her, and serenading the little brunette in the
most endearing; manner. But there is nothing;
of the sort about me ; in other words, I am
lamentably deficient of self-esteem, and the
peculiar material requisite for such gushing
display, and should certainly break down at
the last moment and let another fellow pluck
the flower, whilst I am dreamily enjoying
its fragrance in the distance !

And thus I continued thinking as I sauntered
into the back room, where, when night
comes on, I rest my weary bones on a rickety
bedstead. Not being in the best of spirits
to-day, I paced my dormitory in mute reverie,
and flattened my nose against one of the
panes of glass, contemplated the active scene
that was going on in the farmyard over which
my room looks. There was a Muscovy duck
and another quarrelling over their liquor (as
Washington Irving has it) ; judging from the
oscillation of their tails, they where in high
dudgeon. Yes, there was the old sow, too, that
had for the last month been sounding the
loud timbrel early and late under my window,
and filling my room with villainous perfumes,
wafted from her bijou residence. Looking over
a dilapidated stone fence was the " wall-eyed"
roan cob that carried the proprietor of the farm
twice a day round the estate. By no means
the least interesting; scene was the serenading

of the sultan, that game cock. Verily
he is a nobleman, every inch of him. His
pedigree is considered good ; he is a paragon
of a bird ; just watch him. See his wealth
of plumage ; note his politeness, as with elevated
head he approaches his consorts, who,
manifestly, look up to and place the most
absolute confidence in his spurs and protection
! Like a knight-errant of old, who leda
roguish, roving kind of life, wooed and won
many a fair lady by his lance and spurs.
Should our feathered sultan find a termagant
wife in his harem, how gently he chides her,
and how soon he makes it up again by
manipulating endless little acts of kindness
in his own way. See how anxious he is over
their bodily welfare, how particular not to
allow his wives to quarrel with one another.
He is obviously philosopher enough to know
that " a house divided against itself cannot
stand." What valuable lessons they teach

us ! AVatch them as they come out of their
tiny shells ; follow them from incubation to
maturity ; note their actions ; see their indulgent
mothers training their young in the
way they should go !

I take one, just one, more hasty look at
"Dandy Jim and Caroline" in the happy
farmyard, make my own deductions, light my
pipe, and limp downstairs humming, —

"What's all this dull town to me, Robin's not here?"

On my return home, an hour later, I found
Curtis in a disturbed state of mind as to my
absence, and very anxious to make some proposal,
though I wished him, for the moment
at Halifax or anywhere else, having important
letters to prepare for the mail-bag, notably to
my beloved mother, and, " dear sir."

If you please, yer honour," said my valet,
at the same time drawings his hand down his

partly bald cranium, " what do ye say this
morning to a nice little drive through the
forest ? I am just thinking it may do ye a
tiny bit of good, — take yer 'mention away from
other things, and ye just won't be brooding
over matters."

What can we drive, Curtis ? " I interrupted.


Never fear, yer honour, I have made
arrangements with the farmer, dio is going
to lend us the wall-eyed roan colt in the
orchard ; and sure then, I have borrowed a
rare o-ood sledge for the occasion."

How about my wounds, Curtis, over those
atrocious roads ? " I reply, shrugging my
shoulder.

"Oh, bother the wounds, master ; ye have
had sharper work than that, sure enough,
many and many a time, over a tarnation
rougher country than this, and no mistake."

All right, Curtis, order dinner at six ; be

sure you see that the trappings of the harness
are sound, breeching and kicking-strap
adjusted, and put the reins in the lower bar ;
one does not quite know what may happen
with these " high flying," strange Eussian
horses; besides, the brute may be touched
with the same complaint as the Czar, and
may have a great horror of us English just
now, and kick over the traces."

'' Sure I never heard ye discourse about
the risks of horse flesh before in my life ; it
cannot be Captain Oliver Grey that is speaking
about danger signals, bolts, bars, and such
like."

To tell you the truth, Curtis," I replied,
**I am not altogether in the best of 'fiddle
physically, or otherwise, to deal with strange
tempers, and raw colts are ticklish ' customers.'
"

*' Never fear, master, I'll manage it all to
yer intire satisfaction, and make a fine bed

of roses for ye to lie on. But ye will excuse
my being so bold, wouldn't ye just like,
by way of company, to ask that lonely
little black-eyed daisy darling to go with.
ye for a drive ? "

"Well done, Curtis; capital thought, my
good fellow, capital thought ; notwithstanding,
I don't think she'll o;o."

Bless ye, master, ye just don't know
her as well as I do. A little bird came one
evening, and sang me the prettiest song I
hiver heard in my life : it was all about the
daisy darling and yer very own self, sure."

About me ! " I anxiously replied ; " wheaton
earth do you mean, Curtis ? "

Faith then, I like to unbutton the collar
of my coat, and spake out freely all at once,
whilst I'm about it ; sure then, the little
darling has preserved the pretty Powers that
ye placed on her pillow, dien wee all thought
she was going to live with the cherubim,

and she has tumbled over head and ears in
love with ye, anyhow."

"With me!" I exclaimed; "humbug,
Curtis ! "

I never heard it called by that name before,
master, not never."

"Who is your authority?" I asked doubtfully.

Authority, did ye say ? "

You know perfectly well what I mean ;
who told you all this ridiculous nonsense ? "

A devil a bit of nonsense is there in the
daisy darling, and ye may take my word for it''

Who is the little bird, Curtis ? " I ask
playfully.

'^ Sure then, it was a charming little nio-ht-
king-gal, who always sings the Irish melodies
without any ' blarney.' "

It was useless my attempting any further
questions on this head ; nevertheless, Curtis's
gratuitous information caused me to pace the
room in mute and anxious delight.

Did ye tell me to do anything, yer
honour ? " asked my valet, who was intently
eyeing me with some astonishment.

Yes," I replied, somewhat incoherently.
I wish you to ask — yes — of course — I wish
you to — let me see — "

Oh bother ! " said Curtis, sotto voce ; '*' if
I don't just about think that the captain is
going ' off his head,' and is taking another
journey Heaven knows where."

Did ye spake, sir, phase ? "

Yes, Curtis ; execute my order, and let
me know the result as soon as possible."

Faith ye didn't give me any instructions,
master, and that's all the result I can offer."

I felt, for the moment, "small," my attention
being divided, consequent on the new
feature in my life in connection with the
pretty little brunette !

Curtis," I said, " when Miss Templar
returns from her walk, go to her room ;

knock quietly at her door ; give her my
compliments, and ask her if she will do me
the honour of — No, no ; simply say this,
word for word, — ' If you please, miss, the
captain sends his kind regards, and hopes
you are feeling better this morning ; and he
wishes to know if your health will admit of
your taking a little drive this afternoon in
the forest with him.' Now be sure, Curtis,
you let her know that you are going to
accompany us."

Sure, master, wouldn't it be much more
the ' ticket for soup ' if ye went by ourselves.
Yer honour will find me very much
in yer way, and I may be after just hearing
what I didn't ought to."

"I have nothing to say to Miss Templar,
Curtis, but you or anyone else may hear."

Fie upon ye, master ! I'm ashamed of

ye, sure then I am. When I was yer age,

if I had suddenly found myself tucked up by
VOL. I. M

the side of such a splendid polished bit of
stuff' ' as that, sure then my tongue would
Lave been too big for my mouth ; and, by
the holy poker, if I shouldn't a made her
mouth father, anyhow, with the fine choice
things I should have to say about the honeymoon,
— the splendid little home I should take
her to on the Tipperary hills, — the cow and
the fine pig I should buy her, — the tate field
I should till for her, — the bright prospects of
a rising generation, — how good and kind I
should be to her when she was ill, — how we
would oro together to mass every week, and

t)"^ ^^tD

T

confession every new moon, and unburden
our hearts, and get rid of our imperfections,
and start fresh ; and, above all, yer honour,
how I would love her ten times more than
ever when old age crept upon us ; yes, that
I would, sure ! "

During this gratuitous peroration, I turned
my head away to conceal my mirth. I did

not dare openly to portray my feelings, or
I should have run the risk of having, sooner
or later, too much of a good thing, and
was obliged to exercise a little finesse in
steering clear of what we should say, in
ordinary parlance, " too much familiarity
breeds contempt."

Attend to my instructions, Curtis ; and
let me know what Miss Templar says."

Exactly, captain. Compliments, ye said,
didn't ye ? That's the only thing I'm bothered
over," replied Curtis, scratching his
head, a curious habit which he had when in
doubt.

No. I told you as plainly as words can
express, — kind regards ; now be careful
and — "

Oh, kind regards," rejoined Curtis, much
perplexed.

Yes ; now be off with you, for I wish
to write my letters."

*'By way of variety, master, may I be
so bold as to take upon myself the sensibility
of giving yer love instead of that
cold-parted thing compliments ? "

'' No, you idiot ! " I replied, with considerable
emphasis, ** do as I tell you, and,.
for Heaven's sake, don't make a hash of it ! "

But I'd make yer honour the very best
Irish stew of it, if I only had the chance ;
sure the little daisy darling don't want any
of yer compliments, regards, or such like :
she wouldn't know what to do with such,
trifling matters ; but if ye send her something
worth having, that she can pickle up close to
her little loving heart, sure then ye never will
regret it, anyhow ! "

Having impressed Curtis with my full
determination in the matter, and given him
a quiet hint that the sooner he made tracks
the better I should be pleased, I plumped
down in my dimity arm-chair, filled my

meerschaum, and sent endless circles and
.semi-circles of smoke here, there, and everywhere,
and with each puff, many anxious
thoughts as to the future.

The contents of the mail-bag received in
the morning filled me with alarm, for the
health of my beloved mother was anything
lout cheering ; my favourite sister's approaching
marriage is spoken of; and reference is
made to my brother Stanley's " wild oats,"
also father's acute gout, and how much he is
hopped with it. There is, however, a " crumb
of comfort " in dear sir's letter, by way of a
draft for two hundred pounds, and a refreshing
Pes. at the close, viz., "More to follow, if
absolutely needed." The word "absolutely"
^as scored, and in parentheses.

I felt much concerned about my mother,
whose health of late has been sadly declining.
How I long for home, to bask once more in
the sunshine of her countenance, — listen to her

loving voice, and a repetition of the sound
and valuable precedents she endeavoured to
establish in my young mind. Bless her ! how
far I have profited by them, or how I shall
bring her earnest injunctions to bear on my
future career, will be made manifest hereafter.
Alas ! many good resolutions have been made
and broken in a day, — duties neglected, —
promises unfulfilled, — vows plighted, — contracts
bearing a solemn seal registered in a.
volume of a book," and attested by a mighty
witness, have been disregarded, torn asunder,,
and trampled, so to speak, under foot. What
poor creatures we are ! How the mind wanders,
wavers, twists, and turns from sound
ground to unsound ; from deep waters to
shallow ; from pure streams to murky and
stagnant pools ; from sunshine to darkness ;
and from hope to despair. Notwithstanding
all such varieties, and continual oscillations
of our nature, there is a landmark straight

ahead, standing out in bold relief. The
look-out man " can see it plainly ; it only
requires a well-adjusted compass, a little
nicety of navigation, to reach the haven. If
the good mariner run his bark before the
wind, select the proper inlet, and keep clear
of dangerous points that are jutting out, he
will cast anchor safely under lofty battlements
; but if he tack with long reaches, the
chances are that he will " fetch " on a rock, and
his frail ship will break up in sight of home.

The preceding are some of the meditations
which not unfrequently creep into one's mind
just at that uncertain hour of twilight, in the
gloaming, when the shades of evening fall
upon us, and press back the light of heaven.
Thoughts of one's childhood, one's happy
home, and one's beloved mother, are pleasant
themes to dwell upon. May I continue
to appreciate her goodness, and treasure up
in my heart the sound maxims she inculcated,

and imitate as nearly as I can her
exemplary life and excellence ; but all things
depend upon an infinite and incomprehensible
bounty. Without it nothing can be effected
or obtained, and, after it is obtained, be of
any value, force, or power, without the same
concurring grace.

Still revolving in my mind endless and
very anxious thoughts respecting the little
brunette, — the odd speech of my eccentric
servant, I again take from under my waistcoat
the " Shadow in the Gold." Somehow I
treasure it more than anything I possess.
There is a history attached to the portrait,
making it of inestimable value to me. Though
it contain but the shadow, the reality or substance
may ultimately prove a gem of priceless
worth. Though I never looked upon
that sweet face and graceful figure, yet there
is something in the placid countenance that

speaks volumes to my soul — yes, peaceful asa
summer's dream.

Gardez, Oliver Grey," I soliloquised ;
gardez I Remember the trite maxim, that
things done in haste are often repented of at
leisure. Be watchful over your thoughts,
your words, your actions ; and be discreet ;
take not a single step without mature consideration
; and, above all things, don't by
any indirect means work upon the feelings
of the girl who sacrificed so much for your
benefit, and then leave her in doubt, perplexity,
and grief.

I knocked out the ashes of my meerschaum,
and deposited the jewel of a picture in its old
quarters, when I perceived Curtis very leisurely
coming down the gravel path, brushing
off some snow from his regulation boots, and
finally wiping his mouth with the back of his
hand. He proceeded up the winding stairs,
but his step was much slower than usual; he

stopped on the landing ; there was an ominous
silence, suggestive of much. He was evidently
thinking. I know him of old, and I intuitively
felt there was something ''up."

'* Come in. Well, Curtis, what does Miss-templar
say ? " I asked again, pulling away
vigorously at my meerschaum, which I had
refilled for the occasion, and blowing a cloud
of smoke across the room.

"No, yer honour," dismally.

"No! What else?"

Sure, captain, she must have been
uncommon short of breath, for that's
all the blessed word I could get out of
her."

Nonsense, man. Miss Templar never sent
such a message ; I'll answer for that," pulling
again at my pipe.

'* Faith I don't call it a message at all, at
all ; the mess of a word isn't worth looking
at a minute."

"Tell me, Curtis, what is the meaning of
all this ? "

"Maybe, master, the little daisy darling
has had a bit of a nightmare, and a d — 1 a
bit does she want the dose repeated with a
day mare, for maybe she doesn't like the
look of the high-flying colt in the orchard,
and maybe she — "

A gentle tap at the door.

It is Miss Templar's maid, with a note for
Captain Oliver Grey.

At the sight of the telegraphy, I felt my
heart make one solitary bound. I eagerly
tore open the envelope, and read as follows : —

Dear Captain Grey, — The message your
servant brought, has filled me with amazement
! and I cannot but think there must
be some mistake, — either that you intended
it for someone else, or that your valet has
become suddenly demented. If your request

has been interpreted correctly, I have yet to
learn that the duties of my calling, which
necessitated my attending you in your sickness,
are to be construed into anything other
than the faithful discharge of a responsibility
I religiously undertook, — a vocation entrusted
to me, and which has always filled me with
delight ; but, happily, I know how to protect
my spotless name from anything like tarnish,
and it is well I am so fortified, seeing; in
what an atmosphere one occasionally breathes.
Yours faithfully, Constance Templar."

*' Sure then, captain, ye are getting some
more thumping red potatoes in yer face, anyhow
; what is the matter with ye ? "

"Matter with me, you rascal," I said,
dropping the letter on the table with positive
fright ; *' tell me instantly what message you
delivered to the lady ! "

"What lady, yer honour?"

Why, Miss Templar."

Oh ! the daisy darling, ye mean ; sure
then, I gave her a very tidy message, and
one which I thought would make her little
mouth father."

What did you say, you old idiot % " I
gasped.

'* I said, yer honour, what ye told me."

Will you swear you did not add toit?"


*' My memory isn't over clear, master,
just now I know I told her what ye
told me."

Your memory isn't clear, is it ? Now,
look here, Curtis," I said, tucking up the
sleeves of my coat, " much as I like you
when you are sensible, and weak as I am,.
if you don't refresh your memory instanter,
I'll break every bone 'in your body."

Sure, then, ye will be after a-saying
me like the thais on the cross, and sure I

am not deserving so much attention from
ye, anyhow."

*' Out with it, you old fool," I interrupted,
pretending to make a grab at his collar, " or
I'll send you to the front with the forlorn
hope to be shot, as sure as eggs are eggs."

Well, yer honour," replied Curtis, with
great sang avoid, " as sure as there is bread
in nine loaves, I'll be after telling ye the
whole epistle and gospel, chapter and verse ;
I)ut ye must take yer hand from my collar,
and release my throat, or the Irish blood
that my respected father and mother gave
me may go from simmering to boiling, and
maybe it will boil over and scald one of
the very best of creatures that ever lived,
and Mike Curtis, of Tipperary renown, forget
himself, whilst the red-hot poker is stirring
up live coal under him."

The poor fellow was right. In my hasty
temper I had sadly forgotten myself, and I

am sure my friendly reader will make considerable
allowance for impetuosity, seeing
how choleric he made me. I released my
hold of his throat, folded my arms, and
walked to the other end of the room,
saying, —

I am sorry, Curtis, for displaying so
much temper ; but come, let us be rational,
give me word for word the message you
delivered to Miss Templar."

Yell, yer honour, now that ye have
anchored your tongue, and put into the
cradle your weak, spider-like arms, I'll just
about accommodate ye. I saw the daisy
darling hanging on the arm of her maid in
the woods yonder, limping along like a duck
with a wounded leg. Well, I says to myself,
Mike, now is yer time, lad, to deliver the
message, so I took the pipe that I was
smoking out of my mouth, and cleared my
throat of all obstructions, prepared myself

generally for the occasion, and walked up to
the stile, where I saw the darling, very weak,
yer honour, so I just said to her, in my very
softest manner, — ' Maybe ye'll let me lift ye
over, my dear ; ' and she tightened herself
straight as a poplar tree, and asked me if
I knew to whom I was speaking, and her
bright eyes flashed like fire at me ; so I
thought, captain, I had made a bit of a mistake
somewhere, and that I would rectify it
at the earliest moment, so I says, ' God be
praised, it is the good nurse of the Eed
Cross I am speaking to, my own dear
master s benefactor ; and, please, miss, the
captain sent his compliments and very best
love to — ' "

D — " I said vehemently.

What did ye say, master ? Fie upon
ye ! fie upon ye ! and not a father-confessor
in the neighbourhood either."

'ego on," I say, "you—"

Ye bother me so, I don't know quite
where I left off. Oh, now, I recollect. I
said, — ' Master sends his compliments and
very best love, and to ask ye to go for a
drive with him into the forest.' So she be-fan
to tighten herself ao^ain like a steel ramrod,
and two scarlet runners climbed into her
cheeks ; and the maid that was with her
caught the same complaint, tossing her head
about also ; and they both looked ' daggers '
at me."

Well," I gasped ; '' what did she say ? "

She shrugged her shoulders, threw her
eyes aloft like a dying duck in a thunderstorm,
lifted her hands like Father O'Connor
when he gives us a blessing, and said,
Go back to yer master, and tell him,
No.' "

I don't want to hear any more, Curtis,

that is quite enough," I replied, pacing up

and down the room.

VOL. I. N

** Sure, then, she never gave me another
word to tell ye, anyhow."

I should think not ; you have finished
it, and can now retire as soon as you like."

Curtis instantly made tracks, and I am
left again to my own reflections to heal,
by some potent means, and by prompt
action, the wound that my thick - headed
nondescript has innocently given to the
feelings of a lady to whom I am so
much indebted.

I light my pipe again, as the best thing
to do at this juncture, the narcotic fumes
of which generally have a tendency to enable
me to solve a difficult problem. I re-read
Miss Templar's caustic letter with anything
lout complacency : her high dudgeon is conspicuous
in every line. I arrive at this
conclusion, and am more than ever convinced
that the representative of the " Eed
Cross" is one of the risfht sort.

I Extricate MYSELF FROM THE
DIFFICULTY.

I REVOLVED in my mind the whole difficulty
in which I was placed with the Red Cross
nurse, through the stupidity of my servant
Curtis, and determined to go down and have
a personal interview with Miss Templar, in
the hope of putting matters straight. It may
appear somewhat odd, during the last few
weeks, that Miss Templar and I have not
met ; but it is explained by the fact of her
persistently keeping so much to her room,
and for some reason showing manifest symptoms
of aversion to encounter me. If at anytime
the brunette, en route to the garden,
heard my step in the hall or on the stairs.

she would rush off at the " double " and hide
herself, like a discreet bird in the hedgerow
in a thunder-storm. Being a sensitive man,
and a keen observer, I was alive in a moment
to anything like standoffishness, so in time
I somehow seemed to have caught the same
complaint, and invariably made " tracks "
when I should have gone on. How quick
girls are, as a rule, to observe ; how well
they know when a man is " putting it on ; "
how easily, and with surprising certainty
they discriminate the difference between that
which is facial and that which is real, and
occasionally decipher one's countenance, and
arrive at a fairly correct conclusion as to
whether one's actions are really the outcome
of good and honest thoughts or not.

Yes, I must see Miss Templar without
further delay. Apostrophising a word or
two — something like 'bother!" "Great nuisance
! " — I make an attempt to hum a merry

tune, but lamentably failed. Probably Miss
Templar may think that I have some sinister
motive. How I hate motives. I mean those
ignominious chess-like moves that people not
unfrequently take in their journey through
this life, checkmating their neighbour, thereby
putting in pawn, so to speak, what should
otherwise be our noblest thoughts and best
actions, which sometimes we are never in
^ position to redeem.

Having made up my mind as to the course
I should pursue, I walked down the backstairs
to Miss Templar's room, via the larder.
Pausing at the latter, I took out the " Shadow
in the Gold," had a hasty peep at the jewel it
contained, and said within myself, — " Gardez,
Oliver ; gardez ! "

I made a full stop at Miss Templar's door.
good Lord ! how my heart thumped. I could
face a storm of shot and shell from the russian
batteries without flinching or turning a

hair ; but the thought of the brunette's-
caustic remarks in her letter took all the
'' fight " completely out of me, and the wind.
out of my sails.

I knocked at the door ; oh, such a humble
knock ! — so gentle — just such as one would
probably give at a dentist's establishment
when requiring his services, and yet at the
same time not requiring them, if I may so express
it, heartily hoping that Messrs Dragon
& Tearum may be anywhere but at home.
Who hasn't felt at some time of his life a
sense of false relief, when told by an apple-faced
youth in bright buttons that his master
could not be seen until ten o'clock the following
morning. Anyway, the writer owns
to that cowardly feeling. But I digress.

'come in."

Miss Templar was intently reading the
Times; and on my entering, thinking,
probably it was the domestic, she did not

trouble to look up, neither did her maid,
who sat by her side, vigorously plying her
needle, though evidently in deep thought.
I cleared my throat — the usual preliminary
of a nervous man — Miss Templar then calmly
lifted her eyes with the greatest sangfroid.
What an absence of excitement, I thought.
As for the maid, she did something spasmodic,
as though an apparition had appeared from
heaven knows where. Her young mistress
looked at her with astonishment, and drawing
herself up with a lofty air, said, —
Has anything happened, Clara ? "
The captain, miss," was the meek rejoinder,
pointing to me.

The girl was about to leave the room ; but
I detected Miss Templar making a vigorous
motion for her to remain, and the maid subsided
again into her low-backed chair, settling down
to her work with increased industry, every now
and again looking askance at her mistress.

"How do you do, Captain Grey?" said
the Red Cross nurse, recovering herself, and
walking across the room to meet me, holding
out her thin white hand in the most
friendly manner ; and, with some enthusiasm,
continued, " I am so glad to see that your
health is rapidly mending. Pray take a
chair."

It is very kind of you to say so, Miss
Templar," I replied ; " and I am greatly indebted
for all the attention you paid this
poor wounded, fever - stricken soldier on
the—"

" Pardon my interrupting you. Captain
Grey. I make a point of never receiving
any thanks or acknowledgment for services
rendered, — duties which have been entrusted
to me, and which I endeavoured to discharge
unostentatiously and creditably. Should I
not, I trust my patients will report me at
headquarters. One thing is certain, I exercise

the same amount of zeal, and feel as
much interest in a drummer or gunner as
I should in a general."

In returning you my thanks, Miss Templar,
I am simply discharging the obligations
I owe to your kind favour."

It is there," rejoined Miss Templar, " that
you fall into error. Pray believe me sincere
when I assure you that you need not for
one moment consider yourself under any
obligation for services rendered by me. If
you have very strong feelings of gratitude
which you naturally would experience
in common with all convalescents — you
know exactly where to make acknowledgments
for endless mercies vouchsafed unto
you," at the same time pointing her finger
towards heaven, and throwing her beautiful
dark hazel eyes, with the longest of lashes,
full in my face.

Those eyes !

I feel, Miss Templar, that I have
yet another duty to perform, and were I
not to discharge it, I should be wanting in
courtesy and sincerity ; therefore, notwithstanding
your protest, I thank you most
heartily for all your goodness and your
untiring energy day and night, when my
life seemed to hang upon a thread, and
quivered in the balance, so to speak, between
this world and the next."

"You will, I am sure. Captain Grey,
pardon my observation, but permit me to
say that I think you are mistaken. At
the very worst time of your illness you
were a very long way from the entrance to
that long valley to which you refer. There
is no such thing as chance in these matters.
True, you were brought apparently to death's
door, but the portal was closed. The great
God of all creation works out the map of
our lives on sound and good principles of

His own ; we knows nothing of the measure
or scale, but on the chart there are clearly
laid down warnings of sunken rocks, headlands,
and other indications of danger and
obstruction ; lighthouses and light ships too
are jotted down to guide the mariner on his
perilous voyage. Your illness. Captain Grey,
depend upon it, was one of those blessings
which come to us in disguise ; the result
will, no doubt, make itself clearly manifest
in due course, and you may rejoice some
day, when you look back on the hours of
anguish you spent in this lonely farm-houses
and contemplate with infinite joy the warning
voice that reached you when your frail bark
was tossing about in mid - channel and in
imminent peril of foundering."

"Blue stocking, for a hundred," I thought.

Yes, Miss Templar," I stammered, " I
shall contemplate with infinite gratitude how
I have been rescued, and the mercies vouchsafed

to me by the Giver of all good gifts ;
and I shall also remember, with feelings of
inexpressible joy, the oar you so religiously
pulled in helping my frail boat to land
safely," — at the same time wishing myself
anywhere else but in front of the brunette,
who was cutting me nicely into ribbons, orin
other words, paddling me very considerably
out of my depth ; I therefore thought
it best to turn the subject, by continuing, —
'^ I must ask you. Miss Templar, to kindly
excuse my paying you a visit at this early
hour."

Pray don't offer any apology. Captain
Grey," replied the Eed Cross nurse, playing
with a bunch of charms attached to her
waistband, and evidently anticipating what
was about to follow.

''I was going to observe, Miss Templar,
that my visit here at this unreasonable hour
has a threefold object."

Miss Templar bent her head inquiringly,
and smiled complacently.

First and foremost, in spite of your protest,
to thank you for your goodness to mein
sickness. Secondly, I come to say how
rejoiced I am to find that kind Providence
has permitted you to be restored to health ;
and lastly, to put right one of the most
absurd blunders that was ever made by a
stupid servant."

"Oh — exactly — yes; I presume you refer to
your Irish nondescript," replied Miss Templar,
considerably scrutinising my features for some
indication of what may be passing in my
mind.

You could not think me guilty, Miss
Templar, of offering you an indignity ? "

Pardon me. Captain Grey, my knowledge
of you, and all your brave, noble, and
generous actions in the camp and on the
field, is such that I am quite sure you could

not be guilty of offering an indignity to anyone,
much less to a lonely woman in a foreign
country. I must confess I wrote you that
letter somewhat in haste : it was the outcome
of a disposition made extremely irritable by
protracted illness ; but looking at my position,
the course I adopted was the only one
open to me — don't you think so ? "

"Well, to tell you the truth, Miss Templar,
'^ I replied, evidently warming to my
work, " I certainly thought you rather
down ' upon me. The contents of your
letter greatly alarmed me, and it was very
nearly the means of having my servant
pitched out of the window, for, in my haste,
I was that way inclined ; and I think I should
have enforced the extreme measure, but the
fellow, just as I was about to commence
operations, told me word for word what
transpired ; and it is needless for me to say
that a great portion of the thoughtless message

he gave you as coming from me was
purely his own invention, and may be attributed
to a freedom of speech which the
lower class of Irishmen not unfrequently indulge
in."

Good, kind Curtis," said Miss Templar.
'' I have a very clear perception of the susceptibilities
of Irishmen, having mixed so
much with them in hospitals. Your servant
is, undoubtedly, an oddity ; but I have a
great respect for the man. Upon further
reflection, do you not think that I acted
perfectly right in sending you that letter ? "

Well, Miss Templar, you will pardon my
saying so, but I am afraid we must agree to
differ."

Ah, I see," said Miss Templar, pinking
up very considerably, " you are sceptical ;
you pause over admitting the prudence of
the stern epistle I wrote you. AVell, well,
let us reason together for a few moments,

and consider, as far as we can, how matters
stand, and how far I acted prudently. We
will suppose, by way of illustration, and
bringing the case nearer to your domestic
circle, that you had a sister, — one you dearly
loved, one in whom you placed the most
implicit confidence, one who had given up
the gaieties of life for a season, for such an
arena as you find me at this moment engaged
in, and in which I have been working (I
hope zealously) for some considerable time ;
or we will imagine, by way of striking, perhaps,
more closely home, you were affianced
to a young lady whose inclination led her to
pursue the vocation I have the honour and
privilege of following ; and we will further
suppose that your fiancee, in the discharge
of the duties entrusted to her, had
to attend to some dashing wounded officer
through a long and trying illness ; he recovers,
but during the progress of recovery

he is stimulated, either by a sense of gratitude
or otherwise, to make overtures beyond
the bounds of courtesy, limits of custom, orin
other words, conventionalities of society.
The meek-hearted, guileless sister, or fiancee ^
as the case may be, at first mistakes the
approaches of her convalescent : her mind
may be too pure to have anything like a
clear perception of the motive in the background
; until the man, emboldened by apparent
advantages he has obtained, tears a
portion of the veil from his heart, so to speak,
and exposes some of the dark mixture with
which it is charged ! What then would you
say of your sister, or coming bride, were she
to resent a familiarity with all the force of
her chaste nature ? "

"What should I say. Miss Templar," I
replied, with some degree of earnestness ;
"why, just one word."

May I ask what that one word would
VOL. I.

be ? " rejoined the brunette, tattooing her
little foot impatiently on the floor.
Jewel ! " I replied.

"May such a 'jewel,' Captain Grey, be
yours, and may your daughter, should you
ever have one, reap the benefit of the prisms
that such a lustrous brilliant would reflect."

"The mighty force of your observations,
Miss Templar, admits of no doubt whatever.
Every word you have uttered has conveyed
to my mind a soundness which is the characteristic
feature of a well-trained — "

Suppose we now change the subject to
matters more agreeable," interrupted Miss
Templar, evidently fearing that I was about
to say something immensely " gushing ; " and
I am not quite sure that I was not going
to make a fool of myself, but the presence
of Miss Templar's maid, who was ensconced
in one corner of the room stitching away
like mad, was very provoking.

'* I am rejoiced to see," went on the Ked
Cross nurse, that in the last despatches

sent home by General your services

have been prominently noticed, and in due
season you will undoubtedly have your reward
for the distinction so nobly and dearly earned."

All scraps, Miss Templar, most thankfully
received," I replied ; " but, alas ! there
were brave comrades far more deserving than
myself, now ' slumbering on earth's cold pillow,'
who, had they been spared, would have
shared those honours with me."

Yes," replied Constance Templar, " such
are the fortunes and misfortunes of those engaged
in this horrible struggle, when hosts
against hosts are arrayed in a mighty conflict,
such as we are now experiencing ; but
to those fond relations who have lost a member
of their family in the discharge of his
duty, it must be eminently consoling to know
that he distinguished himself"

At this juncture I should have brought our
tete-astute to a close, but Miss Templar gave
me another of her extraordinary searching-looks,
at the same time pointing to the locket
which I had stupidly managed in my excitement
to drag out of my pocket, and which
was dangling at the side of my waistcoat.

You will lose your pretty picture, if you
don't take care," said Miss Templar significantly.


Good Lord ! how I coloured. Miss Templar
noticed my embarrassment, and the
rubicund tint. I am quite sure she made
a mental note of it, for one of her subdued
smiles lit up her beautiful face, and there was
a playfulness about her manner, somewhat
suggestive of pleasure, * but which I could
not at the moment exactly decipher. The
precious locket had flown open, and exposed
the ivory painting of Nora.

I hope. Captain Grey," said Miss Templar,

with the sweetest expression, " I shall
not appear inquisitive if I ask whether that
picture in the locket is the reflex of the
lady who so much occupied your delirious
thoughts during; those long; nights I watched
over you ? "

Up went the colour to my face and neck
again, and I stammered out something to
the effect that " I was not aware of having
exhibited any manifestations respecting the
young lady whose image that portrait represented,
particularly as I never had the
pleasure of seeing her."

Never seen her ? " dubiously.

Never, Miss Templar, on my honour,"
vehemently.

Surely, then, you saw her plainly in
your imagination, and conversed freely and
tenderly with her," jocosely.

'' Good heavens ! " I said, very sotto voce,
but recovering myself, and, with well-forced

sang-froid, I continued, — ''' What on earth I
could have to say about a person I never
saw, is certainly a riddle to me, and I am
rather curious to know."

Miss Templar folded her long white fingers
within each other, sceptically shook that wonderfully
powerful and thoughtful head of
hers, and said, —

'' A greater riddle to me to see a gentleman
wearing a locket containing the likeness
of a lady he has never seen ; but I trust I
do not appear the least inquisitive."

*' Not at all, Miss Templar, not at all ; there
is an old saying, ' In for a penny, in for a
pound,' and now that we are by degrees
getting up the ladder, perhaps you will obligingly
tell me, miss " (I laid the stress on
miss), " what I had to say about the lady in
question ? "

*' No, indeed ! I would much rather not,"
replied the Ked Cross nurse decisively ; " those

matters are profound secrets which nurses
never disclose."

Well, just the name, please ? " I asked
playfully.

*' No ! " seriously, and down went those
long; lashes on her cheeks.

'^ You say ' No,' Miss Templar. I presume
that that is but a moiety of the name. iVs we
have got as far as ' No,' suppose I add the
other half, and submit ' ra,' will that answer to
the name, or come anywhere near the mark ? "

'* Precisely, Captain Grey, and most ingeniously
you have arrived at the truth ; yet
you tell me (though not without signs of
embarrassment) that you have never seen
the lady ; how very curious ! "

Well, it may seem strange, nevertheless
it is an absolute fact. I shall shortly be
homeward bound. Miss Templar, and hope,
on my arrival, to have that pleasure accorded
me, and surrender to the lady this picture,

which was given to me by my lamented
friend and comrade-informs, Lieutenant Percival
Snowdon, on his deathbed."

Good heavens ! you don't speak it ! " exclaimed
Miss Templar. " What ! one of the
heroes of ' Slaughter Hill ' ? — the brave Snowdon
of so much notoriety ? "

Even so, Miss Templar."

Do let me look at it, Captain Grey, — just
one look at that face."

I detached the locket from my chain and
handed it to Constance Templar, with, I am
ashamed to say, a trembling hand.

She gazed at it for several moments in
silence, and then said sorrowfully, —

** Yes, it is, it is — how much like her most
excellent father. There are old associations
connected with my people and the Towns-ends
of Carthewin Castle, also the Roadway
of Rodway Hall, in Cumberland, that fill me
with intense emotion."

'how extraordinary," I replied, 'that
you should have known Miss Townshend."

Miss Templar gave me another searching
look, as she replied, —

I cannot say I know much of Nora. I
met her at Otway Hall many years since.
Poor girl ! her horizon was that of romance,
and she has paid the penalty ; yes, poor girl,
I have no doubt that is a correct picture,

Thoiigli very small,

Much like her shadow on the wall.

Ah me ! " went on Miss Templar, with slow
articulation, "in so short a time, too — a
bride — a wife — a widow, and — "

"A mother," I gasped, hardly knowing
what I said.

'• Oh, dear no," replied Miss Templar, evidently
pitying my ignorance, and showing
no disposition to enlighten me on a subject
which I would have given one of my eyes,

so to speak, at that moment to have been
made acquainted with.

I am obliged, Miss Templar, for according
me this prolonged interview. I trust I
have not bored you ? "

Not at all, Captain Grey, your visit has
afforded me infinite pleasure, and I shall
look forward to meeting you in dear old
England, when we shall be able to compare
notes, and look back with feelings of intense
gratitude for being rescued from a furious
fever that assailed us both ; by then, I hope
you will have recovered from the wounds
that I know are still troubling you."

God bless and protect you for all your
kindness," I replied, and taking her hand
in mine, I respectfully bent low and pressed
it to my lips.

*show unemotional she is," I thought, as-with
measured steps I left the room.

Our HEROINE'S STEP-SISTER.

Pensive and sad the maiden wandered
Down by the deep translucent stream ;

Where her lover so oft had pondered
O'er his happy young life's dream.

There, beneath the old oak spreading

His wealth of branches of verdant green,

Knelt the lonely maiden, shedding
Tears where her gallant boy had been.

Immediately after Nora most sensational
interview with her father was over, she
hastened home, went straight to her boudoir,
where, throwing herself on her knees, she
thanked the Giver of all good gifts for his
tender mercy vouchsafed to her.

How rejoiced she was when she found that

her only earthly prop was still by her side
to lean upon, — that he had not turned from,
rejected, and despised her in the hour of
crushing sorrow. She reviewed every word
that had been uttered down by the lake, —
lier father's temporary agony as he listened
to the disclosure of her secret, — his amiability
and forbearance ; one event after another
kept crowding in rapid succession upon her
bewildered brain ; but the prevailing grief
was still preying upon her heart ; uppermost
it would rise in spite of everything, and
pour forth breathing of lamentation into her
very soul.

Who has not, at some period of life, had
a trouble that outweighed every other, which
seemed to wrestle and grapple with every
pleasure that presented itself to the mind,
and in one fell swoop cleared the brain of
all joy and happiness ? But hope, that sweet
restorer, that everlasting harbinger of peace,

comes to the rescue, and we live in repose
again for a brief season. Alas ! how brief ;
for too frequently the same vexatious trouble
is ready at any moment to spring on the
first gleam of happiness that forces its way
into our hearts, throwing a damp, dark mantle
over the bright prospects of our lives !

There is only one way of disposing of
the evil consequences attending the frequent
presence of such an enemy, and that is, to
strike a well-tempered axe at the root of the
evil. It has been said by a learned man,
that the true physician first purifies the blood
before he attacks the tumour ; so, in like
manner, let us endeavour to be careful of the
trashy seed that we are constantly (and very
often innocently) dropping into our nature,
from which the rankest weeds and the bitterest
herbs spring up, and in their wild growth
entangle our limbs, ensnare our bodies, entrap
our minds, engross and warp our best

thoughts, and cumber our pathway through
life with serious obstacles.

In our heroine's case, no one is more alive
to the fact of the false step she has taken,
and for which disobedience and violation of
her parents' injunctions she is now bowed
down with sorrow In an uno-guarded moment
she yielded to the earnest solicitation
of her lamented lover ; she became his bride
after considerable persuasion ; she precipitated
a clandestine marriage, fearing that her father
and Mrs Townshend (who had threatened her
with a convent life if she persisted in receiving
the attentions of Lieutenant Snowdon)
would take steps, when her lover left
for the Crimea, to separate them for ever.
But Nora's mind was so pure, so free from
guile, that nothing on earth would ever have
induced her to consummate the marriage
until her Percy returned from the war,
and they were reunited openly in Carthewin

church, where her mother's remains are
deposited.

In order that the course of action which
they pursued should not hereafter be subject
to misconstruction, or liable to get tarnished
with suspicion by idle rumours and uncharitable
remarks, it was so arranged that in
the registrar's office they should separate,
and separate they did, alas ! for ever.

Nora sat at her chamber window watching
the rising of the young May moon, which
shed her pale light on the pallid features of
the sorrows-stricken girl as she gazed vacantly
over the noble domain in front of her, and
the long streak of mountainous country that
stretched away in the distance as far as the
eye could reach. The stars sparkled brightly
in the firmament ; the huge sons of the forest,
those majestic oaks, elms, and cedars spreading
their wealth of branches in all directions,
stood out in bold relief, round and about the

park, and threw their long, curiously-shaped
shadows on the greensward beneath, verily
fitting monuments of Nora's illustrious ancestors
; the deer are silently browsing on the
slopes ; the white owl, with his beautiful
plumage, noiselessly pursues his course from
the roof of the thatched barn to the granary,
then round the castle, at intervals passing
the casements, as it were to take an occasional
peep at the fair-haired, lonely girl ; the bat
are flitting here and there ; the whispering
brook that supplies the moat at the base
of the battlements with the pure mountain
stream, speaks its own sweet language as it
falls down precipitous places, carrying with
it pebble after pebble over mimic waterfalls,,
meandering its way through circuitous routes.
Oh what melody! — what peace! — what repose,
to a mind stricken with grief !

Since the death of Nora's lamented husband,
the " Virgin "Widow " sought such

secluded scenes as the manor and its wild
surroundings afforded. From dawn to meridian
she wandered on the banks of the
glassy lake, climbed the rugged defiles of
the mountain, or picked her way through
the entangled underbrush of the coverts and
growth of laurel and seeing, mechanically
appearing at the castle at luncheon time,
eating with haste and apparent relish, and
then to her rounds again until sunset, when
she would get her light guitar, seek her
lily-white swans on the lake, and beneath
the shadow of the umbrageous trees sit down
on the moss-covered bank, and sing —

He's far, far away, o'er the bright silvery cloud,

It is there that his banner is flying j
His body's at rest, with a cloak for his shroud,

On the banks of Crimea it's lying.

The same pale-faced moon that is beaming on me,

O'er the grave of my hero is shining ;
But the voice of thy Nora shall warble to thee,

For the heart of thy lover is dying.
VOL. I. P

Nora thought of all her father's goodness,
— how he promised he would support
her in the hour of trial ; but she was not
so sure of her step-mother, who, she felt
satisfied, would view things in quite a
different light to Mr Townshend. There
would, in all probability, be an everlasting
outstanding grievance, having, by her precipitate
and clandestine marriage, cast a dark
shadow over the prospects of her step-sister.
She knew, alas I too well, that the termagant
lady, having now something to handle,
would use the powerful lever she had at
command to humble her, and thus bring
iibout a scheme for a separation from her
father and her paternal roof. She felt, as
loner as she remained at the castle, there
was nothing left looming in the future but
3-ears of inexorable dulness and detestable
bickering. She knew, too, how particularly
desirous Mrs Townshend was to affiance

lier to her (Mrs T.'s) nephew, Cuthbert
Rodway, a gentleman of moderate fortune,
and J. P., a member of a very old county
family, presentable enough, but he is reported
to be of reckless habits and vicious temper.
It is needless to add that the very sight
of such a man, to a sensitive, chaste girl
like our heroine, was most offensive, and
made her choleric, when she would have
otherwise been gentle and forbearing ; hence
many little family domestic feuds sprang up
when Cuthbert Otway's name was introduced.
It is not, therefore, to be wondered
at that such lugubrious surroundings pressed
heavily, and made sad havoc in the mind of
Nora, driving her to the secluded retreats of
her father's domain, where she could enjoy
undisturbed the amenity of the wild songs
of the birds, — watch the spring flowers unfolding,
day by day, to the season, — gather
some truant bees that wandered far from

home, and got caught in the evening, and,
with her gentle hand, restore them to their
homestead ; and listen to the murmuring
brook telling its little tale, so to speak, of
pleasure and sadness.

As before stated, our pale-faced heroine
sat in her boudoir, looking over the moonlight
scene in silent reverie, meditating on
the past and anticipating the future, when
a gentle knock is heard at her door.

Come in."

Oh, Gertrude, is that you ? " said Nora,
at the same time brushing away some gathering
tears, and hastily folding a letter that
was lying on her lap, in the handwriting of
the late Percival Snowdon, whilst the envelope
disclosed the well-known telegraphy
of Oliver Grey.

Gertrude at first made no reply, but taking
a chair, and placing it close to Nora, sat
down, resting her head on her step-sister's.

shoulder, and entwining her arm round her
neck, said softly, —

Sissy, come, love, come, love, with me ;
you are lonely, you are sad."

Nora, gently pressing her back, and gazing
thoughtfully into her sister's face, said, —

Child, what do you know of my sadness
? What whisperings have reached your
guileless ears, to make you thus feel interested
in the troubled waters of my life ? "

'' You have a papa, have you not ? "

The Lord be praised, I have," responded
sour heroine.

I have a papa, haven't I, Nora ? "

You have, child, and a noble father he is."

Your papa is my papa, is he not, Nora ? "

*' Even so, dear," affectionately.

'* He loves you tenderly, Nora, does he
not?"

With all his soul," responded Nora,
vehemently.

And me ? " asked Gertrude.

With all the force of his good nature.
Yes, Gerty, he loves you as earnestly as he
loves me ; but why all this ? "

Why ? Oh, nothing, at least nothing
very particular. I have only been thinking
a little lately," was the meek rejoinder.

Tell me, Gerty, what have you been
thinking about ? " said Nora, entwining
her snow-white arm round her sister's
waist.

Oh, nothing."

Do say — do tell me," entreatingly.

Gertrude clasped her arms round her
sister's neck, buried her face in her bosom,
and sobbed aloud. Oh those loving, innocent
tears, that flow from the fountain of the inmost
recesses of a fond, childish heart ! What
volumes they speak ! How they open up the
springs of our sluggish nature, and soothe the
drooping spirits !

''I do love you so, Sissy," sobbed Gertrude,
with eyes suffused with tears.

Your words and actions denote your love,
my dear," replied Nora ; '' but, alas ! I have
no tears to shed, — the fount is dry, yes, dry
as hay," at the same time casting a glance at
the letter she held in her hand ; " but go,
dear, go. Your mother may wonder where
you are, and — "

Love me all the more. Sissy, for coming
here to cheer you, I hope."

** But what makes you think I require
cheering ? " continued Nora thoughtfully.

*' Oh, I have heard mamma and papa say
ever so many things about you ; and papa
said, that if things did not alter at once, he
should send you abroad : I think he said to
Uncle George's at Cadiz."

'' And what did Mrs Townshend say to such
a sensible proposition ? " asked Nora, twisting
a bunch of keys rapidly between her fingers.

^^ Oh she—"

A pause.

She what ? " earnestly.

She said it was the very best place for
you to go, to bring you to your senses, and
that the sooner you changed your name to
Otway the better, and that she would be
able to arrange and put matters right with
Cuthbert."

A shudder visibly passed through Nora s
frame as she replied, by way of a ruse, —

*rand would you like me to change my
name, child ? " searching into the very
depths of her sister's countenance, to see
if she had a knowledge of what had taken
place.

Don't ask me such a thing. Sissy. If
you marry that horrid cousin of mine, you
will be leaving me, and — "

And what, love ? " interrupted Nora, with
gentle earnestness.

You will soon be grey," continued
Gertrude.

But I am grey."

"Nay, Sissy, only a tiny fleck, just here.
I never noticed that before last Sunday, at
church, and I then thought it was owing to
the stained glass window. What is the
cause of it, dear Nora, and you so young,
too ? "

'' Your years, dear Gerty, are much too
few ; your loving heart too innocent and
pure, to understand such things. As your
days roll on, they will bring with them, as
^ common result, vanity and vexation of — "

But mamma says," interrupted Gertrude,
"that I am much beyond my years, and that
I know as much as any grown-up woman."

Would you like to be a grown-up woman
? " asked Nora musingly, and evidently
bent upon fathoming the mind of her sister.

"No, indeed, I should not."

'' "Why ? "

"Because grown-up persons half their
time seem to be fretting and troubling about
little things ; and they get sometimes angry
and spiteful ; and they say so many cross
words ; and never seem as happy when they
get up in the morning as they do at dinner,
and all that sort of thing."

"Dear child," soliloquised Nora, '' how true
every word. As the tide flows on, how it
picks up on its way endless weeds. So with
our journey through life — pleasures, griefs,
hopes, fears, success, non-success, care, bereavements,
and crushing blows of various
kinds, all tend to disturb the tranquillity of
the mind, and render us more or less subject
to its influences."

Then j^ou would not like to be a tall
lady, Gertrude ? "

If there is one reason more than another,
Sissy dear, that I should like to jump out of

these short clothes into long, it would be to
get clear of those horrid lessons I have to
learn night after night ; and Miss Reinforce
is so very exacting. Mamma insists on having
me crammed with all kinds of accomplishments.
You don't know how I am worried,
dear, and how my poor head and heart ache
when I o;o to bed at night. Then the first
thing in the morning, before breakfast, I
start with two hours' piano practice of those
everlasting scales, that Monsieur Gardiner
calls •' brilliant runs.' I know I should
greatly prefer a run somewhere else. Then,
after breakfast, one hour at French and German
exercises — oh that horrid German grammar
! — and Markham's France, afterwards
natural history, Magnates Historical Questions,
then Butler s Arithmetical Questions
then singing lessons with that miserable little
red-faced oddity, Signor Paletsky, who sticks
up a mirror on the piano, and I have to adjust

my mouth exactly to his fancy, and try to
smile as I gasp out those horrid do, re, mi,
Ja, sol, la, si, dos, until I am absolutely
ready to faint ; then, in the afternoon, Latin
exercises, the globes, and twice a week dancing
and modern cookery — so you see, dear
Sissy, how I am bothered. But I prefer even
all this rather than be a cross old lady ; for I
do love kind words, and I do love to come
to you, Sissy, you are so gentle — you never
scold ; but lately you have got a little dismal,
and whenever I ask dear mamma why
you don't come downstairs like you used, and
do your pretty wool work, crochet, sing, play
your guitar, and gather sweet flowers for the
tiny vases in the rooms, she says, because you
are upstairs ' moping.' I asked what she
meant, and she replied, nothing particular.
Now, Sissy dear, tell me something about
moping."

Alas ! I know too well, dear one, to what

your mother refers ; and to impart to you
all the dismal that have created the ' mopping
' to which she alludes, would be an act
of indiscretion on my part, and would be
only filling your young mind with bubbles,
empty bubbles, and vanity."

But you know mamma says I am a
woman in reality, though not in years."

'* God forbid, child, that you should be.
Your young days, like the wildflow^ers in
the hedgerows, will soon die away ; the
bloom of your youth will pass fast enough,.
and the thorns as well as the roses will
spring up in clusters around you ; the
beautiful sunshine, the bright morning of
your life, will swiftly fly, and the night
with its dark mantle will — "

*' Oh you dismal Sissy!" interrupted Gertrude,
"you are getting like all the grown-uj)
ladies, only you don't look angry, and you don't
scold one bit. I wish you would, sometimes"'

I could not find the heart to scold you,
dear," interposed Nora, smoothing her hand
down her sister's wealth of hair.

Not if I deserved it ? — why ? "

I could not bear to see such a pretty
face in trouble," said Nora, affectionately
kissing her sister on both cheeks.

Sissy, dear," said Gertrude, " you remember
when we went into North Wales,
to that beautiful estate belonging to Lady
someone, do you not ? You know when we
stopped at the private hotel by the name of
Pwllycrochon (or some such name), in Colwyn T

Yes, dear ; or, as papa jocosely called
it, ' Put-the-clock-on.' "

"And you remember we all went by rail
to Bangor, don't you ? " continued Gertrude.

Perfectly well, dear."

And you recollect we saw — oh, such a
wonderful bridge ; they called it the Menai,
I think?"

"Yes, you are correct," rejoined Nora.

** The bridge was not so high, or nearly
^s Clifton Bridge, at St Vincent's Rocks,
but it was longer, I think."

Very much so," replied Nora thoughtfully,
at the same time wondering at the
child's curious detail.

And we had a carriage and four horses,
and a tipsy postillion, if you remember, and
wee drove to the foot of a wonderfully high
mountain, that went up ever so far into the
clouds ; am I right ? "

We did," replied Nora abstractedly, *' and
most thoroughly enjoyed our visit. The
scenery was beautiful, and the air supremely
invigorating"

"And wee were so happy, were we not,
sissy ? " rejoined Gertrude.

Yes, love, as happy as doves."

There was a long pause at the end of
this colloquy, during which time Gertrude

was making an attempt at biting the back
of one of her nails, a habit which was not
usually hers ; then she continued, archly, —

"Do you remember. Sissy, the name of
that lofty mountain — the highest, I believe,.
in England and Wales ? "

"Very well indeed, Gerty, it was Sno — "

A shudder ran through the frame of Nora.
She saw in a moment that her sister had
ingeniously led up to her own name !

Don't stare so, Sissy, or look so wild ! "
exclaimed Gertrude ; "I know all about it,.
Mrs Snowdon, all about it."

You know all about it ? "

Dear me, yes, everyone in the castle,
servants and all, are aware that you are
married, and that you are a widow."

The ice is broken, then," rejoined Nora.
God be praised, a weight is removed
from my brain. Go, child, go downstairs
and leave me ; I wish to be alone."

One more kiss, Sissy," said Gertrude,
one more — and another. I shall come tomorrow,
shall I not ? I do love you so. I
have a half holiday, let us spend it together
at the waterfall in Barley Wood, all amongst
the beautiful ferns we are so fond of."

Yes, dear Gerty, if we are spared to seethe
morning, and we are well, we will go together,
and enjoy the amenity of the wildflowers
in the valley and coppice : the place
you name is my favourite retreat."

Call me early, won't you, dear Sissy ?
don't forget. Mamma says I am in reality
a little woman 1 "

The door closed, and all was still except
the sound of the receding steps of the lighthearted
girl as she tripped through the
corridor humming a lively tune.

"If one bright gleam of happiness has
been torn from me," soliloquised Nora, "there
are evidences of God's infinite goodness pore

I. Q

traced in that child, who comes, as it were,
as a physician to bind up a broken heart,
to administer to my sick mind some mild
restorative. She possesses a charm which
has a powerful antidote for allaying grief.
The girl, of all others, who, I thought, would
have nursed in her breast bitter feelings, and
opposed me, now comes to my rescue, charged
with the milk of human kindness, and, as it
where, imparts new life.

Thoroughly worn with anxiety and brooding
over the past, present, and the future,
Nora sought the repose she so much needed ;
but her mind was restless, the counteraction
of events brought her brain into more active
play, thus driving sleep from her weary eyes.

As the clock in the old tower of Carthewin
Castle struck the midnight hour, and the
whole of the inmates were supposed to have
forgotten, for a brief season, the things of this
life, Nora's bedroom door was gently ojDcned.

Who's there ? "

No answer.

A fairy-like form glided into the room —
a whisper — a kiss — a question — an answer
a gentle hand turned back the bedclothes,
and Nora and Gertrude nestle in each other's
arms until the faint streak of early dawn
forced its way through the lattice casement,
and the plaint of the cuckoo was heard in
the distance.

TWO ROSES.

In youth how wide the field of hope — in age
how narrow ! "

It is in the middle of July, the sky is filled
with ultramarine blue, scarcely a flying scud
is to be seen ; the lark, poised high in mid-air,
sings joyously ; every living thing is
breathing the sweetness of the fields : the
green wheat - stalks are growing higher,,
stronger, and waving majestically to the soft
breeze of a summer's morning;, and the bright
poppies stand up here and there in the
furrows in gorgeous bloom. The balmy odour
from the broad beans, honeysuckle, and clematis
perfume the air with ambrosial scents ;.

the wild rose, the traditional little friend,
attracts the traveller's attention, as the queen
of the lane with her host of off-shoots and
tiny buds peep out invitingly from sweet
briar branches and, as it were, tell of their
joyous spring days of old. The bees are
industriously plying their vocation as they
vigorously search flower - cup, blossom, and
leaf for malicious food ; many are returning
loaded with pollen, homeward bound. Those
rascally poachers, the crows, are cawing and
swarming on the arable land, ploughing up
with destructive beaks the soil, whilst others
ware perched high on the top of surrounding
trees keeping watch — how different are the
habits of the rooks ! The mill-stream flows
slowly and silently on until it reaches the
ponderous machine whose motive power
grinds the corn and cuts the timber for
Carthewin Castle and estate ; the monotonous
sounds of the huge wheel moving round in

solemn like motion, and the dropping of the
water as it is carried over on its shiny verdant
surface, fills one with reminiscences of old, —
days of our childhood, the bright and happy
time of our youth, when the toy boat — that
traditional little galley — was gaily sailed on
the mill-stream, — the thatched cottage, the
dun cow with the crumpled horn, the apple-faced
dairy-maid, the miller all in white, the
old impromptu rustic bridge, the stile at the
bottom of the orchard, the deep well in the
yard, with its large coil of chain, —

The old oaken bucket,
The iron-bound bucket,
The moss-covered bucket.
That stood by the well"—

the small fishery of our childhood, with
withy stick, cork, thread, crooked pin and
worm, — the old mountain roan shaggy pony,,
that one used to catch in the meadow by
coaxing with bread, saddling with various

shifts, and tally-going in the rear of the
stream of hunters, sometimes creeping where
best hunters could not jump, — the spills,
the laughter, the return home with torn and
dirty clothes, — the fun in the home orchard
with Carlow, our favourite spaniel, — that
bonny brown loaf and strawberry jam, with
best of appetites, — the vigorous pull at the
jug of new milk, — the fun in our bedrooms, —
the war with pillows and bolsters, — the twelve
hours' sleep, — the morning bath, — the rosy
cheeks, — the bat, ball, fife, drum, and renewed
peals of laughter round the hawthorn
tree ; are all pleasant recollections for those
who have a soul for the memory of days
long gone by. It may be so with some
of my readers, as it is with the author,
melodies of old singing within, an undying
sweet song of early days, and all the lighthearted,
joyous surroundings ever rising to
the surface. In the words of Moore —

You may break — you may ruin the vase if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang around it still."

Yes ; all is peaceful as a summer's dream.
The longest day has scarcely passed — there
is but little night ; and, when the dew
begins to fall, it bathes with refreshing
breath the thirsty flowers ; the balmy odour
fills the air with delicious scents.

Summer, O sweet summer !
How I love thy sunny hours ! "

There were some beautiful roses peeping
in at the window of Carthewin Castle, and
there were two roses peeping out — one in
bloom and one in bud. Let us step inside
and enjoy their fragrance.

Our heroine is eno^ao^ed in " filling: in "
some wool work. Gertrude is seated on a
small footstool by her side, looking very
picturesque, reading aloud an interesting
tale out of the monthly magazine. How

lovely those twain looked ; how fond, too,
they were growling of each other. Nora's
sad bereavement brought her step - sister's
fountain of love and sympathy into play.
It flowed copiously, and, like a shower of
pure water, invigorated the drooping bloom,
and refreshed the leaves.

*' Gerty, love," said Nora, parting the
wealth of her sister's flowing hair, and
kissing the back of her neck, " don't read
sccq more of that tale."

Oh, do let me. Sissy," replied Gertrude ;
^' it is so pretty. We have not got into
the best of it yet, and I am so anxious
to know what became of little Alice, and
whether Clara marries Podmore, and whether
that horrid old Dapper is hanged, and — "

'' Never mind, pet, oblige me by not reading
it. I v/ill go to the library and bring
you something infinitely more amusing, and
much more instructive."

'' I daresay, Sissy, dear, some cold, rusty,
dismal thing or other. Paj^a is always
boring me about travels and improving my
mind. Why, I have read almost every book
of travel in the library."

** Well, Gerty, travels, as a rule, are
anything but dry ; on the contrary, most
amusing, and the best of them very instructive.
You have not yet read Central
Europe, or Dr Earth's Central Africa, or
Washington Irving's Columbus, or — "

Oh, yes ; go on. Sissy. I expect you
will conclude with Gibbon's Decline and
Fall of the Roman Empire'' interrupted
Gertrude. " Now, I don't object to reading
a life amongst the Indians. I think it is
splendid to follow the customs and habits
of the 'braves,' their old squaws and
woolly - headed children ; but why, Nora,
don't you like me to finish this tale ?
Harry Podmore is such a nice, noble character,

and old Dapper is such a horrid,
nasty thing, that — "

Notwithstanding, dear one," interrupted
Nora, " I would rather you did not read
aloud that book. It is not the best in
the library for young minds ; indeed, there
is much in it objectionable, and you can
spend far sounder hours in possessing yourself
of good material, instead of sowing the
seed of those trashy novels. Bacon says,
Reading makes a full man, writing, a
correct one, and speaking, a ready man.

Ah, now I have it ! " said Gertrude,
with a little toss of her head. " You are
at your naughty tricks again, — those horrid
dismal. I don't wonder at papa saying
that he will send you to Uncle George at
Cadiz, where you will mix with some lively
ladies. I say, Nora, that reminds me, do
you know mamma said this morning that
wee are going to have a swell garden-party ?

The * best people ' are coming, and there is
to be a wind-up in the large ballroom in
the evening. It is to be an awfully grand
affair, most recherche! All the Brans-combs
and the Wentworth girls are coming ;
also old Sir Robert Siemens and the pretty
girl— what's her name ? who was not to be
found on the memorable morning; of the
proposed wedding — the little wretch ! I
wonder at mamma having any desire to
receive her after so much gossip ; but
mamma says she is so ' strictly county,'
that it must be looked over. Now, tell
me, what will you wear, Sissy ? "

Such things seldom enter my head,"
replied Nora, with a weary sigh.

"Well, I never!" exclaimed Gertrude.
*' You are certainly what my governess calls
an imperturbable being."

I care but little for these ' swell ' entertainments,
as you call them, neither have I

ever liacl an inclination to mingle in the vortex
of frivolous society, Gerty."

Anyhow, Sissy, I like a bit of fun," re^Dliecl
Gertrude, " and I like to be able to hold my
own in the way of a little finery * tip-top,'
as Cousin Cuthbert says ; and, to that end,
Messrs Kobeall, of Regent Street, are to make
me, oh, such a lovely dress ! with ever so
many flounces, and it is to be looped up in
festoons of I don't know what, so no more
short dresses for me, Nora. Hurrah ! what
fun it will be ; won't it ? "

Tell me, Sissy, how old were you last
birthday ? " said Nora, a little reproachfully.

Last birthday ? — why, fifteen — that is, I
am going in sixteen, don't you know ? "

Ah, my child, there is ample time yet ;
your mother had better keep you a child as
long as she can. Nature, in all its rapid,
certain course, will press back the springtide of
your life fast enough without the aid of Messrs

Eobeall, or consulting any artificial means for
the purpose of making you look older than
you really are."

But you know, Sissy dear, as I told you
before, mamma says, though I am a child in
years, I am really a woman in manner ; and
you know papa calls me his ' little old woman.'
Upon my word, you are a naughty Nora. I
do believe, had you the power, you would
place me in a kind of Chinese slipper, so
that I shouldn't grow one bit."

'' No, Gerty, I would do nothing of the
kind. I would rather see you grow day by
day into more and more usefulness, and watch
your youthful intellect expanding and ripening,
but not unnaturally forced ; for do we not
know that hothouse plants, cultured under the
blaze of a scorching noonday's sun, pushed
forward at night by artificial means, and
denied the dew breath of heaven, are always
tender plants."

I think I shall give you a new name,
l^ora, — say Mrs Dismal, instead of Mrs
Moping, as mamma calls you ; for you are
everlastingly comparing me in some way or
other to flowers ! If you could transmogrify
me at this moment, what on earth would
you convert me into ? "

A long pause.

''I am not particular, Sissy," went on
Gertrude, pursing up her pretty little mouth
very considerably ; " though it is well to remind
you that I detest dandelions, and I
should object to sweet peas and John Quills
I get too much of them already with Miss
Eeignforth — and none of your Tom Thumbs,
for I want to grow to something tall. Now,
Sissy, out with it, dear, and I have no doubt
I shall be in the vase as a decoration for the
dinner-table before I can say ' Please, don't ! '"

That will do, Gerty, I have hit upon it.
I change you instantly into a scarlet-runner,"

said Nora jocosely ; " and now run into the
garden as fast as you can, and don't stop
running until you have climbed up the green
knoll at the top of the hill, that is covered
with the mountain herbage."

'dear Sissy, dear Mrs Moping, I shall
soon get you out of your dismal, I hope ;;
why, you have positively laughed this
morning. Nothing very crescendo though,
as my professor of do, re, mi would say""
and snatching up her garden hat, Gertrude
opened the French window, bounded over
the closely-shaven lawn, paused in the distance,
kissed her hand again at her step-sister,
waved her snow-white handkerchief,
and the little light-hearted " scarlet runner "
soon climbed out of sight.

The play of Gertrude's intellect was precisely
what was wanted : the child seemed
intuitively to know the exact antidote her
sorrowing sister and her only close companion

in life required ; her innocent ways
and playful manner cheered and comforted
the mourner when every other method
failed. In the words of the poet Moore, —

Eai-th has no sorrows that Heaven cannot heal."

** I love that child," said Nora, within
herself; "what should I do without her?
She is sent, as it were, like an angel from
heaven, to cheer me in my lonely widowhood,"
and burying her face in her hands,
she shed tears of gratitude, and softly murmured,
— " Percy, my beloved Percy, T shall — "

*' Soon be on board the Bucephalus
bound for Cadiz," said Mr Townshend, who
approached unobserved.

Oh dear ! how you frightened me, papa ! "
exclaimed Nora, ]Placing her trembling hand
upon her heart.

Well, my daughter, what is it all about
now ? " said Mr Townshend, pulling both ends

VOL. I. K,

of his whiskers, his habit when things did
not please him.

Nothing, papa," thoughtfully.

Nothing, papa ! " repeated Mr Townshend,
in a mimicking tone; " absurd ! I know better
than that. Now, none of your old tricks,
if you please, Nora, or, as sure as fate, I
will have your boxes packed, and send you
and — " A pause.

Who ? " ventured Nora inquiringly.

Your mamma to Cadiz, for change of
air," continued Mr Townshend significantly.

"■ You could not be so unkind, I know,"
said Nora, throwing up her soft eyes, which
were suffused with tears, into her father's
face, and resting her hand on his manly
shoulder.

I think it would be an act of kindness,"
ventured Mr Townshend.

Say rather one of cruelty," responded
Nora, with a sob in her throat. " God forgive

me for using such a term, papa. I
know right well, from past experience, that
cruelty forms no part of your nature."

Mr Townshend flamed crimson, but it instantly
faded away, as he continued, —

"• I will not adopt any course, my dear
daughter, or force a thing upon you, unless
it meet with your approval. At the most,
Nora, I can have but a few years to live,
and I should like to spend the residue of
them in something like tranquillity ; without
that peace, life becomes a burden. I lay
myself out in every possible way, shape,
and form, for the benefit of my wife and
you girls. My hopes are built in you, and
no pleasure is so great to me, or lasting, as
to see you all pulling together in the most
united way, in harmony and happiness. The
trial that you have passed through, my
daughter, the effects of which you are manifestly
still suffering from, has been a crushing

one, and it is fortunate for you that things
are no worse. Sympathy, I fear, will avail
but little, else I would hasten to the rescue,.
and try to help you out of the difficulty.
As the scythe clears the meadow of the long
grass, or the hook the thistle in the hedgerow,
so will time in its season clear your
brow of the dark clouds that hover over it."

*' Never ; never entirely ! " said Nora.

'' Tush, child ! tush ! you offer an indignity
to your heavenly Father by nursing
such wild thoughts, and giving way to
desponding imagination."

The moving pathos of Mr Townsend's-
words greatly affected our heroine, as she
said, —

Dear papa, how I love to be with you,,
and feel the warmth of your sunny smile."

Now, Nora dear, throw off all dismal,
and go to the library and sit with your
mamma for an hour or so. I know, from

what she said this morning, she wishes to
see you."

*•' Oh, papa, please don't, I — I — "

It is my desire," said Mr Townshend,
-drawing himself up impressively, with a
lofty air.

I am ever obedient, father, to your
commands, but you know nothing of my
trouble."

Pish ! what absurdity ! it cannot possibly
be a Townshend who is talking such
nonsense. Think of your lamented mother's
moral and intellectual excellence, and what
she would have said to you had she been
spared. Come, come, no more of this, child ;
no more ; go, now, and sit awhile with Mrs
Townshend ; put your first foot foremost, the
best side, so to speak, towards London ;
brace up your nerves ; be watchful over
your words ; recollect, love, to whom you
will be speaking, — my wife ! — your stepmother

! be humble, as you have need to be,,
after what has transpired ; but with becoming
pride stand fast to the traditions
of your family ; and, above all things, lose
sight of the fact that you are the heiress
of Carthewin. For the future, Nora, I rely
upon you with the most absolute confidence ;
I obliterate the past from my memory ; I
anticipate that which is before us with all
the fervour of a devoted parent, and I shall
look for, as a natural result, a reciprocation,
on your part."

I feel, dear father, that I am wholly
unworthy of so much thought and consideration
; you have chosen, however, in your
paternal love to deal gently with me — yes,
with astounding forbearance — and my
sweet sister, that lily of the vale, that
cherub of the spring, is something worth
living for. And you, oh, my dear
father, so long as there is left a caressing,

tendril to my frail nature, it will cling to
thee ! "

If there be one thing more than another
I am rejoiced at, my daughter, it is seeing
Gertrude and you growing up together in
perfect harmony, bearing with one another,
and loving one another with all earnestness
and purity of your fond nature."

** Do you wish me to go to Uncle George's
at Cadiz, father ? " said Nora, with the sweetest
expression.

'' Cadiz be hanged ! Not I, child. Throw
off all your dismal, and I can devise plans
whereby your happiness, and my happiness,
and all our happiness will, with God's blessing,
be complete."

"■ Mamma will be kind to me, won't she ? "

Kind, child ! of course, she will. Do you
think for one moment I should allow her to
be otherwise ? God forbid ! Besides, she is
so good and considerate ; I am sure my pretty

blue eyes," continued Mr Townshend, pressing
his daughter's chiselled face with both hands,
*' she loves you, and she will, if you mind
your p's and q's, be devoted to you."

Those p's and q's ! !

"Thank you very much, dear father," said
our heroine, pinking considerably, whilst the
flash of her eyes and subdued pout of her
coral lids showed some little signs of tumult
within. " I will strenuously endeavour to
take very considerable care of those letters
of warning, if only for your dear sake'' and
Nora struggled with emotion.

Heaven bless you, my daughter," responded
Mr Townshend, turning his head
suddenly away to avoid exposing tears that
had quickly gathered in his eyes.

And then followed the heavy step of the
lord of the manor, as he walked up the
highly-polished oak staircase to his dressing-room.


PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE.

On the morning of the last day of July-there
were assembled in the old oak room
of Carthewin Castle, Mrs Townshend, Nora,
and Gertrude. The former was seated at
her secretaire, busily engaged in replying
to numerous letters which had accumulated
through slight indisposition. A keen observer
could have detected that the lady of
the house, as she paused now and again in
her correspondence, and gazed abstractedly
through the open French window on the
closely-shaven lawn, looked somewhat worn
and anxious ; the slight rubicund tinge
that usually prevailed on either cheek had

vanished, leaving her a complexion sallow
and suggestive of much gastric derangement
contrasting immensely with her large dark
lustrous hazel eyes, and the ample folds of
black tresses, which were wreathed in various
devices around a well-moulded head. The
point of a tiny purple satin slipper peeped
from the skirt of a cream-coloured morning
dress ; the little foot at intervals seemed
greatly agitated, by tattooing the floor whenever
its wearer's eyes wandered from the
letter she was writing, to Nora, and from
Nora to Gertrude.

Some beautiful roses were peeping in at
the window, their offshoots gracefully bending
to and fro at every slight breeze, carrying
with it sweet, balmy odours of honeysuckle,
clematis, and other summer scents.

Nora is looking very picturesque, more
cheerful and animated ; and although her
bright fresh colour has not re-appeared

nevertheless, from constant exposure to the
sun, and her wild rambles in all kinds of
weather over her father's domain, her skin has
become much bronzed, and a superficial observer
would arrive at the conclusion that she
was brimful of health, without even a semblance
of care or anxiety. Her fairly tall and
graceful figure, as she silently moved about
the polished floor decorating the tiny vases
with the choicest of hot-house flowers, greatly
resembled the full-sized portrait of her late
mother, which hung in the oak room.

Placid she sits in her picture,

Reposing in velvet arm-chair ;
Her form stands out on the canvas,

"Whilst her soul is heaven knows where.

Pensive and silent she watches

Loved ones that are flitting so near,

Breath, as it were, of her spirit,
Breathes softly on all that is dear.

Gentle the sigh that's uplifted,

And wafted with swift wings above ;

Tender the throes of a fond heart,
And throbbing of exquisite love.

Sweetly she smiles on her offspring,

Her brow is divested of care ;
Angels are now her companions,

Some here, there, and everywhere.

Calmly she sits in her picture,

Her half-parting lips seem to speak,

Her eyes with tears are o'erflowing,
A bright pink suffuses her cheek.

'Tis not the outcome of sadness,
But rather the voice of the dead

Whispering of love and affection,
And warnings of breakers ahead !

No one could look on that portrait, and
then on the stately form of our heroine,
"without being struck with the close resemblance
to the mother and child ; the finely
formed head ; the sweet frank eyes ; the rosebud
mouth ; the well-defined Grecian nose ;
the dimpled chin, and sloping shoulders, are
portrayed in every line of the shadow and
substance.

Rarely a night passed without Nora crept
quietly into the old oak room, and gazed,
unobserved, on her beloved mother's portrait :

though an infant in arms when her parent
died, nevertheless there was an irresistible
attraction to that room and its surroundings.
Our heroine never felt happier than when she
could find an opportunity to procure her late
mother's portfolio, in which could be found
some valuable and touching memoirs of her
life. Unfortunately for Nora, she possessed a
painfully sensitive disposition, and felt keenly
the effect of any observation which had the
slightest taint of unkindness, whether its
arrow were directed towards her, or any of
her family or friends. During the whole
period of her life, that most excellent trait
in her character earned for herself the highest
esteem of all her circle of acquaintance.

Gertrude is of a somewhat different stamp.
She is now fifteen years old, tall, sprightly,
a perfect blonde, with a warm, rich colouring
which lit up the sweetest of eyes. Though her
forehead is low, it is broad — gentleness and

.sympathy can be read on her brow. She is
.as joyous as the lark, and as innocent as the
lamb careering in the home park. Her lithe
rounded form, superb neck and arms, filled
one with rapture at every turn she took ; ber
merry laugh, which rang out peals of gladness
in the hall of Carthewin Castle, spoke its own
sweet language of her young, bright, happy
life, — her spring-tide flowing gently into
womanhood, like a beautiful flagrant flower
unfolding its leaves day by day. Truly it
may be said that she blossomed brightly
beneath her father and mother's fostering
care. Her unbounded love for her step-sister,
which was reciprocated by Nora withall
the tenderness of her fond nature, her
touching child-like ways and playful disposition,
were most attractive.

Mrs Townshend threw down her long quill
pen with some determination, sealed ber
last letter with apparent haste, closed the

secretaire, one thought a little violently,
saying,—

There, dear girls, I have now finished all
my arrears of correspondence ; if I had to consult
my own feelings in the matter, I should
not write another letter for the next three
months," and, with a very dignified air, she
walked across the room to Gertrude, continuing,
"My love, I want you to take this
letter over to the rectory — the walk will do
you good — and if the Reverend Mr Brans-comb
and Lady Branscomb are at home,
deliver it yourself, and wait for an answer."

** With all pleasure, mamma," replied Gertrude,
turning the letter over musingly.

'* Well, what now ? " said Mrs Townshend.
^' You are an inquisitive little puss. If the
truth where known, you are anxious to learn
the contents."

'' I partly guess, mamma, for I heard you
talking with papa at the breakfast - table

yesterday ; is it not an invitation for the
Branscombs to dine here on Friday ?"

*' Yes, my pet, you are right for once.
Nora, love, you have not promised to go
anywhere on that day, I hope ? "

I have not made any engagement," replied
Nora, pinking slightly ; " neither should
I think of doing so, without consulting you,,
mamma."

If you had consulted me, Nora, in another
matter at an early stage, I might have
rescued you from the very distressing ordeal
you have had to pass through," replied Mrs
Townshend, somewhat cynically.

Nora held down her head ; the colour
crimsoned her cheeks to her very ears ; she
felt the home-thrust ; a deep sigh and a glistening
tear on the longest of lashes, told its
own tale of sadness, and the chaotic tumult
that was wrestling within. There was a manifest
tone of mockery in Mrs Townshend's remarks,

but our heroine concealed to the
utmost her agitation, as she tremblingly
replied, —

I sincerely hope that you will not again
refer to my clandestine marriage. Heaven
only knows what I have suffered, and how
much I am now enduring, on account of my
precipitation."

Fiddlestick ! " interrupted Mrs Townshend

"The act," continued Nora, "was mine
own ; the crushing blow has fallen on my
head, and affects me only."

I am not quite so sure of that," said
Mrs Townshend sarcastically.

"I fail to see," continued Nora, "that
it seriously concerns any other person than
my father, to whom I have made every
possible reparation for an act of indiscretion."

Indeed ! that may be your view, Nora,

but I beg most emphatically to state that

it is not mine ; and I consider your obser-
VOL. I. S

nations but a very poor return for the
anxious days and nights I have endured
on your behalf since I took up my abode
in this dreary castle, and watched over
you in your tender years with a maternal
love — your own lamented mother could not
have done more."

I am very sensible of the obligation I
owe to your kind favour," replied Nora,
somewhat discomposed, " and I trust that
Providence will permit me to return to
sou and yours, those acts of kindness
and duty that my extreme youth and your
position with my father rendered almost
imperative for you to pursue."

At the word '' imperative," Mrs Townshend
visibly flushed, and fussily crossed and recrossed
the room, with somewhat mixed
feelings of pleasure and grief — pleasure, because
she felt pleased at the manifestations
of obligation — and grief, because she seemed

to regret that Nora should have touched
upon a moral duty which she well knew
was hers, from the very hour she became
the wife of Godfrey Townshend, and which
duty, she was well aware, had been to a
certain extent neglected.

After the birth of Gertrude, almost the
entire conduct of our heroine (as before
stated) devolved upon the Honourable Mrs
Mackenzie, whose antecedents were of the
very highest order, and it is due to that
lady to place upon record that she most
religiously discharged the duties entrusted
to her : but there was one vital things wanting
— a mothers fostering care, a parent
who could take the child at intervals from
her studies, and mould her little heart and
brain, teaching her (as only a parent can
teach) the way she should go, instilling into
her youthful mind the lights and shades of
the world, with all its bright and best influences,

as well as its allurements, disappointments,
and vanities.

*' My dear Nora," said Mrs Townshend,
with a voice gentle in its accents, and aspiring
to tears, then drawing her chair in close
proximity to her step-daughter's, continued,
'* I have an exposed nerve, and you have
touched it. Come, dear child, we will hope
and endeavour to be better friends for the
future. Upon second consideration, I sometimes
think it would have been infinitely
preferable, in the interest of your future
advancement in life, if I had not left you
so much to the care and discipline of the
Honourable Mrs Mackenzie, whose aptitude
for—"

Mamma, suffer me to interrupt you ; I
cannot allow anyone, directly or indirectly,
to cast the slightest reflection on my late
governess for any shortcomings of my own ;
she is not here to defend herself, but, happily,

I know how to value the past devoted services
of that good and pious lady. I look
back over years of my childhood with the
fondest remembrance of her inestimable
worth. I can never feel too grateful for
the sound hours she spent in the hope of
training her little Nora (as she called me)
to the standard of her own moral excellence.
Were I to feel otherwise, I should
not only be unworthy of the position I
hold in her kind, loving heart, but I should
forfeit her esteem."

Mrs Townshend was a lady of unaccountable
impulse, with a countenance that one could
not easily decipher : love and hatred, likes
-and dislikes, warmth and coldness, underwent
swift changes ; devoted to her husband,
and passionately attached to her own daughter,
in whom all her hopes were centred ;
but from the hour she became the consort
of Godfrey Townshend —

*' If the veil from the heart could be torn,
Or the mind could be read on the brow."

we should discover that there was a want
of love and devotion which, to all right-thinking
women, should have existed for
the motherless child she promised her husband
to protect, and it should have formed,
as it were, a part of her marriage contract.

The frou-frou of Mrs Townshend's ample
dress, as she hurriedly left the room, passing
through the French casement to the
lawn, was suggestive of some displeasure
at the eulogistic terms used by Nora in
favour of her late governess. May be it
was the outcome of the lio^ht and shade
that she thought was portrayed in the
weakness of her owen past actions and the
strength of the Honourable Mrs Mackenzie.
Anyhow, the observation that emanated
from Nora jarred very considerably on Mr
Townshend's sensitive ear, as she tremulously

requested the footman to order the carriage
for the usual moniino; drive.

Nora inwardly felt that she may have
unconsciously ventured too far, as she Avell
knew that her late governess was never any
favourite of her step-mother's. She could
well recollect, when first entering her "teens,"
and for many subsequent years, the numerous
trifling disputes that arose from time to
time between her father and Mrs Townshend,
relative to the Honourable Mrs Mackenzie's
profound attachment to her. She had often
been a witness to words spoken in anger on
behalf of herself, the remembrance of which
Rushed with mighty force to her memory as
she followed her step-mother to the conservatory,
and, placing her arm round her waist,
said, with her sweetest expression, —

I hope I have not vexed you, dear
mamma ! "

Vexed me, child ! " replied Mrs Towns-end.

in low, sympathetic tones, and carelessly
picking some dead leaves from a plant.

I fear I may, unknowingly, have said
something offensive to you," said Nora. '*If
I have, oh, bear with me, forgive me, my
heart is so full ! "

{To he continued.)

END OF VOL. I.

^

itCvN

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS


v.Z

A NOVEL.

BY

OLIVER GREY.

VOL. II.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

1 11 (I a n

REMINGTON & CO., PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

188 6.

[All Rights reserved.'\

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XII —continued.)

Tragic

PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE, 1

C H A P T E E XIII.

LAYING THE FOUNDATION, 14

CHAPTER X I Y.

THE SHADOW OF COMING EVENTS, . . . .45

CHAPTER X v.

HOME AGAIN, . 86

CHAPTER X Y I.

MY FIRST VISIT TO CARTHEWIN CASTLE, . . .132

CHAPTER X Y II.

WE MET, 167

CHAPTER XVIII.

PAGE

A DAY IN THE " OPEN," 216

CHAPTER XIX.

THE LONG-LOOKED-FOR INTERVIEW, . . . 253

CHAPTER XX.

DARK SCHEMES, AND BREAKERS AHEAD, . . . 266

CHAPTER Xll.— Continued.

PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE.

Mus TowxsEXD was equal to the occasion, —

no one more alive to the fact of having

subdued what she thought to be a haughty

spirit ; and, hastily plucking a bloom or two

of the hothouse flowers, placed them on

the fair bosom of her step-daughter, then

gently kissing her forehead, said, —

We will look forward, dear, to brighter

days with less unpleasant surroundings than
VOL. II. A

these ; let us speak no more of the past, but
with hopeful hearts anticipate some happy
hours that may be in store for us."

A depth of melancholy pervaded Nora s
face as she responded, —

Dear mamma, place the most implicit
confidence in all my future actions. I will
never again deceive you or my father ; I will
devote the residue of my life with the full
determination of regaining your affection,"
and burying her face in her white cambric
handkerchief, she hurried into the shrubbery
that adjoins the lake, and sitting down on
the moss-covered bank, overshadowed by a
wealth of flat boughs of a cedar of Lebanon,
which seemed, as it were, to stretch forth its
arms invitingly, she wept aloud.

The wood pigeons were cooing amidst the
ash trees ; the ripple from an adjacent stream
in its onward course, as it splashed over precipitous

falls, fell monotonously on the ear;
the weeping willows parted their pale boughs
in the stream ; the lark, soaring higher and
higher in the bright blue firmament, poured
forth a shower of delicious notes. It was
all sweet music to Nora : her soul was
gladdened by the sounds so familiar to
lier ; — then a gentle hand was laid on her
shoulder.

What, my Sissy ! on the damp grass,
and been crying too ! " said Gertrude, who,
for the last few minutes had been intently
eyeing her step - sister through the thick
foliage of the shrubbery.

Go, go, dear," replied Nora ; " leave me
alone for a while ; my head is aching — "

And my heart," responded Gertrude,
brushing away a gushing tear that had
trickled down her glowing cheek.

'' Go, go, my child," continued Nora, with
a sob in her voice.

'not likely, Miss Moping," answered Gertrude.
" I will go with you, or you must
come With me, and that is all about it, you
dismal, dear Sissy ; out of my sight you shall
not wander this day. By-the-bye, they are hay-making
in the lower meadow ; the Branscomb
girls from the rectory and the curate are having
fine fun down there ; — no end of sweet hay."

'' Sweet nonsense, Gerty ; you know how
I detest such frivolity."

Oh, I dare say ; you want to hide yourself
like a quail in the grass : there is no putting
you up," and seizing her sister by both wrists,
gently pulled her to a standing position, and
kissing her, said, — "There, take that, and
that, though you don't deserve it one bit."

Bless your little fond heart ; you are a
jewel of a child," said Nora, giving her a
gentle squeeze.

"Thank you, Mrs Moping," with a mock
curtsey.

"Why on earth, Gerty, do you persistently
call me that hateful name ? "

When you are not present, mamma
always calls you Mrs Moping," said the
little tease.

And is that a sufficient reason why you
should indulge in the same absurd epithet,
Gerty ? Call me what you may, my child,
in words emanating from your owen loving
heart, and I should not be discomposed, but
do not sting me by reiterating the title Mrs
Towmsend has thought proper to circulate
throughout the Castle."

"Nay, have I stung you so badly, Sissy,
as all that ? I hope I have not seriously
wounded your sensitive feelings," replied
Gertrude.

Nora placed her rosebud lips to her
sister's, again squeezed her affectionately,
whispered something in her ear, and with
arms entwined around each other, sauntered

up the park, under the shadows of the great
elms, through the rugged defiles of the
wood, and onward to the golden gorse on
the top of the hill, where the silent deer
spring at intervals from their shaded retreat,,
by the banks of a clear stream that permeates
the valley on the south side of the
magnificent demesne.

The Belvidere on the promontory stood
grim against the western sky, towering above
the grand old castle and surrounding battlements,
keeping watch, as it were, over the
wealth of beauty beneath. Could the walls
of that ancient tower speak, they would tell
of joyous scenes enacted beneath their shadows,
— of tournaments, and the gay and
brilliant festive gatherings that followed, — of
the queens and beauties of love, — of knights-errant
in armour clad, opposing forces viewing
with each other with bitter animosity for
supremacy ; they could tell, too, of the long

tête-à-tête of maidens fair and their lovers
under the colonnade of trees, with the pale-faced
moon shedding her soft beams on the
golden locks of brides elect and the polished
helmets of many a brave warrior — now all
past away !

*' Slumbering on earth's cold pillow."

As years roll on, and in the course of
nature, fresh faces and forms appear and
disappear, but the ancient tower of the
Belvidere stands fast, as a fitting monument
of stirring events of the past.

'* So mamma has sent out invitations for
dinner on Friday," said Gertrude, nipping
off a foxglove bloom from the hedgerow,
and looking inquiringly into her step-sister's
face.

*' So I hear, dear," replied Nora.

"Mamma is uncommonly anxious all at
once," continued Gertrude, " to know who

will accept, or she would not have asked
me to take her letter to the rectory this
morning and wait for an answer ; — so very
unlike her."

Are they coming ? " asked Nora, in a
careless manner.

Coming ! " exclaimed Gertrude, sententiously.
" Oh, that's very good ! Did anyone
ever hear of the Branscomb girls refusing
to dine at the Castle ? Yes, they
are coming in a batch — rector, curate and
all. I am rather glad St raw worth has
accepted, for he is so lively."

Mr Straw worth, Gerty, you mean ; your
manner of speaking, my child, is too familiar,
and not a little ' fast.' Do you know,
dear, that men would consider it the height
of rudeness if their own sex called them by
their surname, unless they were on terms
of the closest intimacy."

And then it becomes a kind of privilege,

I suppose," interrupted Gertrude, with
ein arch smile.

"Precisely."

But mamma, when speaking of the curate,
always says, — ' Have you seen Strawworth today?
did Strawworth preach to-day? did Straw-worth
say he would dine with us on Friday ? ' "

'' I know she does, dear, nevertheless, it
is highly improper. But tell me," continued
Nora, '' what other invitations did your
mamma send out ? "

Your mamma ! " replied Gertrude, somewhat
mimicking, and laying the stress very
considerably on the word "your." "Why,
she is your mamma his well as mine."

Not exactly," responded Nora, with a
sigh. " Mine, dear Gerty, is lying beneath
the white marble monument in the chancel
of Carthewin Church, where — "

Now, don't be doing the dismal again,
Sissy. If mamma is not your mamma hon

Fide (as my governess says), she is your
mamma by papa's marriage, is she not ? "

Certainly."

"And you must learn to love her, Sissy,.
as dearly as I do ; and she, in return, will
love you, I know, as fondly as she ."


Another sigh, and Nora went on.

Do you know if anyone else is expected
at the Castle, Gerty ? Mamma of
late has become so reticent with regard to
the internal domestic arrangements of the
house, that I seldom hear what is going to
take place until the eleventh hour."

'' To the dinner party do you refer ? "

*eyes, or to stay at the Castle."

Mamma, I know, is exceedingly anxious
get Cuthbert over here for a week or so,
but I am not certain whether he is comings
though it looks like it, for his favourite
room in the bachelors' quarters is prepared

for someone — housekeeper told me so ; and
I know of no one else who would be permitted
to occupy it except 'Curly Cutis
as wee call him ; besides, many of his things-are
there now, which his valet was instructed
not to pack up last time he visited us,,
such as boxing-gloves, fencing-sticks, masks,
fishing-rods, etc. But why stare so. Sissy?
How you colour up."

Silly child," replied Nora, visibly discomposed.


I fancy I see Cuthbert Otway, Esq.,
Justice of the Peace, all smiles, shirt-collar,
and cuffs, taking down ' la belle cousine '
to dinner," said the tease, clapping her hands
triumphantly.

A shudder visibly affected our heroine,
as she listened to the playful humour of her
step-sister. She had the exact truth from
her, with all its simplicity and force. Nora
felt that Gertrude was much too young to

make her a confidante, or even to extend a
conversation on a subject which her tender
years would not admit of grasping. From
certain snatches of dialogues which from
time to time had taken place between her
father and Mrs Townshend concerning Cuthbert
and his future, coupled with the everlasting
praises bestowed by her step-mother
on the social and moral excellence and status
in society of her nephew, made her keenly
alive to the fact that there was something
unusual behind the scenes. With Nora s sensitive,
finely-organised nature, she fancied some
scheme was afloat in which she was doomed
to play an important feature. She dismissed
it again and again from her thoughts,
but back it came with increased vehemence,
in other words, she was inspired with the
most melancholy presentiment as to the
future.

The sound of the gong for luncheon went

up with the wind from the Castle, and our
heroine and Gertrude tripped lightly over
the golden gorse and purple heather ; one
girl with a heart full of gloomy forebodings,
and crushed with most painful experience ;
the other, joyous as the lark, with bright
and happy expectation, with a soul shining,
as it were, through her violet eyes.

LAYING THE FOUNDATION.

It was on one of those sultry evenings with
s. cloudy sky, large drops of rain splashed
heavily on the glass of the conservatory,
faint flashes of lightning illuminated, at intervals,
the heavens, and the distant roll of
thunder betokened an approaching storm,
that Godfrey Townshend and his wife were
sitting over their dessert, in the spacious
dining-room of Carthewin Castle.

Nora and Gertrude had retired to the
drawing-room, where they were practising
some duets together, and the old butler,
after placing the customary row of decanters
in front of his master, and handing his

mistress a glass of her favourite " Napoleon "
sherry, left the room, previous to which, he
was told that when his services were required,
Mrs Townshend would ring the bell.

Now, Bartholomew Leonard (for the
future we will call him Leonard) was an
employe who had lived in the Townshend
family for more than half a century, and
was highly esteemed by every member of
it. No one knew better than Leonard the
domestic secrets in the household of Cartier
Castle. Standing in his capacity as
butler behind his master's chair for so
many years, also in the service of Godfrey
Townshend's father, and long intercourse with
the various ladies' maids, enabled him to
become familiar with every '' move on the
board," and keenly alive to any change out
of the ordinary course of things which took
place from time to time, and the why and
wherefore. Leonard was thoroughly conservative

in his ideas, — an authority in all
matters appertaining to the good conduct
of the domestics and the internal arrangements
of the Castle ; and woe betide any
employe who ran against this "upper"
servant. No one could put a spoke in the
wheel, or take one out, better than this-functionary
: in other words, he was " all
there ! " His presentable appearance, with
shocks of the whitest hair, and his bulky
form, was a caution to all comers !

Leonard's dignity was somewhat hurt at
being told, in an indirect way, to leave the
room, and that when he was wanted Mrs
Townshend would ring the bell.

Let the bell ring as much as it likes,"
said the upper servant to himself, and in
high dudgeon ; "I will take very good care
not to answer it again to-night ; let ' Buttons '
have a ' turn,' if they want anything. I
wonder what is * up ' now ; something, I'll

warrant ; they wish to have it all to themselves
; perhaps scandalising somebody, or
writing my young mistress's flesh off her
bones. She is always being worried, poor
little soul. God knows she o;ot enough trouble,
without anyone adding to it. Ah me ! if
her dear mother had been living, how different
things would have been. The place
isn't the same since poor missis was carried
to the churchyard. For my part, I don't
know what the service is coming to ; there
I've saved up a goodish bit of money, and,
what's more, 'tis well invested, and if I
want to 'cut it,' I can afford to do so. But
something; is g;oino; on, for a ' hundred.' I
noticed when missis was slicing up the melon
she was all of a fidget. I wonder now what
is up," continued Leonard, musing to himself
in the butler's pantry, where he was depositing
in the iron safe some very valuable antique
plate, before retiring to the upper servants' hall.

VOL. II. B

s

*' We are going to have a tempestuous
night, I fear, Godfrey," ventured Mrs Towns-end,
somewhat tremulously, and rapidly
stemming: some strawberries.

It looks very like it, dear," replied her

husband, helping himself to another glass

of the undeniable port, at the same time

viewing its ruby brightness with much

complacency ; then, looking towards his

consort, he humorously bent his head, and

hummed, —

Such is the wife
I should look for through life —
If I did, I should know where to find her."

Mrs Town send, with considerable warmth
and pathos, took up the refrain by singing,
with marked expression, —

*' Such is the man.
Deny it who can —
For well I knew where to find him.

(Now is my time ; I shall never have a

better opportunity," said Mrs Townshend,
within herself; and, looking round the room
to be satisfied that the course was clear,
continued, — " I am uncommonly glad to see
dear Nora in better spirits the last few
days. She is getting to look more like herself.
I don't think she is brooding nearly
so much over her late troubles. Do you ? "

There is certainly, I am happy to say,
a marked improvement in her demeanour'
replied Mr Townshend musingly.

** Upon my word, Godfrey, I don't think
I ever saw a more charming widow in my
life ; and the cap she wears is most becoming:.
She looks

So bewitching simple.' "

But not, as the bard has it," interrupted
Mr Townshend, —

' With mischief in every dimple.' "

Julia dropped her handkerchief, and, in

picking it up, coughed. Her husband was
familiar with that short cough !

Why, my dear," continued Mr Towns-end,
"you are brim full of humour to-night.
I think the lightning must have cleared the
atmosphere somewhat."

Saving your presence, love," was Mrs
Townshend's meek rejoinder, " you shot the
first thunderbolt, Godfrey, whether or not,"
laughingly.

*' Ah, Julia, it is well to be merry and
wise," replied Godfrey, gazing wistfully at
his wife, and wondering what on earth had
so unexpectedly changed a nature that had
of late been at almost freezing-point ; but the
unaffected ease and polished courtesy of Mr
Townshend, most thoroughly disarmed his
consort of any feeling she might otherwise
have had as to her husband's knowledge of
sinister motives.

As you observe, it is ^ well to be merry,

and it is well to be wise,' Godfrey. Temple
says, ' Wisdom is that which makes men
judge what are the best ends, and what the
best means to attain them, and drives a man
advantage of counsel and direction.' "

"Yes, Julia," interrupted Godfrey; "and
Shakespeare says, —

Wisdom and fortune combating; together —
If but the former dare but what it can,
No chance may shake it.' "

How poetical we are all at once become,"
rejoined Mrs Townshend thoughtfully, at the
came time asking her husband to pour her
out just a half-glass more pale sherry.

Godfrey thought that night he never saw
bis wife look half so handsome. A rich,
warm colour pervaded her cheeks ; her dark
full hazel eyes spoke volumes ; the play on
her finely-cut mouth ; her grand neck and
shoulders ; and with a pearl-grey satin dress
developing an ample and the whitest of

busts, on which a diamond cross, cut in
the most beautiful facets, glittered like a
cascade of lights.

'apropos of our daughter, darling," said
Mrs Townshend, " now that we are alone, let
us calmly consider a domestic matter which
has of late very much occupied my thoughts,
in connection with the future of our dear
Nora, and which, if I am not mistaken, you
are not altogether unfamiliar with, or probably
averse to."

At that moment a clap of thunder, with
some violence, spoke, as it were, disapprovingly.
Poodle number one and poodle number
two, lying in a corner of the room on a
tiger-skin mat, found shelter under their mistress's
ample robes ; and before Mr Townshend
could reply to his wife's query, the door opened,
and Nora and Gertrude appeared, the heavy
thunder having much terrified them, and driven
both with haste to the dining-room.

Oh ! father, what fearful weather it is,"
said Nora, looking exceedingly pale.

You need not be the least alarmed, my
good daughter," said Mr Townshend, drawing
her affectionately towards him, and pressing
his lips to her marble-like forehead.

'' Good fiddlestick ! " breathed Mrs Towns-end,
very sotto voce.

I am not altogether alarmed, my dear
father ; but we do not like to hear such a
terrific outburst in the elements, and — "

I vote we stay here, Nora dear," interrupted
Gertrude, ** under the wings of our
'Mam' and 'Dad'" settling herself in an
easy-chair.

If Leonard, just at that moment, had been
in the room, he, and he alone, could have
deciphered Mrs Townshend's countenance, and
given the reader a graphic description of the
mental agony that his mistress was enduring
in those brief minutes.

Mrs Townshend thought that heavy clap
of thunder a little ominous, coming as it
did immediately upon the closing sentence
of the colloquy with her husband, and which
for some time she had been steeling her
nerves to venture upon.

Nora could evidently discern, by Mrs
Townshend's manner, that her presence was
objectionable ; that she had disturbed some
important conversation at an unfavourable
moment ; and as her father did not give
her the slightest encouragement to stay, but
rather in a quiet way, by masonic signs
with his black eyes, invited her to make
tracks, she immediately gathered her draperies
about her, and with Gertrude disappeared
for the night, hiding an aching
heart with a smooth brow.

There was a long pause — only heavy drops
of rain on the tesselated terrace, and the
ticking of the old clock could be heard. The

ruddy fruit wafted their apple scent from
the orchard through the open casement ; the
summer lightning" at intervals illuminated
the eastern sky.

If it meet with your pleasure, Godfrey,
shall we take up the thread of our conversation
? " ventured Mrs Townshend.

"Delighted, Julia," replied the lord of
the soil, with his usual ease and affable
nonchalance, at the same time filling his
wine-glass to the brim with burgundy, and
throwing his serviette across his knee,
awaited further discourse.

For some months past," resumed Mrs
"Townshend (with a tear in her eye), " I have
been meditating on the present condition
and future prospects of our daughter Xora ;
and although we see her improving, nevertheless
her joyous habits and youthful
enthusiasm are not what they were Godfrey,
or what they ought to be ; and it is a

duty which devolves upon you and me to
go to her rescue, and exercise our best
directed endeavours in the hope of lifting
her, so to speak, out of the depth of
melancholy into which (through her own
indiscretion) she has unfortunately fallen."

Mr Townshend sipped his wine approvingly,
and bent his head more than once during
the conversation. He thought of the words
"juncture," "climax," and "fatality!"

'rand," continued Mrs Townshend, " I look
for, as a natural consequence, your most
cordial co-operation in that which I have
to propose."

"Which is always at your service, Julia,
in the discharge of any matter where my
honour is not compromised."

You may rest assured, Godfrey," resumed
Mrs Townshend, with an air of offended pride,
I shall most religiously guard your honour
as I should mine own ; indeed, where one

is compromised, the other, by our happy
union, would, as a common result under
such circumstances, become tarnished."

Godfrey Townshend, though somewhat in
the vale of years, was not a man easily led
away by any covert influences his wife may
possess. He was prominently endowed with
the organ of 'causality," and could trace
with considerable penetration the cause and
effect of most things ; also let it be recorded
that he vas possessed of a goodly share of
common-sense, — indeed a practical, matter-of-fact
man, of forbearing disposition, very
sensible of his own faults, but by no means-quick
to condemn others ; and he was swift
in taking prompt action in rendering a
signal service to his neighbour in time of
adversity or otherwise. With such a combination
of virtues, one could not be surprised
at Godfrey Townshend being intuitively
aware of what was passing in the background

of his wife's mind, neither insensible
to her caprice.

You speak like a very good book, my
clear Julia," rejoined her husband; "it is
refreshing to take a leaf out of it sometimes."

'' Truth is great, and will prevail," responded
Mrs Townshend, with an air of
considerable pre-occupation ; '' but to the
point of our interesting conversation, in
which, I fear, we are lamentably digressing."

You owe the latter, my love, to your
vast extent of erudition, " replied Mr
Townshend, a little jocosely, again filling
bis glass, and asking his wife to j)i'oceed.

"Erudition indeed! Fiddlestick! Now
seriously, Godfrey, I know of no course to
adopt with our daughter which is likely to
have such lasting and beneficial results in
the temperature of her mind, and the
melancholy to which I have previously referred,
as to delicately ' open up,' or I

should more properly say, lay the foundation
of a well assorted alliance with some good
Christian member of society and county
gentleman of sterling worth, — one who could
be absolutely relied uj^on, and who would,
as far as we are able to penetrate into
human nature, make our daughter an affectionate
partner in this life."

Good ! Very good ! I may say supremely
good, Mrs Townshend. Well reasoned, well
said, and sound to the core. But it not
unfrequently happens that one selects a
nut — take this Brazilian for instance — you
crack it, but the kernel is defective. By
Jove ! it is a bad one, — see ! How funny."

'true, Godfrey. In my case, however, I
am free to admit I found the nut perfect
when I selected you."

Mr Townshend pulled one of his grey shocks
of hair, with mock complacency.

*' And I don't see," continued Mrs Townshend,

'* why the same may not reasonably apply to
the future of our Nora."

Well, Julia, you are aware we have a
large circle of acquaintance, or, as you not
unfrequently designate them, ' strictly county,'
and at this moment I would give one of my
eyes, so to speak, to be able to ' spot ' a fiance
for my beloved child, the very personification,
the ideal man, you would have our Nora allied
to ; but, unhappily, so far as I am able to
discriminate, there is not a member of our
-acquaintance who has a claim to the long list
of virtues such as you have propounded and
would desire in the consort of our daughter."

It is but a poor compliment, Godfrey, to
our large family connections, to have such an
opinion of them," replied Mrs Townshend, with
stinging sarcasm.

'' Not at all, love," said Godfrey, pinking
slightly. " In the first place, I did not refer
to family connections, but to the generality of

our acquaintance, of whom, no doubt, there are
many most excellent, pious, and worthy men ;
and many, I am grieved to admit, not worth
the snuff of a candle. And now, my love,
Laving exhausted my humble sentiments on a
subject which I should like to have avoided,
perhaps you will obligingly intimate to me if
you are prepared to submit the name of anyone
of our associates or personal friends whom
you consider to be a thoroughly eligible person
worthy of being admitted into our midst."

''I am," replied Mrs Townshend, with some
complacency ; " and one who, I feel assured,
would make Nora a o-ood husband."

Poor Townshend ! He again fancied he
heard the shrill ring of "juncture," "climax,"
and " fatality." Though dreading the result
of further inquiry, he drawled out a little
incoherently the monosyllables, — " Name
him ! " at the same time finding refuse in
his glass of burgundy.

*'My dear nephew, Cuthbert Otway,"
replied Mrs Townshend, with her sweetest
expression, and she crested her head.

*' Bosh, Julia ! " in amazement.

I don't like your slang term," said Julia
petulantly.

'' You are joking."

I am in earnest."

One of us must have become suddenly-demented
! " exclaimed Godfrey Townshend.

"I will answer for my own sanity," replied
Mrs Townshend cynically.

We will speak no more to-night on this
subject, dear," said Mr Townshend, making a
move to leave the room.

Stay, stay, Godfrey ; I infinitely prefer
having this very night your candid opinion
on the subject. To whom else should I go ;
to whom else can I go, but to Nora's father for
advice ? And before you venture to give it,
remember, love, Cuthbert's birth, his social

JO

position in society, his amiability, his presentable
appearance, his age, his wealth,
and — "

'* Wealth be hanged ! " exclaimed Godfrey
resuming; his seat, and hammer ino- his fist on
the dining-table. " sly Xora is the heiress of
Carthewin. I would rather the g-jrl married
the poorest peasant in Europe, with a good
honest heart of his own, than a millionaire
with even a semblance of uncertainty in his
nature. Yes, Julia, upon my soul I would,"
vehemently.

You need not introduce your soul into
the matter, dear," replied Mrs Townshend, a
little discomposed, but who would not be
denied. " Remember, Godfrey, what I am
advancing is in the interest of your daughter,
not mine ; and I should be most sorry to
[propose an alliance of an ill-assorted character,
which would hereafter cause any reflection on
me ; but as I happen to know that Cuthbert

VOL. 11. C

is very much attached to his cousin, it is but
right, before fanning such a vital spark into a
flame (which may not be so easily extinguished)
that I should solicit your views on
the subject."

"At this moment I prefer not giving
them," said Mr Townshend.

-Why?"

Because it takes two persons to enter into
an alliance, and I consider it would be monstrous
on my part to express any opinion
on such a momentous question without first
consulting Nora, dio Would naturally bethe
main-spring of the contract, and whose
feelings should in the most delicate manner
be sounded."

But eliminating Nora for the moment,"
replied Mrs Townshend, somewhat confused
and irritated at her husband's non-compliance
with her wishes. '•' Surely you could give me
some idea (assuming our daughter was agreeable

to the proposed match) what your private
views are on such an important subject."

I fail, Julia, to see what good can possibly
arise by expressing my views on a matter
which more directly concerns our daughter ;
-and I must confess I should be wanting; in
parental duty were I to seriously commence
laying the foundation of an alliance which
may have a semblance of coercion in it."

You fail to see what good can arise,"
said Mrs Townshend, repeating her husband's
words in a petulant manner. "■ I fail to
see, Godfrey, I regret to say, the logic of
your remarks. Now, listen to me. "With
that clear - sighted perception which is
usually yours, you know perfectly well
what has recently transpired, and all its
lugubrious surroundings, in connection with
Nora and the late Lieutenant Snowdon ;
and, alas ! we know too well the bitter pill
we have, one and all, had to swallow,

owing to that fatal precipitation, — that
clandestine marriage in a vile registrar's
office ; the heiress of Carthewin (as you
call her) ; her father, the owner of this vast
estate ; your wife and your beloved daughter
Gertrude paraded before a discerning
public branded with — "

D — n the discerning public ! " exclaimed
Godfrey vehemently, at the same time asking
to be excused the adjective.

Branded," went on Mrs Townshend,
with such a mean and dishonourable
transaction as was enacted in that
atrocious registrar's office, which is a curse
and a burning disgrace to any civilised
nation. How far we have all descended in
the social scale of society in consequence,
you best know ; anyhow, if you do not
realise the position, you may take it for
granted that I have a clear perception
of it."

Social humbug ! I am most heartily
sick of listening to such trash," interrupted
Mr TownsencI, throwing (in his temper)
his serviette at one of the white poodle
dogs on the hearth-ruo^, which soon made
tracks, again finding refuge under his
mistress's sweeping robes, and looking
amazed at such an unprovoked assault.

I really must ask you, Godfrey, not to
give way to any temper : it is neither kind
nor gentlemanlike to do so. I have but one
object in view, and I challenge you or any
living soul to say if that object is not
worthy of your most earnest consideration.
I am naturally anxious that we shall never
again have reason to record a repetition of
such fatal results as wee have recently and
most unhappily experienced ; to avoid such,
I am now proposing a scheme which — "

Scheme be hanged ! I hate the term ! "
.shouted Godfrey, with a stinging look.

'' I will adopt a word better suited to
the taste of your finely organised, sensitive
nature," said Mrs Townshend, with a deep
and embarrassed sigh. '' I am proposing
an honourable, and, I trust, judicious means
by which your daughter will regain the
position that I feel she has so deploringly
lost, and I know of no other course
that weill assuredly lift her high and dry
in social excellence as a well assorted
marriage with such an one as my dear
nephew Cuthbert, who I am satisfied is
passionately fond of his cousin ; and his
unblemished honour and morality should
earn for him the best woman in the
land.

Unblemished honour and morality,"
echoed Mr Townshend, within himself.
*' Yes, when frivolity and sensuality alternately
predominate I No, no, may every
stone in Carthewin Castle crumble away,

may yonder Belvidere be razed to the
ground, before I give my consent to such a
wild, unlooked-for alliance ! "

A long pause.

Well, my dear," said Mr Townshend,
squeezing his wife's hand with some sincerity,
" your intentions, I have reason
to believe, are good ; but sometimes we
err in our judgment, and, therefore, two
heads are better than one."

What on earth avails the second head
if the owner of it persistently refuses to
place the same at one's disposal ? " replied
Mrs Townshend sharply.

I was about to observe," continued Godfrey,
" that after I have had a careful interview
with Nora on the very grave subject
at issue, my judgment — for what it is worth
is very much at your service."

*' Then, if I understand you rightly, you
are positively determined, Mr Townshend,

not to express your opinion, or, in other
words, commit yourself to-night in the
matter."

Determined — absolutely determined ! "

'* Perhaps you may be right after all,"
said Mrs Townshend, rising from her seat
and kissing her husband's broad forehead ;
when do you think it desirable to ' open
np ' the subject to Nora?"

'' No hurry—"

Delays are dangerous."

And haste not unfrequently vexatious,"
continued Mr Townshend.

*by-the-bye," said Julia, " Cuthbert is
coming to the Castle the week after next
to stay a short time. Jt may be prudent
not to say anything to your daughter until
after his visit has terminated. Nora and he
will, no doubt, be thrown much together
during his sojourn here, and each will have
an opportunity of judging the merits of

one another, and forming a better perception
of the value and jdi'o^^I^^g durability
of the materials that go to make up the
requirements of a happy wedded life."

Well said again, gospel every word,"
replied Mr Townshend, with complacency.
*^ Nothing could be more straightforward."

"You are not angry with me, are you?"
.asked Mrs Townshend, with a sigh.

How could I be ? "

You look a little dismal."

We will talk no more to night, Julia,
on a subject in which we have each
been somewhat out of our depth. Shall
I ring; the bell for Leonard ? "

Thanks," said Mrs Townshend, caressing
both poodles, who appeared greatly delighted
that the colloquy was over.

I am going to retire to the smoking-room,
Julia. Kindly tell Leonard to bring me
some brandy and soda-water."

When Mr Townshend passed through the
long corridor which led into a spacious hall,
just at the foot of the main staircase, he
found Nora standing in mute reverie behind
one of the lay figures of the knights in
armour, that were arrayed in warlike attitudes
in various parts of the basement ;
around the lofty walls were hung some fine
examples of Raphael, Rubens, Correggio, and
Titian. The subdued light from the pendant
hall-lamp threw a sombre reflection on
all surrounding objects. The steady tick
of the antique clock was the only sound
to be heard, except the heavy tread
of the owner, which echoed through the
hall.

How now, child ! " exclaimed Mr Towns-end,
starting back apace ; " 1 thought you
had gone to bed long since."

Nay, father dear, I could not feel happy
without intercepting you and asking for

*tour before you pass," and Nora threw her
arms around her parent's neck.

She gave him a fond embrace, at the same
time whispering some loving words into his
ear ; then tripping up two stairs at a time,
was soon out of sig-ht tbrouo-h the lon^r galleries
that led to the sleeping apartments.

The bulky frame of Godfrey Townshend
sauntered leisurely into the smoking-room,
where he threw himself into a spacious lounge
and gave himself up to much serious
contemplation, reviewing past events,
and anticipating the future with the greatest
anxiety. A small crimson patch on either
cheek showed too plainly the tumult working
within that massive, square-looking head ;
and as the smoke from his silver-mounted
meerschaum sent forth wreath after wreath of
the narcotic mixture, resolutions were made,
doubts and difficulties solved ; and not until
the old clock in the tower chimed the

midnight hour, and the whole of the inmates
of the Castle were supposed to be wrapped
in the arms of Morpheus, did that good
husband and the best of parents follow
their example.

THE SHADOW OF COMING EVENTS.

Mamma," said Gertrude, who was diligently
spreading sore anchovy paste over her buttered
toast at breakfast, a week subsequent
to the close of our last chapter, " the
Branscomb girls are coming this afternoon."

Mrs Townshend was at that moment busily
engaged in presiding at the breakfast-table,
and sweetening sundry cups of tea and coffee.
She did not apparently hear what her daughter
said, and made no reply.

Strawworth is coming too, mamma," she
continued, looking very picturesque in her
morning attire.

At the name of Strawworth, Mr Townshend,

who was intently devouring the contents of a
letter with mourning edges, looked over his
gold spectacles significantly, but did not
speak, again finding refuge in the correspondence
in which he seemed deeply and unusually
interested. Leonard knew something " was
up," and was keenly alive to the sudden
transition of his master's countenance, when
handing him an omelette ; and he observed
.a warm flush steal over Mr Townshend's face,
and " straight as cold assail."

Butlers, as a rule, make within themselves
quiet mental, and form their own deductions
as to what is passing in the minds of those
with whom they are so much associated during
feeding time ; albeit, Leonard was a " tiptop
" man in his calling, straight as an arrow
in all his dealings, and retiring in his domestic
demeanour. His heart and soul seemed devoted
in " picking out " (using his own words) any
unusual family disturbance or rejoicing that

affected the Towiisend surroundings, and he
was not altogether himself if he could not
attain his object ; but it should be recorded
that any knowledge Leonard possessed was
never abused by being used to the disadvantage
of the family with whom he had
spent a whole lifetime. He was devoted to
his young mistress ; he had nursed her for
hours when quite an infant. There was not a
spot on the Carthewin estate he had not rambled
over, leading her Welsh mountain pony
Rattler" from valley to hill, through rusfcred
defiles and precipitous places ; listening to her
prattling young tongue, and, in return, telling
the child pleasant little fairy tales ; sheltering
her with his long Macgregor's plaid, when
the rude winterly wind swept down upon his
*' Rosebud," as he called her; and at other
times screening her delicate face from the
scorching rays of a burning mid-day summer's
sun. But Leonard invariably brought

his little charge safely home to the arms of
her parent. No wonder Nora was so profoundly
attached to the old man, with whom
she had been so lonsf associated when a chill
If a joy had been torn from her, appertaining
to some trifling matter, the little Nora would
run, with her eyes full of tears, to poor old
Leonard, and pour out her complaint with
sobs ; then Leonard would run away with her
in his arms, or whip her up on his shoulder,
carry her to the servants' hall, and soothingly
endeavour to subdue her tears. All these
circumstances are pleasant reminiscences to
our heroine, naturally causing her to feel devoted
to the faithful servant.

'* Anything special in the mail-bag this
morning, Godfrey ? " said Mrs Townshend,
vacantly looking into the teapot, the
cover of which she closed with some
emphasis.

"No — yes; at least, nothing particulars

responded Mr Townshend, wrenching a French,
roll asunder with determination.

*' That's a crammer ! " said Leonard, within
himself.

*' No — yes ; at least, nothing particular,"
replied Mrs Townshend, in a mimicking tone.
Those are very ambiguous terms. Judging
from your absence of mind, I should say
that there is something very special in your
correspondence this morning."

Leonard, finding; the conversation drifting;
into matters of a private character, bit his
lip, and left the room.

If there is anything very edifying, father,
I vote you let us share in your overflow of
joy," said that little tease Gertrude.

Nora was seemingly busy in scraping the

merry-thought bone of a chicken that was

on her plate, in an abstracted manner ; she

caught sight of the unmistakable telegraphy,

also the crest on the envelope, and the black-vol.
n. D

edged border on the enclosure ; she also saw
her father cover the letter with his serviette,
when Leonard handed the omelette : it was
suggestive of some important communication ;
yes, the crest was familiar to her (a lion rampant)
; she wondered what on earth could bethe
purport of the letter that so visibly affected
her parent. Every mail-bag for months
past had been watched by her with intense
anxiety. An irresistible something, which she
could not easily describe, seemed to surround
her ; joys she could not reasonably anticipate
were far from her thoughts ; her cup of sorrow
was still full to overflowing. She inwardly felt
that, sooner or later, stirring events connected
in some way with her lamented Percy, her
brave hero, must reach her with overwhelming
force, as she scarcely dare venture another
look at her father, who sat at the bottom of
the table absorbed in his pile of correspondence,
one of which she knew, in her own

heart, contained information that concerned
her, and her alone. A still small voice, as it
were, breathed into her soul. Was it the voice
of the dead or the voice of the living, — the
voice of the ideal man that she had pictured
in her mind from time to time, the dearest
associate of her late beloved husband, the
very being who closed her Percy's eyes in
death. She felt the day was fast approaching
when he would appear in their midst,
and disclose to her personally the thrilling
scene that concluded the last chapter of her
husband's life. " Come when it may," she
often said within herself, " I will hail its
advent with courage, and fortify myself with
the firmest resolution."

Godfrey, dear," ventured Mrs Townshend,
*' what on earth has happened ? Are the
Three per Cents, gone to nothing, or — "

Hang the Three per Cents. ! " replied Mr
Townshend, somewhat snappishly, thrusting

UNIVERSITY OF

the batch of correspondence into the breast-pocket
of his frieze coat.

I don't think it would be very flourishing
for the inmates of Carthewin Castle, if
they were hanged, as you call it,'*' said Mrs
Townshend, " seeing that a great deal of our
capital is invested therein. It would simply
mean a wiping out of my jointure, and rags-and
starvation for us all."

'you take my words literally, Julia."

"Eeally I can't, for the life of me, make
you out one bit this morning," replied Mrs
Townshend, looking askance at Nora.

That look !

Never mind, dear mamma," at last ventured
Nora tremulously ; " papa has some
little secret he is anxious, no doubt, to impart
to you ; maybe he will disclose it when
we adjourn. Come, Gerty, fold your serviette,,
and let us be off."

Fiddlestick ! " said Mrs Townshend

Secret indeed ! I detest the term. My
dear father Rodway looked upon secrets as
odious, and I am the same way of thinking ;
too many secrets going on in this castle
by half."

'' I vote we make immediate tracks, Nora ;
it is getting hot," suggested Gertrude, going
over to her father, kissing him, and saying, —
Mind, dad, don't you go putting off
Strawworth and the Branscomb girls, for I
shall be intensely disgusted if you do."

Hang the Branscomb girls, and Straw -
worth too ! " said Mr Townshend vehement'.

At this juncture Nora and Gertrude left
the room, not relishing the present state of
things.

Supremely interesting conversation, certainly,"
ventured Mrs Townshend, with stinging
sarcasm. " The Three per Cents., the very
main-spring and prop of our existence, are
to be ignominiously hanged, and our rector's

good daughters, together with the highly-gifted,
self-denying, and talented curate, he
also is to suffer death by the same process."
** Talented ! " mimicked Mr Townshend sceptically,
who could no longer resist the temptation
of putting down such eulogium.

"Yes, talented," replied Julia; "if double
first at mathematics and double first at
Greek mean anything."

The observation made by Godfrey Towns-end
showed at once the chaotic tumult of
his mind. Such an outpouring of invectives
towards a man Mrs Townshend was desirous
of securing as a fiance for Gertrude was,
to use the mildest expression, appalling, and
filled her mind with the most dismal forebodings
as to the future, in connection with
her daughter. To think that Godfrey Towns-end
should put his foot down in the very
peremptory manner he did, was more than the
highly-sensitive nature of Julia could bear.

Notwithstanding your unfeeling and, I
venture to assert, uncharitable remarks,
Godfrey, concerning a young and promising
curate who is pushing himself into more
and more usefulness in our parish ; I repeat,
in spite of your remarks, I have every
confidence in the Rev. Mr Straw worth, and
I look to his acquitting himself in the
duties of life with undeviating rectitude."

Perhaps misplaced," replied Mr Towns-end,
with an air of considerable preoccupation,
at the same time searching in his
breast coat-pocket for a letter, which he
produced with an air of gravity, and handed
it to his wife to read.

I trust, Godfrey dear," said Mrs Towns-end,
in her softest accents, " there is nothing
alarming in this letter, as my nerves of late
have become so unstrung by a concatenation
of events, that I am in no humour just
now to subject myself to any process which

will have the effect of prostrating me
entirely."

"On the contrary, Julia, that letter in
your hands, if I mistake not, will, or should,
have the opposite effect, by reviving, instead
of depressing, your nervous system."

Anyhow," continued Mrs Townshend, adjusting
her gold eyeglasses, " it caused a
very considerable tumult in your system,
else you would not, I am sure, have displayed
a temper in the presence of your
daughters such as, I trust, we shall never
experience again."

'' For the future," replied Mr Townshend,
I shall contrive to open all my letters in
the library, and thus avoid a repetition of
the display to which you refer, but of which
I was not conscious."

As you like," said Mrs Townshend

petulantly, scrutinising the motto, " Servant

Jldem ; " then unfolding a full-size sheet of

letter-paper, with a very wide margin, read
as follows : —

The ' Woodlands,' Gloucestershire
"Dear Sie, — Having just returned from
the Crimea invalided, I avail myself of the
earliest opportunity of communicating with
you, in accordance with the dying wish
of the late Lieutenant Snowdon, who fell
after greatly distinguishing himself at the

battle of .

As the despatches of the commander-in-chief
bear testimony to the exceptional
services of this distinguished officer, it is
obviously out of place and idle for me to
make any reference to them, other than
observing that I have to deplore the loss
of not only one of the ablest of soldiers
who fell for his country, but I am proud
to be able to record that he was a very
dear personal friend of mine own, whose

sterling worth and pious memory it is mer
good fortune to revere.

As I was deputed by the late Lieutenant
Snowdon, in his last moments, to solicit
an interview with your daughter, and deliver
into her hands some effects which he
greatly prized, I have to ask (should it
meet with your approval) if you will obligingly
fix a place and day most convenient
to yourself and daughter on which I can
discharge the sorrowful duty entrusted to me.
With the most profound sympathy for
you and yours, I am, dear sir, your obedient
servant, Oliver Grey,

Captain, — th Regiment"

"A better-expressed letter I never read,"
said Mrs Townshend, after a short pause, " and,
I should think, supremely sincere. I have
heard several officers speak of Captain Grey
in the highest terms, not only in connection

with the war, in which he greatly
flistino-uishecl himself, but also in connection
with a most charming girl, who volunteered
in the service of the ' Eed Cross.'
Why, surely you must recollect meeting herat
one of my garden - parties at Otway
Hall — little Gipsy Constance, as we called
her, daughter of my lamented father's old
friend Podmore Templar, of ' Brookfield ' ? "

Now you call my attention to it," replied
Mr Townshend, '' I have an indistinct
recollection of meeting Miss Templar, and
at the time I was very much struck with
her beauty and strikingly refined manner.
But in what way is she connected with
Captain Oliver Grey ? "

"From what I can gather," replied Mrs
Townshend, " Captain Grey was seriously
wounded, and was subsequently removed
from the theatre of war (a most unusual
proceeding) to some farm-house in the immediate

neighbourhood, where it appears
Miss Templar, in the capacity of her calling,
most tenderly nursed the gallant captain
through a long and dangerous illness.
Curiously enough, when Captain Grey got
better, poor little Constance succumbed to
an attack of fever, probably the outcome
of intense fatigue consequent on night
watching. Naturally enough, the most
profound intimacy sprung up between the
invalids ; and I should not be at all surprised
if one of the heroes of that memorable
charge at and black-eyed Constance

did not appear at the hymeneal altar to
answer for some pledge of affection contracted
in that Russian homestead, under
very exceptional, and, I may say, sensational
circumstances. But I am digressing.
What are your views with respect to this
said letter, Godfrey dear ? "
"Views?"

"Yes."

What are yours, love ? Yoii know of
old that two heads are better than one,"
answered Mr Townshend, seizing the poker
and hammering a large lump of coal on the
fire into sundry pieces.

Naturally enough," said Mrs Townshend,
'' I am desirous of falling in with your
views, as the matter at issue more directly
affects your daughter."

Nay, Julia, we are one, you know, and
all our best and happiest intentions should be
in common with each other, — bound up, so
to speak, in one volume, by the same author."

You are a dear, Godfrey, to so forcibly
express sentiments that are entirely my own ;
but I leave the reply in your hands."

And," continued Mr Townshend, " I will
most religiously discharge any duty that
may be entrusted to me with undeviating
honour and unflinching integrity. Ajpvoj^os

of this letter, which necessarily demands a
prompt and most courteous reply, we cannot,
I think, do better than first of all submit
it, without one word of remark, to Nora,
and hear what she has to say on the subject,
in which she is intimately concerned."

I should not be surprised to hear that
Nora objects to accord Captain Grey a
personal interview, and at the eleventh
hour will leave the dismal in your hands
to manipulate," replied Mrs Townshend, caressing
one of her favourite poodles.

I don't think anything of the kind,
Julia."

Well, we shall see, dear," interrupted
Mrs Townshend. " If you think it will avail
anything, or, in other words, that better
results will follow, I will, with your permission,
break the news to Nora in a gentle
manner, and at the earliest favourable
moment."

o

Not for the world, Julia," replied Mr
Townshend, with considerable earnestness. " I
have the pulse of my child beating so near
my heart, that I intuitively know how
to feel it. Leave the matter in my hands,
and I will arrange for the best results, by
placing it in higher hands. He who
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, will
accommodate the yoke that my beloved girl
has to bear."

Mrs Townshend bent her head submissively,
and thus broke up the tete-astute.

The sun is shining brightly on the dewdrops,
which hang like sparkling cascades
of light on the various groups of plants in
the shrubbery ; the sweet odours from the
highly - scented briar trees and various
flowers in the borders, speak their own
language, denoting the time of year.

Although many birds have ceased to sing
their morning; and evening; sons to their

nestling, there are other feathered tribes
who fill the air with their delicious notes 1
The grand landscape in the distance, melting
far away into glorious indistinctness ; the
sunlight which lights up the purple moorland
; the tall barley and the oat stalks on
the iceland, swaying to and fro at every
gentle gust of wind, like the ripple of the
troubled waves at sea, attract the lover of
nature, and open up a fountain of unspeakable
joy in a heart and soul for such reality
and splendour, all bursting forth with uncommon
beauty !

Well, old girl," said Mr Townshend, ashe
stepped from the tesselated pavement on
the terrace into the open French window
leading to the library, at the same time
smashing a flower-pot containing mignonette,
which he dragged off a stand with the tail
of his frieze coat, " I have been looking
for you in every direction, high and low.

First I went to the stables, then the lodges,
and heaven knows where — "

And found me at last," interrupted
Nora, " in the place of all others where I
am most likely to he found, amongst these
tiers, I may say acres, of dusty books, where
I am always so happy ; for you know how
I love to seek a pastime, dear father, the
pleasure of which is not only great, but
lasting."

'' True, true, old girl ; but I must get you
out of this humdrum mode of pastime. More
air, more exercise, and less brooding over
old scores, as the saying is, will suit the
book of your life better, and bring some
of the damask again in sour poor little
pale face."

Nora looked so picturesque this morning,
so real, so much more like herself; she
flushed with pleasure and warm feeling
when she took the large brown hand of her

VOL. II. E

t>

father in lies, and lifting it to her lips said,
" How good God has been to spare you
to me ; how thankful and supremely happy
should I be, in the possession of a parent
so devoted." And throwing her eyes towards
heaven she softly exclaimed, — " God knows
all things, He knows that I am thankful."

Look here, old girl," said Mr Townshend,
turning his massive head away, and hiding
it in one of the gaps in the book range, to
disguise a bumping tear that had promiscuously
started, " drop all this nonsense.
You are too sensitive by half It upsets
yourself and everyone else. Put your foot
clown resolutely, my child ; be determined
to grapple with what may seem to you unendurable
trouble and crushing difficulties,
which, in reality, are but pleasures in disguise.
Sooner or later you will come upon
the keynote to all of it, and you will remember
your father's words."

'' To view tliiDgs, dear father, philosophically,
is sound and wholesome advice, but
how hard sometimes to accomplish ! "

It ultimately becomes harder if we do
not," said Mr Townshend. "Perhaps what I
have ventured has not the proper ring in
it ; but you know precisely what I mean,
and how earnestly and affectionately I long
to see you your own dear self again, the
very counterpart of your lamented mother."

At this point Nora strangled a sob in
her throat, as she twisted, in a preoccupied
manner, a small bunch of seals between her
fingers.

But now to domestic matters, little
woman. I received a letter this morning
from — "

Captain Oliver Grey," interrupted Nora,
with a firm voice.

'' How do you know ? " said Mr Townshend,
in amazement.

I caught sight of the crest on the envelope
at the breakfast-table."

How do you know the crest ? " asked Mr
Townshend, a little suspiciously.

Captain Grey forwarded me a letter a
long time since from my beloved husband,
which, it appears, he was directed to do if
anything should happen to Percy. There is
the envelope," said our heroine, producing it.

Did Captain Grey write any letter himself
? "

None whatever," said Nora ; " not one
word of his was contained in that cover ;
had he done so, I should most certainly
have handed it to you."

I know you would ; and now, child, read
this communication which I received to-day,"
said Mr Townshend, patting his daughter gently
on the cheek and presenting Captain Grey's
letter ; then throwing himself carelessly on
the sofa, he took up the newspaper.

Nora tremblingly unfolded the large foolscap,
carefully read and re-read it, whilst her
small riorht foot tattooed the ground with
nervous agitation ; then walking to the window,
she looked out over the vast expanse of
country, in deep and anxious meditation.

Well, little woman," ventured Mr Towns-end,
after a long pause, and looking over his
glasses, expecting to find his daughter sorely
stricken with sudden grief, " what shall I say
in reply ? "

Mr Townshend had not seen his daughter
look so unemotional for some time past. A
change seemed to have come o'er " the spirit
of her dream." With a steady step she
approached her father, and with a firm voice
said complacently, —

I leave the reply, papa, entirely in your
hands."

'precisely: that is just what your mother
has done ; but as it is a matter which more

directly concerns yourself, I would rather
hear your views on the subject."

My views should be identical with yours,"
replied Nora, with an embarrassed sigh.

Hardly, dear," said her father.

I should be happier in the belief that
such is a fact," continued Nora.

Jewel," said Mr Townshend, within himself.


Well, Nora, I shall write to Captain
Grey to-day, and invite him to the Castle
for a week or two. I, for one, shall be proud
to make the acquaintance of an officer who
has so much distinguished himself during
the late campaign, and delighted to offer
the hospitality of our home to the personal
friend of your late brave husband. Your
cousin Cuthbert is coming here on Monday
week, and I hear that Mrs Townshend ha
invited Miss Constance Templar, who was
on the staff of the Eed Cross, to spend a

short time with us. I am also given to
understand from Mrs Townshend that this
lady nursed Captain Grey during a long illness
in the Crimea ; and, by-the-bye, very
nearly lost her life into the bargain — at least,
so the report goes ; therefore I think it will
be a capital idea, and but kind, to have them
here at the same time — that is, if it be agreeable
to Mrs Townshend, in which case we shall
be a merry party. You know Miss Templar,
do you not ? "

'' I can hardly say I know her," replied
Nora. " I have just the faintest recollection
of meeting her at Rodway Hall, before you
married mamma."

"I do not think," continued Mr Townshend,
any person who once met Miss Templar
could easily forget her. She was then marvellously
handsome and supremely intelligent,
perhaps a little too much so. An eminent
lawyer once remarked he had 'no objection

to blue stockings, provided the petticoats were
long enough to conceal them ' ; but as to her
beauty, using a vulgar phrase, first-rate was
a fool to it ! "

Nora smiled complacently at the flow of
her father's mirth.

Do these arrangements fall in with your
views, Nora ? Say the word, and I will
agitate the goose-quill instanter, and invite
Captain Grey."

'• What are the wishes of Mrs Townshend,
papa ? "

I will arrange all that. The long and
the short of the matter is, I have had a
conversation with your mother, and she has
left the preliminaries to me."

If it meet, sir, wdtli — "

Hang the * sir ' ! drop it, Nora, you know
how I hate the term ! "

''If it meet, dearest father," continued
Nora, "with your and Mrs Townshend's pleasure

to invite Captain Grey to the Castle,
I am more than delighted at the prospect
of seeing the very man, of all others, who
was the devoted friend of my dear Percy."

At this point Nora buried her face in
her hands and sobbed.

Look here, little woman," said Mr Towns-end,
pulling himself together with a lofty
demeanour, " you won't be making a little
fool of yourself when Captain Grey arrives,
will you ? "

'' Good heavens ! father, what do you
mean ? "

What I mean is this. You know that
I am given to plain speaking. You will not,
when Captain Grey does come, be going off
into hysterics, doing the sensational, kicking
up a precious bother, and all that sort of
thing ? "

Nora's eyes flashed fire at the conclusion
of her father's remark ; a keen observer

could have detected a thrill that vibrated
through her frame, as she crested her head
and said, —

When the time comes, I trust I shall
know how to govern my feelings, befitting
the daughter of Godfrey Townshend. Though
a widow, and smarting under the blow that
Providence has so heavily dealt me, nevertheless
I have a soul that rises triumphantly
in the knowledge that I bear the name of
my departed hero, whose undying memory
I shall ever revere."

After a long pause, she continued, —

Forget that love so pure, which springs
from your fond heart, my father ! rebel
against your commands ! such shall never
be again said. May I live to make your
declining years full of joy and peace."

Mr Townshend, entwiniug his arms around
his child, and fondly embracing her, said, —

May that guidance which comes from

heaven be your support through life," and,
with a measured tread, he passed out of the
room.

Nora listened to the retreating footsteps
of her parent as they died away in the
corridor which led to the billiard-room,
then throwing; herself into the lounging
she could no longer suppress her tears.
They were not tears of sadness — but rather,
tears of joy ! — tears that not unfrequently
relieve the heart from a sense of oppression,
that ease, as it were, the soul of a mighty
weight, and clear the brain of dismal surroundings
— yes, a pious woman's tears often
a sweet harbinger of coming joys. May such
be our heroine's portion ! Nora now began
to seriously consider the position of affairs.
During' the conversation with her father,
she could not realise the precise features of
the case, which now faintly dawned upon
her and became more and more developed.

Can it be possible," she said within herself,
"that I shall so soon stand face to
face with the man of all others I long to
converse with, to see the colleague and
devoted friend of my Percy. The letter
that my husband wrote me about him has
been before my eyes, as it were, every hour
in the chiv ; how I longed to show it to
my father, but there was so much in it of
an absolutely private character, it would
have been madness in me to have disclosed
the contents." Thus Nora soliloquised, when
snatches of a lively song in the corridor
denoted Gertrude's approach, as she sang —

Awake the heavens, look bright my dear.
It is never too late for delight, my dear ;
The best of all ways to lengthen onr days
Is to steal a few hours in the night, my dear."

Nora hastily brushed away a promiscuous
tear that hung on her long lashes, when
her step-sister tripped like a fairy into the

library, with an spoonful of the choicest
hot-house flowers, and a face radiant with
glowing health, exclaiming, —

"Goodness gracious! why dear Miss — I
beg pardon, Mrs Moping — why, having it
all to yourself again. I thought I should find
you here, — should not be at all surprised,
one fine morning, to see you suddenly converted
into Gibbons Decline and Fall, stuck
upon the book-range, neatly bound in calf ;
nay, Sissy dear, don't look cross, — anything
serious the matter ? "

Oh dear no. If I look cross, dear Gerty,
I feel just the reverse, for I am happier
to-day than I have been for some time."

Hurrah ! I vote you come out for a ride
with me this morning, may be the fresh
air will crew rid of some of the redness I
espy in your eyes, and wake you wp a few ;
besides," added she archly, " mamma will be
waking you up if you stay here, and no

error. Come, Sissy, let us be off for a scamper
over the moorlands. ' Single Peeper ' is
as fresh as paint ; she has not been out of
the stable for a week, and if I don't try
and take it out of her, she will be taking
some unwarrantable liberty with me, and
will try her best to deposit me in the hedgerow."


I hope she will have better manners,
Gerty ; I am in no humour to witness such
a display of her agility," replied Nora. '' Anyhow,
I am good for a hard gallop this
morning. Tell Harvey to have the roan
saddled and brought round at twelve o'clock,
and to prepare himself to accompany us."

'you dear Sissy," screamed the excitable
and impulsive Gertrude, "why, what has
come to you ? it makes me so happy to
see you happy," and selecting a sprig of
heliotrope from her store, she adjusted it on
her step-sister's bosom.

I am always cheerful with you, darling,"
said Nora : "I could not be otherwise ;
but sad grief, my child, cannot enter the
heart without leaving some shadow behind
it.

I know you have had more than your
share of sorrow ; but now let some of it fly
out of the window, and the rest up the
smoky chimney, then hurrah ! we will have
more pleasure together in one week than
wee have experienced for the last twelvemonths.
Papa and mamma are so anxious
about your health, and ' moping,' as the latter
calls it. I say, Sissy, cousin Cuthbert is
coming the week after next, and I have a
holiday, and curly Cuthh is so awfully jolly."

Don't, dear Gerty, use that term."

•* What, not awfully jolly ? why, Mr Straw-worth,
who ought to be an authority, says
it like ' anything.' "

Notwithstanding the source from which

you learnt it, I affectionately submit to you
that it is a fast way of speaking."

Gertrude (all smiles), with a mock curtsey,
promised to say something slower for the
future ; continuing, — " Well, I said just now
cousin is coming, and he will wake me up.
For my own part, I verily believe the lot of
us have been fast asleep for the last ten
months, ever since your poor dismal put us
to bed, and covered us up with wet blankets ! "

I have no doubt, Gerty, Mr Rodway will
add his quota to the general fund of any
amusement that may be going on," replied
Nora, with a slight shudder, for she had
visions of what may be in store for her.

Lor bless me ! Sissy, what a funny look
you gave then," said Gertrude.

*' Nonsense, child ! " replied Nora. " You
have a wonderful flow of ideas ; you are
simply incomparable."

"Mamma informed me this morning that

she had sent an invitation to a Miss Templar
to spend a week or so with us ; do you
know anything of her ? How I hate your
strangers, they are sometimes so ' stuck up.' "

'* I remember seeing her at Otway Hall
when a child," said Nora ; " she was then the
prettiest debutante of the season."

'' Eeally ! what a swell she must be now ;
waltzes, I suppose, like ' anything ; ' talks
like evermore ; dresses like Cinderella. She
weill take the shine out of us poor little
Carthewiners ! By-the-bye, mamma says
she is ' strictly county,' or she should not
have asked her to the Castle."

'' I wish your mamma would cease to apply

such a silly appellation to one's friends. There

are really good members of society, not

strictly county, as she calls them, who are

infinitely more valuable, and their friendship

more lasting than the 'upper ten' to whom

she refers."

VOL. II. F

"But mamma prides herself on it, don't
you know. I have heard her argue the
point with papa repeatedly — indeed, it was
only this morning, when she was talking
about the visit of Captain Grey, which, by-the-bye,
is fixed for next week, that she
alluded to it."

And wdiat did papa say," ventured Nora,
colouring deeply.

He said, ' Hang the county ! ' in rather a
pet, I thought, and, at the same time, threw
his tobacco-pouch at mamma's poodle, which
made both ' Snap ' and mother very angry.
But don't you speak of it, dear, for the world ;
I rushed into the conservatory, where I had
a good laugh all to myself. I fancy papa
has lately been very irritable, but he is kind
and good, and I do love him so ; indeed,
there isn't a soul in the village who wouldn't
lay down his life for grandfather, as they
jocosely call him, for his band is always in

his pocket to help the sick and poor ; and
as for cook, she says it is a farce our
keeping a model dairy at the home farm, —
we had better call it the refuge for the
destitute-may

God spare him to us, my child, for
many years, to contribute to the wants of the
needy. He has ample means, and to spare,
and to extend that bounty, is the most
precious prerogative of the rich. But he is a
man who will not be imposed upon, and,
therefore, exercises much discretion in dispensing
his gifts of charity. Now let us run
upstairs and slip into our habits, for Harvey
and the groom will be at the door with the
horses in ten minutes."

Please, miss — beg pardon, I should say
ma'am," said Leonard, " do you lunch at home
to-day?"

*' No, Leonard ; ask your mistress, when
she returns from the rectory, to kindly

excuse us, as Miss Gertrude and I are going
over the moorlands and on to Beech Valley ;
after that we shall take luncheon at the
abbey, but we shall be home in good time
for dinner," said Nora.

*' I think I heard you say, ma'am, that you
were o^oino; to ride the roan mare."

Yes, Leonard ; lovely morning for a
gallop."

For God's sake be careful, ma'am. I hope,
no offence, but she nearly kicked off Harvey
and the stud-groom yesterday ; awfully skittish,
sure enough, buck jumps like anything,
ma'am."

I am generally part and parcel of the
saddle when I am ' up,' Leonard," said Nora.

Yes, ma'am, but 'isn't very refreshing to
be part and parcel of the earth, when you
are down, ma'am."

True, Leonard, true," replied Nora
smilingly ; " but the poet says, —

Earth walks on earth like glittering gold ;
Earth says to earth we are both mould ;
Earth builds on earth castles and towers ;
Earth says to earth all shall be ours,' "

and our heroine bounded up the polished
oak staircase with a light step and heart
lighter than usual.

Leonard's eyes followed his young mistress
as she ran up the corridor and frisked round
the gallery, then turning into the diningroom,
said within himself, — " Lord love her
dear heart 1 "

HOME AGAIN.

Home is the sacred refuge of our life,
Secured from all approaches but a wife."

Dryden.

Sure, then, I am delighted to have the
honour of calling ye major instead of captain,"
said Curtis, when he took up my hot
water, and was busily engaged in the
dressing-room arranging boots, spurs, clothes,
etc., at the Woodlands, in Gloucestershire —
the seat of my father, or the " Cotton
Lord," as he was jocosely dubbed.

"I wouldn't," continued Curtis, "go
back ao'ain to that dismal old barn in
Russia for all creation ; and sure it is

a wonder yer honour didn't leave yer
bones there."

You will simply go where I take you,
Curtis. Recollect you are now my special
property, and you have nothing whatever
to do with Her Majesty's service."

Thank the Lord for all His mercies,"
replied my valet ; " and, more particularly,
I thank Him for putting it into yer
honour's head to buy a poor miserable
fellow like myself out. Sure then, ye shall
never have reason to regret it."

"You deserved it, Curtis, else I should
have sent you again to the front as a
baronet to be shot at ! "

Sure, then, my poor Biddy, my pretty
shamrock of old Ireland, would have been
a lonely widow, and — "

You probably better off," I interrupted.

In the kingdom that is to come, yer
honour ; anyhow, I have no particular

desire to make the exchange just at
present, whilst my Biddy and I have such
good quarters in the east lodge, and our
two little ragged rascals are climbing about
on our knees."

Then you really are happy ? " I asked,
at the same time scraping away with my
razor with a hand not the most steady.

Happy, did ye say % happy isn't the
word for it, Major. If you only will be so
kind as to pay Biddy and me a visit at
the lodge, your keen eyes will soon take in
the measure of our happiness. It isn't strike
measure, yer honour, it's full measure well
pressed down."

"Then your wife, Curtis, has no 2^9.r-
titular desire to make tracks, and cross
again from Holyhead to Dublin and take
up her abode again on the Tipperary
hills ? " jocosely.

'' Not for all the potatoes in the county,

sir ; anyhow, not so long as my clear
master will give my Biddy and her chicks
shelter in his lodge, and employ these willing
hands to serve him. Yes, just so long
will Mike Curtis remain a faithful servant
till death parts us ; sure then, 'tis gospel
what I say, every word of it."

You have hitherto, Curtis, proved
yourself to be a faithful servant. Your
future success will now very much depend
upon your own exertions. Your life, in
every respect, wall be a very different one
to that which you have been accustomed.
You have much to learn in your new vocation
; you are yet comparatively young,
willing, able, and I have always found
you truthful ; you have only to continue
in the same groove, and you and Biddy
will have your reward. x4.s my valet and
personal attendant in all shooting, fishing,
and hunting expeditions, your duties will

not be heavy : on the contrary, they will
be lio^ht ; but there is one thing I must
caution you against, and that is, disclosing
to the employed of this establishment, or
anyone else, the knowledge that you are
in possession of in connection with the
surroundings of our late residence in Russia,
and those persons with whom you have
seen me associated. For were I to know
that you had made a fool of yourself in.
this respect, out of my employ you go like
a shot out of a gun.' "

Faith, master, I had better never have
been born, except to be shot, were I to pay
ye such a basely compliment as to S2:)ake
of any matter that concerned ye, and that
didn't concern me at all, at alL Mum is
the word with Mike Curtis, from sunrise
to sundown ; not even my own darling
Biddy shall ever know one word from me
unless I spake out in my sleep, and

the little spalpaiu monkey is sleeping like
the ' Historians,' with one eye open!"

'' I have named this matter to you today,
Curtis, to put you well on your
guard, as it is not improbable that I
may have . to take you into Wales with
me in a day or two."

'' Into Wales, Major ! " said Curtis, with
some surprise ; " sure, then, I am glad to
hear it, for another little change, maybe,
will brighten ye up a bit, for ye haven't
looked quite so well lately ; and sure, if
ye have anything on yer mind, maybe ye
can unbosom it better in some other part
of the country," significantly.

"You are an oddity, Curtis, — certainly
a very curious compound. What on earth
makes you think I have something on
my mind ? " I replied, feeling a little uneasy,
not knowing what my servant was
*' driving' " at.

'' I never said I thought you had, Major ;
I only said if you had. Sure enough,
whenever I and Biddy had anything on
our minds, a long times since, we used to
go to Father O'Connor to relieve us of all
imperfections ; but now we have no father-confessor
here, and we must do the best
we can. But sure, then, ye haven't looked
well — ye are not herself at all, at all ;
and all these fine dinner parties, and
dancing from sunset until sunrise, is playing
the very ' Bear ' with ye ; and the
sooner ye get out of it and go into Wales
the better. Maybe ye will be so kind as
to be after telling me what things I am
to pack up for yer use, and for how long
ye are going to stay ? "

Probably for a fortnight, Curtis, maybe
more. I have an invitation to go to
Carthewin Castle."

Curtis knew perfectly well some of the

history attached to Carthewin Castle, in
connection with the late Lieutenant Snovv-
con, and he was also keenly alive to the
fact that I was intimately mixed up in
some way with important matters which I
had to discharge ; he knew also of the
likeness of Nora which I wore, and often
pondered over the whole concatenation of
events. Though of late I had become exceedingly
reticent, and very thoughtful when
any circumstance "cropped" up relating to
the late Lieutenant Snowdon, or his secret
marriage with Miss Townshend — which marriage
was freely discussed by the domestic
employed of the Woodlands — it was now
no secret in Wales ; indeed the Pembrokeshire
Flying Post (which paper, by-the-bye,
was not of the same politics as
Godfrey Townshend), delighted at the
opportunity afforded for a spicy bit of
scandal, and devoted a long paragraph to

a 'mysterious elopement and secret marriage
in connection with a certain heiress not a
hundred miles from the baronial residence
of Carthewin Castle." A copy of this paper
had been forwarded to some officer in the
Crimea, who passed it on to me before I
left the country. Curtis had seen the paper,
made a mental of its contents, and subsequently,
on his return to England, the
whole of the j)^^zzle was unravelled. No
one knew better than Curtis what was
passing in the mind of myself ; he also
knew how attached Miss Templar was tome—
perhaps more than he cared to express.
When at the Russian farm, he picked up a
portion of Miss Templar's very ample diary,
and was mean enough to read it, and, be it
said to his shame, retain it ; but , as a redeeming
point in the fatal act, be it also
said, that he never divulged the contents
of that diary to a living soul.

Sure alive, ye are going to a grand
old place, Major. I have often heard that
dashing officer, Lieutenant Snowdon, spake
about the miles of park, and the deer and
the hunting and shooting and — "

A pause.

The what ? " I asked, noticing a peculiar
twitch in my servant's face, which he had
Ashen anything unusual happened and exposed
a sensitive nerve.

Oh, nothing, master," continued Curtis,
making another face all awry.

Come, come, Curtis, you meant to say
something ; I am curious to know what it
was, so out with it."

Well, sir, if ye must know, I was that
moment thinking the blessed little cano-el
of a girl that our dear lieutenant used to
talk about in the Crimea ; and sure haven't
I seen him many a time seize the brandy-has
when sitting over the cam23-fire, and

drink to ' Our sweethearts and wives ' ; and
haven't I seen a red patch climb up into
both cheeks ; and sure, haven't I seen one
of the biggest tears steal out of an eye that
ten thousand Eussian bayonets could not have
started ; sure, then, I have, and no mistake.
Yes, I was thinking of it all, yer honour,
and the dear little woman that maybe is
pining away on that great estate. Yes, sure,
like my blessed Biddy would on the Tipperary
hills, if Mike Curtis had found a
stray shot in one of his lungs, and to follow
six feet of narrow soil for his dwelling "

Well, my good fellow," I replied, touched
by the earnestness and simplicity of my
servant's remarks, " you will very shortly
have an opportunity of seeing the 'little
angel of a girl,' as you call her, when you
accompany me to Carthewin."

And sure, Major, haven't 1 seen her
shadow many a time, tucked up under your

flaniien waistcoat in the little gold locket,"
said Curtis, sotto voce, and looking round towards
the doors to see that no one was
within hearing.

Mum's the word, Curtis ; do you hear
me ? Have a care, the walls sometimes have
ears. I know nothing of Mrs Snowdon ; I
am simply going to Carthewin to hand over
the property of the late Lieutenant Snowdon,
which is now in a portmanteau in the strong
room. The butler will give it to you on
the morning of our departure ; and mind,
I again caution you to keep your confounded
whip ' still ove]' all matters appertaining to
the Carthewin or any other family."

Sure, then, I would sooner suffer death,

master, than the crack of my whip should

be heard either concerning; the little Nora

child, or the daisy darling of the Eed Cross,

who tumbled over head and ears in love with

ye — and she did, sure, and no mistake."
VOL. n. G

*' Very well, I rely upon you. If you
fail to act up to my instructions, you may
depend upon my sending you off at a
moment's notice. And now you can go.
Get the guns in readiness for the 1st
September, for I shall take them with meas
I may probably require them before I
return."

Very good. Major," and with the usual
salute, Curtis left the room ; but returning:
in a few moments, he said, " I omitted to
tell ye, sir, that ' Eob Eoy ' has his shoes
off, and he is up to his knees in tan in the
colt's loose box. And sure, then, he is beginning
to pick up his crumbs in fine form ;
and I hope. Major, in a month's time, to see
him the pink of perfection again."

I am exceedingly glad to hear it," I
replied. " You know how fond I am of the
animal."

Sure, then, ye have reason to be, for

lie landed ve high and dry amidst the
hottest shower of lead that ever rained
upon a mass of struggling men. The
veterinary says he has more bullets now in
Lin, and he has extracted four already.
Faith ! he was riddled like a cullender from
stem to stern ; and, by the powers ! if it
isn't a riddle to me how he scrambled
throuodi it at all. And with the bullet-holes
in your helmet, sir, it is a providence that
3'e are spared to your father and mother,
and a blessing to Biddy and me."

"I hope for some good end, Curtis," I
replied. "At present, I don't see that I
have done much in this world."

And it isn't my good master that is a
judge of anything of the kind," replied
Curtis, turning upon his heel again.

The " Woodlands " is a newly-erected mansion,
built strictly in the Tudor style, the
architecture of that period being maintained

in detail throughout the establishment. It is
most amply furnished in old oak, connoisseurs
having for years been employed collecting in
all parts of England the choicest specimens
that could be found, regardless of cost.

The small but very picturesque estate
comprises about five hundred acres in a ring
fence, on which formerly stood an old-fashioned
red - brick mansion, which the
Cotton Lord " razed to the ground. The
present edifice is erected on a promontory
overlooking one of the most beautiful valleys
in the county. The park in front of the
mansion is enriched by a wealth of gigantic
trees, of cedar, elm, oak, chestnut, and
lime. The verdant slopes from the house
are most artistically laid out, and abound
with rhododendrons, which, in their season,
form one blaze of colour, beautifully contrasting
with the greensward beneath. On
the east side of the park there are some

precipitous waterfalls, the white spray dashing;
from rock to rock roaring; monotonously,
and terminating in a broad lake in
the valley, where it silently flows on under
the long shadows of the trees, watering, in
its various outlets, the surrounding; lowlands.


Few moments awaken keener pleasure
than that of revisiting; scenes of our youth
after a long; absence. The trees, the flowers,
the water dashing; in mad career from
boulder to boulder, and even the wood-pigeons,
seem long-lost friends.

As I stood on the edge of a precipice,
where, as a boy, I used to climb withall
the vio-our of health and childish 



enthusiasm, I recalled to my mind early
scenes of happiness experienced in every
crag and spot on the estate, and sighed
within me for a return of those enchanting
pleasures, which have passed away in the

effusion of time, alas ! never again to
return. Look where I would, old familiar,
loving faces seemed, as it were, to peep at
me, and convey their very earliest impressions.
Joys and hopes, such as I have experienced,,
seemed momentarily to come back withall
the freshness of youth and vigour, and
breathe into my soul the sound of voices
of long-lost companions ; some now " slumbering
on earth's cold pillow " on the slopes
of the Crimea ; others passed into different
lands, north, south, east, and west ; friends
grown from childhood to manhood, and
following their respective vocations in the
busy hum of the world. I thought, too,
of the once happy, light-hearted Percy, so
full of the liveliest anticipations, as we sat
on this very spot and smoked our meerschaums
together not two years since, with
the world before us — alas ! how soon closed
upon one promising life, cut short in the

bloom. I thought, too, of his Nora, whom
I was so soon to see, ad the sorrowful
account I may be probably called upon to
render, and — no matter what ! I turned
from the scene so dear to me, with loving
impressions of the past, and anxious thoughts
for the future.

Yes, there are many reminiscences attached
to the home of one's birth, that awaken in
the mind early joys of youthful experience.
Hopes and fears, likes and dislikes, pleasures
and grief, not unfrequently appear again to
one in all their vivacity, some like a beautiful
dream. Look where we will, glimpses
of our childhood in all its freshness stand
out in the canvas, and speak, as it were,
its own loving language. Every tree has
its history, and tells its own sweet tale
of sunshine and sadness. Every brook has
its charm, and conveys with its ripple delightful
moments of days long past. The

balmy odours of spring flowers come upto
the senses, and unlock the door of our
memory, vividly bringing to our remembrance,
like a flash of lightning, the bright
and happy scenes of our youth, and the
dear loving faces that shared with us indescribable
joys. The author says indescribable
; doubtless my courteous reader can
testify, from personal experience, how difficult
it is to adequately convey the nearest
and dearest associations of our childhood, with
that enthusiasm which one inwardly feels.

George Oliver Grey, the proprietor of the
'' Woodlands," is a gentleman in the vale of
years, or, in different words, with sixty-five
winters the other side of him. He is
a tall, handsome man, with a swarthy complexion,
— large shocks of black hair, here
and there a fleck of white. The hard lines
in this face, and, at times, stern expression
of countenance, with an iron smile, rather

indicate that enormous speculations in commercial
transactions had left their sure and
certain mark. Like the troubled sea, dashing
perpetually against a rocky shore, wears it
gradually and imperceptibly away, so with
the mighty waves of success and non-success,
that alternately disturbed the equilibrium
of the affairs of George Oliver Grey.
On two or three notable occasions the cotton
lord, during heavy pressure consequent on
a panic, when the bank discount ran high,
and was at a ruinous rate, had to make
fearful sacrifices, and was reduced to the
brink of insolvency ; but his great brain
resources, his marvellous discretion, sound
judgment, and indomitable pluck in the
hour of peril, were his stout bulwarks of
defence, and he invariably tided over appalling
difficulties when other men, with less
dash and prompt decision, would have succumbed.
But his motto was " Nil desperate

and his favourite maxim, '' laying"
down at the bottom of a mountain will
never take a man to the top." So gigantic
were the speculations of the firm of Grey,
Nutwell & Company, that they have been
known to clear at one of the " corners " (a
term known in the cotton trade) two hundred
thousand pounds. On other occasions,
similar losses were sustained ; therefore it
cannot be wondered at, that such colossal
transactions came down with overwhelming
force on the firm, sometimes augmenting,
and at other times seriously depressing
their financial position. Not unfrequently
heavy contracts were entered into with
foreign houses, and with the growers (long
before the cotton was planted) to deliver in
England at a certain quotation, and at a
given date, hence the violent fluctuations
in the market on the arrival of consignments,
which were usually covered by bills

of exchange, and had to be taken up at
maturity.

George Oliver Grey has long since retired
from the firm of Grey. Nutwell &
Company, having amassed a prodigious fortune.
Happily for him, he had the good
sense to let others step into his easy-chair
in that snug; counting-house in Market
Square, where he had spent so many weary
years working at high pressure, and where
he had reaped a large harvest ; then, wishing
his colleagues every possible future success
and a very good morning, retired to
his country seat, the " Woodlands," in Gloucestershire,
where we now find him spending
the residue of his life in ease and
affluence in the bosom of his family, which
consists of his consort, two sons, and one
daughter. The younger son, Stanley, was
educated for the medical profession, in which,
for want of application, he was lamentably

deficient, and signally failed in all his examinations,
a circumstance which proved a
source of great disappointment and annoyance
to his father, whose hopes were centred
in him, and who had the greatest detestation
of seeing his son living a life of detestable
idleness : much estrangement consequently
ensued between them. Stanley,
knowing the wealth of his father, presumed
upon the situation. Born, as he said, with
a silver spoon in his mouth, he cared nota
" rao^ " about latins the bread of idleness.
He knew he was his mother's favourite son,
on whom he could financially lean with the
most absolute confidence, and as her own
jointure was large, he could always depend
upon drawing for his requirements, when
the quarterly allowance made by his father
was exhausted. But Stanley is a handsome
fellow, one of the most presentable
men in the county. He is a crack shot, a

steady bat, and a good oar ; he has mingled
with the world, and felt its pleasures and
excitements, but underrated its dangers, consequently,
on more than one occasion, fell
into snares that had been laid for him (alas 1
in common \Yitli many others) by designing
men and women ; indeed, Stanley's wild
oats produced a large crop of trouble and
perplexity, which occasioned much confusion
in the otherwise happy household at the
Woodlands, and, as a natural result, created
an ill feeling between father and son, provoking
the former to serious outbursts of
anger, which the ever-fond mother, blind
to her boy's faults, had to subdue as best
she could. But Stanley had redeeming
points. Though detestably idle, he was
truthful ; though a spendthrift, he would
dispose of some of his coin to the poor
widow and orphan, or the man of broken
career ; and he would move heaven and

earth, so to speak, to get a neighbour out
of trouble. These excellent traits in his
character would sometimes reach the father's
ear, who would say, — " Poor Stanley ! withall
thy faults, I love thee still."

George Oliver Grey and the late Cuthbert
Rodway of Rodway Hall, " Old Ready
Money," as he was vulgarly called, and of
idiom we have previously spoken, were atone
time contemporaries, and saw much
of each other, transacting together immense
financial operations, the filthy lucre not
un frequently involving them in difficulties,
and causing bitter feelings to spring up
from time to time between them. Accounts
had been opened by the cotton lord at
Rodway's bank, closed, and re-opened ; suits
pressed, and actions at law contested. Old
Roadway swore at one time that Grey had
caused a run upon his bank, which, had it
not been for his (Rodway's) immense reserves

in Consols, which were always available
at a few hours' notice, they must have
stopped payment. On the other hand,
Grey vowed, with an oath, that Otway had
well-nio'h ruined his firm on one occasion,
by not honouring an acceptance of theirs
for twenty thousand pounds, at a time the
cotton lord could have bought up "Old
Ready Money," and (in the words of Grey)
his entire bag of tricks." Another ill-feeling
sprung up in the mind of George
Oliver Grey, which at this juncture should
be recorded. It was the outcome of Cuthbert
Otway and his daughter Julia (then
a lady of leading fashion) not having invited
him and his wife to any of the swell
receptions which the Eodways gave at Otway
Hall. This was, verily, a sharp thorn
in the side of the cotton lord, and most
offensive to his consort. A man of his
wealth and jD^isition in the commercial

world, with an accomplished and beautiful
wife — who hailed from a most excellent
family — to be neglected and passed over in
the ordinary conventionalities of society, was
more than he could bear. But in the eyes
of the Eodways the Greys were not considered
" strictly county." The Eodways were
bankers — the Greys sold cotton : the Noways
looked down on the Greys. They
(the Eodways) moved in something higher.
They were proud of their social position,
and expatiated on their family tree ; and as
the skilful angler knows how to tickle a
trout, so they knew how to tickle the
fancies and ingratiate themselves into the
good favour of the aristocracy, particularly
those who happened to have a title to their
name ! ! But the Eodways on one occasion
were very patronising, for the accomplished
and beautiful daughter Julia actually
sent an invitation to Mr, Mrs, and Miss

Grey to a dinner-party at Otway Hall,
which consisted of three or four second-rate
merchants, their wives and fair daughters.
Grey was irate — his wife, doubly distilled.
There was a total absence of any of the
elite of the neighbourhood ; and to make the
matter still more pointed, the Eodways, a
week later, had the bad taste to issue printed
invitations, emblazoned with the family arms,
to the " strictly county " people. This was
gall and wormwood to George Oliver Grey.
He naturally felt the slight most keenly,
coming immediately after their own unconventional
little dinner. But the cotton lord
pocketed — so to speak — the affront. In the
following autumn another invitation reached
the Greys, at a time when large banking transactions
(favourable to the Eodways) were in
operation, to which the cotton lord replied direct
to old Otway in the most gentlemanlike
manner, saying, by way of a short cut, —

VOL. 11. H

I'll see you cl— d first ! "

On the same day, Grey closed his account
at Otway's bank, withdrawing (without any
previous notice) an immense floating balance
that stood to the credit of Grey, Nutwell &
ComjDanjr ; and to the day of Cuthbert Otway's
death, they were never again friends.
The loss of the best account, and the adjective
contained in the cotton lord's letter,
always stuck in Otway's throat, which, by-the-bye,
Mrs Townshend (then Julia Otway)
knew nothing of. This is obvious, by her
allowing, without protest, an invitation to
be sent to me to spend a fortnight at 
Castle.

I congratulate you, my dear boy, on
your attaining your majority," said my
father, as I strolled leisurely into the ,
greeting my mother with a
morning; kiss.

•'' Come here, my first-born son," said that
fond mother of mine, adjusting her spectacles,
*' and let me look into your nut-brown face,
and see how time is dealing with you."

Gently, mother."

Gently ! Fie ! Oliver, fie ! I see indications
of sleepless nights. You do not look
refreshed mornings. I strongly suspect the
late hours you are persistently keeping do
not suit you ; besides which, you are not
sufficiently strong yet to mingle in the
whirling vortex of society."

Well, dear mother, we all know it is
vanity and vexation of spirit, and certainly
one may spend far sounder hours ; but,
apropos of keeping, as you say, bad hours,
there is one thing to be said, I keep them
all, dear!"

Mrs Grey compressed her lips and shook
her head

But don't be alarmed, mother," I continued.

'' My health is mending apace, and
I am getting as happy and hearty as a
sand-boy. You are aware I have a twelvemonth's
leave of absence, which I hope to
profitably spend with you and ' Dear Sir.' "

My father, who sat in his ample arm-chair,
rubbing his hands, and fixing his penetrating
eyes on me, said, —

Did you not say, Oliver, that you had
received a letter from Mr Townshend of
Carthewin Castle, inviting you to spend a
short time there ? "

Then Mr Grey projected his lower lip, a
sure sign of some little tumult brewing.

*' Yes, sir," I replied ; " I have received
an invitation, and I am very anxious to
run into Wales at the earliest possible
moment, and discharge a sorrowful duty
entrusted to me by my late valued friend,
and colleague, Lieutenant Snowdon."

•'Poor Snowdon!" interrupted Mr Grey.

^' I little thought when last he sat in that
very chair your mother now occupies, we
should never look on his bright, happy
face ao'ain ! You know, Oliver, I ' took '
to the young fellow immensely ; his open-hearted,
boyish ways, without a semblance
of anything facial in his composition, greatly
struck me ; and on more than one occasion
I said to your mother, — ' Mark my words,
if that young fellow is spared to pull through
the war, he will ultimately rise to be a
great soldier.' "

You were right, sir, in your conjecture,
and you must have been a prophet," I
replied. " Though fate was against poor
Percy's career, he rose to be one of the
bravest soldiers in Her Majesty's service ;
yes, a hero ! — a host in himself, and one
whom, had he been spared, England need
have been j)i^oucl of, and parents rejoice
over ; but he fell, leading one of the grandest

charges during the campaign, and ' died
like a warrior brave.' In him I lost a.
valuable friend, a j^ious companion, and,
in every sense of the term, he was true
as gold ! "

Of course, Oliver, you know all about
your late friend's secret marriage with Miss-townshend
? " said Mr Grey sympathetically.


Yes, I am in possession of that knowledge,"
I replied, feeling the warm blood
tingling about my face and ears like distraction.


The cotton lord bit his lip, and vigorous
made three determined thrusts at an exorbitant
nob of coal in a preoccupied manner r
then suddenly pitching the poker, with much
emphasis, into its place, continued, —

*snow, I must tell you, my boy, all about
it. I received information from the most
absolutely reliable source, that this young

fellow, your late colleague, solicited the
hand and heart of Miss Townshend, to
whom he was devotedly attached, and
with whom he had spent much time. His
suit, as far as she was concerned, was
accepted. They loved each other with a
tender devotion, a love well tried in the
fire, tested by a thousand proofs of the
most profound affection, extending over a
long period, and cemented by the best and
purest actions — which, after all, Oliver, speak
louder than any words. But what followed
? Like an honourable young man,
he sought an interview with Miss Towns-end's
father, who, be it said, is the very
paragon of a fine old English gentleman — a
man beloved and highly esteemed by everyone.
Snowdon, full of hope and enthusiasm,
pleaded his suit. He told his tale of
love with great earnestness ; he went hand-in-hand
with the o'irl of his choice to the

arms of her parent. At his footstool, so to
speak, they each in turn poured forth their
tale of love. Poor Snowdon was penniless.
In his own words he said, — ' I have nothing
but my sword and my honour to do battle
with in this world, and, God willing, I
will render a faithful account of both.' It
was all to no purpose. Mr Townshend,
with tears in his eyes, assured Snowdon that
his wife and himself had, after very mature
consideration, arrived at the conclusion that
he could not be accepted as the fiance of
their daughter, and their determination was
irrevocable. Under those circumstances,
and with a view to their child's future
happiness, a gentle hint was given to
Snowdon that the sooner he pecked his
portmanteau and made tracks the better.
And so the hope of those devoted beings
was utterly crushed in a morning — hopes
that took years in building, and bound

together with the best material, requiring
but the father's blessing to make things
perfect. This was hopelessly denied, and
Why ? First, because Snowdon was not considered
to be a " strictly county " man, his
father having been a merchant in Yorkshire
; and, secondly, because he was without
a fortune, which that mercenary, stuck-up
wife of Townshend's thought so much of.
Eg-ad ! Oliver, that woman knows a elinor
or two about coin, I can tell you. She
had a good schooling with her precious old
father, Kodway. Bah ! I hate the name !
Then again she went crazy over her
family tree, and * strictly county ' connections.
She knew everybody's history,
down to the * peccadilloes ' of people's great-grandmothers.
If one met her out, she
would recognise you if it suited her pleasure
to do so. It has been recorded by a learned
writer that, ' There is a certain class of

vulgar fine ladies, who meet you one clay
with a vacant stare, as if unconscious of
your existence, and address you on another
in a tone of impertinent familiarity.' "

And the cotton lord, at this juncture,
ao^ain hit about the coals with o;reat
vehemence.

Miss Town send," continued my father,
"in the midst of her sorrow, read as it
were between the lines. She had a clear
perception that the objection to an alliance
was the outcome of her stepmother's determined
opposition to a marriage which was
considered sheer madness to precipitate.
And now, Oliver, you have the exact history
of the case, as I and your mother received
it direct from Miss Townshend's old faithful
friend and governess, the Honourable Mrs
Mackenzie ; and, upon my soul, I have not
patience to say more, for it brings to my
recollection reminiscences connected with that

old blackguard Kodway, and his fair Julia,
ns he called her. Egad, my boy, it makes
my blood boil, even now, to think of it I "

And ao^ain throwing; himself into his armchair,
Mr Grey subsided into quietness, very
much to the relief of his wife, who kept
frowning at him, and making manifold signs
to discontinue the conversation.

On the 25 th August, a rap at my
chamber door, coupled with a recognised
voice, "Hot water, sir," by my valet, awoke
me to a sense of the fact that the morning
on which I had to set forth on my journey
to Carthewin Castle had arrived. I opened
my casement window and looked out on the
broad expanse of country through the dim
grey dawn, and welcomed the cool breeze
which fanned my face, conveying, as it were,
the dad tidino's that the day of all others

{DO -J

I had been so anxiously looking forward to

had come at last. The past few weeks had
seemed years to me. I said within myself, —
Ere the sun o;o down behind those trees,
I shall, God willing, be face to face with
poor Percy's widow. I wonder how I shall
be received ? I, a dismal kind of messenger
from a dying husband to a fond wife. Confound
it," I soliloquised, '' if I could see any
means of escape, I am not quite sure I should
not avail myself of it, even at the eleventh
hour, but I have a duty to perform, and I
will buckle my armour on with good and
honest resolutions." I carefully reviewed the
substance of the conversation which I had
the day before with my father, and am
utterly "at sea" as to his dismal reminiscences
in connection with the Otway
family. To me it was certainly not the
most refreshing theme to dwell upon. There
are evidently some unpleasant surroundings
of which I know nothing, and which are

rankling in the breast of my father. I used
my best-directed endeavours, the previous
night, to induce my mother, when we were
having a confidential tMe-d-tete, to impart tome
what she knew, but all to no purpose.
I intimated to her that, for the want of
the knowledge she was possessed of, how
very seriously I may compromise myself and
mine, by remaining a guest at the Castle ; and
how humiliating it would be to me to know
hereafter that there had formerly existed
in my family and the Kodway or Townshend
people associations of an unpleasant character.
But my mother was deaf to my
entreaties. All she said was " Go, my dear
boy, perform your duty like a man and good
soldier, as you are, and leaven that duty,
as far as you can, with pleasure. Make up
your mind to thoroughly enjoy your visit,
and dismiss from your thoughts anything
and everything your father has so mysteriously

dropped into your sensitive ear, much
against my wish."

Notwithstanding this wholesome advice,
I had serious misgivings as to the future,
which, for the life of me, I could not shake
off.

Having carefully packed my portmanteau,
and deposited Nora's likeness (the Shadow
in the Gold) in a safe corner, together with
the Bible and marker which I had to deliver
to Percy's widow, I summoned Curtis, and
directed him to have the drag at the door
after a very early breakfast 1 had ordered,
ait which, by-the-bye, I was anything but
flourishing. I worked myself up to such a
pitch of excitement, consequent on the anticipation
of the day that was mapped out
before me, the ice I should have to break
through, and probably tumble headlong into,
and the dear girl —

Bother ! " I said, as I deposited the last

article (which was none other than a
packet containing a few locks of Percy's
hair) in my portmanteau, and called my
valet to strap it up.

As the hour was much too early for
my good mother to put in an appearance
at the breakfast - table, I went to her
boudoir, where I found her in her dressings
throned in a comfortable easy-chair,
anxiously expecting me.

"Softly, Oliver, dear," she said, 'your
father is soundly sleeping ; I would not
have him disturbed on any account ; he
has been most restless the whole night. To
tell you the truth, my son, he does not
half like your going to Carthewin Castle."

But he never hinted at any objection,"
I replied, with some vehemence.

I am perfectly aware of that," continued
my mother, " as I was present during
your colloquy, and greatly amused wins I

to see your father in such high dudgeon
in so trivial a matter ; nevertheless, I
know what is passing in his mind,,
and the smallest spark added to such
material, would inevitably cause a great
explosion."

But you are both so confounded reticent,"
I replied, " that I am utterly at a
loss to know what to make of it ; and,
upon my soul, my dear mother, I have
at this moment the greatest mind to wire
to Mr Townshend, and say that ' Circumstances
over which I have no control
have transpired, which will prevent me
from the pleasure I should have otherwise
felt, in paying him the promised
visit'"

*' Nothing of the sort," interrupted my
mother. " Were you to act so, it would
greatly vex me, and also your indulgent
father. Oh, Oliver, you need thank God

that you have such a parent ; he is kindness
itself, and one of ten thousand."

"I would not vex 'Dear Sir,' as I
call him, or you, love, for all creation ;
you know that, you darling old mother ! "
I said, tenderly kissing her. Alas ! so cold,
so thin, and white, that a shudder passed
through my frame at the probability of
not having; her with us much longer, and
her subsequent conversation seemed almost
to point to such a presentiment within her
breast.

You have always been a good, dear
son to me," she replied ; " and in after
years, when I have passed away from your
midst, will it not be a comforting reflection
in solitary moments to look back
on an exemplary life, and one so much
charged with filial duty as yours has
been ? "

"The best of all earthly comforts," I

VOL. II. I

<3

responded, with a choking sensation. " I
am not insensible, my good mother, of your
devotion from my cradle to this very
hour."

Bless you, my own, my dear boy,"
she replied, in a tremulous voice, resting
her thin white hand on my shoulder, and
with a pathetic entreaty in her soft eyes,
importuned me to be cautious in all my
actions at Carthewin Castle, and to remember
a true old proverb, that "Troubles
not unfrequently come on horseback, and
go away on foot."

At that moment I thought of the " Shadow
in the Gold," the letter, the Bible, book-marker,
and Constance Templar — they all
passed in rapid succession in my mind. I
was on the brink of making a clean
"breast" of it, but a still, small voice
arrested my intention, and, as it were,
whispered, " Gardez Oliver, gardez'' and,

embracing my mother most affectionately,
and taking a loving and parting look at
Dear Sir," who was peacefully sleeping in
the adjoining room, I departed with a
heart as heavy as lead.

MY FIRST VISIT TO CARTHEWIN CASTLE.

At four p.m., in a quaint little rooniy
panelled with old oak, which, by-the-bye,
went by the name of the "Ladies' Snuggery,"
sat Nora and her step-sister Gertrude, the
former very busy restoring a defect in some
Gobelin tapestry, the latter engaged in some
plain sewing, which she was preparing fora
"mothers' meeting," usually held monthly
at the vicarage. Both ladies seemed much
absorbed in their respective work.

All was silent within that little chamber
except a monotonous stitch, stitch, stitch of
the needles, and the regular tick, tick, tick
of an antiquated brass clock on an elevated

mantelpiece, which, at intervals of fifteen
minutes, chimed in deep-tonecl accents the
quarters, as if protesting against the solemn
silence that reigned supreme within that
sanctum. No one was privileged to enter
that room, under any pretence whatever,
excepting the ladies of the household and
domestics.

'bother!" launched out Gertrude, throwing
a very tiny, odd-looking garment (much
like a spread eagle) on the table ; " I can't
put in the gusset, I never could, and what
is more, I won't attempt to try again,
without proper instruction. Mamma is
o;oing; mad over these fiddle-de-dee things,
and mothers' meetings ! "

"Patience is a virtue," said Nora, pausing
over her work, and looking at her step-sister
with some astonishment.

'* I have no patience, Sissy," went on
Gertrude, — '' never had ; you know it. My

governess said that it was a hopeless case
with me, and that I never should acquire
the virtue. You can do all these things
like ' anything : ' I vote you have a turn at
this wretched little article ! "

If your governess said your case is
hopeless, she has imparted to you (I am
quite sure unintentionally) that which cannot
be strictly true. Without patience,
my dear Gerty, we can never hope to attain
any stability in life ; it is the key that
unlocks the difficulties that surround our
daily existence, and if we possess it, we
surmount obstacles and survive trials which
would otherwise block our pathway with an
infinity of barriers."

"Ah me! how am I to acquire it?"
said Gertrude, with a deep, weary sigh.
I have not the proper key, you know,
so I suppose I must pick the lock."

"By perseverance," continued Nora, "and

a fail determination not to be conquered."


Will you help this poor little sinner
over her difficulties ? " asked Gertrude, looking
up with a touchingly grateful expression.

As far as in me lies, " responded Nora,
with an approving smile; "yes, that I will,
heartily and cheerfully, my child."

How shall I requite you for all your
goodness, Sissy ? "

By becoming a persevering little pupil,
and evermore ignoring the monosyllable
can't,' and substituting in its place the
word ' persist.' "

'' That reminds me," replied Gertrude
archly. " A gentleman once asked a lady
to marry him, — in other words, ' popped ' the
question. She hesitated — he entreated, and
asked if she could give him any hope. She
smiled complacently, and requested him to
transpose the word ' stripes,' and then see

her again. After fumbling for some time
over the letters in solitude, he had the
felicity of metamorphosing them into
persist.

And what was the result, you funny
child ? " asked Nora, in an unconcerned,
tone.

History does not say, but if there were
any truth in it, ten to one if he did not
go ' ahead ' after that ! Look here, Sissy,
if Curly Cuthh continue any of his usual
spooneyism, bring the ' stripes ' down upon
him like ' anything ! ' "

Indeed I should do nothing; of the
kind, Gertrude ; that would be an encouragement,
and I have to request that you
will not introduce his name in connection
with me."

But he is awfully nice sometimes,
isn't he ? "

"Men not unfrequently appear 'nice,' as

you call it, Gerty, when they are bent upon
attaining some particular end of their own ;
and when that is accomplished, the true
character, which it is impossible for them
to conceal, rises like a cork to the surface."

But really. Sissy, joking aj^art, he is
splendid sometimes, is he not ? — though
there is nothing to shudder at."

Did I shudder ? "

*' Didn't you, that's all ! It positively
gave me the shivers. But I won't tease you
any more to-day, deary. Upon my word,
were I but a few years older, I would ' set
my cap ' (as mamma calls it) at Cuthh, if
only to lure him from his prey ! — ahem ! "

And what then, you silly child ? " asked
Nora, colouring deeply.

"Why, leave him where Judy EadclifF,
left old Sir Thomas Simon, — in the lurch
to be sure ! "

At this moment the antiquated clock (on

wliicli Nora had been casting anxious and
repeated glances) chimed the four quarters,
and then in deep tones struck six.

Papa told me that Major Grey would
arrive at about half-past six or seven," remarked
Gertrude, with an arch look.

"Did he?"

"Did he! Oh, that's good! Why, you
know he did, and you know that you have
been counting the minutes on that dismal
old dial for the last forty hours, more or less.
I have been watching you, my lady ; but
don't look cross, Sissy, because I can see
through a hole in a ladder ! I know your
nerves are waltzing about like ' anything.' "

"Don't be silly, child," interrupted Nora
petulantly, at the same time inquiring what
conveyance was sent to the railway station
to meet the Major and Mr Rodway.

'' I heard papa tell Harvey to have 'George'
and ' Dragon ' put into the mail-phaeton.

Henry is going to take the cart for the
luggage and the two valets. I suppose
Major Grey will bring his man, — papa said
something; about it. How Leonard hates
all these strange fellows in the servants'
hall. He told me the other day he would
just as soon be transported, for it takes
half his time to keep them in order during
meal times ; and they show such airs'"

*' Poor Leonard is one of the old school,
Gerty, and too much advanced in years to
keep pace with the rising generation, consequently
he does not make due allowance
for youth and vigorous enthusiasm."

A long pause, and the needles are at
work again.

Where is mamma, Gerty ? "

"In her bedroom, I think ; she will be
dressed like Queen Sheba by dinner time,"
said Gertrude. " I vote we do ditto, and
tid-e-vate a bit before our grand swell

cousin and this awfully grand grenadier,
or whatever they call him, make their
appearance. I do so long to see the Major
and what he is like. Who knows, perhaps
he has feet large enough for other people
to walk upon. How I hate big feet — don't
you ? Perhaps he has a slight cast in one
eve, or a voice a kind of ' down amongst
the dead men,' or in the upjier C sharp.
Don't you dislike men who squeak out their
words like a tin whistle ? "

Nora placed her work aside, and intently
fixed her eyes on the triangular pattern
in the carpet. In other words, she was
lost in thought ; then suddenly recovering
herself, as if half ashamed of giving way,
she walked to the heavy mullions window,
and looked out on the vast park, stretching
far away in the distance to indistinctness.
It was the bright and sunny time of the
year, the harvest was quickly ripening, some

falling under the sickle of the reaper. The
sun had gone down over the Belvidere in
great splendour, tipping the hills with gold,
as he dipped lower and lower. The firmament,
with a mixture of ultramarine and
other resplendent colours, formed one grand
transformation scene.

The winds were at rest, some birds were
in song, and the water in the silvery lake
flowed gently and silently on ; here and
there a squirrel presented himself, in search
of his evening meal ; the beautiful white
owl, rich in plumage, noiselessly and gracefully
swept past the castle to the granary at
the home farm, where, in a dilapidated tower,
the owls and owlets have, for many generations,
ensconced themselves unmolested.

The dew was falling heavily, kissing with
its evening breath the sweetbread and
double white stocks, filling the air with
delicious odours.

Nora had a soul that loved nature's loveliness,
an incomparable tenderness of heart,
and the utmost consideration for those dependent
upon her. Eliminating the sorrow
consequent on the loss of her husband, all
was morning within her happy nature,
which was like a bubbling spring of joy.

Our heroine stood at the window absorbed
in deep thought, with her eyes fixed on
the entrance-gate at the east lodge, distant
about three-quarters of a mile from the
Castle. The author must leave it to the
imagination of the reader as to what was
passing in her mind, and the probable
struggle that awaited her : the rosy hue
that suffused her chiselled face was an index
of an internal disturbance. At this point,
a pair of thoroughbred, high - stepping
horses came dashing through the entrance
gates and up the centre drive, at the rate
of twelve miles an hour, the white foam

and mud that bespattered their faultless
shapes showed the pace they had been
travelling from the railway station.

Immediately the carriage entered the parka
salute from three large guns that were
mounted on a promontory facing the
Castle, spoke of the honour accorded to one
of the Crimean heroes, and the grand old
bells of Carthewin Church raiig out merry
peals of hearty welcome to Major Oliver
Grey, one of the survivors of " Slaughter
Hill ! "

Godfrey Townshend arranged all this ovation
unknowingly to his wife or Nora. As the
cannon roared and the bells struck out. our
heroine turned deadly pale, staggered to the
sofa, and gradually sinking on the velvet
cushions, resolutely struggled (with womanly
pride) to overcome the indescribable depression
that steals away the senses, and leaves
its victim powerless, cold, and deathlike.

"With a supreme effort, however, Nora sprang
from the couch, and rapidly pacing the room,
rallied herself sufficiently to ring the bell
for her maid, in whose care we will for the
present leave her.

As the well-appointed horses rattled upto
the courtyard of the Castle, and were
pulled together with great abruptness at the
main entrance, Leonard (the butler) and two
footmen appeared.

Well, Leonard," said Mr Rodway, throwing;
the reins across the loins of " George "
and " Dragon," at whose heads stood the
keenest-looking and smartest of coachmen,
here I am again, alive and ' kicking ' ! "

Needn't ask you how you are, Mr Cuthbert
; you look as fit as fit can be, — more so
than master's pet horses, sir."

Ah, yes, exactly," replied Mr Rodway.
"I have been 'tooling;' these animals over

a stiffish bit of country, with the very worst
roads — nearly all collar, don't you know ? —
up to twelve miles an hour. Hang it all,
I like to 'toddle' when I have hold of the
ribbons ; but, my conscience, Leonard, how
they do go ! bang up to the knocker, and
no error ! "

The groom (with matchless hat and boots)
closed one eye and looked significantly at
the butler, who perfectly comprehended its
meaning, as the former led the horses away
to the stabling, streaming with perspiration.

Walk in, Major Grey," said Cuthbert.
with a jaunty air. " By George ! this seems
to be a kind of gala day, Leonard. When
those corpulent guns spoke out, Lm blest if
I thought I should ever hold that * Dragon ; '
he pulled like distraction ; it occurred to meat
one time he had the bit between his
teeth and was about to bolt."

"Eeally, sir!" said Leonard, who was eyeing

VOL. II. K

the stalwart proportions of your humble
servant with much curiosity.

I may be mistaken, but if I saw one
servant in the hall, the corridor, and ,
I must have seen twenty, all on
tip-toe to have a peep at this deponent, or
as much as was left of me — which, by-the-bye,
is something considerably over six feet.

*well, Leonard, how are uncle and aunt?"
continued Cuthbert, depositing his Bowler
on the nearest peg, then passing four long
lingers through his hair, and admiring himself
in the glass.

Very well, thank you, Mr Cuthbert.
Master is in the magistrates' room with a
couple of policemen — poaching affair, or something
going on ; he told me to tell you he
would be out in a few minutes."

'ablest if I wouldn't hang all the poachers
straight away, if I had my will," responded
Cuthbert. "Here, Leonard, help the Major

off with this coat. Eofad, mv man. if you are
not tall enough, get the steps."

Leonard frowned a trifle — he was a domestic
who always prided himself on his own
proportions — but those dimensions in front
of him heat (in his estimation) all creation ;
and leading the way to the double drawing-room,
I was ushered in by the footman,
who, in a loud and audible voice, called
out, —

Major Grey and Mr Otway."

Mrs Townshend and her daughter Gertrude,
-attired in their faultless evening dress, were
lounging on the sofa. For the moment I
thought the latter must be Nora, and I was
Cjuite alive to the fact that I flamed crimson,
then subsided into a " milky whey."

Well, aunt dear, however are you ? "
said Cuthbert Otway, going up with much
rapidity and kissing that lady on both cheeks,
and after accommodating Gertrude with a

similar salute, turned towards me and said, —
'' I have the pleasure and privilege of being
the first to introduce to you a very short
acquaintance of mine, Major Oliver Grey, an
officer whose reputation is well known to
all England."

And I have the unspeakable pleasure of
making the acquaintance of Major G-rey^
and 05*6 ring him a hearty welcome within
our midst," said Mrs Townshend, squeezing
my hand with much enthusiasm. '' Gertrude
dear, let me introduce Major Grey
to you — my daughter, Major Grey."

It is very kind of you, my dear madam,"
I stammered, at the same time making a
profound bow. " I know of few pleasures
so refreshing to a weary traveller as a hearty
welcome ; and that pleasure is all the more
enhanced when it emanates from, comparatively
speaking (if I may be allowed the
term), a stranger."

Pray do not put it in that light, Major
Grey ; we are old friends don't you know —
very old friends, I may say. Your name and
deeds, in common with many other brave
men, are household words. You have been
rendering us all good service, and the mothers
and daughters of dear old England are proud
to own you as a friend, and doubly proud
to have an opportunity of offering you the
hospitality of our homes. Say,, then, if weare
not very old friends ! "

I felt at the moment that Mrs Townshend
had no tricks of starchiness or affected ease
in her composition, and that I had landed
in the . house of lovable people. I was not
so sure, though, that I had not tumbled this
time up against a " blue stocking," and that
if I didn't " watch it," I should be Quietly
paddled clean out of my depth into midstream.
It would have been a relief tome
at this juncture if someone had come

to my rescue, as I very respectfully bowed
in acknowledgment, saying, —

"Thanks, very much, dear madam, for the
graceful allusion you have been pleased to-make
on behalf of myself and comrades in
arms. I trust for the future, as in the past,
we shall be so fortunate as to earn for ourselves
the good opinion you have formed
of us."

I am sure. Major Grey, you will do
that," replied Mrs Townshend, with one of
her best expressions.

How unemotional Mrs Townshend looked
this evening, dressed with the most consummate
taste — the very pink of perfection.
Her demeanour was a trifle dignified, but
exceedingly graceful ; and her superb head
and neck, on the grandest of shoulders, would
have done justice to the Louvre Venus.

Eeally, Major Grey," continued Mrs
Townshend, " it is positively cruel of us to be

holding a prolonged tete-tete without consideration
for your wants. I will, if you will
allow me, ring for Leonard, who will conduct
you to your bachelor's Quarters in the east
wing, where I trust you will find all that
you require."

I have already found, my dear madam,
that which I mostly value — a hearty welcome."


"I am glad you feel at home, ^lajor
Grey. It affords me additional pleasure,"
responded Mrs Townshend.

"I could not feel otherwise," I replied.

*' It is kind of you to say so," continued
my hostess, with much impressment the
diamond cross that was pillowed on her
ample bust flashing like a cascade of lights.
I have to apologise, Major G-rey, for the
absence of Mr Townshend, who will be with
us, no doubt, by the time you are dressed
for dinner. A little mag-internal duty has

occupied him for the hist half-hour : it was
so unfortunate."

"I shall be delighted to make Mr Towns-end's
acquaintance," I responded.

I can answer for it, Major Grey, the
feeling will be reciprocal. Mr Townshend has
been looking forward with infinite pleasure
to your visit here."

I quite omitted, dear madam, to ask after
the health of Mrs Snowdon," I ventured
apologetically, and with something like a
jerk.

Thank you, Major Grey. She is, I am
sorry to say, but so so. The last hour or
two she has been a little excited : one
really cannot wonder at it. It is manifestly
the outcome of anxiety, dear child,
consequent on the prospect of seeing you.
After all, it is but natural. Happily my
nephew here, who is always brimful of
spirits, has come amongst us for a while,

and 1 have no doubt he will add his quota
to the general fund of amusement."

Mr Otway made a profound bow,
saying,—

My dear aunt, you have, with your
usual power of discrimination, anticipated
my most earnest desire ; and if I don't, by
hook or by crook, as the saying is, get Nora
out of all dismal, it will not be my fault."

Mrs Townshend gave her nephew an approving
smile. I may be mistaken, but I
thought there was an expression of sadness
portrayed in the countenance of Gertrude,
as she resolutely fixed her large violet eyes
on her mother.

"And to make the matter worse," continued
Mrs Townshend, elevating that wonderfully
powerful head, " my husband ordered
those horrible o-uns to be fired. No doubt
it had the effect of upsetting dear Nora, at
a time she most needed support ; but her

father, I am quite sure, never anticipated
the consequences."

''I greatly fear, dear madam, from your
manner, that they are serious. I am much
concerned to think that I am the cause of — "

Not much has happened. Major Grey,"
interrupted Mrs Townshend. " I have no
doubt you will see Nora at dinner ; " and
she continued, " Leonard, conduct Major
Grey to his room, and be sure you see
that all his requirements are observed."

If you please, ma'am," said that functionary,
pulling down with a jerk the corners of
his black cloth waistcoat, as he led the way.

"Well, 1 never! Did you ever? — No, I
never ! " exclaimed Gertrude, lifting up her
hands in amazement as the door closed.

I say, aunt, giants don't abound in
this part of the county. I'm blest if your
young friend don't make me look and
feel uncommonly small."

"He is tall, is he not?" responded Mrs
Townshend thoughtfully, seizing her white
poodle by the neck and caressing him.

Tall is not the word. Prodigious or
colossal, is more like it," said Cuthbert.

He is exceedingly handsome, mamma,"
ventured Gertrude, at the same time adjusting
a small bunch of violets a few
inches below a gold locket that reposed on
her spotless neck.

*' Well — yes — somewhat."

Awfully brown," remarked Cuthbert.

You would have been done brown," said
Gertrude, " if you had passed through
the fire that he has, Mr Cuthbert — as
brown as any cooked goose could be."

"Fie! Gerty, fie!" said Mrs Townshend,
turning aside to suppress a laugh.

You highly-bred young blushing beauty,
you are always trying to be down upon
me ; but there is one thing to be said,

we understand each other ; and if I give
you a * Rowland for an Oliver ' don't
wince, mind," said Cuthbert, slightly
colouring.

It strikes me," replied Gertrude, with
a little vicious look, '* if I had the chance,
I should not care to part with an ' Oliver '
for your ' Rowland,' as you call it."

Mamma, dear," she continued, as if
anxious to change the subject, " how very
quiet and retiring Major Grey is."

'' Very."

''No one would ever think to look at
him that he is the hero we have read so
much about."

"AVell — yes, I should," replied Mrs
Townshend, examining, in a preoccupied
manner, the back of her nails. " I am
rarely, if ever, deceived in my judgment of
character."

Walker I " said Mr Otway, within himself.

And Julia Townshend thought, — " Yes,
this is a powerful man, physically and
mentally. There is a tenderness and mystery
unfathomable about him, which I cannot
decipher, and there are unaccountable
elements in his nature, which will come to
the surface in due time. I will ' canter ' him
out in proper season, and I flatter myself
that Julia Townshend has a very clear perception
of sifting the weeds from the cultivated
flowers. I love Constance Templar,
and will study Major Grey's character, disposition,
and antecedents to the very core,
if only for her dear sake."

I say, aunt, don't you think it was a lot
of nonsense for uncle to make such a display
with those three o-uns, Og, Gog;, and Mao;oo\
One would have thought it was his own son
and heir who had arrived."

Utterly absurd, Cuthbert ! " said Mrs
Townshend, with a touch of reproachfulness.

'but, for Heaven's sake, don't you refer toit
in your uncle's presence."

Egad ! not I ; but why did you allow it,
aunt ? "

Why did I allow it ? I knew nothing
about the arrangement, until I was nearly
thrown off the music-stool by the concussion ;
and Nora's maid told me that Mrs Snowdon
absolutely fainted away."

You don't speak it, aunt ? "

It is positively true."

I am uncommonly sorry to hear it ; I
should like to run up and cheer her a bit,
aunt, if she is anywhere come-table."

"Then you just won't do anything of the
kind, Mr Cuthh," said Gertrude, pursing up
her pretty little mouth very considerably.
*' I have just left her, and she wants to
be quiet ; so the best thing you can do, if
you wish to kill time, is to see how presentable
you can make yourself to take me

clown to dinner, an accomplishment you are
thoroughly up in. By-the-bye, how do you
like the Major, Cuthh ? "

Well, upon my soul, Gerty, I haven't cast
him up yet, as the saying is ; when I do, I
will tell you what it comes to. But he is
a fellow one cannot very easily sumtotalise.
There is a goodish bit of him to view, though,
isn't there ? Good lord ! you should have
seen Leonard when the Major came into
the hall. The old man wanted a pair of
steps to help him off with his coat. By-the-bye,
the governor hasn't seen him yet, has
he?"

Papa won't find much difficulty, for he
will soon have ocular demonstration," replied
Gertrude. " I f^incy I shall like Major Grey,
Cuthh, he has such a subdued air about
him, — a sort of thing I like in a man, that
is, when it is natural ; but in some men it
appears all forced, don't you know, — facial,

or something; of that kind, which I am not
quite clever enough to explain."

One into me, for a hundred," said
Cuthbert.

"You! why, dear cousin, you are the
most natural man to be found on this insignificant
planet of ours," answered Gertrude,
with a little toss of her head, which, to a
keen observer, was suggestive''

Ah, — exactly, — I see. It strikes me
very forcibly, Gerty, that your governess
has been teaching you a thing or two
lately. You are well up in the stirrups,
little lady ; take care, though, my charming
tea, toast, and butter, that your animal
don't run away with sou, and land you
on the wrong side of a big fence."

"If he were to," responded Gertrude,
no one so capable of coming to my rescue
as Cuthbert Otway, Esquire, justice of
the peace, and would-be sheriff of the

county, and member of parliament. Now,
having exhausted my vocabulary of words,
do you go and tid-e-vate, whilst I will
seek Nora and tell her all about it."

"All about what?" asked Cuthbert, twisting
his moustache to an extreme point.

Oh, the new comer, and — and — you, of
course ; — nothing like you — you are a host
in yourself;" and away the little lighthearted
oddity frisked, humming, —

Good-bye, sweetheart, good-bye."

Gertrude found her step-sister in her
boudoir with her maid, looking much
brighter and more cheerful.

Thank you, Fargus, you can now leave
me," said Nora to her maid.

You will promise, my dear young lady,
not to give way again, won't you ? I know
you can't help it, but it makes you so ill,
and so puffed under your eyes, that you

VOL. II. L

are not fit to be seen, and so unlike my
lady. If you are not well enough, ma'am,
don't you go down to dinner ; pray don't.

"We shall see, Fargus."

I don't know, Gerty, what I should
do without that good mrl. Now tell me
how have you got on downstairs ? Those
horrible guns and the bells did for me
entirely ; but I am getting all right again."

*' Have you caught sight of the Major?"
asked Gertrude.

No, Gerty, I have not had the heart
to move."

"Then when you ,do catch sight of his
lordship, you will never, never forget it ! "

"Why,— so tall?"

A regular giant ! "

Is he nice ? "

Nice ! — yes, nicer than anything I have
come across for many a long day : you are
at home with him in a moment. I suppose

he took me to be wonderfully juvenile,
for, whilst talking to me on one occasion,
he put his hand upon my shoulder — my
conscience, such a hand ! "

How did mamma receive him ? " asked
Nora, at the same time freely manipulating
the smelling-salts.

She took to him wonderfully : they
chatted away ' no end.' I know mater
thinks him awfully clever."

"Did he — " a long pause.

"Did he what, Sissy?"

Oh, nothing," said Nora, with a weary
sigh.

Did he ask after you, were you going
to say ? " continued Gertrude.

"Yes," murmured Nora, again consulting
the smelling-salts.

"Not for some time, but whenever the
door opened, I thought he anxiously looked
towards it, expecting to see you enter. I

am sure he was uneasy, for I kept my eye
on him, in a quiet kind of way, the whole
time. Suddenly he coloured to his eyes, and
saide ' I quite omitted, Mrs Townshend, to
ask after the health of Mrs Snowclon.'"

"And what did mamma say?" asked
Nora, smiling benignly.

"A lot of fine things ; — that you were
foiiiy well, though naturally excited at the
thought of seeing him, and — "

'' What nonsense ! " exclaimed Nora.

And." went on Gertrude, " that you
may appear at dinner to-day, and you
may not, and so on, and so forth. I can't
quite recollect. But brush up, Sissy,
brush up ; you look so nice this evening,
— quite captivating ! Do come down
to dinner. You won't be shot dead by a
glance of his eyes, neither will he bore
you with his tongue. Somehow, he appears
different to all other men I have ever

met ; — though so prodigiously gigantic, he
is very gentle. I tell you, mamma is
struck up in a heap, so to speak, with
him ; I know she is, by her manner. Do
come down ; you will, won't you, deary ?
Papa will take charge of you ; I can
nail ' Curly Cuthh — I prepared him for it
just now; and, of course, the grenadier weill
take mamma."

Has papa seen the Major yet ? " asked
Nora: "you don't speak of him."

No ; father has been awfully bothered
with two policemen and those poachers, in
the magistrates' room ; they unfortunately
turned in just before Cuthh drove up to the
door. Only fancy papa having the guns
fired ! "

"Dear father!" sho-hed Nora, "he had
some meaning in it."

"Mamma was in high dudgeon about it,
I can assure you," said Gertrude.

A knock at the door.

Come in."

Well, Fargus % " said Nora, to her maid.

If you please, ma'am, your father wishes
to see you in the library at once."

Is he alone, Faro-us ? "

"Yes, ma'am."

Please say I will be with him in a few
minutes."

Exit Fargus.

Hurrah, Sissy ! " screamed Gertrude.
I am so glad ! Never say die, child alive,
something is up for certain ! Joy cometh,
you know, in the morning ! "

I will screw my courage to the sticking
point, my light-hearted girl, if only for your
sake and my father's ; but I must away, for
papa is waiting for me in the library."

'rand Curly Cuthh, no doubt, is looking
for poor little me in the hall — bother I " said
Gertrude, frisking out of the room.

WE MET.

I NEVER was finite over my toilet, albeit,
after Leonard deposited me in my quarters
to dress for dinner, I felt that the time had
arrived when I should make myself as presentable
as the resources of my portmanteau
would admit. Accordingly I brushed upto
the best advantage. Thackeray says : —
'* The world is a looking-glass, and gives
back to every man the reflection of his
own face ; frown at it, and it will in return
look sourly upon you ; laugh at it
and with it, and it is a jolly good companion."
I felt at the moment the truth
of this, as I made my way, with feelings

akin to nervousness, to the drawing-room,
where I found all the members of the
Townshend family. Words of mine cannot
give force to describe what I felt when I
entered that apartment, ablaze with dazzling
lights, throwing their brilliant rays on all
around. I knew she was there — yes, the
ideal woman whose image I had treasured
up for the last fifteen months next my
heart ; she who had occupied more of my
thoughts than I should care at this juncture
to disclose ; she who had been, as it were,
my companion through the long, still, dreary
nights I experienced in that wretched Russian
homestead, wounded and fever stricken ;
she for whom I had fervently prayed that
kind Providence would permit me to look
upon. I felt at the moment a reed, and
that others in that room where rocks, on
which I may, sooner or later, founder. I
felt this hour, nay this moment, w-as the

one great cows of my career, as the bulky
form of Godfrey Townshend advanced towards
me, and, with a hearty squeeze of both my
hands, said, —

Major Grey, this is a day I have been
looking forward to with much delight, — its
advent is especially pleasing and gratifying
to me ; I say with all my heart, welcome,
welcome to our home."

I need no words, Mr Townshend, to be
convinced of the hearty welcome you have
accorded me. I trust my prospective actions,
sir, will earn for me your esteem."

I saw a fan or two being manipulated
freely on the sofa ; I said within myself, —
Good Lord ! have I made a ' hash '
of it ! "

"You have earned that already," responded
Mr Townshend complacently ; " but come, my
young friend, let me introduce you to my
daughter Nora " who at that moment was

staring into vacancy. At the sound of lier
name she immediately rose from the couch,
and, with cheeks mantled with youthful
blushes, shook my hand warmly, tremblingly,
saying, —

How good of you to come and see
us ; " and down went the long eyelashes,
fringed on her cheek.

At a glance, I perceived that she was-quivering
under the rod of affliction, as I
stammered out, —

•' It was good and kind of your father
to send me an invitation, Mrs Snowdon ; "
and in order to branch off by the nearest
cut, from the confounded conventionalities that
were assuming such proportions, I began ina
promiscuous way to dilate on the magnificent
drive I had experienced from the
railway station.

'' Ah, by - the - bye," said Mr Townshend
good-temperedly, '' if ' George ' and ' Dragon "

could only speak, they would give a pretty
accurate description of that memorable drive,
Mr Cuthbert ; I went into their loose boxes
just now, and could not help asking Harvey
if he had been orivinor the animals a Turkish
bath, they were in such a state."

Cuthbert looked " daggers " at Leonard,
who happened just then to be in the room ;
he evidently had a shrewd suspicion that
that functionary had been telling tales.

"The fact is, uncle," said Cuthbert, "the
beggars pulled so, and fretted themselves
like mad over those killing hills, that I
don't wonder at ' dissolving views.' I know
they took it out of my wrists, and no error."
Then mr Otway advanced to the couch,
and, addressing our heroine in silken tones,
said, —

And now, ma belle cousine, tell me all
about it, — first, how ever are you ? — secondly,
what have you been doing with your pretty

little self lately ? — thirdly, what is the programme
for the coming week, in which I
am naturally interested, don't you know ? "

Nora coloured slightly at the conclusion
of her cousin's remarks. She was quite alive
to the fact that Mrs Townshend's eyes were
riveted upon her ; and although the latter
was having a tete-astute with me, she was
nevertheless taking " in," with keen perception,
all that was going on in the room.

"To tell you the truth, Cuthbert," said
Nora, making room for her cousin on the
couch, " I have not been well lately."

Ah — no appetite perhaps," said Cuthbert.

No, not exactly that," replied Nora.

"Nervous, perhaps," ventured Cuthbert.

Not exactly nervous either."

A good deal of bother lately, eh ? "

Bother you, Cuthh," said Gertrude ; and
adding, very sotto voce, " you horror ! "

"Well, ye — ye — yes," said Nora. '' I

have had some, yes — much trouble," and
down went the lashes again.

Poor little creature," added Cuthbert.
*' Lonely. By Jove ! I have hit the mark
this time, and no error. I'll wake you up,
ha ! ha ! ha ! "

No, Cuthbert, I am never lonely when
I have Gerty with me, and the run of our
library," responded Nora, screening her face
with her swansdown fan, behind which
she was looking askance at her step-sister.
Having now disposed of one of your
very methodical questions," went on Nora,
I will enlighten you as to number two.
I have been quite a recluse for some time,
except occasionally having a gallop over the
downs and a ramble in my old favourite
retreat amongst the ruins of the abbey,
and — "

Why, my dear cousin," interrupted Mr
Otway, " this kind of life is enough to

give you the ' blues,' aud reduce you to
something like fiddle-strings. By Jove ! it
would give me the blue d — ; well, no matter
what."

Fie ! Cuthbert, fie ! " cut in Mrs Towns-end
; "I am listening to you."

Cuthbert drew a long face, pursed ujd his
mouth to a decided ''' Oh," adjusted his eyeglass,
and said to Nora, sotto voce, —

The dowager has marvellous ears and
microscopic eyes. By George ! we must mind
our p's and q's ! "

Nora thought of those letters of warning;
her father had previously given her, so she
shrugged her shoulders, but made no rej^ly.

'•' You have not answered my third question,
Nora, respecting your programme for the
coming week," said Cuthbert. "I am here,
don't you know, for a round of pleasure,
and have made up my mind to go ' in '
for it this time, and no error, provided

that you, and my other amiable cousin here,
will pull an oar with me."

I don't quite know, Cuthbert, in what
manner I can add to the general fund of
your amusement, except it be the ordinary
and very common-place routine you usually
find here," replied Nora, with a deep sigh.

The fact is," said Gertrude, who for sometime
had evidently been a good listener,
^' Nora is not quite up to the mark yet. But I
am ' all there,' don't you know ; and tomorrow
morning, after we have disposed of our
coffee and anchovy toast, I will dish you
up as savoury a little programme for the
day as your restless body may desire —
ahem ! "

Upon my conscience, Gerty," responded
Cuthbert, pulling out and curling with his
first finger and thumb an elongated moustache,
*' you are an invigorating little bud of humanity,
— a delectable 'pick-me-up.' Yourgover-

ness has manifestly been refreshing your
fertile brain within the last year or two
to such an extent that I am sometimes
doubtful whether an overdose of erudition
may not prematurely deprive your parents
of a most prominent member of the family ;
but no offence ; you know, Gerty, I am only
anxious, and positively alarmed, about your
physical condition, — ha ! ha I ha ! "

About my what ? " said Gertrude, knitting
her brows a little, but who didn't mind one
bit what her cousin said to her, neither was
she scrupulous as to the many " home'
thrusts " she made at him ; for these twain
were invariably chaffing each other, — so
much so, that a superficial observer would
arrive at the conclusion that "daso:ers"
were drawn. Not so, however. Cuthbert
was fond of his cousin, and he delighted
in airing his puns and nonsensical dialogue
whenever a favourable opportunity presented

itself. Gertrude, in like manner, when she
saw an opening, put in her foil with marvellous
dexterity, sometimes making him
wince.

The second gong announced that dinner
was ready.

I had been having a lively conversation
on general topics with Mr and Mrs Towns-end,
and was greatly struck with the
latter's vast extent of knowledge with
respect to Government matters, political
economy, and affairs of the State generally.
She was thoroughly "well up)" in
diplomacy, and her personal friends (to
whom she frequently referred), who ranked
high at headquarters, were legion ! Happily,
I was a good listener, and never once ventured
on ground that wouldn't bear me ;
for had I, she, of all other women, would
have gloried in seeing me go to grief.
Never in the whole course of my life did

VOL. II. M

I feel Greater relief than when Mr Towns-end
asked me to take his consort down
to dinner, and thus disturbed a dialogue
which I was g;ettino^ the worst of.

Cuthbert was on the point of offering
his arm to Nora, when that sly puss
Gertrude frisked up (true to her promise)
and said, with an arch smile, —

'' Now, don't be shabby, Cousin Cuthh, and
neglect poor me at the eleventh hour. See,
I am all smiles and tears ! Dad will take
down Nora."

And before Mr Rod way had time to
make a reply and enter his protest, that
little tease seized his arm, and they were
en route via the grand staircase to the
dining-room.

Mr Towmsend escorted his eldest daughter,
and, affectionately squeezing her hand as
it rested on his arm, said, —

"You are looking more like your own dear

self to-night, my child : it reminds me of
old times."

How good of you to think so, father,"
responded Nora, reciprocating the gentle
squeeze of the arm. "I am always like
myself, dear, when you are with me, am
I not ? "

Having reached the dining-room, it put
a stop to further conversation ; but Nora's
demeanour with her father belied her
assumed gaiety : she was undergoing a
severe mental struggle. Her father knew
too well his daughter's temperament : he
had made it his study, and watched her
from early childhood, penetrating with paternal
devotion into the inmost recesses
of her heart ; granting her every reasonable
wish, and rejecting, with firmness,
every inconsistency. The memorable injunction
given by the late Mrs Towns-end
on her deathbed, respecting the

future of her infant child, was always
uppermost in Godfrey Townshend's mind, —
this night particularly so. Curiously enough,
it was the eve of the anniversary of her
death ; but no allusion was ever made
to it, albeit Nora annually spent a short
time in the chancel of Carthewin Church,,
decorating with wreaths of the whitest
and choicest of flowers, her mothers-marble
tomb.

The ladies assembled with, a soft rustle
of trailing draperies ; the sweet odour
from laced, handkerchiefs, the fragrance
from pines and melons on the table,,
and the aroma of some old brown East
India sherry on the sideboard, perfumed
the air with delicious scents.

Mr Townshend, with Nora on his right at
the bottom of the table, looked eminently
handsome, and when grace was being said
I had, for the first time, a steady look at

poor Percy's " Virgin Widow " ; — yes, the
^' Shadow in the Gold," " My Nora," ashe
called her ; and his own dying words
came back to me, " If ever, Oliver, you come
face to slice with the original, think of
me." God knows I did think of him, and
said within myself, — " Where is there a
man to be found who could not adore
that brilliant beauty ? "

Mr Townshend, at the dinner table, was
one of the wittiest and cheeriest of men ;
his daughter was graceful, retiring, modest,
and (be it said in her favour), a good
listener. The lady on my left, with ample
bust, and marabout feather head-dress, was
brimful of vivacity, and made some brilliant
remarks with wonderful force, scintillating
with great effect and rapidity ; her
sparkling wit was like the Hideseik's dry
Monopoly that was playing a mimic fountain
in my glass. I thought Mr Otway

looked a little hlase under the resplendent
chandelier, — his incessant tongue, and the
audible ha, ha, ha's, became very monotonous
in course of time. I must say that
gentleman's evanescent enthusiasm did not
prepossess me ; but the musical rapture of
Gertrude made up for all deficiencies. I
certainly looked ujDon her as one of the
most incomparable girls I had ever met,
there was such a happy natural ring in her
voice, like a bubbling overflow from the
spring of joy. Her type of glowing health,
her laughing mouth, her speaking violet
eyes ; add to these her lithe and rounded
form, and you have portrayed the reflex of
Gertrude Townshend. But her step sister
Nora, that cherub of the spring ! so subdued
in manner, so retiring, so graceful, so
refined —

Gentle, timid as a dove ;

A girl that one could always love.

Yes, Gertrude all life ! Nora all soul !
Give me the latter," I soliloquised.

*' By-the-bye, Major Grey," said Mrs Towns-end,
who was peeling a peach that was
impaled on her dessert fork, " you are
intimately acquainted, I think, with a
daughter of a very old and valued friend
of mine."

'' I am glad to have that pleasure, and
equally glad to have the privilege of knowing
her friend in you," I responded, with
mu ch empressement.

Mrs Townshend bent her head approvingly,
a mouthful of peach preventing her from
replying. Presently she went on, —

*' Yes, the lady in question is a very
great friend of mine ; she is most highly
esteemed by everyone, ' strictly county,' and
a person of exceptional refinement and moral
excellence."

I looked across the room at Nora, and

from Nora to Gertrude. The former had
buried half of her pretty face in a tumbler,
evidently to conceal an expressive countenance.
I had a shrewd suspicion, too, that
Gertrude gave her cousin Cuthbert a kick
under the table. It was suggestive, as much
as to say, — " Look out ! Mamma has her
finger in some pie, results w411 presently
follow."

'' Can't you guess. Major Grey, to whom
I refer ? " ventured Mrs Townshend, again
taking another mouthful of peach.

Leonard, the butler, smiled knowingly.
Yes, he knew all about it, — he was "all
there," in the twinkling of an eye. Egad !
the fellow knew everything, and everyone's
business, even to how many hon
fide teeth his master and mistress had,
and how many — well, no matter what,
suffice it to say, that nothing escaped
him.

^'' On my word, Mrs Townsencl," I replied
apologetically, at the same time taking a
promiscuous sip of port, " I haven't the
remotest idea to whom you refer."

"Eeally?"

I have not, on mv word."

Think again," sceptically.

Is she tall or short ? " I ventured.

"Well— medium."

*' Is she a blonde or brunette ? "

'mamma, dear," said Nora entreatingly,
^' do put Major Grey out of his misery, and
tell him at once it is Constance Templar."

Like a shock from a powerful galvanic
battery did the sound of that name go
through the vertical of my brain, and I
know that I flamed crimson ; — all eyes in
the room ajDj^arently glared upon me in
anxious expectation of a reply, which would
naturally lead up to Miss Templar's antecedents
in connection with myself; but I

Tis equal to the occasion, and replied with.
great sang froid : —

I am rejoiced, dear madam, to learn
that a lady to whom I am so much indebted
for endless acts of kindness, is a
personal friend of yours ; were I to live to
be as full of years as Methuselah, I certainly
could never sufficiently repay the debt I
owe Miss Templar."

Mrs Towmsend looked me full in the face inquiringly;
then, musing awhile, she went on, —

Ah me ! soothing attentions, when rocked
in the cradle of sickness, have a powerful
effect on mankind ; but such debts of gratitude
to which you refer. Major Grey,
under certain conditions, can be discharged,
don't you know."

(There was a little cough at the bottom
of the room, and ahem !)

Mrs Town send said this in measured
accents, and in the most unemotional manner

; nevertheless, to me, it was very suggestive
! Nora and Gertrude were both
cracking filbert-nuts like distraction. Happily
at that moment Cuthbert took the
keen edge off my embarrassment, by saying, —

'■' I can tell you something, if you don't
know it already. Major Grey, and that is,
little Constance Templar has matchless staying
powers in the ballroom. I have tripped
the light fantastic with her on several occasions,
and she invariably took the wind,
so to speak, out of my sails, and danced
everyone else clean out of sight. I don't
know whether she has given that sort of think;
up since she went in for the 'Red Cross' work."

Or for ' fresher fields and pastures new,' "
added Mrs Townshend ; " anyhow, a better
woman never drew the breath of life's"'

I think, madam, I am in a position to
endorse every word you say," I at last
ventured.

Do you remember, Julia," cut in Mr
Town send, " what a fuss poor Sir John
Steadfast made when Miss Templar politely
thanked the baronet for the honour he had
done her, and respectfully declined his proffered
hand and attractive fortune. Eo^ad ! the
people said his hair (like the prisoner of
Chillon's) grew white in a single night."

I remember all about it, Godfrey," replied
Mrs Townshend ; " and, at the time,
I considered that she acted in strict conformity
with her own personal feelings and
sound judgment ; and I think a woman is
to be highly commended for not precipitating
an alliance, when there is a semblance
of uncertainty as to their future happiness."

Beastly bad taste, I thought, to open up
such a subject at this juncture. How I pitied
that sad white face at the bottom of the
room !

'' Bravo ! " said Cuthbert ; " why, my dear

aunt, you are warming to your work, and
no error ; don't you know that matters of
that kind are wafted by all the winds of
scandal ? "

I can tell you this, Cuthbert, that the
good things people say of one's neighbours
don't always fructify," said Mrs Townshend
impressively.

"Ahem!" responded Cuthbert, "that accounts,
I suppose, for my not rising in the
scale of social excellence, ha ! ha ! ha ! "

Everyone laughed except Nora, who was
evidently fidgeting to catch her step-mother's
eye, for a move to the drawing-room ; a
feat which she ultimately accomplished, and
the frou-frou of the ladies' dresses as they
glided out of the room was, I am sorry
to admit, a very agreeable sound to me on
that memorable night.

As the door closed, I felt a wonderful
relief, and said within myself, — "Yes, surely.

it is women who sustain women, or condemn
them."

Draw up, Major Grey," said Mr Towns-end,
pointing to an empty chair by his
side ; "let us pledge your health in a
bumper. Push the bottle, Cuthbert ; hang
it ! man, fill your glass full, full to the prim.
Major Grey, your good health, sir ; I am
uncommonly glad to have made your acquaintance,
and proud to have in my house
a soldier who has so distinguished himself.
Cuthbert, my boy, your good health too ;
you know that you are always welcome here,
so long as you don't kill my horses, or shoot
my favourite spaniel in the covers instead of
a hare, a feat which you very nearly accomplished
the other day, I am sorry to say."

Thank you, Mr Townshend, for pledging
my health with such sincerity," I replied ;
*' it is I who have reason to be proud of
the honour you and your good wife have

conferred upon me, in receiving me into
jour midst as you would a personal friend
of louo- standing"

Not at all, not at all, — delighted ! " replied
my host. " Cuthbert, help yourself, and
push the bottle."

Cuthbert did help himself, and with a
hand which struck me as not the most
steady, as he held up the glass, and, with
one eye closed, viewed the ruby brightness
of the liquor with complacency, saying, —

Your — your good health, Major ; may
you live long, sir, and may you die happy,
sir ; those are my sentiments, — ha ! ha ! ha ! "

Hang it all, don't talk about d3dng,
Cuthbert ; don't you know the axiom,
Tempus rerum imperator ! " said Mr
Townshend.

Qui deceit hoc hoche, eras si volet,
aubert! you will say amen to that, I know,
uncle," said Cuthbert, drawing a long face.

Mr Townsencl did not make any reply.
I discovered that he was a man of quick
discernment, and never made light of serious-subjects.


Genteel in personage,
Conduct, and equipage,
Noble by heritage.
Generous and free."

Cuthbert, pass the bottle. Before you
young gentlemen adjourn to the drawing-room,
where I always like to see my
guests assemble in reasonable and seasonable
time, we must drink to the ladies," and,
elevating his glass, continued, — " The ladies,
God bless them ! " in which I joined most
fervently.

*' Just one more toast, if I may be permitted,
uncle," said Mr Otway, casting a
suggestive look at me.

Fire away, then, but be quick about it."

Here is long life and a happy one to
our much esteemed little friend Constance

Templar, and the man who is lucky enough
to secure her for a wife— ha ! ha ! ha ! " and
he glared at me.

I thought the remarks made by Mr
Rodway with such familiarity, so uncalled
for, that I scarcely responded, other than
lifting the glass to my lips and silently
wishing the dear little brunette all the
blessings of this life ; at the same time not
being unmindful that great wishes have
great failures.

Mr Townshend having asked if Leonard
should decant another bottle of the undeniable
'34 port, and being assured that nothings
would induce us to take more, I and Mr
Rodway adjourned to the smoking-room,
for a cigarette, before joining the ladies in
the drawing-room, whilst our host enjoyed
his siesta in the corpulent arm-chair, which
was his usual custom after dinner.

VOL. II. ^ jj

"Well, Nora," said Mrs Townshend, as she
deposited her graceful figure on one of the
luxurious couches in the drawing-room, at
the same time arranging the rustling folds
of her robes, " what do you think of our
guest ? "

Nora played with the swansdown that
encircled her fan, in an abstracted manner,
but made no immediate reply.

I think him awfully nice," ventured
Gertrude, as she twirled her nymph-like
form to a favourite waltz, with an imaginary
partner.

*' Nora is mum," said Mrs Townshend
cynically.

*' I beg pardon, mamma, I was at that
moment thinking how imprudent it would
be to express an opinion respecting a person
we have known but a few hours."

*' First impressions, my dear," responded
Mrs Townshend, " as a rule, are pretty reliable.

Eor my own part, I made the necessary
deductions almost at sight, and I will venture
to say that I am not very far wrong in the
estimate I have formed."

"I am not gifted," replied Nora, "with
that keen power of discrimination which
3'ou appear to possess ; and I cannot help
thinking that one may do another very
considerable injustice, by too hastily forming
^n opinion."

Mrs Townshend curled her lip significantly.

He certainly won't perish from a fatal
attachment to the bottle, for he scarcely
drank anything during the dinner," cut in
Gertrude, trying another circular movement,
and humming the tune of an old "stop
waltz."

•'' What on earth, Gertrude, do you know
about such matters," said Mrs Townshend,
a little bitterly, thinking that it was a slap
at her nephew ; " neither of you are * up '

to the ways of men yet. When you have
lived as long in the world as I have, and
mixed with the rough and the smooth in
the busy hum of society, you will find out
that dissipation and freedom of speech seldom
commence until our backs are turned ; and
then men snuggle up together, all restraint
is thrown off, and it is a case of ' Flow on,
thou shining river.' Bear in mind, children,
I am an observant woman, and nothing
escapes me — nothing."

Nora was silent, but she compressed her
lips, and thought, " How spiteful, and, in
many instances, how untrue."

That little oddity, Gertrude, tried a ruse
saying,—

Cousin Cuthh was in splendid form tonight.
What a brilliant flow of wit he has,
mamma, and how nice he looked ; didn't he ? "

At the same time the provoking creature
made a wry face at Nora behind her fan,

a.ncl it was fortunate for that young lady
that her mother didn't witness it.

Your dear cousin," said Mrs Townshend,
with sweet accents, " is one of the most refined
and accomplished gentlemen one ever
need wish to meet. He has a noble heart,
a generous disposition — in a word, he is a
lovable fellow altogether ; don't you think so,
Nora ? "

I know that Cuthbert is supposed to
be very rich," .replied Nora, with affected
ease ; " and I know that the world hurrahs
aX prosperity. I grant you that my cousin
is, in the estimation of some people, a most
lovable 'fellow'"

Mrs Townshend winced a trifle under a
lash that could not fail to leave its certain
mark. Her step-daughter's observations were
unanswerable ; and Julia was alive to the
fact that Nora had a little thong to her
tongue !

I consider him an angel, minus wings,"
ventured Gertrude jocosely.

Fiddlestick ! Gerty, you are always
making silly remarks. I am quite sure you
both love my nephew, although Nora is so
reticent — "

I adore him down to the ground, as
papa calls it," said Gertrude ; 'ein fact, I am
appallingly fond of him : and I know Nora
is ready to devour him, — rings, collar, cuffs,
diamond studs, and all — ahem ! "

'' I beg of you, Gertrude, to speak for
yourself only," interrupted Nora, looking,
daggers at her step-sister.

'' It struck me very forcibly," said Mrs
Townshend, " that Cuthbert was disappointed
at not taking you down to dinner, Nora.
How did it happen ? "

I haven't the least notion ; neither do I
care a 'fig' who took me down."

But, Nora dear, although to-day ours

was a little unconventional dinner, yet there
are conventionalities of society which must
not be lost sight of, but which you frequently
disregard."

To tell you the truth, mamma," said
Gertrude, "just at that particular moment
when our gallant and very presentable cousin
was about to offer Nora his arm, I was
suddenly seized with a fit of jealousy, and
offered him mine. I gained a point, don't
you see, and scored one ! "

And had the politeness to leave your
sister out in the cold," added Mrs Townshend.

I am never in the cold, mamma," said
Nora, slightly colouring, " when I am near
the warm heart of my father."

Mrs Townshend coughed, made no reply,
but leant down and seized her white poodle
by the neck, and nestled him in her arms.

I vote we try our melodious voices at
the piano," suggested Gertrude. " Ten to

one, Nora, if you but sing ' Good-bye,
Sweetheart, Good-bye,' with your accustomed
skill, you will wake up some of those
gentlemen in the dining-room like anything,"
and Gertrude frisked to the piano, selected
the piece in question, adjusted the stool to
its proper height, and insisted on her sister
singing, saying, — "Now give it any amount
of crescendo, and I will leave the door ajar."

If our heroine possessed one accomplishment
which excelled all others, it was that
of singing. Educated when very young by
the best masters that could be obtained,
and aided by her natural sweet and powerful
voice, her singing was simply as nearly
perfection as it could be : she would sometimes
devote hours in rendering, with great
pathos, selections from Moore's Irish Melodies,
accompanying herself on the harp — her
favourite instrument — which she played with
consummate skill.

Sissy, are you coming to sing, or are
you not ? I am getting impatient."

And Nora went to the piano, and gave
her heart and soul to the simple ballad.
She had scarcely finished the last words,
which sweetly echoed through the great
corridor, when Cuthbert sauntered into the
room, with a face as red as a peony, warbling
the refrain of Nora's sono.

Didn't I tell you, Nora, that you would
just about bring our cousin to life ? "

*' Egad ! " said Cuthbert, " who could remain
dead, whilst cherubim continually do sing ?
La ! ha ! ha ! "

"And seraphim join like anything," added
Gertrude, in her mimicking way.

Fie ! Gerty, fie ! I am astonished at you ! "
said Mrs Townshend reproachfully. "Ah,
Major Grey, I am glad you are come to the
rescue ; I hope you will keep these young
people in order."

I had been listening on the landing to
Mrs Snowdon's singing, and my heart was
swelling within me as she poured forthwith
brilliant rendering, the beautiful ballad.
On my entering the room, our heroine commenced
Thalers's '' Last Rose of Summer,"
with variations ; I immediately approached
the piano, with the view of turning over the
leaves for her, but, in my excitement, I did
not accurately follow the music, and wa
therefore at fault at the bottom of the first
page (who hasn't been, at some time or other,
under similar circumstances), and never shall
I forget the thrill that passed through my
heart when Nora threw up her large frank eyes
into my face ; — her blush was a symbol of
modesty and beauty, and she looked at me as
it were out of heaven ! As a matter of course,
I again bungled at the leaves, turning over
two instead of one ; the play on her coral lips
denoted that she rather enjoyed the mishap

than otherwise, as she readjusted the music,
and smiled complacently. Mrs Snowdon's
exquisite touch, as her fingers glided over
the key-board, and the marvellous expression
with which she played some brilliant sonatas,
spoke its owen language of a soul of the
highest order for music.

"You sing, I presume, Major Grey," said
Nora, pausing at the end of one of her superb
runs, to remove two half-hoop) diamond rings
that interfered with her playing.

I cannot say that I do not, Mrs Snowdon ;
but I should like to qualify my answer by intimating,
at the earliest moment, that my proficiency
in that direction is exceedingly limited."
"You read music rapidly, I perceive," said
Nora, with a flourish of her left hand on the
key-board.

Did you perceive it, Mrs Snowdon ? I
almost fancy you intend that observation asa
joke, seeing what a hash I — "

No, really, Major Grey, believe me, I
never gave it a thought. What a luxury it
is," went on Nora, " and pleasant pastime, to
be able to take up all the good music that
comes out, and play at sight."

''A gift, Mrs Snowdon, which, I am sorry
to say, is not mine. Were I so blessed, I
should spend many hours daily at the piano."

*' You play, do you not ? " ventured Nora.

Scarcely — "

I really think, Major Grey, that it is you
who are now joking; 'scarcely' is hardly the
word for it. Do, pray, oblige us ? "

On my honour, Mrs Snowdon, my faculty
for playing is very much on a par with my
singing. Since 1 led a soldier's life, and been
invalided so long, I have had but few opportunities
of keeping up my practice."

"At the word "soldier" and "invalid" I
saw the colour mantle her cheeks, and, in an
instant, tone down to ashy paleness, as she

gathered in her drapery that surrounded the
music-stool in graceful folds, and retired to
the couch, where she entered into conversation
with Mrs Towaisend.

'' Now, Cuthbert," said the lady of the
house, fanning herself, " give us the pleasure
of your vocal powers. I know" that you are
not shy."

I thought she laid the stress very considerably
on the word " you," and I began to think
what a fool I had made of myself in not
cheerfully responding to the gentle hints
that Nora had thrown out importuning me
to play and sing.

*' Shy ! " replied Cuthbert, twisting his moustache
to an extreme point ; " did you ever
know, dear aunt, a Kodway shy? (saving your
presence, madam) — just the reverse. I always
feel an infinity of pleasure in contributing my
quota to the evening's amusement, more particularly
when I have the delectable opportunity

of sharing those pleasures with my
accomplished cousins."

Mrs Townshend said within herself, " Very
good indeed."

You are an angel, Cuthbert ! " exclaimed
Gertrude enthusiastically. " I always thought
you divine ! — and oh ! can't you sing, just a
few ! "

Mrs Townshend cast a reproachful glance at
her daughter, who didn't seem to care a ' fig '
what she said.

I could see by the cloud that passed over
Mr Otway's brow, that he did not relish
Miss Townshend's stinging sarcasm, as he replied,
with affected ease, —

*' You know, dear Gerty, I am always very
much at your service, but it strikes me most
forcibly that I am a kind of pin-cushion, in which
you are everlastingly, but jocosely, sticking in
your sharp joints. Take care, my amiable
cousin, that you don't prick a vital part."

"You know, dear Cuthh, that, so far as
your heart is concerned, it is invulnerable ;
I couldn't reach it — no, if I were to try ever
so ! — not even with a stocking-needle."

As marriage is an excellent conservator
of youthful morals, I recommend you to go
^ in ' for that sort of thing. Miss Gertrude
Townshend," replied Mr Otway, adjusting his
collar and cravat with an air of importance
(which, by-the-bye, was tied with clerical skill).

'' And don't you know," went on Gertrude,
'that you are sometimes like the fish-hawk
down on this poor simple minnow ; but, come,
let us change the subject, — I don't care if I dosing
a duet with you. What do you say to
Norma ? ' you are charming at that," and the
light-hearted girl tripped up to the piano
humming —

' Hear me, Nora, in pity hear me.'

I beg pardon, I should have said, ' Hear me,
Norma ; ' I hope no offence, Mrs Snowdon."

Everyone laughed, except Nora, who made
up her mind to give her step-sister a good
scolding, when a favourable opportunity should
occur, which she did later on.

Mr Otway and Miss Townshend sang the
duet most harmoniously, his highly-cultivated
tenor voice, with its rich ujDper notes, sweetly
blended with Gertrude's, who contributed her
quota with much pathos, and in perfect tune ;
but she could not compare favourably with
Mrs Snowdon's singing, which was simply perfection,
and which filled me with emotion I
never felt before.

I knew that Mrs Snowdon would not be
likely to give me another hint about either
singing or playing — neither did I wish it ; for
Mr Otway had so completely eclipsed anything
I was capable of doing, that (to tell the
truth) I dreaded the light and shade ; but my
misery was slowly but surely being consummated.
I knew that Gertrude meant mischief,

and would not be denied, as lie extracted two
corpulent music books from the waggon, and
made towards me, smiling benignly, and with
silken tones said, —

I am sure, Major Grey, that you will be
able to select a song from this batch ; you will
find herein anything and everything suitable
to your taste : sacred, sentimental, comic, and
heroic ; from the simple ballad all the way up
the ladder to the best operas. Here we have
sacred and secular music — Handel, Haydn,
Bellini, Donizetti, and I don't know what besides.
Now don't laugh; and," she went on,
"you have a singing face, and I feel assured
you can play like * anything.' "

I trust you will not be disappointed," I
replied.

I knew that all eyes were upon me in anxious
expectation, as there was a general buzz
of acclamation, followed by a mysterious silence.
At that moment, I caught sio-ht of Nora's

VOL. II. O

sweet little chaussure peeping out from the
folds of her dress, tattooing the floor ; she was
evidently agitated. I soon ran my eyes over
some of the music, and, very much to the surprise
of the little oddity who had so dexterously
edged me into a corner, I selected a very
old and favourite song of mine, which I was
well " up " in, and which has for its title,
Hear me, Gentle Marianne."

I do verily believe Miss Townshend and Nora
thought I was about to choose such a song as
Tapping Old Stairs," or " Tom Bowling," etc.

Happily I was in good voice, wbicli, at the
best, was nothing to boast of ; suffice it to say
I didn't break down, but was very near it once
or twice, particularly when I caught sight of
that charming little foot still drumming the
floor. I put it to my benevolent friend and
present reader, if he has not at some period
of his life bad a similar ordeal to pass through,
under the eyes and ears of one whose favour

and esteem he most coveted ; if so, I may
fairly claim his indulgence, in what may otherwise
appear (in my case) absurd nervousness.
However, I got on better with a difficult piece
which I played later in the evening, and thereby
established myself as a fairly good, though
moderate, musician; this much I will venture to
say, without, I trust, a semblance of egotism.

During the intervals of music, I had a
most delightful tete-tete with Mrs Snowdon.
At times I found her musing in a preoccupied
way, sometimes exhibiting much
vivacity, at others, very unemotional.
Gleams of bright sunshine, as it were,
would light up her countenance, alternating
with gathering clouds ; which convinced
me that she had a heavy weight of trouble
forcing itself, like the ivy leaf, so to speak,
into every crevice of her sad heart. She
scrupulously avoided touching upon any
subject which bore, either directly or

indirectly, on matters connected with the
war ; evidently husbanding her resources
for some future occasion, when she could
find herself face to face with me alone.
Although she knew that I had not entirely
recovered from my wounds, no allusion
was made to them.

Mr Otway was very nearly causing
an explosion which would have opened a
mine of trouble ; but, as quick as lightning,
I went to the rescue. Taking him to a
distant part of the room, under some pretence,
I urged him not to refer in any way
to the campaign, or the late Lieutenant
Snowdon. Mr Otway was quite alive to
the kind feeling that actuated me, and it
is due to that gentleman to say that with
the warmest sentiments he expressed his approval,
and promised to be on his guard.

The remainder of the evening was most
agreeably spent ; the light and shade portrayed

in the various characters of the
Townshend family were marvellously striking,
absolutely dissimilar in every respect ; and
I will pause for a moment in my narrative
to record the impressions that were made
upon my mental retina, during this the
first day of my acquaintance with them.

In Mr Townshend I appear to have found
a large-hearted fine specimen of an English
gentleman ; " one of the olden time ; " compassionate
; intelligent ; generous ; cheerful ;
strictly correct in the internal good conduct
of his establishment ; a fond father ; and
a firm friend !

In Mrs Townshend I found a lady of
varied intelligence, with a highly-cultivated
mind, and quick perception ; at times,
exhibiting gentle sympathy in her tones,
humble, loving, and forbearing ; at other
times, flashes indicating a different temperament
would appear, lighting up and

giving one a faint glimpse of what may
probably be lying beneath the surface, — a
second soul, so to speak, — a tongue with a
dreadful thong, and which could occasionally
puff out wrath, and at other times hold
forth with silken and honeyed accents. A
most patronising air would now and then
be substituted for the humble, retiring
demeanour which we all so much love to
see women adorned with. Now a cloud of
anger would gather on her face, . in place
of smiles and sensitive tears portrayed an
hour or two since. Add to all these
anomalies a lady expatiating on her family
tree, with an exalted opinion of her own
blood, and I venture to think that we
have arrived at a fairly correct picture of
the outward and visible form of the consort
of Godfrey Townshend, — that which is
hidden, will, like a cork submerged in the
water, soon find its way to the surface.

I select a new pen at this juncture and replenish
my inkstand, to trace a faithful representation
of the lady whose portraiture I have
the pleasure and privilege of exhibiting — it
will, however, be very brief. Everyone who
loves modesty, generosity, intelligence, frank
kindness, and a simple and unobtrusive manner,
must love our heroine. Such traits being a compound
of her nature — " a thing of beauty is a
joy for ever" — all who delight to look upon a
graceful girl, with an affectionate and upright
soul, must admire Nora Snowdon, — so real !
Gertrude is a very different stamp altogether;
brimful of innocent coquetry, bordering at
times on frivolity ; older in manner than her
years justify, with a pair of blue eyes that
sparkle with vivacity, her laughter cheers
one like wine, and her playful, ready wit,
scintillating; sometimes in the most comic
manner, not unfrequently bringing sunshine
amidst domestic clouds.

A DAY IN THE "OPEN."

"Love is like honesty, much talked of, and little
understood."

A Fortnight has elapsed subsequent to the
close of the last chapter, during which I
spent a most delightful time at Carthewin
Castle, riding, driving, shooting, fishing, and
boating on the lake. I was frequently accompanied
in these pastimes by Gertrude and
Mr Otway, but very rarely had I an opportunity
of conversing with Nora, except at
meal hours. She spent most of her time
in her boudoir, or the "snuggery," which
latter place, as before stated, was inaccessible
to any person other than the family

and after the visitors had departed on their
respective rounds of morning pleasure, our
heroine usually adjourned to the library,
sometimes appeared at luncheon, and not
unfrequently asking to be excused from the
usual unconventional eight o'clock dinner,
on the plea of some slight indisposition.
All these little manoeuvres pointed to the fact
of her having a very decided disinclination
(the outcome of timidness) to confer with me
on the painful subject which occasioned my
visit to Carthewin Castle. Day after day
passed without the slightest sign of Mrs
Snowdon's inviting me to fulfil the object
of my mission. It seemed that everyone
was glad to keep the door closed, as it where,
against an atmosphere that would naturally,
"when introduced, damp the spirits of those
who had been so energetically striving to
'' cast dull care away ; " but, day by day, I
was keen enough to observe that Nora was

becoming more and more thoughtful, and
tremulous in her voice, when holding; a conversation
with me ; probably fearing every
moment that I would launch out, and in one
fell swoop clear the load that was accumulating
within her breast, and thus expose
her highly-sensitive nerves to a galvanic
shock that, sooner or later, must be applied
to them. It made my heart ache to see that
pale face sometimes resting on her white
thin hand, her eyes staring into vacancy,
and in deep meditation ; at other times she
would glide in and out of the conservatory
with assumed gaiety, and with a demeanour
which I knew to be unreal — dodging; all the
guests of the house, avoiding, in every possible
way, a conversation, except of a most promiscuous
kind. Even poor Leonard gravely
shook his head, and the old man's eyes filled
with tears whenever he spoke of her to me ;
on one occasion saying, "Lord love her dear

heart, Major ; I wish I was a angel in heaven,
instead of a worn-out old butler, that I may
come down and minister unto her. Try your
hand, Major, try sour hand ; take her out and
about, and see what you can make of her.
Lord love her ! I know she watches you from
every window in the Castle like a cat would
a mouse — bless her heart — but don't say I
said so."

In some of those endlessly pleasant gravel
walks that interlaced the shrubbery, where
Nora delighted, unobserved, to wander alone
with a book, I sometimes ran up against her
whilst I was indulging in my vesper cigar,
and on those occasions, if I deciphered her
countenance correctly, it was suggestive of a
mixture of pleasure and grief, with sweet
touches of sadness now and then portrayed
in her demeanour. I always found her surpassing
dexterous in the knowledge of most
things, and with a mind alive to all the

beauties of nature and art. She was passionately
fond of flowers, and never seemed tired
of dilating on horticultural development, and
rarely better pleased than when she was
manipulating, from their earliest growth, the
choice plants which the head gardener entrusted
her with. I discovered another most
staking trait in her character. It was that of
the most profound reverence and love, which
she inwardly felt and outwardly exhibited,
towards aged persons and others who were
oppressed or in trouble, not only within her
own social circle, but amongst the poor of the
parish and adjacent hamlets. A blush would
sometimes creep over her pale face when any
subject was touched upon where strict honour
or integrity was wanting, then her large frank
eyes flashed unmistakable signs of tumult
within ; on the other hand, when a good and
gracious act, executed by one individual
towards another at the right moment, and

with the purest and best intentions, came to
her knowledge, she was quick to appreciate
its worth, and treasure up next her heart
those grains of gold ! Many, many times
since I penned these lines have I looked back
with loving remembrance to those early days
when Providence (not chance) brought me
face to face, heart to heart, and soul to soul
with that pure, sweet life, which shone like
a lighthouse on all around her. In the words
of a great novelist, I say, —

Blessed he, who has the love of a good woman."

But I am digressing, and must take my
reader with me over other exciting scenes,
and, perhaps, the most momentous and
thrilling incident of my life, in connection
with my visit to Carthewin Castle ; but it is
a task not easily accomplished, and I have
more than once laid down my pen, only to
take it again with increased earnestness and

many doubts, fearing that on my way I may
fall short in portraying with due force and
correctness the events of this ever memorable
red-letter day — events that demand
much from me, as one of the graceful tributes
I can offer our heroine ; and fearing, too,
that in recalling those bright and happy
reminiscences, I may sail a little closely to
the danger signal of egotism, and in my
enthusiasm exceed somewhat the bounds of
moderation ; but as facts and fiction are
interwoven herein, and intimately bound up
together, I should be wanting in love and
gratitude if I did not produce at least one
faithful portrait of the estimable lady with
whom I have happily become associated ; but
*' he that praises himself, is a debtor to all
others."

It was on a dull autumnal afternoon in the
beginning of September, and the first few
days in the " open," that Mr Townshend, Mr

Eoclway, and myself were seated under one
of the old oaks — those giant sons of the forest
that abound on the fringe of Carthewin
coverts. We had been partridge shooting
the whole of the morning, tramping along upto
our knees in mongol, turnip, gorse, and
stubble, and the bags that were thrown into
the cart which brought up the lunch-basket
from the '' Townshend Arms " in the village,
spoke their own language as to a faithful
record of the leash of guns that were out
that morning. Few better shots could be
found in the county than Mr Townshend and
Mr Otway, particularly the latter, who, with
two exceptions, killed right and left all day.
How I envied him ! notably when this deponent
fired two barrels at an easy bird, and
had the mortification of seeing Cuthbert drop
it with his choke and wire cartridge at fifty
yards ! — how many times he did this before
lunch time, I am ashamed to admit. Men

224 A Virgin Widow.

not unfrequently step into a turnip field or
cover on wonderfully good terms with themselves,
resolute in their determination to
render a good account of their bag at the
close of the day ; they grasp their gun with
unusual firmness, compress their lips, become
silent, actually in earnest, and looking and
feeling like business " all over ! " They try
to quiet their nerves, but that is just the
mistake, for it is the very rock on which
sportsmen are usually wrecked ; the nerves
decline to be subdued, hence the many
misses. The little boy who has been brought
up with the gun in his hand, has no nerves,
so to speak ; he is always as cool as a trout,
and, if he continue his shooting into manhood,
he can invariably hold his own against
all comers, and is absolutely reliable in all
places, lights, wind, and weather. Such,
however, is the writer's experience. How
thoroughly one enjoys the refreshing hour

from one to two under a lee hedge, in the
middle of a crisp September day, with a well-stocked
lunch-basket and the best of appetites,
after a good four hours' spin in the
open," surrounded by a leash of dogs, staring
at you with their limpid eyes, in eager anticipation
of participating in the small scraps
that may fall from the rich man's table ; if
they intrude their noses a little too near the
viands, and are severely rebuked by a vicious
kick, how gentle and loving they are ! Speak
but kindly to them, then note the intelligent
tear glistening in their eyes, and the unbounded
joy they manifest by the wag of
their tail. Noble, unselfish, forbearing animals I
what sound, practical lessons they teach us I
The writer has had manifold opportunities of
studying, and has experienced infinite pleasure
in the companionship of many intelligent
dogs ; and, if space would only permit, I
could record numerous instances of the re-vol.

II. P

markable sagacity exhibited by my old and
niucli-beloved retriever " Captain ; " but as
such should be out of place in this narrative,
I will simply offer this passing tribute to the
memory of the grand old animal that followed
me with his nose close to my heel, through
many long seasons, sometimes under trying
circumstances, endless disappointments, and
(when rations were short) with, alas ! an
empty stomach ! Yet how uncomplaining !
how easily satisfied ! Thrash him for disobedience,
thump him for inattention, and ina
moment after, though smarting with pain,
he licks the very hand that chastised him !
But *' Captain," my trusted friend, my unselfish
companion in long travel, at home and
abroad, has passed away, and at the Woodlands,
beneath a cedar of Lebanon whose
large flat boughs have ofttimes screened us
both from the pelting rain and the scorching
sun, and where wee have spent many happy

moments, and had many a jolly meal together,
Test the remains of the Q-rand old and faithful
dog — once a host in himself !

*why, Major Grey," said Mr Townshend,
m akin or a vi odorous lounge with his fork into the
lunch-basket, and impaling upon it the wing
of a fowl, " you are not in your usual good form
to-day; using a sporting phrase — not 'fit'"

The setter Danger looked me full in the
face, and said, as it were, — " Them be my
sentiments." The brute had experienced
many disappointments under my gun during
the day, and don't they enjoy a good kill !

It does happen sometimes, Mr Towns-end,"
I replied; "I cannot account for it, it
is often a puzzle to me : kill all one day,
miss all next."

"Perhaps you are in love? " said Rodway, fixing
his restless keen eyes upon me inquiringly.

Yes ; I am in love."

"Ah! just so; that accounts for the milk

in the cocoa-nuts, as the saying is. I
thought so. Those sort of things, don't you
know. Grey, play the bear with a fellow
sometimes, particularly if it isn't re-ci-pro-cal "
(he pronounced it such), '' and no error — ha 1
ha ! ha ! "

'' You appear brimful of experience in these
matters," I responded, with assumed gaiety.

One can't shoot well, don't you know, in
two directions at the same time, Major Grey,
Drop your love, and you drop your birds —
ha ! ha ! ha ! "

The leash of dogs were unanimous in their
approval of those remarks, judging by the
oscillation of their tails, as they each sat
up on their antipodes, hungry spectators. If
dogs can't talk, they are mighty listeners !

'* Let me see," went on Cuthbert, " what is
it that Mr Shakespeare said, —

Come, love and health to all !
Then I'll sit down ; give me some wine, fill full' "

at the same time tossing off a tumbler of old
brown brandy, be it said, with little water.

** Cuthbert, my boy," said Mr Townshend,
why don't you stick to the pale ale. By
Jove ! sir, if you polish off sundry potations
of spirituous liquor like that, I won't answer
for the consequences when we resume work,
though I don't think I shall shoot much
more to-day."

"Never fear, uncle; you know I am a
cautious bird."

*' If you will allow me, master, to make so
bold," said the head keeper, "all I got to
say is, if some of them birds were a little
more cautious, it would be better for their
internals, — leastways, when Mr Cuthbert be
looking over his barrels."

Look here, muzzle-loader," said Otway,
'' I know you are the hardest nut to crack in
this county, and a hard hitter, and no error ;
notwithstanding, I will give you six pigeons

out of twenty, thirty yards rise, and shoot
you for ten of my current coins of the realm,
called sovereigns, against your liver-and-white
spaniel 'Turn-over'"

Turn-over," who was looking on, didn't
seem to see it : but perhaps he said within
himself, — " If you don't know, master, when
you have a good servant, I know when I have
a good master."

"Not if I know it, Mr Cuthbert," said
keeper. " Excuse me making so bold, but
'taint quite level work ; three eyes to two,
don't 'e see."

What do you mean ? "

"Why, to tell you the plain truth, master,
that bit o' round glass which you sticks up,
is a lawful punish er ; — no getting up aside o'
that lot — anyhow, you must get up pretty
early, and have your breakfast over-night, to
match it ; but, Mr Cuthbert, if you will drop
telescope, or mike scope, magnifier, or whatever

they calls it, I'm your man any day ; that is,
with master's permission."

Turn-over " made tracks, disgusted !

I'll have no betting on my estate," said
Mr Townshend, a little warmly. " Don't you
risk your spaniel, Drugget ; ten pounds is
nothing to my nephew, and as to your dog
Turn-over,' Mr Eoclway breaks the tenth commandment
every time he goes out with him."

After luncheon, Otway lighted a cigar,
and, shouldering his gun, strolled away in
the woods with his valet in deep conversation,
and I was left alone with Mr Townshend, who
was evidently in deep thought, as, on more
than one occasion, he appeared a little absent
whenever I addressed him.

Well, Major Grey," at last ventured the
lord of the soil, " has Nora ' opened up ' in
any way to you on matters connected with
her late husband ? " at the same time fixing;
his penetrating eyes upon me.

Not one syllable, sir," I replied, pulling
vigorously at my meerschaum, and sending a
few circles of smoke into the air.

Really ! how odd ! However," went on Mr
Townshend, after a short pause, "■ she purposes
having a conversation with you to-day."

To-day ! " I repeated, a little nervously.

Yes. Before I left home this mornings,
Nora came to my dressing-room, and requested
me to intimate to you, should a favourable
opportunity occur, that she wished to have a
strictly confidential interview at six o'clock,
in the oak room ; that is, if it meet with
your pleasure."

No pleasure, sir, can be so great to meas
that which I shall derive in being of service
to Mrs Snowdon or her august father."

Mr Townshend bent his head approvingly,
saying,—

I most heartily reciprocate those kindly-expressed
sentiments, Major Grey ; albeit

am very greatly afraid that your visit at the
Castle on this special occasion is one which
will not be productive of much pleasure to you."

** You would not say so, sir, if you but
knew how supremely happy I have been
during my sojourn here. Your unbounded
hospitality, and the many graceful acts of
kindness accorded me by Mrs Townshend and
your good daughters, have filled me with
emotion ; indeed they are far more than I
deserve, or ever dreamt of."

Again Mr Townshend gave me a searching
look. I felt sure there was much in the background
of his mind, as he kept twisting about
his gold eyeglasses, and watching my countenance
with marked vigilance ; but I was
armed, as Shakespeare has it, " So strong
with honesty," that I could bear the full
force of his scrutiny.

There was a long pause. All was silent, except
the rustling of the oak and beech leaves,

the twitter of some sparrows, and the flight
of the wood-pigeon homeward bound ; — that
mysterious lull in the conversation which at
times and under certain conditions is difficult
to wrestle with ; so much so, that words obstinately
stick in one's throat.

'' Ah ! me ! what a world this is," at last
ventured Mr Townshend, in a musing and preoccupied
way.

Not a bad world, sir," I responded,,
*' provided the people in it would only act
their parts conscientiously, and pull an honest
oar in the struggle of life ; in which case, how
happy and contented we should then be."

But, Major Grey, we must all pull in the
same direction, or else no good result will
follow : one rusty nail in the mill will destroy
and throw out of gear the whole machinery
don't you know ; and now," went on Mr
Townshend, " I want to talk to you most
seriously about my daughter."

OD

*' AYith whom I shall have the pleasure of
an interview at six o'clock," I remarked.

Precisely ; albeit what you call pleasure
would to me be intense pain. Of the latter,
Heaven knows, I have had enough lately.
But looking at things philosophically ; believing,
as I do, that all things which happen
are for the best ; and knowing that there is
a silver lining to every cloud, I have little
doubt but I shall eventually breathe in a
very different atmosphere to that which I
am now existing in."

I thought Mr Townshend said this in a
somewhat piteous voice, so I replied, —

Men, sir, not unfrequently fancy they seethe
future through a dark horoscope, and — "

*' But to business," interrupted Mr Towns-end.
" Excuse my using the term, Major
Grey, and suppose we saunter together to
yonder lonely nook in the glen, where we
need not speak beneath the breath."

With pleasure," I said.
" Ah, my friend, it is all pleasure with
you," murmured Mr Town send.

Not at all, sir, every heart knoweth its
own bitterness, its own sadness ; and at no
period of my life have I ever felt intoxicated
with pleasure."

All to come, my young friend, all to
come," replied Mr Townshend, with a warm
expression of countenance, and a gentle
squeeze of the right arm, as he interlaced
his in mine, and we picked our way through
the rugged defile that led to the glen.

It was here in this secluded spot," said
Mr Townshend, with tears in his eyes, ' ' that
my ever-lamented and much-beloved wife,
the fond mother of my Nora, wandered so
much alone. Every nook and tree, could
they but speak, would tell long tales of
the joyous moments she spent amidst this
dense foliage. Truly she was an ornament

to society, a bright shining star, a woman
of undeviating rectitude, mild benevolence,
and keen sense of duty and morality."

I have heard my good mother often
speak of the late Mrs Townshend," I replied.
She was intimately acquainted with my
aunt in early days, with whom she spent
some time at Derwentwater, near Windermere,
and from whom she received many
graceful acts of kindness."

Her name ? " asked Mr Townshend, ao^ain
fixing his keen eyes upon me.

Podmore, — daughter of Anthony Pod-more,
of Brook Castle. My mother was a
Miss Podmore."

What ! " exclaimed Mr Townshend vehemently,
" your mother a Miss Podmore !
you don't speak it ! "

"Did you know my aunt, sir?"

Know her ! Next to my lamented wife,
I knew no one more gentle, more amiable,

more lovable, and chaste than Clara Poclmore.
I could a tale unfold — a long;, sweet, sad tale
that I never grow tired of telling, so full
of the happiest recollections of my college
life. And you her nephew ! — your mother
her sister ! — you, now standing before mein
this glen, speaking of Clara Podmore,
poor little bright-eyed Clara Podmore, now
a bright speck a long long way up ! Yes,
truly, she loved as Rachel loved Jacob.
Well, well — but more anon. Some day, perhaps,
yes, some day, Grey, we may resume
this happy yet sad subject. And now to the
main point, for I have lamentably digressed."

The digression, sir, has interested me
immensely ; and I am rejoiced to know
that at least one member of my family
has been held in high esteem by a gentleman
whose friendship I so much value."

And which cannot be forfeited, so long
as you continue in the straight course

and lead the exemplary life that I know
is yours," responded Mr Townshend.

You think too well of me, sir ; I
have not yet earned that golden opinion,
therefore I have no title to it."

At that moment Nora entered my thoughts.

'rit is now three o'clock," said Mr Towns-end,
" and you are to see my daughter at
six. I am uncommonly anxious about her,
and for the life of me I cannot shake off
the depression that weighs so heavily upon
my poor child. She is simply going to a
shadow, and if a change do not soon take
place, I fear God will think fit, in His
infinite goodness, to snatch away my precious
ewe lamb."

I replied, in the words of the poet, —

Earth hath no sorrows that Heaven cannot
heal ;" also, "God can dry the mourners
tears."

True that," responded Mr Townshend,

'but my child has had a crushing blow,
Grey, and I wish to impress upon you
how absolutely essential it is to keep
nothing from her appertaining to her late
husband. Nora is a curious compound, a
sweet disposition, highly sensitive, with noble
feelings ; I have the measure of her heart
to a nicety. With well-directed tact and
kindly feeling, with which I know your
nature is charged, I wish you to go to
her rescue ; you, and you alone, have the
king key that will unlock the well of tears
that is now inwardly killing her. Yes,
for months past her eyes have been dry
as hay. It will be false delicacy to hide
from her the thrilling scene that closed
the chapter of poor Snowdon's career. I
wish you to dilate on his life as you found
it ; to expatiate on his expiring moments,
with all its dismal surroundings, as impressed
at the time upon you. Conceal nothing ;

give it all the force and expression at
your command ; add not one iota to the
melancholy scene with which you are familiar
; neither give it the slightest colouring,
nor keep back a wish, a message, nor an injunction
of her departed hero, however harrowing
it may apparently be to her feelings,
or painful to yourself, else you will do more
harm than good. I am satisfied that behind
those poor sunken eyes of my child there
is a flood of scorching tears, — they must be
relieved at all cost, at all risk ; and if you
fail in the attempt, Lord help her ! Her mind
will, I fear, become a blank, — a sweet thing
of the past ; and I — I — no matter what ! "
and the massive head of that handsome man
fell buried in his hands.

Strong as my frame was, and accustomed
to thrilling scenes, yet the paternal affection
portrayed in this splendid fellow absolutely
unnerved me, so much so, I could scarcely

VOL. II. Q

utter a word ; albeit I pulled myself together,
resolutely saying, —

'' I will not add, sir, one sentence that may
harrow up your feelings. I take the instructions
of my general, so to speak, and,
like a good soldier, will carry out your washes.
The trial to me will be great, yet greater
to your, daughter. If I fail in the attempt,
you will, at least, know that I have religiously
performed my duty. I have to
play in this sad business a part which 
circumstances have placed me in,
and which may bear, as I proceed, the stamp
of egotism. I have also to ingratiate myself
with materials at my command in the probable
favour of your daughter. Nevertheless,
I will advance to acquire the end you
desire ; but never shall it be recorded that
Oliver Grey made capital out of those
materials. More, sir, I cannot say; but
ere I move one step, it is due to my honour,

and it is due to the absolute confidence you
have reposed in me, to speak out plainly and
without reserve."

Mr Townshend squeezed my hand affectionately,
and in a low tone said, —

•' I place, my good fellow, the most implicit
confidence in you. May God give you
.strength to go through the work. Mrs Townshend
and Cuthbert are o:oinor to drive over
.and dine with me at the abbey, as I have
to meet my steward there. You, Nora, and
Gertrude will have your quiet little dinner
together after concluding your tete-tete.
Not one word, please, to anyone, respecting
this interview."

Most certainly not," I replied.

At this moment Eodw^ay, his valet Martineauxx,
and one keeper appeared in the distance
; I therefore lifted my hat to Mr
Townshend, shouldered my gun, and made
some rapid strides over the golden gorse,

A Virgin Widow.

and on through the " higher starts " farm
towards Carthewin Castle.

I felt greatly perplexed, on reviewing the
conversation which I had just had with Mr
Townshend. There was, I knew, a tenderness
and mystery unfathomable in Nora.
In a few short hours I should, no doubt, be
in possession of her inmost thoughts and
wishes.

How eminently handsome she looked
last night," I soliloquised. " Notwithstanding
the attention I paid her, there was
a considerable stand-selfishness in her demeanour,
— a distant hauteur, — and very imperturbable.
Dear Nora, the ideal woman
I have so long pictured ! you little know the
galvanic thrills that the sight of your picture
and its original have created in my
breast ; added to which, the memory of past
days, — of one whose name you bear' and
thus I dreamily dwelt, as I tramped along

over arable, grass, stubble, and heather -
covered knolls, blowing away at my meerschaum,
full of anxious thoughts for the
coming' interview.

o

The sickle-shaped moon, with her pale
crescent, was now in view in the steel-grey
sky. The cows came lowing from the windmill
meadow to the home farm. 1 paused
at the head of the broad lake. It was an
enchanting spot, full of poetry. The lofty
trees throwing their gaunt shadows athwart
the greensward beneath. The monotonous
ripple of the numerous streamlets, as they
meandered their way down the precipitate
slopes of the iceland, could be distinctly
heard ; and I heard, too, the Castle clock
strike sweetly in the silent air, as I turned
towards the courtyard and the grand old
tower that stood grim in the western sky.

Having deposited my freeholder in the
gun-room, and exchanged my shooting-boots

(to which there was attached at least four
pounds of arable soil), adjusted a clean pair
of gaiters, and had a good pull at my
brandy-flask by way of a fortifier, I strolled
leisurely along the broad terrace to the east
end of the castle, on which side I could take
a passing glance at the oak room, in the
hope of seeing Nora. I paced up and down
with a well-measured military tread, and took
a promiscuous look through the casement,
but Nora was not to be seen. I then
entered the Castle, and met Leonard in the
hall.

I hope you have had good snort, Major ? "

Yes, thank you, Leonard ; excellent."

•' Birds are very shy, sir, so they tell me."

'' Very."

Mr Cuthbert is a ' customer,' isn't he
sir {

A what, Leonard ? "

A ' dead nail ' I mean. Major."

•'Yes, a very remarkable shot, Leonard."

"Not over careful about handling his gun
and covering his neighbour, so they say."

Indeed ! I did not observe it."

What everybody says, I repose must be
true," replied Leonard, tugging away at the
corners of his waistcoat nervously.

It occurred to me that the old man ventured
these remarks in a very mysterious
manner : the curl of his lip and the expression
of his countenance were altogether suggestive.


"Mrs Snowdon in, Leonard?" I asked, in a
casual way, at the same time sipping a very
hot cup of tea that the footman had served
me with in the spacious hall, where I was
ensconced in a luxurious arm-chair before a
blazing logwood fire that crackled fiercely,
aud surrounded by many lay figures in armour
clad.

Miss Nora " (the old man found it difficult

A Virgin Widow.

to call her anything else), " sent for me a half
an hour since, to ask if you had returned, sir ;
and when I told her you hadn't, Lord love
her heart ! she heaved up such a sigh, and
said I was to let her know the moment you
arrived, as she had an appointment with you
in the oak room on business matters of importance,
and on no account was I to have
you disturbed. Lord love her ! trust me
for that."

'^ I am very much at Mrs Snowdon's service,
Leonard, if it be agreeable for her to seeme
now."

Agreeable, Major ! " replied Leonard, giving
another tuo; at his waistcoat. "Bless her
soul," he continued, in a whisper, " I can read
my dear little mistress, my rosebud, as I
call her from her cradle, like a book with
the largest type. She has been dying this
fortnight to have something over with you ;
she has been a fretting and fuming all about

the Castle, crazed like. More than once I tried
to pacify her, for, do you know, Major, she
will generally listen to me ; but lately she has
snapped my old head off the moment I opened
my mouth. Love her tender heart ! if she only
knew what restless nights I have had about
her. Often do I crawl from my warm bed in
the small hours, regardless of the rheumatics,
and creep down the main staircase to her
room door, and listen to hear if things are all
right ; for I have lately had some lawful
dreams about her, and I start up, and I
can't for the life of me get a wink of sleep
till I have satisfied myself nothing has gone
wrong. Love her heart ! if anything happened
to that child, good-bye to Leonard ! "

"You are a faithful servant," I replied
sympathetically, '' and you will have your
reward."

Reward, Major, I want no reward, buta
continuation of that regard she bears old

Leonard. I've fed on it for years past, — yes
from lier very cradle upwards ; take it away,
and I shall starve to death, that's wdiat I
should."

Cheer up, my good man, all will go well ;
time works wonders ; Mrs Snowdon will
doubtless be herself again soon."

Time must be pretty quick about it then
Major, for there aunt much left of her. I
watch her at meal times, and she picks and
picks over her food, and hides all the meat,
so cute like, under her vegetables, and passes
all the best little tit-bits I hand her — there.
She don't eat enough to keep a mouse alive.
I've got my eye on her plate, when she little
thinks I am watching her ; it makes me that
sad and nervous, I am ready to choke : nobody
else seems to notice it — not nobody. I
did say to missis the other morning, ' Please
ma'am, I hope no offence, but poor missy don't
eat not no food,' and she flared up, and said, —

Who's poor missy ? ' and when I told her — -
my cricket ! didn't she warm me up a ' few ; '
didn't she, that's all ! She told me to keep
my place, and dared me ever to address her
again on the subject. She did say in her
flare up, — ' 'Tis nothing but Mrs Snowdon's
wretched temper ! ' Temper, Major ! why,
missy's got the temper of a lovely white
hanover — and a hand-el she is, love her heart !
But, hark ! there's her bell, by Jove ! — back
in a minute. Major," and the good old man
bustled through the corridor as though he
owned but twenty summers. He returned ina
few minutes, saying, — " Missy knows you
have returned, and she wishes to see you
at once. For jjity's sake. Major, don't say a
word about what I told you."

"Not for the universe, Leonard."
I was just leaving the hall, when the poor
fellow gently took hold of my arm, and, in
soft accents, said, —

I am an old man, Major, with more than
one foot in the Octave. I have dangled that
blessed child, like a tender mother, on my
knee. I know that you will forgive me ; but
you can save her, you can save her ! For
Good's sake don't be shy ; out with it like a
man, like a bold brave soldier, that you are.
No one living but myself knows what is in
dear missy's mind. The ball. Major, is rolling
at your feet, which Mr Cuthbert is
moving heaven and earth to pick up. Curse
him ! God forgive me for saying so."

I could not trust myself to reply, but as I
hastened to the oak room, I pressed the faithful
old man's hand so affectionately, that I
made him wince. It was an earnest of my
intention to carry out his wishes — which, to
tell the reader the truth, were identical with
my own.

THE LONG-LOOKED-FOR INTERVIEW.

I MUST ask your forgiveness, Mrs Snowdon,
for not being punctual ; I lio|)e you are not
angry."

Not at all, Major Grey ; it is so good of
you to come. I trust I have not been the
means of depriving you of other pleasures."

I know of none that can equal the
pleasure I now feel," I responded, gently
taking the pretty dimpled hand offered, which
she immediately withdrew, not allowing me
to retain it even a few seconds ; and, fixing
her eyes on the oak flooring, said, —

"Pray be seated. Major Grey. My father
has told you, no doubt, how desirous I am

of having a conversation with you on the
subject of your letter to him."

'your good father intimated to me, an
hour or two since, your wish ; and, agreeably
with it, I am here, to give you, in detail,
so much information respecting the late
Lieutenant Snowdon as you may be anxious
to hear, and prepared to receive. Indeed I
have been anticipating this interview for
some time past."

You were a very dear personal friend of
my lamented husband, I think," she replied,
determined at once to go to the point.

'' I had the privilege of sharing his friendship,
Mrs Snowdon."

"And he, poor dear, had the ]privilege and
pleasure of sharing your friendship ; of this I
have ample proof," responded Nora, with a
deep, weary sigh.

Yes, dear madam ; in a word, we loved
each other."

You loved each other," echoed Nora, with
peculiar emphasis.

"Long travel and the closest intimacy,
extending over many years, amid varying
fortunes, success and non-success, intimately
bound our hearts together in friendship."

Intimately bound your hearts together
in friendship ? " again echoed Nora, placing
her little hand on her left breast ; then she
paused awhile.

Poor Percy was a noble fellow," I said.

My husband was a noble fellow, in the
strictest sense of the term. In the words of
the great bard, I say, — ' Thus this man died,
leaving his death for an example of a noble
course, and a memorial of virtue.' If," continued
Mrs Snowdon, "the memory of the
past will permit you to give utterance to the
facts, pray tell me the whole sad story, that
I have so longed to hear from your lids, and
which I had not the courage to solicit before."

"Yes," I replied, "the story is a sad one."

"But, doubtless, it has a bright side,"
responded Nora impressively.

'' Yes, Mrs Snowdon, a side so lustrous,
that the memory of it will ever be a shining
light to me."

For the first time she fixed, her large frank
eyes upon me in the most unemotional manner,
and in measured accents said, —

You saw him fall ? "

Not quite so ; your husband was in the
thickest of the fight with me, and bore, as it were,
for some time a charmed life, leading our brave
fellows to victory amidst a storm of bullets."

"And one found its billet in the heart of
my brave hero. Go on, Major Grey, I am
prepared for the worst, but the worst, after
all, may be best."

At this point I thought of Mr Townshend's
words, — " My daughter is a strange compound."


I was wounded and carried away," I continued,
" but, reviving for a while, and not
being dangerously hit, I went in search of
roy dear old boy, as I called him."

'your dear old boy!" repeated Nora,
tattooing the oak floor with her little foot.
"Well, wdiat then?"

'' I found him leaning his head on the
breast of a gunner."

"Living or dead?" anxiously.

Living."

Sensible or insensible ? "

Perfectly sensible."

Perfectly sensible ! God be praised ! "
responded Nora. " I shall now be rewarded
for all the anxious days and nights I have
spent. Pray proceed. Major Grey."

"I shall not depress you, I hope, by recapitulating
those harrowing scenes ? "

On the contrary, you will support me,
and quench the thirst I have. Pray, kindly

VOL. II. R

take this chair " (pointing to one immediately
in front of her), *' that I may lose nothing in
the telling ; that I may see the man who
acted the part of the good Samaritan ; and
that I may all the more fully realise the
closing scene of my beloved husband's life."

I took the invited chair, and I also again
took (I know not how I came to do it) her
little white trembling hand in mine — oh,
so cold ! — saying, —

'•' I have much to impart ; — a long, sad
story, yet full of sweet sadness, — more,
perhaps, than you are well able to bear. Say,
shall we reserve the rest for tomorrow ? "

Nora nervously disengaged her hand from
mine, and, drawing herself up with a lofty
air, replied, —

I have solicited your help, Major Grey ;
I have asked you, in pleading tones, to grant
me one favour ; it is the first, and may be it
will be the last I shall ever ask of you ; there

is no man, other than yourself, who can accord
it me. For the love you say you bore my
Percy, in pity spare the punishment you
inflict by keeping this information from me."

I said within myself, " Now I am ' in for
it,' and must 2:0 through the work." Nora
seemed to me a child in stature, but a woman
with a powerful brain and strong sense, somehow
altogether unlike the Nora I had been
visiting so long. I could have taken the
bright little atom in my strong arms, and
fervently impressed on her lips the seal of my
devotion ; but with her it was — Stand off", sir,
I know you not : grant my desire, and depart.
Such feelings at the moment suggested themselves
to my mind. Her grace and beauty
bewildered me ; and as I looked on that sweet,
flushed face, I thought of poor Percy, and
The Shadow in the Gold."

You mistake me. I have no desire, Mrs
Snowdon, to keep anything from you. I am

simply actuated by the kindest and best
directed motives ; believe me sincere when I
assure you of this."

I know you to be sincere, else I should
not now be importuning you," responded
Nora, in an under tone. '' Pray continue."

Percy was carried into my tent."

'' Yes, he was carried into your tent.
What then ? "

I found he was dying. I asked him if he
were thirsty. He replied ' Very ; ' but it was
not the thirst to which I referred. At his
request I read a portion of a chapter from this
book" (I withdrew from my pocket the identical
Bible Percy gave me upon trust), '' in which
a marker was placed bearing the inscription,
Firm as a Eock,' and a hand pointing to
the fifty-fifth chapter of Isaiah, ' Ho everyone
that thirsted,' etc."

At this juncture I saw Nora turn deadly
pale, and grasp the arm of the chair ; but her

soft eyes were not gleaming through diamond
tears ; and I said to myself " If tears are to
be had, I shall extract them now, or never ! "

Yes ! " exclaimed Nora, " this is the book — ■
this the marker — and this, too, the little hand
I drew ! Alas ! I knew not then the end to
which I was directed." Our heroine clasped
her hands, and, looking me full in the face,
went on, — " Oh, for pity's sake, say, say, did,
he mention my name — just one little word —
Nora ? "

"Bear with me, dear Mrs Snowdon, one
moment, and we will arrive at that point indue
time."

Forgive my anxiety. Major Grey."

The clouds, I knew, were gathering, and
the tears surely and slowly welling to the
surface. I then continued my narrative, word
for word, all that Percy said to me in his
dying moments. I related everything with
sensational accents ; and I am not ashamed

to own that I did not disguise a bumping
tear which trickled down my cheek, splashing
on her hand as I leant over her. I then
came to that point which, no doubt, will be
in the recollection of the reader, where Percy
threw the locket round my neck, saying, —
Wear it, Oliver, wear it for my sake ;
and when you look on the reflex of the fair
face of my Nora in that little circle of gold,
it may remind you of the closest and dearest
tie of your devoted friend. Should you, in
your travels find yourself face to face with the
original, give her this Bible and marker, and
say that the former was the most precious
gift I ever possessed. Tell her it proved a
healing balm to the ugly wound here, and it
has fortified my soul for its journey through
the long valley I am about to enter."

You buried him. Major Grey ; you —
yes — you."

"I buried the mortal remains of your husband;

o

but not all of him. Oh ! no ! not all ; we
know where to look for that great noble soul."

"These hands closed my dear one's eyes,"
murmured Nora, just touching my brown
fingers.

'' These hands closed your husband's eyes,"
I responded.

I saw that sweet pale face drop silently
and slowly into her white cambric handkerchief
; I knew that the lightning;, so to
speak, had struck the long-closed portals,
and a flood of tears poured forth. They
came as a refreshing summer shower to
the scorched-up rosebud that was withering
for the want of moisture ; they burst forth
as a harbinger of joy, like a sweet springtide
that waters the parched meadows.
Sobs that were hitherto strangled in her
throat gained the ascendency ; fast and
thick they came. That sad heart was
overflowing ; — poor Nora was saved.

I gently placed my hand upon our
heroine's shoulder, in the hope of comforting
her, which, however, she immediately
removed, saying, — " Oh, leave me, Major Greys
leave me — for pity's sake leave me ; I
cannot, — I cannot hear more ! "

I took her cold damp hand in mine —
she did not withdraw it ; I felt her lifeblood
tingle, as it were, through my veins ;
I pressed it gently and respectfully to my
lips ; how I came to do it. Heaven only
knows ! — her wealth of hair had fallen down
in circles and semi-circles around her spotless
neck ; another subdued sob, " Oh, leave
me ! " and in a moment I was hastening:
from the room, when lo ! to my horror, I
]perceived a man's cadaverous face flattened
against the glass of the window casement,
glaring at me !

I quietly closed the door, rushed through
the long corridor, nearly knocking over

one of the lay figures of a knight in armour,
who seemed, as it were, to intercept me ;
I plunged into the courtyard, scaled a low
parapet that led to the terrace, and with
a few strides I was at the casement where
I saw that great white face. No one, however,
was to be seen there ; all was silent, except
the tinkling; of the stoat-bells on the mountain
side, and the bleating of some sheep in
the distance ; the wind was at rest ; and
the old Castle clock, in measured deep tones,
struck seven.

DARK SCHEMES, AND BREAKERS AHEAD.

One day of domestic felicity is worth a year of
public gaiety."

The sun is sliming brightly on Cartliewin
Castle ; it is Sunday morning ; the bells of
the parish church, distant about a mile
from the home park, denote that the Lord's
day has arrived. The welcome sound of
those bells fell like sweet music on the
ears of the inmates of the noble building;.
Godfrey Town send was a God-fearing man.
Though not what we should call in homely
phraseology " strait-laced," he was, nevertheless,
strict in all matters appertaining
to the holy day of rest.

The sky is serene, the soft crisp September
wind is invigorating. If the reader be
refined by the hallowed fire of devotional
feeling, let us journey together • from 
Castle to the very picturesque church,
via the gigantic trees of Lebanon, through
the vast park, under the gaunt shadows of
the lofty sons of the forest, that spread
their wealth of branches in all directions.
The rustling; of the leaves of the lime trees,
the gnarled oak and the ash, seem, as it
were, to whisper glad tidings to those who
seek God's holy house. It is a lovely
walk from the Castle to the church, a walk
that elevates the spirits, and imparts an
unusual ecstasy of feeling. The broad lake,
that almost encircles the vast demesne,
flows silently on ; the weeping willows
gracefully bend their pale boughs to the
water's edge, reflecting the shadows on the
shiny surface ; the dappled and silent deer

are browsing on the greensward ; the bold
view of an extensive landscape, and the
lofty hills in the distance, towering one
above the other, keeping, as it were, watch
over the sublime work of the Creator, are
in all respects glorious scenes of reality.
If you are not weary, let us proceed further.
The sun is rising in his splendour, the
winds are almost at rest, no clouds obscure
the heavens in gloom ; in a word, it is a
delightful Sabbath morning, and one seems
to experience in it an antidote for human
perplexities. See yon widow with her
three helpless children wending their way
to Carthewin Church, where lie the remains
of the bread-winner of the family, resting in
the primitive churchyard, after long years of
toil, awaiting the final day, and a rich
reward " for talents wisely spent." Good
George Bowden (as he was called) was a
God-fearing man, much beloved, and his

widow and children now reap the fruit of
his good work, for they are the recipients of
the bounty of the lord of the soil, who
will never allow them to want.

Nora has always taken a lively interest
in the welfare of the poor of the parish ; her
life from early childhood has been devoted in
seeking every opportunity that presented itself,
in ministering to the wants of the sick
and needy. She delighted in following in
the footsteps of her lamented mother, whose
good actions and pious memory are household
words spoken in every cottage and homestead
on the estate. There is scarcely a poor family
in the neighbourhood and adjacent hamlets
who has not, at some time or other, experienced
the bright influence of her counsel,
and the warmth of her generous nature. When
sorrows and misfortunes sorely oppressed
them, and joys were suddenly torn away,
truly she was a sympathising friend, a wise

counsellor, and a ready helper. Let ns
journey together by the side of the pellucid
river, and over the rustic bridge that leads
to Carthewin Church. The service has not yet
commenced, but we can have just a peep at
the interior. Lightly tread, it is hallowed
ground ! softly, if you please ; a beautiful
girl, in deep mourning, is kneeling at the
foot of the white monument near the chancel.
Draw nearer — nearer still ; see the outlines of
the marble profile ! how strikingly handsome,
in silent sweet repose ; note the similarity in
every feature to the girl on bended knees, the
*' Yimn Widow " — our heroine — Nora I

It was Nora's custom every Sunday morning
to visit the tomb of her mother at least
half an hour before the service commenced,
which time she reverently spent in devotion,
first decorating her parent's grave with the
choicest of flowers. Poor girl ! how charming
she looked ; her lithe round form draped

in mourning of the neatest description ; the
sun shining through the memorial window,
shedding his soft hues in countless prisms
o'er the recumbent statue of the late Mrs
Townshend. How inexpressibly touching in
that still chamber ! the once light-hearted,
happy girl, who never experienced the posterior
care and maternal love, still clinoino-,
with pious thoughts, to that sacred spot. In
the words of Shakespeare, —

My prayers
Are not words duly hallowed, nor my wishes
More worth than vanities : yet prayers and wishes
Aise all I can return."

Who has not experienced an electric thrill
enter the soul whilst standing over the save
of a departed parent, husband, wife, brother,
or sister — an unaccountable something brushing,
as it were, against one, pressing back,
so to speak, with both hands, evil passions,
and stirring up the depth and breadth of our

best resolutions ? and, alas ! it not infrequently
happens, when we renew our usual
daily vocation, and again mingle in the busy
throng of society and its allurements, how
apt are we to grow cold, and forget the
hallowed fire that gave promise to higher and
more lasting pleasure !

The service at Carthewin Church is over :
the Honourable and Reverend Lionel Brans-comb's
sermon rarely exceeds fifteen minutes
; during which he contrives, in the most
eloquent discourse, to reach the hearts of his
hearers. He was never known to make any
remarks that might be construed into even
the semblance of a personal character. If at
any time he was desirous of making home-thrusts
— which circumstances necessitated his
occasionally doing — he invariably " fired '^
into the whole of the covey, so to speak,
sparing neither high nor low, rich nor poor.
He was a man greatly beloved by his parishioners,

— truly a benevolent, kind-hearted,
gentle disposition, — vigorous in mind and
body ; but time and anxiety had thinned and
blanched his flowing locks. He was originally
the curate, but on the death of his predecessor
(a man full of years), he was presented with
the living by his old esteemed and valued
friend Godfrey Townshend, the lord of the
manor, as a reward for his untiring energies
in the good conduct of the church, the schools,
and the poor of the parish. With safety it
may be recorded that Mr Branscomb lived
a most exemplary life in the centre of the
hearts of his parishioners. On his entering
his pastoral duties he took unto himself a
wife, a lady whose career was one of leading
fashion, and not at all calculated for the
duties that necessarily devolved on a partner
of a minister of the gospel.

Mrs Branscomb has three bouncing daughters,
dio, following in the footsteps of their

VOL. II. s

mother, enter with very considerable enthusiasm
into every conceivable round of gaiety
that presents itself, consequently they have
earned for themselves great distinction in the
fashionable arena of the county. At every
important ball the Branscomb girls are to
be found, carrying on endless flirtations with
officers of the several barracks, and the go-ahead
men of the period. They are each
most voluble ladies, consequently the centre
of attraction amongst a certain class, who, in
the busy hum and whirl of fashion, specially
lay themselves out for sensational pastime.
The Branscomb girls are by no means pretty,
and they know it ; but they have acquired,
through dint of much reading (be it said,
light literature), to possess themselves of an
infinity of attraction, more or less pleasing to
the bulk of their associates, with whom they
are great favourites. In fine, they are what
one may designate " all round " girls of

leading fashion ; — physically speaking, brimful
of health, with warm rich colours ; medium
heights ; very dressy ; and they each ride to
hounds. Though not by any means the feather
weight, they follow as straight as ever man
rode, and pride themselves on negotiating
exorbitant fences, and showing; their horses'
heels to many a bold rider. Mrs Franconia
thinks (with mother's pride !) there are no
girls in creation that can compare favourably
with her charming and highly-gifted daughters,
Flora, Geraldine, and Mabel, and she is
anxiously looking forward, with a parent's
fondest hope, to see her dears well " settled
in life." One would not wish to throw cold
water upon Mrs Branscomb's maternal hopes,
but one is rather sceptical of the girls attaining
any satisfactory results in this direction,
so long as they look for it in a sphere
of life surrounded by so many perplexities and
dangers, — where lasting happiness is rarely

to be found. To quote the words of Dr
Syntax : —

Beauty displays a twofold kind ;
That of the body and the mind.
Both are allowed their various arms ;
Each conquers by its several charms.
Let's try by rule of common sense,
What is their genuine excellence."

After luncheon, Mr Townshend and Nora
drove over to the abbey, to the afternoon
service at Saint Luke's in the Wilderness,
where they frequently attended ; and, later
in the evening, Cuthbert and Mrs Townshend
were closeted in the oak room, having a very
confidential tete-astute ; whilst Gertrude was at
the rectory with the Branscomb girls.

*shave you seen Nora to-day?" said Mrs
Townshend, with a slight frown.

No, aunt, I have not."

How is that ? "

'' Simply because she makes herself scarce."

(The fact was, Cuthbert had been spending

o

men in the harness-room.)

You silly man ; of course she makes
herself scarce, as you term it, and will continue
to do so, as long as you haven't the
moral courage to make the " running," as the
saying is amongst you fast men."

The long; and the short of the matter is,
aunt, I have made the walking, the running,
and the galloping, like mad, and a more
tedious bit of humanity to manipulate I
never met with. Hang it all ! it is perfectly
humiliating to me, to be everlastingly
coaxing, toying, and manoeuvring in every
possible way, shape, and form, that pretty
cousin of mine ! "

"Notwithstanding what you say, Cuthbert,
I am satisfied you have not one the rio-ht
way to work ; otherwise you would have
reaped better results."

Perhaps you would not mind tearing mea

leaf out of your book of experience, aunt.
You 'nailed' uncle right enough ; maybe you
could put me up to a wrinkle or two."

*' Nailed your uncle I " repeated Mrs Towns-end,
colouring deeply ; "it was simply the
other way. Ah me ! bitter disappointments I
have experienced since I entered this dismal
castle ; my life with Nora and her father has
been more like penal servitude than anything
else, for years past."

And yet you are persistently urging upon
me the desirability of establishing an alliance
with a girl you have no affection for : that's-logic,
and no error ! "

"Tush! — do talk sense, Cuthbert, else I
shall be apt to think what your lamented
father said of you is true."

And pray, what was that ? "

That you had as much brains as one could
conveniently put on one's nail, and no more.
But, to be practical — and I am in no humour

to be thwarted — I want to see Nora married ;
ay, and married, too, at the earliest possible
moment."

•'No difficulty about that," said Cuthbert.

'* Explain yourself."

Why that great long ' ramrod,' that you
have been silly enough to introduce into our
midst, and make such an infernal lion of, will
marry her straight away. You have but to
say the word ' Snip,' and, by Jove ! he will say
Snap' before you know where you are."

What ! Major Grey marry Nora ? — simply
absurd ! "

"Yes," replied Cuthbert, "Major Grey
marry Nora."

"Do talk sensibly, Cuthbert; you know
perfectly well that he is as good as affianced
to that brunette girl, Constance Temper, who
I have invited here next week specially to
meet him."

Bah ! who toll you so ? "

I have it from good authority ; and, from
certain circumstances which have transpired,
I have made my own deductions."

'' Then you will have to deduct, aunt, a great
deal more, before you arrive at the sum total."

You surely must have some reason best
known to yourself for thus speaking, and I
have to request that you will be a little less
reticent," replied Mrs Townshend, with some
astonishment.

** All I say to you, aunt, is, ' watch it,' orin
other words, keep your weather eye open."

'again I say, explain yourself, Cuthbert."

"Well, to tell you the truth, I didn't
relish uncle's manner with Major Grey the
last time we were shooting, a week since, on
the Hatfield estate. After luncheon, he shut
off the steam, and wouldn't join us, but made
me go with the keepers a long wild-goose
chase to try the moorlands, whilst he slojDcd
away with Major Grey to the glen ; and when

we turned up two hours later, there they were,
arm in arm, and nose to nose, doing the confidential,
and no error. The instant we put
in an appearance in the distance, they suddenly
broke up their tete-astute, and the great
long 'poplar 'made tracks towards the Castle,
and was subsequently closeted with Nora.
I call it beastly bad taste, to say the least
of it."

And what became of your uncle ? "

Why, we drove over and dined at the
abbey with you and the steward, but uncle
was awfully glum."

*' You are only alarming yourself unnecessarily,
Cuthbert," responded Mrs Town send,
in an unemotional manner.

'' Well, you ' watch it,' that's all."

Have you not entreated me, Cuthbert, to
intercede for you with Nora's father ? "

''I have."

Have you not, on more than one occasion,

with tears in your eyes, expressed to me how
passionately you loved Nora ? "

I have."

Have you not promised, with the most
solemn pledges that ever mortal being made,
that if you could only secure Nora as your
wife, that you would at once renounce forever
the turf, the bottle, and the gaming-tables,
which, alas ! are bringing you slowly
and surely to rags, starvation, and ruin ? "

I have."

'what then?"

I am willing and prepared to thoroughly
adhere to every promise I have made," replied
Cuthbert vehemently ; " but that Hercules
is in my way, undoing all I do ; and unless
he is removed, by hook or by crook, I shall
simply be nowhere."

*' You lack self-esteem, Cuthbert ; there is
no * go ' in you, except in the wrong direction,
and you go that way fast enough ; you lie

clown at the bottom of the mountain, which
will never take you to the top, so to speak.
There must be a supreme effort, and that
effort must be made at once, for I can never
stand the everlasting drain on my financial
resources, such as you have lately subjected
them to, through your wailful extravagance,
and to which I have been idiot enough to
respond. Hitherto I have kept these matters
from your uncle, who is not aware of your having
sold out, within the last twelve months,
over twenty thousand pounds of Consols ; and,
in addition to this, mortgaged your Scotch
estates for even a larger sum. You are hopelessly
involved, sir, I fear hopelessly involved ;
and I know of no other way of effectually
extricating you from the perilous position
than by your marrying Nora, who, of course,
at the death of her father, w411 inherit in her
own right a large fortune ; and if she marry
with Godfrey's consent, her fortune (even in

her father's lifetime) will be very considerable,
for he has always assured me he has
set aside sixty thousand pounds for the purpose
; which, it is but fair to tell you, will be
very effectually settled upon Nora for her sole
and separate use, and not to be liable to
the debts, control, or engagements of her present
or any future husband."

That's awkward, very, and no error."

Not at all, Cuthbert, it is perfectly consistent,
and I will be no party to a scheme
that may have for its object any other
course."

I shall want the eight hundred pounds
that you promised me last week, don't you
know, else I shall have old Solomon down
upon me like a rattlesnake for that loan ;
he will have his pound of flesh, and no
error, and he wont renew the bill."

Mrs Townshend shuddered, and, flouncing
across the room, said, —

'' Impossible for me to comply with your
request ! indeed it is madness for me to be
iioincr on like this."

'' Then, of course, there will be little
prospect of my marrying Nora, as the fat
will be in the fire, and your losses will be
very heavy."

I am not sure, Cuthbert, I hadn't better
let you completely go adrift ; you are, as it
were, on the roof of a house, slipping slowly
and surely down, and will soon be in the
gutter."

'' Apropos of that eight hundred pounds,"
said Cuthbert (who would not be denied),
try Coutts again, aunt."

*try Coutts, indeed ! I am always trying
Coutts, as you call it ; and I really dread
sending for my bank-book, fearing that your
uncle will see how low my balance stands,
when I ought to be largely in credit, and
investing out of my jointure."

Well, aunt dear, I am investing your
surplus, which you will ultimately be repaid
with ample interest."

Don't dear me, Cuthbert ; I am sick of
the whole thing — sick almost to death. I
will tell you what it is, you must marry
Nora, and lead a new life, or you will drift
from bad to worse."

To what extent, aunt, have you moved
with uncle in this matter? You know I am
bound to lean upon you."

I have long since laid the foundation of
your wishes, and expressed my own views
pretty strongly ; but your uncle is a man
endowed with much common sense, — a practical,
matter-of-fact person, with a clear perception
of most things, consequently I have to
act with extreme caution, and I have not unfrequently
to finesse to a considerable extent."

'' What does uncle say to the proposed
alliance?"

Why, he always jumps up behind Nora,
so to speak, saying that he must leave matters
of that sort to her own private feeling ; then,
of course, I am at once stranded."

You promised me that you would have
a conversation with Nora, and use your
influence with her. Hang it all ! aunt, you
know how I adore my cousin. I love the
very ground she walks on."

*'Pisli! I know all about your love. I
did promise you, and I have acted up to it
on three different occasions ; but it is the
same old story with her. She, in like manner,
jumps up behind her father, and declares,
come what may, she will never take another
step without his counsel and consent. But I
haven't done with her yet. I hate the word
stratagem, but, come to the worst, it must
be applied."

Ah ! I see," said Cuthbert, with a daredevil
curl on his lip.

There is such a thing as putting on the
screw to high pressure," continued Mrs
Townshend.

Ah ! I see," responded Cuthbert, a little
mystified.

I am equal to the occasion, when I am
put to the test," went on Mrs Townshend, ina
determined manner''

I have the most absolute confidence in
you, dear aunt " (the fact was, he was thinking
of the eight hundred pounds), " but how
about that great ramrod ? He has been loafing
here quite long enough, I should think,
and during that time he has contrived to
take all the wind out of my sails, and no
error."

Up with your mainsail again, Cuthbert
and steer a little more closely to the wind ;
keep your ship trim, and, may be, with a
good look-out and careful navigation, you will
overhaul another craft that is in your way."

In other words, run her down," muttered
Cuthbert, with a ghastly grin, and a forced
ha ! ha ! ha !

I didn't say so," replied Mrs Townshend
cautiously.

You meant it, though."

Mrs Townshend made no reply. Although
there was an immense deal of acerbity in
that lady's nature, she knew at times how
to sweeten her demeanour, when occasion
required it.

"How much longer is Grey going to
stay at the Castle ? "

It rests with my husband : the Majoris
his guest."

Can't you make it ' hot ' for him, aunt ? "

I don't understand you." (But she did.)

Do the cold shoulder, and all that sort
of thing, I mean ; ha 1 ha ! ha ! "

I shall always do what is right," replied
Mrs Townshend impressively.

VOL. II. T

*' You are an angel, but I know your
weak points," said Cuthbert, within himself.

*snow give me your counsel, aunt. Shall I
go straight to Nora, and have it out with
ker ? Ske is at tke abbey, with uncle. I can
gallop over, and, may be, catch a quiet
half-hour with ker ; — ' better tke day, better
tke deed.' "

I don't relish your doing anything of tke
kind, Cuthbert ; tidings are not yet ripe ; you
will make a fool of yourself, for certain, and — "

Cool, very, and no error ! "

And," continued Mrs Townshend, " sacrifice
a golden opportunity, simply for tenant
of tact."

Then you don't advise my tackling
Nora at this juncture : that seems about
tke size of it."

"It is not safe, neither are you absolutely
reliable ; and you may make a ' ask ' of tke
whole thing."

'' Cool, very ! "

'' I shall be able to tell you more about
it after the visit of Constance Templar. I
lay plans after mature consideration, according
to a set rule of my own ; and I work
them out to a scale of my own."

''Ah, I see," said Cuthbert — but the fact
is he didn't see even a yard from his nose.

Mr Otway was a good shot, a steady
bat, a charming singer, and a straight man
with the hounds ; when you have said that,
one is disposed to think that all his accomplishments
have been recorded.

At this point the hall bell rang, and Mrs
Townshend left the room. Then there was a rustling
of fresh brocades, and in walked Gertrude.

She stopped short at the doorway, and
executed a pretty curtsey. Her blue eyes
were beaming, and the glow of health was
on her dimpled cheeks.

'well, Gerty," said Cuthbert, " you always

introduce yourself with a jubilant countenance
; it seems as though grief and care could
not enter it."

Upon my word, I cannot return the compliment,"
replied Gertrude. "You look
supremely ha^^py, and no mistake ! Why,
what's the matter, Cuthh ? "

"Been sowing some wild oats, Gerty,
that's all."

"One of them has come up uncommonly
white, anyhow," said Miss Townshend.

"Am I pale, though?"

"Not very unlike a tartlet," jocosely.

"You are only joking."

•' Apropos of wild oats, Cuthh, I hope you
have sown the last corn ? "

Long since, dear," he replied ; "I am
trying some tame ones now, Gerty."

"Ah! I see, — penitent; I trust you will
have a good crop, and that they will fructify
like anything."

Cuthbert leisurely dragged a chair to the
fireplace, in close proximity to Gertrude, and
after belabouring a large knob of coal in the
grate, said, —

Look here, Gerty, can you keep a secret ? '*

I can, if I choose."

But will you choose ? "

"All depends! don't you know."

'' Now, drop humbug ; I am really in
earnest."

*' And so am I."

Well, then, look grave for once in your
life, and I'll believe you."

Now take stock of me, Cuthh ; I am as
grave as a judge, — couldn't be otherwise, looking
at that cadaverous f^ice in front of me."

And you will keep my secret ? " continued
Otway, in a pleading tone.

'' Like anything : hot pincers shan't extract
it from me."

Ton honour ? "

Honour bright I as you men say sometimes."


Mr Otway went to the door and peeped
out, to assure himself that no one was within
hearing ; then, resuming his seat, said, —

*' I have tumbled over head and ears in
love, Gerty, and no error."

Hurrah ! of course with me ! " exclaimed
Gertrude, clapping her hands triumphantly.

*' Well," said Cuthbert, taken quite aback
with so prompt an answer, '' that would be
nothing new ; I have always been in love with
you, Gerty."

"I suspected" (said the tease), "when you
commenced to impart this profound secret,
that you were about to elevate me. I said
to Mabel Branscomb this afternoon, that I was
going to hear some wonderful news, as my
right ear was burning so. Shall I hasten,
with all possible speed, to dear mater, and say
that you have proposed, and I have accepted,

subject to her approval, and all that sort of
thing ; and that you are prepared to make
a, settlement of Consols to the extent of —
how much shall I say ? Now, don't be mean,
dear Cuthh, for you know that we have all very
great respect for the Government funds'

Now, drop your little chaff, Gerty ; let us
be serious, and go to business."

I was hastening to business as fast as I
could ; but that is just the way with you men,
when you are asked to make settlements, etc,"
replied Gertrude sententiously.

I am in no humour, Gerty, for joking."

Well, now, what is it all about ? " asked
Gertrude soothingly ; " has the mater been
pitching ' into you ? "

The long; and short of the matter is,
I am desperately in love with Nora, and I
want your help."

'•' Oh ! oh ! oh ! That is it, is it ? It
isn't this deponent that you are after-poor

little me ! Well, well, I hope I shall not
succumb to a dose of cold poison " (poison).

You know, dear Gerty, I love Nora down
to the ground."

The question is," responded Gertrude
does Sissy love you up to the skies ? If that
be the case, the great space between heaven
and earth will abound with your love. But,
joking apart, of what service can I be ? "

'' If you are in earnest, and you really have
a regard for me, Gerty, you can render me
valuable assistance — yes, help me more than
any other living soul on earth."

You know I am only an atom on the
face of it," replied Gertrude.

But you have great influence with Nora."

Have I ? If you mean what you say, you
simply don't know her one bit ; and if I don't
mind my p's and q's, she puts me down flat
on my back, so to speak, before you could
say Consols ! "

Curse the Consols ! " said Cuthbert, within
himself. " It is beastly provoking she should
harp so on those infernal Consols ! "

But I am morally sure you can help me,
Gerty. Plead for me, my dear cousin ; speak
of me as you have always found me ; tell
her, with tears in your eyes, that — "

Tears ! fiddlestick ! " interrupted Gertrude
vehemently. '' I haven't shed a thimbleful
since I was short-coated, and I am not going
to aspire to them just yet."

Well, you know what I mean, Gerty ;
plead with all your eloquence. I know yoi"
can give me a lift, if you like."

'have you met with any favour from
Nora % " asked Gertrude, giving her cousin
a searching glance.

Well, to tell you the truth, I cannot say
that I have. Whenever that long; ramrod is
mooning ' about, she gives me the cold
shoulder."

What ! Major Grey ? "

'eyes, Major Grey," viciously.

"You needn't bother your head, Cuthh,
about him ; they say that he is engaged to
Constance Templar."

Walker ! Don't you believe it ? "

Well, she is coming here on a visit in a
day or two, and the fat will be in the fire,
and a pretty frizzle there will be if the Major
neglects her ; she will possibly cut him into
ribbons like ' anything ' But, tell me, Cuthh,
what does the dear mater say about this love
song of yours? "

Entre nous, she is exceedingly anxious
that I should propose to Nora, and that
Nora should accept. Of course, Mrs Towns-end
is well aware of the fact that she may
go farther and fare worse ; besides, we should
be keeping all the coin in the family ! "

The what ? "

The coin — the cash ! "

•' Oh, I see ; yon mean the settlement of all
your Consols."

Cuthbert bit his lip ; the last observation
of Gertrude's was a sore point ; nevertheless,
he replied, with an assumed pleasant nod, —

Certainly."

*swell," said Gertrude, "I will have a
serious chat with Nora when I get the
chance."

'' And you will do your best for me ; won't
you, dear Gerty ? "

This atom will do the best for you both,"
said Gertrude soothingly.

There's a dear good little cousin," replied
Mr Otway, and, entwining his arm
around her neck, was about to give Gertrude
a hearty kiss, when she uttered a fearful
scream, which echoed through the whole
Castle.

Good Lord ! what on earth is the
matter ? " exclaimed Otway.

Oh, Cuthbert, Cuthbert ! did you not
see?" pointing to the window, the blind of
which was half drawn up.

'' See what, Gerty ? "

*why, a horrid white face, pasted, as it
were, to the window, with a ghastly grin on
the countenance ! "

'' You are dreaming, child — you are dreaming!


Am I ! I am very nearly fainting ! Get
me some water, Cuthh ; quick, quick, quick.
]s[o — don't leave me ; ring the bell for Leonard 1
Oh, that horrid, horrid, white face ! "

END OF VOL. II.

LI E) R.ARY

OF Thou

University

Of ILLINOIS

BS133V/
V.3

A NOVEL.

BY

OLIVER GREY.

VOL. III.

JN THREE VOLUMES.

1 n d a u

REMINGTON & CO., PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

18 8 6.

[All Rights reserved,]

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXI.

A MIRACULOUS ESCAPE, 1

Page

CHAPTER XXII.

Respectfully DECLINED, WITH THANKS, . . 27

CHAPTER XXIII.

AN OLD AND DEAR FRIEND, 61

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE GROTTO, . . 80

CHAPTER X X Y.

'* TO BE OR NOT TO BE ? " . . . . .99

CHAPTER Xxii.
THE robbers' refuge, 148

CHAPTER XXVII.

PAGE

ARRESTED, 184

CHAPTER XXVIII.

HARD WORDS, 216

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE CLIMAX, 237

CHAPTER XXX.

CONCLUSION, 280

CHAPTER XXL

A MIRACULOUS ESCAPE.

Nothing is so secret but time and truth will
reveal it."

It was on a grey autumnal afternoon that I
was returning with the head keeper from a
hard day's shooting on the distant estates of
Mr Townshend, when I encountered Nora in
one of the lanes that divide the plantation,
about a mile from the Castle, where she was
busily engaged gathering some wild ferns that
abound in the neighbourhood. The meet-vol.

III. A

ing was evidently a great surprise to her, for
I saw the roseate hue suddenly suffuse her
cheeks as she looked at me with some embarrassment,
saying, —

What ! Major Grey ; I thought you were
shooting on the moorlands with my father ; I
am so glad to have met you."

"It is very kind of you to say so, Mrs
Snowdon ; our meeting is an unexpected pleasure
to me. I am delighted to have an opportunity
of carrying your fern basket, and, if
you will allow me, assist in the interesting
work in which you are engaged."

Thanks, very much ; it is getting a little
late, though, and the grass is damp. Are you
fond of ferns ? "

Very, but I understand little about the
various specimens, such as I observe in your
portfolio. You are an adept, I see, at the
scientific part of the business, which makes it
doubly interesting."

I like the work," replied Nora.

I am quite sure you love everything that
is beautiful in nature. Do let me take out
that root for you ? " I asked.

Thanks — it is a tough one."

'' We have not had the pleasure of a tete-tete
since our meeting in the oak room. I
am greatly afraid that I distressed you."

"The anticipation of what I knew was before
me, appeared far more distressing ; added
to which, I was not well," replied Nora, looking
into her fern basket, and playing with
some leaves in a preoccupied way.

'' Now that the ice is broken, you feel
happier, do you not ? " I asked.

A weary sigh was the only reply.

I know I left you in great sadness," I
continued ; " but there is a tide, my dear
young friend, in most of our lives, that rises
around us, apparently chilling and damping
our prospects, but as it recedes, it leaves behind

the sure and certain traces of the ebb and
flow, which not unfrequently prove valuable
and reliable landmarks for future guidance."

"Alas ! " murmured Noi'a, " the tide of my
happiness ran too swiftly, and the troubled
waters have cruelly encompassed me."

Nay, you only view the gloomy side of
the picture ; some of those dark shadows are
lit up by many beautiful rays of sunshine,
bursting forth here and there sweet harbingers
of peace. I fervently hope that many,
many joyous years are in store for you."

Nora quickened her step. I saw the crimson
mount to her dimpled cheeks. The pale
sickle-shaped moon was just visible in the
firmament. The autumn leaves were falling,
and murmuring with the gentle breeze ; all
else, save the babbling water in the brook,
coursing its way through the glen, seemed
calm and peaceful.

I am afraid, Mrs Snowdon, that a letter I

xeceivecl this morning will compel me unexpectedly
to bring to a close, earlier than I
anticipated, a visit which has been the most
pleasurable I ever remember to have experts


Nora stopped short. She was about to
utter an exclamation, but suddenly arresting
the intention, said, with tremulous accents, —

My father will be sorry to part with you ;
he has been in better spirits since you have
been amongst us than I have known him for
some time past."

Really ! If my presence here has in the
faintest degree contributed towards enlivening
your circle, the pleasure to me is all the
greater."

But must you go so soon ? " asked Nora
timidly, and she looked into her fern basket.

Circumstances over which I have no control
necessitate my presence at the Woodlands."

Nora fixed her large eyes upon me. Our

eyes, as it were, met. There was a long
pause — a little confusion. The brook still
sang its song — all seemed a calm and tranquillising
scene. Intuitively I felt that our
heroine was wondering what " circumstances
over which I had no control" compelled me
to hasten my departure so abruptly.

'' I am all the more sorry that you are
going to leave us. Major Grey, because, on
Thursday next, there will be an addition to
our circle, in the presence of a lady so well
known to you, and so highly esteemed by us."

(''Good heavens!" I soliloquised, "Miss
Templar, for a hundred")

And Constance," continued Nora, " will
be disappointed if she find that you have left."

Mrs Townshend intimated to me yesterday
that my dear young friend " (I laid the stress
very considerably on the word friend), 'miss
Templar, was coming to the Castle ; and if the
mail-bag tomorrow morning contain a request

for my immediate return, I shall all the more
regret being deprived of the infinite pleasure
I should have felt in again cordially shaking
the hand of the graceful and accomplished
Eed Cross ' nurse, to whom I am much indebted
for immense sacrifices made by her on
my behalf in the Crimea."

I can answer for it, that there is no one
to be found more capable of appreciating those
sacrifices — no one more ready to acknowledge
and repay them, than my lamented Percy's
firm friend," said Nora significantly, at the
same time climbing a bank, with her alpine
stick, to gather a rare fern that invitingly
peeped out from some clockwork.

I thought the word "repay" rather stuck
in our heroine's throat.

"Alas! Mrs Snowdon," I ventured, "I
shall never be able to repay Miss Templar."


Constance will be the best judge of that.

Kindly hook this fern for me — thanks. Anyhow,"
went on Nora, " you will, I am sure,
strain a point, if it be within your power, and
stay a week or two longer, if only to add
to the pleasure of our new guest, but very
old acquaintance."

"If in extending my visit, Mrs Snowdon,
and" (byway of parenthesis) "thereby trespassing
on your unbounded hospitality, I can
in any degree add to the pleasure of my
good host, his consort, and their daughters,
the joy will be mine."

In which I am quite sure we shall all
share, Major Grey, and our esteemed friend,
Constance Templar, included."

My only anxiety for immediately returning
(aid a very grave one it is), is the
outcome of a letter from my father, in which
he referred with dismal forebodings to my
mother's health."

I hope nothing serious, Major Grey. But

why did you not speak of her before ? Pray
let me withdraw all I have said. Hasten
to her side. I had not the remotest idea
of her illness. Ah, me !" went on Nora, "I
have no mother. I have never experienced
such fostering care, the maternal love, the
unspeakable devotion that only a fond
mother can accord ; but I have one consolation,
I can feed on her good works. Her
pious memory is recorded by others in many
directions, and I can take her exemplary
character as my guiding star."

May that lustrous star ever shine brightly
over you," I responded.

But we are digressing," replied Nora,
with much vivacity. " You will leave us
this night, won't you? Delays are dangerous.
Let us hasten with all speed to the
Castle, and my father will order the horses
to be put to, and you can catch the night
mail. God grant that you will find your

mother better, and that your worst fears have
no foundation ; then you can at once ret — •"

A long pause, — and Nora in an abstracted
manner twisted a fern into an inconceivable
shape.

At this juncture I felt a bead-drop course
from my temple, as I broke the provoking
silence, and ventured, —

'' Return again to this enchanting spot
were you going to say % "

Ye — ye — yes," responded Nora ; " my
father will be so rejoiced to have you again
with him."

*' And you, Mrs Snowdon ? " in a pleading
undertone.

My late beloved husband's best and
dearest friend will be always welcomed by
my father at Carthewin Castle," replied
Nora, avoiding the leading question.

And may I take it for granted that my
future visits to your happy home will be

productive of the smallest pleasure to Mr
Townshend and his daughters ? "
I laid the stress on daughters.

o

Nora looked for a moment a little embarrassed
by the question, though there was
nothing in it ; but later on in life I had
reason to know that the tone in which those
words where spoken was very suggestive.

I am not quite sure, Major Grey," said
Nora, with a sweet smile, that it is not
(in practice) a most dangerous rule to take
anything in this life for granted ; though you
may be assured, in your case, that every
inmate of my father's house will hail with
unmixed pleasure the advent of your next
coming."

You credit me, Mrs Snowdon, with far
more than I deserve : though my desire is
equal to all you accord ; in other words, the
pleasure to me will ever be great, to feel the
warm friendship of a lady whose associations

have been so intimately bound up with my
late highly valued friend Percy."

*sand," responded Nora, with much empressement,
" in like manner, I shall always
value your friendship, Major Grey, as it was
bequeathed to me in this letter " (which she removed
from her bosom) '^ by my beloved hero."

I bowed low, and lifting my hat, said, —

May God grant me strength and opportunity
to render a faithful account of the
legacy that was left you by one of the bravest
fellows that ever drew the breath of life."

*' ' Firm as a Eock,' " responded Nora.

Yes, ' Firm as a Rock ! ' " I repeated.

'' A brother I know you will be to me, and
a wise counsellor should I ever need one."

I trust, Mrs Snowdon, that the day is far
distant when you will need counsel, and that
your estimable and talented father may belong
spared to guide and direct your future
career."

Your words give consolation, Major Grey,
and they are a healing balm to a troubled
heart."

'' But a regenerate one, Mrs Snowdon."

May God vouchsafe such unto me. But,
apropos of my father, I trust your good wishes
may be realised, for he is a solid rock whereon
I can lean ; but, alas ! when the tide of time,
which ceases not a moment in its onward
course, flows over his hoary locks, and he
passes, in common with all mankind, from our
midst, I may need a brother, a counsellor, a
friend, such an one whose credentials I hold
within the seal of this letter."

I am proud, Mrs Snowdon, of the honour
and privilege you have accorded me. I take
unto myself the new relationship with all the
fervour of a good and dutiful brother. From
henceforth you are my sister. I will be unto
you as I was to poor Percy, a firm friend.
This is a joyous day to me. I have lost a

companion, the dearest I ever had, and I have
found in you the mirror of that glorious fellow !
You — yes, the ideal friend I have so long
wished to meet face to face, whose image I
have treasured up next my heart. Yes, Mrs
Snowdon, there it is, in this circle of gold. It
is needless for me again to refer to the painful
yet sweet, sad scene enacted on the ever-memorable
day of your husband's death,
have previously related the whole circumstance
in detail ; but I feel that, like the
Bible and book-marker, I hold this treasured
likeness only upon trust. Your brave heroin
his last moments, threw this ribbon round
my neck, with the words, ' If ever, in you
travels, you come face to face with the original,'
you know the rest. I feel that I have a
most delicate duty to perform. Though in parting
with this ' Shadow in the Gold ' I separate
myself from an old and much-loved little companion,
yet I must place it, if you will permit

me to do so, where it should repose, — around
your own neck."

Nora held down her head. I saw the burning
tears course her pallid cheek ; and then
she looked up to my face, with her soul shining
through her expressive eyes, and said, —

Oh ! help me out of the difficulty. Major
Grey. If — if — if — no, I cannot express — "

I anticipate your thoughts, Mrs Snowdon.
Not for the universe ; no, no. Some day —
yes, some day, if ever I should be so fortunate
as to earn your esteem, I may earn with
it that circle of gold and its contents.

'Tis as you are, though very small,
Much like your shadow on the wall."

Major Grey, I must hasten to return
home."

I took her little cold hand in mine, and
pressed it to my lips, sealing, as it were, the
bond of friendship, and had scarcely realised

the warmth of its gentle pressure, when, immediately
in front of me, not forty yards
distant, on the spur of the hill, there was a
sudden flash — a w^hizz — and a bullet crashed
through my bowler hat !

Oh, merciful Providence ! " exclaimed
Nora. " Merciful Providence ! Tell me,
Major, are you hurt ? Oh I what has happened,
— where — where on earth did it come
from ? "

Recovering from the shock, I said, —

Calm yourself, Mrs Snowdon ; be not the
least alarmed ; it seems that my head is
proof against a coward's bullet, — the would-be
assassin may have to swallow that ounce
of lead before I have done with him."

*' Dear Major Grey, tell me — tell me, are
you struck ? " and Nora ran her hand over my
head, to assure herself that I was not hit.

I felt at the moment it was worth standing
target, if only to have brought out

those terms of endearment which echoed ao-ain
and again from the lips of the poor frightened
girl.

"Be assured," I replied, 'not a hair of
my head is singed. I am used to these leaden
messengers, but not from the hand of an
assassin : they tell strange and ugly tales.
However, as I must now hold myself personally
responsible for your safety, the sooner
I place you in a cooler atmosphere than this,
the better."

Oh, do let us fly ! " continued the terrified
girl. " My beloved father, what will he say
to this diabolical affair % "

"I am not accustomed to run away from
bullets, Mrs Snowdon, and, with your permission,
we will walk leisurely to the Castle.
You will pardon me if I intimate to you the
prudence of keeping this matter, for a short
period, a secret ; as proclaiming it on the
house-tops ' may have the effect of prevent-vol.

III. B

ing my running to earth the would-be assassin."

*' But my father ! surely I — "

'' Obligingly fall in with my views ; they are
sound, and I hope ere long to hunt the perpetrator
of this attempted assassination from
his den. Not one word, please, to a souL"

Nora and I wended our way to Carthewin
Castle in deep and anxious thought. There was
evidently a disinclination on her part to hold
further conversation ; in fact, our heroine was
greatly terrified, and scarcely knew what she
was saying or doing ; nothing would induce
her to allow me to return for her fern portfolio
and basket, both of which she left on the green
bank. In the lower plantation we met one of
the keepers, who inquired if we heard a gunfire,
as he had reason to believe there were
some poachers knocking about. We could
give him no correct information as to who
fired.

Having seen our heroine safely home, I immediately

went to my dressing-room, and rang
the bell for my valet, Curtis.

Come in. Curtis, I leave to-night for
the "Woodlands, pack my portmanteau after
dinner."

'' Sure then, Major, I hope not nothing has
happened," eyeing me closely.

Why do you ask ? "

*' Faith, only because ye are leaving in
such a hurry ; and ye are whiter by many
shades than when I laced up yer shooting
boots after breakfast."

My mother is ill, Curtis, and I must return
to-night."

'' I am very sorry indeed to hear it, master ;
but sure, then, didn't ye know that this morning
? But maybe ye have had a telegram ? "

'' Yes, Curtis, I had a telegram sent me an
hour since, which, by-the-bye, I should like
you to read ; you will find it in my bowler hat,
on the top of the wardrobe in the next room."

'' The devil ! " said Curtis, very sotto voce
"■ What a funny place to chuck his bowler ! "

A pause, during which I whistled a tune.

*' Can't ye find it, Curtis ? "

'' Faith, master, just what's left of it, and
not no more ; but not no telegram," replied
my servant, re-appearing with the hat in one
hand, and vigorously scratching his head with
the other.

I have had a new ventilator put in, Curtis
the very newest thing out ! "

Sure, then, I hope ye haven't had daylight
let into yer head, as well as air into yer hat ? "
said Curtis, with great amazement, and turning
very pale.

No, my good man, my brains, or what is
left of them, have escaped the light of day ;
and my object in communicating to you the
events of the last hour, is to give you an
opportunity of throwing some light on the
matter. If you succeed to my satisfaction,

through your ov7ii perseverance, unaided by
others, one hundred sovereigns, as my reward,
will be invested for your wife Biddy and
children."

Blood and hounds ! " exclaimed Curtis, " if
there has been foul play at work, sure, then
your gold wouldn't tempt me. It isn't worth
sixpence a peck to me, for Mike Curtis
wouldn't touch a sous of it — faith, not I,
Blood money, indeed ! and my own dear
master, too! Not likely!"

Having requested my servant to close the
door, I minutely and in strict confidence communicated
what had happened, explaining
some of the surrounding circumstances, knowing
well, from long experience, that Curtis was
the keenest and 'cutest detective out of London
— in fact, a host in himself ; and that no
stone would be left unturned by him in ferret-ins;
out the miscreant, and unravelling this
painful and mysterious business.

." Sure, then, ye are going back to the home
of yer father to-night, Major ? "

Yes, Curtis, this very night."

Faith ! 'tis a wonder that the little telegram
in yer hat didn't send ye there a few hours
earlier than ye expected, and Mike Curtis, my
Biddy, and our ragged rascals be after keeping
• wake ' over yer precious body. Better have
been left, both of us, on the slopes of the
Crimea ; — in good company, then, anyhow."

I go to-night by the mail, Curtis, and
shall leave you to work this matter out according
to your own fashion : be cautious how you
proceed."

Anyhow, ye may leave it. Major, in abler
hands, but, I will swear in more honest hands
ye cannot. Faith ! if ye don't know that ye
have a true servant, T, at least, know that I
have a good master. I am heartily glad that
yer honour is going away to-night ; I shall
then have the field to myself. But maybe,

Major — excuse my being so bold — but perhaps
ye wouldn't mind just answering me one very
small question ; it will give me a taste for the
work before me, put the flavour in my mouth,
and make the scent all the stronger."

Certainly, Curtis, anything. What is it ? '"'

Sure, then, was there a wee bit of pelite
love-making in the transaction ? "

Well, I can't say there was not, Curtis ;
but only just as much as one might experience
in bidding farewell to a dear sister."

Oh ! is that it, yer honour. Sure, then,
I saw your gardener at the Woodlands very
nearly knock off the head of the page-boy, for
just tasting some white sweet water grapes
that he didn't ought to ; and maybe, master —
sure, then, I hope no offence — ye were just
helping herself to a little forbidden fruit that
ye found in the garden of Eden, and thought
so enticing, and some dare-devil fellow thought
he would like to knock your head off."

A miss, they say, Curtis, is as good as a
mile' I replied, heartily laughing at the comic
fellow ; " but the long and the short of the
matter is, I — "

"Faith ! master, not one word more, please,
leave it all to me. I have thrown up the
little straw, and I know now which way the
wind blows ; and if the dirty blackguard who
sent ye this very pelite telegram expects an
answer, sure, then, Mike Curtis is just the
sort of man to reply to it, the dirty blackguard
! sure, then, I will, and no blarney."

Good ! Curtis," I responded, patting him
on the back. " I hope to be on the ground
again in the course of a week or two. I have
arranged with Mr Townshend that you are to
remain at the Castle during my absence. Mind
and make yourself useful in the covers, and
mind, Curtis, ' mum ' is the word from sunrise
to sundown ; and be watchful over your
actions in the servants' hall. Now you can go."

My servant saluted me, aud turned on his heel,
humming, —

Mum is the word,
If I don't catch the bird,
My name it isn't Mike Curtis."

At ten o'clock "George" and "Draw-on" were
pawing the ground, fresh as paint, at the main
entrance of Carthewin Castle. As I stepped
up to the box-seat and gathered the reins in
my hand, I looked around on the inmates of
that noble and hospitable house, who had
assembled in the hall to bid me a temporary
farewell. But one sweet face was missing.
She — the ideal soul of souls — was not there.

I felt somehow (I cannot for the life of
me say why) that there was more than one
person in that group who gloated over the
fact — perhaps I was mistaken.

One shrill, sweet voice called out, in pleading
tones, but jocosely, —

I vote you take me with you. Major Grey."

I tore out a flower that was in my buttonhole,
and handed it to dear little Gertrude,
one of the best and liveliest of girls, then
lifted my hat, and with a gentle and graceful
sweep of the thong of my whip, passed it
over the loins of the thoroughbreds; the
horses sprang into their collars, and this
deponent was rattling away to the " tune " often
miles an hour. It was a lovely moonlight
night, and as I drove through the castle yard,
over the drawbridge, and out by the lower
road that commands a sight of the east terrace,
I anxiously cast a glance at an open
casement, where I had often seen a pretty
little head resting on the whitest of hands.
There was the form, as usual, and a handkerchief
fluttered in the breeze.

What a relief to my mind ! What joy, in
one bound, leaped to my heart, as the snow-like
flag gently waved in the distance before my
eyes, but, in another moment, was lost to view.

Respectfully DECLINED, WITH THANKS.

"Nothing is more easy than to deceive one's-self,
As our affections are subtle persuaders."

Demosthenes.

When Nora returned to the Castle, she
went straight to her boudoir, and throwing
herself on her knees, thanked the Giver of all
good gifts for His merciful protection to
herself and Major Grey. She felt that an
Almighty hand had turned aside the intended
instrument of death, and averted in its swift
flight what would otherwise have proved one
of the most atrocious deeds ever committed
in the county. Her well-trained mind made
her keenly sensitive to the fact that it was

not chance that diverted the course of that
bullet, and thus saved her father's guest from
certain death, but an escape nothing short of
a miracle ; and she poured forth her soul in
thanksgiving for mercies vouchsafed. Later
in the evening, Nora seated herself at the
casement window, with tears coursing down
her pallid cheeks, looked into the starlit sky,
and watched the young pale-faced moon as
she rose higher and higher in the dusky
firmament, contemplated the glorious works
of the Creator, and all His wise dispensations.
She reviewed, with a mixture of pleasure,
grief, horror, and amazement, the stirring-events
of the past few hours. She drifted
mentally into unfathomable depths, and soared
into stupendous heights, until she lost herself
in the vortex of dreamland.

Let us pause for a few moments, and
remove the veil from the heart, so to speak,
of that sweet, sad girl, and read some of the

thoughts that were agitating; her restless mind,
as she reasoned within herself, and examined
more and more closely her own words, actions,
and anticipations, deliberating with great
minuteness and earnestness on the cause and
effect of her present position in connection
with Major Grey.

Alas ! " she soliloquised, " I fear that I have
an unseen crate heart, else my cup of sorrow
would not be so full. But the Psalmist tells
us that * A man's life is but labour and sorrow
; ' mine, it seems, has been full of perplexities,
the antidote for which I have yet to
find ; but I know too well it is not to be
found in the deceptive mine of wealth, or in
the gay, frivolous, giddy whirlpool of society,
and ail its blandishments : neither longing
after unreasonable and unseasonable blessings,
nor eagerly anticipating wants which I am not
entitled to. No, nothing of the sort. I feel
assured that all these resources are but facial ; —

s

vain delusions, allurements to decoy the weak,
and only tend to leave one stranded on a
desolate shore. This being so, God give rae
strength of mind, and sight, to look into other
channels, to * fresher fields and pastures new,'
where I can gather the healing balm for a
troubled mind of human perplexities, and feel
permanently refreshed. But I have it here,
written in precious gold, and the last breath
of my dying husband on the page, breathing,
as it were, to me the holy and comforting
words, ' Ho, every one that thirsted, come ye
to the waters.' When I think of poor Percy's
final injunction, ' Tell her, tell her, " Firm as a
Rock'" I am bewildered as to its actual meaning.
Yes, I worked those letters on this perforated
card, and placed them in this Bible,
and back it has come to me moistened with
the tears of my beloved hero. Noble Percy !
he carried those words to the threshold of his
honos home, and ere he soared into the unseen

world, he sent them back to me with his last
breath — yes, that motto — ratified, so far as he,
poor dear, was concerned, fulfilled to its fullest
extent, and wafted to me with the fond and
anxious hope that I should remain for ever
Firm as a Rock.'

Yes, ' Firm as a Eock ! ' Ah me I "
went on our heroine, still communing within
herself, " this has indeed been a red-letter
day in my history. To think that Major
Grey should have met me by accident, — that
our conversation should have again drifted
into sad and painful reminiscences, — that he
should have ventured to say what he did.
Those measured tones of his voice ; those tearful
eyes, brave man that I know him to be,
yet kind, sympathising, and gentle as a child,
all is now mirrored before me like a re-born
dream of the past.

How apt we are, on the first blush of a
stirrings scene, not to be able to realise its

force, to judge the very length and breadth
of its meaning to measure and appreciate its
utmost value, and to weigh word for word,
thought for thought, and action for action
in a just scale. But in quieter moments,
such as I am now experiencing, I can look
back and calmly contemplate the past. I
call to remembrance Major Grey's own gentle
words, — ' I will be to you a brother.' Yes.
a brother ! This ideal man ! Happy the
woman having such an one. Then again
this picture which he threw round my
neck, expecting me every moment to give
it back to him — yes, the little shade of this
poor insignificant atom — give it back to this
large-hearted, brave man ! my Percy's true
friend ! Why should I not, if it please him
to wear it ? ' Society ' may condemn me ;
the world may whisper ; nevertheless, he
shall have it ; and on the arrival of Constance
Templar, I. will make her my confidante; I

will explain the exceptional circumstances of
the case, and if it be true that she is his
fiancee, how rejoiced she will be to know
that I am her lover's newly-created sister ;
and from henceforth I shall be to her a
sister. Yes, hers — Constance Templar —
the beautiful, accomplished, and happy little
Constance ! Truly, with such a man, her
wedded life will pass like the translucent
stream now running in yonder lake — smoothly,
sweetly, and purely. She will be the very
prototype of joy — so real, so perfect ! "

And Nora placed her haud to her head,
for it ached, and then to her heart, for it
beat loudly. She started to her feet.
The well-known sound of the high-stepping
George " and " Dragon " fell upon her ear.
Nearer and nearer, now under the battlements
of the old castle ; a moment more, and they
are in full view of the east terrace. A
lily-white handkerchief, moistened with dia-vol.

III. c

mont tears, fluttered in the breeze, and our
heroine sank into the chair, buried her face in
her hands and murmured, " Gone — gone —
gone ! without one single word of parting."
And the cool fresh breath of the autumnal air
came floating in at the casement window,
slightly impregnated with the odour of the
savannah that Major Grey was smoking.

The following day Nora was reading in
the library, when Mrs Townshend entered,
and, if the mind could be read on the brow,
there was much there suggestive of an approaching
storm.

Good morning, dear," said Nora, advancing
and affectionately kissing her step-mother.

Better late than never," replied Mrs
Townshend, with some acerbity. " Really,
Nora, I do wish you would conform to the
rules of my house. We breakfast every
morning at nine — by no means an early hour

and the servants, as you know, assemble
for prayers at ten ; how much better would
it be for your health, nay, your manners, and
your sense of what is right and wrong, to say
nothing of the force of example, if you joined
us at the regulated hour, instead of 'moping'
upstairs, and your maid dangling after
you with sometimes three meals out of four.
Putting me entirely out of the question, it
is but a poor compliment to your father."

Not until Mrs Townshend referred to her
father, was Nora visibly affected by the strain
of her step-mother's dialogue ; then she
flamed crimson, her lip quivered, and the
flash of her large intelligent eyes indicated
the tumult within. But Nora, for the moment,
spoke not : she could not trust herself
to do so ; neither did she flounce about and
exhibit signs of temper, as one might have
expected from a girl in her position. Such
was her gentle nature, that it seemed never

to occur to lier that she was the heiress of
Carthewin Castle and its vast clomaiD, and
that the lady addressing her was only her
step-mother ; no, our heroine never presumed
on her position — wealth never entered her
head. She would have sacrificed the bulk
of her expectations, for a quiet, peaceful,
happy home. The yoke she had to bear
(and a heavy yoke it was) was always borne
submissively and patiently. She had her
faults, like others, but the sum total of them
amounted to nothing of an alarming character.
The reader must long ere this have
arrived at a fairly correct estimate of her
shortcomings, which, if placed in the scale
and weighed with virtues that must, injustice,
be accorded her, the balance will
turn in favour of the latter, and her gentle
and self-sacrificing spirit will rise triumphantly
over the lesser evils of a disposition
tried as hers has been.

I am not aware," said Nora, '' of having
given any offence to my father or yourself
in not putting in an appearance at the
breakfast-table ; on the contrary ; for, on
several occasions, I have asked you both
to excuse me, and not until this moment
was I sensible of having; neglected the usual
conventionalities, which are most certainly
due to your position in our family. I therefore
avail myself of your old aphorism, that
it is ' Never too late to mend,' and from
henceforth (if my health will admit of it)
I will endeavour to conform to the regulations
of your house."

You need not, my dear, lay so much
emphasis on ' your house ; ' recollect, some
day it will be yours, and then you will
look back with feelings akin to gratitude
for what may now appear to you a little
exacting on my part ; however, dear, we will
let the matter drop."

At this juncture Gertrude entered the library,
all smiles, and the c^low of health on her
cheeks. Her quick eye and sensitive nature
took in, at a glance, the fact that the domestic
atmosphere had been a little disturbed.

"I do say," said she, " and I mean it,
and maintain it, that it is positively provoking,
and I will go further, and submit
that it is absolutely shabby, of Major Grey
to rush off so suddenly, particularly after
his promising to have a gallops with me this
morning over to the Abbey."

"Don't you know, Gerty," said Mrs Towns-end,
"that 'Man proposes, and God disposes '? "

Ah me ! Well, I am doomed to be disappointed
; but I trust, dear mater, when ' man
proposes ' I shan't make a ' hash of it.' "

Fiddlestick ! Hash, indeed ! May be the
man will have cause to complain, that is, if
you don't mend your silly ways."

"Now, dear mater, don't be cross because

I didn't turn up at yesterday's mothers'
meeting ; you know how I abhor making
those wretched ' little articles ! ' "

You should have been there, Gerty ; Mr
Strawworth looked in, and was much disappointed
at not seeing you. By-the-bye he
placed an exquisite bouquet of flowers in the
carriage for you ; mind and thank him for
them when you next meet."

Gertrude pouted her coral lips, arched her
eyebrows, and looked askant at her step-sister,
but made no immediate reply.

Do you hear, deary ? "

Never heard anything plainer, dear
mother ; but I was thinking, just at the moment,
how much more useful that estimable
and pious young curate of ours could occupy
his time amongst the poor of the parish, than
hunting up, in all directions, grand hot-house
flowers from his neighbours' conservatories, for
the purpose of presenting them to poor little

silly me ; with all my ' silly ways,' as you have
it. Why, I can gather lanes full of them from
our own houses ; only those spicy verses that
Mr Strawworth sends with them don't grow
on the plants."

You ungrateful little monkey, you forget
the sentiment," replied Mrs Townshend, somewhat
annoyed.

Well," responded Gertrude, " I never
went so far at school, and, what is more, I
don't want instruction in that quarter, mamma.
But, apropos of ^ sentiment,' it wouldn't be
amiss to present the reverend gentleman with
a 'John Quill ' on a Saturday; may be it
would be suo^crestive, and incline him to write
his weekly sermon, instead of his ' forking ' up
those bilious-looking productions which his
father wrote in the year of our Lord one !
There's sentiment for you ! "

'' Fie ! Gerty, fie ! I must have a serious
talk with you some day."

Gertrude made a mock curtsey, and frisked
out on the lawn, humming a favourite tune.

Mrs Townshend, with fond parental eyes,
gazed at her daughter, the pride of her heart !
as she bounded away on the springy moss-covered
turf, and then lifting a deep, weary
sigh, said, —

Yes, she is the brightest and most beautiful
flower in the garden."

Nora, though intently reading an article in
one of the monthly magazines, heard the last
sentence, and, looking up over her book,
ventured, —

*' Yes, she is the lily of the vale, and care
must be taken lest an unworthy hand should
pluck it."

I will take care that her bright, happy
life is not blasted by a false step."

Mrs Townshend struck a painful chord. Intuitively
Nora knew that the well-directed
home-thrust was meant for her ; and it vibrated

again and again on her sensitive nature.
The triumphant flash of her step-mother's eyes
denoted that she had " hit the nail on the
head " and driven it deeply home !

Alas ! " responded Nora, '' there are reminiscences
in one's life that are painful to
look back upon ; and there are reminiscences
that fill one with delight. In the former, it
is at least something to know and feel that
one is left high and dry on the shores of
repentance."

*' Yes," replied Mrs Townshend, with an approving
smile. " As Dr Johnson says, ' Repentance
is the first step towards a woman's
humility.' But come, deary, we are drifting
into a painful strain, and far be it from me to
lead you thither ; for Heaven knows, my
child, you have had your share of trouble.
See yon bright silver lining to that dark cloud
overhead : in a little while it will encompass
it. Even so with you, my dear, there are

silver linings to the cloud of your life, which
will bring joy and sunshine, and which will
awaken new hopes, fresh dreams, and, God
grant, lasting happiness."

Nora looked with amazement at her stepmother
: she could hardly believe her own ears.
Such an outburst of kindly feeling fell like
sweet music on her sensitive nature, and lit up
her countenance with a loving expression.
She asked herself, — '' Is this real, or is it unreal
? If real, a divine influence must have
arrested the overbearing spirit that has for
years been manifested towards me, and lifted
the intolerable yoke I have had to bear."

Her blue eyes beamed with delight as she
drew her chair closer to her step-mother, and
gently placing her hand in hers, pressed it
warmly, saying, —

'* As the dew breath from heaven refreshes
the drooping flowers, so your loving words
revive my almost broken heart. Oh ! how

good it is to hear you speak thus, to experience
the glowing influence of kindly feeling
taking root in soil that has been so barren.
Forgive me, dear mother, if in the past I have
done or said aught that has given you offence ;
and if I have apparently been neglectful in
discharging duties I owe you, and to which
you are justly entitled, do not do me the injustice
to think that it is the outcome of pride,
or the hardness of my heart."

'' I must try and teach you, my child, to be
less sensitive ; for if you nurse yourself in such
a cradle, you will be a victim to the most
intense mental disturbance, rocked in perplexity,
and the rustling of a few leaves in this busy
life of ours will always have a tendency to disarm
your moral courage, deter, and leave you
unfit to battle with the ups and downs of our
brief existence. Alas ! Nora, time is too short
to take liberties with. I have much to say to
you this morning, dear," went on Mrs Towns-end,

with composed accents, " much that may
fill you with surprise, much that may affect
your future welfare."

Nora's countenance at this juncture partook
of much gravity, as she surveyed her stepmother
with undisguised surprise ; then her
small white hand relaxed its hold of the fingers
she had been pressing so warmly. She
felt an unaccountable something whispering
within, "Is it real or unreal ? " At this point,
she saw do silver lining to the clouds of her
troubled life, but rather looked at her future
through a dark horoscope, as she ventured,
with a voice visibly tremulous, —

"The very kind allusions that have just
emanated from you, mamma, lead me to anticipate
events which will bring with them
consolation, peace, and happiness."

Yes, dear," replied Mrs Townshend, " your
estimation of my earnest and best intentions
is a correct one. I have no motive in touching

upon the subject I am about to speak,
other than in the interest of niy husband's
child, whose welfare is identical with that of
my dear Gertrude's."

Nora absolutely stared. The soft expression
of her countenance faded away as she replied,
" Oh ! pray do not keep me in suspense."

Well, Nora, I will go to the point at once.
I have had several long interviews lately with
your father, respecting your future prospects
in life. I consider the time has arrived, if it
meet with your approval, that you should embrace
an opportunity which now presents itself
of being ' settled in life.' "

Our heroine bent her head, and a bright
colour suffused her cheeks, and " straight as
cold again."

I am quite sure," continued Mrs Towns-end,
" that you are keenly alive to the fact
that my nephew Cuthbert " (Nora shuddered,
which Mrs Townshend did not perceive) " has

been deeply in love with you for the last two
years — yes, deeply ; there is no other term
for it. I am quite aware that, owing to your
profound grief, consequent on the decease of
your lamented husband, Cuthbert has, with
most honourable intentions, abstained from
making advances which would have even
a semblance of haste ; but I have reason to
know that his hopes are centred in you, — in a
word, he loves you, dear, with all the fervour
of his fond nature, and I say most religiously
that it is my firm conviction he would make
you a devoted husband, and such an one that
few girls have a chance of securing. Born and
bred a gentleman, of a kindly disposition, and
of unblemished honour and morality — in fine,
he is the very paragon of what 2^ fiance should
be, and, moreover, strictly ' county ' ! "

This long and deliberate preamble of Mrs
Townshend's gave Nora an opportunity of allaying
the deeply-seated agitation that she inwardly

experienced. As sentence after sentence
dawned upon her with all its force, she
felt that the fatal "juncture," " climax," and
'fatality" had arrived, and she replied, —

Most sincerely, dear mother, I thank you
for the profound interest you are taking on
my behalf ; and I am very sensible of the
honour your nephew has conferred upon me.
A gentleman of his high attainments, strict
integrity, moral character, and wealth " (here
Mrs Townshend visibly coloured), " the very
compound which forms the basis of all that
any reasonable woman could look for in this
world to ensure happiness, I say such a man
should find no difficulty in forming an alliance
with a far more worthy person than myself ;
but— but— "

But what, deary ? " interrupted Mrs
Townshend ; " don't agitate yourself ; we are
thoroughly at home with each other. I can
read most of your thoughts, my child, and

whilst I know that your nature is just the
reverse of impulsive, yet I feel that in the
inmost recesses of your young heart there
is kindling a warm and generous feeling for
one who is worthy of, and entitled to, your
affection ; and few pleasures could be greater
to me than to know that you had openly
reciprocated the love Cuthbert bears you, by
avowing it to me."

Nora rose from her chair as the last words
fell from her step-mother ; the colour left her
cheeks ; she rapidly walked to the window,
and gazed abstractedly on the vast park in
front of her ; there was a brief struo^o;le within
a heaving breast, gathering, as it were,
strength to reply ; but for awhile nature
asserted her rights, and the tongue refused
to give utterance to the dictates of her palpitating
heart.

Silence is golden," murmured Mrs Towns-vol.

III. D

end, at the same time caressing one of her
poodles.

At last Nora summoned courage, and with
measured and firm accents, said, —

' I trust, dear mother, that you do not for
one moment take my silence for any admission
of reciprocation of your nephew's love ? "

'' Your cousin, Nora," said Mrs Townshend,
with much em^pvessement.

'eyes, my cousin," responded our heroine,
with a little toss of her head ; " because, if
you do, I am sorry to have to say that you
are labouring under a very great delusion ;
and the sooner you impart to Mr Otway
my sentiments, the sooner he will cease to
entertain expectations which can never be
realised. I am, however (as I previously
intimated), sensible of the honour conferred
upon me by Cuthbert in his choice, which
good fortune (according to your estimation
of his value) will be reserved for another,

and probably for one far more deserving
than this poor widow."

Widow ! Fiddlestick ! " exclaimed Mrs
Town send, and she crested her head ; and
then came an ominous cloud over her face,
as she went on, in undisguised surprise, —

Why, my dear child, I am absolutely
astonished ; nay, astounded ! "

Why astonished ? " responded Nora. '' Is
there anything very astonishing in finding
two individuals not precisely of the same
mind, and affections exactly the opposite of
each other ? "

I am afraid, Nora, you are paying yourself
but a poor compliment, in laying no claim to
the many virtues which Cuthbert possesses."

Actions speak louder than words, dear
mother. I accord my cousin all you credit
him with, because 1 know nothing to the
contrary, and simply because I have never
given the subject a moment's consideration;

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

as to laying claim myself to virtues, the least
said on that head the better. To err is human ;
I am but a poor sinful creature ; my shortcomings
outweigh my good works ; may God
give me strength to act aright, and a lively
hope of improvement."

It has been said, dear Nora, that ' in our
faults lie the germ of virtue.' I am afraid,
my child, that you are, at the present time,
acting contrary to that which would secure
for you lasting happiness."

I think otherwise."

'' And I likewise."

Well," responded Nora warmly ; " there
is but one remedy, — we must agree to differ."

Ah me ! " murmured Mrs Townshend, with
a sigh, '' poor dear Cuthbert ! this will indeed
be a heavy blow to him," and she fixed her
keen eyes on a pattern of the carpet, and
beneath the folds of her dress could be seen
a foot drumming the floor.

Probably the loss is mine, clear mother
not his."

'' You say so, but he thinks otherwise, else
he would not offer you his hand, and — " (she
was going to add fortune, but she paused, and
manipulated the smelling-bottle, the fragrance
•of which unlocked the door of her eyes, and
Mrs Townshend aspired to tears).

Don't vex over matters which cannot
possibly concern you. If you view things
philosophically, depend upon it, all things
that happen are for the best, provided we
endeavour to do that which we absolutely
think right ; and you and Cuthbert will look
back hereafter with feelings of satisfaction at
the termination of this interview, and its
results."

Nora, dear," said Mrs Townshend (who
would not be denied, and who was much absorbed
in financial recollections and schemes),
*' I cannot make up my mind to believe that

you are in earnest, seeing that Cuthbert
loves you so dearly and tenderly ; but, in
future, he shall plead his own suit. I have
broken the ice, and laid the foundation of
happiness that will, I trust, be yours ; on
that foundation he, and he alone, must build.
Do not, dear, be blind to your owai interests
; do not close your eyes to a sphere of
life that, as far as mortal can judge, will
be productive of peace of mind and lasting
satisfaction to all around you. And now, for
the present, I can do no more than leave my
observations impressed upon your heart and
mind, where, I have no doubt, they will
fructify and bear good fruit. Consider it
well, dear Nora ; form no hasty conclusion —
God will direct in all things."

He never has forsaken me, dear mother,
and I am convinced, if I act aright, he never
will."

One word, dear child, before we part,"

said Mrs Townshend sympathetically. "Is there
anyone else who has made overtures to you
with a view to an alliance ? Don't answer
the question, love, if you think it impertinent."

"Just the reverse, mamma; I am relieved
beyond measure by your putting the question
to me. I say most emphatically — No ; not a
soul has ever given me reason to suppose such
a thing, otherwise my dear father would have
been in possession of the fact within an hour.
Never, never again will I take an important
step) in life without seeking his guidance,
counsel, and support. I would rather spend
the residue of my life in a nunnery, than forfeit
the affection which I know my beloved father
has for me."

I am exceedingly pleased, Nora, with your
candour, but having heard a whisper to the
contrary, I thought it right to gently, and I
trust not indiscreetly, put the question to you."

"Unkind words," replied Nora, with a flash

of her eyes, " nay, vicious untruths, are wafted
by the winds of scandal, and their pernicious
results are not always felt by the poor victim
until serious injuries have been inflicted —
alas ! too late to rectify."

"True, true," responded Mrs Townshend (a
little discomposed); "it only shows, dear child,
how necessary it is for all persons moving in
good society to be watchful over their actions,
and never take a step in this life that may
lead into a quagmire. We have, as it were,
all a page of our actions before the eyes of
the world, and if there be one dark spot on
its surface, how apt people are to put their
finger upon it ! "

Down went our heroine's long lashes on her
pale cheeks, and a tear escaped and glistened
in the rays of the mid-day sun as it shone
through the open casement. She thought what
was passing in her step-mother's mind. She
felt the thrust of the sharp-pointed instrument

that was indirectly intended to pierce her heart
and expose the dark spot on the surface of
the page of her book of life !

Mrs Townshend saw the force of her last
observation, and feeling at this juncture that
it was prudent to moderate considerably the
rancour of her tongue, came to the rescue,
saying,—

"Now, my dear child, we will not review
the past any longer, but rather look forward
to the bright and sunny side of the picture
of your life looming before you. Let the
subject of our interview this morning be received
with the most absolute confidence. I
have spoken my mind freely — yes, without
reserve, and, I trust, without provoking the
slightest pain to you. I am cjuite sure, in your
calm moments, you will accord me this. I feel
that I have discharged a duty which I owe to
you and Cuthbert, and, if God so wills it, that
your hands shall be joined together. I feel

assured that your hearts will beat in union
with each other, and that your path through
life will for ever be free from the thorns that
not unfrequently spring up and choke, so to
speak, the happiness of a wedded life. As I
said before, you may look back in after years,
when I have passed away, and remember this
morning's interview with pride and sadness,
and drop a silent tear o'er the grave of one who
has striven hard to direct you in a sure and
certain path that leads to a happy marriage."

With a tear in her eye, Mrs Townshend bent
over her step-daughter, first removing a small
bouquet of flowers from her own bosom and
placing it on Nora's, then continued, —

May your future career, dear, bloom as
those hot-house specimens in all its purity,
and give forth a fragrance to all around," and
gathering her drapery together, Mrs Townshend
left the room, closely followed by her favourite
doss.

Nora hastened to the door, seized Mrs Towns-end's
hand, and pressed it to her lips, saying, —

"Bless you, dear mother, bless you for all
your kind, loving advice. Do not think me ungrateful
! Give me your love for ever, as you
have this day. I embrace it with open arms ;
I hail its advent as the most precious crumb
of comfort experienced from you since my
childhood ; your love, combined with my dear
father and Gertrude's, are all I desire ; eliminate
for ever matters connected with Cuthbert or
any other being, and I shall be happy in the
society of our domestic circle ! "

Mrs Townshend again retraced her steps into
the library, closed the door, and, in low tones,
said, —

Child, you don't know what you are saying.
Think just for one moment ; you — a widow —
yes, a young virgin widow ; rich, handsome,
highly accomplished, and vigorous in health ;
you must marry, child, — yes, marry a goodman,

— a man deserving of you, and happiness
will be your portion. Come, dry your tears,
dear ; let me see you at luncheon to-day, bright
and cheerful ; and mind you keep me in countenance
at dinner, for the Brauscombs are
coming, and Sir Robert Worth. Adieu,
dear, for the present," and the door closed
behind the lady superior of Carthewin Castle.
Good heavens ! " said Nora, within herself ;
is all this real, or unreal ? By heaven ! I
think it is unreal ! " and, throwing herself upon
the couch, she took from her pocket Percy's
last letter, read it again and again, breathed
soft words to it — words which the writer is
not permitted to disclose, neither the contents.
Then replacing it, she sauntered into the
garden, where a few minutes later Gertrude
and Nora, with arms entwined around each
other, were seen picking their way up the
rugged defile that led to the moorlands, in
deep conversation.

AN OLD AND DEAR FRIEND.

'what! Major Grey? Well, I never ! Who
would have dreamt of seeing you here ? " said
Constance Templar, hurrying across the lawn,
and warmly shaking me by the hand.

Truly," I replied, " this is a pleasure,
though not quite unexpected."

You naughty girl ! " said Miss Templar,
turning to Nora, with much enthusiasm. " So
this is the surprise you had in store for me ;
verily you were not mistaken. I should just
as soon have thought of seeing; one of those
lay figures in armour in your hall suddenly
appear in our midst. Well, well, for ' auld langsyne,'
I am delighted to see you. Major Grey "

"You look it, Constance, every inch of
yon," said Nora complacently " It is pleasant
to meet an old and valued friend, is it not ? "
and she fixed her eyes on the brunette.

Nothing could afford me greater pleasure
just at this moment (saving your presence)
than running up against this incorrigible
patient of mine. I think, without exception,
he was the most refractory invalid I ever had
under my care. Now, tell me all about it,
Major Grey. How are you ? Come along,
Nora, let us stroll up to the Belvidere and
have it out, chapter and verse."

Good Lord ! " I said to myself, '' I am
now in for it, slap up to my neck." I saw
Nora's large, quiet, frank eyes reading every
expression, and inwardly revolving in her
mind word for word that emanated from
Miss Templar and myself.

It would be absurd in me, Miss Templar,
to ask how you are," I at last ventured, " as

you look the very picture of blooming health.
Surely time, since last I had the felicity of
meeting, and the pain at parting, has dealt
gently with you."

With much vivacity Constance replied, —

' When last we met
That meeting I shall ne'er forget.'

Apropos, Major Grey, where is the pretty
picture ? I don't see the broad silk ribbon
in its old quarters." And Constance put
her arm round Nora's neck, patted her
cheek affectionately, and went on, '' Let me
see, what is it Shakespeare said, — something
about —

To-day, he puts forth the tender leaves of hope ;
To-morrow blossoms, and bears his blushing
Honours thick upon him.' "

** Long since," responded Nora ; "or I
am much at fault, he put forth the
tender leaves of hope ;' and, judging from
your enthusiasm, and a wee bit of confusion,

this meeting is a bright and happy
one for you, Constance. Are you not glad
you came ? "

'' You fury little oddity ! " exclaimed Miss
Templar ; "I cannot read you in the least.
Truly, this is a bright and happy day forme
; I — but here come Gertrude and
Miss Branscomb ; ' and she whispered in
Nora's ear, " More anon, in the grotto, tonight
; the moon will be up after dinner."
Then turning to meet the approaching ladies,
exclaimed, — '' Why, Gerty dear, you are
the very prototype of joy 1"

'ahem!" replied Gertrude, turning to
myself, and making a profound bow, saying,
" My Lord Bassanio, and my gentle lady
I wish you, in the words of Mr Shakespeare,
all the joy that you can wish."

And the little tease poked Constance in
the ribs with her riding whip.

"On my word," said Miss Templar, 'you

puzzle me as much as your sister. Surely
I am in dreamland ; joking apart, — are we
really in the grounds of Carthewen Castle
am I Constance Templar, — and are you
Gertrude ; and this great, tall man, the
identical Major Grey, or the traditional-avoirdupois
Grey, as the Crimea men used
to facetiously call him ? "

I will answer for it, Miss Templar,"
I cut in, "that you are not in dreamland,
but in a ' land flowing with milk
and honey,' and surrounded by some of
the best and most hospitable people it has
been my good fortune to meet with."

"You deserve it, anyhow," responded Miss
Templar ; " and now you are taking your rest
after a hard gallop, so to speak. How long
have you been in these parts ? "

I am ashamed to say I have been trespassing
on Mr and Mrs Townshend's kind
hospitality for time out of mind."

VOL. III. E

I vote you finish up the year with us,"
cut in Gertrude. '' You will say ditto to
that, won't you, sissy ? and sing ' Oh, let us
be joyful.' "

'major Grey knows how delighted dear
father and mother will be to have him
with them for any length of time that will
be agreeable to himself, and that his engagements
will admit of," said Nora, with
complacency.

And you ? " I asked, sotto voce, which
question was not heard by the rest of the
company. Nora looked me straight in the
face, and, with a little embarrassment, replied
in soft tones, " Why ask me such a
question Major Grey?"

"Why? I don't quite understand you.
One asks odd questions sometimes."

Persons who indulge in odd questions
not unfrequently receive odd replies," said
Nora, smilingly.

By this time we had separated some
little distance from the rest of the company,
who were making their way up the
steep iceland which led to the Belvidere.

'' I would not knowingly ask an unkind or impertinent
question, Mrs Snowdon," I resumed.

*' I am quite sure that it is far from sour
nature to do so. You must not take things
literally, Major Grey. Do you know I have
been so unhappy ever since you left, thinking
over that atrocious deed ; and what mio-ht
have been the consequences, but for a merciful
Providence which diverted the flight of
that horrid bullet."

Pray dismiss, dear Mrs Snowdon, every
anxious thought from your mind. So far
as I am concerned, the matter to which you
refer, has not troubled me one moment.
The vexatious part of the business is, that
it has made you unhappy, and I, yes I, am
the cause of it all."

You ! Why, — in what way, — how can
you say so ? " responded Nora, in pleading
tones.

Never mind."

But I do mind, and there will be no
peace for me, or safety for you, until the
scoundrel who fired that gun is arrested.
Oh ! wdiy did you ask me to keep the
matter a secret ; sooner or later it must
come to light, in connection with all wicked
deeds, and then what will my father think
of it."

Do not alarm yourself, Mrs Snowdon " (at
this point I would have given one of my eyes,
so to speak, to have called her dear Nora) ; "at
the earliest moment I will communicate the
circumstance to your father, when I will carefully
explain to him how necessary I thought
it that the affair should be kept a secret until
I had the pleasure of again appearing in your
midst. Pray, let me help you over this brook."

As Nora gave me her hand, I felt a thrill
pass through me as her little fingers grasped
mine, methought somewhat fervently. It
was, however, but fleeting. That day she
looked more beautiful than ever — so picturesque.
Her countenance was animated,
and her eyes sparkled with intelligence and
frank kindness as they rested for one moment
(only a moment) on mine.

You won't walk about this place alone,
will you ? " she said, and down went the lashes
again.

Why ? "

*' After what has transpired, who knows
what next may happen, and — " A pause.

'* And what, dear Mrs Snowdon ? "

*' Oh, do not press the question. In my
quiet moments I often wish that other duties,
I should say other engagements, had taken
you elsewhere, and that so valuable a life as
yours should not have been imperilled on

my father's estate, and you — yes, you — vas
lamented husband's dearest friend, and — "

*your brother," I interrupted, making a
profound bow.

Yes, my brother," echoed Nora. " The
title sounds so strange to me, so new, so
odd, there is something very remarkable and
romantic about it, probably a sweet harbinger
of long and happy intercourse between us."

And brotherly and sisterly love," I
added, looking down on that thoughtful
face ; " but Nora was staring at this moment
into vacancy.

How calm and tranquillising the scenery
is here," I ventured (upon my soul, I hardly
knew what to say ! ).

** Very ; you prefer the country, Major Grey,
to the busy hum of the world, don't you ? "

Infinitely," I replied. " I have had a
surfeit of London gaiety lately, and I am
quite sure, to a lover of nature, only true

joys are to be found where the busy hum of
insect life is heard, and where sumptuous
nature decorates every spring and summer ;
even the wintry chill in the country has its
charm, particularly when one has for a companion
one whose taste is cultivated, and
whose reading is varied."

Dear Constance is the very essence of such
a companion," replied Nora, with much impressment,
and she looked me full in the face.

At this point, intuitively, I knew what was
passing in the mind of Nora. I should most
certainly have made a fool of myself there
and then, and that large-hearted, frank girl
would have taken all the wind out of my
sails, as it were, in the twinkling of an eye,
but for the opportune presence at that moment
of Gertrude and the bouncing Miss
Branscomb, who came suddenly down upon
us with bayonets fixed !

By Jove ! here they are having a Ute-tete

all to themselves," screamed Gertrude.
Awfully sorry to disturb you ; hope no
offence (as Leonard says), but Miss Templar
is tipsy with pleasure, which pleasure she has
been inhaling for the last half-hour on the
top of the Belvidere. She says the panoramic
view, and bright, crisp air, have thoroughly intoxicated
her ; and she requested that we two
daughters of the regiment should at once go
in search of you twain, arrest you forthwith,
and march you off to headquarters."

'' Major Grey," said Mabel Branscomb, with
a toss of her head, " in the name of General
Constance Templar, we take you into custody,
aud I fear it will be a warm time for you
both up at Government House ! "

I am not aware, Miss Branscomb, of
having committed any crime ; but as one
never knows what serious charge may be laid
at ones door, it will be necessary for me to
secure an able advocate, may I — "

I know what you are going to say. Just
toss me over a handsome retaining fee, and
I will see you are let down lightly," replied
Miss Branscomb, laughing all over her
honest, apple-looking face ; besides," added
she, archly, '' you are rich, and can afford todo
the thing handsomely, don't you know."

*' I am as poor. Miss Branscomb, as a
rag. My pay in the army, which is little
short of rags and starvation, is all I possess
in the world."

Good heavens ! " replied she ; '' you don't
say so. I cannot believe you one bit. Somebody
told me that you are awfully rich, —
a sort of millionaire ! Well, well, Thackeray
says, ' When a man or woman wants money
or assistance, the world, as a rule, is very obliging
and lets them want it ; ' isn't that so ? "

Gammon ! don't you listen to his nonsense,
Mabel," said Gertrude, frisking up
and catting into the conversation. " Why,

Major Grey takes a leaf out of his father's
book whenever he is in want of cash."

I beg pardon, Gerty," said Miss ,
"I don't comprehend you."

Why, out of his pater's cheque book, filled
up for any amount. Awfully jolly is it not ? ""

*'Ah me!" replied Miss Branscomb ; "no
such luck for us poor girls. There are
too many suspicious-looking blue envelopes
knocking about ; if one peeps into any of
them, it is invariably the old story, ' To
account rendered ;' our only chance is to
look out for some nice fellow with lots
of coin, don't you know % "

You will not find him, as a rule, in the
hunting field, Mabel dear," interposed Nora
a little reproachfully.

No," replied Miss Branscomb, with a toss
of her head; 'neither in Mount Vesuvius."
As Sir Charles Coldstream said, ' There is
nothing in it.' I say, — joking apart, —

Major Grey, can't you put me up to an
eligible thing ? I am not particular, you
know, about a specimen in the way of
good looks, because there is nothing in this
poor deponent to match it ; but a good
heart, bolstered up with a heavy purse, will
cover a host of deficiencies. Now, really,
don't you admire my frankness '? "

Positively, Miss Branscomb," I replied.
'' You are worthy of a far better and more
substantial finance than I have the power
of introducing : all I can say is, fortunate
the man who secures you ; he should bid
high. Don't lower your price, my young-friend,
on any consideration."

The dialogue between myself and the merry-faced
little oddity provoked roars of laughter ;
but I could see at a chance that Nora did not

o

relish such frivolous conversation ; she had a
mind far above it. I heard her say, sotto
voce " Truly vanity is a growing and insatiable

disease." We spent a most enjoyable
afternoon at the Belvidere. Every one appeared
in excellent spirits, and the peals of
laughter that echoed again and again from the
little group at the top of the old tower, told
its own tale of the jokes that were made
within its walls ; even the dappled deer that
were browsing on the slopes occasionally looked
U23 in amazement. Constance Templar's sparkling
wit and vivacity (who, by-the-bye, had an
exalted opinion of her own blood), the odd
sayings of Gertrude, and the inexhaustible
fund of comic anecdotes at the command of
Mabel Branscomb, greatly added to the pleasures
of the afternoon, and not until the sun
began to set in a crimson blaze of glory did
any of us attempt to make tracks.

As I stood upon the highest point of the
old tower, and looked over the open country
bathed in sunset, I thought of poor Percy,
and the many hours he had sjDent with his

bride-elect on that very spot. More than once
I came across his well-known initials, engraved
on wood and stone. Looking; down on the
busy little group on the green sward below,
I espied the beautiful girl, in whom all his
fondest hopes were centered, now a widow —
yes, a "Virgin Widow!" '* Oliver Greys"' I
soliloquised, " Gargle, you may escape the
swift flight of the bullet, but there is a bow
bent, and an arrow fixed, whose swift messenger
will assuredly enter your heart, or leastways
what is left of it."

"Are you coming down. Major Grey?"
screamed Gertrude. " Nora declares she will
not go home without you, and Constance is
in a sad quandary. Come along."

The moon was just beginning to rise, full of
divine effulgence. I said to myself as I
took one long, lingering look, " beautiful
and blessed memories, some day — yes — some
dayl-"

*rare you, or are you not coming?" again
shouted Gertrude, and I tore myself reluctantly
from the enchanting scene, and walked
hack to the Castle in close conversation with
Miss Templar, talking over old times. How
different she appeared to me on this occasion ;
not one atom of my late Need-Cross nurse could
I detect in her — not a semblance of standoffish-
ness could I discover in that beautiful brunette,
who once cut me into ribbons, so to speak.
The "blue stocking" had entirely vanished, her
genial spirit and high-born dignity reigned
supreme. Space will not permit my giving in
detail the kindly feeling she expressed, the
interest she exhibited in my welfare ; every
subject she touched upon was sound to the
core. There was not a false ring in any note
she uttered, and as she freely conversed with
me, her brilliant flow of language and ready
wit carried me completely away. Add to all
this my friendly reader, the fact that she

once, with God's help, brought me through a
long' and dangerous illness, nursed me nio-ht
and day, under most trying and exceptional
circumstances, and that she was one of the
most beautiful and fascinating creatures that
eyes ever looked upon, and 1 venture to think
that you will accord me your sympathy, if, at
any moment during our colloquy, my heart
(charged as it was with feelings of the deepest
gratitude) smote me for not earlier recognising
the sacrifices that dear girl had made on my
behalf. I confess that I was greatly struck
with Nora and Constance's demeanour when
we all first met on the lawn ; they watched
each other with all the vigilance of their sex.
Truly, they were both women of strong sense,
high moral and intellectual attainments. Alas !
who hasn't at some period of his or her life
felt an inward struofo-le under somewhat
similar circumstances. Echo answers — who !

THE Giotto.

The moon rose round as a shield, and shed
her pale rays through the colonnade of trees
that led to the opening of the Grotto, a
favourite resort of the inmates of Carthewin
Castle. A pendant oil lamp swung from the
roof, and the countless specimens of iron, tin
and copper ore, taken from the wealth of the
various mines that abound in the neighbourhood,
scintillated with marvellous effect.

Ensconced in one corner was our heroine,
by her side, Miss Templar, enveloped in fur
cloaks, having a confidential tete-tete. The
evening was bright, crisp, and jolly — scarcely
a leaf was in motion. No sound could be
heard, save now and then the watch-dog's

bark, and the rattle of their massive chains,
as they went in and out their wooden houses.

"I am delighted that we have it all to
ourselves," said Constance, putting her arm
round Nora's slim waist.

"It is pleasant to be sometimes alone with
those we love," responded Nora, reciprocating
with a gentle squeeze the pressure that her
friend gave her. " Do you really love me % '*
another little squeeze.

"I do not think I shall answer that question,"
replied Constance, "but would rather let
time reply to it ; by which I mean, that one's
actions will be the best test of one's affection.
Were I to say that I loved you very much,
maybe it would be in your mind that we
have not been intimately acquainted sufficiently
long to establish the esteem that I
hope some day to feel reigning in both our
hearts ; although, Nora, your people and mine
have long shared each other's friendship for

VOL. III. F

time out of mind ; yet circumstances have
not permitted you and me to hold sweet intercourse
together, that pleasure has been
reserved for us, and I trust a bright and
happy future will be yours."

'' And," said Nora, " if you knew my heart
as well as you know your own, I flatter myself
that you would do me the justice to believe
me sincere in all I express."

I know, dear Nora, that you have a
regenerate heart, and that kind Providence,
and early good training, have so moulded your
disposition, that mine is simply incomparable
to it. Yes, as the steel is attracted to the
magnet, so I have been to you. In all my
various travels (and the people I have mixed
with are legion) I have never experienced the
same influence."

There was a long pause. Two little hands
were folded in each other, and warmly pressed.
Again Nora said within herself, " Is this real

■or unreal ? " and she thought of a tall man
whose heavy military tread, in measured
strides, could be heard as he paced up and
down the terrace smoking his vesper cigar.

"The attraction to which you refer, dear
constance, is probably the outcome of my sad
bereavement ? "

"Not at all," responded Constance; " it is
the woman her very self — the soul of that
woman," and her dark eyes flashed brightly in
the beams of the moon, as her soft pale rays
peeped through the trees and fell upon the
brunette. How picturesque she looked !

Again Nora thought of that tall man, — a
long pause, during which the screech owl
cried in the adjacent wood.

Child, what are you thinking about ? "
asked Constance. " Your hand is cold and
damp, and your voice less firm. Is the age
of our friendship too young to justify your
making me your confidante f "

I have no secrets to confide, dear Constance.
Once I had ; it was the great coup of
my career. It is now known to the world,
and an all-wise Providence has struck down
the child of disobedience."

And will raise, nay, has raised you up
again, and you will be yourself, as in days
gone by, the bright and happy little Nora of
Carthewin, as the Honourable Mrs Mackenzie
used to call you."

Bless her loving heart! my second mother,"
said Nora, — truly, she loved that pious lady.

Now to business, child," said Constance,
vehemently ; '* or, I should say, to infinite
pleasure. Brush your tears into the silent
air, dear, and suppose that we take it for
granted that we are loving, steadfast friends
of very long standing, and are, consequently
privileged to say lots of things to each other;"
and Nora rested her head on Constance's
shoulder, and their lips met, sealing, as it

were, the contract of an undying love for
each other.

The measured tread of the tall man was
still heard on the granite pavement.

"Do you hear anything, Nora?" significantly.


"Yes ; Major Grey's heavy steed, and your
dear heart beating," replied Nora, raising
herself and looking inquiringly into Constance's
face.

You need not stare so, sweet girl," said
Constance, in soft accents. " You will see no
indication on my brow that will lead you to
suppose what I know is, and has been, passing
in your and Mrs Townshend's mind for sometime
jDast : in a word, you are his ! "

His ! " echoed Nora in amazement.
Speak beneath the breath, Constance ; what
do you mean ? "

He loves you, Nora."

He ! To whom do you refer ? "

"It is idle for you to feign ignorance, —
absolutely idle, at least, to one who knows
better. I refer to Major Grey," said Miss
Templar, drumming the ground with her little
foot in her usual restless way.

No — no — no Recall those words, Constance
; recall those words ! It is you that he
loves ; yes, sou are his for ever ! "

How so, Nora ? What reason have you
or your stepmother to suppose that Major
Grey and I are affianced ? "

I cannot quite say," responded our heroine,
but common report has it that you are engaged,
and at the most favourable opportunity
I purposed wishing you every happiness."

'' Instead of which," replied Constance,
"the tables are turned; it is I who have
the felicity of congratulating you."

On my word, Constance, Major Grey is tome
a brother only."

'' A brother ? "

Yes, a brother ; and I to him a sister, by
arrangement."

'•' Arrangement ! " exclaimed Constance ; "I
am puzzled. Be candid with me, dear Nora,
and give me the history of all this."

Mrs Snowdon at this point explained the
object of Major Grey's visit to Carthewin
Castle. She related circumstantially every
event, repeating in detail the harrowing scenes
of her husband's death, and the interviews
which she subsequently had with the former.
She also communicated to Constance part of
the contents of Percy's last letter, and also
the proposition of Mrs Townshend respecting
her cousin Cuthbert, and how she indignantly
declined to entertain an alliance which she
considered, if precipitated, would be fraught
with great danger. But she most scrupulously
withheld touching on the dastardly attempt
that had been made to assassinate her father's
guest.

Constance listened attentively to her young
friend's unaffected narrative of the whole surroundings
of her position, and on more than
one occasion tears trickled down Miss Templar's
face, and her large black eyes flashed indignantly
when our heroine related her sensational
interviews v/ith Mrs Townshend in connection
with Cuthbert Otway.

'' And now," said Nora, " I have told you,
dear Constance, very nearly all. There is,
however, one event which, for the present,
must remain a secret. Later on, you, in
common with others, will, no doubt, be in
possession of it. Alas ! it is a dismal story.
Suffice it to say, that it is in no way connected
with the subject of our present conversation."

But indirectly, my dear Nora, it may be.
Ere I venture further on a matter which just
now fills me with the deepest emotion, answer
me one very little question, and do not think
me impertinent in importuning you : Say,

dear, are you in love or affianced to anyone ?
I — I — I mean anyone other than Major Grey ?"

"Unhesitatingly I can avow that I am not
affianced to Major Grey or any other man,"
said Nora, cresting her head.

But you love Major Grey ? "

'•'Yes, as a brother," responded Nora,
flaming; crimson.

And someone else a little more — is it
not so ? " asked Constance.

"On my honour, none so well," responded
Nora, " but — but believing you to be his
fiancee, I have scrupulously avoided the
slightest intercourse with him, other than
the usual conventionalities that society and
my father's guest demanded ; also the painful
circumstances connected with my bereavement,
which brought Major Grey under our
roof. Now, dear Constance, you have the
whole history, chapter and verse ; in return,
do give me an insight into your antecedents

in connection with Major Grey, — that is, if I
am not asking too much ? "

*' It would be a pleasure for me to accord
you anything within my power," responded
Constance ; '' to tell you the truth, love, I have
been associated from time to time with so
many majors, captains, lieutenants, non-commissioned
officers, and men of various grades,
which my calling in the Eed-cross service
brought me into contact with in hospital
and otherwise, that I hardly attach any importance
to them ; but somehow, this man's
exploits, his popularity in the army, his devotion
to your poor husband, the unusual
circumstance of his being left (in an apparently
dying state) in the Russian farmhouse,
all had a charm for me. I, therefore,
after having obtained permission, hastened to
the homestead, in the hope of rendering Major
(then Captain) Grey a service. I met his
almost lifeless form on the steps, and I said

within myself, ' Brave fellow ! I will see you
through it,' and I kept to my resolution under
the most trying circumstances. Often, in the
middle of many long dreary nights of anxious
watching, I thought his spirit had passed
away, and the last offices were left to me
to perform ; but like the flickering of my
dismal lamp, which occasionally made spasmodic
efforts to resuscitate itself, so the soul
of that man clung to its bulky tenement, and,
with God's blessing, triumphed over death."

At this point Nora sighed heavily, and
squeezed Constance's hand affectionately.

'' And," continued Miss Templar, " somehow
or other, but really I know not precisely how
or why, I loved that man ! "

Nora again pressed Constance's hand, and
gently kissed her, saying warmly, —

And you love him still, — do say you
love him ? "

Ah ! my child," went on Constance, " do

not be impulsive, or tremble so, when all is
told, and the veil that now obscures, as it
were, the remainder of Diy narrative is lifted.
You will see clearly through a bright horoscope,
and will doubtless go to your pillow
to-night a happy woman."

Nora strangled a sob in her throat, as she
ventured, —

And you loved him ? "

Yes, I loved him ! His gentleness, helplessness,
resignation, ostentation, and unemotional
manner taught me to think him
different to any other man I had ever met ;
to me he appeared more like a massive overgrown
schoolboy, without one particle of sentimentality
in his composition, — simple and
unobtrusive, real as real could be ! "

And you loved Major Grey ? " again said
Nora, in a tremulous voice.

Yes, at one time I loved him, and — "

He loved you ? " faltered our heroine.

'' I did not say so, dear," replied Constance.
I found that I had been brought (undermost
exceptional circumstances) into communion
with a loyal upright soul, and that
he was inwardly struggling with emotion,
the outcome of your lamented husband's
deathbed scene, in connection with — -"

A pause, — and Constance looked up into
the star-lit sky.

In connection with what ? " urcred Nora.

'' In connection with you, dear one— yes —
you ! Oh ! Nora, you little know how fondly
he treasured up your picture ; often during
his long sleepless nights (unobserved, as he
thought) he drew forth your portrait and
pressed it to his lips. It was then ' a change
came o'er the spirit of my dream ; ' my love
altered when I found the exact key to the
sequel, and I sought my own room, and knelt
down and shed tears ; they were not tears of
anguish, neither were they tears of disappointed

love, for not a semblance of such
had been reciprocated ; they were rather the
overflow of a foolish heart, that had become
intoxicated, unaccountably charged, with a
deeply-seated affection for that massive, unemotional
man. Somehow, after this, I came
to love the dear fellow more and more ; but
it was a different kind of love ; it had not a
particle of the thrilling enthusiasm which once
filled my soul with ecstasy — no similitude
whatever. I loved him for your dear sake,
Nora, — yes, for you ; from that moment I
surrendered all — all — all — "

And here Constance paused, evidently overcome
with emotion, and a solitary tear trickled
down her face.

Noble, unselfish girl," responded Nora,
pathetically, "the mystery is solved, I have
listened with intense interest to your narrative,
so fall of the kindliest feelings, and
charged with the purest motives ; but it is

now my time to speak. So far as I am
concerned, my sweet Constance, dismiss all
imaginary thoughts in connection with Major
Grey from your mind. I feel that God has
reserved for you the love of that man whose
step we still hear on the terrace. No word
from me, or aught from him, has brought
our hearts in union with each other ; the
ray of sunshine that promiscuously entered
here " (pointing to her breast), 'rand cheered
me in hours of sorrow, can — must — and will
escape, as it came, without leaving dark
shadows behind, and — "

Nora," said Constance, " I know where
you are drifting ; a little more, and you may
provoke my profound love to hatred, — yes,
hate the very girl I am now so appallingly
fond of Listen : I bathed that man's
wounds. Night and day I applied the
healing balm with fervent prayers to Heaven
that he might be spared ; yes, spared to be

yours. When the consuming fever ran high,
I moistened the tongue that cried aloud for
Nora ' in his delirium. The death-bed
scene of you husband was enacted again
and again ; the Bible, book-marker, the
locket. And you — yes, you included in a
dying legacy to that man I was nursing ;
and when morning came, and the burning
brow orrew cool, a trembling hand sought
the little locket again. Oh, how T loved
him for it all ; — sand, behold, one of the best
fellows that ever drew the breath of life is
by your side ! he is yours — yes, yours forever
1 and may God in His infinite mercy,
watch over you both, and evil be to him
who separates that love ! "

'dear Constance, I am absolutely amazed
and bewildered by what you have imparted ;
so much so, that I cannot find words to give
force to my thoughts. For pity's sake let us goto
the Castle. I — I — I cannot bear any more."

Constance threw her arms round Nora's
neck, and whispered, —

"Answer me one little question, for you
know I love you."

I know you love me," responded Nora,
for actions speak louder than words."

Only one little question," said Constance.

Nora again looked into the starlit sky,
where the great golden moon was shedding
her bright beams on the lovable girls, and
our heroine, with a countenance radiant with
fond attachment, gazed into Constance's eyes
inquiringly.

Do you love that great tall man ? " asked
Constance, in a subdued voice.

No reply, and a long pause.

For the second time, do you love that
great tall man ? "

A sob.

All was still save the rustling leaves overhead
with a whispering sound.

VOL. III. G

For the third and last time, do yon love
that great tall man ? " asked Constance, in
pleading tones.

And Nora buried her head in the bosom of
the brunette, and beneath the great wealth of
black hair that promiscuously fell over that
sweet flushed face came forth the audible
words, —

'* God knows that I love him ! "

And the wind whistled in many monotones
through the tree tops.

"TO BE OH NOT TO BE?"

It was in the month of May. The grey
morning was beginning to glimmer when I
opened my eyes and remembered that I had
to drive over to the Abbey and escort Mrs
Snowdon home. Our heroine has been spending
a few days with her late governess and
companion, the Honourable Mrs Mackenzie.
Agreeably with Mr Townshend's request, I
most gladly accepted the honour accorded
to me, which, by-the-bye, was a suggestion
of Miss Templar's, to whom I am indebted
for that pleasure. Cuthbert is on the moorlands
fishing, and, I hear, hlase and very

grumpy ; Gertrude is nursing her mother,,
who of late has been (according to report)
considerably hopped ; her medical adviser is
sorely puzzled as to the nature of her
complaint, declaring that he never in the
whole course of his professional experience
met with such trying and unsatisfactory
symptoms ; her tongue, pulse and respirations
maintained their natural condition ; indeed,
there was nothing to indicate anything
abnormal ; notwithstanding, Mrs Townshend
looked ill, worn and anxious, and often the
doctor within himself said, "Alas! who can
administer to a mind diseased."

Gertrude, usually the prototype of joy, ha
lost some of her brilliant childish enthusiasm
through constant and close attention upon
her mother, dio cannot bear her out of her
sight.

As I opened my casement window, and
admitted the invigorating breath of the

morning air, and gazed on the picturesque
scene which had so often filled my heart
with gladness, my thoughts wandered to
the first story in the western tower, the
room usually occupied by Mrs Snowdon,
and the monosyllables *' To be or not to be ? "
silently fell from my lips.

The swelling green hills in the distance,
all bathed in early peaceful sunshine ; the
glittering dewdrops, still decorating the unfolded
leaves ; the placid lake, on which is
reflected the extended branches of the oak ;
the graceful drooping boughs of the willow,
calm as an infant's sleep ; the trill of the
blackbird, and other feathered songsters,
singing ever so sweetly ; the balmy breath of
May ; the fragrant air ; all nature awakening
from night's refreshing slumber ; leaves unfolding,
and petals kissing, as it where, the
new-born day, — all have charms for the lover
of God's work, beyond the power of the

writer's pen to describe. Yes ; glorious-realities
those !

So you are really going to give vc your
day's fishing, Major Grey," said Gertrude, a
few hours later at the breakfast-table, where
sat Mr Townshend, Constance and myself.

Even so," I replied ; '' simply because I
have more agreeable pastime in store for me."

'' Ahem ! " responded Gertrude, looking
askance at Constance ; " tickling trout one
day, and casting your minnows — ahem !.
Eeally, I don't quite know what I was going
to say."

Gertrude," said her father, with some
austerity, and who was hammering away at
his egg-shell, *' less frivolity, Miss, if you
please ; it is not becoming, and you are old
enough not to indulge in such childish remarks."


Well, dear pater," replied Gertrude,.

slightly pinking, for she felt taken clown a
peg, " you know you always call me your
little old woman,' and you frequently assert
that I am far beyond my years."

Jocosely, dear, I have," responded Mr
Townshend ; " but you have now arrived at
years of discretion."

Discretion ! yes, discretion is the better
part of valour. How many times have I written
that sentence in my copy-book," said Gertrude,
with an irrepressible sigh, at the same
time spreading her buttered toast with anchovy.

I thought Mr Townshend was unusually quiet
this morning. His letters, piled by the side
of his plate, were opened one by one at
intervals ; served up and digested, so to
speak, between the different courses that the
breakfast-table furnished.

What is your programme for to-day, Miss
Templar ? " I ventured.

Cannot quite say," responded Constance.

'' My little friend here and I will doubtless
knock off something to our advantage ; time
never has, or ever will, hang heavily at
Carthewin Castle — acres of unbounded pleasure
out of doors, and lasting pleasures are to
be found in the ample library."

Also in the sick chamber," cut in Gertrude.

What on earth Dr Gregory is pilling,
draughting, motioning, blistering, leeching, and
poulticing my dearest mother for, I cannot
conceive. How I hate your strange doctors.
Mamma had better stick to our own dear old
medical attendant ; but the fact is, she won't
have him, and poor Dr Riley is ' out in the
cold.' "

Mr Townshend heaved a deep sigh, but
spoke not.

'fie! Gerty," said Constance; "if you
call in a medical man, my love, you must act
up to his instructions, don't you know, or
abide by the consequences."

To tell you the truth," said Gertrude,
'' I most strictly act up to instructions. Dr
Gregory puts in an appearance generally
about lunch time, pats me familiarly on the
shoulder, and lugs me with him upstairs,
says, — ' There never was such a paragon of a
nurse ; ' calls me his ' dear,' and winds up
with — ' You administered the medicine regularly
? '

' To the tick of the clock,' I replied.
' You shook the bottle ? '
"thoroughly,' I said.
'' ' Did it soothe her ? '
"- ' Wonderfully,' I ventured.
' Any starting in her sleejD ? '
' On no occasion, doctor, except when you
come in.'

"ahem! you don't say so?' was the rejoinder
; and then he drags out his exorbitant
gold repeater, and consults mamma's
pulse, etc., etc.

This sort of thing, dear Constance, is
going on day after day, without any appreciable
change in dear mother's health ; and
she does say — oh ! such strange things,
and—"

*' Why not," I interrupted, anxious to
change the conversation, *sone of you young
ladies drive over to the Abbey with me in the
mail-phaeton, as Mr Townshend wishes me to
fetch Mrs Snowdon ? "

Only if it meet your pleasure. Major
Grey," said my host, bobbing his head
above the London Times, the money article
of which he was eagerly devouring ; nevertheless,
he was alive to all our conversation.

''I know of no pleasure so great, sir,"
I replied. Good Lord ! how the rubicund
flashed over mxy neck and face, and, my
conscience ! what a rate Constance sipped
her hot coffee ; and I swear that provoking
little teaze Gerty sprawled out her foot and

touched Miss Templar significantly under
the table. Then followed a suggestive
little cough. I could read it all like a
book.

Why one of us don't go with you to
the Abbey, Major Grey ? " said Constance ;
because our hands are just now pretty
full. My little friend here has to manipulate
the mixtures in the sick-room, as she
told you ; and 1 have to prepare a
long - promised report for headquarters in
connection with Need-Cross work ; besides
which," she replied archly, "two will be
company, three none ; and, on the return
journey, one of the trio would have to
occupy the hind seat of the mail-phaeton,
and keep company with that faultless little
coachman — warranted fresh from the tailors,
in loud attire — and whose politeness always
provokes a laugh with me : truly he is
an original little oddity."

Don't you say one word, Miss Constance,
against ^ Handy,' as I have dubbed him,"
cut in Mr Townshend, looking over his
gold pince-nez. " He is. without exception,
the most tiptop fellow I ever had — and
careful."

One likes to praise the bridge that
carries one over Mr Townshend," said
Constance smilingly. "One more cup of
coffee, sir ? "

'' Thanks " (handing his cup to the lady).
No sugar, please," and the money article
was again consulted.

Breakfast over, and the usual family prayers
disposed of, I strolled into the perfumed
garden with Constance Templar ; and we sat
by the gorgeous fountain, which was incessantly
playing, and throwing its myriads
of glittering particles into the silent air,
falling gracefully into the huge basin beneath,
where the sold and silver fish darted in

all directions, and playfully sported with
each other, regardless of our presence.

It was always a source of infinite delight
to me to find myself side by side with the
brunette having; a tete-tete. Long; travel and
varied experience had placed her in possession
of the ways of the world, its pleasures
and allurements. Her moral and intellectual
nature shone brightly on all around her ; a
brilliant beauty too, a good linguist, full of
energy, charitable in every sense of the word ;
in fine, a most superior and graceful woman.
Often, during many long interesting chats I
had with the Need-Cross nurse over early associations
in connection with those with whom
we formerly moved, I have " felt just here —
but I cannot tell how ! " This pure, high-minded,
generous woman, adorned with so
much gracefulness, frightened many good
fellows, shyness preventing them from stretching
forth a hand and plucking the blooming

rose. As for this deponent, the lily of the
vale ! the cherub of the spring ! was uppermost
in my thoughts.

As "George" and "Dragon" dashed up to
the east gate of the Castle, en route for the
Abbey, Constance threw her black eyes upon
me, saying archly, —

Farewell, Major Grey ; take care of her."

"Who?" I inquired.

"' Dear Nora, the girl of all girls, the truest
and most beloved of my companions ! "

'they are legion," I responded.

"Nay, not so; T have but few associates
worthy the name of friend."

I took her hand in mine and raised it to
my lips, saying, —

I hope, dear Miss Templar. I may have
the honour of writing myself down as one
of your steadfast friends ; I owe you debts
of gratitude which I shall never be able to
adequately repay, — debts far beyond my reach

to discharge, — but if a loyal, upright, and
honest heart can, in the balance, avail anything
towards the obligation I owe to your
favour, I will strenuously endeavour to keep
in the direct path that will lead to a continuation
of your esteem, to forfeit which,
would be a calamity indeed ! Adieu, dear sister
of the Red Cross. I trust we may meet again
ere the sun goes down in yon western sky ;
my mind is made up — long since made up —
this day, yes, this day, I shall return either a
supremely happy man, or one of the most
wretched fellows the moon ever shone upon."

Ah ! " exclaimed Constance, '' has the
climax at last arrived ? Are you really in
earnest ? Have courage, my brave hero of
Slaughter Hill. Know that ' faint heart
never won fair lady ! ' Begone ! may God
direct you aright. The calm blue heavens
are unchecked by a single cloud, it is a good
omen, and — and — "

At this point Constance entirely broke
down ; she abruptly turned from nie, and
crossing the rustic bridge into the lower
plantation, sought a secluded part of the
copse, where, burying her face in her hands,
she sobbed aloud.

The murmur of the running stream could
be faintly heard mingled with the sobs of
the brunette ; then she drew a long breath
■ — a breath of relief, that most frequently relieves
the heart of the troubles with which
it is charged ; she crested her head, as if
ashamed of her weakness ; the reaction came
swift and sure, her dark eyes flashed, she
was self-possessed as she exclaimed, —

"Foolish, foolish woman that I am! God
knows how I loved that — "

Here the sentence was abruptly and painfully
brought to a close, for Constance Templar
was completely enveloped in a horse-cloth,
which was suddenly thrown over her head by

two stalwart ruffians who were concealed in the
brushwood of the cover. Nothing but a stifled
scream could be heard ; then a deep moan, accompanied
by violent plunges of the terror-stricken
girl, dio was now in the powerful
clutches of two determined dare-devil fellows.
And lifting her up in their ponderous arms
like a child, they conveyed her with all speed
through the trackless part of the cover, knee-deep
in brambles. Onward they pressed ; at
the extreme end of the plantation, known as
Giant's Wood, they came to one of the old
*' pack-horse " lanes; through this the Recross
nurse was borne on the shoulders of
the ruthless robbers, nearly suffocated and
trembling with fright. At the termination
of the lane, there was a light spring-cart
awaiting them — the horse was tied to a
tree. Into this conveyance, on a bed of
grass, Constance was laid, and over her was
lightly placed a covering of small boughs of

VOL. III. H

trees as a subterfuge. Not one word escaped
from the ruffians' lips during their diabolical
work ; all was done by signs. The two black
masks, fit emblems of the devil's work, were
now removed from their faces ; a smart crack
of the whip followed ; the well-bred mare
leapt to her collar, and, at a terrific pace,
poor Constance was whirled from lane to
lane, from road to road, over many hills
and through dark valleys, until finally, when
the sun was sinking westward and the evening
shadows fell, a grim and rugged ruin
could be seen in the distance ; then they
crossed the spur of Crowsfoot Hill, passed
over the lower moorlands, and took to the
chain of mountains known as the ^' Robbers*
Refuge," where for the present the outcome
of the dark 'deed of Black Friday must be
left untold.

George " and " Dragon " were restlessly

stamping away the gravel at the porch of the
east entrance of the Castle ; the horses looked
the pink of perfection, and the harness, blazing
with heraldic bearings, frittered in the sun.

You will have a charming drive, Major,"
said old Leonard, who was brushing my hat in
the hall. " Prettiest country in Europe, sir'

** Grand ! " I replied.

I placed Mrs Snowdon's fur cloak in the
carriage, sir ; maybe she will find the evening
chilly when the sun goes down, and she will
require something next her heart to keep it
warm," continued Leonard, with a smile on
his countenance.

** Very thoughtful of you," I replied.

No mother, sir ! no mother. Lord love
her dear heart ; I am obliged to watch her
like a cat would a mouse — ever' so wet, never
think of changing her boots."

*' Eight you are, Leonard ; and a good
fellow, too," I said.

She was brought up, sir, as I told you once
before, under my very nose, Major. I can
remember the time that, for hours together, I
used to rock her cradle when nothing else todo.
The old nurse very often used to say,
'Drat the baby ! take her, Leonard, it is only
you as can stop her little mouth.' Sure
enough, the child used to holler fine I and the
very instant she was landed in my arms she
was as right as the ' mail.' Can you or anyone
else, sir, wonder at my loving her? I
shall be glad, Major, when you bring her
home. I don't know this place when she is
away, 'tis that dismal ; and as for Miss Gertrude,
her hands are pretty full, I can tell
you, with her mother. Good heavens ! how
missus do carry on, to be sure ! "

I hope you all think she is improving,
Leonard."

'' Improving, Major ! Lord bless you, her improvement
will be the other side of the grave."

Well, my good man," I added, " it is to
be hoped that we shall all improve our condition
there, and we may take it for granted
that such will be the case, provided we strive
to do what is strictly right this side of the
octave."

Ah ! that's the rub," replied Leonard,
scratching his head. " Every tub, sir, must
stand on it's own bottom ; some got no
bottom to stand on, and will be all askew
later on, if they don't watch it ; some tubs
are water-tight, and some leaky."

'can you form any idea, Leonard, of the
physical condition of Mrs Townshend ? "

As to the physicking part, sir, if that's
what you mean, there's plenty of that knocking
12; about ; zounds ! there has been enough
physic sent over from the doctor's the last
month to last a lifetime ; as for me, I never
didn't take any medicine, and what's more, I
don't intend to."

I did not refer to medicine," I replied
*' but more particularly as to the nature of
Mrs Townshend's complaint."

Complaint ! All, yes — exactly," and Leonard
pulled down the corners of his waistcoat,,
looked suspiciously around him, and replied in
an undertone, — "Mad, sir, mad — mad — mad
as a hatter ! "

You cannot be in earnest, Leonard," seriously.


Clean off her head, sir, tile loose, buttons
all gone ; true, sir, as true as there is bread to
be found in nine loaves."

You do surprise me ! I am still of opinion
that you may be mistaken."

I think, Major, when you hear a lady
a-walking about visiting the ark, going to be
married to old Noah, and building a new
house of gopher wood on the Carthewin
estate, that looks ' fishy ' anyhow, and ' very
like a whale ! '"

At this point, Gertrude and Mr Townshend,
hearing: a conversation in the ball, came out
of the library. Leonard subsided almost into
his boots, and pretended to be brushing my
coat.

So you are off, Major Grey," said Miss
Townshend.

** Now preparing, Mademoiselle Gertrude,"
I replied ; *' horses are getting fidgety."

I vote that dear pater goes with you, but
he won't hear of it, because mamma is but soso,
this morning."

"No, Grey, I cannot leave home," said Mr
Townshend. " Make haste back, my boy, and
if you drive those brutes, hold on, mind ; they
pull like distraction for the first few miles,
after that, they will settle down to their work."

I shall be watchful, sir, and, God willing, I
hope to bring your good daughter safely home."

Mind, Grey, I shall expect you back long before
it is dark. On your return, cast your eye to

the serpentine river, by Cherry Orchard farm.
Nora knows the spot. I may be fishing there,
and you can give me a lift ; but all will depend
upon my wife's health to-day."

Gertrude, as was sometimes her custom,
put a flower in my button-hole ; I lit my
savannah, bid my host and his fair daughter
good-morning, gathered up the reins of the
liiah-mettled four-years-old, gently passed
the end of the whip-cord over their faultless
loins, and we started down the main drive
through the park. The last words I heard
Mr Town send say were, " Good-bye, my dear
boy." Those words echoed, as it were, in my
ears the whole of the journey ; seemingly, I
had never heard anything so refreshing ; it
was a healing balm to many perplexities that
were, just then, agitating my mind ; and, as I
blew cloud after cloud of smoke from my
fragrant weed, there came with them a murmuring
of " To be or not to be ? "



I contrived, in my impetuosity, to drive
over some marauding geese that were gobbling
on the green in front of one of the farmhouses
on the estate.

I knows the gentleman," said the proprietor,
rushing out, "leastways, the horses,
and be darned if I don't stop the cost of that
little lot out midsummer's rent ! "

I bowled along up-hill, down, and on the
flat at a " spinning " pace. " George " and
Dragon " settled to their work in o;ood form.
At the end of the first stage of six miles, they
showed no sig-ns of " turning; a hair," and
still looked spick and span. At a small
public-house, known by the sign of the
Catharine Wheel," I gave the horses justa
wisp of wet hay and a mouthful of water,
chatted familiarly with the licensed victualler
(whose name' was Grabbb, and who had an
eruptive countenance) and his pretty little
wife, black-eyed Susan, as I jocosely dubbed

her, thinking that she was his daughter.
The smallest drop of cognac, if you please
and a little cold water," I called for.

And maybe, Mr Townshend, Esquire, you
will just tell me again what it is that you want
me to put into the water, or by the side of it."

Cognac, my dear," I replied, with a
pleasant nod.

And pray, may I be so bold as to ask
what that is ? "

Brandy — brandy ; you know what brandy
is?"

Know it ? " was the rejoinder, " of course
I do. Ask me if I know my own husband.
Lord love the gentleman, we don't understand
your high-flying names this part of the
country. For the life of me, I could not tell
whether it was anything to eat or drink.
Now, sir, if you had asked for a drop of
the Bab., I should have known what you
meant."

'for heaven's sake! my good girl, don't
you give me any British brandy."

We don't call it by that name here, sir;
Bab. is what we call the 'busy bee' — and
you can see its handiwork on my husband's
nose, which is getting more fiery and fiery
every day."

I laughed immoderately, saying, —

Susan, or whatever your name is, why
did you call me Mr Townshend when I
drove up ? "

Lor' bless he, sir, ' murder will out,' as
the saying is, and ' marriage will in,' as the
saying goes : leastways, sooner or later, and
I may as well call he by that name now
as by-and-by. The talk is, that you be going
to marry the lord of the manor's daughter,
and that you be going to take the name of
Townshend."

Rubbish, my good girl ; all moonshine,
idle gossip."

More's the pity then for you, General,"
said Mrs Grabbb, cresting her head, and placing
her arms akimbo ; '' there be many a man
that would like to pick up such ' rubbish.' I
can tell you ; and, as to moonshine — well. I
never heard it called by that name before.
It will be all honeymoon shine with her, sir ;
yes, honeymoon shine, all the year round."

You know Mr Townshend's daughter, then,
Susan ? " I asked.

''My name is not Susan, sir, or anything
like it ! " she replied snappishly.

What, then ? "

Lucy, sir ; and I am the lawful wife of
Obadiah Grabbb, the proprietor of the ' Catharine
Wheel,' with a full spirit licence, to be
drunk on the premises,' as you may see by
the reflection on Mr Grabbb's nose ; and I've
got my marriage lines upstairs. That I can
show to anybody, and that's more than
everybody about the village can boast of.

You asked me if I knew Squire Townseucl's
daughter ; ask my husband there, and if he
tells you the truth, he will say that he
wouldn't have a rag to his back, or I a hat
and feathers for Sunday, but for dear Miss
Nora. I always calls her miss, you know ;
why, when them horrid bailiffs were in the
house for rent, she sent me the money, and
I started 'em off with a fly in their ear.
When I lost my poor little Obadiah, Miss
Nora buried what was left of him at her own
expense, and sent the beautifully wreath of
white flowers to put on his coffin you ever
saw. There, her kindness was enough to
make my little Obadiah turn in his little
grave ; she's that good, sir, that not nobody
knows her real worth."

A pause.

She is staying at the Abbey now," went
on Mrs Grabbb. " I suppose, if the truth be
known, General, you be going to see her ?

There, you needn't lauo;h, or blush so, us
knows all about it."

Yes, I am bound for the Abbey," I replied.

"And I am bound that you be bound to
Miss Nora, and you couldn't be bound to
anything more better or more binding ; and
if you brings back dear missed this way, and
not over the Common, mind our kettle will
be singing at five o'clock, and little miss
always has a cup o' tea to refresh her on
the road. Ah, me ! she looked very bad
when I last saw her ; trouble. General,
trouble ; there, us knows all about it. Your
horses be getting frisky, sir ; maybe somebody
else the other side of the Downs is
troubled with the same complaint. Excuse
my making so bold. General, but I think
you had better go on your way to the Abbey ;
ah, me ! and mine is to the wash-tub ! "

This woman was about one of the most
original specimens of humanity I ever met

with, and I was greatly interested and
amused with her native eloquence, all the
more so, perhaps, because the little gossip
we had savoured so much of probable
coming events, which, using a homely proverb,
cast their shadows before."

I tossed a coin on the table for the
refreshment ; wished the lady of the
Catharine Wheel ' good-morning, intimating
that I may see her again ere the sun
went down ; and, in a few moments, I was
tooling " my bright bays with black points
up to twelve miles an hour !

The Abbey clock in the restored part of the
old tower struck out one in a solemn tone,
just as I pulled up "George" and "Dragon"
with some emphasis at the ancient nail-studded
door of the residence of the
Honourable Mrs Mackenzie. It was formerly
the old rectory house, the grounds of which
adjoined the Abbey gardens, the property

of the Earl of , a nobleman beloved

and esteemed by all around him, whose
whole life was one of great usefulness,
pulling an oar in every good work, and
laying himself out specially for the benefit
of others. Those splendid specimens of
well-preserved vegetable life that surround
his noble demesne were his delight, and
to his exertion it is owing

The goodly elms of noble girth,
That thrice the human span,
While on the variegated course
The constant seasons ran
Through gale and hail and fiery bolts
Had stood erect as man."

A new parsonage having been built, the
Earl presented, many years since, the old
rectory house to his late chaplain's widow
for her lifetime ; in this remnant of bygone
days, now mantled with ivy, and looking
very picturesque, lived Mrs Mackenzie,
our heroine's second mother, as she was

pleased to call her, a lady full of years,
renowned for strict piety and moral excellence,
and a great favourite in the sphere
in which she lived.

My heart thumped most provokingly
Ashen the great bell in the corridor, that
divided the house from the main entrance,
announced my arrival. The heavy door
was almost immediately swung open by the
butler, and out rushed " Smut," a favourite
spaniel of Mrs Snowdon's. The little creature
was delighted to see me ; he was often
my' companion and guide in various wanderings
at Carthewin. The little nobleman
(as I called him) knew every inch of
ground on his master's estate, and often when
I was in a fix as to my whereabouts, instinct
told him of the dilemma, he would then wag
his tail and give me the lead. Indeed, I
never knew the brute at fault — poor " Smut ! '^

many a happy ramble we have had together,
VOL. III. I

and many a jolly meal under a hedgerow,
or patrick. " Smut's " bones now lie beneath
a polished piece of granite in Nora's own
mimic garden ; the highly valued little
allotment selected in her childhood for her
special use. What memories of old ! what
sweet songs these sacred spots sing to us !
What sunshine, in after life ! But I digress.

Mrs Mackenzie met me in the hall ; I was
received most cordially. I found her a lady
of commanding presence, with the whitest
of hair — self-possessed, unemotional ; slow of
speech, measuring, as it were, every word ;
add to this a heavenly countenance, and
you have the portrait of the Honourable
Mrs Mackenzie, with whom, by-the-bye, I
had long since grown familiar, for Mrs
Snowdon never grew tired of talking to me
about her, and dilating on her merits.

You have had a nice drive, of course ? "
she commenced in her august tone, pointing

to a chair by her side, which I have a faint
recollection of plumping into in an awkward
manner.

'* Yes, dear madam, I have had a charming
drive, and one that I shall never forget. The
scenery nearly the whole of the way is simply
magnificent ; it was an ever-changing panorama
of neri wailed beauty."

Ah, me ! " sighed Mrs Mackenzie, " I have
driven over that ground with my late beloved
husband. I was going to say hundreds of
times ; yes, when dear Nora was a tiny child
indeed before she was born ; apropos, she
is out for a canter on the downs with the
coachman. She knows of your coming to
fetch her, as she had a letter from her father
yesterday to that effect, and promised to be
back here at lunch time ; she is very welland
looking so bright — "

Mrs Mackenzie fixed her eyes upon me ;
up shot the rubicund in my face. My embarrassment

I cannot deny, neither could it
be mistaken ; my lady perceived it in a
moment, and she continued, —

"Eeally, Major Grey, it is very cruel of
you to come and take Nora away ; you heard
me call her just now my child, and she is, so
to speak, my very own, my precious child.
Heaven willed it that my wedded life should
not be blessed with children ; but to atone
for the deprivation, I possess the unbounded
love and companionship of that sweet life."

I bungled out something about a most
estimable lady, and in warm terms referred
to Mr Townshend ; but the epick
penetrating eyes of my hostess were " all
there," and reading my thoughts like a
book. On my word I never felt at such a
disadvantage ; my attention was naturally
divided, which made me awkward in speech.
I felt, too, that Mrs Mackenzie was in possession
of Nora's secrets, and I had a shrewd

suspicion that Mrs Snowdon was purposely
absent, in order that I may go through my
facings " before her " second parent ! "

I am sorry to hear, Major Grey, such
unfavourable accounts of poor Mrs Townshend.
How is she to-day ? " said Mrs Mackenzie.

''I regret to say, still very unwell"

'' Sad affair, sad affair ; one hardly likes to
speak of it, except beneath the breath. I do
feel so for the family," went on Mrs Mackenzie,
in sympathetic tones.

"Poor Miss Gertrude," I added, "is quite
a recluse owing to her mother's illness."

"Yes," replied Mrs Mackenzie, "she, too,
is a lovable little body, very original, very
enthusiastic, full of energy and industry, but
the latter should not be taxed too much.
Must have her over here for awhile, and —
listen ! I think I hear Nora's horse, — yes,
'tis she, — her very self; the groom is running
to meet her."

And with your permission, madam, I will
go and assist her to alight."

Mrs Mackenzie gracefully bent her head,
by way of approval ; a few long strides took
me to the entrance gate, and Nora, all smiles,
cantered up on a thorough-bred black mare.

Her blush, when she caught sight of me,
was a symbol of modesty and beauty, as she
promptly reined up her high-mettled mare
with one hand, and cordially took mine in
the other.

Allow me, Mrs Snowdon," and in my
anxiety, I rather unceremoniously lifted her
as I would a child from her horse, my height
enabling me to achieve this little (but by
no means graceful) performance without difficulty.
By-the-bye, I may as well record
that I noticed the stable groom, whilst
holding "Black Bess" with both hands*
give the coachman a knowing wink, as much
as to say, " I twigged it."

"How good of you, Major Grey, to come
over and fetch me. First of all — how is dear
mamma ? I heard from father yesterday,
but he did not say much about her health,
indeed he is alarmingly reticent'

'miss Gertrude," I replied, "informed me
just before I left that your mother was still
very ill, and the doctor's opinion was, that
she must have change of scene and go abroad
at once. Apropos of going abroad, I have
received a letter from my colonel announcing'
instructions from the War Office to hold
myself in readiness for foreign service."

"You are not really in earnest. Major
Grey ? " faltered Nora, gathering around her
the trailing folds of her riding-habit.

I am positively in earnest," I replied, handing
her the official letter, with a large margin.

Don't show me the unwelcome think;,
Major Grey, at least, not now, some other
time," said Nora, with a deep sigh, — that

sigh ! " And," went on our heroine, in an
embarrassed manner, *''how is my Gerty, —
also dear Constance, old Leonard, and all at
the Castle ? "

"Your sister," I submitted, 'must be
dragged out of the invalid's room at the
earliest moment, and a professional nurse
employed, as the close confinement is sadly
telling upon her health ; as for Miss Templar,
she is up to her eyes preparing Reel-Cross
reports, and scribbling away like a lawyer's
clerk. We had a stroll in the garden this
morning, and a long tete-astute over old times."

'^ Dear Constance 1 " responded Nora, smiling
benignly ; " and dear old Leonard, too ; I
do love that man ! "

A pause, during which Nora kept playing
with her riding-whip.

'penny for your thoughts, Mrs Snowdon."

"They are yours at the sum you name,"
she replied. " I was just then thinking of — "

'' Of what ? " I asked.

Of — Hark ! there is the luiich-bell.
Mrs Mackenzie cannot bear to be kept a
moment," and Nora skipped over the velvet
sward as I never saw her skip before.

How picturesque she looked in her faultless
riding-habit and hat ; there was an inexpressible
loveliness about her, — indeed, her grace
and beauty bewildered me !

Mrs Mackenzie and I had a long chat
during luncheon upon various matters ; some
of my people, and connections of hers, were
intimately associated, notably the Podmores of
Cumberland, consequently we got on exceedingly
well turner our tete-astute ; ixite.v which,
she suo^o-ested that Nora should take me over
the ornamental grounds of the Abbey, and
give me a sight of the exquisite American gardens
that abound with many choice specimen
trees — some in full bloom, and richly clad in
their wealth of spring foliage. I gladly accepted

the offer, and with a heart beating-with
anxiety, we leisurely strolled through the
well-kept gravel walks under the great cedars
of Lebanon, whose flat boughs screened us
from the sun. The air was soft and languid,
just what one frequently experiences in the
balmy months of May, before evening spreads
its mellow tints over the heavens ; the birds
were in song, — all was purity and harmony in
this enchanting spot ; and as I looked down
on the sweet flushed face by my side, and observed
the slight quiver of Nora's coral lips,
I said within myself, — " What a miserable
fellow I shall be should she refuse me ! " then
Miss Templar's last words rang out encouragingly
in my ears, —

' Faint heart never won fair lady.' Farewell
! may God direct you aright."

At every point of interest Nora had much
to communicate respecting the flowers ; the
foreign shrubs ; the flowering myrtles ; trees

of various growths and wealth of foliage, — all
of which she was most thoroughly up in, and
dilated upon the merits of each with 



sino knowledge.

o

There has been a grand show of rhododendrons,
camellias, and azaleas, this year,"
said Nora ; "they grow most luxuriantly out-of-doors
in these sheltered grounds."

Yes, dear Mrs Snowdon. Everything appears
to be blooming here, except heartless."

And Nora looked up into my face with the
sweetest expression, and archly said, —

Heartless will fructify in almost any
climate, and it is generally the owner's fault
if he do not plant them in suitable soil,
cultivate, and improve their character from
year to year."

Failure No. 1, I thought. How unemotional!
how effusive ! too much with Mrs Mac-kenzie.


And we sat down together on the velvet

sward, — on the moss-covered bank that sloped
to the edge of the peaceful lake, on the surface
of which rested the white and yellow lotus,
or Egyptian lilies, springing in all their purity
from the bottom of the translucent stream
that gave them birth ; the half-open buds,
unfolding their leaves, and like infants waking
from their sleep, peeped out invitingly between
their broad, flat olive-green leaves.

And we listened to the distant mumurino-s
of the brook on the mountain side, as it
meandered its way from rock to rock with a
never-ceasing ripple ; and we conversed freely
on many subjects.

"You cannot imagine, Major Grey, how I
love this spot, and all its surroundings. Ah,
me ! it brings most vividly to my recollection
the happy days of my childhood, in connection
with Mrs Mackenzie, — the toy-boat on
that lake ; the little summer house, le petit
Belvedere, as I called it ; even the fragrance of

some of these flowers strikes a sensitive chord
in my heart, and brings forth reminiscences
of old."

Yes, dear Mrs Snowdon, I can enter most
fully into your feelings, for I often experience
similar impressions whenever I visit the
Woodlands. By-the-bye, I must soon take
my leave of you and your dear family, and
sojourn awhile at home, as I do not know
when I may be summoned to Woolwich."

And Nora fixed her eyes dreamily on the
lilies in the lake, but spoke not. After
throwing several pebbles at an imaginary
something in the water, she said in the most
effusive manner, —

So you are really going to leave us,
Major Grey ? "

There is no choice left to me," I replied ;
'* had I one, I should have little difficulty in
choosing."

And Nora threw a few more pebbles into

the water, and watched, in an abstracted
mood, the little circle caused by the splash
spreading wider and wider until it faded away.

There was at this point a long pause ; then,
to break the painful silence, I ventured, —

'* Though duty to my country, and paternal
duty at home, bid me be up and doing, T
shall nevertheless most keenly feel the separation
from surroundings and pastimes which
have been the most delightful of my life ;
but I must bear the yoke of the inevitable,
and feed on the past. When far away in
distant lands (another splash in the water),
I shall look back with joy and satisfaction on
the happy days I have spent at Carthewin
Castle — the unbounded kindness, and 
reception that I have met with
from Mr and Mrs Townshend and their graceful
daughters, which will always be a source
of infinite pleasure to me."

In went the stones again, but no lips

moved ; not a sound was heard save the
ripple of the brook, and the little song-bird
perched on a branch over our head. Egad !
I was alive to the fact that my speech was
faltering. The climax, however, had at last
arrived, for Nora said, in a voice more nervous
than my own, at the same time making
a move to depart, —

We must be going. Major Grey, we have
already stayed too long ; we have many
miles to drive, and my father will be anxious."

"The minutes I shall detain you, dear Mrs
Snowdon, will be few, but the result, to me,
may be important."

Eeally, Major Grey, I—"

There is just one small favour," I interrupted,
" I must ask you to accord ; it
is of very little importance to you, though
much to me."

Mrs Snowdon breathed more freely, though,
with some embarrassment, she replied, —

Yes — oh — yes — certainly — anything in
reason, clear Major Grey ; but, seriously, we
must be leaving. Hark ! the Abbey bell is
striking four."

"One only, one little favour, Mrs — "

(Snowdon stuck in my throat).

I have already spoken," faltered our
heroine, and the blood left her cheek as she
bent her head in anticipation of what I had
to submit."

My old and valued friend and companion
Percival Snowdon, your lamented husband
(Nora started), in his last moments called me
to his side, and threw round my neck a
locket, saying, ' Wear it, Oliver, this Shadow
in the Gold ; wear it for my sake, and when
you look on the reflex of the fair face of my
Nora in that little circle, it may remind you
of the closest and dearest tie of your devoted
friend.' It has been my good fortune, Mrs
Snowdon, to be brought into close communion

with the original, and I deemed it consistent
to restore the locket to its former owner ;
but, like a child that has given away a toy
and pines to have it back, so I long to again
possess it ; that is, if it meet with your
pleasure to accord it me. In quiet hours,
when the great ocean divides us, that little
Shadow in the Gold will cheer ; yes, it
weill cheer me, in barracks, camp, or may be,
on the battlefield."

Another pause, — Nora trembled violently :
poor girl, she knew that by granting the
request, it really meant granting more, nay the
one great coup of her life may hang upon it.

"Don't — don't — for pity's sake refuse me I "
I murmured imploringly ; " if — if — "

If what ? " said Nora vehemently, and rising
to her feet she struggled within herself

If you do refuse, I must simply bend submissively
to your will. One thing is certain

dear Mrs Snowdon, I can carry with me every
V{3L. in. K

line of that fair face now before my eyes — it
is indelibly stamped on my retina ; yes, I can
carry it to the end of the world — and who
can take it from me ? "

Nora opened a small sealskin satchel which
she wore at her side, and with a trembling
hand she brought forth the locket and lons^
ribbon to which it was attached ; — then drawing
nearer to me, and looking, as it were, out
of heaven, she whispered, —

You said you would bend submissively to
my will."

Even so," I replied, and I leant forward.

The dear girl threw the ribbon round my
neck — the act spoke its own sweet language,
louder than any words — she looked me full
in the face ; there were likenesses in each
other's eyes — yes, speaking likenesses ! — a
bright tear stood trembling on the long fringe
of her lashes ; the rose suffused her face, and
she drooped her head slowly on my breast !

I pressed her throbbing form closer and
-closer to my beating heart — our lips met for
the first time ; and from mine came forth the
words, —

'' My own, my very own Nora ! "
And a tiny voice, with breath like the dew
of heaven, whispered in gentle accents, —
My own, my Oliver, my second hero ! "
And there, in the american gardens by the
waterfall, adjoining the old Abbey, we plighted
our troth ; and the angels in heaven bear witness
to the solemn bond ! Silence reigned
supreme — even the murmuring of the leaves,
as it were, temporarily ceased — all nature
seemed hushed in sleep, but the May blossom
floated deliciously on the gentle breeze ; many
birds were with their nestlings ; and Nora,
dear Nora, and I were happy ! !

Again I say, in the words of Thackeray, —

Blessed he who hath the love of a good woman."

THE ROBBERS' REFUGE.

Somewhere about twenty miles from Cartier
Castle, in the midst of a range of hills,
proverbial amongst the peasants of the neighbourhood
as the " Robbers' Refuge," stand,
grim and desolate, the remains of an old monastery,
now battered and worn by the ravages
of time. The howling tempest, that swept with
mighty force for centuries on its iron-bound
surface, has left its sure and certain mark.
With the exception of a remnant of one tower
at the east end, and the dilapidated walls that
partly surround what is supposed to be the
remains of an old banqueting-room, all appears

to have succumbed to the natural results of
decay. The gigantic roots of ivy exposed at
the basement, indicate that generations have
passed away since first they fed the offshoots
that now penetrate every crevice of the crumbling
walls ; the thick olive-green wealth of
foliage, climbing year by year to the extreme
edo;e of the tower, has for ao^es sheltered
countless birds and their nestlings from the
blast of the elements : — and the mountain
cattle have found a safe refuge behind those
weather-beaten walls, when hurricanes set in,
and a bleak " north - caster " drove them
there for protection.

Beneath these old ruins are the remains of
either underground kitchens or places where
prisoners were formerly confined, — history has
not determined which, as no traces are left
that will clear the matter up ; but at the east
side of the tower there is a spacious trap door,
which leads by circular stone steps to two

fairly large rooms, both substantially paved
lio^lit and air being; admitted through an
aperture, a cutting having been made in a
sloping direction, secured by heavy bars of
iron, from which bats noiselessly fly in and
out. The range of mountains, which is
many miles in extent, affords rough pasturage
for a large number of cattle ; the property is
divided amongst a few farmers, whose primitive
homesteads are situated at a distance
from each other. The shepherds attached to
these farms lead a hard life, in some instances
living where others, less accustomed to privation,
would starve, leaving their homes for
months together, watching their Hocks by
night and by day, and wandering over those
desolate gorse and heather-covered iceland,
where the human voice is seldom heard, and
where man's footprint is seldom seen ; — nothing
but the bleating of sheep, the lowing of the
cattle, the songs of the birds, and the busy

hum of insect life, to stir up and awaken the
souls of those poor fellows, whose hard fate it
is to fulfil such duties as they are called upon
to do : truly it may be said their life is a
bitter one. But here and there wx find men
with backs peculiarly fitted to bear peculiar
burdens, and what would be to some Hades
upon earth, is to others infinite pleasure.

On this vast range of mountains, doubtless,
are to be found loyal, upright souls, as well as
some dare-d — 1, lawless rascals, the scum of
the earth, who lay themselves out to carry on
the most reckless work entrusted to them,
regardless of the consequences, so long as
they are well paid, and can keep their own
skins whole.

If the present reader will, in imagination,
remove those large branches of ivy, lift uj) the
iron-bound trap-door, and descend the circular
flight of stone steps that leads to the chambers
before mentioned, he or she weill then have a

clear perception of some of the characters who
frequent this neighbourhood.

The sun had long since gone down, the
gloaming passed away, and the star-lit sky
bespangled the heavens ; all save the bleating
of the sheep on the mountain side, and the
screech-owl's cry, as the sound floated on the
silent air from Crowsfoot Wood, was still ;
everything seemed to the world peaceful —
yes, as a summer's dream !

Not so, however, in these infernal regions
beneath the ruin of the old monastery, where
Constance Templar, the graceful and accomplished
Red-cross nurse, lies terror-stricken
on an impromptu bedstead, with dried leaves
for a mattress, and nothing but a coarse
horseflesh for a covering by night. Let us
draw nearer to her sad heart, see her ashy
pale face, note her large black eyes bedimmed
with tears, nevertheless flashing fire, with
a mind determined, resolute, unconquerable !

ready at any moment to suffer death rather
than fall a prey to the vile wretches whose
prisoner she now is.

Ah, me ! " she sighed, weary as it were of
life ; " three days and three long nights have
I been here, and have not dared to close
these eyes in sleep, lest I may suddenly
awake to scenes fearful to contemplate.
Good give me strength to bear this affliction,
extend Thine all-powerful arm in this my
hour of peril"

And the brunette fell back upon her pillow
exhausted.

The pendant oil-lamp that swung from the
damp ceiling threw its lurid light on the
pale face of the helpless girl, as prostrate she
lay, like a recumbent marble statue.

The heavy oak door creaked on its hinges,
and a man of Philistine proportions, wearing
a black mask, cautiously stepped into the
room, and with a lantern went up to the

couch ; after assuring himself that all was
right, placing ample food on the table by
his prisoner's side, and re trimming the oil-lamp
for the night, he withdrew. The
massive rusty bolt, as it fell into its place,
announced that all was secure ; then, throwing
off his mask, he "plumped" himself into a
chair, rested his head on his hands, and
stared in a vacant manner at the smouldering
wood that faintly lit up the room.

By this man's side, on the remains of a
dilapidated bench, lounged, half asleep, another
square-built, sullen-looking fellow, with a head
covered with shocks of coarse hair, and,
phrenologically speaking, of the very lowest
type. His proportions were short and thick,
eyes small and restless, a tip-tilted nose, grisly
beard, teeth projecting, and a countenance
deeply marked with smallpox ; in fine, one
of the most determined, "hang-dog" rascals
in creation !

On the table were sundry bottles, long clay
pipes, and tobacco, the narcotic fumes of
which, together with the spirituous liquor,
told its own tale on the cadaverous faces of
those outlaws.

Bad job ; I tell thee, 'tis a bad job, Joe.
I wish to the Lord I never had a hand in it.
Better 'a laid this *' mawler ' on that block,
and cut it clean off at the wrist," said Giant
Bill (so called in consequence of his colossal
stature), at the same time expectorating into
the fire.

Bah ! you timid fool," replied Joe ; ** when
the genelmnn planked them ' rivers ' on the
table, you pounced down upon 'em like a
hungry rattlesnake on its prey. You great,
long, ravenous hound, you'd a-given yer
eyes out of your head for a few more
tenets,' and now, after taking the money,
you be fretting and fuming over this puny
wench."

I tell thee, Joe, I don't like the job ; 'tis
an ugly business, and we shall be both hanged
up by our necks."

'' Well, old man," responded Joe, helping
himself to another glass of rum, " we shall
both swing together, for certain, — both
dance upon nothing. You won't want a very
long rope, and you'll soon get to the end on
it— ha ! ha ! ha ! "

You may laugh and jeer," said Giant
Bill, " but, by George ! if you don't
laugh t'other side of yer mouth when
yer be standing before the judge in the
dock."

A pause.

** Did you see the gentleman this morning ? "
asked Bill.

I did, and a pretty blue funk he is in ;
bluer nor either of us."

'well, what did he say? Growled, I repose?"

Growled ! Huss than that ; he cussed

for nearly an hour, until he was blue in the
face, and swore that he would blow both our
brains out."

Go on," said Bill, filling his pipe.

I told the gentleman 'twas no use carrying
on like that. If we got hold of the wrong gal,
'twas his own fault, cause as how he ouo-ht to
a' put us on a better scent. You know very
well, Bill, my boy, we acted up to 'instructions,
we grabbed hold of the gal w^iat was a-
making love to a feller like a poplar tree.
There he was in the garden, a-kissin' the
maid's hand like mad, and off she went a-
blubbering in the wood ; and, in course, we
took her under our protection. Bill, my boy,
didn't we ? "

"And nursed her," added Bill, "like a
mother would a tender baby, Pass the bottle,
Joe."

Well, Joey, my boy," went on Giant
Bill, "we've made a thundering mistake,—

we've a got hold of the wrong wench for
certain ; now, the long and short of the
matter is, what the d — 1 are we to do with
her? The gentleman says he will have no
hands in it, 'cause why — he didn't bargain
for the black gal in t'other room, the bit of
stuff he wanted to nobble was the squire's
daughter : and the other half of the reward
he swears he won't hand over."

Won't he ? " said Joe, with a villainous
chuckle ; "two can play at that fun; watch
it, and see."

And the brute drew his clasped knife across
his throat, in imitation of what may probably
follow

Then," continued Bill, " the gentleman
sees the danger of letting; loose our blackbird
here, for the moment she is on the
wing, hang my buttons if she won't be at
Carthewin Castle before you can say black
Ketch ; and it will be catch 'em alive 0, for

the bloodhounds will be on our track like
mad, and we shall be ' run in ' to the stone
jug before you know where you are, Joey,
my boy."

'bah! "said Joe, 'ewe will clip the bird's
wings, — I know how to do the trick — ha !
ha! ha!"

"How, Joey? out with it, man."

"Why," said Joe, "to tell you the plain
truth, she may be a little faint one night,
when there saint any moon, and maybe a
little fresh air and quiet walk, under our
protection, will revive her, and a little cold
water, at the bend of the tidal river, will
refresh her — ha ! ha I ha ! "

1 tell thee again, Joe, I don't like the
job. I would drown thee, if I had the
chance, like a rat ; but as for that sleeping
beauty in the other room, I would cut my
throat first."

No need to cut thy throat, Bill, thou'lt

be hanged, man — yes, hanged ! if once that
girl's let loose ; no, no, no, we both knows
a trick worth two o' that, and so does the
gentleman with the eyeglass, — he can see a
hole in a ladder, man, — 'tis a bad job, and
we must make the best of it : the wrench
must tell no tales, and I knows the spot
that will stop her mouth."

Giant Bill refilled his pipe, and puffed
away in silence ; dare-d — 1 fellow that he
had been, there were still lingering within,
that massive square head some redeeming
points, and he manifestly shrank from precipitating
so black and foul a deed as his
less scrupulous ally more than once hinted
at ; and he said within himself, " I'll have
none o't."

Then came the danger of releasing Constance,
and the gallows stared him in the
face. More than once he contemplated
rushing from the scene, and escaping in a

boat across the water, and joining a ship
for foreign service ; but the d — 1 again
tempted him, and the large sum of money
offered by the " gentleman," provided he and
Joe could effectually wipe out for ever all
possibility of detection, was attractive ; and
faithless Satan kept his allurements well in
front of him — whilst Bill shrank from hurting
a hair of Constance's head, he respected
his own neck. To save one would, he knew,
imperil the other ; he felt that he was on
the edge of a precipice, and saw no way of
escape, — he thought too of his own wife, and
deformed child, — then a bag full of sovereigns
danced, as it were, before his eyes, and
chinked in his ears. He had done some desperate
things in his day — he had pulled an
oar with noted pirates ; fought many a hard
battle on the sea ; but it was in fair combat
between man and man, life for life. He
once belonged to a gang of brigands on

VOL. III. L

the Spanish coast, where they thought nothing
of stopping travellers and plundering
their luggage ; he had been transported for
burglary, with violence — escaped from prison,
and was now at large, and *' wanted."

Later on, Joe succumbed to the sundry
potations of spirituous liquor that he had so
freely imbibed, and was stretched at full length
on a heap of dry leaves in the corner of the
room. The faint glimmer from the smoking
oil-lamp, and the burning log on the hearthstone,
threw their ghastly light on the ruffian's
cadaverous face, as he lay snoring away.

Giant Bill stood over him for a few moments
in deep thought, then muttered, —
'' Well, what if I did ? yes, save his neck, and
mine too. Save the gal ? yes — no ; yes — no,
I won't ! " he turned to the rum bottle and
finished its contents. The d — 1 again came
on the scene, and the man of Philistine proportions
glared at his sleeping comrade.

"Reptile!" he said, " I could crush thee with
one blow of this ponderous fist ; I could send
thee headlong into the next world, without
the hangman's rope round thy neck ; I could
send thee there with this mark on thy breast —
yes, and I will ! if only to save the gal's life.
By heaven ! I will pay thy fare there with this
dag-over, and thou shalt have no return ticket."

Steadily the long glittering dagger was
raised, and about to descend hilt deep into the
heart of the sleeping ruffian, when a shrill
voice cried out, —

What ! stab men in the dark ! "

The would-be assassin dropped the dagger,
as though it had been shot from his grasp,
and lo ! Constance Templar stood in the half-open
doorway of her apartment, holding the
oil-lamp in one hand, and with the other
pointing towards Giant Bill, said in a firm
voice, — /

*' Thou art the man ! "

The foul deed was arrested, Giant Bill slunk
away, the brunette again sought her wretched
couch, and prepared herself for the worst,
come what may. The bolt that Bill thought
he had securely fastened was a failure, and
Constance struggled to the door, and therethrough
that long dismal night she listened
to the diabolical plot to take away her young
life, — she heard, as it were, the funeral knell
ring over her watery grave, and felt the
surging of the sea encompassing her. From
one scoundrel she knew she would find no
mercy ; from the other, she was not so certain
; she thought that a large reward to save
her life might tempt him, but then she had no
bank notes or gold — nothing except her personal
jewellery, and no means of communicating
with her friends. It was a dismal
look-out, and she arrived at the conclusion,
that it was exceedingly problematical as to
her life being spared, the chances hung on a

slender thread, nothing short of a miracle
could save her. Brave, high-minded woman
that she was, the strain on her nerves was
tightened to its highest pitch, and she said
within herself, — " Often in camp, and on the
battlefield, my life has been in peril, hairbreadth
escapes I have passed through, and,
God willing, I shall be rescued from the
clutches of these villains."

While Constance thus soliloquised, the door
of her room slowly opened, and the two
robbers entered.

What ! " exclaimed Constance ; " not content
to tear me from my beloved companions,
but you must needs stealthily enter my room
in the dead hour of night. Speak ! men ;
what do you require ? "

To make love to you, my dear," said Joe,
*' and to see that all your wants are supplied."

Constance visibly shuddered as the ruffian's
bloodshot eyes glared upon her.

*' I need no requirements from your haiids^
nothing but my liberty, poor foolish tools that
you are ; for a few paltry coins of gold you
have committed a cruel, wicked deed ! I pity
you both, yes, from my very soul. Had
either of you a helpless girl of your own,
you could not have found the heart to treat
me thus. Oh ! what have I done to deserve
it ? Speak ! men ; speak."

Giant Bill started, and clenched his fist.
We ain't come here," said Joe, in
drunken accents, "to argue with yer, but todo
our duty in that station of life where we
have been called upon to do it. Ain't it so,
Billy, my boy ? "

Giant Bill dropped his head upon his chest-perhaps
he thought of the scene enacted in
the next room ; how he was caught in the
attempted assassination, and the courageous
words of the girl, — " Thou art the man ! " still
rang in his ears.

"And, pray," said Constance, with eyes
flashing like fire, '' what may your duty be ?
for what purpose am I imprisoned in this
wretched hole, with rats and bats for my
companions ? "

And us two gentlemen, my dear ; you
forgets us two gentlemen," added Joe ; and his
bloodshot eyes again glared at his prisoner,
whose pretty dimpled chin he familiarly and
rudely touched.

"■ Wretch ! " screamed Constance, springing
to her feet in a wild manner ; " I dare you to
put a finger upon me."

Wo ! wo ! wo ! my little darling," replied
Joe ; " what ! kicking over the traces already !
Us must put a bit in your mouth, with a curb
on the lower bar — ha ! ha ! ha ! "

For pity's sake," said Constance, appealing
to Bill, " take this fellow from my presence ;
surely you will not stand by and allow him
to insult me ; you won't, I know you won't ;

if you have a child of your own, oh, pity me !
for heaven's sake, pity me ! "

Giant Bill ground his teeth and bit his
nether lip, but said nothing.

Ha ! ha ! ha ! " laughed Joe ; ''I will help
yer, help yer, my darling, help yer to anything
you wants, my dear."

Then help to rescue me from this atrocious
den, and you shall have a handsome
reward, tenfold more than the sum you have
accepted to carry out this cruel, wicked deed."

Ha 1 ha ! ha ! — tenfold ? yes, tenfold !
A rope round our blessed necks, and ten feet
o' tight rope to dance at the end on ; that's
more like it — bah ! "

I promise, fellows, that no harm shall
come to you ; and I solemnly pledge my word
that a rich reward shall be yours, if you will
only restore me to my friends."

Constance at this point broke down, and
shed bitter tears.

Ha ! ha ! ha ! ' rich reward,' — such a reward
as he richly deserves, says old ' Fireworks
' with the wig on the bench. Yes, my
dear, the rope presented by Jack Ketch, not
likely," and the robber sung in drunken
accents, —

' Not for Joseph, oli dear no,
Nor for Billy or for Joe.'

I be going to buy a gold wedding-ring, my
darling, to put on your finger ; yes, marry
you, my dear, with a special licence, and
make a true mountain lady of yer— ha! ha!
ha ! " Then taking his clasp-knife from his
pocket, continued, — '' Us wants a lock o' that
pretty shiny black hair, my dear ; the gentleman
wants to see the colour of the bird
we've trapped. I told him you sings like a
nightingale all the night long, and you calls
yourself the Recross nurse. I says, says I,
she's the Black-Cross nurse, if ever there be

one in the world, — a kind o' vixen ; so
tip us a yard of your plumage, my dear,"
and the robber stretched forth his hand with
the clasp-knife to cut from the wealth of hair
that had fallen loosely over the shoulders
of the brunette, when a powerful hand seized
the collar of his coat, swung him round like
a top, and hurled him with mighty force to
the other side of the room, and Giant Bill
exclaimed, —

Hands ofi' the gal, Joey, my boy ! did I
not tell thee, not a hair of her head should
be hurt."

Joe ground his teeth, and sullenly slunk
into the adjoining room, swearing within
himself to be revenged.

Oh, God be praised ! " cried Constance, '' I
have at least one dio will protect me from — "

Hush ! " whispered Giant Bill ; "if you
value your life speak not a word, except to
curse me, from sunrise to sundown."

Nay ; but save me from this villain, and
I will bless you with my last breath, and
reward you handsomely," and Constance
took her gold chain and seals from her
neck, and diamond ring from her finger, and
placed them in the robber's hand ; he eagerly
scanned the trinkets, and then thrust them
into his pockets, saying, —

Ah ! I see, this is a present for saving
that reptile's life in t'other room, a viper that
will pounce upon you at any moment."

For heaven's sake ! " gasped Constance,
do not leave me. I — I — I — "

Hush ! " said Giant Bill, placing his finger
vertically across his lips, and looking towards
the half closed door. " My own life and yours
is not worth an hour's purchase ! Fool ! fool
that I was to touch the gentleman's money,
'isn't worth a garden a peck ! "

"Promise, oh promise, you will not leave
me, nay, not even for a moment ! " and

Constance grasped the robber's hand, on
which her burning tears splashed.

And Giant Bill drew a long glittering
dagger from the breast-pocket of his austin
coat, held it up in the form of a cross, kissed
the blade, and then replacing it, walked out
of the room — the rusty bolt fell with a grating
sound into its place, and Constance was left in
that cold, damp, dark hole, to her own reflections,
with dismal forebodings as to her future.

Well, Joey, my boy, asleep again ? "

Not a bit," was the reply. " I'll put you
to sleep very first chance I get, that not nobody
will be able to wake thee from. Here,
tip us the bottle, more rum, rum, rum, — ha !
ha ! ha ! "

A long pause.

Billy, the gentleman promised to be at the
mud hut at the bottom of Crowsfoot Hill at
ten this morning, thee must meet him there,
'cause I don't like to leave the coal ; 'taint safe."

Giant Bill said within himself, " I'll suffer
death sooner than I'll leave the serpent alone
with the gal."

"Look you here, Joey, you have done the
dirty work with him afore, and you had better
finish it."

Howsomever you collared your share of
the swag," retorted Joe.

I have," muttered Giant Bill, and he took
a roll of bank notes from his pocket, and
crumpled them up in his iron fist, saying, —
*' Curse them ! "

Joe shook himself together, so to speak,
the fumes of the rum were upon him, he
wiped his blood-shot eyes, and glared at
the notes, saying, —

*' What ! bennet thee satisfied ? "

'Isn't half enough for the job," said Bill.

Bah ! you fool ! you can't see an inch
from yer nose ; those notes would hang the
gentleman,' if we liked, — money — money —

money — Bill, my boy — lia ! lia ! ha ! and
money we'll have; bags o' gold, my dear man,
afore we finish the little job in a proper workmanlike
manner. Pass the bottle."

'what is to be the price?" asked Giant Bill.

Not so loud, you fool, the wench has got
ears. Why, price — two hundred sons. more
apiece."

And what then ? "

*' Bah ! food for the fishes in course —
after that, she be a blessed mermaid, with a
comb and a glass in her hand, a bobbing up
somewhere on the Irish or French coast, a
giving a lecture on three gentlemen who once
took her under their protection, and provided
for her — ha ! ha ! ha I Pass the bottle again,
Bill, plenty more where this came from " — ■
(elevates the glass), — '' here's to the gentleman
what's a got the bag of seller boys ! " and
the robber again stretched himself on the
heap of dry leaves, and was soon snoring

away and breathing heavily, until the streaks
of the grey dawn of early morn shed its
welcome light through the iron grating, and
the glimmer fell on the pale face of the
wretched girl who, from sheer exhaustion, and
worn out with anxiety, had fallen fast asleep,
and she dreamt of her home, and her childhood
; a wedding feast ; she the bride, Nora
her bridesmaid ; and the organ pealed forth
in heavenly strains, *' The voice that breathed
o'er Eden," and her path through the picturesque
churchyard was laden with flowers ;
triumphal arches towered over her head,
and lily-white banners floated in the breeze,
bearing the inscription, " May they be
happy!" But no bridegroom was to be found!
Angels, as it were, robed in wedding garments,
flew in and out in search, but, alas !
no bridcOTOom came. Then a change came
o'er the spirit of her dream ; a transformation
scene took place — four noble chargers, black

as coal, with gorgeous plumes, and driven by
Oliver Grey, pranced up to the porch of the
village church. It seemed that the chariot he
was driving was in the shape of a coffin ; a
shroud and napkin lay folded within, wreaths
and crosses of exquisite hot-house flowers were
piled thereon, and tilled the air with ambrosial
scents. She was about to take her place in
the chariot, when the organ struck up, in
solemn-like tones, "the dead march in Saul,"
and the deep bomb of the funeral bell tolled
out distinctly in the silent air, then Constance
started from her sleep, and beheld Giant Bill
standing over her !

She rubbed her eyes, passed her handover
her forehead, as if she doubted both
her sight and senses, then shuddered, saying,—


'' Robber ! — murderer ! say, is my hour
come ? the horses and the coffin are at the
door ; I ask no mercy of thee, but if I am to

die, let the process that will release me from
this den of thieves be swift and sure."

Thief I am," responded Bill, " because
I helped to steal thee ; murderer I am not."

'' Thou lies," exclaimed Constance. ** I
caught thee red-handed, dagger in hand, yes,
in the very act of — "

'* Killing a reptile," interrupted the robber,
and endeavouring to save thy life, yes,
thou, an angel in my sight."

*' And will you save me ? " faltered Constance,
looking through diamond tears (for
her dream had much discomposed her), and
clasping her hands continued, — '* I am no
angel — would I were — but I am a helpless
creature torn from those I love at the instigation
of a villain, and sentenced to a cruel death,
by your comrade. You need not start so.
I heard all, all, all, in the dead hour of night."
'' And," said Giant Bill, wiping the beads
of perspiration from his massive forehead,

VOL. III. M

*' you stopped this dagger from doing its
work."

I did," responded Constance, " because you
would have sent the poor deluded wretch into
eternity, with all his imperfections on his head."

Listen to me, my little gal, you've called
me robber and murderer. To save thy precious
life, I've kept awake for three long nights
and days, afeared to sleep a wink ; to save
thy life, I was just going to send Joe into
the next world ; and I was going to put
you down on the very spot on which I was
darned fool enough to pick you up. For all
this, you calls me robber, thief, and murderer."

Oh, pity me, do pity me ! " and Constance
seized the great rough hand of Giant Bill, and
pressed it to her lips, then looking into his
broad weather-beaten face, she read, as it were,
between the deep furrows, a countenance melting
with compassion; and she went on, "you
will not leave me, will you ? "

No reply.

Only speak that one word," implored the
brunette.

If I was to leave thee, little gal, why, 'tis
just this, on my return I should find thee
missions ; no, no, trust Bill for that. Joe is
gone to meet the g:enelman at Crowsfoot
Wood to receive 'instructions — us knows what
that means, and what the end will be."

Oh, do save me ! let me fly ? I — "

Not so fast, my little gal, not so fast or
so loud, the walls sometimes has ears. It is
more than my head's worth to fly, as you calls
it. Joe and the gentleman would be on us like
bloodhounds. I'll save thee if I can, but I
won't promise ; I may fail, but to do it I
must play Judas 'Iscariot with Joe ; yes, up to
the last moment, bang up to the knocker —
dost understand me, gal ? I have sworn, so
long as I can keep awake, and my arm is
strong, that not no hair of thy blessed head

shall be hurt, but I must play the villain —
yes, the murderer with one hand, and thy
protector with the other — dost understand me
gal ? Don't start so — "

Yes — no — I — I — think I do — I hope I
do ; God give me strength," and Constance
shuddered at her position.

Mind, my little gal, prepare for the must ;
he may kill I, then you be booked for certain.
When I looks fierce and says awful things, I
means just t'other way, and I does it to
humour Joe, to keep him sweet, all to save
thee, gal — to save thee."

'' God will bless you for it, and reward your
child if you have one," and again Constance
lifted the robber's massive hand to her lips."

Look here, my little wench, see this
bundle o' bank notes, blood money, blood
money ! See 'em steeped in bright crimson.
This, my gal, I got for a-carrying thee off.
My poor wife and crippled child be half-starving,

but they shall starve, yes, to death,
sooner than I will stop their hunger with
such filth," and the giant crumpled the
notes in his hand, and dashed them against
the wall ; but he took good care to pocket
them again !

Joe's heavy step was heard on the stone
staircase, and his stentorian voice called out, —

Billy, my boy ! "

Here I be, Joe," and in three strides the
giant reached the outer room, and closed the
door noiselessly behind him.

Well, Joe, what news ? "
** I've seed the gentleman."

•' How's his temper, Joe ? "

I'll be blow'd if he ain't furious as any
bull."

Well, what's the 'instructions ? "

Just what I told thee, Bill," said Joe, and
going to Constance's door to see that it was
thoroughly shut, he whispered, " food for the

fishes, or the gallows for both on us ; take thee
choice Bill, one or t'other."

What's the price, Joe, my boy ? "

Two hundred and fifty so vs. a piece,
money down on the nail — no humbug about
it — either that or six feet of rope, and six feet
of freehold land under the " stone jug " to
rest our bones in, and Jack Ketch undertaker."

'' I takes the two hundred and fifty ' yellow
boys,' that's what I does," said Bill.

And so does I," said Joe, and he hammered
his fist on the table with much emphasis, and
continued, " Giv' us thy hand, Bill."

Here 'tis, old fellow, and at your service,
quite."

And the robbers shook hands as an earnest,
so to speak, of their determination to go through
(in faith with each other) the dreadful work.

Sure 'tis money down, Joe ? "

Sure as I be alive. Pays over on Tuesday
night all in so vs."

Where ? "

'eat Crowsfoot Wood — twelve o'clock."

When is the little job to come off, Joe —
I means the water excursion ? "

Same night, if all goes well, and not
nothing don't happen, and after the bubble
and squeak be over. Why, our fortune is
made — blow me tight ! "

After 'tis over, Joe, I shall ' step it ' to
the Spanish coast the very next day, and
join some of my old ' chums' there."

Now, Billy, thee look after the little
wench, and I'll stroll round the mountain
and see who's knocking about."

After his comrade had left, Giant Bill
bolted the trap-door at the entrance to the
flight of steps, and then stretched his bulky
form on the bed of leaves, and was soon sound
asleep, where, for the present, we will leave him,
and thus close a chapter which the writer has
felt the reverse of pleasure in recording.

Arrested.

Three days subsequent to the close of the
happy scene in the American Gardens, there
were assembled in the drawing-room of 
Castle Mr Townshend, Mrs Snowdon,
and Gertrude, in deep and anxious conversation
— the outcome of the mysterious disappearance
of Constance Templar, which had thrown
the whole household into great confusion — most
of the domestics were examined and cross-examined
by Mr Townshend on every incident
in connection with the brunette's movements,
but none of them could account for or throw
any light upon the subject other than she

was seen with Major Grey in the garden,
adjoining the terrace, just previous to his
departure for the Abbey on Friday morning.
Various rumours were afloat amongst the domestics,
to the effect that Major Grey had
jilted Miss Templar, in order to secure Mrs
Snowdon, and on more than one occasion the
cook remarked that it was '* a burning shame
of the Major to treat the dear young lady so,
and that nothing will ever prosper with him."
No one appeared to have seen the missing
lady since ten o'clock on Friday morning ; as
that day wore on, and she was absent at
luncheon, Gertrude and her father concluded
she must be either visiting the Branscombs,
or some people to whom she had become attached,
living in a hamlet two miles distant ;
but at seven o'clock, when the gong sounded
for dinner, and Constance did not put in an
appearance, instant inquiries were made as
to her whereabouts, but without success :

even then, Mr Townshend thought she must
be all right, and remarked, " Don't trouble
yourself, Gerty, she will turn up somewhere."
But later in the evening, on the
arrival of Major Grey and Nora, the greatest
consternation ensued, and from that moment
scouring parties were sent out in all directions
; ponds, streams, and rivers on the
estate were dragged ; special messengers were
despatched on horseback to every house in
the neighbourhood, but with no good results.
A valuable blood-hound, the property of
Colonel MacFanan, of the *' Cedars," was
ultimately put on the track, and he was
not long in retrieving from the copse Miss
Templar's small felt hat. This circumstance
gave promise to graver result, and the dog
was again put to work. The brute commenced
at a rattling pace, with Colonel
MacFanan and Curtis at his heels ; on he
went through the copse, then the lower

plantation, across Barley Wood into Holly-bush
Lane, where he stopped and sniffed
about a great deal. In this lane were many
footprints ; also the marks of the wheels of
a cart. Again the hound apparently took
up the scent ; but it was not clearly defined,
and coming to a river he ran straight
for it, drank freely of the water, and from
that moment was completely at fault. Starting
again from the lane, he made tracks over
precisely the same ground, and halted where
he found the hat ; then sniffing in all directions,
he suddenly darted forward and passed
through the ornamental gardens, stopping at
the fountain, then over the lawn, along the
terrace, straight for the east entrance of the
Castle, through the hall, and finally made a
full stop) at the door of the breakfast-room,
which (being ajar) he pushed open, and, at
the very chair on which Miss Templar last sat,
the poor brute lay down panting, and with his

tongue hanging out of his mouth, he seemed
perfectly satisfied with his achievements !

The local newspaper in the district announced
in large type, —

Mysterious disappearance of a young
lady from Carthewin Castle ; " in another
part a paragraph was devoted to the strange
coincidence, and the people of the neighbourhood
were in great consternation ; letters of
sympathy tumbled in, and crowds of friends
fair and near sent, or called at the Castle to
*' inquire."

One hardly knows, dear father," said Nora,
*' what is the next best thing to advise."

Mr Townshend thrust his hand into his
pocket, and pacing up and down the room,
replied, —

'* Cannot for the life of me make head or
tail to this mysterious affair."

Neither can I," said Gertrude ; " and to
make matters all the more dismal, that

wretched owl, somewhere close to my bedroom
window, kept screeching the best part
of the night."

Nora looked dreamily out on the lawn, but
spoke not — she was off in a reverie ; — then
the door opened, and Leonard announced —

Mr Fairblow ! " and in strutted a short
fussy little gentleman, whose age may be
guessed at something the shady side of sixty.
He had a highly-polished cranium, with a few
straggling grey hairs on either side of his
head, and a countenance suggestive of great
partiality for the good things of this life, notably
magnums of undeniable port, and the best
of turtle. Mr Fairblow had, phrenologically
speaking, what Combe in his Constitution of
Man would designate, '' a fine head," with the
bumps of benevolence and causality prominently
developed. Mr Fairblow was married,
and prided himself on having better than
six children — he having only two, considered

sin his facetious mood) that niiniber was more
desirable ; he was also a brother magistrate
of Mr Townshend's — the latter being chairman
of the Quarter Sessions.

'' How are you, Fairblow ? " said Mr Towns-end
; '' glad to see you back."

Bothered, sir, — bothered ! " he replied ;
making a most profound bow to the ladies,
*' don't like to see pretty faces indoors such
fine weather; join the butterflies, my dears,
join the butterflies ! "

What's the matter, Fairblow ? Funds
gone down, or have you picked up a fortune
and don't know what to do with it ? " asked
Mr Townshend.

Bothered," continued the J.P., " bothered,
sir, with a twitch of the gout, and the very
painful errand on which I am come ; " then
telegraphing in a mysterious manner with one
eye (the action of which may be translated
into a wink), and a knowing pass of the left

thumb over the left shoulder, indicated plainly
to Mr Townshend that he wanted the ladies to
retire. Mr Townshend gave his daughters
the hint, and they were left by themselves.
Sit down, Fairblow. What is the matter ? "
"Ah, — exactly," said the J.P., taking out
his gold snuff-box, and giving it two taps on
the cover, then helping himself to an exorbitant
pinch, continued, — " exactly, that is just
what I should like to know."

Nothing seriously amiss ? " I trust.
'• People will talk, sir — will talk — "
''If they only talk sensibly and speak the
truth, Fairblow, one wouldn't mind."

My business here to-day, Mr Townshend, is
a most unpleasant one, but, as you are aware,
from long experience in my professional career
as a barrister, and now a Justice of the Peace for
this county, I have never shrunk from discharging,
with unflinching rectitude, any duty that
devolved upon me ; no, never, sir — never — "

'' No one can answer for that better than I,
Fairblow ; apropos of this unpleasant business
— what do you refer to '? "

'' Ah — yes — exactly — very unpleasant business
! — would that it had devolved on one of
our colleagues instead of this deponent — old
Greenbank, for instance ; but people will talk,
you know, Mr Townshend — will talk, and the
d — 1 himself cannot stop them."

Well, touching this unpleasant business,"
said Mr Townshend, impatiently.

I have known you a great many years,,
Mr Townshend ; no one in the county has a
greater regard for you than I have."

Perhaps better known than trusted,.
Fairblow, eh ? — but what about the business
? "

'' Ah — exactly — swell, — d — n it, all I wish
someone else had it in hand ; excuse, Mr
Townshend, the adjective, cannot help it, pon
my soul, I cannot."

My conscience, Fairblow, why, what on
earth has happened ? "

"Sad business, sir, this, about Miss Templar,"
and the J. P. took another pinch of snuff.

Most mysterious, Fairblow, most mysterious.
We are all in great trouble about our dear
young friend ; as for my eldest daughter, she
is almost frantic."

*' I am afraid, Mr Townshend, my visit here
to-day will not improve matters."

I am prepared for the worst, Fairblow : has
the body been discovered ? "

Such an event has not come to my knowledge.
But people will talk, Mr Townshend —
will talk."

Well, what the d — 1 do they say, Fair-blow
? Can they throw any light upon the
subject ? "

Ah — yes — exactly, — that is precisely the

point, — they fancy they can throw some light

upon the subject. Circumstances have trans
III. N

spired which — d — n it all ! the rest sticks in
my throat."

I am absolutely amazed and alarmed, Faii-
blow, at your manner. Pray proceed."

Well, circumstances have transpired which,
naturally enough, point to a very grave suspicion
respecting your guest Major Grey."

"What! Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Mr
Townshend. " Well, if that isn't about the
coolest thing I ever heard."

To tell you the truth, Townshend, it is
about the hottest thing I have had to say since
I gave up my practice and left Raymond's
Buildings, Grey's Inn, — yes, sir, the hottest ! "

Ha ! ha ! ha ! Well, I'll be hanged if ever
I heard such absolute nonsense ! "

At this point Mr Townshend rang the bell
violently, and the butler appeared.

Leonard, if Major Grey is in the Castle or
about the grounds, ask him, please, to come tome
directly."

Now, dear Mr Townshend, don't excite yourself;
really I — "

'excite, be hanged! I am as cool as a
trout, and I will answer with my life that
Grey is as innocent of this charge as that lamb
now sporting in the meadow."

I hope to the Lord he is, sir ; but people
will talk, you know. There are some ugly
rumours afloat, and very suspicious circumstances
in connection with this confounded
business."

*'Ha! ha! ha! Why it is enough to make
a cat laugh," said Mr Townshend. " Now tell
me, Fairblow, first of all, what grounds have
you or anyone else for suspecting my most
esteemed and gallant friend Major Grey of
any unfair play."

'' Pardon me, Townshend, not I. Don't make
it personal, pray don't. Never hinted at such
a thing. I have known and respected you, sir,
and all your family too many years ; but people

will talk," and the J.P. again freely manipulated
the snufF-box.

"Now, Fairblow, touching the grounds on
which people base their suspicions, give me
the history of all this in its entirety."

Very serious matter, sir — more serious
than you are aware of Just had a long
interview with three of our brother magistrates.
Their sympathy (bar one) for you
and yours is very great ; and I have been
deputed — d — n it all! to do this work. The
long and the short of the matter is, from
the sworn evidence of your nephew Cuthbert
Otway's valet (a fellow by the name of
Martineaux), it appears that Miss Templar
was, on the morning of Friday last, seen
with Major Grey in the ornamental grounds
of the Castle, in deep and angry conversation;
and Miss Templar, owing to the altercation,,
appeared greatly distressed. The Major endeavoured
to soothe her, and probably he

did, for a while, as there can be no doubt,
from the independent evidence of two female
domestics of this establishment, who were looking
out of one of the windows, that Major
Grey kissed Miss Templar and she boxed his
ears. Then Mr Otway's valet goes on to
say that your guest took the unfortunate
young lady into a lonely part of the copse
at the end of the plantation, after which he
lost sio;ht of them. But the most serious
part of the business has to be told. On
close examination of the spot where the
bloodhound found the hat (and the identical
place where the missing lady was seen
with G-rey), absolutely, sir, they discovered
one of the Major's military buckskin gloves ;
and not only so, but there are unmistakable
signs of a severe struggle having taken place
there. Moreover, it appears, from a careful
inspection of the plantation by skilled detectives
from Scotland Yard, that a man

passed through the brushwood and brambles
knee-deep, out into Hollybush hie, and there
they found, fearful to relate, not only the well
defined footprint of poor dear Miss Templar,
which has been identified with one of her
boots now in the possession of the police,
and which has characteristic marks upon it,
but they also discovered by the side of it
the imprint of two enormous feet, which
could only have been produced by a man
of extraordinary stature. Add to this, sir,
the strange coincidence of the hound running
with great impetuosity to the tidal river
close by this lane, and you will admit there
arc grave indications of something seriously
wrong, which demands of us a most searching
inquiry ; and I regret to have the painful duty
of informing my esteemed friend that I hold a
warrant for the apprehension of Major Grey."

Mr Townshend, during the painful ordeal to
which he was subjected, turned from time to

time all the colours of a rainbow, so to speak ;
then, in a firm voice, he said, —

Notwithstanding the very remarkable disclosures
you have made to me, Fairblow, I amas
convinced as I am of my existence, that
circumstances will transpire which will most
thoroughly exonerate my friend from the
horrible accusation which now temporarily
encompasses him. A more noble and upright
soul I have never met with ; so much so,
that within the last few days I have given
consent to his marrying my eldest daughter ;
and all that you have imparted to me now,
though ugly enough on the face of it, yet it
has not shaken, in the least degree, the absolute
confidence I place in him. Depend
upon it, my dear Fairblow, though my gallant
friend's future is intimately bound up with
my beloved daughter, I shall in no way
shrink from discharging a duty which I owe
to my country, as well as to my child."

Townshend. my friend, give me your hand,
and believe me sincere when I assure you
that no stone shall be left unturned by me,
so to speak, to see justice accorded : but,
between ourselves, our colleague, old Greenock,
has no great affection for you ; the
dressing you publicly gave him before his
constituents at the last election has been, and
ever will be, a thorrl in his side ; for, owing
to that, he lost his seat."

At this point, Leonard announced, —
'major Grey."

Oliver, my boy," said Mr Townshend,
trembling with emotion, ^' allow me to introduce
you to an old friend of mine, Mr
Fairblow ; we were college chums together,
and now we are brother magistrates. You
have not met him at the Castle before,
because he has been on the Continent ; and
when you are made acquainted with the nature
of his visit to-day, I have a shrewd suspicion

that you won't be much gratified or complimented
at the reception he will give you."

"Whatever reception I receive from Mr
Fairblow, sir, I shall at least be sensible of
the fact that he is an old friend of yours," I
replied. " Pray, is there anything amiss ? "

Ah — yes — exactly — that is the precise
point ; if there is not something seriously
amiss,' as you call it, there is someone
missing,' which you are, I know, fully
aware of," and the Justice of the Peace fixed
his restless grey eyes upon me, with a professional
stare, which, in his late experience
as a leading member of the bar, he was so
much accustomed to.

I replied, '' Our poor dear friend Miss Templar
is missing, if it be that to which you
allude, and — "

Wait — wait a moment, my dear sir," said
Mr Fairblow. "As my visit here to-day is
strictly ' official,' it is my duty to caution

you, sir, to this effect, that anything you
may say, will probably be used in evidence
against you ; therefore be cautious, sir, for
Heaven's sake, be cautious."

Your intention," I replied, " is well meant.
I have no doubt, had I anything to fear, I
should appreciate it all the more ; but, as I have
not, and am ' armed so strong with honesty '
that the idle wind of scandal has no terror forme,
consequently I have no apprehension."

Well spoken, Oliver, my boy," ventured
Mr Townshend.

Yes — exactly ; perhaps we had better not
discuss this unpleasant business here. My
professional experience has taught me many
valuable practical lessons, and I should be
wanting in duty towards my country, and
probably imperilling your already painful
position, were I to suffer you to venture upon
explanations, or any exposition connected
with the unfortunate business that has called

me here to-day. Suffice it to say, Major
Grey, that I have had a long conversation with
my good friend Mr Townshend, on the grave
offence with which you are charged, and I have
now left no other option, than to impose upon
myself the stern duty of arresting you on suspicion
of causing the death of Constance Templar
! As the magistrates have made special
arrangements to sit at three o'clock this afternoon
at the Town Hall, your unfortunate case
will be taken without any loss of time."

At this point, the J. P. drew forth a long red
silk handkerchief, and loudly blew his nose, when
the drawing-room door immediately opened, and
in walked two detectives, who had evidently
been waiting on the landing for the signal.

"Men," said Mr Fairblow-''you will please
take into custody this gentleman, he being
charged on suspicion of being concerned in
the disappearance of Constance Templar.
You will conduct the prisoner to his bedroom,

where you will search him, and in
his presence you will carefully search all
boxes, bags, drawers, writing-desks, or any
property that may belong to the prisoner ;
and you will not suffer the prisoner to make
any disclosures without duly cautioning him."

One of the detectives drew from his pocket
a pair of highly-polished handcuffs saying, —

'' 'Spoke, Mr Fairblow, we must do our
bounden duty ? Capital offence, sir, you
know. Demands the utmost prevention
against accidents."

Ah — exactly — yes ; really I don't know
whether it — "

'what the d — 1 do you propose doing
with those bracelets ? " I asked ; " because
if you imagine that you are going to adjust
them on these wrists, you" are mistaken. If
either of you men venture to put a hand
upon me, you will be like two spread-eagles
on the floor, before you know where you

are." And I drew back my thundering fist,
in imitation of what they may expect. The
cowards thought I meant mischief, for they
slunk up behind the two J.P.'s. "No, no,
none of that," T continued. '' Come with me
to the gun-room, and I will rig you outwith
a 12-bore central each, together with
four cartridges ; and, with a nondescript and
gun on either side of me, I will walk, yes
walk, every step of the way to the Town
Hall, with a placard on my back, ' arrested ! '"

•' Keep up your spirits, Oliver, my boy," said
Mr Townshend, as I was about to be led away.

I have nothing, my dear sir, to depress
them," I replied, "except the loss — which I
trust is only temporary — of our dear mutual
friend Miss Templar. Have no anxiety forme,
sir, I am not in the slightest danger, —
perfectly bullet proof! Dear Nora is gone
to the Branscombs, — break the news very
gently to her ; she has too much good sense

to let this unlooked-for coincidence cause
lier any apprehension." Then turning to the
J.P. I continued, — " Now, sir, I am quite
ready, and will thank you to instruct these
timid half-baked fellows to do their duty."

"Ah — yes — exactly. I — "

I heard no more. Mr Townshend accompanied
me (I should say us) to the hall. I turned
towards him saying, in a loud voice, —

Tell Nora, sir, that I have not suffered these
limbs of the law to jut a hand upon me. Should
they, I may then be tried for a serious offence."

My poor Nora ! " murmured Mr Towns-end
; '' trouble, trouble, trouble, for her again
seemingly no end to it. You can rely upon
my doing all that is necessary, my dear boy.
I shall be at the Town Hall in due time, with
my agent. The solicitor to the estate wull
appear on your behalf ; and bail, if necessary,
to any amount, will be forthcoming."

"Not at all, sir; I positively decline any

such assistance. I will take upon myself
the responsibility of being my own advocate.
As far as I am concerned, the thing is in a
nutshell. Being perfectly innocent, I see no
breakers ahead ; and as to bail, why, until
the atmosphere in which I am now surrounded
is purified, by clearing away the
foul suspicion that naturally enough clings
to me, I think it is very problematical
whether the magistrates will grant it."

'' You will excuse me, gentlemen," said one of
the officers in charge (who, by-the-bye, had recently
left a farm to "better himself), "but it is
my booty, according to strict borders, to caution
you, for you be a- talking a great deal, and some
on it may be used in evidence against you."

Shut up, you idiot," I replied ; " you are
only fit for the plough."

After my boxes were searched, I passed
through the hall, supported on either side by
the freeholders. I caught sight of poor

old Leonard at the still-room door, and saw-bumping
tears rolling down his honest face.

Mind, Leonard," I called out, " and place
a knife and fork for me to-day, for I hope to
dine at the Castle."

All I heard was, " Lord love his dear heart."
No persuasion could induce me to be taken
to the Town Hall in a carriage. I was consequently
conducted by my escort, with
shoulder arms, through the great park, and
several villages, picking up on the way, as a
matter of course, a number of inquisitive
followers, until there was an assemblage of
at least a hundred men, women, and children
; and it was most amusing to hear the
remarks of some of them, such as " Poor
feller!" "He" looks a rum un, Jack;"
'' Shouldn't like to meet the likes of he on
a dark night ; " " He's that furious they be
'obliged to have loaded guns;" "Poor chap!
he'll swing; for certain ; " but there was one

face and one voice that was familiar to me.
I recognised Mrs Grabbb of the '' Catharine
Wheel," who called out, just as I was entering
the lock-up adjoining the Town Hall, — " Keep
up your spirits, General ; you'll be spared yet
to take the name of Townshend."

Not one word, my friend, until I have
negotiated with you a bottle — magnum, if
you please — of your most approved vintage,"
said Mr Fairblow, at the same time ramming
a bulky pinch of snuff up his nose ; " flesh
and blood can't stand the strain on the
nerves any longer, without a ' pick me up ; ' —
completely done, sir ; — liquidating fast. D — n
it all ! I've got through the dirty work at last,
and suffered much in the doing ; — a nip of
your ' undeniable ' will simply save my life."

Mr Townshend requested Leonard to decant
a bottle of the finest port in the cellar, and to
exercise great care in the operation.

VOL. III. o

That's the sort, Townshend " (smacking his
lips) ; " I like to see the ruby hang about the
glass, and just a trifle of the bee's winri:
bobbing up and down. Here's your health,
sir, and may good fortune attend your future
son-in-law, and the best wish that occurs tome
at the moment is, that he may live long,
and die happy ! — yes, sir, die happy ! "

«• Very excellent wish, Fairblow : nothing
could be better. By-the-bye, that is a favourite
toast of my precious nephew's. But, now,
tell me confidentially what do you think of
it all ? Upon my soul, I am very unhappy."

Fill your glass, Townshend, and pass the
bottle ; throw your troubles over your shoulder
; — they are all pleasures, sir, pleasures in
disguise," and the funny little J. P. fawned
his nose with the aroma of the port ; then he
sipped, smacked his lips with an air of a
connoisseur, fawned again, held up the glass
to the best light, and surveyed with complacency

its ruby brightness. " Tip-top ! " he
said ; '' grand ! fit for an emperor ! "

What do you think about this wretched
business ? " again ventured poor Townshend.

Pass the bottle, my dear friend," and
elevating the glass above his head, the J. P.
submitted the health of the heiress of Cartier
saying, — " I hope to the Lord I shall be
spared and allowed the privilege, as one of
your oldest and dearest friends, to propose
the bride and bridegroom's health in this
Castle before along. Another glass, if you
please — thanks. Now, you ask me what I
think of this wretched business ; — innocent,
sir, innocent as a baby ! My long and varied
professional experience enables me to say,
without qualification, that your future son-in-law
is a victim to one of those unaccountable
concatenation of events that follow one
upon another, fitting exactly, and dovetailing
in the most extraordinary manner ; and yet

all this exists without any solid foundation ;
for there is a screw loose somewhere, and the
machinery won't work."

"Your words, Fairblow, are, in a sense,
comforting ; but the machinery has worked
to such a ]ditch as to drag my dear friend
Grey — yes, a hero, sir ! a host in himself !
though a dirty quagmire, and — "

'' Old Greenbank is at the bottom of it all,
Townshend. As I told you before, he is ' dead
nails ' upon you and your family, and is
inwardly glorying at the prospect of a good
squeeze that your surroundings may get ;
besides, a little bird told me that Mrs Green-bank
(old ' Quick Silver ' as I call her) was in
high dudgeon because your good wife made
a remark at a dinner-party at the Cedars, at
which there were some 'nabobs,' to the effect
that she did not look upon the Greenland
as ' strictly county.' Little more of the
ruby, Townshend — thanks " (elevates his

glass) ; "it certainly is grand old wine ; —
fit for a prince ! Apropos of Greenbank :
watch it,' I will take the wind out of his
sails presently. Now for a crumb of comfort,
old man " (slapping Mr Townshend on
the back) ; " that thundering great footprint
in Hollybush Lane is not that of your noble
and gallant friend. Entre nous, I have been
out there with one of Grey's boots. Egad ! sir,
his foot isn't half the size : that is one for
Greenbank's ' nob,' for I know the beggar is
glorying in this link of the evidence. In
order to protect your interest, I have placed
a policeman to watch the spot night and day,
and to preserve the impression in the mud
by covering the place with a box. Alas ! it
is too true as to the footmarks of poor Miss
Templar, and the appearance of a great
struggle having taken place. Another bit of
information has come to my knowledge,"
went on Mr Fairblow, " through a deformed

girl who is attached to a tribe of lawless
gipsies who are always hanging about the
common, aDd whose father is, or was, one
of the most desperate pirates on the Spanish
coast. That fellow has been recently seen in
this neighbourhood. I have just got a wee
bit of scent, and that is all, but nothing that
will justify my even hinting at the safety of
poor Miss Templar, who, I greatly fear, is
beyond all earthly help. Anyhow, not a
stone shall be left unturned by me ; and if I
should be fortunate enough to scatter to the
winds the foul aspersions that will be brought
forward in evidence against Grey, and I get him
discharged, egad ! sir, I have got some work
cut out for the Crimean hero, and — One more
glass of the cream of all creams, if you please
thanks, balmy nectar ! Grand wine, sure
enough, nothing like it in the county."

'' And — you were going to say something
else, Fairblow," ventured Mr Townshend.

'' I now wish you a very good morning,
sir," responded the funny little J. P. " Perhaps
I have already said more than I am
really justified in saying. Mind three-thirty
at the Town Hall ! I am open to become bail,
joint and several, with you for ten thousand
pounds. Adieu ! Remember to the ladies."

One parting word, Fairblow, after giving
me the staggers : you have well-nigh saved
me from a fit of apoplexy. As long as I have
breath in my body, I shall never forget your
goodness to-day."

Not at all, old man," said Mr Fairblow.
If you attach any value to my good offices, you
will still number me amongst your firm friends,
and occasionally requite me with a further tap of
that port ; tip-top, and fit for the Lord Mayor ! "

Fairblow drank his last drop of the magnum,
smacked his lips, seized his gold-mounted
cane, departed, and strutted through
the park on very good terms with himself.

HARD Words.

Well, I never ! " said Mabel Branscomb ;
whoever would have dreamt of those horrid
limbs of the law pouncing down upon poor
Major Grey ; — really, though, I am awfully
sorry to see the — ahem ! I suppose I maybe
permitted to say the bridegroom elect —
so roughly treated."

Oh, Mabel, dear," said Gertrude, pinking
considerably, "is it not cruel ? We are all
thoroughly worn out with anxiety. Alas ! first
poor dear mamma is in a most distressing
state of health ; then came the mysterious
disappearance of our beloved friend Constance
; and lastly, as it were to make our

cup of sorrow run over, they have taken
away — "

'the coming bridegroom ! " said the bouncing
Miss Branscomb, smiling suggestively.

Mabel, dear, if you wish to forfeit my
sister's friendship, I don't know a surer way
of accomplishing your purpose than making
reference to — "

Not at all, dear," interrupted Mabel,
^* don't say another word. Ahem ! — I know
yes. A little bird told me. Eeally, though
no joking — it's a case, is it not ? " and the
inquisitive girl put her arm round Gertrude's
waist, and coaxingly patted her face. "Eh,
Gerty ? Entre nous, of course, don't you
know."

Yes, Mabel, they are at last affianced."

"Well, I'm blessed if I didn't think so, by
Nora's manner this morning at the Vicarage ;
but mamma won't have it at any price ; she
says ' it's all twaddle.' "

Why so much surprise ? " asked Gertrude ,-
^' it was manifest to my mind from the commencement."


The fact is," said Miss Branscomb, *' when
one sees such an awfully jolly fellow as that
Grey, one expects to see a little spooneyism
o;oino^ on."

A little what ? "

*' Oh you lively creature, you modest, innocent
lamb, you tiny fledgling, — ignorant, of
course. Were I asked to clearly define what
I call spooneyism, I should say 'tis when a
fellow makes the ' running ' with you."

** Makes the what ? " asked Gertrude.

When he is dodging you everywhere ; —
slopes away with you at picnics ; — adjusts on
one's bosom the most highly-scented and
expensive hothouse flowers ; — picks up everything
you let fall (I often let things fall
on purpose) ; — selects one for all the best
dances, regardless of others ; when he puts

on the screw with his arm round one's waist —
a little squeeze, don't you know — in the waltz ;
midnight suppers, and the sparkling ' fiz ' ;
looking into each other's eyes ; making an
appointment for next day — Lor bless you,
child ! and a hundred other ways by which
a girl can tell if a fellow is spooney on her."

Indeed I " said Gertrude archly. " In
point of fact, he does everything but pop
the question."

Yes — exactly ; as mamma says, that is
the bother. No go in the fellows now-a-days,.
except up to a certain point. They seldom
think of touching the knocker. When inclose
proximity to it, they shy off like a
horse at a rolling; cask in the road ; then one
has to go through the whole think; again, —
try some ' fresher fields and pastures new,' —
same old story, then off he goes — always
jumps up behind some precious parent, so
to speak, as an excuse ; — by-and-by, there

we are, if you please, bang up on the shelf,
and the mater is down upon one like ' anything
: ' she says 'tis all one's own fault.
Dress how one may, ride to hounds, talk,
play, and sing, ever so well, it is all the same.
But apropos of your step-sister, my dear,
she was born both lucky and rich, with
an exorbitant silver spoon in her mouth ;
but how, when, and where those twain have
done their courting business, it is a riddle
to all of us. People did say, don't you know,
that Grey was engaged to poor Constance,
and that she loved him down to ground —
indeed, that is why the dear old boy has
been arrested. This I learn from papa, who
is moving heaven and earth, as it were, to
pull him out of the mess."

Fear not, it is only a temporary matter,"
and Gertrude sighed.

*' There ; I do believe you are half in
love with Major Grey yourself," said Mabel,

poking lier friend good-temperedly in the
ribs.

Indeed I am not ; far from it ; I have too
much love for Nora."

"■ Joking apart, Gerty, he is an awfully
jolly fellow. If one cared about going in
for avoirdupois, he is just the man for me,
don't you knows ? "

You don't say so," responded Gertrude,
with surprise, and a touch of disgust.

'' Oh, deary me, no such luck. I say,
Gerty, didn't you tell me that your Cousin
Cuthbert was coming here to-day ? "

He arrived an hour since ; came down
from town specially to help us all in this
wretched business."

What does he say about it ? " asked
Mabel.

Shakes his head, shrugs his shoulders,
and looks, all over, dismal."

From what your mamma once told me,

Oerty, I always thought Nora was booked
for Mr Otway, and Constance for Grey."

Did you ? "

*' On my word I did," responded Mabel.

'how funny if — but here come father
and my cousin. Take care, Mabel, what you
say ; papa is very touchy, and not in the
best of tempers just now."

I vote I cut," said Mabel ; " family matters,
I expect ; see you again tomorrow ; better
news then, I hope ; best wishes to Nora,
congratulations, and all that sort of thing,
don't you know — ta, ta," and the bouncing
Miss Branscomb gathered up her drapery and
made for the garden, via the backstairs.

Gerty, dear," said Mr Townshend, who
then appeared, looking daggers, " take a
run in the park, and join Nora ; I wish to
be alone with Cuthbert for a while."

Exit Gertrude, pursing up her mouth
considerably.

"I am awfully sorry to see you all in so
much trouble, uncle," said Eoclway, throwing
himself carelessly into an arm-chair ; '' it is
something fearful to contemplate, and no
error."

Then Cuthbert stared at a pattern in the
carpet in an abstracted manner. It did not
require a keen observer to note the remarkable
change that had occurred within the
past few months in his physical condition :
hlase, untidy, dejected, careworn, and morose
are the characteristic terms by which a clear
perception of his state can be arrived at.

Grief seldom enters a house, Cuthbert,
without leaving a shadow behind," said Mr
Townshend, half sorrowfully and half contemptuously.


Eight you are, sir," responded Otway,
biting the back of his nails ; but he didn't
read between the lines of Mr Townshend's
remark. " People are saying ugly things,

uncle, about Major Grey. The last stage
on the coach I felt so disgusted at the observations
of some of the travellers, that I
was as near as a * toucher ' pitching one ' beggar'
off the box-seat."

"They may simply say whatever they like,"
replied Mr Townshend. " The time, I think,
is not far distant when the tables will be
turned."

"What tables," thought Cuthbert, and he
replied, somewhat discomposed, —

I only trust poor Constance will turn up,
either dead or alive ; though one can hardly
expect she will turn up alive, without she is
gone clean mad, and bolted. If it be true
what every second person one meets with
says, that she was over head and ears in
love with Grey, and that at the eleventh
hour he threw her off for Nora, why then
one cannot wonder at a sensitive woman like
Miss Templar taking a ' header ' somewhere ;

if so, likely enough she is gone out with
the tide ; you may depend upon that, uncle ;
but I am awfully sorry about the poor girl,
if she took it to heart so much as all that.
As for Grey, well, the least I say about
him, uncle, the better, since you have consented
to his marriage with Nora, which I
consider an ill-assorted alliance."

"And may I ask, sir, what grounds you
have for thus expressing such an opinion
in my presence ? " said !Mr Townshend, looking
furious.

*'I hate recrimination," responded Cuthbert.
No good can now arise, uncle, out of a discussion
in this domestic matter ; suffice it to
say, as my dear aunt well knew, I adored
Nora. On three distinct occasions, with Mrs
Townshend's approval, I made overtures to my
cousin, with the most honourable view to an
alliance, which my connection with your family

and my position in the county justified."
VOL. III. p

Well, I'll be hanged if that is not a
cool admission ! " said Mr Townshend, turning
rubicund. ' * Are you aware, sir, that it w>
usual, in cases of this kind, first to confer
with the father of a lady with whom you
wish to form an alliance. Common decency
nay, one would have thought that the
ordinary conventionalities of society, to say
nothing of your connection with the family,
would have directed you aright ; instead of
which, sir, according to your own admission,
you were mean enough to clandestinely submit
proposals to my daughter twice after
having been rejected. If ever Nora showed
her good sense, it was when she absolutely
determined to have nothing whatever to do
with such a worthless scamp ! There, sir, now
you have it. I have longed for an opportunity
of speaking thus : it has been boiling within
me for some time ; and you have this morning
added a heap of coals to a hot fire."

"My dear aunt would not have thus spoken
to me, uncle — never ! " and Kodway turned
white.

Not thus have spoken ! " repeated Mr
Townshend. 'why, you infernal rascal, in
that book, sir " (dashes bank - book on the
table), "which is a copy of my wife's transactions
in account with Messrs & Company,
of Lombard Street, may be seen the
traces of her madness. You have driven
her mad, sir, with your financial intrigues,
of which I knew nothing; until last month,
when I was called upon to make good a
deficit of several thousand pounds."

True, uncle, I met with losses, and I
naturally went to my aunt for a little assistance,
which I am now most sorry for."

Sorry be hanged ! you not only went to
my dear wife for plunder to satisfy your
rascally betting creditors, your frivolity and
sensuality — yes, sir, sensuality — don't frown

at me — all these vices combined ; as I said
before, not content with this, but forsooth
you must try, by a most damnable cunning
device, to endeavour to ensnare my beloved
girl, and encompass her and her fortune
within the meshes of your wretched surroundings
! "

If you have no better opinion of me than
this, uncle, the sooner I leave the Castle the
better."

Don't, for Heaven's sake, call me uncle ; the
Lord be praised, you are no nephew of mine.
I should be most grieved to know that one
drop of my blood ran in your veins ; and
I would rather have followed ni}^ beloved
daughter to her grave, than through the
churchyard to her marriage with you — yes, sir,
on my soul I would."

Well, Mr Townshend, flesh and blood cannot
stand such insults as I have experienced
this morning. That I have been unfortunate,

I admit ; that my aunt has financially assisted
me to a great extent, I also admit,
but to say that I endeavoured to lay out a
scheme that would involve and ruin dear Nora,
is a wicked lie ; and such lies have been propagated
to do me an injury. I shall now
hasten back to town. I came down with the
specific object of pulling an oar with you, in
the hope of being of some assistance in clearing
up this mysterious and painful affair, —
and what do I find ? — my own connections
dead against me, turning me completely out
of the Castle, and that adventurer (for he is
nothing more) installed in my place. But
don't be too sure about his release. If you only
knew what I know ; I could a tale unfold ;
however, the only harm I wish him is that
he may long remain in prison. Now, sir,
that is a ' Roland for your Oliver.' My valet
shall pack my boxes at once. Happily my income
is enough, without asking assistance from

your mine of wealth. Old Ready-money Otway
didn't forget me in his settlements — ha !
ha ! ha ! I wish you good morning, sir ; I wish
you joy of the jail-bird, and the approaching
festivities, which may be, if I am not mistaken,
of a different character to wdiat you
anticipate. Now I will visit my dear aunt,
perhaps for the last time."

Or what is left of her, you unmitigated
rascal," added Mr Townshend, walking out of
the room, and slamming the door with great
force behind him.

Gerty, dear, I am off," said Cuthbert, as he
met his cousin on the staircase.

'^ Off where '{ "

'' Back to town."

Nonsense ! Why, what's up, Cuthh ? "

D— 1 of a row."

'* With whom ? "

Why, with your father."

"You are joking," said Gertrude.

'' True, by Jove ! "

What is it all about, cousin ? "

Money matters."

Hard up, Cuthh, again ? If you are, I can
stand a few guineas, which I have in my box ;
and as for Nora, she can do the thin unlimited,
I know."

'' Bless your little soul, Gerty, you are as
true as all your gold, — and truer, for you
have no alloy — not one particle. Were I
starving, I would not eat one mouthful in this
hateful place until your father apologises for
what he said to me this morning ; but I know
who is at the bottom of it all,"

*who, dear Cuthbert ? "

*' Why, that long ' ramrod ' in the lock-up."


'* Oh, fie ! Cuthbert, ^e ! — that is, I know,
a cruel untruth. I never heard Major Grey
speak unkindly of anyone in my life : however
bad he may be, he always has an excuse

for them ; and he has many times ' stuck up '
for you like ' anything ! ' "

I will tell you the whole history some
day, Gerty. Can I see aunt ? "

*' Oh, yes," sighed Gertrude ; '' but it is very
doubtful whether she will know you. She did
not recognise me this morning ; she is getting
daily worse, and sometimes very violent with
her attendant."

Mrs Townshend was seated in an arm-chair
in her boudoir, and Prudence, her maid, was
fanning her, when Cuthbert Otway alone
was announced.

Well, dear aunt, however are you ? " and
he took a chair by her side, and held her long
white fingers in his hand ; " don't you know
me, dear?"

"Who?" replied Mrs Townshend, in an unconcerned
tone.

'* Cuthh ! — your nephew."

Cuss, my nephew ? " she said.

"No, aunt ; Cuthh — Cuthhhbert Otway, your

Then Mrs Townshend put her hand to her
forehead, and, with a vacant stare, said, —

"Try Eobarts & Company, my dear — try
Eobarts, — they will cash it, were it for five thousand
pounds more. Take it short, — a few hundreds,
tens, fives, and fifty in gold — no silver."

Good heavens ! " said Otway to himself
; '' mad — mad as a hatter."

Price of Consols," she continued, " 92|
cum. dividend — 91i ex dividend — ha ! ha ! ha !
I sold out just in time. Do you know that I
am going to be married ? — yes, going to be
married ; this young woman is preparing all
my fine linen : she gets up fine linen splendidly.
Old Coutts going to be trustee under
marriage settlements, — thirty thousand pounds
Consols ; twenty thousand pounds, South Sea
Stock — ha ! ha ! ha ! Try Lombard Street, — ■
cash the cheque for twice the amount."

w.

Who on earth are you going to marry,
aunt ? " ventured Otway, not knowing what
to say.

"Mr Noah, sir."

What Noah, dear aunt ? "

What Noah ?— ha ! ha ! ha !— what Noah ?
Why, the traditional Noah, — dear old Noah of
the ark."

Eeally ! " gasped Otway.

Fact, I assure you ; a better man never
lived. Going to bank at Coutts', in the Strand.
Wish old Eobarts good-morning;. We shall
build a mansion of gopher wood in the park.
Nora is to be my lady's-maid — ha ! ha ! ha !
What fun, — glorious reality ! What did you
say was the price of Three per Cents. ? Confess
to old Branscomb, indeed ! — shall do nothing
of the kind : don't believe in the confessional.
Have my bank-book made up close ; send it
on, please, under cover, marked private, as
Godfrey Townshend is gone over to the great

majority, — and lie is doing very well, I hear
doing very well. First try Eobarts, then
Coutts— ha ! ha ! ha ! "

Cuthbert could not stand it any longer.
He knew perfectly well that every word
Godfrey Townshend said was too true, — he
had been the means of driving his aunt mad.
His career, of late, had become notorious ; his
position was getting from bad to worse, — dissipated,
reckless, and desperate, beloved only
by those vampires who hang about the ,
and who fared sumptuously everyday
on his means, — so long, only, as his
pockets were well lined with bank notes ;
when there were visible indications of low-water
mark, all facial friendship, like the coin,
went out with the tide. Truly it is written,
that a man is known and judged by his
associates.

I came to wish you good-bye, dear aunt
for I am leaving to-day."

Mrs Townshend turned sharply round to her
maid, and said, —

Prudence, give the gentleman all the fine
linen that you have marked : he will take it
with him to the ark, and Mr Noah will look
after it until we are united. Dear fellow, old
Noah ! — small hands and feet, long beard,
very presentable, and ' strictly county ' — ha !
ha ! ha ! It is not overdrawn, I tell you.
Those two cheques are forgeries, — not like my
signature one bit. Who wrote them, do you
ask ? — ha I ha ! ha ! I know, but I won't tell —
yes, I will ; it was Cuthbert Otway — he
id ways looked like a cake not turned."

Otway at this point trembled like a leaf,
it was too much for him ; the climax had
arrived. Pressing his aunt's hand to his lips,
he rushed out of the room, and in less than
one hour was on the road to .

THE CLIMAX.

The writer must now take those interested in
this narrative back to the Robbers' Refuge. It
is a painful story to be told ; but it has to
be dealt with, and that too in its entirety,
with all its fearful and heartrending surroundings,
and in language by no means pleasant.
We are not now in those beautiful American
gardens of which we have spoken, with the
rays of the setting sun casting golden tints
on all around, or lounging on moss-covered
banks, with the little song-bird overhead ; the
glassy lake at one's feet, on which the Egyptian
lilies repose, and the white swans, with their
wealth of plumage, majestically breasting

the stream ; and where all nature appears
wrapped in an eternal spring. No, we are
again in the damp, dusky hole, where no rays
of sunshine for centuries have fallen ; where
slimy walls attract toads, frogs, and lizards
green ; where bats fly noiselessly in and out,
and cling in clusters to the vaulted roof, and
where the water-rat lurks for safety. No
busy hum of insect life, save the spider's tick,
tick, tick, can be heard ; no song of blackbird,
thrush, or lark, delight the ear. All is damp,
dusky, foul, and dreary, with a sepulchral and
loathsome smell pervading the air. And herein
this infernal region, surrounded by most
desperate characters, poor Constance Templar
remains a prisoner, closely watched day and
nio:ht. The roseate hue on her cheeks has
faded away ; her black hair, like the prisoner
of Chillon's,

Turned white
In a since niorht."

The frae-rant bloom has become blighted,
impregnated with the foul atmosphere and
rough usage ; it is now drooping slowly and
surely away, but the germ of that flower can
never die, the springtide of that beautiful
life will flow on higher and higher, until it
reaches the safe harbour where lasting happiness
can only be found.

Again let us draw near to this lonely,
wretched heart, close to that ashy pale and
sunken face, and share, so to speak, with her
some of the anguish with which her frail
nature is charged. Let us listen, as it were,
to the reading of her mind, as she soliloquises.

To-morrow — yes, tomorrow, I am to
die. In the hours of midnight I overheard
the verdict from the foul lips of the comines
I already seem to feel the grasp of
the executioner's rough hand. merciful
God ! have compassion on me ! Help, oh, help
and confound the wicked devices of these

cruel men ! Yes, I heard, in drunken accents,,
the hideous crime that is about to be enacted
tomorrow night ; when the great golden moon
climbs into the dusky firmament, and I
have to look upon it for the last time.
Drowned, oh, horror ! drowned like a dog.
Lord, thy almighty, all-powerful hand
can save ! ' Deliver me out of the mire.'
'Let me not sink.' 'Let not the water-flood
overflow me, neither let the deep
swallow me up,' " and Constance continued.
Yes, by a most strange coincidence, I
have been mistaken for Nora, seized, and
carried here. If there is one circumstance
that will add a few drops of balm to this
terror-stricken heart, it is the knowledge of
the fact that fate has directed me to fill the
place of that svv'eet life. To save hers, poor
child, I freely lay down my own. But,
Heaven ! will no one come to rescue me ?
cruel fate ! what have I done to deserve such

chastisement ! A victim I am to a monster's
revenge ; yes, a revenge sweeter to him than
this life, which he now risks. If he could
but have abducted dearest Nora, and murdered
her, his bloodthirsty soul would have
been satisfied. Surely the great God of all
creation will not suffer His law to remain
unfulfilled, for He hath said, ' Vengeance
is mine.' "

And bead drops coursed from Constance's
temples as she pondered over the inevitable
that appeared in front of her miserable existence.
She wrote on slips of paper a short
account of her trials and impending fate,
and deposited them in various places, in the
hope that some day they may be discovered,
and the murderers brought to justice. Although
Giant Bill had promised that nota
hair of Constance's head should be hurt, if
he could avoid it, still that conjunction "if"

was a slender thread on which to cling.
VOL. III. 0.

Of late the robber had become more reticent
more surly, and less inclined to bestow
upon her even one crumb of comfort, in the
shape of hope. Often Constance importuned
him respecting her liberty and safety, and
promised a large reward ; but the man of
Philistine proportions gravely shook his head,
and pointed to the next room, where Joe
invariably sat drinking, smoking, and cursing.
It more than once occurred to Constance
that the reward for effectually disposing of
her life had been greatly increased, — that
faithless Satan had again appeared upon the
scene, and, with a glittering display of gold,
flourished his allurements effectually before
his pupil's eyes, and won him back !

The wretched girl pondered over it all,
and prayed fervently that the robbers might
be forgiven the crime they were about to
commit, — for the temptation was great. Still,
she clung to the great ruffian, — all her hopes,

imam.

slender as they appeared, were centred in
this man's ability to save her : he had protected
her more than once against the attacks
of his less scrupulous ally, who would, undoubtedly,
have offered indignities, but for
the courage of this daring pirate, who manifestly
had some redeeming points in his savage
nature, the key to which Constance found in
appealing to him, and making reference to
his own wife and child. Nevertheless, the
outlook was terrible to contemplate. He had
accepted her valuable jewellery. He had taken
the large reward of some villain to dispose
of her life ; and although the robber had
never made any allusion to the wretch, other
than the " orenelraan," still there were sus-judicious
circumstances that pointed in one
direction, aud one only — but, for the present,
the writer must forbear touching even the
fringe, so to speak, of this person.

Constance Templar thought of her happy

home ; the days of her childhood ; her beloved
companions ; her useful work in the
Ked-Cross service, all fading slowly and
surely away ; the watery grave closing over
her. She also thought of putting aside the
old life for a new one ; now clinging with
great tenacity to this brief existence and all
its allurements.

As the day wore on, and no sign of relief
came, expectation darkened to despair,
tears fell burningly over her delicate face.
Then came other joys, joys that all pious
people feel at the happy prospect of being reunited
to long-lost beloved relations and dear
companions ; and thus grief, joy, disappointment,
hope, and despair waged war with each
other ; — hope of eternal things triumphed, vanquishing
despair, and in a happy, peaceful
frame of mind Constance fell asleep, thoroughly
worn out, where for the present we
will leave her, and turn to other scenes in

the adjoining chamber, — scenes of quite a
different character.

Bah, you fool ! " said Joe, within himself,
as with bleared eyes he glared at his comrade,
who was stretched at full length on the
bare ground fast asleep ; " for five days and
%N^ nights thou hast kept awake, but thou art
collared at last : blessed nature has fought it
out with thee, and bate thee hollow. Thou
hast kept awake to save that wench in yonder
room : now you are both in my clutches. Thy
pockets are crammed with notes, gold, and
the gal's jewellery : all are now within my
reach. Thy giant limbs lie helpless by thy
side : yer life is in my hands ; and the gal is
my own to do what I like with. But yer time
aunt come yet, Billy, my boy, — revenge is
sweet. I have sworn to be revenged for that
journey when you sent me flying across the
gal's room t'other night, almost breaking my
collar bone, ha ! ha ! Later on, when the moon

is up, I'll take thy life — yes, at a spot more
convenient than this, where I can shift thy
bulky carcase along with the gal's, and where
hand-in-hand you can go out with the tide
together, and dance an Irish jig on the water
by moonlight. Yes, this revolver shall do
the trick, and it tells no ugly tales. I'll
relieve you, Billy, my boy, of all yer troubles ;
and, what is more, I will relieve yer of all yer
coin, and take care of it for thee — until you
call on your return journey ! Bah ! you sleeping
toad, my stakes are now doubled, and
yours not worth a rag. Yes, 'tis worth going
for — money — money — money — gold, notes,
and jewellery. All — all are mine. Yes, in the
twinkling of an eye, to-night thou shalt sleep
sounder than this, on a softer bed — softer than
feathers — rocked in a cradle, with plenty of
water to quench yer thirst, and oysters to feed
on. Yes, revenge is sweet, but thy coin
sweeter still. Where I shall send thee, no tales

are told ; the tide runs five knots over the bar,
and swift will be yer passage. My fortune is
made — the genelmau won't risk his blessed neck
the game is in my own hands Ah, snore
on, Billy, my boy. Vengeance, lad — I've sworn
to be revenged. This is yer last sleep this side
of the water ; make much on it ; I wouldn't disturb
yer for worlds ; thou' It wake up next time
I puts yer to sleep, maybe, in mid-channel.
And you and the gal will shine like a lighthouse.
Bah ! sleep on. Elephant Bill, sleep
on, and I will go and see what the wrench
is doing, and whether her temper is still
bad," and this atrocious villain first finished
the contents of the rum bottle, and then
crept softly to Constance's door, drew the
rusty bolt, walked in, and turned the lock
after him, with a key which he had in his
pocket. The sound instantly fell on Constance
Templar's ear, and, springing to her
feet, exclaimed, —

Ah, villain ! can you not leave me to
myself until tomorrow night, the appointed
time ? "

I came, my dear, to inquire after your
health, and I've brought yer some cake and
wine, and yer mother's blessing."

Constance shuddered, as she cried, with
hands clasped, —

'* My beloved mother, if — if — if you could
only look upon your poor wretched child ! "

Now, my little lamb, you will be happier
presently, 'cause we be going to take yer to
better quarters, when the moon is u^d."

Anything, oh, anything is better than
this wretched place — yes, death is preferable."
You shall have fresh life, my dear ; — a
warm and snugger corner to sleep in ; a softer
bed to lie on, my little lamb ; better provisions
; and white clean clothing, and some
scented soap to wash with, my dear ; yes, all
free I'-ratis for nothing — ha ! ha ! ha ! "

Monster, you lie ! you tell a cruel lie ; '*
and then Constance murmured softly to herself,
" I trust some portion may be true : a
rich reward," and she pointed towards heaven.
I always tells the truth, my love, and
shames the d — 1," continued Joe.

"Leave me, monster, I hate the very sight
of you ! Though I know that my life is in
your hands, I ask no favour of such a wretch.
Leave me, I say, unlock that door, and, wheresoever
thou goes, I will follow thee — yes, to
the brink of the grave that thou hast so
cruelly dug for me."

*' Wo I wo ! w^o ! my little blackbird, you
sings as sweet as a nightingale. Now tip us a
lock of yer hair this time, and make not no
fuss, as I may show the dear gentleman what's
a provided the nice new home for yer."

And the robber again drew from his pocket
the long thin-bladed knife, which he sharpened
on his hand significantly.

'* Wretch ! " screamed Constance ; *' ere I
give thee what you ask, unfasten that door,
I will follow thee, I say, to my grave, where
you can take what you require — yes, every
lock I have, but first open that — "

Ere the sentence was concluded, there came
a thundering crash, the lock and all the
fastenings of the door gave way before the
ponderous frame of Giant Bill, as he dashed
into the room, and, with a roar like a lion,
said, —

Did I not tell thee, Joe, that not a hair of
her head should be hurt ? What art thou
doing; to the oral ? "

Joe slunk into the corner of the room,
evidently expecting a crushing shake up,
which he knew his comrade capable of inflicting
; then he muttered, —

I wasn't a-doing anything to the little
gal ; I loves her too much, that's what I does.
But I was just a-walking her to tip me a lock

2^1

of her hair for the gentleman who has provided
for her such a nice home."

'' All right, Joe ; no harm done, I see ; but
why the d — 1 did you lock that door % "

'' I wasn't a-thinking. Billy, what I was
a- doing."

'' Curse it all, I've slept four hours," said
Bill, rubbing his eyes, andlookingat his watch.

Thy next sleep shall be for ever," muttered
Joe to himself, and he ground his teeth as he
left the room.

Oh, do save me ! " cried Constance, and
tears filled her eyes as she implored Bill to
protect her from the persistent insults of
his comrade.

Dry up your tears, my little gal ; as Joe
says, we be going to take you to a better
lodging in a couple of hours' time, and clear
you out of this damp, dismal hole."

Ah ! " sighed Constance, " it matters little
now ; the mischief is complete ; the damp

foul, loathsome air of this place has done its
deadly night-shade ' work, and penetrated
the marrow of my bones ; it matters little
now — too late — too late — take me when
you will."

Joe looked in again at the door, and said, —

'' You must pack up your portmanteau and
trunks, my dear ; we shall soon be on the
trot ; and sweet William here will look after
your comforts. He is a gentleman of great
experience, and quite the ladies' man — ha !
ha ! ha ! " and he slunk away, swearing to
be revenged.

Oh, save me, dear, dear, kind Bill," implored
Constance, clinging to the rough and
wrinkled hand of the robber.

And Giant Bill's massive head sank again
on his broad chest, and he muttered " Curse,
curse the money ! " then raising himself to his
towering height, he looked down compassionately
on the miserable girl, and placing his

ponderous hand on her head, said, in a subdued
voice, —

'• I have sworn, gal, that not a hair of thy
head shall be hurt, if I can help it ; twice I
have kept my word — the third and last time
is close at hand. Two hours more, and the
moon will be up ; prepare, gal, for the worst.
I can promise nothing, but have courage,
little wench, have courage," and Giant Bill
stalked out of the room.

Gone, gone, gone, again," said Constance;
''my only earthly hope — my refuge. Oh,
merciful Lord, have pity on me ! " Then
burying her head in her delicate hands, she
knelt down by her impromptu couch for the
last time, and offered up a fervent prayer !

Joe was sitting' over the smouldering' logs
of wood smoking his pipe, and in deep thought,
when Bill entered.

Well," said Bill, " as I told thee before,
Joe, I don't like the job, and I often wish I

never had a hand in the dirty work. Howsomever,
we have taken the gentleman's
money, and we must do the business in a
proper sort of manner."

In course we must, Billy, my boy."

AVell, now, Joe, 'tis just this. I likes the
little gal — that's what I does — for she has
touched my hard heart with the tip of her
tongue more than once, and I feels a choking
sensation ever since, which I can't get rid of."

'bah, you fool! thou'lt feel a choking
sensation with a rope round yer neck, if you
turns tail."

No, Joe, I don't intend to turn tail, as
sou calls it ; but if the gal has to be ' cooked,'
let us ' cook ' her as soon as possible, and with
little pain. I vote we cover her with the
horse-cloth as before, then flip her up on our
shoulders, and run her down to the breakwater
under Pope's point, and drop her in
at once."

Tip-top, Billy, my boy, tip us yer hand ;
now you talks like a sensible feller ; before, I
thought you an idiot fresh from Bedlam."

'' Another thing, Joe ; I don't want to hear
any more of her fine speechifying : it takes
all the wind out of my sails ; and as she's got
to be ' cooked,' let us be up and doing."

Ha ! ha ! ha ! and make a mermaid of
her, Bill, eh ? and two gentlemen of us. Bill,
eh ? Money, money, money, we have got the
swag,' two hundred and fifty pounds a piece,
and another cool hundred we are to have at
the hut at Crowsfoot after the job is finished.
The gentleman promised to meet us both at
twelve to-night ; after that, he bargains that
we shall leave the country for ever. He says
there be no danger, as all the folk thinks that
the little oral has drowned herself cause the
tall gentleman jilted her, and then cut away
with another woman, the squire's daughter,
who we ought to a ' nobbled ' instead of this

one. Lucky wench that, Billy, my boy. Now,
tip us the bottle, and let us drink to the
little gal, and a safe journey to her across the
channel — ha ! ha ! ha ! I say, Bill, mind and
take care of your money, my lad."

Never fear, man, leave me alone for that ;
but now to business. The time is nearly up,
and the moon is skulking behind some black
clouds. First of all, run to the well and draw
a jug of water, for we had better finish this
last bottle of rum ; after that, pack up your
little traps. I shall only return here for an
hour or so ; then I shall make straight for
Liverpool, and ship by first vessel to Spain ;
but we must not leave a scrap behind us to
tell tales."

Eight you are, Billy ; I joins my old
woman at Plymouth after I have collared the
other hundred from the gentleman. My cricket I
Bill, how he do drink, to be sure, — a bottle of
brandy at a sitting ; " and seizing the jug, Joe

went for the water, which he had to draw
from a deep well at the extreme end of the
ruins. Giant Bill, as was always his custom
(to ensure safety) let him through the trapdoor,
and as Joe disappeared round the walls
of the east tower, a gipsy girl, greatly deformed,
crawled from beneath a large bush
of gorse.

'' Euth," said Bill.

All right, father."

Well done, wench, as ever, brave as a
lion."

But weak as a lamb, father."

Nay, wench, drink deep of this rum ; it
will give thee new life, and fit thee for thy
work ; canst thou carry it through, child ?
mind, the danger is great, and the sea runs
high to-night."

Never fear, father, I have a special licence
given two hours since from the queen, to do
all the work allotted to me. See here these

VOL. III. R

three phial bottles, sealed and containing — ■

First,—

An adder's tongue, and viper's heart,
Mixed to make a villain smart.

Second, —

Six drops of blood, and murderer's curse,
^ Mixed to save a ' Red-cross nurse.'

Third,—

Mad dogs' foam — and tears from slaves,
Mixed to save me from the waves."

Brave wench ! " said Bill, " if thou canst
but carry this through, thy fortune is made."
And," responded Ruth, —

An angel from heaven is saved ! "

Are you sure, gal, thou knowest thy
work? Remember thou art my child — my
only child I "

"Thy child! Ha! ha! ha! with a
hump on my back ! and crooked legs ! Thy
child ! a giant's child ! Shame on thee to

have handed me down in siicli a form : yet
I do love thee so, my own dear father ! "

Tears rolled down the bronzed and wrinkled
face of the outlaw, and splashed on his child's
forehead, as she looked up to him. At that
moment Joe's step was heard in the distance.

"Now, gal, epick as lightning, act cautiously,
and speak only by signs." And the
piece of deformity hurried down the circular
stone steps ; the rusty bolt of Constance's
room was quietly drawn — Euth entered — the
door closed, — and all within was as silent as
the grave.

"Well, Joey, my boy, what a time you
have been."

"Curse the well!" said Joe; "the wheel
wouldn't act, and I well nigh slipped headlong
in. Hark ! what noise did I hear ? "

Leave the gal alone, Joe, I think she's praying.
She smells a rat, and knows 'tis all up with
her. Let her spend her last moments in peace."

Ha ! ha ! ha ! " laughed Joe ; " whilst we
mixes a parting glass, Bill, and finishes up
this 'ere last bottle o' rum — tip us your hand,
lad, we've worked hard, and kept our precious
necks out of the noose. I hope the course is
clear, Bill, and none of those infernal shepherds
knocking about. I will run round and see for
myself: you get everything in readiness."

*' Leave that to me," said Bill ; '' I can manage
the gal better than you ; I will carry her
as far as Lulsey Wood, and you can take her
to the breakwater."

Mind, Billy, none of your tricks upon
travellers ; we both drops her, mind, into the
briny : yes, both at one time."

Honour bright, Joe, I intend to do my
share and my duty to the gentleman : yes, like
a man, Joe ; but, look here, my boy, afore we
makes the splash, we had better slip off her
hair, as you wants some for the gentleman ? "

No ! no ! " said Joe, " the confounded hair

may hang both on us ! I'll not touch it !
If she is found knocking about the coast,
the crowner s 'quest will be ' found drowned,'
or * tempore 'sanity.' "

'perhaps you are right after all, Joe. Now
to work ; see that the course is clear ; give the
signal at the top of the steps, — then meet meat
the bottom, for the gal is lumpy."

Bill seized the rug ; entered the other apartment
— Constance lay stretched at full length
under the couch, and partly hidden with broken
boxes and leaves — Euth was kneeling down.

The robber whispered, — " For Heaven's
sake, lie still, gal — still as death, until I or my
wench returns."

'' I would rather die," said Constance,
than harm should come to this poor girl."

"Poor, I am not!" said Euth. "The cpeen
ruled my planet last night — I am rich — I am
queen of the May, queen of the young May
moon ; yes, —

Queen of the sea,

For I shall save thee ! "

As Joe's heavy step was heard entering the
doorway, Giant Bill threw the rug over Ruth,
entirely enveloping her, securing it with a
cord. At that moment Constance (by arrangement),
screamed out " Wretches ! " stifled
sobs were then heard beneath the covering,
and Euth was lifted on the shoulders of the
stalwart men, and carried away with the
greatest ease, Joe remarking that the gal had
lost a couple of stone since they last picked
her up. The distance they had to travel was
under two miles — now and then they rested
awhile to take breath — but Bill insisted on
not allowing the covering to be removed, ashe
said there would sure to be a scene ; sobs
and sighs could be faintly heard, and now and
then a little struggle. On arriving at Lulsey
Wood, Joe took the burden on his own broad
shoulders. Onward the villain went, crloatino;

over the prospect of achieving his purpose, and
possessing his comrade's share of the reward.

The moon shone brightly, and shed her soft
silvery rays on the bosom of the sea, indicating,
as it were, an endless pathway on the ocean
deep. The roar of the water as it lashed the
rock-bound shore, carrying with each receding
wave countless pebbles from the beach, gave
forth a monotonous sound ; — all else was still,
save the black-cap warbler in Lulsey Wood,
filling: the silent air with his delicious notes.
Onward the robbers moved with their human
freight, crossed the pebble beach and slippery
weed, falling twice in their attempt to reach the
breakwater. Not a word was spoken, — but sobs,
sighs, and stifled cries, could be faintly heard.

Now don't ye cry, my little darling,"
said the robber Joe ; " it will soon be all over,"
and he deposited his load on a bed of weed,
and wiped the perspiration which was streaming
down his face. Then, as it were, a

heavenly voice came from beneath the rug, in
wild but beautiful accents, —

' There is a happy land, far, far away'"

She's gone mad. Bill ! mad — mad. Take
care, lad, that we don't drop the rug into the
sea : it will hang us, man, for certain. Now
then, are you ready?"

Yes."

ensure?"

"Quite."

In one moment there was a complete transformation
scene of the surroundings — a fearful
scream was heard — the rug was thrown off by
Euth, assisted by Bill — the girl rushed to the
edge of the breakwater, and before Joe had
time to recover himself, head-foremost she
plunged into the deep sea, disappearing below
the crested waves, which closed over her — but
Euth, rising immediately to the surface, struck
out vigorously for the headland or " Shag "

Eock, which is a mile and a half below the
breakwater, the tide carrying her at a great pace ;
but the girl, like a cork, rose on the crested
waves in fine form, the beams of the moon
shining' now and then on her naked shoulders.

At that moment, from behind a rock,
close to where Euth jumped in, rose two
men, one in stature almost a match for the
Philistine robber.

"Ah, wretch, traitor — I am betrayed!"
roared Joe. " Curse you " — bang — " take
that " — bang — " and that — you Judas
'Iscariot ! " and Giant Bill reeled backwards
several paces, then fell with a heavy thud on
the weed-covered shore.

And I, Oliver Grey, grappled with my man.
With both hands I seized the villain by the
throat, my faithful valet having first wrenched
the revolver from him.

"Curtis," I cried out, "look after the
wounded, fellow ; leave this wretch to me."

I found that I had my match, for Joe was
good on his feet amongst the slippery weed,
and as strong as a lion ; but my life-long
training in gymnastics and wrestling served
me at this moment : I had him in a vice.

Let me go," groaned Joe; " I am choking;
do you want to kill me ? " and he made a desperate
attempt to seize a long clasp-knife
which he had in his pocket.

I am going to drown you, you villain ! " I
exclaimed, " unless you tell me this instant
who employed you to do this horrible deed."

Never ! " he shouted.

You won't ? "

Never ; cursed if I do ! "

'' Then I will drown you like a rat," and a
desperate struggle for life followed. Backward
inch by inch I bore him, falling twice, rolling
over each other, up again, then down ; but I
never let go the first grip I took. The sea was
now lashing our feet, and boiling around us ;

then to our knees, then up to our waists, almost
lifting: us with the swell ; — down I forced the
brute's head under the water, and held him
there for some time.

Will you confess now, you rascal ? " I asked,
lifting him up.

Ne — ne — never ! curse you ! " he replied,
and another desperate struggle took place :
it was for life or death. Down went his head
and shoulders once more, with a powerful
leverao'e which I put on.

O J-

Will you now confess, you blackguard ? "
"Never ! Billy, help ! help ! murder ! "
'' Then I will finish you — yes, drown you
like a dog."

And I thrust him again beneath the white
foam that lashed furiously around us. Fearing
from the dead weight on my arms that he was
really going to slip out of my hands into
another world, I once more, and for the last
time, raised his head.

'' Do you confess, you brute ? "

Save — save — ye — yes, — the gen — the —
gentleman," he gasped.

What gentleman ? "

Eo— Eo— Otway I "

A gurgling noise in his throat followed,
and the robber's head fell helpless on his
breast. I hailed Curtis for assistance, and
we dragged the wretched fellow on the
pebble beach, unfastened his collar, and took
the usual means to restore animation, — but all
to no purpose, our united efforts were unavailing
; once he gasped out, in a voice scarcely
audible, " Money — money," — then breathed
his last, and I became sensible of the grave
responsibility I had incurred in taking the law
into my own hands, and putting the wretch out
of the book of life ; but my excitement and determination
to make the would-be assassin confess
urged me to extremities which, in calmer
moments, I should have thought better of.

"■ What about the other man, Curtis ? " I
asked.

Sure then, master, I fear he is dying ; be
quick, sir, for he needs help ; I have staunched
the blood of two ugly wounds in his breast
and propped him up on the bank, but he is as
heavy as a bullock."

I ran up to him.

*' How is it with you ? " I asked.

'' Tell the little gal, sir, I fulfilled my promise
that not a hair of her head should be hurt."

"All this, my poor fellow, comes of the
first false step you took: but undoubtedly you
have saved the young lady's life, and — "

"And her honour," gasped Giant Bill"'

The Lord be praised ! " I responded.
*how about your daughter, my man ; do you
think she is safe ; where can we go to her ? "

Never fear, her phials will save her ; no
sea could drown that child ; she can swim like
a shark, and she made straight with the tide

for yon headland below Shag Eock, where the
queen of the gipsies awaits her with a cart ;
from there they will make a dash for the Refuge,
and before you have finished your work
to-night, sir, that blessed girl of mine will
have finished hers, and handed the gal over
safe and sound at Carthewin Castle, and I
shall be in distant lands : all has been cut
and dried long ago."

Bless her young soul," I responded.

I then examined the giant's wounds, felt his
pulse, and administered some brandy from my
flask.

My poor fellow," I said, " you are going
to die."

*' Ha 1 ha ! we must all do that some time
or other," he replied, in a feeble voice. " I
have some comforts, sir, to feed on and refresh
me on my journey, bad fellow as I have been
all my life. First, I watched you drown that
reptile like a dog, — yes, by inches, slowly and

surely ; — in the next place, I has the comfort
a knowing that I saved the poor little wench
what I helped to take away, all for the cursed
money ; — and, last of all, I knows that the little
black-eyed gal will never let my poor deformed
child, or her mother, want a bit o' bread."

No, she shall never want," I replied. '' But
tell me, my poor dying man, ere it be too late,
who prompted you to attempt this awful work'?
Curtis, you listen, and take down his dying
deposition."

Who prompted me ? "

*' Yes, who tempted you ? "

"The devil, sir."

*' And who aided the devil in his devilish
work % Speak in short sentences, for you are
dying fast."

"■ Cuthbert Otway, sir."

'' Horror ! When ? "

*' On and off for several months."

'' Have you been paid by him 1 "

Yes, two hundred and fifty pounds of his
cursed money in my breeches' pocket at this
moment, and the like sum in that dead reptile's
pocket. See how the brute grins in the moonlight,
but 'tis t'other side of his mouth though
—ha ! ha ! ha ! "

When did you last see this Otway ? "

My mate did all the money business, whilst
I Thatched over the poor gal ; and I did too,
and no mistake."

Adhere is Otway likely to be found?
Here, pull at the brandy flask."

I felt that he was sinking.

*' At the mud hut in the valley at the bottom
of Crowsfoot Hill ; we had to meet him thereat
twelve to-nioiit to collar another hundred

o

each, and to convince him the job was finished.'^
"Oh, horror!" I exclaimed: "horrible to

think of!"

And horrible, yer honour, if I had not

stuck to the little gal."

^7^

**By that act, my poor fellow, you have
probably saved your soul. Now one word
more. Do you know anything about an attempted
assassination of a gentleman sometime
since at Carthewin Castle ? "

*' In course I do."

For Heaven's sake, be quick and tell me."

I I I, well I—"

A pause. I gave him more brandy ; and
raised his drooping head.

** Well, my poor fellow ? Speak quickly."

I — I — I fired that shot, sir, and could
have swore I drilled you."

"" Good heavens ! you fired it ? "

'* Yes — God forgive me."

At whose request ? "

Same man."

*' What man ? "

Otway, sir."

*• For money ? "

*' One hundred seller boys if I killed you,

VOL. III. S

fifty, hit or miss. I was dead on yer, sir,
but the gal by yer side bobbed her head in
the way. I— I— I—"

'^ I what ? " I asked.

''I hopes you will forgive me, sir, and I
hopes you will look after my poor child.
She's lost her father in this job."

*poor creature," I replied, "from my heart
I pity you. I swear that neither your wife nor
daughter shall ever want, as long as I or mine
have the means of helping them."

Giant Bill thrust his hand into his pocket,
drew out a roll of notes, in which were folded
some sovereigns and Constance's jewellery ;
then throwing them from him with disgust,
said, —

'' Curse the money, it has been my ruin, and
cause of my death — "

At this point he turned round his huge
body, groaned once, gasped three times, and
Giant Bill was no more !

Dead, sir — dead as a door nail, sir," said
my servant Curtis.

'' Now, Curtis, be quick, man, take the contents
from the men's pockets, and wrap them
in a handkerchief; then lay both the bodies
side by side, cover them over lightly with
some seaweed, and let us make for the mud
hut at Crowsfoot Hill as fast as possible. Nota
moment must be lost ; I know the place
well — it is a good two miles from here ; I remember
shooting over the cover with one of
Mr Townshend's keepers."

Sure, then, in all my blessed experience,
the like of to-night I never heard or read of ;
and here we are in the very thick of it ; 'tis
enough to make one's very hair stand on end.
Egad ! master, that drowning scene I shall
never to the day of my death forget ; he
was the strongest fellow I ever saw ye catch
hold of, and ye have handled a few in yer
time."

Awfully sorry I killed that man, Curtis ;
vexed beyond everything : there will be a
dreadful row about it."

'' Sure, then, I am not of the same way of
thinking," replied Curtis ; " for it was just a
touch-and-go with ye, master. After he sent
two bullets into his comrade, ujd went the
revolver straight for yer head ; but I dropped
this life-preserver over his elbow, else I fear
ye would now be lying side by side with
those fellows."

Curtis, wee must take this Otway, the
worst of all villains — wee must have him this
night, by hook or by crook."

Sure, then, we will, dead or alive."

No, Curtis, I must take him alive, and
have the rascal transported."

He must be swift of foot to escape me,"
said Curtis.

By this time, we arrived at the brow of
Crowsfoot Plantation, where I lit my pipe, and

took a good refresher from the brandy-Hask.
We had to descend a rugged defile that led to
the mud hut, a j^l^ce used by the shepherds
and keepers in the district, where they cooked
their food. The moon, unfortunately, was
still shining very brightly, which, at the
moment, I considered against us. Onward
we crept under the shadows of overhanging
trees and tall bushes, until we arrived within
fifty paces of the hut. Xo light could be seen
there, but a little smoke was issuing from the
chimney. After waiting in breathless silence
for a few moments, we moved od ao-ain, when
out walked a tall slim figure, and nervously
looked up and down the valley. I knew him
in a moment — it was Rodway !

Joe, is that you ? " said a voice.

No reply.

Bill, is that you ? "

'all right," said Curtis, like a fool.

I presumed Otway knew the voice — certainly

he was instantly alive to the fact that
it was neither Joe nor Bill, for with one bound
he cleared a high wire fence, jumped a wide
brook below it, and dashed up the iceland at
a rattling pace, Curtis and I after him like
hounds. Our condition being better than his,
we gained every moment upon him — on the
flat at the top of the hill he increased the distance
between us, but at the next steep incline
which led to the higher cliff overlooking
the sea, our pace was too fast for him. Breathless
he stood on a promontory on the spur
of the hill, apparently determined to make a
stout resistance.

For heaven's sake, master," said Curtis,
'' be careful — mind, sir, he is the deadest
shot in the county."

And before the words were scarcely out of
my servant's mouth — bang — and whizz went
a bullet close to my ear — bang — another
through the loose sleeve of my coat.

Give him one, master ; give him one," said
Curtis, " or it may be too late."

I drew my " Dean k Adams," and let fly
two shots, but missed.

Bang — bang — again from Otway's barrels,
but, fortunately for me, with no results. It
was his last chance — away he flew straight for
the cliff', Curtis at his heels. Nearer and nearer
he drew — they almost closed — the life preserver
was raised to fell him to the ground.
It was needless, for, oh, horror ! with a desperate
leap he cleared the low gorse hedge
that fringed the cliff's, and in a few moments
the sound of a heavy thud came up — and
Cuthbert Otway lay two hundred feet below,
a mangled corpse ! And the pale-faced moon
shone that night on the lifeless form of
another of the greatest villains who ever
drew the breath of life !

CONCLUSION.

I have been reasoning, and in conclusion have
thought it best to return to what fortune hath
made my home." — Swift.

There is a gap in this narrative, and in order
to clear up all outstanding matter in connection
with the late distressing surroundings of
Constance Templar and others, it is incumbent
on the writer to give a brief outline of the past.

First, —

After my arrest I was taken before the

county magistrates at . Mr Townshend

was acting as chairman. Immediately on
my appearing in court, as a matter of custom,
he left the bench, and Mr Fairblow occupied
his seat.

I took upon myself the grave responsibility
of being' mv own advocate. Curtis and Leonard
came forward and swore that on my leaving'
Constance in the ornamental wardens I
went straight to the Castle, and from thence
to the Abbey, all of which was borne out by
the coachman. The possession of the buckskin
glove has been satisfactorily cleared up,
Constance having taken it with her by accident.
A drawing of the imprint of the large
feet in Hollybush Lane was submitted, and
sworn to by my witness, I therefore scattered
to the v/ind that portion of the evidence ; — to
cut the matter short, I explained to the bench
my antecedents in connection with Miss Templar,
and spoke earnestly and truthfully for
half-an-hour in defence of the accusations made
against me, although I was frequently interrupted
by Mr Greenbank, who reminded me
that wdiat I was submitting was not relevant
to the matter at issue. I have no reason to

complain of the justice and forbearance accorded
me throughout my trying position ;
more particularly as there were certainly ugly
rumours afloat, and suspicious circumstances
of a grave character, which pointed indirectly
towards myself. However, the magistrates,
after two hours' hearing, retired to deliberate
and consider the case. Ashen they returned,
the chairman said, —

Major Grey, — After a most careful and
exhaustive investigation of this very painful
case, we are (with one exception) unanimous
in our opinion, that not a tittle of the evidence
which has been brought before us would justify
our committing you, or even remanding the
case ; on the contrary, we wish, sir, to convey
to you, and your surroundings, our deep sympathy
in the trying position in which you have
been placed through circumstances manifestly
beyond your control. We wish, also, to
compliment you on the able, courteous, and

straightforward manner in which you have
conducted your case ; and it is our pleasing
duty, Major Grey, to inform you that you are
discharged, and that you leave this court, sir,
without the slightest blemish on your character."

There was oTcat cheering; in the Town Hall
at the announcement, but it was instantly
suppressed.

I told Leonard I should dine that day at
the Castle, and I did !

Secondly, —

Giant Bill, as before explained, had a deformed
daughter. Some years since, she left
her mother and was adopted by a woman who
belonged to a band of gipsies, with whom she
travelled about the country. By some means
(not Cjuite clear) Bill communicated with this
girl, and a fixed plan was organised by which
a rescue of Constance Templar could be effected
without disclosing the " Refuge " to other persons.
Euth, acting up to instructions, loitered

about the grounds of Carthewin Castle, until
she saw my servant Curtis, and under the
pretence of telling his fortune, disclosed the
fact that Constance Templar was living, also
that she was a prisoner, and that if he (Curtis)
appeared with myself at the breakwater under
Pope's Point " at a certain hour, on a particular
night, the would-be murderer could, in
all probability, be arrested, and Miss Templar
saved, My anxiety during that perilous time
was beyond anything I can herein describe
fearing that a mistake of one day would
frustrate all the plans adopted by Bill and the
gipsy girl. I and Curtis (well armed) arrived
at the spot indicated the night before, and
took up our position behind some projecting
rocks, the whole of the following clay in the
greatest possible suspense. Never shall T
forget the intensity of my feelings, when, at
eleven o'clock, the appointed time, I observed
the bright moon shining on those two outlaws

and their human freight, wending their way
down the zig-zag cliff, and over the pebble
beach.

After Tenth plunged into the sea, as arranged,
she made for the headland. Being a
marvellous swimmer, and the tide running' at
a furious ]Dace, she very soot touched the
point, and scrambled over the slippery weed-covered
rocks. On the road that lead to the
top of the cliff, there was the gipsy woman
awaiting her with a conveyance ; at a gallop
they made straight for the '' Refugee," not
knowing how matters may terminate at the
breakwater ; and fearing Joe's return, in the
event of his not being arrested. On their
arrival at the black hole, they led poor
Constance (after swearing her to secrecy) out
of the den, and put her into the cart, more
dead than alive. In four hours from that
time she was placed between warm blankets
in Carthewin Castle, and our heroine, for three

weeks, day and night, watched over her, hourly-expecting
her spirit to pass away. However,
the two physicians in attendance strained
every nerve, and ultimately pulled her through
her illness ; but she came out of it a complete
wreck — a mere shadow of her former self. Her
once beautiful raven black hair turned nearly
white, and a nervous shake of the head which
she ever afterwards had, told its own tale of
the horrors 'sto which she had been cruelly
exposed.

Thirdly, —

Immediately on my return to the Castle on
that memorable night of the rescue, I went
with Mr Townshend and knocked up his friend
Fairblow, surrendering myself to the authorities
for having caused the death of Joe. On
the following day the whole of the evidence
was gone into, witnesses were examined, and
Constance Templar's deposition taken ; I was
remanded pending the coroner's inquest on the

three bodies ; the judicial inquiry was held at
the " Catharine Wheel," the respective verdicts
being; as follows : —

In the case of Giant Bill, — Wilful murder
against Joe.

In the case of Cuthbert Otway, — Felo de se.

In the case of Joe, — Justifiable homicide.
On which latter verdict I was committed —
in due course tried — and honourably acquitted
; not only so, but lionised throughout the
county for the prompt action I took ; though

I was hit hard by Chief-justice for

having taken the law into my own hands.
The remains of the murderer Joe were deposited
in the grounds of the county prison.
Cuthbert Otway was buried at midnight in
the cross roads by torchlight, his valet Martineauxx
alone following his shattered remains
to the grave.

Giant Bill was interred, at the request of
Constance Templar, in the primitive little

A Virgin Widow.

churchyard, within a stone's-throw of the
Catharine Wheel " Ino, on the common.
There, in the right-hand corner of that
peaceful burying-ground, under a willow
tree, are deposited the remains of the man
of Philistine proportions. A headstone of
polished granite marks the spot, on which
is inscribed —

THERE IS JOY IN

HEAVEN OVER ONE

SINNER THAT

Repented.

Constance Templar periodically visited the
tomb of the man who sacrificed his own life
to save hers. Dare-devil character that he
had been, she nevertheless dwelt on his-memory

with feelings akin to affection. On
each anniversary of his death, she had the
grave covered with flowers ; and she settled
an annuity of fifty pounds on Ruth and her
mother. The whole of the money found in
the pockets of Joe and Bill was handed over
to various charities in the county.

Fourthly, —

Mrs Townshend's condition grew from day
to day rapidly worse, and she ultimately
became so violent as to necessitate her removal
to a private lunatic asylum ; where,
not twenty miles from the little village of
Keynsham, in Somerset, she died ; and, agreeably
with her own expressed wish, was buried
in the family vault of the Eodways in
Cumberland.

Lastly, —

I have now to record the most delightful
part of my narrative, certainly as far as the
writer is concerned, for I, Oliver Grey, married

VOL. III. T

Nora, the *' Virgin "Widow " of Lieutenant
Percival Snowdon, eldest daughter of Godfrey
Townshend, and heiress of Carthewin. The
ceremony took place in the parish church,
twelve months subsequent to the close of
the last chapter, and on the fiftieth anniversary
of my beloved father and mothers
marriage (both of whom were present). I
have the permission of our heroine to apjDcnd
to this narrative the following ode, written
by her on the eve of my parents' " golden
wedding."

All hail ! a golden morn, all hail ! a diamond day,

The voice that breathed o'er Eden," still sounds in
ecstasy ;

Countless moons have risen bright, and radiant suns
have set

Since bridegroom at the altar, a bashful maiden met ;

There, in the holy chancel, meek, timid as a dove,

A graceful damsel gently pledged her vow of steadfast
love ;

The rose suffused her cheek, and her step was light
and gay.

And proud her lover felt when he bore his bride away ;

But jn-ouder still to-day, for lo ! a cloudless morn,
Has followed changing scenes of sunshine and of storm :
They've trod the marriage life full two score years

and ten,
And shared each other's joys, and halved each other's

pain ;
The rugged paths of life they've journeyed on together ;
And those two loving hearts are dearer now than ever !
This day on hallowed ground again both lovers meet.
To plight their troth afresh, and murmur pledges sweet ;
Far in the vale of years on purer scenes they're bent ;
Where rich rewards await them, for talents wisely

spent !
Come, let us wreathe a garland of lilies white and fair,
With orange blossoms richly bedeck her golden hair,
King out Carthewin bells, play forth the wedding

march,
A bride and bridegroom come, beneath triumphal arch I
We'll strew their path with roses, and pour forth

joyful strain.
And bright and happy angels will take up the refrain ;
All hail ! a golden morn, all hail ! a diamond day,
"The voice that breathed o'er Eden" still sounds in

ecstasy !

Referring; again to our own marriage, in
attendance on my bride on that auspicious
occasion were — my sister Fanny, Constance

Templar, Gertrude, Miss Fairblow, and the
two Miss Branscombs ; my best man being-harry
Podmore. Mr Townshend gave his
graceful and accomplished daughter away, and
proud enough I w\t.s on that ever memorable
bright and happy morning, when leading
Nora down the aisle of Carthewin church, I
felt the warm pressure of a hand that I had
so long yearned for, and struggled hard to
possess ; to know and feel it was now my own ;
to look upon that sweet, flushed face, and
see all the care and anxiety that recently
mantled her brow completely swept away ;
to behold the girl of my choice, looking, as it
were, out of heaven a happy bride ; to experience
all this was to feel that it was more,
far more, than I deserved ; in a word, my
little ewe lamb was too good for me. At the
expressed wish of my father-in-law I retired
from the army ; Nora and I were invited to
take up our residence at Carthewin Castle,

and, bv so doing, contribute our quota towards
making happy the declining years of
Mr Townshend, whose health (since his wife's
confinement in the asylum and decease) had
become shattered.

Constance Templar resides with the Honourable
Mrs Mackenzie in a charming villa on the
Carthewin estate, which our heroine had erected
specially for them, and often in the gloaming
of a summer's eve, amidst glowing bowers of
perfumed shade, Nora and I frequently linger
until nightfall, enjoying the companionship of
dear Constance, who was the sunbeam and
flower of society. No one in the county is
liked more — why ? simply because she is likeable,
reared within the lines of religious orthodoxy,
well read, a great traveller, a good
linguist, and she is endowed with the best of
all gifts — common sense. These virtues combined
make her a firm friend and valuable
companion. I shall cherish particularly the

remembrance of her kindness to me and mine,
and treasure the memory of her faithful
friendship. My Nora most cordially shares
with me in all the feelings I express. During
the little rules and vexations of life, Constance
Templar proved a rock on which we have
more than once found refuge, when our lives
(in common with all mankind) have been
sometimes soured by rebuffs and disappointments.


Our little friend Gertrude — the " prototype
of joy " is affianced to Lieutenant Fairblow
(son of our esteemed neighbour, the county
magistrate), a promising young officer in the

Guards ; the alliance is well assorted,

approved by both families, and everything
points to a happy wedded life, if one can
judge from the love that is throwing its halo
around them !

The Branscomb girls have not, I am sorry
to say (speaking in a matrimonial sense) been

successful, and their mamma has long since
come to the conclusion that, being fast with
hounds, fast in dress, and fast in speech, area
trio of qualifications not so attractive as to
ensure good husbands ; but, with a chill smile,
and artificial vivacity, the girls say that *they
don't care a toss," though I have reason to
believe that their dear little loving hearts are
still throbbing at the window of expectancy.

Leonard, the employe of Mr Townshend,
was superannuated, and spent the residue of
his days in a small thatched cottage on his
master's estate, under the shadow of the
Belvidere, where constantly Nora visited.
She was present at his death, and the last
words of the old and valued servant were
** Lord love her dear heart," and he died
holding the hand of his '' little rosebud " ashe
always called her, and was buried in
Carthewin churchyard.

My Irish servant Curtis, and Biddy, his

Tipperary consort, with their belongings, live
in one of the lodges near the Castle. The
former is promoted to park-keeper, and a devoted
employe he groves himself to be. Before
closing this narrative, it would be remiss
were I not moved to offer a tribute to the man
who shared with me many dangers. Long
travel and varied experience with Curtis endeared
him to me ; though he had a rough
exterior, he carried beneath it a kind and
generous heart, and would at any moment
have imperilled his life to protect mine.
Lastly, he always valued Biddy his wife as
his best treasure.

Bob Boy," my favourite Wish charger,
was buried in Carthew^n Bark, and the rose,
shamrock, and thistle entwine o'er his grave.

But left the band of gipsies and went with
her mother to live in a pretty little cottage on
the common, near the 'catharine Wheel," and
not far from her father's grave. She was frequently

visited by Constance Templar, and
often seen on a summer's eve sitting in the
ivy-clad porch knitting, and now and then singing
her favourite hymn, with much pathos, —

There is a happy land, far, far, away,"

to which, doubtless, her soul has since passed,
whilst her mortal remains lie beside the man
of Philistine proportions.
All this, friendly reader, —

Was many and many a year ago,
In this kingdom by the sea."

Two dear girls now lay claim to chairs atour
table, and to an equal share of our love
and protection, — their names are Nora and
Constance. Truly they are chips from the
parent tree, offshoots whose caressing tendrils
are fondly intertwined with those of
the best of all mothers — Who is a bright
shining star — ever ready to guide and keep
the saplings clear of breakers ahead, and the

rock-bound shore of this bleak wilderness
of life, with its allurements — a refuge in the
hour of peril — a wise counsellor — and a pious
companion I That we can have but one
mother in a lifetime is a fact perfectly well
known to all, but, alas ! sometimes little
thought of until too late. As none of us
carry a lease in our pockets to live for ever,
I say with this, my last dip of ink, —

Though years have blanched her hair, and touched

her gentle sway,
Yet still she is my own sweet bride of yesterday;
One wedding more awaits her, then cherubim will sing,
And bright and happy angels will form the golden

ring !

THE END.
