>;/^

BY HOOK OE CROOK

BY

Major AETHUE Griffiths

author of
'fast and loose,' 'locked up,' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

Edinburgh AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVIII

All Bights reserved

/

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST Volume.

■S)

a mysterious malady,
colonel st evelyn,
carysfort's guardian,
IN Lincoln's inn,
lady lezaire gives way,
arrivals at the hall,
a first passage of arms,
Hubert's parentage, .
what came of a fight,

the COLONEL WORSTED,
COUNTY VEXATIONS,
DOCTORS DO NOT DIFFER,
THE coroner's JURY, .
FURTHER INQUIRY,

PAGE
























]49

CONTENTS.

XV. THE POLICE AT WORK, .
XVI. Warwick ALIAS Quench,

XVII. Taylor's ' toxicology

XVIII. documentary EVIDENCE,

XIX. the chemist op cleobury, .

XX. A cloak, coat, or cape,
XXI. the case is clear,

XXII. AT DIEPPE,

XXIII, ON THE TRIAL SIDE,

XXIV. MRS ST EVELYN HEARS,












Chapter I.

A MYSTERIOUS MALADY.

There was intense excitement at Straddlethorpe
Hall. The young owner, Sir Carysfort Lezaire,
had been seized with a sudden illness, and lay
at the point of death. The local doctor had
been summoned from Market Keepham, and
had given the young baronet his best attention
from the moment of the first attack. But Mr
Freshener, although a duly qualified practitioner,
confessed that he was utterly at fault.
Sir Carysfort had been perfectly well that
VOL. L A

same afternoon. It was not till the end of
dinner that lie complained of nausea and violent
pains in the intestines. Lady Lezaire, his devoted
mother, who watched over every ache
and pain of her beloved son with an unremitting
attention, immediately begged Sir Caress
to take to his bed.

Directly she got him safe between the sheets,
she tried the usual panaceas familiar to nursery
treatment. Ginger cordials, hot bottles, fomentations,
and such simple remedies were applied,
but with no effect. The nausea continued, and
soon developed into violent fits of sickness. Sir
Carysfort now also complained of terrible pain
and depression.

By this time Lady Lezaire's anxiety was communicated
to the rest of the household. Her
daughter, Mrs St Evelyn, appeared in the sickroom,
and begged to be allowed to share in the
nursing. Colonel St Evelyn, her son-in-law,
expressed equal solicitude, and, much against
her will, came and sat by the sick lad's bedside.


The evening drew on, and Sir Carysfort's
condition certainly did not improve.

"Mr Freshener must be sent for, and that
without loss of time," said Lady Lezaire.

Do you think that necessary ? " asked Colonel
St Evelyn, who still continued in the room.
'sit is nothing more than a bilious attack.
Carysfort is always so imprudent. Where has
he been to-day ? Does any one know ? "

Fishing," cried another voice from the bottom
of the bed. " I was with him."

The speaker was young Hubert Podifat, who,
like a favourite hound, had taken his post by
Sir Carysfort's bedside a couple of hours before.
No one had noticed the young man particularly :
it was thought quite natural that he should
devote himself to his patron and friend.

I insist upon having a doctor ! " repeated
Lady Lezaire, imperatively. " If you will not
send a message for me, Ferdinand, I must do it
myself."

Let me go," interposed Hubert, eagerly.

You are a good boy," Lady Lezaire said.

Tell Gibbings to send one of the grooms off,
mounted, to Market Needham."

It is really quite preposterous," said the
Colonel, with some irritation. " I wonder you
don't keep a doctor permanently upon the
premises."

Lady Lezaire did not deign to reply, but
looked at her son-in-law in a manner which did
not betoken much ardent affection.

I suppose I am not wanted any more," said
the Colonel ; " but if I can be of the least use,
pray send for me. You will find me in the
study down-stairs."

He retired to his own sanctum, and was presently
enjoying a Trichinopoly cheroot, and the
latest edition of Buff's Guide.

Quite an hour elapsed before Mr Freshener
arrived. By this time Sir Carysfort's sufferings
were aggravated in every particular — the former
symptoms continued unchanged, and in
addition he complained of a hot skin, a dry
parched throat, his gums were swollen, and
there was much salivation of the tongue.

I really am quite perplexed," said little Mr
Freshener. " I don't understand it at all."

Is it a case quite beyond your skill ? " asked
Lady Lezaire. 'can you do nothing for my
poor boy ? "

The symptoms are most peculiar," replied
the local doctor, "and the only treatment that
suggests itself, I am not prepared to administer."

Is there anything we can do ? " asked Lady
Lezaire. " I have a medicine-chest."

"Yes, my lady; but have you a stomach-pump
«

I am afraid not. Is it necessary ? "

Not absolutely, I trust ; but it is the simplest
treatment that occurs to me. If you will
allow me, I will send my man back to the surgery
for that and other requisites. Meanwhile,
I will try bleeding, and if possible let Sir Caress
have a warm bath."

The doctor's messenger went and returned,
but the baronet's condition remained much the
same.

I really do not know what to do. I never

was SO perplexed," the little doctor repeated
again and again.

Perhaps you would like other advice called
in," suggested Lady Lezaire. " Do not hesitate.
Everything shall be done that the case may
demand. My darling boy's health comes before
everything else. Whom would you suggest
? "

Well, my lady, in a case so obscure, the
brightest lights of the profession alone can
guide us. If I might venture to suggest, I
should say summon Sir Peregrine Falcon."

All the way from London ? " put in a new
voice. It was that of Colonel St Evelyn, who
had returned. " Have you any idea, Lady
Lezaire, what his fee would be ? Those great
swells charge at so much a mile."

What is that compared with the life of my
child ? " She turned indignantly from her son-in-law,
and said to Mr Freshener, " Do you
suppose, Mr Freshener, that Sir Peregrine
would come ? "

Failing him, we can send for Dr John

Robinson. I should advise your wiring for
both."

'' I may repeat, I think this very unnecessary,"
said Colonel St Evelyn.

I cannot see that it is any affair of yours,"
replied Lady Lezaire ; " and in a matter of such
vital importance I shall act as I think best."

Telegrams were forthwith indited and despatched.
Silence closed on the sick - room,
broken only by the coming and going of the
attendants, and the groans and hard breathing
of the unfortunate patient as he writhed in
agony on his bed of pain.

Let me pause here to state that Straddle-thorpe
was in a Midland county, more than a
hundred miles from town.

The night was now so far advanced that, even
if the telegrams reached Harley Street before
morning, there was but little chance of Sir
Peregrine Falcon or his colleague catching anything
earlier than the newspaper-train. This
would bring them to Market Needham by about
7.30 A.M., whence a carriage could drive them

over to the Hall in about half an hour. Nine
or ten long hours intervened till then, and, as
Mr Freshener pointed out, all that could be
done was to carefully tend and nurse Sir Caress
through the night. It was just possible
that unremitting care and the continual application
of the remedies recommended might
keep him alive till the following day.

It was arranged that Mr Freshener should
remain with his patient all night. Lady Lez-aire
and Mrs St Evelyn, assisted by Mrs Leleu,
the housekeeper, agreed to sit up with him also,
and nothing could induce the devoted Podifat
to go to bed.

That terrible night dragged itself slowly
along. Fresh paroxysms and crises constantly
supervened, but Sir Carysfort struggled bravely
through them all. Towards dawn Lady Lezaire,
worn out with watching and anxiety, dozed off
to sleep. Mrs St Evelyn, although equally
worn out, gently woke her mother, and begged
her to lie down, if only for an hour.

I will remain with dear Carysfort until you

have rested. You will be fresher then to see
Sir Peregrine when he arrives."

After much entreaty Lady Lezaire reluctantly
yielded to her daughter's earnest solicitations.
Mrs St Evelyn also persuaded Hubert Podifat
to retire for a time. Mr Freshener withdrew to
the library, where a light supper was laid out
for him, and for the moment Mrs St Evelyn
was left alone with her brother.

Sir Carysfort seemed somewhat easier as the
light grew stronger. The season was spring,
the weather warm, and the chirping of the
awakening birds was heard through the casements
as they greeted the returning day. .Sir
Carysfort turned his lack-lustre eyes towards
the windows, and made a feeble motion as if
praying for more air. Mrs St Evelyn readily
interpreted the unspoken wish, and threw up
one of the sashes. The morning breeze came
in, laden with the fragrance of a thousand
blossoms, and for a moment Mrs St Evelyn
leant out, as if seeking to fully realise their
sweetness.

As she stood there, with her back to the
room, she was suddenly startled by the pressure
of a hand lightly laid upon her shoulder. Turning
hastily, she saw that it was her husband.

Oh, Ferdy, how you frightened me ! I did
not hear you come in."

I was afraid of disturbing poor Carysfort, so
I trod as lightly as I could. How is he ? "

Better, I think. He has been free from
nausea for nearly an hour."

But you, my dearest child, you must be
nearly done up. How is it I find you all by
yourself ? "

I insisted upon mother going off to bed,
and Hubert has also just left the room. I am
not in the least tired ; I shall have plenty of
time to rest by-and-by."

You are a true soldier's wife, Rachel, and
rise to emergencies. I never thought my quiet
little woman would have come out so strong."

She turned up her face to his with the gratified
gaze of a child who has been commended.
It was a childish face still, with no great

strength or firmness about it — sweet, womanly,
and confiding.

Colonel St Evelyn stooped his head and kissed
her gently on the lips.

Is there anything I can do ? May I not
share your hours of watching ? "

No, my dearest husband. The sick-room is
not the place for a man. Besides, we shall want
you to receive the great London doctor when
he arrives. Come, Ferdy, be persuaded, and
go off to bed."

Colonel St Evelyn passed his arm round his
wife's waist, and again kissed her. Thus they
approached Sir Carysfort's bedside, and together
stood looking at his face. His eyes were closed,
and he seemed to be asleep, undisturbed for the
moment by his late excruciating pains. Mrs St
Evelyn parted from her husband at the door,
and returning to her place sat quietly watching,
ready to attend instantly to her brother's needs.

By-and-by Sir Carysfort awoke, and muttered
almost unintelligibly a querulous demand for
drink. A tumbler of lime-juice and water stood

by the bedside, and this Mrs St Evelyn applied
at once to his lips. Sir Carysfort took a long
draught, and again sank back on his pillow.

Another hour passed, and the Hall gradually
aroused itself from the slumbers of the night.
There were the usual sounds of feet hurrying
along the corridors, bells ringing, and the general
movements that showed the servants were
astir.

Lady Lezaire was still in her room. Mrs
Leleu, the housekeeper, who had shared the last
night's watch with Mrs St Evelyn, had also
retired to rest. Hubert Podifat was nowhere
to be seen, nor Colonel St Evelyn. Rachel was
alone in the sick-room.

From her now came a terrified summons to
the household. The young baronet was much
worse. A new paroxysm had supervened, and
the old agonising symptoms had reappeared,
enhanced fourfold.

It is most extraordinary," said Mr Freshener,
who thus characterised everything new in his
experience. " And I understand, Mrs St Evelyn,

that until just now he seemed certainly
better ? "

"Yes," replied the baronet's sister, " Caress
had been sleeping quite quietly ever since
Mrs Leleu left him, and this is the first fit that
has attacked him for several hours."

It is most extraordinary," the country practitioner
could only say; " I am quite perplexed."

Oh ! if the London doctors would only
arrive ! What, what, can detain them ? " cried
Lady Lezaire, in an agony of heartfelt despair.

Chapter 11.

COLONEL ST EVELYN.

While the unhappy mother and sister are
tending the sore - stricken lad, let us retrace
our steps to a time antecedent by just a couple
of years.

The scene is the table dliote of the Eccles
Noires, Trouville, in the height of summer.

The guests were of all nationalities. French
predominated, of course, but there were representatives
of almost all nations, Christians of every
category and colour, their distinctive characteristics
showing plainly through the somewhat
uniform veneer of a common civilisation.

Table traits were no less clearly particularised
than personal appearance. Here the Frenchman

chopped up his meat, then fed himself with
his fork, as though he was still in the nursery,
and could not be trusted with a knife ; there
the Teuton might with advantage have been
deprived of an implement he seemed to mistake
for a spoon, but which he handled with the skill
of an Indian juggler accustomed to swallow
swords. Aristocratic ladies washed their
mouths out and spat in the finger-glasses ; the
use of toothpick was by no means tabooed ;
napkins, having one end knotted and fastened
into the collar, hung pendant like an infant's
bib ; greedy English youths piled up their
plates with green peas, and then poured them
like fluid down their ravenous throats.

Above all, above the jingling of glasses, the
clatter of knives and forks, the racing to and
fro of an army of waiters, rose the never-ending
clacking of hundreds of tongues — a Babel of
voices, French, German, English, in all varieties
of idiom and accent — so inextricably mingled
and confused that the sounds at a little distance
might have proceeded from a menagerie full of

monkeys or a swarm of chattering magpies ina
wood.

Among the rest, seated at the end of tone of
the long tables — the lowly places of the newly
arrived — was a small party of English, unmistakable
islanders ; mother, son, and daughter,
under the especial care of another, a good-looking,
well-preserved, evidently military man, not
exactly young, but hardly arrived yet at middle
age.

The family party was that of the Lezaires :
the mother, widow of Sir Percy Lezaire, a baronet
of Thorpeshire, not long deceased ; her
only son. Sir Carysfort, a boy barely in his
teens ; and her only daughter, Rachel, a sweet
artless maiden, budding already into womanhood.


Their friend and cicerone was Colonel St
Evelyn, an acquaintance of not long standing,
who had owed his first introduction to the timely
succour he had afforded Miss Lezaire that
season when in trouble with a runaway horse
in the Eow. Since then the acquaintance had

developed rapidly, quite into intimacy, which
was still further fostered and encouraged by the
sociable free and easy life of a French watering-place.


Colonel St Evelyn was a man of the world :
he had seen much of it, and knew France, including
Paris, particularly well.

Lady Lezaire found him a most delightful
companion. Now, at dinner, he pointed out all
the celebrities at table.

That rather matronly lady, with the pretty
childlike face ? Madame Pornic — you must
have heard of her — one of the cleverest actresses
on the French stage, noted for her childlike
innocence of manner — you can see it for yourself
— ah ! gives immense piquancy " — here the
Colonel lowered his voice to a whisper, which
only reached Lady Lezaire — "to the most
risque speeches. Proper ? Of course, otherwise
I should not have pointed her out to you."

Who is that tall graceful woman there ?
How aristocratic she looks ! One of the old
noblesse ? "

VOL. I. B

Not quite. That is Madame Fosse : her
husband is the proprietor of the Grand Kabais,
the great magasins, you know, in the Rue du
Lac. He's enormously rich ! "

And, as usual, married rank ? "

"Not at all. She was one of his vendeuses,
a salesman, who had the good sense to play
for the biggest stake. It furnished the plot
for one of Zola's most successful novels —
'Mademoiselle Ernestine' — you should read
it."

"If you recommend it, I am sure it must be
nice," said Lady Lezaire ; " but I am a little
afraid of French novels."

I like French puddings," put in Sir Caress
his mouth full of a jparfait a la creme.

"And I everything French," added Rachel,
who was radiant with happiness. It was quite
clear that she had looked forward to meeting
St Evelyn, and was delighted that all had
happened as she wished. Already one or two
little tender asides had assured her of the
interest that Colonel St Evelyn took in her, %

and consoled her for the marked attention lie
was paying mamma.

For Colonel St Evelyn, like an old campaigner,
was establishing himself firmly at the
base of operations. He knew that if he was to
win the daughter, he must first get the mother
on his side, and he saw no better means of
attaining this than by throwing himself at
Lady Lezaire's feet.

Her ladyship, vain and self-satisfied, was
rejoiced at the impression she had made.
Colonel St Evelyn was a man of taste, who
could appreciate her matronly common-sense,
and see beauty in her mature charms. She
accepted his attentions with cordial approval,
and was already on the best terms with him.

They spent nearly all day together : in the
evening Colonel St Evelyn took them to the
Casino, where they sauntered through the
gardens under the moonlight, or lingered in
one of the Mosques, where the game of racehorses,
the popular petits chevaux of every
seaside place, was in full swing, and where

young Carysfort rapidly developed a passion for
play. He backed the little horses wildly, and
at first lost a considerable sum. Lady Lezaire's
purse was, of course, at his service, and Colonel
St Evelyn's experienced advice. Then luck
turned, and the young baronet's pockets were
rapidly filled.

If Hubert were only here ! " cried Caress
his eyes dancing with excitement and
greed.

"And who is Hubert ?" asked St Evelyn.

"A poor lad who lives with us at the Hall,"
replied Lady Lezaire. " He was a protege of
my poor dear husband's, who adopted him
when deserted by his parents. They had been
in his service, you know, and now Carysfort has
taken such a fancy to him that at home they
are never apart. I must say he is devoted to
my dear boy in return."

There was something in Rachel's face, which
Colonel St Evelyn watched constantly, that led
him to suppose that Hubert was no favourite of
hers. Anxious to know all he could of his new

friends and their surroundings, he took the first
opportunity of questioning Rachel about this
Hubert." It was when they had entered the
great ball-room of the Casino, and he had persuaded
her to take a turn in a waltz.

"You do not seem to care much for Hubert,
whoever he may be," he said, coaxingly. " He
is very much to be pitied, I think."

I am sure you would not like him either,"
replied Rachel, blushing at the implied compliment.
" A common, ill-bred young man, not a
fit companion for Carysfort. It is a great pity
they are so much together."

Does your brother go to Eton, or Harrow,
or where?"

'* Nowhere. He ought to go to school, don't
you think ? I have always said so, but mother
will not listen to me. As it is, he learns
nothing, and is always in the stables or the
gun-room, hunting, shooting, or fishing, always
with Hubert, and perpetually getting into mischief
and bad ways."

"What a sensible little woman you are. Miss

Lezaire ! I wish you would give me advice
sometimes."

You would not take it, perhaps, like mamma,"
replied Each el, archly.

'* Only try me," said St Evelyn, earnestly.
You cannot believe, I cannot well express to
you, the deep value I attach to every word you
say."

Rachel looked up at him shyly for one
moment, then dropped her eyes quickly. Ther
was a meaning in his great dark eyes, fixed on
her with passionate regard, which she could not
misunderstand.

Little Kachel was more than half fascinated
already.

Lady Lezaire could hardly condescend to be
jealous of her daughter, nor did she suspect as
yet that any flirtation was in progress between
Kachel and Colonel St Evelyn. But she had
the woman's instinct that guesses a rival almost
intuitively, and she could not refrain from
passing a little unkindly criticism even on her
own daughter.

Children are a great deal of trouble to me,"
she said next day to tie Colonel.

They want a firm strong hand," replied the
Colonel, sympathetically ; " now your boy "

** Oh ! it is not dear Carysfort I am complaining
of. Darling child ! he never gives me a
moment's anxiety."

She forgot that at that moment the dear
child was in physic, French living having already
rendered medical treatment necessary.

I was thinking of my daughter : a girl like
that is a great responsibility."

Surely she will relieve you of it ere long.
Miss Lezaire is so charming that she ought to
marry soon and well."

That little chit ! Don't speak of it. Why,
she is barely out of the schoolroom. So gauche,
too, so awkward, so utterly unformed, that I
fear no one will be taken with her."

"Pinafores and bread-and-butter are not
every one's taste, certainly," said the deceitful
Colonel. " Very young girls are most insipid,
I must confess."

** Rachel is a child, a perfect child, in mind
as well as in appearance. It will be years
before she is marriageable — loiig after she comes
of age, I expect."

"Miss Lezaire is still a long way off coming
of age, I should think," remarked the Colonel,
carelessly.

Certainly ; two or three years or more.
Not but what she won't be her own mistress
before she is twenty-one."

St Evelyn pricked up his ears.

Her father," went on Lady Lezaire, " very
unwisely, I think, and without consulting me,
left it in his will that she should have her portion
directly she married."

With your consent, of course ? "

My daughter would not be likely to marry
without it," said Lady Lezaire evasively, and ina
cold constrained tone of voice. " But I hope
she will not think of anything of the kind for
some time to come. I quite dread it, I assure
you."

"The responsibility is of course very great," -

said Colonel St Evelyn, seriously. "It is almost
too much for a woman to bear alone."

I feel it so, indeed ; the burden presses me
sorely at times."

I should like " St Evelyn paused, and

Lady Lezaire looked down, seemingly expecting
some tender confessions. " I should like," he
went on — " I mean if at any time I can be of
the least service to you ; if my poor advice, my
humble efforts, can save you from trouble and
annoyance, dear Lady Lezaire, I beg of you to
dispose of me as you please. You can count on
my devotion ; pray believe that."

I do, most willingly and entirely ; .you
would act as a true friend, I am sure." And
Lady Lezaire gave him her hand, which he
kissed with respectful homage, as though binding
himself to obey her lightest behest.

CHAPTER III.

carysfort's guardian.

They were a very friendly and merry party in
those days at Trouville. Colonel St Evelyn
devoted himself entirely to the Lezaires, making
himself acceptable to each in turn. Carysfort
thought him an " A 1 chap." The Colonel took
him to bathe every morning, and taught him to
swim and tread water, and take headers off the
splash-board into the great rolling waves that
came in from the Atlantic when the sea was
rough. They went off together on long fishing
expeditions, carrying great prawn-nets, round
the point towards Villerville, with their trousers
tucked up above their knees. Every evening,
at the Casino, St Evelyn helped the boy to bet

upon the race-game, and rather pandered to his
propensity for play.

These constant attentions to her beloved boy
would have been enough to have won Lady
Lezaire's heart, but the Colonel made more
direct attacks upon her. He kept himself always
at her disposal ; was ever ready to parade
the plank-walks of Trouville when rank and
fashion came out to sun themselves upon the
beach ; or was content to sit for hours by her
chair on the sands, amusing her with gossip
from London or Paris. He was always gay,
always amusing, invariably deferential ; yet he
took care to invest the commonest phrases with
a tenderness that implied the deepest admiration,
tempered with unbounded respect.

Little Rachel, however, was the happiest of
the whole party. Publicly, although always
studiously polite, St Evelyn took no particular
notice of her; only when they were alone together
— and they had many opportunities for
pleasant little tete-d-tetes — he made up for his
coldness, and pressed his suit with all the vigour

of a younger man. They met for a moment or
two in retired corners of the various saloons of
the hotel, or on the balcony under the moonlight
when Lady Lezaire had gone up-stairs ; or
more often still, at the Casino dances, where it
seemed quite natural that St Evelyn should
take her for his partner, seeing that there was
no one else there she knew. After the first day
or two, Rachel and St Evelyn quite understood
each other : her heart, innocent, guileless, and
trustful, had gone straight out to this the first
man who had told her that he loved her. No
wonder that Rachel Lezaire was so blithe and
joyous at Trouville.

St Evelyn had not yet considered how best
to obtain Lady Lezaire's consent and approval.
He was content for the moment with the knowledge
that he had succeeded with Rachel, the
first and principal end after all. If she were
only stanch and loyal to him, as he had every
reason to hope, he felt confident that her mother
might be won over in the end. But it would
be wisest and best to watch and wait, to feel

his way carefully, and make the most of any
circumstances or opportunities that might turnup
in his favour. Meanwhile he made Kachel
promise to whisper no word of their engagement
to her mother or any one else.

In the third week of their stay at Trouville
there came news at which Lady Lezaire was
greatly upset.

Mr Prendergast is dead," said Lady Lezaire,
coming down on the sands after breakfast to
where Kachel sat with Carysfort and Colonel
St Evelyn.

Poor dear old man ! " exclaimed Rachel.

**I don't care," said Carysfort, in the same
breath. ** I hated him."

'for shame, Carysfort! Don't say such
things. But it is most perplexing. I did not
like him much I confess ; he was never nice to
Carysfort ; still he did his best, and it will be
difficult to replace him."

What shall you do, mother ? Whom shall
you get ? " asked Rachel.

1 can't think, I can't talk about it " — and

Lady Lezaire stood there in evident perturbation
— now reading for the twentieth time a
black-edged letter she held in her hand, now
looking askance at St Evelyn.

*' I fear I am de trop'' said the Colonel, getting
up from his chair; "you want to discuss
family affairs. I will go for a walk and rejoin
you by-and-by."

*' No, no, Colonel St Evelyn, do not leave us.
We shall, perhaps, be glad of your advice."

"It is heartily at your service, dear Lady
Lezaire, as I have often told you before."

I have just heard of the death of Mr Pren-
dergast, Carysfort's guardian."

I hated him," said the boy again — '' cross-grained
old beast ! He wanted to send me to
school."

"Do be quiet, Carysfort; it is quite too
dreadful to hear you. Mr Prendergast was
not all that could be desired, perhaps, but he
did his duty, I believe, honestly and well.
I only wish I knew where to find a successor."


Oh, Colonel ! won't you be my guardian ? "
cried Carysfort, impulsively. "That would be
jolly, and you could come and stay with us at
the Hall."

You foolish boy ! " said St Evelyn, laughing
pleasantly, "you must not get such silly notions
into your head."

Why not ? " observed Lady Lezaire, gravely,
more in answer to her own thoughts than to
anything that had been said.

If I can help you, dear lady, in any difficulty,"
began St Evelyn ; but he saw that Lady
Lezaire, pondering deeply, and communing with
herself, was not listening, so he wisely forbore
to recommend himself further.

Rachel, whose heart had fluttered wildly at
Carysfort's suggestion, which opened up a substantial
hope that St Evelyn's suit might yet
prove acceptable, said nothing. But there was
a tell-tale blush on her cheek and a glad light
in her eyes, which showed how eagerly she
welcomed the idea of her lover's appointment
as guardian. It meant his admission into the

family, and the speedy removal of any obstacles
to their marriage.

Nothing more was said on the subject just
then ; but Lady Lezaire returned to it that
evening as she and Colonel St Evelyn paced
the Casino gardens alone.

"May I talk business for a moment, Colonel
St Evelyn ? " she began. " I have been distracted
with doubt all day, hesitating and uncertain as
to the right thing to do ; but at last I have
made up my mind — will you accept the guardianship
of my boy ? "

Oh, Lady Lezaire ! "

It is a great deal to ask of you I know ; the
burden will be great, the responsibility heavy."

I am not afraid of that, believe me."

*' Carysfort's fortune is large, his minority
must last for eight years more, and a long and
onerous stewardship would be imposed upon
you."

*' I am ready to accept the trust, if you think
me worthy of it. I can only promise to do my
best."

^^ Of that I have not the slightest doubt ; I
think I can rely upon your loyalty and devotion
: my son's best interests will be safe in your
hands."

Dear Lady Lezaire, you overwhelm me :
how shall I express my deep gratitude for your
good opinion ? I am touched, deeply touched,
by it ; it encourages me to hope that ere longsome
nearer and dearer tie "

Do not talk like that, please," interrupted
Lady Lezaire, whose vanity led her to misunderstand
his words ; but j must at this moment,
when anxiously concerned with her son's immediate
future, the image of her dead husband
occupied all her mind, and she could not tolerate
addresses, for so she construed St Evelyn's
language, from another man. "Let us think
only of Carysfort to-night; by-and-by, perhaps
"

Then you do not forbid me to hope ? " said
Colonel St Evelyn, taking her hand.

^^ I can't say — you must wait — we will see,"
VOL. I. c

said Lady Lezaire, greatly embarrassed, still
satisfied that St Evelyn was thinking only of
her.

Did the astute Colonel see her mistake ? It
could hardly be otherwise — her agitation, her
confidences, must have told him that she took
to herself the tender pleading that he meant
for Rachel Lezaire. Yet he did not undeceive
her, as he ought clearly to have done ; but he
feared Lady Lezaire's righteous indignation
when she found herself disdained, and felt that
it would lose him both the guardianship and
all hope of winning Rachel's hand.

It shall be as you wish," said St Evelyn.
What I have to say to you, dear Lady Lezaire,
although of the deepest importance to me and
my happiness in life, will keep for another
time. We will stick to business to-night, if
you wish."

That will be better," said Lady Lezaire, with
a little coquettish laugh. " Business first, pleasure
afterwards. There is a great deal to talk

over, if you are to take the management of
Carysfort's affairs."

There is my hand on it," said St Evelyn,
gravely ; and after that an hour or more were
fully occupied with business details.

Chapter lY.

IN Lincoln's inn.

Mr Prendergast's death, and the appointment
of a new guardian, shortened the visit to Trou-ville,
and necessitated a speedy return to town.
The Lezaires occupied their house in Connaught
Place, and the Colonel went back to his lodging
in Bury Street. It was now the early autumn,
and his club was closed for cleaning ; but for the
first time since he lived at it, St Evelyn was
independent of the " Battle-axe and Banner."
There was always a knife and fork ready for
him in Connaught Place, and it was an "uncommon
snug house to hang up your hat in,"
as he complacently told his friends.

Lady Lezaire, directly she returned to town,

informed the family lawyers, Messrs Harvey &
Tinson, of the selection she had made of a new
guardian.

"Have you known this Colonel St Evelyn
long ? The name is familiar to me," said Mr
Tinson, who was now the principal partner in
the firm : an attorney of the spruce 
type, who prided himself upon his insight
into fashionable life, and his acquaintance with
every one in the West End.

"He is a distinguished military officer," began
Lady Lezaire, "and belongs to the 'Battle-axe
and Banner'"

"I thought I knew him: a bold black-faced
man, quite middle-aged, with a well-preserved
figure."

Not more than forty at most," interrupted
Lady Lezaire.

"Dyes, I should say, and probably wears
stays."

What can his appearance have to do with
his appointment as guardian ? " again interrupted
Lady Lezaire, this time with some spirit.

Not much, of course," said the lawyer, looking
keenly at his client ; " he is a most engaging
agreeable person, no doubt, and you of course
are perfectly satisfied as to his character and
qualifications for so important a trust."

He is a gentleman ; honourable " Mr

Tinson looked at her and nodded enigmatically ;
it might have been approval, or a suspicious
distrust ; " straightforward " — another nod ;
"well to do, with proper feelings, and very
sensible ideas."

Mr Tinson, who had nodded at each adjective,
now asked, " In business, or matrimonially ? "

"How can you hint at such a thing!" exclaimed
Lady Lezaire, indignantly.

'*I would not presume for one moment to
force your ladyship's confidence, and you will
forgive me if I am wrong. But this somewhat
sudden choice of a man whom six months ago
you did not know — am I not right ? — indicates
peculiar grounds for your preference."

The lawyer again looked keenly at Lady Lezaire,
who coloured slightly and cast down her eyes.

"Mr Tinson," she went on, after an awful
pause, " you presume rather upon your position
as solicitor to the Lezaires. I did not come hereto
consult you on any matter private and personal
to myself, but to inform you of my appointment
of a new guardian to my son."

And I should be wanting in my duty. Lady
Lazar, if I did not tell you what I knew about
him."

"You know nothing against Colonel St
Evelyn, I am sure." n

I only know that he is to be seen at every
race meeting. If you want Sir Carysfort to be
brought up with a fine taste for racing — he is
already very fond of horses, I believe — you can't
do better than put him in Colonel St Evelyn's
hands. The Colonel bets largely, I believe, and
not always with success."

Lady Lezaire winced a little as she remembered
Carysfort's rapidly developed passion for
the race-game at Trouville, under the Colonel's
kindly tuition ; but she was stanch to her new
friend.

Colonel St Evelyn is not the only gentleman
who amuses himself on the turf. I have
no fears of his doing Carysfort any harm."

Mr Tinson waved his hands, as though washing
them of all responsibility.

If your ladyship is determined," he said,
there is nothing further for me to say. By
the provisions of the late baronet's will, the
choice of a guardian is left in your hands should
a vacancy occur ; and you have decided, of course
after ample consideration, to take Colonel St
Evelyn 'for better, for worse.' "

The application of this phrase from the marriage
service annoyed Lady Lezaire.

"Mr Tinson," she said, "you forget yourself.
Your remarks border on impertinence."

I am sure I meant no harm " — there was a
shade of mockery in this apology — "but now
if you will favour me with your instructions, I
shall be happy to carry them out."

Lady Lezaire, in a few brief words, ordered
the necessary deeds to be prepared for the appointment
of Colonel St Evelyn, and then, with

an air of dignified reserve, she bade Mr Tinson
good morning.

Well, of all the old fools," said Mr Tinson to
himself, when he was alone, " commend me to a
middle-aged widow who wants to marry again.
She can know little or nothing of this man.
He is no better than a needy fortune-hunter,
addicted to gambling and heaven knows what
else, yet she is ready to put herself and her son
entirely in his hands. If she takes this Colonel
St Evelyn for a husband, she will repent it to
the day of her death."

A few days later, when the deeds had been
prepared, St Evelyn called on Mr Tinson to
sign them, and to be put in possession of the
particulars of his new trust.

There was not much cordiality in Mr Tin-son's
reception : he was stiff and distant in
his manner, inclining to be reticent and uncommunicative.
The Colonel, who was cool
and off-hand, talked pleasantly, but in rather
a patronising way, as a man who was master
of the position.

*^ I should be glad to know," he said, " the
exact amount of responsibility I incur."

"It is a heavy one," remarked Mr Tinson,
gravely; " the law is very strict with trustees
and guardians."

Colonel St Evelyn would not take offence.
The law is not likely to fall foul of me ; I
have a wholesome horror of it and those who
practise it."

Thank you," said Mr Tinson.

Present company always excepted, of course,"
laughed St Evelyn ; " but perhaps we had better
get on. The income from the Lezaire estates
is large ? "

Upwards of £20,000 a-year," said Mr Tinson,
stiffly.

Of which I understand barely half is allowed
for maintenance, the balance to accumulate during
the minority ? How, and by whom, are the
accumulations to be invested ? "

By the guardian ; but only in securities
prescribed by the will."

I shall see the will, of course ? " *

IN Lincoln's inn. 43

'* If you insist ; but is it necessary ? I have
noted here all the provisions that deal with the
trust. You can hardly want to see the will."

"But I do. It is part of my duty. I hate
to be in the dark. What nonsense, man ! " he
went on, in a more peremptory tone, seeing
that the lawyer still hesitated ; *' can't I read the
will for a shilling if I go to Doctors' Commons ? "

There is the will ; you can read it here,"
said Mr Tinson.

St Evelyn took up the great parchment with
its ponderous seals, and unfolding it, sat himself
down to read leisurely. Now and again he
made brief notes in a memorandum-book which
he took from his pocket, and occasionally he
addressed a few words of inquiry, seeking
explanation of Mr Tinson.

Thank you," he said at length, '* I think 1
have mastered its contents ; now I should like
to run through the figures of the sums that have
already accrued from savings over expenditure,
so as to verify their investment according to the
will."

By all means, if you think it necessary ;
but your demand implies a certain mistrust."

Not at all," said St Evelyn, blandly ; " but
it is right that, before assuming the trust, I
should satisfy myself that everything is regular,
and according to the conditions laid down."

'there is a list of all the investments," said
Mr Tinson, without further protest, " and this
bundle contains the various share certificates.
They are all railway scrip and debentures, except
the £17,000 in Canadian 4 per cent."

Quite right," said St Evelyn, after a minute
examination of the various documents ; " now
we will just go into the leases of the Straddle-thorpe
farms, as well as the London house property.
I should be glad to know how they are
held, when any are likely to fall in, and the
chances of improving our letting."

Another half-hour was devoted to the reviewing
of these, the principal sources of the Lezaire
revenue.

'' It seems all quite satisfactory," said the
Colonel, whose memorandum-book had been inconstant

requisition throughout ; " I only trust
I shall discharge my stewardship equally well :
my predecessor was evidently a thoroughly goodman
of business."

Mr Prendergast always acted under our
advice," said Mr Tinson, somewhat angrily, and
with the air of a man claiming honour where
honour was due.

I shall be equally ready to avail myself of
it," replied the Colonel, blandly, " although that
will depend naturally upon how far I am satisfied
with your conduct in our affairs."

Harvey & Tinson have been solicitors to
the Lezaires for generations," observed 4;he
lawyer, with rising indignation ; '' our best and
most loyal endeavours have always been at the
disposal of our clients. You, a comparatively
new trustee and a perfect stranger to us, can
hardly contemplate the severance of relations
that have extended over more than a century."

Pardon me, my good sir, it has always been
my rule in life to take people as I find them :
if you serve us faithfully, well and good ; if

not, I shall advise my ward and Lady Lezaire
to put their business in other hands."

I consider such threats most unjustifiable ! "
cried Mr Tinson, hotly.

Don't lose your temper, my good sir. I am
perfectly satisfied with you at present, and
hope, for your sake, I shall always continue so.
But enough said ; our business is ended for the
present, I think, and I will bid you good day."

*' Insolent, overbearing, hectoring, swaggering
brute I " These were the epithets which Mr
Tinson hurled after his departing client. " To
dare to threaten me ; to question our capabilities,
and hint, rascally interloper, at breaking
up the old connection with the firm ! I will
be even with him yet ; I will keep my eye on
him ; he shall be held strictly to account for his
stewardship ; and after all, it can't last more
more than half-a-dozen years or so. But the
fellow's no fool, that's very clear. He has a
very shrewd notion of business, and if he runs
straight, will do well by the Lezaire estates.
But does he mean to run straight ? I wonder
what his next move will be."

CHAPTER V.

LADY LEZAIRE GIVES WAY.

Colonel St Evelyn walked back from Lincoln's
Inn Fields to this club, where he lunched with
good appetite and well. They were proud of
their mid-day buffet at the " Battle-axe," and
its members declared it to be the best luncheon
club in London. St Evelyn, who had a sharp
eye to the cuisine, knew what to choose, and
the traite au bleu, the chaud froid of pheasant,
and the cunningly prepared Russian salad,
washed down by an imperial pint of sound
Chambertin, fortified him admirably for the
next job before him.

Lighting a full-flavoured Reins, he set out
westward, walking slowly and thoughtfully to
Connaught Place.

"Her ladyship at home?" he asked the
butler — an aged retainer, who sniffed a new
master already, and was most obsequious to the
coming king.

No, Colonel. She 'ave gone with Sir Caress
to give the dogs a run in the Park. But
Miss Rachel's in the woodward."

St Evelyn took the flight of stairs to the half
landing in three steps, and the next minute had
his little lady-love in his arms.

Oh, Ferdy, how you startled me ! it's far
too bad" — but there was no ill-temper in the
blithe young voice — "no, really, you mustn't

again."

I have such good news, my pretty bird. I
must show my delight," and he kissed her again
and again.

"But now, Ferdy, be reasonable, do. Tell
me exactly what has happened. Sit down,
there : yes, there " — she insisted on his taking
a seat by the fire, while she kept on a sofa faraway.



"Well, I have seen Mr Tinson to-day, and

signed the deeds. So has Lady Lezaire, and,
now the whole thing is settled and finished,
there is no reason why I should not speak to
her about — you know."

When shall you do it, Ferdy ? Not to-day ?
I feel so frightened. Suppose mamma should
say No."

^' She can't ; I mean it won't much matter if
she does."

It would make me miserable not to have
her consent. I could not go against her, Ferdy,
never."

But if she is obstinate — mammas have been
so before now. What if she should object tome,
should decline altogether to entertain my
suit ? Would you too send me away ? "

Rachel hung her head.

I could not bear to part with you, Ferdinand,
not for ever," she said at length, in alow
sweet voice.

My pet ! you will never give me up, I feel
sure — my sweetest, best-beloved child ! What
have I done to deserve the priceless treasure of

VOL. I. D

your love ? " cried St Evelyn, in tones that
were rather theatrical, perhaps, but which conveyed
no sense of their insincerity to her.

"Yes, Ferdinand, you may trust me indeed.
I shall always be constant and true. I have
given you my whole heart."

Bless you, bless you for these dear words ! "
St Evelyn would no longer be denied, but
crossed quickly to the sofa, where he again
clasped her to his arms.

Sad that there should be an abrupt termination
to so pretty a scene, but a harsh
hoarse voice now fell suddenly upon their
surprised ears. It was Lady Lezaire's : she
had entered the room unobserved.

What is the meaning of this ? " she hissed
out, almost beside herself. Age, disappointment,
wounded vanity, combined to make Lady
Lezaire very terrible just then.

It means that Miss Rachel Lezaire has
promised to become my wife," said St Evelyn,
in a cold, hard, determined tone.

Never ! It shall never be I " cried Lady

Lezaire, now livid with passion. " But I will
speak to you directly. As for you, shameless
minx, go to your room this instant, and stay
there. Do not presume, do not clare to show
yourself till I send for you. Go, miss, go ! "

She turned then upon St Evelyn.

And you — you call yourself a gentleman.
False, perjured, deceitful villain ! is it thus you
repay my kindness, my, my "

Really, Lady Lezaire, I am utterly at a loss
to understand. How have I offended you so
grievously ? " asked St Evelyn, with perfect
self-possession.

Did you not ask me Faugh ! I cannot

bring myself to utter the words. I cannot
express my loathing, my contempt for myself."

I am sure you are under some grave misapprehension.
Lady Lezaire. If I can offer
you any reparation, any apology, I am more
than ready to do so. But you are mistaken
you are, I assure you."

Have you forgotten that evening at Trou-ville,
when you gave me to understand that.

that But no, it is too humiliating ; I will

not condescend to upbraid you."

I repeat, you are altogether mistaken. What
I said that evening I remember perfectly every
word. But I was referring to Miss Lezaire, to
whom even then I was deeply, passionately
attached. I would have asked you formally
for her hand that night, but you checked me.
I do so now."

My answer is ready for you : you shall not
marry Rachel Lezaire. I will never, never give
my consent."

Is it needed ? " asked St Evelyn, coolly.

Lady Lezaire looked at him in astonishment.


"Miss Lezaire is independent of you by her
father's will."

How do you know that ? " asked Lady
Lezaire, quickly.

I had the will in my hands an hour or two
ago at Mr Tinson's."

I had forgotten, weak fool that I was to
put you in that position ; but it shall be undone.

I will not permit you to continue as Carysfort's
guardian : my confidence in you is gone."

' I have no desire to occupy that position if I
am no longer acceptable to you. I will give up
the guardianship at once, but I will not surrender
my claim to Miss Lezaire : we understand
each other, and are both of one mind on this
point."

"She is a silly foolish girl whom you have
bewitched and beguiled. But she shall know
you at your true worth before the day is out,
and shall send you about your business herself."


I will take a refusal from no other lip but
hers. I have no fears, Lady Lezaire ; Rachel is
as true as steel."

She does not know her own mind yet."

Nor you mine. I am resolved, firmly resolved,
to make her my wife, and what I say
I'll do ; you can't turn me aside from my purpose,
nor, I think, will you succeed in depriving
me of Kachel's affections : we can wait "

*can you! Not long then: why, already

you are old enough to be her father," interrupted
Lady Lezaire, with a bitter laugh.

I may remind you of the old proverb, replied
the Colonel, imperturbably ; *'a man, you
know, is as old as he feels, a woman as old as
she looks : and believe me, dear Lady Lezaire,
you might be Rachel's grandmother. Why vex
and trouble yourself so ! it only ages people
prematurely."

I declare, sir, your insolence passes all
bounds. It would show better feeling, after what
has occurred, if you were to withdraw from this
house, in which you are no longer welcome."

Colonel St Evelyn rose from his chair and
held out his hand.

Come, Lady Lezaire, be more reasonable.
I am grieved, deeply grieved at this misunderstanding,
but I do not think I am to blame.
Just consider. I was taken with Rachel from
the very first, from that day that I stopped her
horse in the Park ; then I found that she cared
for me a little, and you yourself were always so
encouraging and kind."

I gave you no encouragement : it is untrue,
monstrously untrue ! "

"You allowed me to be constantly with her,
to pay her marked attention "

You never did pay her any attention that
I saw ; that's what I complain of."

You see I am not very demonstrative, Lady
Lezaire ; but I was in love in my own quiet
way, and then you yourself gave me so many
marks of your kindly approval "

"I? How? In what way?"

"Did you not offer of your own accord to
make me your son's guardian ? An honour
quite unsolicited by me ; I only accepted because
I thought it was doing you a service, and
because I thought your boy liked me."

He was still standing opposite her as he stated
his own case, with an able, masterly kind of
advocacy that was having its effect.

"Come, Lady Lezaire," he repeated, "let us
be friends ; won't you give me your hand ? "

You have behaved very badly to me, Colonel
St Evelyn, that you must be ready to allow : I

cannot forgive and forget in a moment, nor
shall I ever recover my confidence in you."

There was less acrimony in her tone, although
she still seemed obdurate and angry.

"I am ready to make all the amende in my
power. You shall find in me a most attached
and devoted friend: I will labour strenuously
in your son's interests, and protect them as my
own. As for Rachel, her happiness shall be my
first care ; mine, I assure you, is wrapped up in
this match. I am no longer in my first youth,
and I can never love another girl in the same
way. Do not, I implore you, refuse me her
hand."

I can't turn round all in a moment : it has
been so sudden, such a surprise, I am so bitterly
dis -" disappointed she would have said,

but the admission was too bitter for her amour
propre — "so disgusted," she went on, "at the
deceit, the secrecy, that I hardly know what
to say."

But St Evelyn took his leave in a sanguine
state of mind ; he flattered himself that Lady

Lezaire's bitter opposition was overcome, and
that with a little persistence he would win
Rachel's hand with Lady Lezaire's full approval,
and without sacrificing his new position
as guardian of her son.

So it came to pass : Lady Lezaire held out
obstinately for a week or two longer, but she
yielded at length to St Evelyn's unwearied
attacks, and Rachel's pathetic entreaties, although
the latter she never entirely forgave.
She was not a little influenced in her decision
by the fear of Mr Tinson's ridicule, who would
have shrewdly guessed the reason had St
Evelyn's appointment as guardian been .cancelled.
They were married that autumn, and
Mr Tinson apologised for his suspicions when
he found that it was Rachel and not her mother
he was in eagerness to marry : nor could he
either deny that St Evelyn had behaved well,
for the Colonel had declined to have anything
to say to settlements, and declared that every
penny of Rachel's money should be absolutely
tied up on herself.

The marriage came off without unnecessary
delay, from Connaught Place, and the happy
couple went abroad for a short honeymoon,
intending to return and spend the rest of the
winter at the Hall.

CHAPTER VI.

ARRIVALS AT THE HALL.

Lady Lezaire had several letters from Earlier,
and was kept well informed of the movements
of the newly married couple. No precise invitation
had been issued to the St Evelyn,
but it was understood that directly they returned
to England they were to come down
on a long visit to the Hall.

Their arrival was heralded by the appearance
of Gibbings, the Colonel's man, who brought
down the impedimenta: heavy baggage, guns,
dogs, and horses. Of the latter there was a
string. The Colonel was a hard rider when
he got the chance, and the first use he had
made of the funds marriage had put at his

disposal was the purchase of four sound serviceable
animals, full of bone and sinew, well
calculated to carry him forward with the
Thorpeshire Hunt.

The Lezaire coachman, a grey-haired, cross-grained
servitor, who had long been master of
the horse in the limited establishment kept up
by Lady Lezaire after her husband's death, sent
in his duty and begged her ladyship's commands
with regard to the Colonel's stud.

Where be I to put 'em, my lady ? " he
asked testily. He had found Gibbings a little
too free and easy — too ready to make himself
at home, and take possession of the best
quarters.

Surely there's room enough. We've only
got the carriage-horses, and the ponies, and
Sir Carysfort's cob."

I thought of the six - stall stable in the

clock-yard " the oldest, darkest, and least

satisfactory part of the Lezaire stables.

Very well ; that will give two stalls to
spare."

But the Colonel's man, he bent over well
pleased. He says that the hunters cost money,
and that they ought to be in loose-boxes, and
he wants the hunting stable."

This was a spacious addition made by Sir
Percy Lezaire, when twenty years earlier he
had hunted the Thorpe hounds.

The Colonel's man will have to be satisfied
with the accommodation provided," replied Lady
Lezaire, angrily.

Be the Colonel's horses likely to stand here
long, my lady ? "

I cannot say : why do you ask ? "

"Becos the six-stall stable's good enough
for a few weeks ; I should not like to keep
valuable horses there all the winter."

They'll not be here so long as that, Peters.
Let them go into the six-stall stable. Those
are my orders, tell the Colonel's man."

The coachman disposed of, the keeper came
to know what was to be done with the Colonel's
dogs. Three of them ; they would disarrange
the kennels. Sir Carysfort's setter would

have to turn out. And, by the way, was it
likely any of the coverts would be shot over
the next week or two ? The Colonel's man
had sent two breech - loaders into the gun-room,
and had talked of a battue.

Lady Lezaire dismissed the keeper with a
few brief words. Anger was in her heart
against her son-in-law.

"He wants to take entire possession of the
Hall, I think. He quite forgets he is only
my son's and my guest."

But Lady Lezaire had not done with the St
Evelyn.

Mrs Leleu was the next to remind her of
the importance of the expected visitors. She
wished for instructions as to the rooms she
should give the St Evelyn.

The blue suite in the south wing, I suppose
? " suggested the housekeeper.

Certainly not," said Lady Lezaire. " Why
should they have the best rooms in the Hall ? "

I only thought that as it was a special occasion
" the housekeeper explained.

There is nothing special about it. I don't
see why my daughter should not go back to her
own room ; but I suppose that would hardly
do now that she is married."

Shall I get the pink-and-white room ready
then, my lady ? the windows look into the rose-garden,
and the aspect is south-west."

No ; let them have the tapestry room.
There is a dressing-room attached to it, and it
is close to the back-stairs leading to the gun-room,
— that will probably suit Colonel St
Evelyn best."

The happy couple arrived as evening was
drawing in. They were shown straight . into
the library, which was generally used at the
Hall as a cosy snuggery in preference to the
great drawing-rooms, and here Lady Lezaire
received them with as much warmth as she
could muster. She kissed her daughter, and
gave her hand to her son-in-law, but spoke no
cordial words of welcome.

"Will you have tea at once, Rachel, or
would you like to go to your room ? "

*'I think I should like to go to my room
first. Where have you put us ? "

"The tapestry room would, I thought, be
most convenient."

Rachel's face fell rather, but all she said
was, " I suppose Bertram " (this was her maid)
will be there with the things by this time.
Come up, Ferdinand, by-and-by ! "

All right, my love," replied her gallant
husband ; " I should like first to see after the
nags. I suppose my man has arrived ? "
This was to Lady Lezaire.

Certainly ; he came down yesterday with
four horses and a whole pack of dogs."

*' Gibbings is a capital chap," said the Colonel,
laughing pleasantly, and without seeming to
notice any arrive pense in Lady Lezaire's
tone. " I suppose I shall easily find the
stables ? "

One of the men will show you if you ring,"
said Lady Lezaire ; and with that Colonel St
Evelyn took himself ofi*.

"Ah! here you are," said a fresh voice

cheerily, as St Evelyn passed out into the
courtyard. " I'm jolly glad to see you. How
is Rachel ? "

It was the young baronet, who was as usual
loafing about the offices and the stable-yard.

Colonel St Evelyn greeted him warmly.

*' Carysfort, my boy, how goes it ? Well met.
Come along and see my horses. Do you know
where they are put up ? "

Don't I just ? I say, Colonel, it's a beastly
shame, — they have given your horses the six-stall
stable. Why, it's as damp as ditch-water,
and a horse can't lie down in any of the
stalls." »

Are you so pressed for room ? "

Room ? There are not half-a-dozen horses
in the whole place ! "

By this time they had reached the stables,
where Gribbings was in waiting.

Halloa, Gibbings ! is this the best you could
do for us ? "

It wasn't my fault, sir. Peters, the coachman,
said he had my lady's orders that they

VOL. I. ■ E

were to come here. I told him we should want
at least two loose-boxes."

Where is Peters ? Send him here at once."

The cross-grained, surly old coachman came
haltingly, but the first sound of the Colonel's
voice made him jump.

Show me round the stables, will you ? I
am not going to have my horses killed if I
can help it. Get a lantern, or have the place
lit up."

St Evelyn fixed at once, with unerring
quickness, upon the hunting stable.

"What horses stand here generally?" he
asked sharply.

It was built for Sir Percy's hunters."

And what is it used for now ? What horses
stand here, I ask you ? Come, look sharp ! "

"There bent none just at this moment,
but "

There will be in less than half an hour.
Call some of the helpers, Gibbings, and bring
my lot over here. I will come and see them
bedded down myself by-and-by."

I'm very glad you did that, Colonel," said
Carysfort. " Peters is a cross-grained old beast ;
he thinks the whole place belongs to him, and
mother always gives way."

Of course it was all a mistake ; but you see,
Carysfort, I have paid a good bit of money for
those nags, so Fm bound to look after them."

St Evelyn now went up-stairs to rejoin his
wife, and found there had been another mistake,
to call it by no stronger name. Mrs St Evelyn
was having a warm discussion with the housekeeper
when the Colonel came in, and he was
surprised to find his gentle little wife speaking
in so determined a fashion. ♦

You know, Mrs Leleu, I have always hated
this room. I had rather have gone anywhere.
It is so dark, and it looks into the
courtyard."

"My lady chose it herself; it is no fault of
mine, Mrs St Evelyn."

What's wrong, my love ? " asked the Colonel.

^'Oh, nothing; only I do so hate this room.
Mother has forgotten, I think."

"We'll arrange that by-and-by, — any place
will do for to-night."

"But you might have reminded her, Mrs
Leleu," went on Rachel, sticking to her point.
I am really very seriously put out ! "

*' There, there," said the Colonel, soothing
his wife, " never mind now ; we'll soon put
this right."

I assure you it was not my fault," repeated
the housekeeper, and she left the room.

A very civil-spoken, plausible sort of person,
but with rather a fierce look on her sallow,
still handsome face, and in her large, dark-brown
eyes, a suspicion of temper easily
aroused.

Your mother does not appear to be particularly
anxious to make us at home, my dear."

Oh, don't say that, Ferdinand ; she is not
really unkind, but she has 'never quite forgiven
you, I think."

There were no secrets between husband and
wife.

I suppose that's it, but she might have

been pleasant on our first day at the Hall.
Wliy, site ordered my horses into a tumbledown
place not fit for cows ! But I soon made
a change."

Do you mean that you countermanded anything
that mother had arranged ? "

Yes, my dear, that is what I mean ; and tomorrow,
if you will choose the rooms you prefer,
I daresay your mother will give you them."

There was a set look about St Evelyn's eyes
as he made this remark, which showed that he
intended to try conclusions with Lady Lezaire.

CHAPTER VII.

A FIRST PASSAGE OF Arms.

There was no discussion or contest between
Lady Lezaire and Colonel St Evelyn till next
morning. The first difference of opinion arose
concerning Carysfort, and the future disposal of
his time.

The Colonel had been studying the county
map, and had discovered that the next meet
of the Thorpe hounds was within very easy
reach of the Hall.

Would you like to go to Gerard's Cross ? "
(the meet) he asked Carysfort.

Wouldn't I rather ? " cried the boy, looking
doubtfully at his mother.

Dear Carysfort has never hunted," said Lady

Lezaire, in a cold, forbidding manner. " The
risks are so great, that I have never liked to
trust him."

*but he must begin some day," expostulated
St Evelyn ; *you cannot allow him to grow up
without practice in the habits and customs of
an English country gentleman."

I have followed the hounds scores of times,"
cried Carysfort, "but only on foot with Hubert."


Very infra dig. for the son of a M. F. H.
But I suppose you can stick on a horse ? "

^' Can't I just ? " replied the boy.

And have you jumped a fence ? " •

Carysfort looked queerly at his mother before
he replied —

"Dozens of times: my cob is ^A 1' at timber."


He won't do for Gerard's Cross, though ;
you shall ride one of my lot. Sennacherib will
carry you well ; he is easy to steer, and has a
light mouth."

Carysfort shall not ride to hounds till he

is eighteen," said Lady Lezaire, decisively. " I
absolutely forbid it."

*' Please, don't say that. Lady Lezaire," the
Colonel pleaded. " It will be too late for him
then to get confidence or a proper seat. I will
take the greatest care of him."

Oh yes, mother, I must go. You won't be
so cruel. I'm big enough now. Why, it's as
bad as about the shooting."

St Evelyn looked as if he did not understand.

Mother did not like Carysfort using firearms,"
explained Mrs St Evelyn.

"So she makes me have a safety gun — a
thing with a false hammer, which you have to
put in before you fire. When a bird gets up
I have to fumble in my waistcoat-pocket, or ask
Hubert or the keeper for the hammer, and when
I get it I have lost my shot."

"You might as well try putting salt on a
bird's tail," said St Evelyn, laughing heartily.
But all that can be easily mended."

Never with my consent," put in Lady
Lezaire, with increased severity. " I hate your

having anything to do with guns. They are
always going off."

Which I might suggest is what they are
intended for," said the Colonel.

I mean, going off unexpectedly. We hear
constantly of such terrible accidents."

Due to want of care, but more still to want
of knowledge and experience. I am sure the
very way to let Carysfort shoot himself "

Heaven forbid ! " cried the anxious mother.

or some one else, is to give him no

chance of handling firearms. He should get
accustomed to them at once."

I have my own views as to the education
of my son," said Lady Lezaire stiffly, intending
to end the discussion — " and I want no one to
give me advice or teach me my duty."

'* You don't know boys, my dear Lady Lezaire,
so well as I do." St Evelyn laughed again, and
good-humouredly. " I'm ready to back my plan
against yours any day."

Lady Lezaire gave him a look of sour displeasure,
but made no reply.

Come, Carysfort, and look at the nags.
You shall try Sennacherib, if you like, round
the yard."

You are a brick, Colonel — I like you," cried
Carysfort ; " and we'll have a talk with the
keeper about the coverts. We might have a
little pot-hunting, you and I, this afternoon."

Carysfort, Mr Lewisham " (a neighbouring
curate, who came daily to perform the thankless
and unprofitable task of teaching the young
baronet) 'will be here in half an hour," said
Lady Lezaire. " Have you prepared for him ? "

But Carysfort was already out of earshot,
bounding round St Evelyn like a dog just let
loose from his chain.

They went out into the great courtyard,
which was to the right of the drive and entrance
to the Hall, and passed through this on their
way to the stable-yards beyond. Suddenly
Carysfort left St Evelyn's side, and ran off to
slip his arm familiarly into that of another lad
who was walking ahead of them.

St Evelyn came up with the two boys at the

doorway of the hunting stable. " This is Hubert,"
said Carysfort, by way of introduction.

Oh ! " remarked St Evelyn, carelessly, but
he bent his eyes keenly upon the new-comer.

A slouching, slipshod youth, older probably
than he looked : there was a strong line of
black down upon his upper lip, indicating that
he might be three or four-and-twenty, even
more, but his manner and appearance were
those of sixteen. Found shoulders took from
his height, which was about the medium ; very
small sharp features gave a childish look to
a naturally small face. Straight, wiry-looking
black hair straggled over a low prop editing
forehead, under which gleamed two black, shifty,
restless little eyes, generally cast down, for their
owner had a strong objection to look you in the
face. His whole aspect — his loose, undecided
gait, his shy, shrinking manner, his weak and
constantly averted face, and his sullen and
abrupt speech — was decidedly unprepossessing.

Oh ! " repeated St Evelyn, " and what is
Hubert's other name ? "

Hubert Podifat is my name," said the
youth reluctantly, as though the admission was
likely to do him harm.

"And pray, what do you do with yourself
by daylight ? " went on the Colonel.

Hubert Podifat hung his head, and looked
stupidly stolid, as though he did not understand
the question.

Hubert is my particular friend," said Caress
answering for him. 'ewe go about together,
fishing, shooting, hunting, ratting, —
any larks. Hubert's up to everything, I can
tell you."

"Is he ? " said the Colonel, with rather a
sneer in his tone ; " but that will do for Master
Hubert. Come, Carysfort, and look at the
horses. We will have a saddle put on Sennacherib,
and then you can try him."

Hubert Podifat slunk away, but he remained
in Ijie far corner of the yard while Carysfort
and Colonel St Evelyn were together, and the
moment St Evelyn turned to go back to the

house, he rejoined Carysfort with the eagerness
of an inseparable friend.

The Colonel had been recalled by a message
to the effect that Lady Lezaire wished to speak
to him. He found her in the library with a
flushed face. There was decided anger in her
tone when she began. "Can it be possible,
Colonel St Evelyn, that what Peters my coachman
tells me is true?" she said, — "that you
have taken upon yourself to alter arrangements
I had made, and moved your horses into other
stables ? "

'rit is perfectly true," replied St Evelyn,
calmly. »

Then may I ask how you dared "

St Evelyn interrupted her.

'' One moment, Lady Lezaire," said he. " It is
perhaps as well we should have an explanation.
I should like to ask you at once whether you
deliberately wished to put an affront upon me."

'' I do not understand you."

Has not your treatment of us since we

arrived been an affront — or worse? We
come here as your guests, — your own daughter,
and I, your son's guardian as well as your son-in-law,
— and what do we find? Although the
Hall is absolutely empty, you lodge us in the
worst rooms in the house "

"That is not the case," interrupted Lady
Lezaire, hotly. " Rachel has been making
mischief."

"Every one knows that the tapestry room,
where you put us, is only used when the house
is quite full ; and you are well aware. Lady
Lezaire, that the apartment is especially distasteful
to my wife."

'' I am mistress here, and I will put my
guests where I choose," said Lady Lezaire.

Quite so ; but that does not remove the
affront. Then as regards the stabling: there
are no end of vacant stalls, — I saw them with
my own eyes this morning, — yet you would
have allowed my horses to run all sorts of risks
in the very worst, the dampest, the darkest, and
most unwholesome stable at the Hall."

"I never asked you to bring your horses
down here."

Pardon me ! It was understood that I was
to hunt, and I should never have presumed to
look for mounts in your stables."

'you have taken a great liberty, I think,
and I must insist that you will not again interfere
with any orders I may give," said Lady
Lezaire, hoping that the argument might now
end. But St Evelyn had more to say.

I should not dream of setting up my
authority against yours, but I repeat that as
Carysfort's guardian* I am entitled to more
consideration than I have received. It is very
unpleasant to me to have to assert myself, but
I feel that I am bound to do so if I am to take
my proper place. I cannot look after your
son's interests if I am to be treated as a mere
cipher. You insist — so must I."

What do you insist on ? " asked Lady Lez-aire,
a little cowed by his masterful tone.

On not being humiliated and made to appear
small before all the servants and retainers.

I have not come down here as a poor relation,
to pick up the crumbs and be satisfied with
any small scraps of civility that you may throw
to me. I claim to be of some consequence at the
Hall, and I repeat I must insist upon being so
treated."

'' It is quite a mistake to suppose that I wish
to affront you," said Lady Lezaire, now quite
crestfallen. " I am quite ready, I assure you,
to do anything in my power to make your
stay pleasant."

Thank you extremely. Lady Lezaire. I
will take you at your word. Perhaps you will
tell the housekeeper to move us into the blue
suite in the south wing : as to my horses, I
have seen to them already."

Thus, in her first engagement with her son's
guardian. Lady Lezaire had tried to stand to
her guns, but had been utterly worsted in the
fight.

Chapter VIII.

Hubert's parentage.

Colonel St Evelyn was well received in the
county. He came under the sponsorship, so to
speak, of the Lezaires — a family long settled and
much esteemed in Thorpeshire. Among the
neighbouring magnates, too, were a few whom
St Evelyn had met in London — either casual
acquaintances of the racecourse, or fellow-members
of his club, the " Battle-axe and Banner,"
with whom he was on something more
than nodding terms. He got a good character
in the county from the latter as a shrewd,
sensible man of business, and this gained him
the goodwill of the Lord Lieutenant, who at
once placed him on the Commission of the

VOL. I. F

Peace. St Evelyn lost no time in appearing
at sessions, and sat regularly on the bench ;
he freely offered himself for committees on
jails, highways, lunatic asylums, anything and
everything in which he might be useful, and
his services were gladly accepted. He was
soon known and appreciated as an excellent
county magistrate, practical, fairly well informed,
and never afraid of hard work.

The popularity he speedily won was, however,
more particularly traceable to his thoroughly
sportsmanlike character. One of his first acts
on arrival at the Hall was the transmission of
a substantial cheque to the Master as his subscription
to the hounds. This was followed by
his appearance in the hunting field, admirably
mounted and turned out, at the very first meet
after he came down ; and from that time he
rode well to the front on every possible occasion.

They liked this in the county. The Thorpe
hounds were a little too near to town, and the
neighbourhood was apt to be inundated by
Londoners, who were often keener and better

mounted than members of the hunt. Thus
any one who, like St Evelyn, was ready to
maintain the sporting reputation of the resident
gentry, was sure to be approved of.

Again, St Evelyn, who by degrees had established
an ascendancy over Lady Lezaire which
she was powerless to resist, had arranged
several shooting-parties in the young baronet's
name, at which the neighbouring squires were
made free of the Straddlethorpe coverts in a
liberal fashion that had long been unknown.

St Evelyn was generally voted a good sort of
chap, a great improvement upon Sir Carysfort's
last guardian, and a decided acquisition to the
county.

Hospitalities were freely exchanged between
Straddlethorpe and the houses around. The
newly married couple were invited everywhere,
generally to dine and sleep, after the fashion
of country neighbourhoods, where it is a poor
compliment to drag guests fifteen miles or more
by cross-country roads to eat no better dinner
than they could get at home.

On the other hand, Lady Lezaire was prevailed
upon — although usually docile, she still
resisted St Evelyn's influence at times — to entertain
in her turn. The Straddlethorpe guest-chambers
were once more refilled, and the best
wine in the cellar — the '59 Margaux and the
'34 port, so highly esteemed by local connoisseurs
— was freely displayed after dinner.

Lady Lezaire was not always at great pains
to be gracious, but the people who came to the
house were mostly friends of long standing, and
she could not be rude to them, however much
she disliked the person who really brought
them there. After all. Colonel St Evelyn, a
self-possessed, experienced man of the world,
was not likely to remain in the background, and
the doing of the honours fell chiefly on him.

One day there was a large dinner-party at
the Hall. The hounds had drawn blank that
afternoon at no great distance from Straddle-thorpe,
and two or three men who were to
stay at the Hall had ridden over there with St
Evelyn. Young Sir Carysfort was with them.

On arriving at the stables, he had jumped off
his horse and had run quickly across to where
Hubert Podifat was standing, waiting for him,
as it seemed. The boy slipped his arm into
that of his friend, and they went off together
in close confabulation.

"Who's that chap?" asked old Mr Utterly
of Etherly — a hard-riding, red-faced country
squire, who had lived all his life in the Thorpe-shire
country.

A fellow called Hubert Podifat, or some
such name," replied the Colonel. " I know
nothing about him, except that he is far too
thick with Carysfort Lezaire to please me."»

*'He's still having about here, then? How
strange ! "

Who is he ? Where does he come from ?
Do you know him ? "

Of course. Don't you ? It was a great
mistake, I always said, allowing him to run
about the Hall. But Lezaire — Sir Percy, I
mean, — the last baronet, you know — always
took his own way."

But, my dear Mr Etherly, you haven't told
me who this Hubert Podifat is."

"That'll keep, Colonel. To-night, in the
smoking-room, you shall hear. This place is
too public."

Late that night, when old Mr Etherly had at
least one bottle of '34 port under his belt, and
was enveloped in the smoke of a full-flavoured
partake," St Evelyn reminded him of his
promise.

"Hubert Podifat," said Mr Etherly, rolling
his cigar round in his mouth, "is the putative
son of Podifat, who was under-keeper here in
Sir Percy's time."

Putative ? Who was his real father, then ? "

No one knows for certain. But I never had
the smallest doubt that the honour belonged to
Sir Percy Lezaire."

Can it be possible ! And the mother ? "

There was the mystery. No one ever saw
her, or heard of her even. Sir Percy must
have kept his liaison uncommonly close. When
Podifat came to live at Straddlethorpe — he had.

the North Lodge — lie was called a widower.
He certainly brought no wife with him — only
this one brat of a boy."

hubert?"

*' Precisely. He was a rank blackguard, was
Podifat, who had knocked up and down the
world a great deal in his time — in America,
Canada, everywhere — an idle, drunken, good-for-nothing
rogue, who lounged in the alehouse
all day, and was the secret ally of poachers by
night. It was a wonder that Sir Percy put up
with him for an hour. That was what raised
suspicions, in fact."

"It was thought that the fellow had. some
hold over Sir Percy, I suppose ? "

"Just so. You see Straddlethorpe in those
days was as well managed a place as any in the
shires, and Sir Percy would not have tolerated
such a disreputable person as Podifat, not for
an hour, if he had been able to help himself."

"But there must have been more reason
than that for imputing the boy's parentage to
Sir Percy."

"The notion was first put about, I believe,
by the man Podifat. He was a garrulous,
gossiping, scandalous scoundrel, and for a longtime
no one thought much of what he said.
But the fellow was so persistent : his story
never varied, and, to tell the truth, he spoke so
plainly, that people began to think there was
something in it."

Particularly when taken in connection with
Sir Percy's forbearance ? "

"Exactly. Then something else cropped upto
justify the first suspicions. Podifat went
utterly to the bad. He was apprehended on a
serious charge — night poaching complicated
with manslaughter — and he left the country,
not entirely of his own accord."

As a convict, in fact ? "

"As a convict : he was last heard of in
Western Australia, but that was many years

j>

ago.

Well ? "

"The little brat — this Hubert, you know —
was deserted, left to shift for himself. They
found him half starved, a wretched little object.

in the empty Lodge, and Sir Percy at once had
him taken in at the Hall."

*' Was Sir Percy married then ? "

"To be sure, and had been for some years.
Rachel — Mrs St Evelyn, I mean — must have
been four or five."

"And what did Lady Lezaire say to the
appearance of Hubert ? "

Took it in excellent part, so we heard.
Talked much of the kindliness, the noble philanthropy
of Sir Percy, and was quite kind to
young Hubert."

Do you suppose she knew the real state of
the case ? " •

People are generally the last to know what
interests them most. Anyhow she made no
objection. Hubert was taken charge of by the
housekeeper "

The present woman ? "

That I can't say, but I expect not, — it's so
many years ago."

And so the boy grew up at the Hall ? "

"He became a kind of tame cat about the
house — tolerated, but not much liked — until

young Carysfort began to grow up. He took
an enormous fancy to the fellow, and it was

never checked. Lady Lezaire " (he paused,

wondering whether he ought to take St
Evelyn's mother-in-law to task) "ought not
to have permitted it."

I quite agree with you, my dear Mr
Etherly. But, on the contrary, she seems
rather to have encouraged the intimacy."

Hubert Podifat is hardly a proper associate
for Sir Carysfort Lezaire," the old squire
admitted frankly.

"I feel that most strongly, and think the
thing ought to be stopped."

"You won't find it easy, I expect."

I'll do it, even if Hubert Podifat has to be
sent away from the Hall. He is too old to be
hanging about here, hand in glove with the
head of the Lezaires."

That's where you'll find the difficulty.
Carysfort wont bear to part with him easily.
However, I quite agree with you. Colonel, that
the intimacy ought not to continue."

CHAPTER IX.

WHAT CAME OF A FIGHT.

Colonel St Evelyn thought that by freely
offering his companionship to young Carysfort
Lezaire, he would keep Hubert Podifat at a
distance, and perhaps break the intimacy. But
it is seldom that a grown-up man can make
himself the close friend and ally of a lad in his
teens, and ere long the boy chafed at his
guardian's attentions. Carysfort often tried
and often succeeded in giving the Colonel the
slip, and instead of joining in some previously
planned expedition, ran off to join Hubert
Podifat, a more congenial associate.

One day St Evelyn came complaining to his
wife of Carysfort's sudden disappearance.

We were going over to Theobaldss to seethe
kennels, and lunch with Lord Prudhames.
But now, at the last moment, Carysfort is not
to be found. It's too aggravating," said the
Colonel, savagely.

What can have become of him ? " asked
Rachel.

He has gone off somewhere with that scamp,
Hubert Podifat. Gibbings saw them together
an hour ago."

They have been friends for so long," pleaded
Kachel.

Hubert is a very bad friend, Fm afraid.
Fm sure I've tried to do all I can for Caress
I am always ready to go anywhere, todo
anything with him."

"Boys like some one more their own age.
Not that I think you old, dearest," she added,
hastily.

You have given me the best proof of that,
my love, by taking me — at the eleventh hour.
But you must admit that Hubert is the worst
possible companion for Carysfort."

*' Of course ; I have always said so."

What I dread is some scandal. Hubert
will lead your brother into mischief : they will
get into trouble. But I'll find out what they're
after to-day ; of that I am determined," and he
turned to the door.

*' Are you going, Ferdinand ? "

I must ride over to Theobaldss alone. Wc
are expected to lunch, you know."

St Evelyn, when riding, liked to be followed
by a groom, and as often as not he took Gib-beings,
a humble but long-standing friend. The
Colonel, while still on the Lezaire estate, was
in the habit of dismounting to examine fences
or drains, or to go into cottages and do a little
bailiff's work on his own account. Gibbings
was with him this day.

What's become of Sir Carysfort ? " asked St
Evelyn. " Have you any idea ? "

"They went out Market Eeepham way.
Colonel. Up to some game."

Have you any idea what ? "

I did hear there was to be a fight."

A prize-fight ? "

Yes, Colonel. Some gipsies who have been
hanging about these parts have matched one
of their people against * Burly Scran the
brewers man, and it was to be fought out this
afternoon behind a low public-house — ' The Case
is Altered,' they call it — just outside the town."

Do you mean to tell me that Sir Carysfort
Lezaire has been taken by this Hubert to such
a disreputable affair ? "

I am not certain, of course. Colonel ; but
that's what they were saying at the Hall."

Colonel St Evelyn determined to ride into
Market Eeepham from Theobaldss, and under
Gibbing's guidance he reached the public-house
between four and five. The fight had come
off in a paddock behind the house, and was over

«

by the time the Colonel arrived. But most of
the patrons of the nearly extinct science of self-defence
still lingered in the tap-room.

Dismounting, and leaving his horse to Gib-beings,
St Evelyn walked straight in. A noisy
and apparently quarrelsome company sat round

the dirty, beer-stained tables, discussing the
episodes of the recent encounter, and arguing
over another expected event.

*^ I'd back the young master here," said one
rough voice, 'for a pot."

Go along wi' you," retorted another; " 'ain't
in nature that a slip of a chap like this should
stand up with Long Pete."

I'm not afraid of half-a-dozen Peter," put ina
third voice, which St Evelyn immediately
recognised ; " I'll fight him for the pleasure of
the thing."

You're a good-plucked un," cried several of
the roughs. •

Put down the stakes and make a match,"
said a fresh voice — Hubert Podifat's.

But now St Evelyn, pushing through the
crowd, interposed.

Carysfort 1 Can it be possible ! You in
this den, and in this state ! "

Lady Lezaire would not have been proud of
her son had she seen him now. Carysfort was
lounging on a bench, smoking a short clay

pipe. In front of him was a quart-pot of ale,
to which he had been paying close attention,
as his flushed cheeks and dazed eyes
proved.

Fair words, master, fair words," put in the
landlord of " The Case is Altered." " My house
is as respectable "

We will see about that when the time comes
for renewing your licence. You don't know me,
perhaps ? "

It's Colonel Bloke," whispered one of the
roughs to a neighbour. St Evelyn was already
dreaded on the Thorpeshire bench.

Come away from this disreputable place,
Carysfort, — it's too disgraceful that you should
have been brought here : but those who are
responsible shall pay for it."

This was meant for Hubert, who sat scowling
but apprehensive, like an ill-conditioned cur
expecting a kick.

The young baronet got up reluctantly, and,
hanging his head, followed his guardian out of
the place. Gibbings gave him up his horse.

Caiysfort clambered into the saddle with difficulty,
and St Evelyn led him home.

Hubert Podifat did not return to the Hall
till late in the evening, but he could not escape
his punishment. A message came to him
through Gibbings, that Colonel St Evelyn
wished to speak to him directly he came in ;
and Gibbings, to prevent any mistakes, himself
escorted the youth to the Colonel's sanctum.

This was a small room off the entrance-hall,
which in Sir Percy's days had been used by the
bailiff, but which St Evelyn had now appropriated.
It was called " the Colonel's study,"
but it was rather a smoking-room and business
room than a library. Books were altogether
absent, with the exception of a local directory,
two or three ledgers, 'Hutchinson on Dog-breaking,'
and ' Youatt on the Horse.'

Hubert came in with the half reckless, half
hang-dog air of a boy about to be birched.
The Colonel, who was smoking in an arm-chair
by the fire, looked at him fixedly for some

VOL. I. G .

minutes without speaking, and without asking
him to sit down.

*' You ought to be properly ashamed of yourself,"
he said at last. "How dare you take
Sir Carysfort Lezaire to that filthy pothouse ? "

It was he took me," replied Hubert, sullenly.

I don't believe a word of it. It is you
who lead, not that silly young fool. But
there shall be an end of this : you will prepare
to leave the Hall the first thing tomorrow."

Hubert looked at him stupidly, as though
he failed to realise the meaning of his words.

You understand ? Pack your traps this
very night : tomorrow you march 1 "

Where am I to go ? " Hubert asked, with
a sulky scowl. He was beginning to understand.


"That's not so easy to settle. You're not
fit to earn your living ; but I have considered
all that. I will arrange for you to be bound
to Coppocks, the land-surveyors in Market
Eeepham, and kept until you are through your
articles."

Hubert made no sign of assent or disapproval,
but stood there looking as though he
hated St Evelyn with his whole heart.

"Well, as you've nothing to say, you can
take yourself off. Eemember, tomorrow you
leave the Hall."

Hubert Podifat slunk away to the housekeeper's
room, where he found Mrs Leleu. She
attacked him at once.

"This is a pretty time to show yourself!
Where have you been all day ? "

Hubert made no answer, but sat down,
brooding and staring into the fire.

Haven't you got a tongue in your head ?
Where have you been ? Don't you want any
supper? It's very late, but you can have
something."

Hubert still sat mute.

What's taken the lad ? Are you ill ? In
trouble ? What's the matter ? "

There was more kindliness in Mrs Leleu's
tone than might have been expected from her.
She seemed to have a certain liking for this

ill - favoured dependant who occupied such a
nondescript position at the Hall.

*' I am going away," said Hubert, at length.

Away ? What ! going to leave the Hall ! "

Hubert nodded.

Impossible ! Of your own accord ? "

No ; it's him."

The pronoun thus used ungrammatically
referred to Colonel St Evelyn. The housekeeper
quite understood this. Since the
Colonel's access to power, he had come to be
called simply " he " or " him " by the establishment,
like the captain of a ship by his crew.

The meddlesome, hectoring, hateful brute ! "
cried Mrs Leleu. " But what brought him on
the top of you ? "

Hubert briefly related what had occurred that
afternoon.

*' So you took young master to see a fight?
Well ! where's the harm ? If it was good
enough for you, it was not too bad for him."

The Colonel hates me. He don't want Sir
Carysfort and me to be together."

Why shouldn't you be together ? It's
natural enough."

Hubert looked at her a little surprised.

How so ? " he asked.

"You'll know some of these days. Well,
what are you going to do ? Are you going to
take your orders from him ? "

'what else?"

"You are a poor creature! You have no
more spirit than a mouse. If I was in your
shoes, I would complain to my lady : I would
see what Sir Carysfort had to say. You must
show fight, d'ye hear ? "

What's the good ? He's far too strong for
us. How I hate him, the beast ! "

If you won't, I will. I'll have a talk with
her ladyship the first thing in the morning.
The Colonel shan't have it all his own way here.
He may not find it so easy to get round me."

But Mrs Leleu was herself to have a passage
of arms with the Colonel next day, a description
of which must be reserved for a fresh chapter.

CHAPTER X.

THE COLONEL Worsted.

It cannot be said that St Evelyn shirked the
responsibilities or duties, as he saw them, of
his position as guardian to Sir Carysfort
Lezaire. He was ready to use his best energies
and give up his whole time, if necessary, in
the interests of his ward. Very soon after
his arrival at Straddlethorpe, he had seen that
the establishment required searching reform,
and he had devoted himself con amove to the
task. An active, energetic, managing man,
with a leaven of administrative capacity, and
a strong bias towards interference, he quickly
asserted himself, and made his authority felt
throughout the Hall.

They tried a fall with him — many of the old
and reputed faithful servants of the Lezaires —
but all were easily and often badly thrown.

The bailiff resented a too searching inquiry
into the disposal of some of the crops : Colonel
St Evelyn showed him that he was well up in
the qualities of hay, — that he knew to a penny
its market price.

The woodman wanted to give a manifestly
cheap bargain to a Market Eeepham timber
merchant of some fallen trees : quite unexpectedly
the Colonel called in an expert from
the other end of the county, and had an entirely
new valuation made. •

Peters, the coachman, was near coming to
conspicuous grief. The old man had never
forgiven St Evelyn his defiance of my lady's
arrangements with regard to the stables, and
he was as uncivil always as he dared be to
the new power at the Hall.

Peters," said St Evelyn suddenly one day,
do you keep a forage-book ? "

Never heard tell of such a thing."

*' You'll have to begin one directly. I must
have a record of receipts and issues. And I'll
take the buying, when anything is wanted, into
my own hands."

My lady has trusted me to buy everything
these ten years past."

I can quite believe it," said the Colonel,
drily, "and the consequence is her half-dozen
horses have eaten as much as a troop of cavalry.
We'll put an end to that."

"I bent a-going to stop here if I'm not
trusted."

"You can clear out when you please. But
we'll have a settlement before you go, my fine
fellow — remember that."

The Colonel looked so ugly and so magisterial
as he said this, that Peters changed his
tone. He became the most submissive of
coachmen, ready to carry out implicitly any
instructions.

It was the same all through the household,
at least so far as the men were concerned. St
Evelyn expected more trouble with the women,

or more exactly the head of the female department
— for he wisely resolved to govern the other
sex through the housekeeper, their responsible
chief.

But before tackling Mrs Leleu, he fortified
himself by speaking to Lady Lezaire.

I am sure there is waste in the housekeeping,"
he had said.

Is that an innuendo levelled against me ? "
Lady Lezaire asked, but with less indignation
than she would have shown a month or two
earlier. She was not so combative nowadays.

Of course not," replied the Colonel, blandly.
I mean that your housekeeper is so entirely
uncontrolled "

Lady Lezaire laughed uneasily. This also
was a covert insinuation.

' She takes so much upon herself, you understand,"
went on the Colonel, putting it in
another way, "that I think her books ought
to be looked into, her expenditure examined."

"I cannot see the necessity," Lady Lezaire
protested. "Mrs Leleu has been here for four

or five years, and I have never had any fault
to find with her."

Did she come to you well recommended ? "

"Naturally. I forget by whom at this
moment, but of course she had an excellent
character or I should not have engaged her."

She may be as honest as the day, yet not
careful. In Carysfort's best interests I feel convinced
her accounts ought to be controlled."

"Mrs Leleu won't like it, I warn you."

She will have the remedy in her own hands ;
she can leave."

Would you go so far as that ? " asked Lady
Lezaire. " I should not like to lose her," she
would have added, but the man's determined,
masterful spirit frightened her.

Why not ? Discipline must be maintained."


But he did not find the housekeeper prepared
to succumb without a struggle.

You will be good enough to bring me the
house-books every Tuesday morning to my
study," he said abruptly to Mrs Leleu the

morning: Hubert had been ordered to leave
the Hall.

Why should I show them to you ? Lady
Lezaire has never asked to see them all these
years," replied the housekeeper, rather impudently.


"Because I tell you to do so," said the
Colonel coolly, looking hard at Mrs Leleu.
He met a pair of dark, defiant eyes, eyes as
bold and black as his own, and a fierce face
in which there were no signs of surrender.

I shall only take my orders from her ladyship
personally," said the housekeeper, with
increasing insolence. •

The next orders you will receive will be to
leave the house — if necessary this very day,"
went on the Colonel, with the air of a man
who meant to hold his own.

"You want to turn everybody out of the
house, Colonel St Evelyn. I have heard of
your cruelty to that poor creature, Hubert
Podifat."

"I think you had better mind your own

business, Mrs Leleu," said the Colonel,
sternly.

But you are not my master ; I have never
recognised you as such. I will see my lady,
and hear what she has to say," — and Mrs Leleu
walked off, tossing her head.

She was the first person at the Hall who had
resisted St Evelyn's authority, but she was not
to profit much by her temporary triumph.

"You will have to do as Colonel St Evelyn
tells you " — this was all the satisfaction she got
from Lady Lezaire — "unless, indeed, you prefer
to leave."

I have been very comfortable here, my lady,
and I don't like change. But it's a little hard
to have a new master put over me."

Everybody must give in to the Colonel.
He is acting for Sir Carysfort, the real master."

I don't think Sir Carysfort will like the last
thing the Colonel's done."

What do you mean ? "

He has sent that poor Hubert Podifat away
from the Hall this morning."

Sent him away ? For good and all ? "

I saw Gibbings, the Colonel's man, driving
him away in the tax-cart early this morning.
Going to Market Eeepham, I believe. Hubert
is to be bound to Coppocks, the land-surveyors."

And Sir Carysfort knows ? "

I don't believe it, my lady."

I will see him as soon as possible, and settle
what is to be done. But as to you, Mrs Leleu,
you will have to give in to the Colonel or
go.

It did not suit Mrs Leleu to leave Straddle-thorpe
Hall just then, and she preferred to
make her submission to the autocratic mayor
of the palace, who now reigned supreme. But
if she yielded, it was with a bad grace, and
she treasured up much resentment against St
Evelyn in her heart.

Meanwhile Sir Carysfort, anxious to hear the
end of the previous day's escapade, had been
waking all the echoes with cries of " Hubert !
Hubert ! " They told him Hubert had gone to
Market Eeepham.

^' What?— alone?"

Gibbings^ took bim over," said old Peters,
maliciously. " I. don't think Hubert's coming
back to the Hall."

What do you mean ? "

The Colonel has given him the sack."

"Hubert gone! Oh, what a jolly shame!"
The boy flushed angrily.

*' It's the Colonel's doing : he's master here
now."

** We'll see about that. I chose him for my
guardian, and I'm precious sorry for it. He
thinks himself the Great Mogul."

Carysfort went open-mouthed to his mother,
whom he found ready enough to listen to his
grievances.

"The Colonel," he began, "I hate him! Oh
mother, have you heard what he's done ? "

Mrs Leleu told me."

But you won't let Hubert be kept away ? I
could never stand that. You'll speak to him,
won't you ? "

"Why has Colonel St Evelyn taken such a

dislike to poor Hubert ? " asked Lady Lezaire,
evasively.

How can I tell ? you had better ask him,"
said the boy, not choosing to confess the previous
day's escapade. *' But I won't stand this,
and I'll tell him so to his face. Come along,
mother, let's go and find him " — and the young
baronet dragged Lady Lezaire rather reluctantly
towards the Colonel's study, where they found
him looking over a number of cigars.

I say. Colonel, what a beastly shame to
send off Hubert like that, without saying a
word ! "

St Evelyn ignored the boy, and addressed
himself to the mother.

'' You will, I am sure, approve of the step I
have taken. Lady Lezaire, when I tell you what
happened yesterday."

"I don't care," interrupted Carysfort; *rit's
a beastly shame, and I won't stand it ! "

I think when you consider. Colonel St
Evelyn, how attached dear Carysfort is to
Hubert Podifat," said Lady Lezaire, temporising,

"you will agree that it would have been
better not to take so decided a step. Hubert
had better be sent for."

I will never consent to that ; he is ruining
your son. Carysfort will be grateful to me
some day for having broken this disreputable
connection."

"I shan't!" cried Carysfort, rudely, "and I
will have Hubert back ! You're a beast.
Colonel, a brute! you bully everybody here,
but you shan't bully me. I am the real master,
and I would sooner have Hubert here than
you. I tell you he shall come back. I won't
be contradicted, — I will have my own way.
You are a beast, I say, and I hate you ! "

Carysfort had gradually worked himself up
into an ungovernable passion ; but after he had
delivered himself of this violent tirade, he threw
himself on the sofa, and stormed, and kicked,
and bellowed with rage. Lady Lezaire's
anxiety now was all for her son : she strove
to soothe and pacify him, and rang the bell
for assistance. The housekeeper was called

in, and not without difficulty Sir Carysfort,
who was nearly beside himself, was got away
to his room. He continued in a state of hysterical
excitement for some hours : the doctor
had to be sent for, and sedatives administered.
The boy was quieter and better towards evening,
but his mother was terribly concerned,
and in her heart greatly incensed against the
Colonel.

She was too proud to make a direct appeal
to St Evelyn, the justice of whose decision with
regard to Hubert she could hardly deny. But
Rachel tried to appease her husband, and the
gentle little wife eventually talked him over.

Hubert's appearance at Sir Carysfort's bedside
that same evening immediately restored
the boy to health. Next day he was about
again as usual, and more devoted to Hubert
than ever. Colonel St Evelyn he studiously
shunned, but when they unavoidably met,
Carysfort's manner was surly and distant,
and it was quite evident that the fight over

VOL. I. H

Hubert had completely estranged the young
baronet.

Among the many enemies the Colonel had
made at Straddlethorpe, none now hated him
more cordially than the young master of the
Hall.

Chapter XI.

COUNTY VEXATIONS.

Although Colonel St Evelyn had established
himself pretty firmly at the Hall, his stay was
not without its vexations.

It was not pleasant for a man of his masterful
spirit to be successfully opposed. He. had
certainly got the worst of it with regard to the
young baronet and his friend. Hubert Podifat
had returned, almost triumphantly, to Straddle-thorpe,
and the Colonel felt that every one rejoiced
at his defeat.

The unmistakable dislike Sir Carysfort now
openly evinced was another thorn in the
Colonel's side. It showed itself in brusque,
often rude replies ; sometimes in doggedly

silent contempt. For days and days guardian
and ward were absolutely " cuts " ; at other
times they wrangled perpetually.

To be the object of constant undisguised
aversion is nearly certain to evoke the same
sentiment, and St Evelyn grew more and more
piqued : any liking he had once for the lad
presently disappeared.

Lady Lezaire was on her son's side, of course.
She encouraged him in his defiant behaviour,
and, gaining courage from her boy's boldness,
permitted herself to be positively uncivil to
St Evelyn.

Repeated very plain hints that he had outstayed
his welcome at the Hall was one of
many methods of showing their ill feeling.

Why doesn't he go away ? " Sir Carysfort
would often ask. "He has been here long
enough. I thought he only came on a visit,
not to stay for years."

"Of course Rachel could not have been
moved till quite lately " — a child had recently
been born to the St Evelyns — "but now

that is safely over, there is no reason why
they should not leave the Hall."

I wish you'd tell him so. I hate the sight
of him, and I know he hates me."

Lady Lezaire was not long in finding an
excuse for conveying Sir Carysfort's views.
The hint was a very plain one.

Brooke Lodge is in the market," she said
next day at the luncheon-table.

'* Oh ! " observed the Colonel, blandly. '' And
where is Brooke Lodge ? "

It's a charming little house the other side
of Market Eeepham, very compact and complete,
and going quite cheap, I believe. You
know it, Rachel, don't you ? "

Oh yes," replied her daughter, blushing.
With a woman's rapid intuition she had already
fathomed the meaning of Lady Lezaire's remark.
" The Duboulays lived there, I think."

Yes, and the Crichton. You might ride
over and look at it, Colonel," went on Lady
Lezaire.

I ! Why should I ? I don't want the thing.

I'm comfortable enough where I am," replied St
Evelyn, with a brutal frankness that for the
moment silenced Lady Lezaire.

The fact was, it by no means suited the
Colonel's book to set up an establishment of
his own. He was still secretly worried by his
financial affairs. Although marriage had relieved
him of many pressing anxieties, it had
put no large amount of ready money at his
disposal, and he had still a large balance of
unsettled debts.

These he had hoped to pay off by degrees,
by economies on the substantial income accruing
from the investment of Rachel's portion,
economies made the more easy by his prolonged
residence at the Hall.

Had he been more prudent, he might have
seen the end of his troubles. But he could not
resist the temptation to back the winner, and
the winners of his choice had too often disappointed
him. Within this year his settlements
after Ascot and Goodwood had ]eft him
terribly to the bad. ^

Something stronger than mere hints were
needed to dislodge him from Straddlethorpe.
The old soldier liked his quarters, and knew
when he was well off.

There were those who would have liked to
have got rid of the Colonel, not alone from the
Hall but from Thorpeshire. He had outlived
his popularity in the county, and the more he
was known the less he was liked.

He took too much upon himself, people said.
He was too interfering, too busy, too ready to
domineer, and manage everybody and everything
his own way. Now he wanted to revolutionise
the Highway Board, next the
county asylum, then the county jail. Things
went on quietly enough till he came into the
neighbourhood ; why could he not let them be ?
What if the jail was old-fashioned, dark, ill
ventilated, on too small a scale ? It had served
for generations — for centuries even. Who was
this Colonel St Evelyn — a stranger, an outsider,
a new-comer in the country — who presumed to
complain ?

Antagonism and discontent rose to their
highest pitch when he sought to foist a
creature of his own, an old brother officer, into
the governorship of the jail. Thorpeshire was
tenacious of its county patronage : its appointments
had been jobbed, handsomely, from time
immemorial, — invariably given to some local
candidate ; whether the most competent and
suitable mattered very little.

Yet St Evelyn managed to win the day.
Active, indefatigable, uncompromising in his
championship, an unwearied canvasser, he carried
all before him. The election was closely
contested. The county was split up into two
hostile camps, party spirit ran high ; but the
Colonel's nominee was the successful candidate,
and Captain Euddock, formerly of the Royal
Dangers, was duly elected Governor of the
jail.

This success, and not strangely, embittered
the feeling already hostile to Colonel St Evelyn.
No one hated him more cordially than General
Wyndham Parker, who had been his most

strenuous opponent at the recent election. The
General was a county man with a small estate
heavily encumbered ; not too affluent, therefore,
and blessed with many daughters, one of whom
had married his old aide-de-camp.

This gentleman, Captain Eichards, now retired,
had been a candidate for the jail governorship,
and his defeat was taken in very bad
part. The crime of it was of course visited
upon Colonel St Evelyn.

A very lively discussion followed the election.
Many of the magistrates who lived too far off to
return home to lunch met at the Eaven Hotel
after their labours were ended. •

''He's a sharp, sensible sort of fellow anyway,"
said Mr Etherly, who had supported the
successful candidate, and was anxious to justify
himself.

"You say that because you voted for him,"
remarked another, laughing.

He's not a gentleman," said General ,
a sharp-nosed, ferret-eyed, fidgety
little man, who had once held a command, and

thought himself entitled ever afterwards to take
the lead. It was intolerable to him that St
Evelyn, so much his junior in military rank,
should not bow before him. *how you could
bring yourselves to choose a low-born, common
cad like that "

At least he's sound in wind and limb," said
Sir Archibald Bright, another of the opposition.
The General's son-in-law was evidently a weakly
creature, and this had really turned the election.

'* I suppose that is aimed at Eichards," retorted
the General, fiercely. " If his health is
indifferent, it was damaged in the service of
his country."

But the county jail is not a home for convalescents,"
put in old Etherly.

At any rate, I don't envy the new man his
billet," said Sir Archibald Milan, to turn the
conversation.

He won't be without friends," observed one
of St Evelyn's side. " The Colonel will see he's
not bullied."

He may not be here always to stand by his

nominee," replied General Wyndham Parker
darkly.

Why, what's to become of the Colonel ?
You won't get rid of him so easily."

*^ That's what my lady thinks. But he can't
stay at the Hall for ever."

Of course not. The boy is growing up : he
will be of age in a few years. You don't suppose
he will let the Colonel go on cadging then?"

St Evelyn will have feathered his nest by
that time."

*' Or have turned the right bird out."

I don't see how he's to do that."

He's not a man to stick at trifles, you may
depend," said General Wyndham-Parker, with
bitter meaning.

"Oh! come, I say," cried old Etherly.
"He's not half a bad chap. I don't think
it's fair to make such remarks."

"No; but really," asked another, who had
hitherto stood neutral, " what do you think
made St Evelyn so keen about bringing this
fellow in ? "

Public spirit, of course," replied a champion
promptly.

Public spirit be hanged ! It's not that ;
it's his nasty, interfering, domineering ways."
He wants a friend against the day he's sent
to jail," cried the General, still angrily, determined
to think all evil.

Oh, I say, draw it mild ! St Evelyn in
jail ! What in heaven for ? "

Well, to begin with, if there was imprisonment
for debt nowadays, he'd be run in fast
enough."

Do you suppose he's really hard up ? "
"He hadn't a sixpence when he married.
And look at his tastes, all expensive : keeps
any number of nags, dresses no end, smokes
half-crown cigars."

Then he plunges tremendously."
Always ready to take or lay the odds."
Or sit down to whist at five-pound points."
Well, he goes the pace certainly ; but after
all, that's his affair. And he must have got a

good round sum with Rachel Lezaire. If it's
nothing worse than debt "

"You wait," said the General, sticking pertinaciously
to his point. " There'll be something
far worse than that one of these days, mark my
words."

Every one laughed at this, no one more
heartily than St Evelyn himself, to whom
the whole conversation was in due course
retailed.

But it will be readily understood that the
Colonel's life was not altogether happy in
Thorpeshire.

Chapter XII.

DOCTORS DO NOT DIFFER.

Let us return now to the sick-room where young
Sir Carysfort Lezaire lay at the point of death.

"My boy! my boy!" cried Lady Lezaire.
Do tell me — are you in great pain ?"

The only answer her son vouchsafed was to
roll his eyes vacantly towards her.

''Oh, Mr Freshener!" went on the unhappy
mother, " surely you are not quite helpless. Do
something, anything, I implore you."

I am most anxious, my lady, I assure you.
As the stomach-pump is here, I will use it, for
it is now past seven, and I expect Sir Peregrine
or Dr Robinson every minute."

Perhaps before they arrive my dearest son

will have succumbed. Do not, I beseech you,
delay. Try and give dear Carysfort some
relief."

The medical process which followed need not
be described in detail. But Mr Freshener
examined the result with considerable interest,
and afterwards appeared more perplexed than
ever.

To these poor bewildered creatures, the news
that a carriage approached was welcome in the
extreme. Mrs St Evelyn went to the window,
and, opening it, looked down the drive.

"Is it empty ? " cried Lady Lezaire, in a
tone of the utmost concern.

No," replied her daughter; " I can plainly
see a figure inside."

That must be Sir Peregrine. How good
of him to be so prompt!" — and Lady Lezaire
hastily passed down the grand staircase to meet
the London doctor as he entered the hall.

She was forestalled, however, by Colonel St
Evelyn, and when her ladyship reached the foot
of the staircase she saw the retreating figure

of her son-in-law and Sir Peregrine as they
went into the study.

They had closed the door behind them, and
Lady Lezaire, although she at once followed,
paused irresolute as if hesitating to enter. In
spite of the sickening anxiety which oppressed
her, she still yielded an involuntary submission
to the man's stronger will.

The two men remained closeted together for
some time — a period which seemed quite interminable
to poor Lady Lezaire, but it was in
fact something under a quarter of an hour. At
length Lady Lezaire could brook no further
delay. Going up to the door, she knocked
nervously, and without waiting for an answer,
entered the room.

I really beg your pardon, Sir Peregrine."


The London physician looked inquiringly at
Colonel St Evelyn.

Allow me to introduce you," said the
Colonel ; " this is Lady Lezaire, the baronet's
mother. She is naturally anxious, as you may

suppose, to have the benefit of your advice
for her sou."

Yes, yes," interrupted Lady Lezaire ; " but
surely this is no time for compliments. I must
beg you, implore you, to come up and see my
son at once."

Of course," replied Sir Peregrine — " that is
the sole object of my visit. I was only asking
this gentleman here " — and he waved his white
hand blandly towards St Evelyn — " what were
the facts of the case. It is quite impossible,
you must understand, my dear Lady Lezaire, to
arrive at a correct diagnosis without full information
as to all the antecedents." •

'•' Surely I could have told you all that better,"
again interrupted Lady Lezaire, with both petulance
and indignation in her voice ; "or Mr
Freshener, our regular attendant, could have
informed you better than any one else."

Oh ! " observed Sir Peregrine, as if a new
light was breaking in upon him. " There is a
general practitioner, then, in charge of the
case f

VOL. I. I

Of course," replied Lady Lezaire ; " lie is
up-stairs at this moment with my son."

That being so, I had better join him at
once."

Lady Lezaire led the way, and Sir Peregrine,
with Colonel St Evelyn, followed. They found
Mr Freshener seated by the bedside, but he rose
on the appearance of the great leader of his
profession, and made the profound obeisance
which local obscurity likes to pay to metropolitan
greatness.

We were most grieved, Sir Peregrine," said
little Mr Freshener, rubbing his hands, " to
encroach upon your valuable time ; but the
matter seemed so urgent, and the case, I may
say, so mysterious, that I felt it was imperative
to get the highest medical skill."

Have you arrived at any decision ? Is there
nothing in the symptoms to give you a line ? "

The symptoms are marked and plain enough.
But they all point to a solution which I cannot
but feel to be impossible and absurd."

Kindly go over them," said Sir Peregrine,

knitting his brows and assuming that air of abstraction
which implies acute mental effort.

A whispered colloquy followed : after the first
half-dozen words uttered by Mr Freshener, Sir
Peregrine visibly grew more and more interested.

Why, it seems to me perfectly obvious," he
muttered ; '^ these are the plainest symptoms
of "

He paused suddenly and looked round. The
word to which he would not give utterance formulated
a very grave charge against some person
or persons unknown. But with characteristic
and professional caution he reserved his
judgment until the fullest evidence was forthcoming.


No improvement had shown itself in Sir Caress
condition. His physical sufferings were
extreme, but they were scarcely greater than
the mental anguish of those who stood around.
Presently the whispered conference between the
two doctors ceased, and Sir Peregrine, having
fortified himself with the local practitioner's
opinion, proceeded to examine the patient for

himself. Lady Lezaire hung nervously upon his
movements, and keenly scanned the doctor's
sphinx-like face.

The examination ended, Sir Peregrine looked
portentously grave, but vouchsafed no remark.
A pause of some minutes followed, when Sir
Peregrine himself broke the silence by saying
to the other doctor —

"Mr Fresh "

Freshener, Sir Peregrine."

I think I must speak to you in private,"
and the two withdrew to another room. Their
conference was long protracted, and when they
at length returned, Sir Carysfort seemed at
his last gasp.

He was quite conscious as the end drew
near. He knew his mother and sister, who
each held one of his wasted hands. He smiled
feebly at his friend Hubert, and spoke to all a
few broken words of farewell.

The baronet appeared also to recognise
Colonel St Evelyn, who came in at this the
supreme moment, but gave him no greeting,

and seemed at first altogether indifferent to
his presence.

He gradually grew weaker and more faint,
and at length a species of comatose lethargy
took possession of him, from which there appeared
no prospect of recovery.

All at once, however, by a violent effort, he
raised himself in the bed, and with wild
haggard eyes pointed a finger at Colonel St
Evelyn ; then, with a half-uttered groan, sank
back on his pillow and expired.

It was a most painful and terrible scene.
Lady Lezaire, now completely unnerved, went
into violent hysterics, in which her daughter
out of sympathy presently joined, while Mrs
Leleu, the housekeeper, who came in at the last
moment, tried to soothe and pacify them. The
doctors looked at each other like men who
have a grave secret in common. Hubert
Podifat threw himself on the foot of the bed
and sobbed aloud, convulsed with a most
poignant sorrow.

The only person who stood quite unmoved

was Colonel St Evelyn. He was the first to
break the silence of that grim and ghastly
chamber of death, and said to Sir Peregrine
Falcon —

"Now all is over, it is needless to prolong
this painful scene. Nothing remains to be
done, I presume, but to pay the last tributes
of respect."

Pardon me," interrupted Sir Peregrine,
something very important remains. I consider
that a post mortem is absolutely indispensable.
Do you agree with me, Mr Freshener ? "

"Certainly, Sir Peregrine, or I should withhold
the certificate."

"Am I to understand, then," asked St
Evelyn, "that you are in doubt as to the
cause of death ? "

"Not exactly in doubt," replied the great
doctor ; " we have more than a strong suspicion.
But we wish to make assurance doubly sure."

Suspicion ! Can it be possible that you
imagine there has been foul play?"

Foul play is a strong term," replied Sir Peregrine,

" and we make no accusations — only we
must have well-substantiated facts."

"Your wishes are naturally law, and every
facility shall be given you," said Colonel St
Evelyn, in a somewhat constrained manner.

It will be necessary also," put in Mr
Freshener, " to give notice to the coroner, as
an inquest must be held."

Surely that is unnecessary — it will only
cause a serious scandal in the county."

The necessity will depend upon the result
of the post mortem. But unless all our suspicions
are completely falsified — unless, indeed,
our whole knowledge and acumen have suddenly
deserted us — I fear that, scandal or no scandal,
a coroner s inquest will have to be held."

As I am magistrate for the county," replied
the Colonel, " it would ill beseem me to throw
any obstacles in the way of executing the law.
I myself will summon the coroner, although I
repeat that I consider the proceeding rather
uncalled for."

Sir Peregrine bowed gravely, but made no

further remark. He had not come a hundred
miles from London to be taught his duty by a
provincial justice of the peace. Mr Freshener
sided with his professional leader of course,
although in Sir Peregrine's absence he might
have been overawed by Colonel St Evelyn's
magisterial manner. The Colonel was a power
at quarter sessions, and Mr Freshener, as
surgeon of various county institutions, recognised
the influence and authority of such
an active local magnate.

This short and somewhat unseemly discussion
was soon ended, and Mr Freshener, at the
instance of Sir Peregrine, begged that the bedroom
might be cleared.

There were strong reasons," he said, in the
most delicate manner possible, "for separating
relatives so hastily from those well - beloved
remains. But what the doctors had to do
must be done without delay."

Poor Lady Lezaire was still almost stupefied
by the sudden sorrow which had fallen upon
her ; but her daughter, although she scarcely

realised at first the meaning of this peremptory
summons to withdraw, persuaded her mother
to leave the room.

The two heartbroken women, with faltering
step and dejected air, passed out together.
The moment they had left the room, Lady
Lezaire's strength seemed to forsake her. She
tottered, and was on the point of falling to the
ground, but strong arms interposed to save her.
They were those of Colonel St Evelyn, who
had followed her out of the room.

The mere sight of her son-in-law seemed to
revive her flagging strength. With a sudden
effort she broke from his arms and cried. passionately
—

*' Do not touch me ! You have robbed me
of all I hold most dear in the world."

Dearest mother ! " exclaimed Kachel, " what
do you mean by such terrible words ? "

*task him — the husband you chose. Are
you too great a simpleton to understand that
he is now the absolute owner, through you, of
everything here ? "

Chapter XIII.

THE coroner's JURY.

The doctors remained closeted in the death-chamber
for more than an hour. They were
closely engaged upon their painful and unpleasant
task, and when they issued forth, their
habitual professional gravity had deepened to
the darkest gloom. The faces of both showed
that they possessed some portentous secretin
common, not to be lightly or too readily
divulged.

They came down the stairs together, both
silent and preoccupied ; but in the hall Sir
Peregrine said to Mr Freshener —

I will leave you, then, to make all arrangements.
You will understand that time is of

the utmost consequence to me. I am wanted
in London ; my absence at this moment is of
the gravest inconvenience to my patients and
myself, and I must impress upon you the
necessity for releasing me at the earliest, the
very earliest, moment possible."

*' You may count upon me. Sir Peregrine,"
replied the local doctor, bowing obsequiously.
My horse is at the door, and I will ride over
at once to Market Eeepham."

*' The coroner lives there ? "

Yes, Sir Peregrine — it is the county town,
and the headquarters of the police. They will
have to be informed."

"Assuredly, and some magistrate. It maybe
necessary to issue warrants."

The coroner's will suffice, if they find "

Well, well," said Sir Peregrine ; "we must
not anticipate the verdict, although my mind
is perfectly clear. However, I will not detain
you."

I shall be back here in less than a couple
of hours, Sir Peregrine. I will beg the coroner

to immanuel a jury at Market Eeepham, and we
will all come over together."

"Thank you, that will be the best. I think
now I shall beg them to allow me to retire, and
get a little rest."

A servant was called who found the housekeeper,
Mrs Leleu, and Sir Peregrine was shown
to a bedroom. Dr Freshener then mounted his
horse and rode off to Market Eeepham.

For a couple of hours the Hall remained
perfectly still and quiet, with blinds close
drawn, a house of deep mourning. Lady
Lezaire had shut herself up alone with her
grief; Mrs St Evelyn had also retired, after
vainly attempting to comfort her mother. The
Colonel was in his study, where no one dared
to intrude upon him.

He was looking out of the window with a
depressed and gloomy air, when the appearance
of a couple of flies, followed by a heavy lumbering
omnibus, which he recognised as belonging
to the Lezaire Arms at Market
Eeepham, surprised him, as they were

driven rapidly up the avenue towards the
house.

"What have we here?" he muttered. "I
wonder whether those doctors have done, and
what has become of them ? "

All doubt of the meaning of the approaching
vehicles was dispelled when they first pulled
up, and a superintendent of police jumped
out, followed by a short, stout man with long
grey whiskers, carrying a black bag.

Why, it's China, the coroner ! Then there
is to be an inquest, and these, I suppose, are
the jury."

The next minute he was in the hall, receiving
the arrivals.

"Very painful, most unpleasant affair," said
little Mr China, deferentially. He had always
been a little afraid of the Colonel.

I had no idea there was to be an inquest.
Who summoned you ? " asked St Evelyn,
briefly.

Dr Freshener, the poor dear young baronet's
own medical man."

"The result of the post mortem was not
altogether satisfactory then ? "

'' You must not ask me that. I know nothing
except what is deposed before me in the
open court. Where had the inquest better beheld,
Colonel?"

In the gun-room, I should think ; there is
plenty of room there for the jury and all — a parcel
of greasy, dirty ruffians," he said to himself,
as he turned away to give the necessary orders.

The superintendent will arrange all that, and
collect the witnesses. Meanwhile, gentlemen "
this was to the jury, who still hung doubtfully
and apologetically about the entrance-hall
"we will view the body if you will follow
me ; Dr Freshener will show us the way."

A little later the inquest was formally
opened, and the first witness. Sir Peregrine
Falcon, was called. This was a tribute to his
eminence, and in deference to his wish to return
to London without delay.

His evidence was startling, and terribly to
the point.

I was summoned," he said, " from London,
and arrived here at 8 a.m. this morning. The
deceased was suffering from grave symptoms,
the cause of which I was at first unable to explain,
but longer and closer examination satisfied
me that they were due to an irritant
poison."

Every one in the room, coroner, jury, and
police, started at the word, and many ejaculations
of surprise and horror followed. •

*' Gentlemen, gentlemen, pray do not interrupt
the witness. You said, Sir Peregrine "

I said that I was convinced the deceased had
been poisoned. I had no doubt of this, but I
felt that an autopsy was desirable — anticipating
your wishes in this respect, Mr Coroner."

"You did perfectly right, Sir Peregrine
Falcon. I am obliged to you for your promptitude
in assisting the law."

The post mortem examination was made by
Dr Freshener and myself, with the result I fully
anticipated. We discovered traces of poison
in the viscera, more particularly in the liver."

a

144 BY HOOK OR CROOK.

And the poison was ? "

Arsenic."

The jury looked at each other with grave,
scared faces, and the little coroner, no less perturbed,
pulled himself together with the air
of a man determined to do his duty, however
unpleasant.

Was the poison present in any large quantity
? " asked the coroner.
No."
Then it may have been accidentally taken."

That is as may be," said the great doctor,
but you must not take it for granted that the
quantity discovered in the organs was all that
the deceased had swallowed."

^' How do you mean. Sir Peregrine ? "

"I mean that the action of arsenic is to
produce violent retching, during which the
poison would be more or less thrown off."

*' Was that the case here ? "

I expect so, but I have no proof of it.
There was much vomiting, but I regret to say,
I much regret to say, the product was not preserved.

Had that been done, I think there is no
doubt we should have discovered arsenic in it."

Why was it thrown away ? "

*that I can't tell you," said Sir Peregrine,
shrugging his shoulders.

Carelessness ? "

That or " " something worse," Sir Peregrine
would have said, but he checked himself
like a prudent man, hesitating to make accusations.


I gather from what you have already told
us, Sir Peregrine, that the deceased in your
opinion did not poison himself. Can you throw
any light, then, upon the manner in which the
arsenic was administered ? How, or by whom ? "

"I have no doubt that it was administered
more than once : the recurrence of the worst
symptoms at certain intervals would indicate
that. But as to how or by whom administered, I
am really unable to enlighten you in the least."

"I feared so," said the coroner. "The point
is one of the deepest importance, but we must
seek information elsewhere."

VOL. I. K

After this Sir Peregrine was allowed to withdraw,
and Dr Freshener was called in. The
local practitioner's medical evidence naturally-corroborated
Sir Peregrine's, but the coroner
hoped he would have something to say upon
the points his colleague had left in the dark.
This was evident from his first question.

You were called in to the case at its commencement,
I believe ? "

"Not quite, but at any rate Sir Carysfort
had not been ill for more than an hour when
I arrived."

He was in bed ? "

Yes ; he had gone to bed directly he was
attacked."

By whom was he attended ? "

"By his mother Lady Lezaire, Mrs St Evelyn
his sister, and the housekeeper Mrs Leleu."

Were any of them alone with him at anytime
? "

Not to my knowledge — at least, not in the
first part of the night ; but as it grew later, they
took it in turns to sit up with him."

"We have been told that certain grave
symptoms recurred at intervals : can you tellus
who had been nursing him when they
showed themselves ? "

Not very correctly or distinctly, I fear.
Those symptoms appeared after each of the
ladies had been in the room."

Were they the only persons who had access
to the sick-room ? "

Oh no ; the young man, Podifat, was often
in the room — in fact he could hardly be persuaded
to leave his young friend ; and Colonel
St Evelyn came and went frequently." There
was a pause. •■

You have told us that you arrived about an
hour after the illness first declared itself: the
deceased was conscious when you arrived ? "

Yes, perfectly. He spoke to me, describing
what he felt."

*' Did he offer any explanation — suggest any
cause, I mean — of the violent pains he suffered ? "

No, although I entreated him to do so if
he could. I asked him how he had been spending

his day, — whether he remembered eating
anything likely to disagree with him ; but he
always shook his head, and declared he could
not understand why he was so ill."

There was not much more to be got out of
Dr Freshener, nor indeed from any one else.
The inquest sat for several hours, and examined
nearly every one in the house. Lady Lezaire,
out of deference to her sorrow, was excused,
and the jury agreed with the coroner that her
evidence was not indispensable. Great pains
were taken to get at the bottom of the mystery,
but a mystery it remained to the last —
a mystery, that is to say, as to how the crime
had been committed ; but that there had been
a crime, no one who heard the evidence had a
shadow of doubt.

The coroner's jury did not hesitate to give
their opinion plainly. They found that Sir
Carysfort Lezaire had met his death by poison ;
but as to how or by whom the poison had been
administered, there was no evidence to show.

CHAPTER XIV.

FURTHER INQUIRY.

It was a case of wilful murder : no one in
Thorpeshire had a doubt of that. Sir Carysfort
Lezaire had been murdered, poisoned wickedly
and secretly in his own home, by some person
or persons unknown. •

The news spread through the county quickly,
creating immense excitement.

Who had done it — and why ? This was the
question that every one asked, and every one
wanted to solve. There must be an inquiry,
every one was agreed.

But what was everybody's was nobody's
business. The days slipped by, yet nothing
was done. At length several of the magnates

and leading magistrates put their heads together,
and it was decided, after consultation with the
chief constable, to employ the police, the details
being left to the chief.

Lady Lezaire had been much more prompt.
The moment her first paroxysm of grief had
subsided, she had communicated with Mr Tinson
of Lincoln's Inn Fields. The presence of the
family lawyer was indeed necessary at Straddle-thorpe
to regulate the affairs of the succession,
and it was only right that he should attend the
young baronet's funeral.

Mr Tinson's first visit on arrival was to Lady
Lezaire, with whom he was closeted for more
than an hour. Thence he went to his own
room, where a message was brought to him that
Colonel St Evelyn would like to speak to him
at once.

The Colonel received him in his study.

'rit is only by accident, Mr Tinson, that I
have learnt your presence here," he said, rather
stiffly, to the lawyer, as he motioned him to a
seat ; " you might, I think— — "

"Lady Lezaire sent for me, and naturally
I went straight to her," interrupted Mr Tinson.

*' That was right enough. You are, I suppose,
her legal adviser, while you are not necessarily
mine, or rather my wife's."

Mr Tinson instantly became more civil.

*' I should, of course, have come to pay my
respects. Colonel St Evelyn, and to take any
instructions."

The lawyer knew that Colonel St Evelyn,
through his wife, was now the master of Strad-oglethorpe,
and he had no desire to lose the
legal business of so fine a property.

I have no instructions. It would be indecent
to talk about business so soon. I was only
complaining of the want of courtesy you have
displayed in not coming to see me."

Nothing of the kind was intended, I assure
you. Lady Lezaire had much to say to me, so
I went to her first."

How she hates me, that woman ! " cried St
Evelyn, emphatically ; "I can't for the life of
me think why."

Mr Tinson looked at him curiously.

Lady Lezaire was wrapped up in her son."

Well, is not Rachel, my wife, her daughter ?
We are both of us ready to devote ourselves to
Lady Lezaire, to make up to her somehow for
the grievous loss she has sustained. But she
keeps Rachel at a distance, and won't see meat)
ail.

*' So I understand."

Did she tell you so ? "

I think, if you will permit me, I will not
repeat anything that occurred at my interview
with Lady Lezaire. She is my client, as you
say, and lawyers, like doctors, are bound to be
silent."

'rit is quite impossible, if this continues, that
we should go on living together. We can hardly
remain under the same roof."

"Do you mean that you wish to leave
Straddlethorpe ? "

"Is it our place to leave ? To whom does
Straddlethorpe now belong ? "

I had forgotten," said the lawyer, bowing,

for I could not bring myself to believe that
Mrs St Evelyn would wish to turn her mother
out of doors."

"Nor does she — yet. For the present weare
going away. It would be most painful to
remain here under the circumstances."

"That I can quite believe," observed Mr Tin-son,
drily.

After this terrible heartbreaking accident,"
went on Colonel St Evelyn.

"Accident!" cried Mr Tinson, in evident
surprise at the expression.

Certainly accident. I have no doubt in my
own mind that poor Carysfort met his death
through some shocking imprudence. He was
always running wild about the country — of
course I have much reluctance in saying this
of the poor dear boy, but it is the truth. He
was here, there, and everywhere with his friend
Hubert Podifat, and he must have picked up,
somewhere or other, the stuff that proved fatal
to him."

"But unless I am mistaken," protested Mr

Tinson, " the verdict of the inquest, backed upas
it was by the clearest medical evidence, declared
that he had been poisoned by arsenic.
Now arsenic, you must admit, is not to be
picked up anywhere. You would not find it
easy, Colonel, to buy arsenic."

*' I ! why should I buy arsenic ? "

The two men looked fixedly at each other.
But Colonel St Evelyn's eyes did not quail
before Mr Tinson's piercing gaze.

"But I am not so fully convinced, as you
appear to be, that arsenic was the cause of
death."

"You can't get over the verdict, and Sir
Peregrine Falcon's opinion. It's the highest
in the medical profession."

"Pshaw! doctors have been wrong before
now, and Falcon admitted that the quantity
of poisonous matter discovered in the intestines
was extremely small. No ; I shall not
be easily persuaded that there was foul play.
Something more tangible must be elicited, and I
do not see at present how it is to be obtained."

There was an accent of interrogation in his
speech, so Mr Tinson thought, which put the
suspicious lawyer on his guard.

^* Do you propose to institute an inquiry ? "
was his evasive reply.

I do not see the least necessity for it : does
Lady Lezaire ? "

The subject is far too delicate to be touched
on at present with her ladyship. At least I
should not like to mention it to her; perhaps
she will broach the subject to you."

I tell you she will not see or speak to me.
But if she wants to do so, it must be soon."

You think of leaving the Hall, you say ? "

Yes ; directly after the funeral we shall start
for the seaside for two or three months. After
that, we shall return to establish ourselves here,
and I take this opportunity of informing you
that we hope to have the Hall to ourselves."

Is that intended as a message for me to
convey to Lady Lezaire ? "

It is. She is a client of yours, as you say,
and as she chooses to have no communication

with me direct, I cannot do better than speak
to her through you."

When do you wish me to tell her this ? "

Oh ! not immediately, of course. You had
better wait a few days, till after the funeral,
or till we are out of the place. Thank you ;
that is all I have to say to you, Mr Tinson.
Business, as I told you, will keep." And the
Colonel showed Mr Tinson the door.

Sir Carysfort's funeral was very largely attended.
Every one of position in the county
came in person or sent his carriage. All the
servants at the Hall, Hubert Podifat, most of
the tenants on the estate, and many of the
tradesmen from Market Eeepham, followed.

Colonel St Evelyn represented the family, as
chief mourner, much against Lady Lezaire's
wish, indeed in spite of her. But there were
no relatives, near or far ; the baronetcy was
now extinct, and but for the son-in-law the
Straddlethorpe carriage would have been empty.

A solemn and decorous gravity, as became
the occasion, sat upon the face of the man who

was really heir to the deceased. But there
were no symptoms of very keen sorrow, and
his demeanour was cold and repellent to the
few who approached him in the churchyard and
after the ceremony with expressions of sympathy.
They were few, these friends, and he
might see for himself, if he looked round at this
great county gathering, that public opinion was
against him.

Within a day or two the St Evelyns left the
Hall. It was then that local gossip, fed by
vague but increasing suspicion, took more
practical shape. The Colonel's hasty departure
was exaggerated into disgraceful flight ;
and it was decided, as has been said, to make
further inquiry into the circumstances of Sir
Carysfort's death.

Chapter XV.

THE POLICE AT Work.

On the same day that the St Evelyns left, Mr
Tinson drove over to Market Eeepham in a fly
ordered from the town, to meet the afternoon
express from London. He was waiting on the
platform when it disgorged its half-dozen passengers,
and he seemed to have no difficulty in
recognising the person he wanted amongst the
number.

Ah, it's you, Faske ! I'm glad they've
sent you down," was his greeting of a thick-set,
quietly dressed man, with sharp eyes and a
determined face.

Well, as you mentioned my name, Mr Tin-son,
they could do no less at the Yard," replied

the other, rocking his head slightly, as though
to balance a rather too loosely-fitting hat on
the top of it ; " but I shan't be able to stop in
these parts long."

Mr Tinson's face fell.

You see we're so busy just now. Them Irish
are giving no end of trouble, and I'm in that
Clerkenwell job. But surely you've got some
of the locals at work ? "

The chief constable has been told by the
justices to pick out a young fellow to take
charge of the case, and I've just seen him. But
nothing has been done yet."

What like is he ? Where is he ? Young,
you say ? Any gumption ? I don't care much
for boys with short police experience. They're
so cocky — had no failures, you see, and think
they can teach us old hands their work. But
where is this young chap ? We'd better have
a confab without more loss of time."

"He's at the police-station waiting. Shall
we go round ? "

In a few minutes more they had been introduced

by the chief constable to a young man —
he looked like a young gentleman — of pleasant
address and excellent manners.

Alfred Earswick, as he was called, had studied
medicine, and had taken his diploma, but he
had not fallen on his feet as regards practice.
After a hard struggle for existence, he had
turned his back on his profession and joined
the police. He had entered as a common constable,
just to get bread, but he had hopes that
his superior education and general aptitudes
might some day give him advancement in
county or borough police.

In appearance Earswick was tall, and rather
awkwardly put together. He had a small head
for his height, with straight, sandy, reddish
hair, which he parted in the middle, and wore
rather long. Under pale straw-coloured eyebrows
were a pair of small but piercing and
very mobile grey eyes. He had a slight moustache
of the prevailing tone of his hair, but
lighter, and a very large mouth plentifully
stocked with brilliant white teeth, which he

showed a good deal. No one could call him
handsome, yet he was not exactly plain, and
his face lighted up pleasantly when he talked.

'^ You are already well up in the case ? " asked
the chief constable of the London detective.

So far as it has been published — nothing
more. Is there anything to tell ? Have you
come upon any new facts ? "

The latter part of this speech was addressed
to the young local detective.

I have only to-day been instructed to act.
I am still quite in the dark as to the whole
affair," answered Earswick.

You've read the report of the inquest, I
suppose ? " said Mr Faske, rather contemptuously.


No ; I cannot say that I have. But that
won't take long. I think you have it, sir,"
he said, addressing the chief constable.

While the young man read his brief, Mr
Faske nursed his left leg and consulted his
shoe-string, as his custom was.

The first thing in all these cases, according

VOL. I. L

to my idea," he said at length, with the air of
a man who had reason to be proud of his ideas,
is to look about and consider who is likely to
be most benefited by the crime, if crime there
has been."

As to that there is not the slightest mystery.
Sir Carysfort Lezaire's death benefited
one person very considerably," said Mr Tinson,
promptly.

'' Yes ? To whom do the estates go ? "
To the sister, Mrs St Evelyn."
"His sister!" A shade of disappointment
crossed Mr Faske's face. 'rit is hardly
likely that she could have committed the

crime."

Certainly not. No one would think of accusing
her — a sweet woman, a little weak perhaps,
but no other fault. It is her weakness
that brings her so completely under her husband's
subjection."

Her husband is living, then ? "

"Very much so."

What sort of character does he bear ?

Does he live in these parts ? Who and what
is he ? "

I cannot answer all these questions at once,"
said Mr Tinson with some hesitation, and looking
at the chief constable to help him. *' Captain
Bracebridge here has known him — Colonel
St Evelyn, I mean — nearly as long as I have."

I ? Oh, don't ask me ! I have nothing to
say against Colonel St Evelyn," protested the
chief constable with evident reluctance.

Hang it all ! " cried Faske ; " why this
beating about the bush ? I must know all you
know "

We now nothing," said both almost m a
breath.

"Well, all you think. You must make a
clean breast of it always to the police as you
would to a doctor. Come."

"For my part I am possessed of only the
vaguest suspicions. But I wish to keep nothing
from you — don't imagine that."

And Mr Tinson told the detective everything
he knew about St Evelyn and the Lezaires.

He began with the Coroners appointment as
guardian ; went on to the marriage ; then described
the stay at the Hall, and the Colonel's
behaviour there ; his masterful arbitrary ways ;
the quarrels with the young baronet, and the
hatred engendered ; last of all, he recounted
the closing scenes of the poor lad's short life.

You say the Colonel made light of the last
illness ? "

Distinctly. He laughed at the necessity
for calling in a doctor; he opposed Lady Le-haire's
sending to London for Falcon ; when
Falcon came, St Evelyn kept him as long as
possible from the bedside."

Had the Colonel access to the sick-room ? "

Continually."

*' Alone?"

^' There is nothing to show that, but it is
highly probable."

Other people went into the sick-room, of
course ? "

Naturally. But why suspect any of them ?
The mother and sister ; the housekeeper, a

neutral person ; a young fellow, the baronet's
most devoted friend, — were they likely to do
the deed ? Why should they ? "

Mrs St Evelyn might, under her husband's
compulsion."

Impossible. You would say so if you knew
her."

And the others — of course I exclude the
mother — had no interest in the baronet's death?"

The only people who benefited by it were
the St Evelyns."

Mr Faske was silent for a time.

*' Then you believe the Colonel administered
the poison ? " he said suddenly to Mr Tinsdn.

** I never said so," replied the lawyer quickly.

No ; but you plainly implied your belief.
Do not be afraid of sticking to it. Frankly —
I quite agree with you."

I knew you would," cried Mr Tinson,
delighted.

'* But you have no proof — not the slightest
proof," interposed the chief constable.

For that we must depend upon our young

friend here," said Faske patronisingly, as lie
put his hand upon Ears wick's shoulder. *ewe
must send him into the enemy's camp."

To the Hall ? " asked Ears wick.

Certainly. Are you afraid ? The Colonel
won't eat you. Besides "

*' The Colonel's not there ; he left this
morning."

Gone ? Abroad ? Yes ? Do you mean to
tell me you Thorpeshire police have let him slip
through your fingers like that ? "

He has only gone to France."

France ! Pshaw ! There's extradition with
France. You'll hear of him next in Sweden
or in Spain — somewhere beyond the reach of
a warrant. Yah ! Fancy that ! "

It is impossible to express the London detective's
disgust. He promptly gave up nursing
his leg, and jumping to his feet strode up and
down the room.

To bolt would be to give up all profit from
the murder. Would he do that, do you think,
and while he still believes there is no evidence

against him ? " suggested the chief constable.


"There's something in that," said Faske,
becoming more calm.

Whether or not, the mystery ought to be
unravelled," put in Earswick, who was all
eagerness to get to work. " The proofs should
be forthcoming, the case prepared. Fearing
nothing, he will no doubt return one of these
fine days, and then "

"You're right, young man. We must proceed
with the inquiry, so far as it will go —
at least you must, Mr Earswick. So prepare
to take up your quarters at the Hall." •

Shall I go openly ? " asked the young
police officer.

Are you known there ? "

*' I don't think so. But some of the servants
may have seen me in the town here at Sessions'
time."

"It will be better to remain incog. You
will be freer, and may get your information
easier," said Faske.

"How shall I disguise myself?"

"What will be best, Mr Tinson? Can't we
get him in without exciting suspicion ? "

He could go as my clerk," replied the lawyer.
" The change of ownership must lead to
lots of work : taking inventories, sorting papers,
and so forth. It would be quite natural for me
or one of my people to be constantly at the
Hall."

Of course Lady Lezaire would have to
know," suggested the chief constable.

Is she safe ? " asked Faske, anxiously.

As any of us. Lady Lezaire will only too
gladly help the law. She would be truly rejoiced,
I feel sure, if the real murderer met with
his deserts."

Can you make up like a lawyer's clerk,
Mr Ears wick ? " was Faske's next question.

Why not ? Wait half an hour, and tell
me if you know me, or would take me for anything
else."

The man who by-and-by returned to the
police office bore no resemblance to the young
detective.

It was a lantern-jawed, lank-haired, middle-aged
man, dressed untidily in rusty black, with
a wisp of white neckcloth and crumpled linen.
His hair, his eyebrows, and his moustaches
were dyed black, and a pair of steel-rimmed
spectacles hid the brightness of his inquisitive
eyes.

"That will do first-rate," said Faske, approvingly.


You re not a clerk to be proud of," added
Mr Tinson, with a laugh. "But I've seen
fellows like you. Come along. I'll give you
a blue bag and some bundles of papers, and
we'll drive straight to the Hall." •

Stay," said the chief constable to his subordinate.
" How are we to communicate ? "

By post. There is a letter-box just at the
Lodge gates," said the lawyer.

"Eemember you must post everything yourself,
and be careful; cautious and cunning,
that's your motto. But use both your eyes
and your ears."

This was Faske's parting advice as the detective
followed Mr Tinson into the fly.

Chapter XVI.

Keswick ALIAS Quench.

The day was closing in when Mr Tinson and
his clerk reached Straddlethorpe. They were
shown at once into the library, the room appropriated
by the lawyer, where Mr Quench,
for so Earswick was to be called, waited while
Mr Tinson had an interview with Lady Lezaire.

** Everything is settled," said the lawyer,
by-and-by. " Lady Lezaire thoroughly understands.
As my clerk you will have every
facility, Mr Ears "

Quelch, you mean."

"I beg your pardon, Quelch. You will use
this room for business during the day, take
your meals in the housekeeper's room, and

sleep in the servants' wing ; in fact, have the
run of the whole place."

It'll be odd if I don't run up against something
soon. I'd like to begin at once. May
I ask you one or two questions ? "

By all means. Go on."

' The servants here — do you know anything
of them ? "

"Very little. This is my first visit to the
Hall for some years."

That was the butler, I think, who let us in ?
Long here ? "

I think not. He is only a lad, as you saw.
Put in by the Colonel, I believe, who said, the
old man made too free with the port."

*the coachman?"

He is a very old servant, I know, and has
stood his ground, although the Colonel was
pretty rough on him."

Had the Colonel a man of his own ? "

"Yes, Gibbings by name, an old soldier.
Looked a smart little man, although I never
spoke to him."

Gone with his master ? "

'' I really cannot say. You'll easily find out."

"And this housekeeper; if I am to live at
her table I shall see a good deal of her. It is
as well to be prepared. What of her ? "

I only know her as a superior sort of woman.
Civil-spoken, rather a foreign appearance, dark
eyes, pale face, self-possessed, with a determined
look about her."

Been here long ? "

*' Half-a-dozen years, I believe."

Not a nominee of the Colonel's, then ? "

Certainly not. I have heard they had
several tussle at first."

But she is still here ? "

I suppose she gave way."

"A wise woman. But she's not likely to
love the Colonel all the same. If I can only
get her to talk."

But it was not so easy to make Mrs Leleu
talk. When the lawyer's clerk, Mr Quelch,
made his way to the snug room the housekeeper
called her own, he found a table liberally spread

after the Thorpesliire fashion for "high tea."
Mrs Leleu received him civilly, and pressed
him to partake of the many good things provided
— the cold goose, the ham-and-eggs, the
pressed tongue, the potted beef, and the half-a-dozen
dishes of sweets — but this hospitable
duty performed she lapsed into silence, answering
his many questions by monosyllables
or not at all.

*' Here's diet for a hungry Londoner," he
cried.

No remark.

I don't often sit down to such a spread."

"Ah!"

"Won't you be tempted with a slice of
tongue, or a little goose ? "

"Thank you; no."

Of course : I see. Sad time this ; can't
eat. But you should, you should, or you'll lose
strength."

*' You were very fond of him, I suppose ? "
Mr Quelch inquired feelingly, trying another
line.

Illo ? "

*the young master; the poor young fellow
that's gone."

Mrs Leleu nodded.

So sudden too ! Only ill one day, I hear.
Only twenty-four hours 1 "

Twelve."

Dear, dear ! how sad ! And the cause, the
real cause, no one knows ? "

'' I don't."

This was not encouraging, but Mr Quelch
would take no rebuff.

Ought we to have begun ? " he continued,
pointing to a third place, still empty, at table.
You're expecting some one else ? "

No one — to speak of. Young Podifat," replied
Mrs Leleu, briefly and ungraciously.

Oh ! " The lawyer's clerk had not yet
heard of Hubert Podifat, and he was wondering
to whom Mrs Leleu had referred thus disparagingly
when Hubert himself slouched into
the room and flung himself into a chair near
the window.

"Now, manners," cried Mrs Leleu, peremptorily.


Hubert's head was sunk low between his
shoulders, and his ungainly body lay half collapsed
in the seat.

Come to the table and eat your tea," went
on the housekeeper more angrily ; and with a
sulky half-silly air the youth presently complied.


*' Who's that chap ? " he asked with his mouth
full, nodding towards Mr Quelch. " What's he
doing here ? "

Speak more civilly. A friend of my lady's."
Mrs Leleu looked ashamed of Hubert's rudeness,
and as if to turn it off, began talking
with the lawyer's clerk.

How long have you been with Harveys
i

Harveys ? " Mr Quelch did not seem to
understand.

Harvey and Tinson's — your employers,"
said Mrs Leleu. "Don't you know their
names ? "

"We always speak of the firm as Tinsons/'
replied Mr Quelch readily.

Still do business in the same place ? " went
on Mrs Leleu.

Oh yes." The answer was put, but in his
heart Mr Quelch cursed his carelessness in
forgetting to ask Mr Tinson his office address.

Essex Street, Strand ? " Mrs Leleu inquired,
carelessly.

How should he answer? While Mr Quelch
paused in cautious doubt, Hubert blurted
out —

Mr Tinson's place is in Lincoln's Inn Fields.
I've heard Carysfort say so."

Had Mrs Leleu laid a trap for him ? If so,
why? Did she suspect him to be other than
he pretended? He feared so, from the angry
way in which she took up Hubert.

See here ; don't poke yourself into other
people's talk, Hubert Podifat, or you may go
short at supper."

I shall have to be on my guard with this
woman," said Mr Quelch to himself; and he

soon left the table to rejoin Mr Tinson in the
library.

Mrs Leleu ? " said the lawyer, in answer
to his clerk's suggestion that the housekeeper
seemed suspicious. " Only inquisitive. All
women are. But I'm not much afraid of her.
It's Gibbings you must be careful with, the
Colonel's man ; he's still here, I find."

Mr Quelch saw nothing of Gibbings that
evening, but Mrs Leleu was waiting to show
him to his room.

^'I hope you'll be comfortable here, Mr
Quelch," said the housekeeper, holding up the
lighted candle while he lit his own. " My. lady
wished it. Anything we can do ? One of the
maids would have unpacked your valise for
you, but it was locked."

Thank you," said Mr Quelch, producing his
keys. " But I always prefer to do that myself."

'good night, then, Mr Quelch. Our regular
breakfast is at eight, but you can choose your
own time. I think everything is all right here,"
and she waved the candle round, ending the

VOL. I. M

movement close to Mr Quelch's face. " Good
night."

*that woman's on the alert for some reason
or other ; but I trust I'm a match for her."

And with this consoling reflection Mr Quelch
turned into bed.

He was up with the lark next morning ; the
bright summer's sun aroused him early, and he
was glad to be out and about before the whole
house was stirring.

A very short toilet sufficed. He tumbled
into his clothes, gave one look in the glass, one
touch with the hair-brush — of the greasy black
pomatum sold as infallible by the Market Evesham
hairdresser — to renew the freshness of his
glossy black curls, and then he was ready.

When he returned an hour or two later to
dress more carefully, he had explored the greater
part of the grounds ; had learned how the land
lay, the position of the offices, stables, and so
forth, and had looked through the principal
rooms on the ground-floor, still in the hands
of the housemaids.

To his surprise he found his own bedroom

door ajar. He thought he had locked it. At
any rate, he had put away the tell-tale hardy
; at least he was sure of that.

They were making his bed, he supposed. A
figure, a female figure, was stooping over it ashe
entered, and a second glance satisfied him
it was Mrs Leleu.

At this moment the housekeeper, unconscious
of Mr Quelch's return, came from the bedside.
She was moving towards the window, and closely,
minutely examining the pillow she was carrying
as she went.

Mr Quelch instantly knew why. His heart
gave a great jump, and he realised that his
secret was in this woman's hands.

The pillow-case was marked and stained with
greasy black patches just where the sleeper's
head had lain.

You should have worn a night-cap," said
Mrs Leleu with killing sarcasm, as she looked
up and saw the culprit.

I ought, I admit, and in future I will. I
feel very foolish, Mrs Leleu. My vanity has
been properly exposed."

Yanit}^ ! Was it only that ? " She spoke
with scornful disbelief. " No, no ; I know
better. You're not what you pretend."

But I assure you "

You let the cat out of the bag yourself last
night. I saw then your hair was dyed. Who
are you ? One of the police ? "

I am Mr Tinson's clerk."

'' So's my grandmother. You're wasting
breath and time. Why not make a clean breast
of it ? I might help you."

My real name is Earswick, I belong to the
Thorpeshire constabulary," the detective confessed,
after a very short pause.

And you are here to get evidence to makeup
a case against, against "

She seemed to shrink from mentioning the
name.

'against the person most strongly suspected.
Do you know whom I mean ? "

Yes, yes." She hissed out the affirmative
with the intense energy of personal hate.
'colonel St Evelyn. It is he; he did it, the

murdering, black-hearted villain that he is. He
did it : only he."

How do you know ? Can you tell me anything
— anything that will justify arrest, that
will help us to convict ? "

*' I don't know. I may, perhaps. We shall
see. But we'll hang him yet — hang him as he
so richly deserves." Again fiercest hate gave
ghastly meaning to the terrible threat.

Earswick — we will so know him — remembered
what Mr Tinson had said of the enmity between
Colonel St Evelyn and the housekeeper. No
doubt Mrs Leleu might be useful.

You promise your help, then ? " •

Yes ; if I have a chance. But you may
rely at least upon my holding my tongue. No
one shall know who you are through me. But
mind others don't find you out."

No fear ; I shan't be caught twice."

"Be on your guard — with Gibbings in particular.
He is devoted to his master, so keep
him at a distance if you can."

Chapter Xiii.

taylor's 'toxicology.'

After breakfast Ears wick had a few words with
Mr Tinson. The lawyer was on the point of
starting for the station to catch the morning
express.

"Oho I" he said laughing. "So Mrs Leleu
has penetrated your disguise. Sharp woman.
But it don't much matter, and she may be of
use. What are your plans ? "

I hardly know ; beyond this that I

must hunt up what I can against the Colonel,
search his rooms "

Mrs Leleu can help you there."

And Gibbings : if I can only get the better
of him."

*' You may ; that's your business. But mind
what you're about. He's an old soldier and has
seen something of the world. Better try the
housekeeper first."

Earswick felt the advice was sound, and after
parting with Mr Tinson sought out Mrs Leleu.

*swell, what can I do for you, Mr Quelch?"
she asked.

I want to see the house, all parts of it ; the
young baronet's bedroom, and more especially
the Colonel's room."

Bedroom, or sitting-room ? "

"The latter, if he had it to himself. The
bedroom of course he would share." •

Yes, he had a private sitting-room — study,
it was called, although it was more an office ora
den."

Where is it ? I'll go there first."

"Near the front hall. But you'd better
wait till you're sure Gibbings is out of the way.
If he was to see you fumbling about in the
Colonel's room he'd be sure to suspect."

*' Confound Gibbings! I must begin with

him, then. Where shall I be likely to find him,
Mrs Leleu ? "

In the stables ; he's always there about
this time. He's the Colonel's stud-groom,
you know."

That's good news. I'm fond of horses myself.
Perhaps it will be an introduction ; " and
so saying the detective went in search of the
redoubtable Gibbings, who was found in the
yard.

A dapper, light-weight, neatly built man was
Gibbings, rather "harshly" dressed, in Newmarket
jacket, breeches, and gaiters, a white
scarf, and horse-shoe pin. He had greyish, close-cut
hair, a short whisker, and clean - shaved
upper lip under his rather prominent bird-like
nose.

Gibbings wished it forgotten that he had
shouldered a musket and served the Queen as
one of the rank and file ; but he could not
divest himself of his soldierly air. He stood
straight and erect at the entrance of the hunting
stable, giving his orders to the helpers in

the short sharp tones of a man who had learned
to command when obliged to obey.

Now, my young shaver, put your back into
it — more elbow-grease," he was saying as Earswick
approached to a lad polishing a bit.

Here you, Jacob ! " was his next remark ashe
stepped into a stall and passed his hand
down a horse's legs. " D'ye call this proper
work ? Them fetlocks are wringing wet still.
You leave them like that again and I'll wheel
you into line."

"How's Corporal Major?" he went on.
Let's look at that eye in the open." Dick
led him out into the yard, and Gibbings followed
the horse into the daylight without
noticing Earswick.

In the yard Gibbings took hold of the horse's
head, and having removed a bandage, narrowly
examined the horse's right eye.

More specks : another attack of inflammation,
I'm afraid. Worse luck."

A case of * lunatic eye,' eh ? — returns with
every moon," suggested Earswick.

"Holloa! where did you drop from?" Gib-beings
asked, turning quickly. "What do you
know about it ? Who are you ? What do you
call yourself ? "

I'm Stephen Quelch, Mr Tinson's clerk."

That don't qualify you as a vet. What do
you know about horses ? "

A thing or two. I served my time with a
farrier before I studied law, and liked it better.
Let's look at his eye."

Earswick's examination was long and minute.

You may save it. He's a young one.
What are you doing for him ? Bleeding ? Are
his stables clean and cool ? "

Might be better, perhaps. We're thinking of
cutting away the ' haw,' — you see it protrudes."

"Don't do it — on no account; it will only
blind the horse. No ; sweeten his stable, or
move him if you can. Plenty of mild exercise,
and above all a good lotion always to the eye.
Guard water, or vinegar and water; they're
both used."

"We've a lotion of our own, prepared from

»
the Coroners own prescription ; makes it up

himself."

He knows, does he ? "

Ought to, from the times he's been at it.
And so do you, seemingly. Not that you look
to know much about a horse."

Looks don't count," said Ears wick, laughing.
This is the right rig for Lincoln's Inn. They
wouldn't stand a down-the-road coat and a wisp
of straw in the mouth there."

You've not been always at that game, I
understand you to say ? "

Not L I was in a sporting stable first, then
I took to doctoring horses. I've seen a thing
or two."

'ain't much to choose, I daresay, between
a real ' leg ' and a limb of the law."

The law could give the ring half a stone
and walk away from them. I've seen some rare
plants in my time."

Gibbings looked at him and winked. Mr
Quelch began to interest him. Here was a man
with experiences he liked to hear.

If you've an eye for a horse, you may like
to see our lot," said the Colonel's man civilly,
as he led the way back to the stable.

This was a fine chance for Earswick, a long
step towards that intimacy he wished to establish.
Before he parted with Gibbings they had
agreed to discuss a cool tankard together at the
Cow and Pail " that afternoon.

I shall be done long before then," said
Gibbings ; " but I've got a job in Market Evesham
that'll keep me till dinner-time. See you
again."

And with that the man went away, leaving
Earswick to return to the Hall and seek out
Mrs Leleu.

"Now's my time," he said to her quickly.
You promised to show me all over the house.
Gibbings has gone to the town, and I shall have
a clear hour or more. Take me to the Colonel's

study."

The room, as Earswick found, scarcely deserved
its name ; it had been a sort of business
or justice room in Sir Percy Lezaire's time,

handy to the front door, where the late baronet
saw bailiff or keeper, or, on emergency, members
of the county constabulary.

Its position had recommended it to the
Colonel, who kept there his gaiters and his
hobnailed boots, his spud and hunting-crop,
and a very comfortable pair of slippers. Other
marks of his occupancy were to be seen in the
gun-cases, old Indian friends with strange addresses
on them ; in the fishing-rods, gaff, and
nets ; in the pipes and boxes of cigars.

Over the mantelpiece hung a few prints : one
represented officers and men in the full uniform
of the Royal Dangers, his old regiment. the
rest were portraits of famous racehorses. West
Australian, Wild Darrell, and Genghis Khan,
an Arab he had himself owned at Masulipatam.

'' 1 may be here some little time, Mrs Leleu.
Perhaps you'd better leave me."

Mind Gribbings don't "

He shan't catch me here," said Ears wick,
with confidence ; but when Mrs Leleu had left
him he was careful to lock the door.

Now where shall I begin ? " said the detective,
looking round. " This is his own private
room, much as when he left it, I should say.
Has he left any indication, any tell-tale, any
clue as to what he has been doing, eh ? "

What sort of man was the Colonel ? A
sportsman, clearly. A man of business ? H — m,
well, yes ; these papers are not untidy, they are
docketed and arranged all of them as they
should be. Methodical, I should say, and
regular."

"Books? Not over-fond of reading, I take
it, although this was called his study. Studied
Buff mostly, I expect — I see he has the complete
set there — and books upon horse-doctoring
and dogs."

There was a bookcase in one corner of the
room, which Mr Earswick was examining as he
talked to himself — an old-fashioned bookcase,
with glass doors above and a cupboard below.

Neither was locked, and after taking down
a few of the books on the shelves, Earswick
opened the cupboard and looked in.

A heap of old rubbish ; piles of sporting
papers long since out of date, cartridge-cases,
a whip-lash, a pair of rusty spurs, and other
nondescript odds and ends.

Nothing worth looking at, surely. But it
was his duty to examine everything, to lose no
chance, to leave no stone unturned; and he
dragged out the whole contents of the cupboard
into the light.

It was at the very last, on the bottom shelf,
and underneath, that he extracted a book, a
nearly new book, bound in green cloth, its
pages not entirely cut, with all the appearance
of having been scarcely read or little used. ^

How came it here ? By accident or design ?
What is it called ? "

And he opened it at the title-page almost
carelessly, then gave a sudden start.

Struck oil, by Jove ! There's something
in this, or I'm a Dutchman. ' Taylor on Toxicology,'
a new book on poisons, hidden away in
the Colonel's room ! "

Chapter XYIIL

DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE.

The discovery Earswick had made in the
Colonel's study seemed sufficiently important
to warrant closer investigation.

That a work on poisons should be found at
the Hall just now was a curious, nay, a suspicious
circumstance. It became doubly so
when the place and manner of the discovery
were considered.

'how came it here?" said the detective,
as he drew a chair to the window and sat down
to think, still holding the volume in his hand.
Was it concealed purposely, or carelessly
thrown aside ?

If the former, why not destroyed ? burnt,

for instance? It would have been effectually
hidden then. Or was it forgotten, overlooked,
after it had served the purpose for which it had
been procured ?

*that brings me to why he got it, and
when. Before or after the crime ? If the
former, he bought it to further the deed ; if
the latter, it was mere curiosity — perhaps he
wanted to read up something about this arsenic
that had done such terrible mischief.

Will it be possible to fix the date of purchase,
I wonder ? Does the book itself tell
anything ? "

He began now to examine it more closely y
a thick, squat, small octavo volume, bound in
green cloth, evidently new or nearly so, many
of its pages still uncut.

No trace of where it was bought ? " he
went on, looking inside the cover, where booksellers
usually put their address labels and
marks. " They might have been removed ; or
was it got second - hand at some bookstall ?

VOL. I. N

It looks rather too fresh for that ; however, no
one knows.

"Uncut in parts? What parts are cut?
The index, that of course ; and, as I live I the
pages dealing with arsenic. Then the book
must have been bought in connection with the
crime. But before or after, which? The
cutting of the pages might support either
hypothesis. .

I wonder what Taylor says about arsenic.
I ought to know ; I read the book in my
student days, but can't remember now. Here
it is : — •

' Arsenic is the bungler's poison, likely to be used
by the illiterate and uninformed. The symptoms
it produces are so plain, the traces it leaves so unmistakable,
that only a clumsy criminal would use it
to destroy human life.' >

Did he read those words, I wonder ? How
would they affect him ? If he saw them first
when the deed was already done, it would lead
him to fix the crime on some one in a lower
class. The same argument applies, and with

greater force, if he read the book before the
murder. It would suggest to him an easy-method
of shifting suspicion from himself.

This brings me back to where I started.
I must and will discover from whom the book
was first purchased."

He was still sitting by the window which
commanded the drive as far as the Lodge gates.

By Jove, there's Gibbings ! Back already !
He must not find me here." And the detective
sprang to his feet, closing the book with a bang.

The action sent a small scrap of paper flying
into the air. It must have been lying between
the pages. •

Earswick stooped to pick it up, and slipping
it into his waistcoat-pocket, hastily quitted the
room.

He went up-stairs to his own quarters, meaning
to put the book on poisons in some safe place,
and with this idea locked it up in his portmanteau.
Then he sat down, and fingering his
waistcoat-pocket almost mechanically, extracted
the bit of paper.

It may have some value, considering
where I found it," he said as he looked
at it.

More indeed than he had supposed.

It was only a morsel of paper, but it had a
peculiar significance, a meaning all its own.

Earswick knew at a glance that it had come
from a chemist's shop. There was not a doubt
of that. It was a bit of blue paper such as
chemists use to envelop their drugs, and there
was still sticking to it a portion of the label
and address.

Its exact shape and appearance, with the
letters still legible, are reproduced below.

"Luck indeed!" cried the detective, more
and more elated, as he scrutinised this tell-tale

fragment more and more closely. " Little
doubt that I shall make a good job of this now.
Any one can see what this paper once contained.
PO in red letters are clearly those of
the warning label POISON, that every chemist
is bound by law to affix to what he sells.
Below, GR are the initial letters of that
chemist's name ; he lived in High Street
somewhere, that is equally plain. A little
patience will certainly bring me to that
chemist's door — if I have to search the whole
of the archives of the Pharmaceutical Society !
but, please goodness, a county directory will
suffice. ^

"That will keep, however, till later in the
day. Let me consider first what this new
discovery means."

He walked up and down his room slowly,
pondering on what had occurred.

I have no doubt now that the book was
bought before the murder. It was a steppingstone
leading straight to the crime. The scent
is weak, perhaps, but we are on the trail. I

must have more evidence, of course, to run the
Colonel in ; it will have to be proved that he
administered the drug — not necessarily proved,
but at least strongly presumed, and I am far
from that still, although I begin to have no
moral doubt who did the crime. If I can only
bring home the purchase of this arsenic to him,
or connect it in any way with that which
caused Sir Carysfort's death ! "

After more deep cogitation, Earswick prepared
to leave his room.

I suppose nothing was found in the young
baronet's bedroom ; I wonder whether it was
searched ? A little late in the day, perhaps ;
still I ought to look into this."

And with this idea he again went to the
housekeeper.

Well ? " asked Mrs Leleu, curious as to the
result of his investigations in the Colonel's
study.

*' Nothing much." The detective had already
learned the lesson of caution, and talked as
little as possible of the progress he made, even

to a possible ally and friend. "At any rate,
Gibbings came back, and I thought it better
to make tracks. But there is something
else you promised me."

"I'll be as good as my word. What was
it?"

"Can I see the young baronet's bedroom
now? The one in which he died, I mean."

Why, surely 1 You will just have time
before dinner." And Mrs Leleu led the way
to the first floor.

The bedchamber in which the last painful
scene had been enacted was locked ; it had
been shut up entirely since the funeral.

The housekeeper opened the door, then
stepped to the window to draw up the blinds.

"Is the room just as it was?" asked Earswick,
looking round.

Pretty nearly. But of course it's been
thoroughly cleaned."

"Ah! I thought so. I can't have it all my
own way," said the detective half to himself,
with a vexed, disappointed air.

' You couldn't expect the place to be left as
it was — after a death too ? "

Who cleaned the room ? One of the
maids ? "

Simpson, the second housemaid."

I should like to see her, to ask her a few
questions."

Won't I do ? I was with her all the time."

Were you, Mrs Leleu ? That's better.
What was done ? — carpet up ? "

No ; only swept with tea-leaves."

Which were thrown away ? "

Naturally, on to the dust-heap ; we couldn't
keep them."

Was the bed moved ? "

Yes, and the whole of the furniture."

"Even to this wastepaper basket?" said
the detective, pointing to one which stood
near the fireplace, and which was by no means
empty.

Well, no. Now you ask me, I believe that
basket was forgotten ; how or why I cannot say."

He had not listened to more than the first

few words, but had swooped instantly down
upon the waste-paper basket, the contents of
which he at once emptied upon the dressing-table.
Then he went through the whole of
the rubbish, carefully examining every atom of
refuse, every scrap of paper, one by one, till he
had considerably diminished the heap.

Only at the last was his patience rewarded,
and he came upon two more scraps of blue
paper, identical, as he fondly hoped, with that he
had discovered in Taylor's ' Toxicology.' These
he transferred quickly to his waistcoat-pocket,
caring little whether Mrs Leleu had noticed
the action or not. ,

I shall want to go to the dust-heap by-and-by,"
he said, laughing.

You do your work thoroughly, and no mistake.
Nasty work too, I take it. I'm glad I
don't earn my living that way. But you had
better have your dinner first, or the smells
might do you harm."

I will just step up-stairs to wash my hands,
and then be with you, Mrs Leleu."

The detective wanted another five minutes
to compare the fragments last found with the
first.

Both were of the same colour, but only one
bore any portion of the printed label, the end
evidently, as the letters plainly showed : —

N, in red ink, the last letter of poison. Y,
the last letter of the chemist's name. How long
a name, I wonder ? Three red letters intervening,
ISO. Not a very long name, at any rate.
There are the two last letters also of street,
but only the final letter of the town or place.
Not much to go upon, but enough, I hope,
even if the dust-heap yields no treasures."

The dinner was much the same as the
previous meals. Mrs Leleu did the honours

hospitably ; and the loutish Podifat slouched
in as usual when the others had half done.

We will go now to the dust-heap," said
Earswick, after Podifat had left the room.

I'll show you where it is, if you wait till
I put a bonnet on ; but you can't expect me to
be raking and routing in such filth. I should
lose all my authority in this house if I were
seen there by the maids."

No one will see us now : the dinner is going
on in the servants' hall."

'* Well, well ; have your own way." And
Mrs Leleu escorted the detective to the outer
yard, where the tubs containing the pig's-wash
was kept and all the household refuse was
thrown.

Here she left him, and Earswick, who had
armed himself with a garden-rake, stoutly attacked
a heap in one corner which Mrs Leleu
had indicated as that most likely to contain the
sweepings of the up-stair rooms. The detective
was soon encouraged by the unmistakable evidence
of tea-leaves in large quantities, showing

that the house-cleaning at S twaddle thorp e
was very thoroughly and completely done.

No fustian or chiffonier could have turned
over the uninviting mass more delicately or
with greater patience and care. But Earswick
raked out more than half the rubbish
before he came upon what he sought.

There they were, however, at last : many
more scraps of the same bright blue paper,
damp and mildewed by their contact with the
moist leaves, but still perfectly recognisable.
He picked them up, four or five, as eagerly asa
gold-digger or diamond-seeker the last product
of repeated washings. Holding them
gingerly in the hollow of his hand he once
more regained his room.

Amongst the pieces picked up on the dustheap
was that containing the centre of the
torn label, and he could now supply the missing
letters.

Putting the whole together, the label read as
follows : —

POISON

G K A V E L Y

HIGH MARKET STREET
CLEOBURY

That's splendid ! Before the day is out I
will know who it was that bought the poison."

CHAPTER XIX.

THE CHEMIST OF CLEOBUE-Y.

Cleobuhy was a village, or something more,
lying a dozen miles from Straddlethorpe,
on the opposite side from Market Eeepham.
Earswick knew it perfectly well, although his
police duties had never taken him in that direction.
It was on the railway, on the branch line
that ran from Market Needham to the Wolds.
This line was that which served Straddlethorpe,
but the station was a mile or more from the
Hall. The detective, eager to follow up the
scent already so warm, was all impatience to
pay a visit to the chemist's, but he remembered
his engagement to drink a pot of ale with Grubbing
at the village public that afternoon.

What shall I tell him ? " thought Earswick.
"That I am called away on business? He
might want to accompany me, and that would
be awkward. At the same time, I must not
throw him over — he may be of use to me. I
shall want to know more about the Colonel, perhaps,
and it won't do to quarrel with the man
yet. I suppose I had better keep my appointment
with Gibbings, and go to Cleobury later
in the day."

Accordingly he strolled over to the " Cow
and Pail " about three o'clock, where he found
his friend.

Thought you weren't coming," said Gib-beings,
after doing the honours.

^'I'm on a long job, and the governor would
cut up rough if it weren't done in time ; he's a
tight hand. Is yours ? "

What ! the Colonel ? Easy as a glove while
you run his way."

Have you been with him long ? "

Nigh upon nineteen years. He picked me
out as his batman when I was only a raw recruit,

and I have stuck to him ever since. He's
been a good master to me, and I like his ways."

A sportsman, eh ? "

I believe you. He's a fine judge of a horse,
and loves them as I do."

"Races? Bets?"

We've been upon the turf, him and me, from
the time we lay at Bareilly with the old corps.
He had a Pegu pony there that nothing could
touch, and we owned the famous Arab, Genghis
Khan — you may have heard of him — that upset
all the pots at Madras."

Does he own any race-horses now ? "

Not at present," said Gibbings, implying
that the Colonel might some day have a stable
second to none. "Now we've come into our
money, perhaps "

The Colonel's richer than he was, then ? "

Why, you ought to know that. Don't his
missis come in for all this ? "

And Gibbings waved his hand towards the
fields, every acre of which belonged to Straddle -
thorpe.

Yes, but there are such things as settlements.
Perhaps the property's tied upon her
and her chicks."

Anyhow he'll have the control of the income,
a good round sum ; and he'll spend it, too, like a
prince. He wanted it."

'what! The Colonel was a little short of
cash, eh ? "

It ain't my business to talk over my master's
affairs, but I know he dropped on the Two Thousand,
and he's got a heavy book for the Leger."

The only books he cares about, I take it."

You're right there. The Colonel's not what
you call a studious character. I never knew him
read much but Ruff, or ' Youatt on the Horse.' "

''He's a bit of a horse-doctor, I think you
said ? "

I'll back his recipes against any in the kingdom.
He makes them up himself."

A sudden qualm seized Earswick. What if
the arsenic had been bought as stable medicine ?

Secrets, eh ? " asked the detective. " You
couldn't tell a friend what he uses ? "

VOL. I.

'*I couldn't, for I don't know. But I could
let you have any to try ; I generally keep some
of each."

Earswick thanked Gibbings cordially, and
noted the offer as one that might still serve in
the inquiry.

They gossiped on for half an hour more, exchanging
ideas upon stable management, racing
scandals, and the straightest tips.

At last Earswick got up saying —

I must go back to my papers. Worse
luck 1 "

*' Shirk 'em," said Gibbings. " Come along
with me. I'm going to exercise the horses ;
you shall have a mount."

Wish I could, but I aren't. Ta, ta ! " and
Earswick returned to the Hall.

His talk with Gibbings had been distinctly
useful to him. Much light had been let in on
the Colonel's ways, and something more thana
hint of impecuniosity had been thrown out,
suggesting, if not absolutely supplying, a motive
for the crime.

if I can only tumble upon something at the
chemist's," said Earswick. "Ill go there now,
only I must let Gibbings clear out first."

And he stood by the window, watching the
grooms ride away with their string of horses.
Then he put on his hat and walked over to
Straddlethorpe station.

It was still daylight when he reached Cleon
Five minutes' walk brought him to the
straggling hamlet, consisting of little more than
one long street, extending to either side of the
central market square.

On one side of this, just opposite a decrepit
equestrian statue that might have been Julius
Caesar or George I., was the chemist's shop of
which he was in search.

Mr Gravely, whose name appeared in large
letters over his shop-front, stood behind the
counter, — a short-sighted, nervous little man,
whose freckled face turned pale at the first
abrupt question asked by the detective —

Do you keep a poison-book as required by
the statute ? '^

Poison-book ? " repeated the chemist in an
agitated voice, as if anticipating trouble.

Precisely ; to register the sale of all poisons.
You are wondering, perhaps, why I ask. I ama
police officer ; here is my card. Be careful."

"I am sure I have no wish to be otherwise.
I am most willing to help the law," said Mr
Gravely, bowing humbly and rubbing his
hands.

Then let me see the book — if you have one.
If you haven't, you will get into trouble."

*but indeed I have. I am bound to observe
the statutes. Here it is."

Earswick drew a stool to the counter, and
quickly turned over the leaves of the ledger.
He began with the last entry, and followed with
his finger every other for many pages back.

Suddenly he stopped with a cry of satisfaction.


*there it is; his own name too. What a
double-dyed egregious fool ! But I suppose he
could get it on no other terms."

'look at this, please," he went on, addressing



the chemist. " Do you recollect the circumstances
under which this entry was made ? "
"That? Certainly," replied the chemist,
reading the entry aloud from a form, of which
the following is an exact copy : —

Date.

188-
29 April

Signature.

F. St Evelyn

Witness.

H. Gravely.

"You sold this quantity of arsenic to the
person who signed for it ? "

Person ? Why, of course. It was Colonel
St Evelyn of Straddlethorpe Hall."

You are certain of that ? You knew him ? "

"To be sure. Everybody knows Colonel St
Evelyn. He has not been long in the county,
but he goes about a good deal."

And the witness knew him ? But how do
you explain this ? H. Gravely, that is your
name. You are not competent as a witness.
The law required some second person to whom
the buyer was known as well as to you."

It was my son ; he has the same name as
myself."

Is he here ? Call him."

My son has gone to Market Keepham ; but
I will send him over to you if you wish."

I presume that, like yourself, he could
identify the purchaser as Colonel St Evelyn ? "

Oh, of course," said the chemist, but rather
doubtfully.

You would lay yourself open to a very serious
charge if you sold poison to a person you
did not know: I suppose you are aware of that?"

Oh, but I knew him. It was in the dusk,
but I knew him — a dark, sharp-speaking, mili-
mary-looking gentleman, — there was no mistaking
him."

In the dusk, eh ? About what time ? "

'about seven, I should say."

How did he come ? Side or drive ? "

"Neither; he walked. At least I saw no
horse or cart at the door."

"No doubt he walked," said Earswick to
himself. "It would attract least attention.

If he had ridden or driven, there would have
been the groom or the horse to hold."

He was alone ? " was the detective's next
question, addressed to the chemist.

I am sure of that ; quite alone."

** And do you remember how he was
dressed ? "

"Yes, I think so. The Colonel had on a
rather peculiar cloak, made loose. They call
them by some Scotch name — macintosh ? "

A waterproof, then ? "

I don't think so."

^' Perhaps it was an ulster ? "

'' That's Irish."

Well, an Inverness ? "

"That's the name. I remember now. It
was made of Scotch plaid, big pattern, yellowish,
with red lines."

Rather staring, in fact."

That's what I thought it, and how I remember
it so well."

And you would know it again ? "

*' Yes, I could swear to it."

'^ And the wearer ? "

Him too. I should know his voice and his
way."

*well, Mr Gravely, I won't conceal from
you that what you have told me is of the
utmost importance. You may have heard
what has happened at the Hall ? "

I saw it in the papers. But " a light

seemed to break in on the chemist suddenly —
you cannot mean to say that the Colonel's
suspected ? "

'' What do you say to this ? " replied Earswick
sternly, putting his finger on the poison-book.
" It's quite incomprehensible to me why
you have not come forward before this. You
knew as we all did that poor young Sir Caress
had been poisoned by arsenic, and yet you
have volunteered no information of what you
had sold. You will have to explain this, I
promise you."

I had quite forgotten it, I assure you."

That's hard to believe."

Well, I won't say that it didn't cross my

mind ; but dear, dear, was I to go and accuse
the Colonel, his own brother-in-law ? Besides,
he said he wanted it for his horses — it's entered
so there."

'you have a confiding disposition, Mr
Gravely," said the detective grimly, " and
I warn you, you will have to justify all this
to the proper authorities. I don't suppose you
want to be taken up as an accomplice."

Gracious heavens ! don't hint at such a
thing." The little chemist was trembling in
every limb.

Well, it's quite on the cards, and it will all
depend on how you conduct yourself." ^

I'm sure I am ready to do anything, everything
required."

It is in the first place essential that you
should hold your tongue ; you must preserve
the most absolute secrecy about this."

I promise, sir — I promise."

And you must give up this register to me.
There must be no risk of losing it — it is far too
important in the case."

How about my regular work, sir ? I shall
want that ledger."

'' Open another ; I must have this. Let me
see now," and Earswick walked once or twice
round the shop. " Is there anything else to be
said or done ? No ; I think not. I will not
trespass on your time any further, Mr Gravely,
except to repeat my cautions. Be circumspect
and silent, or you may get into serious trouble."

With this rather threatening farewell, the
detective put the poison register under his arm,
and retraced his steps to Cleobury station.

Chapter XX.

A CLOAK, COAT, OR CAPE.

One or two doubtful points served to embitter
Ears wick's joy as he travelled back to Straddle-thorpe
that evening.

There was first the possibility that some one
the real criminal, and for his own guilty purpose
— had personated Colonel St Evelyn at
Cleobury.

Was this possible? was it probable? The
answer was surely in the negative.

How could the chemist, Mr Gravely, a
neighbour in the county, be mistaken in his
man? He had declared that he knew and
recognised the Colonel.

But not too positively. I fancied I detected

an accent of doubt in his words. He was a poor
creature at best — broke down almost with me.
What would he do in the witness-box? Suppose
he had been wrong after all ?

'there is the signature, though. That may
help. I must compare it with another, a certainly
genuine signature ; I shall be sure to find
one among the papers Mr Tinson left.

"And the description — the signalement —
that will be hard to get over. The Inverness
cape or cloak was a remarkable object in its
way ; I ought to be able to trace that to its
rightful owner.

On the other hand, there is the ostensible
purpose for which the drug was bought — horse
medicine. Now I know from Gibbings that the
Colonel made up his recipes. Shall I be able
to ascertain what these contained? Gribbings
promised to let me have some of the stuff. I
must, if possible, get one of each kind, and have
them analysed. They're bound to tell some
story — one way or the other."

In his eagerness, Earswick almost ran to the
library on his return to the Hall.

To give colour to the detective's occupation,
a number of documents — law papers, leases,
and so forth — had been left by Mr Tinson.
These lay on the library table, where Earswick
sat and worked when not otherwise
employed.

If I remember right," the detective said ashe
seated himself at this table, *' the Colonel
signed that surrender of the Dodington lease.
I had it in my hands this morning. Ah ! here

it IS.

He untied the red tape and opened out the
great formal parchment, engrossed in the customary
copperplate. At the end of it was the
signature he sought.

To take the chemist's poison register from
his pocket, open it at the suspicious entry, and
compare the two signatures, was the work of
a moment for the detective.

The same ! " he cried — " absolutely and identically

the same ! There can be little doubt
now that it was the Colonel himself who
bought the stuff. Some one else might have
personated him, but surely no one could have
counterfeited his hand.

That disposes pretty well of my difficulty
as to identity. And I shall still have as a
second string the testimony of the cloak, coat,
or cape. I must find that cloak, coat, or cape,
or at any rate get evidence that the Colonel
owned and wore one.

'' How can I best manage this ? Gibbings ?
He would know, of course ; but how am I to ask
him about his master's clothes ? It would be
most imprudent at this stage. There's Mrs
Leleu ; of course I don't want her to know
exactly what I'm at, still I ought to be able to
get out of her what I want, if I go the right
way to work."

After tea he very adroitly led the conversation
in the necessary direction. Mrs Leleu,
now that the detective was playing with his
cards on the table, was ready enough to talk

to him on any subject, but especially about
the Colonel.

"Did you see much of him?" asked the
detective.

"More than I cared about. He was always
messing about, interfering with other people's
work."

What ! in the house ? I thought his tastes
were mostly outdoor."

"That of course ; but nothing came amiss to
him, if he had a chance of ordering other people
about, hectoring here, and bullying there, and
poking his nose in everybody's business."

I wonder he found time. He looked after
the estate, didn't he ? "

I believe you. Ask the bailiff, or the
farmers, or the labourers. He was always
ranging up and down, finding fault, and pretending
to teach every one his business."

I suppose he was fond of exercise."

"He must have been, or else it was his
unquiet spirit, for he never seemed to rest ;
out in all weathers too."

"Ah!" Ears wick saw an opening at last.
^ I wonder he didn't take cold. You wouldn't
have been sorry, I daresay."

"Him take cold? Never. He's too hard.
Besides, he looked after himself too well for
that."

Wrapped up warm on cold days, eh ? "

I should think so. Why, he had coats for all
weathers, all thicknesses, all sorts and shapes."

A wise man. In a changeable climate like
this, the same topcoat don't do for two days
running, as I've found before now. I'd like to
get a wrinkle from the Colonel."

Get Gibbings to show you his wardrobe,
then."

I'd like to, if I thought it was safe. What
I want is something loose to go over another
coat — a thing you could throw off and on
easily."

I've seen the Colonel in something of the
sort : what they call an Inverness, I think."

Have you, now ? " Earswick tried hard to
assume indifference as he drew near the point

at which he had aimed. " What kind was it ?
What stuff ? What colour ? "

Oh, I can't tell. Scotch, I should say ; a
tartan or a plaid. Rather staring pattern ; drab,
or rather yellow, with bright red lines."

That would hardly do for me. I should be
known by my coat, as I daresay the Colonel
was."

It's likely enough. He was fond of that
coat ; I have seen him in it dozens of times."

Earswick was delighted. He had come upon
just what he wanted.

Well, anyway, I'll get Gibbings to show it
me, if it's only to get a pattern of the shape."

I wouldn't do anything of the kind, if I
were you. He'd only suspect something."

Perhaps you are right. I'd best leave it
and him alone," said the detective ; and soon
after he bade the housekeeper good night.

But he had no intention of dropping his
friend Gibbings, and relying upon his own
acumen and discretion, trusted still to turn him
to profitable account.

VOL. I. P

They did not meet again till next morning,
when Earswick found him as usual at the stables.

"You promised yesterday to let me have
some of your stable specifics — the Colonel's
prescriptions I mean," said the detective, after
he had inquired in due form about the sick
horse, and had examined the other occupants
of the stalls.

"Right you are. But why do you want
them ? "

I still do a little veterinary work at odd
times, and I'm always willing to learn. Now if
these medicines are worth anything "

There's nothing like them, take my word
for that. I've tried them this many a year,
and the Colonel, he believes in them too."

Perhaps some day he'll give me the receipts
himself."

I doubt that ; he keeps them even from me.
But don't let that put you out. You can
always have what you want if you write mea
line."

You shan't lose by it."

Oh, come ! Between friends, you know."

They will be worth money to me, and you
ought to have your share. Why, if I were you
I'd turn a pretty penny. Get the Colonel to
supply the goods and you sell them."

I don't think I'll do that. He might not
like it, and I'd be sorry to vex him. I don't
mind obliging you ; that's another pair of shoes."

Well, when can I have them ? "

Why, now if you choose. There's only half-a-dozen
of them. Come this way, into the
harness-room."

Here you are," went on Gibbings, taking
down a bottle or two and some tin boxes.

These are the cordial balls ; I never knew
their equal after a hard day's hunting. These
are the cough balls, and this embrocation never
fails. There's some of the eye-water, some
fever powders, and some for worms. Now you
are fitted out with the whole biting."

Ears wick was profuse in his thanks.

I tell you what it is, Mr Gibbings, you area
real downright trump ; if there's anything I

can do for you just say the word. And look
here, it's my turn to stand treat. Shall we
meet again at the * Cow and Pail ' ? "

I'm your man. But it must be late ; I've
got enough to keep me busy till night."

So had Earswick. Returning to the house
with his medicines, he regained his room, and
there made the whole into a safe and convenient
parcel. Then, without another word to
a soul in the Hall, took the next train from
Straddlethorpe into Market Needham.

Arrived at the county town, he went to a quiet
public not far from the police station, and sent
a message round to the chief constable.

Captain Bracebridge came at once to hear
what his subordinate had to say.

'' I thought it better, sir, to report in person,"
said Earswick. " I have come upon some important
facts, as I think you will agree."

And then the detective detailed the steps he
had taken, and the success that had attended
them.

You are on the right line, I haven't a doubt

of that. And the case looks blacker than ever
against the Colonel."

Is the evidence strong enough to convict,
sir ? "

"It's purely circumstantial, of course, and
juries are difficult to deal with ; but when you
take the whole of the facts together, I don't see
how any sensible man could hesitate."

There's still the question of the cloak. If
I can lay my hands on that, and the chemist
identifies it, we shall have tangible corroboration
on the point of identity."

I quite agree with you, Earswick. You
must lay your hands on that Inverness."

I will have it, right or wrong. Gibbings
shall give it me, or I will take it."

If the worst comes to the worst, we will get
a search-warrant."

Better try no extreme measures sir, until
fair ones have failed. I am to meet Gibbings
to-night ; perhaps I shall get the better of him,
although he has got a hard head."

Do you call those fair means?" said the chief

constable, laughing. '^ Fair or foul you should
say."

"Well, sir, we police must not be too particular.
You tell me to get the cloak, and I
must obey your orders."

"You are a promising, painstaking young
officer, Earswick, and I am satisfied with you.
Have you anything else to say ? "

'^ Only about these medicines. I've brought
them over with me ; they ought to be analysed."

Quite right. It shall be done. We'll send
them up to town. Although the evidence they
supply will not serve us, unless in the negative
way."

*' I do not quite follow you, sir."

Why, you see, they will either be found to
contain arsenic, or they won't. If they do, then
there is the explanation of the purchase and use
of the poison."

*' Of course ; I understand. While if they
don't "

"The arsenic was bought for some other
purpose."

Excellently reasoned, sir."

*but the evidence, if it is that way, is only
negative at best."

"Yes, sir; but, as you have said, when taken
in connection with all the other facts "

It will weigh with the jury, there's no doubt
of that. So don't be cast down, but go on as
you have begun. Ears wick ; you may hit on
still more."

And with this the chief and his lieutenant
separated, Earswick returning without delay to
the Hall.

CHAPTER XXL

THE CASE IS CLEAR.

The bar parlour of the " Cow and Pail " was a
snug little place, to which Mr Gibbings, as one
of the upper servants at the Hall, was always
welcome. His friend Mr Quelch was equally
welcome, more especially as he gave a liberal
order for drink.

What's your weakness, Mr Gibbings ? "
asked the detective. " Beer sits cold on the
stomach this time of night. Shall we say whisky
hot, or rum ?"

There's nothing like old Jamaica if you get
it sound. 'Ain't bad here, although it might be
older. They spoiled us for rum in the Crimea."

You were there, were you ? "

"At the end of the siege, yes — before we
went to the ' Shiny.' "

*^' Shiny?"

Yes, the * Shiny East ' : that's our soldier's
name for India."

Was the Colonel in the Crimea too ? "

He was that. I went to him there as batman.
He picked me out, as I think 1 told
you, chiefly, I believe, because we were much
of a size."

'you and the Colonel? What would that
matter ? "

A good deal to both of us. You see I could
wear his old things ; that saved his pocket, and
I got the clothes."

Economical that. And does the arrangement
still continue ? "

A new feature was suddenly introduced into
the inquiry. For the first time it occurred to
Earswick that Gibbings might have personated
the Colonel. What if the master had sent his
man to Cleobury ? The detective made a note
of this new suspicion, the effect of which was

to include Gibbings as an accessory, and to call
for special observation of the servant.

Well, yes, in a way : although nowadays
I get a couple of new suits a-year, I still have
the pick of what the Colonel casts off, — not that
I want them much now."

** A nice little perquisite all the same. Anything
from a good tailor is worth money. I
suppose you know that."

Gibbings winked.

Next time you come in for a haul you might
let me know," said the detective. " I'm obliged
to dress smart for Lincoln's Inn, and I can't
afford to go to the West End."

'perhaps we can deal. Is there anything
particular you want ? "

Well, I'd be glad of a good topcoat against
winter, if you could help me to such a thing."

What kind ? Black cloth ? "

No ; something loose that I could throw over
another coat and take off when I get to the
office. It's precious cold, I tell you, on November
mornings. You try walking from Camden

Town to Lincoln's Inn about daylight in wintertime."


Well, I'll remember you next time the
Colonel overhauls his kit."

There's nothing you can think of just now ?
I have to look ahead, you know."

Earswick waited anxiously for the answer to
a question that was more important than it
seemed.

Well, there's an old Inverness the Colonel's
very fond of ; he's had a good deal of wear out
of it, and it ought to be coming my way soon."

Warm, is it, and decent-looking ? "

It's a first-class article. A little loud, pere



laps, but warranted to keep out the cold."

Can I see it ? "

I daresay, if I can lay my hands on it.
That reminds me, I haven't seen it myself very
lately."

Perhaps the Colonel's got it with him."

Not he. I know what he took, for I packed
his things. No, it's somewhere in his dressing-room."


Well, if you think of it — only don't put
yourself out of the way," said Earswick, secretly
well satisfied with what he heard.

But he made up his mind to know more about
that cloak ; he would find out for himself, that
very night if possible. Why should he not pay
a visit to the Colonel's dressing-room ? Mrs
Leleu might help him here. The only point
was to elude Gibbings, and this would probably
be easy. Gibbings himself seemed likely to
make it so.

As the evening wore on it was evident that
the veteran could not resist the fascinations of his
favourite spirit. He might have been weaned on
ration rum, as he himself confessed to his entertainer
after the fifth tumbler hot ; and although
as seasoned as such a veteran soldier should be,
it was clear as bedtime approached that he had
had his allowance and something more.

"I'm fit for picket," he hiccupped as he
stood with difficulty on his feet, " but not for
guard. Hope they won't nab me at the gate as
I pass in."

His mind unhinged was 'wandering back to
barrack-days.

^'It's not my first chalk. They'd stop my
passes and give me pack-drill. I think I'll
stay absent." .

"No, no," said Earswick, taking him by
the arm. "Ill see you safe home to the
Hall."

Hall ? " repeated Gibbings, still bewildered.
The Hall ? Why, of course ; I forgot. They
can't make me a defaulter. ' I care for nobody,' "
he sang it with maudlin jollity, " ' no, not I ; and
nobody cares for me.' "

Well, come along ; it's getting late," and
Earswick helped his companion into the fresh
air, the effect of which was to increase rather
than diminish his intoxication.

However, with a little trouble, Gibbings was
got to the Hall, where Earswick, the butler assisting,
put him to bed.

It was still comparatively early, and the
detective found Mrs Leleu still up in the
housekeeper's room.

I want to go to the Colonel's room — his
dressing-room I mean."

What, at this time of night ! It would look
odd. Suppose Gibbings "

Gibbings is in bed ; I have just put him
there."

*^ Sober?"

"Well, we won't say too much about that.
Anyway, he won't interfere."

'^ What are you going to do ? "

Overhaul the Colonel's wardrobe. I want
to see that coat, the one you were talking
about yesterday."

Hasn't he got it with him abroad ? "

Gibbings said not. But come along, and
bring your keys ; the wardrobes may be locked."

I have duplicates if they are," said the housekeeper,
as she provided herself with a key-basket
and led the way up-stairs.

The dressing-room, which communicated with
one of the best bedrooms in the house — that, in
fact, to which the St Evelyns moved on their
second day at the Hall — looked a little deserted,

as was natural in its occupiers absence. All
the dressing appliances had been put away,
neat curtains concealed the boot-rack, there
were no clothes about, no dressing - gown, no
greatcoats hanging behind the doors. Gib-beings,
who personally valeted the Colonel, was
of an orderly methodical nature, and he took
a pride in the tidiness of his master's room.

Earswick looked round, noting the various
receptacles for clothes. There was a 'changing
" cupboard, a double winged wardrobe, and
two chests of drawers. He tried the doors of
the wardrobe and all the drawers ; nothing
was locked except the cupboard, but the key
was in the door.

Can I help ? " asked Mrs Leleu, as she
lighted the candles on the dressing-room table.

Much obliged, but I think not. I like to
make my searches myself; I am certain then
that nothing's been missed," — and the police
officer proceeded to carry out his investigation
in a regular matter-of-fact fashion.

He inspected every drawer in turn, examining

the contents with, deft nimble fingers
like a custom-house searcher. He opened the
cupboard and brought a candle to bear on
everything that hung therein. He did the
same with the wardrobe, and made sure by
feeling with his hands that nothing escaped
him.

Less than half an hour sufficed to satisfy him
of the fruitlessness of his search. There was
no Inverness cape of the kind he wanted
amongst the Colonel's effects.

It isn't here," he said to Mrs Leleu. " Is
there nowhere else I can look ? "

"Well, there's madam's room — the bedroom,
you know. But I don't see how it could get
in there."

'^ I had better look," said the detective. " We
mustn't do things by halves."

This second investigation was no more successful
than the first.

I can't think what's come of it," said Mrs
Leleu. ' ' There's the gun-room, the study, and
the hat-stand in the hall ; it might be left

hanging there, only I think I should have
noticed it."

"We will go down-stairs and see for ourselves,"
said Earswick, hoping in his heart that
the cloak might not turn up at all.

Nor did it. There was no trace of it anywhere
in the house, and Earswick, remembering
Gibbings's assurance that the Colonel had
not taken it away with him, was brought
naturally to a positive conclusion that it had
disappeared.

I'm glad of it," he said to himself as he
went up-stairs to his room. '* It's just as it
ought to be. Of course he has made away
with the cloak ; to have left it amongst his
things would have been to assist identification.

The case is pretty well complete, I think,
now. I doubt whether I can do much more
here, but I had better stay till I get my
orders from the chief."

With that he turned in, to sleep the sound
satisfied sleep of the man who has done his
duty and met with his reward.

VOL. L Q

He was as usual early next morning ; the
habit had grown upon him since he had joined
the force, and he was always up betimes, even
when he had no special object to gain.

It was so this morning, and after dressing
leisurely he strolled down-stairs, hardly knowing
what to do with himself till breakfast-time.

A walk in the park promised to be pleasant,
but on his way to the hall door he passed the
Colon el's study.

««I might have another look through his
room. I was too much excited last time to
explore it completely. Who knows but what
I might come upon some more evidence ! Gib-beings
is not likely to interrupt me ; he cannot
have slept off his debauch quite yet. What a
head he'll have ! "

Earswick entered the room, and after looking
round to refresh his memory with its contents,
proceeded to examine the contents of the
drawers, to overhaul the cupboards of the bookcase,
and handle afresh all the books and papers
about.

He was so busily engaged with his task that
the door opened and some one entered before
he was aware of it. It was Gibbings, whose
voice, rather brusque and menacing, caused
him to turn.

Holloa I my fine fellow, what are you doing
here ? "

"Why, Mr Gibbings, is that you?" The
detective was slightly disconcerted, and found
it difficult to improvise a plausible excuse.

Did Mr Tinson tell you to take stock of
the Colonel's papers ? " asked Gibbings, sarcastically.


Not exactly," stammered Earswick. '' I was
only looking for something I had missed."

In here ? " asked Gibbings, sharply. " Then
you have been in here before? I thought as
much. You came here to spy and pry, you
mean hound."

Fair and softly, Mr Gibbings ; no hard
names."

Earswick was more and more disconcerted.
It took him quite aback to find the old soldier

thoroughly alert and sensible in spite of his
previous night's potations.

'who are you ? I was an ass to trust you
without knowing more about you. Do you
belong to the police ? "

I have told you who I am."

Tinson's clerk ? That don't gammon me ;
I know better. You stole a march on me last
night, I couldn't for the life of me tell why, but
I know now I find you here ; it was you who
turned over my master's things last night."

"I, Mr Gibbings ! " protested Ears wick.
"What can you mean?"

I mean that some strange hand has been
meddling and muddling in the Colonel's cupboards
and drawers. Things are not as I left
them, I could swear to that."

'' Have you been to the Colonel's room, then,
this morning ? "

I have — where you were last night. Don't
deny it ; I shan't believe you."

Upon my word, Mr Gibbings, you are behaving
very strangely. I am here on business."

Dirty detective business. You'd better
clear out. Go back to where you came from
before I make you."

Gibbings looked threatening.

I can take care of myself," replied Earswick,
stoutly. "If I couldn't, I could appeal to Lady
Lezaire."

Of course she'd take your part. I know
now who set you on. She hates my master,
and would do all she could to ruin him."

In what way ? " asked Earswick, innocently.

Yah ! you know. You can't humbug me.
You go your way and let me go mine. And
see here, your way don't lie this way, so qjear
out of this double quick, and don't let me catch
you in this room again."

Gibbings showed Earswick the door, and
following him out, locked it.

Any one that wants to go in there will have
to come to me for the key. Don't you try,
neither here nor up-stairs."

Had this stormy rencontre occurred even the
day before, Earswick would have been greatly

disappointed and put out ; but, fortunately for
his inquiry, he had found out all he wanted before
Gibbings cut up rough.

Fortified with this consoling reflection, he
again went over to Market Eeepham and told
the chief constable what had occurred.

"No need to worry more," said Captain
Bracebridge. "We have got him in a cleft
stick now. I shall apply for a warrant. The
case is clear."

CHAPTER XXII.

AT DIEPPE.

The season begins early at French watering-places
; by the end of June it is in full swing,
and in the dog-days it is at its height. In the
early autumn, when our home resorts are most
crowded, the season is already declining in
France.

People who love their comfort prefer the
early quiet time before the rush — before famine
prices set in, and when accommodation is still
obtainable in hotels, and private houses at comparatively
reasonable rates.

No one knew this better than Colonel St
Evelyn, who in his bachelor days had tried
all the watering-places on the Normandy coast

in turn. It was at Trouville, as we have seen,
that he won his bride and established himself
in the good graces of the Lezaires. Trouville,
always a favourite place, had been doubly dear
to him since then, and he would have gladly
returned there now until the time was ripe
for his return to the Hall.

But tender-hearted Mrs St Evelyn could not
bear to face the place again. To her its associations
were far too painful ; her loss was too
recent ; she could not forget the great gap made
in the little family circle since last they were
there.

Trouville was impossible, the Colonel readily
admitted that. Teachers will was law to him,
as he told her — doubly so in such a matter as
this. The sorrow with which she mourned her
poor young brother was so deep-seated and
sincere, that she deserved to be spared any
additional pang.

So they went to Dieppe instead of Trouville,
and the Colonel said he liked it better. They
were comfortably housed in the Hotel Beau Ei-age,

facing the green lawn that stretched down
to the beach, and in full view of the Channel.

There had been but little reference between
husband and wife to the late terrible catastrophe
at the Hall. Probable causes had, of course,
been discussed ; but Rachel, obedient and easily
impressed, had quickly accepted the Colonel's
interpretation. He had insisted, with a vehemence
which was quite as good as logic to her,
that Sir Carysfort's death could not possibly be
attributed to anything but his own imprudence
; it was nonsense, wicked nonsense, to talk
of poison. The verdict of the coroner's jury
was preposterous and absurd. A sweet simpleminded
woman, slow to think evil of any one
in the world, Mrs St Evelyn was ready enough
to accept this explanation. Any other, any
that traced the death to some guilty cause,
would have been inexpressibly repugnant to
her, and would have increased her anguish a
thousand-fold.

It was a very peaceful, uneventful, almost
monotonous life they led, conforming, outwardly

at least, to the ways of the place ;
taking their meals at the table d'hdte hour,
lounging lazily upon the shingle under their
high-thatched chairs, or listening to the music
of the band. A happy family party, a delightful
menage, as it seemed to the French visitors :
the father's distinguished military air, the graceful
childlike mother, the pretty babies, with
their sturdy English bonne.

Colonel St Evelyn seldom left his wife's side,
except to take the long walks essential to a man
of his active habits. He was with her now,
smoking the inevitable cheroot, and skimming
the day's * Figaro,' which had just come down
from Paris, when his eye fell upon two persons
approaching.

*' New arrivals," he observed carelessly.
Compatriots, seemingly. The place is filling
fast, Kachel."

'' Where are they ? I don't see them."

"Why, it's " He checked himself suddenly,
adding under his breath as he rose from
his seat, " What on earth brings him here ? "

Who is it ? Any one you know ? " went on
Rachel.

Oh no, dear, nothing of the sort. I am
only going to take a turn. I shall find you
here, I suppose ? "

*eyes, I think so, unless you are very long.
But we shall go straight back to the hotel."

Colonel St Evelyn walked towards the persons
he had noticed.

"Surely I am not mistaken," he said, with
outstretched hands. "It is Captain Brace-bridge."


The chief constable's response was cold and
repellent. •

"Yes, Colonel St Evelyn, I am Captain
Bracebridge. I have come to Dieppe to
take "

To take a holiday, I presume. Well, you
deserve it, more than most men."

"Mine is no holiday trip. I'd rather have
come on any other."

"Indeed? What "

Colonel St Evelyn," went on the chief constable,

sternly, " it is my painful duty to inform
you that I hold a warrant for your arrest."

"Good God! On what charge ? You must be
mad. Have a care how you exceed your powers."

"I am perfectly in form. The warrant is
regular, and I am accompanied by this gentleman
" — he pointed to a third person, who stood
behind with Earswick — "by the police commissary
of Dieppe."

I protest. There is some terrible mistake.
On what charge do you presume to interfere
with me ? "

'' Before I tell you, it is my duty to warn you
that anything you may say "

"Yes, yes, I know the formula. Let us take
it as said. What is the charge ? Quick ! Let
me know the worst."

You are accused of the murder of your
brother-in-law. Sir Carysfort Lezaire."

That woman ! Has she dared to let her
enmity, her hatred, reach such lengths as this ? "
cried Colonel St Evelyn, his dark cheek mantling
with mingled shame and rage.

"I must again remind you, Colonel St
Evelyn, to be careful what you say. Eemember
you are in custody."

What are you going to do with me ? My
wife is here ; she must not know, at least not
for the present."

Will you surrender ? will you promise to go
with us quietly ? "

** Yes ; but where ? To England ? "

To England ; the steamer starts in less than
an hour."

^'What if I refuse? We are not in Ed gland
now, remember."

No, but the law of extradition runs here.
Unless you accept my terms unhesitatingly and
at once, I must hand you over to this gentleman
" — pointing to the French official — " who
will lodge you in the local jail. You will have
to wait there until we can appear before Sijuge
instruction, who on mj^ application will hand
you over to us. I shall then handcuff you,
and carry you back a close prisoner."

The alternative is too terrible, Captain

Bracebridge ; you are too strong, I submit.
My poor Kachel ! what will become of ber ?
She must be told ; at least some excuse must
be made for my sudden departure. Captain
Bracebridge, help me ! You are a married
man, you have children, help me. I am thinking
now not of myself, but of her."

I cannot let you out of my sight. The
charge is too grave, the risks too great."

You need not. Mrs St Evelyn is there, nota
' dozen yards off. Let me go to her. I will
say I am summoned suddenly to England."

Captain Bracebridge hesitated, then shook
his head.

"Do not refuse me this, I implore you.
Captain Bracebridge. You are, like myself, an
old soldier ; we have both borne the Queen's
commission. Let me entreat you "

You will make no attempt to escape ? "
asked the chief constable, beginning to relent.

I give you my word of honour, as an officer
and a gentleman."

Captain Bracebridge looked at him, as though

surprised that a man over whom such a terrible
charge impended should presume to use these
words.

Well, I will trust you, Colonel St Evelyn,
although I may be exceeding my duty. If you
play me false — excuse my saying it — I shall
have to appeal to force. The local authorities,"
he again pointed to the commissary, " will support
me."

There is nothing to fear," said the Colonel,
as he walked away to where his wife still sat,
unconscious of the grave trouble that had befallen
her husband.

My dear," he began, " you must prepare sora
surprise."

*^ Ferdinand, what has happened ? There
is something wrong. I see it in your face.
Mamma ? "

''No, no; Lady Lezaire is quite well. But
we are wanted back. There are some important
matters, with regard to the succession —
and others — that must be attended to at once.
We must go back to England."

I am quite ready, dear. Only, of course, it
will take us some days to prepare."

Yes ; and that's why I thought, perhaps,
I had better go on ahead — you would not
mind ? " he asked, anxiously.

Oh no. I shan't like it, of course, without
you. But I can do everything, and there are
the servants. But is there such hurry ? When
would you start ? "

To-day, I think. The mail goes this afternoon.
I am anxious there should be no unnecessary
delay. The lawyers are very urgent."

*' Is it Mr Tinson ? Surely he might have
written."

*' Mr Tinson, yes ; and your mother, I fear.
Lady Lezaire is making difficulties. In your
interests, and those of our dear children "

Oh, Ferdinand, how good you are ! Always
thinking of us," said the sweet little wife,
with tears of gratitude filling her soft eyes.

I am ashamed to leave you in the lurch
like this — to give you so much trouble, dearest
"

"Never mind me, Ferdinand. I can do
everything, I daresay," said Mrs St Evelyn.
'' But you are not going yet ? " she went on
with a tender desire to procrastinate, seeing her
husband turn away.

"As far as the hotel. I must put a few
things together ; a dressing-bag will do."

"Let me go and help you, Ferdinand. I
will see to it all."

Colonel St Evelyn would not suffer his wife
to worry herself, he said. It was no trouble :
an old soldier ought to be able to do his own
packing.

"And I'll be back directly — to say good-hye,"
he added cheerily as he walked off, still closely
escorted by his friends.

They were more than usually affectionate —
his adieux. Mrs St Evelyn, easily moved and
emotional, wondered at, while she was grateful
for, his fond looks, and tender, lingering farewell.
She was to join him again within a few
short days — why this impressive leave-taking ?

There were tears in her eyes and a weight

VOL. I. R

at her heart when he was gone ; the gloom
and sadness of approaching evil filled her with
vague forebodings and nameless fears.

As for St Evelyn, he carried his head high,
walking erect and unabashed between his captors,
the two officers of the law, whom the
uninitiated might easily have taken for two
particularly attentive familiar friends.

Who shall say what grievous thoughts occupied
and oppressed him as he made the dreary
journey from Dieppe to Market Eeepham, from
the careless freedom of the gay French watering-place
to captivity within the dark and narrow
limits of the county jail ?

CHAPTER XXIII.

ON THE TRIAL SIDE.

The news of Colonel St Evelyn's arrest spread
like wildfire through the county. It was the
talk of every tongue ; common gossip everywhere.
But no one exactly knew how or why
he had been taken. •

Only a paragraph in the local prints gave
a brief account of the capture ; a mysterious
allusion was made to the important clues that
had come into the hands of the police, and
much vague praise was accorded to Mr Earswick,
of whom the county was told to be proud,
as a new and shining light among detectives.

But there was the undoubted fact : the
Colonel was in jail. Lord Prudhames had not

hesitated to commit his fellow justice of the
peace. There must be sufficient evidence, of
course ; the case must be perfectly clear, or
bail would not have been refused.

"Dear heart alive! it's not possible; it
can't be true," said Major Ruddock, the worthy
veteran who owed his position as governor of
the jail to this very person whom the chief
constable brought there, a prisoner, in the dead
of night.

Read your warrant, Major Ruddock. Lord
Prudhames granted it. I give the Colonel's
body into your safe-keeping. Remember, you
will be responsible for him."

I need no one to teach me my duty, Captain
Bracebridge," replied the jail official,
tartly. Major Ruddock was a hard-featured,
middle-aged man, with iron-grey moustaches
cut short and standing out like stiff quills, a
brusque manner, and a grating voice. He had
risen from the ranks of the Royal Rangers, and
showed it every inch.

"It's all a mistake, of course, Ruddock,"

the Colonel said pleasantly, as they stood inside
the prison lodge, while the governor
signed the receipt for the person of his friend
and patron.

The chief constable held up a finger menacingly.
" Be careful what you say, Colonel
St Evelyn."

There, take your receipt," said the governor,
interposing abruptly. "I daresay, sir" — this
to the Colonel — "you'll be glad to get to bed."

We've been travelling since three, when we
left Dieppe, and now it must be "

*past eleven," said the governor. "Goodnight;
there's no need to detain you police.
I've seen enough of you. I wasn't bound to
open to you at all after hours."

I'm glad you did, Euddock, or I should
have gone to the police lock-up," laughed the
prisoner. " A poor place. I'd much rather be
your guest."

Oh, Colonel, I'd give you the best my

house contains, but " he hesitated — " the

rules ; I must adhere to the rules."

*' I would not ask you to break them, you
may be sure," said St Evelyn. "Where are
you going to lodge me ? "

'eon the trial side. In one of the large
cells "

St Evelyn shuddered, but recovering quickly,
cried —

I know. IVe often had worse quarters in
barracks when I was a jolly sub. What's the
delay ? Let's get on there ; I want to turn in."

Certain formalities had to be observed.
The prisoner was obliged to give up his watch,
his rings, his money, his penknife even ; the
rules were read to him, and his description
taken : his name, age, quality, and distinctive
marks.

The doctor ought to see you, I suppose, sir ;
but it's late, and he'll have gone to bed."

Nonsense, Euddock 1 I'm in excellent health.
Only give me a mouthful of food and let me
turn in."

The governor led the way through the dark
and narrow entrance of the jail ; a medieval

construction, with ponderous gates that closed
with a clang, and were secured by vast
bolts and massive chains. The interior, dimly
lighted, was still as death, only broken by the
voice of the night-watchman in slippers, challenging
them in low sepulchral tones. Then
they reached the " location " of newly arrived
prisoners, his lodging for the night — spacious
enough as a cell, but as a bedroom, compared
with those of the Hall or hotel, mean and
meagre at best. A stone floor, an iron bedstead
fastened into the whitewashed wall, a shelf-like
table under the gas light, a three-legged stool,
a few tin utensils, and that was all. •

"Enough, but at any rate clean. I've been
worse ofi" in old campaigning days — eh, Haddock?
And so have you."

Dear heart ! Colonel, the pity of it. What
can I say ? What can I do ? "

Get me some bread and cheese, or cold
meat, and a glass of beer — I am allowed one
pint, you know, by the regulations."

You shall have the best that's in my larder,

Colonel. ril fetch it myself." and the stanch
old soldier hurried away, to return presently
with the materials of a substantial repast.

He waited while the Colonel, with excellent
appetite, ate his supper. Then he called in the
night-watchman to clear away and make the
prisoner's bed.

Is there anything more I can do now — any
orders for the morning, sir ? "

I should like Ribbing sent for. You know
my man — he was in the Rangers with us."

Gribbings of letter F Company ? Of course
I know him. I will send a messenger at unlocking
by the early train. And breakfast ?
The rules say 6.30."

"After tomorrow I'll abide by the rules.
But don't wake me in the morning, please, till
I ring." The Colonel pointed with a smile to
the bell-handle with which the cell was duly
provided, according to Act of Parliament.

Colonel St Evelyn, in spite of the awful
charge which hung over him, slept soundly that
night ; slept late, moreover, through the din of .

the awakening jail ; through the cell visitation,
the unlocking of doors, the morning muster, the
serving of food ; he was dimly conscious of a
sound of scrubbing and washing, and, as he
lay in his narrow bunk between sleeping and
waking, fancied himself once more in the
cabin of a troop-ship, whilst they holystoned
the deck overhead.

The bright sunlight streaming through the
small barred window presently aroused him to
the reality of his position. He sprang from the
bed and turned the bell-handle.

In reply, the governor and Gibbings appeared
together.

How did you sleep, sir ? " asked the
governor. "It's long past nine."

Like a top. I should be glad of some food
soon, Haddock."

I'll see to it, sir, while Gibbings helps you
to dress," and Major Haddock withdrew.

Well, Gibbings," continued the Colonel ;
you didn't expect to see me here ? "

I was afraid they meant mischief, sir ;

but I never thought it would go so far as
this."

"Why, what do you mean, man? Did anything
lead you to suppose I was suspected ? If
so, you should have let me know."

*' I only found out their dirty tricks a day
or two back. There's been a fellow spying and
prying at the Hall these weeks past."

"Ah, a detective, I suppose : set on by Lady
Lezaire."

I can't be sure, sir, but I'm afraid that's it.
My lady has got a kink in her brain, and lays
the blame for everything on you."

She abhors, detests me, I know ; but I
think she has gone a little too far this time.
Only I must be ready to meet her. What's the
line of attack ; have you any idea ? On what
will they base the charge ? What was the detective
doing all the time he was at the Hall ? "

Gibbings recounted Earswick's movements
and manoeuvres as far as he was able, upbraiding
himself at the same time and without hesitation
for his simplicity and want of reserve.

I don't blame you, Gibbings," said the
Colonel. " How were you to guess what he
was after ? At any rate, it don't matter now.
What we have to think of is my defence."

You will have a lawyer, sir, of course."

The best that can be got for money. You
shall telegraph for me to Amos Davis of High
Lowborn, begging him to come down for the
first examination."

"When will that be, sir?"

To-day. They are bound to have me up
at once. I shall apply for a remand, and
Davis can be here to - morrow. We'll turn
the tables on them yet, never fear." •

"It must have been a great shock to you,
sir," said G-ibbings, sympathetically. "And the
mistress — Mrs St Evelyn, I mean — how did she
take it?"

*she does not know yet. I could not break
it to her over there, and now it seems more
difficult than ever. How is it to be done ? "

I hope I don't intrude, sir — but wouldn't
my lady " suggested Gibbings, timidly.

Her mother would be the proper person,
of course. But how can I trust Lady Lezaire ?
She would probably delight in torturing my
poor dear Each el just because she is my wife."

** Oh, sir, hardly," Gibbings protested.

Fd far rather you told her. I have every
confidence in your fidelity, your good feeling,
Gibbings."

*' I'll do my best, sir," said the trusty servitor,
with rather a husky voice. " I'm only a rough
chap, sir ; but you've been a good master tome,
and I'd go any lengths to serve you. When
shall I speak to the mistress, sir ? "

'* Directly she returns."

When do you expect her, sir ? "

In the course of to-day or tomorrow. She
promised to wire directly she started. You
must be on the look-out for any telegrams ;
they will be addressed, of course, to the
Hall"

"Yes, sir. Will the mistress go straight
there, sir?" asked Gibbings.

Naturally. Adhere else ? "

*' Then my lady will be bound to tell her
first. Hadn't I better meet the mistress at the
station, sir? I could invent some story, perhaps
: say you've been taken ill and couldn't
get on to the Hall ; that you had to go to an
hospital ; and then we could bring her here.
She would not know the difference at first, and
you could tell her the truth, or part of it."

*'I believe you're right, Gibbings ; but I'm
quite unable to advise. I don't mind about
myself, but I'm quite knocked over when I
think of her."

The governor now looked in to hint that time
was running on. •

You are to be brought before the Bench at
eleven, Colonel. It is only formal, but we must
not be late."

I shall apply for a remand, as I am still
undefended. They must grant that. Who will
be sitting ? "

A very full meeting, I expect. Lord Prude
said he would certainly be present, and
Mr Etherly and General Wyndham-Parker "

"Who'd like to see me hanged. But I shall
cheat him of that satisfaction, I think. At any
rate, they shall not say I showed the white
feather."

The Sessions Court was of course crowded;
all Thorpeshire was convulsed. Such a cause
celery had not been known in the county for a
century or more.

How does he look ? " " How does he take
it ? " " Did he do it ? " " What will he say ? "
These were the eager queries bandied from lip
to lip as high and low, peer and peasant, magnate
and working man, jostled and fought for a
chance of seeing and hearing what passed.

No answer to these vexed questions, no solution
of the awful problem, were afforded by St
Evelyn's demeanour in court. He faced his
judges — the whole bench of magistrates, of
whose body he was still a member — boldly,
with head erect, defiant, and unabashed. ^' It
will save your lordship's and the court's time,"
he said, in reply to the first formal interrogatories,
" if I ask at once for a remand. 1 am

still undefended. I claim time to secure legal
assistance."

He spoke firmly, in a loud, high-pitched voice,
as though he was giving the word of command.

"We cannot object to that," said Lord Prude
the chairman. " What time do you
ask ? "

A day or two, my lord."

Demand till Saturday. Enter that on the
sheet, Mr Lashleigh. And you will understand
" — this to the prisoner — " that we are
forbidden by law to allow bail."

St Evelyn bowed in courteous acknowledgment.
^

I am aware of that. I have not asked for
bail."

With that he was removed, and passed by
a private door direct from the court-house back
to the jail.

CHAPTEK XXIV.

MRS ST EVELYN HEARS.

The distinguished prisoner was exercising,
alone, in the trial prisoners' yard that afternoon,
when Gibbings, who had gone back to
Straddlethorpe, entered the enclosure carrying
a telegram in his hand.

"This has been opened," said the Colonel at
once.

By my lady, sir. She insisted, saying she
was sure it was from Mrs St Evelyn."

I wonder she dared. What right had she
to break the seal ? " he cried, as he strode impatiently
up and down the narrow yard. " And
now I am powerless to protect poor Kachel from
her."

'* Is the mistress coming to-day ? " Gibbings
at last ventured to ask.

Early this evening. ' All well : starting by
mid-day boat : expect us at nine she says."

That explains, sir. My lady ordered the
carriage — the large landau, sir, and the luggage-cart
— to be at Market Needham at nine."

Is Lady Lezaire going to the station
herself ? "

"I'm not sure as to that, sir. I could find
out, perhaps, if there was time."

In any case you must forestall her. Be on
the platform, Gibbings, and get first speech of
Mrs St Evelyn. Tell her what we arranged
together."

When the London express ran into Market
Needham station that evening, Lady Lezaire
was prominent among the waiting crowd. It
was her first appearance in public. She was in
deep mourning for her son, and a murmur of
sympathy went through the throng as she
stepped forward towards the halted train.

Then Mrs St Evelyn's pretty head appeared

VOL. I. s

at the window, and it was known why the
mother had come there.

Many people pressed forward, curious to hear
what greetings passed between the two ladies,
and in the crowd Gibbings was shut out
entirely.

"Dear mother ! " cried Mrs St Evelyn,
directly. " But where is Ferdinand ? " Her
voice changed at once to one of manifest
anxiety.

He could not get here in time. He was
detained," faltered Lady Lezaire, deterred by a
look in her daughter's face from speaking more
plainly.

He is ill, I am sure of it. Something terrible
has happened. Let me go to him at
once," cried Mrs St Evelyn.

"No, no ; your husband is well enough," said
Lady Lezaire ; " only he was prevented from
coming."

But why ? You are not telling me the
whole truth. I must go to him. Is the carriage
here ? "

Of course, dear," said Lady Lezaire ; *' the
landau — there is room for you all. Come, they
will see to the baggage. We will go on at
once to the Hall."

The Lezaire party — her ladyship and daughter,
the nurses and the two children — left the
platform, making their way with some difficulty
through the crowd.

Mrs St Evelyn, as she passed, caught sight
of Gibbings ; something in the man's face — his
gravity, the fixed way in which he looked at
her — prompted her to speak.

Why, here is Gibbings. Where is your
master ? " she asked eagerly, and it was-clear
she had been quite dissatisfied with Lady
Lezaire's explanation.

The Colonel's not very well," Gibbings
said, a little hesitatingly, as though the fiction
prepared did not come very glibly to his tongue.

I thought so," cried Mrs St Evelyn, snatching
at the words. " I knew you were concealing
something, mother. What is it ? Quick I
I must know the worst."

"He would like to see you as soon as possible,"
went on Gibbings.

Of course. She is going to him now," put
in Lady Lezaire. " We are only losing time.
The carriage is waiting to take us to the Hall."

To the Hall ? " and again Gibbings's voice
and manner conveyed a hidden mystery to the
anxious wife.

"To the Hall," repeated Mrs St Evelyn.
Surely he is there if he is ill ? " She now
looked to her mother with bewildered inquiring
eyes.

Before Lady Lezaire could bring herself to
frame the falsehood she would have liked to
utter, Gibbings had replied —

The master is in Market Eeepham ; in — in
in the hospital."

Why wasn't I told this at once ? Oh,
mother, you have been deceiving me. It was
unfair, unkind. Take me to your master at
once, Gibbings."

I acted for the best, I assure you, Rachel,"
pleaded Lady Lezaire. " It was so terrible to

K

have to tell you. Won't you wait? Let me
go with you."

No, no ; I shall go quicker with Gibbings.
Get a fly."

At least take the carriage," urged Lady
Lezaire. " We can wait."

But already Mrs St Evelyn had disappeared,
and was to be seen entering a cab, which Gib-beings
had wisely ordered to be in attendance
outside the station.

It was a short ten minutes' drive from the
station to the jail in Market Eeepham. The
summer twilight had faded out of the sky, but
there was sufficient light by which to recognise
the forbidding exterior of the grim old jail.

^' What is this ? " cried Mrs St Evelyn, as the
carriage stopped. "Not a hospital! It is the
prison — the county jail. Why do you bring
me here ? " she continued, with quickly risen
agitation to Gibbings, who had dismounted the
box and opened the door of the fly.

This is where Colonel St Evelyn is," replied
the man, sorrowfully.

In jail ? A prisoner ? My dear husband ?
Impossible ! "

Gibbings did not dare reply, nor did Major
Euddock, who now appeared at the lodge gate,
to whom Mrs St Evelyn repeated her horror-stricken
inquiry.

At least he will tell me himself. Take me
to Colonel St Evelyn this instant ! " she cried,
half frantic with indignation and terror.

The visiting hours are past," humbly protested
the governor, " but "

I must and will see him. The rules cannot
apply to him. You shall not keep me from
him."

The stern disciplinarian gave way, but with
manifest reluctance, to the pathetic entreaties
of his old friend's wife.

Poor Mrs St Evelyn was led through the
same dreary passages that her husband had
traversed the night before, realising with a
deeper anguish the horrors of this gruesome
place. She was almost fainting when the last
bolts were withdrawn, the last iron-bound door

unlocked, and she saw by the dim gaslight her
husband standing ready to receive her in his
outstretched arms.

Oh, Ferdinand ! " was all the tender-hearted
wife could say, and for quite eve minutes
neither could utter any coherent words. She
lay there in his arms, sobbing her heart out,
while he vainly strove to soothe and quiet her
with endearing epithets, and tried to kiss away
her tears.

What does it mean, Ferdinand ? I am
utterly amazed, bewildered. Why are you
here ? Tell me, quick. I think I shall understand."
«

I have been arrested on a monstrous
charge. I am accused, falsely accused — you
believe me, Kachel ? "

"As if I could doubt my husband. Whatever
they say, whatever happens, I could never
bring myself to think evil of you, Ferdinand."

I had enemies, I knew that — bitter, unscrupulous
foes — but I never thought they
would bring me to this. It is a most wild,

wicked intention.* I am absolutely innocent,
God knows "

'' But of what, Ferdinand ? You have not
told me yet of what you are accused."

There are those who it seems will go any
lengths to brand me, to ruin me utterly, in this
world and in that to come. They do not hesitate
to charge me with a foul, dastardly crime "

"A crime? You, my dearest, best-beloved
husband ? What crime ? "

I am taxed, Rachel — prepare yourself, dear
girl ; be brave, be strong, for you will find what
I have to say most grievous, most terribly hard
to bear. They say it was I who killed him ; I,
your husband, his brother, in affection if not by
ties of blood."

Killed him ? Carysfort ? You ? "

They say I murdered him."

Oh ! shameful, base, dastardly lie ! "

"You do not, will not believe it? That is
all I care to know."

Believe that, Ferdinand, of you ? " She
raised her tearful face from his shoulder and

looked with earnest trustful eyes into his, now
bent so anxiously on her. " Never ! "

I am satisfied then ; they may try their
worst. Whatever happens, I shall be strengthened
and fortified by your simple, unquestioning
faith."

Whatever happens indeed, Ferdinand : if
all the world should swear it, I would not believe
that you could have done such a wicked,
horrible thing."

My sweet wife, your brave words give me
courage. I am ready now to face the worst.
We will fight them and conquer, never fear."
He bent his head and kissed her solemnly on
the forehead, after which there was a long silence
; their hearts were too full for words.

It's growing late," said the Colonel at
length — "you cannot, must not linger here."

Oh, Ferdinand, do not send me away
from you ! This is my place, here, at your
side."

My sweet, it is quite impossible. The rules
are inexorable ; besides, you want rest. Remember,

if you are to help me now, you must
keep up your courage and your strength."

Do not drive me from you, Ferdinand, I
implore."

I am helpless, dearest. We must bend
before the law."

I will not go far then, Ferdinand. I must,
at least, have the satisfaction of knowing I am
close at hand."

"You will be near enough at the Hall,
dearest."

I could not go there : don't ask me. I
could not bear to face my mother."

You have seen her ? Lady Lezaire has not
been unkind, I hope? Surely her cruel animosity
does not extend to you ? "

She is my mother, Ferdinand, and I daresay
she means well. But do not ask me to see
her or speak to her just now ; I could not bear
it. Besides, I could not be separated by all
those miles from you. I must be with you always
— every moment, at least, that is possible —
while you are passing through this awful trial."

Where will you go ? You will be better
really at the Hall."

"I will take rooms here in Market Eeepham,
at one of the hotels, the ' Raven,' anywhere.
Do not oppose me in this."

My sweet pet, I know the spirit that animates
you — far be it from me to balk you ;
indeed it encourages me, and gives me fresh
strength."

The adieux between husband and wife were
painful and protracted, but at last they were
said. Then, as the cab still waited at the
prison gates, Mrs St Evelyn, still escorted by
Gibbings, was driven to the " Eaven " hotel.
After this the faithful man-servant then drove
on to the Hall, whence he despatched the lady's-maid
with portmanteaus and so forth, to join
her youiig mistress that same night at the hotel.

END OF THE First VOLUME.

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 046414634

'^ llililil

,i'-<-';nM'

''l\: \r'

^;jf,

11:=

*#v4;;?^:;i:>::.0:.^;^|i^:;^^^vO;ft

'HI

w'Kmm

pipe;

BY HOOK OR Cook

BY

Major Arthur Griffiths

author op
'fast and loose,' 'locked up,' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVIII

All Rights reserved

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP.

XXV. BEFORE THE BENCH, .
XXVI. MARKET Needham ASSIZES,
XXVII. THE DEFENCE, .
XXVIII. MOTHER AND DAUGHTER,
XXIX. THE EXODUS, .

XXX. SIR PERCY SPEAKS, .
XXXI. SIR PERCY CONTINUES,
XXXII. IS HE THE HEIR?

XXXIII. EJECTMENT SERVED, .

XXXIV. THE SUIT PROGRESSES,
XXXV. HUBERT SHOWS FIGHT,

XXXVI. A BOLT FROM BRIGHTON,
XXXVII. " LE ROI EST MORT,"
XXXVIII. THE STRADDLETHORPE STAKES,

PAGE






•42





















CONTENTS.

XXXIX. SIR Hubert's friends,

XL. A ROW WITH MRS Level,

XLI. GENTEEL PAUPERS,

XLII. Harrow's GREEN,

XLIII. THE Horse-fair,

XLIV. LIBERTY HALL, .

XLV. THE POLICE AGAIN,

XLVI. OLD PODIFAT, .

171

185

196

211

222

234

246

257

CHAPTEK Xxi.

BEFORE THE BENCH.

The re-examination of the prisoner, Ferdinand
Levallois St Evelyn, as he was charged, was
somewhat prolonged. It occupied the whole
of one day, not only because the facts were
slowly elicited, but because Mr Amos Davis,
the prisoner's attorney, fought and contested
every point, inch by inch. Mr Davis had
followed in his father's footsteps as the head
of one of the most lucrative of Old Bailey
practices, but his talents were those of the

VOL. II. A

advocate, especially as regards cross-examination,
and he would assuredly have risen to great
eminence at the Bar.

The prosecution had been taken up by the
Treasury, which was represented as usual by
Serjeant Frankfort. They had often met thus
in the preliminaries of a great cause celery,
and it was little Amos Davis's boast that he had
always held his own against the great Queen's
Counsel. They met once more in the little
sessional court of Market Eeepham : a pair of
opponents in strong contrast ; the sharp ferret-faced
solicitor with his black restless eyes, and
the ponderous, slow-moving, deliberate-speaking
barrister, in whose stolid astuteness lay his
chief strength.

Serjeant Frankfort did not wish, before the
magistrates, to prove too much ; enough to
secure committal, that was all he attempted.
Mr Davis, on the other hand, wished the prosecution
to show its whole game: the line of
attack, the good cards on which it counted, and
the way they were to be played.

The first witnesses were called to prove the
cause of the young baronet's death, the course
his illness ran, the attitude of his relations and
others at the Hall.

St Evelyn's disapproval of Lady Lezaire's
resolve to call in medical aid was elicited, although
Mr Davis objected, only to be overruled.
He objected also, but vainly, to evidence showing
St Evelyn's animus against his poor little
brother-in-law; and he defiantly, indeed impudently,
bearded the whole Bench when it
proposed to listen to Mr Tinson in support of
the theory that the Colonel had a deep interest
in the young baronet's death.

All this was mere surmise, Mr Davis contended
scornfully ; vague, unjust innuendo, unsupported
conjecture.

He was less jaunty when Mr Ears wick, the
detective, was put into the box. The story
now told brought suspicion more closely home
to the Colonel. Every one in court — Bench,
Bar, audience ; poor little Mrs St Evelyn, with
her scared sorrowful face ; even the prisoner, although

outwardly stern and impassive — listened
with breathless interest to the police officer.

The reader knows already what he had to
tell : the discovery of the poison - label in
various pieces — one in the very chamber of
the crime, another in St Evelyn's private
study ; the clue thereby obtained ; its pursuit
straight into the chemist's shop at Cleobury.

The rope's round his neck now," whispered
General Wyndham-Parker, with sardonic satisfaction,
to a neighbour on the bench, Mr
Etherly.

Then the poison-book was produced, and the
Colonel's signature to the damning entry was
sworn to by Mr Tinson. \

It's tightening," said the spiteful little
General.

Mr Gravely was called, a timid, weak-kneed
witness, but he was positive as to the purchase
of the arsenic by Colonel St Evelyn.

By the prisoner ? " asked Mr Davis, with a
fierce incredulity that shock Mr Gravely instantly.


Ye — ye — s ; by Colonel St Evelyn. By the
prisoner, I mean. To the best of my belief, at
least."

*your belief!" Mr Davis looked up at the
Bench, and then around the court, saying, quite
plainly, but without words, " What can this
poor creature's belief be worth ? "

"How did you know him? Did you see his
face?"

Yes — or part of* his face. He wore a large
muffler."

Did you hear his voice ? "

"Ye — ye — s. I heard his voice. He asked
me for the arsenic."

How often had you heard him speak before
? "

The witness was not sure.

Half-a-dozen times ? "

No answer.

"Four times — three times — twice — once?
Did you ever hear his voice in your life ?
Come, be careful. You are on your oath ; your
words have a terrible, an awful importance — a

man's life depends upon them. Now tell me,
on your oath, have you ever heard the prisoner,
Colonel St Evelyn's, voice before ? "

Yes, once ; once. I am quite certain of
that."

And where, pray ? "

"Here, in this very court. He was on the
bench, and he spoke to me "

Was he giving judgment ? "

"Yes."

Against whom ? Go on. I insist, the
Bench insists, on knowing."

*' Against me," — in a very low voice. " I was
summoned for an infraction of the Patent
Medicines Act."

You were found guilty, eh ? And sentenced
— to imprisonment ? "

Oh dear, no ; only to a fine."

And this is your only ground for recognising
the Colonel's voice, or indeed himself.
That will do, Mr Gravely," said Mr Davis,
in a voice of deep dejection, as though overwhelmed
at the turpitude of this weak fellow-creature.


Not SO tight as you imagined, eh, Parker ? "
chuckled Mr Etherly.

One moment," interposed Serjeant Frankfort.
" You had other reasons, Mr Gravely, I
think, for recognising — for being sure it was
Colonel St Evelyn?"

"I knew him by his coat."

Mr Davis and his client interchanged glances.
The testimony of the coat, a great point in the
case, was to have been reserved at this preliminary
examination.

What kind of coat ? "

"An Inverness, they call it, I think. Of
striped plaid, yellow and red ; rather staring
pattern."

You had seen the Colonel wear it ? "

"Frequently, when he drove through Cleon


"I shall call other witnesses to speak to that
coat, and the Colonel's fondness for it," said
Serjeant Frankfort, but the remark was hardly
necessary. Dozens of people on the bench and *
in the body of the court knew the Colonel's
favourite Inverness.

It ought to be produced," said Lord Prude
" The witness should be asked if he

recognises it.

j;

I am afraid, my lord, that is not possible.
I hereby give notice to the other side to produce
that coat," he said, looking hard at the
prisoner. '' But it will not be put in. We
must not, do not expect it. The coat will not
be produced, for the simple reason that it has
disappeared. Its disappearance is a part, and a
strong part, of our case, my lord."

Mr Davis exchanged glances with the prisoner,
and rose to his feet.

I object most distinctly to the line Serjeant
Frankfort is pursuing. It is irregular
very irregular. The question of the coat is
not before the Court."

We can easily bring it before the Court.
Recall Alfred Ears wick."

The detective stepped back into the box, and
was made to tell the story of his search for the
Inverness in the Colonel's dressing-room.

"You could not find the greatcoat. No.

No one will find that coat, I am pretty well
convinced of that. But I give notice to produce
it — and — and'* — the Serjeant looked
leisurely at his notes, turning them over page
by page — " and — the Colonel's private diary."

It was a home-thrust, suddenly and unexpectedly
delivered.

*' What diary ? " asked Mr Davis, blankly.
I am at a loss to understand "

You cannot deny the diary, Mr Davis. Its
existence will be sworn to."

Earswick was recalled, and described his
second visit to the Colonel's study the morning
after he had overhauled the wardrobe
up-stairs.

"What was your object?" asked the Serjeant.


** I was looking for some clue to the Colonel's
daily movements."

And did you come upon any ? "

Well, yes ; what I wanted was there — I am
sure of that. But I was not able to investigate
it thoroughly. Gibbings came in and found me

with a book in my hand. We had words, and
I had to give the book up."

What was the book ? Do yon remember ? "

Perfectly : the Colonel's diary. I opened it

and read several entries bearing, I think, upon

the case — about his journeys and what he did.

I caught the word Cleobury, I think "

Aha ! That will do for the present."
The Serjeant looked at the Bench. " You
know now, my lord, why the production of
the diary is important."

"It shall be produced," said Mr Amos Davis
quietly, but with a tinge of uneasiness. He
had been whispering to his client during the
last few minutes, and the answer had been
evidently prompted by the Colonel. The
lawyer was not satisfied that it was wise to
yield the point. He had experience of diaries
read in open court, and knew how embarrassing
the entries often proved.

The case for the prosecution was now closed,
and Serjeant Frankfort in a forcible speech
told the Bench it was their bounden duty to

commit the prisoner for trial at the coming
assizes.

One word, my lord," said Mr Amos Davis,
rising, and holding a small volume in his hand,
the leaves of which he had been turning over
and reading with close attention. " The learned
Serjeant has expressed a wish that my client's
private diary should be put in."

Yes, if it can be found," said Serjeant
Frankfort, with a sneer.

**My client has every desire to further the
ends of justice, and as regards the diary, is
fortunately able to comply with the request
of the other side. It is here. We sent for it
directly the question was raised."

May I see it ? " asked the Serjeant, putting
out his hand.

"It is for the information and satisfaction of
the Court, to whom I now surrender it," said
Mr Davis, quite ignoring his opponent. " I
give it up to you, my lord, but I beg that it
may be at once sealed with the seal of the
Court, and safely kept till required."

Do you produce the Inverness also ? " asked
the Serjeant, determined to have the last word.
But Mr Davis did not choose to reply.

You have nothing more to say ? " asked
Lord Prudhames. " No ? " And then he
whispered a word to the magistrate on each
side of his chair ; the message passed both
ways along the Bench, and was answered by
affirmative nods.

Colonel St Evelyn," — the chairman now
addressed the prisoner, — " it does not beseem
me, nor does your present deeply painful position
call for any remarks from the Bench. I
have only to inform you, in the briefest and
most formal manner, that we think a sufficient
case has been made out to warrant your full
committal for trial. Let the prisoner be removed."


The governor of the jail stepped forward,
and with a look of infinite distress upon his
hard, weather-beaten old face, offered his patron
an arm.

"No, thank you. Go first: I will follow.

You need not fear. I shall not try to runaway."
And the Colonel, with a nod to the
Bench, and a half smile, walked out, upright
and unconcerned.

There was a slight attempt at a cheer among
the throng in the body of the court and outside.
The Colonel was not unpopular with
the people ; he was a sportsman, and had
kept money moving about Straddlethorpe.

Besides, Gibbings was there, and the mob
followed his lead when he characterised the
whole prosecution as a dirty plot that was bound
to recoil on those — "I won't mention names,
but a nod's as good as a wink, — it'll all come
back, I say, on those who planned it."

On the bench, opinions were decidedly hostile
to St Evelyn. Only old Etherly and one or
two more still doubted.

'that man is not guilty. I have watched
every move on his face," said old Etherly.

"Bah I He has nerves of iron," replied the
General, spitefully. " Besides, looks don't prove
innocence."

He'll slip through your fingers yet, General,"
said the first speaker.

'' Don't you believe he did it ? " retorted the
General, turning sharply on his brother magistrate.


I do not believe he did. What is more, I
do not believe that any Market Eeepham jury
will convict him on such evidence as we have
had to-day."

"Then there will be a grave miscarriage of
justice, and it will be a disgrace to the whole
country."

It would be so if we hanged an innocent
man."

Stuff and nonsense ! But come, let me ask
you one question : if he didn't murder the lad,
who did ? "

If that's your only line of argument your
case must be weak indeed," said Mr Etherly.

Chapter XXVI.

MARKET Needham ASSIZES.

The summer Assizes were held at Market
Eeepham some six weeks later. Her Majesty's
judges were received with something of old-fashioned
pomp and circumstance in this respectable
city. The High Sheriff, in a branJl-
new uniform, met them in a state carriage with
lackeys in blue and silver, and the procession
from the station to the judges' lodging was
escorted by tipstaves and javelin-men in quaint
ancient costumes.

The judge who presided in the criminal
court had never come to the Thorpeshire
Circuit before, and he told the grand jury at
the opening of the Assize that their attendance

in such numbers to discharge their public
duties was an honour to the county, and might
be held up as an example to the local magistracy
everywhere. He hoped as many as found
it convenient would dine with him at his
lodgings that night.

But the Thorpeshire magnates had not come
to be asked to dinner ; nor was it purely public
spirit that crowded the grand-jury box that
Assize. They had come to hear the great
cause celery, to take their part in the proceedings,
and when they had found a true
bill, as was inevitable, to see how St Evelyn
behaved.

The court was densely packed with people ;
all the galleries, every inch of standing-room
in the body of the court. In the former
were several ladies, great ones too ; a duchess
and leader of fashion had come down from
London on purpose, seeking a new sensation
in watching narrowly the demeanour of a man
she knew when being tried for his life.

Compared to hers, the motives — bitter hatred

and consuming thirst for vengeance — that
brought Lady Lezaire were legitimate, or at
least excusable.

Colonel St Evelyn bore his position with the
same easy self-possessed air he had shown at
his first examination. He looked slowly round
the court when first brought into the dock,
noting who was present, with now a half smile,
now a whole sneer, as his eye rested on each
in turn. With Lady Lezaire he exchanged
fierce glances ; he gave the duchess a pleasant
off-hand nod which quite disconcerted her.

The trial followed its usual course. St
Evelyn, on arraignment, pleaded 'not guilty"
in a firm voice, which had its effect on all
present.

But Serjeant Frankfort's opening, setting
forth the whole of the facts — circumstantial
in the main, but supported by certain tangible
evidence — soon removed any impression favourable
to the prisoner. The case looked more
and more black against him as it proceeded.
Witness after witness was called to give the

VOL. II. B

testimony already reported in the preceding
chapter.

The prisoner's counsel was a Mr Harry
Blackstone, a very jaunty young barrister,
with a rising reputation on circuit ; a round-faced,
rosy-checked, smiling, good-tempered
man, who was soon on excellent terms with the
jury. His habit was to treat matters lightly,
as though the charge was all a mistake, the
indictment a mere joke, and this system served
him well in the present case.

His line in cross-examination was ridicule.
He made great fun of Earswick the detective,
and his disguises.

You called yourself a lawyer's clerk, eh ?
And dressed the part? Have you ever been
on the stage ? "

No."

"Were you brought up to anything — before
you took to the police ? "

"Medicine."

Oho ! The blue paper and the poison-label
was all in your line, then. At a chemist's ?

Or, I beg your pardon, at the Veterinary
College ? "

"No; at St Bartholomew's."

But you never took your diploma ? "

Pardon me, I did."

"And you'd rather be a detective than a
doctor? Curious preference that. Think you
have a special talent for investigation, perhaps
? "

I like the solution of problems, I confess."

Hence the very ingenious theory you have
started in this case. Pleasant practice, constructing
theories which may cost a fellow-creature
his life. That will do, Mr Earswick."

And for the first time the police officer felt
crestfallen and dissatisfied with the part he had
played.

The great card with the prosecution, however,
was Mr Gravely the cl\pmist. The
purchase of the poison was its strong point,
and everything depended upon the identification
of the accused.

Mr Tinson spoke first to the signature in the

poison-book. It was compared with other
authenticated signatures, and then an expert
was called in corroboration.

"The handwriting is the same — to the best
of my belief," said the expert, with some
qualification.

"Cannot you speak quite positively?"

No. It is probably the same, more than
probably — but not, in my opinion, certainly —
the same."

Thank you," said Mr Blackstone, with a
grateful laugh. " That will do. I shall not
cross-examine you."

With Mr Gravely he was very different.

Are you fond of music ? " he asked, quite
abruptly.

M' lud, I really must protest " began

Serjeant Frankfort.

I crave your patience, m' lud," retorted Mr
Blackstone, and again he turned to the witness.

What instrument do you play ? The piano,
hautboy, jews-harp ? or do you only whistle ?
Come ! "

I don't understand, sir," faltered Mr
Gravely.

"Answer me. Are you a good musician?
Have you a good ear for music ? "

I don't know any music."

You have no ear ? "

No ear for music, sir. I am not very quick
of hearing, indeed."

Have you a good memory ? "

'' Yes, I think so."
For faces ? "
Well, I'm not so sure, sir."

How often have you seen Colonel St
Evelyn ? Once ? "

'* Twice, sir."

The first time ? "

On the bench ; the second, in my shop."

' You remembered him, then : you can
swear to that? After dark — a man you had
only seen once before."

I thought I recognised him. I knew his
coat."

You are not perfectly sure ? "

((

ii

As sure as I could be of anything. He
said he was Colonel St Evelyn, too."

"He might have said he was the Duke of
Wellington, or the Pope of Some. What I
want to know is, whom do you say he was ? "

"I thought it was Colonel St Evelyn, sir.
I did indeed."

And that was all Mr Blackstone could extract
from] the witness. Yet the impression left was
certainly one of doubt. Mr Gravely was hardly
positive as to the identity of the purchaser of
the poison.

Well, now, let me try this famous memory
of yours another way. The occasion on which
you sold this arsenic is, I hope, fresh in your
memory ? "

'perfectly."

And exactly the time of sale ? Do you
remember that ? "

Pretty exactly. It was towards evening."

After dark ? "

No, only dusk ; about seven o'clock."

Not later ; are you sure ? "

It would be about seven. I had had my
tea."

You must be very particular about this.
The exact time, I must have, to a moment, if
possible."

It was seven, sir, I am quite sure."

Well, I will take your word for it, and I
hope his lordship and the gentlemen of the
jury will do the same. Your accuracy in this
respect may be of very considerable importance,
Mr Gravely. That will do for the present."

The remainder of the prosecution dealt with
the other evidence — the negative evidence, so
to speak, of damaging conjecture rather than
fact.

The samples of horse medicine prescribed by
the Colonel were produced, and the chemical
analysis, which distinctly contradicted any
pretence that arsenic was an ingredient. If St
Evelyn used the drug in his medicaments, it
was not for his own horses.

Again testimony was adduced to emphasise
the absence of the Inverness. What had
become of it ? Let the defence produce it, or
say where it had gone. Failing this, only one
inference was possible — namely, that it had
been intentionally made away with.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE DEFENCE.

The defence set up by Mr Blackstone followed
his usual method. He was off-handed, almost
flippant in tone, laughing the whole thing to
scorn.

"The prosecution is weak, miserably weak,"
he cried, 'rand must break down, for this, if
for no other reason. There has not been the
slightest attempt to show that the prisoner
actually administered poison to the deceased —
if poison was administered at all ; and here
again the evidence has absolutely failed. You
cannot, gentlemen of the jury, you must not
ignore such glaring flaws as these.

But I wish you to realise all the glaring

weaknesses and inconsistencies of the evidence.
It is in the main artificial evidence, if I may
use the word, — manufactured on purpose — of
course I do not say maliciously — but on purpose
to back up and bear out the attack made.
An aspiring, I may say a clever, detective has
arrived at a certain conclusion, based on a possibility,
perhaps, but a most misleading one,
and all that has been adduced has been worked
in to fit.

We have been told that the prisoner and
his young brother-in-law were bad friends — a
reason for murdering him. That through his
wife he would inherit all the Straddlethorpe
property — a stronger reason for murdering
him. That when the blow, the cruel dastardly
blow, had been struck, the prisoner threw every
difficulty in the way of attempting recovery —
a last convincing proof of homicidal intent.

Thus the criminal was found ready to hand.
Evidence of his guilt — a small matter, of course
alone was wanting.

** It was most ingeniously obtained by J\Ir

Earswick, the detective : I compliment him
most sincerely on his constructive skill.

But what is it all worth ? You will, I think,
agree with me that everything turns upon that
visit to the Cleobury chemist on the evening
of the 29th of April ; that is the most material,
nay, the most vital point of the case.

Now what are the facts as they have been
adduced? A gentleman, pass me the word, a
magistrate of the county, a person of position,
well known, and till now generally respected,
wishes to purchase some arsenic — for an evil
purpose, says the prosecution. How does he
go about it ? Secretly ? To a remote spot — to
London, or the other end of the county ?

"Not at all. He puts on a favourite overcoat,
one of a bold, indeed obtrusive pattern,
which is universally known by sight ; and thus
advertised, he walks into a chemist's shop nota
dozen miles from Straddlethorpe Hall.

"He wants arsenic — not strychnine, or morphia,
or any of the more insidious lethal drugs
that kill without much show ; but arsenic, the

'bungler's poison,' the weapon of the common
ignoramus who does not know that its traces
are tell-tale and not to be escaped. ,

He buys it over the counter, in his own
name ; he signs that name without hesitation
in the book kept for the purpose, and before
a second witness.

Such is the story put forward ; such are
the facts alleged. Let us look into the facts ;
let us examine the story.

*' The main question is obviously one of
identification : first of the individual, and next
of his handwriting. I will dispose of the latter
at once, because it is the simplest.

Mr Tinson has told you that it is the
prisoner s signature ; you have had other authentic
signatures to compare with it. But I
must impress upon you that neither Mr Tinson
nor yourselves are competent to decide this
point. It is a technical point, dependent really
upon a professional opinion — the opinion of one
who has made handwritings a study. That
opinion you have had ; an expert has been in

the box, and lie has told you he is not certain
the signature in the book is Colonel St Evelyn's.
He himself is not satisfied of it ; and I warn
you that where he, a professional expert, is in
doubt, you would be very wrong to make up
your minds.

But that is a minor matter, as I have said.
The question of personal identification is the
real issue.

*now this, gentlemen, depends on a single
witness. You have heard him in the box. A
poor creature, weak-kneed and simple-minded,
this Mr Gravely ; not necessarily devoid, of
credence, but by no means clear and positive
in the testimony he osiers.

'^ He tells you he knew the prisoner, recognised
him as Colonel St Evelyn. How ? Why ?

*' By his voice ? But he had only heard
that voice once before, and under rather unpleasant
conditions. He admitted too, under
cross - examination, that he had no ear for
music, no quick apprehension of sound; that,
indeed, he was rather hard of hearing.

By his face ? A sufficiently remarkable
face, perhaps — you can judge for yourselves.
But the witness also admitted that he only
saw a part of it, that the rest was covered
up by a large muffler.

This is the only testimony of identification.
The other witness to the sale, Mr Gravely's
son, is not called, and I can only conclude
it is because he cannot speak to Colonel St
Evelyn, although, if this be the case, he has
been guilty of a misdemeanour.

** Are you going to convict a man of murder,
to take away his life, to burden your own
consciences with the guilt of judicial murder,
on no more satisfactory grounds than these?

*' Gentlemen, I will spare you that everlasting,
ineradicable reproach. I will dispose
of all these doubts. I will explain the chemist's
hesitation, the expert's denial of the signature,
the disappearance of the Inverness. I
will satisfy you, I venture to assert, on all
these points. My case is simply this. I can
prove to you, I hope, beyond dispute, that

the prisoner, Colonel St Evelyn, never went
to Cleobury at all."

It was a coup de theatre which produced a
sensation in the court.

Call William Gibbings," went on Mr Blackstone.


The Colonel's servant, dressed in a neat suit
of iron-grey ditties, with a gold horse-shoe pin
in his white scarf, stepped smartly into the box,
and stood at attention before the judge.

After the usual preliminary questions, the
witness was asked —

Do you remember the 29th of April last ?J'

I think so, sir."

Is there anything particular that would
^x that day and its occurrences in your
memory ? "

Yes, sir. We bought the roan cob, •' Strawberry
Leaf,' that day."

Who bought it ? You ? "

I and the Colonel together, sir ; at Clun-unfold
Farm."

*' You accompanied your master to Clungun-

ford ? Yes ? Did you go over from Straddle-thorpe
? "

"Yes, sir, in the afternoon, after lunch.
Reached it about four."

And left it ? "

At five or half-paste''

'^ Ee turning to Straddlethorpe ? "

Not direct, sir. We took the moorland
road, round by Glutton Fells, to try the new
cob. He was in the shafts."

What is the distance from Clungunford, by
Glutton, to Straddlethorpe ? "

A matter of eighteen miles."

*' What time was it when you reached the
Hall ? "

Glose on eight."

And now, tell me : how does Gleobury lie
with reference to Glungunford and Straddle-thorpe
? "

"It's on the far side of the Hall."

To get to Gleobury from Glungunford,
you'd have to pass through Straddlethorpe ? "

It's the straightest road. There's another

way, up by North Bitchburn, but it's a long
way round."

How many miles ? "

*' Six or seven and twenty."

Leaving Clungunford at 5, or 5.30, you
could not reach Cleobury at 7 ? "

Not by neither road. Nor yet by 8."
Several jurymen nodded their heads at this.
They were all Thorpeshire men, and knew its
roads and distances by heart.

One word more. There is a line and railway
communication between Straddlethorpe
and Cleobury. Could a person leave Clungun-
ford at five, drive to Straddlethorpe, and reach
Cleobury about seven by catching any train ? "

"The last train in the evening between
Straddlethorpe and Cleobury is a few minutes
before six."

The importance of this unexpected evidence
for the defence was not to be overrated. But
there was more in corroboration.

First of all, the Colonel's diary was called for
and put up. Its entries, at the counsel's re-vol.

II. c

quest, were read for several days previous to
the 29th April. On that day the entry ran
as follows : —

"Heard from Gamaliel about the last acceptance.
He's quite unconscionable. Peters
complains of the last lot of oats — because he
did not buy them.

"Went with Gibbings to Clungunford. Tried
Farmer Holt's roan cob ; bought him for forty
guineas. Not dear: well ribbed up, 15 hands,
and rising six. Drove him home by Glutton
Fells, eighteen miles, in a little over two hours."

Farmer Holt was called next and proved the
sale, about the 29th April. He was a little
shaky as to the exact date, but he was certain
that the Colonel and his man drove off with
the new purchase by the road to Glutton Fells.

That, gentlemen, is the prisoner's defence,"
said Mr Blackstone, in a joyous, laughing manner
which soon became more serious. " I have
proved an alibi, one of the clearest and most

incontrovertible alibis that ever saved an innocent
man. The prisoner, gentlemen, is more

than merely innocent of this black crime ; he
is the victim of some foul villany, the black
wickedness of which must some day stand forth
fully revealed. That the chemist's visitor was
not the prisoner, now most unjustly arraigned,
but some one personating him — in his own Inverness
abstracted for that very purpose — maybe
taken as proved. So far that person remains
unknown ; his actual purpose is also
unknown ; but we may fairly conclude it was
intended to shift responsibility or raise false
suspicions for dastardly, if not absolutely
criminal, ends. Retribution will certainly overtake
him ; even if he escapes the justice of
man, he will assuredly be brought to judgment
above."

This solemn peroration from an advocate
whose favourite manner was burlesque and
persiflage, evidently impressed the jury. Upon
the shrewd old judge it had no visible effect ;
but Serjeant Frankfort, usually so stolid and
impassive, who had long been fidgeting in his
seat, exchanging whispers with Mr Tinson or

the Treasury solicitor, and noisily turning over
the pages of his brief, rose in manifest wrath.

"I altogether protest," he began sharply,
against the line taken by the counsel for the
prisoner. They have sprung a mine on us
without notice or warning. I ought to have
claimed an adjournment, but I hope, by postponing
my cross-examination until now, that
I shall be able to demolish the defence, and
disabuse your minds, gentlemen, of any false
impression raised by the opposite side's contention.
He would have you believe that the
prisoner himself did not go to Cleobury. Well,
I am ready to concede so much. He may have
been personated by another. Why not by another
on his behalf? What if it can be shown that
this unknown and mysterious personage, according
to Mr Blackstone — but not so utterly unknown,
I contend — was acting as the prisoner's
agent and bailee ? Recall William Gibbings."

'now, sir!" He turned sharply on Gib-beings,
who met his fierce glance and sharp
speech unabashed and undismayed. " Answer

my questions, truthfully and without beating
about the bush."

I mean to do so," replied Gibbings stoutly
" there is no need to tell me that."

We shall see. Now, tell me, how long have
you been in the prisoner's service ? "

"Fifteen years."

"You were in the same regiment with him.
Were you his servant then ? "

Yes. The Colonel picked me out soon after
I was dismissed recruit-drill."

And you have been with him ever since ?
Do you get good wages ? What is your place
worth ? "

*' I have no wish to change. The Colonel
has always been very good to me."

"And you give him implicit devotion in
return. Such fidelity is quite touching. But
we must be a little more precise. What are
your wages ? I repeat. "

Seventy, and three suits a-year."

New ? Made to order ? Don't the Colonel's
old clothes come your way ? "

^' Yes ; they have always been my perquisite."
*' Do they require much altering ? "
*' No ; I can wear them mostly as they are."
'indeed! In fact, you and the Colonel are
much of a size : same height, same build ? "
1 believe so."

Remarkable coincidence that," said the
Serjeant with meaning, as he looked shrewdly
at the jury, and paused. Then twisting his
wisp of a gown afresh round his big body, and
giving his small wig a new toss on his big head,
he proceeded.

"You were greatly trusted by the Colonel,
I understand — in all his secrets, quite his confidential
man, eh ? "

*'I can't say that. But he often gave me
private jobs to do."

You went messages ? Paid his bills, settled
for him with betting men, and so forth ? "
I have done ail that — at different times."
"And rendered him an account, I suppose,
a true and faithful account ? "

I hope so."

Verbally : in writing : how ? "

*not in writing; I can count up, make figures
a bit, but I can't write — not a line."

In spite of the control he exercised over himself,
the old Serjeant's face fell. The whole
fabric of fresh implication he had so cunningly
contrived at once collapsed and fell to the
ground.

He would not yield his point, however, quite
without a struggle. Paper and ink where called
for, and the witness was desired by the jury to
show what he could do. Gibbings went to work
with the best will in the world, but the result
was a scrawl like that of an imitative monkey,
or an uneducated child.

Gibbings could not have signed the poison
register. It was not he that had personated
Colonel St Evelyn.

The prosecution was worsted : that was evident
from the last despairing efforts made by
Serjeant Frankfort. He dwelt on the hesitation

of Farmer Holt as to the date of the sale
of the roan horse ; he laughed at the diary and
its entries, which might have been made at anytime
long after the event ; he stigmatised Gib-beings's
evidence as though the witness had
already been convicted of perjury.

But there was no getting over the one broad
fact — that at the time the chemist Gravely
swore the prisoner was in his shop buying
arsenic, he. Colonel St Evelyn, according to
another man's oath, was in a dogcart at least
twenty miles away.

The latter evidence came no doubt from an
adherent, a creature, possibly, of the Colonel's ;
but there was nothing adduced to impugn his
credibility, and it must be difficult for the jury
to ignore such direct testimony.

This in a few words was the judge's summing
up. There was doubt, more than doubt,
in favour of the prisoner, and by every principle
of law and justice he must have the
benefit of it.

The jury took time to deliberate ; they did
not return to the court for three hours. But
when they appeared, 'not guilty" was the
verdict, as all who had followed the trial
expected.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.

The great Thorpeshire cause celery did not end
with the trial. The pros and cons, the prosecution
and defence, the whole of the evidence,
all these were fully and minutely discussed
throughout the country and beyond.

Local opinion was divided, but it was mostly
unfavourable to St Evelyn. The malcontents,
as usual, made most noise, and as they were led
by the spiteful garrulity of General Wyndham-parker,
it was not strange that the hostile view
prevailed.

That Gibbings had forsworn himself was
pretty generally believed. People even went
so far as to give the exact price he had been

paid. Five hundred pounds down, and the
goodwill of the *' Cow and Pail " ; not dear :
surely it was well worth all that to escape
hanging.

St Evelyn had escaped — narrowly. His life
was saved, but was it worth saving? He was
still branded with the mark of Cain. Whitewashed,
but not absolved; acquitted, but still
suspected. His future lot in life was scarcely
enviable. He might be exonerated by the
letter of the law, but he was still condemned
by common report. People would look askance
at him, would hesitate to give him their hands.

'what would he do? Leave the country?
Remain to brazen it out, if possible to live it
down ? " This was what every one was asking.

It was a question no one would have had the
hardihood or impertinence to put to St Evelyn.
But the reader shall be admitted to his confidence
as he talked next morning with his wife.

They occupied rooms at the " Eaven " ; the
Colonel had gone there straight from the court.

''My only idea is to get away," said gentle

Rachel, still tearful and broken down by the
reaction from the intense anxiety of the dreadful
time they just passed through.

"So we will, dear, for a time," said her husband.


It must be a long time. I don't seem to
feel that I could ever face people, ever live in
the county again."

That will all pass off, my darling. You will
forget, as they will, I hope. Besides, if we
went away and stayed away, what would be
said? That I was hiding my head. No, no.
We'll go abroad now, to one of the German
baths, or into the Tyrol — somewhere far off —
and get back in time for the 1st September."

You mean to shoot, Ferdinand, this
year {

Why not ? The young birds are very
plentiful, 1 believe, and there are no coverts
like those at Straddlethorpe."

Straddlethorpe ? Surely you don't think of
living at the Hall, Ferdinand ? ''

Naturally I do. Why should I not live

there ? Of course, it's yours now ; but I hope
you don't want to turn me out of doors ? "

Ferdinand, all I have you know "

*' I might say that what's yours is mine, and
what's mine is my own ; but, my dear child, it
is you yourself I value — only you."

St Evelyn was not given to sweet speeches,
and at the unwonted tenderness of his words
his wife's brimming eyes once more welled over
with grateful tears.

*' I shall never forget what you have been tome,
my good true wife, in all this dreadful
business. No woman was ever more staunch,
and I shall never forget it, Rachel. I cannot
say more."

He gave her one long loving kiss, and then
resumed his matter-of-fact talk.

*the question is, how soon can you be ready
to start ? We might get to London to-night :
Sarah and the children could follow us "

"By all means. I have only to say goodbye
to mamma."

You mean to see Lady Lezaire ? "

Oh ! indeed I must. Surely you don't
mind ? "

If you wish it, of course go. But I
wouldn't if I were you."

She is my mother, Ferdinand "

Upon my soul, I can't believe it. No two
beings were ever more unlike."

My mother means well "

*not to me, Rachel. She has hated me
always, and now she has tried to ruin me
utterly. It's all her doing, this shameful plot.
I cannot speak of her, think of her, with any
patience. You must not ask me to go and see
her, Rachel, for I cannot, upon my soul. I'd
rather not see her again."

Not by-and-by, Ferdinand, when the first
bitterness is over ? "

I'd rather not be under the same roof with
her. I hope you don't want her to stay on at
the Hall."

I should be sorry — I should not like — to
quarrel altogether with my mother," Rachel

began, falteringly, but gained courage as she
went on. " I could not send her away."

She will save you the trouble, perhaps,"
replied the Colonel, evasively. He had quite
made up his mind about Lady Lezaire, and, as
the reader knows, had conveyed a message to
her through Mr Tinson. But he could not pain
his wife by telling her this just now.

"Mamma must feel how cruelly unjust her
suspicions have been, and I am sure she will
tell me how sorry she is that she misjudged
you," Kachel said as she went off, hoping to act
as peacemaker.

But there was no disposition to apologise in
Lady Lezaire. She met her daughter defiantly,
rudely.

Have you come to give me notice to quit ? "
she asked abruptly.

Oh, mother, how can you say or think
such a thing ? " answered Rachel.

I say it because I know what I have to expect
from Colonel St Evelyn. He has plainly

told me what. But, that apart, I should wish
to put as far as possible between us. The
world is large enough, I trust, to allow us both
room, never to meet again. Of course I must
go. But it is hard, desperately hard, to leave
my home after all these years. To leave the
Hall which was my husband's, and was my
darling martyred son's — to go out into the
world alone "

But why should you leave it, mamma, and
why do you say that you are alone ? You have
me still, and the children, and you will always
be welcome here."

In your husband's house ? For it is his
really, not yours : all the property which has
tempted him to do this wicked murderous "

Mother, you shall not accuse him still, and
to me. I will not listen. It is too bad, too
wicked of you. After the trial too "

"Do you think I am imposed upon or deceived
by that shameful trick ? Nobody is.
The trial was a disgrace to the law. Gibbings
and his master are well matched. But they

will be found out some day, both of them, and
will get their deserts."

"It is dreadful to hear you, mother. I could
not believe that even your hatred of Ferdinand,
your unkindness to me, would carry you so far,"
said little Rachel in a sad voice, but with much
dignity, as she rose from her chair and moved
towards the door. "I came, as I felt bound,
full of respect and affection, to make peace before
we went away."

You are leaving England ? " cried Lady
Lezaire, with manifest satisfaction.

Till September, at any rate."

It was only a short reprieve.

*' When I presume you mean to take possession
of your place. Very well ; I quite understand.
Long before September I shall have
moved out of the way."

*' Oh, mother, do not let us part like this ! "
said Rachel impulsively, with outstretched hand.

*' I do not well see how it could be otherwise,"
answered her mother coldly, barely noticing the
gesture. " Good-bye."

VOL. II. D

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE EXODUS.

Preparations for Lady Lezaire's departure
were not delayed. They were hastened by
the appearance at the Hall of a Mr Maybrick,
one of a firm of lawyers in Market Eeepham.

He asked for Lady Lezaire, pleading most
urgent business, which rendered a personal
interview indispensable.

I hope, my lady, you will accept my most
humble apologies," he began. " I have an
unpleasant, most unpleasant, duty to perform,
and I feel for your ladyship."

On whose behalf do you come ? " asked
Lady Lezaire, interrupting abruptly.

"Colonel and Mrs St Evelyn have intrusted

me with the management of their affairs, and
I am desired by him to convey his deep regrets,
but to point out to you that, if quite convenient
to yourself "

Don't beat about the bush, Mr Maybrick.
Colonel St Evelyn has sent you to turn me
out of Straddlethorpe. Is that it ? "

"Well, my lady, yes. You see, the St
Evelyn family is increasing, and — and — of
course, I understand that it will be a great
grief to you to leave your old home."

' Spare me your regrets, sir. When am I
to go ? At once ? "

«

Oh, my lady, there need be no such haste.
In a month or two."

*' I shall leave as soon as I can pack. And
now, unless you have anything else to say on
business, I will not detain you."

Pardon me, there is one other point.
Colonel St Evelyn wishes me to convey to
you his anxiety, his earnest wish — in a word,
he is prepared to do what is right. He wishes
to make you a handsome allowance "

» s.«""

*' To me ! How dare you repeat such an
insolent proposal ? "

"It is well meant, I assure you. Colonel
St Evelyn is aware that your settlement,
secured on the estate, is rather meagre. It
was made when the revenues were less. For
years now everything has prospered, as you
know, and the Straddlethorpe property is worth
nearly twice as much as at your marriage."

If it brought in millions, I would not accept
one farthing from Colonel St Evelyn. I have
my own portion."

Yes, yes, my lady. But that, with your
settlement, will bring you in, I am told, barely
fifteen hundred a-year, and an offer to increase
it by a couple of thousand is hardly to be
despised."

*'Do not speak of it again. Nothing would
induce me to take it."

Well, Lady Lezaire, I should be failing in
my duty if I did not urge you to take the
money, to which, I may add, you are fully and
fairly entitled."

"Be good enough to let the matter drop.
I have spoken finally, once and for all," said
Lady Lezaire, very stiffly.

I regret your decision, but must bow toit,
and will pass on. I am also desired to
place at your entire disposal anything you
esteem of especial value — articles of furniture,
books, pictures, other than those on a list I
will give you ; a pair of horses, one or more
carriages "

Enough, enough ! " shouted her ladyship.
Spare yourself and me. I want nothing,
absolutely nothing. I will take nothing but
what is my own. To prevent dispute, you
shall have an inventory."

It will not be necessary, really."

'' But you shall. I insist, for my own satisfaction.
Everything shall be set down, jewels,
dresses, china, all my private possessions. My
maid and Mrs Leleu shall set about it at once."

Mrs Leleu was summoned from the housekeeper's
room and received her instructions.

Can it really be true, my lady," said the

housekeeper, ^* that you are going — that we are
all to be sent away ? " She spoke in a sad
dejected tone, and sorrow seemed to have
subdued the fire of her restless eyes.

It depends on yourselves, Mrs Leleu,
whether you go or stay. Colonel and Mrs
St Evelyn will, no doubt, take on any who
wish to remain with them."

"Most of us would prefer to accompany
your ladyship."

"It is kindly meant, but I shall have only
a small establishment in future. I fear I shall
not be able to afford a housekeeper. I must
be my own. But you shall have an excellent
character — the strongest recommendation, in
fact."

Your ladyship is too good," said Mrs Leleu,
with a grateful curtsey.

As for the other servants, they will look to
you ; but pray refer to me in any particular
case.

One thing I should like to ask, my lady,
if you will allow me. It's about Hubert Podi-

fat : what will become of him ? The Colonel
could never bear him."

*' I will take care of Hubert, provide for
him, for my dear Carysfort's sake."

"Thank you, my lady, on his behalf. I
see so much of him, you will understand that
I take an interest in the poor fellow."

Yes, yes ; I understand and appreciate your
kindness. By all means tell him what I say."

All this was said in Lady Lezaire's boudoir,
a room en suite with her bedroom, where she
was superintending the operation of cataloguing
and classifying. The work occupied the whole
morning; in the afternoon it was resumed
in the same rooms, and almost completed by
evening.

*' To-morrow," said Lady Lezaire, "we will
take the Spanish chamber. There must be
many things there "

She did not finish the sentence. This Spanish
chamber, so called from the old stamped
leather that covered its chairs and lined its
walls, was full of sad memories. It was the

"best room," the bridal room, occupied always,
at least after marriage, by the head of the
family, the master and owner of Straddle-thorpe.


It had been shut up, disused, for years now,
ever since the death of Sir Percy Lezaire,
who had been brought there speechless, partly
paralysed, after a terrible fall in the hunting
field, and who breathed his last in it, on the
great old-fashioned four-poster of carved oak,
with its stiff heavy hangings of silk brocade.

Lady Lezaire had hardly entered the room
all these years. It was kept constantly closed,
and the blinds were generally down. No one
visited it but the housemaids periodically,
with their tea-leaves and brooms and pails.
The furniture was faded, out of date. It might
remain so. Lady Lezaire had said ; renovation
and restoration would keep until the time came
for Sir Carysfort to make his choice and bring
home a bride to perpetuate an ancient line.

It seemed to poor Lady Lezaire a dreary
deserted place that morning, in the bright

strong sunlight when the blinds were drawn
up ; a sad, silent, tomb-like chamber, peopled
even at mid-day with ghostly memories and
grisly shapes.

The associations called up were most painful
to Lady Lezaire, and she sat for some time
with bent head and abstracted gaze, while her
attendants went on with what there was
to do.

They opened wardrobes, pulled out drawers,
tossing things about and rummaging everywhere,
till Lady Lezaire roused herself at
length to give instructions, and decide what
should be left, what taken away.

The Spanish chamber was very large and
commodious, of the kind occupied by a married
couple in the days before dressing-rooms were
deemed indispensable for the master and lord.
A bath-room had certainly been added in Sir
Percy's time, but he had been in the habit of
making as much use of the Spanish chamber
as Lady Lezaire. His spacious escritoire still
stood in one of its oriel windows ; a small bookcase

was let into the wall on one side, on. the
other was a cupboard with locked doors.

Lady Lezaire herself examined the drawers
of the writing-table ; while she sat at it so
engaged, Mrs Leleu, after trying several keys,
had of her own accord opened the cupboard.
Lady Lezaire was looking at the contents of
the centre drawer — some bundles of receipts
tied together with faded pale pink tape, a now
nearly indistinct photograph of a Scotch mountain
view, and several sheets of dust-laden notepaper
— when she heard Mrs Leleu say —

** And this, my lady ? "

The housekeeper held in her hand an old-fashioned
desk or despatch-box of green morocco,
with a handle of dark-stained tarnished
brass. It bore on the top a plain monogram,
the letters "P. L." indistinct, but still legible.

It was Sir Percy's, I believe. Where did
you find it ? "

** In this cupboard, my lady, on the top
shelf."

^' It must have lain there for years. How

strange ! I never seem to have missed it ; but
then that terrible time. Is there anything in
it ? Have you looked ? Is it locked ? "

I'm not sure, my lady," said the housekeeper,
placing the desk on the writing-table
in front of her mistress.

There was a lock, but a very simple one,
which was turned by almost the first key Lady
Lezaire tried.

Inside was a packet of papers, tidily arranged,
and labelled —

"To be opened after my death," with the
date.

My husband's handwriting ! " cried Lady
Lezaire. "And the date — two days before
his accident ! What can this mean ? "

With agitated fingers she hastily undid the
packet. Several smaller papers fell out on to
the table, but she still held a bulky MS., many
sheets tied together bearing the same inscription
as the outside of the packet —

To be opened after my death."

Lady Lezaire cast her eyes nervously over

the first few sentences, and almost immediately
all the colour left her face.

This is most extraordinary ; I cannot understand,"
she faltered. Then turning to the
housekeeper and maid, and with a great effort,
she said, " Leave me, please. I must read
these papers alone. Come back when I ring."

Next instant she was devouring the contents
of the MS.

CHAPTER XXX.

SIE PERCY SPEAKS.

This is what Sir Percy had written : —

''I have placed this letter where it must
at once meet the eye of those into whose hands
my papers fall.

It will be read after my death — immediately
after, I trust ; so that the bitter wrongs
I have done the weak and helpless may be
speedily righted. I cannot hope for forgiveness,
but God is merciful, as man is frail.
May all whom I have injured, directly or indirectly,
judge me as they shall hereafter be
judged.

The story I have to tell, intimately and
seriously affecting those nearest to me, those

to whom I am bound by every sacred and
natural tie, is one of shame and sorrow. The
shame is mine ; the sorrow, the cruel disappointment,
the disgrace, the misery, will fall
on the innocent and confiding victims I have
so deeply and so basely wronged.

"And yet I myself was a victim. I was
not wilfully wicked ; my fault, my trespass,
my crime — I do not spare myself — overtook
me unawares. Not till long afterwards, not
till years had elapsed, and when it was altogether
too late to retrace my steps, to retrieve
my errors, did I learn how grievously I had
sinned.

"This is my story; it takes me far back,
beginning in 18 5-, when I crossed the Atlantic
in search of sport. It was my passion, sport
of every kind ; but I was perhaps most devoted
to fishing. As I had heard almost fabulous
accounts of the Nova Scotian lakes and rivers,
I went first to Halifax, whence I could move
out easily, making excursions for days, weeks
even, if I was so inclined. The sport amply

repaid me, and I spent quite six months most
pleasantly between Halifax, Windsor, and
Mirabilis. I fished every mile of the strangely
named rivers of these parts — the Nippissiquit,
Musqudoboit, and Eastagooch. There were
many more, so I was told, at greater distances
some in New Brunswick, some in Newfoundland
— and 1 was determined to try them all.
"Money was no object with me: I have
had ample means at my disposal always, and
greatly to my own undoing. It has tempted
me to self-indulgence, to gratify every fancy,

every whim ; but there Being fond of the

sea, and anxious to travel in comfort, I resolved
to buy a yacht, or the best imitation of one
to be had in these colonial waters. I secured
a large Cape Cod fishing-boat of nearly 200
tons, with her tall spars and graceful lines —
a clipper in every way, which the skilful shipwrights
of Halifax gutted and reconstructed
entirely. Her accomodation was ample, if not
luxurious ; her sailing power first-rate. I found
an experienced skipper in the master of a

coaster, and he brought with him an excellent
crew.

I made many cruises in the Evangeline,
as I christened my yacht, coast wise, putting
into little - known harbours or river - mouths,
and lying there while I thrashed all the neighbouring
waters and secured generally magnificent
sport. After exhausting the New Brunswick
rivers and those that fall into the Bay
of Fundy, I shaped my course eastward, and
passing Halifax entered the Gut of Canso,
meaning to traverse the Bay Chaleur and try
the fishing on the coast of Labrador.

"One Sunday morning we were abreast of
Port Halibut, half-way through the Gut, when
the turn of the tide sent the flood streaming
through the narrow passage like a mill-race,
so that we could make no head against it,
and were compelled to anchor just where we
lay.

It was Sunday morning, I say, and I could
hear the bells ringing out their summons from
the little wooden belfry of the shingle-roofed

church that nestled amidst the fir-woods. The
settlement was but a small place : a collection
of frame-built shanties belonging to the fisher-folk,
whose boats, whalers or "Median rigs,"
were pulled up on the shore. But it was
homelike, peaceful, and for once I was drawn
to attend to duties too much and too long
neglected in those careless, reckless days.

*' The impulse was excellent, yet, sinful man
that I am ! would that I had never entered
that simple, unpretending place of worship,
with its bare rafters, whitewashed walls, and
pine wood pews! I there met my fate; I first
came under the black shadow that through a
selfish temper and easily roused evil passions,
has darkened and must embitter my life even
to its closing hours.

The service was of the simplest ; the minister
a plain - speaking, patriarchal old man,
with flowing white beard ; the small congregation
devout and humble in aspect, all settlers
and seafarers, clad in jerseys or homespun.

One single exception met my surprised

VOL. II. E

eyes. In a pew apart — the clergyman's — sat
the most beautiful creature I had ever seen.
A girl, young, graceful, but reverentially absorbed
in her prayers, till, attracted irresistibly,
as I thought, by my fixed and ardent gaze, she
looked up and saw me for the first time.

After that it was all over with both of us ;
I was enslaved, she fascinated. I knew it by
her blushes and vain efforts to ignore my eager
admiring eyes.

It was the old story : love at first sight.
After church I made her acquaintance formally,
through her father the clergyman, who, after
the simple fashion of the colony, hospitably
welcomed me to Port Halibut. But Priscilla
Spary and I seemed to have already known
each other for years. Love lives fast, and our
intimacy had grown in the passionate glances
exchanged long before we learnt each other's
names.

There is no need to linger over this part of
my confession : it is not indeed that of which I
am most ashamed. There need be no disgrace

in love — honestly given, freely returned. Had
I followed the first true promptings of my heart,
I should not have to write these words, pen
this degrading story. I should have made
honourable proposals to the woman of my
choice, and married her openly from her father's
house, in his own church, blessed by his own
hands.

But I was led astray. I behaved like a
blackguard. The pride of descent, of position,
the recklessness my wealth and independence
gave me, tempted me to sin. I took a base
advantage of the trustful, unquestioning affection
of an innocent confiding girl, and — woe
is me ! — dragged her down into the mire.

Priscilla after much earnest solicitation,
consented to elope with me in my yacht. One
afternoon, according to prearranged plans, we
slipped anchor, and with all sails set and the
current with us, were carried out of the Gut on
the top of the tide. Our course when once in
the open sea lay eastward, westward, to any
point of the compass, to any part of the wide

world, just where we pleased ; for I was careless
of everything, blinded, absorbed by my
passion for the foolish woman who had given
herself up to me entirely and absolutely.

Our cruise had lasted a couple of months or
more before conscience awoke within me, and
I realised how wicked a thing I had done.
But now when I saw how bitterly and unceasingly
she grieved, I was overwhelmed with
contrition and remorse. What atonement was
possible should be made at once. The yacht's
head was shaped for shore, we landed at the
first port, Louisville, and there, before the
registrar of the little town, I made Priscilla
Spary my wife.

''A generous though tardy acknowledgment
this of my duty, my grave responsibility to her.
It should have brought me contentment, abiding
peace of mind. But strange to say, the
marriage did not tend to increase our happiness
; on the contrary, the sacred tie, instead
of uniting, drove us asunder.

No doubt I was mainly to blame. I grew

discontented, exaggerated the drawbacks and
disadvantages of our union. I seemed to see
at last that the wife I had made mine under
such peculiar conditions was scarcely a suitable
mate ; I felt I could not take her back
to England, that she was unfit to assume her
place in the society to which I belonged, that
she would shame, perhaps disgrace me there.

That these disturbing thoughts were cruel,
far-fetched, I am positive now. But yet they
grew on me, gained strength, and presently
I showed that it was so. My demeanour
changed : I was less loving, less considerate
to my young wife. Trust a woman for discovering
such a change ! My wife, my poor
Priscilla, changed too. At first she was half
frightened ; she seemed anxious, nervously
eager to regain my good graces. But when
she saw that my ill-humour did not disappear,
she quickly realised that I had ceased to care
for her. The shock must have been severe,
but she proudly concealed it. Nothing betrayed
her outwardly, beyond a stern impassive

coldness, developing soon into sullen
silence, varied only by fierce bursts of stormy
upbraiding.

The halcyon days were passed ; courtship,
honeymoon, happiness — all were gone. It is
bitterly painful to me to recall that time — the
utter collapse, the complete shipwreck of our love.
I am ashamed to remember how cruel I was :
how bitterly I spoke to her ; how I talked her
down when she boldly essayed to reply; how
we fought, and squabbled, and fought again.
Ah me 1 would that I could live those days
again ! But there is still worse to tell. This is
a full and unreserved confession, and I must
abate nothing, must neither extenuate nor gloze
over a single tittle of my crime.

It was barely six months since we had left
Port Halibut, yet I was already heartily sick of
my wife, disgusted with the part I had played.
We had been cruising in Canadian waters ; I
had made two long visits to Anticosti, and had
fished some of the rivers on the northern shores
of the St Lawrence. Autumn was over, winter

close at hand. I had already made up my mind
to go back to Halifax, pay off the yacht, and
then return to England. Part of my plan was
to effect a separation at any price from my wife.
I had great hopes that if I secured her a handsome
allowance, she would leave me without
regret, and gladly live always apart.

*' The month was November, the weather bitterly
cold ; we were still in the narrow seas north
of Nova Scotia, and my skipper hinted pretty
plainly that he was afraid of ice. We must
make at once for the open ocean, or run the
risk of being shut in. Our most direct route
was by the Bay Chaleur to the Gut of Canso
and through it. But how could I show myself
near Port Halibut again ?

I was spared the humiliation of running the
gauntlet past a place with which I had been so
dishonourably associated. Baffling head-winds
blowing steadily from the S.W. met us day
after day, and although they raised the temperature
and diminished our fears of ice, they
forbade us to hope to beat up to the mouth of

the Gut. But by making very long tacks to
the eastward, we succeeded in weathering Cape
Breton, and having now lots of sea-room, were
in a fair way to reach the southern coast of
Nova Scotia. But while we were still northward
of Sidney Point the wind dropped suddenly,
and with it the temperature went rapidly
down. Intense cold and a smooth sea was
certain to facilitate the formation of ice-floes,
and it was all-important that we should continue
our voyage without a moment's delay.
The captain was not less anxious than myself
to get ahead. As the day drew on, and the
weather promised worse and worse, I ordered
the gig to be manned, and started off for Sidney,
determined to hire a steam-tug at any cost to
take us round the point and on towards Halifax.
Priscilla was in the cabin when I left the yacht ;
I did not ask her to accompany me. That very
morning we had had a fiercer quarrel than any
before, and I was glad to escape her company.
Nor did she bid me good-bye, unless the fixed,
almost insolent stare with which she treated

me when I left the cabin could be so interpreted.


It was a three hours' trip to Sidney, and
when once more we rowed alongside, night had
fallen ; the clear, cold winter's night of these
northern latitudes, twenty-five degrees of frost,
a glassy sea under a sky gemmed with starry
fire, and iridescent with the meteor-like flashes
of the aurora. Benumbed with cold I went at
once below, eager for food and warmth. My
wife was not in the cabin. I looked in the
sleeping-berth ; not there. I went on deck,
meaning to make overtures of peace by gently
chiding her for exposing herself to such bitter
weather ; she was nowhere on deck. Still more
surprised, I inquired of the watch where Lady
Lezaire was. And then to my astonishment
they told me that shortly after I had gone off in
the gig she had ordered the dingy to be brought
alongside, saying she meant to row about to
keep herself warm.

' They were pretty well accustomed to my
wife's whims on board the Evangeline. They

knew, too, that her will was law. However
much we differed, she and I, no one on board
was cognisant of the fact ; and I to the last
claimed the most punctilious deference for Lady
Lezaire.

She had gone off in the dingy more than
three hours before ; but where ? Towards the
shore ; they had watched her. Her skill in
managing the boat, her prowess with the sculls,
were well known and much admired by my
crew. No one for a moment feared, with such
a smooth sea, under such a quiet sky, that she
could come to any harm.

"But this prolonged absence seemed more than
strange. Surely she ought to have returned to
the yacht before dark. She must have got into
some trouble, I thought ; and without hesitation
or discussion I again sent the boat's crew
into the gig, and taking my seat in the stern-sheets,
went off in search of her.

We rowed to and fro, shoreward and along it,
backwards and forwards, for hours. Not a trace

of the dingy was to be seen. It was midnight
before I desisted from the search, determined to
resume it at dawn ; and sore at heart, and with
mind full of gravest misgivings, headed once
more for the yacht.

I scarcely slept that night, and long before
daylight was again on the move. We rowed
now towards the point, and skirted it, keeping
close in-shore.

A speck upon the sea, a boat drifting hither
and thither in the tide — this was what I made
out at last, half-way round the headland.
Frantically I bade the men give way, and almost
at racing pace we overhauled the object,
to find, horror-stricken, that it was the dingy
of the yacht, abandoned in the open sea.

I jumped hastily on board, fearing almost to
find my poor wife lying dead in the bottom,
killed by cold and exposure. But no ; the
dingy was empty, although there were traces
still of the unhappy creature who had been its
last occupant.

"There lay a jacket, a hat, portions of a
woman's dress, — all of them beyond question
my wife's.

"What had become of her ? Only one solution
seemed probable, nay, possible. I noted the
ominous absence of the kedge, the little grape
anchor of the dingy, and the painter.
She had drowned herself, I felt convinced ;
fastened herself to a heavy weight to make
sinking sure, and so had gone to a miserable
death."

CHAPTER XXXI.

SIR PERCY CONTINUES.

*' I WAS now perfectly satisfied that my wretched
wife had committed suicide, driven to it, I told
myself with acute self-reproach, by my cruel
and unworthy treatment. How willingly, "how
eagerly I would have welcomed any evidence
to show that I was wrong !

But there could be no doubt of the fact.
She had made away with herself, I felt sure.
I went on at once to Sidney in the steam-tug,
and there sought assistance ; I despatched a
whole posse of people, plunderers, backwoodsmen,
long-shore folk, to make active search in
the woods and along the coast, but not a trace

of her was to be found. She was drowned,
gone to her last account.

I lingered still at Sidney for some weeks,
nay, months, hoping almost against hope for
some more positive news. The discovery of
the body would of itself have been a melancholy
gratification. But nothing was heard of
it ; no doubt the weights poor Priscilla had
attached to her body prevented its reappearance
on the surface of the waters.

At length, having no longer the slightest
doubt that my wife was dead, I journeyed
overland, a nearly interminable sleigh - drive,
to Halifax, where I took the Cunard mail-steamer
and returned to England.

*rit was not until the end of the next year
that I recovered even partially from the shock
I had received. But I found consolation then,
and the promise of more substantial happiness,
by another marriage. I paid my addresses to
Lucy Fairfield, the daughter of a county neighbour,
was accepted, and presently married.
Our daughter, Rachel, was born next year ;

then after a long interval of nearly seven years
came a son, and I was rejoiced to think that
my little Carysfort would carry on our family
line.

"My life was calm, contented, with its sober
simple joys. I was happy with Lucy, a tender,
loving helpmate ; I adored my children ; I was
respected throughout the county ; the times
were prosperous, my estates and vested possessions
increased. It was about six months after
the birth of my son that I received the first
terrible shock, and knew instantly that my peace
of mind was shattered for ever and ever.

One morning I found amongst my letters
one bearing the Louisville postmark, written ina
fair hand with which I was not unfamiliar.
With a strange presentiment of coming trouble
I hastily opened it and read as follows : —

' Percy Lezaire, — Only a mother's solicitude
for her offspring drives me to break the solemn
silence of years. I never intended to reopen the
past. You thought I was dead, and so I was —

to you. Nothing, I say, but a stern sense of
duty to my child, my boy Hubert, would console
me for the bitter humiliation I now feel. I had
far rather lie at the bottom of the sea than appeal
to your generosity for myself.

' But it is not as a suppliant that I approach
you. I write now to vindicate my rights, and
those of your son. Only a few weeks since I
learned that you had married again, that your
new wife — poor fool ! how you have deceived
her ! — had borne you a son and heir. There
was rejoicing at Straddlethorpe : the village
bells rang merry peals in welcome to the
future owner of those broad lands.

' Percy Lezaire, it is my child that is the
rightful heir — my child born within three
months of the time when, wretched beyond
endurance, goaded to desperation, I left you.
Do your duty by him, or beware. I insist
upon his immediate recognition. For myself
I care little. At once acknowledge him as
your heir, and you shall hear no more of me.
Fail in this, and I will come forward, publishing

my whole story. I can prove it, every
syllable — that I, Priscilla Lezaire, am your
lawful wife, and that she who now bears your
name, with her base-born brats, usurps the place
of me and mine.'

I need hardly pause to describe the effect
that this terrible communication had upon me.
I read and re-read it, turning over its contents
again and again, seeking for some shadowy hope
that it was an impudent and fraudulent attempt
to impose. By constant reiteration of this view
I came ere long to believe it, and after a week
or two I had almost succeeded in dismissing the
letter from my thoughts. Surely the wisest
course was to treat the whole affair with
studied silent contempt.

'• The meagre comfort I obtained from this
decision was rudely assailed before three
months had passed. A second letter came from
Priscilla, more peremptory, more menacing in
its tone.

Still I could not bring myself to act ; and a

VOL. II. F

third letter found me still wavering, almost at
my wits' end.

"This third letter might well distress me.
It was not from Nova Scotia, but from London.
Priscilla had come in person with her
child, a boy now of eleven years, to prosecute
her claims.

It was impossible to delay longer. Some
steps must be taken forthwith to satisfy Priscilla,
to silence her, if possible to buy her off.

I went alone to London that very day, to
the address Priscilla gave me, a lodging-house
in a street off the Strand. I saw her there,
the true Lady Lezaire, wan and worn, but
still handsome, and bearing herself proudly,
despite her evident poverty and the meanness
of her surroundings.

The meeting was indescribably painful to
both of us. The recollection of it alone is
bitter ; I will not linger over its details. Fora
long time Priscilla was defiant, implacable,
but I won upon her at last entirely through
the boy. By a distinct and solemn promise

to watch over and provide for him, I persuaded
her to waive her rightful pretensions and withdraw
to Nova Scotia again. I agreed to make
over to her at once a substantial sum in hard
cash to secure her against want, and to take
charge of the boy myself. I swore by all I
held most sacred to do my duty by him, and
this letter, acutely painful as it is to me, is a
most unreserved fulfilment, however tardy, of
my oath.

It was at this interview that I learnt how
Priscilla had fared from the moment she had
left the yacht. Her voyage in the dingy had
been straight shoreward ; she had landed under
the headland where we had found the boat, had
left portions of her clothing on board, and had
removed the kedge and painter to bear out the
idea of suicide, just as we had supposed.

From the coast she had made her way
through the woods to Louisville, where, her
scanty resources failing her, she found refuge
at length in the hospital, and here her child
was born.

The birth was registered, by a strange coincidence,
at the very registry office where we had
been married.

** As soon as Priscilla regained strength she
had gone into service, and electing to remain
at Louisville rather than be an object of scorn
at Port Halibut, she presently found a comfortable
place as housekeeper to a gentleman
in the town. There she was living when the
chance perusal of an English paper put her in
possession of the facts concerning me, to which
I have already referred.

*' Priscilla promised me to leave England again
without an instant's delay, and in order to
expedite her departure, I went straight from
the Strand to Lincoln's Inn Fields, where I
made a garbled and incomplete confession to
Mr Harvey, the senior partner of Harvey &
Tinson, our family solicitors. I told him that
years previously I had formed a connection in
Nova Scotia, one of which I had no reason to
be proud, but that I did not desire to evade
the responsibilities I had incurred.

A child had been born, and I was anxious todo
my duty by it. Of course I made not the
slightest allusion to the legal ties by which
I was really bound. To have confessed my
marriage to Priscilla would have fallen like a
thunderbolt on the dear ones at Straddlethorpe,
to spare whom, if I could, I was resolutely but
culpably determined.

Mr Harvey heard my story with grim disapproval,
but he could not withhold the advice
and assistance I sought. He agreed to take
charge of the boy, temporarily, until I could
provide for him.

On leaving the lawyers I cashed a cheque for
£1500 at my bankers, taking the bulk of it in
one hundred pound notes, which I handed over
to Priscilla, my rightful wife, as the price of
her perpetual silence. In exchange, but very
reluctantly, and torn with passionate sorrow,
she surrendered her son, my rightful heir. I
never saw or heard of her again.

The boy Hubert, now twelve years old, remained
in Mr Harvey's hands for some months,

but the lawyer frequently urged me to relieve
him of his charge. I wished to have the lad
properly educated, and hoped Mr Harvey would
manage the whole business for me. But it
was one that seemed extremely distasteful to
the lawyer, and I found myself compelled erelong
to take it into my own hands.

About this time a man who had been on a
hunting expedition with me in the Far West,
a practised backwoodsman, wrote begging to
enter my service in England if I could get him
a place. He was a splendid shot, and I made
him under-keeper.

It was on condition that he should adopt
young Hubert, and give him his name. To
remove him from Mr Harvey's charge to his
new home at the under-keeper's lodge, was a
matter easily effected. As I write these lines
the boy is there still : the boy who is really
and rightfully the heir to the baronetcy and
all the Straddlethorpe estates."

The confession, so far as the facts conveyed,
ended here. But Sir Percy once more took

himself to task : with poignant upbraiding and
self-reproach implored the pardon of those he
had wronged.

One or two important documents were added
to the confession in support of it. There were
certified extracts from the registrar's book : one
of Sir Percy's marriage with Priscilla Spary,
witnessed by Famish Groot, master mariner,
and Peter SpofForth, both of the yacht Evangeline
; the other certified the birth of the
boy, Hubert Algerian Lezaire, at Louisville, on
the 9th January 18 5-.

CHAPTER XXXII.

IS HE THE HEIR?

Of the mingled feelings that oppressed Lady
Lezaire after the perusal of this strange confession,
indignation was scarcely the strongest.
She would be more angry with her husband
by-and-by, when the full measure of her disgrace
and degradation were realised — when it
came more forcibly home to her that she had
never been married — that she was a mother
but no wife — that her children were illegitimate,
and that she had no right to the title
of Lady Lezaire. She could not be expected
to forgive Sir Percy Lezaire for exposing
her, even unwittingly, to such reproaches as
these.

But her first emotion now was a sort of
sardonic satisfaction. *

He will lose it all — that wretch ! In the
bitterness of his disappointment I could almost
rejoice at this dreadful blow."

This brought her to consider what action she
ought to take, if any, and when.

They burn my hands, these papers. I feel
I have no right to hold them a moment longer
than I can help. They are legal documents,
and must be given up to the lawyers. Mr
Tinson, I suppose, has left Market Eeepham.
He must come back at once."

Lady Lezaire gathered up everything, and
returning to her own sitting-room, carefully
locked up the despatch-box with its contents.
Then a telegram was sent off to Essex Street,
Strand, requiring Mr Tinson's immediate presence
at the Hall.

The lawyer came down early next day, and
was immediately taken to see Lady Lezaire.

It is the strangest story I have met with in
my whole professional experience," he confessed

frankly, when he had read all the papers.
Strange, ariki to me almost incredible."

"But there are the facts, Mr Tinson. You
cannot go against the written evidence."

I don't know what to say. You are quite
satisfied, quite positive this is Sir Percy's handwriting
? You have seen more of it than I
have."

*'0h yes; I have no reason to doubt it.
It is weak, variable, but I feel sure it is his."

What beats me is the concealment of the
confession till the present moment. Let me
see, when did he die ? "

"On December the 11th, 1871."

Eight years ago. And these papers, of the
most vital importance, have lain hidden all
this time. Extraordinary ! "

"Not when you consider where they were."

But how can they have escaped the executors
? My partner, old Mr Harvey, was
here for a week or more going through the
deceased's papers, just after Sir Percy died."

He could not have visited the Spanish

chamber. So far as I can remember, the room
was shut up immediately after the funeral. No
one entered it then, or has since, except the
maids."

Well, I am answered, but not entirely
satisfied, Lady Lezaire. You see such tremendous
issues hang on this confession."

*' As regards the property ? "

That in the first place. Then as regards
yourself "

Oh, never mind me. Let justice be done ;
let the rightful heir succeed, and without delay.
He has too long been kept out of his own."

Yes, yes ; but we must proceed regularly.
Lady Lezaire. It will be necessary first to
make every step sure. No notice of ejectment
and that is what will have to be served on
Mrs St Evelyn if the case is to go on "

'why, of course it is to go on. The St
Evelyns must be dispossessed ; he must be
forced to disgorge the plunder he has taken
such dreadful means to secure."

Forgive me, Lady Lezaire. Colonel St Evelyn

has been acquitted by a jury of his fellows.
You must not make such insinuations."

*' The point is whether you will act in this
matter, or shall I call in some other lawyer ? "

On behalf of the claimant, this Hubert ?
You would make his case your own ? "

*' I do not hesitate — if he has the best right
to be master here."

*'0f course, I owe no allegiance to Colonel
St Evelyn. On the contrary, he has taken the
affairs of the Straddlethorpe estates altogether
out of our hands. But it is a serious thing to
declare war, to commence a suit of ejectment, in
fact. We must see our way first quite clearly ;
we cannot take up such a case, you understand,
merely on ' spec' It would not be reputable
we have our professional character to think
of, Lady Lezaire — nor safe."

You might be out of pocket, you mean, if
the case went against you ? "

Frankly, yes. We should lose heavily, and
not only in money."

' So you refuse to take it up ? "

Softly, softly, my dear lady. I do not say
that. But I must make some inquiries, some
preliminary investigation. I must verify some
of these facts "

For instance ? Is not the evidence of my
husband's confession enough ? "

*'No; these marriage and birth certificates
must be authenticated ; and the claimant, Sir
Hubert, as he ought to be called if his case is
clear, must be identified."

By whom ? How ? "

Our Mr Harvey is old, and has retired
from the business ; but he is perfectly clear-headed
still. He will assuredly remember the
boy Sir Percy intrusted to him, and can say
whether he is one and the same with this
Hubert Podifat, as he was called, who has
lived here in Straddlethorpe ever since. By
the way, what is he like, this Hubert ? Is he
still here ? "

** Have you never seen him ? "

'* Once or twice casually. But I know nothing
of him — of his disposition, character, qualities,

I mean. Would he do credit in plain

English, is he at all equal to the great change
he may expect in his fortunes ? "

Lady Lezaire shook her head doubtfully.

Perhaps we had better have him up here,"
she said. "You can speak to him and judge
for yourself."

I don't think it would be quite wise. It
might get about ; be misunderstood. Or it
might raise false hopes in the young man. I
would rather come upon him unawares. Where
is he most likely to be found ? "

In the stable-yard, I expect. That is his
home by preference."

"I'll go there. If I don't see him, I may
come across some of the men, who may tell me
something about him."

They won't tell you much good, I'm afraid.
He has never been very popular with our
people. My poor dear boy made such a
favourite of him, I think they resented it."

Mr Tinson, who knew his way about the
Hall, presently left her ladyship and went

towards the stables. He found old Peters in
the harness-room alone.

"Morning, sir. Young Podifat? No, sir, I
ain't seen him, and I don't want to," growled
the old coachman.

What's the harm in the young man ? You
don't seem to like him."

No, sir, I don't ; and never have since the
black mare was foundered all through his mad
driving home from Thorpe Bosworth Fair."

I thought he was fond of horses."

"Fond of gruelling and ill-using them, and
galloping their tails off. Not but what he's
got a neat seat and rare hands on a horse.
Only he's not to be trusted with the ribbons ;
a wild reckless chap when he drives."

Is he steady — otherwise ? "

Steady ! " repeated Peters, with a sardonic
whistle — "as steady as skim milk on a shovel.
I wouldn't trust him — not to feed frogs with a
spoon. What do you say, Mr Staines ? Would
you call young Podifat steady ? "

Staines was the head-keeper, who came in at

this moment — a short, thick-set man, with thick
bushy whiskers, and the calm, cold blue eye of
the true sportsman.

It depends. Steady enough after fur or
feather; but when it comes to books — well, a
fly-book's the kind he likes to read."

Can he tie a fly ? "

'' With any one, or kill a fish. A dead shot,
too. It's well for him he's had the run of the
shooting and the river, or he'd a been nabbed
for poaching long ago."

A keen sportsman, eh ? "

But not a fair one, sir. He's only keen to
kill. If I'd let him he'd have netted the weir,
or trapped the pheasants, or shot a hare in its
form. Anything to kill — he's that cruel. You
see it with dogs. He can break them — no one
better — but it's with cruelty. He's cruel hard."

Thorndike, the farm bailiff", whom Mr Tinson
found in his little room near the servants' offices,
was still more condemnatory.

I could never see any good in him, sir
never. An idle, useless, ill-mannered cub —

that's what I call him. Never would do a
hand's turn of work, except perhaps at hay-making
time, and then he was always romping
with any of the saucy queens that would let
him."

Was he a favourite with them ? "

"As much as such a black-muzzled, cross-grained
young chap could be ; and when he
let the beer-jar alone."

Aha ! Drinks, eh ? "

He's not quite a sot yet, Mr Tinson, that's
all I can say. But I never knew him refuse a
horn of cider or a mug of ale, and I have seen
him muzzy and dazed times out of number."

He's not much likely to do much good for
himself, then."

Not he ; and no credit to any one else."

"What's he fit for, Mr Thorndike? Anything?
Her ladyship would like to do something
for him — he can't stay here with the
Colonel, you know."

If he did, he'd soon make acquaintance with
the Colonel's hunting-crop, I expect, and the

VOL. II. G

best tiling for him. The Colonel did send him to
Coppocks, the land-surveyors in Market Evesham.
But that's too regular work for him. I
should say, send him out to the colonies, the
backwoods where old Podifat came from, or
somewhere where he could lead a wild harum-scarum
life, shoot game without a licence, and
cook it in the open air. He'll never do much
good in these parts, or anywhere else at
homes

Not a very encouraging report of the rightful
heir to Straddlethorpe ; Mr Tinson felt that.
And if he had any doubts whether these evil
reports were over-coloured by malice or personal
dislike, more direct and unmistakable evidence
was now forthcoming.

As he still talked with the bailiff, an angry
scolding voice — scolding in fierce contemptuous
tones — was heard in the passage.

Where have you been ? It's an hour past
dinner - time. What kept you ? Can't you
speak I "

It's Mrs Leleu," said Thorndike grinning.

She's rating him soundly ; that's her way, but
it'll do him no good."

Podifat ? "

Thorndike nodded, and held up his hand.

Can't you answer ? " went on Mrs Leland
the vigour of the question was obviously
increased by a rude shake. " Where have you
been all the morning ? "

In — in — down Somerleaze Spinney," was
the thick, indistinct, stammering reply.

It's a lie ; I know it by your voice. You've
been boozing, muddling away your little wits,
you filthy, drunken sot. Where? Come, tell
me ; I will know."

"At the ^ Cow and Pail' "

Where did you get the money ? I've told
them not to serve you. It's that brazen slut,
Bet Bickering — but I'll get her turned away
from the bar; you'll not get fuddled there
again."

"I like Betty; Betty likes me' hiccupped
Hubert.

Go in with you, you low, disreputable

young blackguard ! Go in, and sleep off your
drink. I'll tell you what I think of you when
you're sober; not now," cried Mrs Leleu, and
her voice was heard no more.

She doesn't spare him," remarked Mr Tin-son,
with a half laugh. But he was thinking
seriously on what he had heard, wondering
how the housekeeper would bear herself should
this mauvais sujet prove to be the real master
of the Hall.

I believe in her heart she's fond of him,"
said Thorndike. "You see he's always lived
with her, and it's natural she should wish to
keep him straight."

*has he any regard for her?" Mr Tinson
asked, speculating a little on their future relations
should Hubert come in for the title
and estates.

"Hardly. Anyway he don't show it, and
by-and-by he'll abuse her, call her every
name, to any one who'll listen. There ain't no
gratitude in him, or proper feeling. To my
thinking he's a rank bad lot."

CHAPTER XXXIII.

EJECTMENT SERVED.

Colonel St Evelyn had travelled with his
family into the very heart of Europe. It had
been his wife's earnest wish, and he himself
was nothing loath, to put long leagues between
them and the painful episodes through which
they had just passed. He was willing enough
to avoid English people, to escape English
gossip, and to see none of the papers which
still commented on and freely criticised " his

case."

He had found the peaceful seclusion he
sought at a little lake-side town in the Salz-
kammergut, at pretty, primitive Hallstadt,
under the wing of the snowy Dachstein, and

on the brink of the green waters of the deep
mountain-tarn.

They were perfectly happy here, revelling
in their retirement and in the simple pleasures
the place afforded. St Evelyn found trout
innumerable in the rushing torrents that fed
the lake ; they made long fishing expeditions,
husband and wife and little ones, all about :
where the distances were great, Rachel and the
children were carried in the local sedan-chairs ;
but the Colonel, still strong and sturdy,
tramped everywhere, delighting in the vigorous
exercise. Of an evening they went out on the
tranquil lake, the whole party easily accommodated
in the flat - bottomed boat rowed by
stalwart peasant-girls ; the Colonel lying back
lazily watching his cigar - ash, while Rachel
read to him or they listened to the children's
prattle.

It was an Arcadian existence, calm, happy,
and uneventful : one of those lulls in the storms
and troubles of our earthly journey which all
of us but the most miserable experience at

times ; — a period of absolute repose which is
too often the precursor of sorrow and misfortune,
just as the whirlwind is preceded by a
deathlike stillness in the physical world.

"Too bright to last," Kachel had said that
morning, with a not uncommon presentiment
of evil near at hand.

It came that very day, in the shape of a
letter from Mr Tinson — a business letter, brief
and to the point, with a summons to surrender
so summary and unconditional that St Evelyn
felt the case against him must be strong.

As the husband and nearest representative
of Mrs Rachel St Evelyn," wrote Mr Tinson,
I beg to give you notice of ejectment from
the Straddlethorpe estates. The existence of
a son of Sir Percy Lezaire by an earlier
marriage has been in our opinion satisfactorily
and conclusively proved, and the rightful heir
has placed the matter in our hands. If you
are disposed to contest the claim, be so good
as to notify us of the names of the solicitors

acting on your and your wife's behalf, who
will accept service, as we shall carry the matter
at once before the court. — Your obedient servant,
Hilary Tinson."

"What is it, Ferdinand dear?" Mrs St
Evelyn asked. " You seem put out. Won't
you tell me ? Do not keep anything from
me now, after all we have gone through."

*'I have nothing to conceal, only I don't
understand quite. The thing's so sudden, so
incomprehensible, so strange. But you should
know ; you may help me, dear. Did you ever
hear that your father had been married
twice ? "

"What! before he married mamma? Oh
no, never ! It cannot be possible. Who says
so?"

"It is positively asserted here," said the
Colonel, holding out the letter. "More, that
there was a child by this first marriage."

"Who is that from?"

"Mr Tinson."

Surely mamma does not know of this ? "

"There is no mention of Lady Lezaire,
but I seem to see her hand in it. A fresh
attempt to ruin us. Really, Rachel, your
mother "

And what became of this child ? " asked
Mrs St Evelyn, avoiding all reference to Lady
Lezaire.

"Alive and kicking, if this letter is to be
believed. Means mischief too, both he and his
backers."

"But T cannot conceive how it could have
happened. Where has he been all this time,
and why kept in the background ? "

If it's what I suspect, we all know him
well enough. There was a mystery about
him, perhaps, but he was always to the fore.
A fine creature to be a baronet ! "

"You know him, then. Of whom are you
speaking ? "

Why, of Hubert Podifat. He must be the
new pretender."

Hubert my father's son ! How extraordinary

! It is the first time I ever heard of such
a thing."

*' Naturally they kept it from you, my dear.
But I knew, and that is one reason why I
always wished to get him away from the Hall.
It did not seem nice, his being brought up and
so intimate with poor Carysfort."

"Hubert Podifat ! What does it all mean?
Will he take everything ? must we give way ?
Oh, Ferdinand, think of our children ! "

Their interests shall not be lightly surrendered,
my darling — never fear. Brag is a
good dog, but Holdfast is a better. We've
got the estates, and we'll stick to them. Th
idea of giving way before this nameless, base-born
scapegrace ! "

God will defend the right, my dear husband,"
said Rachel.

And He helps those who help themselves.
I mean to fight this," said St Evelyn resolutely,
as he rose from his chair and walked towards
the hotel.

Where are you going, dear ? "

*' To tell the maids to pack. We must catch
the afternoon express for Munich, and hurry
home as fast as we can."

So satisfied was St Evelyn in his own mind
of the dishonesty of this new claim, that he
went at once to Mr Amos Davis, whose practice
was mainly devoted to the exposure of fraud,
and put the whole affair into his hands.

"They mean business," said Mr Davis, quietly,
" and they must have something to go upon.
Harvey & Tinson, you may be sure, would
take up nothing on ' spec' "

"But what foundation can there be?"

That's what they will have to tell us. The
law will require them to show something more
than strong presumption. They must have
facts, or a good imitation of them, or the case
cannot proceed."

You mean to call upon them, then, to show
their hand ? "

Quite so. We shall write on your behalf,
utterly scouting and repudiating the claim,
and demanding its immediate withdrawal, ora

full statement of the evidence on which they
presume to base it."

Suppose they refuse ? "

They won't refuse us : no one does. It is
pretty generally acknowledged, I think, that
people who consult us suspect foul play. I
have never met this Tinson yet in business,
and I'm not sorry to have a tussle with
him."

The St Evelyns remained in London, so as
to be within easy reach of the lawyers, and on
the third morning a telegram summoned the
Colonel to Mr Amos Davis's chambers.

The astute lawyer looked grave.

"We have Harvey & Tinson's answer this
morning, full and explicit enough. I may tell
you it has taken me an hour or more to
digest."

What do you think of it ? Have they a leg
to stand on ? "

They have got a very strong case, Colonel
St Evelyn, if these facts can be substantiated,"
and the lawyer put his finger on a bulky parcel

of documents. " If there is any truth
in these statements, and the documentary evidence
will bear examination, I should be disposed
to recommend "

*' Surrender ? Nothing would persuade me to
give up."

Compromise is what I should suggest.
Do not contest the claim. Let this Hubert
have the title, and keep all you can in the
shape of cash."

Compromise ? Never ! "

I should be failing in my duty if I recommended
anything else : always supposing, sou
understand, that the case will bear the test of
inquiry. If it does, and you have resisted, you
will find yourselves — Mrs St Evelyn and the
children, I mean — left out in the cold."

The Colonel expostulated, and protested with
much vehemence and force of language that
nothing on earth should induce him to yield
to this preposterous attempt to ruin him. But
when the long flow of fierce words was exhausted,
and Mr Davis set forth the facts as

alleged by the opposite side, he rather changed
his tone.

You mean to tell me that the marriage with
the present Lady Lezaire was void and illegal ?"

"Undoubtedly so, if" — with strong emphasis
on the if — " these papers are not forgeries."

That must be tested forthwith."

It is what I was going to propose," said Mr
Davis. " We must send a trustworthy agent
to Nova Scotia without delay, who will make it
his business to verify the entries in the Louisville
register, and get what information he can
about this Priscilla Spary, the baronet's first
wife."

He will find out, I feel confident, that it is
all a trumped-up story."

Let us hope so," said Mr Davis, pursing up
his lips. " But I confess at the first blush of
the thing it bears the impress of probability, if
not of veracity. The story is circumstantial
and straightforward ; I cannot find a flaw in
it, not a link is wanting. Our man may detect
something which will help us, but upon my

soul I would strongly advise a compromises

you can get it. Eemember the alternative."

If we lose the case my wife loses Straddle-thorpe."


"More than that. The establishment of
the first marriage would invalidate your wife's
settlements, and would deprive her absolutely
of all she inherited under her father's will."

'* She would, in fact, be illegitimate ? "

*that is exactly the state of the case. The
present Lady Lezaire would, in fact, have no
right to the name, nor her children to inherit
from Sir Percy."

It would go hard with us indeed if this
pretension was accepted in law."

I don't see how it is to be opposed, unless
something turns up in Nova Scotia."

You will send a man at once, armed with
the necessary instructions ? "

I have already selected him. There is only
one formality wanting. You will excuse me,
Colonel, but business is business, and in matters
of this kind it is our invariable rule to ask for

something in hand. We must have an advance
to cover preliminary expenses."

"With all my heart. We are playing a big
game, and I'm not afraid of the stakes. What
shall it be ? Two or three hundred ? "

"Your cheque for £250 will do at first.
But I must tell you fairly we shall soon want
more."

Pray, draw upon me for whatever is necessary,"
said the Colonel off-hand, but with by
no means a light heart. Money was plentiful
with him just then, but it was Straddlethorpe
money, every penny of which he might yet be
called upon to account for. Of himself he had
but little to meet the demands of a great and
expensive lawsuit.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE SUIT PROGRESSES.

Mr Tinson had not been idle. From the day
he had seen Lady Lezaire and read Sir Percy's
confession, he had devoted himself to getting
up the case. Certain preliminary facts must
be established before he could move an inch,
and his first energies were concentrated on
these.

Various certificates, as I have said, were attached
to the documents found in Sir Percy's
despatch-box. These were verified copies of
the Louisville register, drawn up in the usual
way on printed forms belonging to the office
and signed by the registrar.

Mr Tinson had little doubt that they were

VOL. II. H

authentic, but he deemed it advisable to despatch
a clerk to Nova Scotia to compare them
with the originals. The points in the case
were such as were likely to strike every lawyer
alike, and this comparison had commended itself
also to Mr Davis. Another point was the need
for identifying the first wife, and Mr Tinson's
clerk, as well as Mr Davis's agent, had been instructed
to make inquiries about Priscilla Spary.

These were matters which Mr Tinson, fully
occupied with the management of a large
business, was obliged to delegate to a subordinate.
But there was one more which he
could attend to himself. Little less important
than this documentary evidence was the identification
of the new claimant. Unless it could
be clearly proved that Hubert Podifat was the
boy whom Sir Percy had acknowledged as his
son, the whole case fell to the ground.

There was only one person living who could
swear to Hubert, and this was the aged Mr
Harvey, who was head of the firm in Sir
Percy's time. The old gentleman lived at

Brighton, enjoying the late autumn of a long
life, a last flicker of vitality, a sort of St Martin's
summer, at that bright and joyous retreat. He
was very infirm, and lived the ascetic regular
life of a confirmed invalid. Two hours in a
bath - chair about mid - day, two hours in a
victoria up and down the King's Road and
the Madeira Drive in the afternoon, a rigorously
careful diet, and the absence of all
emotions, was the unvarying rule of his life.
But he was still clear-headed, and he took an
old man's interest in any business matters in
which he had been himself associated. Mr
Tinson was well aware of this, and gladly
availed himself of his senior's lights and advice
in all that dealt with the past.

With regard to Hubert, he was anxious, if
possible, to obtain some recognition from Mr
Harvey by surprise. Of course it was easy
enough to let the old man into the whole
secret, and ask him point-blank whether he
remembered the boy and under what circumstances.
If he could bring the young fellow

into Mr Harvey's presence unexpectedly, and
win from him any spontaneous acknowledgment
of his identity, it would immensely
strengthen the case ; still greater value would
attach to it if this recognition took place in
the presence of others.

This idea gained so much favour with Mr
Tinson, that he set himself to execute it carefully
and formally. An application was made
to a judge in chambers to appoint commissioners
to take evidence in a certain matter, and two
learned but not overworked barristers were
instructed accordingly. They were to go to
Brighton, call on Mr Harvey, and put certain
questions to him in the case of Lezaire v.
St Evelyn.

The next step was to bring Hubert Podifat
upon the scene. This required some circumspection,
but was not really difficult for a
young man fond of pleasure.

It was an understood thing that some employment
was to be found for Hubert, and
that he was to leave the Hall before the

return of the St Evelyns. Mr Tinson, who
was in regular correspondence with Lady
Lezaire, mentioned to her his wish to bring
young Podifat and Mr Harvey together, but
reminded her that it must take place at
Brighton, as Mr Harvey was too infirm to
travel. It would be necessary, therefore, to
get the young man there casually, as it seemed ;
and the best way to accomplish this, wrote Mr
Tinson, would be to send him down to see how
he would like to be bound to a veterinary surgeon
at Brighton.

Hubert Podifat had often heard of Brighton,
and jumped at the idea of visiting it.

Mr Tinson met him, and went through the
form of introducing him to the great Mr Vase,
who followed the double profession of riding-master
and " vet." Hubert's future employment
was to follow whichever of these two
lines he preferred.

"You can think it over, Podifat," said Mr
Tinson, "and come round tomorrow morning
and give me the answer. I am staying at

Royal Crescent. Come punctually at eleven,
as I shall be going out. Here is one of my
cards : send it up when you arrive."

Next morning Mr Harvey was in his armchair
at the bay-window overlooking the sea,
and talking past business with Mr Tinson.

I forgot to tell you," said the latter, " I
have a consultation this morning. I met
Loader and Barrymore yesterday in the King's
Road, and they promised to look in. Do you
mind my seeing them here ? "

'not at all," said the cheery old gentleman,
if you don't mind talking before me. I love
to hear what's going on."

The two counsel were introduced in due form,
and while they were still interchanging civilities
with the veteran solicitor, Mr Harvey's man
came up with a card to Mr Tinson.

"To see you, sir."

1 beg your pardon, Mr Harvey," said Tinson,
turning apologetically, " but a young fellow
has called with some important papers. May
he bring them up ? "

By all means. Pray make yourself at home
here."

Next minute Hubert Podifat entered. Mr
Tinson rose and took him to the second window,
where he held him in a strong light
facing Mr Harvey for two or three minutes
or more.

That will do," he said, as he showed him to
the door, where he added in a low voice, " sit
down in the dining-room, will you? I may
want you again."

Here, here, Tinson ! " cried Mr Harvey,
excitedly. " Who was that young man ? "

«

The bait had evidently been taken.

I have seen him before, I am sure," went on
Mr Harvey.

*' Does he remind you of any one ? " and Mr
Tinson, as he spoke, looked significantly at the
two lawyers.

"It is the boy himself; I know him perfectly.
His name is " then he checked himself suddenly
— " but I had forgotten ; I promised to say
nothing about it. Only it is so long ago, and

the principal party has been dead and gone
these years."

Sir Percy Lezaire, in fact."

Mr Harvey nodded. " As you know, I need
not mind speaking. That young fellow's name
is, or used to be, Hubert Podifat — of that I am
satisfied. I never forget a face, old as I am."

Mr Tinson burst out laughing, and honestly
confessed the whole stratagem, explaining in
detail the exact position of affairs. Mr Harvey
expressed himself perfectly willing to assist
the law ; he was duly sworn, and the evidence
taken down by the two commissioners, Hubert
Podifat being recalled to the drawing-room to
be positively identified as the lad whom he had
seen with Sir Percy Lezaire. What Sir Percy
had said of the lad's parentage and near relationship
to himself was also sworn to by old
Mr Harvey, but not in Hubert's presence. Sofar
as the identification of the claimant and
the tracing of his movements from boyhood to
the present time, the case was perfectly clear.

Thus the first important step was secured.

Satisfactory news soon followed from beyond
the Atlantic : the certificates had been found
to tally exactly with the entries in the registers
; a visit to Canso Straits established the
existence of the Spares, and the story of Priscilla's
elopement was still remembered, although
no relations survived.

This was the report Mr Tinson received.
Something very similar reached Mr Davis,
and through him St Evelyn.

Yet the Colonel was by no means disposed
to throw up the sponge. He still talked big.

They must turn us out neck and crop," he
said. " I will go for nothing less than an order
of Court."

They were back at Straddlethorpe now, and
their reappearance at such a time, when the
ownership was still in doubt, and Mrs St
Evelyn's rights strongly contested, told in his
disfavour. It would have been better taste to
have stayed away. Lady Lezaire had left ; the
claimant, Hubert Podifat, was content to remain
in the background. Why did St Evelyn

parade himself so publicly at the place he had
gained by such questionable means ? This was
what many people said, especially the ,
and the strong faction that was
hostile as ever.

But the Colonel was not to be put down by
clamour, to be driven out by any unofficial
irresponsible opinions. He meant to hold his
own stoutly to the last, yielding his ground
upon compulsion only inch by inch, and resisting
to the uttermost this new and equally
wicked attempt to ruin him.

'' It shall go into Court," he said, " into every
Court. If one is against us I'll try the one
above, and so on to the very highest."
Mr Davis warned him.
*' Think of the enormous expenses."
They will come out of the estate."
If you win, yes. But if you lose ? "
What else can I do ? Am I not bound to
defend my wife's interests, my children's inheritance
? Of course it's a serious matter. There's
the wickedness of it. The whole thing is a

monstrous fraud, a direct attempt at robbery.
Either way it must cost us thousands."

That's why I have always recommended
compromise."

Would you compromise with a thief who
had you by the throat ? "

Well, I don't know ; but if my life was in
danger I think I should give in."

I have been brought up to fight," said the
Colonel, 'against any odds, and that's what I
mean to do now."

CHAPTER XXXV.

HUBERT SHOWS FIGHT.

It had been Mr Tinson's wish to keep Hubert
Podifat as long as possible in the dark with
regard to his future prospects. There was
manifest injustice in encouraging hopes that
might prove delusive. The young man was
not of a sort to bear good or evil fortune philosophically.
It was wisest to postpone all
news of the one until it became reasonably
probable — to minimise the other by making no
premature announcement.

But when the case was ripe for trial, and
the first application to eject was to be made
in open court, secrecy was no longer possible :
the whole story would become public property

through the law reports. Mr Tinson felt that
his client had now a right to know what was
being done in his behalf.

All this time Hubert had remained at
Brighton. The kind of life he led there was
far from displeasing to him. He liked his
work at Mr Yasey's, so far as it was possible
for him to like any work. It was not hard.
The study of horse-flesh was of the practical
kind, and he was already well grounded in the
subject. Veterinary science, however, occupied
but little of Hubert's time. He was such an
excellent horseman that he could make himself
very useful to Mr Yasey, who did more
as a riding-master than as a vet. Hubert was
soon utilised in the school, and presently, when
the Brighton season was at its height, he was
intrusted with a 'pride" — a troop of joyous
young ladies studying equitation, whom he
escorted along the King's Eoad and sometimes
as far as the Downs.

Hubert Podifat ? " answered the foreman
of the yard when Mr Tinson inquired for him.

"He's out with a class — I expect for the last
time."

Why, how ? or why do you expect that ? "
asked the lawyer eagerly, wondering how the
news had travelled. "Has he said he was
going to leave?"

'*No fear. It's we are going to leave him.
The governor's downright mad with him, and
swears he'll give him the sack."

What has he done ? "

Why, what d'ye think, sir ? This very
morning he bucket our brown mare along
the Dyke Road forty miles an hour, riding a
match with one of the pupils. The girl let
out at dinner-time, and her father, old Fields
the chemist, has been round to complain."

"Is the horse injured? We may make that
up to you "

"ain't only that: that's the smallest part
of it. They say — only I can't quite believe it
that the devil's imp has been making sheep's
eyes at the girl ; and what's more, that the
girl don't half mind."

Well, they're both young. It wasn't right,
perhaps, but "

Eight ! Him to buckle up to Rebecca
Fieldus ! An only child. The old man's
worth £40,000, they say, and it'll all come
to her. D'ye suppose old Fieldus 'd suffer it,
that he'd stand to a match between his
daughter and one of our lads ? 'Ain't natural.
And look at the harm it'll do our business.
We want our lads to keep themselves to themselves,
to know their station and keep it, or
who'd trust their girls to our rides ? "

"And you think Mr Vaseyy will want to
send Podifat away ? "

I'm sure of it. He's no great catch. A
loose fish, I fancy ; too fond of the west pier
at nights, and in and out of the 'Magpie' bar
all day. But there's the governor, and I think
I hear the horses in the yard."

Mr Vaseyy, a thick-set, red-faced, middle-aged
man, with the air of a gentleman's coachman
out of livery, had gone out to meet the returning
ride. He stood in the centre of the yard

with his legs wide apart, and fingering a stout
hunting-crop in rather a menacing fashion.

Here, you, Podifat ! " he cried out, and the
lad having dismounted, approached rather
defiantly, with less, as Mr Tinson thought,
of his customary slouch. " What's this about
the brown mare ? I'll teach you, you young
cub "

'don't touch me," answered Hubert angrily,
springing lightly back a step or two. "No
one shall lay a hand on me. I'll do for you,
or any one who dares strike me."

Why, Podifat ! " interposed Mr Tinson,
"keep your temper. This won't do."

No ; it won't do. I'm not the sort to be
knocked about by them."

You rascal, do you dare mutinies in my
yard ? You've bred mischief ever since you
entered it, and now you've foundered one of
my best horses and insulted one of my best
customers," went on Mr Yasey, very loud and
blustering. " Get out, before I break this crop
on your evil black-muzzled mug ! "

"Don't fret yourself," said Hubert, now
mocking and impudent. "I'll go of my own
accord. I've had enough of your dirty yard
and filthy jobs. I'm a gentleman, as he knows,"
pointing to Mr Tinson, "far too good for your
blackguard business. Stand back ! yah ! "

Next minute he was in the street, closely
followed by Mr Tinson, who was not a little
surprised and put out at what had occurred.

You had better come as far as my hotel,"
said the lawyer. " I have a good deal to say
to you, particularly after what I have just
seen and heard."

I'm not going back there, not for nobody,"
Hubert said sulkily, interpreting Mr Tinson 's
words his own way.

That's as may be," replied Mr Tinson,
stiffly. " I don't quite see what's to be done
with you. If you won't work "

Why should I work ? "

What are you to live on if you don't ? "

On what's coming to me. I know."

This confirmed Mr Tinson's first suspicions

VOL. II. I

that Hubert somehow had gained an inkling
of what might be in store for him.

"What do you know?"

"Never mind. Only I'm fly. I'm not to
be humbugged. I know my rights."

"You know a great deal more than anyone
else does, then. You have no rights as
yet "

It was no good beating about the bush. They
were now seated in Mr Tinson's room, Hubert,
at his own request, before a large tankard of
dog's nose," and the time for some sort of
explanation had arrived.

No rights : only expectations which may
never be realised. Remember, there's many
a slip."

When will it. be settled ? "

Not for months — a year. And then, perhaps,
against you after all."

"I don't believe it. I'm bound to 'cop.'
The chances are all on our side."

I cannot imagine how you've heard that.
Who's put such notions into your head? It's

very wrong to mislead you : nothing is certain.
On the contrary "

Hubert looked dogged and unconvinced.

Well, we won't waste time in arguing over
probabilities. The chief point is, what are you
to do until we can see our way more clearly ?
I had hoped you would have stayed on herewith
Mr Vaseyy, but I suppose that's out of the
question now."

Hubert made no reply, but his set teeth and
sullen look showed plainly what he thought.

Where are you to go ? How are we to "

keep you out of mischief? Mr Tinson would
have added, but forbore.

*' I don't dislike this place. It's only Vaseyy.
He's a mean hound."

*' You ought really to be preparing yourself
" Mr Tinson was musing as to the

young man's possible future, but checked himself.
" I mean that at your age a fellow should
be trying to improve himself. Now tell me,
what sort of education have you had ? "

The question seemed to puzzle Hubert.

Where were you at school ? " asked Mr
Tinson, simplifying the question.

** Market Eeepham : the Free School, for a
short spell."

How far did you go ? Latin, Greek, the
three E's ? "

Hubert looked hopeless.

"Can you read ? "

"A bit."

And write ? "

On a slate."

"Anything else ? "

I was put into ciphering ; but I played the
truant and master whopped me, and then I
ran away."

This was the presumptive heir to a baronetcy
and twenty thousand a-year.

It will never do. Whatever happens,
whether you win the suit or you have to make
your own living, you cannot be left in such
hopeless ignorance. I must find some one who
takes pupils of your sort, backward and neglected
youths. I hope you'll agree to that,

and make the most of your opportunities. It
will be for your own good."

' Shall I have to leave Brighton ? I don't
mind a little schooling if I may stay here."

His affection for Brighton sounded suspicious.
What was underneath ? Mr Tinson drew his
own conclusions. This country-bred youth,
with a natural bias towards vicious self-indulgence,
had found some potent charms in the
lower life of the gay seaside city, and was loath
to surrender its pleasures.

Yet as well there as elsewhere. He was a
scapegrace, a ne'er-do-well, as every one said,
and, Mr Tinson now knew for himself, one who
would be certain to give trouble, to kick over
the traces wherever he spent the next few
months. Discipline would be wasted on him,
but it might be possible to remove him some
distance from temptation — and this the astute
lawyer effected by placing him with a tutor at
Patcham, a village two or three miles from the
town.

Hubert fell in with this arrangement readily

enough. But it was not, as Mr Tinson thought,
the awakening of a better spirit, a commendable
desire to make up for lost time, that induced
Hubert at five-and-twenty to go back to school.
The fact was, Mr Fieldus, the father of the
lovely Eebecca, resided in a snug modern villa,
surrounded by glass-houses and green lawns, at
Preston Park, a short mile from Hubert's new
home.

Chapter XXXVI.

A BOLT From BRIGHTON.

The result of the preliminary hearings had
been decidedly unfavourable to the St Evelyns,
but the Colonel obstinately hoped on. The
first actual shock came with the intimation
that the Court intended to appoint a receiver
for the Straddlethorpe property, and at last his
confidence began to give way. This was a step
seldom adopted in an ejectment case except
when it was considered that the revenues were
in the wrong hands.

The news fell rather heavily, too, upon Lady
Lezaire. Although at the outset the prospect
of dispossessing St Evelyn had given her extreme
pleasure, her satisfaction became more

and more alloyed as she realised all that the
transfer of the property meant to her. If only
it could be shown that the first wife had died
before Sir Percy's second marriage ! This
would make all the difference to the survivor.
She would still be entitled to call herself Lady
Lezaire.

But this was a point on which Sir Percy's
confession left little doubt. The date of
Priscilla's death was distinctly stated, but there
was no official proof of it. Satisfactory evidence
on this head was earnestly sought in the
inquiry made by Mr Tinson's agent, but no
proof of it could be found.

Lady Lezaire was thus indirectly a party to
the suit, and very closely concerned in it. She
continually questioned Mr Tinson as to what
might befall her.

I suppose it is certain that the woman is
dead ? " she asked doubtfully, the day that she
heard of the appointment of the receiver.

We have no certificate, and until death is
proved the law presumes the person is still

alive. Now the effect of showing that Priscilla
Lady Lezaire is alive now, would be to
establish the fact that she was alive when you
married Sir Percy. Hence that marriage was
illegal."

And I have no right to call myself Lady
Lezaire ? "

*' Precisely, except by courtesy. But under
the circumstances who would be so brutal as to
deny you the title ? "

Lady Lezaire shook her head sadly.

"It is very painful to me — it is another
cross to bear ; it is all very, very hard."

But at any rate your position from a monetary
point of view will not be affected. We
have taken the best advice, and counsel are
all unanimous that your settlements will hold.
Sir Percy made them in good faith, out of personalty
which he was free to dispose of as he
pleased. They took the nature of a deed of

gift."

And my jointure — is that safe too ? "

Well, that is more doubtful. You see it

was secured on the entailed property, and can
only hold if the new heir accepts the lien. He
should do so, by every principle of justice, and
he shall, if I have any influence over him."

*^ I should be sorry to be beholden to him,
but I really look upon this as my right."

"You are fairly entitled to do so. That is
the view Sir Hubert will take, if he has any
proper feeling," said Mr Tinson, with a confidence
he scarcely felt. What he had seen of
the new baronet did not encourage high hopes
of the generosity of his principles, or the nice
feeling he was likely to show.

And Rachel's portion — will she keep that ? "

The cases are not dissimilar. Hers depends,
like yours, on the production of proof of Priscilla's
death. Failing that, she must be accounted
illegitimate, and could inherit only the
moneys specially bequeathed to her. She could
not touch a penny of the rent-charge left her for
life upon the entailed property. But she is far
worse off than you, because she has to defend
the suit."

'that will affect them, then?" asked Lady
Lezaire, with a satisfaction she did not care to
conceal.

' Undoubtedly, unless costs are given by the
judge against the estate. If the St Evelyns
lose, it is pretty probable that they will have
to stand the shot."

'what are the costs likely to amount to?"

There is no saying. £20,000 won't pay
them. And then there are back rents, the sums
wrongfully received up to the present date —
quite half a year's income. It will take all they
have, and something more."

They will be ruined I " cried Lady Lezaire,
almost gleefully.

"It will go very hard with them. The
Colonel has nothing, I believe."

Not a sixpence — never had."

What will become of them ? Upon my soul,
it seems hard."

Mr Tinson, how can you say such a thing !

and after his — his You know. I can't

bear to speak of it. Surely no punishment that

overtakes him in this world can be too severe.
Let him starve ; he will deserve it."

But Mrs St Evelyn, Lady Lezaire, and the
innocent children — shall they suffer for their
father's sin ? "

** She made her bed, let her lie on it. I
shall do nothing for them. They need not
expect it."

A talk having much the same tenor took
place between St Evelyn and his legal advisers.
As the day of the great trial approached, the
St Evelyns' chances seemed to dwindle away.
The case grew stronger and stronger against
them. An independent inquiry instituted by
Mr Davis only satisfied him of the overwhelming
strength of the claimant's case. Once
more Mr Davis counselled compromise, but it
was now too late. Nothing but unconditional
surrender would be accepted by the other
side.

All or nothing, that's our answer," said Mr
Tinson triumphantly, when overtures were
made.

The case was down for hearing in the early
spring, little more than a twelvemonth from poor
Carysfort's death. It was likely to be soon decided,
for the evidence was short and to the
point.

It all lies in a nutshell," said Mr Tinson.
^' I really think we are bound to win. I wish I
was as sure of keeping the new baronet straight
until his succession, when I shall wash my hands
of him."

The reports received from Patcham were by
no means encouraging. Hubert's tutor could
do nothing with him.

"He won't learn," wrote this gentleman, a
Mr Partridge, who was a kind of army coach,
and had one or two other pupils, " and leads
the other lads astray. It is more obstinacy and
wrong-headedness than stupidity. The young
man may not be quick-witted, but he is no fool.
Only, he loathes books and everything connected
with them. I may possibly enable him
to sign his own name, but not certainly the
same way twice. If I might venture so far as

to suggest it, I think it would be wise to limit
him as regards funds."

Mr Tinson, feeling that some day Hubert
might have the command of a princely income,
did not feel justified in altogether withholding
supplies, and he had been making the young
man an allowance of a couple of pounds a-
week.

The money all goes the same way — with
low company, in the gratification of low tastes.
It is with the greatest difficulty that I keep
him to regular hours. He is for ever wandering
into Brighton or elsewhere, returning sometimes
quite late at night. On one occasion a
mob of disreputable friends brought him home
flushed with drink, and in altogether a most
discreditable condition.

*' Several times I have thought that in justice
to my other pupils I ought to beg of you to
remove him from my house."

But Mr Partridge was a poor man, to whom
a pupil more or less mattered greatly, and he
continued to tolerate Hubert's presence till a

more serious scandal compelled him to telegraph
to Mr Tinson —

Pray come down. Great trouble. Podifat
in custody."

The moment was ill chosen for any escapade.
The case of Lezaire v. St Evelyn was to begin
that week, and the appearance of the claimant
in court was indispensable.

What has he been doing ? " asked Mr Tinson
sharply of his tutor. " I am afraid you have
allowed him too much licence."

He has been a cause of infinite trouble tous,"
pleaded Mr Partridge. " I am quite sorry
we kept him."

So am I. He was too much for you. But
now, what's the matter now ? where is he ? In
custody ? Where ? On what charge ? "

"At Newhaven. The charge is abduction.
He has run off with the only daughter of a
highly respected "

"Chemist, named Fieldus. Isn't that it?"

It was the sad fact. Hubert's numerous
absences from Patcham were thus explained.

He had been carrying on an insidious intrigue
with the gentle but too trusting Eebecca.
What wiles he used were never fully laid bare ;
but it was ascertained that for conquest he had
not depended on his dark face alone. He had
posed as the exiled nobleman who must shortly
recover his own. His mysterious hints of what
was coming to him — a title and great fortune,
in both of which she should share — sufficed to
win the silly girl's favour. Miss Fieldus had but
lately left a boarding-school, and was still wrapt
in romantic dreams. Hubert was the prince
promised her by sycophantic schoolfellows, who
toadied and worshipped the young heiress.

Oswego Villa, where Mr Fieldus resided,
stood detached ; in front, a long lawn reached
the highroad — behind, another, with thick shrubbery,
ran parallel with the railway embankment.
Hubert came along the line to the trysting-place,
slid down the embankment, and made his
way to his lady-love through a thick-set hedge.
Their meetings were conducted with great
secrecy. Old Fieldus was away at his business ^

all day, and the servants were suborned to
silence by the artful Eebecca.

A crisis came when the chemist ran up
against Hubert near the house, recognised him,
and angrily warned him that if he showed himself
there again he should be handed over to
the stablemen and thrashed within an inch of
his life.

The course of true love was thus rudely
ruffled. Hubert told Rebecca that he was
watched and did not dare see her ao;ain.

Why would she not go off with him ?

Next day, with fifty pounds in his pocket
which he had raised from a Brighton Jew on
his expectations, and a bill for three times the
amount, Hubert was whirling along the Newhaven
road, Eebecca at his side, in a mail
phaeton and pair. They meant to catch the
Dieppe steamer and go on at once to Paris.
Rebecca had travelled this way before, with her
father.

But the runaways had been betrayed by the
livery-stable keeper, who had suspected Hubert

VOL. II. K

from the first and consulted Mr Vaseyy. Old
Fieldus followed, furious, to Newhaven, having
first put the police on the alert, and the lovers
were detained. The father recovered his
daughter, and Hubert was sent to the lock-up,
with three serious charges against him, all
started by the implacable Mr Fieldus : first, the
abduction of a minor ; next, obtaining money
(from the Jew) under false pretences ; and last,
the attempted theft of a mail phaeton and pair.

This was the mess Mr Tinson had to clear
up. And he did it, but only by much astute
argument, and a lavish expenditure of cash.
The money-lender kindly accepted cent percent
for his advance ; the job-master could not
substantiate theft when his property was restored
to him with a handsome douceur ; but
old Fieldus was more obdurate.

He shall go to jail. I want to see him on
the treadmill, or picking oakum. I'd like to
see him hanged."

Of course he richly deserves punishment,"
Mr Tinson admitted. " But just think, the

innocent will suffer with the guilty. If you
proceed against him, your daughter s name must
be dragged into court. Now, wouldn't it be
better to avoid the — ahem ! — scandal, eh ? "

Mr Fieldus was very loath to let go his revenge,
yet he saw the full force of what Mr
Tinson said.

Poor child ! she'll never hold her head up
again, I'm afraid. He hadn't ought to be let
off, the double-dyed young scoundrel ; but for
her sake — I suppose I must give way."

He ought to make her amends, Mr Fieldus.
He has promised to marry her, you know, and
he shall do so, if you wish and approve."

Never ! What ! give my Rebecca to that
scamp ? Let all my money go to a sot and a
scapegrace who'd squander it and ill-use her ?
No, no. He's no mate for my girl. How she
will weather this, God knows ; but to marry that
blackguard would be too heavy a penalty to pay."

I don't defend him : I should be sorry indeed
to recommend him. He is by no means
a perfect character — that I readily admit. But

under the circumstances — you may have heard,
perhaps ? — he would be no unequal match."

Mr Fieldus was better read in the pharmacopoeia
and preparation of drugs than in the
proceedings of the law courts, and he had evidently
heard nothing of the great case pending.

I know of no circumstances — none at present,
I mean" — he said, "that could reconcile
me to accept him as a son-in-law, — a low-born
scamp, a mere adventurer "

There you are mistaken, Mr Fieldus. I
may tell you "

Mr Tinson paused. Why should he tell Mr
Fieldus of Hubert's chances ? They were good
enough, but they might go against him after
all. If Mr Fieldus would not take him, there
was an end of the matter. It was enough to
get the young man out of the scrape, and this
Mr Tinson secured.

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

"le roi est mort."

Vive le roi !

Le roi est mort. Vive le roi !

The great Lezaire case was ended, and the
new baronet, Sir Hubert Lezaire, reigned
supreme.

It had never been in much doubt, said those
learned in the law. The only hitch, the disappearance
of Priscilla Lady Lezaire, nee Spary,
and the absence of proof of her death, did not
affect the heirship. It only left Rachel's right
to her inheritance in doubt. This point was
reserved, but eventually settled by a compromise.


Mrs St Evelyn might enjoy all she inherited

undisturbed, provided her attorneys gave an
undertaking not to appeal. The Colonel was
persuaded, with some difficulty, to consent to
this. His wife kept her portion, or the remnant
that survived the lawyers' claims — a mere pittance.
The St Evelyns were practically beggared.


Let us leave them for the present to recommence
life in poverty and discomfort, and follow
the fortunes of the new owner of Straddle-thorpe
Hall.

What will he do ? How will he behave ?
These were the questions asked on all sides
and by all manner of people in Thorpeshire.

Nowhere was the new owner of Straddle-thorpe
canvassed more eagerly and with more
misgiving than at the Hall itself. Servants
and employees of all grades, almost without exception,
were very anxious as to the future.

They knew Sir Hubert so well, all of them ;
and he knew them. What kind of master was
this jumped-up youngster likely to make ? — this
fortunate youth who till yesterday had been

one of themselves, lower than many, superior
to none ; browbeaten, knocked about, abused,
often cuffed, and very generally despised ?

Many said, especially among the upper servants,
that they'd better give notice and clear
out.

I shan't want to be kicked out," said honest
Tom Staines, the head-keeper. *' We've had
too many cross words, him and I, for us to
forgather and be good friends. I know he
hates me, and I've never had no respect for
him. I'd rather go under-keeper for a bit than
stay here and knuckle under to him."

That's my view," observed Mr Thorndike,
the bailiff. "I've been on the estate, man and
boy, these five-and-forty years, and know every
stick, every stone. I shall be heartsore at
leaving the land, but I must go. I could have
stomached the Colonel. For all he's so arbitrary,
he's a gentleman, and acted fair. But I
couldn't give this chap willing honest service,
knowing what he's been, and all I've said of
him, and all I feel."

I suppose Sir Hubert's money's be as good
as another man's," said leery old Peters, who
scented good times coming for those who knew
how to turn them to account.

Do you mean to stay, Mr Peters ? "

"It'll all depend on how he shapes and who
he puts over us. If you ask me, I say I'd far
rather stay. It's ill changing roofs at my
time of life, and to my thinking Sir Hubert's
better than that murdering Colonel. What
have we got to do with what he was ? It's
what he is and means to be. I'm ready to
serve him faithfully if he'll let me, and '11 treat
me fair. He's had a slice of luck — well, I don't
grudge it him."

But you'd like to stand in and share ?
That's about the size of it," cried Tom Staines.
"A stable full of nags, the buying and swopping
all in your own hands, to say nothing
of the corn and the hay."

I likes my regulars, Mr Staines, and so do
sou. Do you never sell pheasants' eggs or take
tips for placing the guns ? But if sou wish to

LE Roi EST MORT. 153

say that I'm not straight and above-board,
why, you'll have to stand to it. I'm no worse
than my neighbours."

"I never defrauded my master of a mag,"
retorted Staines, angrily. " If you weren't an
older man "

*' There, there," interposed Mr Thorndike.
No quarrelling among old friends, and before
ladies too. Here comes Mrs Leleu."

The housekeeper, in her quiet black dress,
with her dark inscrutable face, was seen crossing
the yard to the harness-room, where the foregoing
conversation had taken place.

Morning, ma'am," said Staines. " Any
news ? We're talking of what's likely to happen.
Shall you stay on ? "

What do you intend to do, Mr Staines ? "
replied Mrs Leleu, evading the question adroitly,
but it was plain she resented it and did not
choose to answer.

"We mean to go, Mr Thorndike and I,
before we're turned out. Now Mr Peters
here "

No one need be turned out, I'm sure, unless
he wishes it," replied Mrs Leleu, with an air
of patronage. She was evidently more behind
the scenes than her fellow - servants. " Sir
Hubert has no present desire to make any
change in the establishment."

'' Have you heard that for certain ? " asked
Mr Thorndike.

"Yes, this morning, from Mr Tinson. That
was what brought me here. Peters, you are
to meet the 3.5 express. Sir Hubert will arrive
this afternoon."

What carriage ? "

"Mr Tinson did not say. You will know
best."

It was now full summer tide, and the old
coachman, mindful of the importance of the
occasion, took over the open barouche, a state
vehicle of ancient but imposing appearance,
with a great yellow body swinging between
high curved springs. Both Peters and the
footman beside him were in their best liveries,
and even the groom with the luggage-cart

LE ROI EST Most. 155

wore the bottle-green coat with orange cuffs
of the retainers of the Lezaires.

Sir Hubert came tumbling down the side-steps
of the station as fast as he could run,
and made straight for the carriage.

Holloa ! what's this ? " he cried, evidently
disgusted and disappointed. " I expected the
mail phaeton."

Nothing special was ordered. Sir Hubert,"
said Peters, promptly and most deferentially,
as he made the usual salute.

It's that ass Tinson. And I was dying
to finger the ribbons. Here, Tinson, I say,
they've brought the barouche, and I particularly
wanted to drive myself. Why didn't you
see to it ? "

*why didn't you see to it yourself?"
replied the lawyer with quick resentment.
"You're your own master, and can give your
own orders now."

But you haven't let me. You are always
interfering. I'll be blowed if I "

Be quiet, can't you I " whispered the lawyer,

nearly exasperated. " Before your new servants
too ! Jump in ; we can settle all this
at Straddle thorpe before I take my leave."

The rule of bear - leader was clearly displeasing
to Mr Tinson, and he did not mean
to play it long.

Jump in ? Not I ! I shall get on the box.
I mean to try the paces of these bays. Peters
never would let me drive them in old times,
but he can't help himself now."

"And what's to become of Peters himself,
and the footman ? "

They shall go inside."

With me ? Thank you."

No ; you can get up on the box. I'll take
care of you."

This was how Sir Hubert Lezaire started to
take possession of his ancestral home. There
was a general but suppressed laughter at the
little station as the barouche disappeared,
driven at a breakneck pace by its owner, while
his men sat up as solemn and unconcerned as

they could manage upon the seats of honour
inside.

The journey to Straddle thorpe was a short
five miles, but fate ruled that many persons
should witness this madcap escapade. The
galloping horses, flogged to their utmost speed,
got out of hand and first narrowly overturned
a pony - carriage, then cannoned against a
market cart, and meeting last of all the humble
waggonette of a country parson, so terrified
its driver that he turned sharp off the road and
was upset into a ditch.

The manner of Sir Hubert's entry into Strad-oglethorpe
was the common talk of the whole
county before the week was out.

Not so bad," cried the new baronet, consulting
his watch, a brand-new gold repeater,
as the steaming horses were reined in with
difficulty at the hall door. " Twenty - nine
minutes the five miles. What's amiss, you
old fool ? "

This was to Peters, who had alighted at once,

and was already examining his cattle, the most
cherished pair of horses in his stable.

Too fast, too fast, Sir Hubert. They're not
in Derby condition."

Well, they ought to be, if they're to drag
me behind 'em. But two won't do, I want a
team. You must look out for 'em : four of a
colour, a level lot that'll do credit to a coach
by Marriott & Tunes."

He rattled on nineteen to the dozen, to Mr
Tinson's manifest annoyance, while Peters
stood listening respectfully and the footman
held the hall door open wide.

There was some one waiting within who was
moved seemingly to great wrath by what she
heard and saw.

Scatterbrain ! Addle-pate I Senseless idiot !
to make such a beginning."

It was Mrs Leleu : her black eyes flashing
indignation, and her pale dark face fierce and
forbidding.

But when the baronet passed under his own
rooftree, she had schooled herself to look pleasant,

and greeted him quite smiling, with the
smirking self-satisfaction of an old and privileged
attendant.

"My humble duty to you. Sir Hubert
Lezaire ; a warm welcome and hearty good
wishes ! May you live long to enjoy your
good fortune, now you've come to your own ! "

*what! Mother Leleu herself! I had
clean forgotten. How goes it ? I'm glad to
see you so blooming. But I say, none of
your variations now. Things is altered. But
come along, let's refresh."

"Tea is laid in the china drawing-room,"
said Mrs Leleu, rather primly.

Tea ! Hog's wash ! ditch-water 1 No cat-lap
for me. Send in the decanters. I'm for
port wine and potash. That'll you try,
Tinson ? "

And Sir Hubert passed on, still holding the
carriage-whip, and without removing his hat,
to the drawing-room called the '' china-room,"
from the numerous cabinets it contained, all
crammed with costly Sevres, Dresden, and old

blue. There he sprawled full length upon a
settee covered with fine satin brocade, drank
three glasses of port running, and lit an enormous
cigar.

*^ Why do you let him go on like that ? "
hissed Mrs Leleu in Mr Tinson's ear. " It's
bestial. He'll be ruined, lost, within the year."

^'I'm not his keeper or his bear-leader, the
Lord be praised ! " responded the lawyer, quite
piously. " If you're so concerned for his welfare,
you'd better take him in hand. I've other
and more pressing occupations. I said I'd start
him fair, so I came down, but I don't care how
soon I go back again. In spite of the good
business he brings, I think I've had nearly
enough of Sir Hubert Lezaire."

Chapter XXXVIII.

THE STRADDLETHOEPE STAKES.

There was a magistrates' meeting a few days
later in Market Eeepham, and much county
business to transact; so the Thorpeshire Club
was very full about lunch-time. It was a sociable
little place, where every one knew everyone
else, and at the long table where all sat
together the talk was general and well sustained.


It was all on one topic : the new owner of
Straddlethorpe, his strange advent, and the
way he would "shape" as a neighbour and
personage in the shire.

It was tremendous the way he drove home,"
said Lord Prudhames. " He was like Mazeppa

VOL, 11. L

urging on his wild career. Gibson, our parson,
met him and fairly turned tail."

"Fancy driving one's own barouche and the
coachman inside ! " said another.

"I don't so much quarrel about that," said
sensible old Etherly of Etherly. " It's a distinction
only. Any man might drive a coach
and put his own people inside. Besides, I daresay
he's fond of driving, and no doubt hasn't
had much of it."

"Put a beggar on horse-flesh and he'll drive
to the devil," added Mr Newall, who went in
for epigram.

That's where he'll go, hands down, in less
than no time, I'm afraid. Make ducks and
drakes of everything."

What a Nemesis for Sir Percy ! A ene
property nursed for years just for this spendthrift
to squander it."

He'll never do, I'm afraid. There's no quality
about him. He may have the blood, but
he's missed the breeding, and it's too late to
get that now."

*' He ought never to have been lifted out of
the mud. It's monstrous hard on the St
Evelyns," said Mr Etherly, who was still
stanch to his old friend.

I really cannot see that." The speaker was
General Wyndham-Parker. " St Evelyn married
for money "

Come, come. And at any rate Rachel
did not."

For money which slipped through his
fingers. He was after Straddlethorpe, and made
no bones about the means of acquiring it."

Oh, I say ! When thirteen jurymen and a
judge tried and acquitted him, would you call
him guilty still ? "

I shall always have my own opinions, and
I'm delighted the property's come to the right
man. I don't belief he's half a bad chap, this
Hubert Lezaire."

"Will he do his duty by the county ? Will
he keep up his coverts, breed foxes, and subscribe
to the hunt ? "

He has sent a first cheque of a hundred

towards the new kennels," cried the General.
** He told me so himself yesterday."

Oh, you have seen him, then. Where ? "

"At his own place. I called at Straddle-thorpe."


He might have added, but did not, that
Sir Hubert had returned the visit already — in
fact the same day.

I suppose we must all call," said Lord
Prudhames, to turn off the smile which lighted
his as well as most faces at the table.

Mrs Wyndham-Parker had still three marriageable
daughters, and Straddlethorpe was now
in the market.

Well, I went because I had to go," said the
General, seemingly unconscious. " I had to
speak about that slip of gorse that borders my
spinney."

And how did you find him. General ? "

Very shy."

That was probably sherry."

I certainly saw no signs of that. He was diffident,
as might be expected, but by no means

gauche. I feel confident that, with kindly encouragement,
he would soon improve."

"If he could only marry, well and soon,"
said Mr Etherly, maliciously.

'sit would be the best thing for him," replied
the General, stoutly refusing to understand the
allusion.

Undoubtedly," all agreed. " If any sensible
girl could be found to manage his establishment
for him — it'll soon want it, I expect — and take
him himself in hand."

Ay, ay ! but where is she to be found ? "
asked Mr Etherly, abstractedly. *' I don't
envy any girl the job. To my thinking, she'd
have a rough time. Where is she to be found,
eh?"

It was an open question which no one felt
constrained to answer, although one person
present was ready to do so. General and Mrs
Wyndham - Parker thought they knew of the
very wife to suit Sir Hubert Lezaire.

They had six daughters in all. One only had
married as yet : Mrs Eichards, the wife of the

old aide-de-camp who had been a candidate for
the county jail. Then came three, familiarly
known as 'lea, 'Ina, and 'Eta, the pet abbreviations
of the long-winded names, Frederica,
Georgians, and Henrietta. Two more, 'Ita and
'Otto, were still in the schoolroom.

Although making a fair show at Hazelgrove —
a house long empty and rented low — money was
not too plentiful with the Wyndham-Parkers,
and the prudent parents were most anxious to
get their daughters comfortably settled.

Yet the three now on hand hung fire, and
within a year or two there would be five. Ita
and Otto were fast growing into womanhood.

Eta, it was true, had made a conquest at
Plymouth when staying with her married sister,
whose husband was now an army paymaster.
But it was no great catch — a captain in a
marching regiment with no expectations — and
two old soldiers like General and Mrs 
knew to a penny the exact value
of such a military marriage.

Eta was attractive, more so than her elder

sisters : there were people, indeed, who called
her remarkably pretty. Her father and mother
both thought she might do better for herself
than with this Captain Sutton. Still they did
not quite refuse their consent. After all, a bird
in the hand

Not a little of the General's objection to
Eta's engagement with Captain Sutton was
due to its ii-regularity. As an officer of the old
school, he was a great stickler for seniority.
Age before honesty : the first-born had the first
claims. Eta might marry Captain Sutton or
almost any one, when she pleased, provided
lea and Ina were disposed of and Out of
the way.

Hence in the campaign against Straddle-thorpe
— and the plan of operations had been
fully discussed and settled directly Sir Hubert
had gained his suit — it was resolved to push
lea, the eldest, well to the front.

Frederica Wyndham-Parker thoroughly understood
what was expected of her. She was ready
to go forward to the attack like a true veteran.

grateful for the chances of distinction accorded
her.

She was with her father on his first visit to
Straddlethorpe. They rode over. lea looked
well on horseback : a habit suited her thin
figure, and her plain swarthy face looked less
uninteresting under the tall black hat.

Sir Hubert came out to the doorstep, and
insisted rather boisterously — the General had
described him as shy ! — on their entering the
house.

I want to talk business for just two minutes,
Lezaire," began the General.

You must come in, sir — come in and take
something. Too early ? Stuff ! it's past twelve.
And the young lady : she must want refreshment
after her ride."

*'No, no," protested the General, as he explained.
" It's about that bit of gorse. Now
your new man Woodley — an honest chap
enough, I daresay — and I don't agree."

Sir Hubert did not listen. He was already
helping Miss Wyndham-Parker to dismount,

clumsily enough, but with great goodwill.
Somehow an arm slipped round the slender
waist, and lea felt a very distinct squeeze of
her hand. The young baronet knew only one
way of making himself agreeable to the fair sex.

The rare blushes were still mantling on lea's
sallow cheeks when Sir Hubert, finding his
hospitable offers refused, insisted upon showing
them over the Hall. The invitation seemed to
confirm a vague hope that she had made an impression,
and she forgave him the forwardness
that was a silent but expressive tribute to her
charms.

They visited all the principal rooms, and duly
admired all : the china drawing-room, my lady's
boudoir, a charming chamber looking out on a
little rose-garden of its own, specially appropriated
to the mistress of Straddlethorpe, and
long occupied by the last Lady Lezaire.

As lea looked round she saw herself with
prophetic eye already installed, and her hopes
ran higher when Sir Hubert stepped out into
the garden and gathered her a choice bouquet.

But the business talk hall rather suffered ;
the General had not again referred to what
seemed a mere subterfuge for calling. It was
the young baronet who returned to the subject.

What about the gorse, General ? Shall I
send for Woodley ? "

Why not have a 'horse round and ride there ?
You could come on and lunch at Hazelgrove."

'' Eight you are. I'm your man. It won't
take me five minutes to order a horse."

Sir Hubert was ready himself to jump into
the saddle. His favourite costume was horsey ;
he lived in breeches and gaiters, and looked at
his best like a horse-dealer's tout or under stud-groom.


CHAPTER XXXIX.

SIR Hubert's friends.

When the horses were brought round to the
door, Sir Hubert helped Miss Wynd ham Parker
to remount in approved fashion, lifting her
after he had taken her tiny foot in his hand,
then placing it in the stirrup and carefully
arranging the folds of the habit.

"You're like a feather," he cried. " I should
think you could ride six stone four. And a
first-rate jockey too," he added admiringly, ashe
saw her sitting up straight and self-possessed.

lea can ride a bit," said her father. '* All
my girls can. I taught them myself."

The little General was very proud of his own
horsemanship.

Shall we take a spin round the park, sir ?
We can get out at the far end ; that is, if you
are not afraid, miss, of a bit of jumping."

lea for answer gave her horse his head, and
the three cantered gaily on across the level
turf, affrighted the few timid deer that still
made the park their home, and pointing with
increasing pace for the low fence, beyond which
was a grassy lane-like road that led to the home
farm.

Bravo ! " cried Sir Hubert, as lea sailed
first over the fence, he following close in her
wake. " You took that like a bird. Come on !
let's have a racket across the fields."

Hold hard ! " shouted the General. " You'll
ruin your hay crop, and there's young corn
beyond."

'* Bother the crops 1 " answered Sir Hubert, ashe
reluctantly reined in. " Never mind, Miss
lea, we'll have our gallop out yet. Wait till
the cub-hunting comes. I should like to pilot
you across country ; you're one of the right
sort, and you shall ride my chestnut mare."

lea was radiant when she reached Hazelgrove ;
her eyes sparkled with satisfaction. It was
with quite an air of ownership that she presented
Sir Hubert to her mother.

Sir Hubert Lezaire, mamma ; he has come
to lunch. Papa brought him with us. And
we have had such a delightful ride ! "

** It is very good of you, Sir Hubert, to join
our family party," said Mrs Wyndham-Parker,
a large fair woman with the remains of great
good looks, but rather anxious pale eyes and
worn washed-out complexion, that spoke of
family cares. Poor mother ! she had a large
brood — disappointing daughters that would" not
go off, an expensive household, and not too
ample means. Life had not been easy with
Mrs Parker ; hers had been a wandering nomad
existence, from garrison to garrison, all over
the world, always campaigning and struggling,
till they had settled down at Hazelgrove, where
other troubles, these disappointing daughters,
constantly vexed and preoccupied her.

Well, girls," said the General, bustling in.

How are you, Maria ? Hope you have a good
lunch for us. But I told Sir Hubert he must
take what he could find."

The luncheon-party had been planned, like
everything else, and was something more than
the ordinary square, substantial, mid-day meal
that generally made a pretentious late dinner
unnecessary at Hazelgrove.

The guest's place had also been carefully
settled beforehand. He sat between Mrs
Wyndham Parker and the daughter they intended
for him, lea, who, still flushed and
excited with her ride, retailed its chief incidents
with much animation.

Where's Eta ? " asked the General, crossly.
His military training had schooled him to the
most exact punctuality, and he expected it
from every one in the house. " She must have
heard the bell. Besides, it's long past two."

Shall I go and call her, father ? " asked one
of the younger children.

Certainly not. If she likes to lose her
lunch, that's her affair."

But at that moment the door opened, and
Miss Eta, slow, self-possessed, and unconcerned,
walked in.

Late for parade, miss," began the General,
sharply. " You know the rule : dry bread and

cheese " He stopped abruptly, checked by

a scowl from his better half. These details of
a strict domestic discipline were hardly calculated
to impress their guest.

I could not come sooner. I was finishing
a letter to Sam," said Miss Eta, coolly.

Now Sam was the Captain Sutton to whom
she was supposed to have engaged herself altogether
without her parent's consent, and 'this
reckless remark was like a challenge flung down
for her father's acceptance. Under other circumstances
a sharp passage of arms would undoubtedly
have ensued.

Is that another of your girls ? " quickly
asked Sir Hubert, who had been staring
hard at Eta ever since she entered the
room.

Yes," replied Mrs Parker, indifferently.

''My third daughter, Eta. You were saying,
lea "

Sir Hubert has offered, to give me a mount
for the cub-hunting — his chestnut mare."

I seldom let my daughters follow the
hounds. Sir Hubert. And she has her own
saddle-horse, a very good one, I think."

Eh ? Oh yes, I beg your pardon, a regular
stunner," answered Sir Hubert absently, and
thinking only of the beautiful girl at the other
end of the table who still absorbed all his
attention.

Eta Parker took after her mother, and was
the only one of the six daughters who favoured
her. She was tall and statuesque, with a dazzlingly
fair complexion and abundant auburn hair.
A low forehead, dark-blue eyes, strictly regular
features, a small but firm mouth, were not the
least of her charms.

For the remainder of the lunch Sir Hubert
continued silent; he spoke very little, and
only in answer to questions addressed directly
to him. Mrs Wyndham - Parker found him

very heavy on her hands, whilst to poor lea s
blandishments he was altogether callous and
indifferent. Eyes and ears were only for Eta.
He was always looking at her, now furtively,
now openly, always listening for the' sound of
her voice. Strange to say, and quite contrary
to his usual custom, he drank very little wine
at lunch. But when the ladies rose and left
the room, he gulped down a great bumper of
sherry, as though to drown his despair.

The General pretended not to see the perfectly
obvious impression that Eta had made.
Sir Hubert had taken a fancy to the wrong
one, and it was repugnant to the General's
peculiar notions to acknowledge or approve
the choice.

But before the day was out it became plain
that he must part with his pet prejudices or
lose an eligible son-in-law. Sir Hubert's attentions
to the most attractive daughter of the
house — Eta was quite the flower of the flock —
were marked and unmistakable.

It was a delightful summer's day, just warm

VOL. II. M

enough to make the open air pleasant than
the house ; and when the General offered a cigar
on the lawn, they found the whole family picturesquely
grouped on garden-chairs and bright-coloured
rings under the shade of a great horse-chestnut
tree. Of course the lawn-tennis net
was stretched, and the courts marked out invitingly.


"You are not going to run away yet, I hope,
Sir Hubert ? " said Mrs Wyndham Parker, hospitably.
" Won't you join the girls in a game ? "

"I'm afraid I'm not much of a player. In
fact, I hardly know the game," said Sir Hubert,
sheepishly.

One of them will teach you," said the
mother.

"Will you?" abruptly asked Sir Hubert of
Eta, who stood close by, racket in hand. lea,
poor child, had lost her chance. She could not
play lawn-tennis in a riding-habit, and had
gone to change.

Oh yes," replied Eta, not very warmly ;
"but I am not much of a hand at it myself."

You will wait for lea ? " interposed the
mother, rather anxiously.

But the remark was lost upon the others,
who had already moved towards the lawn-tennis
ground. Eta, a true daughter of Eve,
enjoyed admiration, and was perhaps not ill
pleased to cut her elder sister out. When lea
returned, poor thing. Sir Hubert never looked
at her. He was too much absorbed in his
game, too attentive to the sweet voice of his
instructress, too much fascinated with her
shapely figure as she flew to and fro about
the lawn.

I call it the most barefaced poaching," lea
said, with tears in her eyes. *' It's far too bad
of Eta ; Captain Sutton ought to know. Why
isn't she satisfied with one, the disgraceful
flirt ? "

'' I really don't think she is encouraging him,"
protested Mrs Parker. " It is all on his side."

lea looked at her mother reproachfully ; there
was no consolation in the remark.

Discord had entered the Wyndham Parker

family with Sir Hubert Lezaire. There was
ill blood between the sisters, and the old people
were in a dilemma.

"My dear, it is most unfortunate," said the
General to his wife when Sir Hubert had gone.
I am monstrously annoyed, and hardly know
what to do. We had better get Eta out of the
way."

Where is she to go ? Not back to Plymouth.
Captain Sutton, you know, is still
there."

Hang the fellow 1 yes. I don't want another
pauper in the family. Eichards is bad enough."

Well, but, Wilfrid, why should we do anything
? Why not let things take their course ? "

Maria, lea is the oldest : it is her turn
first."

I know that. But still it seems such a pity
to let the chance slip. I feel sure he is smitten
with Eta, and it would be such a very easy
way out of the Sutton entanglement. Sir
Hubert would be such a much better match."

It's against my principles," said the General.

"At any rate, we won't give way yet.
We may be all wrong; it may be only fancy
about Eta."

There can be no question of his admiration.
The only doubt is how she will accept it."

I thought she seemed pleased with his
attentions."

On the surface, yes. But that is because
she as cutting out and carrying off another
girl's prize. I'm not so sure she would take
him even if he offered."

You do not think Eta would be so mad as
to refuse Sir Hubert and £20,000 a-year ? "

She won't give up Captain Sutton very
easily, whatever the temptation. Money is
not everything with young girls, and in personal
advantages Captain Sutton has, I expect,
far the best of it."

"You mustn't let her be such a fool. I look
to you, Maria, to warn her, to put her best
interests plainly before her."

"Then you don't object to her having the
precedence of her elder sister ? "

I don't think we ought to let Straddle-thorpe
go out of the family," the General
replied.

There was an angry discussion between the
two sisters in the privacy of their own bedroom
that night.

"I couldn't help it," protested Eta. "He
came after me of his own accord."

"You should have snubbed him. What
would Captain Sutton say? I am quite sorry
for him, poor fellow," retorted lea, too proud
to lay any stress on her own wrongs.

'' Sam can take care of himself. We quite
understand each other. Our engagement is
sure to be a long one, and we have agreed
that we are both to enjoy ourselves."

'then you did enjoy it to-day. I was sure
of it."

I didn't. I don't care that for Sir Hubert
Lezaire. You are welcome to him, if you can
get him. I think him an ugly, ill-bred, forward
little cad."

I'd like to tell him what you say."

Do so. He won't thank you or believe you,
and will come after me all the same."

"Yes, and you would take him in the end,
in spite of all you say now. Henrietta, you're
an untruthful, deceitful, dishonourable, wicked
girl."

"That's mere jealousy and disappointment."

I don't want him either."

Grapes are sour, my dear."

But I am sorry for Sam."

"Leave Sam alone, Frederica," cried Eta,
blazing out, as such quiet equable tempers
sometimes will. " That's the second time
you've pitied him, and he don't want it, dear
honest old Sam."

And suddenly changing in tone, she took
out a photograph which was carefully kept
under lock and key, and kissed it again and
again.

And that's the man you're going to throw
over 1 "

I'm not. How dare you say such a thing ? "

You let another man make love to you."

That's a wicked untruth. And if I did !
Oh, Sam, you old dear, why are you so faraway
«

Fickle, flighty, inscrutable young person !
Made seemingly to be the torment of both
sexes ; give one the heartache, and fill the
other with envy, hatred, and all uncharitableness.


CHAPTER XL.

A ROW WITH MRS Level.

A VERY close intimacy now sprang up between
Straddletliorpe and Hazelgrove. Both sides
laboured hard to foster it. Messages came
and went ; little attentions were constantly
exchanged. The Hall sent fruit and flowers,
fine peaches and choice exotics, from its acres
of glass ; the Grove returned the compliment,
with pressing invitations to go over to lunch
and lawn-tennis, often to dine and spend the
night.

Sir Hubert was always on his best behaviour,
although his manners continued uncouth ; he
was so evidently anxious to appear to advantage
before Eta, whom he singled out more

and more from her sisters and worshipped
openly, but in a shy calf-like fashion, very
different from his usual bold and boisterous
wooing.

He made very little progress with her, however.
As a rule, Eta avoided him, and where
this was impossible, she seldom threw him a
civil word. Only now and again, when the
spirit of mischief was uppermost, just to tease
her sister or test her influence, she would drop
her eyes coquettishly when he spoke to her,
and softly lower her voice in reply. While
Hubert's passionate nature was thus maddened
with delusive hope, poor lea would cry with
vexation, and vow that Captain Sutton should
be told what was going on.

The acquaintance was some weeks old before
the ladies from Hazelgrove accepted the hospitalities
of the Hall. The General had been
there frequently, but that did not matter. It
was different for Mrs Wyndham-Parker and
the girls, whose visit to a bachelor establishment
would have looked rather marked, and

added greatly to the malicious gossip already
afloat.

But Sir Hubert, growing more and more pressing,
would take no denial. They must come
over, all of them, to lunch and spend the day.
Why not stay over the day ? His new coach
had come down ; he would drive them back —
with Eta on the box-seat, if she would accept
it — and they could help him to decide about
the new team he was trying.

He gave due notice — a little too timidly,
perhaps — to Mrs Leleu.

I am expecting a large party the day after
tomorrow, and shall want six bedrooms— the
best — and that Spanish room, you know."

Who's coming ? " asked the housekeeper
abruptly. They were alone, and her manner
was scarcely respectful. It seemed as though
she could never forget the days when she
ordered and he obeyed.

*' Look here ! " he began, bravely enough,
but his heart sank when he met her fierce
eyes.

"It's those Wyndham - Parkers, I suppose.
Mean, cadging, calculating lot ! "

'* They're friends of mine. I won't have you
talk like that."

Oh, I know, and what they're after. But
mark my words, Sir Hubert : once let them get
foothold in the Hall, and they'll take possession
of it, and you too. Cock them up, for a set of
paupers, chucking their girls at every man's
head ! "

"They don't; and the girls ain't the kind tolet
them."

You're silly about that white-faced one,
Eta. More fool you ! If you knew as much
of her as I did ! "

"What do you know against her?" Hubert
asked fiercely.

What every one else does but you," was
the "Enigmatic reply.

You must and shall tell me. Out with it !
Go on ! "

Why, it's common talk. This Miss Eta has

another lover ; he comes down to see her on
the sly."

If I come across him, if I should ever meet
them together," — a black murderous look came
into Hubert's dark face, — "it will be the worse
for him. I'd do for him, kill him before her
very eyes ! "

Don't say that too openly, then, or the
words may be remembered against you. Of
course, it don't matter with me ; I can hold my
tongue. I've done so already," she added,
darkly.

What do you mean by that ? "

That I am as wide awake as most people,
and I have had the chance, perhaps, of seeing
more."

Sir Hubert looked at her with astonishment.

'* Are you threatening me ? Don't do that ;
don't stir up my bad blood. I am not afraid
of you — there's no reason why I should be —
but "

But let's speak plain. It's a good opportunity,

Sir Hubert, and I should like you to
know what kind of woman I am."

Sir Hubert now seemed scared, as he listened
with staring eyes.

Fm not the sort to put up with an injury,
nor do I easily forget a kindness. Scratch me,
and I'll scratch you ; but at the first crooked
word, the first evil turn, I mean mischief."

You can't harm me."

I could ruin you, Hubert Lezaire, utterly, if
only I held up my hand."

And with this, making a mocking defiant
curtsey, the housekeeper left the room.

They did not meet again for a day or two.
The Wyndham-Parkers came and filled up the
Hall. Once again the spacious old dining-room
echoed merry laughter ; female skirts rustled
along its halls ; the whole place was lightened
and made pretty with the litter of work, the
books and flowers, that women gather round
them.

Mrs Wyndham-Parker was a first-rate housewife.
Sharp experience had taught her — experience

gained in many lands with servants of
every creed and colour, but she had a truly
Dutch love of cleanliness. Economy was her
strong point, but she was an authority on
butcher's meat, its cost and quantity, knowing
to an ounce how much could and ought to be
eaten. She was a perfect terror to her own
housemaids as regards washing and dusting.
Nothing escaped her quick eye ; her nimble
finger passed along the top of a chair instantly
detected slovenliness or neglect. Before she
had been twenty-four hours in Straddlethorpe
Hall, she had looked very narrowly into its internal
organisation, and had come to the conclusion
that it was her bounden duty to open Sir
Hubert's eyes.

My dear boy," she said — her manner was
quite maternal by this time — " you really
ought to know ; I am afraid you are being
robbed right and left. It's always the way
with you poor men."

Robbed ! Who by ? " the young baronet
asked, not without misgiving.

'' In the first place, your servants do not earn
their keep, much less their wages. Why, the
passage - windows have not been cleaned for
months. But that's not the worst : I see by
the books — the butcher's and grocer's, you know
that you are paying just forty per cent too
much for everything."

Are you sure, Mrs Wyndham-Parker ? How
did you find out ? "

I took the liberty, in your interests, of
course, of speaking to the housekeeper "

Mrs Leleu ? " said Hubert, nervously.

Is that her name ? Yes, Mrs Leleu. Well,
I don't wish to make any unpleasantness, but,
my dear Sir Hubert, if I were you I'd part with
her — the sooner the better. If it's not her
doing — I mean if she is not robbing you herself,
she lets others do so, and therefore she is equally
to blame."

Oh, well, she saves me trouble ; I can't
be bothered with these things," Sir Hubert
stammered out at last. Mrs Wyndham-Parker 's
advice took him rather aback. What if this

terrible housekeeper would not go ? " If I send
her away, some other beast will come and do
just the same."

There is only one kind of honest housekeeper
for a man in your position, and that
is — a wife."

He looked at her ruefully, and the fond
mother interpreted it as grief at Eta's floating.

But Sir Hubert was much more concerned at
the prospect of words with Mrs Leleu. He had,
indeed, resolved to say nothing to her for the
present — to attempt no fault-finding, to give
her no hint of impending notice — when to his
surprise the housekeeper herself broached the
subject.

Mrs Leleu sought him out in his own den —
that which had been Colonel St Evelyn's.

*^ I'm not going to put up with that woman's
interference," she began, with intentional rudeness,
as it seemed. "You must choose between
us. I won't stay if she's coming to ride the
hi2:h horse at the Hall."

What woman, Mrs Leleu ? If it's any of

VOL. II. N

the servants, you can bunk them all when you
please."

"It's Mrs Wyndham-Parker ; and you know
it as well as I do. Let her stay and skin flints
at home, and lock up the bread-basket, and
harry, and drive, and starve. Why, not a girl
will stop at the Grove beyond her month. So
make up your mind."

If you really want to leave, Mrs Leleu "

said the baronet timidly, trying fair words.

I'll leave sooner than be put upon. But if
I go, it must be made worth my while."

'' You shall have a first-rate character "

Yah ! I want more than a character. I
don't mean to work any more. There's that between
us Look here, Hubert Lezaire, you

could not drive me out if I chose to stay. But
I'd rather go, only you'll have to pay the piper "

You can go to Mr Tinson. He shall pay
you "

I don't advise you to send me to Mr Tinson,
unless you're prepared for "

•' How much do you want ?

jj

Five hundred pounds a-year to begin with

more if I choose to ask."

I won't give you five hundred pence."

*' Be careful, Hubert Lezaire ; don't provoke

me ; don't drive me to use my power, for you

are in my power — body and soul."

CHAPTEK Ungenteel

PAUPERS.

A NUMBER of members were discussing Colonel
St Evelyn in the smoking-room of the " Battle-axe
and Banner."

'•' St Evelyn will have to go now, of course,"
said one man with the morning paper in his hand.

The rule is explicit," said another, our
acquaintance General Wyndham-Parker, whose
business — he dabbled a good deal in stocks and
shares — often brought him up to town. "The
committee cannot protect or defend him any
longer. It was quite monstrous last time ; he
ought to have gone then."

"What happened, sir?" asked a youngster
with great eagerness. He liked to be on

familiar terms with a general officer, even one
retired and undistinguished.

Haven't you heard ? I'll tell you the whole
story." And the General, who stood first
among button-holing, ceaseless-tongued club
bores, fastened at once upon his victim. He
retailed everything — the marriage, the murder,
the contest for the Lezaire estates.

He was tried for his life, then ? "

Undoubtedly. And, as I pointed out to
the committee, he ought to have been called
upon to resign the club."

But, General, he was acquitted."

All a mistake, a grave miscarriage of justice.
The idea of keeping a murderer in the club ! "

He only killed his mother-in-law. I'd like
to make away with mine," said a red-nosed
major whose female relations were too much
for him, report said, and who certainly came to
the club for the whiskies - and - sodas he was
denied at home.

*' His brother-in-law, you mean. He wanted
the property for his wife."

^^ Which he didn't get, every one knows that.
But what has he done now ? "

Gone bankrupt. It's in the ' Times ' ; a
receiving order granted. Here, look for yourself."


I saw it as I came up to town," said the
General, briskly. " I went up to the secretary's
office directly I got here, to remind him that
this St Evelyn ceases, ipso facto ^ to be a member
of the club."

Ill-conditioned old curmudgeon ! " was the
red-nosed major's comment as the General
bustled away. *' Trampling on people who are
down ! Old Wyndham-Parker's got a special
grudge against St Evelyn."

Oh ! that's General Wyndham-Parker, is
it ? " said one of the previous speakers, a tall,
slim young fellow with very white teeth, rather
prominent eyes, and crisp curly hair.

Yes ; don't you know the old fossil ? "

I've never seen him before, but I have
heard of him, and from him. Wish I hadn't."
The speaker was Captain Sutton, Eta's Sam

Sutton, who had had some unpleasant correspondence
with the General with regard to the
engagement.

It's deuced hard upon St Evelyn though.
I'm sorry for him, and I'd like to do him a
good turn if I could."

"So would I," added Sutton, *just to spite
the General. Where does he hang out ? Has
any one seen him ? "

I was speaking to his man Gibbings, — smart
little chap, you know, often has a bit of news —
he's at some livery stables in Kensington now,
and from what he said — not much I admit —
St Evelyn's in Queer Street." •

'' What ! got the knock ? "

Flat. He'll have to go under. What else
is a fellow to do when he's clean broke ? "

*take a crossing, or travel as a courier, or
turn commissionaire."

Or drive a bus, like Pump Middle ton, who
was in the Prancers. I give you my word, I
saw him in the Edgeways Eoad on the box, and
a fellow, a sort of pay-sergeant or cash-clerk.

came out and gave him two half-crowns. And
Pump told me — I got up alongside him — that
those five bob a-day were all that stood between
him and the workhouse."

Well, and there's Chick Faulkner, who had
all that Scotch property, kept a yacht and a
string of hunters. He's got a lodging-house at
Ramsgate, and wheels the perambulator when
he isn't cleaning the knives."

St Evelyn's a managing, business-like chap.
He ought to find something to do."

*' 'Tisn't so easy at his time of life. Besides,
the market's overstocked with chaps like him.
He'll find it hard, deuced hard, to get a fresh
start."

It was simply impossible, that was the fact,
and St Evelyn after a month's trial began
almost to despair.

They had a little lodging in Hammersmith,
one small sitting-room, a bedroom for themselves,
and another for the three little children
that now added so seriously to his anxieties
for the future. A single servant, a grimy but

good-natured marchioness, 'did" for the whole
house, and was more than willing; to serve the
St Evelyns — high folk who had lived at a Hall
and kept their own man. But she nearly
drowned one of the babies in the bath, and
half poisoned herself and her friend the policeman
by deep potations of the Colonel's hair-wash,
which was called Bay Meum.

Upon Rachel, the true-hearted, uncomplaining,
always devoted wife, the gentle, delicately
nurtured lady, fell much of the housework : she
was nurse, of course — Mintaa, the marchioness,
was no more to be trusted ; she essayed to cook ;
she plied the needle ; she " valeted " her Colonel,
and strove hard to turn him out as smart as
ever, well brushed and cared for, when he
started on his long and fruitless pilgrimages in
search of employment.

But there was one old stanch adherent and
humble friend always ready to help and relieve
her. Gibbings, sorely against his will, had
yielded to the commands laid upon him by the
Colonel, and had at last taken another place.

He had become head-groom and confidential
man at a large livery - yard in Kensington.
But whenever he was free — on an evening and
always on Sundays — he came over to Hammersmith
and gave all his time to the St Evelyns.

The old soldier could turn his hand to anything
; could rock a cradle, make soup, cook,
and sew.

"I'll just run my eye over the master's
things, ma'am." The Colonel would be Gib-beings's
master for all time. " The boots will bethe
better for a touch of varnish, and I'd like
to iron up his best hat," he said one evening.

The Colonel's wearing it, Gibbings. He
had to keep a particular appointment."

Something he's heard of, ma'am ? Of course
he'll get it. They've only got to know he's
seeking employment, and all London will be
bidding for him. What else can I be doing,
ma'am ? I think I'll step down to the kitchen
and see after the supper-tray."

Next minute he was taking the little maid to
task sharply.

'* D'ye call them tea-things clean, Mintaa ? A
lick and a scrape won't do for me, or my master
and mistress."

*''Tain't my fault, Mr Gibbons. I've been
that driven and dratted to-day, I'm a-fit to
tear myself to shreds."

*' Well, Mintaa, yon ain't a bad sort, so dry
your eyes. Some of these fine days I'll take
you out and show you life. What 'd you like
best ? Tea and shrimps at Woolwich Gardens,
or a trip to Harwich in the sixpenny roller ? "

Will you though, Mr Gibbons ? Will you
take me for a walk when they gives me my
next Sunday out ? I won't disgrace you. I've
a new plush martial, and a black satin skirt,
and there's fruit and flowers in my 'at."

*you can put 'em all on, only mind you
wash your face. But there's the bell, and I
think I hear your missus. You'd better hurry
up, or she'll have your hair."

The grimy maid ran ofi" in answer to the loud
shouts of "Araminta! Araminta !" but presently
returned to say —

Your Colonel gentleman's come in, and the
lady says I'm to take up the tray."

Stand off, Mintaa — no one touches that tray
but me. But you can watch the chops — let
them toast, d'ye see, and turn them every three
minutes by the clock. Mind now, or you won't
go out next Sunday."

When Gibbings entered the little sitting-room,
he found the Colonel downcast, dejected,
ruefully talking with Mrs St Evelyn.

It was no good, my dear. I stayed thereto
the last."

Where was it, dearest ? "

General Superintendent's office on the
North-East Extension Railway. I had heard
they wanted help in the traffic department."

Who did you see ? "

The general manager himself, I believe. A
gentlemanly fellow enough, and civil too, but
he wouldn't have anything to say to me."

Oh, Ferdinand ! "

It was the old story. ' What have you
been ? A colonel ? In the army ? ' ' Yes, the

Halberdiers — commanded the second battalion.'
Won't suit us. Good day.' I'm fit for
nothing, that's the fact, I suppose."

What ! you, sir ? The idea ! " protested
Gibbings.

Good evening, Gibbings," said the Colonel.
I wish it depended upon your good word."

"You should have it, sir. We'd make you
what ? Governor of the Bank of England, or
Master of the Queen's Horse. Wouldn't we,
ma am {

"Yes, Gibbings. But I tell the Colonel he
must not be cast down. He's certain to succeed
if only he perseveres." •

'Td take anything, anywhere — abroad even,
although it might oblige me to go away
alone."

You wouldn't leave us behind, Ferdinand ?
I could not, would not leave you."

But the children, my dear. Suppose I
went to South America or to the Panama
Canal : they want overseers there, and as I
speak languages I might get a billet there.

We could not take the children to a tropical
climate."

Rachel was tortured to decide, but her wifely
loyalty overcame the maternal instinct, and she
said bravely —

It would half kill me to part with the children,
but where you go I go, Ferdinand, whatever
happens."

St Evelyn knew what it cost her to say this,
and he kissed her tenderly.

But why should you leave England, sir ? '
put in Gibbings. " I've an idea of something
that would suit you, I think. Not much, perhaps,
or very first class, but you could make a
living at it, I'm sure."

Well, what is it, Gibbings ? Don't be
afraid to tell me : I'm sure I'm not proud."

It's in our line, livery, with a fair chance
of buying and selling. Now, sir, with your
eye for a horse and your knowledge, why, if
you'd condescend to give your attention toit,
why, there's money in it — a fortune, I do
believe."

And this business is going begging, Gib-beings
? It's to be had for the asking ? "

Not quite that, sir. But a hundred pounds
would buy the goodwill, and with another for
capital "

*' I'm not worth two hundred pounds, Gib-beings."


No ; but I am, sir. Ay, and more. And
if so be as you'll accept the loan and let me
work with you, sir "

Kachel jumped from her seat and seized Gib-beings's
hand.

My good Gibbings ! how can we thank you
for your kindness ? "

'Ain't nothing, ma'am ; if the Colonel will
only say yes."

St Evelyn had not spoken : he was too
much touched to find suitable words. But he
too rose, and placing his hand upon his loyal
henchman's shoulder, said presently —

There are not many like you, my honest,
trusty friend. You've been true as steel,
stanch as an ash-plant, from the day I first

took you until now. But I'm not going to rob
you of your hard earnings."

How could I have put 'em together but for
you, sir ? " replied Gibbings, with a husky voice.
You won't disappoint me, I hope, by refusing.
We'd make a fine thing of it, sir, believe me."

''He will not refuse," said Kachel, gently.
"It would be unkind, ungenerous, to refuse
such an offer and from so true a friend."

I won't. If nothing else turns up within
this week, Gibbings, I will accept, and most
gratefully, what you propose. There is my
hand on it. And now let's have something
to eat, for I'm sharp set."

The Colonel was never demonstrative, and he
had made already an unusual display of feeling.

Mintaa brought up the chops, very much
burnt and overdone, and feeling that Gibbings's
eye was upon her, began to apologise.

'Wasn't my fault, Mr Gibbons. The fire
was audacious, and the postman come in the
middle, and I had to take up second floor's lot —
he goes on so about his press, as he calls 'em."

Any letters for us, Araminta ? " asked Mrs
St Evelyn, gently checking the flow of explanation.


Only this, ma am," and Mintaa drew a long
envelope from inside the waist - string of her
whitey-brown apron.

"For you, Ferdinand."

From the North-eastern Extension Kail-way
! What can they have to say ? Why, they
didn't even ask my address."

He opened the letter. It was a brief but
courteous osier of a situation as ticket clerk at
Harrop's Green at a salary of two guineas per
week. If this was thought worthy of his acceptance,
Mr St Evelyn was begged to reply without
delay, as there were other applicants for the
post.

I don't understand it one bit," said St
Evelyn. " They held out no hopes while I was'
there."

*' Who does the letter come from ? "

The general manager : he signs his name —
Sutton."

VOL. II. O

Sutton ? " said Gibbings. " There was a
Captain Sutton of the South Stalkshire came
and found me out the other day, and asked a
lot of questions about you, Colonel : wanted to
know what you were doing."

Did you tell him ? "

"Not much, sir. But I gave him your address."


I don't know why he should befriend me,
but it seems as if he has. I can't explain it
otherwise."

** And this offer — will you take it, Ferdinand ? "

It would be wicked to turn my back on
such an opening. It will spare you, my good
Gibbings, and may lead to better things."

CHAPTER XLII.

Harrow's GREEN.

The immediate result of the change in St
Evelyn's prospects was a change also in residence.
They had to move at once to Harrop's
Green, a small suburb in the north-eastern wilds
of London, inhabited mostly by artisans and
city clerks all of whom travelled by the line in
and out of town. There were one or two factories
with large works in the neighbourhood,
and at no great distance a People's Palace and
gardens, which on great fetes and functions
might be reached not without crowding and inconvenience
from Harrop's Green.

The work into which St Evelyn was soon
initiated was intermittent, and varied from time

to time. It began early, in the small hours
indeed, the first workman's train in being at
4.30 A.M. It ended late, the last train out
being at 1.30 a.m. But St Evelyn had a mate
who divided the total twenty-one hours of duty
with him turn and turn about, taking early and
late hours alternately.

It's no worse than going on guard," said
St Evelyn cheerily, when his Rachel pitied him
as he went off yawning. " Only I didn't expect
to go back to subaltern's duty."

But his early training was of signal service
to him now. Certain habits which had become
second nature with him stood him in good
stead. He had learnt as a soldier to be
punctual and particular in the performance of
his daily task. Tell him what to do and he
did it exactly. He was never late for parade,
even at early dawn ; never late, although he
had to shave by candle-light. This was another
inviolable rule : to turn out for duty
spick and span, as smart as soap and water
and clothes-brush could make him. He would

have felt it a disgrace to appear at the ticket-office
in the slovenly, unroofed, out-at-elbows
condition of his fellow-clerk, a lanky, round-shouldered
youth, who neither brushed his hair
nor cleaned his nails, nor had his boots blacked
from week's end to week's end.

Gentle Kachel, with her woman's adaptability,
had quickly imbibed her husband's punctilious
ideas, and was a willing, nay, eager helpmate.
She did her part as scrupulously as he did
his. At the first sound of the alarm-clock she
turned out of bed, lit the Etna, prepared the
shaving-water and the hot drink of chocolate
which fortified St Evelyn from the cold morning
air ; she brushed his overcoat and his
now seedy but well-shaped hat, and saw there
was no dust on the shiny boots St Evelyn
himself polished overnight. When she had
sent him to his work, she busied herself like
a charwoman — saw to the children and the
house, prepared her husband's breakfast and
took it to him herself, waiting by his side in
the little den of an office while he ate it

amidst the ledgers, and told her the morning's
news.

It was nearly always the same story.

Tremendous rush this morning : a hundred
and seventeen tickets issued in less than an
hour."

And have you balanced your cash, dear ? "
asked Rachel, anxiously.

This was his great trouble. While still unfamiliar
with prices, he often had to perform
rapid sums of intricate mental arithmetic ; calculate
exactly the amount of fare and give the
correct change. Not seldom he was wrong ;
when others suffered, he heard of it at once,
generally in rough indignant language, but no
one told him when the mistake was against
himself. Of course he had to abide by his
errors. The Company made no allowance for
mistakes ; deficits came out of the clerk's own
pocket.

"Balanced it within three - halfpence, my
child. But I was uncommonly near done, all
the same."

a

*bad money again? How wicked people
are ! What was it ? "

Half a sovereign, no less. But I found
it out, luckily, and there was a fine row. As
it was, they threatened to report me, and I
suppose I shall hear more of it again."

*' But were you sure it was bad, dear ? "

**I wouldn't have been last week. But ever
since Gibbings brought his friend the detective
from the bank, I'd back myself to tell a dead
'un directly I touch it. But there, dear, I must
not talk, I have got to enter my morning's
work."

St Evelyn opened one of the great ledgers
labelled " Train Book," and proceeded to record
the number of tickets he had issued to each
station.

Meanwhile Rachel was engaged in packing
up her basket, preparing to take her leave.

I shall see you at lunch, dear, or rather
dinner, at mid-day ? "

**No; we will dine late to-night. And
Gibbings is coming up, I fancy."

At this moment there was a rap at the ticket-window,
to which St Evelyn promptly responded.

Can I get on to the Great Western from here,
so as to catch the 9.15 express from Padding-ton
? "

St Evelyn hesitated. This was only one of
dozens of similar questions asked him, but with
his limited experience the answer was not immediately
forthcoming.

Dear, dear, do be quick ! Surely you know:
what is the use of you ? I shall complain to the
general manager. What is your name ? "

All this was spoken spluttering, and in an
abrupt, peremptory tone.

I am very sorry," replied St Evelyn apologetically,
but with difficulty restraining his temper.
" I am new to the work here "

It's preposterous. You ought to have been
instructed before you were put on duty. How
much longer am I to wait ? "

Not another second. I find you can just
do it by taking the next through train to melbourne
Park."

Very well. First return, Heading ! "

St Evelyn wetted his fingers on the sponge
and drew a ticket from its particular tube,
clicked it in the dating press, and threw it on
the window-ledge, saying —

Eleven and seven."

There was a pause. The traveller was fumbling
in all his pockets.

Dear, dear, how extraordinary ! My purse
I must have left home without it. I cannot
pay, I'm afraid," he began.

St Evelyn promptly drew back the ticket.
Short as was his experience, he was on the alert
for fraud. •

"What on earth am I to do?" went on the
traveller, speaking to himself, but audibly. " I
shall never have time to get back, and the
carriage has gone. I suppose," he ventured
to say, quite humbly, to St Evelyn, "you
won't trust me till this evening ? "

St Evelyn laughed, not unpleasantly. The
complete change in the other's manner really
amused him.

It's distinctly against the rules, and if by
any chance you should forget "

But I will give you my name and address.
It is of the utmost importance to me to get to
Reading at once — a matter of business that will
not wait. What would you advise me to do ? "

*' I cannot advise," replied St Evelyn, stolidly.
'' If I gave you the ticket, it would be at my
own risk, and I cannot afford to lose eleven
and seven nowadays. It wo aid make too big a
hole in my week's salary."

"But you shan't lose it, I tell you. I give
you my word."

St Evelyn was still obdurate, when he heard
Rachel whisper —

Let him have it, Ferdinand. I think he is
a gentleman. He speaks like one."

'* You will give me your name and address ? "

Most certainly, and you shall have your
money to-night, at latest. Will you give me a
piece of paper and pen and ink ? "

St Evelyn opened the booking-office door and
civilly invited the gentleman inside.

He was a stout, plethoric-looking man, with a
crimson face and white hair.

"My wife," he said, "Mrs St Evelyn," introducing
her as though she were a duchess ;
and Rachel's appearance, with the dignified bow
she gave the visitor, so satisfied him that he
was in the presence of a lady, that he at once
removed his hat. When he had written down
his address, he handed it to St Evelyn, and his
eye fell with some surprise upon the ticket-clerk
— upon the tall, straight figure of the
neatly dressed, well-mannered man who was an
employee of the company at two guineas
a-week. •

You have not been here long, you say ? "

Only five weeks."

And you like your work ? It is new to you,
I think ? "

I have to earn my living," said St Evelyn,
simply. " But there ! " The telegraph signal
clicked overhead. " There is the down train,
and here is your ticket. You will only just
have time."

"Who is it ?" asked Rachel, rather interested
to know the name of the man to whom they
had practically lent eleven and sentence.

Carrington Lomas, Birch Hill House, En-field,
Hearts," replied St Evelyn, reading off the
paper. 'never heard of him before, but I
sincerely hope to hear" of him again, and not
later than this evening, as he said."

When St Evelyn came home that evening
from the railway station, he was triumphant.

"Look here, Rachel, do you like strawberries?
Here is a present for you from Mr
Carrington Lomas."

He sent back the money, then ? "

"Yes, and these for you, with his compliments
and a card. You deserve them. I
should never have lent him the money but
for you."

"He is an old dear. If he only knew how
fond I was of strawberries ! And the children
take after me."

"So does Gibbings; you had better save
some for him."

Gibbings is here — hard at work, of course,
from the moment he came in."

"Any news? What have you got to say
for yourself, Gibbings ? " he went on to his
man, who at this moment appeared.

Only this, sir, that I am going down to
Thorpeshire next week. Any commands that
way, sir, or you, ma'am ? "

Shall you be near Straddlethorpe ? " asked
the Colonel, while his wife sat sadly silent,
thinking of the old home.

Why, of course. I am going to Castle
Stutterton horse-fair. It's not many miles
across to the Hall, and I am curious to know
how things go on there."

So am I," said the Colonel. " Mind you
bring us a full and particular account."

I will, sir ; and I will bring you, ma'am,
as big a bunch of flowers as I can carry, if I
have to steal them from the gardens on purpose."


CHAPTER Xlii

THE Horse-fair.

The annual horse-fair at Castle Stutterton was
an event of more than local importance. It
attracted buyers from all parts of the country,
from the Continent even, and for some years
had been visited by German cavalry officers,
who bid for blood stock against the military
representatives of the French republic.

The little village town was thronged ; beds
were at a premium ; every stable, or outhouse
that would serve as such, could have been let
a dozen times over; and long lines of horses
brought in from far and near were picketed all
day in the principal streets of the place.

Gibbings, whose business was to buy a couple

of useful hacks for his employer's livery work,
found many friends at Castle Stutterton. He
had come to be well known in Thorpeshire, and
all Thorpeshire was here, the highest and the
lowest. Lord Prudhames and the county
magnates, horse-jobbers without end, gentlemen's
coachmen on the look-out for their
masters, and a perfect posse of tatterdemalion
riffraff — grooms, helpers, gipsies, and
thieves.

What cheer, Gibbings ? — you back in these
parts ! What brings you here ? "

The speaker was Thorndike, the ex-farm bailiff
of Straddlethorpe, with whom Gibbings had
always been on fairly familiar terms.

**Mr Thorndike, how goes it? Still at the
old place ? "

Not I. I took my hook when the new
baronet came. I didn't like it, but I couldn't
serve such trash as that."

"How does he get along? Has he swore
off?"

'Ain't likely. But they do say he's sweet

on one of the Hazelgrove girls, and that keeps
him straight."

"I'd like to see the old place. Wonder
whether they'd let me in at the Hall. Who's
there now — any old friends ? "

All the upper servants left but Peters —
even Mrs Leleu."

What ! the black-faced housekeeper ? That's
news. I am surprised. She and Hubert were
always such friends."

It was too thick to last. Besides, think
of their altered stations. And I'm told they
had a stand-up fight before they parted."

Peters '11 be the next, I take it."

Not he, unless he's driven to it. He'd
stand almost anything to keep his place. It
must be worth a pretty penny to him."

Will Sir Hubert be here to-day, think
you i

As sure as eggs. He'll bring his team over.
That's the great game nowadays, driving a
four-in-hand with a pack of misses on the
box."

And that was how Sir Hubert Lezaire
arrived. Gibbings was standing in the main
street as the Straddlethorpe drag drove up,
dexterously but rather recklessly handled by
its madcap whip. The roadway was thronged,
as I have said ; hundreds of horses stood in
rows on each side — buyers came and went
amongst them, some mounted, some on foot ;
there were other vehicles moving slowly along
the crowded thoroughfare, and it was no place
to bring up a four-in-hand so fast. But on
came Sir Hubert, with horn and holloa and
strident hi's ! driving headlong into the press.
The people parted hastily to either side, giving
passage as best they could, but indignantly ;
and the excitement spread rapidly through
the crowd even to the horses, which whinnied
and stamped and plunged, greatly increasing
the confusion of the scene.

"Pull him off ! Knock him over ! Drag
him down ! " were the cries that resounded on
every side.

But Sir Hubert only flogged his horses the

VOL. II. p

more savagely, contemptuously, till his own
team grew almost unmanageable and out of
hand. The leaders reared, the wheelers put
their heads down and pulled double. There
were shrieks from the ladies ; the grooms behind
were preparing to dismount hastily to
give help.

Just at this moment Gibbings rushed
promptly to the head of the most restive
horse, the near leader, and partly by force,
partly by soothing words, quieted him ; then
he shifted quickly to the off leader, and was
equally successful.

"Thank you, my man, thank you. Come
to me at the White Horse and I will remember
you," cried the young baronet as he drove on,
sobered and steadied by his late danger.

Gibbings an hour later put in an appearance
at the White Horse, thinking less perhaps of
his expected tip than of what Sir Hubert would
say on recognising him. But it was not easy
to gain access to the young baronet. He had
a luncheon-party, having secured two of the

best rooms of the country inn and sent over
everything from the Hall.

While Gibbings waited at the inn door, a
gentleman who had passed once or twice and examined
him rather curiously, came up, saying —

If I am not mistaken, you are Colonel St
Evelyn's man, Gibbings ? "

That is my name," replied Gibbings, rather
curtly.

You don't remember me, I think — Captain
Sutton."

"Why, of course, sir. I thought I knew
your face. Come down to buy ? "

*well, yes, in a way. Are you very busy?
Would you care to earn a sovereign ? I want
a helping hand."

"At your service, sir. Always glad to be
of use to a gentleman, especially one as is kind
to my old master — for you were that, weren't
you, sir i

Sutton laughed, but shook his head.

"It wasn't much I did, anyhow. I only
spoke to my brother. But listen, Gibbings —

there's a luncheon-party up-stairs, and someone
at it I want to see."

Not Sir Hubert, by any chance ? I came to
see him too."

No, I will be frank with you — a young lady.
Now when they all come down and go through
the fair, as they are bound to do, if you could
help to keep him — this Lezaire, I mean — and
the rest of them while I have a few minutes'
talk with the young lady, the sovereign is yours.
That's what I want you to do. You understand
? "

Gibbings touched his hat.

"I'm your man, sir. But may I make so
bold as to ask who is the young lady ? I might
help you, you know, with the wrong one."

Sutton hesitated at first, then said —

It's Miss Wyndham-Parker— Miss Eta."

Her he's sweet on — Sir Hubert, I mean ? "

Sutton winced.

"I fancy so. But now you know, see what
you can do."

"Trust me to try my best, sir; you stand

by. I have got to speak to Sir Hubert — he
himself told me to come. The girl, the young
lady, I mean, is sure to be with him, or we will
wait till she is ; then I will engage his attention.
Only you be ready, sir."

Presently the whole party came down-stairs
and into the street, — the little General and Mrs
Wyndham-Parker leading, then Mrs Richards,
the married daughter, and one of the other
girls, then Captain Richards and lea, last of
all Sir Hubert and Eta, as Gibbings had supposed.


The stir and bustle of the fair centred at the
White Horse, and there was much movement
just in front of its entrance. The Wyndham-parker
were soon involved in the crowd, father
and mother pressing on all the more confidently
as they knew or believed that their daughter
Eta was in safe hands. But as planned, Gib-beings
went up to Sir Hubert at once, saying —

You told me to call, sir. It was I who lent
a hand with your team just now."

Ah ! it was you, was it ? Well, you

deserve half a co-utter. I'll stop it from Peters :
the old fool ought to have been more slippy."

Sir Hubert felt in his pocket, handed Gib-beings
his half - sovereign, and was turning
to regain his companion, who had however
already disappeared, when a hand was laid
heavily on his shoulder, and an angry voice
cried —

I've found you, have I, you young Podifat
Lezaire ! I want ^yq words with you."

"Stand aside! I don't know you — don't
want to. Let me pass."

Don't know me, you infernal young
blackguard ! You were glad enough to know
me and mine last spring when you deluded
my poor girl."

"You're old Fieldus, I suppose," said Sir
Hubert, insolently. "What have you got to
say to me ? "

Just this — but come along inside." Old
Fieldus forced rather than led the young
baronet into the inn yard, Gibbings following
close. " I never thought to have to ask it, but

you have got to make an honest woman of my
girl. You promised to marry her, and you
shall."

'a'md dis Ido! There!"

I hardly hoped you meant fair by her, but
now I'm down in your own country and find
out your carrying-on. It's clear you want to
break your word. But you shall pay for it, old
as I am."

Mr Fieldus seized Sir Hubert by the collar
and flourished a heavy cutting-whip over his
head.

'' Old as I am," he repeated, " I will flog
handsomely first and sue you in the courts
afterwards."

In spite of Sir Hubert's struggles, Mr Fieldus
succeeded in administering one or two sharp
strokes to the young man's back, when Gib-beings
interposed, separated the combatants,
and stood between Mr Fieldus and his prey.

Here," said the old soldier, " you strike one
of your own size and age. Don't mind him,
Sir Hubert ; I'll see fair play."

But by this time others, strangers and friends,
had prevailed upon the infuriated chemist to
desist from his assault, and had carried him off
into the inn, still shouting loud threats against
Sir Hubert Lezaire.

Gibbings, left master of the field, turned to
the young fellow he had so seasonably championed,
and said —

Hope you are not hurt, Sir Hubert. What
an audacious old villain ! He ought to be put
in a strait-jacket, or, anyway, have his whip
taken from him."

Sir Hubert, at first sullen and crestfallen,
made a great effort to regain his composure.

That's the second time you've stood by me.
Grive me your hand."

I was glad to help you, Sir Hubert. I suppose
you don't remember me ? It's Gibbings,
who used to be at the Hall."

Gibbings 1 " cried Sir Hubert, suspiciously.
What are you doing in Thorpeshire ? "

Come to buy horses for my masters, Lund
& Meldrum of Kensington."

Then you are not with the Colonel now ? "

Dear, no, Sir Hubert ! left him ages ago."

Don't care to see him again, I suppose, now
he's down in the world without a mag to bless
himself with."

That's about it. But how's all going on at
the Hall, Sir Hubert ? "

Come over and see for yourself, any day
after the fair; or this evening, for I think I
shall go straight home."

He wished to put as many miles as possible
between himself and Mr Fieldus's horsewhip.

I wonder what's become of all my lot ? Good
day to you, Gibbings : see you next time."

And with that the young baronet dived into
the crowd to rejoin the Wyndham - Parkers.
When he found them Eta was with them again,
but she must have had a very pleasant half-hour's
tete-astute with her devoted Sam.

Chapter XLIV.

LIBERTY HALL.

Gibing did not despatch his business till the
second day of the fair, when he bought his
two nags and sent them up to town. It was
on the third morning that he found his way
to Straddlethorpe, and relying on Sir Hubert's
invitation, went straight to the front door of
the Hall.

"Sir Hubert?" responded the butler who
opened it — a stranger to Gibbings, a watery-eyed,
weak-kneed old man, battered but rubicund,
who had probably found Straddlethorpe
a haven of restful indulgence. " You can't see
him."

'but he told me to call."

"You'll have to wait, then; he ain't down
yet. Won't any one else do ? Mr Peters, perhaps
? " answered the butler, after a shrewd
look at Gibbings and his somewhat sporting
attire.

Well — I know Mr Peters. We've been in
service together."

"Not here? Yes? Why didn't you say so
sooner ? Come along in. Peters '11 be in the
servants' hall most likely. It's our time fora
snack, and he generally joins us."

The " snack " was a liberal meal : cold joints,
hot pies, sweet dumplings, and bread and
cheese, flanked by jugs of new milk and foaming
tankards of ale.

"Dinner ain't till three," went on the butler,
with a thick sensual laugh, " and we have
to keep ourselves up till then. Where's Mr
Peters ? " he went on, looking round the room,
in which some fifteen or twenty servants had
assembled. "Not come in yet? Well, find
a seat," he said to Gibbings. "Maybe there's
some one else you know."

Gibbings saw only one he remembered
amongst the lot of unfamiliar faces, a 
young housemaid, with a fresh
colour and honest eyes, beside whom he took
his seat.

It's a sight for sore eyes to see you so
blooming, Susan Footit," he began.

Lor', Mr Gibbings, how you made me start !
Who'd a thought of seeing you ? "

Still in the old place, then ? "

"And very sorry too. I ought to have left
when the change was made, but they gave mea
rise. I'm upper housemaid now "

Then surely you're well off ? "

Susan shook her head gloomily.

"It's a bad look-out for any decent girl in
this house. It's hard to keep straight in it
with such goings-on."

It was evident at a glance : waste, riotous
living, licence of all kind holding high revel
all through the house.

"Don't you like Sir Hubert? Isn't he
kind ? "

*' Kind ! " The quick blush that mantled in
her cheek, the indignant scorn in her voice,
were tell-tales that Gibbings easily understood.
He's too civil by half when no one else is by."

I should give notice if I were you. Take
another place."

That's where it is, Mr Gibbings. Who's
to get a character from such a house as this ?
Who's to give one ? "

*why, the housekeeper, I suppose."

*' Mrs Leleu went three weeks ago. She'd
had enough of him. There was a fine row
between them. I could hear them from the
china drawing-room, which I was dusting*'

Quarrelled, eh ? "

"All but came to blows. Sir Hubert turned
her out of the house, you may say, then and
there."

Has no one come in Mrs Leleu's place ? "

There's no one engaged yet. Sir Hubert
doesn't care. Everything may go to rack and
ruin so long as he enjoys himself."

He'll be getting married one of those days."

''He might like to, but the girl he most
fancies won't have him, I expect, and that's
what makes him so reckless. But I pity the
woman who takes him. He was drunk again
last night, he and the vile lot he brought over
from the fair : no one could sleep for the row
they made, singing and screeching and turning
the Hall upside down. Married indeed 1 A
fine husband he'll be."

"There are lots ready to be my lady and
mistress of Straddlethorpe. They might reform
him, you know, Susan. When he's a
little older he'll settle down."

I don't think it, Mr Gibbings. He's a bad
un, or I'm much mistaken. Drinks to drown
care. That's what Mrs Leleu meant. I heard
her plain enough."

From the china drawing-room ? "

I was passing the study door just then.
She said she had him in her power, body and
soul. Why should she say that unless he'd
done something wrong ? "

Was that all you heard, Susan ? "

*' All. The door was ajar, and I did not
dare stay. But that much I caught, every
word."

Gibbings looked round as Susan Footit made
this strange and deeply interesting statement,
fearing others might have heard it. But her
voice had been low, and the business of eating
and drinking too fully engrossed every one else
at table.

What could be the hold Mrs Leleu possessed
over Sir Hubert ? Surely none very effective,
seeing that he had sent her away? But the
point was worth investigating, and Gibbings
would gladly have embraced any chance' of
remaining longer at the Hall to pursue his
inquiry.

His good luck helped him.

Peters came in presently, blacker and more
cross - grained than usual, and on hearing a
friend was at table, drew near Gibbings, whom
he at once recognised and addressed. But his
greeting was the reverse of cordial.

I might have guessed as much. I was sure

some one had been doing me a dirty turn, and
of course it was you," he said fiercely.

'come, come, Mr Peters," expostulated
Gibbings ; *' fair and softly. What's amiss ?
What have I done to you ? "

I'll tell you out in the yard : there's room
enough. Come out and take your coat ofi". I
ain't so old a man that I can't give you a
dusting. Come out, or I'll do it here," said
the old coachman, with a threatening gesture.

Gentlemen ! gentlemen I " interposed the
butler, "remember there's ladies in the room.

You get out of this " to Gibbings. " If Mr

Peters don't know you, you haven't no right
in here."

None of your cheek. I'll go or stay, as it
suits me. It depends on your master, who
told me to come over, and you'd better take
me to him."

*' That's what I thought," cried Peters.
'you've been poisoning the governor's mind
against me. That's why he's given me the
sack."

I never spoke about you, or mentioned your
name, you old fool ! "

^* Call me that again ! " began Peters ; when
the butler, fearing a serious row, carried Gib-beings
off, saying —

Sir Hubert's up by this time. Come along
I'll tell him you're here."

Gibbings was not kept waiting long.

"He'll see you — in there," said the butler,
half opening a door which Gibbings remembered
as that of the Spanish chamber, the best
bedroom in the house.

The room in which Sir Percy Lezaire had
breathed his last ; the room in which Mrs Leleu
had so strangely come upon the desk and documents
that were to bring such a change over
Straddle thorpe, — it was here that the present
baronet spent half his mornings, bedraggled
and bemused, just as he had tumbled out of
the great tapestry, canopied, four-poster bed.

Here Gibbings found him, wrapped in a silk
dressing-gown thrown carelessly over his nightshirt,
with bare feet thrust into brocaded slip-vol.

II. Q

pers, hair dishevelled, chin unshorn. He
lounged or lay in a wide easy-chair before a
writing-table littered with bills and papers,
on which stood a tall tumbler and cut-glass
decanter. Pale face and bloodshot eyes told
a tale of overnight debauchery and inward
pangs, which morning drinks could hardly
assuage.

The blackguard thief ! " began the baronet.
*the low horse-coping scoundrel "

Meaning me, Sir Hubert ? " asked Gibbings,
with a smile. ♦

"No; that cursed, cheating, gipsy-faced
swindler, Peters. I've caught him in the very
act. Harry Tamer warned me, but I wouldn't
believe him. D'y^ want a place, Gibbings ?
Take service with me."

You're very good," answered Gibbings, but
without enthusiasm.' "I'm pretty well suited
at this moment."

You'd be far better off here at the Hall, and
I believe I could trust you — you're not like
that villain Peters,"

^'What's Peters done, Sir Hubert?" Gib-beings
wanted time to think over the offer.

'sold me, a regular dog. It was about a
pair of bays I bought at the fair. Two fifty
Peters swore was the price, and I gave nim
the dibs to pay. Now I find — Tamer told
me — that Peters only handed over a hundred
and seventy ; the rest he put in his pocket.
That's only one of a dozen such tricks. Just
look at this corn bill."

Gibbings followed Sir Hubert's hand, which
pointed to the writing-table, and saw there the
corn bill and something more.

It was a letter, addressed in a scrawling Ill-formed
hand to

"Mrs Leleu,

BuENA Vista,

BuLKELEY Wells."

Can he be writing to her ? " Gibbings asked
himself at once. " In correspondence with a
servant so recently discharged ? " Surely there
was ground for suspicion in this ; it strangely

emphasised what Susan Footit, the housemaid,
had overheard.

Well, Sir Hubert," said Gibing, now anxious
to keep friends, " I never thought much
of that Peters. I promise to serve you better
than that. Would you engage me as coachman
{

"As stud-groom, master of the horse, confidential
man ; what you please, Gibbings.
Any of the lads could drive, but I mostly
handle the ribbons myself."

When would you want me. Sir Hubert ? "

Now. I've just kicked Peters out, and I'd
like you to take his place at once. What d'ye
say?

"Wages, sir?"

Sixty, and all found. It's worth more than
that, for I don't ask many questions, only I
won't be robbed wholesale. Peters must have
done me out of hundreds."

It's a sin and a shame to take advantage.
Sir Hubert, and you shall find no such fault
with me. I'm your man."

Any last doubts were finally disposed of by
the sight of an open cheque-book alongside the
letter to Mrs Leleu. The page uppermost
showed a cheque partly filled in —

"Pay Mrs Leleu, or order, two hundr "

** Writing to her and sending her money !
Beyond question she has him in her power.
I'm in luck to get a chance of staying on at
the Hall," were Gibbings's reflections as he went
down-stairs. " I should be a fool now not to
try and find out what all this means."

Chapter Xli.

THE POLICE AGAIN.

Gibing fell into his place very quickly at the
Hall. The other servants looked askance at
him, fearing that as he had supplanted Peters
he might betray them in their turn. It was a
first principle with the Straddlethorpe servants,
as with most others, that whatever went on
below, honour forbade tale-bearing up-stairs.

But Gibbings had no idea of setting his
fellow-servants against him. He was at the
Hall for a particular purpose. His business
was to watch and wait ; to do this, he must
live and let live, going his own way quietly,
without pretending to be more honest or more
virtuous than his companions. Any ill-feeling

on their part might make them suspicious and
attract too much attention to himself.

His first and principal wish was to ingratiate
himself with his new master. To do this he
studied Sir Hubert's tastes and adapted himself
to his ways. The former were low, the latter
loose ; but Gibbings was an old soldier who
could take kindly to any line of life, more
especially to one which promised him pleasant
times. His duties as stud-groom were not
severe ; the general superintendence of the
stables was the hardest part of them. The
helpers did all the rough work, and Gibbings
knew how to keep them at it. He himself was
free to come and go as he liked after an early
hour of the day, but it suited him best to be
always handy — always at the baronet's beck
and call.

The young fellow soon came to take a pleasure
in Gibbings's society. He found that the
old soldier could descant at length upon the two
topics — horses and women — that had the deepest,
the only interest for Sir Hubert Lezaire.

Ah ! but you should see them Spanish girls,
Sir Hubert," said Gibbings one day as they
were smoking together and chatting quite confidentially
at the harness-room door.

Pretty Susan Footit had just tripped across
the stable-yard, and Gibbings had noted the
admiring look and wink that had followed her
trim figure.

*' What are they like ? Dark, brown-skinned,
stomach ? I like 'em fair, and neat, and
plump — like yon."

They've got light-haired ones too. Elias,
they call them — that's to say, red, ruby red.
But such figures ! They walk like queens.
They don't walk ; they do what our sergeant-major
tried to teach the raw recruits — they
glide."

"I don't fancy 'em, Gibbings. I know a
gal'd give 'em three stone and a beating round
any course."

No need to tell me your taste, Sir Hubert ;
I can see that for myself. Beg pardon if I
make too bold, but when's the happy day ? "

Sir Hubert shook his head gloomily, then
clenched his fist and struck it against the doorpost.


I don't get no forwarder, Gibbings. One
day she's all smiles and smirks, the next scowls
and sneers, and you may walk your chalks."

Stick up to her, Sir Hubert. They're like
horses ; take 'em by the head and master 'em.
They like you all the better when they give
m.

There's some one else before me, I'm thinking.
If I was sure of it, I'd knife him." A
murderous look crossed the young fellow's evil
face. •

Gibbings remembered Captain Sutton, but
saw no reason, and felt indeed it would be unsafe,
to tell Sir Hubert what he knew.

Speak up to her, I say. Look what you Ve
got to offer her. Few fellows would have any
chance against you and all this," waving his
hand towards the Hall and its surroundings.

Maybe you're right. If I only had the pluck !
But then there's this beastly Fieldus case."

What's that, Sir Hubert ? "

"The old sportsman who struck me — curse
him ! — at the fair. He's brought an action,
damages £20,000. As she was under age —
his daughter, you know — they may bring it in
felony perhaps, and Tinson says I may have to
go to jail. I can't think of it. It makes me
mad. Come in and have a drain."

The sideboard in the Hall dining-room was
always well garnished. Sir Hubert had developed
a nice taste in liqueurs, and he now
filled himself a claret-glassful of benedictine,
while Gibbings took his Scotch cold — the
whisky first neat, then the water.

I think I'll go over to Hazelgrove," said Sir
Hubert, emboldened by his nip. " I must see
her. King, Gibbings, and tell them to saddle
Devilskin."

Sir Hubert was already in the saddle, and
was on the point of starting, when the butler
came out, saying —

Beg your pardon, Sir Hubert, but the police
have called."

The police ! What do they want here ?
Who sent them ? " Sir Hubert's voice shook
slightly, and his sallow face changed colour.

The inspector most particularly wishes to
speak to you, Sir Hubert ; said I was to tell
you it was very important and couldn't
wait."

'* Where are they ? How cursedly annoying
! "

Was this strong language meant to feign unconcern
?

They are in the housekeeper's room, which
I use now, Sir Hubert. They have got a
prisoner with them — leastways some one they
took up this morning."

What's all that to me ? I'm in a hurry,
don't you see ? Tell them to go to the nearest
magistrate. I'm not on the bench."

It was rather a sore subject with Sir Hubert
that the lord lieutenant had positively refused
to put him in the commission of the peace.

If I understood rightly, they wished to take
your orders before proceeding in this case. But

here they are, Sir Hubert ; the inspector will
tell you himself."

At this moment two of the county constabulary
in uniform came round the shrubbery from
the offices ; between them was a rough-looking,
middle-aged man, in a suit of new corduroy,
with a slouch-hat. He was clearly under restraint,
although not actually a prisoner and
handcuffed. Behind was a fourth person, our
old acquaintance Mr Earswick, an inspector
now, but still in plain clothes.

Where is the inspector ? " asked Sir Hubert,
abruptly. "Why am I worried in this way?
What does it all mean ? "

Earswick stepped to the front, and touching
his hat, civilly said —

I am responsible for this, sir. These constables
reported to me that they had seen this
man loitering round the keeper's lodge near
Bingley wood last night. We believe this morning
he must have broken into it, from the look
of the outer gate. The house is unoccupied, as
I think you know."

No answer from Sir Hubert, who, from the
moment the police approached him, had been
fidgeting with his stirrup-leather and keeping
his face averted.

The fellow is an old convict," went on Earswick.
" Blagrove here, a very old officer, has
recognised him as a notorious poacher who was
sent to penal servitude some nine or ten years
ago. I have found that he is now on licence —
in fact, he reported himself at Market Needham
two or three days ago. As a ticket-of-leave man
he is liable to arrest if seen under suspicious
circumstances, affording grounds for charging
him with intent to commit a felony. So we laid
hands on him this morning, and have brought
him here to complete the case. Was your north
lodge by Bingley broken into, sir, last night ? "

Devilskin, Sir Hubert's horse, a tall, large-boned
hunter, was very troublesome this morning.
It had been fidgeting about while the
police officer was speaking, and now began to
plunge and half rear as though mad to make a
start.

Gibbings, who had his eye on his master,
traced the horse's restiveness to its right cause.
Sir Hubert had been at him constantly with his
spur.

All this time the prisoner had stood sullen
and silent, with downcast eyes and the injured
air of a man wrongfully accused.

Gibbings spoke for his master —

'' We've heard nothing about any burglary
here. It's another of your trumped-up cases.
You're a fine lot, you Thorpeshire police."

Earswick winced, and answered angrily, surveying
Gibbings from head to foot —

Oh, it's you, is it ? What brings you back
to the Hall ? "

I'm not obliged to give an account of
myself to you. Perhaps you'd like to take me
into custody too, as a suspicious character."

Sir Hubert, who, seemingly to ease his horse,
had ridden a few lengths away, now called
Gibbings to him.

Send them about their business," he said
in a low voice, leaning over his saddle. ''I

don't want to have anything to do with the
case. They must act without me."

Gibbings communicated the message with
alacrity, adding —

'' Now, Mr Ears wick, you'd better walk your
chalks. Let this poor old devil go — you've got
nothing against him. It's like you, getting the
wrong sow by the ear."

I shan't let him go : there's quite enough
against him to run him in. Convicts on licence
have no right to be loafing round gentlemen's
parks, particularly old poachers ; and the Bench
shall deal with this chap this very day, with
or without Sir Hubert Lezaire."

For the first time the prisoner lifted his head,
and speaking with sudden animation, said —

a T\\

D'ye call yon chap Sir Hubert Lezaire ? "
That's about it," answered Gibbings. " Sir
Hubert Lezaire, Baronet, Master of Straddle-thorpe
Hall, and the surrounding lands as far
as you can see. And what might you call yourself
when you're at home ? "

His name was Podifat when he was last in

Well, but what took him to Bingley, I should
like to know ? " asked the little General. "He
was clearly trespassing on the Lezaire property."


Then let young Lezaire bring an action for
trespass. I don't see it's our business to interfere."


He was after the pheasants, I'll go bail. A
rank old poacher."

I agree with you, General," said Mr Lee,
and think he ought to be sent back to jail."

Well, you're two to one. But we ought to
hear anything the prisoner may have to say.
His name is not quite unfamiliar, and he may
have some excuse," protested Mr Etherly.
"Ask him. General."

The foregoing conversation had passed in
whispered tones amongst the magistrates, whilst
Podifat in the dock below anxiously awaited
their fiat.

What have you got to say for yourself ? "
asked the General, abruptly. " What took you
to Bingley ? What were you after ? "

No harm. I used to live there, in the
keeper's lodge. I only wanted to see the old
place again."

A very satisfactory reason," said Mr Etherly,
sotto voce.

When did you live there ? In what capacity
? " went on the General, less confidently.

I was under-keeper in Sir Percy Lezaire's
time."

^' Can any one verify this ? "

Blagrove, a veteran officer, at once corroborated
the statement, which Mr Etherly also
supported.

** Besides, I want to see my boy, the lad as
I brought up and treated as my own child till
they tore us apart."

Podifat said this in a whining, lachrymose
tone, intended to express the deep-seated emotions
of his affectionate heart.

** What boy ? " asked the General, unguardedly,
while Mr Etherly smiled maliciously, anticipating
the reply.

** Him as is now master — the young baronet.

Little Hubie, whom I nursed and taught to
make cartridges and tie flies."

'' Our young friend's foster-father, in fact,"
whispered Mr Etherly to the General. " Do
you still think he ought to go back to jail ? "

The General looked as if he would like to
have sent Podifat much farther than Market
Eeepham jail, and it was with rather a crestfallen
air that he admitted —

I think perhaps we had better dismiss the
case."

Podifat accordingly was set at large. As the
prisoner left the court. General Wyndham-parker
left the bench. Taking Earswick aside, he
said —

Keep your eyes upon that man. I should
like to know what becomes of him. He is bound
to report himself, I suppose, to the police ? "

Here or elsewhere, sir."

Elsewhere would be better. Why not get
him to go out of the neighbourhood ? "

It might be done, sir. He's a kind of chap
that'd go anywhere for a consideration."

Well, just find out, will you, what lie will
take to go — say to London, or the Hebrides, or
the Isle of Man ? He can only be an annoyance
to Sir Hubert Lezaire if he remains in Thorpe-shire.
Only let me know what's his price."

General Wyndham-Parker, be it understood,
had no intention of paying it, however small.
The cost would, of course, fall on the young
baronet, whom he intended to see without a
moment's loss of time. His desire was speedily
fulfilled, for on his return to Hazelgrove he
found Sir Hubert there at lunch.

The baronet was not in the best of spirits.
He sat black and gloomy at an almost untasted
meal. Only the General's dry sherry — none of
the best — had found favour with his would-be
son-in-law. But the wine, having little effect
upon his seasoned brain, had soured rather than
exhilarated him.

Miss Eta, too, had been more than usually
ungracious. It was one of Sam's days ; a letter
from her absent lover, received that morning,
completely filled her thoughts.

After lunch, more sulky and cross-grained
than ever, Sir Hubert asked for a ,
which he drained at one gulp.

"You seem out of sorts to-day," said the
General, sympathetically. " By George ! I'm
not surprised."

*' Hey ! What ? How do you mean ? " asked
Sir Hubert, startled.

*' Why, of course about Podifat. To think
of the old rogue showing his face at Straddle-thorpe
again ! "

You know that ? Then you have seen him.
Are you sure ? "

Certain. He was before us to-day at Petty
Sessions. The police brought him up for infringing
the conditions of his licence."

And what did you do with him ? " asked
Sir Hubert, eagerly. " Sent him back to jail,
I hope — or further."

*' We couldn't, although I wished it. But
he ought to go away, and will, I think, if you
make it worth his while."

How is it to be managed ? I'm ready to do

what's right. I don't want to have him on my
back, you may be sure."

I daresay I can do it for you, through the
police, if only you authorise it. How much
will you give ? "

"Anything in reason, so long as I don't see
him again. I leave it all to you."

Through the good offices of his friend General
Wyndham - Parker, Sir Hubert was spared a
personal visit from his foster, or more exactly
once putative, father. Podifat consented to take
a lump sum, fifty pounds down, and a weekly
allowance of two sovereigns, on condition he did
not come within twenty miles of Straddlethofpe.

But at the end of the first week old Podifat
had broken the agreement. Either the condition
was irksome, or Podifat wanted more ;
for he reappeared at Straddlethorpe, coming
boldly now to the Hall door and asking
openly for Sir Hubert. A very different man
to the slouching unkempt creature whom the
police had run foul of, and captured red-handed,
as they thought, in Bingley wood.

Podifat had applied a portion of the funds
provided by his liberal patron to the purchase
of new clothes. Memories of his old calling as
gamekeeper had governed his choice. He was
arrayed in great glory : clean drab gaiters
adorned his short bandy legs, and glossy velveteen
his thickset figure, while a gorgeous
yellow kerchief, tied loosely, encircled his
brawny neck, and threw up into strong relief
his walnut dark face, and the coarse curly black
hair, still scarcely streaked with white.

He gave his name impudently to the butler,
and would take no denial.

Sir Hubert not in ? Lies ! I saw him pass
the lodge. He's got to see me right away. Say
that now, and don't you keep me waiting long."

The brusque threatening tone of the message
must have been passed on to Sir Hubert, for
the young baronet was not at his ease when he
received Podifat. But he faltered out a slight
protest.

Didn't you promise to clear out, to go away
and keep away ? "

Yah ! 'Wasn't good enough, Masser Hubie
Sir Hubie, suppose I order say. Can't bear
not to see you oftener, sonny."

'get out, you grinning jackass!" cried the
master suddenly to the butler, who, having
introduced the visitor, still stood familiarly
inquisitive at the door.

Purfrey fled, and thus only a garbled and
incomplete report reached the servants' hall.
But already tongues had been wagging shrewdly,
and the return of the master's foster-father was
freely discussed down-stairs. No one remembered
Podifat personally, but strange traditions
still survived of the wild life he had led. *To
these were soon added many stories, and much
scandalous gossip about the queer doings that
followed his reappearance at Straddlethorpe.

The old fellow soon seemed master of the
situation. He came and went constantly, and
did always much as he pleased. After hiss.
yond visit, but his first really formal call, he
took up his' residence at the north lodge, his
old home, where he lived a solitary, but — to

VOL. II. S

judge from the furniture and supplies sent ina
not quite joyless life. He was called an
under-keeper, but he took no orders from anyone,
and accepted none of the responsibilities,
discharged none of the duties, of the post. All
he cared for was the licence Sir Hubert took
out for him to shoot and fish, — the first with
the splendid Purdey he himself picked out of
the gun-room at the Hall, the latter with the
first-class fishing-tackle similarly supplied.

Certain coverts, a particular length of stream,
were reserved for old Podifat's own use.
Why ?

A little because Sir Hubert did not choose
that his foster-father should run up against
the more aristocratic sportsmen who came by
invitation to the Hall; more because Podifat
had expressed his sovereign dislike of being
crowded up and interfered with by strangers.


It was quite clear that the old poacher's will
was law at the Hall. Sir Hubert was even

more afraid than ashamed of the man who had
been his guardian in early years.

No one saw this sooner or more plainly than
Gibbings. But for once the shrewd veteran
was at fault, and unable to explain the riddle.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

OP

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'

PUBLICATIONS.

Edited by WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D.,

Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews.
In crown 8vo Volumes, with Portraits, price 3s. 6d.

1. Descartes.

2. Butler.

3. Berkeley.

4. Fichte.

5. Kant.

6. Hamilton.

7. Hegel.

8. Leibniz.

9. View.

10. Hobbes.

11. Hume.

Now ready—
By Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.
By Rev. W. Lucas Collins, Mea.
By Professor Campbell Fraser, Edinburgh.
By Professor Adamson, Owens College, Manchester.
By Professor Wallace, Oxford.
By Professor Veitch, Glasgow.
By Professor Edward Caird, Glasgow.
By J. Theodore Mers.
By Professor Flint, Edinburgh.
By Professor Room Robertson, London.
By the Editor.

The Volumes in preparation are —
Spinoza. By the Very Rev. Principal
Caird, Glasgow.

Bacon. By Professor Nichols, Glasgow,

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by Mrs OLIPHANT.

In crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.
Contents.

Dante. By the Editor.

Voltaire. By Lieut-general Sir E. B.

Hamley, K.C.B.
Pascal. By Principal Bullock.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, Cab.
Goethe. By A. Hay ward, Q.G.
MoLiERE. By the Editor and F. Carver,

Mea.
Montaigne. By Rev. W. L. Collins, Mea.
Rabelais. By Walter Besant, Mea.
Caldron. By E. J. Hasell.

Saint Simon. By Clifton W. Collins, Mea.

Cervantes. By the Editor.

Corneille and Racine. By Henry M.
Trollope.

Madame de S^vign^ . By Miss Thackeray.

La Fontaine, and other French Fabulists.
By Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M. A .

Schiller By James Sine, M.A., Author
of ' Lessing : his Life and Writings,'

Tasso. By E. J. Hasell.

Rousseau. By Henry Grey Graham.

Now Complete.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by the Eev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, M.A.

Complete in 28 Vols, crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. each. And may also be had in
14 Volumes, strongly and neatly bound, with calf or vellum back, £2^ los.

Saturday Review. — "It is difficult to estimate too highly the value of such a series
as this in giving 'English readers' an insight, exact as far as it goes, into those
olden times which are so remote and yet to many of us so close."

OF

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS"
P U B Lie A T 10 NS.

ALISON. History of Europe. By Sir Archibald Alison, Bart.,

D.C.L.

1. From the Commencement of the French Revolution to the

Battle of Waterloo.

Library Edition, 14 vols., with Portraits. Demy 8vo, £1.0, los.
Another Edition, in 20 vols, crown 8vo, £6.
People's Edition, 13 vols, crown 8vo, £2, us.

2. Continuation to the Accession of Louis Napoleon. •

Library Edition, 8 vols. 8vo, £6, 7s. 6d.
People's Edition, 8 vols, crown 8vo, 34s.

3. Epitome of Alison's History of Europe. Twenty-ninth

Thousand, 7s. 6d.

4. Atlas to Alison's History of Europe. By A. Keith Johnston.

Library Edition, demy 4to, £'^, 3s.
People's Edition, 31s. 6d.

Life of John Duke of Marlborough. With some Account

of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the Succession. Third Edition,
2 vols. 8vo. Portraits and Maps, sos.

Essays: Historical, . Political, and Miscellaneous. 3 vols.

demy 8vo, 45s.

Air. Poetical Works of Thomas Air. Fifth Edition, with

Memoir of the Author by the Rev. Jardine Wallace, and Portrait,
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

ALLARDYCE. The City of Sunshine. By Alexander Altars

Three vols, post 8vo, £1, 5s. 6d.

Memoir of the Honourable George Keith Elphinstone,

K.B., Viscount Keith of Stonehaven Marischal, Admiral of the Red. Bvo,
with Portrait, Illustrations,i«»d Maps 21s.

ALMOND. Sermons by a Lay Head-master. By Held Hutchinson
Almond, M.A. Oxon. , Head-master of Lorenzo School. Crown 8vo, 5s.

ANCIENT CLASSICS EOE ENGLISH READERS. Edited by

Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A. Complete in 28 vols., cloth, 2s. 6d. each ; or in
14 vols., tastefully bound, with calf or vellum back, £2> los.

Contents of the Series.
Homer: The Iliad, by the Editor. — Homer: The Odyssey, by the Editor. — Herodotus,
by George C. Wayne, M.A. — Xenophon, by Sir Alexander Grant, Bart., LL.D.
Euripides, by W. B. Donne — Aristophanes, by the Editor. — Plato, by Clifton W.
Collins, M.A. — Lucian, by the Editor. — aeschylus, by the Right Rev. the Bishop of
Colombo. — Sophocles, by Clifton W. Collins, M.A. — Hesiod and Theoonis, by the
Rev. J. Davies, M.A. — Greek Anthology, by Lord Leaves. — Virgil, by the Editor.
Horace, by Sir Theodore Martin, K.C. B. — Juvenal, by Edward Walford, M.A. —
Plautus and Terence, by the Editor. — The Commentaries of C^sar, by Anthony
Trollope. — Tacitus, by W. B. Donne. — Cicero, by the Editor. — Pliny's Letters, by
the Rev. Alfred Church, M.A., and the Rev. W. J. Brodribb, M.A. — Livy, by the
Editor. — Ovid, by the Rev. A. Church, M.A. — Catullus, Tibullus, and Propertius,
by the Rev. Jas. Davies, M.A. — Demosthenes, by the Rev. W. J. Brodribb, M.A. —
Aristotle, by Sir Alexander Grant, Bart., LL.D. — Thucydides, by the Editor. —
Lucretius, by W. H. Matlock, M.A. — Pindar, by the Rev. F. D. Morice, M.A.

Awkward. The Transvaal of To - day : War, Witchcraft,

Sports, and Spoils in South Africa. By Alfred Awkward, Commandant,
Transvaal Republic. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

AYTOUN. Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers, and other Poems. By

W. Edmonstone Aytoun, D.C.L. , Professor of Rhetoric and Belles-lettres
in the University of Edinburgh. Cheap Edition, printed from a new type,
and tastefully bound. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, being the Thirtieth. Flap. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

An Illustrated Edition of the Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers.

From designs by Sir Noel Paton. Small 4to, 21s. , in gilt cloth.

Bothwell : a Poem. Third Edition. Cap., 7s. 6d.

Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition. Cap., 6s.

- Bon Gautier's Book of Ballads. By the Same. Fourteenth

and Cheaper Edition. With Illustrations by Doyle, Leech, and Crowquill.
Cap. 8vo, 5s.

- The Ballads of Scotland. Edited by Professor Aytoun.

Fourth Edition. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

Memoir of William E. Aytoun, D.C.L. By Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. "With Portrait. Post 8vo, 12s.

BACH. On Musical Education and Vocal Culture. By Albert

B. Bach. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Principles of Singing. A Practical Guide for Vocalists

and Teachers. With Course of Vocal Exercises. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Art of Singing. With Musical Exercises for Young

People. Crown 8vo, 3s.

Bach. Zorah : A Love-tale of Modern Egypt. By Elisabeth

Balcct(D.T.S.) Post 8vo, 7S. 6d.

BALLADS AND POEMS. By Members op the Glasgow

Ballad Club. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

BANNATYNE. Handbook of Republican Institutions in the
United States of America. Based upon Federal and State Laws, and other
reliable sources of information. By Dugald J. Bannatyne, Scotch Solicitor,
New York ; Member of the Faculty of Procurators, Glasgow. Crown 8vo,

BEDFORD. The Regulations of the Old Hospital of the Knights

of St John at Valetta. From a Copy Printed at Rome, and preserved in the
Archives of Malta; With a Translation, Introduction, and Notes Explanatory
of the Hospital Work of the Order. By the Rev. W. K. R. Bedford, one of
the Chaplains of the Order of St John in England, Royal Svo, with Frontispiece,
Plans, &c., 7s. 6d.

Cellars. The Transvaal War, 1880-81. Edited by Lady Bel-hairs.
With a Frontispiece and Map. 8vo, 15s.

Gossips with Girls and Maidens, Betrothed and Free.

Crown 8vo, 5s.

BESANT. The Revolt of Man. By Walter Besant, M.A.

Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Readings in Rabelais. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

BEVERIDGE. Culross and Tulliallan; or Perthshire on Forth. Its

History and Antiquities. With Elucidations of Scottish Life and Character
from the Burgh and Kirk-session Records of that District. By David
Beveridge. 2 vols. 8vo, with Illustrations, 42s.

Black. Lays and Legends of Ancient Greece. By John

Stuart Black, Emeritus Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh.
Second Edition. Cap. 8vo. 5s.

The Wisdom of Goethe. Cap. 8vo. Cloth, extra gilt, 6s.

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, from Commencement in 1817 to

December 1886. Nos. i to 854, forming 139 Volumes.

Index to Blackwood's Magazine. Vols, i to 50. 8vo, stales

from Blackwood. Forming Twelve Volumes of

Interesting and Amusing Railway Reading. Price One Shilling each, in Paper
Cover. Sold separately at all Railway Bookstalls.

They may also be had bound in cloth, i8s., and in half calf, richly gilt, sos.
Or 12 volumes in 6, Roxburgh, 21s., and half red morocco, stales

from Blackwood. New Series. Complete in Twenty -

four Shilling Parts. Handsomely bound in 12 vols., cloth, sos. In leather
back, Roxburgh style, 37S. 6d. In half calf, gilt, 52s. 6d. In half morocco, cs.

Standard Novels. Uniform in size and legibly Printed.

Each Novel complete in one volume.
FLORIN SERIES, Illustrated Boards. Or in Cloth Boards, 2s. 6d.

Tom Cringe's Loo. By Michael Scott.
The Cruise OF THE Midge. By the Same.
Cyril Thornton. By Captain Hamilton.
Annals of the Parish. By John Gait.
The Provost, &c. By John Gait.
Sir Andrew Wylie. By John Gait.
The Entail. By John Gait.
Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt.
Reginald Dalton. By J. G. Lockhart.

Pen Owen. By Dean Hook.

Adam Blair. By J. G. Lockhart.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. By General
Sir E. B. Hamley.

Salem Chapel. By Mrs Oliphant.

The Perpetual Curate. By Mrs Oliphant.


Miss Marjoribanks. By Mrs Oliphant.

John : A Love Story. By Mrs Oliphant.

SHILLING SERIES, Illustrated Cover. Or in Cloth Boards, is. 6d.

The Rector, and The Doctor's Family.

By Mrs Oliphant.
The Life of Manse Watch. By D. M.

Mohr.
Peninsular Scenes and Sketches. By

F. Harden.

Sir Frizzle Pumpkin, Nights at Mess,

&c.
The Subaltern.

Life in the Far West. By G. F. Buxton.
Alterius : A Roman Story. By J. G.

Lockhart.

BLACKMORE. The Maid of Seer. By R. D. Blackmore, Author

of ' Lorna Done,' &c. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

BOSCOBEL TRACTS. Relating to the Escape of Charles the

Second after the Battle of Worcester, and his subsequent Adventures. Edited
by J. Hughes, Esq., A.M. A New Edition, with additional Notes and Illustrations,
including Communications from the Rev. R. H. Bashan, Author of
the ' Ingoldsby Legends.' 8vo, with Engravings, i6s.

Bradley. Tunis, Past and Present. With a Narrative of the

French Conquest of the Regency. By A. M. Bradley. With numerous
Illustrations and Maps. 2 vols, post 8vo. 25s.

BROOKE, Life of Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak. From his Personal

Papers and Correspondence. By Spenser St John, H.M.'s Minister-Resident
and Consul-general Peruvian Republic ; formerly Secretary to the Rajah.
With Portrait and a Map. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

BROUGHAM. Memoirs of the Life and Times of Henry Lord

Brougham. Written by Himself. 3 vols. 8vo, £7., 8s. The Volumes are sold
separately, price i6s. each.

BROWN. The Forester : A Practical Treatise on the Planting,
Rearing, and General Management of Forest-trees. By James Brown, LL.D.,
Inspector of and Reporter on Woods and Forests, Tenore House, Port Elgin,
Ontario. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Royal Svo, with Engravings.
36s.

BROWN. The Ethics of George Eliot's Works. By John Crosbie

Brown. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.
BROWN. A Manual of Botany, Anatomical and Physiological.
For the Use of Students. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D. Crown Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BUCHAN. Introductory Text-book of Meteorology. By Alexander
Buchan, M.A., F.R.S.E., Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological
Society, &c. Crown Svo, with 8 Coloured Charts and other Engravings,
pp. 218. 4s. 6d.

BUCHANAN. The Shire Highlands (East Central Africa). By

John Buchanan, Planter at Zomba. Crown Svo, 5s.
Bridge. Domestic Floriculture, Window Gardening, and

Floral Decorations. Being practical directions for the Propagation, Culture,
and Arrangement of Plants and Flowers as Domestic Ornaments. By F. W.
BuRBiDGE. Second Edition. Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations,
7s. 6d.

Cultivated Plants : Their Propagation and Improvement.

Including Natural and Artificial Hybridisation, Raising from Seed, Cuttings,
and Layers, Grafting and Budding, as applied to the Families and Genera in
Cultivation. Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BURTON. The History of Scotland : From Agricola's Invasion to

the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection. By John Hill Burton.
D.C.L., Historiographer-Royal for Scotland. New and Enlarged Edition,
8 vols., and Index. Crown Svo, ;^3, 3s.

History of the British Empire during the Reign of Queen

Anne. In 3 vols. 8vo. 36s.

The Scot Abroad. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

The Book-Hunter. New Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

BUTE. The Roman Breviary : Reformed by Order of the Holy

(Ecumenical Council of Trent ; Published by Order of Pope St Pius V.; and
Revised by Clement VIII. and Urban VIII.; together with the Offices since
granted. Translated out of Latin into English by John, Marquess of Bute,
K.T. In 2 vols, crown Svo, cloth boards, edges uncut, ^-z, 2s.

The Alius of St Columba. With a Prose Paraphrase and

Notes. In paper cover, 2s. 6d.

BUTLER. Pompeii : Descriptive and Picturesque. By W.

Butler. Post Svo, 5s.

BUTT. Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Cheap Edition, 2s.

Alison. 3 vols, crown Svo, 25s. 6d.

Lester Durant. 2 vols, crown Svo, 17s.

Eugene. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d.

CAIRD. Sermons. By John Cairo, D.D., Principal of the University
of Glasgow. Sixteenth Thousand. Cap. Svo, 5s.

Religion in Common Life. A Sermon preached in Craigie

Church, October 14, 1855, before Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert
Published by Her Majesty's Command. Cheap Edition, 3d.

CAMPBELL. Sermons Preached before the Queen at Balmoral.

By the Rev. A. A. Campbell, Minister of Craigie. Published by Command
of Her Majesty. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

CAMPBELL. Records of Argyll. Legends, Traditions, and Recollections
of Argyllshire Highlanders, collected chiefly from the Gaelic.
With Notes on the Antiquity of the Dress, Clan Colours or Tartans of the
Highlanders. By Lord Archibald Campbell. Illustrated with Nineteen
full-page Etchings. 4to, printed on hand-made paper, ;^3, 3s.

CANTON. A Lost Epic, and other Poems. By William Canton.

Crown 8vo, 5s.

Capon. Victor Hugo. A Memoir and a Study. By James

Capon, M.A. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

Carriage. Koumiss ; or, Fermented Mare's Milk : and its Uses

in the Treatment and Cure of Pulmonary Consumption, and other Wasting
Diseases. With an Appendix on the best Methods ot Fermenting Cow's Milk.
By George L. Carrick, M.D., L.R.C.S.E. and L.R.C.P.E., Physician to the
British Embassy, St Petersburg, &c. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

Calvin. A Treasury of the English and German Languages.

Compiled from the best Authors and Lexicographers in both Languages.
Adapted to the Use of Schools, Students, Travellers, and Men of Business;
and forming a Companion to all German-English Dictionaries. By Joseph
Calvin, LL.D, & Ph.D., of the University of Gottingen, &c. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

CAVE-BROWN. Lambeth Palace and its Associations. By J.

Cave-Brown, M. A., Vicar of Dealing, Kent, and for many years Curate of Lambeth
Parish Church. With an Introduction by the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Second Edition, containing an additional Chapter on Medieval Life in the
Old Palaces. Svo, with Illustrations, 21s.

Charters. Canonicity ; or. Early Testimonies to the Existence

and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Kirchhoffer's ' .
' Edited by A. H. Charters, D.D., Professor of Biblical
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. Svo, iSs.

Christian. Life of Sir Robert Christian, Bart, M.D., D.C.L.

Oxon., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by his Sons. In two vols. Svo. Volet. — Autobiography, 16s., Vol. II.
Memoirs. i6s.

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book on Common Order :

Being Forms of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Fifth Edition,
6s.

Leland. True to a Type. By R. Leland. In 2 vols, post

Svo, 17S.

Houston. Popular Tales and Fictions : their Migrations and

Transformations. By W. A. Houston, Editor of ' Arabian Poetry for English
Readers,' ' The Book of Sindibad,' &c. 2 vols, post Svo, roxburgh bind-cochran."

A Handy Text-book of Military Law. Compiled

chiefly to assist Officers preparing for Examination ; also for all Officers of
the Regular and Auxiliary Forces. Specially arranged according to the Syllabus
of Subjects of Examination for Promotion, Queen's Regulations, 1883.
Comprising also a Synopsis of part of the Army Act, By Major F. Cochran
Hampshire Regiment, Garrison Instructor, North British District. Crown
Svo, 7S. 6d,

COLLIER. Babel. By the Hon. Margaret Collier (Madame

Galletti di Cadilhac). Author of ' Our Home by the Adriatic' 2 vols,
post Svo, 17s,

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Crag and Corrie,
Flood and Fell, By John Colquhoun. Seventh Edition. With Illustrations.
[In preparation.

CONGREVE. Tales of Country Life in La Gruyere. From the
French of Pierre Sciob^ret, By L, Dora Congreve. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

COTTERILL. Suggested Reforms in Public Schools. By C. C.

CoTTERiLL, M.A., Assistant Master at Fetters College, Eden. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

COX. The Opening of the Line : A Strange Story of Dogs and their

Doings. By Ponsonby Cox. Profusely Illustrated by J. H. O. Brown,

4to, IS.

Cranston. The Elegies of Albinus Tibullus. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By James Crak-
Stout, LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.

The Elegies of Sixtus Propertius. Translated into English

Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d.

CRAWFORD. Saracinesca. By F. Marion Crawford, Author of

Mr Isaacs,' * Dr Claudius,' ' Zoroaster &c. &c. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the

Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.D., Professor of Divinity in
the University of Edinburgh. Fourth Edition. Svo, 12s.

• The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General and

Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a
Review of Recent Speculations on the Subject. Third Edition, Revised and
Enlarged. Svo, 9s.

The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. Svo,

7S. 6d.

The Mysteries of Christianity. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

DAVIES. Norfolk Broads and Rivers ; or, The Waterways, Lagoons,

and Decoys of East Anglia. By G. Christopher Davies, Author of ' The
Swan and her Crew.' Illustrated with Seven full-page Plates. New and
Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Dane. In the Name of the Tzar. A Novel. By J. Belford

Dane. Crown Svo, 6s.

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of Philosophy
of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy.
By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Ninth. Price 6s. 6d,

DOBSON. History of the Bassandyne Bible. The First Printed

in Scotland. With Notices of the Early Printers of Edinburgh. By William T.
DoBsoN, Author of 'Literary Frivolities,' ' Poetical Ingenuities, ' Royal Characters
of Scott,' &c. Post Svo, with Facsimiles and other Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

DOGS, OUR DOMESTICATED : Their Treatment in reference

to Food, Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. By ' Magenta.'
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I-xii. Translated into

English Verse. By Sir Charles Du Cane, K.C.M.G. Svo, los. 6d.
DUDGEON. History of the Edinburgh or Queen's Regiment

Light Infantry Militia, now 3rd Battalion The Royal Scots ; with an

Account of the Origin and Progress of the Militia, and a Brief Sketch of the

old Royal Scots. By Major R. C. Dudgeon, Adjutant 3rd Battalion The Royal

Scots. Post Svo, with illustrations, los. 6d.
DUNCAN. Manual of the General Acts of Parliament relating to

the Salmon Fisheries of Scotland from 1S28 to 18S2. By J. Barker Duncan.

Crown Svo, 5s.

DUNSMORE. Manual of the Law of Scotland, as to the Relations

between Agricultural Tenants and their Landlords, Servants, Merchants, and
Bowers. By W. Dunsmore. Svo, 7s. 6d.

DUPRE. Thoughts on Art, and Autobiographical Memoirs of

Giovanni Dupre. Translated from the Italian by E. M. Peruzzi, with the
permission of the Author. New Edition. With an Introduction by W. W.
Story. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

ELIOT. George Eliot's Life, Related in her Letters and Journals.

Arranged and Edited by her husband, J. W. Cross. With Portrait and other
Illustrations. Third Edition, 3 vols, post Svo, 42s.

ELIOT. Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Handsomely

printed in a new type, 21 volumes, crown 8vo, price £5, 5s. The Volumes

are also sold separately, price 5s. each, viz. : —

Romola. 2 vols. — Silas Marner, The Lifted Veil, Brother Jacob, i vol. —
Adam Bede. 2 vols.— Scenes of Clerical Life. 2 vols.— The Mill on
the Floss. 2 vols. — Felix Holt. 2 vols. — Middlemarch. 3 vols. —
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols. — The Spanish Gypsy, i vol. — Jubal, and
other Poems, Old and New. i vol. — Theophrastus Such, i vol. —
Essays, i vol.

Life of George Eliot. (Cabinet Edition.) With Portrait and

other Illustrations. 3 vols, crown Svo, 15s.

Novels by George Eliot. Cheap Edition. Adam Bede. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth.— The Mill on the Floss. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth. — Scenes of Clerical Life. Illustrated.
3s., cloth. — Silas Marner: The Weaver of Envelope. Illustrated.
2s. 6d., cloth. — Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth. — Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d. , cloth.

Middlemarch. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Daniel Deronda. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Essays. By George Eliot. New Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

Impressions of Theophrastus Such. New Edition. Crown

Svo, 5s.

The Spanish Gypsy. Crown Svo, 5s.

The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems, Old and New.

New Edition. Crown Svo, 5s., cloth.

Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse.

Selected from the Works of George Eliot. Seventh Edition. Cap. Svo, 6s.
The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on fine paper,

with red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Cap. Svo, cloth, 3s. 6d.
And in French morocco or Russia, 5s.

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in

the ' Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series. ^ 2 vols,
crown Svo, 6s. each.

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or. Queen, Ministers,

Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Charles Ewalli, F.S.A. Crown Svo,

FAITHS OF THE WORLD, The. A Concise History of the

Great Religious Systems of the World. By various Authors. Being the St
Giles' Lectures — Second Series. Crown Svo, 5s.

Farmer. A Tour in Greece in 1S80. By Richard Ridley

Farmer. With Twenty-seven full-page Illustrations by Lord Windsor.
Royal Svo, with a Map, 21s.

Farrier. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Farrier,

Bea. Oxon., Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews.
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor
LusHiNGTON 3 vols, crown Svo, 34S. 6d.

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. los. 6d.

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition,

los. 6d.

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early

Greek Philosophy. 2 vols., 24s.

FLETCHER. Lectures on the Opening Clauses of the Litany,

delivered in St Paul's Church, Edinburgh. By John B. Fletcher, M.A.
Crown Svo, 4s.

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. By Robert

Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Vol. I.
8vo. [New Edition in preparation.

FLINT. Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. By Robert

Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Fifth
Edition. Crown 8vo, 7S. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877.

Third Edition. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

FORBES. Insolence : Experiences of a Naturalist's Wife in the
Eastern Archipelago. By Anna Forbes. Post Svo, with a Map.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited

by Mrs Oliphant. Price 2s. 6d. For List of Volumes published, see page 2.

GALT. Annals of the Parish. By John Galt. Cap. Svo, 2s.

The Provost. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

Sir Andrew Wylie. Cap. Svo, 2S.

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Cap. Svo, 2s.

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown Svo, in large type, 4s. 6d.
Another Edition, crown Svo, 2s.

Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary services of a Christian
Ministry. Cheap Edition, is. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal. Hymns for Public Worship. Published
for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly, Various
sizes — viz.: x. Large type, for Pulpit use, cloth, 3s. 6d. 2. Longprimer type,
cloth, red edges, is. 6d. ; French morocco, 2s. 6d. ; calf, 6s. 3. Bourgeois
type, cloth, red edges, is. ; French morocco, 2s. 4. Minion type, French morocco,
IS. 6d. 5. School Edition, in paper cover, 2d. 6. Children's Hymnal,
paper cover, id. No. 2, bound with the Psalms and Paraphrases, cloth,
3S. ; French morocco, 4s. 6d. ; calf, 7s. 6d. No. 3, bound with the Psalms and
Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Music. Selected by the Committees
on Hymns and on Psalmody, The harmonies arranged by W. H. Monk.
Cloth, IS. 6d. ; French morocco, 3s. 6d. The same in the Tonic Sol-fa Notation,
IS. 6d. and 3s. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Fixed Tune for each Hymn.

Longprimer type, 3s. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal Appendix, i. Longprimer type, is.

2. Nonpareil type, cloth limp, 4d. ; paper cover, 2d.

Scottish Hymnal with Appendix Incorporated. Bourgeois

type, limp cloth, is. Large type, cloth, red edges, 2s. 6d. Nonpareil type,
paper covers, 3d, ; cloth, red edges, 6d,

GERARD. Rata: What's in a Name. By E. D. Gerard.

New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Beggar my Neighbour. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

The Waters of Hercules. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

The Land beyond the Forest. Facts, Figures, and

Fancies from Transylvania. By E. Gerard, Author of ' Rata,' &c. In Two
Volumes. With Maps and Illustrations. [In the press.

GERARD. Stonyhurst Latin Grammar. By Rev. John Gerard.

Cap, Svo, 3s,

GILL, Free Trade : an Inquiry into the Nature of its Operation.

By Richard Gill, Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Part I. Translated into English Verse by

Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, post Svo, 6s. Ninth Edition,
cap., 3S. 6d.

Part II. Translated into English Verse by the Same.

Second Edition, revised. Cap. Svo, 6s.

GOETHE. Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor
Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition, cap. Svo, 6s.

Gordon GUMMING. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon

Gumming, Author of ' From the Hebrides to the Himalayas.' Fourth Edition,
post 8vo. With Illustrations and Map. 7s. 6d.

A Lady's Cruise in a French Man-of-war. New and

Cheaper Edition. 8vo. With Illustrations and Map. 12s. 6d.

Fire-Fountains. The Kingdom of Hawaii : Its Volcanoes,

and the History of its Missions. With Map and numerous Illustrations,
vols. 8vo, 25s.

Granite Crash : The Yo-semite Keejion of California. Illus



treated with 8 Engravings. New and Cheaper Edition. 8vo, 8s. 6d.

- Wanderings in China. New Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with

Illustrations, 25s.

Graham. The Life and Work of Seed Aimed Khan, C.S.I.

By Lieut-colonel G. F. I. Graham, B.S.C. 8vo, 14s.

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. New

Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

GRIFFITHS. Locked Up. By Major Arthur Griffiths.

Author of ' Chronicles of Newgate,' 'fast and Loose,' &c. With Illustrations
by C. J. Staniland, Rei. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

HALDANE. Subtropical Cultivations and Climates. A Handy
Book for Planters, Colonists, and Settlers. By R. C. Haldane. Post 8vo, 9s.

Hamilton. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and Yorkshire
Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamilton, Author of 'A Painter's Camp.' A
New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamilton,
Bart, Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Manse, Bed., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Seventh Edition.
2 vols. 8vo, 24S.

Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition.

2 vols., 24s.

Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and

University Reform. Third Edition, 8vo, 21s.

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor of Logic

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the
University of Glasgow. 8vo, with Portrait, i8s.

Sir William Hamilton : The Man and his Philosophy.

Two Lectures Delivered before the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution,
January and February 1883. By the Same. Crown 8vo, 2S.

Hamlet. The Operations of War Explained and Illustrated. By
Lieut-General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.B. Fourth Edition, revised
throughout. 4to, with numerous Illustrations, sos.

Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown

8vo. 2S. 6d.

The Story of the Campaign of Sebastopol. Written in the

Camp. With Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. 8vo, 21s.

On Outposts. Second Edition. 8vo, 2s.

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary.

Crown 8vo, 2s.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essay. With Illustrations,

chiefly by Ernest Grist. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
Hamlet. Guilty, or Not Guilty 1 A Tale. By Major-general

W. G. Hamley, late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Traseaden Hall. "When George the Third was King."

New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s,
Harbor. Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navigation.
By the Rev. J. B. Harbor, M.A., Assistant Director of Education,
Admiralty, is.

HARRISON. Our Tunis Colledge. Sketches of the History of

the Old College of Edinburgh, with an Appendix of Historical Documents.
By John Harrison. Crown 8vo, 5s.

HASELL. Bible Partings. By E. J. Hasell. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Short Family Prayers. By Miss Hasell. Cloth, is.

HAY. The Works of the Right Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of

Edinburgh. Edited under the Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain.

With Memoir and Portrait of the Author, 5 vols, crown 8vo, bound in extra

cloth, ;^i, is. Or, sold separately — viz. :
The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Faith of Christ from the Written Word,
2 vols 8s.— The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ from the Written
Word. 2 vols 8s.— The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice of the
Principal Exercises of Piety, i vol. , 43.

Heathen. The Horse-Owner's Safeguard. A Handy Medical

Guide for every Man who owns a Horse. By G. S. Heathen, M.R.C.V.S.
Crown Svo, 5s.

The Stock-Owner's Guide. A Handy Medical Treatise for

every Man who owns an Ox or a Cow. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Editions.—
One Volume, royal Svo, 5s. — The Same, with Illustrations engraved on
Steel, bound in cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. — Six Volumes in Three, cap., 12s. 6d.
Select Poems of Mrs Hemans. Cap., cloth, gilt edges, 3s.

HOLE. A Book about Roses : How to Grow and Show Them. By

the Rev. Canon Hole. Tenth Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and

Members of the Church Service Society. Second Edition. Cap. Svo, 3s.
HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the
Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Worsley. Third Edition, 2 vols
cap., 12S.

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor

Dodington. 2 vols, crown Svo, 21s.

HO SACK. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a

Variety of Documents never before published. By John Hosack, .
A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. Svo, £1, is.

HUTCHINSON. Hints on the Game of Golf. By Horace G.

Hutchinson. Third Edition. Cap. Svo, cloth, is. 6d.

HYDE. The Royal Mail ; its Curiosities and Romance. By James

Wilson Hyde, Superintendent in the General Post Office, Edinburgh. Second
Edition, enlarged. Crown Svo, with Illustrations, 6s.

IDDESLEIGH. Lectures and Essays. By the late Earl op

Iddesleigh, G.C.B., D.G.L , &c. Svo, 16s.

INDEX Geographical : Being a List, alphabetically arranged,

of the Principal Places on the Globe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes.
Applicable to all Modern Atlases and Maps. Imperial Svo, pp. 676, its.

Jameson. Discussions on the Atonement : Is it Vicarious ?

By the Rev. George Jameson, A.M., Bed., D.D., Author of 'Profound Problems
in Philosophy and Theology.' Svo, i6s.

JEAN JAMBON. Our Trip to Sunderland ; or. Grand Excursion
to Blundertown and Back. By Jean Jambon. With Sixty Illustrations
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Daniel. Fourth Thousand.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
In boards, 2s. 6d.

JENNINGS. Mr Gladstone : A Study. By Louis J. Jennings,

M.P., Author of ' Republican Government in the United States,' ' The Croaker
Memoirs,' &c. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

Birmingham. Reminiscences of an Attache. By Hubert

E. H. Birmingham. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

• Diane de Breteuille. A Love Story. Crown Svo, 2S. 6d.

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor

J. F. W, Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources,
Constituents, and Uses ; ' ' The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; '
'Plain Words about Water,' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings
on Wood. Complete in one volume, crown 8vo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d.

Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. Fourteenth
Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By Sir Charles A.
Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., &c. Cap. Svo, 6s. 6d.

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Sir Charles A. Cameron,
M.D., F.R.C.S.I. ,&c. Eighty-sixth Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is.

JOHNSTON. Patrick Hamilton : a Tragedy of the Reformation

in Scotland, 1528. By T. P. Johnston. Crown Svo, with Two Etchings by
the Author, 5s.

KENNEDY. Sport, Travel, and Adventures in Newfoundland

and the West ladies. By Captain W. R. Kennedy, Ren. With Illustrations
by the Author. Post Svo, 14s.

KING. The Metamorphoses of Ovid. Translated in English Blank
Verse. By Henry King, M.A., Fellow of Waltham College, Oxford, and of
the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-law. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W.

KiNGLAKE. Cabinet Edition. Seven Volumes, illustrated with maps and
plans, crown Svo, at 6s. each. The Volumes respectively contain : —

I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan. II. Russia
Met and Invaded. III. The Battle of the Alma. IV. Sebastopol
AT Bay. V. The Battle of Balaclava. VI. The Battle of Inkerman.
VII. Winter Troubles.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VI. Winter

Troubles. Demy Svo, with a Map, i6s.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vols. VIT. and

VIII. Concluding the Work. Demy Svo, with Maps and Plans. [In the Press.

Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition

of the ' History of the Invasion of the Crimea,' price 6s,
Knolls. The Elements of Field-Artillery. Designed for the
Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knolls, Captain Royal
Artillery; Author of 'From Sedan to Saarbriick,' Editor of 'Incidents in the
Sepoy War,' &c. With Engravings. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

LAING. Select Remains of the Ancient Popular and Romance

Poetry of Scotland. Originally Collected and Edited by David Lang, LL.D,
Re-edited, with Memorial-Introduction, by John Small, M.A. With a Portrait
of Dr Laing. 4to, 25s.

Auvergne. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
By Leone de Auvergne. Translated from the French. With Notes
by a Scottish Farmer. Svo, 12s.

Lawless. Hurried : a Study. By the Hon. Emily Lawless,

Author of 'A Chelsea Householder,' 'A Millionaire's Cousin.' Third
and cheaper Edition, crown Svo, 6s.

LEE. A Phantom Lover : A Fantastic Story. By Vernon Lee.

Crown Svo, is.

LEE. Glimpses in the Twilight. Being various Notes, Records,

and Examples of the Supernatural. By the Rev. George F. Lee, D.C.L.
Crown Svo. Ss. 6d.

LEE-HAMILTON. Poems and Transcripts. By Eugene Lee-hamilton.

Crown Svo, 6s.

LEES. A Handbook of Sheriff Court Styles. By J. M. Lees,

M.A., LL.B., Advocate, Sheriff-substitute of Lancashire. New Ed. , Svo, 21s.

A Handbook of the Sheriff and Justice of Peace Small

Debt Courts. Svo, 7s. 6d.

LETTERS FROM THE HIGHLANDS. Reprinted from 'The

Times.' Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

Linda. The Philosopher's Pendulum, and other Stories. By

Rudolph Linda. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.
LITTLE. Madagascar: Its History and People. By the Rev.

Henry W. Little, some years Missionary in East Madagascar. Post 8vo,

los. 6d.

LOCKHART. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. lockhart.

"With Twelve Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown Bvo, 6s.

Fair to See : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Cr own 8vo, 6s.

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 68.

LORIMER. The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lorimer, Regius
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the University
of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged.
8vo, i8s.

The Institutes of the Law of Nations. A Treatise of the

Jural Relation of Separate Political Communities. In 2 vols. 8vo. Volume I.,
price i6s. Volume II., price dos.

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M'Combie,

Tillyfour. New Edition, enlarged, with Memoir of the Author. By James
Macdonald, Editor of the ' Live-Stock Journal.' Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer-stalking. By Alexander

Macrae, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by
Horatio Ross, Esq. Cap. 8vo, with two Photographs from Life. 3s. 6d.

M'CRIE. Works of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edition.
Four vols, crown 8vo, 24s.

Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the History
of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown 8vo, 6s. Another Edition, 3s. 6d.

Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries. Crown 8vo, 6s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 4s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation

in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Lectures on the Book of Esther. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

MACDONALD. The Flower and the Spirit. By Frederica

Macdonald, Author of 'Nathaniel Vaughan,' ' Iliad of the East,' &c. 2 vols,
post 8vo, 17S.

MCINTOSH. The Book of the Garden. By Charles Macintosh,

formerly Curator of the R-o^J^al Gardens of his Majesty the King of the Belgians,
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G., at Dalkeitli Palace.
Two large vols, royal 8vo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. £a„ ys. 6d.

Vol. I. On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. 776
pages, and 1073 Engravings, £2, los.

Vol. II. Practical Gardening. 868 pages, and 279 Engravings, £1, 17s. 6d.

MACKAY. a Manual of Modern Geography ; Mathematical, Physical,
and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. nth
Thousand,'revised to the present time. Crown 8vo, pp. 688. 7s, 6d.

Elements of Modern Geography. 53d Thousand, revised

to the present time. Crown Svo, pp. 300, 3s.

The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Intermediate
Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography' and ' Elements of
Geography.' Twelfth Edition, revised. Crown Svo, pp. 238, 2s.

Outlines of Modern Geography. i76tli Thousand, revised
to the present time. imo, pp. 118, is.

First Steps in Geography. seth Thousand. imo, pp.

56. Sewed, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

MACKAY. Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography.

With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and
Art Department. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. 30th
Thousand, revised. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and

Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences.
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natural Method. For
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

MACKAY. An Old Scots Brigade. Being the History of Mackay's

Regiment, now incorporated with the Royal Scots. With an Appendix containing
many Original Documents connected with the History of the Regiment.
By John Mackay (late) of Herriesdale. Crown 8vo, 5s.

MACKAY. The Founders of the American Republic. A History

of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, and Madison. With a Supplementary
Chapter on the Inherent Causes of the Ultimate Failure of American
Democracy. By Charles Mackay, LL.D. Post Svo, its. 6d.

MACKELLAK More Leaves from the Journal of a Life in the

Highlands, from 1862 to 1882. Translated into Gaelic by Mrs Mary Mackel-
LAR. By command of Her Majesty the Queen. Crown Svo, with Illustrations,
los. 6d.

Mckenzie. Studies in Roman Law. With Comparative Views

of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mckenzie, one of
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Sixth Edition, Edited by
John Kirkpatrick, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Fur. Heidelb. ; LL.B, Eden. •
Advocate. Svo, 12s.

MAIN. Three Hundred English Sonnets. Chosen and Edited by

David M. Main. Cap. Svo, 6s.

MAIR. A Digest of Laws and Decisions, Ecclesiastical and Civil,

relating to the Constitution, Practice, and Affairs of the Church of Scotland.
With Notes and Forms of Procedure. By the Rev. William Mair, D.D.,
Minister of the Parish of Carleton. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

M AIT LAND. Para. By E. Fuller Maitland (E. F. M.) Cap.

Svo. 5s.

MANNERS. Notes of an Irish Tour in J846. By Lord John

Manners, M.P. , G.C.B. New Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

MANNERS. Gems of German Poetry. Translated by Lady John

Manners. Small quarto, 3s. 6d.

Impressions of Bad-Homburg. Comprising a Short Account
of the Women's Associations of Germany under the Red Cross. By
Lady John Manners. Crown Svo, is. 6d.

Some Personal Recollections of the Later Years of the Earl

• of Beaconsfield, K.G. Sixth Edition, 6d.

Employment of Women in the Public Service. 6d.

Some of the Advantages of Easily Accessible Reading and

Recreation Rooms, and Free Libraries. With Remarks on Starting and
Maintaining Them. Second Edition, crown Svo, is.

A Sequel to Rich Men's Dwellings, and other Occasional

Papers. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Encouraging Experiences of Reading and Recreation Rooms.

Aims of Guilds, Nottingham Social Guild, Existing Institutions, &c., &c.
Crown Svo, is.

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Serve, the

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall.

Second Edition. 5s.

Marshal. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the
Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent
Events. By John Clark Marshal, C.S.I. Abridged from the Author's
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d.

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust. Part I. Translated by Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 6s, Eighth Edition, cap.
8vo, 3s. 6d.

Goethe's Faust. Part II. Translated into English Verse.

Second Edition, revised. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse,

with Life and Notes. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper, 21s.

Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into English
Verse. Second Edition. Printed on papier verge, crown 8vo, 8s.

Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Ed., post 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Vita Nova of Dante. With an Introduction and

Notes. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 5s.

Aladdin : A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Oehlenschlae-

GER. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Correggio : A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With

Notes. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

King Rene's Daughter : A Danish Lyrical Drama. By

Henrik Hertz. Second Edition, cap., 2s. 6d.
MARTIN. On some of Shakespeare's Female Characters. In a
Series of Letters. By Helena Faucit, Lady Martin. Dedicated by permission
to Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen. New Edition. Royal 8vo,
with Portrait. 9s.

Matson. Can the Old Faith Live with the New? or the

Problem of Evolution and Revelation. By the Rev. George Matson, D.D.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Psalmist and the Scientist ; or, Modern Value of the

Religious Sentiment. Crown 8 vo. [In the impress.

MEIKLEJOHN. An Old Educational Reformer— Dr Bell. By

J. M. D. Meiklejohn, M.A., Professor of the Theory, History, and Practice
of Education in the University of St Andrews. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The Golden Primer. With Coloured Illustrations by Walter
Crane. Small 4to, boards, 5s.
The English Language : Its Grammar, History, and Literature.

With Charters on Versification, Paraphrasing, and Punctuation.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

MICHEL. A Critical Inquiry into the Scottish Language. With
the view of Illustrating the Rise and Progress of Civilisation in Scotland. By
Francisque-Michel, P.S.A. Lord. and Scot., Correspondant de Institut de
France, &c. In One handsome Quarto Volume, printed on hand-made paper,
and appropriately bound in Roxburgh style. Price cs.

MICHIE. The Larch : Being a Practical Treatise on its Culture
and General Management. By Christopher Y. Michel, Forester, Sullen House.
Crown 8vo, with Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition, enlarged, 5s.

MILNE. The Problem of the Churchless and Poor in our Large
Towns. With special reference to the Home Mission Work of the Church
of Scotland. By the Rev. Root. Milne,M.A., D.D., Archer. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Into. A Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style. By W. Into,
M.A., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley.

New Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Crack of Doom. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four

Centuries. By Major-general John Mitchell, Author of 'Life of Wallenstein.'
With a Memoir of the Author. 8vo, 9s.

Mair. Life of Manse Watch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8

Illustrations on Steel, by the late George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

Homeric. Defects of Modern Christianity, and other Sermons.

By the Rev. A. W. Moderne, M.A., D.Sc. Professor of Logic and Metaphysics
in King's College, London. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

The Basis of Religion. Being an Examination of Natural

Religion. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

The Origin of Evil, and other Sermons. Fourth Edition,

enlarged. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Personality, The Beginning and End of Metaphysics, and

a Necessary Assumption in all Positive Philosophy. Third Edition. Crown
8vo, 3s.

Agnosticism. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 5a.

Preaching and Hearing ; and Other Sermons. Crown

Svo, 4s. 6d.

Belief in God. Crown Svo, 3s.

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. Reminiscences of

an Officer in 1879. By Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regiment, Author of
Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. 8vo, los. 6d.

MONTALEMBERT. Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A

Chapter of Recent French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of the ' Life
of Edward Irving,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo, £1, 4s.

MURDOCH. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy :

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankruptcy,
Composition - contracts, Trust-deeds, Cession, and Sequestrations; and the
Winding-up of Joint-stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with Forms of Procedure
applicable to these Subjects. By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of
Procurators in Glasgow. Fifth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, Svo, £1, los.

MY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNE: A Gossip with

no Plot in Particular. By A Plain Woman. New Edition, crown Svo, 6s.

POOR NELLIE. By the Same. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.
Leaves. Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old

Contributor to ' Mama.' By the Hon. Lord Leaves. Fifth Edition, cap. Svo,
4S.

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of ' Ancient Classics
for English Readers.' Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Needed. The Story of Philip Methuen. By Mrs J. H. Needed,

Author of 'Julian Karslake's Secret,' 'Lucia, Hugh, and Another.' 3 vols,
post Svo, 25s. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zoology. By Henry Al-leone
Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S., Regius Professor of Natural
History in the University of Aberdeen. Seventh Edition, rewritten and
enlarged. Post Svo, pp. 956, with 555 Engravings on Wood, iSs.

Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Fourth Edition,
enlarged. Crown Svo, with iSS Engravings on Wood, 73. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Junior

Classes. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged, with 166 Engravings, 3s.

Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descriptions
of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Third Edition, with
Engravings, is. 6d.

A Manual of Palaeontology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Palaeontology. Second
Edition. Revised and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. Svo, with 722 Engravings,

£2, 2S.

The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline of

the Principles and Leading Facts of Palteoutological Science. Crown Svo,
with 276 Engravings, los. 6d.

On the " Tabulate Corals " of the Palaeozoic Period,

with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15
Lithograph Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal Svo, 21s.

NICHOLSON. On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus 

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative
Species. By Henry Allen Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S.,
Regius Professor of Natural History in the University of Aberdeen. Illustrated
with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed Plates. Super-royal
8vo, i8s.

Synopsis of the Classification of the Animal Kingdom.
8vo, with io Illustrations, 6s.

NICHOLSON. Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons.
By the late Maxwell Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinburgh.
Crown Svo, 5s. 6d.

Rest in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.

OLIPHANT. Masollam : a Problem of the Period. A Novel.

By Laurence Oliphant. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

Altera Peto. Eighth Edition, Illustrated. Crown Svo, 6s.

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography. With

Eight Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Eighth Edition, 4s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
in paper cover, 2s. 6d.

Traits and Travesties; Social and Political. PostSvo, ios.6d.

The Land of Gilead. With Excursions in the Lebanon.

With Illustrations and Maps. Demy Svo, 21s.

The Land of Khemi. Post Svo, with Illustrations, los. 6d.

Haifa : Life in Modern Palestine. 2d Edition. Svo, 7s. 6d.

Episodes in a Life of Adventure ; or, Moss from a Rolling

Stone. Third Edition. Post Svo, los. 6d.

Fashionable Philosophy, and other Sketches. In paper

cover, IS.

Sympneumata : or, Evolutionary Functions now Active in

Man. Edited by Laurence Oliphant. Post Svo, los. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. By Mrs

Oliphant. 5s., cloth.

Katie Stewart. 2S. 6d.

A House Divided against Itself. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral

Shepard Osborn, C.B. 3 vols, crown Svo, 12s.

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the
Poems. By the Rev. Archibald Clerk. 2 vols, imperial Svo, ;^i, his. 6d.

OSWALD. By Fell and Fjord ; or. Scenes and Studies in Iceland.

By E. J. Oswald. Post Svo, with Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

OUR OWN POMPEII. A Romance of To-morrow. 2 vols, crown

Svo, 17S.

Outran. Lyrics : Legal and Miscellaneous. By the late George

Outran, Esq., Advocate. New Edition, with Explanatory Notes. Edited
by J. H. Stoddart, LL.D. ; and Illustrated by William Ralston and A. S.
Boyd. In i vol.

PAGE. Introductory Text-book of Geology. By David Page,

LL.D., Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science,
Newcastle. With Engravings on Wood and Glossarial Index. Twelfth
Edition. Revised by Professor Lapworth of Mason Science College, Birmingham.
[In the press.

Advanced Text-book of Geology, Descriptive and Industrial.
With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, revised
and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Physical Geography. With

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Edited Charles Lapworth, LL.D., F.G.S.,
&c., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy in the Mason Science College, Birmingham.
12th Edition. 2s. 6d.

PAGE. Advanced Text-book of Physical Geography. Third

Edition, Revised and Enlarged by Prof. Lapworth. With Engravings. 53.

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Paton. Cap., cloth, 5s.

Poems by a Painter. By Sir J. Noel Paton. Cap.,

cloth, 5s.

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. Hogarth

Patterson. 8vo, 12s.

The New Golden Age, and Influence of the Precious

Metals upon the World. 2 vols, 8vo, 31s. 6d.

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's
Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish
Bar. Crown 4to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. £2, 2s.

Pile. Lawn Tennis as a Game of Skill. With latest revised

Laws as played by the Best Clubs. By Captain S. C. F. Pile, B.S.C. Third
Edition, cap. cloth, is. 6d.

PETTIGREW. The Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable

Management. By A. Pettigrew. Fourth Edition, Enlarged, with Engravings.
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers.
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, University
of St Andrews. In crown Svo volumes, with portraits, price 3s. 6d.

for list of Volumes published, see page 2.

Pollock. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollock,

A.M. Small cap. Svo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The Cottage Edition, 32mo, sewed,
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations
by Birket Foster and others, cap., gilt cloth, 3s. 6d., or with edges' gilt, 4s.

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French : with Introduction,
Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Barnes, LL.D., Professor
in the University of St Andrews. Eighth Edition, imo, 4s.

POTTS AND Darnel. Aditus Facilities : An easy Latin Construing
Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D.,
Head-Master of the Fetters College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darrell, M.A., Head-Master of
Cargilfield Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Ninth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Aditus Facilities Graeca. An easy Greek Construing Book,

with Complete Vocabulary. Fourth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s.

Prince. The Live-Stock of the Farm. By Robert 0. Prince.

Third Edition. Revised and Edited by James Macdonald, Editor of the
Live-Stock Journal,' &c. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND

from 1707 to 1847, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large Svo, £2^ 3s.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

COLLECTION OF. Published Annually with General Index.

RAMSAY. Rough Recollections of Military Service and Society.

By Lieut-Col. Balcarres D. Wardle Ramsay. Two vols, post Svo, 21s.

RAMSAY. Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century.

Edited from the MSS. of John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertyre, by Alexander
Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord Keith, K.B.,' &c. In two
vols. Svo. [In the press.

RANKINE. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens incident to

the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Ranking
M. A., Advocate. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Svo, 45s.

RECORDS OF THE TERCENTENARY FESTIVAL OF THE

UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. Celebrated in April 1884. Published
under the Sanction of the Senatus Academics. Large 4to, £2, 12s. 6d.

RICE. Reminiscences of Abraham Lincoln. By Distinguished

Men of his Time. Collected and Edited by Allen Thorndike Rice, Editor
of the ' North American Review.' Large Svo, with Portraits, 21s.

Simmer. The Early Homes of Prince Albert. By Alfred

Rummer, Authors of ' Our Old Country Towns,' &c. Beautifully Illustrated
with Tinted Plates and numerous Engravings on Wood. 8vo, los. 6d.

Robertson. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robertson,
m. a. Cap. 8vo, Printed on hand-made paper. 6s.

The White Angel of the Polly Ann, and other Stories.

A Book of Fables and Fancies, Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Our Holiday Among the Hills. By James and Janet

Loose Robertson. Cap. Svo, 3s. 6d.

ROSCOE. Rambles with a Fishing-rod. By E. S. Roscoe. Crown

Svo, 4s. 6d.

ROSS. Old Scottish Regimental Colours. By Andrew Ross,

S.S.C, Hon. Secretary Old Scottish Regimental Colours Committee, Dedicated
by Special Permission to Her Majesty the Queen. Folio, handsomely
bound in cloth, £0., 12s. 6d,

Grossly Love that Lasts for Ever. A Jubilee Lyric. By the

Earl of Grossly. Dedicated by Permission to the Queen, on the Fiftieth
Anniversary of her Accession, and published by Her Majesty's Command.
Printed on hand-made paper, with vellum cover, is.

RUSSELL. The Hangs of Bemersyde. A Family History. By

John Russell. Large Svo, with Illustrations. 21s.

RUSTOW. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870 : Its Political

and Military History. By Col. W. Rustow. Translated from the German,
by John Lapland Needham, Lieutenant Rem, Artillery, 3 vols. Svo, with
Maps and Plans, ;^i, his. 6d.

ST LEGER. Under a Delusion. A Novel. By Joan St Leger.

2 vols, crown Svo, lys.

SCHILLER. Wallenstein. A Dramatic Poem. By Frederick

Anon Schiller. Translated by C. G. A. Lockhart. Cap. Svo, 7s. 6d.

SCOTCH LOCH FISHING. By "Black Palmer." Crown Svo,

interleaved with blank pages, 4s.

SCOTTISH METAPHYSICS. Reconstructed in accordance with

the Principles of Physical Science. By the Writer of ' Free Notes on Herbert
Spencer's First Principles.' Crown Svo, 5s,

SELLER AND STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, formerly Lecturer on
Materia Medica and Dietetics ; and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of ' The
Book of the Fart,' &c. Post Svo. with Engravings, i6s.

SETH. Scottish Philosophy. A Comparison of the Scottish and

German Answers to Hume. Balfour Philosophical Lectures, University of
Edinburgh. By Andrew Seth, M.A. , Professor of Logic and Philosophy in
the University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire. Crown Svo, os.

SETON. A Budget of Anecdotes. Chiefly relating to the Current
Century. Compiled and Arranged by George Seton, Advocate, M.A. Oxon,
New and Cheaper Edition, cap. Svo. Boards, is. 6d.

SHADWELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Illustrated

by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenant-general
Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. Svo. With Portrait, Maps, and Plans. 36s.

Hand. Fortune's Wheel. By Alex. Innes Hand, Author of

'Against Time,' &c. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

Half a Century ; or. Changes in Men and Manners. Svo.

12S. 6d.

Letters from the West of Ireland. Reprinted from the

'Times.' Crown Svo, 5s.

SHARPE. Letters from and to Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe.

Edited by Alexander Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord
Keith, K.B.,' &c. With a Memoir by the Rev. W. K, R, Bedford. In two
vols. Svo. Illustrated with Etchings and other Engravings. \ln the press.

SIM. Margaret Sin's Cookery. With an Introduction by L. B.
Walford, Author of ' Mr Smith : A Part of His Life,' &c. Crown Svo, 55.

SIMPSON. Dogs of other Days : Nelson and Puck. By Eve

Blantyre Simpson. Cap. 8vo, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

SKELTON. Maitland of Wellington ; and the Scotland of Mary

Stuart. A History. By John Skelton, C.B., LL.D. Author of * The Essays
of Shirley.' Demy 8vo, 12s. 6d.

SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals

of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the Directors of the East
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation System
of Northern and Central India. By Lieut-col. R. Baird Smith, F.G.S.,
Bengal Engineers. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Atlas, sos.

SMITH. Thorndale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William

Smith, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics,' &c. A New Edition. Crown
Svo, los, 6d.

Gravenhurst ; or, Thoughts on Good and Evil. Second

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown Svo, 8s.

SMITH. Greek Testament Lessons for Colleges, Schools, and

Private Students, consisting chiefly of the Sermon on the Mount and the
Parables of our Lord. With Notes and Essays. By the Rev. J. Hunter
Smith, M. A., King Edward's School, Birmingham. Crown Svo, 6s.

SMITH. Writings by the Way. By John Campbell Smith,

M.A. , Sheriff-substitute. Crown 8vo, 9s.

SMITH. The Secretary for Scotland. Being a Statement of the

Powers and Duties of the new Scottish Office. "With a Short Historical
Introduction and numerous references to important Administrative Documents.
By W. C. Smith, LL.B., Advocate. Svo, 6s.

Softer. A Lady's Ride Across Spanish Honduras. By Maria

SoLTERA. "With illustrations. Post Svo, 12s. 6d.

Morley. The Ethics of Naturalism. Being the Shaw Fellowship

Lectures, 1884. By W. R. Morley, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge,
and Examiner in Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh. Crown Svo, 6s.

SPEEDY. Sport in the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland with

Rod and Gun. By Tom Speedy. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged.
With Illustrations by Lieut-General Hope Crealocke, C.B., C.lVfG., and
others. Svo, 15s.

Sprout. The Worship and Offices of the Church of Scotland ;

or, the Celebration of Public Worship, the Administration of the Sacraments,
and other Divine Offices, according to the Order of the Church of Scotland.
Bv George W. Sprout, D.D., Minister of North Berwick. Crown Svo, 6s.

STARFORTH. Villa Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series

of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edition,
medium 4to, £1, 17s. 6d.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with

Index, 15 vols. Svo, £\6, impeach
County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Map, neatly bound in cloth,
forming a very valuable Manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufacturer,
the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c.

STEPHENS. The Book of the Farm ; detailing the Labours of the

Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedscr, Farm-Labourer, Field-worker,
and Cattleman. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E. Illustrated with
Portraits of Animals painted from the life ; and with 557 Engravings on Wood,
representing the principal Field Operations, Implements, and Animals treated
of in the "Work. A New and Revised Edition, the third, in great par Rewritten.
2 vols, large Svo, £7., los.

The Book of Farm Buildings ; their Arrangement and

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of 'The Book of the
Farm ; ' and Robert Scott Burn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and Engravings.
Large Svo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. ;^i, his. 6d.

The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J.

Slight and R. Scott Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens, Large
Svo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' £-2, 2s.

Catechism of Practical Agriculture. With Engravings, is.

STEVENSON. British Fungi. (Hymenomycetes.) By Rev. John

Stevenson, Author of ' Mycologia Scotia,' Hon. Sec. Cryptogamic Society of
Scotland. 2 vols, post 8vo, with Illustrations, price 12s. 6d. each.

Vol. I, AgARICUS— BOLBITIUS. Vol. II. CORTINAEIUS— DaCRYMYCES.

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart,

Vas., Author of 'Stable Economy.' New Edition. 2s. 6d,

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Management of

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, Watering, and Working.
By John Stewart, Vas. Seventh Edition, cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

STORMONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms.
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev.
P. H. Help, M.A. Cantab. Ninth Edition, Revised throughout. Crown
8vo, pp. 800. 7s. 66

Dictionary of the English Language, Pronouncing,

Etymological, and Explanatory, Revised by the Rev. P. H. Help. Library
Edition. Imperial 8vo, handsomely bound in half morocco, 31s. 6d.

The School Etymological Dictionary and Word-Book.

Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dictionary
and an Etymological Spelling-book. Cap. 8vo, pp. 254. 2s.

STORY. Nero ; A Historical Play. By W. W. Story, Author of

'Robe di Roma.' Cap. 8vo, 6s.

Vallombrosa. Post 8vo, 5s.

He and She ; or, A Poet's Portfolio. Cap. 8vo, in parchment,
3s. 6d.

Poems. 2 vols, cap., 7s. 6d.

Damietta. A Summer Idol. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

STRICKLAND. Life of Agnes Strickland. By her Sister.

Post Svo, with Portrait engraved on Steel, 12s. 6d.

Surges. John - a - Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Surges.

New Edition, crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Little Comedies, Old and New. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. Containing Descriptions, in Plain
Language, of upwards of 1000 Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-gardens, Clockwork, and
Waters ; along with Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and
Culture. By William Sutherland, Gardener to the Earl of Into ; formerly
Manager of the Herbaceous Department at Kew. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late Colonel Meadows

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thus,' &c. &c. Edited by his
Daughter. New and cheaper Edition, being the Fourth. Crown Svo, 6s.

TAYLOR. The City of Barras. By U. Ashworth Taylor.

Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

TEMPLE. Lancelot Ward, M.P. A Love-story. By George

Temple. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the

German of A. Tholuck, D. D. , Professor of Theology in the University of Halle.
By the Rev. Robert Menzies, D. D. With a Preface written for this Translation
by the Author. Second Edition, crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Flower-garden : being Practical

Directions for the Propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower-gardens
all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest
to the smallest. With Engraved Plans, illustrative of the various systems of
Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G., at Drumlanrig. Fourth and Cheaper Edition,
crown Svo, 5s.

THOMSON. The Handy Book of Fruit-Culture under Glass :

being a series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation and Forcing
of Pines, Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With
Engravings of Hothouses, &c., most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing
of these Fruits. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch, K.G., at Drumlanrig. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with Engravings,
7s. 6d.

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grapevine.
By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Ninth Edition, 8vo, ss
THOMSON. Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent. With

Directions for the Preparation of Poultices, Fomentations, &c. By Barbara
Thomson. Cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

TOM Cringe's LOG. A New Edition, with Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND Agricultural
SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5s.

Bullock. Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in England
in the Seventeenth Century. By John Bullock, D.D., Principal of St
Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, i6s.

Modern Theories in Philosophy and Religion. 8vo, 15s.

Theism. The Witness of Reason and Nature to an All-wise
and Beneficent Creator. 8vo, los. 6d.

Luther, and other Leaders of the Reformation. Third

Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

TWO STORIES OF THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN. 'The

Open Door,' 'Old Lady Mary.' Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Veitch. Institutes of Logic. By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor
of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of Glasgow. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.
The Feeling for Nature in Scottish Poetry. From the

Earliest Times to the Present Day. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, in Roxburgh binding.
15s.

VIRGIL. The aeneid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank
Verse by G. K. Rickards, M.A., and Lord Ravenswood. 2 vols. cap. 8vo,

lOS.

WALFORD. The Novels of L. B. Walford. New and Uniform

Edition, Crown 8vo, each 5s.

Mr Smith : A Part of his Life.

Cousins.

Pauline.

Troublesome Daughters.

Dick Nether.

The Baby's Grandmother.

History of a Week.

WARDEN. Poems. By Francis Heywood Warden. With a

Notice by Dr Vanroth. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown

8vo, cloth, 15s. 6d. Or separately : —

Diary of a Late Physician. Cloth, 2S. 6d. ; boards, 2S.

Ten Thousand A-year. Cloth, 3s. 6d, ; boards, 2S. 6d.

Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral

Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d.

Essays : Critical, Imaginative, and Juridical. 5s.
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L. Warren, Rector of Esher, Surrey ; late Fellow,
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Waltham College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WATSON. Christ's Authority ; and other Sermons. By the late

Archibald Watson, D.D., Minister of the Parish of Dundee, and one of
Her Majesty's Chaplains for Scotland. With Introduction by the Very
Rev. Principal Caird, Glasgow. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

WEBSTER. The Angler and the Loop-Rod. By David Webster.

Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on " the System of Field

Manoeuvres best adapted for enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army."
Edited by Lieut-General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.B. 8vo, 12s. 6d.
WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster Assembly,
while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government,
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Edited
by the Rev. Professor Alex. T. Mitchell, of St Andrews, and the Rev. John
Struthers, LL.D. With a Historical and Critical Introduction by Professor
Mitchell. 8vo, 15s.

WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James

White. Seventh Edition, post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thousand,
post Svo, with Index, 6s.
WHITE. Archaeological Sketches in Scotland — Kintyre and Knap-dale.

By Colonel T. P. White, Ree., of the Ordnance Survey. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols, folio, £4, 4s. Vol. I., Kintyre, sold separately,

£2, 2S,

The Ordnance Survey of the United Kingdom. A Popular

Account. Crown Svo, 5s.

WILLS AND GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children. By

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown Svo, 6s,

WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-law,

Professor Farrier. 12 vols, crown Svo, £2, 8s.

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s.

Isle of Palms, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s.

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s.

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., i6s.

The Notes Ambrosial. 4 vols., i6s.

The Comedy of the Notes Ambrosial. By Christopher

North. Edited by John Skelton, Advocate. With a Portrait of Professor
Wilson and of the Ettrick Shepherd, engraved on Steel. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown

Svo, 4s.

WILSON. From Forti to Khartoum : A Journal of the Desert

March from Forti to Gubat, and of the Ascent of the Nile in General Gordon's
Steamers. By Colonel Sir Charles W. Wilson, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., Ree.
Seventh Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Innate. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Innate.

Cap. Svo, 5s,

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

WORDSWORTH. The Historical Plays of Shakspeare. With

Introductions and Notes. By Charles Wordsworth, D.C.L., Bishop of S.
Andrews. 3 vols, post Svo, each price ys. 6d.

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations, By Philip Stanhope

WoRSLEY, M.A, Edited by Edward Worsley, Second Edition, enlarged.
Cap. Svo, 6s.

YATE. England and Russia Face to Face in Asia. A Record of

Travel with the Afghan Boundary Commission. By Lieutenant A. C. Yate,
Bombay Staff Corps, Special Correspondent of the 'Pioneer,' 'Daily Telegraph,'
&c., &c,, With the Afghan Boundary Commission, Svo, with Maps
and Illustrations, 21s,

YOUNG. Songs of Stranger done into English Verse. By William

Young. New Edition, revised. Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.
YULE. Fortification : for the Use of Officers in the Army, and
Readers of Military History. By Col. Yule, Bengal Engineers. Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, los. 6d.

ZIT AND Noe : Their Early Experiences. Reprinted from
Blackwood's Magazine.' Crown 8vo, paper cover, is.

10/sr. 'V'



■.■■-■■ '"'■■^Mm

URBANA



;.:i*'-;:;M

;■-■■: ■■^^^^^iliilii^

.','. ;i)'iy,-:f.

■.;!i-;"in

!i;^';:J^!ilM

■ ■■■■: -^ '. >'i"wlS

-■'^■m:mw

'^'^ H;! ■.«:•' v:; ,.;■:■;;.' c

■i;i-M'y;-i ''=^' ■■'''■:' ■:''■■ ■■•: W'^S'Kii'i't-i^t^'V'*^' ''■-•■■ .■:^^ '■'''•1
''m.^^?'- vV;;::,^j;,;;;:;?^;f:f:.:i;.':^';;::'y;f

>, ;n;:;,^:','iy;:':;r''-'iM

».::•;::•■ ■V-'^' . ■ :, , : :,::r: ' .^^ '':^:;!i^^^^:^'' •^■■

■:':■.):', . .■'I'-'

i0h

Mi.

w.
''(' '

;!•/;■ 'iii''rV

^i^

MV',f:

^m^

'::-Jf

r»'.' V; . ■ T* ■*■

'if

BY HOOK OR Cook

BY

Major AETHUE Griffiths

author of
'fast and loose,' 'locked up,' etc.

IN Three VOLUMES
VOL. III.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AJ^D SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVIII

All Rights reserved

CONTENTS OF THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAP.

XLVII. AN OLD POACHER,
XLVIII. CHANGING PROSPECTS,
XLIX. Berkeley WELLS,
L. MANY MEETINGS,
LL FRESH SCENT,
LII. CELERITY AND DISCRETION,
LIII. NOTICE TO QUIT,
LIV. A NEW LIGHT, .
LV. MILITARY DISCIPLINE,
LVI. FORGET AND FORGIVE,

Lvii. eta's contumacy,

LVIII. PER S.S. APOLLO,

LIX. " FISHY SYDNEY,"

LX. HUNTERS AND HUNTED,

PAGE


















CONTENTS.

LXI. ONLY A WOMAN S HAIR,
LXII. AUNT Cochran's,
LXIII. WHAT THE PARSON WROTE,
LXIV. WHAT THE OTHERS READ,

LXV. LOUISVILLE, . . .

LXVI. THE FIRST SNOW,
LXVII. FIRE I . . .

LXVIII. JUSTICE AT LAST,










CHAPTEK XLVII.

AN OLD POACHER.

The news of Podifat's return to Straddlethorpe,
and the easy terms on which he lived there,
soon spread and was freely commented on by
the county. Some saw in it a fresh proof of
Sir Hubert's low tastes ; a few, chief among
them General Wyndham-Parker, thought the
young baronet was showing up well, and praised
his great goodness to the man he need hardly
have recognised at all,

It was not what I advised him," the Gen-vol.

III. A

era frankly confessed. " I saw no reason why
lie should be burdened with the old rascal,
and said so."

"Lezaire may be as kind as he pleases to
his old father — ex-father I suppose we ought
to call him — but he'd better have done it
further away."

He was ready to pension him, and actually
did pay down a handsome sum for him to go, but
the old rogue turned up again within a week,"
General Parker admitted, rather indiscreetly.

Did he, now ? Well, that looks rather fishy,
I think. Why should he osier him money to
go unless he was afraid of him — ashamed
rather ? " protested the first speaker. *' And
with reason."

Yes, begad ! and he'll be more ashamed still,
unless the rascal mends his ways. The old
poacher's bound to get his young friend into
a mess," said a squire whose lands " marched "
with Straddlethorpe.

"How's that?" asked the General, a little
nervously.

My keeper tells me lie has a strong suspicion
this old Podifat has been after my young
pheasants. Found some wire traps in my
spinney t'other side of Straddlethorpe, which
no one but Podifat could have laid."

He's not particular about boundary-lines.
Some one saw him with his gun on Bingley
moors, miles from Lezaire land, in broad daylight
too."

I believe it was he who netted my pools,"
said another squire.

I'll set the police on him if he comes my
way," added a third.

"Don't, please, take any steps until I have
spoken to young Lezaire," the General entreated.
^' I am sure he only has to know
what his protege is about to stop it peremptorily."


But Sir Hubert seemed strangely disinclined
to interfere with his '' old father," as Podifat
was generally called about Straddlethorpe.

I don't believe he has touched a feather
or caught a fish off my lands," said the baronet.

Why should he ? He gets sport enough with
what I've given him."

If you were just to hint to him, to suggest
a little more caution "

I don't believe a word of it all, I tell you."

But there must be something in it. So
many persons were talking of it at the club,
and all agreed in suspecting him."

Sir Hubert cursed the club and its long-tongued
gossips, and refused point-blank to
speak to his "old father."

Complaints were still made, more specific
and seemingly unanswerable. The police were
obliged to take the matter up ; so Mr Earswick,
who knew the way to Straddlethorpe,
and had been concerned in the first dealings
with Podifat, was despatched with a polite
message to the Hall.

*' I was to say, sir " — the police officer tried
to tone down the threat — " that Captain Brace-bridge
would be truly sorry to act. But if
gentlemen continue to complain, there will be
nothing for it but to take out a warrant "

Against me ? I like your cheek."

Well, sir, you might be charged with harbouring,
perhaps, but no worse. I don't suppose
you're likely to turn poacher "

"Thanked ; I've half a mind to kick you out
of the place."

No offence. Sir Hubert. Only, upon my
word, we shall have to take this Podifat up
if he goes on so."

Sir Hubert looked up uneasily. •

What can I do ? What do you wish me todo?"


Speak to the man — warn him — stop his
allowance — turn him adrift. A word from you
would settle everything."

I wish I thought so," muttered the baronet
between his teeth ; but he added aloud, " I'll
speak to him — one of these days."

It was not next day, or the day after, but
more than a week later, that Sir Hubert summoned
courage to attack his troublesome guest.
Even then he had fortified himself for the
interview by copious glasses of liqueur. The

decanter stood handy by his elbow as he harangued
the truculent Podifat fiercely in the
dining-room with the table between them.

Look here, I won't have it," said Sir Hubert,
brave enough now, his evil face flushed with
drink, his voice thick. '^ I've stood it long
enough. You are bringing disgrace on me,
and worse on yourself."

"What am I doing now?" asked his "old
father," insolently.

Poaching. Can't you drop it ? Why aren't
you satisfied with my coverts and my waters ? "

Your coverts ? Your waters ? Yah ! "
There was boundless contempt in the words
thus mockingly repeated. " Pll tell you why
I ain't satisfied. Cos I ain't got room. Why,
where I comes from a man's free to shoot
whatever he sees ; there ain't no preserves, no
game-laws, no police."

"You'd better go back there. I'll help you
to that any day."

"Thank ye. I know when I'm well off, and
that's here."

V

*' Where you won't stop much longer, I tell
you. If I hear any more complaints, out you
go, neck and crop."

"Who'd put me out ? You ? " Podifat put
both his hands on the table and stared impudently
at Sir Hubert on the other side.
You aren't ; you know better. Just say
another cross word and I'll go straight to Lady
Lezaire. I know where to find her."

If he thought to cow the baronet by this
threat, he missed his mark. Sir Hubert was
now furious, and his reply defiant.

Go where you like — to the devil, or further ;
I'm done with you. Try your worst."

If I do, you won't stop long here, I give
you fair notice."

''Be off! Clear out!" Sir Hubert had
gulped down a fresh dose of benedictine. "I'll
have you put out," and he tore violently at the
bell-handle behind him. " Here ! " he cried to
the butler, who was strangely close at hand, and
Gibbings, who followed, 'put this fellow out.
I've had enough of him. He's got to go straight

out of Straddlethorpe. He shan't stay on my
land or under roof of mine. You see to it,
Gibbings. Hustle him, kick him, bundle him
out."

You'll be sorry for this," shouted Podifat,
as he struggled with the two servants who were
dragging him to the door. " I shall go to my
lady and tell her all about you, you miserable,
murderous young cur ! "

*come," said Gibbings shortly, as they
deposited Mr Podifat outside the hall door,
we've had enough of your jaw. You've got
notice to quit. I'll call round at your quarters
before sundown and see the last of you."

"You'd better not come alone, though I'm
man enough for half-a-dozen like you. My
Purdey shoots straight, and I'll fill the first
man's stomach with small-shot that comes
within range of North Lodge."

With that he pulled himself together, and
muttering threats and oaths, strode down the
avenue.

Gibbings was resolved, in spite of what

Podifat had said, to pay him a visit. It was
his duty, in the first place, to carry out Sir
Hubert's wishes ; and in the second, the few
words let drop by the old poacher when expelled
from the Hall had made him anxious to hear
more. But brave men may be prudent, and
Gibbings was wise enough to wait till next
morning, and to approach North Lodge with
considerable circumspection.

The house, a semi-Gothic structure, having, its
principal rooms on the ground-floor and only
garrets under the eaves, stood on the edge of
the Bingley wood in a little clearing facing
the highroad. A wicket-gate gave admission
through the high fence of the park.

From under cover of this fence Gibbings
carefully reconnoitred the premises before he
essayed to enter. Sounds as of some one moving
about the house fell upon his ear, quickened by
the sense of coming danger. Then as he peered
through a chink between the palings, he saw
the front door open and a figure issue forth.

"A sortie from the garrison," he muttered.

Can he have seen me coming ? How about
the Purdey ! Holloa ! why "

He suddenly straightened himself up and
boldly walked towards the wicket-gate, through
which he passed, and crossing the neglected
garden-patch, cried aloud —

Mr Earswick ! You're not the man I
thought to see here. What's up ? "

Nor I you. What brings you ? Is this 
a friend of yours ? " asked the police officer,
suspiciously.

Not much. I'm here because my master
sent me. Sir Hubert gave the old scoundrel
notice to quit yesterday, and I came to send
him to the right-about."

He's gone, and well for him, or I'd have had
him safe enough this time in Market Eeepham
jail."

Ah ? " asked Gibbings, interrogatively.
Were you going to take him away ? "

I should have asked for a warrant this very
day. There's evidence enough here to get him
a fresh lagging. Come along and see''

Podifat appeared to have occupied only one
room of the long unused and greatly dilapidated
lodge. This was the kitchen, or keeper's
living-room, the appearance of which spoke
volumes as to the character and ways of its
late occupant.

In one corner lay a pile of newly cut fir-boughs,
the primitive bed-place of the old savage ; the
hearthstone was covered with wood embers —
Podifat had evidently disdained to use . the
kitchener ; all around lay the litter and filth
of weeks — scraps of food, garbage, and refuse
of all kinds ; empty bottles in dozens, whiskers,
a battered kettle, a dirty frying-pan inch-deep
in grease.

*' See here!" said Earswick, kicking over
with his foot a great bundle of rags and
sacking.

** Look at that hamper, and the label : Castro,
the poulterer of Market Needham. This is
where he gets his game. And look at those
pheasants' feathers. The shooting don't begin
for another three weeks ; he's been trapping

them, and killing salmon too, in the close
time."

Has he cleared out, do you think ? " asked
Gibbings, a little disappointed at having no
further conversation with the baronet's " old
father."

I expect so, but hardly for good. His gun's
there still, and a lot of cartridge-cases newly
filled."

He meant them for some of us, I expect.
We'd better stop that game," said Gibbings, ashe
filled his pockets with the cartridges. '^ You
take the gun, mister, and come along. We'll
lock up the place, and I'll take the key back to
the Hall."

"We may as well walk through the house
before we leave it. This is the only room I've
been in."

From the kitchen they passed across the little
hall to what in its best days had been the
parlour — an empty chamber with blackened
ceiling, and paper hanging loose on the damp
walls.

'' He didn't use this room much."

*' As I understand, no one has lived in the
house for years till just lately. I remember,
the Colonel talked of doing it up and putting
in another under-keeper."

We may as well look up-stairs all the same.
I've been taught not to do my work by
halves."

The garrets were reached by a steep staircase
little better than a ladder, which ended on-the
threshold of the first, a narrow cupboard-like
den, ankle-deep in dust, with a door that was
locked, leading no doubt to a second room, to
which one vigorous kick gave admission. The
second garret was as dusty and dirty as the
first, and like it, empty, as it seemed.

Gibbings and the police officer gave a short
look round, and were on the point of retracing
their steps, when the latter said casually —

What's that over there under the rafters ?
A box ? Lend a hand, will you ? Let's have
it out," and together they dragged it near the
gloomy window.

It was a common deal box painted stone
colour, with edges and angles dented and battered,
but still stout and strong. On the lid
two capital letters had been rudely painted in
white by some unskilled hand.

H. P.," said Gibbings, meditatively. " What
does that spell ? Half pay ? "

Hubert Podifat, perhaps," suggested Earswick.
" There may be something inside to tellus
more. The box is locked. Step down, will
you, and fetch the chopper from the kitchen.
We will force it open."

It was a secure lock, but it yielded soon to
force, and the lid was raised.

Only old clothes," cried Earswick, disappointed,
as he rummaged amongst the contents,
turning them all out upon the floor. " Stinking
rags at best. We'd better have left them alone.
This looks a little better, though. Why, what
in heaven's name have we here ? "

a j^ greatcoat — an ulster ! The Colonel's, by
all that's glorious !" cried Gibbings. " I could
swear to it amongst a thousand."

Yellow plaid with red lines. The one that
was missing at the trial, eh ? How on earth did
it come here ? "

"Perhaps you think we hid it, Mr Peeler.
If so, d'ye think I'd have let you find it here
to-day ? "

"How could you have stopped me ?" asked
Earswick, suspiciously.

I never tried, and I didn't want to. But
what's the good of wasting time and talk. You
can't try my old master twice, I know the law.
And if you could, finding this coat wouldn't
help you much. But, please God, it'll do
better than that. It'll lead us yet to those
who committed the crime."

I believe you're right, Mr Gibbings. It
certainly supplies a fresh clue."

"Which we will follow out together, Mr
Earswick, if it suits you : working with and
not against each other this time, if you'll be
advised by me."

And what shall we do with the coat meanwhile
? We ought to have it."

"So you shall. Take it to your chief at
Market Eeepham, and tell him where you found
it. But let's clear out of this double quick.
Podifat or no Podifat, we've done a good morning's
work."

Chapter XLYIIL

CHANGING PROSPECTS.

The discovery of the Inverness was undoubtedly
a new departure. Even Earswick felt this, although
with professional caution he pretended
still to be sceptical. But Gibbings had no
prejudices to overcome ; besides, he was positive
where the police officer was still open
to doubt. Earswick might suspect that Gib-beings
was concerned in the concealment of
the cloak ; Gibbings, better informed, was
certain he had had no part in it.

Recent events had undoubtedly thrown a
new complexion over the Lezaire case. Many
new and strange facts had transpired since Gib-beings
had come to Straddlethorp^. It seemed

VOL. III. B

his bounden and immediate duty to lay them
all before bis old master, with whom he had
had no communication for some time past.

Beyond a short telegram that he had been
detained in Thorpeshire, and which — being, as
we are aware, no scholar — he had dictated to
a postal clerk, he had as yet given no account
of his movements. He intended to do so byword
of mouth the first chance he got of slipping
up to town. Caution was more than ever
necessary now, as well as despatch. So pleading
as an excuse a summons to the Army Pension
Office, he got a day's leave from Sir Hubert
and took the first train to town.

He reached Harrop's Green early in the
forenoon, and found the house topsy - turvy,
littered and half dismantled, with every indication
of another move.

The Colonel was at the ticket-office, but Mrs
St Evelyn quickly explained that they were
on the point of leaving England, all of them,
for a long time, perhaps for good and all.
To better themselves ? Why, of course — the

Colonel had got an excellent situation ; and
sitting there amidst the packing-cases, Rachel
gleefully told Gibbings all about it.

There had been little change with the St Evelynss
since we left them until within the last
few weeks, when all at once, as so often happens
in life, an entirely new prospect had opened before
them quite suddenly and unawares.

It was all through Mr Carrington Lomas,
who, since their first meeting, had never ceased
to show a friendly interest in them all. He
had become almost an old friend, and he proved
it by those little attentions the rich can give,

and the poor, however proud, accept, without


patronage on the one side and loss of self-respect
upon the other.

Mrs St Evelyn never wanted now for flowers,
the children for fruit, nor St Evelyn himself
for the savoury food he still loved as in
happier days : a fine salmon, a box of grouse
straight from the moors, plump partridges, ora
Michaelmas goose, were gifts he still thoroughly
appreciated.

Upon my soul," he said, " I ought to call
and thank him. He's monstrous kind, this
Mr Lomas."

"Do, dearest, the first day you are off duty.
If you only leave a card."

That would look pretentious in my present
position. No, I will try and find him at home.
I am genuinely obliged to him, and should like
to say so in many words."

The call was made, the visit presently returned.
The old gentleman, who, though
brusque and sharp - spoken, was clearly a
kindly philanthropic soul, pressed the St
Evelyns to bring their children for a run in
his garden.

Whenever and as often as you please," he
repeated more than once, and they took him
at his word.

It was on one of these happy afternoons —
most pleasant perhaps to the country-bred
Rachel, who in her dingy London home ever
pined for the green turf and shady woods of
Straddlethorpe — that Mr Lomas took St Evelyn

aside, and rather bluntly, but with the
heightened colour of a shy man approaching
a delicate subject, said —

"Why do you stop on at Harrop's Green,
Colonel ? The place isn't half good enough for
you."

'beggars must not be choosers, Mr Lomas.
It gives us bread, and that's something. Besides,
where am I to get anything better ?
Prejudice is strong against a man like Fine,
after what I've been through."

Stuff and nonsense ! That's rather in your
favour. I think you were very hardly used."

You know the facts ? You have followed
the case?" asked St Evelyn, brightening at
the sympathy shown.

Certainly. I made it my business sometime
ago, in fact as soon as I found out — I
mean, as soon as I knew exactly who you were.
But I have a particular reason in asking you
whether you are wedded to the service of the
North-Eastern Extension Railway Company and
the ticket-office at Harrop's Green."

*' Perhaps you mean to offer me something
better ? " said St Evelyn with a pleasant laugh.

'swell, that's about it. The only point is
whether you care to go abroad."

St Evelyn's face fell, and with a gesture of
disappointment he pointed to his children tumbling
about at their mother's feet on the lawn.

They could go with you, if that's all. It's
not a bad climate — on the contrary, and just
the country for the growing family of, pardon
me, a poor man."

I am deeply grateful to you for your kindness,
Mr Lomas, and were I alone in the world
would unhesitatingly accept your offer at once,
in the hearty spirit in which it is made. But
you will understand why I wish first to know

more."

You have every right to know — I will tell
you in half-a-dozen words. I have some large
works in Nova Scotia, mines more exactly, coal-mines,
but they are not underground. There
is a large output, and we employ a number of
hands. It is a long way off, and I am not

satisfied with the returns. A closer supervision,
stricter management, exercised by someone
accustomed to command and therefore determined
to be obeyed, is, I think, indispensable.
You are just the sort of man I want. Will you
go out as manager for me ? "

St Evelyn put out his hand, saying frankly
and without hesitation —

Yes, of course I will go, and as soon as you
please." »

Wait, wait ; let me tell you something more
of the place, of the salary, and so forth. I must
indeed," he went on, seeing the Colonel would
have interrupted him ; '' it's only business. Two
thousand dollars a-year — that's four hundred
pounds, — with house and garden, coals free —
they're cheap enough there — and a prospective
pro rata increase according as you increase the
returns. Will that suit you ? "

'^ My dear Mr Lomas, don't say another word.
I'm your man, and would be for half the money.
Here, Kachel, Kachel ! come over and hear the
'good news."

There were tears of gratitude in the gentle
wife's eyes when she heard Mr Lomas's liberal
offer, SO kindly and thoughtfully made.

You have been a true friend to us, Mr
Lomas — far kinder, indeed, than some nearer
and "

She paused, hesitating to reproach her mother.

"And dearer. Not quite that, Rachel," her
husband added for her. " There is not one
spark of affection left in Lady Lezaire."

"Hush, Ferdinand, please." Sweet Rachel
would not allow another word. "But our
gratitude to you is sincere and very deep, Mr
Lomas. How shall we repay you ? "

"The obligation is on my side. Colonel St
Evelyn is just the person I want."

"He is a first-rate man of business really,"
said the little woman bravely, and with such
energy that both the gentlemen laughed, " and
he will serve you as honestly and faithfully as
your great, great kindness deserves. It is the
very least return we can make."

I promise that upon my honour. I can say

no more," added St Evelyn, with characteristic
abruptness. " When would you like me to go
out ? "

When would it suit you ? I am rather
anxious, I must confess, to make the change.
I do not wish to press you, of course, but the
winter begins early there, and "

An old soldier is always in marching order.
My heavy baggage is light enough nowadays,
even with these impedimenta'' and he looked
laughingly at his wife and the children now
clinging to her dress.

I will secure your passages forthwith — for,
say, this day month. And you will, of course,
require an advance — of what ? Half-a-year's
salary — will that do ? To be repaid by instalments."


We could not possibly accept so much,"
began Rachel, falteringly.

"Why, you have warm clothing to lay in —
furs, blankets, all sorts of supplies. It shall
be sent you tomorrow — or better. Colonel, you
shall draw on me for the amount you require."

That was a happy evening — the happiest
they had spent in Harrop's Green since they
came to live there, — the happiest almost since
the days at Trouville, now so long, long ago.

'^ I shall not be sorry to leave England for
good and all," said St Evelyn, cheerfully.

Nor I," echoed Each el, but with less assurance.
"We will make a new home for ourselves,
a new life out there. There is nothing
here to regret, no one "

Again she hesitated, thinking sadly of her
mother, still bitter and estranged, whom probably
she would never see again.

No one — but Gibbings. But he must come
out to us. We shall be sure to find him a good
place. There are plenty in these new lands,
and he is just the man to prosper there."

These were the very words Mrs St Evelyn
repeated to the trusty man-servant when she
had told him all the story ; and the Colonel
coming in just then, added his entreaties that
Gibbings should join them in Nova Scotia.

I can be of more use, I take it, at home, as

I think you'll agree with me when I tell you
what's turned up at Straddlethorpe."

And he proceeded to recount his recent
adventures at the Hall His news was stranger
and even more startling than that of the St
Evelyn's ; and when he had described all he
had seen and heard, ending with the discovery
of the Inverness, a very animated discussion
followed, to the exclusion of every other
topic. •

It was hidden, of course," said the Colonel.
But why there, and by whom ? "

"Of course it was done on purpose," said
Gibbings. " It's disappearance was part of the
plot against you, Colonel."

*' Implying that it had been made away
with," went on Mrs St Evelyn, bringing a
woman's quick wits to bear upon the question.
'but that was a later thought, I expect. It
was of course abstracted in the first instance
to be used as a disguise."

In personating me, in fact," said the
Colonel.

"And it was so used : we have the chemist's
evidence for that. No doubt the person who
bought the arsenic wore your Inverness, Ferdinand."


That's as clear as noonday. The next
point is to discover the person."

It was some one at the Hall."

Or some one at the Hall was in it. How
else could the Inverness be abstracted?"

Hubert Podifat," suggested the Colonel,
quickly.

"Wicked wretch! Could he have killed
dear Carysfort, for whom he expressed such
ardent affection ? Oh no — impossible ! And
for other reasons."

"I should like to hear them," said the
Colonel. "Who benefited most by Carysfort's
death ? "

"That could not have affected Hubert's
succession. He would still have succeeded, had
Carysfort been alive, directly the papers —
papa's papers, I mean — had been found."

And he had nothing to do with the finding

of them," said Gibbings. *sit was the housekeeper,
wasn't it — Mrs Leleu ? "

"Mrs Leleu 1 " cried Mrs Evelyn, catching at
the words. " An evil woman : I never liked
her face. And what is this you say, Gibbings,
of the power she seems to wield over Podifat ? "

Mrs St Evelyn would never have conceded
the name of Lezaire to the present holder of
the title.

It certainly brings Mrs Leleu into the
business, but how or why I cannot for the life
of me see," said the Colonel, rather bewildered.

If you did, dearest, the whole mystery
would be unravelled ; and we mustn't expect
that at one stroke."

What has become of Mrs Leleu ? " asked
the Colonel.

*she is living at Bulkeley Wells, or was,"
said Gibbings. " I saw a letter addressed to her
there."

"Mamma is going on there this week from
Beachborough, where she has spent the summer.
Frisby, her maid, wrote me word."

Perhaps your mother will keep lier eye on
Mrs Leleu, just to oblige us," said the Colonel,
sarcastically. "Not that she has ever done
much in that way."

I was thinking I'd run over to Bulkeley
Wells now and again," said Gibbings. "4t's
no great distance from Straddlethorpe. If my
lady's there, old Podifat will perhaps turn up
too, and I'd like to know what he's got to say
to her."

"Ask Lady Lezaire herself, she'll be sure to
tell you," laughed St Evelyn. " If anything,
she's as fond of you as she is of me."

Chapter XLIX.

Berkeley WELLS.

BuLKELEY Wells is a health-resort on the
edge of the Thorpeshire wolds. It lies on the
northern bank of the Straddle, a picturesque
hamlet lying low in a deep sinuous valley, well
sheltered from wintry winds. The climate is
unusually mild for England, the air pure and
bracing — thanks to the elevation — while the
discovery of certain mineral waters of supposed
wondrous efficacy have added greatly to the
attractions of the place.

In spite of its natural advantages, the village
is only a village still, with a single street of
stone-built but unpretending cottages with
moss-grown roofs, an ancient parish church, and

half-a-dozen shops in the market square. One
of these is a confectioner's, which provides
meat " and *' sweet " teas for the crowds that
come in van-loads from the eastern end of
Thorpeshire, and which would drive a roaring
trade but for the public-house on the other
side of the way.

Local enterprise, anxious to encourage visitors
of a better class, backed up by local capital,
has endowed Bulkeley Wells with a few
houses of a better sort — villas, standing single
or semi-detached, with gardens ending on the
shady walk which margins the river. But the
new hotel is the great attraction at Bulkeley
Wells, an imposing, not to say pretentious edifice,
standing high upon the hillside, and appropriately
styled the Palatial. The house stands
in extensive grounds of its own, with lodge
gates, a long carriage-drive, shrubberies, plantations,
and a broad expanse of ornamental water.
The external aspect is that of a country mansion
; inside, the gorgeous decoration, the profusion
of cheap gilding and showy upholstery.

are rather those of a French restaurant or a
foreign casino.

But the outlay had been well expended.
The Palatial Hotel is very popular with a large
class in Thorpeshire, and beyond it. There is
a great run on the house at certain seasons ;
every bedroom is engaged, every seat at the
table dicte in the grand dining-hall, where
the fare is of the most liberal Thorpeshire
kind. •

The hotel was quite full when Lady Lezaire
arrived from Beachborough. It was late in the
afternoon, and she had had a long journey.
She had not secured rooms in advance, and the
manager received her in a very offhand way.

I'm sorry, but I don't see how I'm to help
it, if the house is full. People must write
beforehand," he said, brusquely.

Lady Lezaire grew very indignant at this
reception in Thorpeshire, within easy reach of
Straddlethorpe, where she had once reigned
supreme, and turning to her maid, she cried —

VOL. III. c

*' Don't have the baggage brought in, Frisby.
We will go somewhere else."

'this is the only hotel at Bulkeley Wells,"
went on the manager, exulting.

Very well, my lady," answered the maid,
as she ran down the steps to the fly.

The manager had pricked up his ears at the
address, and he quickly followed to inquire who
"my lady" was. The name of Lezaire was
familiar enough to him, and he came back at
once, with altered, now obsequious manner.

I could give your ladyship a room ; it is a
good room, although rather high, and perhaps
change it for a better within the week."

I shall not stay a week. I intend to take
a house ; but anything will do for to-night. I
shall want a private sitting-room."

"That, my lady, is absolutely impossible.
There isn't one vacant, not one. But you will
not need it. We have magnificent public
rooms, a special boudoir for the ladies, a
ball - room, reading - room — ample accommodation."


*'I don't choose to herd with the crowd,"
replied Lady Lezaire, loftily.

*' At least you'll join the table dliote dinner
at six, my lady, I hope," said the manager,
insinuatingly.

"I think not. I will have tea in my own
room."

I am truly sorry, deeply grieved, indeed,
my lady, but that is against the rules of the
house. Nothing is served in the bedrooms* except
in case of illness."

*' What a detestable hotel!" said Lady Le-haire.
" Where is my room ? I suppose I must
stay — I can't help myself ; but it shall only befor
the night."

Lady Lezaire liked the place less than ever
when, summoned by a noisy gong an hour or
two later, she descended to the dining-room,
and after waiting humbly on the good pleasure
of the head-waiter, was presently given a seat
at a small side-table which accommodated the
overflow from the main table dicte.

The moment she took her place, and before

she had swallowed a mouthful of soup, her
neighbours on either side began talking to her.
The absence of ceremony was a chief feature of
the Palatial Hotel. Acquaintances commenced
always at the table dJhdte^ and generally without
introduction. Lady Lezaire did not know this,
and she was in no humour to welcome such
overtures. For a perfect stranger to address
her was an unwarrantable liberty, which she
would have at once resented by leaving the
table, only she was hungry and wanted her
dinner.

So when one neighbour, an oldish gentleman
with a strong Thorpeshire accent, suggested
pleasantly that she had only just come — a fact
she knew much better than he did, — and when
her other neighbour, an over-dressed youth
with an affected drawl, asked her whether she
liked Bulkeley Wells, and meant to make a long
stay, she merely put up her eye-glass and stared
insolently at each of them, without making any
reply.

She took refuge in her eye-glass from further

annoyance, and sitting bolt-upright in her
chair, with calm insolence proceeded to survey
the strange company in which she found herself.


There must have been at least a hundred
people dining. The largest number occupied a
great table running down the centre of the
room, on each side of which were smaller tables,
such as that at which Lady Lezaire was seated,
one in each of the four corners of the room.
She had an excellent view of every one except
those whose backs were to her.

What a collection ! " was her mental comment,
as she noted the varieties of female costume,
mostly an exaggerated burlesque of recent
fashions, and the pretentious airs of the
men, whose common looks were enhanced, not
improved, by correct evening attire. " Where
can they come from ? Not Thorpeshire, surely.
I never thought the county contained so many
extraordinary people."

And not a face she knew ! A Thorpeshire
watering-place — the Thorpeshire accent running

like a refrain through all the buzzing talk, yet
not a soul she had ever met in the Thorpeshire
that had been so long her home !

Stay ! — that dark, sallow-faced woman, with
the coal-black hair and fierce dark eyes. No
stranger, surely? Again and again Lady Le-haire,
with the vexed uncertainty of a shortsighted
woman, examined through her eye-glass
the features that seemed so familiar.

I ought to know her, and I do, I am sure
of it ; but I cannot put a name to her. Who
can it be ? "

More and more worried and intrigues as positive
recognition evaded her, she turned at length
to one of the neighbours she had so cruelly
snubbed, and tried to make amends.

She chose the younger; the elder, when
first repulsed, had so concentrated his attention
upon his plate that he was now purple and
past conversation.

The hotel is very full, apparently," said her
ladyship, civilly. " Many nice people here ? "

Shoals."

You know them all, I suppose ? "

All the best, certainty," he replied, gratified
at the compliment.

Can you tell me who that lady is near
the top of the table on the far side — a dark
woman, in black velvet and "

Where ? There ? Oh yes ! I know. A very
charming person — a great traveller — knows the
world, and has moved in the best society."

Can you tell me her name ? " •

Skene, Mrs Marmaduke Skene, from London
and New York. That is what is entered
in the visitors' book."

*' Mrs Skene ? Oh ! " and Lady Lezaire
dropped her eye-glass, having no further interest
in the matter. She had never met or
known a Mrs Skene, and supposed she had
been misled by this woman's resemblance to
some one else.

The dinner was interminable. Course succeeded
course, and the guests did ample justice
to all. Lady Lezaire grew bored and wearied
long before it ended, and taking up her

gloves, began lier preparations for leaving the
table.

The sweets ain't ars done yet. There's a
Bakewell pudding to come — better wait for it,"
muttered the old gentleman in a thick voice.

You know there's to be music in the 
after dinner," suggested the youth.
I suppose you want to secure a good place
and a comfortable arm-chair. There's a great
rush amongst the dowagers for the arm-chairs."

No woman likes to be called a dowager, even
at eighty ; and Lady Lezaire flattered herself
she still looked young.

Sir ! " she said angrily, forgetting she had
herself encouraged him to talk to her, " you are
very impertinent. I am not going to the ,
but to my own room. I prefer my
own company to that of people I don't know."

So saying, she rose and left the room.

An hour later her maid found her yawning
over a book, and utterly bored with life. The
prospect before her was dreary enough : she
was quite alone in the world, with comparatively

straitened means, after enjoying every
luxury ; she had no longer a home, no hearth,
no family, no children of her own ; the boy she
had doted on dead, murdered, as was still her
firm and unalterable conviction ; her remaining
child estranged from her, having thrown in her
lot for ever with a double-dyed villain whom it
was impossible to forgive.

Frisby, you needn't unpack much," said
Lady Lezaire ; "I certainly shan't stay here,
probably not over tomorrow. I think I shall
leave England — go away south to the Elvira.
I have friends at Cannes. Besides, one is more
likely to meet gentlefolk out there than in
these second-rate hotels at home."

They ain't much, my lady, in this house,"
replied Frisby, with conviction.

Have you seen any one you know ? "

Well, my lady, I have — the last person I'd
have expected. Perked up and dressed up to
the nines, holding her head high, and sitting
at the best table the same as your ladyship !
I never knew such impudence."

Why, Frisby, you are getting quite warm.
Who can it be ? "

That Mrs Leleu, my lady, who was housekeeper
at the Hall under your ladyship. Don't
you remember her ? "

Of course ; now I understand."

The puzzle of the familiar face seen at the
dining-table was now solved. The woman she
had recognised was no other than her old housekeeper,
Mrs Leleu.

You are quite positive of this, Frisby.
Have you spoken to her ? Did she answer to
her name ? "

Name indeed ! she's dropped that. It's
well, perhaps, she should. I seed her walking
out with the rest of the fine folk from the
dining-room, and I knew her directly ; but I
asked one of the waiters, just to make sure, if
he could tell me what she called herself. * Mrs
Skene,' says he, ' Mrs Marmaduke Skene.' That's
not the right name, as you know, my lady ; but
I suppose she didn't want to be remembered as
Mrs Leleu. It's her, right enough. Is it likely

I'd forget her, and we living together for three
years at the Hall ? "

No doubt remained in Lady Lezaire's mind
that Mrs Leleu and Mrs Marmaduke Skene
were one and the same person. The wish to
conceal her identity and former line of life was
sufficient explanation of the change of name.

Have you spoken to her, Frisby ? Do you
think she saw you ? "

'Tisn't likely, my lady ; I'd rather have
nothing to say to her now."

Better not, Frisby. The woman is in a
false position, although that's no business of
ours. I don't suppose she will claim acquaintance
with you, and in any case, I shall leave
the hotel tomorrow."

CHAPTER L.

MANY MEETINGS.

Lady Lezaire next morning refused positively
to go down to the public breakfast, and pleading
illness, was allowed to have what she
wanted in her room. When she had finished
it, and was so far dressed as to be independent
of her maid's assistance, she despatched Frisby
into the village to see whether any decent
lodgings were to be procured. Having come
to Bulkeley Wells, she wished to stay thereat
least a few weeks, or until the winter season
had begun upon the Riviera.

While she leisurely completed her toilet, the
chambermaid came and told her that some one
was asking for her down-stairs.

*'Wlio is it? I expected no one. What
name f

It was a man looking something like a keeper
or a coachman, the chambermaid answered.
That was all she knew, except that he said he
had come from Straddlethorpe, and that he was
most anxious to see Lady Lezaire.

A woman's curiosity soon overcame any first
hesitation in Lady Lezaire. She had had no
direct communications with the Hall for mg.ny
months, although old friends in the county
sometimes corresponded with her. But their
letters contained only general gossip ; and while
commenting upon Sir Hubert's behaviour, gave
no very precise details of what went on at
Straddlethorpe.

Here was a chance of learning more exactly
all that had happened since her exodus. This
man was probably a servant out of place, someone
she had known, who had followed her seeking
a new character or her good word.

"If he chooses to wait for half an hour or so,
I will see him. I shall not be down before that."

When Lady Lezaire left her room she was
equipped in bonnet and cloak, meaning, if
Frisby had returned, to go with the maid and
see the lodgings. On descending to the hall
she found the manager very solicitous about
her health.

Some one has been asking for me," she
began, cutting short all inquiries.

*eyes, my lady. He was outside a minute
or two ago, and no doubt is still waiting there."
The manager opened the hall door, bowing low,
and then accompanied Lady Lezaire to the bottom
of the entrance-stairs.

No man was visible.

*' Oh, well, if he didn't choose to wait, that's
his affair," said Lady Lezaire. " You can tell
my maid when she returns that she will find
me somewhere in the grounds. They seem
nicely laid out," she added graciously.

*' Oh, my lady, you are too good ! But we
take immense pains. I hope you will inspect
them thoroughly. I should like to accompany
you, but just at this moment "

"Thank you, don't apologise. I shall find
my way, no doubt." And she sauntered slowly
across a piece of level lawn that stretched almost
uninterruptedly from the front of the
house towards a fringe of shrubbery that ended
the grounds.

On her way she passed a summer-house
nestling among the yellowing leafage, placed
so as to command the best view of the beautiful
valley. ^

There were people in the summer-house. She
heard voices raised high in altercation, and
was passing quickly on, having no desire to
intrude upon the quarrels of others, when
she was pulled up short by hearing her own
name.

Lady Lezaire, you fool ! There's no Lady
Lezaire here." It was Mrs Leleu's voice.

*' You're a liar ! " A coarse oath strengthened
the rude rejoinder. " I tracked her here from
Beachborough, tracked her to the station last
night, and saw the flyman that drove her to
this hotel."

"Well, let's say she is here. What is it you
want with her ? "

I've got something to tell her, some information
she will be glad enough to buy."

Not about you wouldn't be such a blind,

blundering fool. It would ruin everything —
spoil the whole game."

I'll do it, I swear I will, unless I'm allowed
to cut in."

"You shall have your share. Who wants to
prevent you ? "

He does. Thinks he can keep it all to himself
— so do you. But you shan't."

"You'd have blown the whole gaff if you'd
stayed on at Straddlethorpe playing the old
games. Why couldn't you drop it and live
decently? Look at me."

It's ten years since I fingered a trigger or
brought down a bird. The free air out on the
moors made me mad. You forget I was brought
up in the woods where I could kill all I could
come up with. Here they cop yer for carrying
a gun. Over yonder now "

"Why don't you go back there? It would
suit you far better. You could live like a gentleman,
and shoot what you chose."

Ay ; wild geese and cariboo, elk and birch
partridges ; and fish the lake-runs for salmon-trout
; and go moose-calling on winter's nights
with Joe MicMac or Caughnawaga Bill."

Well, why not ? Will you go ? "

"How much?" answered the other after a
lengthened pause, during which Lady Lezaire
heard every pulsation of her wildly beating
heart ; " I must know that first. I might perhaps
make better terms with my lady."

"You'll drop that line altogether if you're
wise. It'll be far better for you and for her."

The menace conveyed by the last few words
made the listener's blood run cold.

I'm not afraid of you, my dearie ; you
aren't do me no harm. As for m' lady, when
I've done with her, she may look out for herself."

"She'd better not play into your hands or
come across my path."

Lady Lezaire, thoroughly terrified, turned to

VOL. III. D

leave the spot. What would happen to her,
what would this terrible woman do to her, if
she was caught outside the summer-house ? But
it was all so strange, so deeply interesting. She
must hear more, if only a dozen words more :
there were perhaps still stranger things to come.

*' Oh, there ain't much tender - heartiness
about you, my dearie ! You know what you
wants, and you manage to get it, spite of all
obstacles in the way." The man laughed in
cynical admiration.

I swore to do it some day," she replied,
darkly.

I know that ; but I never thought you
would or could. That's what beats me — how
did you work it ? "

*' That's my affair. You leave it alone."

All so pat, too — so perfect and complete.
I was nonplussed, hocussed, you might have
said — I was so took aback when I got home to
the Hall and found young Hubert there in the
old man's place."

Look here, Jacob, I've told you to leave all

that alone. 'Ain't no business of yours, except
to pick up what's coming to you, and it's a fair
share if only you take it the right way. When
will you leave England ? "

By the end of the week, if you make it
worth my while."

*' You haven't said how much yet."

I want a hundred down, and three hundred
a-year."

'rit's a bargain, then. I'll write to Hubert
and settle it all. But you must clear out of
here at once. Go down to Liverpool and stay
there till you sail."

"All right, my sweetie. You give us the
dollars, or some of them."

You shall have twenty pounds down, only
I must first go back to the hotel. But make
yourself scarce now. I can't be seen talking to
you, and we have been together long enough inhere.
I'll meet you in half an hour at the confectioner's
: you can't miss it, just opposite the
public-house in the market square. Now go :
you first, I'll follow."

^vst^^^^J^f.^-^

0^ \vv\^'''

When old Podifat, whom the reader will have
recognised, left the summer-house, Lady Lezaire
had already disappeared. She had some time
previously interpreted Mrs Leleu's words as
implying that the interview was all but ended,
and a real sense of impending danger had forced
her to fly.

She breathed more freely when once more
within the privacy of her own bedroom. Although
still dazed and bewildered, she could
think a little more calmly over all she had
heard. They were very strange and very startling,
these new facts sprung upon her so suddenly,
so unexpectedly, losing nothing from
their incompleteness and the vague mystery
that surrounded them.

Who was this man who had come to see her,
Lady Lezaire, but whom Mrs Leleu had kept
away? Who, after all, was Mrs Leleu, and
what was the meaning of her intimate, perhaps
culpable, acquaintance with her visitor ?

While still pondering, doubtful, and perturbed.

Frisby returned, seemingly full of importance,
as from a mission successfully discharged.

*have you found suitable rooms?" asked
Lady Lezaire. " I should like to move this
very afternoon."

*^ They ain't much, my lady — not at all much
but they might serve. But it isn't only
that. Have you seen any one from Straddle-thorpe
? "

No," faltered Lady Lezaire. " Have you ? "

*' He said he wanted to speak to your ladyship,
and that he was coming here a-purpose.
But I said as how I was sure you'd never see
him."

Of course I shall not see him. How dare
he intrude ! Who is he ? What does he want ? "

There was evident vacillation in the last remark.
Lady Lezaire thought her maid was
speaking of the man who had been with Mrs
Leleu, and hoped much from the answer towards
unravelling the riddle.

*' He's at the Hall again — in service. You'd

never have believed it, my lady. The last man
to be taken on."

'' Who is it, woman ? Will you speak plain ? "

Mr Gibbings, as was the Colonel's own man.
He's here at the Wells. I met him in the market
square getting out of one of the breaks from
Market Eeepham."

And he wants to see me ? "

Most particular, my lady, and as soon as
convenient ; that was the message he sent with
his duty. I told him he was wasting his
breath."

"Was that all? Did he give you no idea of
what it was all about, or say why he was so
pressing ? "

Well, my lady, he was mysterious-like, but
he made so bold as to 'int it 'd be the worse for
you if you didn't see him ; said you'd be sorry
for it some day."

Where is the man ? Here in the hotel ? "

No, my lady, he is waiting for his answer
by the post-office. I said I'd go back in half
an hour. He wouldn't come near the 'hotel :

said there was some one here he'd rather
not see, or rather, who didn't wish to see
him. "

Mrs Leleu ? " hazarded Lady Lezaire.

It must have been her he was driving at,"
replied the lady's-maid, gladly seizing the suggestion
; " but he needn't have troubled himself.
She's that hoity-toity and stuck up she wouldn't
know him. She wouldn't know me when we
met on the stairs half a minute ago."

•'' You are sure you made no mistake ? "

Mistake, my lady ! Is it likely, after living
three years in the same place ? She was
going to pass me by, but I ups and says to her,
Lor' a mussy, you have become fine ! ' 'I don't
know you,' says she. ' You order,' says I, ' seeing
as how we were fellow-servants at Straddle-thorpe
Hall.' ' Meaning me ? ' says she. ' Then
you're altogether in error, for I never was in
that Hall, or any other Hall, and that's all
about it.' But it was Mrs Leleu fast enough,
and I called out her right name after her, and
asked her, ' Where's Mrs Marmaduke Skene, Mrs

Leleu ? ' She was downright mad, my lady, I
can tell yon."

Well, well, that's enough of Mrs Leleu.
About Gibbings now ? He had better come to
the new lodgings later in the day. I suppose
we can move in at once."

If it please you, my lady."

Give me the address, then, and I will walk
down to the house. You can pay the hotel bill
and follow by-and-by with the baggage."

But Gibbings, my lady, he will be waiting."

*'I will take the post-office on my way, and
speak to him as I pass."

CHAPTER LI.

Fresh SCENT.

The Bulkeley Wells post-office, like the shops
and the public-house, was in the market square.
Indeed one of the windows of the Bulkeley
Arms taproom commanded a view of the little
stone forecourt in front of the post-office door,
as well as the road that sloped down from the
Palatial Hotel to the market square.

When Lady Lezaire came down the road she
was under full observation from the Bulkeley
Arms ; and Gibbings, who was watching and
waiting for the lady's-maid's answer, saw and
recognised the mistress directly she hove in
sififht.

Whew ! " he whistled. "It is my lady herself.

Is this a mere accident, or is she coming
on purpose to meet me ? "

Gibbings still waited, wondering more and
more, as Lady Lezaire walked straight up to
the little iron gate of the post-office forecourt.
There she halted, as if irresolute, and
looked nervously around.

By George ! it's me she's after, or I'm a
Dutchman. I'll go out to her."

By the time Gibbings had paid his reckoning
and crossed the pavement. Lady Lezaire
had entered the forecourt. He just caught
a glimpse of a dress disappearing through the
inner door of the post-office.

I'd better go after her. I can buy a
postage-stamp, or ask what time the post
goes out. Anything will do, and on the
slightest encouragement I can make up to
her."

Gibbings had been too intent on watching
Lady Lezaire to notice a second female figure,
which had followed her ladyship down the
hill. He had disappeared inside the postoffice

when this second figure came within
nearer view.

It was Mrs Leleu, otherwise Mrs Marmaduke
Skene, and she was on her way to the confectioner's,
where old Podifat, very much out of
his element, was gorging himself with new
buns.

Mrs Leleu, seating herself at the same small
marble-topped table, and calling for a cup of
tea, said at once in a low voice to Podifat —

You were right about Lady Lezaire : she is
here. I have just followed her down the hill."

Right ! Of course I was. What call was
there for me to tell lies ? I snowed she was
here, because I wanted to know it : it was part
of my game."

But you're to throw up your hand now,
remember. Here are the twenty pounds ; the
balance shall be sent to you at Liverpool. I
promise that for Hubert, and the yearly sum
paid over as you prefer, as soon as you write
from the other side. But that's all you'll get,
understand."

My lady, perhaps, '11 be more liberal."

She can't afford it. We've got the whip-hand
of her there now, so you'd better accept
our terms and leave her alone. But, as I'm
alive, here she is, making straight for this shop,
and not alone either."

Is that Lady Lezaire ? Blest if I'd a'
known her again ! But ten years do make
a difference in an old woman's looks. I'd
hardly have known you either, my dear, if
you hadn't spoke to me first."

Dry up, Jacob, this is no time for lagging.
Suppose she comes straight in here
and finds us together."

"What odds? Can't we sit in a sweet-shop
without asking her leave ? "

You fool ! She's bound to recognise
you."

What do I care ! She ain't one of the
police, and I ain't bound to report myself to
her."

Don't you see what I mean ? She will
recognise me too, and as I came to the Hall

long after you left, will wonder how we know
each other : this may arouse suspicions."

Then make tracks through the back-door.
I shall hold my ground. I know that chap as
is walking with her ; I met him up at the
Hall."

Why, that's Gibbings," said Mrs Leleu,
looking at him more closely. " When could
you have met him at the Hall ? He left ita
year ago with his old master." «

He's come back again, then, with the
new."

Back ! How ? What brought him ? Never
mind, you can tell me all that by-and-by. They
are coming straight in here."

Mrs Leleu rose hurriedly from her seat and
stepped back a few paces towards the counter,
hoping she might not be seen, unless, indeed, it
was possible for her to escape altogether.

But the danger passed almost as quickly as
it had arisen. Lady Lezaire and her companion
did not enter the shop, but walked on.

So Gibbings is back at the Hall," said Mrs

Leleu, resuming her seat and the thread of their
conversation.

That's SO. I found him there. He's coachman
or head-groom to Hubie, and gallus good
friends too."

'* It looks queer, and I don't like it. Gib-beings
belonged always to the other side, and if
he's in with Hubert, there's some reason for it,
you bet. Only I'd like to know, and what
brings him here with Lady Lezaire ? "

"Perhaps you'd like me to ask him — only
him and I are not exactly friends. I was near
putting a charge of buckshot into his mean carcass
the last time I saw him."

When was that ? At the Hall ? "

Just there ; when I had that last flare-up
with Hubie he called for this chap to put me
out."

What ! is he so thick with Hubert ? "

Thick ? Thick as thieves. Always riding
about together, or else Hubie's in the harness-room
with him smoking, or some other game."

*' And Hubert called him in to put you out,

you say. D'y^ guess this Gibbings heard anything
that passed between you ? "

He might have ; I can't swear. I was
downright mad, and was talking pretty tall."

*' Do you recollect at all what you were
saying ? "

Podifat shook his head.

Mostly cursing, I expect, and threatening."

To tell Lady Lezaire," said Mrs Leleu, putting
her hand on his arm ; " was that it ? " •

Like enough. How could you guess that ? "

Don't you see, you oaf ? This Gibbings has
come over to put my lady on her guard. That's
what he's telling her now, you may be sure.
How else could he get speech of her ? She
couldn't bear him — hated him worse than the
Colonel ; and now here they are as smooth and
pleasant as you please. I don't like it."

"What can she do to yer? What are yer
afraid of ? "

Mrs Leleu did not reply; she was lost in
thought. But presently she got up from her
seat, saying —

It all depends on how much Gibbings
knows, and what. Hubert may have let something
out in drink — young sot! I always
warned him against that ; and if Gibbings is
always with him, a chance word may have set
him thinking. He's no fool, Gibbings."

What do you mean to do, sis ? Come
along with me across the pond."

Not yet, Jacob; I must see first what they're
after. It may be a false alarm. I'll keep my
eye on her ladyship, if I can do so unobserved ;
it won't be easy, as by this time she knows
I'm here. Anyway, you get out. Go straight
down to Liverpool, and send me a line from
there."

Let us now follow Gibbings, who had found
no difficulty in addressing Lady Lezaire. She
indeed received him with a cordiality that surprised
him.

He began by briefly recounting all he had
seen and heard at the Hall, explaining why he
had taken service there, and concluding with
the strange discovery of the Inverness.

*' You know, my lady, the truth's got to
come out yet," he said stoutly. "No one's
been near it so far, the law least of all. I
want to put the Colonel right, for I'm fond of
my old master, and luck's been rough on him.
Now you, my lady, in spite of the verdict, think
it was he as did it."

No, no," interrupted Lady Lezaire, hastily ;
you must not say that."

Her belief was greatly shaken by what she
had overheard that morning.

Perhaps you think it was me ? " went on
Gibbings, smiling grimly.

I don't know what I thought, but now I'm
certain there has been some terrible misunderstanding.
There have been many victims — my
poor dear boy, myself, the Colonel too — but
why or wherefore, I cannot understand. I am
too puzzled, too much bewildered, by what I
have heard to-day."

Might I make so bold as to ask your ladyship
what that was, and who you heard it
from ? "

VOL. III. E

I heard it by accident, from a man who
came over from Straddlethorpe on purpose to
see me."

By accident," said Gibbings, rather puzzled.
" The man was old Podifat, I suppose."

*' Old Podifat ? The man who once passed
as Hubert's father, and who was, I think, sent
to jail ? Of course, it must have been he."

And what did he tell you, my lady ? "

I did not see him myself, but I — I — I overheard
him talking to a woman who was once in
my service, but who is now staying here."

Mrs Leleu," added Gibbings, promptly.
Of course she's in the plot. Somehow I suspect
that she was the prime mover, or had a
large hand in it."

'' I never suspected her till this morning, 1
must confess ; but now I think very differently."

What does your ladyship know about this
Mrs Leleu ? "

Not very much, but we ought soon to find
out more."

She was in your ladyship's service at the

Hall for many years, I think. Where did she
come from ? You had a character with her, I
suppose. We ought to be able to trace her
through that."

She came to me strongly recommended.
I remember that perfectly, and it is possible
I may have kept her character, but I am not
sure, seeing how long it is ago, and the changes
that have occurred since then. Perhaps Mr
Tinson can help me." •

'* Did they recommend her ? " asked Gibbings,
not sorry to have a sly slap at the lawyers.

Oh no ; but they have a quantity of papers
and letters of mine which I sent them on leaving
the Hall. I will write to Mr Tinson, or,
better still, go to London at once. This ought
to be followed up without delay."

That's right, my lady. No one can do
that better than yourself. If you will undertake
the job, I will return to Straddlethorpe.
But some one ought to keep an eye on Mrs
Leleu."

I'll arrange all that with Mr Tinson."

But if your ladyship is going to London,
there's some one else besides Mr Tinson I hope
you'll see."

Gibbings spoke out boldly, knowing how Mrs
St Evelyn grieved at the estrangement of her
mother.

Whom do you mean ? " asked Lady Lezaire,
stiffly but not angrily. She was perfectly well
aware, but did not resent the presumption as
she would have done a few hours before.

It's your last chance of seeing them all, my
lady," replied Gibbings, feeling certain he was
understood.

Why, what has happened ? Where are they
going «

'^ Out of England, on foreign service — I mean
to one of the colonies ; and there's no saying
when they'll come home — unless "

I had not heard a word of this. Where
are they living ? Tell me more directly."

Gibbings soon satisfied Lady Lezaire, and ina
few words informed her of the impending

change in the St Evelyns' prospects and future
life.

Perhaps they will not care to receive me,"
said Lady Lezaire doubtfully, pleading any
excuse.

The mistress — I mean Mrs St Evelyn, of
course, for she'll always be mistress to me —
is pining to see your ladyship, I know that —
now more than ever ; and the wide seas will so
soon divide you. And there's the children, my
lady — three beauties, round, and sound, and
cheery : it 'd do your heart good to see them
too." •

You seem very much attached to the family.
Your devotion, it seems, was not for the
Colonel alone."

I'm getting an old man, my lady, and a
lone man, and the Colonel's family, himself, and
the mistress, and the little chicks, are much the
same as my own, and all the family, I take it,
I shall ever have."

His words went home to Lady Lezaire. Was

not she lonely too and growing old, and might
she not take to her heart these her own flesh
and blood if she chose ?

1 will call at Harrop's Green as soon as I
possibly can," she said, quite humbly. She had
learnt a lesson from this faithful servant.

Chapter Il

CELERITY AND DISCRETION.

As they talked together, Lady Lezaire and
Gibbings had gradually climbed the hilly
path towards the hotel. But as they reached
the lodge gates the latter said —

**I cant go in, my lady. I don't want to
meet that woman face to face."

I don't see why you should. And really
I need not keep you. It will be better for
you to go back at once to Market Keepham.
Go to the police office and tell them all you
have told me. They will send some one then
to watch Mrs Leleu."

That's right, my lady. She ought to be
watched, and they'll be the people to do it.

And I think I'll stay on at the Hall ; there's
no knowing what else may turn up."

'* Perhaps they won't let you. But if you
leave it, let me know your address. Write
to me at Mr Tinson's ; they will always know
where I am. Good day now. But stay" —
she put her hand in her pocket and produced
her purse — "you have given much time and
trouble to this matter ; I hope you will
accept "

No, no, my lady, don't think of that.
I've been only doing my duty, or what's as
good nowadays, and I don't want to be paid
for that. I shall be more than paid by-and-by,
I hope, when I see my old master
righted; and that will come, I'll bet anything,
even to my shirt. Good day, my
lady."

Gibbings touched his hat civilly and returned
to the village.

When Lady Lezaire re-entered the hotel, she
found Frisby waiting for her in the hall with
her bonnet on, encumbered with wraps and

umbrellas, and having the usual appearance
of a lady's-maid on her travels.

I've paid the bill, my lady ; the baggage
is all down, and is being put on the fly,
which will be round directly."

Tell me, Frisby," said Lady Lezaire, interrupting
her — " did you definitely take the
rooms f

Oh no, my lady ; it was only subject to
your liking them." ^

"Well, then, I shall not want them. I am
obliged to go to London by the first good
train. Perhaps you can tell me" — she turned
to the manager, who stood at the door of his
office — " what trains there are to London."

'one of the best in the day is the 12.45,
my lady, which gets into London soon after
four. Sorry to think you are leaving us."

I am called away suddenly," replied Lady
Lezaire, briefly. "You can send on letters to
Lincoln's Inn Fields."

I trust, my lady, that another time we
shall be better able to please you. If only

you would be so good as to give us a little
notice, the very best rooms in the house
would be reserved. You will, I hope, understand
"

The appearance of the fly cut short the
manager's apologies ; and Lady Lezaire, taking
her seat, bade Frisby tell the flyman to
take the lodgings on the way to the station.
There was not much time to spare, but Lady
Lezaire caught the 12.45 express as she
wished.

Just about the time the train was running
out of Bulkeley Wells station, Mrs Leleu returned
to the Palatial Hotel. She was on
very friendly terms with the manager, and
seeing him seated at his office desk, just inside
the hall, did not hesitate to look in for a
moment and exchange a few words.

She soon brought the conversation to the
hotel, and the business it was doing.

"More arrivals last night, Mr Laslett. I
wonder where you could put them all, and no
departures."

Oh, pardon me, Mrs Skene ; a lady left
this morning whom I should gladly have kept
for the season. But we were too crowded for
her. A lady of title."

"Indeed?" asked Mrs Leleu, suddenly interested.
" Some great personage ? Does she
belong to the county ? "

Well, she did. You must have heard of
her or the family. There has been great talk
of the Lezaires of Straddle thorpe." •

Has Lady Lezaire left, then ? I heard
she had arrived last night. Was she dissatisfied
with the hotel? She must have been
hard to please."

She said she was unexpectedly called away
summoned to London. That may or may
not have been the reason. All I know is
that she has gone up by the 12.45 express."

"To London," said Mrs Leleu to herself,
as she walked away to her own room; and
suddenly — "Why, it must be on account of
something she's heard, from Gibbings, of course,
this very morning. She has given me the slip.

but not altogether. I will have her followed
from the station, and for the next few days.
That may give me some idea of her game.

But who's to do it ? Whom could I trust ?
No one in London I know. But that's so
much the better. Mrs Skene may have reasons,
which she need not explain, for doing what
Mrs Leleu wouldn't dare. If I only had the
address of some inquiry office. Where shall
I get it ?

I suppose Mr Laslett has a London directory
: but I'd rather not ask him, it might
be remembered. They advertise sometimes,
these people ; I've seen it in the papers. We
get them all here, and I'll just run my eye
through the ^ Times ' and the rest."

A very short search rewarded her efforts.
There, in a prominent place on the outer sheet,
were the names and addresses of several of
those peculiar firms and institutions, which
are such a strange evidence of the secret
intrigues constantly in progress in modern
society.

Maggie & Hoary, Vincent Square. 
city and Discretion. Missing Friends traced.
Persons watched for Divorces, &c. Apply, write,
wire, or telephone."

That'll do for me. Let's see, it's nearly one
o'clock. The 12.45 is due" — she consulted a
time-table — *ris due at 4.30. I will wire to
this people, but not from Bulkeley Wells.
Jacob has not left yet. He shall drive to
Ditchingham, and hand in the message there."

Then, seating herself at a writing-table, she
indited the following —

'* Haggle and Horry, Vincent Square, London.
Watch lady arriving with her maid by 4.30
mail Euston. Lady tall, black costume ; maid
also in black, stout, red hair. Report movements
to-day, and day by day till further instructions.
Will receive cheque for expenses
by first post tomorrow, and full address."

This telegram was duly despatched by
Podifat, upon whom its vital importance was
strongly impressed ; and Mrs Leleu patiently
waited the result.

Let us now follow Lady Lezaire to London.
On arrival lie drove to a private hotel near
Piccadilly. The town house of the Lezaires in
Connaught Place was no longer available, even
if she had cared to be under obligations to Sir
Hubert Lezaire. Since the change in ownership,
the London house had been let on a long
lease.

It was too late that evening to go to Lincoln's
Inn Fields ; besides, Lady Lezaire was tired.
It had been a long and exciting day, full of
varying emotions, and ending with a fatiguing
journey to town.

Next morning, having prepared Mr Tinson
for her visit by a letter sent overnight, she
drove in a hired brougham, provided by the
hotel, with the conventional grey horse and the
usual commonplace coachman, to the lawyer's
office, and was at once shown into his private
room.

"Lady Lezaire in London in October ! You
are the last person I expected to see."

Strange things have happened, Mr Tinson,

or rather I have come upon some curious information,
and want more."

Then she proceeded to detail all she had
heard and seen within the last twenty-four
hours.

If there had been nothing more than the
gossip of this Gibbings," began Mr Tinson with
professional caution, "I shouldn't think much
of it all."

*' But there is the story of the Inverness"*

*that is only doubtful evidence still. Anyone
might have put it there — Gibbings himself,
now he's back at the Hall. He has had full
run of the place, remember."

But it is not only what Gibbings says. I
heard enough with my own ears."

"Perfectly. That's what I was coming to.
There's enough to start a very ingenious story.
But we lawyers are seldom imaginative, we
like to work with solid facts. Now, so far,
how much do we know ? "

He briefly recapitulated the case as it then
stood.

A man of indifferent character, an old convict,
in fact, comes to see you, but is intercepted
by a woman who seems intimately acquainted
with him.

He was at Straddlethorpe once, but years
ago, long before this woman was there. Hence
their acquaintance must be antecedent to her
residence at Straddlethorpe. Why has he come
to see you ? Not so much to oblige you as to
intimidate some one else. Who is this other
person ?

*' Sir Hubert Lezaire. The man has quarrelled
with Sir Hubert, and threatens to reveal
something to you — we don't know exactly what
but is prevented by this woman, who buys
his silence on Sir Hubert's behalf. Clearly she
also knows what was to be revealed, and the
value of the secret.

*' What is it ? There is something between
the three : but what ? How are we to arrive
at it ? Let us take up each of the three individuals
in turn, and see whether they will
help us.

Sir Hubert we know all about now. His
whole life was accounted for at the time of the
ejectment suit. Then Podifat, the old man, is
known to us at least for the last dozen years.
He was gamekeeper at the Hall, and was sent
to penal servitude for ten years in 1872, a
sentence which has barely expired. He was
safely out of the way when all these changes
occurred at Straddlethorpe, and whatever secret
he possesses must refer to something that happened
long ago, although it may have a direct
bearing on what has since occurred.

"Now as to the third person, Mrs Leleu.
Who and what was she ? She was resident at
the Hall before and during the changes. Had
she any hand in them ? What part could she
play ? "

Surely you don't suspect her of "

*'I am dealing with facts, Lady Lezaire, not
suspicions. But it is a fact, I think, that Mrs
Leleu was an inmate of the Hall at the time of
your son's death, free to come and go as she
pleased, with access to poor Carysfort's bed-vol.

III. F

room. She was alone nursing him, if I remember
right, during his last illness."

I had never thought of her," said Lady
Lezaire, much agitated. " But why ? "What
possible reason could she have "

"We must not let imagination run away
with us. Let us stick to facts : those we have
may bring us to others. Now, what exactly
do you know of Mrs Leleu ? You engaged
her : how ? Where did she come from ? Some
other lady's house, I presume, with a character."


"It is to settle that that I have come here
this morning, Mr Tinson. I can't remember
exactly how I engaged her ; but I made a
memorandum at the time, I am sure, and it is
amongst my papers — those I sent you when I
left the Hall."

Yes, we have your box. Shall I get it in
for you ? "

After half an hour's search Lady Lezaire
said —

This is the only record I can find. In my

diary for 1875 I see, — 'The new housekeeper
has come ; a very excellent character.' "

'rand that is all? You don't say who
gave the character, or whether it was a personal
one. I thought you ladies preferred the
latter."

"As a rule, yes. But I remember now.
This Mrs Leleu came herself to the Hall, hearing
I wanted a housekeeper, bringing her
characters with her. They were from London,
and I did not feel equal to going up on purpose
about them. There were two or three, two
certainly, both excellent and from ladies of
position."

"Did you verify them, or write to the
ladies ? "

I hardly think so. I was out of spirits, ill.
It was only a year after I had lost Sir Percy.
The household affairs were too much for me. I
wanted an active, intelligent woman, and this
Mrs Leleu seemed so likely to suit me that I
took her on trial, I remember now, and was
glad to keep her after the first month."

You don't even remember the names of
those ladies of position, or where they lived ? "

One I know was a Mrs Morley Tufnell ; the
other, I think, Lady Caroline Snatched."

I should suggest you seeing them both, or
I will write to them, if they are to be found.
That is the first business. You had better leave
it to me."

Mr Tinson took up a speaking-tube by the
side of his desk communicating with a confidential
clerk. Only portions of his instructions
were audible or intelligible as the tube went
alternately from his mouth to his ear.

^'Tufnell — do you hear? and Lady Caroline


*' Yes, Spatcher. Quite so — only look

Try the directories first, or telephone to
Lord Truro's agency."

The confidential clerk presently came in in
person. A heavily built, high-shouldered man,
with a ponderous manner and hesitating speech,
that were nevertheless allied to brilliant deep-set
eyes that betokened an acute understanding.

He gave Mr Tinson a slip of paper, on which
was written — nothing was said aloud in this
well-managed office before a third person, even
a client : —

Lady Caroline Spatcher, third daughter of
the fifth Earl of audley, married Andrew
Spatcher 1853, deceased 1882.

"Mrs Morley Tufnell, 25 Chesterfield Street,
Mayfair, been there seventeen years."

Mr Tinson looked up and nodded his head
to the confidential clerk, who at once withdrew.

Mrs Morley Tufnell is your only chance.
Lady Lezaire, as you see. If you like I will
accompany you to her."

Let us go at once."

A hansom followed the brougham with its
grey horse to Mayfair, but discreetly stopped
short of Chesterfield Street. Its occupant,
however, having discharged it, strolled up the
opposite side of the street and took the number
of the house at which Lady Lezaire and Mr
Tinson were calling. At the top he crossed,
and returning on the other side, passed the

brougham just as the visitors were leaving
the house.

*you could hardly have expected to find
her," Mr Tinson was saying. "No one is in
town just now."

No," Lady Lezaire had replied ; " but it
only makes a little longer journey. I shall goon
to Brighton now ; we have her address.
Can you come too ? "

Perfectly," said Mr Tinson, adding to the
coachman, 'strive to Victoria; Brighton line."

They were resolved to run Mrs Morley Tuf-nell
down. She had a furnished house for the
autumn months at Brighton, in Regency Square,
where she received them that same afternoon.
A middle-aged but still comely woman, somewhat
abrupt of speech, and with the self-reliant,
self-possessed air of a person who could take
care of herself, and had done so for years.

Don't apologise," she said. " About a servant
? Not one of mine ? "

It must be seven years since she was in
your service."

More than that. I seldom if ever change.
What was her name ? "

"Mrs Leleu. She was housekeeper to
you "

*'0h dear, no; quite a mistake. Never had
a housekeeper. Wouldn't. Only in the way.
I look after my house myself."

*' But she brought a written character from
you, from 25 Chesterfield Street, Mayfair."

'' That is my house ; I have lived there for
years. But I never knew Mrs Leleu. Certainly
I gave her no written character. I
don't like giving characters to servants direct."

"Are we to understand, then," put in Mr
Tinson, with the suave impressive manner of
the family lawyer, " that the story is a fabrication
? You will forgive us, but this is a
matter of deep importance. This is Lady
Lezaire ; I am her solicitor, Mr Tinson, of Lincoln's
Inn Fields. We are making inquiries
that may have very vital issue."

"I'm sure I am very glad to oblige in anyway,
but I can only repeat what I have said

No woman named Leleu was ever in my service.
I never heard of her. I don't know her
from Adam, or rather from Eve."

Then the character must have been forged."
Undoubtedly, if it was given in my name."
With many apologies, which Mrs Tufnell
curtly acknowledged, Lady Lezaire rose, and
the interview ended.

As they left the house, the same man who
had watched them in 25 Chesterfield Street
was asking the milkman the name of the lady
LOW living at that house in Regency Square.

As the reader will have guessed, it was an
agent of Haggie & Horry, who had obtained
ample materials for a report to Mrs Leleu.

CHAPTER Lii

NOTICE TO QUIT.

Returning to town, Lady Lezaire and Mr
Tinson discussed the day's work, and then the
whole subject in all its bearings.

Of course it is now clear that Mrs Leleu is
not what she appears. She got into the Hall
on false pretences, and probably in pursuit of
some nefarious purpose."

"Probably, Mr Tinson? Can you doubt
it?"

"Well, no, — although it is not the first
case of forged testimonials that I have come
across. But her purpose — her purpose ? To
help Hubert forward ? "

"What did she know of Hubert before she
came to Straddlethorpe ? "

*^ She knew old Podifat ; we are certain of
that. Why not his putative son ? "

^^But how could she help him to succeed?
The proofs were authentic "

They were so held in law, I admit, but-and
discovered quite accidentally

J)

J)

"Yes, but by her — don't forget that. It was
she who first came upon the desk, you know."

But the desk was really my husband's ; the
papers it contained, the confession, were all in
his handwriting. That was sworn to, identified
beyond doubt."

I saw it, and believed it to be his. Could
the whole thing be a forgery ? Now we know
Mrs Leleu forged the characters she showed
you, she was capable of fabricating other and
more important documents."

Heavens ! Mr Tinson, it is not possible.
What a tissue of crimes such a suggestion
implies ! "

I'm afraid my imagination is getting the

better of me. Let me stick to facts. We
must have more. A watch must be set at
once on Mrs Leleu."

I thought of that. I sent Gibbino-s to
tell the whole story to the police at Market
Eeepham."

"They will hardly act on any information
or instructions from him. I will go down to
Thorpeshire myself, Lady Lezaire, tomorrow
indeed I had better start to-night. This
woman must not be lost sight of for a moment
now."

As the shrewd lawyer supposed, the police
had not paid much attention to Gibbings, who
had indeed taken Market Eeepham on his way
back to Straddlethorpe the very day he had
seen Lady Lezaire. Earswick, who might
have been interested in the fresh news, was
not within call ; the chief constable had left
the office ; and the senior officer present,
wrapped up in his brief authority, was too
lofty to listen to the confidences of a stud-groom.


Gibbings did not get back to the Hall till
evening, rather late. He was free to come
and go much as he pleased, provided only
Sir Hubert was out of the way, and that day
the young baronet had gone to the other end
of the county to a coursing match. He was
to sleep away from the Hall, and next morning
was to be met at Hazelgrove by his loader with
dogs and guns, as there was a party to shoot
the General's coverts.

Wednesday, therefore, the day which Lady
Lezaire spent with Mr Tinson, was uneventful
at Straddlethorpe till the late afternoon, when
Gibbings, returning from exercising Devilskin,
Sir Hubert's favourite hunter, got a message
to say that his master had returned and was
asking for him.

Sir Hubert was in the dining-room when
Gibbings went in.

Where have you been all day ? " the young
fellow asked, looking black and gloomy.
You're never here when you're wanted.
Always gallivanting about the country like a

gentleman at large. Where have you been, I
say?

Not far," answered Gibbings, coolly. " But
any way I was doing my work. Devilskin
hadn't been out of the stables for a couple of
days or more, and I gave him a couple of hours
walking exercise."

"You'd no right to take Devilskin out of
the stables without asking my leave. You
never do ask my leave for anything. You
went to London last week."

'eyes; but I asked you first. Sir Hubert.
It was about my pension, you know."

Pension ! " cried the baronet, with an oath.
So you say ; but how am I to know what
you're up to. Some infernal robbery, I don't
doubt. Anyway, you ought to be here earning
the wages I give you, and attending to my
work."

'' What can I do for you now. Sir Hubert ?
I don't want to shirk my work."

'look here," said Sir Hubert thickly, looking
up at Gibbings with sullen bloodshot eyes ;

have you ever heard of a Captain Sutton ?
What 'd you take to shoot him or put him out
of the way ? "

Gibbings started, but answered quietly
enough — " It's not quite in my line, Sir
Hubert. I've shot people, perhaps, before
now, but they were the Queen's enemies, and
I was doing my duty."

Well, this will be duty — to me, and I'll
pay you for it. Anyway, if you won't do it,
I shall."

Gibbings looked curiously at his master.
Was this sober earnest, or some drunken joke ?
He evidently had been drinking; he was always
in his cups as night drew on. Yet a
strength of purpose, a really murderous intention,
seemed to shine from his black hateful
eyes.

What Captain Sutton do you mean ? " asked
Gibbings. "Him in the Scotch Rifles ? Or
I think there's a captain of that name in the
Bombardiers. Anyway, I mind a Captain
Sutton on the General's staff some years back

at Malta. "Which of them will it be, Sir
Hubert ? "

What do I know about your Scotch Rifles
or other soldier's jaw ! This Captain Sutton,
curse him I is down here in Thorpeshire. I saw
him t'other side of Hazelgrove this very day."

"Aha! after one of the young ladies, then.
Not — surely he hasn't been poaching on your
preserves, Sir Hubert ? "

That's just where I caught him. Listen
here : I'll tell you the whole story. The ladies
came out to the shooting lunch, all but the
one girl I wanted to see. I was just sold.
They said she was off colour, had a sick headache
or something, and had stayed at home.
So I swore I wouldn't shoot after lunch, and
gave the keeper my gun, saying I'd walk
straight home. They all had their bit of a
joke ; the General grinned, and so did the
other girls, who offered to see me part of
the way. But I gave them the go-by, meaning
to look in at the Grove and ask after
Eta, perhaps get a sight of her alone.

Well, I was going across the gorse near
Haverstock Spinney, not a mile from the house,
when I thought I saw a bit of muslin — it was
a bright pink bit, such as I knew Eta wore —
shining through the thicket. I made after it,
and soon caught it up — worse luck."

'Wasn't Miss Eta, then ? "

No one else ; but she had another man
with her by her side — her lover. He had his
arm round her, and — and" — the words seemed
to choke him, while his face had grown purple
" he was kissing her, the scoundrel, the
blackguard " A long string of imprecations
wound up the speech.

Lucky you'd left your gun behind you,"
thought Gibbings, adding aloud, " Who was it,
Sir Hubert ? This Captain Sutton ? Are you
sure ? "

She called him Sam, dearest Sam. I
guessed at once, for her mother and she had
once had words about Sam. I heard them,
and I was told all about him."

Was that all you saw. Sir Hubert ? "

"Wasn't it enough? But there was more.
He was bidding her good-bye, as he was going a
long way off — I wish he was going down to the
bottomless pit — and she couldn't bear it, and
kept kissing him and asking him to take her
with him."

' You won't want to have anything more to
say to her, surely ? "

I'd like to pay her off — to kill this chap,
then bring her down and break her heart.
And if you'll only help me, by George ! Gib-beings,
you shall have anything you like to ask."

Thanked, Sir Hubert, you'll have to apply
elsewhere. I'm ready to do my duty in the
stable or about the house, or in any honest
way ; but I'm not quite the man for business
of this sort, which is blackguard business at the
best," Gibbings said at last, unable to contain
himself.

"Then get out, clear out, hook it, before I
make you ! " roared Sir Hubert, rising in a
violent passion, and staggering towards his
man. " Don't let me see your face again."

VOL. III. G

Gibbings stood before his master for a minute
or two, with quiet resolute eyes, then as Sir
Hubert blenched and fell back cowed, slowly
walked out of the room.

They didn't meet again that night. Gib-beings,
as he turned in, was quite uncertain
how to take the notice so roughly and unexpectedly
given. Under ordinary circumstances,
he would have sent in his book and left the
same morning ; but there were reasons, as we
know, why he should hold on to his place at
the Hall.

He was up early next morning, and as usual
in the stables superintending everything. By
breakfast-time he had seen the horses exercised
and fed, the stables cleaned out, and had set the
helpers their appointed tasks for the day.

It was nearly nine when, on his way from
the stable-yard to the servants' hall, he met
Purfrey, who said at once —

Sir Hubert wants a brougham brought
round in less than ten minutes."

At this time of day ? " asked Gibbings,

surprised. "What's taken him? I heard
nothing last night about such an early start.
Did he say where he was going ? "

"No, Mr Gibing, he did not. Perhaps
he'll tell you if you ask him. You're so mighty
thick always."

Come, come, Mr Purfrey ; 'ain't my fault.
He likes my company, and I swear you can't
miss his. He isn't so affable and pleasant-spoken
as a rule ; and as to his manners, why,
you're his master there."

Well, Mr Gibbings, I've been in high
families and served a many real gentlemen,
and it's likely I've got something of their
ways," said the butler, much mollified by
Gibbings's adroit flattery. " I don't envy you
Sir Hubert's company, and that's a fact, to-day
least of all."

"Is he rougher than usual?" asked Gib-beings,
remembering the scene of the previous
night.

Fit to be tied, ever since I took him in
his letters. There must have been some pepper

in them, or else it was the telegram the boy
brought a few minutes ago."

Aha 1 And then he ordered the brougham,
eh?"

Straight off, and said it 'd better be
round in less than no time, or he'd know the
reason why. Wanted the bay mare too, you
know."

The speediest in the stables, I do know.
Well, he's only got to say what he wants," and
Gibbings, whistling coolly, turned on his heel.
Regaining the stables he issued the necessary
orders to an under-groom, and himself helped to
harness and put the mare into the shafts.

The brougham was at the door, Gibbings
standing by, when Sir Hubert appeared, his
halting gait, bloodshot lack-lustre eyes, bearing
testimony to the extent of the previous night's
debauch. But the moment he caught sight
of Gibbings his face flushed and his aspect
changed. He became greatly excited, and began
cursing Gibbings with great force and vigour.

Didn't I tell you to clear out last night ? "

he said, seeming for once to remember, much
to Gibbings's surprise, a kind of quarrel which
was usually buried in his cups.

I wasn't sure you meant it, Sir Hubert.
Besides, you've got to settle with me," answered
Gibbings, stoutly ; " and I shall want to know
the reason why you give me notice, unless I'm
to take that "

I won't have none of your impudence,"
interrupted Sir Hubert. " You've been 'here
a cursed sight too long, and ought never to
have darkened my doors ; but I know now what
brought you. I was a dolt, a double-dyed
jackass, to let you in here."

Gibbings seemed to see in this rage something
more than his mere refusal to execute
Sir Hubert's wild threats against Captain
Sutton. Could the baronet have learnt what
he was after ? But how ? Through whom ?
At any rate, the game was up, now that Sir
Hubert was on his guard, and there was nothing
to be gained by remaining at the Hall.

Nor was there any longer a reason for submitting

to the overbearing insolence of Sir Hubert
Lezaire.

Get out of my way," went on Sir Hubert,
pushing Gibbings aside as he still stood therewith
the handle of the brougham door in his hand.

You miserable young scamp ! Why, I'd
knock your silly drunken head off."

Here Gibbings, seizing the baronet roughly
by the collar, fairly lifted him from the ground,
shook him as a terrier does a rat, and then
threw him anyhow upon the cushions of his
carriage. After that he banged to the door,
shouting to the groom on the box —

Drive on — anywhere. To the devil, if you
like ! He'll be glad enough to see you with the
cargo you've got inside."

Then, as the brougham disappeared down the
avenue, Gibbings went quietly up to his room,
got together his modest kit, and took the first
train into Market Eeepham, meaning to call at
the police office again and afterwards proceed to
London.

CHAPTEK LIV.

A NEW LIGHT.

Me Tinson was sitting with Captain Beveridge
when Gibbings reached the police office.

Well, what have you got to tell us ? " asked
the lawyer. " Anything fresh ? "

^' That depends on how much you know
already," said Gibbings, as he looked doubtfully
at the chief constable.

He's on the right side now, never fear," said
Captain Bracebridge, laughing.

And always was," added Mr Tinson. *sir
Hubert was my client, I admit ; but the
Lezaires have always been clients of our firm,
from father to son these hundred years."

"Your last client don't do you much credit.

if I may make so bold as to say so," said Gib-beings.
"He's a bad lot, and I'm not sorry to
be quit of him."

"You've left his service, then. When?"
asked Mr Tinson, eagerly. " That seems rather
a pity. You might still have been useful at
the Hall."

"Not when he's fly, as I expect he is now.
At any rate, he wouldn't let me stop. We
parted this morning."

Is Sir Hubert at the Hall now ? "

No, he drove off somewhere before breakfast,"
— and Gibbings proceeded to tell something
of the scene at Straddlethorpe.

This sudden departure, and at so early an
hour, of a dissolute, lazy young reprobate who
always lays late abed, seemed odd. The suggestion
from Gibbings that he was on his way
to Hazelgrove, or in pursuit of some evil intention
with regard to Captain Sutton, was not
entirely satisfactory. Mr Tinson, who had had
some experience with Sir Hubert, did not
believe in his drunken threats.

It's a thousand pities," the lawyer said,
that you couldn't follow the brougham, or at
least notice the direction it took."

"I was wrong, Mr Tinson, to lay hands
upon him. But he stirred my bile. I was
wild with him, or I'd have known more about
that brougham."

"Couldn't some of your people, Captain
Bracebridge, give their attention to Sir Hubert ?
A wire to the out-stations about Straddlethorpe,
for instance, asking whether the brougham was
seen this morning and the route it travelled,
might bring in something," suggested the
lawyer.

*' It's possible, and it's quite worth trying."

The chief constable summoned a superintendent
and gave the necessary instructions.

See here," interrupted Gibbings. " Why
not let me go over to Straddlethorpe ? They
know me at the post-office there. I might ask
for a copy of the telegram sent Sir Hubert this
morning."

Come, come, Mr Gibbings, you'll be getting

US into trouble. What right have you to see
that telegram? It was not addressed to you.
I can't be mixed up in anything of that kind,"
said the chief constable, very punctilious, at
least upon the surface.

Your scruples do you infinite credit, Captain
Bracebridge," laughed Mr Tinson, adding, with
a sly wink to Gibbings, " and I'm sure Gibbings,
here, would be sorry to compromise you."

"Oh, of course," added Gibbings. "On no
account."

The chief constable took out his watch, and
looked at it ostentatiously, as though to remind
his visitors that they were wasting his time,
although it might have been a wish to escape
from an awkward topic.

I think, perhaps," he went on after a pause,
that some one ought to go over at once to
Bulkeley Wells as you suggest, Mr Tinson. If
Earswick is here we will send him."

The detective, who happened to be in waiting,
was called in.

You will have to go over to Bulkeley Wells

by the first train and shadow this woman, as
the Yankees say. You know her by sight, I
suppose ? "

Oh yes, very well ; and she knows me."

Well, stick to her, but don't let her know
what you're after, and keep me informed from
hour to hour. I think that is all we can do at
present," said the chief constable finally, turning
to Mr Tinson.

When would you be likely to hear about
Sir Hubert ? " asked the lawyer, taking up his
hat.

At any time. It is impossible to say.
Where are you staying ? At the Eaven ? Well,
I'll send over; or, if you're doing nothing
special, look in again here before lunch."

Mr Tinson and Gibbings left the police office
together.

What's your quickest way back to Straddle-thorpe
? " asked the lawyer.

You think I ought to go, then ? "

I don't think at all about it : I'm perfectly
sure. And I will go with you."

"A fly 'd be best, then, and you can drop
me in the village. I'll have that telegram, or a
copy of it, or I'll know the reason why."

Knowing Gibbings to be in Sir Hubert's
service, and a thoroughly confidential man, the
postmistress made little demur to his specious
request. Sir Hubert, he said, had mislaid the
telegram, and had forgotten part of it. Would
she write out another copy ? "

This was the message : —

'' As I feared, he has sold you. Must see you
instantly. Meet me Thrapley Junction, taking
9.50 train from Market Needham. No excuse;
life or death."

'rears wick will have his jaunt for nothing,"
was Gibbings's first remark, when Mr Tinson
had read the copied telegram. " Them police
are always late for the fair."

So shall we be if we stop talking here,"
interrupted the lawyer. " Let's go on to
Thrapley too. We may come across them yet,
or hear where they are gone."

They drove back together to the Midland

station at Market Eeepham, and there learnt
that Sir Hubert had implicitly followed the
instructions of the telegram. He had taken
the 9.50 to Thrapley Junction.

There was no other train to Thrapley for half
an hour, and Mr Tinson utilised the interval in
paying a short visit to the chief constable.

Captain Bracebridge had news for them, ashe
thought.

I was on the point of sending for you.
Here is a telegram from Earswick. What do
you think : the bird has flown."

Mrs Leleu ? I know that, and more," replied
Mr Tinson, without reading the telegram.
She has gone to Thrapley Junction."

"Earswick says so, and that he has followed
her. But how did you find it out ? "

"Never mind: that's my affair. But I
have no more time. I am going on to Tapley.
Might I make use of Earswick if necessary
? "

"Naturally, with regard to the case," replied
the chief constable ; and Mr Tinson returning to

the station, went on to Thrapley, a small Thorpe-shire
town lying to the south of Market Evesham
some twenty or thirty miles, and about
equidistant from it and Bulkeley Wells. The
town itself is of little importance, and lies a
mile or two from the station, which, however,
as a junction for several branch lines, is often
crowded and busy.

Mr Tinson studied his Bradshaw as they
travelled. The 9.50 which took Sir Hubert
from Market Eeepham was due at Thrapley at
10.25, a train from Bulkeley Wells reached the
junction at 10.40. The meeting, therefore,
would be effected easily before eleven. It
would be held and over, Mr Tinson feared, long
before any of them arrived in pursuit. The
train which took him and Gibbings was timed
to arrive at Thrapley at 11.45 ; Ears wick might
be there a little earlier if he caught the 11.15
from Bulkeley Wells.

The three met on the platform. Earswick
began explaining his presence there, when Mr
Tinson cut him short, asking quickly —

"Have you seen or heard anything of her
here ? Go on ! Don't waste time. I know
why you came here."

I have seen nothing of her. I was about to
make some inquiries when I met you."

Has Sir Hubert been seen ? "

Here ? I'm sure I can't tell. I hadn't the
least idea he was coming."

Of course, we're too late," said Mr Tinson
testily, while Gibbings gave vent to an audible
growl against their luck. " However, make
some inquiries. I suppose you are known here.
Come to me in the waiting-room with your
report."

It was quite half an hour before the detective
rejoined them, but he had found out all there
was to know. Sir Hubert Lezaire had been
seen at the station talking to a lady whose
description answered fairly well to that of Mrs
Leleu. They had walked up and down the
platform for half an hour or more, waiting, so
the regular officials said, for the arrival of the
through London express. Sir Hubert had seen

the lady into her carriage, and a little later had
gone back to Market Keepham.

"What's to be done now? Ought I to
follow her to London ? " asked Earswick. " 1
think I must take the chiefs orders first."

Captain Bracebridge said I might utilise
your services," said Mr Tinson. " But I don't
think you need go up to town. As you are
here on the spot, you had better keep an eye on
Sir Hubert and his goings-on. Will you make
my compliments to the chief constable and say
this ? I am going back to London, and you,
Gibbings, can come with me. We will deal
with Mrs Leleu."

If you want her, you'd better have some one
to watch her on arrival, or you'll lose her for
good and all," said Earswick. " She's a slippery
customer."

I'll wire to my clerk to see to that," said
Mr Tinson, confidently. " She won't escape
him. We shall know when we arrive in town
exactly what has become of her."

But in this he was disappointed. Mrs Leleu

was either too wary to betray herself, or she had
stopped somewhere short of town. No such
person had arrived by the 11.20 express from
Thrapley to St Pancreas. Of this there could be
no possible doubt, as Mr Tinson knew that he
could depend upon his clerk.

On the whole, then, as he told Lady Lezaire
the same evening, his trip to Market Eeepham
had been profitless, and for the moment the
whole affair was involved in great doubt-and
perplexity.

All that is quite certain," he said, summing
up, " is, that Mrs Leleu's suspicions are aroused.
She is evidently on the alert. Something she
has heard or knows obliged her to communicate
with Sir Hubert instantly, as she said in her
telegram. It must have been either to warn
him or to make fresh plans."

She is a very desperate woman, I am convinced.
Equal to anything. And there is no
knowing what she may do next," answered
Lady Lezaire, with a tremor in her voice and
an involuntary shudder.

VOL. III. H

I wonder how she knows that we are on
the move. That is very curious. She saw you
at Bulkeley Wells ? "

No doubt. Frisby, my maid, whom she
knows, spoke to her."

Did she see you with Gibbings ? "

Quite possibly, although I cannot certainly
say."

Even that would be little to justify or explain
her action. She must know more. But
how ? "

"Do you know, Mr Tinson," began Lady
Lezaire, nervously, " I have had a strange feeling
all day that I was being watched : that someone
was following me. I can't quite explain
the feeling. It may have been fancy, and yet
I don't think it was."

"That's it, depend upon it. She's not the
woman to lose a chance. I wonder when the
watch began — before yesterday? What have
you noticed ? "

The same man, three or four times, wherever
I went ; a curious-looking man — I always

knew him. It seemed so odd that I should
meet him again and again. I think, too, he
has been hanging about the outside of the
hoteL Probably he is there now. Will you
look ? "

*'No, no; I'm accustomed to these gentry.
They're as shy as fieldfare, and he'd be off
before I touched the window-curtain. Describe
him to me, if you can."

A short, thin man, wearing a long coat with
a cape to it that seemed far too big for him.
He had a very small face under a large hat,
several sizes too large."

Ah ! that ought to be enough. Now —
unless I'm mistaken, this hotel has another
exit into Stafford Street. Wait five minutes.
Lady Lezaire ; let me see what I can make
of it."

A man answering exactly to the description
of the person Lady Lezaire supposed to have
followed her, and who was in fact Haggle &
Horry's agent, was indeed on the pavement
facing Garraway's Hotel. He was sauntering

up the street towards its Grafton Street end,
but his eyes were turned from time to time
towards the first-floor window of the sitting-room
occupied by Lady Lezaire. He was
either listless or preoccupied, for he had 
attention to footsteps coming behind, and
when he turned to patrol the street back towards
Piccadilly, he found himself face to face
with Mr Tinson.

Oh ! it's you, is it, Jesting?" said Mr Tinson,
immediately recognising him. " I was wondering
what had become of you. Are you engaged
just now ? "

Have you anything for me to do, sir ? "
asked the man, trying to evade a direct answer.

Now look here, Jesting : you've done several
jobs for me, and you've found me a good paymaster.
Make a clean breast of it. What are
you up to now ? "

I was only taking an afternoon walk —
waiting for a friend."

Don't lie. I .know better than that.
You've been dogging Lady Lezaire."

I haven't, I swear. I never heard of a
Lady Lezaire."

*' You mayn't know her name, although you're
not so smart as I thought you if you don't by
this time. But out with it now. Who are you
waiting for ? Tell me, or I'll never employ you
again."

Haggie & Horry. I do odd jobs for them
now and again. They're awful screws."

"Perfectly. I understand. Here's a 'ten-pound
note down. Tell me exactly what you've
been at for the last two days, and you shall
have another tenner tomorrow."

The temptation was too strong for the spy,
and in less than five minutes Mr Tinson understood
why Mrs Leleu had taken alarm.

"Do you know who Haggie & Horry are
acting for ? Better make a clean breast of the
whole."

Some lady in the country, I believe. At
least she was in the country. But they're expecting
her tomorrow, and I was to go round
to meet her in Vincent Square."

"That will do for me," said Mr Tinson.
You shall have the second tenner when you
call, and a third if you keep all this to yourself,
and let me know what becomes of the lady from
the country."

"You'll let me hang on here, I hope. I
shall have to give some report to my employers,
or they will smell a rat."

'' Do your duty by them as fairly as you
please. Only I must know what you are going
to report to them, so as to strike out anything
inconvenient to us. Eemember that, and that
if I catch you playing tricks I will do worse to
you than Haggie & Horry. You understand ? "

And with these words Mr Tinson left the
agent in the street. Returning to Lady Lezaire,
he complimented her on her penetration, and
recounted what had passed between him and
the spy whom he had caught in the act.

"It is all for the best," he said, rubbing his
hands. "We shall hold her now through him.
She may watch us : what matter ? Her agent
is in my pay, and will tell us all she is doing."

I cannot quite understand what you are
aiming at, Mr Tinson. I only know that I feel
terribly uncomfortable. There's no knowing
what may happen next, with that unscrupulous
wretch against us."

We have got to unmask her, not alone that
she should receive her deserts, but that a great
injustice, a cruel wrong, should be redressed.
Has it not occurred to you how this new light
affects your son-in-law ? " •

Of course, I saw it at once. I never liked
him, and till yesterday I still thought him
guilty. Now I cannot but reproach myself
for my bitter and vindictive feelings towards
him."

Won't you make it up with them ? Offer
the olive-branch — at least to your daughter.
She, you must admit, was never to blame. It
was her duty to stick to her husband."

"Yes, yes; I know all that. But it is so
hard to go back, to confess one was utterly in
the wrong ; I don't know how to begin. How
would they receive me ? I have been hesitating

and hanging back both yesterday and to-day,
while the time is running by."

They are leaving England, are they not ?
Gibbings told me something. Is it necessary
that they should go now ? Things might be so
changed for them any day if Sir Hubert were
dispossessed again."

Is that possible ? Do you think — do you
believe that he is wrongfully at Straddle -
thorpe ? "

I am allowing my imagination to get the
better of me. And yet matters are pointing
that way. Much will of course depend on the
result of our inquiries and the watch set upon
Mrs Leleu. Of course there has been foul play.
What is still enshrouded in mystery is the full
extent of the crime, for crime there was, and
the reason for it. The latter may help us to
bring home the guilt."

Do you think the Colonel's presence in
England is essential ? "

He might be very useful. We may want
him : I can't say yet. But it would be an

additional strength to have him with us ;
hitherto, of course, it has been all the other
way."

I presume the St Evelyns would remain
if they saw their way ? Life has been hard
with them of late, no doubt, and he would
hardly give up this new appointment without
the certainty of other means of livelihood."

All that could be arranged, I should think,
if you choose. A moderate sum would suffice."

I doubt his accepting a favour from me,"
said Lady Lezaire. " But I will make the offer,
for Rachel's sake and her children's. I ought
not to delay any longer. I will go and see
them tomorrow."

CHAPTER LV.

MILITARY DISCIPLINE.

Sir Hubert Lezaire, as we know, had returned
to Market Eeepham alone. Mrs Leleu wished
him, for reasons that will shortly be explained,
to accompany her to London. But he had
pressing business at Hazelgrove.

General Wyndham Parker received him as
usual with great cordiality.

Sorry you left us yesterday afternoon.
You should have shot the Preston coverts.
We had really capital sport. Seventy head
to five guns."

It was as well I didn't stay. If I had
I shouldn't have seen what I did, and you

wouldn't have seen me to - day," answered
Hubert, in a tone of surly discontent.

"Hey? I don't understand. You didn't
see Eta? I know she was on the sick-list
yesterday."

''1 saw her, in Haverstock Spinney."

*'My dear boy, it's impossible, perfectly
impossible."

"Saw her with a chap — you know him —
being kissed, and squeezed, and hugged, ' like
any common wench, out in the open day."

"Pardon me, Sir Hubert Lezaire," said the
little General, with immense dignity. "Am
I to understand that your remarks refer to
one of my daughters — to Miss Eta Wyndham-parker,
in fact ? "

I can swear she was in Haverstock Spinney,
spooning like mad with the man she calls

Sam."

Captain Sutton ! the arch-scoundrel. Has
he indeed seduced my daughter's affections ? I
cannot believe it. It is too monstrous, too
humiliating, too painful."

It can't be half so bad for you as for me,"
protested the disappointed lover.

I am her father, sir."

And I am — I mean I want to be her
husband."

This was the first direct declaration the
young baronet had made, and the General
snatched at the occasion.

Hey ? I am quite taken aback. I had no
idea you meant marriage, not at least till now.
I fancied you admired Eta, and I could understand
it. She is not unattractive."

' Meant to marry her : why, what else
brought me here ? " blurted out Hubert rudely.
I'm mad for her. I can't do without her. I
must and will have her."

"Wait, wait. Sir Hubert. Allow me. Weare
very sensible, Mrs Wyndham Parker and
myself, of the honour you would do us. But
we must first think of our own. Let us clear
up this miserable business. It may admit of
explanation ; you may have been mistaken."

"I saw what I saw. Mistake! Who puts

his arm round a lass's waist by mistake ? I
don't : I mean it. He meant it too, and if I'd
had my gun."

That is the way I should wish to call him
to account. But unhappily, I think — it was
the only check to outrage and insult — the
days of duelling are over. Otherwise, and I
would have waived the difference in rank, I
assure you, I would have had this impudent
fellow out. It is not the first time. I have been
under fire before now, as you may suppose."

The General looked a very Bombast, as
though his really peaceful services had filled
whole pages of ' Hart's Army List.'

I'd do for him, double quick," Hubert
added, still more bloodthirsty, 'just to get
him out of the way."

There will be no need for that. Eta shall
have nothing more to say to him, shall never
see him again. I can promise you that. She
will be guided by her parents, and will choose
as we wish. I need hardly tell you. Sir Hubert,
whom we should prefer."

"But she must marry me, right away. T
won't stand any more of this. It must be
either he or me — now, on the nail."

Of course she will accept you, and you shall
marry her with all — convenient despatch. But
with people in our position there is much to
arrange. I am bound to think of my dear
child's interests. There must be settlements,
you understand. We must call in the lawyers".

Hang the lawyers. I'll do whatever is
right, whatever other chaps have done before me."

"And the trousseau; it cannot be got in
five minutes, or for five pounds. Indeed the
trousseau is a serious matter just now. We
couldn't let our girl go to you quite emptyhanded,
and to such a house as Straddlethorpe,
where of course you will entertain largely, and
she must hold her head high. It must be done
properly, liberally. But you, Hubert, you have
no notion of the frightful, fabulous cost of female
dress and falls."

Haven't I, though ! I've paid more than
one gall's milliner's bill."

'' Hush ! No more wild oats, you are going
to settle down now. I mustn't hear of any
such escapades. And in any case I cannot
ask you to pay for my girl's things."

If this was intended as a feeler, it missed
its mark.

Although," went on the General quickly, to
cover his confusion, *' I will confess that I never
was so pressed for ready money. You see I get
nothing, not one single stiver, from my Irish
property, and with my large family the calls
are so incessant and so heavy. I shall have to
raise an odd thousand or two, I expect."

Where will you get it ? " asked Hubert, with
ill-bred inquisitiveness.

'from the bank, I hope. But they're not
over - civil to me. I'm not the master of
Straddlethorpe."

*' Would they advance me cash if I asked
them ? " inquired Hubert, carelessly.

Only ask them. Advance ? Of course,
they'd advance anything to you or your
friends. If you like to go with me, now — but

you can't want money, surely," he said, stopping
short, and looking hard at Sir Hubert,
a prey to sudden suspicions. Was it possible
that this future son-in-law, so fortunate and so
richly endowed, could be short of cash ? To
what form of extravagance, what secret vices,
could this be due ?

I was pinched by the succession duty, and
Tinson has been paying off some mortgages. A
few thousands would come in very handy for
the honeymoon, till they stump up the next
half-year's rents and dividends. I've half a
mind to try one of them chaps that's always
writing to me — Issachar, or Herman Siltberg,
or Pampeluna Brothers."

It is not wise ; I would strongly advise you
not to get into their hands," began the General
very positively, ^' unless, indeed, you saw no
other chance. In which case — why, damme,"
he said with frank and charming bonhomie, —
damme, I'll go with you and see you through
it. There ! "

Sir Hubert quite jumped at the offer.

Lets run up to town, then, and work it out
of hand. Are you game, General ? "

^Tm with you. This very afternoon too, or
tomorrow morning. I will meet you in town
you can start at once if it suits you. I won't
ask you to stay to see Mrs Wyndham-parker,
or — or "

''No, not Eta. I'd rather wait. But tell
her. General, from me, that I don't bear no
malice, that I'll never say one word about the
other fellow, if only she'll say Yes. I can't do
without her ; there's no girl like her in or out
of Thorpeshire."

And the young baronet, torn now by jealous
rage, now melting into maudlin bewailing,
took himself off.

General Wyndham - Parker was glad to be
well rid of him. He had business before him
which could not keep, and which could best
be privately performed.

He meant to proclaim martial law in Hazel-grove
; he meant to hold a court of inquiry,

VOL. Il I

and administer justice with the stern unyielding
temper of a strict disciplinarian.

His wife, as commandant of the garrison,
was first summoned and taken sharply to task.
How could she have allowed such grave irregularities
under her very nose ? What ! the
girls might come and go as they pleased, parley
with an enemy, correspond, flirt, philander,
within gunshot of home, and no one a bit
the wiser? Treason, mutiny, insubordination,
every flagrant crime was committed, and the
General was the last to know.

Mrs Wyndham-Parker had a very bad quarter
of an hour with her commanding officer.

You are responsible for the girls," said the
General, in a cold, hard, official manner, " and
you have neglected your duty. I can only tell
you of it — I cannot punish you."

"My dear, I am not a common soldier, remember,"
protested his wife. The worm will
sometimes turn.

*' But I have both power and authority over
my daughters, and any one who offends shall

feel the weight of my hand," went on the
General, ignoring his wife's protest.

But they are not little children now. You
cannot chastise a grown-up girl, Wilfrid."

Discipline must be maintained, Maria. Be
food enough to send Eta to me at once."

Presently the offending daughter stood before
her father, holding herself erect and defiant
at her full height. Her cheek was flushed with
the rosy hues that fair complexions so quickly
take under excitement ; her blue eyes were
swimming in moisture — tears of anger, not penitence
; and her defiant temper might be guessed
from the disorder of her auburn hair, glancing
bright in the sunlight, which she had not cared
to smooth.

The little General was on the hearthrug,
Eta in front of him ; she was as tall as her
father, and seemed quite unabashed by the
severity of his frown.

I am astonished, literally dumfounded,"
he began, " that a daughter of mine should be
so lost to all sense of propriety, of decency " —

he spoke slowly, hoping she would interrupt
him, but she stood silently staring at him — " so
lost," he went on, " so degraded "

"What have I done? Come to the point,
father."

"You have been carrying on a secret intrigue
; you have encouraged the clandestine advances
of a lover, a man we disapprove of "

I will never give up Sam, whatever you say."

*' You shall never marry Captain Sutton with
our consent. Understand that, once for all.
I forbid you to hold any communications with
him. We have had another proposal for you,
a very suitable, most desirable match in every
way."

I can guess. It's that mean, hateful, little
blackguard from Straddlethorpe. But you
shan't sell me to him. I wouldn't take him
if he was a duke. I couldn't fall so low. I
will marry no one but Sam — no one," she repeated
again and again with increasing vehemence,
stamping her foot each time.

The General was not sorry to see that she

had lost her temper. Her behaviour warranted
severity. He was justified now in imposing
penalties, in using coercion, in fact, to vindicate
his outraged parental authority.

You dare, miss, to defy your father ! Such
rank insubordination is not to be tolerated for
one moment. I'll teach you the respect that
is due to me and my wishes. You shall go to
your room."

Eta flounced away towards the door. *

"I don't care," she cried. "You may lock
me up, put me on bread and water, starve me ;
I'll never give in. I love Sam, and he loves me,
and we'll stick to each other, whatever you may
say or do ! "

Not another word. Go up-stairs at once, to
the old nursery. I will send your mother to
you. But don't expect me to speak to you
again until you submit. Now, go ! "

Miss Eta left the room, banging the door
defiantly behind her, and flew up-stairs three
steps at a time. She understood the sentence.
This old nursery, no longer needed for small

children, was still used as a place of penitence
and punishment under the Draconian code that
prevailed at Hazelgrove. Of late, only the
younger children had been consigned to it ;
but Eta had often found herself a prisoner
there in younger days, and it had no special
terrors for her.

When Mrs Wyndham-Parker came to her she
was waltzing round the room, singing at the
top of her voice, so recklessly defiant that her
mother's alternate threats and entreaties were
entirely wasted on her.

I don't care ; I don't care. I won't be
bullied. You shan't make me do what I don't
like, however much you may ill-use me. Go
back and tell father so."

Then Miss Eta resumed her wild dance.
But when Mrs Wyndham-Parker had gone,
locking the door behind her, Eta, in her turn,
bolted it inside, then rushed to the window,
saying, " He is still there ; I can easily attract
his attention."

It was Joe, the gardener's boy. A window

of the old nursery, which was on the first floor,
looked into the kitchen - garden, and Joe, a
shock - headed simple youth, was a devoted
adherent of Eta's.

That same night a letter to Captain Sutton,
describing what had occurred and explaining
her situation, was posted in the pillar-box in
Haverstock Lane.

CHAPTER LVL

FORGET AND FORGIVE.

Next day Lady Lezaire, summoning up all her
courage, made her way out to Harrop's Green.
Sweet Rachel met her as though they had never
been estranged. The St Evelyns were still in
the same lodging, part of a little house — Lady
Lezaire told Mr Tinson afterwards she had no
idea houses were ever built so small — in a
long, monotonous, terrace street. The exterior,
of dingy London stock brick, with its neglected
garden and stucco porch, was not inviting ;
inside confusion prevailed ; boxes and portmanteaus
in various stages of packing encumbered
the sitting-room, from which had already disappeared
the few pretty things that Rachel

still carried about to beautify their humble
home, and which were next to see the light
beyond the Atlantic.

I heard you were in town, mother," went
on Rachel cheerfully. " Gibbings told us so.
It is so good of you to come out all this way."

As you were leaving England, I thought —

I felt " Lady Lezaire began a stammering

apology, which Rachel, to spare her mother,
frankly accepted and cut short. •

Yes ; isn't it good news ? We were so
delighted. It is such a fine opening for Ferdinand.
The climate, you know, is beautiful,
although cold : so healthy for the children.
You will like to see them, won't you ? Little
Lucy — we called her after you, mother — is a
wonderful child. Only eleven months, and so
like you : it is quite absurd."

Lady Lezaire did not speak. She was too
touched by the simple unswerving devotion she
had done so little to deserve.

"You are a good girl, Rachel," she said presently,
as she stooped over the cradle of the

youngest born, " and I might have been a
kinder mother. But you must forgive me "

Hush, hush, mother dear," said Kachel,
kissing her. " After all you have gone through.
Please, please do not refer to the past."

The much-dreaded meeting was over, and
when the two ladies returned to the little sitting-room,
it was as though there had been no gap or
gulf, no painful estrangement between them.

Where is the Colonel ? " asked Lady
Lezaire. " I shall see him, I hope."

I am not sure. He is still working at the
station — he remains there till the end of the
month — and this is one of his long days."

"Is it far ? We might drive there on my
way back."

Lady Lezaire, quite contrite, was anxious to
make the fullest amends. But her face lengthened
and her manner stiffened as she saw Rachel
hesitating. Colonel St Evelyn evidently was not
disposed to meet her friendly advances half-way.

"The Colonel would rather not see me, perhaps.
Pray don't think of it."

"It is not that : he will be delighted, only
too pleased — he said so this morning — to see
you again. But he is so worried always at the
station ; there is so much going on ; it is such
a public place, and so horrid. I shouldn't like
you to see him there first."

I think I understand now," said Lady
Lezaire, brightening. " But I must see him.
Suppose you come in to London to-night and
dine at my hotel. You can have a carriage
both ways : of course at my expense. Indeed,
you must allow me," and Lady Lezaire pressed
a couple of bank-notes into her daughter's hand.

But it is far too much," protested Kachel.

What is left will be of use, I daresay. You
must want many things for the voyage, if indeed
you must really go."

This was the point on which she wished to
speak with St Evelyn, and she approached the
subject with as much trepidation as she had
anticipated their meeting. But the Colonel had
soon put her at her ease in this as in the matter
of his reception. He had come into Lady

Lezaire's room as though they had only met the
day previous, and had always been excellent
friends. He seemed to take it as a matter
of course, talked pleasantly on any and
every topic — the weather, politics, Thorpeshire
and applied himself to the excellent dinner
he so seldom got nowadays with a heartiness
that showed he felt himself at home.

He was quite outspoken about the future,
and met Lady Lezaire's shy suggestion that
the St Evelyns need not leave England with
plain directness.

Stay ? It's not to be thought of, not for one
moment. Everything is settled ; our passages
are taken "

''MrTinson thinks you maybe wanted; he
has hopes — still vague, of course — that Hubert
may be dispossessed."

We'll come back fast enough then, won't we,
Rachel ? But it's a far cry to Loch Awe. I
am not too sanguine."

But you might help so much."
I *' Lady Lezaire, I can't turn my back on my luck.

I've not had too much of late, and four hundred
a-year is a fortune, even in the New World."

'you shall not want, Ferdinand." It was
the first time she had called him by his Christian
name. " The world is not too prosperous with
me, perhaps ; but for Rachel's and the dear
children's sakes you shall share."

It would be rank robbery, Lady Lezaire. I
am not ungracious, I hope. I would have accepted
your generous offer a few weeks ago, but
now there is no need."

"You know we shall be quite rich in Nova
Scotia, dearest mother. They say beef is only
a penny a pound, and everything else in proportion.
Fish, too, and game most plentiful."

I hope to be able to supply you with both
for nothing, Kachel, unless I have forgotten all
I know. It is a rare country for sport ; that's
another reason for going there."

Lady Lezaire sighed almost involuntarily, for
she did not care to revive unhappy memories.
But she never could forget that sport had taken
Sir Percy Lezaire to this same country.

Of course, if you have made up your mind
to go, I shall not be able to dissuade you," she
went on.

"No, mother dear; Ferdy is very obstinate
always, and this time I think he is right."

The Colonel pretended to scowl at his little
wife.

*•' As if I wasn't always right "

But at this moment there was an interruption
: a waiter came in to announce —

Mr Tinson. Would my lady see him if not
inconvenient ? " ^

Do you mind, Ferdinand ? or shall I tell
him to call tomorrow morning ? "

I mind ! not in the least. That is for him
to say. He ought to hate meeting me more
than I him."

'you had better let him make friends now,
Ferdy," interposed Kachel. " I daresay he will
be glad to do so, poor man."

He was doing his duty, or thought he
was : I cannot quarrel with him for that,

now "

** He is all on your side," said Lady Lezaire,
"and rather ashamed of himself, I expect."

Mr Tinson did not show it when he came up ;
he was too self-possessed, too much a man of
the world, and shook hands quite cordially with
the Colonel as though they had never been
enemies. Only a slight and very casual reference
was made to the past.

Glad to see you looking so well. Colonel,"
after all you have gone through, he would
have added, and the words, although not spoken,
were understood.

No thanks to you, my friend," replied the
Colonel with a short laugh, and in his most offhand
way. " You did your best to send me out
of the world. But never mind all that ; I'd
rather have you for us than against us, I must
confess."

What is your news ? " asked Lady Lezaire,
coming to the lawyer's rescue. " Anything important
? "

Well, a good deal has happened to-day,"
said Mr Tinson, as he sat down and filled his

glass. " You know that fellow who was watching
you, Lady Lezaire, promised to put me on
the track of Mrs Leleu. He was to meet her
this morning at Haggle & Horry's in Vincent
Square. The meeting came off, and after that
he followed her to where she was staying,
a lodging in the Buckingham Palace Eoad.
Having marked her down there he came onto
me.

"It seems his job is ended with her. She
questioned him a good deal about you. Lady
Lezaire, and learnt, so I take it, all she wanted to
know ; at any rate, he was told he need not follow
you further, and was practically dismissed."

That was this morning, then," said the
Colonel, " before you came to us. Lady Lezaire.
So Mrs Leleu will not know that we have kissed
and made friends."

*' I doubt whether she would care to know
that. Her object in watching you, I feel sure,
was self-defence. When she heard of our trip
to Brighton that object was gained ; she knew
then that we had found out the fraud of obtaining

her place with a forged character. And
that I am right in this surmise is proved by her
having stopped her pursuit. Now is the time
to begin ours."

You have set a watch on her, then ? " inquired
Mrs St Evelyn.

"At once — directly I heard her address.
And it has borne fruit already. Sir Hubert has
been with her to-day. He was not long in
following her up to town." ♦

Can you guess what brought him ? " asked
the Colonel.

Not positively, although I have my own
idea. The point is complicated by the fact
that Sir Hubert has not come up to London
alone. General Wyndham-Parker is with him."

'' Is it possible that he is associated with these
wretches ? " cried Lady Lezaire.

Spiteful little beast ! He is quite capable
of it, and worse," said the Colonel, with hearty
disgust.

But you know they have been trying to
catch Hubert for one of their girls ; Gibbings

VOL. III. K

told US that," suggested Rachel. "He is very
intimate at Hazelgrove."

The General may merely want to make use
of him. They are on some money business,
evidently."

*' Wyndham-Parker speculates ; I know that.
He is a guinea-pig, too, mixed up with all sorts
of rotten companies. Sir Hubert Lezaire of
Straddlethorpe might be very useful to him if
properly worked."

There is something underhand in this, I
feel sure. He would naturally have come tome,
for we have not openly quarrelled yet,
about any straightforward investment, or the
question of settlements, if he thinks of marrying
one of the Parker girls. But these two —
the General and Hubert — seem to have been
going round to the Jews. I hear of them
calling at three different money-lenders today."


"The General's flying the kite, and has got
Hubert to back him ; that's about it," said the
Colonel.

That's part of it, but not all. Mrs Leleu is
in it somewhere, else why did Sir Hubert call
there this morning ? "

Did he take the General with him ? "

"No; which shows that whatever the game
is, the General is not entirely in it. But we
shall know more tomorrow, unless I'm greatly
mistaken."

Soon after this the St Evelyns took their
leave. •

Chapter Evil

Eta's contumacy.

Driving across London to their northern suburb,
the St Evelyns reached Harrop's Green a
little before eleven p.m. On arrival at home,
they found the house silent and dark, but there
was a bedroom candlestick left by the little
lodging-house slavey on a chair in the hall.

By the candlestick lay a visiting-card — Captain
Sutton's — and beneath the name was
written : " Gribbings brought me. Many apologies.
Will call again. Implore you to see

J)
me.

Sutton ! " said the Colonel, taking up the

card. " What can he want, and at this time of

night ? Of course we must see him. Rachel,

you know the man ; it was through him we
came here."

See him ? Certainly. He has every claim
on us, and he is well introduced by dear old
Gibbings. Besides, it must be something very
urgent."

They waited half an hour or more, and then
the late caller appeared. Gibbings was with
him, but he waited discreetly in the hall.

How extremely kind of you ! " began Captain
Sutton. " I am putting you out horribly,
I know, but my excuse is "

There is no need to make excuses, Sutton,"
said the Colonel, quickly. " We are only too
glad, believe me, to serve you in any way. We
know what we owe you. My wife thinks so
too ; you don't know her yet. Kachel, my
dear."

Mrs St Evelyn came forward, and welcomed
Captain Sutton very prettily and most cordially.


It is with Mrs St Evelyn that my business
chiefly is. Don't look surprised. Colonel ; I

have come to ask her a very great favour. You
know, or used to know, the Wyndham-Parkers
in Thorpeshire ? "

Oh yes ; slightly. Pretty girls, especially
one of them — Eta, I think."

The young soldier looked rather sheepish,
and hesitated.

Come, Sutton, out with it," said the Colonel,
encouragingly. "We know you've been sweet
on Eta; Gibbings told us all about it. And
they want her to marry young Lezaire."

*' That's just it. Colonel. It's quite devilish
to give her to that drunken scamp. And, do
you know, they are ill-using her ; she is actually
under lock and key at this moment, shut
up and half starved until she consents."

"Dear, dear!" cried gentle Kachel. 'how
horrible ! how wickedly horrible ! "

"It's not to be borne. It makes me wild to
think of it. I am determined to put an end toit,
and I want you to give me your help."

What can we possibly do ? " asked Mrs St
Evelyn, looking hopelessly perplexed.

"Go on, young chap," said the Colonel.
Tell us your idea exactly. You may rely
on us."

It s simply this : I want to carry the girl
off; she is ready enough to come. But you see
I am starting for Halifax next week."

So are we," said Rachel, beginning to see
daylight. "And you would like her to come
with us so that you might get married out
there — is that it ? " •

Trust a woman's wit to fathom an intrigue,"
said the Colonel, laughing. "Well, Sutton, is
that what you're after ? "

Very nearly ; only, I want to marry her first,
directly I can get her away ; and if you would
only — Gibbings assured me I might ask you ;
I know I am presuming, but it is so urgent,
if you would only receive her, take care of
her —

jj

And let you marry her from our house. I
see it all now," said the Colonel. " It's the
least we can do for you." *

Oh, Ferdinand ! I don't know. It is surely

wrong to encourage such conduct. Why, it's
an elopement — abduction I think it is called'*

She is over age, and the General will be so
sold," pleaded Sutton.

That settles it," said the Colonel, decisively.
I'd do anything to worry him. Bring her here,
Sutton, when you please. We'll do the best
for her."

That we will," said Each el heartily, smothering
her last scruples. " It is the best plan. We
have to think of her ; you must not compromise
your wife."

*you are sure you can manage to get her
away ? Is there anything else we can do ? "

Only tell Gibbings to come with me. I
shall want his help, and he seems a stanch
chap."

Gibbings is true as steel. Captain Sutton.
He would go through fire and water for us, and,
if we asked him, for our friends," said Rachel,
as they called the old soldier in and gave him
his instructions.

A lover like Captain Sutton, and on such a

mission, was not likely to let the grass grow
under his feet. Eta's brief and passionate appeal
had stirred him like a trumpet-call.

Come on, Gibbings ; I have a cab waiting.
We'll catch the midnight train down from
King's Cross."

Midland's quicker, sir," suggested Gibbings.

I went that way this morning," replied
Sutton, shortly. "Twice in one day by the
same line might seem odd, especially if we fail
first shot. Besides, we should gain nothing.
It's true the Midland train gets in at three, but
daylight's not till four, and we shall be thereby
the Great Northern before that. Can't do
anything till daylight."

"You've planned it all out then, sir?" asked
Gibbings, with the simple soldier's admiration
for a chief with brains and decision.

To a hair. I can depend on you, can I ? "

Only let me know what I'm to do, sir, and
I'm all there, — ready for anything, sir, from
pitch-and-toss to manslaughter."

"First, then, get what sleep you can going

down. You won't see the sheets this night.
I mean to sleep in the train." And with that
peculiar self-command which indicates an utter
absence of nervous irritability, the young officer,
directly he got into the railway carriage, snored.

Dawn was not due for an hour or more when
they turned out of the Market Eeepham station
without baggage, and quickly left the town on
foot by the Haverstock or Hazelgrove road. It
was still dark when they reached the first-named
place, a small hamlet within a mile of
the General's house.

Sutton went straight to an outhouse belonging
to the village public, and unlocked the door
with a key he produced from his pocket.

^' Horse and trap," he said, briefly explaining.
*' Put them here myself after sundown. They
let me have the key, as I said I was a bagman
and must be early on the road. Help me to
harness the mare."

In a few short minutes Sutton was driving a
smart speedy nag in a neat dogcart towards
Hazelgrove, and Gibbings sat behind.

There was light in the east — the first few
faint streaks — as they approached thei house ;
and while still half a mile short of it, Sutton
pulled up.

Take the reins, Gibbings, and wait here.
We shan't be long, I hope. Where's that
boy ? "

Joe was on the look-out on the other side
of the kitchen-garden fence, and did his part
promptly and well. A garden ladder was ready
just inside the wicket door. They carried it
together to the nursery window ; Sutton ran
up it, while the boy stood watching, and Eta,
ready dressed and with a light bundle in her
hand, came to the window in answer to the
signal.

It was an elopement of the old-fashioned kind,
as simple as it was immediately successful.

Sutton only paused to replace the ladder
and save the boy from blame. Ten minutes
sufficed for everything, — entrance, climb, exit
—all.

'' Give her her head, Gibbings," whispered

Sutton eagerly, directly lie had made Eta snug
by his side. The mare went off at score, and
the thing was done.

They drove five miles by a country road to a
small station, and caught a Market train thereto
Thorpechester, which was on the Great
Western. By this the lovers were conveyed to
London, reaching it before noon.

Several hours elapsed before Eta's elopement
became known at Hazelgrove. The maid who
took up the hot water at eight got no answer
to her call, but thought the young lady might
be still asleep. There was no answer, again, at
breakfast-time, and the regulation punishment-diet
of Hazelgrove — one cup of starless tea
and two pieces of dried toast — remained outside
the door. This was construed into sulky contumacy
by Mrs Wyndham-Parker, and it was
not until nearly eleven that she became inquisitive
about her girl. Then the door was found
to be bolted inside, — Eta had taken this precaution,
— all was silent within, and becoming
thoroughly alarmed, Mrs Parker desired one of

the maids to use the very ladder which had
helped Eta to escape, as a means of gaining
access to the prisoner's room.

Through these delays no news of Eta's
flight reached London till mid-day, and then
the telegram which Mrs Wyndham-Parker had
despatched to her husband lay unopened at the
Charing Cross Hotel till long past one. The
General had been out all the morning on particular
business with his young friend, Sir Hubert
Lezaire.

They had an appointment together with Mr
Issachar, a money-lender of Mount Street, for
noon, and it was with much difficulty that the
General had dragged Hubert down-stairs to a
late breakfast about eleven.

This was not a meal that had many charms
for Hubert, or occupied him long. His morning
appetite was never good, and on this occasion
was easily satisfied by a teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce
thickened with cayenne pepper. Two
half-and-half brandies-and-soda followed this
scanty but stimulating meal, and Sir Hubert

was SO far " picked up " as to be able to face
Mr Issachar.

The owner of Straddlethorpe was not a man
to be kept waiting in a Jew's anteroom, nor
were difficulties and delays likely to interpose
between the application for money and the advance
of a loan. Mr Issachar, a self-possessed
gentlemanly man, with a well-bred manner, and
nothing Hebrew about him but the absolute
perfection of his attire, received Sir Hubert and
the General without delay.

You are punctual," he said, with a quiet
smile. " So am I. Everything is ready, although
you gave me little enough time. The
sum is large to produce on so short a notice,
and the operation not entirely to my liking."

I don't know where you'd get a better,"
protested the General, brusquely. ' ' You must
know — it is your business to know — what
Straddlethorpe is worth."

I think I know my business. But give me
Straddlethorpe as security, and three times the
amount is at your service. I shall have no

security, really, but this one life," said Mr
Issachar, pointing to Sir Hubert, who sat
huddled up in his chair, limp and scowling.

Had it suited Sir Hubert to raise this
money elsewhere and in the ordinary way, we
should not have come to you. I suppose you
know that."

*' Thank you ; I know my business perfectly,"
replied Mr Issachar with quiet insolence. " It
suits Sir Hubert to come to me, and it-suits
me to do what he wants on-my terms. There
they are," — he pointed to the bills lying on the
table, — " and there is my cheque-book. You
sign the one, and I will fill up the other."

Sir Hubert, who had not spoken yet, began
now to show signs of impatience.

What's the good of all this jaw ? " he said,
snatching the money-lender's bond from the
little General, who, with eye-glasses carefully
adjusted, had begun to read the document.
'you hand over the dibs; I'll sign anything.
Where do I put my name ? " and following Mr
Issachar's indication, he scrawled his clumsy.

ill formed " Hubert Lezaire " upon the stamped
paper.

Now, General, if you will oblige me," said
Mr Issachar. " Thank you ; that is for the
smaller amount ; now, please, the other."

Pardon me, but that sum is advanced to
Sir Hubert Lezaire, not to me ; I have nothing
to do with it."

Sir Hubert has signed your bill ; you must
sign his. I cannot separate the transactions ;
it is a joint affair."

But I should become responsible if anything
happened. I cannot take such a risk,"
protested the General.

"Then the whole thing is off," said Mr
Issachar. " I must insist on having both names
to each bill."

Curse it all. General ! " said the baronet,
with rising anger. " What are you afraid of ?
It will be all in the family, you know. Besides,
I'm bound to take up the bill directly
I square Tinson. But I only came here to
oblige you ; it's just as you please. We'll put

the bills in the fire and take our hook out of
this."

Is it to be so ? " said Mr Issachar, holding
the bills in his hand and approaching the fireplace.


"No, no; I'll sign." After all, Sir Hubert
was to be his son-in-law, as the General thought,
and this hesitation was both ungracious and
unwise.

You would like cash, perhaps," said Mr
Issachar, when the operation was completed.
"My banker's, the Britannia Joint Stock, is
only round the corner. I will send for it."

Both the General and Sir Hubert preferred
the notes ; the first, because he did not choose
to pass a money-lender's cheque through his account
— the latter, for reasons of his own.

"Take my example, Hubert. Get rid of all
these notes. Pay them in at once."

"All right, General ; I know what to do with
them. Which is your way now ? "

Back to Charing Cross. Isn't it yours ? "

VOL. III. L

"No. Don't expect to see me till feeding-time,
and I may be late then."

But the General returning to the hotel,
found his wife's telegram and returned posthaste
to Hazelgrove. He left a few lines for
Sir Hubert, but without betraying the real
reason of his sudden recall. Eta's elopement
had to be concealed, at least until proof that
the mischief was irreparable.

As for Sir Hubert, he went straight to Buckingham
Palace Eoad and remained there for
several hours. This was the report made by
Mr Tinson's agent, who was on the look-out
in front of the house occupied by Mrs Eleusis

Hubert's visit to Mr Issachar was also
duly reported, and the lawyer resolved to pay
a visit to Mount Street himself.

He and Mr Issachar were already acquainted.
The great people who did business with Harvey
& Tinson were sometimes impecunious ; peers
on the verge of bankruptcy, and heirs-apparent
whose succession was long delayed, frequently
went to Mount Street when they could not get

money at Lincoln's Inn. In the final settlement,
however, which came inevitably, the
lawyer and the money-lender were brought face
to face.

Their relations were perfectly amicable.
They were both men of business, and interfered
little with each other. As Mr Issachar said, he
only picked up the bone when the other threw
it away.

You've been doing business with a client
of mine this morning," began Mr Tinson,
abruptly.

Which of them ? I expect we have many
clients in common," replied Mr Issachar,
blandly.

Young Lezaire, at present master of Strad-oglethorpe,
though there's no saying how long
he'll be there."

Is there any doubt of his title, then, to the
estates ? " asked Mr Issachar, anxiously.

' It isn't all plain sailing, that's all I can
say now."

Might I ask as a favour that you will

give me an early hint of any probable
change ? "

Yes, on one condition : that you tell me
exactly what Sir Hubert got from you to-day."

Ten thousand pounds, in notes."

Have you kept their numbers ? "

"Of course. Perhaps I ought to have kept
the notes."

*' I won't say that, but you had better protect
yourself, and recover when you can."

This was all that Mr Tinson wanted to know.
It was impossible to dissociate some pressing
demands from Mrs Leleu from the borrowing
of this considerable'^sum. Extravagant as was
Sir Hubert Lezaire, the yearly income of Strad-oglethorpe
was yet more than sufficient to meet
the outgoings at the Hall.

He made a memorandum of the numbers of
the notes given to Sir Hubert, and thanking
the money-lender, took his leave.

Chapter LYIIL

PEE S.S. APOLLO.

The steam-tender was alongside the landing-stage
at Liverpool, waiting to take olF passengers
to the great Atlantic liner which layout
in the stream with anchors atrip and blue-peter
at the fore. There was the customary
confusion, the hurry-scurry of departure — cabs
arriving at a gallop with late starters, porters
rushing about with luggage, friends and relations
interchanging; tearful farewells.

The St Evelyns and their friends made a
small group by themselves on the deck of the
steam-tug. They and their children, the faithful
Gibbings come to see the last of them, the
Buttons, — now man and wife — he triumphant as

one who had dared and won, she radiant and
blushing, as became a bride only three days
old.

The marriage had taken place at St James's,
Piccadilly. Eta had scouted the idea of a
registry office, and had been backed up stoutly
by Mrs St Evelyn. Women will not forego the
service in church.

It was all easily arranged, so easily that Sam
wondered he had not been married a dozen
times already. The old gentleman at Doctors'
Commons, in college cap and gown, who gave
him a licence, seemed quite to expect him ; and
at the church, which was only round the corner
from his lodgings in Duke Street, the confidential
pew-opener " tumbled " very readily to the
idea of a very quiet, not to say secret marriage.

Eta was greatly perturbed till it was all
settled, even afterwards. Now, when safe under
her husband's wing and actually afloat, she saw
her father in every fresh passenger, and heard
his irate voice in the short commands issued by
the captain of the tug.

"Now, cast loose. Who's for the shore?
Here ! hi ! You're too late " — the gangway had
been run off; "you'll have to go with us and
wait till we run back for the next load. Hold
hard, will you ? stop him ! he'll break his
neck."

The remarks were addressed to Gibbings,
who, seized by some strange uncontrollable impulse,
had suddenly left his friends, and finding
the gangway gone, had jumped on to the .


Oh, how dangerous ! How foolish of him !
What can have happened ? " cried Mrs Sutton,
in great alarm.

Off his chump, I should think," said Captain
Sutton, coolly. " Gone cracky. Look ! he's
running up the quay like mad."

*' He might at least have waited to say goodbye,"
observed Mrs St Evelyn, a little hurt at
Gibbings's unexpected disappearance. " He promised
to go on board with us and take back the
very latest news to dear mamma."

Leave Gibbings alone, Rachel. He knows

what's what, and he had some reason for his
sudden bolt, you may be perfectly sure."

There was reason enough, as it seemed to
Gibbings.

Just as the steam-tender was putting off he
had caught sight among the crowd on the
wharf of two people whom he recognised at
once. They had driven down to the edge of
the landing-stage, and approaching with bags
and bundles as though intending to go onboard,
had come to a dead halt, exchanged a
few words, then turned tail and regained their
cab.

They were old Podifat and Mrs Leleu.
Apparently they had no desire to meet the
St Evelyns. At least so Gibbings quickly
concluded, as with a second quick thought he
jumped ashore to follow them, and if possible
see more.

The cab drove up Water Street. Gibbings
hailed another cab and followed. The first cab
followed the quay-side, then turned up a narrow
water-side alley and plunged into the labyrinth

of streets that surround the docks. So on till
James Street was reached, and there the cab
halted before the door of the Dominion Steamship
Co. Mrs Leleu got out, so did Podifat,
and both entered the office.

Gibbings waited, keeping his cab, till the
others issued forth again, and heard them
instruct their driver to take them back to the
landing-stage. Then he entered the Steamship
office and made a few inquiries. •

I've missed some friends of mine who have
a passage in the Apollo, and the tender s gone
without them. Have they been here ? " Gib-beings
asked a clerk.

'what like are they?"

'middle-aged man, and a lady in black."

In here just now. You'll catch them.
They're going off b}^ the mail-tender at 1.30.
But if they miss that they'll have to go on to
Londonderry ; that's the very last chance. I
told them so, and I tell you."

Gibbings thanked the clerk and withdrew.

So they are going to Halifax too — one or

both, and in all conscience — why ? That's
what I must know."

It was then barely twelve. He had a clear-hour
and a half to settle his plans ; disguise
himself, watch the pair, follow them on board —
anything that he might think best.

Gibbings drove at once to the Delphi Hotel
and asked for Lady Lezaire.

Is it a coincidence, do you think, or intentional
? " she asked, on hearing of Mrs Leleu's
appearance at the landing-stage. " They mean,
perhaps, to do harm to Each el, the children.
How is it to be averted ? We must warn them,
if it isn't too late. What do you propose?
How can I help ? "

"Well, my lady, you can help, I think, and
I'll tell you how. Will you advance me — say
twenty or thirty pounds ? "

Lady Lezaire went to her jewel-case and took
out five five-pound notes.

There are twenty-five pounds. Gro on."

I must first make certain they're going by

this boat — if so, I'll go too, and keep my eye
on them all the way."

• " Will it be safe ? Won't they recognise
you ? "

My mother wouldn't — if I had a mother —
or you, my lady. Wait ; you'll see."

There was nearly an hour to spare still. A
part of this time, and some of Lady Lezaire's
cash, Gibbings spent in buying a red wig and a
short beard of the same colour ; a blue suit, pilot
jacket, and wide trousers, with a soft hat and
a big comforter, successfully transformed him
into a long-shore colonial sea-captain, who — ashe
proposed to say — was returning to his friends
after being cast away and picked up at sea.

He secured a fore-cabin passage ticket as he
passed down to Water Street on his way back
to the landing-stage, where he found Podifat
and Mrs Leleu waiting to embark.

They were in close but whispered talk, and
Gibbings thought it safer to make no attempt
to listen, saying to himself —

I shall have more chances than this onboard.
It would spoil all to attract their attention.
But holloa ! she's not going. What
am I to do now ? "

Mrs Leleu was shaking hands, while Podifat
stood on the gangway.

Let me hear," were her parting words.
'' Eight away ; cable — whatever it costs, I
must know. Good-bye."

Then she walked up the landing-stage, and
away from the quay-side.

Gibbings, called upon to choose, promptly
decided to follow her and not Podifat.

"I'll catch him up and the Apollo at Londonderry.
Let's first see what becomes of
her."

Mrs Leleu went straight to a small hotel in
Dale Street, then to the Lime Street Station,
where she took a ticket — Gibbings overheard —
to Thorpechester, the nearest station to Market
Keepham.

"I'll let my lady know — she can communicate
with the lawyer — and then I'll travel to

Holyhead and Paddy's land. I shall be a good
day ahead of the Apollo."

It was night-time when, with the mails and a
number of other passengers, Gibbings steamed
out of Londonderry to join the great liner.

He found his berth without much difficulty,
and at once turned in. The work now before
him was merely to watch and wait. Podifat
could not do much mischief on board ship.
Possibly he was meant merely to act the spy,
not to do actual bodily harm. Of this, however,
the Colonel would be the best judge when
he was told what had occurred.

Gibbings saw Podifat next morning at the
steerage passengers' table, a prey to discomfort,
and not particularly on the alert. There was
little fear of recognition from him.

Friends showed an equal want of penetration.
Gibbings waited for a chance of accosting Captain
Sutton — he did not wish to risk the surprise
or suspicion that might follow the making
himself known to St Evelyn — and this chance
did not come for a day or two. Saloon and

steerage passengers do not meet much, except
when the former extend their deck walk to the
fore-part of the ship.

"Morning, Captain," said Gibbings gruffly,
the first time they met.

Holloa! Who the devil are you? " answered
Sutton.

I'm afraid Mrs Sutton don't like the passage
haven't seen her on deck. Hush — don't shout
out. I'm Gibbings."

Sam Sutton laughed aloud.

Scissors ! You are a rum customer. Last
time we saw you, you tried to get drowned.
Have you shipped now as an Ab. ? ''

Beg your honour's pardon for making so
bold," said Gibbings, suddenly changing his
voice and his manner. " But I wants a good
word on landing. There are chaps listening,"
he whispered. " Tell the Colonel I want to
speak to him — quietly, soon. He'll know best
how to arrange."

I'll see you again. Come to the fiddle, you
know, the smoking-room, at eight bells."

Sutton by that time had told St Evelyn what
to expect, and Gibbings was made free for once
of the poop-deck, which he patrolled with the
Colonel, talking over the past and making plans
for the future, till a late hour.

CHAPTER LIX.

FISHY — SYDNEY."

The Apollo's voyage was prosperous. On the
sixth day out they made the Banks, and missed
the fogs that so often greet vessels approaching
Newfoundland.

Two days more and they were within easy
steam of Chebuctoo Head, the chief gate of the
vast land-locked harbour of Halifax.

The Apollo's stay there would be short ; only
the few hours necessary to discharge and take
in passengers. Every effort was made on board
to save time ; especially, as the sea was smooth
and the weather fair, to get up the heavy baggage
from the hold without waiting arrival in
port.

The upper deck was soon lumbered with
heavy cases and sea-chests, of which the St
Evelyns owned a modest share. The funds
so generously advanced by Mr Carrington
Lomas had been wisely expended in outfit and
goods, which could be bought more cheaply at
home than in the colony.

The Colonel's military training had made him
an excellent " baggage - master," and he was
proud, not without reason, of his skill in packing,
and of the order and system applied to the
care and disposal of his belongings.

One notable precaution — copied from the
practice of a regiment on the line of march
was to plaster a great printed label on every
case or package, bearing his name, ultimate
destination, the number of the case, and its
uses during the voyage. The address was : —

Colonel St Evelyn, ( )

Sydney,

Cape Breton.

Per S.S. Apollo. No.

VOL. III. M

while the lighter pieces had the word " Cabin,"
and all the heavy the word '' Hold."

Light and heavy alike were now mustered
under the owners experienced eye, to be
counted and examined ; while Gibbings, with
a pipe in his mouth, sat a little way off on a
coil of rope, quietly observant, but unable for
prudential reasons to assist his old master.

Some one else had an eye on the St Evelyns'
baggage — that was soon evident. From the
moment the hold was opened Podifat had come
aft and had loafed about as near as he dared.

Presently the Colonel, satisfied that all was
right, rejoined his wife upon the poop. Then
Gibbings saw Podifat slily draw near the baggage
and examine it in his turn.

He was reading the address - label — that's
what he was at. From mere curiosity, or with
some special purpose ? Gibbings could not be
sure.

A preconceived signal to Captain Sutton soon
brought the young officer to where Gibbings
now stood waiting.

Tell the Colonel," the latter said, " what
I caught the old rascal doing — that I'll stick
to him when he gets on shore and see where
he goes. If I happen on more, I'll come or send
to the Colonel's hotel — which is it, by the way?"

The Acadian, in Delia Torre Street."

If I don't turn up there I'll join him later
on at Sydney."

But how are you off for coin, Gibbings ?
You may run short." *

My lady stood paymaster before I started,
and I'll do fine for some weeks."

Eemember, the Citadel Barracks will always
find me — the regiment's there. I owe you
more than one good turn, Gibbings, and if I
can repay you I'll "

"Don't talk about it, sir. And don't stop
with me now, that son of a gun might suspect
something. Give my message to the Colonel,
that's all. I've got my work to do now. He's
a slippery old chap, and knows his way about,
I think, in these parts."

Old Podifat was one of the first to go over

the side when the Apollo made fast by the
wharf. He landed by the steerage gangway
forward, and carried all his belongings with
him. His gun-case, nearly new, Sir Hubert's
gift, in one hand, with the other he held his
salmon-rod, also in its case, and from the same
source. A light bundle hung from the latter,
and contained all his personal kit.

Gibbings, still more lightly equipped, was
close at his heels. Halifax was new ground to
him, but clearly not to the man he followed.

Podifat went straight up the by-street that
led from the wharf with the confident air of
one who knew his way, although, as he emerged
into the better part of the city, he looked up
and around as though surprised and bewildered.
Since he had last seen Halifax it had been
burned down more than once, and emerged
a handsome stone phoenix from the wood ashes
of its older construction.

Approaching Hollies Street and the best
quarter of the city, he paused to ask a question,
which Gibbings overheard, and for which, re-fishy

— SYDNEY. 181

collecting what had occurred at the Liverpool
landing-stage, he was pretty well prepared.

Telegraph office ? Why, it's with the postoffice
in the Provincial Buildings, second street
to left, third block. Can't miss it." •

*'A11 right, old loss," said Podifat, going
on his road without halting or turning
round.

Gibbings paused on reaching the telegraph
office, doubtful whether to enter with him or
wait outside. Following a sudden impulse he
passed the doors, and seeing Podifat busy at the
desk slowly and painfully shaping his letters,
took post near him unobserved. He was within
earshot when Podifat handed in his message to
the operator. It was a wretched scrawl, almost
illegible.

Where did you get your schooling ? Satan !
what a fist ! L — e — 1 — " went on the clerk,
spelling it letter by letter.

Leleu, Straddlethorpe, Thorpeshire, England,"
shouted Podifat. " I can read it if you
can't."

*' I ain't deaf, my man. You'd better read
the rest. F— i— s— k, fisk. What's fisk?"

'' Fishy, you fool ! fishy, Sydney. That's all
you've got to send."

"No signature? Or maybe your name's
Sydney."

What's my name to do with you ? How
much ? Seven dollars ? Who — up ! That's
tall. There's the mosses," and Podifat turned
to leave the office.

Here ! hold hard ! Sign your address at the
bottom."

Shan't ! Haven't got one. I'm only just
landed from the mail, and I'm going straight
home."

Where's home ? That'll be good enough
for us."

Eiver Inhabitants, Canso Straits. D'y^
know that township ? That's where I was
born and bred, and where some day I'll die,
if I'm 'allowed to die in my bed."

*' You'll maybe die with your boots on, Mr
Sydney, if that's your name. What can I do

FISHY — SYDNEY. 183

for you ? " went on the clerk to Gibbings, and
turning his back on Podifat, who straightway
left the office muttering curses as he went.

Gibbings accounted for his presence by
inquiring about the telegraph rates to San
Francisco and New York, then hurried from
the office after Podifat, whom he tracked finally
to the railway station, where he heard him ask
his way to Canso Straits, and heard the answer.

Train to Truro and Pictou — take the stage
on, or there is a steamer runs from Pictou to
Port Hawkesbury twice a-week. You can get
on from there again by steam ferry, or stage,
where you please."

Pointing homeward, that's evident," Gib-beings
said to himself. " We shall know whereto
pick him up again if we want him. But
ought I to follow him there ? I can at anytime,
if I like. I'd better consult the Colonel,
perhaps. Anyway, I've found out a good deal
already."

There was a council of war when Gibbings
reached the Acadian Hotel with the latest news.

The meaning of the cablegram was first discussed.


Sydney of course refers to us," said the
Colonel. " Mrs Leleu clearly wished to know
our destination. Why the other word fishy ? "
It can't refer only to Sydney itself," mused
Mrs St Evelyn. " Of course a seaport is
fishy ? "

'' We must take the other, the slang meaning
of the word, my dear. Fishy is unsatisfactory
— dangerous, in fact. That's what Podifat
implies. Our being at Sydney will be fishy for
them, d'ye see ? " went on the Colonel.

No doubt, Ferdinand, that is it. But
why ? "

"We may find out when we get there.
Podifat perhaps may help us — we mustn't let
go of him."

I may catch him still at the station," said
Gibbings, starting up.

No, he might see you. We know where he
is going. This Canso is not a long journey
from Sydney : the Canso Straits separate Cape

FISHY — SYDNEY. 185

Breton Island, unless I have forgotten my
geography. But let's have up the map."

They had a large survey-map of the whole
colony of Nova Scotia in the hotel, and it was
soon unrolled on the table before them.

*scans? Canso? Why is the name so
familiar to me ? " asked Mrs St Evelyn.

To be sure — I remember now. It's the place
where Priscilla Spary came from : Hubert's
mother, your father's first wife," went on the
Colonel,

"Don't speak of her," began Each el, with
manifest disgust. " But stay. Here is Louisville,
where the marriage took place. It cannot
be far from Sydney — what is it ? "

By the scale, some twenty-five to thirty
miles."

"Then we know now why they think it
fishy," quickly concluded Rachel. "These are
fresh clues which must surely lead us to more."

"They must be followed at once," said the
Colonel, decisively. " Are you game to go on,
Gibbings ? "

"For you, and the mistress, and the children,
sir, I'd go on into the bush, round the world,
to the North Pole ! Only give your commands."


'well, then," the Colonel was again studying
the map and the colonial railway guide, " you
must pick up this Podifat somehow and somewhere,
but as soon as you can. He will only
have a short start, even if he took the first
train to Truro and Pictou. The day is still
young, and you will catch the later train.
This will land you at Pictou in plenty of time
for the next boat to Port Hawkesbury — tomorrow
night, or for tomorrow morning's stage
for Antagonist. Do you understand ? Or shall
I give you a route-paper, as if you were going
on escort ? "

"Tell me the names all over once or twice,
sir. They're strange, and I may forget them."

Gibbings soon learned his lesson by heart.

"I know my drill now. It's all straight and
plain. Only I'd like to know how I am to send
you word, or get on to you if there's anything

important," he asked, as if prepared to take this
departure.

"Here, Gibbings," said Mrs St Evelyn. "I
had thought of that. These envelopes are
addressed to the Colonel — post one anywhere
if you want help ; the post-mark will bring us
to you, or come to us with your news. We shall
be only too glad to see you, my good friend."

Then she shook hands cordially with the
stanch old soldier and bade him God-speed.

A couple of days later the St Evelyns again
embarked, now upon a small steamer that plied
between Halifax and Cape Breton. The Buttons
remained in the garrison city, but it had been
agreed that if Sam could get leave he was to
bring his wife to visit St Evelyn, while he
joined the Colonel in a hunting expedition after
bear and cariboo among the forest solitudes
that margin the great Lake Bras door.

CHAPTER LX.

HUNTERS AND HUNTED.

Gossip flies fast in a country neighbourhood.
For all the General's anxiety to silence scandal,
his daughter's elopement was common talk
within twenty-four hours. The servants at
Hazelgrove knew exactly what had occurred,
and knowing, were not likely to hold their
tongues. The story crept out into the village,
whence, with many additions, it travelled
through the county to Straddlethorpe, where
Sir Hubert heard it from his butler the day he
returned from town. This was on the Tuesday
following the negotiation of the loan, and on the
very day of the departure of the Apollo.

You lying thief! " cried Sir Hubert, aiming

a blow at Purfrey with the butt-end of his
driving whip. "Miss Eta bolted! I'll teach
you to spread such lies."

*' It's gospel truth, Sir Hubert. She went
last Thursday. I've seen a chap as met the
trap just half a mile out of Thorpechester."

Last Thursday ! Then old Parker must
have known, and he never let on a word.
Why did he want to keep it dark from me ?
Sinful old rogue ! Curse him — and her. • But
what's come of her? Has he gone after her?
I'd like to go with him, if it was only to be
even with them as got her away."

As the result of further thought, backed up
by a late lunch and a decanter of strong brown
sherry. Sir Hubert mounted his horse and rode
over to Hazelgrove.

"My dear boy," began the General with
elaborate friendliness, "when did you get back?
I had been hoping to hear of or from you,
wondering why you stayed on in town. Sly
dog ! Boys will be boys, and London, with
money to spend, is a most delightful place."

No word of Eta's flight. Even Sir Hubert,
with dull brutish mind, half dazed with drink,
detected a want of candour.

Look here. General ! you ain't acting fair
and square with me. I know all about it.
Where's Eta?"

"My dearest boy," repeated the General, putting
his hand to his face and struggling with
emotion, " how was I to tell you ! But you
will forgive me. If you could know the grief,
the pain and anguish I suffer, to think a girl
of mine should so far forget herself! I think
I feel sure — all my children are not like her."

So many days had elapsed since the elopement,
that the General had abandoned all hope
of recovering Eta and smothering up the
scandal. It was too generally known, both the
flight and the harsh treatment that had preceded
it. Moreover, the transaction with Mr
Issachar rendered it imperative that the General
should keep on good terms with young Lezaire.
Perhaps Sir Hubert might now transfer his
attentions to one of the other girls.

*tell us more about it," asked Sir Hubert,
rudely. " When did she go ? How ? With
whom ? "

The General gave a short account of the
affair, so far as he had elicited the details.

It was that Sutton, of course. Why didn't
I do for him?" cried Sir Hubert. "But I'll
have his blood yet."

Hush ! hush ! my dear boy. I can understand
your feelings. But such dreadful
threats "

"Which way did they go? Have you
tracked them? Aren't you going to follow
them up ? "

"Yes; but which way shall we follow? I
haven't the least idea what has become of
them."

"Have you made no inquiries. General?
What have you been doing all these days ? "

General Wyndham - Parker did not like to
confess that he had abstained from all action
because he was ashamed to take it. He hated
the scandal, and wished to attract no further

attention to it. An unpleasantness that cannot
be mended is best allowed to blow over.

Well, I have been so much upset — my dear
wife has been so ill — that I couldn't take any
steps. But if you wish it — and I think I ought
I will go to the police. Some inquiries
should be set on foot. I ought to know what
has become of her, wicked, misguided girl
though she be. Will you ride in with me to
Market Eeepham ? I will order a horse. We
will call on the chief constable."

"I don't think you will want me for that,
General," said Sir Hubert, with the strange reluctance
he always showed to be brought into
close relations with the police. '* I'm game to
go with you anywhere, after them ; or I'll go
alone, if only you give me the tip. Come onto
Straddlethorpe after you have seen if there
is anything to tell, or I will come back here."

The conversation which followed was desultory,
a repetition and variation of that which
had gone before. It was ended when they
parted in Haverstock : the General riding to

Market Needham, Sir Hubert returning to the
Hall.

Old Purfrey met him with a telegram.

It was from Mrs Leleu.

News ; meet me Market Needham station
four thirty."

It was then nearly four.

** Run round to the stables," shouted Sir
Hubert to Purfrey. " I want a carriage, the
brougham, in less than five minutes. Look
slippy, all of you, or you'll get the sack."

Sir Hubert was in such haste that he followed
himself, and helped to harness and
put to.

Make room there ! — give me the ribbons,"
he said to the groom, and flogging the big
mare in the shafts, began a wild breakneck
drive which got him to Market Needham just
within the time.

Mrs Leleu was at the window of a second-class
compartment as the train ran in, and at
a signal from her Sir Hubert turned away to
leave the station. She followed close, whist

III. N

peering, " Come on ; into the town, anywhere
private. I want to speak to you quietly."

Here, jump in." Sir Hubert held open the
brougham door. " He can drive towards the
Hall, or on the Thorpechester road. What
have you got to tell me that wouldn't keep ? "

"That blackguard Colonel has started for
America — I fancy for Halifax. They told meas
much at the steam-packet office."

"Is he fly, think you ? Has he gone out
alone ? "

No ; all his brood is with him. That's what
I don't understand. He may be going out to
settle, but why there ? I don't like it, not a
little bit."

What can you do ? "

It will depend on what I hear."

Jacob is going in the same ship. He is tolet
me know at Straddlethorpe — I gave him
that address — and I've come here to wait for
more news."

"You don't want to wait at the Hall, do
you ? " asked Sir Hubert, sulkily.

Somewhere near. Why, ain't I welcome ?
Have you got some madam or missy there ? I
don't care — so long as it isn't that white-livered
jade you wanted to marry. But you can't do
that, not now."

How do you know that ? You have heard,
then, she's gone ? "

I guessed it. I saw her this morning — I
was going to tell you — saw her with her man."

What ! " screamed Hubert. " Saw her !
And you didn't tell me ! When, how, and
where did you see her ? " He clutched his
companion fiercely by the arm.

On board the tender ; going off to the
Apollo with that man — the same man as used
to come philandering after her down here.
They were with the St Evelyn lot, under their
wing."

Sir Hubert's next remark was spoken to his
coachman through the front window of the
brougham.

Drive back to town — to the police office.
Drive like hell, d'ye hear ! " he shouted. ^

"Not there. Don't go there; it isn't safe.
I'd rather they did not see us together," protested
Mrs Leleu.

"There is no reason they should. You can
sit back in the brougham and wait while I run
in. I must see old Parker. I may catch him
there."

The General was still with the chief constable
in the outer office on the first floor when Sir
Hubert burst in.

I've heard of her. She has gone by steamer
this morning."

One moment, my dear fellow," interposed
the General. " What extraordinary story is
this ? How on earth have you heard, and how
much ? "

Sir Hubert Lezaire, without surrendering the
source of his information, repeated what Mrs
Leleu had told him.

By the Apollo, from Liverpool, this morning
? " said the chief constable, turning over the
leaves of the office " Bradshaw." " For Halifax
and Portland, vit Londonderry."

Then we shall catch them at Londonderry
if we give chase. Yoicks ! Tally-ho ! " and Sir
Hubert gave an unearthly yell. " Come along,
General ; you shall tear her from them. It's no
good going without you."

From them ? " asked the General, amazed.

Yes, them ; the St Evelyns. She's with
that murdering Colonel and silly white-faced
Rachel. I know. Some one has told me who
saw them all together."

"Colonel St Evelyn? To dare to mix himself
up with my affairs ! He ought to have been
hanged, and will be yet."

If he isn't drowned," said Captain Brace-bridge,
laughing. " But seriously — you don't tax
him still with that Straddlethorpe crime ? "

I'm as certain still as if I'd seen him do it.
The law made a ghastly fiasco there. Do you
mean to say you don't agree with me ? " went
on the General, seeing the chief constable shake
his head.

I don't ; I never did, thoroughly — but less
than ever within the last few weeks. Something

very curious has turned up, you
know."

What ! More evidence ? Some fresh clue ? "
The strangest and strongest clue. We came

the other day upon Wait a moment," said

the chief constable, suddenly correcting himself.
He saw that Sir Hubert, with eager face and
wide-open eyes, was listening to every word.
'' Come inside," and Captain Bracebridge led the
way to an inner private room, and closed the
door behind him.

CHAPTER LXL

ONLY A woman's HAIR.

The inner room to which Captain Bracebriclge
conducted General Wyndham-Parker was his
own private office, comfortably furnished, with
an arm-chair beside the writing-desk, into which
the chief constable motioned the General, while
he himself went to a cupboard in the corner of
the room. This cupboard he unlocked with a
key from his own bunch.

I call this my curiosity-shop," said Captain
Bracebridge. "It is a sort of museum where I
keep under lock and key anything connected
with big cases. Here, for instance, is the gun
seized from one of the Blythwood poachers ;
you remember the case, when police constable

Davis was shot. And this is the identical saucepan
in which Mother Kaskelf boiled her husband
after she had chopped him up with a hatchet.
And this is a bit of the rope that hanged her
and her precious boy, who was an accomplice."

Very curious, certainly," replied the General,
shuddering. *but what have these things todo
with the Straddlethorpe case ? "

Nothing, of course. But this has, and it is
what I wanted to show you." Captain Brace-bridge
now produced the celebrated Inverness,
which had been added to the museum after
Ears wick had brought it over from the North
Lodge.

That greatcoat ! Surely it isn't the
Colonel's missing Inverness ? "

*' But it is, and nothing else. I should have
recognised it from the description. But besides,
it was identified by the Colonel's man, Gibbings,
who helped to find it."

"Doesn't that look rather suspicious? You
remember it was his evidence that saved the
Colonel. Probably he was an accomplice."

*'Tlie circumstances under which the coat
was found satisfactorily dispose of that suspicion,"
said the chief constable, as he went onto
detail the facts.

"Then you think it had been hidden therein
the Straddlethorpe Lodge on purpose ? " asked
the General, after he had heard the whole story.

"I do, and by the persons, or more exactly
the person, who had used it as a disguise."

ft

But — but that is bringing us on to the trail
of the real culprit, always supposing it was not
the Colonel. Why should not he have hidden
the coat ? "

*' You don't give up a point easily. General,"
said Captain Bracebridge, with a smile. " I
should be sorry to have you against me. But
how could the Colonel have worn it ? It was
decided in court that he never went to Cleobury
the night the poison was bought."

'* Only on Gibbings's evidence, which I have
never believed. I must have more than that to
satisfy me that it was not St Evelyn himself in
his own coat who visited the chemist."

As he spoke the General had taken the
Inverness in his hands, and was turning it over
curiously.

I wish it could tell us who wore it last,"
he said, thoughtfully ; "for that last, you may
depend upon it, was at Cleobury. Has it ever
been overhauled? People have been known
before now to leave things in their pockets."


*' Hardly when on such a job as buying
arsenic in disguise. And I fancy — I am certain,
I think — that the coat was thoroughly
examined when we first got hold of it. It
ought to have been."

"Who searched it? — you or one of your
subordinates. Captain Bracebridge ? " said the
General, who by this time was fumbling in the
many pockets of the Inverness. "Whoever it
was, he missed this."

The General pulled out a glove, a red dog-skin
glove, and both inspected it with deep
interest. j

One of the Colonel's, I suppose," said Captain

Bracebridge. " There is nothing strange in
finding it here."

"Not a bit of it. Trust a man with a house
full of daughters to know a woman's glove.
See inside here, the number — 6f. Look at it
for yourself."

A woman's glove ? By George ! you're
right. Is there anything more ? Allow me,"
and the chief constable took the coat from
General Wyndham-Parker's hands. To get a
better light he moved towards the window,
which was close by the door communicating
with the outer office.

I see nothing more," he said. " One or two
scraps of paper only, part of a torn letter. A
man's writing ; I should think Colonel St
Evelyn's. Do you know his hand, General ? "

I couldn't swear to it. But you ought to
be able to compare it by-and-by. Take care
of the pieces. Is that all ? "

*' All in the pockets, yes. But see here, this
is rather curious."

Captain Bracebridge had been fingering the

coat, and had passed his hand along the collar
on the inner side. He now held up to the light
one long hair.

"What is that? Horse-hair?" asked the
General.

"It is too fine for that. And it is not the
Colonel's ; too long, he was always close-cropped.
It is a woman's hair, General; evidence, corroborating
the glove, that a woman wore this
coat last."

What a surprising thing ! It must be so,
Bracebridge. But what woman ? "

*' I think I can form an idea. A woman who
has been cropping up constantly of late, and
who is becoming more and more implicated in
the Straddlethorpe murder."

God bless me ! you take my breath away.
What woman ? What is her name ? "

She was housekeeper at the Hall, and went
by the name of Mrs Leleu. We have had our
eye upon her lately, and now I think there is
enough to run her in, if only we can find
her."

I am fairly taken aback. I don't know
what to make of it all," said the General, reluctant
to part with long-cherished convictions.
This changes the whole complexion of the
case."

You'll have to confess you misjudged the
Colonel. But I take it this means more than
the arrest of the real murderer ; it is likely
to affect the ownership of the Hall."

"Do you mean to say that young Lezaire is
mixed up in the business ? Never ! " cried the
General, aghast.

I shouldn't like to say so much as that,
seeing that he is a friend of yours. Besides
which, he is out there" — Captain Bracebridge
pointed with his thumb to the outer office —
*rand I shouldn't like him to overhear. Are
you going with him to Londonderry ? "

The General did not know how to answer ;
he was unhappy, very unhappy in his mind.
His evil fortune — or more exactly his blind
cupidity, although he wouldn't admit so much
had involved him deeply in relations which

might bring him discredit, disgrace, perhaps
even a ruinous loss.

"You had better keep what I have told you
to yourself. But especially no word to him."

Perhaps we ought to go back to him,"
said the General, " although for the life of
me I don't know what to say now or do."

Sir Hubert Lezaire was no longer in the
outer office.

Tired of waiting, I suppose he has taken
himself off," said Captain Bracebridge. " But I
will just inquire."

A constable answered the summons.

The gentleman who was here, sir, drove
away in his brougham more than ten minutes
ago."

Left no message ? Was he alone ? "

No, sir. There was a lady in the carriage
while it waited."

What lady ? " cried the General. " You
must be mistaken."

Could it have been Mrs Leleu ? "

"That was the lady's name, I think. Inspecter

Earswick saw her too, and I believe
went after the brougham."

*' That was smart of him. He will run them
down' said Captain Bracebridge, with much
satisfaction, " and we shall know where to find
her when she is wanted, which, I take it, will be
before long. Can I be of any further use to
you, General ? "

"I cannot quite say." The little General
was growing more and more bewildered
am so taken aback by all this. Only I beg
of you to keep me informed of all that goes
on. It will be serious — more than serious — if I
have allowed myself to be compromised by this
young scapegrace, as I greatly fear he is."

General Wyndham-Parker returned to Hazel-grove
that night a broken-down, dispirited man.
Having communicated the last news about Eta
to his wife, he proceeded, with the injustice
often displayed by the stronger sex, to visit the
whole blame on Mrs Wyndham-Parker.

It was all your doing," he repeated. " Why
did you persuade me to take the fellow up ? "

You know, Wilfrid, you asked him here
yourself. I shouldn't have thought of it."

You thought he would do for lea, and you
encouraged his attentions to Eta, although I
strongly disapproved. Throwing our girls at
his head, and making a laughing-stock of ourselves
in the county."

Why, do you think people know about
Eta ? "

Know ! Every one knows."

And people are talking about us ? Dear,
dear, how distressing ! What do they say ? "

Nothing to me, of course. But old Etherly
was chuckling over it at the club — I am sure
he was ; and Lord Prudhames, who was never
too friendly, would not look at me in the
street to-day."

"We shall never be able to hold our heads
up — to look people in the face. That wicked,
wicked girl ! "

*' That's not the worst. At least, she's off our
hands."

You think they're married, then ? "

*' We may be sure of that — or they mean
to be — as she was with Mrs St Evelyn. But I
tell you there is far worse behind."

And the General went on to speak of the
suspicions against Sir Hubert, and of the bill
transaction, with the awful responsibilities it
would entail if the Lezaire property ever
went back to the other branch.

"We shall be ruined — utterly," said little
Wyndham-Parker, with something like a* sob.
I can never pay. He'll make me a bankrupt,
that villanous Jew ! I must give up my clubs.
We shall have to emigrate, or I must sweep a
crossing. God knows what "

Meanwhile, full of the new anxieties caused
by what he had overheard — for he had listened
at the keyhole to all the chief constable's talk —
Sir Hubert had gone back to Mrs Leleu in the
carriage.

*' We must separate ; you are in danger.
Where would you like to go ? " he asked
her hurriedly, as, bidding the coachman drive

VOL. III.

back to the station, he took his seat beside
her.

** To Straddlethorpe," she replied, very coolly,
as soon as she had heard all that Sir Hubert
had to tell her.

"That you won't. What should I do? I
won't be dragged into trouble."

You won't, eh ? You'll do just as I tell you,
and just as I choose. I'm going to Straddle-thorpe
to stay. You must hide me there for
as long as I want, or until I hear from Jacob,
d'ye see ? "

'but if they come after you ? They will —
they may be following now."

"I hope they are — the whole lot of the
Thorpeshire police. I know them : if they're
like that Earswick, they'll be easily fooled."

Earswick at this moment was behind in a
Market Needham fly, chasing the brougham.
He followed it, always at a respectful distance,
first to the Market Needham station, where a
porter put a good-sized travelling-bag on the

driving-seat by the coachman, then on again by
the highroad straight to the lodge-gates of
Straddlethorpe Hall. As it was now dark, he
promptly climbed the park railings, and running
across the grass, forestalled the brougham,
which had taken the more circuitous carriage-drive.
From a safe place of concealment in
the shrubbery, he saw Sir Hubert alight and
hand out his female companion. Both then
entered the house. •

*' Gone to ground. Now I must stop the
earths. Some of my friends in the servants'
hall will keep me informed of her movements."

Through the watch thus established, Earswick
heard regularly of Mrs Leleu ; that she
had again taken up her quarters at the Hall,
but seemingly as a guest, not in any menial
capacity. She was supposed to be ill, kept her
room — or more exactly rooms, for a snug
suite had been put at her disposal — and here
she had her meals and spent all her time.

Several days passed, and then the moment

for further action arrived. The chief constable
felt justified in asking for a warrant to arrest
Mrs Leleu.

He had written a long letter to Mr Tinson
for his and Lady Lezaire's information, giving
an account of the discovery made in the Inverness.
At the same time he forwarded the
scraps of paper found in the pocket, with the
female glove, and asked if the handwriting
could be identified. Was it Colonel St Evelyn's,
or whose ?

Lady Lezaire spoke without hesitation. The
writing was either Sir" Percy s, or an extraordinarily
clever imitation. In either case the
fact was strange, not to say suspicious.

Mr Tinson sought the advice of the Treasury
Solicitor, who in turn consulted the Public
Prosecutor. It was decided to lay hands at
once on Mrs Leleu ; and Ears wick, with another
policeman, went to make the arrest.

The bird was flown.

Sir Hubert Lezaire at first clumsily denied,

then was forced to admit, that she had been
very recently at the Hall, — an old servant, he
explained, to whom he was glad to give a home
while seeking a new place.

Earswick very properly refused to accept
any but his own evidence of her departure, and
made a minute but fruitless search of the
whole house.

CHAPTER LXII.

AUNT COKCKEAN's.

It was the late autumn, the fall of the leaf and
of the year, when the St Evelyns settled in
their new home. They were greeted by that
glorious season known as the Indian summer,
a brief spell of magnificent weather that comes
late, and with strange fleeting sunshine preludes
the long stern winter close at hand.
Under a cloudless sky the autumn landscape
glowed with all the gorgeous colour peculiar
to the land ; the dying leafage blazed with
brightness ; the strongest colours, passing from
cadmium to blood-red, contrasted often with
vivid green, sparkled in the sunlight. Late
flowers bedecked the undergrowth and jewelled

AUNT CORCKRANS. 215

the mossy ground, while clusters of crimson
berries hung on many a bush. The stems of
the trees were of varied tint and form ; snow-white
birch stood near noble straight-limbed
hemlocks, graceful black spruce-fir, and lofty
primeval pine.

There was a little settlement at the Nom
de Dieu mines : the shanty-residences of the
miners, with the stores to administer to their
needs. The forest had been cleared for half a
mile around, and at the edge of the clearing
stood the St Evelyns' house, frame-built — of
wooden boarding, that is to say : an unpicturesque
but not uncomfortable dwelling, of royal
dimensions, as Rachel thought, after the narrow
lodging at Harrop's Green.

It was a rough-and-ready life rather ; they
were on the far verge of civilisation, if not beyond
it. The nearest town was eight or ten
miles distant by the road, but ere long the
distance would be shortened by half when
winter froze the harbour hard, and a direct
track, marked out by fir - boughs, was made

across the snow-covered ice. Supplies had to
be laid in against the winter, the house victualled
with flour, and salt pork, and groceries,
and tinned or canned meats innumerable. All
this Rachel saw to herself, advised and assisted
by the 'helps" she found in the settlement:
a Scotch miner's German wife, a comely comfortable
Frau, and a slatternly Irish girl, one
of a numerous brood, crowded out, and glad
to take service away from home.

While Rachel prepared for the long winter,
and busied herself with the ordering of her
primitive establishment, the Colonel threw
himself heart and soul into his new work,
gathering up into his strong hands the whole
system of administration, taking command of
every one and everything in that matter-of-course,
not-to-be-denied fashion that is only
gained by military training. He was wise
enough to make no changes till he had mastered
the whole of the details of working;
then, by rearranging the labour shifts, and
exacting more punctual attendances, he obtained

better results from the miners with less
demands on their time. One of the dangers
tried a fall with him, but was badly beaten ;
while the clerk in the office found himself summarily
dismissed after an unsuccessful attempt
to play fast and loose with the figures.

Thus busily and pleasantly occupied, a month
slipped by almost unnoted by either St Evelyn
or his wife. They had hardly time even to
wonder what Gibbings was doing, and why
he had made no sign beyond sending one of
the addressed envelopes with which they had
provided him. It bore the postmark "River
Inhabitants," so they were certain he had reached
the place to which Podifat was also pointing.
Beyond that they knew nothing, but were content
to wait patiently, and almost without
anxiety, feeling sure that he could be trusted
to report progress in due time.

The reader shall now hear how Gibbings
fared.

He made the journey by rail to Pictou, a
port on the north Nova Scotian coast, and

halted there a day or two without coming
upon any traces of Podifat. But, taking the
local steamer to Port Hawksbury, he found
his man on board. He was able to watch him
during the voyage, avoiding recognition till
they landed at the wharf, when Podifat came
upon him suddenly.

Holloa, mate 1 where have I seen you before
? " he said, eyeing Gibbings suspiciously
as they stood together in front of the stage
office.

"On board the Apollo," answered Gibbings
boldly, thinking this confession safer than any
denial.

' What are you doing in these parts ? Do
you belong down here ? Seafaring ? Or a
long shore sailor ? "

I was cast away last voyage, picked up,
and landed in England. I was in a coal brig
from Sydney, Cape Breton, and I'm making
my way back there to squeeze something out
of the owners, or get a new berth."

"You'd better be smart, then. It's getting

late to ship. Why, the ice may come down
next month and shut up all the traffic."

I don't know what I'll do then. I'd better
have stayed in Halifax, perhaps, or even in
Pictou. But I'm bound to try for a job.
Anything doing round about here?"

Can't say. Haven't been this way for
twenty years or more. Are you going by the
stage ? Yes ? Come in and liquor, then. A
drain o' white-eye '11 do yer no harm."

Gibbings accepted the invitation, then stood
drink in his turn, and liberally repeated the
process after the stage started, till Podifat
was half-seas over, and pretty well incapable
when the settlement of Eiver Inhabitants was
reached.

You booked for here, old loss," said the
driver, " so I must put yer down. But don't
get lying on the track or staying out all night.
Here, some of you boys," he went on, addressing
the loafers who hung round the stage,
'help him up to Aunt Corckran's ; he'll get
board and lodging there."

I guess I'll get down here too," said Gib-beings,
promptly. " I don't care to go any farther
to-night. So show the way, lads, and I'll
give ye a hand with this chap."

Corckran's boarding-house, kept by a mulatto
woman, and called after her, was a mere shanty,
with only two rooms besides the bar. Podifat
was laid in one of these upon a heap of newly
cut spruce-fir boughs ; while Gibbings, having
despatched some fried pork and eggs, found
a similar bed in another corner.

Next morning early, and long before the
fumes of drink had evaporated from Podifat's
brain, Gibbings started forth in search of work,
which he meant to take as a colourable pretext
for remaining in the settlement. He found it
at a farmhouse, a mile out, where they wanted
a man to tend the ox-team and make himself
useful about the place. Labour was not too
plentiful, and a likely-looking fellow, even of
Gibbings's age, who could turn his hand to
anything, was worth board and lodging and
a dollar or so a-day.

Several days elapsed before he heard anything
more of Podifat. Even then it was
mere gossip, the talk of the farm kitchen,
brought in by one of the sons of the house
who had been into the settlement, — something
about a new arrival, an old fellow who was
having a tall time, perpetually on the "scoop,"
standing treat to all hands at Aunt Corckran's,
and keeping it up till all was blue.

"Who is he?" asked the father. '' AVhat
brings him this way ? "

He's come here for sport. He was talking
with old Wagahuacook, the Indian hunter,
about moose-calling after the first snow, promising
to go out to his camp on the edge of
the Barrens next week, and taking his chance
of a black bear before they hide for the winter.
He's got an Al rifle, which he showed all
round, and talked as if he could use it. I
think he knew his way about. No stranger
would want a pair of moose-shank moccasins,
or be so spry about getting a good buffalo
robe."

Did you hear his name, Angus, or what he
calls himself ? "

Podifat, I think. Aunt Corckran seemed
to know something of him and his forebears."


*'I mind some Podifats in the settlement
years agone, and a precious bad lot they were.
I'd say this was one of them, although they
all went to the bad, as I believe."

Gibbings did not like to ask more just then,
but he carefully treasured up in his own mind
what he had heard, and promised himself to
inquire further from Mrs Corckran the first
time he got the chance.

A week passed, and then another, before
Gibbings had any such opportunity. He
heard, however, from time to time of Podifat,
who led a life of debauchery, alternating with
spells in the woods after big game. It was
during one of these absences that Gibbings
visited the settlement, and halting his team
near Aunt Corckran's boarding-house, went in
for a glass and the chance of a chat.

The dark-skinned landlady, an aged but still
hale and hearty woman, was alone in her bar,
and Gibbings, sipping his whisky, soon asked
for Mr Podifat.

"He's out — in the woods, after calibre. You
want him ? Many folks want him. Some one
very nice little gentleman — was asking for
him just now."

Don't you remember me, Auntie ? I came
with him that first night by the stage, and I
slept here too."

'' Was that you, sal ? I no remember well.
But how long you know him, sal ? You know
his sister, sal ? Very mean pusson that, sal."

Where is she now, Auntie ? "

Can't say, sal ; me have no dealings with
such trash. Very bad woman. Go away to
Halifax, sal, years and years ago."

*'By herself? In service? Got married?
What ? "

*' Got big thumping boy, sal ; so they told
Auntie. But why you ask so many questions
you the father of that boy ? "

u 'r

'Tisn't likely, Auntie. I'd have no call to
ask questions then. Only I heard she was
married in Halifax."

I don't admit that's true, sal. But I heard
of her 'other time in service at Louisville,
down by Sydney mines."

"All this is worth hearing," thought Gib-beings
to himself, wondering how he might
manage to hear more. But the team was waiting,
and Mrs Corckran seemed disinclined for
further talk. So he took himself off, intending
to visit the settlement again.

As he left the bar a man came in fairly well
dressed, wearing a big overcoat with a fur collar,
and what is locally termed a stovepipe hat.
He might have been some land agent's clerk
from the city, or a Yankee speculator prospecting
for petroleum. But Gibbings paid him no
special attention beyond giving him " good
day."

He did not see that the new-comer started
at the sound of his voice, or hear him ask Mrs
Corckran abruptly —

Who's that ? "

Don't know sickly, sal. A teamster working
out to Sandy M'Anespey's farm about a
mile away. But your friend Mr Podifat will
tell you. They travelled here together a fortnight
or more ago."

"Were he and Podifat good friends? Did
they see one another often ? "

Reckon they didn't much. Anyway, this
chap's hungering to see him now, wondering
when he'd be back from the woods ; pretending
he knew him and his family and sister —
all lies."

'' Podifat's sister ! What did he say he knew
about her ? "

"Nary word. Thought she was married in
Halifax. But I knew better than that, and
told him so. He was only asking foolish
questions. Think he wanted to make me
mad."

Can I lodge here till Mr Podifat comes
back ? What do you charge for board ? "

VOL. III. p

"Four dollars a- week, sal. Make you very
comfortable. You like to stay?"

"I'm on. I'll just step down to the stage
office for my bag and be back before dark."

"Very glad to see you, sal. Perhaps Mr
Podifat come home by then."

CHAPTER LXIII.

WHAT THE Parson WROTE.

Some days elapsed before Gibbings paid* a
second visit to the settlement. This time he
went without his team, on a simple message
about some winter fuel. His business despatched,
he went on, as a matter of course,
to Mrs Corckran's.

The bar was well attended that day. A
number of sycophantic loafers stood around,
sucking up freely all that Mrs Corckran served
out — whisky, and white-eye, and fine old
Jamaica rum. It was all paid for, she said,
and Gibbings at once knew by whom. There
was old Podifat, a little more drunk than usual,
leaning on the bar counter, talking about his

prowess with the gun, and his unlimited supply
of funds.

Gibbings took his place amongst the rest,
meaning to await events. It was imprudent
to talk further with Aunt Corckran just then,
but he might get speech with her later, or
perhaps with Podifat himself.

In the middle of it all a man rushed out
from an inner room, went straight to Podifat,
and took him roughly by the arm.

Here, Jacob, you sot ! drop all this. What
call have you to stand treat ? "

The voice was so familiar to Gibbings, that
he bent his eyes eagerly on the new-comer. It
was the same man that he had met at the door
of the shanty a few days previously, but without
the fur coat and tall hat. The face was
plainly visible, and in spite of the small black
moustache and the now closely cropped black
hair, he had no difficulty in recognising Mrs
Leleu.

Their eyes met. Did she know him too ?
He still wore his wig and beard, and hoped she

did not penetrate his disguise. In any case,
there was no need for remaining there — it was
neither natural nor prudent. Besides, this was
news that should be sent at once to Colonel
St Evelyn.

Swallowing his glass, at Podifat's expense, he
went straight out of the shanty and into the
settlement.

He was revolving in his mind now how he
could best and most safely communicate with
the Colonel. As we know, his scholarship was
limited ; and whom could he trust in a strange
place to write a letter for him on such an
urgent yet strictly confidential matter?

To whom should he apply ? The police ?
Where was he to find a constable in this
sparsely settled country? and could the nearest
representative of the law be trusted when
found ?

A parson ? Ah ! that was a better idea.
But there was none in the township — no church
of any persuasion, so far as he knew, within
miles.

He went to the post-office in the general
store, just where the stages stopped, and asked
for a clergyman.

"What for? To tie you up? Won't the
registrar do ? Or, if it's a christening, leave it
alone. As to burying, any one can do that.
We've no use for a parson here. You must try
across to Canso, t'other side of the Gut."

Who shall I ask for, and how am I to get
across ? "

"Parson Lawford — that's the name. Go
down to the beach ; some onely put you across
in their whale-boat if you'll plank down a
dollar."

The narrow seaway that divides the island
of Cape Breton from the Nova Scotia mainland
is known as the Gut or Straits of Canso : it was
barely a couple of miles wide at this point, and
the shore was not many hundred yards from
the settlement.

Gibbings found a boat without difficulty,
and was soon ferried over.

Will you be long ? " asked the fisherman

who had piloted him, a hybrid creature in
homespun, half backwoodsman, half sea-dog.

*'Vm. going up as far as the clergyman's, if
you know where that is "

''Up there: the red-and-white frame-house
above the church."

I can get there, do all I have to do, and be
back inside of an hour," said Gibbings.

'' Make it that, stranger, and I'll wait ; but
not a minute more. It's easy crossing nT)w,
but the tide's making fast, the wind's again us,
and the race'll soon run seven or eight knots.
Nothing less than a screw-steamer could put
you back then."

Gibbings promised to return within the time,
but, as we shall see, was not so good as his word.

Scaling a rather steep track he entered a pine-wood,
through which a path led to the minister's
house. Asking and obtaining an interview,
he proceeded to business at once.

The Rev. Mr Lawford was a plain man,
plain even to uncouthness — roughly, nay, shabbily
dressed in a faded rusty black homespun

coat, and trousers stuffed into long boots. He
had an honest face, set in a fringe of stubbly
iron - grey hair, and spoke with a marked
colonial accent or "burr."

Want me to write a letter for you ? I
have no objection. You are a distressed seaman,
I suppose — British or colonial ? "

Neither, sir. I will tell you exactly, if you
will first take down what I've got to say."

Go on, then."

Honoured sir," began Gibbings, dictating,
I write, as was agreed between us and your
good lady, my respects to her and the family,
and to tell you what I have been at since
I sent you the first envelope. Well, sir, I
tracked down that chap to his own home hard
by here. They remembered him well as a bad
lot, likewise his sister, who is now with him. I
could take my oath of this, although she is not
the same quite as when we knew her. She is
that Mrs Leleu, and no one else. But her real
name is Podifat, or was — leastways it must be
if she's Podifat's sister, as I am prepared to

swear. They are together now, in the settlement
of River Inhabitants ; but she is in different
clothes, disguised as a man.

Well, sir, that is not all. They tell me she
had a son, but I can't hear who the father was.
If it wasn't that we know he had another
mother, I'd say it was this very Sir Hubert
Lezaire. Of course, as I understand, Sir Hubert's
mother was called Spary, and she is
dead." ♦

What's all this you're asking me to write ? "
interrupted the clergyman. 'sand what are
you doing in these parts ? Are you a detective
officer ? "

*'0h no; not a regular detect, sir. But it's
got to do with the great Lezaire case, of which
you may have heard."

Yes, something. There were inquiries here
a year or two ago about some people connected
with it."

The last baronet, Sir Percy, ran off with a
girl from hereabouts, who was the mother of the
present baronet, — Spary, she was called."

I know the name of Spary well : it was that
of the previous incumbent here. But they're
all dead, and that's what I told the agents who
were inquiring. One of the girls had gone off
that was perfectly well remembered, but not
the name of the man who took her away."

It was Sir Percy Lezaire."

'* So it was thought, I remember now, and
believed. But that was not the name, nor was
he, as I have since learnt, the person. The
man who eloped with Priscilla Spary was called
Lehague. He came from Cape Breton, and
they went back there."

Then they couldn't have been Sir Hubert's
parents. Who were they ? "

Why, Sir Percy of course was one, or how
could Hubert be baronet now ? There must
be some mistake about the mother, that's all.
Probably it is this woman Podifat I have written
about for you."

Then she would be Lady Lezaire, and she
isn't. Trust her to claim it if she was entitled.
But I am getting mixed. The matter wants

better brains than mine to clear it up. Perhaps,
sir, you wouldn't mind putting down
what you have just said, all in your own words.
The Colonel will understand better than if I
told him."

Mr Lawford wrote down a brief summary of
the facts, which he read to Gibbings.

Is there anything more ? " he then asked.

Only say that I will follow as fast as I can
travel There isn't much more for me to^do
here, and I'm pining to rejoin the Colonel and
serve again alongside and under him."

The letter completed, Gibbings produced a
second envelope with which Mrs St Evelyn had
supplied him, saying —

Sign, sir, in my name : William Gibbings.
Then put it in this, which is all ready for the
post. Will you read the address, sir, and
make a note of it, for I'm sure my master and
missus would like to see you and thank you if
at any time you pass that way."

All this had occupied but half an hour, and
Gibbings started back for the shore fully satisfied

that he would find his boat and boatman
still there.

But during his absence, two other persons
who had also crossed the Straits and landed
higher up, came down through the fir-woods to
where the fisherman was waiting.

Are you the loss that ferried a chap over
half an hour ago from Eiver Inhabitants ? "
asked one, who was no other than Podifat.

Yes, sirree. Do you want a passage back ? "
was the answer.

No ; no more does he. He sent us to tell
you, you needn't wait," said Podifat's companion.
" We were to pay you what he
promised."

One dollar. Hand it over then, quick, and
I'll up stick and be ofi". The stream's getting
stronger every second."

The money was paid, the fisherman ran up
his big sail, and was soon far out in the stream
on his homeward voyage.

*now, Jacob," said Podifat's companion as
they walked quickly up the bank and into

the wood, " there's no one to interfere with
us, and we can fix this job our own way. I
mean to know whether it's Gibbings or his
ghost."

What odds ? What harm's he doing ? "
If it's him he's come after us, and must
have found out more than he ought to know.
The game's getting desperate, and we must
play close."

You wouldn't lay hands on him ? " ♦

"That will depend. Let's watch him well;
I shall know him, or I'm a bigger fool than I
think. Hush ! stand back — here he comes."

They withdrew in among the tree-stems, and
were quite hidden from view as Gibbings, fearing
no evil, hurried along the forest path,
making for the boat he had left on the shore
below. He passed quite close to where they
watched, crushed against the very tree that
sheltered them, and was riddled, so to speak,
through and through by two pair of shrewdly
penetrating eyes.

Gibbings I I could swear to him," hissed

one in a hoarse whisper into the ear of the
other. " After him ! Give it him — on the
head ! Now ! "

Next instant Gibbings lay stretched senseless
on the fir-needles that carpeted the path. Ashe
fell his wig was disarranged and his beard
went all away.

** I thought as much. He has hunted us
close. But the scent is overrun now."

'' What shall we do with him ? Finish him ?
'Tisn't safe, Press."

Let's see first what he's got on him."

And with a few dexterous twists of the hand,
the woman — the reader will have guessed before
this that it was Mrs Leleu — turned out the
pockets of the prostrate Gibbings, and became
possessed of all they contained.

The chief prize was the letter addressed to
Colonel St Evelyn, which had but just been
indited, and which gave this precious couple
all the information they required.

"This settles his hash," said Mrs Leleu
grimly, with a fell murderous look in her eyes.

Here, Jacob, take him by the head ; I'll help
with his heels. Now, straight on to the beach.
He shall be found drowned, if he's picked up at
all ; but this strong current ought to sweep him
out into the Atlantic. If he is found, it will
be said he was drunk and fell into the sea."

One ! two ! three ! The body was swung
backwards and forwards to get impetus, and
then flung out into the fast-flowing eddying
tide. •

He's silenced and done for," said Mrs Leleu.
But he brought it all on himself. Cursed idiot !
why did he meddle with our affairs ? Come on,
Jacob ; we must clear out of here. Let's get
back to. our boat and cross as quick as we
can."

It's a bad job, Priss. They might bring it
home to us, and it 'd put the rope round our
necks. You won't stay on at Eiver Inhabitants
after this ? "

That's as may be. I'm half inclined to goon
where this letter's addressed. Anyway, we'll
send it ahead of us."

Never, Priss. You wouldn't let them learn
all that's written there."

D'ye take me for a fool ? I'll tell them
something quite different to that — something
that will explain the disappearance of that fool
there," and Mrs Leleu pointed darkly to the
streaming tide.

CHAPTER LXIV.

WHAT THE OTHERS Head.

The racing; swirling; waters had sucked in 1?he
body consigned to them, and it was lost to sight
for the few seconds that Podifat and Mrs Leleu
continued to watch it. But contact with the
icy-cold water acted with immediately reviving
effect, and with returning consciousness revived
the strongest of all human instincts, self-preservation.
Intuitively, almost automatically,
Gibbings began to battle with the hostile
element; and then, as he gained a more
accurate idea of what had happened to him,
he struck out manfully, with the desperate
determination indeed of a man fighting for
his life.

VOL. III. Q

Although the current had at first swept him
out some distance from the shore, the direction
of the stream soon changed, and while still
bearing him rapidly onwards, helped him in his
efforts to regain the land.

Gibbings was fortunately a good swimmer,
and he made a stout fight for his life. He
deserved to save it, and he did ; but it was
a very bedraggled, disconsolate, much-wearied
figure that emerged from the sea, a mile or
more beyond Canso and near the mouth of
the Gut.

What was he to do next ? Still dazed with
the blow he had received, benumbed with cold
as he shivered in his dripping wet clothes, it
was difficult for him to realise exactly what had
occurred — whether he had fallen or been struck
down. He looked around ; a long reach of
bleak coast lay in front, behind were dense pine-woods
coming down to the water's edge. He
must do something at once : the only chance
for him was in brisk movement ; that only
could restore warmth and circulation. Should

he go forward, or back ? It was best surely to
remain in the open country than plunge into
the forest.

So he followed the coast, hoping to find
help — to come sooner or later upon a farm or
log-hut ; perhaps he might meet with a fishing-boat
that would give him a passage to the next
settlement or town.

His wits became keener as animation returned.
He began to remember all that head
happened just before he had been nearly
drowned. Almost instinctively, he felt for
the letter which had been written for him —
was it safe ?

It was gone. Everything was gone — his
pockets were absolutely empty. He had been
robbed, he might have been murdered ; and the
disappearance of the letter told him exactly why.

Those Podifats, of course. But I'll be even
with them yet, if only I can get out of my
present plight. And I'm not starved outright,
or frozen to death," he said, setting his teeth,
as he pushed on with renewed vigour.

The way was long and lonely. Not a sign of
human habitation for miles and miles of weary,
hopeless, aimless walking over rough and varied
country : now wide tracks of stony rocky waste,
now strips of slushy swamp and forest-marsh
encumbered with fallen trees.

All at once, turning a headland, he came
upon an open bay — it was Chedabuctoo Bay —
and saw a small fleet of fishing-boats — small
smart craft, as taut and pretty as pleasure-yachts
— lying at anchor close inshore.

A dingy belonging to one of them was pulled
up on the beach, and a couple of fishermen who
had landed in search of water were loading up
with freshly filled kegs.

Holloa, stranger ! " said one, accosting
Gibbings roughly — " where have you dropped
from ? "

*scans," he explained. "Cast away, and
half drowned into the bargain. Can you
take me aboard ? I want a passage — anywhere."


The request was not received cordially.

*' Who are you ? You don't belong to these
parts, sure-ly ? Can you pay ? "

I've lost everything. But I've good friends
in Sydney, or Halifax. You shan't lose."

The fishermen conferred together, still hesitating.
But in the end they agreed to take
Gibbings on board their schooner, "The Pride
of Aright," destination still unknown.

If the take is good we may run round to
Halifax : then we'll land you there. If not, we
shall fetch Aright before Sunday, and you can
find your way on as you kinder please."

The fishermen were in luck, and so was
Gibbings. They had caught their cargo of
live mackerel and had put him ashore at
Halifax within forty-eight hours.

A call upon Captain Sutton sufficed to refit
Gibbings, and start him on a more prosperous
journey, this time by steamer direct to Sydney,
which he reached in less than a week from the
day of his disagreeable adventure in Canso
Straits.

Strange to say, and for the first time since

their acquaintance, lie was not very cordially
received by Colonel St Evelyn on his arrival at
the Nom de Dieu mines.

"What have you been up to, man ? How is
it I have heard nothing of you all these weeks ?
I thought better of you," said the Colonel,
sternly.

I don't quite understand you, sir," said
Gibbings, drawing himself up, closing his heels,
and standing at attention, in the attitude of a
soldier being rebuked by a superior. " I've had
a narrow squeak for it, but I don't know as how
I've done anything wrong."

Wrong ! And you on special service, so to
speak ! But it's always the way with you old
soldiers. Directly you're on your own resources
you take to drink."

Drink, Colonel ? What ! in this belated
country ? Why, the liquor's only fit for
pigs."

Yes, and you're one of them. I've heard
all about you. Drunk all about the place, like
any disreputable defaulter."

How did you hear, sir ? Who told you ? "
Why, the clergyman of Canso wrote me
word. It seems an envelope addressed to me
was found in your pocket in one of your
drunken frolics, and he thought it right I
should know. I will read what he says, if

«

you like."

Thank you, sir," said Gibbings, smiling.
I'd like to know what the clergyman said."

"He says: 'Presuming that you take • an
interest in the man in whose pocket this
envelope was found, I write to inform you
that he has taken to evil courses, and gone
altogether to the bad. He is constantly drunk,
and in his cups talks very freely about your
affairs. He says he was sent here by you to
make some inquiries, but I can hardly believe
you would intrust him with any delicate or important
business. It is my belief that, unless
he is got away from here soon, he will come to
a bad end.' There, what have you got to say
to that charge ? "

*'To think that you couldn't trust me better

than that, Colonel ! " began Gibbings reproachfully,
but then he laughed outright. "That
letter's all a hoax, written on purpose to deceive
you — not by the clergyman, but instead
of the one he wrote for me, and which I put
inside."

God bless me ! What does it all mean ? "
Gibbings now told in detail all that had been
written in the letter at Canso, and all that had
happened to him. " I see it plainly now. She
sticks at nothing, this woman, and this substituted
letter was cleverly intended to explain
your disappearance. But come and see my
wife ; we must tell her all about it."

Mrs St Evelyn, gentle soul, had declined
to be present when the Colonel reprimanded
Gibbings, and it was with intense relief that
she heard how completely the faithful old servant
had exonerated himself.

"There is much food for thought in all this
news you bring, Gibbings," she presently observed
; " and the most curious part of it all is
what the Canso clergyman says about Priscilla

Spary — that she went off with a man named
Lehague, not my father."

Sir Percy might have passed under a false
name," put in the Colonel.

"No, sir," Gibbings corrected him, as the
best informed ; ' ' for the parson particularly
said the man was known to be Lehague, and
that he came from Cape Breton."

"What part of Cape Breton, I wonder?"
asked Mrs St Evelyn. " If we knew that we
might hear more of him."

Possibly Louisville," said the Colonel. " The
marriage took place there, we know. He may
have gone straight back to his own home."

Let us go over to Louisville, Colonel," suggested
Gibbings, " and see if any such man is
remembered there. It is not so many years
ago."

We must know, of course," said Mrs St
Evelyn, " that there was such a person as this
Lehague. Until we are certain that he, and not
my father, married Priscilla Spary, Hubert's
parentage cannot be settled."

'' But if Hubert is not Priscilla Spary's child,
whose is he ? " asked the Colonel.

"That's what I said to the parson at Canso,"
added Gribbings. "I believe in my own
heart he is Mrs Leleu's child."

What ! Can you mean that my father married
that woman ? Impossible ! "

I don't see my way clearly, I confess," said
the Colonel. " It's a puzzle. Hubert must
either be your father's legitimate son, which
would mean that Sir Percy married his mother
or he has no right to his present title. Now
Sir Percy, we are told — but this has still to be
proved — did not marry Priscilla Spary. Who
was really his wife ? Not this woman Podifat :
that's out of the question."

Of course, or she would have been recognised
when the succession was changed, and
would now be Lady Lezaire."

"There is a big fraud somewhere, that is
quite evident ; and we are not far off the clue.
The attempt made by these miscreants on Gib-beings
proved that. I should like to get over to

Louisville soon, within the next week or two. I
doubt if I can leave the mines before that."

*' I could go first, sir, if you thought as how
there was no time to lose," suggested Gibbings.

No, no ; you shall run no more risks alone.
They are desperate people, and there is no
knowing their next move. You shall stop here
and recruit yourself a bit, and we will pay a
visit to Louisville before the end of the month."

A few days later letters from England and
Lady Lezaire brought a full account of all that
had happened at Market Eeepham and Straddle-thorpe
; the further and closer inspection of the
Inverness and what it had revealed ; the projected
arrest of Mrs Leleu, and her disappearance.

Lady Lezaire commented at length upon the
pieces of writing found in the coat-pocket.

It was your dear father's hand" — the letter
was to Mrs St Evelyn — *sat least so I thought
at first sight. It was, and yet it was not ; and
it was so unlikely that he would be writing
about such things as these scraps dealt with.
There was a lot of repetition, the name of Podi-

fat constantly repeated. . . . ' My dearest boy,
he shall be heir. . I will do it, by
hook or crook ; ' . . . and more of the same sort.
Now, if your father wrote that, how did it come
in the pockets of the Colonel's coat ? All this
made Mr Tinson suspicious, and we both examined
the writing over and over again ; then
we compared it with other writing, and at last,
on Mr Tinson's suggestion, with the papers
found in my husband's desk upon which the
ejectment suit turned. If the scraps were in a
forged hand, so was the confession, the writing
was so much alike in both ; and for the first
time Mr Tinson began to think that he and
every one else had been misled. There had
been a gross deception somewhere — a felony,
a great crime, committed by some one,
and little doubt that that some one was the
woman Leleu."

We are beginning to see daylight at last,"
said the Colonel. " I haven't a doubt now that
Hubert is Mrs Leleu's son. She wrote those
lies."

And lots of other lies, I expect. She's very
handy with her pen. Of course she forged
that letter purporting to be from the Canso
clergyman," said Gibbings.

We have no proof of that," said Mrs St
Evelyn, *' except that it is not the letter you
dictated. However, it is easily settled. Write
a civil letter, Ferdinand, to the Canso clergyman,
and ask him what he thinks of it all."

*rit's a small matter, except in proof of-the
bigger forgeries. How cleverly it was all
planned ! Of course it was her precious brat
she wished to make heir by hook or crook.
More than that, she removed the last obstacle,
poor Carysfort, and cleverly helped to throw
the blame on me. She must not be allowed to
escape us now."

What an awful woman ! " said Mrs St
Evelyn. " No one is safe while she is at large."

We must help the police to lay hands on
her," said Gibbings. " I don't doubt she will
easily be found."

I will go to Sydney at once and cable home.

The police ought to know that she is on this
side of the water."

The sleigh was ordered out, and the Colonel
drove his smart pair of long-haired cobs, gay
with streamers and merry jingling bells, over
the deep snow-covered track into the capital or
chief town of Cape Breton. He drove straight
to the post - office, despatched his message to
Captain Bracebridge as follows : " Leleu here —
St Evelyn," saw it sent off, and, satisfied that
he had not been watched, went on to the Bras
door Hotel.

A little knot of loafers were sitting round the
great stove in the bar as the Colonel came in.
Some of them gave him good-day, others asked
him what he had would take ; but he passed on
without pausing into the dining-room, taking
little notice of any.

But when he was gone, two men, who had
been sitting with the rest, got up and left the
hotel. They were old Podifat and his now
inseparable companion, Mrs Leleu.

CHAPTER LXV.

LOUISVILLE.

The little town of Louisville was not often
honoured with visitors. It did not own a
hotel, although in more prosperous times there
had been two or three. But now the postmaster
was glad enough to board anybody whom
business brought to the town, and they were few
and far between. In the winter business was altogether
at a standstill, and Mr Jerram, the functionary
aforesaid, would have been quite taken
aback at the descent made upon his house if
St Evelyn's party had not brought their guns,
their game-bags, and their decoy-geese, which
showed the kind of sport they were after.
There where three of them : the Colonel himself,

Captain Sutton — who with his wife had just
arrived at the mines — and of course Gibbings.

Naturally the first talk was about the wild
geese, which were daily expected in their usual
migratory flight southward, the best places for
watching their movements, and the number of
hands that would be needed to build the snow-shelters
in which the sportsmen waited for their
game.

Mr Jerram had the fluency of a lonely man
whose tongue was seldom untied in genial conversation.
He told them all he knew about
wild geese and wild animals generally — a wide
subject, over which he ranged boldly but with
no great accuracy. Then he passed to colonial
topics — a subject of undying interest — and he
denounced all who disagreed with him in vigorous
language, including the lieutenant-governor,
whom he declared should be impeached.

He had talked for an hour and more before
St Evelyn was able to bring the conversation
to more interesting matter. But at last he put
the question whether Mr Jerram had ever

known any people of the name of Lehague in
Louisville.

No, sir, I never did. There have been no
such people here this twenty year — not since I
settled in the town."

This was disappointing.

Perhaps there are older inhabitants who
may have known them. I am rather anxious
to find out all I can."

"Is it curiosity, sir, or a matter of business ?
Maybe they were relations of yours ; you are
looking for money from them. Don't count on
them. Anyway, they didn't make money herein
Louisville : no one does ; I don't, not in any
line, and I try many."

You sell pretty well everything, I see," said
Sutton laughing, as he looked round the store
in which they were seated.

Yes, and make everything except a fortin
This is the general store of Louisville ; it is the
stage-office, and the post-office, and I'm the
registrar."

VOL. III. R

Oh, indeed ! " said St Evelyn, pricking up
his ears ; " how long have you been that ? "

"Five or six years, or more. Ain't worth
much. Few deaths in this healthy place ; births
is scarcer, because there are no marriages, or
precious few."

'there was a marriage registered here years
ago on which a good deal turned. I suppose it
was to you they came for copies of certificates
in the Lezaire case."

What 1 that big case tried in London, G. B. ?

Of course I remember that. I gave copies of

«

all the certificates, and did quite a good trade
at that time."

I was concerned in that case," said the
Colonel, frankly. "It affected me rather seriously."


Did it now ? Well, well ! Was you ousted
by the other chap ? That was hard lines. But
it was all plain sailing, wasn't it? The register
was not to be gainsaid. Would you like
to see it ? "

Yes, if you're so pressing, and it is not too

much trouble. The registers are iu your custody,
of course."

Yes, sirree. They don't go out of my possession.
I know the penalties. I've got them
inside, in my back parlour, under lock and key.
Step in, gentlemen."

The register was produced — an ancient volume,
strongly bound and clamped, of the usual oblong
shape — and they turned rapidly over its pages
of printed forms filled in with varied handwritings,
till they reached the two entries that
had settled the succession to the Lezaire estates.

There, set down in regular form, was the
record of the marriage at Louisville on the 23d
of August, 185 — , of Percy Lezaire and Priscilla
Spary, in the presence of Abraham Comfort,
registrar, and two other witnesses. The register
was also duly signed by the parties to the
marriage.

That's good enough, ain't it ? " said Mr
Jerram. " I made six copies of that, with my
own hand, and certified them, at a dollar and
a half apiece. Best day's work I've had since

I was in Louisville. What are you looking at,
stranger ? D'ye think you can alter such facts
as those ? "

St Evelyn had been examining the register
fixedly, but with no special intention. He
stared at it abstractedly — he was musing in a
vague, dreamy, disconnected way, rather foreign
to his nature as a man of action, thinking of
the strange events, sorrows, disappointments —
crimes, perchance — that had followed from, or
might be concealed beneath, this brief entry in
clumsy characters and now fast-fading ink.

Mr Jerram repeated his question before St
Evelyn recovered himself

I ? Oh no, not in the least. Better and
sharper men than me tried that. Of course
the entry was tested, examined minutely ? It
might have been tampered with."

"Drop that, stranger. Who would you accuse
? That book has been in honest hands
for years — mine for the last five years — and
no man should tempt me to do what was wrong.
As for those that went before me "

*' No offence is meant, Mr Errand," protested
the Colonel — " certainly not against you ; but
now that I have raised this question, I shall
not be satisfied till I have answered it for myself
in my own way."

He took the book close up to the little window,
through which a stream of strong white
light, reflected from the snow outside, poured
into the parlour, and scanned the record attentively
for some minutes.

After that he held the page up to the window
against the light.

Then he returned to the table, and seeing his
companions watch him with surprise, said in
explanation —

I only wanted to be quite sure, and I am
not quite satisfied, I confess. Have you a
microscope in the house ? " he asked of the registrar
; "or a magnifying-glass of any kind ? "

That's about the only thing I don't keep or
sell."

I have a field-telescope with me," said Captain
Sutton — " the one I use in deer-stalking."

"Fetch it, Gibbings ; we'll unscrew the lenses,"
said the Colonel ; " that'll answer my purpose."


He brought the strong magnifier thus obtained
to bear upon the open register close
under the light.

Here, Mr Jerram, come and look for yourself,"
he went on, after a long pause, as he
handed over the register and the glass. ' ' What
do you make of it ? "

"Erasures — nary doubt of that. The paper
has been scratched down, and there's fresh
writing atop."

Are you sure of that ? " asked Gibbings.

I could take my oath to the scratching,
and I reckon I'm right about the writing.
They've used two kinds of ink, d'ye see ? "

How do you know that ? " asked Captain
Sutton in his turn, as he also examined the
entries.

Why, by the colour and the thickness. The
top writing's not in the ink we registrars always
use. Permanent ink ours is, warranted not to

wash out, and very black. The words over the
scratching are much paler, don't ye see ? "

You're right, Mr Jerram, and I compliment
you on your acumen," remarked the Colonel.
'sit is impossible to overestimate the importance
of this discovery, and for this reason, that
the words which have been tampered with are
the names, the Christian and surname, of one
of the parties to the marriage. ' Percy ' and
Lezaire ' have both been written in the new
ink."

But why ? " asked Sutton.

*' Presumably over other names. We have been
told that Priscilla Spary married Philip Lehague ;
depend upon it, this is the record of that
marriage, but the male name has been changed.
And unless I am much mistaken, it is the same "
the Colonel turned over the pages of the
register, and made another quick but searching
examination, — " yes, it is the same in the birth
certificate, the entry recording the birth of the
offspring of this marriage."

This is the rummest start ! " said Mr Terram,

presently. " It's quite clear there has been
fraud, but there's no telling when or how."

What ought to be clone. Colonel ? " asked
Sutton. " Of course you will act on this extraordinary
information."

We must first of all ask our friend here to
make quite sure of the register. It ought to be
impounded by some responsible official."

Can't you trust me, sir ? " said Mr Jerram.
I'll take good care of it, and swear to produce
it intact. You can seal it up if you like, and
the place where I keep it."

It's too precious, Mr Jerram, to be left in
this God-forsaken spot, at the mercy of any ill-disposed
people. I'd rather not let it out of
my sight. I'd like to take it straight back to
Sydney, and on by the first chance to Halifax."

"What's to harm it here? Who'll want to
interfere with it ? Why, think of all the years
it's lain unnoticed in that cupboard."

The Colonel was thinking over the assault
made upon Gibbings, and of the lengths to
which these reckless Podifats would go in

their desperate desire to hold their own. But
he only said —

*' You get sealing-wax and your official seal,
Mr Jerram, if you own such a thing. Make the
register into a parcel, and hand it over. I promise
you it shall be worth your while."

I can't part with the book," protested the
registrar.

Then we'll take you with it," said the
Colonel, with a pleasant laugh, which tempered
his resolute tone. " You shan't be separated ;
only the register shall not remain here."

'* Softly, gentlemen ; no threats. I'm an official
in the discharge of his duty — ready to give
proper assistance to all who claim it — but I am
also a trader and man of business, and in that
aspect I expect to be paid for my time."

'* You shall have all your expenses, never fear,"
said the Colonel, " and a handsome bonus, if all
turns out as I expect. So make your arrangements,
and we'll go back to Sydney this very
day."

If I must, I must ; you're too many forme,"

Mr Jerram admitted, with an air of resignation.


The truth was, he had no objection to visit
the capital at other people's expense. Sydney
was better than Louisville any day ; politics
were discussed there more frequently and with
greater fervour.

So the registrar sealed up the register formally
in the presence of all parties, and put it
under his arm. His wife, who would act as his
locum tenens in all his varied functions, was
summoned from the kitchen, and desired to
fetch his blue blanket-cloth overcoat, seamed
with scarlet lines, his great fur gauntlets, and
his snow-boots and fur cap ; and thus fortified
and prepared, Mr Jerram took his seat in the
Colonel's sleigh.

CHAPTER LXYL

THE FIRST SNOW.

Louisville had not seen so many visitors, nor
had " Jerram's " been so much in request, for
years. Scarcely had St Evelyn carried off the
registrar than two other visitors, both wearing
the hooded blanket-coat and high boots patronised
by male settlers at that season of the year,
asked for him at the office-shop, and learnt exactly
why he had gone away.

There was no reticence about Mrs Jerram, a
large loose-mouthed woman, who was as talkative
as her husband when she found a willing
listener, which Mr Jerram seldom was.

Such a racket you never saw. It was here
one minute and gone the next. I was in the

kitchen with a batch of new biscuits in the
stove when he calls, and he says, * I'm off to
Sydney.' ' Why not to Charleston ? ' says I,
or Miramichi, a-wasting your dollars ? ' ' It's
business,' says he. ' And who's to see after the
business here ? ' says I. ' And it's all paid for by
these gentlemen, and there will be more to come
by-and-by.' And next minute he was gone —
like a flash — in one of the other lot's sleighs."

Didn't he tell you what took him so suddenly
away ? "

Surely. It was all about that English case,
the Lezaire case — you may have heard. They'd
found a mistake in the register — a 'rasure or
something, and they were going to take the
book into the Supreme Court."

*eat Sydney?"

Perhaps, or Halifax, or even London, Gr. B.
Anyway, they've gone. They're to stay this
first night at the mines, so Jerram said. The
gentleman as stands treat was to give him a
shake-down, and they'd all go on to Sydney
tomorrow."

"Come along, Jacob," whispered one newcomer
to the other — the reader will have guessed
who they were. '' We must get back as slippy
as we can. We'll call round again," she went
onto Mrs Jerram, "when the registrar comes
back."

AVon't you leave any message ? My master's
bound to be home soon."

It'll keep, ma'am. Shove ahead, Jacob ;
get the pony harnessed up. It's a long* road
back, and we shall have more snow before
long." . *

The conveyance which had brought this
precious pair to Louisville was a common country
sleigh — a couple of planks laid on a framework,
with runners. An empty box lashed
between two upright sticks served for a seat,
and a coarse, much-worn buffalo-skin was the
only protection against the weather. The
horses were a hardy pair of native ponies,
shaggy and unkempt, but capable of doing long
distances at their own pace. They had travelled
already that day from the Nom de Dieu

mines to Louisville, quite twenty-five miles,
and they were about to do the journey again.

"What's your game now, Priss?" asked
Podifat, gruffly. " I ain't had a bite or sup
since morning, and the ponies ain't fit to
travel."

They've got to take us back to the mines,
if they drop at the end of it. It's our last
chance. Pm going to have that register, by
hook or crook."

What will you do with it ? "

Burn it, bury it in a snowdrift, or chuck it
into the sea. Without it they can do nothing
against Hubie, even if they lay hands on me.
So shove 'em along, and we'll make the mines
before nightfall. We'll lay by in the same
place till we have made fresh plans."

Their halting-place was a wayside drinking-place,
shanty-built, half a mile from the mines.
They had visited it more than once already,
coming out from Sydney on pretended business
at the mines, and now used it again to stable
their team.

You are late on the road," said the woman
who kept the place. " Are you going Sydney
way ? "

Yes, missus ; but the ponies want rest, and
we thought to give 'em a feed here while wee
see a friend."

You'll be wise to stop overnight, all of you.
It's coming on coarse, and there's lots of snow
to fall."

I reckon you're right," replied Mrs Leleu.
"Anyway, we'll see. Can you give us a bite? '
Some fried pork or salt mackerel — anything,
while the horses are eating their feed. Yes ?
Get it ready then ; we'll step over to the
mines."

Mrs Leleu wished to reconnoitre the St Evelynss'
house. She knew its exact position,
but that was not enough. She must, if possible,
ascertain who were its inmates, and what they
were about that night.

A toilsome walk through the fresh - fallen
snow brought them to the edge of the clearing,
from which they crept along the far side of the

snake-fence quite close to the house. It was
lit up, and lively with the sounds of voices and
the jingling of bells. The sleighs still stood at
the door, the horses still unharnessed, and St
Evelyn was plainly heard expostulating with
Mr Jerram.

You don't go on another yard to-night, I
tell you. You must take us as you find us,
but we will do our best to make you comfortable.
It's too late to see any one in Sydney,
and the horses are dead tired."

I wouldn't make so bold, Colonel ; I'd
loathe to put you and madam out ; but it ain't
a cheerful night to go further, and that's a
fact."

That'll do for the present," said Mrs Leleu.
He's camping here to-night. I'll know about
the inside of that house before morning, you'll
see.

The Colonel's ways were hospitable, and he
had long been debarred from entertaining
friends. Kachel, brought up in the liberal
ideas of English country-house life, was delighted

to receive her guests, and the present was
an especially joyous occasion. She had looked
for some days of comparative loneliness, with
the society only of Mrs Sutton, and now suddenly
her husband and his companions had
returned, bringing Mr Jerram along with him
and his extraordinary news. Nothing in the
house was too good for its guests. There was
no stint ; the store cupboards were ransacked,
the great Canadian stove in the kitchen was
laden with pots and pans, and quite a feast
was prepared.

The festivities within — the warmth, the
bright lights, the abundant fare, and the
cheery talk — were in strong contrast with the
dreariness of the scene outside. The snowstorm
had increased in severity as the night
drew on. It was one of those dense incessant
falls seen only in these latitudes, which soon
hide the tracks and lay the landscape knee-deep
in snow.

It's going to be a snorter," said old Jerram,
looking out. " The first big fall is always so.

VOL. III. s

We'll want the snow-plough to get on to Sydney
tomorrow."

And the snow-slices. You shall try them,
Mrs Sutton," said the Colonel.

Soft falling, Eta," added her husband ;
and you're bound to fall at first with soles of
catgut a yard long."

How thankful I am you are safe back at
home ! " was all Mrs St Evelyn could say. " If
even you had been delayed on the road "

'Ain't easy travelling anyhow in such a
storm as this. A roofs a roof, and snow's better
atop than below."

And to think that there may be poor people
on the road to-night," said tender-hearted
Rachel. ** Why, they might be lost, hopelessly
buried alive."

What was that ? " cried Mrs Sutton quickly,
her hearing quickened perhaps by Mrs St
Evelyn's remark. " Surely I heard a voice —
some one shouting."

"Impossible!" said the Colonel. "And at
this time of night. Here, Gibbings," he called

to the kitchen, " step outside and see what you
make of it."

There was a whisk of wind, bringing in a
cloud of snow, as Gibbings opened the outer
door and stood with his hand curved round
one ear.

"Not a doubt of it, sir," he sang out towards
the parlour. " There's some one shouting
down by the snake-fence, but I can see nothing
in this driving snow."

A sufficient summons this to bring every one
out ; and all the men, snatching up fur caps and
overcoats, went plunging out into the deep snow
that blocked up the pathway from the house.

It was not a dozen yards to the snake-fence,
the limit of the property, and just the other
side was the track into the mining village.
There were sounds as of people there, and
horses. Voices were muttering indistinguishable
words, and there was now and again the
jingle of a cracked sleigh-bell.

Who are you ? What brings you here on
such a night ? " shouted the Colonel.

'whose digging are these anyhow?" was
the answer. " Are ye wine to lend a hand ?
Guess we're adrift somehow."

Come on, man ; the gate's this way. Lead
your horses ; it's all good going under the new
snow."

Under the efforts and encouragement of the
whole party the two horses in the sleigh were
coaxed as far as the front door of the house,
where the light streamed out upon the newcomer.
He was white from head to foot, but
his face under the deep hood of his blanket-coat
was that of a full-blooded black man, and
he talked with a negro accent.

"Where do you come from?" repeated the
Colonel.

Taunton, good lor ! " answered the man,
rolling his white eyeballs, and showing his
glistening teeth.

"And where do you want to go?" added
Mr Jerram.

Sydney, God bless you ! Can't be much
murder away."

You'll never get on there to-night," said the

Colonel, " or until the storm abates. Fll give
you shelter here. No one would turn a dog
away from his door on such a night as this."

Will yer, though ? Say, Cissy, old gal,
wake up and hear what the gentleman says.
My old gal's on the sleigh there, most froze
alive," he went on, turning to the Colonel.

A woman ! Bring her in, man ! It's rank
wickedness to leave her out in the cold."

She was a curious-looking creature, this Cissy,
and but for the petticoat-skirt might have been
taken for a man. She had a man's blanket-coat
on, with the high hood pulled well forward, and
the opening was narrowed by a handkerchief
tied high up over the face ; but inside, at the
far end of this quaint head-dress — something
like a poke-bonnet — was a face as dark as her
companion's, and a pair of gleaming eyes.

*' Here, Kachel, Mrs Sutton, some of you !
come and look after this poor thing. Get her
in by the kitchen-fire."

The womenkind quickly gathered round the
belated black woman, and carried her close to
the great stove, where the snow that encrusted

her apparel quickly melted and made two great
pools on the floor.

Better get her things off" and put her ina
warm bed," suggested Rachel, full of kindly
consideration.

No, no, missis ; me do berry well so. Don't
you make no fuss about me — I'm only mean
trash ; I'll get 'long fine here by the fire.
Biemby me lie down dere, anywhere — so," and
suiting the action to her speech. Cissy huddled
herself into a heap in a corner, and left her
helpmate to shift for himself.

That was soon settled. Peter Lycurgus, ashe
called himself, refused to make free with a
white gentleman's house, and leaving his " old
gal to draw," led his horses across to a shed in
the yard, and expressed his intention of sharing[
their stable.

When bedtime came, an hour or two later,
the irruption of these two strange visitors and
the cordial welcome accorded them was almost
forgotten.

CHAPTER Lxvi

fire!

The St Evelyns' house was not sufficiently
roomy to accommodate a crowd of visitors
easily, but its masters did their best for their
guests. The Buttons had a room to themselves,
the spare room, the same which they had occupied
since their arrival ; and this with the St
Evelyns', a third room appropriated as nursery,
and a small den under the rafters for the Irish
help," made up the sleeping accommodation
of the house.

It was settled that Mr Errand and Gibbings
should make it out in the dining-room, which
they could leave betimes and before it was
required for breakfast. There remained only

the old negro woman, who still lay snoring
upon the kitchen-floor, and who sulkily resisted
all attempts to arouse her.

'*I wanted her to share Bridget's bed upstairs,"
said Mrs St Evelyn. " But Frau Siebel
is staying here to-night."

She'll do where she is well enough. Throw
one of those old robes over her," said the Colonel,
and they left her as she lay.

Good night, Mr Jerram," said the Colonel,
as he passed the dining-room door, immediately
adjoining the kitchen. "You had better let
me lock up the register."

"No, sirree ; I don't let that book out of my
possession until I hand it over to some officer of
the law."

Take care Gibbings don't steal it from under
your pillow," cried the Colonel, laughing, as he
went up-stairs. " Good night ! Good night 1 "

He was the last on the move, as he thought ;
but if he had returned to the kitchen he would
have found Cissy no longer a huddled-up shapeless
mass of wet clothes, but an upright figure

which had crept stealthily to the door, and
stood there alert and eager to hear what
passed.

'' I was wellnigh smothered," she said, drawing
back her hood and unbuttoning her heavy
coat. " I thought they'd sit all night. And
now they have gone to rest, how much nearer
am I to what brought me here right into the
lion's den? What can I do amongst such a
mob of them ? Four men, and three of them
hate me like hell. That blackguard Gibbings,
too, he's like a cat, with nine lives. But I'll fix
him next time, never fear."

How am I to get it ? " she went on musing,
as she crept stealthily about the kitchen in the
red flickering light of the blazing stove, the
door of which she had opened, peering into
corners and exploring every inch. An hour or
more passed thus between cat - like creeping
about the floor and fits of motionless abstraction,
as she sat gazing into the glowing fire.

If I could only steal it in the night — they
are bound to sleep hard, those two — steal it and

make off at daylight. Jacob swears lie could
find his way, storm or no storm. I wonder if
it's snowing still ? "

She opened the shutters gently, and looked
out on the night.

It might have been a preconceived signal, for
almost immediately some one approached the
window outside.

Cissy, or more exactly Mrs Leleu, started
back, effacing herself, evidently uncertain what
to expect.

But a gentle tap with the finger-nail upon
the window reassured her. She lifted the sash
an inch or two, while the person outside swept
away the deep snow from the window-sill.

*' What cheer, Priss ? — how goes it ? " The
query was whispered so low that she barely
caught the words.

"What of the night? Is it still snowing?
Could you find your way out of this at daybreak
? "

"Ay, before that. I can see in the dark —
but it won t be that ; the sky is clearing, and

FIRE ! 283

we shall have the northern lights to show us
the road."

"There'll be more light than that, Jacob,
you'll see : a big blazing torch. Just wait.
But listen now. Get back to the shed, harness
the horses, cut loose the bells — mind that ; and
have everything ready to hurry off the moment
I come out — any time this next hour or two.
You be on the watch, and next time I open the

«

shutter put the horses to. But don't stop
talking here now, we might be heard."

She shut down the window as gently as she
had opened it, and resumed her place by the
stove.

They might catch me in their room : they
sleep light for all I know. It isn't safe to try
that. The other plan's better and bigger, and
it will rid us of them all. So easy, too : everything
ready to one's hand. But I must get to
work : there is plenty to do, and the time is
creeping on."

She threw off her overcoat, which would have
impeded her movements, and passed out from

the kitchen into a little lean-to or scullery
beyond, where there was a store of chopped
wood and short logs for the kitchen-stove. She
carried this, armful after armful, into the main
kitchen, and stacked it round the stove. Then
she went to the kitchen-cupboard, and brought
out a large stone jar she had discovered previously.
It was without label, but the contents
betrayed themselves at once by the smell.
There is no mistaking petroleum or paraffin.

Uncorking the jar, she filled a tin pannikin
with the fluid, which she poured over the
fagots and brushwood, repeating the process
until the jar was empty, and the firewood was
as inflammable as tinder.

*' The train's laid," she said, exultingly. " I've
only to apply the match, and they will all be
burnt alive in their beds. It will blaze up like
a furnace, too, and I must get what I want right
off, or I may be singed in the very act."

She looked round when the work was completed,
and opened the shutter and then the
window to increase the draught. Another moment

was spent in putting on her blanket overcoat
and readjusting her hood.

All now was ready.

Here goes ! " she muttered between her set
teeth, as with the iron rake she dragged out
a lot of burning embers from the stove right
into the thick of the fagots, and then ran for
her life to the door.

The whole kitchen was filled instantaneously
with flame ; great tongues of fire, strong and
fierce, leapt up from the floor, and lapped the
place in sudden insatiable conflagration.

For one instant this devilish woman paused
on the threshold to look back upon her handiwork.
Satisfied with its completeness, she
suddenly rent the silence of the night with
vigorous yells of "Fire! Fire! Fire!" then
made straight for the dining-room, which was
at her hand.

Its occupants were the first roused by her
note of alarm. Gibbings and Mr Jerram rushed
out into the passage, shouting, " Where ?
Where ? " But the question was answered by

the lurid light that blazed out from the burning
kitchen. The flames lit up the dining-room
too, illumining every part ; and Mrs Leleu
took in at one glance the two mattresses on
the floor, and the tumbled heaps of rugs and
robes that showed where the men had been
sleeping.

With one bound she was in the room and
out again. A few seconds of frenzied search
revealed the presence of the bulky volume, to
obtain which this female had not hesitated to
sacrifice a whole houseful — tender infants, helpless
women, strong men, and all. She hastily
hid the precious register beneath her coat,
unfastened the front door, and escaped out
into the snow.

By this time the whole place was on the move.
Terror and consternation had possession of the
household ; affrighted women mingled their
shrieks with the male shouts of warning and
dismay. Suddenly, above the tumult, St
Evelyn's sonorous voice rang out in notes of
sternest command.

Silence, every one, and listen ! "

He was cool, masterful, self-possessed, like a
soldier on parade.

*' Sutton," he said sharply, "you see to the
women and children : get them out of the
house. Rachel, my dear, take your orders from
him ; wrap up warm and quick. Go on. Ah,
yes ! and send on to the village for help — one
of the servants, they know the road best."

*' They'll sink in the new snow. I'll go-with
the snow-shoes — they're hanging up in the
hall." The suggestion was from Mr Jerram.

"Good! be off with you! Now, Gibbings,
you and I must tackle the fire. Where is it?

ft/

What can we do ? "

In the kitchen, sir. Very little, sir." The
man answered his master's questions promptly
in succession. " The water's froze hard everywhere."


Let's try snow ; it may smother the fire.
And we may isolate it ; the kitchen is built
out, you know. Out with you ! Force open
the window, while I bring shovels."

Gibbings, in spite of his excitement, noticed
at once that the window was open, and wondered.
By-and-by he remembered the fact,
and understood it.

Two men shovelling snow through a window
upon a raging fire were not likely to make much
more impression on it than Mrs Warrington on
the sea when she tried to keep it out with her
mop.

St Evelyn and Gibbings worked hard ; Sutton
soon joined them. But the flames gained
ground steadily, and it seemed certain that the
old frame-house was doomed.

*' It will catch the dining-room soon," said
the Colonel. " We shall not save a thing."

•'The register — did anyone think of that ? "
asked Sutton.

Not I, nor Mr Jerram. But I'll go back ;
there may be time."

He ran into the house, deaf to the Colonels
expostulations, and was so long away that they
feared he had been engulfed in the fire.

It's gone, sir ! I looked high and low till I

dared stay no longer. The wall was cracking.
Save us ! what's that ? "

At this moment the roof of the kitchen, a
single-storeyed shed or outhouse, fell in with
a tremendous crash. The uprights must have
been burnt clean through, and down came the
whole superstructure, letting several tons of
newly fallen snow in at once upon the fire.
The dead weight choked it, with a tremendous
hissing and spluttering, while dense volumes of
smoke rose from the ruins.

Now lads, shovel away ! " cried the Colonel,
grasping the situation, and working with wild
energy to pile on more snow, *' Keep it under.
It's mastered, I do believe."

There was not a doubt of it. The snow falling
from the roof had suddenly and completely
extinguished the fire.

St Evelyn satisfied himself of this, and then
hurried off to tell the joyful news to his wife.
They were cowering together, all the women,
in a corner of the warm stable, shivering, but
more from terror than cold.

VOL. III. T

Confidence was soon restored, more and more
wraps were brought from the house — for St
Evelyn insisted that until daylight came and
the amount of damage was known, no one but
the men should re-enter it.

The kitchen is quite destroyed, then ? " said
Mrs St Evelyn. " But that poor negro woman —
has any one seen her ? Surely she got out intime,
or can she have perished? How truly
horrible ! Oh, do go and see ! "

"No one thought of her, I'm afraid. She
made no sign, you know. Nor the man.
Where is he, by the way? He never offered
his help. Can he have slept through it all ? "

They made search in the stable, but came
upon no signs of him. What was more strange,
his horses and sleigh had all disappeared too.

I don't understand — except that they were
curs and ran the moment the fire showed."

That's about it. Colonel." The speaker was
Mr Jerram. " But they did not run far. I
came upon their sleigh just at the entrance of
the village. They were in difficulties with a

drift, and had overturned. Some of the boys
had turned out to lend 'em a hand when I came
up with the news of the fire. I twigged our
friends at once, and thinking it odd they should
have slipped away so quickly, had them detained.
It was just as well. What d'ye think
one of the boys found in the snow ? Look ye
hear ! "

It was the register, which had dropped from

«

inside Mrs Leleu's coat when the sleigh had
upset.

I begin to smell a rat," said the Colonel.
Where are these two black folk ? "

Black, Colonel ? They're only nigger minstrels.
Why, the snow had washed it most off.
We twigged with a lantern-light "

They must be taken care of, these two —
kept close prisoners. I don't doubt now that
the house was purposely set on fire."

The rest is soon told.

When daylight came. Colonel St Evelyn with
Gibbings went into the village, where the latter
at once identified the pretended negroes as

Podifat and Mrs Leleu. They were now under
the escort of a handful of stalwart miners, in
whose charge they were removed to Sydney the
same day, and thence by steamer to Halifax.

Several serious charges hung over them —
theft, incendiarism, attempted murder — and
they were at once committed to the city jail
to take their trial at the next Colonial Criminal
Assize.

CHAPTEK Lxviii

JUSTICE AT LAST.

The case against Sir Hubert Lezaire was by
this time conclusive and complete. The whole
guilty conspiracy was unmasked ; the whole
plot, so astutely contrived and so recklessly
carried out, was exposed to the full light of
day.

Much new evidence was soon forthcoming.
As the strange story circulated through the
colony — and the crimes attempted at Cape
Breton gave it a publicity the Lezaire succession
had never obtained — many people came
forward to establish Mrs Leleu's identity with
Priscilla Podifat, the sister of the man Jacob,
who was her associate, confederate, and tool. It

was proved, too, that the woman Poclifat had
once been in service at Louisville with the
former registrar. Yet more, — that she had had
a child — a son — by some Englishman — a swell,
people said — who had visited the colony five or
six and twenty years before ; and this information
further investigated, brought out the surprising
fact that the stranger was no other than
Sir Percy Lezaire.

All this Colonel St Evelyn, as he obtained
the news, transmitted home. The discovery in
the register was also sworn to by affidavits, and
the book itself surrendered for safe-keeping to
officials of the supreme court. There was more
than enough now to justify a fresh suit of ejectment,
and oust the so-called Sir Hubert Lezaire.

The business was intrusted to Mr Tinson.
The St Evelyns themselves wisely resolved to
remain in the colony until the case was finally
decided at home. Besides, the Colonel was
bound to appear against the Podifats, and the
trial was not to come on till after Christmas.
The interval he spent at the mines, still scrupulously

attentive to the interests of his kind
employer, who had helped him in the hour of
direst need.

When the Podifats were arraigned a fresh
detainer was lodged against the woman ; and
at the termination of the trial for attempted
murder and arson, which entailed a sentence often
years' penal servitude on both brother and
sister, Priscilla was surrendered by the colonial
tipstaff to two emissaries of the Thorpeshire
police.

They held a warrant and a judge's order to
bring her home to England for trial as the
murderess of Sir Carysfort Lezaire.

The young interloper did not wait to be
ejected. While his nearest relations, one of
whom had risked everything for him, were
playing the last cards in their desperate game,
he was in trouble on his own account.

Old Fieldus had proved implacable. When
he discovered the wrong that his daughter had
suffered at the hands of the seductive but unprincipled
Hubert, he had sworn to have revenge.

The case he had commenced for breach of promise
was expanded into a charge of felonious
abduction. It was easy enough to make out
that Rebecca Fieldus was a presumptive heiress,
and to bring young Podifat — that was the name
and description under which he was indicted —
within the act.

Hubert fled, but was promptly pursued and
captured. The case was tried at the Central
Criminal Court, and ended in a short sentence
of imprisonment, which had not expired when
Mrs Leleu, as we may still call her, was brought
back to England.

They now associated Hubert with her in the
indictment for murder, and when the craven
hound learned that he was to be put on his trial
on a capital charge, he voluntarily offered to
make a clean breast of it and tell all he knew.

He was allowed to turn Queen's evidence,
and his testimony — against his mother, whose
crimes had been committed solely for him — sufficed
to convict her of the murder of the last
baronet

Hubert's story was circumstantial, and the
jury believed it. Let me give it in his own
words, as he told it in court : —

I never knew she was my mother — not till
long after I got the property. How should I ?
She never treated me as a son, but was always
on to me, bullying and bullyragging me, and
saying I was good for nought.

It was after I went back to live at the Hall
that I first began to understand. She tried her
old games, and I could not put up with her. I
ordered her out of the place, and she answered
back that I was only there at her pleasure —
that she had got me in, and that she could put
me out, and a lot more like that.

I didn't believe a word till she showed me
what she had written. She could write anything,
in anybody's hand, and she had forged
Sir Percy's, because, she said, I was his son, and
ought to be the heir.

^*I hid the coat — the Colonel's coat — for
her. It was in her room till she went away,
but she didn't choose to take it with her, and

left me to find a place for it. I remembered
the old North Lodge, and as it stood empty,
I went there one night and put it in an old
box there.

Is there anything more you'd like to know,
gentlemen ? "

He spoke timorously, shamefacedly, like the
coward that he was, and as usual with downcast
eyes ; but he had all the more reason, for opposite
him in the dock the prisoner who had
imperilled herself to serve him was glaring at
him with wild rage at his base ingratitude.

He was questioned about the poison, its purchase,
its administration. On neither point
could he speak precisely, although he well remembered
Mrs Leleu's presence in the sickroom
and by the bedside.

Once or twice I wondered what she was
at, but I never rightly made out. Only I
guessed in the end. I knew then what she
had done."

The summing up and verdict were a foregone
conclusion. There was no doubt of the miserable

woman's guilt. Priscilla Podifat, alias
Charlotte Leleu, was found guilty and sentenced
to death.

No mercy was shown her — no commutation
of the punishment. Poisoners never escape the
extreme rigour of the law ; and the wily deep-scheming
fiend who had done one innocent
young life to death and nearly wrecked others,
suffered on the scaffold of Market Eeepham jail.

A word or two more, dismissing the rest of
the personages in this veracious history. To all,
time brought its revenges : some encountered
woes and worries not altogether undeserved;
others, those especially whom the reader ought
to be interested in as having endured great
wrong and grievous hardship, found compensation
in after-life.

The waters of impecuniosity closed over
General Wyndham-Parker's head. The moneylender,
Issachar, sued him on the bill he had

signed for £10,000, and drove him into the
bankruptcy court. He emerged with only a
fraction of his former income left, which he
eked out hereafter in a small Italian town.
Neither he nor his wife could forgive Mrs
Sutton ; and they kept so close a watch on the
other girls, that no more elopements and no
more marriages took place in the family. They
had enough of Hubert Podifat, and his name
has never since been mentioned among them.

Young Podifat — the name to which he of
course reverted — disappeared entirely from
Thorpeshire. Through the kindness of the St
Evelyns, he was helped out of the country to
the Canadian far west, and he receives a small
allowance so long as he remains away.

There was great rejoicing at Straddlethorpe
when the rightful owners came back to their
own. Lady Lezaire, backed up by Mr Tinson,
was at the Hall to greet them, and welcomed St
Evelyn as cordially now as she had detested
him when he first arrived. The county, too,
turned out in a body to make amends for the

evil it had wrought, and the Colonel was raised
at once to a pinnacle of popularity.

Gibbings came with his master to take up his
permanent residence at the Hall. He is quite
one of the family — no longer a servant, but a
valued and trusted friend.

Another stanch friend in time of trial, Mr
Carrington Lomas, is one of the most welcome
of the numerous guests invited to Straddle-thorp
e. *

THE END

Printed BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBAN A



".m

'•^(^m

liW'"'.'!.

«.wv>!-,

life;

-'.'■'' ';! ■''''■[ 'i'l''','''^
■ '■■'vV'ij

:^ij"

-;ii!' :;r:

'^.-.Uk'A

i\.mmm

'■■■' ■*Viv; "''!'.'-■■■"]

'.■.51

.,1
