^^^^d^

;^amm!:^

mm,,

■,i7J .,.ii,U.,-.

Sir

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS



GB76s
vi

A SON OF MARS.

k

The Fifth Edition of

PARIS HERSELF AGAIN.

BY

GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.

Illustrated by the first French Artists.
Demy 8vo, handsomely bound, 25.9.

REMINGTON & CO. 133 NEW BOND STREET, W.

Of every Bookseller.

BY

MAJOR ARTHUR GRIFFITHS,

AUTHOR OP
THE QUEEN'S SHILLING,' ' LOLA,' * A WAYWARD WOMAN,' ETC.

VOL. I.

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED,

LONDON:

REMINGTON AND CO.

133 NEW BOND STREET, W.
[Removed from 5 Arundel Street Strand, W.C]

1880.

V, 1

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE MILITARY CRADLE.

To the right, under the arch leading to the
casemate barracks at Triggertown, dwelt
Jonadab Larkins, a deserving public servant
who had enjoyed the proud position
of barrack sergeant for some years. He
was like the old lady who lived in the shoe.
He had more children than he could do
with comfortably, so he gave it up as a
bad job, and let them do for themselves.
Mrs. Larkins, what with cooking, cleaning,
and the family washing, had no spare time
on her hands ; and except to yell out shrill

VOL. I. B

cautions which no one heeded, or threats
of corporal punishment which were forgotten
as soon as uttered, allowed her brood
to risk their lives as freely as they pleased.
They had many outlets of this kind; one
favourite amusement was to hang themselves
to the chains of the drawbridge
leading to the barracks ; another to walk
along the brick edge of the counterscarp;
but that which all enjoyed most was to
watch the approach of vehicles in the main
thoroughfare, and to rush madly across the
road right under the horses' feet. It was
often a very near thing; and the nearer
they went to self immolation the better
they were pleased. But the pitcher goes
once too often to the well. One fine day
there was a tremendous disturbance in the
street; a crowd gathered quickly, and presently
a message reached Mrs. Larkins that

one of her bairns had been driven over and
was killed.

Which on 'em is it ?' shrieked the red-armed
but pleasant-visaged dame. ' Not
Rechab, nor yet Sennacherib, nor yet Jemima
Ann ?'

No; it was Hercules Albert, the eldest
of the family, who was just then carried
in and laid upon the bed.

A lady — a middle-aged lady, with silver
white hair and a worn emaciated face — followed,
and looking round with a strange
wild look in her eyes, asked almost hysterically
:

'Is he much injured? Will he live?
Where are the people who call themselves
his parents?'

The lad was only stunned, and a little
water quickly brought him to.

I should have been so grieved had he

come to harm,' went on the lady. ' It was
my coachman's fault. It has been a terrible
shock to me; quite terrible. But tell
me — '

She looked hastily round, then whispered
to Larkins —

How did you come by this child ?'

The Sergeant stared at her in amazement
—

Honestly ! Why, it's our own — leastways
it's the mother's.'

Do you mean that you are its mother ?'
she asked of Mrs. Larkins.

Certainly I do ! Do you dispute it ?'

'Mother? Yes. It may be so. But you,
you man, you are not his father? You
cannot be. It is impossible, simply impossible.
Why, the child has his eyes ; his
own dear eyes, I could swear to them
among a thousand. You cannot, you shall

not deceive me. How came you by this
child ?'

'He's not my own son, that I won't
deny,' said the Sergeant. ' But he is my
missus's ; she was a widow when I married
her, and — '

I must have the boy. You cannot refuse
him to me. I will buy him of you ;
will pay you any price you please. But
he must leave this place. It is no place
for Mm.^

And she gazed scornfully at the humble
surroundings. The little dark vaulted room
with its one deep recessed window, its inner
space curtained off to form a second bedroom,
the litter and mess about the floor.

'This is no place for — '

She paused suddenly, and a wild scared
look came over her face. A footman, one
of her own people, a tall, black-whiskered

and pompous James, was standing in the
doorways, and the sudden apparition seemed
to put a seal upon her tongue.

The horses, m' lady,' said the man respectfully
enough, although there was an
accent of authority in his voice. 'The
horses have been standing nearly half an
hour, m' lady, and the coachman says — '

Yes, yes, I'll come at once — at once,
Robert. Good people, you will understand
my anxiety for the boy. The blame rested
so entirely upon us. It is an immense
relief to know that he is not injured.'

Then watching her opportunity, she
hissed out with frenzied eagerness —

Not a word to a soul ; not a syllable,
as you value Ms future and my peace. I
will come again tomorrow, or sooner, unattended.
H — sh, for heaven's sake, h — sh,'
and she hurriedly left the room.

'Well, I'm blowed' said the Sergeant,
clrawino; a iona; breath. ' If that ain't the
rummest o;ame. What does it mean, missus ?
Can you tell?'

Mrs. Larkins met his inquiring eyes
quite steadily, and if she was conscious of
any mystery no suspicion of it could be
traced in her voice and manner.

She must be off her head — that's my
notion — clean, stark, staring mad.'

And mine too. Yon flunkey was her
keeper, I expect. Bound to look after her
and keep her out of mischief. It'll make a
fine talk in the barracks, this will.'

'• I don't see why it should. I wouldn't
let on if I was you ; don't gossip about it at
the canteen, Sergeant, or at the sergeants'
mess. What's the good ?'

A docile and obedient husband was
Sergeant Larkins, who, through all the

years of his married life, had accepted his
wife's will as law. Mrs. Larkins was a
buxom, bright-eyed dame, who made a
man's home comfortable for him, so long ashe
allowed her to rule.

'You're right. It's a folly always to
talk, leastways when you've nothing to talk
about, and the freaks of a mad woman don't
amount to much. We shan't hear no more
about lier''

Nor did they for days, nay, weeks, but
months, and the episode was fading from
their memories, at least from that of the
Sergeant, when the lady suddenly re-appeared
unattended and alone.

She looked suspiciously about her as
she entered the room.

I could not come before. I have been
watched. Even now I fear they are on my
track. Quick ! Where is the boy ?'

Hercules Albert was where he and his
brothers generally were — in mischief.

I must see him ; my heart yearns for
him. And to think that I should find him
thus! How inscrutable are the ways of
Providence ! My sweet, my pet, it is balm
to my wounded heart!' And she kissed and
fondled the boy, regardless of the mud with
which his dirty face was encrusted, and of
his own evident perturbation and objection
to these endearments.

^ But I must not waste time. I may be
disturbed before I have said my say.
Listen: you will let me have the child?
You shall name your own price. I will
ask no questions. Keep your own counsel.
You shall not divulge your secrets.'

'There ain't no secrets to divulge,' said
the Sergeant stoutly. ' And you shan't buy

ft brat of mine, as though he were a full-blooded
Congo on the West coast.'

Wait, Larkins — let's see what the lady
means,' the practical wife interposed. Mrs.
Larkins was quite quiet and self-possessed,
as she looked her strange visitor full in the
face. ' Perhaps she will explain. Do you
wish to adopt the child?'

'I do — and mere. I wish to educate
-him to be worthy of his birth, and of that
position which he must some day come to,
in spite of all. He shall have all my love
while I live, all my possessions after death.
They are his by right, indefeasible. Has he
not Herbert's eyes? Is he not my — ?'

Say no more, Madam,' Mrs. Larkins interrupted
her. ' If you are in sober, serious
earnest, if you mean what you say — '

Surely you would not part with the
child, not like this ?'

We have seven, Jonadab, and it is a
fine chance for one. If you are in earnest,
Madam — '

'Will this prove to you that I am in
earnest?' said the lady, taking from her
purse a roll of bank notes. ' Here are fifty
pounds. Spend it in outfit ; get him proper
clothes, books, boxes, all that a boy wants
when he is going to a school. Within ,a
fortnight you shall hear from me through a
lawyer. I will send full instructions, and
a confidential messenger, who shall take
Herbert — Herbert he must be called, not
Hercules — Herbert Farrins^ton. '

'Is that your own name?' asked Mrs.
Larkins, rather hurriedly.

Certainly, I am Lady Farrington. You
have then heard the name before ? You
know me? Say you know me, that you
knew Herbert. Confess that Herbert was — '

'My lady, you are mistaken; I never
knew any Herbert Farrington — never in
all my life !'

Lady Farrington shook her head sadly.

If you know, and will not speak, you
may do the child irreparable harm. No
matter. It is sufficient for the present that
he is mine; that he passes into my keeping
; that I am free to lavish upon him the
whole of my pent-up yearning affection.
The rest will come — all in good time-heaven
bless you, Herbert, and prosper
you, and bring you some day to your
own.'

She kissed the bewildered boy repeatedly,
shook hands with his father and
mother, and then left the place.

I don't like it, I don't ; blowed if I do,'
said the Sergeant. 'It ain't fair on the
youngster, it ain't — to give him oyer to that

crack-brained old idiot! Why, you may
tell she is mad by her talk and her ways.
Maybe she'll fatten him up and eat him;
or perhaps she'll turn him into a Papist ora
Frenchman. He shan't go.'

You're a fool, Larkins ! But it's more
my business than it is yours after all. And
where's the harm? Doesn't she promise
fair enough, and ain't these notes a pretty
certain proof that she is all above board ?
We won't lose sight of the boy — not altogether.
We'll stipulate that we are to
see him sometimes, and then he can't go far
wrong. But you hold your tongue, that's
what you've got to do. None of your blabbing
or gossipping about. If they ask you
what's become of Herkles, why say he's got
into the Duke of York's school, and won't
be back for ever so long.'

I wish he had. I could see my way

then. But I can't now, and it beats me
how you can take it all so coolly.'

The honest Sergeant was chiefly concerned
as to the little chap's future prospects.
But although he was not a man of
keen intelligence or of suspicious nature, he
was also a little exercised as to the strangeness
of the whole affair. He might explain
the lady's conduct by calling it
eccentricity or madness, but he could not
quite understand the part his wife had
played.

He would have been still more perplexed
had he returned unexpectedly from the canteen
that evening after all the children were
in bed. He would have found his wife engrossed
with the treasures of a little box
which she had emptied on her lap. A few
gilt buttons, a lock of fair hair, a bow of
ribbon — that was all.

Yet she wept bitterly as she kissed them
again and again, and restored them one by
one to the sacred box reverentially, as
though each was a relic in her eyes.

THE Warrington FAMILY.

Warrington Court was the dower-house of
the Farrington family, where dowagers and
heirs apparent resided, according as it might
happen to suit. The Lady Farrington mentioned
in the last chapter had occupied it
for years — ever since the death of her husband
and her sons, when the bulk of the
property, with the title, had passed to Rupert
Farrington, the late baronet's nephew.
Sir Rupert lived now at Farrington Hall,
with his wife and one son of his own.

Old Lady Farrington, in her losses and
lier loneliness, was a woman much to be
pitied. She had seen her children die, all
of them but one. He also was dead, but

miserably, and at a distance probably from
home. Her husband she had mourned last
of all, at a time when she had most needed
strength and support. The ncAV baronet
did not treat her well. She was no doubt
fortified by ample settlements. Farrington
[^ Court was hers also, by right inalienable,
during her lifetime. Yet Sir Rupert had
had it in his power to put her to infinite
pain, and wittingly or unwittingly had not
spared her in the least. The ejectment
from the Hall — her once happy home, th
scene of her married life, where all her children
had been born, and where all were
buried, save one — had been carried outwith
an almost brutal abruptness, which
cut the poor afflicted soul to the quick.
Sir Rupert had driven hard bargains with
her also in taking over the house and the
estate ; had insisted upon the uttermost

VOL. I. c

farthing, had denied her many possessions,
small and seat, which she valued as reminding
her of the past, but which were
his, according to the strict letter of the law.
His unkindness pursued her even to the
house which she might still call her own.
But hers was only a life-interest, after all ;
and, as Warrington Court must in due
course lapse back to the family, Sir Rupert
felt bound, he said, for his own and his
son's sake, to see that the place came to no
harm. His interference and inquisitiveness
were, in consequence, constant and vexatious.
He insisted upon inspecting the
house regularly; he must satisfy himself
that the repairs were duly executed, that
the gardens and glass houses were properly
kept up, and that no timber was cut down.
He did not scruple to tell Lady Farrington
that he looked upon her as a tenant, and

los no means a good one, to whom he would
gladly give notice to quit if he could.

These first causes for irritation and dislike
deepened in time to positive hatred.
Lady Farrington came by degrees to fear
Sir Rupert with a terror that was almost
abject; and when we fear others to this
extent we undoubtedly hate them very cordially
too. Her terror was not difficult t#
explain. It had its grounds in the conviction
that she was more or less in his power.
There was a secret which she had as she
thought kept hitherto entirely to herself,
but which he, as time passed and brought
him opportunities for close observation, had
eventually discovered. She herself knew,
and by degrees she felt that he also knew
that her mind was a little unsound.

Lady Farrington had been an eccentric
woman even in her husband's lifetime. Her

ways had been odd ; her manners strange.
She was given to curious likes and dislikes,
which showed themselves in extraordinary
ways. Thus she hated the wife of a neighbouring
squire — an upstart woman, certainly,
but nothing worse than gauche or ill-bred.
Whenever this lady called at the hall the
chair on which she had sat was sent to the
upholsterers to be re-covered. On one occasion,
when she came at the time of afternoon
tea, Lady Farrington threw the cup
and saucer her visitor had used into the
fire, declaring it should never be drunk out
of again. A more unnatural antipathy was
that which she long entertained for her
second son — a dislike which had caused
him much misery, and her much subsequent
anguish of mind. As against all this,
she had been extravagantly fond of her
husband and her first-born. When the former

left her even for a few hours, she kept
his hat and walking-stick in the room with
her, as though to cheat herself into the belief
that he was really in the house; the
latter she coddled and consented to such an
extent that he grew up weakly and died
young.

But after all her bitter trials and heavy
blows, her eccentricity had developed sq
rapidly that it might fairly be called by a
stronger name. At first she shut herself
up in a private chamber, surrounded by the
relics of happier days, and brooded sorrowfully
over riding-whips, cricket-bats, and
all manner of childish toys. Then she went
to the other extreme ; threw off her widow's
weeds and decked out in gay colours, and
with a long white veil, drove about the
country lanes in a carriage with grey horses,
as though she were a newly-married bride.

When Sir Kupert's persecution had grown
into a serious annoyance, she concentrated
upon him all the aversion she had once
levelled at more innocent objects of dislike.
She never would have admitted him to
the house, but as he would take no denial
she consoled herself by throwing open all
the windows and doors, whatever the weather,
directly he had left the house, insisting
that the place was unfit for habitation
until it had been thoroughly aired. Then,
saying his threats and menaces put her in
bodily fear, she got into the habit of packing
all her most treasured belongings in
one or two trunks which she kept locked
in her bedroom, under her own eye, in
readiness as it were for immediate flight.

For a long time Sir Kupert seemed to
take but little notice of her vagaries. When
the county folk commiserated him, and

inquired after poor Lady Farrington, he
merely shrugged his shoulders and touched
his forehead in a melancholy pitying way.
She had had so much trouble in her time,
poor soul. It was very dreadful of course.
But what could be done ? She had every
care and attention he could secure for her.
He went to see her frequently in spite of
her strange dislike, so did his wife. He did
his duty by her as well as he possibly could.
She was harmless, and as he thought perfectly
safe. She had good servants about
her ; he himself sav to that, and there was
no necessity to put her under restraint —
unless indeed, she became very much worse.
If her malady increased to the extent of
endangering the safety of those about her
or of the house — by no means a secondary
consideration with him — whv then, as a last
alternative, she must be shut up.

He did not conceal from her, however,
that this would ultimately be her fate.
More than once he warned her that he
knew her condition, and would some day
be compelled to take steps to make her
secure. But he said this with no object
but to prove his power, and Lady Warrington
would probably have been left to pursue
the curious tenour of her ways, had not
her mania taken a direction which threatened
to be distinctly inconvenient to Sir
Rupert.

Of all the woes which Lady Farrington
suffered, the keenest perhaps was remorse
for her treatment of her second son. As
has been said, she had looked upon him
always with disfavour ; Herbert never could
please. Where another more tenderly
cared for would have been gently corrected,
he was called wilful, obstinate, perverse,

and sharply chilled and admonished. He
it was who was always in the wrong; he it
was who led the other boys into mischief.
It was his fault, or said to be his, when the
boat upset, or the ice broke, or the gun
went off, or any mishap occurred. As he
grew to man's estate his mother's indifference
did not soften into warmer feelings.
Poor Herbert failed at school and college
the obvious consequence of early neglect.
He could not pass the army examination,
although he honored to wear a red coat.
All he could do was to roam the woods
with dog and gun at Farrington, consorting
with grooms and keepers, enjoying an open
air life the more because he thereby escaped
from the house and his mother's sneers.
But these last, although thus rarely encountered,
became at length unbearable, and
one fine morning Herbert was not to be

found. He had gone off, leaving a note to
say that pursuit or inquiry would be fruitless,
as he meant to leave England for good
and all; nothing should induce him to
return to Farrington Hall.

The blow fell heaviest upon Lady Farrington,
who felt that she had been principally
to blame. Prompt search was accordingly
instituted, but all to no purpose.

Some said that he had emigrated, some
that he had enlisted, others that he had
gone to sea. No one ever saw him in the
flesh again. Only Lady Farrington, in
whom the catastrophe had worked a strong
revulsion of feeling, was positive that she
had seen him in the spirit more than once.
He had appeared to her, last of all, just
after the death of Algernon, the eldest son.
Nor had he appeared alone. Hand-in-hand
with him was a comely fair-haired girl, with

a baby in her arms. Herbert bad pointed
significantly to the child, and Lady Warrington
interpreted the gesture to mean that
he and his son were now the rightful heirs
of the Farrington title and estates. This
vision she tremulously described to her husband
and to others, but it was treated even
by Sir Algernon as a mere dream, or the
hallucination of an over wrought brain.

Nothing more would have been thought
of the circumstances of Herbert's disappearance
and shadowy return, except as a great
and irreparable sorrow, but for the arrival
of a mysterious packet, a year or two later,
which contained a lock of light curly hair —
Herbert's ? — and a scrap of paper, on which
was written, in Herbert's handwriting, " Be
kinder to my boy.'

After this, a frantic desire to discover and
do justice to her injured son possessed Lady

Farringtoiij to the exclusion of all other
objects in life. The family lawyers were
called in; detectives, public and private,
were employed ; advertisements were inserted
in the agony columns of the journals
with the largest circulation in the world.
As substantial rewards were offered, numbers
of sons were promptly forthcoming.
But not one of them was the right one; nor
was any information which could be relied
upon obtained, neither as to whether Herbert
Farrington himself was alive or dead,
or whether, in the latter case, he had left
any heirs. Lady Farrington endured another
and a more bitter disappointment
than any she had hitherto experienced in
life.

It was not till Ions: after the death of
her husband and her occupation of Farrington
Court, that the old theory as to the

existence of a grandson was revived by her.
Why or wherefore no one could understand.
Had she come upon any traces of
the long-lost son ? Or was it merely that
her mind, in its increasing weakness, worked
back into old grooves? Be the cause what
it might, Lady Farrington seemed at times
strangely positive that she should find the
missing dear one, or his representative;,
after all. She often hinted, darkly and
mysteriously, that there was a great surprise
in store for Sir Kupert. Something
he little expected would assuredly come to
pass when matters were properly ripe.
There was no hurry. It was better to
make all sure before the mine was sprung.
No link in the chain must be wanting. But
all would be ready ere long. Then let Sir
Rupert look to himself.

All this gave the baronet, who was

really the man in possession, but little uneasiness.
As the next heir, he had heard
long ago of the eager inquiries for the missing
Herbert; and although he had resented
them then, he had accepted their impotent
conclusion as an unanswerable proof that
his presumptive rights were not to be impugned.
On the death of Sir Algernon his
title had not been disputed, and he had succeeded,
as a matter of course. Lady Farrington
had made no protest. There was
no shadow of foundation for a protest.
And if not then, would any person in his
sober senses think of disputing his rights
now, when he had a firm grip of the title,
property, and place? Only .an old madwoman
would harbour such an idea. Even
she would hardly dare to raise the question
openly, after such a lapse of years. And
who would believe her if she did ?

He told her so, very roughly, Ashen her
allusions became more and more significant.
He warned her too that ^ she had better be
careful what she said or did. It was a fact
well known to the whole country-side that
she was quite unable to take care of herself,
that she was not responsible for her actions,
that her proper place was an asylum, and
she might come to that yet if — '

One day, when he had been taunting
thus longer and more bitterly than usual,
she was goaded into making an incautious
reply.

'The cup is nearly full to the brim,
Rupert. Your time is fast drawing to a
-close.'

What new craze is this. Lady Warrington?'
he said, laughing scornfully, but with
■a black look on his face.

Sir Rupert's was a hard dark face, with

full eyes rather prominent, and a long,
drooping, black moustache. When he
looked black it was not a pleasant face to
see.

'It is nothing new, Rupert. I have
waited patiently, hopefully. I thought the
end would never come. It is near at hand
now, although the consummation has been
long delayed.'

'Your ladyship's language is, as usual,
clear and perspicuous, yet you will forgive
me if I ask you to explain.'

Listen,' she said, as she laid her hand
upon his arm, and hissed out her words
slowly one by one. 'Within a few short
months, nay weeks, whenever I choose, I
can produce the rightful heir of the Warrington
; and he shall come to his own.'

'This is mere rhapsody, mere raving.
You cannot touch me, you know that.'

I can, ay, and I will, miserable fool !
You have not the shadow of a claim to the
title and estates. My grandson, Herbert's
son, lives, and you must make way for
him.'

Psha ! Herbert's son ? How do you
know that ? What proof have you ?'

^ The youth himself He has been
under my charge these five years past, and-more.
I found him — I myself found him.
I knew I could not err. He had Herbert's
eyes, he is Herbert's image ; he — '

He must have more proof than this if
he is to make good his case in a court of
law,' said Sir Rupert coolly.

I know it, and the proof shall be forthcoming.
Every link in the chain.'

All right. If it is to be war to the
knife, so let it be. But I tell you plainly
that no one will believe a word you say.'

VOL. I. D

they will believe my beautiful boy,
my own Herbert's boy, when they hear his
story from his own sweet lips. He shall
come forward himself when the occasion is
ripe for him to speak.'

Where is he now ?' asked Sir Rupert,
carelessly, but with deeply cunning intent.
She laughed in his face.
No, no, Sir Rupert, I am not to be so
easily beguiled. He is safe, quite safe, to
be produced at exactly the right time.'

Sir Rupert gave her another fierce look,
which boded her no good, but he said nothing
more. He was not exactly disconcerted
by her positive assertions, which he
only half believed, yet his peace of mind
had been rudely assailed. That he must
discover the whereabouts of this mysterious
claimant, and test the accuracy of Lady
Farrington's far-fetched statements, was

clear. It was equally clear that lie must,
if possible, put a gag upon the old woman,
and remove her where she could work no
further harm.

'twixt cup and lip.

Hercules Albert — or Herbert, as he was
henceforth to be called — was not a little
taken aback by the sudden change in his
circumstances, which followed Lady Farrington's
supposed recognition of him. To
be measured for a suit of black cloth, which
befitted best the Larkins' notion of gentility;
to have a brand new box, painted
green, with sundry new shirts, new boots,
and a broad - brimmed wide-awake hat,
all his own ; these were so many delicious
surprises, the full effect of which was
fully borne in upon him by the openly-expressed
envy of the rest of the family.
But it was a wrench to him when the time

came to leave his home — the only one he
had ever known — to lose the companionship
of his playmates, and the warm, though
roughly-expressed, affection of the sergeant
and his wife.

'Be a man, Herkles,' the sergeant had
said, as the boy stood snivelling at the door
of the catenated room, which represented
the whole of the Larkins' establishments
'Eat your cake.' They had provided him
with a huge slice of bun-loaf, upon which
little Sennacherib Larkins, a freebooter like
his Assyrian sponsor, had made many inroads
while Herbert's attention was distracted
by the new cares of property and
the pangs of making his adieux.

Eat your cake, and keep up your heart ;
me and the missus 11 be over to see you before
the month's out, and we'll bring Rechab
and Seen and Jemima Ann.'

'It's all for your own good, Herbert
said Mrs. Larkins. ' They're going to make
a gentleman of you. You'll get learning,
and Latin, and French mathematics; and
by and by you'll be an officer, perhaps, and
live like a lord.'

The prospect was brilliant, but remote.
Herbert, as a child of the barracks, had
been brought up to believe that officers
were almost superior beings. He saw his
father, the sergeant, and all soldiers salute
them always, and pay them extraordinary
deference. When in uniform they were
resplendent in crimson and gold; when out
of it they drove dog-carts and played cricket
and owned dogs, all of which Herbert
would have liked to have done too. Yet
the off-chance of some day becoming an
officer himself did not reconcile him to
separation from the best friends he had in

the world ; and as he left Triggertown casemates,
he wept bitterly, and refused to be
comforted.

If life looked black and forbidding then,
it was a thousand times worse when he
got to school. A cross-grained old man —
it was Mr. Bellhouse, Lady Warrington's
solicitor — escorted him thither, and snubbed
him all the way. The old lawyer was ^
little sick of her ladyship's caprices, and
considered this last the most serious of all.
But it was none of Herbert's fault, and the
poor woe-begone home-sick lad did not
deserve to be made to answer for Lady
Warrington's sins. At school he was left
stranded, like a waif of the sea upon an
unknown shore. Presently the natives,
troops of little savage school-boys, swooped
down upon him to scalp and torture him.
He was pestered with questions, and his

hair pulled, his strange wide-awake was
jeered at, and given to the winds.

But the instincts of self-defence are
strong, and Herbert, if new to school life,
was not new to the use of his fists. His
tormentors were numerous, but with one
or two exceptions were not much older
or bigger than himself, and when it came
to a question of blows and hard knocks he
was physically well able to take care of
himself. Presently a 'straight un' from
the shoulder relieved him of the most troublesome
of his assailants, and a second,
planted upon the nose of a tall bully, proved
that Herbert thought nothing of disparity
in height when disposing of his foes. Boys
are sensibly affected by the display of
pluck, especially against superior odds, and
Herbert soon gained for himself the respect

due to his prowess, and immunity from further
annoyance.

He was vexed and irritated no more,
but he went to his bed, a far more cleanly
and luxurious couch than that which he
had been accustomed to in the crowded
casemate at Triggertown, with a sad and
sorrowful heart. There are no woes so
acute as those of early youth. Happily
they are as transient as they are intense.
Herbert at night was in the depths of woe ;
next morning he was already in a fair way
to recover his spirits, and before the day
was out, in the excitement of the new life
opening before him, he had forgotten his
sorrows and was as happy as a bird. He
was just the boy to get on at school. Brisk
and buoyant in disposition, with a well-knit
vigorous frame, a predilection for games of
every kind in which, with a little experience,

he soon excelled, he rapidly advanced
in the estimation of his fellows. He was
liberal and free-handed too, which did not
make him the less appreciated, and he had
plenty to give away. ' His people,' as boys
call their friends, were evidently of the
right sort. The old lady with the snow-white
hair and large mournful eyes, who
came to see him regularly every month,
was right royal in her tips, and not to him
alone, but to any whom he called particular
friends. He got tuck baskets continually
and presents of all kinds to which others
administered as freely as himself. These
are substantial grounds for school popularity,
and Herbert enjoyed it in the highest
degree.

As he grew in years and developed in
strength and good looks. Lady Farrington's
affectionate admiration knew no bounds.

She lavished caresses on him without ceasing,
declaring that he was daily becoming
more and more fitted for the station which
would some day be his.

^ Yes, yes, the end cannot be far off now,'
she said one day as she sat in the headmaster's
drawing-room, holding Herbert's
hand in hers and patting it from time to
time in the fulness of her contentment
shall gainsay your claim when they see
you thus, my Herbert's living image? my
son ! My son, my lost unhappy son !' and ina
moment she was in a paroxysm of tears.

Herbert was quite accustomed to her
now. At first he had been dismayed by
her sudden outbursts. The rapid transition
from joy to sorrow, from smiles to hysterical
tears, were sufficient to frighten him,
and when to these were added her wild talk,
her bitter self-reproaches, her mysterious

hints of his coming greatness, he scarcely
knew what to do or say. But by degrees
he became familiar with her eccentricities,
and he felt that although she mio;ht be
queer, she was certainly uncommonly kind.

^ I cannot control myself when I think
of the miserable past. But, please God, in
you I shall make some atonement for my
sins, and soon, soon, — for the time draws
nigh. You are equal, Herbert, I trust, to a
great and arduous trial ?'

He was now nearly seventeen, tall and
well-built for his age; and as he shook his
light curls and looked steadily at her with
his clear, honest eyes, he seemed the incarnation
of youth and hope.

'I am game for anything, Lady Farrington,
only try me. Pd face the whole
world if you asked me.'

My own brave boy ! The struggle

may be sharp, but with such a spirit the
victory is certain to be ours.'

'When may I know what it is that I
have to do?'

The time draws nigh. It depends only
on you and your fitness to play your part.
You have not neglected your opportunities
I know. Dr. Jiggs gives you a high character.
You have profited by his studies,,
you have learnt to ride and shoot, and
when you come to your own you will comport
yourself as an English gentleman
should.'

'I am a gentleman born, then?'

'Of the best,' she replied proudly.
You are — why conceal it longer ? Here
you have for reasons been still known as
Herbert Larkins, my ward, but you are
really my grandson, the only child of Herbert,
my second boy. You are Sir Herbert

Farrington, the rightful heir of the family
honours of an old name and wide estates.'

Is this certain, quite certain ?'

'Absolutely — at least to me. I have
never doubted from the first. My instinct
assured me I was right when I recognised
you in Triggertown. But as the world
needs more material proof I have sought
them out, and hold them now all but one.
This also I should have possessed had not
one person failed me.'

who was that?'

'Mrs. Larkins. She alone can tell us
what we want to know, and she has most
unaccountably hesitated or refused to speak.
This is why I have broken with her — why
I have forbidden them to come and see you
again.'

These honest people had paid several
visits to Herbert at school, visits he had

received with delight. They had ceased
suddenly, and he had wondered greatly
thereat.

'But if my mother — if Mrs. Lar-king
— ^

Mrs. Larkins is not your mother, Herbert,
of that you may rest assured.'

She was as good as one to me always,
I know that. But if she is the only person,
who can help us in this matter, was it prudent
to break with her altogether ?' Herbert
asked very pertinently.

I was annoyed, angry, and they were
proud — I will seek them out again. They
are necessary to us. Mrs. Larkins shall
speak, and we will proceed at once to establish
your claim. My patience is exhausted
and Rupert's cup is full.'

This conversation occurred at a time
mentioned in a previous chapter when her

relations with Sir Rupert had become more
and more constrained. War had long been
imminent between them, but a rupture had
been precipitated by the overbearing harshness
of his ways. She had spoken, therefore,
a little rashly and prematurely perhaps, and
in doing so had shown her hand. She had
practically thrown down the glove, daring
him to do his worst. He accepted the challenge,
and acted with a promptitude and
determination for which the poor cracked-brained
old lady was certainly no match.

His first step was to put a watch upon
Lady Farrington's movements. Mr. Ooze-nam,
the well-known private detective, was
employed, who set about his task with his
usual skill and despatch. Within a week
or two he came with his first report.

*Lady Farrington goes once every
month, often twice, to Deadham School, in

Essex. She has done so these five years
past and more.'

^Of course. The cub, her protege is
there. Well T

'A ward of her ladyship's, Herbert Lar-king,
is at school there. He is now seventeen
years of age, is tall and well grown,
has fair curly hair and greyish blue eyes.
Her ladyship is said to take an immense ^
interest in him. Their interviews are long.
She must be very liberal to him ; the lad
is always well provided with money which
he spends freely. He is a fair scholar, has
been taught especially to ride and shoot,
has learnt foreign languages and all extras.'
^ That is enough, Mr. Oozenam. You
have handsomely earned your fee.'

It has gone very far,' Sir Rupert said
to himself as soon as he was alone. ' What
an idiot I have been not to have observed

VOL. I. E

her more closely ! But let us hope it is not
too late even now.'

And then, after a long cogitation, he
called for his carriage, and driving first into
the neighbouring country town, where he
made one or two calls, he bade the coachman
next proceed to Farrington Court.

He asked for Lady Farrington, and was
in due course ushered into her private
boudoir.

The time has come, Lady Farrington,
as you were good enough to say some time
back — the time for plain speaking. I mean
to put an end to your tomfooleries once for
all. So long as they merely made you appear
ridiculous I could have borne with you,
although you scandalized our name. But
I cannot permit you to plot against me and
mine without protest and something more.'

'Plot?' she asked, in a voice which

anger and agitation combined to make
nearly inarticulate.

^ I have discovered all. You have kept
your secret well, but I have found it out.
This base-born pretender — '

^ He is my own grandson. I have the
proofs.'

'They will not bear the test of legal
scrutiny, you know that. On the contrary, '
I can show that the whole affair is a conspiracy
from beginning to end. That this
Larkins is an adventurer — '

You will not harm him, surely ? It is
I, only I, who am to blame.'

'I shall hand him over to the police,
prosecute him, and make him pay dearly
for his attempt to defraud.'

'You would not dare,' she cried aghast.
Surprise and indignation combined to confuse
her mind, and she did not pause to

consider that he had no grounds of procedure;
that his threats were vain, and
could never be put into execution.

I shall not spare him nor you.*

Then you shall take the consequences.
I will proclaim you to be the villain that
you are; will tear you from your present
exalted station, and will send you back to
your former poverty and rags. You shall
be dispossessed. You shall disgorge the
rents and all that you have improperly
acquired. You — '

He merely laughed at her, mockingly
and rudely, which exasperated her beyond
all bounds.

Begone, sir ! You shall not remain
here another second to insult me. Begone !
or — '

He only laughed more loudly and mockingly
than before. Instantly her rage

passed into fury which seemed uncontrollable.


^ Begone !' she cried again, snatching up
a sharp-pointed paper knife and rushing on
him with so much intention that Sir Rupert
precipitately retired. She followed him
downstairs with a wild shriek, little recking
how completely she was playing into
his hands.

The butler had just admitted several
other visitors, who heard and saw all that
passed. Sir Rupert went up to them apparently
for protection, but his first words
showed that he was eager for more than
this.

Gentlemen, you have arrived most opportunely.
You can see for yourselves.
It is clearly not safe to leave her any
longer at large.'

The butler had quelled poor Lady Farrington

almost instantly, but although he
held her back she was still furious and
foamed at the mouth.

'Scarcely. We cannot refuse the certificate,'
said Mr. Buckingham, of Bootle, a
local magistrate and magnate. ' Sir Henry
quite agrees with me, and the doctors have
no manner of doubt. Poor woman, she
ought clearly to be put under restraint.'

And she was, without unnecessary delay.


Thus Herbert Larkins lost his protectress
just when his fortune seemed close at
hand. The cup was dashed away just before
he had lifted it to his lips, with consequences
which were by no means pleasant
to himself, as will be seen in the next
chapter.

TAKING THE SHILLING.

Herbert Larkins was in the class-room
when he was summoned to see a gentleman
who had called.

'I come from Lady Warrington said
his visitor, rather abruptly.

He was a tall, dark-eyed man, with a
sinister look upon his face.

She is well, I hope? Nothing has happened
? I half expected her to-day or tomorrow.'


^ She is well, but she cannot come here,
and wishes you to go to her at once. You
are aware, no doubt — '

The time then has arrived ?' Herbert
said, a little incautiously.

It has arrived. You are ready, I presume?'


I must speak to Dr. Jiggs. I cannot
leave the school without his permission, of
course.'

'That is all arranged. When you have
got your belongings together, we will start.
You are not to return here. You know
that, I presume?'

'We are going to join Lady Warrington?'


The visitor bowed assent.

An hour or two later they were in the
train and on the road to London.

There was little conversation between
them. Herbert was shy, and his companion
by no means talkative or sociable.

'Where does Lady Farrington live?'
Herbert asked.

You really don't know ?'

'She never told me Herbert replied,
looking rather shamefaced.

She is a strange person, of that you
must be aware. It is impossible to account
for all she says and does.'

She has always been most kind to me,'
Herbert said, stoutly.

'No doubt,' the other replied, drily.
But perhaps that was a form of eccentricity.
People are sometimes too affectionate
by half.'

Herbert would have liked some explanation
of this speech, but he could not
bring himself to ask for it. He only knew
that he began to dislike this man excessively,
and hoped they might never have
much to say to each other.

Arrived in London, they drove from
one terminus to another. Fresh tickets
were taken, for which his companion made

Herbert pay ; and after a hasty meal at the
refreshment-room, they were again seated
in a railway carriage, travelling westward.
This second was a wearisome journey,
which continued far into the chill autumn
night. Towards nine they alighted at a
station, where their baggage was transferred
to a fly, into which they entered,
and were driven half-a-dozen miles or more.
At length they reached a small country inn,
had some supper, and were shown to their
rooms.

Remember,' said his companion, as he
bade him good-night, 'our affair is secret.
Keep your own counsel; do not gossip
with any one you may meet here. Lady
Farrington does not wish her name bandied
about ; so mind you do not mention it
to a soul.'

Herbert slept late next morning, and

when he went downstairs he found himself
alone. The other gentleman had gone out,
they told him, and would not return till
late. Breakfast — what would he like ? He
might like what he pleased, but all he
could get was cold bacon and bread, with
thin cider to drink. A school-boy has a fine
appetite, and is nowise particular. Herbert
enjoyed his breakfast, as he did also
his lunch and his dinner. He felt jolly
enough. He asked where he was, and they
told him King's Stanton in Devonshire.
Was there anything to do in the place?
Yes, he might fish the trout stream, which
he did, very much to his own satisfaction,
and spent a thoroughly pleasant day.

But when night fell, and his companion
did not return, he began to feel the least
bit uneasy. He eat his trout, however,
and his bacon and bread, and slept the

sleep of the young, undismayed by fears of
tomorrow. To-morrow came, but no companion.
A third and a fourth day, and
Herbert was still alone. What could it
mean? He felt absolved from the necessity
of holding his tongue, and he asked
the landlady if she knew any one of the
name of Farrington in the country roundabout.
He was resolved to go to her ladyship
himself

Ko, they had never heard the name
before.'

He now became more than puzzled.
He was filled with an inexplicable but increasing
dread of coming trouble, and he
was just beginning his preparations for returning
at once to Deadham, when the
absentee suddenly reappeared.

Herbert was young, inexperienced, and
terribly shy. But his was no craven spirit,

and he had enough of school-boy plain-speaking
frankness about him to say,

^ Come, this is a fine lark. You would
not have kept me waiting here much
longer, I can tell you. I was just going to
cut and run

You may cut and run as soon as you
please,' said the other gruffly. ' The sooner
the better.'

'And what would Lady Farrington
say?'

'Lady Farrington is not in a position
to say much.'

I should like to see her.'

You can't. She's gone off in a hurry.'

She never was here, or near here. I
know that much, for I have enquired.'

You broke through my instructions,
did you ? Not that it matters much ; and
it is time you should know all. Lady Farrington

has been put under restraint. You
do not understand? Locked up in an
asylum, I mean. She is mad, insane; and
of all her ravings, the wildest were those
which led you to suppose you were somebody,
instead of a beggar's brat picked up
out of the mire.'

That I'm not, I'll swear, and no one
shall call me so,' cried Herbert, hotly. He
looked so fierce, with his clenched fists,
broad shoulders, and light active figure,
that the man for the moment was cowed.

^I don't know who you are, or where
you came from. But you're not what you
think you are, nor what Lady Farrington
has made you believe. That is enough forme.'


I have her word.'

That of a mad woman !'

And she has proofs.'

Which exist only in her own distraught
brain.'

That remains to be seen. But who are
you ? "Why are you so bitter against me ?
Why did you bring me here T

I am Sir Rupert Farrington. It is I
whom this mad old lady wishes to wrong.
She has been seeking what she calls a rightful
heir all these years — only that she may.
dispossess me. You are not the first pretender
she has set up. But I think it is
not unlikely you will be the last.'

Had he brought Herbert there to injure
him? The thought suddenly flashed across
the young man's mind. But then there
were other people at the inn ; the landlady,
ostler, keepers, police not far off, none of
these would knowingly suffer any foul play
to be done.

I defy you and your threats,' said Herbert.

' If I am in a false position it was
none of my seeking, but I prefer to believe
Lady Farrington rather than you. There
are others who know of my claims, and
with their help I shall yet put them forward
as you will see.'

Sir Kupert snapped his fingers at him.
How do you propose to live meanwhile ?
Remember you can get nothing from Lady
Farrington now. You cannot go back to
the school ; I brought you all this way on
purpose that you should not. Besides, I
have written to Dr. Jiggs to put him on
his guard.'

He would still help me if I asked him ;
but I do not need to do that.'

^ You cannot have money hoarded ?
That would be very unlike a school-boy.
You must be nearly cleaned out by this
time. I made you pay your own expenses

on purpose ; and there will be the bill here.
You ought to be nearly penniless. You
will have to remain here, and turn farm
labourer or starve.'

I shall not do that, you may depend.
I have been well educated, thanks to Lady
Farrington. I am not afraid of work, and
I am well able to take care of myself. At
any rate I look to you for nothing, and all
I wish now is to get away from you and
this place.'

Herbert called for his bill, paid it with
his last sovereign, asked the way to the
nearest railway station — Newton Abbot —
and started off on foot, determined to get
back to London as soon as he could.
Thence he would find his way to Trigger-town.
The Larkins were the only friends
left in the world; and Mrs. Larkins, as

VOL. I. F

Lady Farrington had said, was the person
who possessed the only link wanting in the
chain of proofs which was to establish his
claims.

At Newton Abbot he sold his watch,
and had money for his ticket to London
and to spare. Parting with other articles
of his apparel to supply his necessities upon
the road, he found himself at Triggertown
upon the third day. How familiar the
place seemed ! Six years since he left it —
a child, and now returning as a man he
found everything unchanged. He passed
up the covered way, across the drawbridge
under the arch, and stood at the door of
the casemate, expecting next moment to
see the sergeant and Mrs. Larkins, and the
whole of the brood.

But it was a stranger who came to
answer his knock; a small vixenish woman

with a shrewish tongue. She gave him a
very short answer.

'Larkinses? They don't stop here. Been
gone these years. Where? Hoar do I
know? They got the route right enough;
that's all I can tell you.'

Was there no one in the barracks who
could tell him?' Herbert asked.

No,' said the woman, abruptly, and
shut the door in his face.

The sentry would not let him j^ass the
inner gates. The gate sergeant, who came
up, peremptory and consequential, was still
more inhospitable. Whom did Herbert
want ? A barrack sergeant of the name of
Larkins ? There was no such name in the
garrison.

Better write to the Secretary of State
for War, my man,' said the gate sergeant
with gruff condescension, ' or to the Archbishop

of Canterbury. One's as likely to
tell you as another. But you must clear
out of this. Can't have no loiterers about
here. Them's my orders. May be the
adjutant or the sergeant-major '11 come this
way, and I don't choose to be blamed for
you.'

'What regiment do you belong to?'
asked Herbert.

Can't you see for yourself?' Where
could this young man have been raised not
to recognise the uniform of the Duke's
Own Fusiliers ?

Is it a good corps ?'

The sergeant was aghast at the fellow's
impudence. Like every soldier of the old
school, he had been brought up to believe
that his regiment was not only a good one,
but the very best in the service.

Belong ; I want no more truck with
you. Clear out, or you'll be put out.'

What's your colonel's name ? I want
to see him.'

^ You can't want to see him if you don't
know his name.'

^ I do, though, on business.'

Pretty business ! A tramp like you
can't have no business here at all, much
less with the colonel or any other officer of
ours.'

Won't you pass me in ?'

I won't, there, that's flat.'

^ All right ; I'll wait till some one comes
out.'

Herbert coolly seated himself a little
way down upon the slope of the glacis. If
the sergeant meant to dislodge him it could
only be by force.

The fact was our hero was meditating a

serious step. The disappointment of not
finding his old friends where he had left
them was great. He had perhaps overrated
the assistance which Mrs. Larkins could
give him in substantiating his claims, but
he had looked for advice from them as to
the disposal of his immediate future. How
was he now, unknown and seemingly without
a friend in the world, to find employment?
That was the serious question he
was called upon to solve, and that without
unnecessary delay. His pockets were
empty, his clothes — such as he had not
pawned — had reached that stage of irretrievable
seediness which clothes worn uninterruptedly
for weeks will always assume.
He mio^ht or mio^ht not be the heir of the
Warrington. What did it matter who he
was or might be if he died of starvation
before he could prove his case?

These wholesome reflections led him to
accept the only means of livelihood which
offered just then. He would enlist. Why
not? He had been brought up within
sound of the drum; his earliest recollections
and associations were connected with
the barrack. The life might be rough compared
to the luxury of Deadham, but at
least he would be fed, clothed and housed,
and he need not stand still. The theory of
the marshal's baton, Which every knapsack
is said to contain, is not exactly supported
by fact in the British Army, but times
were not what they had been, and he might
now hope to rise rapidly enough. Yes, he
would take the shilling and join the Duke's
Own Fusiliers.

These were the words he addressed to
the first officer who issued from the gates.

It happened to be the adjutant himself.

Mr. Wheeler was the beau ideal of a smart
young soldier, quick and energetic in
movement, with an eagle eye to take in the
points' of a possible recruit.

'Want to enlist, do you? Hey, what,
what, what? Where do you come from?
Won't say, I suppose ? Where do you belong
to? Don't know, of course. What's
your age? You won't tell the truth.
Height? we can see to that. Health? are
you sound in wind and limb? hey, what,
what, what?'

All this time he had been appraising
Herbert's value, had noted his broad shoulders,
thin flanks, his seventy-two inches,
and his erect bearing, as keenly as though
he were a slave merchant about to turn
a penny on a deal. The scrutiny was
satisfactory. The medical examination confirmed
it, the nearest magistrate sanctioned

the enlistment, and before sundown, Herbert
Larkins had joined the Duke's Own
and had sworn to serve Her Majesty and
her heirs for a term of years.

By a strange coincidence, within a week
or two, Ernest Farrington, Sir Rupert's
only son, was gazetted to the same regiment,
and the two young men presently
found themselves in the same squad at recruit's
drill.

A CRACK CORPS.

The Duke's Own Fusiliers had the credit
of being one of the most distinguished regiments
in the service of the Queen. Its
colours were emblazoned with the victories
in which it had shared ; its mess plate was
rich in gifts from the great captains and
men of mark who had held commissions in
its ranks. It considered itself in every respect
a crack corps, and held its head high
always on account of its thorough efficiency
and undeniably ' good form.' Its claims
to the latter could not be denied; but
its rights to the former were sometimes
questioned by keen - eyed critics and

people behind the scenes. The regiment
no doubt turned out smartly upon
parade; it always looked well, and was
fairly well-behaved. But there were flaws
and short-comings in its system, hidden a
little below the surface, which in the crucial
test of emergency would probably be laid
bare. The gulf between officers and men
was a little too wide ; inferiors had no great
confidence in those above them, the latter
were generally indifferent, taking but little
interest in their business, as though soldiering
was not their profession, but a chance
employment to fill up their hours when not
otherwise eno;ao;ed.

A certain Colonel Prioleau commanded
the regiment at the time when Herbert
Larkins enlisted into it; a soldier of the
old school, at times fussy, testy, and sharp-spoken,
but really a good-natured easy-going

man. He was without much strength of
character however, and not over-burthened
with brains. It was not strange, therefore,
that he should suffer his authority to slip a
little out of his own hands. He was far
from supreme in the body of which he was
the ostensible head. English regiments are
very variously governed. This is ruled by
the sergeant-major, that by the colonel's
wife ; in another, the general of the brigade
or district, with his staff-officers, works his
own wicked will. Some are, so to speak,
self-governed, and the Duke's Own was one
of these. In it, the will of the body corporate,
of the officers banded together like
a joint-stock company, and trading under
the name of ' the regiment' was absolute
law. By and for ^ the regiment,' everything
was settled and decided. The regimental
idea was a species of impalpable but all-pervading

essence, which no one could resist.
To quote regimental custom ; to invoke
regimental prestige ; to talk of the credit of
the regiment; to insist upon the maintenance
of esprit de corps were so many irresistible
appeals, so many precepts of a
powerful unwritten code universally accepted,
and admitted to be binding upon
all. In its highest form, this thoroughgoing
devotion might be productive, as
indeed it has often proved to be, of extraordinary
good; but it was possible to develop
it in the wrong direction, and this
was to some extent the case with the
Duke's Own Fusiliers. It was generally
understood in the regiment that its credit
depended less upon its military proficiency
than upon the dash it cut in the
world.

Military matters, in fact, were not held

in the highest esteem in the Duke's Own.
Nobody cared much about them. They
were left to be managed by anybody, anyhow.
Now and again Colonel Prioleau
raised a feeble protest, but nobody listened
to him or cared. He was told that the
regiment wished this, or thought that, and
he immediately succumbed. Those next
senior to him, his two majors, were of little
assistance to him in driving the coach.
One, Major Diggle, of whom more directly,
did not pretend to be a soldier at all. According
to his own ideas, he was always
much better engaged. The other. Major
Byfield, had, unfortunately, been raised in
another regiment, and was so unpopular
that he was worse than a cipher; the Duke's
Own knew too well what was due to itself
to allow an outsider to dictate to it or interfere
in its affairs. The only person who did

anything in the regiment was the adjutant,
and he had come by degrees to monopolise
the whole of the power. The colonel
gave in to him more and more, till presently
he abdicated his functions to him
altogether. After all, Mr. Wheeler was a
smart young gentleman, not without military
aptitudes. He had no dread of responsibility,
and having a fair knowledge of the
red-books and routine, disposed of his work
daily in an airy off-hand fashion which was
always refreshing, and which, in the face of
any serious difficulty, would have been absolutely
sublime. He pulled all the strings,
decided all the moot points, gave all orders,
drafted all letters, which his humble slave,
the colonel, obediently signed; it was he,
practically, who manoeuvred the battalion,
although his puppet, the colonel, nominally
gave the word of command. It saved everybody

else a great deal of trouble. The
men perhaps were not quite as well cared
for and commanded as they ought to have
been, the sergeants looking to the adjutant
rather than to their officers, sometimes exceeded
their powers, and carried matters
with rather a high hand. Complaints of
tyranny and ill-usage, however, seldom
cropped up, and no suspicion ever arose
that the condition of the regiment was
otherwise than perfectly sound.

It was not difficult to understand why
the officers as a body rather neglected their
duties. They were too fully occupied in
maintaining the credit of the regiment according
to their own interpretation of the
phrase. This meant that it should be renowned
— not for marching and manoeuvres,
for demeanour, discipline, and drill — but for
its ostentation and display, for the grand

balls and entertainments it gave, for its mess
perfectly appointed, its artistic chefs its exquisite
wines. It was for the credit of the
regiment that it should keep up a regimental
drag, a cricket and lawn tennis club,
and give weekly afternoon teas ; that during
the season six or seven at least of the Duke's
Own should turn out in scarlet to hunt with
the nearest hounds, that some one amongst
their number should take a shooting or a
river, which the regimental sportsmen might
honour in turn; that half the regiment at
least should rush up to town from Friday
to Monday every week, and enjoy themselves
in loafing about the park and the
Burlington Arcade, or idling away the
hours at the club, and devoutly wishing
they were back at their own regimental
mess.

These high-flown ideas very rapidly de-vol.

I. G

eloped into extravagant tastes, which had
reached their highest point about the time
when Herbert Larkins became one of the
Duke's Own. The regiment had only returned
a year or two previously from a
lengthened tour of foreign service, and after
their long exile in outer darkness everyone
with any spirit or capacity for enjoyment
had been resolved to take his pleasure to
the full. It was expected of the officers of
the Duke's Own to come well to the front,
and this they pretended was a more potent
inducement to them to spend money than
any hankering after personal gratification.
So, with but few exceptions, they launched
forth freely enough. It was, with many, a
case of the earthen pots swimming with the
brass ; but all, or nearly all, were determined
to do their duty to the regiment and go the
pace, or as Mr. Crouch, the sporting quartermaster

styled it, ^ go to the devil hands
down.' What if any serious financial crisis
supervened? Their people would have to
stump up ; their fathers — probably by drawing
upon a wife's provision or daughter's
portion, and always by impoverishing themselves
— would pay their debts, but they
would have had ' a high old time,' and the
imperishable credit of the Duke's Own Fusi-v
lies would have been most brilliantly maintained


The leading spirit and showman of the
regiment at this particular epoch was the
junior major Cavendish-Diggle. Diggle was,
in his way, a man of parts, young, pushing,
ambitious, passably rich. No one knew
exactly where he came from, or who where
his belongings or his people. One of his
patronymics was decidedly patrician, the
other as unmistakeably commonplace. He

might be a cousin of the Duke of Devonshire
; and again he might not. When anyone
asked him the question — and it was one
he liked to have jut to him — he smiled
pleasantly, and said that the Cavendish
were all related, as everybody knew. But
he was not so well pleased when people,
envious or cynical, or both, remarked casually
that Diggle was the name of the great grocers
in Cheapside. There was no connection on
that side of course, but the allusion was far
from agreeable to him, as a shrewd observer
might have noticed from his face and his
avowed hostility to anyone who dared to
make the remark.

There were not many who were bold
enough to attack him however. He could
hold his own always. Nature had endowed
him with a good presence and abundance of
self-confidence; he could talk well, had a

good voice, and was an excellent raconteur.
These gifts were naturally of great service
to hin; not alone for purposes of repartee
and self-defence ; they were also exceedingly
useful in assisting him to obtain that
social success Which had ever been one of
the principal aims of his life. In his boyhood,
when he had made his debut as a
second lieutenant in the Duke's Own Fusi»-
lies, he had had an uphill game to play.
The regiment was then, as it still aspired to
be, eminently aristocratic, and no one was
disposed to welcome a Diggle with rapturous
effusion. There was nothing against the
lad, however, except the possible obscurity
of his origin ; on the contrary, there was
much in his favour. He was modest and
unpretending, fully impressed with the
greatness' of Hhe regiment' he had joined,
falling down readily to worship the principal

personages who were its idols at the time.
He sought to attach himself to one or two
of the most distinguished cadets of noble
houses, who were nobodies at home, but
made a good deal of in the Duke's Own.
Diggle's hero worship, accompanied as it
was by a willingness to bet, play ecarte and
do good turns to his superiors — he thought
them so himself — met with its reward, and
he soon found himself in the position to
enjoy the daily companionship and friendship
of one or two baronets and several
lords' sons. It was long, however, before
he advanced himself beyond the rather
undignified status of a 'hanger-on.' His
friends and comrades were very affectionate
with the regiment — but they were not so
fond of him in town ; nor did they help him
into society, or get him invitations to their
homes. But as time passed, and he gained

promotion and seniority, his persistent
efforts gradually achieved a certain success.
He now took a prominent part in regimental
entertainments, Alas willing to accept all
the drudgery of managing balls and parties,
because he thus came more to the front.
At one rather dull country station he struck
out the happy idea of giving dances on his
account in his own quarters, which happened
to be large, and at his own expense,
and this gained for him great popularity in
the neighbourhood. It was about this time
that he began to lay much stress upon the
Cavendish prefix to his proper name ; he
always called himself Cavendish-dingle,
had it so put in the Ai^my List and upon his
cards. Then the regiment went on foreign
service, and while stationed in an out-of-the-way
colony, he had the good fortune to
be selected to act upon the personal staff of

the governor and commander-in-chief. He
turned this appointment to excellent account.
He was soon the life and soul of
Government House, developing at once into
a species of diplomatic major-domo, who
was simply indispensable to his chief. In
this way he made many new and valuable
friends ; a young royalty on his travels,
who was charmed with Captain Cavendish-dingle's
devotion to his person; several
heirs apparent also, and itinerant legislators,
who took Barataria in their journey
round the world, and who could not be too
grateful for all he did for them, or too profuse
in their promises of civilities whenever
he mio^ht be in England. All this bore fruit
in the long run, when the regiment returned.
He experienced many disappointments,
no doubt; for your notable on his
travels, so cordial and so gushing, is apt to

give you the cut direct if you meet him in
his own hunting-grounds, at home. Still
there were some did not quite forget the
hospitable and obliging A.D.C. ; and Major
Cavendish-dingle, at the invitation of one,
went into Norfolk to shoot; of another to
Scotland to fish; in the London season he
found several houses open to him; and he
was finally raised to a pinnacle of satisfaction
by Royal commands to attend a garden
party and a court ball.

In the Duke's Own he was now a very
great personage indeed. As both the
Colonel and Major Byfield were married he
was the senior member of the mess ; always
its most prominent figure ; the chief host in
all impromptu parties at home; the great
man at all entertainments abroad. He had
now a following of his own ; a band of personal
adherents who imitated him in his

dress and talk and ways, who deferred to
him, flattered him, and admired him fully
as much as he had the shining; lights around
which he had himself revolved when he was
young. This homage did not do him any
great good. It confirmed him in the high
opinion he had formed of himself: it indorsed
and justified his aspirations, which
were now by no means unambitious,
although very carefully concealed. Why
should he not make a brilliant marriage?
There were plenty of heiresses about ; if he
could but find one in whom the charms of
blood and beauty were united, why should
he not go in and win ? He was still comparatively
young ; he had kept his figure ;
he was repaid in the best society and
appreciated wherever he went. Who
should have a better chance? And what
might he not achieve in the way of future

distinction with a rich and well-born wife
to help him in climbing the tree?

These ideas had been uppermost in his
mind for some time past. It was in obedience
to them that he had been at some
pains to inform himself whether any likely
partis were running loose about Trigger-town
or in the country round. But he
had so far met with little success. Hopshir^
is a county owning many families of antiquity
and repute, but none were especially
renowned for their wealth. Diggle would
have gone further afield and commenced
his chase in London, or at one of the great
watering places, but he wished first to exhaust
the resources of the neighbourhood.
The gay major was not wrong in supposing
that he showed off to the best advantage
upon his own territory, doing the honours
of his own mess, backed up and supported

by so many brilliant comrades and disciples.
Just when he began to despair of finding
any young lady who from substantial reasons
was entitled to receive his addresses,
he came across the Warrington. They lived
at the other end of the county. There was
a daughter in the house — a very charming
girl, he thought, who, having one brother
only and no sisters, would assuredly be
well portioned. This led him to consolidate
his acquaintance with Sir Rupert, to
accept many invitations and pay frequent
visits to Farrington Hall.

It was entirely through his advice
and intervention that Sir Rupert sent
young Ernest into the Duke's Own. The
regiment would probably remain at Trig-grown
for a year or two longer, and this
would break Lady Farrington gradually to
the separation from her beloved son. Besides,

Major Cavendish-dingle would have
the young fellow especially under his wing
a precious advantage no doubt, as we
shall presently see.

IN THE Barrack-room.

Within twenty-four hours of his arrival in
barracks Herbert Larkins was bathed,
cropped, clothed, numbered, and, so to
speak, put away. His ' rags,' in plain English,
his civilian clothes — invariably so
called whether undeniable garments or
veritable rags — had been exchanged for
uniform, such as it was. A recruit, and
especially in the fall of the year, when the
annual issue of new clothing is near at
hand, gets only things ' part worn.' So
Herbert's shell jacket, his regimental trousers,
and his ammunition boots, were all of
them palpable misfits.

He said as much to the corporal of the

pioneers, who helped the quartermaster-sergeant
in risrs^ino; out recruits.

Too large ?' replied the corporal, contemptuously.
' Wait till you're at the extension
motions, or at club drill, and you'll
wish they were more than twice as big.'

Eut my trousers are too long, and — '

It'll be longer before you get another
pair. Besides, you ain't done growing yet.
Two months on full rations, and you'll be
as tall as a hop-pole. How do you think
your legs 'd look then ? Showing half a
yard of sock above the high-lows, and the
captain 'd be safe to put you down for a
new pair of bags.'

And these boots are far too loose. I
can't feel the sides even.'

You'll feel something else afore long, I
can tell you, and not half so soft as leather.
Them boots ! Why, flash Alice Notes wore

them till he went " out" — and it 'd take a
dozen Johnny Raws like you to make half
a soldier such as him.'

Yet Herbert had really some reason to
be discontented with his personal appearance.
Always a trim and dapper youth,
his patroness, Lady Farrington, had loved
to see him neatly dressed, and had cheerfully
paid his tailor's bills when at Deadham
school. But now, speaking exactly, he was
not dressed at all; his figure was only concealed
with clothes. His jacket was baggy
at the back ; the arms were so long that
the cuffs came as far as his knuckles ; his
trousers, if they had been tied in at the
ankle, would have suited a Janissary Turk ;
his forage-cap— it was before the days of
smart glengarries — not yet ^ blocked' and
set up, fell like a black pudding-bag, over
one forehead and one ear. His boots were

quite amorphous, quite without form, and
they might have been void were it not probable
they encased a pair of feet shaped like
wedges of Cheshire cheese. So deteriorating
was the effect of these incongruous
habiliments, that Herbert Larkins seemed
to lose his erect bearing and springy step;
and as he reached the barrack room, to
Which he was presently marched, carrying
his kit-bag full of cleaning utensils under
one arm, and his new knapsack under the
other, he hung his head and looked utterly
ashamed of himself.

Oh ! it's you is it?' said the sergeant in
charge of the room, who took him over from
the corporal of the pioneers.

Herbert recognised the sergeant with
whom he had had the colloquy at the bar-ramsgate.


So you got past the gate, did you ?

VOL. I. H

Mind you stop, now you've got in. Don't try
and run off again with your bounty and kit.'

The suspicious sergeant scented a probable
deserter.

^ I shouldn't have come in if I'd wanted
to go out directly afterwards Herbert
plucked up courage to say; but the scene
was so new, and he felt so forlorn in his.
loneliness and his strange new clothes, that
he had not much spirit left in him.

^ Don't answer me with cheek,' cried the
sergeant, very sharply. ^I want none of
your slack jaw or back jaw. Hold your
tongue, that's what you've got to do, and
do as you're bid.'

Now look here,' he went on, after a
pause ; ' there's your bed, and that's your
shelf; mind you keep them clean and proper.
Don't you try to lie down on the one
before the right time, nor put what ain't

authorised on the other. You'll be for
recruits' drill at six sharp tomorrow ; don't
let me have to tell you twice to turn out,
and mind you don't get straying away so
that you can't answer your name at tattoo
roll-call to-night. Mind, too, what your
comrade says ; I'll tell you off to Boy Han-ion
because you're much of an age; mind
him and what he tells you, and he'll keep
you straight. Lads' — this to the room —
'have any of you seen "the Boy?'

No, sergeant, not these hours past.
He's in the usual place, I'll go bail.'

The canteen ?'

Some of the men laughed and nodded,
and the sergeant went off in search.

No one took any notice of Herbert, ashe
sat upon the edge of his iron cot at the
far end of the room. Everybody seemed
busy with his own affairs.

But presently some one near the door
shouted, 'Why, here's "the Boy" ! Duke's
Own ! " 'Thun," ' giving the word of command
as though an officer Alas approach



It was only a wizened little man, who
might have been fifty or barely five. He
hadn't a hair on his fresh coloured cheeks,
but they were much wrinkled as though he
were prematurely aged.

Boy Hanlon was one of the oldest soldiers
in the res-ment. He had been in it
all his life from the time they had picked
him up like a waif or stray on the line of
march between Exeter and Plymouth till
now, when he had upwards of twenty years'
service, and was growing grey-haired. He
had begun as a boy in the band, thence he
went to the drums; by-and-bye he became
a bugler, from which, although barely of

the standard height, he had been passed
into the ranks. Now, as a veteran who
knew his rights and what was due to himself,
he gave himself great airs. No one
was half so well acquainted as he was with
professional topics. He could tell you the
names of all the officers past and present,
in the Duke's Own; he was a keen critic
upon drill from his own point of view
somewhere in the rear rank of one of
the central companies ; he could pipeclay
belts to perfection, and had not his equal
with brass ball, heel ball, boot-blacking,
button stick and brush. But the chief
source of his pride were his confidential
relations with Colonel Prioleau, the present
commanding officer. The two had ' soldered'
together all these years, in every clime, and
knew each other thoroughly. More, they
had stood side by side at the battle of Goo-herat,

where the Duke's Own had fought
remarkably well, and they were the only
two survivors of that glorious day. ' Boy'
Hanlon — he got his soubriquet of course
from his insignificant size — traded a good
deal on that battle of Goojerat. He was
perpetually celebrating the victory. For
one single battle it had an extraordinary
number of anniversaries. Whenever 'the
Boy' was thirsty — and with him drought
was perennial — he turned up at the orderly
room and told the colonel it was a fine
morning 'for the day.'

What day ?' old Prioleau would ask
with pretended ignorance, although he
knew" and really enjoyed the joke.

'The great day, of course, colonel; the
day of Goojerat.'

'Why, it was that only three weeks
ago; surely — '

^ Well, sir, we're the only two Good era-ties
left, you know, sir, and I'd like to
drink your health.'

It always ended in the same way— the
transfer of half-a- crown from the colonel to
Hhe Boy;' the speedy exchange of the whole
sum into liquor, the most potent description
preferred, a free fight, for ' the Boy' was
quarrelsome in his cups, a temporary delegation
to the guard-room, from which he
was sure to be immediately released by the
officer of the day. When Hanlon misconducted
himself he always got off scot free.
Colonel Prioleau would never punish ' the
Boy.'

'Where's my towne?' Hanlon asked
directly he entered the room.

They pointed to where Herbert sat disconsolate
; and the dapper little soldier, who
was still trim in figure, and straight as a

dart, walked over to the lad and gave him
a friendly pat on the back.

Now, young chap, you must brush up,,
brush up, and show yourself a man. We've
to be comrades, you and I, and it won't
suit me to consort with a chap as is given
to peek and pine. What do you call yourself?'


This was delicately put. Recruits do
not always enlist under their own names;,
so Hanlon asked, not what Herbert was
called, but what he called himself

Herbert Larkins.'

'Good; and not a bad looking chap
either. Too tall — leastwise I'm afraid
you're going to grow — '

Hanlon, like many little men, hated those
whose inches far exceeded his own. In the
days when there had been grenadiers, it
was his favourite pastime, when at all the

worse for liquor, to beard the giants in
their own barrack-room. He called them
hop-poles,' ' sand-bags,' ' wooden ramrods,^
and other opprobrious names, and his onslaughts
generally ended in his being carried,
bodily, to the guard-room, under some
stalwart soldier's arm. Now that the grenadier
company was abolished, he disseminated
his dislike, and abused every private
who was more that five feet six in
height.

Too tall, unless you stop as you are
Gin perhaps do it; or whiskey; or perhaps
four" ale — if you took enough of it. Fond
of "four" ale, eh?'

Hanlon's eyes glistened with a toper' s-
joy as he mentioned his favourite fluid.

Ah ! there's nothing like " four" ale.
I'm under stoppages myself,' he went on, meditatively,
' or I'd stand treat. But you'll

have got your bounty, and the money for
your '' coloured clothes. You ain't got
the price of a glass about you?'

Herbert admitted readily enough that
he had the price of several. He had lost
none of his schoolboy freehandedness, and
he had moreover the wit to see that his new
comrade might, if propitiated, prove an uncommonly
useful friend.

Hanlon first made Herbert swallow
some piping hot tea which was brought in
just then, and gave him the whole of his
tea bread ; Hanlon' s own appetite was indifferent
; and then the two, amid the
winks and jeers of the rest, strolled over to
the canteen. The place was not over full.
Nothing stronger than ale and porter could
be sold in it, and the Duke's Own generally
preferred the Triggertown taverns. So
should Hanlon, but he knew that a newly

enlisted recruit would not be permitted to
leave barracks.

They had a quart ' of the best ;' Hanlon
called for it — and drank it, all but a glass ;
a second quart followed, and a third ; and
as the little veteran became more and more
steeped in liquor he grew more and more
communicative. He told Herbert all about
the regiment; who were the chief personages
in it; he spoke with awe of the ,
but of the colonel as a familiar
friend. He described the Avays of the officers,
the habits and customs of the regiment,
the chances there were of promotion
for a smart lad who'd had any schooling
and knew how to keep himself straight.
Can you read ? good — and write ? better
still. If you can only cipher and do accounts
you won't have long to wait for a
lance stripe. I'll get it for you, aye and

more too. I'll get you put in the orderly-room
as a clerk, or perhaps the pay office.
You shall be a colour-sergeant before you're
many years older ; who knows, perhaps
you'll be sergeant-major afore you die. All
through Joe Hanlon ; poor old Joe Hanlon
Letshavesmoreale.'

From Hanlon drunk to Hanlon sober
there was a great distance. The big promises
he made so freely in his cups were
all of them forgotten next day. Yet the
little man was, in his way, a good friend ta
Herbert Larkins. In the days, arduous
and often wearisome, of the recruit's novitiate,
the old soldier acted always as.
mentor and adviser. He taught Herbert
all he knew. He helped him with his exercises,
rehearsing the manual and platoon
in the privacy of the citadel ditch, so that
Herbert soon won especial favour with the

drill instructor of his squad ; he took a
pride in Herbert's personal appearance,
arranged a ^ swop' for the visiting jacket
and hollows, contracted with one of the
regimental tailors to alter the baggy trousers
in his spare hours.

I'll make you the smartest soldier in
the Duke's Own,' said 'the Boy' enthusiastically.
'You're the right stuff ; you've got
it in you ; you're a soldier born, every inch.
I don't ask no questions. I don't want to
know who you are, or where you comes
from, but you've got soldier's blood in you ;
you come of a soldier's stock, I'll wager a
gallon of the best four ale. I like you, lad.
You're free handed and open spoken, and
you've got an honest mug of your own. I
like you, and I'll stick to you through thick
and thin.'

The advantages of Boy Hanlon's counsel

and protection were soon apparent. Herbert,
thanks to Hanlon's coaching, but
aided not a little by his own native intelligence,
and the excellent education he had
received, proved an apt scholar in the military
school. He soon learnt his drill, and
was passed for duty much more quickly
than was usually the case with recruits.
Mr. Farrington, who had commenced drill
at the same time, but who enjoyed the
officer's privilege of taking it easy, and who
was somewhat slow of apprehension to
boot, was still at company drill when
Private Larkins, fully accoutred, and admirably
' turned out,' took his place in the
ranks on guard, mounting parade.

It was with a beating heart that he
found Mr. Wheeler, the adjutant, in making
his minute and critical inspection, pause
just in front of him.

'Fall out,' said the adjutant curtly; and
Herbert scarcely knew whether to expect
praise or blame.

'Colonel's orderly. Report yourself at
his quarters after parade.'

Here was an honour indeed! To be
selected on his first guard-mounting parade,
as commanding officer's orderly — a post
which, apart from the privileges it brought
of immunity from ' sentry go' and a sure
night's rest in bed, every private soldier in
the regiment coveted and esteemed — was a
compliment which Herbert, and Hanlon
also, appreciated to the full.

What befell the young orderly at Colonel
Prioleau's quarters must be reserved
for another chapter.

A FRENCH LESSON.

Herbert Larkins presented himself with
some trepidation at the commanding officer's
quarters, a house outside, but not far from
the barracks. The hall door was wide open,
but he did not go in. The man whom he
relieved told him ' to patrol up and down in
front of the house — that was all he had
to do.'

This he did religiously for half an hour
or more, and then he heard himself called
from within.

^ Orderly!' A clear, sweet voice it was;
very musical in its intonation and very
different from the gruff accents to which he
Lad most recently been accustomed.

Orderly !' again ; this time much more
sharply spoken, and with undoubted petulance.
^ How stupid ! Why don't you
come when you're called?' and then the
owner of the voice appeared. Mahomet had
come to the mountain.

A bright-faced beautiful child ; a fair
golden-haired girl, not yet in her teens,
wearing a fresh pink and white frock, with
pink ribbons in her sunny locks, and a pink
silk handkerchief tied like a shawl over her
shoulders and neck. Herbert took it all in
at a glance, and remembered the picture for
the rest of his life.

A very imperious young person, evidently
; she had honest kindly eyes, but her
small nose slightly ' tip tilted,' and the upward
curve of scorn in her lip indicated a
proud, haughty nature, and the wilfulness
of one who, though still a child, had every-vol.

I. I

thing always her own way. An only child,
born late in their married life, Edith Prior
ruled languid mother and doting father
with a despotism against which they had
neither the inclination nor power to protest.


^ Are you the orderly?' she asked, almost
stamping her foot.

Yes.'

eyes? Yes — what?' *

Yes, I am.'

Yes, Miss you should say when you
speak to me. Do you know who / am ? I
am the colonel's daughter.'

Whereat Herbert drew himself up, and
saluted her formally with hand to cap, as
though she were the commander-in-chief.

You're only a recruit, I suppose ?' She
spoke quite contemptuously. ' I never saw
you before. I don't like strangers. I shall

speak to Mr. Wheeler about it. How long
have you been dismissed drill ?'

Herbert smiled at her intimate acquaintance
with military details, and the smile
seemed to give her fresh annoyance.

you're a rude soldier. You shan't
some as orderly again. But here' — she
remembered what she wanted — Hake this
list to the barrack library 5 be quick, please,
and bring; me all those books. I want them
at once, please, all. You understand ? At
once, and all ; and when you come back
bring them in to me — there in the back
room.'

^ Edith I' said another voice just then,
faintly and querulously, ^ you are losing the
whole morning. Your French — '

Oh, bother !' cried Edith, and retired,
dragging one foot after the other, as though
loth to return to her studies.

Herbert executed his commission
promptly enoiigli, and presently returned
laden with books — some, but not all, of
those for which Edith had sent. He carried
them straight into the back room.

I am sorry to say, miss, that the " Loss
of the Wager" is out, and so is Maxwell's
"Stories of Waterloo," but I have brought
you '' Thaddeus of Warsaw" and the " Romance
of War." '

Then he stopped short, for he saw that
the young lady was not attending to him in
the least. Her head was buried in her
hands, and when she eventually looked up
her eyes were suffused with tears.

Oh, dear, it is so hard. I can't make
head or tail of it.'

It was only a French exercise after all,
about which there was all this coil. But
Edith was not an industrious scholar. In

plain English, she hated books, and would
any day throw them aside to get on her
pony to scamper across the Hampshire downs,
or ride out to the drill-field with her father,
or to stand by at band practice, or accompany
the regiment when it marched out.

I know a little French,' said Herbert
diffidently; ' perhaps I can help?'

Edith stared at him through her tear.
A private soldier know French ! More,
probably, than she knew herself! The
notion filled her with amazement — with
gratitude, perhaps, but also with chagrin.

But when, after a few minutes' close
application, he untied the terrible knot,
gratitude overpowered all other sentiments,
and she could have shaken hands with him
almost — in her glee.

'It's most extraordinary,' she cried,
dancing about the room with delight. ' I

never heard of such a thing; you're the
most wonderful orderly — '

You seem very merry, Miss E./ said
an officer who put his head into the room
just then.

Ohy Major Diggle ! Just look here.'
And in a few words, volubly spoken, she
explained what had occurred.

'So you know French, do you?' said
the major to Herbert, in a supercilious tone
impossible to describe. ' And Latin and
Greek perhaps, and Hebrew?'

'No, sir, not Hebrew.' Herbert had
drawn himself up straight, and stood correctly
at 'attention.' He had already learnt
the lesson of respect due to an officer, and
was fully conscious of the great gulf which
separated the major from the private soldier.


What's your name ? Larkins ? Where

were you at school? When did you enlist ?
And why?'

Herbert answered all these questions
except the last.

You don't choose to tell that, eh ? Oh,
with all my heart. It's none of my business.
But now, if Miss Prioleau does not
want you — that will do; you can go.'

Herbert saluted, and walked off.

Directly the door was shut, the major
turned to Edith, and said,

You ouo:ht not to be so familiar with
private soldiers. You mustn't do that
again. Miss E.'

I shall do as I please, and don't choose
to be called Miss E., Major Diggle.'

He equally hated to be called Diggle
Without the Cavendish.

I shall tell the colonel,' he said rather
angrily, as he left the room.

She only made a face after him when
he had gone, as though she did not care a
bit what he did. There was no love lost
between these two. The child, with intuitive
perception, disliked the ijarveniCs pretentious
airs. He thought her, en revanche a
very pert and forward child, who ought to
be snubbed and kept in her place. There
were ene or two old feuds between them,
too. He had accused her, although she
hotly repudiated the charge, of telling tales.
He had caught her, he declared, looking out
of the windows, to see and tell her father
what officers came late for parade. She, on
the other hand, had discovered, and had
announced her discovery openly, that he
wore — not a wig — but one of Unwind and
Albert's coverings for bald heads ; and Diggle,
who was proud of his looks, did not
like it at all.

It was not likely, therefore; that any
friend of Edith's would find much favour
with the major. But even if she had been
disposed to champion the erudite recruit,
so young and obscure a soldier was really
beneath the notice of the great Cavendish
Diggle. By-and-bye Herbert might prove
a thorn in the major's side, and give him
many anxious hours — but that time was
still to come.

Meanwhile, Herbert Larkins pursued
the even tenour of his ways, taking the
rough with the smooth, but finding that
the first considerably preponderated. What
he lacked most were congenial companions
and agreeable occupation for his idle hours.
Herbert found the time hang very heavy
on his hands. He could not bring himself
to spend hours with Joe Hanlon in the
canteen; nor, indeed, did ^ the Boy' wish

him to do so. Hanlon was ambitious for
his young comrade, and he knew the way
to preferment too well to encourage Herbert
to take to drink. There was nothing
left by way of amusement, after all needful
polishing and cleaning-up was done, but
patrolling the Triggertown streets, and frequenting
such bishops and music-halls as-suffered
private soldiers in the Queen's uniform
to pass their doors.

Herbert, as a last resource, turned bookworm.
He had attended the regimental
school as in duty bound; but it was soon
very clear that a regimental schoolmaster,,
however well certificated, could not teach
an ex-sixth-form boy very much. Herbert
passed all the required standards, and was
very quickly dismissed as a prodigy of
learning. He might indeed have obtained
a billet as an assistant teacher in the school

but Joe Hanlon supported him in his refusal
of the post. There would be much
better openings for him later on, and in the
regular line. All he had to do was to wait
patiently for his ' lance stripe,' and this he
was certain to obtain so soon as he had
completed the twelve months' service from
the time of joining, which was the usual
time of probation in the Duke's Own.

The books he read he got from the barrack
library, a place well stocked enough,
but not with volumes covering a wide range
of subjects. After exhausting the list of
good works of fiction and travel, he felt
himself fortunate at finding ^ Lecky's Rise
and Progress of Rationalism in Europe.'

One day when Herbert was absent on
guard, a volume of this was lying upon his.
shelf— in the wrong place — and the captain,
who was inspecting the rooms, noticed it.

It's that Larkins, sir.' His old enemy
the gate sergeant, Sergeant Pepper, spoke.
^ A young soldier, sir. Very careless young
fellow, sir. No use my speaking to him,
sir. Better have his name put on the gate,
-sir ?'

Let me see the book. " Lecky" ?
Strange! a recruit, do you say? What's
he like? Smart? Send him over to my
quarters tomorrow.'

Captain Greathed was an officer of a
somewhat uncommon type. Thoughtful,
studious, steady, he concealed under a quiet
demeanour a true soldierly spirit and keen
professional ambition. He yearned secretly
for military distinction, and only bided his
time. Meanwhile he read and pondered
deeply the lessons of the past. He had mastered
military literature in all its branches.
Had he chosen, he might have entered the

Staff College with ease, and would certainly
have passed through it with distinction ;,
but he was too fond of his regiment to care
to leave it even to study or to serve upon
the staff. He took an interest too in his
men, which was more than many of his
brother officers did.

^I sent for you, Larkins,' he said to
Herbert, 'to see what you are made of.
You are reading "Lecky;" do you understand
it ? Have you read any other books
of the kind ?'

I was always fond of philosophic read-you

have been Avell educated, then?
You are the man, I suppose, who did Miss
Prioleau's French lesson for her?' That
story had soon got about. 'Well, that's
not everything; let's see how much you
know,' and Captain Greathed put a series

questions to him which soon tested the
extent of his learning.

You ought to do well enough, but
look-lore is not everything. You look
strong. Are you active? Are you good at
gymnastics? Can you play cricket, and
walk and run well ? Try you ? We will.
Meanwhile keep straight and steady, and
you'll do. It'll be your own fault if you
don't get on.'

From that time forth Captain Greathed
took especial notice of Herbert, spoke to
him frequently — an honour highly prized by
the private soldier — advised him as to his
reading, and lent him military books. All
this did not pass unobserved in the company,
and it soon became evident that his
comrades rather resented the captain's undisguised
preference for Larkins. The body
of the men in the Duke's Own were not

particularly attached to their officers, and
to be a favourite with superiors was not a
certain passport to popularity with the
rank and file. Herbert, in spite of Boy
Hanlon's championship, found himself kept
at arm's length rather, and often subjected
to innuendoes and sneers.

One day there was some commotion in
the barrack-room. Several men who had
l>een slovenly on parade had had their
passes' stopped. These permits to be
:absent from quarters after hours are much
appreciated, and those who had forfeited
them were naturally sore. Herbert, who
wished to attend a lecture at the Mechanics'
Institute, had also ^ put in a pass,'
backed by the captain, which had been
granted, much to the disgust of the other
men.

sit's a burning shames said one; and

others followed on the same side, but with
louder and coarser expletives.

^A young jiggermy-dandy like you
cried a big soldier, Jubbock by name, who
had the reputation of being cock and bully
of the company. ' What right have you to
what's denied your betters? A sneaking
young lickspittle, who's got the length of
the captain's foot. I'll teach you to — '

Jubbock advanced towards him with a
threatening air.

swell?' said Herbert coolly, That'll
you teach me?'

'To know your master. Take that,' and
Jubbock aimed a tremendous blow at Herbert,
which the latter promptly parried, and
with a smart ' one — two' put the great fellow
flat on his back.

There was a shout in the barrack-room
as Jubbock rose furious and closed with his

opponent. Then came a hubbub of voices.
The sergeant, the sergeant ! Sergeant
Pepper, the " Real Cayenne !" ' as he was
commonly called when he looked like mischief.


What's this ? Quarrelling in the ?
I'll not have it. Drop it.
Who began it ? You, Larkins ? Then to
the guard-room you'll go, double quiclv
Here, Corporal Smirk, get a file of men.'

But t'other chap exasperated him,' Han-ion
put in. ' Jubbock's more to blame than
Larkins. If you shop one you must shop
the other.'

So I will. I'll run them both in —
march them off.'

And so Herbert, with a smarting sense
of injustice, found himself relegated to the
guard-house, and locked up for the night.

VOL. L K

THE ORDER BOOK.

Herbert woke after a troubled night's rest,
disturbed by the occasional irruption of
comrades brought in by the piquet and
patrols, in various stages of intoxication,
and the visits of the sergeant of the guard.
The bare boards had been his bed, and he
ached in every limb. It was with a sense of
relief almost, although he dreaded the ordeal
before him, that he washed and cleaned
himself up preparatory to taking his place
in the ranks with the rest of ' the prisoners.'
With them, under escort of the guard, he
was presently marched to the orderly-room,
and then, after waiting half-an-hour for his
turn, he was marched into the presence of

this commanding officer, to answer for his
alleged crime.

He and Jubbock appeared together before
their judge, Colonel Prioleau. The
sergeant, who was the only witness, gave his
evidence fairly, although not without a bias
against Herbert, but the Colonel withheld
judgment till he heard the defence.

What have you got to say ?' he asked
of both abruptly.

Please, your honour,' began Jubbock,
we wasn't fighting at all ; we was only
wrestling. This young chap says, says he,
he knew a thins; or two about the Cumberland
cropper, and I, says I, know'd more
about the Hampshire hug ; and with that Ave
had a set-to, and the sergeant found us at it.'

The old soldier's tendency to misstatement
— to call it by no stronger name — was
very repugnant to honest Herbert.

I beg your pardon, sir,' he put in, ^ he
is not telling you the truth. We were
fighting. He struck me, and I knocked
him down.'

Colonel looked up a little curiously.
Herbert's accent and his language were
both more accurate than one is accustomed
to find in a private soldier.

'You did, did you? And would you
do it again?'

I would, sir, if he provoked me ; I'm
not afraid of him,' cried Herbert, hotly.

He'd better try,' Jubbock said, growing
also warm, notwithstanding the awe
inspired by the great man in whose presence
he stood.

It's quite evident you can't agree.
There's bad blood between you still.
Well, you know the old rule— no. Captain
Greathed, I won't hear a word— young soldiers

must find their level, and hold their
own. Besides, there is the old regimental
custom. You must fight it out. Send
them down to the main ditch, as usual,
and let the orderly sergeant go with them
to see fair play. It's no use talking to me,
Captain Greathed ; I shall stick to the old
rule of the Duke's Own so long as I am
commanding the corps. ^ •

Captain Greathed thought it wisest tolet
matters take their course. Any further
interference to protect Herbert might have
looked like favouritism, and have done
the young fellow more harm than good.
He may have thought, too, that Herbert
could give a good account of his antagonist.


The mill was conducted according to
custom, in semi-official fashion. The orderly
sergeant, as before said, and two

bottle-holders — Hanlon was Herbert's —
were the only spectators.

For a long time it seemed a close affair.
Jubbock's weight and great reach of arm
were immensely in his favour. But Herbert
had more science. Self-defence, although
fast becoming an old-fashioned art,
was not unknown at Deadham School,
and he had grown into an accomplished
practitioner in it. He was lighter, too,
and far more active than Jubbock, and
this told in the long run. His adversary
tried in vain to get at him ; but Herbert
danced around him like a cork, till by
degrees Jubbock lost all patience and
struck out wildly. The wily Herbert
promptly seized his advantage, and began
to punish Jubbock severely. After this
the victory was not long in doubt. At
the end of the fourteenth round, Jubbock

threw up the sponge, and Herbert was declared,
officially, to have won the day.

The result of the fight, noised about as
it was in the company, naturally added
greatly to Herbert's prestige. Jubbock
was a coarse, rough fellow, inclined to be
brutal and overbearing, and he had so long
tyrannised over his comrades that his defeat
was hailed with much satisfaction.
The Boy' — old Joe Hanlon — was wild
with delight. He was never tired of expatiating
upon Herbert's prowess, and
talked so much about it, taking so much
credit to himself, that you might have
thought it was he who had won the fight.

Herbert received even higher approval.

^ So I hear you held your owns the captain
had said to him one day. ^ I thought
it was not unlikely you Avould. But don't
be puffed up by your victory. Take heed

to your going — Jubbock's not likely to love
you the more because you have shown
yourself the better man.'

There was wisdom in this advice. Lubbock
bore malice, as Herbert soon found,
from his sulky demeanour and the way he
scowled when he dared. Hanlon too reported
that Jubbock had sworn to be even
with young Larkins yet. But what could
he do ? Herbert laughed such vague threats
to scorn.

It was not long after this that unpleasant
rumours became rife in the barrack-room.
It was clear that the occupants
thereof were not all loyal to one another.
The men missed things. First, odds and
ends disappeared. A button-brush, a comb,
a tin of blacking or a red herring bought
for tea. Then money went — pence, not
too plentiful with soldiers, and hoarded up

between pay-days, in cleaning bag or knapsack,
to be drawn upon as required for the
men's menus plaisirs.

There was evidently a thief in the
room.

'Yes: and he's got to be found out
too said Joe Hanlon. ^ There ain't been
such a thing known in the Duke's Own
these years past.'

No, nor wouldn't be now,' said another,
if we got honest lads as recruits. We want
no swell-moisten and high-saluting dandies
with their grand airs, and their fine talk,
who come from no one knows where.'

'What d'ye mean?' asked Hanlon sharply.
' If that's a slap at my towne, I gis^e
you the lie, and no two words about it.
Larkins is as honest a young chap as ever
took the shilling.'

Well, Jubbock said — '

'It's just what I thought,' said Hhe Boy
Jubbock means mischief, but I'll circumvent
him, or my name's not Joe Hanlon.'

Matters were presently brought to a
crisis. Two half-crowns, a shilling and
some coppers were stolen on the day following
pay-day, and the men were growing
furious.

I'd swear to my half-crown anywhere,'
said one victim. 'It had a twist at the
edges and a scar on the Queen's nose.'

^ Let's all agree to be searched — our
kits, and packs, and all.'

Yes, yes,' everybody cried. ' We'll
call the colour-sergeant, and do it all regular
and proper, so we will.'

There was a general stampede out of
the room. Jubbock only was left in it, and
Hanlon, who had been shaving behind the
door, and was not visible.

The men came trooping back, headed
by the colour-sergeant — a stout, consequential
little man, who felt that his position
was only second in dignity to that of the
commander-in-chief.

'No man must leave the room. You,
Corporal Closky, see to that. Now, Sergeant
Lisette, we'll take the beds with
their kits as they come.'

The search was regularly and carefully
conducted amid a decorous silence.

All at once there was a loud shout.
The money had been discovered in one of
the packs.

It was Herbert's.

'Larkins,' cried the colour-sergeant, 'I'd
never have believed it.'

There was a hubbub of voices, the prominent
expressions being, 'I told you so,'
or 'What did I say?' followed by a hoarse

shout for vengeance, for condign punishment
of the despicable thief

'A court-martial! a barrack-room court-martial,'
cried several men in a breath, and
the cry was taken up by the room.

Stop ! Give the lad fair play,' said a
new voice, and Joe Hanlon stepped from
behind the door.

why, what do you know about it?'
the colour-sergeant asked. ' Isn't the evidence
as straight as it can be? He was
all but taken in the act. The money, which
is sworn to, is found in his pack.'

Aye, but who put it there ?'

Himself, of course. Who else?' It was
Jubbock who spoke.

You did. I saw you.'

The shot told. Jubbock visibly quailed.

It's a lie. I'll swear I never touched the
pack ; I'm ready to take my dying oath — '

^I saw you, man; I was there, behind
the door, shaving, and you thought you was
all alone'st in the room. I saw you go to
Larkins' bed, take the money out of your
pocket, wrap it in a rag, and put it in Lar-king'
pack

I didn't, I swear.'

'After all, it's only one man's word
against another's,' said the colour-sergeant,
magisterially.

How else could it have got there ?
Don't you know,' Hanlon asked of Jubbock,
^ don't you know that Larkins is in hospital,
and been there these three days past? How
could he have touched the pack? He's not
been in the room for three days or more.'

'That's right,' said the colour-sergeant.
'There's no more to be said. Jubbock, I
would not be in your shoes. You must goto
the guard-room.'

No, no, no ;' the men were all furious.
'He's the thief, the mean hound. Let's
settle it ourselves. A court-martial, a
barrack-room court-martial, sergeant.'

Well, have it your own way. Here,
Snaggs, Cusack, Hippisley, and Maldon,
you're the four oldest soldiers in the company;
go into my bunk and talk it over.
Say what's to be done with him.'

They came back presently.

He's guilty. Three dozen with the
sling of his own rifle ; that's our sentence
— '

Which I approve,' said the colour-sergeant,
and the informal punishment was
forthwith administered in a way which
would have gladdened the heart of the
fiercest old martinet who ever told the
drummer to lay on.

Herbert heard all about it, as soon ashe

came out of hospital, and was not sorry
for the villain who had so nearly led him
into a terrible scrape. Had the case been
proved against him it would have ruined
him utterly, for now at length promotion,
humble enough, but still advancement, was
close at hand. Within a week or two the
regimental orders contained a notification
that Private Herbert Larkins, of F company,
was appointed a lance-corporal.

This raised him at once above the malevolence
of enemies such as Jubbock. But
it gave him work enough for half a dozen.
The lance-corporal, the junior grade of noncommissioned
officer, is a sort of general
utility man, whose duties begin at daylight
and do not end at nio^ht. He must be
always clean and well dressed, or adieu to
hope of further promotion. He must be at
the beck and call of the company sergeants.

and ready to fly for the sergeant-major.
He must be peremptory yet judicious with
the privates, whom, although he was one
himself yesterday, he is called upon now to
command. Difficult, not to say arduous, as
were his functions, Herbert managed to
discharge them to the satisfaction of his
superiors, and soon became known in the
regiment as a smart and intelligent young-man.


One evening it fell to his lot to take the
^ order book' round for the perusal of the
officers of the company. Ernest Farrington
was one of them, and in due course Herbert
came to his quarters. He knocked and
heard the usual ' Come in.'

Orders, sirs

Orders ! All right. One moment — '
Yes, sir; that's all I know about it,' went
on young Farrington, in continuation evidently

of a previous talk. His interlocutor
was Major Cavendish-dingle.

You don't know what became of Lady
Farrington ? Where is she ?'

'At a private asylum — Dr. Plum's, at
Freestone. the other end of the county, you
know.' '

'To be sure. It must have given Sir
Rupert great annoyance. But now it's all
happily settled, of course ?'

Diggle was just then making the running;
for Miss Farrins^ton, and wished to be

I

quite certain that there was no fear of
future disinheritance.

Absolutely,' said Ernest. ' The crazy
old creature won't be heard of again, probably.'


'Shall I leave the order book, sir?'
Herbert then asked, and they remembered
they were not alone. They little

VOL. T. L

guessed who their listener was, and how
much they had inadvertently revealed to
him.

He had long wished to ascertain the
whereabouts of his kind patroness, and now
he knew. What use he might make of the
information did not occur to him. After
all, what could a poor soldier do against
such a powerful enemy as Sir Rupert Farrington
? Still the mouse helped the lion.
And it was something to know exactly what
had become of poor Lady Farrington. If
he could but come across the Larkins, there
might be some hope of his re-establishing
himself, perhaps of again putting forward
his claims. But the only reply he received
from the War Office, to which he had written,
was that Sergeant Larkins was employed
as a barrack-sergeant abroad, and
could not at the moment be traced. He

must wait, that was clear. But everything
comes to him who can wait, and Herbert
was still young enough to be sanguine and
full of hope.

A BALL IN Barracks.

The first of September was a great day
always at Farrington Hall. Sir Rupert
preserved very strictly; he was fond of
shooting, and his coverts were always well
stocked. They had a large party in the
house; men chiefly, good guns who could
be relied upon to do their share in swelling
the Warrington ' bas.'

This year several of Ernest's brother
officers were to have been invited, but
Major Diggie manoeuvred so cleverly that
none of them were asked but himself. He
had his own reasons for keeping men away
from the Hall. He was not afraid of rivals,
of course — who among the Duke's Own was

there to compete with hin? Still they
might inadvertently interfere with his little
game; and he preferred, at least for the
present, to have the field all to himself.

Major Cavendish-dingle was much appreciated
at the Hall. Lady Farrington, a
foolish, inconsequent woman, who was entirely
wrapped up in Ernest, her only son,
received the Major almost with effusion.
He had been, oh, so kind to Ernest ! She
knew it ; it was no use his disclaiming it,
and she was deeply grateful to him.

With thatch a trial joining a regiment ;
everything tho strange, and Erne tho
young, tho inexperienced; he would have
been miserable, quite miserable, but for
soil

Lady Farrington was a large fair woman ;
so fair as to be almost colourless. Her
manner was not without distinction, and

would have been impressive but for the
vapidity of her remarks, and a trick of
utterance due, seemingly, to her having too
many teeth in her mouth, which robbed
her words of anything like expression,
and sometimes made them unintelligible.
Ernest, her son, greatly took after her.
He was tall, but rather shambling in gait,
and still excessively thin. In voice and
manner of speech he reproduced Lady Farrington
exactly. His mouth also seemed
full of hot potatoes, or too full of teeth;
and as he had a trick of keeping it constantly
open, as though to cool the potatoes,
or air his teeth, his general expression was
vacuous in the extreme. A rather full
lower lip and a very receding chin did not
add to his personal charms. You gathered
at once from his face and air that he was
weak, irresolute, easily led, and that he

might, if misled, slide soon into vicious
ways.

But he had improved wonderfully since
he had joined the Duke's Own. They all
said so. Even Sir Rupert, dark and undemonstrative
as he was generally, thawed
enough to say that he thought soldiering
would make a man of Ernest — if anything
would. Letitia, as Miss Warrington was
called, and who in many respects resembled
her father, changed her tone on seeing how
much Ernest was changed for the better.
Her attitude towards him had hitherto been
one of patronage mixed with spite. Although
outwardly she was very affectionate
in her heart she bore him a grudge because
he was one of the sex commonly
called superior to her own. She was the
elder by three or four years; she had far
more brains — ' not that that was surprising'

as she said when she was more than
usually venomous, seeing that Ernest had
next to none. She was a Farrington, as
was evident from her likeness to her father,
while her brother was clearly a Eurdakin,
like his mother. Why should an absurd
and monstrously unfair custom constitute
him the heir and future head of the family,
while she must be satisfied with what her
father mi«:ht choose to sive her as a marriage
portion or as a settlement for life?
She had always bitterly resented the Salic
law as it obtained in England with regard
to the succession of estates and titles.

Letitia was, however, much more civil
to Ernest now. There may be many subtle
reasons for such sudden changes of demeanour.
Major Cavendish-dingle was perhaps
not remotely connected with Letitia's. He
was Ernest's bosom friend ; what if he presently

developed into a friend and admirer
of her own ? Letitia was not exactly ill-favoured,
but she was certainly not a beauty
in the strict sense of the term. Dark complexioned
and thin lipped, but with a nose
too sharp, and cheek bones too high, her
face was not strikingly attractive to say the
least of it ; and the fact was being gradually
borne in upon her, as she grew on in year,
by the slackness with which suitors sought
her hand. Major Cavendish-dingle was
one of the first who showed better taste.
Why should not men admire her? She
had a neat well-proportioned figure. Her
eyes were good, of the deep brown piercing
order; her dark hair was abundant and
rich. She was a good talker, had all the
accomplishments of a well-educated young
lady, and a large share of that indescribable
air of good breeding, of that perfect ease in

manner and thorough savoir faire which
are only to be seen in women of good
station — all of which Diggle felt would be
extremely becoming in a colonel's or general
officer's wife. If the thin lips and fierce
eyes foretold a vixenish temper when,
thwarted, or if the world went wrong with
her, these were bad points still in embryo,
little likely to deter so matter of fact a
wooer as Diggle from prosecuting his suit.

Not that he precipitated matters. He
could see, with half an eye, that Miss Farrington
accepted his attentions cheerfully
enough ; but he was very doubtful whether
her parents would look upon him with equal
favour. Indeed, Sir Rupert had more than
once spoken in a way to damp Diggle's
hopes. The baronet held his head high.
He evidently knew Avhat was due to himself.
Having passed his early years as a

struggling solicitor, barely able to keep the
wolf from his door, he was now very eloquent
about mesalliances^ and the proper
maintenance of distinctions of class. The
major's heart misgave him, for reasons best
known to himself, when he heard Sir Kupert
inveighing against the annoyance of upstart
tradesmen, who, on the strength of fortunes
amassed by not too reputable business (so
he said), aped the manners of their betters,
and tried to push themselves forward into
the front rank of society. This very visit
to Farrington Hall, a crusty old county
magnate to whom Diggle had been formally
introduced, had remarked rather pointedly
upon the major's name.

Diggle, Diggle, I know the name. To
be sure. Get my tea from Diggle's. Devilish
good tea too — no connection, major,
eh?^

At which Major Cavendish Diggle
inwardly shuddered, although he replied
promptly enough.

Come and taste our champagne at
Triggertown, Mr. Buckingham ; it's far better
than the best tea in the world.' Whereby
the inconvenient question was for the moment
satisfactorily shelved.

Dicrsie kncAV, therefore, that much circumspection
would be necessary if he aspired
to Letitia's hand. All he could hope to
gain was the girl's good-will and co-operation,
and this, by his assiduous, although
diplomatically veiled attentions, he secured
in due course.

Meanwhile he sought and entirely succeeded
in making himself agreeable to all
in the house. He talked ^ central fire' with
Sir Rupert, parochial business and district
visiting with Lady Farrington, who pretended

to play the Dorcas in the parish;
he discussed turnips and quarter sessions
with the squires and local magnates, who
thought that such matters comprised the
whole duty of man; last of all, he played
duets and danced with Miss Farrington
after dinner, in a way she called, and really
felt to be divine.

'It does not bore you to dance?' she
asked him one evening.

And with you ? No, indeed, and really
I am passionately devoted to it.'

Some men now-a-days are so tine. They
stand about the doors at a dance like farm
servants at a fair waiting to be hired.'

'That's not the way With the Duke's
Own,' said Diggle, laughing. ' No idlers are
allowed when we give a ball. You should
see our youngsters dance; and we have a
string band on purpose for dance music'

^ Delightful ! Do give us a ball, Major
Dingles

With all my heart ; when you like.
You shall fix the day, and it shall be the
finest Triggertown has ever seen.'

The subject was re-opened another day,
when Diggle was not by.

Does it rest with him?' incredulous
Sir Rupert asked of Ernest. what does
your colonel say ?^

Oh, Colonel Prioleau's " not in it" compared
to Major Cavendish. We always call
him Major Cavendish, he likes it better.
The Major's the leading man in the regiment.
He does just as he pleases. There's
nobody like him.'

And Ernest went off into pagans of
praise, expatiating upon Diggle' s innumerable
good qualities with all the eloquence
(it was not much) he could command.

But he did not exaggerate the Major's
influence in the regiment. The ball, which
came off a month or so later, was on a scale
of unprecedented splendour, mainly because
Diggle had resolved that it should be so.
He had taken the affair altogether into his
own hands. It was he who insisted that
the ices should come straight from Gunter's,
that there should be foie gras, plovers' eggs,
and fresh truffles at supper ; it was he who
had conceived the brilliant idea of placing
silver-hooped barrels in the tea rooms, full
of champagne constantly on tap. He had
commissioned the best decorators in London
to do up the ball rooms; one built, contiguous
to the mess-house, a boudoir, intended
for the sole use of ladies, which was
furnished with ivory toilet appliances, and
lined with amber satin throughout ; another
designed an artificial grotto filled with

blocks of real ice, which, as they melted,
fed a number of fountains, whose waters
fell in showers of sweet-scented spray; a
third, entrusted with the floral decorations,
grouped great masses of tropical plants, a
wealth of rich variegated colours in the
corridors, before the fireplaces, and in all
the best points of view. There were two
rooms for dancing; in one the inimitable
string band of the Duke's Own performed,
in the other a detachment of Comte and
Finney's was specially engaged.

With moth Avontherful, certainly,' said
Lady Farrington, in raptures, as Diggle
received her; and having presented her
to cjuiet Mrs. Prioleau, Who was in duty
bound to do the honours, but who was
utterly bored and Adorn out after the first
five minutes, led her to a seat of state on a
sort of dais at the top of the room.

'Oh, Major Qavendish-Diggle!' cried
Letitia, ' you have deed achieved a most
triumphant success. It's like a scene in
fairy-land. The flowers, and the innumerable
lights, the falling waters. Exquisite,
enchanting;' and she half closed her eyes,
as in an ecstasy of bliss.

I wonder what it will all cost ?' growled
Sir Rupert, sotto voce. ' A pretty penny
I shall have Ernest overdrawing again.'

The fact being that, although Ernest
received a handsome allowance, his account
was perpetually overdrawn. Constant association
with Diggle did not tend to economical
ways. What with grouse for breakfast,
and hot-house fruits for lunch ; what with
great guest nights, and expensive wines
flowing freely, his mess bills-were enormous.
Then there were his horses, his
dog-cart to take him to the station, his

VOL. I. M

chambers in the neighbourhood of St.
James's, his boot varnish, and his new hats
once a fortnight, and his fresh ' buttonholes'
every two or three hours. Sir Rupert
hardly knew how the money went, but he
knew that the six hundred a year he allowed
his son, which was more than he had enjoyed
for years until he came into the title,
did not go half as far as it should, and he
grumbled at the extravagance and ostentation
of this great ball.

The baronet was not in the best of
humours, therefore, as he stood upon one
of the two raised platforms which had been
erected on each side of the regimental
colours, for the accommodation of the most
distinguished guests. The colours were
encased, and drooped gracefully over a
trophy of swords and bayonets, the whole
being under the protection of two stalwart

sentries in full uniform, who stood erect
and impassive, like stone statues, perfectly-unmoved
by the revels in progress around.
It was a signal honour to be permitted to
mount guard in the ball-room, and only the
finest-looking and the steadiest men were
selected for the duty. But the duty was
fatiguing, and the sentries were relieved
every hour, the relief being carried ouf
quietly, but strictly in accordance with the
regulations, by non-commissioned officers
carefully selected, like the sentries, on account
of their smartness and gallant
bearing.

While Sir Rupert was standing scowling
at the entertainment, for which, without
sharing in the honour and glory, he would
probably have to pay, the relief marched
in. He looked on at the ceremony without
interest, heard with indifferent ears the

trite words of command, ' Port arms, take
post, shoulder, order,' and the rest, when
something in the aspect of the corporal in
command attracted his attention, and he
found himself looking curiously at the
soldier's face.

Surely he knew it? Where had he seen
it before ?

Then with a sudden start he remembered.
The man was the living image of
cracked Lady Farrington's 'protege — of that
lad whom he. Sir Rupert, had inveigled
down into Devonshire, and left there to
starve. Could it possibly be the same man?
Did the fellow know him? Apparently
not.

He was still debating the point as the
relief marched away, when all doubts were
set at rest by hearing a very young lady, a
child, in fact (it was Edith Prioleau), say

laughingly, and with the accents of Strath
as she touched the corporal on
the arm with her fan,

En bien Caporal Larhins^ comment vous
portez-vous f

To which the corporal replied, with a
smile,

Tres hens mademoiselle, Et vous T

There could be no mistake. Looks
name, voice, all were the same. What a
curious fatality ! In the same regiment as
his son — the true heir and the false serving
side by side. Should he tell Ernest ? Then
Sir Rupert, pondering much, came to the
conclusion that it would be best to keep
his own counsel, but resolved to put, if possible,
a watch upon the young man.

MUTINY IN THE RANKS.

There was great grief in the Duke's Own*
Colonel Prioleau was about to leave the
regiment. He had commanded it for a
number of years, and wo aid have liked to
have gone on commanding it to the end of
the chapter, but promotion to the rank of
general was fast approaching him, and he
felt that he must ' realise' at least a part of
his cash. Colonels of regiments in old days
served for about sentence a-day. The rest
of their pay barely represented the interest
upon the capital sum they had sunk in purchasing
their rank. By exchanging to half-pay
before promotion, a regimental 
was able to pull a few

thousands out of the fire ; and this Colonel
Prioleau did.

There was great grief in the regiment
at his approaching retirement. It Alas not
so much on account of his personal qualities,
although these — more particularly his
easy going laissez aller system — had long
gained him great popularity, but because the
command was to pass into the hands of one

•

who was not, as the saying is, a ' Duke's
Own man.' Major Byfield had exchanged
into the corps some few years previously,
very much against the will of the regiment.
Not that there was anything against him.
Appearances were indeed in his favour.
He was a quiet gentlemanly little person,
with that slightly apologetic manner, and
hesitating air, which often earn a man appreciation
from his fellows, because they
indicate a tacit acknowledgment of his inferiority.

Major Byfield showed himself
still more nervous and decided on joining
the Duke's Own. Although as a field officer
his position was assured, and entitled him
to considerable deference from all, he seldom
claimed it or asserted himself more
than he could help. His brother officers
tolerated him, and were civil to him when
they saw him, which was not often; but
they yielded him no respect, and suffered
him to interfere very little in the discipline
and management of the corps. What could
he know about the Duke's Own, or its regimental
'system?' He had come from the
130th which, it was well known, had a very
different ' system,' although both were, in
fact, ruled by the Queen's Regulations, and
should have been governed on precisely the
same lines. There is a good deal of mystery
made and much stress laid upon the ' sister'

in force in a regiment. No doubt in
many minor details there is a marked difference,
but the broad outlines are, or
ought to be, the same. But it is a favourite
dogma, especially with officers in whom
esprit de corps is strong, that no one can
understand this system unless he has been
trained in a regiment and assimilated it
with his earliest ideas. So when the major
spoke even in a whisper, or made the faintest
hint of a suggestion, he was pooh-poohed
and put down. Diggle, his fellow, although
junior field officer, quietly said that it was
all nonsense, that Byfield misunderstood
the situation, that he had better wait till he
had longer experience in the regiment
before he presumed to put forward his
views.

Major Byfield was thus satisfactorily
repressed — but only for the time. He had

views and opinions of his own upon soldiering,
and he was determined when opportunity
came to give them full play. They
had long persistently preached up and
paraded before him the system in force in
the Duke's Own, but he had for as long
come to the conclusion that the system was
a bad one, and was resolved to reform it
should he ever come into power. His character
was a strange medley of opposite
qualities. Behind the nervous diffidence,
which being upon the surface seemed his
most prominent trait, was an amount of
quiet self opinionated obstinacy which
boded ill for those under his orders should
he ever have much authority in his hands.
Mrs. Byfield could have opened people's
eyes had she been permitted to disclose the
secrets of the Byfield menage. The major
was as narrow-minded as a woman, and as.

prone to mistake the relative proportion of
things, to entirely ignore the main issues,
to neglect or overlook broad questions, and
concentrate himself with much tenacity
upon comparatively unimportant details.

These peculiarities began to developed
themselves very soon after he obtained the
command. It became evident that the new
colonel was a different man from what w^s
supposed. He had been deemed a cipher
one who could hardly call his soul his
own ; but he proved a fussy, fidgety, anxious
creature, who from nervous apprehension,
backed up by no small amount of
self-conceit, promised to make everybody's
life a burden to him. The officers as a
body began to fear that the good old times
were on the wane. The decadence of the
Duke's Own must have fairly commenced
when leave for hunting was refused and

there were two commanding officers' parades
son the same day. The fact was, the Colonel
had resolved to reform the regiment according
to his own ideas, and had already
set to work with a will. The points on
which it fell short of perfection were very
clear to his own mind — a weak, but extremely
active mind. He thought the officers
neglected their business and knew too
little of it — facts incontrovertible no doubt,
although the remedy was not easy to discover,
and needed stronger treatment than
Colonel Byfield was in a position to apply.
He felt dissatisfied, too, with the demeanour
of the men in quarters and on parade, and
if it was more within his compass to bring
about improvement in these respects, his
task was likely to be surrounded with the
greater difficulty if his officers were discontented
and soured. But the Colonel could

not see much beyond the end of his nose, *
and rushed forward blindly to his fate.

To come in for a large share of criticism,
not to say abuse, from those under his
orders, is too commonly the lot of the regimental
lieutenant colonel. Colonel Yield
was no exception to the general rule. Before
he had been in command a month, his
officers generally began to disapprove of his
proceedings; after three, they disliked him
cordially ; and this grew into positive
hatred at the end of six. Of course they
kept their opinions very much to themselves.
English officers, however grievous
their wrongs, whether real or fancied, never
overstep the bounds of due subordination;
and however much those of the Duke's Own
may have chafed at their commanding
officer's trying ways and irksome rule, they
did no more than call him a ' beast' to one

another, and utter frequent and fervid, but
private prayers for his translation to some
other sphere in this world or the next.
They bore their burden bravely enough,
silently too and without protest, except
when some graceless subaltern or more artful
captain wilfully exhibited an utter
ignorance of the very rudiments of drill by
clubbing his company upon parade, or comported
himself disgracefully at the weekly
examinations — offences especially heinous
in the eyes of a Colonel whose greatest
fad' was to make his officers walking vade
mecum or living encyclopaedia of military
knowledge. The schoolmaster was abroad
in the Duke's Own, very much to everyone's
discomfort and dissatisfaction.

Excessive timidity, an exaggerated fear
of constituted authority, were the secrets of
Colonel Byfield's irritating line of conduct.

He vas for ever invoking the distant deities
of the Horse Guards, and deprecating their
wrath. As for their local chief priest, the
general officer commanding the Triggertown
district, whose authority was much more
tangible and near at hand, Colonel Byfield
had for him the most wholesome and abject
apprehension. It was to appease the possible
fury of this awful functionary that he
worried and harassed the regiment from
morning till night.

what will the general say? or 'What
will the general do ?' were phrases continually
on his lips. He forgot that, as a matter
of fact, the general, who was an ordinary
general, would probably say or do nothing
at all. But this professional ' Working' was
quoted on every occasion.

I cannot overlook your misconduct,' he
would say to Joe Hanlon, when brought up

for the thousandth time for beiiio; drunks

?D



The general won't let me.'

'As if the general cared,' muttered 'the
Boy' to himself.

I must punish you ; I must, indeed.'

Colonel Prioleau never did, sir ; and I
hope, sir — '

Colonel Prioleau i^ not here now, and
I don't choose 'to be spoken to in that way.
Fourteen days' marching order drill ; and if
you come these again, I'll try you for
Habitual" — T will, mark my words.'

What's the good of serving on in the
old corps now?' said Hanlon, very wroth,
after he had done his defaulter's drill. ' It's
not what it used to be. I'll put in for my
discharge.'

He was fully entitled to it. Twenty-one
years' service, all told. Five good-conduct
badges, less one, which his recent misconduct

had robbed him of; for with old soldiers
it is strength of head, or immunity
from punishment that brings reputation;
and Hanlon, thanks to Colonel Prioleau's
good nature, had the credit of being one of
the best behaved men in the regiment.

I won't stay to be humbugged about,*
he said, indignantly, to his comrade Herbert,
^ril take my pension and look out*
for a billet in civil life.'

What can you get to do ?'

plots of things. Commissionaire, prison
warder, attendant in a lunatic 'asylum.'

Herbert pricked up his ears.

^Do you think you could get the last?
I wish you would, and Pll tell you why
You've never heard my story T

Whereupon Herbert told it all.

I knew you was a nob from the first.

I saw it in your talk and in the cut of your
VOL. I. ' N

jib. Dr. Plum's of Grey stone, you say.
Right you are. That's where I'll go. Tomorrow,
if not sooner, and I'll give you the
office — double quick. Hold on a bit, that's
all you've got to do ; hold on, and do your
duty, and it'll all come right in the end.
And see here — '

Hanlon looked about him, as if afraid
of listeners.

'Things ain't comfortable in the old
corps, not just now; and there's going to
be a row. They won't let on to you, 'cos
you're a non-com, and what's more, only a
recruit. There's men in the regiment mean
mischief, if they only get the chance; and
if they don't, they'll make it, sure as my
name's Joe.'

What can they do ?'

'They don't think or care. All they
want is a rumpus, so as to get old Byfield

MUTINY IN THE RANKS. 179

in trouble and make him leave, and that
they'll be able to do. Don't join them, not
whatever they say. Keep your ears cocked,
and nip in — only on the right side.'

Hanlon had taken his discharge and
got the promise of a billet at Dr. Plum's,
when the storm actually broke in the
Duke's Own.

Colonel Byfield had been agitated be .
yond measure at the news of the approaching
move of his regiment to one of the
large camps, and in view of the scrutiny
which there awaited him his petty tyranny
had passed all bounds. He had parades
morning, noon, and night. He exercised
the men ad nauseam at squad drill, goose
step, and the manual and platoon. He
marched them perpetually in battalion up
and down the barrack yard, and he took
them out day after day upon Triggertown

.3-.^^

Common for light infantry drill. All this,
albeit torture of the most painful description,
they could have tolerated probably
without a murmur had not the Colonel,
dissatisfied with the progress made, sentenced
the regiment to be deprived of all
leave in all ranks.

This was the point at which the worm
turned. One fine morning, long after the
^ dressing' bugle had sounded, followed by
the 'non-commissioned officers call' and
the ' fall-in,' not a man made his appearance
upon parade. Colonel Byfield and
the officers had the whole square to themselves.
The rest of the regiment with the
exception of a number of men belonging
to one company, F, formed up in the ditch,
and while the commanding officer was
whistling at vacancy, marched off in excellent
order to a distant part of the glacis,

where they piled arms and refused to
return.

It would be tedious, and it indeed forms
no part of this history to narrate, except in
the briefest terms, the 'progress of this very
serious military Idclie. The men, as is
usual in such cases, went to the wall. The
ringleaders were hunted out, tried and
severely punished, and the whole regiment .
was ordered to proceed on foreign service
forthwith. The causes which had led to the
disturbance Averse closely investigated, and
as a natural consequence Colonel Byfield
was placed upon half-pay.

It was for a long time doubtful whether
Diggle, who was the next senior, should
be allowed to succeed to the command;
but he brought all the interest he could
to bear, and he eventually won the day.

As Colonel Diggle, commanding a corps

really distinguished, although temporarily
under a cloud, he found Sir Rupert Farrington
not indisposed to accept his proposals
for Letitia; and the marriage came
off just before the regiment embarked for
Gibraltar.

It was at Farrington Hall that the conversation
turning, as it had done more
than once before, upon the recent mutiny,
brought our hero, Herbert Larkins, prominently
to the front.

The movement was not general, certainly
not,' Diggle had said. sone of the
companies, F, Ernest's in fact, did not take
any share in it.'

Does Ernest deserve the credit of that ?'

Not exactly. It was due rather to an
astute young corporal, Who quietly locked
the doors of the men's rooms. They
couldn't get out to join.'

Really ? He was promoted, of courses

Yes ; he is now a sergeant, and is sure
to get on. Oh yes, young Larkins is sure
to get on.'

'It was young Larkins, was it?'

'Do you know him?'

I think I do. I will tell you about it
one of these days.'

Diggle, as one of the Farrington family,
would soon have a right to know.

SOME OLD FRIENDS MEET.

For some time after their arrival on the
Rock, the officers of the Duke's Own called
it a detestable hole. They were sore at
their expatriation and the manner of it ;
they regretted the joys they had left behind,
and could see no good thing in the
much vaunted station where they were now
relegated for their sins. There was nothing
to be done in the place ; the climate was
intolerable, and there was nothing to eat.
They had arrived towards the end of the
summer, and the season, never cool, had
been unusually sultry. They came in too
for the tail end of a long visitation of the
Levanter,' the much dreaded east wind,

which caps the Rock with a perpetual cloud
and makes life miserable to all; and the
welcome change, when it came at length,,
was heralded by a tremendous thunderstorm
and drenching rains. The Duke's
Own were still under canvas at the North
Front, waiting till the outgoing regiment
vacated its quarters at Windmill Hill, and
their encampment was nearly swept away
by the storm. Officers lost baggage, the
men their kits, and the whole regiment
united in deep denunciations of the inhospitable
Rock.

Nor did Gibraltar seem to improve upon
a closer acquaintance. Its joys and amusements,
what Averse they after London and
the shires ? Racing ! the idea was too preposterous.
Half-a-dozen tinpot nags Without
pace or breeding, cantering round a
Graveyard and finishing in a trot. What

sort of sport was that to offer the Duke's
Own, which had always had its own regimental
drag to witness the great events at
home, and which kept open house in its
luncheon tent at Ascot and Goodwood and
"upon Epsom Downs? The hunting too!
heaven save the mark ! To talk of hunting
with the sweepings of a few second-rate
kennels, dignified with the name of a pack,
when the huntsman was a local genius,
and foxes were said to be so scarce or so
little enterprising that it was often necessary
to have recourse to a red herring !
What was such hunting to men who had
l)een constantly out (so they said) with the
Heythorp, the Abraham Moor, the Pytch-
ley and Quern?

These were the earliest impressions of
Gibraltar prevailing among the officers of the
Duke's Own. But our friends eventually

changed their tone. By their first contemptuous
abstention, they found, in the
first place, that they lost all the fun that
was going, and, next, that, although the
sport was second-rate, they could not excel
in it even when they tried. One or two of
the Duke's Own, who were said to be in all
the secrets of the Dawson and John Scott
stables, went in for some of the plates and
cups at the autumn meeting, and signally
failed in everything. Later on, when the
hunting season really began, and they
turned out in a body in red coats and the
most undeniable tops, to cut everybody
down, they were chagrined to find that
it was much more difficult to follow than
they supposed. Ked coats and mahogany
tops were nowhere at the end of the first
burst. One or two men were completely
thrown out; a few tried the breakneck

country between 'the Rivers' only to crane
at length and turn back from the precipices
and steep inclines. After that first day the
Duke's Own spoke more respectfully of the
Calpe Hunt. By and bye they became-less
critical in other respects, and at length,
when they had been some six months on
the Rock, entered as fully into its amusements,
and enjoyed them as thoroughly as.
the oldest stagers in the place.

There was one person, however, connected
with the Duke's Own who highly
appreciated Gibraltar from the first. Mrs.
Cavendish-dingle found the station extremely
to her taste. A bride still in the
hey-day of her married life, full of satisfaction
at the importance of her position as
the commanding officer's wife, with the
attention she thereby received from all the
Duke's Own, Letitia found soldiering, particularly

at Gibraltar, everything that could
be desired. But what she enjoyed most of
all was the chance she now had of bullying
the brother who hitherto had had it all
his own wav at home. Ernest mio;ht bethe
most worthy at Farrington Hall, but in
the Duke's Own he was under Colonel
Diggle's command, and Colonel Diggle was
now unquestionably under that of his wife
How the exquisite and self-sufficient Diggle
had succumbed was a mystery which will
probably remain unexplained till the curtain
lectures of the Diggle couple are given
to the world. Then it will no doubt transpire
that in the exercise of those inquisitorial
functions which every wife naturally
arrogates to herself, Letitia had come across
certain damaging facts connected with the
Colonel's antecedents which put him completely
under his partner's thumb. That

Mrs. Diggle would come ere long to command
the regiment was already plainly apparent
to all, and the fact was not hailed
with particular joy in the corps. Petticoat
government in a regiment is not the most
successful with, nor is it the most palatable
to those most closely concerned. Letitia's
temper was a little too imperious to be
pleasant. She made nipping remarks, and
snubbed and put people down in a way
they hated but were powerless to resent.
'Oh! how can you say so, Major Greathed!
You are wrong, quite wrong. She married
Lord Clifford's second son. But then you
can't be expected to know;' or 'It's not
what I have been accustomed to, Mrs.
Moon. In my father's house the housekeeper
looked to these things. But then of
course you — ' which might be taken to imply
that Mrs. Moon had been brought up

very differently, and could not be expected
to know what was what. Or she lectured
the youngsters when they came within her
reach, which was only when they wanted
leave, knowing that without her good word
they could not expect an hour. ' I hear
you are getting sadly in debt, Mr. Muleteer.
I shall write to Sir George.' ' So
you were not at church parade last Sunday,
Mr. Smythe. The Colonel was quite
cross.' 'Don't get entangled by any of
these bright-eyed scorpions, Mr. Curzon.
You see I know all about it. Carmen
Molinaro would never do for you.' All of
which irritated and exasperated the officers
of the Duke's Own very considerably.

The man who most cordially hated her,
however, was the adjutant, Mr. Wheeler.
He was chafed perpetually by her interference.
Nothing was sacred to her. She

rushed into professional matters with all
the effrontery of the fool. So long as she
contented herself with favouring her pets
amonof the soldiers' wives Wheeler did not
-care. It was when she presumed to advise
as to the orderly room work, the correspondence,
promotions, and daily routine,
that he not unnaturally turned rusty.
Whether or not she read the colonel's
letters he scarcely cared, but he did resent
having to prepare important despatches
from her notes, or send out letters which
she had obviously drafted with her own
hand. Nor could he, after so many years
of nearly absolute authority, readily or
cheerfully resign his power in the regiment.
Hitherto advancement for the non-commissioned
officers had depended mainly
upon his good word. Now it was becoming
evident that their promotion would

depend in future upon that of the colonel's
wife. In one particular case which nearly
affected a friend of ours they had fought a
sharp battle; the adjutant was obstinate,
but the lady was more so, and in the end
the latter won the day. It was entirely
through Letitia's good offices that Herbert
Larkins became a colour-sergeant long before
the ordinary time. She had taken a
fancy to the young man — not, you may be
sure, because of his presumed connection
with the family, for of that she had not the
slightest inkling; — but because it had lain
within his power to do her important service,
and because he was a smart, well-grown
fellow to boot. Letitia, like many
other ill-favoured women, had a keen eye
for manly beauty.

But she had really reason to be grateful
to Herbert. One day, when he was on

VOL. I.

guard upon the Upper Road, Mrs. Caves
followed by her grooni) passed
on their way towards the town. Something
startled Letitia's horse, and, although an
excellent rider, she found he was more than
she could manage. After passaging like a
crab along the road for some hundred
yards, he took to plunging and rearing ina
way to dislodge the most accomplished
horse-woman from her seat. The groom
had ridden up alongside, but he was able
to render little assistance, and his best
efforts only made Letitia's horse worse.
Had not Herbert promptly supervened,
Mrs. Diggle would undoubtedly have been
thrown, and probably badly hurt. But
with firm hand on the rein he soon mastered
the horse, then gradually pacified
him.

'I'm sure, sergeant, I'm extremely

obliged . to you,' said Mrs. Cavendish,
directly she recovered her breath. ' What
is your name ? I must speak of you specially
to the Colonel — Colonel Diggle— you
know me, I presume ? and I see you belong
to '' us." '

Herbert Larkins, Madam, F company,'
said our hero briefly, as he saluted.

Thank you again, so much.' And witji
that the Colonel's wife rode oiF.

She did speak of him and his conduct in
the most glowing terms.

You must do something for him,
Conrad.'

Certainly, I'll make him a present ; or,
better still, you shall — a watch, or a pencil-case,
or something.'

No, no ; something in the regiment, I
mean. Promote him.'

'He's very young. Barely a year a

sergeant. I don't see my way, I don't
indeed.'

There are those vacant colours in G
company,' she said, displaying a curiously
intimate acquaintance with regimental
news.

Colour sergeant ! Impossible !'

Surely not, when I ask it.'

It would be grossly unfair. Promotions
must not go by favour.'

Kissing does,' she replied, as though
he might expect no such reward unless he
were more obliging. It was just possible
that by this time Diggle could have deprived
himself of the pleasure without any
acute pang.

What would Mr. Wheeler say T

'That's where it is. You think far
more of displeasing Mr. Wheeler than of
pleasing me. I feel hurt, Conrad ; it's not

what I have a right to expect, considering—'


When she got on this tack the Colonel
threw up the sponge. He gave in about
the promotion, although the adjutant,
thereby making Letitia his enemy for
life, tried hard to keep him up to the
mark.

The whole thing would have been a job
of the worst kind had Herbert been less
worthy. But he had really developed into
an excellent soldier, smart, personable, and
thoroughly well up in his work. He had
his drill-book at his fingers' ends, and could
handle a squad as well as any man in the
corps. He had learnt by heart all the details
of interior economy, and was fully
competent to take the charge and payment
of a company, or to do credit to his regiment
in any position in which he might be

placed. All this Mr. Wheeler was forced
to admit ; and although he cherished a
2:rudo:e against Herbert on account of what
had passed, he so loved a good soldier that
he could not bear malice long.

Colour Sergeant Larkins was indeed fast
becoming a very prominent person in the
corps. Some backbiting and no little jealousy
existed, no doubt, but he was the
sort of man to soon outgrow and outlive
such feelings. There was much in his
manner and address to make him generally
popular. His bright face, his cheerful
voice, his manly straightforward ways, commended
him of themselves. But he had
other claims to the suffrages of his fellows.
His old skill in games had not deserted
him, and soldiers are very like schoolboys
in their admiration and respect for personal
prowess. The Duke's Own eleven, thanks

to Herbert's batting and bowling, won every
match always at the North Front. His
brother sergeants felt lucky if they could
secure him for a hand of fives. In all other
gymnastic exercises he came equally well
to the front. At the garrison athletic
sports, which presently came off, as they
always do, upon the racecourse at the North
Front, he carried everything before him, to
the intense gratification of his comrades in
the corps.

The name of Sergeant Larkins was indeed
on every lip that day. All the world
of Gibraltar was present. His Excellency
the Governor came in state, so did the general,
second in command, and officers of all
grades with their wives ; crowds of soldiers
of all the regiments in garrison were there,
and all cheered Herbert to the echo as he
carried ofi* the hurdle-race in magnificent

style. As for the Duke's Own, a lot of
them, frantic with delight, got him on their
shoulders, and were carrying him about in
triumph, when some one came up, and with
a hurried nervous manner, said,

^ Sergeant Larkins ; where's Sergeant
Larkins ?^

Who wants him ?' said a dozen voices,
thinking perhaps the governor had asked
him to dinner, or the Queen had sent to
make him a general on the spot.

An old friend. The oldest he's got, I
think he'll say, when he sees me and hears
my name. '

His enthusiastic supporters dropped
Herbert, who came forward to speak to the
inquirer.

It's himself, himself, by all that's holy !
Hercules Albert, don't you remember me ?'
cried the man, as he seized both Herbert's

hands, shaking them furiously, and seeming
to wish to hug him in his arms.

It was the old Sergeant Larkins, his
stepfather, for whom he had so long searched
in vain.

I heard them calling out the name,
and it sounded so queer that I thought I'd
have a look at you. How you've grown !
But tell me all about yourself. Quick, lad.
I want to hear, and the mother she — '

She's all right and well, I hope,' Herbert
asked, as soon as he could put in a
word. * Let's go to her at once. How
comes it I've never seen you before?'

Only landed from Malta on transfer
last week, myself, the missus, and three of
the bairns, that's how it was. But come
along, come to the mother at once ; she'll
be crazy with delight when she sees you,
and so will all the rest.'

REVELATIONS.

The Larkins family had taken up their
residence in a small cottage on the road
to the Moorish Castle. Larkins pere was
now principal barrack - sergeant, and as
such was entitled to fairly good quarters.
He had aged considerably since our first
acquaintance with him. His hair Alas grizzled,
his gait was stiff as though his ankle-joints
were affected by innumerable barrack
inspections, and his eyes were weak from
constant search for nail-holes or other barrack
damages, or the continuous appraisement
of fair wear and tear. Mrs. Larkins
had also changed appreciably. She was
still buxom, however, and her voice had

lost none of its shrill power when she was
aroused. This was more seldom than of
yore. Her children were no longer the
trial they had once been. The two eldest
boys were out in the world ; Sennacherib
was in the band of a regiment at Malta, and
Rechab was at the same place on board a
man-of-war. Two younger ones, Ascanius
and Leonora, were still at home, and so was
Jemima Ann, familiarly called Mimie, now
a blooming maiden of nineteen, with a soft
voice, a sweet face, and eyes bright enough
to give the heart-ache to half the young
fellows of the place.

The old sergeant preceded Herbert into
the cottage, to prepare his wife for a surprise.


'Some one I know, Jonadab? Someone
I've not seen these years? A colour-sergeant
in the Duke's Own? What are

you driving at? I know no colour sergeants
; for the matter of that none of the
Duke's Own,' Herbert heard her say as she
came to the door.

The moment she set eyes upon her
visitor she started and shook all over. She
seemed dazed, and could frame no word of
speech. Then all at once she gave way, and
taking Herbert's hands in hers, drew him
towards her, kissing him again and again,
while tears of joy ran down her cheeks.

what, Hercules, boy! My boy, my
own sweet boy ! This is a sight for sore
eyes. Where have you dropped from, and
in this dress ? Come in, boy, come in and
tell us all your news.'

And Herbert was led into the house.

Mimie came shyly forward when she
was called to add her welcome to the
brother she had almost forgotten. But she

offered him her cheek quite naturally, and
received a sister's salute, which, nevertheless,
sent the warm blood tingling through
her veins.

'You are a sister to be proud of,'
said Herbert. what a beauty you have
grown !'

'Grown !' interrupted Mrs. Larkins.
It's you who've grown out of all memory
almost, except to those who love you. But
now sit down and let's know all about it.
What brought you to take the shilling ?
and you never let on, not one word. You
might have written to us, Hercules. We,
Jonadab and me, have had you always in
our thoughts, thinking you were getting to
be a fine gentleman who'd have nothing todo
with the likes of us.'

'As if I could ever forget my mother.'

Mrs. Larkins made a gesture which

might have meant a strong negative to the
expression.

When did you leave school ? Why did
you enlist ! You never wrote to us.'

four years ago. I was turned adrift
in the world, that was why. I wrote over
and over again to the Horse Guards, but
could not hear where you were.'

And Lady Farrington, did she change
her mind, or what?'

She went mad, so they said, and they
locked her up in an asylum.'

'Mad!' shouted the sergeant. 'Didn't
I always tell you so? mad? She were
madder than Mike Horniblow who shot
the Maltese, and as mad as our old colonel
on an inspection parade.'

How was she locked up ? who did it ?
Let's know all that,' said Mrs. Larkins.

Herbert recounted fully all that had

occurred. His leaving Deadham School,
the visit to the west country, Sir Rupert
Farrington's ill-treatment.

So that's what the poor soul was after !
Searching for a grandson to succeed to the
title and estates,' cried the sergeant. ^ And
you were the last that she found. Well:
it's an ill wind, you know; leastways you
got the schooling, even if you are none of
her kith or kin.'

^I suppose I am not, really?' Herbert
asked, looking very hard at Mrs. Larkins,
who met the glance without lowering her
eyes. There was something in her expression
which Herbert immediately understood.
There must be an explanation between
them, but it could not take place then and
there.

*How should you be?' asked the sergeant.
'Didn't I take you over with the

mother when I married her at York ? The
widow Conlan, she was then, and you her
only child

^ Conlan is my name then?'

'By rights, yes; but you've took that
of Larkins now, and you are a credit toit;
so you may take it for what it's worth,
and keep it till you can find a better.'

Was there ever a chance of that ? Was
he really a Farrington after all, and might
he yet prove his claims Of this no one
could give him a clue but Mrs. Larkins,
and he gathered from her manner that the
subject was one which she would only discuss
when they were alone. He had no
chance that time of speaking to her on this
the subject nearest his heart. The rest of
the evening was spent in the interchange
of personal news, as is the case when
friends and relatives meet after a long separation,

and there is so much on both
sides to tell and hear.

But Herbert went to the cottage next
day. The sergeant, fortunately, was at the
barrack-office; Mimie was out of the way,
and Mrs. Larkins had the house all to herself.


'I want to know all you can tell me,
mother. Is it not natural? To whom else
should I come? For you are my mother,
are you not ?'

No mother could feel more warmly for
her child than I do for you, Hercules.'

'Do but tell me, plainly — I am really
your son?'

Mrs. Larkins was silent.

It is cruel to keep me in this suspense,
mother, — for you have been one to me always.
I implore you to tell me the whole
truth.'

VOL. L P

'I will, Hercules, or Herbert as you
ought by rights to be called. It is a hard
matter to tell you all the tale, for there is
shame and sorrow in it enough, and that
for both you and me.

I must begin at the beginning. Years,
years ago when I was a bit of a girl in my
father's house, I and my twin sister Annie
whom I loved dearly, as the apple of my
eye — father lived at Newark-on-Trent ; he
was a small tradesman, but well enough todo.
Mother died when we were quite
chicks, and we grew up to have things
much our own way. Annie was a real
beauty, and had dozens of lads after her
always, but she never fancied none of them.
At last luck sent a recruiting party of the
12th Lancers to Newark. One of them
was a young corporal, as proper a chap as
ever took the shilling, fair spoken, well

educated, and superior to the common run.
He soon got courting our Annie, and lie
was the first she favoured. Father did not
like it — not a bit. He hated soldiers, and
was very rough about Corporal Smith.
Annie and he had high words over it, and
one day she was not to be found.

The recruiters had left the town too.

I won't tell you Avhat grief there was
at home. Father was like a madman, and
I was little better. He tried hard to get
her back. He went miles — to the other
end of England — after the regiment, but
he never caught them up. He was too
late. The regiment had been ordered off
to the Cape of Good Hope. Through the
rector, father wrote to the War Office, inquiring
after Corporal Smith and his wife.
The answer came months later, to say that
the corporal was alive and well, but that

he had no wife — at least no one according
to the regimental books.

'Father never held up his head after
that, and within the year he died. I was
nearly heart-broken too ; but I was young,
and I bore up better. As I was all alone in
the world, and had the shop on my hands,
I took a husband, who offered just then —
Michael Conlan, a clerk in a maltster's at
Newark. He was a kindly soul, not over
strong, but he helped me in the business,
and we managed to get along.

One night Annie returned — not alone
she had a child with her, her own, a few
months old only, and the two came, seeking
shelter and rest. It was as I thought
at first — the old story — betrayed, neglected,
left.'

But you took her in ?' Herbert asked,
eagerly.

Of course. Neither Michael nor myself
asked any questions ; our duty was plain,
and it was one of love besides for me. All
I know is what Annie herself told me, and
that was not much. The corporal, it seems,
belonged really to a higher station in life.
He had quarrelled with his friends and left
his home, and wanted never to see or hear
of them again. But when Annie's child
was born — '

He had married her T

Annie would not acknowledge it ; although
her silence told only against her
own sweet name. She wore a ring, but so
may any one; and as to all other proofs
she obstinately refused to speak. I pointed
out the hardship to her boy. She admitted
that, but said she had promised and could
not break her word. So I did not worry
her, but left her to speak in her own good

time. That time never came. Before Annie
had been back a week I saw she was not
long for this world. She pined and pined.
She looked eagerly for news from abroad,
but none came from where she sought it,
and the disappointment helped the disease
in bringing on the end.

'On her death-bed I swore to be a
mother to her boy — '

'To me?' said Herbert, no longer in
doubt; and as she nodded assent, he took
her hard hand and kissed it again and
again.

'And nobly you have fulfilled your
oath.'

'I did my best, Herbert. But I have
more to tell you. Your mother, just before
she died, gave me a letter. It was from
your father to his friends, and was only to
be sent to them at Annie's death, or if she

was in dire distress. The letter was addressed
to Lady Farrington of Farrington
Hall. It was not sealed, and I thought I
might read what was inside. There were
only a few words : " From Herbert to his
mother — Be kinder to my boy'' 1 added a
few of your bright curls, Herbert, and sent
the letter on at once. But I gave no clue
as to where it had come from. I wanted
no answer. I was resolved to take no help
from any one in doing my duty by you. I
hated the whole of the Warrington. I so
hated the name of Herbert even, that we
called you Hercules Albert instead.

Later on I lost Michael, my first husband;
and I could not bear to remain in
Newark alone. I sold up the shop and my
belongings, and moved to York. It was
there, as Mrs. Conlan, a widow, with one
boy — you, Herbert — I met the Sergeant.

Things were not prospering with me. I
married him gladly, and he has been a
thorough good man to me.'

Herbert's heart was too full for him to
speak for some time. Anger, disappointment,
anguish — all three feelings possessed
him. He was angry with his father, sore
at heart for his mother's sorrow, disappointed
that there was no more to tell
him.

'Do you think there was a marriage,
mother ?'

'I do. I always did.'

It all turns upon that. I may have
Farrington blood in me ; but whether or no
would matter little if I was not entitled to
bear the name.'

You must make up your mind to your
disappointment, Herbert. What clue can
we get to the marriage after all these years ?

Everybody who could speak to it is probably
dead.'

My father — perhaps he is still alive.*
Would he not have sought us out
before this if he had been? But he has
never made a sign. Nothing but a miracle
could do you any good, my boy. Better be
contented as you are. And why should
you be cast down? You are young and
strong. You have been educated like a
gentleman ; have made a first-rate start, and
have everything before you. Make a name
for yourself in the world if you can, and
don't pine after what others might have

given you.

How is a mere sergeant to make himself
a name ?'

'By sticking to his colours and doing
his duty like a man. Non-commissioned

officers have got to the top of the tree
before now. Why should not you ?'

If we could only have a chance of service
— there's no other hope for a soldier.
But we never have any fighting in these
days.'

How do you know ? You be ready for
the chance when it offers, that's all you've
got to do. Get a commission, and you'll
hold yourself as high as Sir Kupert then,
and meet him on equal terms.'

Warrington s' AMUSE.

It seemed as if fate had resolved to make
Gibraltar the gathering-place of those with
whom Herbert Larkins was destined to be
most closely concerned. Not long after
the rencontre with his best friends, the Lar-king',
the news came that General Prioleau
had been appointed to the command of the
Infantry Brigade upon the Rock. Before
the year was out, the former colonel of the
Duke's Own arrived with his wife and little
Edith, now fast growing into a beautiful
and attractive girl.

It was not long before Herbert saw
her, and had an opportunity of noticing the
change.

General Prioleau, like many others of
his rank, had a strong affection for his old
corps, a sort of sneaking regard which,
although it did him all honour, led him to
wish that he still commanded it, and to
act very much as if he did. He was not
the first general officer who, entrusted with
the charge of several battalions, narrowed
his interest to the one in which he had
himself served. To dry-nurse the Duke's
Own on field days, to take an active share
in its interior economy, to watch over its
mess and all that appertained to the credit
of the regiment, and generally to be as intimately
associated with it as though he
were still its colonel, were delights he could
not forego. He was continually sending
for Colonel Diggle to talk matters over, an
interference which the great Cavendish resented,
but was prohibited from protesting

against, by the rules of the service. Mrs.
Diggle was not, and took full advantage of
her exemption from the restrictions of military
etiquette, to the extent of soundly
abusing the general upon every occasion.
Not that General Prioleau much cared. He
did not command Mrs. Cavendish-dingle,
and directly he had made her acquaintance
in her new character, he was heartily glad
that he did not.

The general also visited the barracks of
his old regiment repeatedly, on one excuse
or another, but always with the avowed
and really sincere intention of doing it a
good turn. Now it was the appropriation
of quarters. Now the examination of
drainage. Now the inspection of the married
quarters or the canteen. Edith almost
invariably accompanied him. She was in
her element out here upon the Rock. The

role she now played was even more delightful
than that of daughter of the regiment.
There was much more importance and more
movement in it. More variety too, and more
power. Instead of knowing one regiment
only, she now knew half a dozen. The
circle of her acquaintance widened, and her
military knowledge, such as it was. But
lier heart was nth her first love always —
the Duke's Own. When the general inspected
the old regiment, she stayed by his
side through it all. They made her go into
lunch, much to quiet Mrs. Prioleau's indignation
when she heard of it; she sat on
her pony close by the general, and, to judge
by her remarks, seemed to take an active
part in the whole proceedings. She kept
up a running fire of comments.

There's Mr. Wheeler ; why, he's getting
quite old. And the sergeant-major,

he's gray ; why do they keep him so long,
father? He must be past his work before
this. And Colonel Diggle — is he a good
colonel, father? / don't think so. Well,
as you say, perhaps I'm not a judge of
colonels, but I am of gentlemen, and I don't
call him a gentleman — not a real gentleman
— do you?'

^My dear,' the general said reprovingly,
^ you are a little too fast. Please remember
— '

He's not a gentleman according to my
ideas. There are lots of better gentlemen
in the ranks — why,' almost with a shriek,
there's my friend the learned pig — I mean
the learned orderly. And, father, look ! do
look ! They've made him a colour-sergeant
already !'

But her father was not attending.

^ Be good enough to form open column,

pile arms, and lay out kits he was saying
to Colonel Diggle, which manoeuvre satisfactorily
carried out, the general continued
his inspection on foot, accompanied by his
daughter, who tripped along, holding up
her habit, nodding to old friends as she
went along, and so deeply interested in
holdalls, tins of blacking, and pairs of socks,
that you might have thought kit inspection
was the one joy of her life.

I am very glad to see you've got on so
quickly,' she said gravely to young Colour-sergeant
Larkins, as she touched him on
the arm with her whip by way of emphasis.
You promised well, and I am pleased to
think I was not disappointed,' went on the
young personage, with the air of a queen-remnant
reviewing her troops.

It was a gracious sight, and one no man
an impressionable young sergeant like

Larkins least of all — was likely to forget.
The trim figure in its snow-white habit,
the pretty bright face and its framework
of light curls, surmounted with a coquettish
little white hat ; the air with which
she pointed with her whip to his chevrons
and the bright colours surmounting them,
as she tripped daintily along. Never before
or afterwards did Edith Prioleau seem
more bewitching, and Herbert Larkins felt
that he could lay down his life for her then
and there.

Perhaps he talked a little more about
her than he need have done when he next
visited the cottage near the Moorish Castle.
The Larkins' house had come to be quite
his home, and he went there whenever he
was off duty and could spare time. Life
upon the Rock was a little monotonous for
all below the rank of officer, and Herbert

VOL. I. Q

was thankful that he had friends in the
place. The narrow limits of the fortress,
beyond which none but the commissioned
may pass except on rare occasions, and
then only by special permission, forbade
any great variety of amusement or much
change of scene. The rank and file rung
the changes upon guard-house and drinking
shop; when the first was done with for a
time they identified themselves with the
other. After twenty-four hours on Ragged
Staff or New Mole, at Landlord, Waterford,
or the North Front, there was an especial
sweetness for the soldier in ^ black strap' or
partridge eye' — variations of the local
wine; while for the fireproof head which
craved for the strongest stimulants, there
was the aguardiente^ or burning water, a
title this engaging but curiously potent
liquid richly deserved. For the sergeants,

in whom steadiness and sobriety were indispensable
traits, these delights were forbidden,
and they had but little relaxation
after they had completed their day's routine,
including the preparation of small
returns, the responsibilities of minor commands,
beyond a stroll upon the Alameda
when the band played, or the perusal of
the newspapers in the mess.

Herbert was more fortunate. Fond of
books, Major Greathed supplied him with
plenty, mainly of professional character,
for although still in subordinate grades,
soldiering was becoming more and more to
our heroes taste, and he was eager to qualify
for higher charges should it ever be his
good fortune to rise. But it was greater
pleasure to him still to talk at the cottage
over what he had read; to pour forth to
his mother, as he still called her, his ambitious

yearnings, to express with increasing
vehemence his vain regrets that he had
not lived in another country and another

age.

I wish I had been a Frenchman in the
last century ! No soldiers had such chances !
One day a private, the next commanding a
brigade. You'll never see such things in

our service.'

^ Don't be cast down, Herbert,' said
warm-hearted sympathetic Mrs. Larkins.
^ Your chance will come if you'll only wait.'

'Yes, wait till I'm grey-haired. And
Ashen it comes that'll it be ? They may
make me a quartermaster at fifty, or a second
lieutenant at forty-five. I want my cake
i^ow, when it's sweet and I am fit to enjoy it.'

*And osier half to some one else? Is
that what you're dreaming about?' asked
Mrs. Larkins, with a sigh.

'Pslia! A general's daughter, a mere
child too! What absurdity to talk like
that! No; I prefer to keep to my own
station

Mrs. Larkins said nothing, but silence
is sometimes more eloquent than words;
and Mimie Larkins, who was present,
looked up with a quick blush, which any
man whose heart was touched would have
interpreted his own way. The fiction of
the relationship between these two had long
since melted away. Good Mrs. Larkins,
who had hated herself for keeping a
secret from her husband, had told him the
whole story very soon after Herbert had
learnt the truth. Mimie, too, soon knew
that the handsome sergeant who had kissed
her and called her sister was really only a
cousin, and as things went a very eligible
sarti.

Perhaps Mrs. Larkins, womanlike, was
a matchmaker too. Why should she not
encourage it? Herbert and her Mimie
were cut out for each other ; and if in the
long run he should come into his own, why-should
not her daughter share his good
fortune ? Herbert was himself on the point
of accepting the situation and succumbing
to his fate. Mimie was attractive in no ordinary
degree. She was a bright-eyed, sweet-voiced
girl, with a gentle confiding manner,
and very light-hearted ways. But then
Herbert thought of his great aims, of the
object of his life. To marry at all, at his
age, would be to tie a millstone around his
neck, a folly from which he would never
recover.

When a man thinks thus, there is but
little fear of his falling desperately in love.
Then came the vision of the little lady, at

present so far above him in station, and
he found himself drawing comparisons in
which poor Mimie Larkins came off second-best.


For a time she resented it very bitterly.
Mimic's was a simple impulsive nature;
she was of a yielding malleable disposition,
readily amenable to better influences, but
she was also, like every daughter of Eve,
fond of admiration and grieved when it
was denied. Her heart was ready to go
out to Herbert the moment she knew he
was not her brother, and as time passed
and he made no sign, she grew more and
more discontented and cross. Now, his
loud praises of this Miss Prioleau made her
angrier than ever. Little minx, why did
she come poaching upon other people's
preserves? Oh, for a chance of showing
Herbert that others were not so blind as he !

The chance came — all too soon. It was
at a sergeants' ball that Ernest Farrington
first crossed her path, and threw himself at
once, metaphorically, at her feet. His attentions
were perfectly respectful, but very
marked, and Mimie was more than flattered
by them. Here indeed was a chance of
spiting Herbert! and she availed herself
of it to the full, forgetting, in the pleasure
it gave her, the terrible risk she ran. Her
clandestine relations with young Warrington,
who was not slow to follow up his
advantage, had already become far too intimate
to promise well for her peace of mind,
when Herbert discovered all.

He taxed her with meeting Mr. Farrington
alone upon the Alameda.

She tossed her head, first disdaining to
reply, then saucily asking what business it
was of his.

^ I shall tell your mother at once.'

^ Oh, don't, don't, please don't do that !
It would kill her if she knew. I'll promise
never to meet him again. Oh, Herbert, do
not get me into such terrible trouble — you,
of all people, to do it too ! I didn't think
you could be so mean.'

Herbert was over-persuaded; at least,
he was induced to spare Mrs. Larkins for
the present and determined to try first an
appeal to the other side.

He went to the colonel, Diggle, and
told him all.

^ Really, my good fellow,' said the colonel,
' it's no affair of mine. They don't belong
to the regiment, you see. I cannot
interfere. I am not answerable for Mr.
Farrington's morals. I'm not indeed.'

Herbert was not to be done. He spoke

234 A SON OF Mais.

next to Ernest, the first time he got a
chance.

'Damn it, sir, what business is it of
jours ?' asked the officer hotly.

'It's very much my business. She is
my sister — at least we were brought up
together as such,' the sergeant no less hotly
replied.

Then why don't you speak to her instead
of to me ?'

Because I thought an appeal to you asa
gentleman,' — there was a plain sneer in
his intonation — ' which I fancied you were,
would have the desired effect.'

Do you dare to say I am not a gentleman?
By George, I'll — '

I dare do more than that. Listen tome,
Mr. Farrington ; I swear you shall not*
do her harm. I'll break every bone in your
body.'

^v

J-

♦ -.

'* ^

-*'."w FAHRprGTON siamese. 235

'This is rank mutiny, by George. I've
a good mind to put you in arrest. Do you
dare to threaten your superior officer, sir?'
and Ernest walked off as the simplest way
of ending the discussion.

Herbert had one other card to play.
He wrote a full account of the whole affair
to Sir Rupert Farrington, and signed his
name.

Sir Rupert would probably have cared
as little for Ernest's proceedings, from the
moral point of view, as did Diggle, but he
had a not unnatural dread of entanglements,
especially where so weak a person as his
son was concerned. Moreover, although
enraged against Larkins, and somewhat
uneasy at the tone of the letter in which
Herbert made pointed reference to his
claims, and hinted mysteriously at certain
close relations between the Larkins' and

236 A SON or mars.

Warrington, Sir Rupert felt it wisest not
to enlighten Diggle further. He satisfied
himself with writing at once to his son-in-law,
begging him to let Ernest have leave
and send him home. This Diggle did, without
other reason than that Sir Rupert
wished it, and Ernest, very obediently as it
seemed, fell into the trap.

The young gentleman was, however,
deeper than they gave him credit for being.
He went home by the next mail, but Mimie
Larkins followed him within a week, as
soon as she could give her unhappy parents
the slip ; and thus, for the second time,
Mrs. Larkins had reason to curse the Farrington

name.

END OF VOL. T.

London :
KOBIOK AMD SOWS, Pities, Pancreas ROAD, TX.VT.

l^

} i

w

WW

LUNOIS-URIANA



§w

nKir^hTu:

'^^^

Wi?}

MM

■mfM'm

■■■IjV'lf

t

J.tM.

m,

Ifs t;yAi'# y \ ■

,'^^'t^'

^m^

mB:

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

S23

LORD OF HIMSELF.

A Novel, in Three Volumes.

BY

LORD WILLIAM LENNOX,

AUTHOR OF * FIFTY YEARS' BIOGRAPHICAL REMINISCENCES,'

CELEBRITIES I HAVE KNOWN,' ' FASHION THEN

AND NOW,' ETC.

Crown 8vo, One Guinea.

Leamington & CO. 183 NEW BOND STREET, W.

Of every Bookseller,

BY

MAJOR ARTHUR GRIFFITHS,

Author OP
THE QUEEN'S SHILLING,' ' LOLA,' ' A WAYWARD WOMAN,' ETC.

VOL. II.

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED,

LONDON:

Leamington AND CO.

133 NEW BOND STREET, W.

removed from 5 Arundel Street, Strand, W.C]

1880.

CONTENTS OF VOL. 11.

CHAPTER L

THE ROUTE.

Poor old Larkins and his wife were completely
broken by Mimie's terrible mishap
They could not find it in their hearts to
speak harshly of their unhappy child; but
they were loudly indignant against the man
who had tempted her to leave her home.
Herbert, too, came in for his share of their
reproaches, when he confessed that he had
been for some time aware of the intimacy
between Mimie and Ernest Farrington, and
had long dreaded some such catastrophe.

Oh, Herbert !' Mrs. Larkins had said to
him more than once, ' to think you should

VOL. II. B

have seen her m such danger, and never tolet
on a word. I thought better of you —
after all — '

I know I am greatly to blame, mother.
You cannot say anything harder of me than
I do of myself. But she promised me never
never to meet him again, and I trusted
her. Wasn't it natural ?'

Trust her ? I'd have trusted her with
untold gold. I thought she was as good as
gold herself, and better. That's what stings
me. To think that she should have held
herself so cheap as to be led astray by such
a fellow as that, and a Farrington, too.'

'Farrington or no Farrington, he shall
answer for this to me, mother, and that I
swear.'

Hush, Herbert lad, remember who he
is, and who you are.'

I warned him that if she came to any

harm, I'd be even with hhnj and I will, so
help me Heaven.'

^ Don't, Herbert, don't talk like that.
You might be court-martialled, and for ever
disgraced, even for those words. Do you
think he will not be punished some day ashe
deserves, and that, whether you raise a
little ting-er against him or no ? We must
leave him in other hands.' «

Mrs. Larkins' resignation hardly chimed
in with Herbert's impetuous mood.

i'd be after him now; aye, although
I'm a soldier, and tied by the leg. I'd
show a clean adair of heels, only — '

It was clear that desertion was in his
mind.

Promise me, Herbert, swear to me,
Herbert, that you will do nothing rash.
Don't desert your colours. Don't forget
your sacred duty, even for us.'

I had made up my mind to follow them
last night. I could have got a passage
home, and plain clothes and everything,
but the steamer did not start, and to-day
it's too late.'

'Too late? Thank God for that; but
why ?'

'Haven't you heard the news, mother?'
Then he bethought himself that in her
grievous trial there was but little likelihood
of the gossip of the garrison reaching her
ears.

'The route's in,' Herbert went on, using
the catch phrase of the soldier. ' The regiment's
under orders for active service, and
we start directly the steamer arrives.'

'Start? For where?'

Ashanti. It was in orders last night,
and the 'general s coming to inspect us this
afternoon, with the P.M.O., to see who's fit

for service and who's not. The whole barrack's
upside down. Officers and men mad
with delight. So should I be for this
chance, which may not come twice.'

^ Mayhap when you meet him next it weill
be on more equal terms.'

'Aye. but when will that be? I may
have to wait months before I get my
knuckles at his throat.'

Surely these orders will bring him out
to head-quarters at once ?'

'■ They ought to ; but he's mean enough
to try and shirk the whole business, I've
heard officers of the regiment say as much
• — and in any case he can't arrive before we
start for the Coast.'

The staunch old couple came down
themselves to the new Mole to bid their boy
Godspeed.

There'll be more Larkins' out there

than you, Herkles, boy,' said the old Sergeant,
with a fierce light in his eye. He
had made no great demonstrations; but
Mimie's conduct had, perhaps, wounded
him more deeply than his wife. Now, fora
moment, he brightened up like an old
war-horse, but it was with more than the
scent of the coming fray. ' Rechab's ship
ordered to the coast, and maybe they'll
send him ashore with the Naval Brigade.
He's carpenter's mate and a right handy
lad. So you'll foregather, and between you
you might have a chance of bringing yon
scoundrel to book.'

'I'll try,' said Herbert, with his teeth
set.

If he'd only make an honest woman of
my sweet bird. If he'd only marry and
behave decently to her.'

Decently !' cried Mrs. Larkins, interposing

in a strong indignant voice. ' Was there
ever a Farrington who behaved decently to
one of us ?'

I'd like to force him and all his relations
too. But time's up. God bless you,
mother, and you, sergeant, and bring all
things right in the end.'

With that, amidst thundering cheers
and the invigorating strains of ' Auld Lang
Syne' and ' The Girl I left behind me,' the
good ship slowly got under weigh.

It is no part of my intention to dilate
upon the events of the Ashanti war. It will
be in all men's minds how early mischances
brought the enemy close to our gates and
rendered imperative the despatch of some
capable leader to grapple with the emergency;
how Sir Garnet Wolsey, the hero
of the hour, accompanied by a brilliant
staff, was desired to drive back the foe

with such forces as he found to his hand ;
how Fantee allies proved the most despicable
cowards, and the small force of British
seamen and marines were clearly unequal
single-handed to the task of marching upon
Coomassie, the objective point; how the
demand for British regiments was at length
complied with by the home Government,
and how, when these had arrived and all
was ready for the forward movement, a
sudden collapse in transport arrangements
threatened to paralyse the whole of the
operations. Hence it was that the British
regiments were not immediately disembarked,
but cruised the seas till a new and
more vigorous organisation of transport
could be devised and carried out. We will
take up the thread of our narrative at a
time when the little invading army was
across the Pray and almost within striking

distance of Coomassie. No serious collision
with the enemy had as yet occurred but
some sharp fighting was obviously imminent.
It was thought that the Atlantis
would hold the Adansi Hills, and, even if
forced therefrom, would make more than
one subsequent stand ; and it was probable
that by nothing less than obstinate fighting
would the ends of the campaign be
achieved.

They had been long days of weary
waiting for all concerned. The country
was hateful and noxious in the extreme ; yet
all fought bravely, not against the foe, with
whom they had scarcely been pitted, but
against the malaria, the ever present fever,
the intolerable heat. None behaved more
pluckily than the Duke's Own. Wellington
once said, ' Give me the dandies for
hard work,' and the apothegm might be

extended, into including crack corps. Now
that they were at the real business of war,
they bore hardships, privations and continuous
discomfort without a murmur. The
once splendid mess was now represented by
a scratch meal under the fetich tree of a
deserted village; its entertainments were
to offer to comrades a cup of chocolate, a
slice of tinned meat or sardine au naturel
upon biscuit instead of toast. Luxury was
a thing forgotten by all. Days of toilsome
Jig^rching through the interminable forest,
nights in drenching rain, with short commons
in almost everything except quinine,
were but poor substitutes for what they
had left behind at Gibraltar and at home.
Yet the Duke's Own took everything as it
came, indulging only in the occasional
grumble which is deemed the British soldier's
birthright, and which, if nothing

else, is an outlet and safety-valve for discontent.


But the regiment had suffered considerably
from sickness. Colonel Diggle was
down with fever. He had been one of the
first attacked, and though he had borne up
with all the fortitude he could muster, his
nature was not of that resolute kind which
successfully resists disease. Very soon
after disembarkation he had succumbed,
and while he was lying in his cot on board
the hospital ship Major Greathed had the
honour of commanding the Duke's Own in
the field. Several other officers were also
on the sick list, and a large percentage of
the rank and file. Among the latter was
Herbert Larkins.

He had fought with extraordinary pluck
ag-ain't the insidious advances of the fever.
He had doctored himself, had taken quarts

of quinine, had refused persistently to seek
for medical advice lest he should be struck
off duty and sent to hospital. With it all
he had stuck manfully to his work — no
easy task — for during a portion of the time
the quartermaster-sergeant had been hors
de combat and Greathed had selected Herbert
to act in his place. All this told on
him.

One day after many hours' unremitting
toil whipping up the craven carriers who
tardily brought forward the regimental
supplies, followed by long labours in issuing
rations, Herbert suddenly dropped as if he
had been shot through the head. They laid
him in a hammock and carried him with
them for a time, as they were then approaching
the Adansi Hills, and an action
seemed imminent. Nothing of the kind, as
is well known, occurred. After a short

breathing space the advance was resumed.
Herbert, who had at length recovered consciousness,
saw to his mortification the regiment
march out of the village in which
they had been encamped, while he was left
with a score or so of sick and helpless behind.
It was the more aggravating because
the crisis of the campaign was seemingly
near at hand. Coomassie itself was not
more than five and twenty or thirty miles
distant; the enemy was known to be inforce
in front and in flank. Fighting more
or less severe there must be, and that very
soon. To think that he should miss it after
all!

But, as will be seen, Herbert's luck
was not entirely against him. Young,
strong, and sound as a bell, he had rallied
wonderfully from his attack, and was already
on the high road to convalescence

within a day or two of the regiment's departure.


^ If ye gae on like this, yell be as fit asa

fiddle in a week,' the Scotch doctor said.

'And when may I go to the front,
sir?'

'At once, if the commanding officer
there'll let you.'

Herbert almost jumped off his bed, and
hurriedly smartened himself as well as he
could, to appear before the commandant.

But on leaving the hospital, a substantial
building which had evidently been the
palace of an Ashanti chief, he found the
little garrison which held the village — I will
call it Yankowfum — in a state of agitation,
almost uproar. Important news had come
back from the front. There had been
■a great battle (Amoaful). We had won it,
but not without serious losses. The enemy

was still full of fight. A special despatch
had been received by the commandant at
Yankowfum to be on the look-out. His
and the other posts along the line of advance
would probably be attacked in force,
and the Ashantis must be driven back at
all costs. This, with many additions, had
gone forth among the handful of sailors
and West Indians composing the garrison,
and was being loudly discussed when
Herbert appeared.

'Where's the commandant?' Herbert
asked. ' Who is he ?'

'Don't know his name: he's one of your
lot.' said an Ab.

'And a poor lot, too, I take it,' said
another, 'to judge by his looks and his
ways.'

Herbert was about to retort, when a
black soldier in his picturesque Zouave

dress came up, and said, ^ Staff colonel one
time come. Very much angry with buckra
officer.'

It was the officer in general charge of
the communications who had hastened back
from Amoaful to look to the security of his
posts. He was travelling almost alone in a
hammock carried by bearers, and seemed
to think nothing of the dangers he braved
as he passed through the bush swarming
with enemies.

He was apparently seeking to infuse
some of his own spirit into the commandant
of Yankowfum.

You'll do it easily enough,' Herbert
heard him say as he approached them,
meaning to offer his services. ' This place
is stockaded, you've got a garrison.'

But it's so small,' said the other, ' not
fifty men, and half of them blacks.'

That voice? Surely it was familiar,
Herbert thought.

I can't give you another man. There
isn't time. Besides, every other post is
threatened. However, you've got your
orders; you must hold out to the last,
you understand?' said the colonel, pretty
sharply.

But, sir, it's not fair upon us. I must*
really protest. We shall be cut to pieces.
What can such a handful do? For God's
sake don't leave us like this — '

The other turned on his heel, but
stopped short to say,

Upon my word, Mr. — Mr. — Farrington
I cannot compliment you on your demeanour.
If there was another officer
within reach I'd relieve you of your command.
I wish even there was a steady old
sergeant or two — '

VOL. II. c

Then his eye fell upon Herbert, who
had moved a little further away during the
foregoing colloquy, partly because he felt
that he ought not to overhear the colonel's
strictures, and partly because he was greatly
excited at this unexpected rencontre with
Ernest Farrington.

Ah, a sergeant, a colour-sergeant too ?
You have heard, no doubt? The post is
about to be attacked. I have been telling
the commandant here he must draw in the
line of defence. Be careful not to waste
ammunition, and hold on like grim death.
You understand?'

sall right, sir,' answered Herbert
cheerily, and the colonel went off, probably
a little happier in his mind.

'Any further orders, sir?' Herbert
quietly asked of Ernest Farrington, who
was ashen pale, and too much agitated

seemingly to recognise the man who spoke
to him.

^ No, no; do the best you can, sergeant.'
Whereat Herbert saluted and walked
oiF.

It would be time enough to settle their
differences by and bye. Perhaps by nightfall
neither of them would be alive.

THE VICTORIA CROSS.

A STOUT and substantial stockade of bamboos,
having loopholes and a shallow ditch,
surrounded the village of Yankowfum, and
seemed sufficient if it were only manned
throughout to keep out any attacking force.
But the little garrison was not strong
enough to occupy more than a third of its
length. It was a question, therefore, whether
it would not be wisest to limit the
defence, and, instead of holding the outer
and too extended line, concentrate the whole
force within the hospital building, which
was certainly large, but still compact and
reasonably strong. This is what our hero
had to decide, for it was upon Herbert that

the responsibility seemed to fall. Ernest
Farrington was almost helpless, whether
from abject incapacity, or from the more
despicable reason of total want of nerve.
Besides, after what the staff colonel had
said Herbert felt that he was bound to act
and do the best he could.

He consulted with one or two of the
others, particularly an old lance-sergeant
who deferred to him as senior in rank, and
a very smart young sailor, a petty officer,
who, like every true blue jacket, was ready
to put his hand to anything.

^ Best hold on to the front line at least
for a bit,' the lance-sergeant thought. ' We
can fall back upon the hospital if we're hard
pressed.'

Yes, I agree to that,' replied Herbert.
But the hospital will be our real centre
and chief defence. It must be strengthened,

barricaded, the walls pierced with loopholes,
and the thatch taken oiFthe roof for fear of
fire. Who'll see to all that? will you?' he
asked of the sailor.

'Aye will I. Give me half a dozen
hands, that's all. Them blacks '11 do. I'm
rated carpenter's mate, and I can show them
how to work. I'll make everything taut
and shipshape, or my name's not Rechab
Larkins.'

Eechab Lar — ' Herbert's jaw dropped
with amazement. ' Son of the barrack sergeant,
once at Triggertown and now at Gib ?'

The other nodded.

'Do you know who I am? Why —
Hercules Albert, your half-brother.'

It was Rechab's turn to show astonishment.


Avast there. None of your games. You
little Herkles boy?'

^ Yes. You may take your oath to that.'

Well ; I am blowed

Then they shook hands warmly and
looked at each other, and shook hands
again and again.

Come, lads,' interposed the lance-sergeant,
' time's up. Don't get looking for
the strawberry marks, or may be the niggers
will drop on to you and save you all
the trouble.'

'You're right,' said Herbert promptly.
All this will keep. Now, Rechab, lad, to
your post. There's more to tell you, but
that, too, will keep.'

Why tell him that Ernest Farrington
was also there sharing their danger ?

Herbert, following the lance-sergeant's
advice, resolved to hold the stockade, but at
its angles and points only, whence a fairly
good flanking; fire across the front could be

maintained. At each of these he posted a
small detachment under the command of a
non-commissioned officer, to whom he gave
explicit orders. They were to save ammunition,
to ^ fire slow and fire low,' as the
general said, and hold on till they got the
signal to retire. This would be passed
from the centre the moment the stockade
was forced at any point. The retreat was
to be made with all speed upon the hospital
under cover of its fire. At the hospital
itself a small garrison was also posted from
the first, composed of the convalescents ; of
all, in fact, who had spirit enough to rise
from their beds. Even Dr. McCosh got out
his revolver and promised to assist. None
of the sick were strong enough to form part of
the outer line, nor could they have retreated
rapidly when that line was broken through,
but they would be able to load and fire alternately

standing and sitting, and so contribute
much to the general inner defence.

When these dispositions were in a fairway
towards completion, Herbert went in
search of his commanding officer to report
progress.

Will you inspect the post, sir ? Everything
is as ready as we can make it. We
only want the enemy now, and they cadi
come on as soon as they please.'

Mr. Farrington winced slightly at the
mention of the enemy, but he was now far
more master of himself than when Herbert
had seen him last. He had pulled himself
together, and seemed about to take his
proper position as commanding officer and
chief. Like many other weak spirits, he
made up for former shortcomings by assuming
a blustering air.

*I daresay you have done your best.

We shall see. Where are the men posted?
At the stockade? Oh, this won't do at all.
We cannot hold the stockade; Ave are too
few. The hospital is our only chance.
Everyone must be concentrated there.'

But, sir, we cannot resign the stockade
without a shot.'

Do you dispute my orders ? I'll put
you under arrest, and have you tried for
mutinous conduct. Who are you? What's
your name ?'

I am Colour-Sergeant Larkins, of the
Duke's Own.'

'Larkins? Larkins? What Larkins?
Not Mi— Mi— Mimic's brother ?'

Her half-brother, Mr. Farrington, who
told you not so long ago that if you injured
her he would break every bone in your
skin. Her own brother is here, too.
What's to hinder us from putting a bullet

through you now, you white-livered
cur?'

'How dare you address me like that?
I'll have you placed in irons. You shall be
charged with mutiny, by George. I'll get
you shot.'

Perhaps the Ashantis will save you —
and me — the trouble,' said Herbert, significantly.
' But if we get through this day
all right, you and I have other differences
to settle, remember that.'

^ Threats ? This is insufferable. I'll
shove you in arrest; I'll put a sentry over
you.'

Farrington suddenly turned quite white ;
his teeth chattered, and he could hardly
stand.

'What in heaven's name is that?' he
stammered out.

A roar of voices, harsh, discordant, and

loud enough to rouse the dead. It was the
Ashanti song of battle, sung by thousands,
as it seemed, uniting into one grand but savage
chorus of defiance. Behind all was the
hideous noise of screeching horns and the
rattle of native drums. For some minutes
the uproar continued, then ceased as suddenly
as it had arisen. It was followed by
a sound more familiar and far more impressive,
at least in a soldier's ears. This was
the sharp and sustained crackling of musketry
fire.

The ball had begun.

'Our quarrel will keep, sir. There's
something else to be done now. Any
orders, sir?'

No ; at least, yes. Perhaps the men
had better stay where they are just at first.
You can withdraw them when you think
you ought. I shall go myself to the hospital.

It is more central, and I can see all
around from there.'

And Mr. Farrington, who was becoming
more than uncomfortable as the slugs were
falling rapidly around, went off with rather
indecent haste.

The enemy were still in the bush surrounding
the village, and the garrison had
not yet returned the fire. Emboldened by
this, the Ashantis came out from their
cover, and showed themselves in increasing
numbers all round the stockade. This was
the opportunity for the defenders. i\.t a
signal from Herbert, a well-directed fire
from the several flanks made considerable
havoc, and the Ashantis fell back. They
came on however again and again. Again
and again they were repulsed. But they
were maddened, not disheartened, by their
losses ; and once more attacking with determination,

at one point carried the stockade.


It was time now to retire upon the hospital.
This was effected rapidly, but without
disorder. The wounded — happily very
few, so far — were carried within the walls,
where all who were still sound also took
up their posts. This inner citadel was perhaps
not impregnable, but with resolution
it might be held against very considerable
odds.

^I told you the stockade should not
have been held,' some one said to Herbert,
and turning he saw Mr. Farrington, who
had not before shown himself during the
fight.

'I beg your pardon, sir; if you had
been with us in the front you would have
thought otherwise,' Herbert answered,
rather in temperately ; but it chafed him to

find his officer keeping out of harm's way.
At any rate, we can't fall back any more.
If the enemy force their way in here, weare
lost men.'

But this the Ashantis could not effect.
They surged up against the walls like waves
upon a rocky headland, only to fall back
like breakers in a thousand drops. They
sought to force the barricades, to escalade
and enter by the roof. Once or twice their
efforts seemed near success, but the obstinate
opposition which they met sent them
reeling back discomfited. At this juncture
Herbert, with the intuitive judgment of the
true general, felt that a counterstroke would
probably give the defenders the day. He
proposed a sally of the whole force, and a
bayonet charge.

On no account — it would be madness,'
said Ernest Farrington, whom he discovered

with difficulty ensconced behind some cases
of commissariat stores.

what do you say, boys? Shall we
give 'em a touch of the cold steel ?' cried
Herbert.

A hearty cheer was the ready response.


^ Won't you lead us?' Herbert said to
Farrington, in a strong accent of scorn.
^ It's your last chance to retrieve your
character.'

'I distinctly forbid you to sally. Nota
man shall leave the hospital. Halt ! halt I
I say.'

The men were like bloodhounds tearing
frantically at the leash.

^ It's your last chance Herbert repeated,
as he went close up to Farrington,
and whispered. 'Your last chance, you
cowardly cur. Come on, or be shamed forever;

a disgrace to your cloth, your regiment,
and a good old name.'

Stung to the quick by these taunts,
Ernest hurriedly drew his sword, and placing
himself at the head of his men, gave the
order to port arms, and prepare to charge.
With a loud ^ hurroosh' the gallant garrison
rushed out pell mell, and fell upon their
foe.

The enemy could not face the British
bayonet. They broke even before their
assailants reached them, and fled in disorder
towards the stockade. The garrison
pursued them, Mr. Farrington still leading.
He was like a jibbing horse, which having
long refused to move, at last bolts headlong.
Herbert was also well to the front, but he
saw the danger of pushing the success too
far, and before reaching the stockade he
paused and endeavoured to restrain the

VOL. II. D

men. Many halted at his voice and rallied
round him, but a few more unmanageable
continued to race ahead beyond the stockade
as far as the bush. Mr. Farrington,
half-mad with excitement, was one of these,
and with them he fell into a trap. A number
of Ashantis reinforced, probably from behind,
had rallied just Within the bush and
opened a very destructive fire.

Ernest Warrington was the first to fall.
Many others were struck down, and the
too eager band of pursuers were suddenly
effectually checked. But all who could
retired in hot haste upon the main body,
which under Herbert's command had made
a stand to cover their retreat.

Mr. Farrins^ton was not killed outright.
He was evidently badly wounded, but he
was able to rise to his feet, and strove
feebly to make his way back to the shelter

of the stockade, the enemy slowly ' potting'
at him as he crawled along.

'We must bring him in cried Herbert,
hotly. ' Come on, Rechab ; Farrington or
no Farrington — '

'Is ygn Ernest Farrington? Mimic's
Yes ? Let him be ; let him die the

death. I won't stir a step to help the
accursed hound.'

Herbert did not wait to hear all Eechab's
words, but rushed forward alone into the
open. The fire increased in fury, but he
passed through it and reached Ernest's side,
unscathed.

'Come on, sir,' he said; dean on me;
we'll get back together.' But almost as he
spoke Ernest fell helplessly, struck by a
second slug.

There was nothing for Herbert but to
lift the inanimate body upon his shoulders

and stagger back as best lie could. He
was himself wounded more than once, but
only slightly, before he regained the stockade,
but still he regained it and laid his
burden safely within.

^ Weel done, mon, weel done,' said the
surgeon. 'Let's see if ye were in time or
no,' and he proceeded to examine Ernest's
hurts.

The pain of probing the wounds brought
the unfortunate officer to his senses, and
opening his eyes, he looked wildly around.

Larkins, Larkins ; is Larkins here ?' he
gasped.

Both who bore that name knelt by his
side, and hung breathlessly upon his words.

'I loved her. I did, upon my soul.
Tell her I said so with my last words ; that
I ask her forgiveness, as I do yours. I
wronged her, but I — I — repaired it — '

The blood gushed in a torrent from
his mouth, and in another second he was
dead.

The enemy made no further demonstrations
against Yankowfum, and by nightfall
the post had almost regained its normal
condition. It had been an eventful day for
Herbert Larkins, and one likely to lay the
foundation of his fortunes ; for his gallant
conduct did not pass unnoticed.

Early the next morning the stair colonel
returned and heard a full account of the
fight. Herbert was too modest to descant
upon his own deeds, but Dr. McCosh and
the others described in glowing terms the
story of the defence and of Herbert's brave
attempt to save Farrington's life.

You ought to have the Cross for this
said the colonel, a quiet self-contained man,
rising; for the moment into enthusiasm.

You deserve the Victoria Cross, and a
commission, too. I'll do my best to help
you to both.'

He was as good as his word. Before
the Duke's Own left the Coast the Gazette
contained both announcements, and Herbert
Larkins was now ' an officer and a
gentleman' at last.

MAKING THE AMENDE.

There was terrible grief at Farrington
Hall when the news came home of the
death of the son and heir. Poor silly Lady
Farrington was quite broken-hearted. Had
she had her way Ernest would never have .
gone to the wars. Moreover the circumstances
under which he left made matters
infinitely worse. He was at home, as we
know, when the regiment got the route,
and the orders he received from the Horse
Guards were peremptory that he should rejoin
without a moment's delay. The young
soldier was not over keen about obeying.
Life, in spite of family jars, had just then
a peculiar sweetness for him. He had established
Mimie in a pretty little villa at

Wimbledon, where lie spent most of his
time. His visits to the Hall, and his stay
when he came, were much curtailed, greatly
to his mother's sorrow. Her ladyship
knew of his ' entanglement,' but quite asa
secret, and she was discreetly silent on
the subject. She only upbraided her boy
for his constant absences.

^I'th too bad, Ernest. We thee tho
little of you now. You mutht come and
tittle down at home. Marry a niche
wife — '

Which was meant as a gentle womanly
hint that she knew what occupied his
thoughts and his time.

Sir Rupert's line towards Ernest was
more plainly marked, and possibly less judicious.
He very soon gave his son to
understand that he knew all about the
Gibraltar escapade.

I thought it was only a passing act of
folly. Young men cannot always be trusted
to behave with judgment and decorum. It
is very deplorable, of course, but no more,
after all, than others have done. What I
complain of, Ernest, is that there appears
to be no end to your infatuation. I hear
no matter how — '

'From Mr. Oozenam, I presume,' said
Ernest, bitterly. ' I knew he was dogging
my footsteps, but did not think he had
been set on by my father. It's a disgraceful
shame !'

I hear,' went on Sir Rupert, speaking
still calmly, but the black look on his face
showed that he was fast growing furious,
"^ that you are continually at a house at
Wimbledon, where, I suppose, this — this
person — resides.'

Look here, father, you are going too

far,' put in Ernest, hotly. ' I am quite old

enouofli to



in'

'To make a fool of yourself ? No doubt.
You always were that. You've been a fool
all your life. But you shall not make a
fool of me.'

'I won't stay another minute in the
house.'

If you leave it, you shall not return toit
until you have begged my pardon.' Sir
Rupert was very angry, still he strove to
be calm. 'Be careful, Ernest, how you
aggravate me. I am willing to make allowances
for your youth, but you shall not
disgrace your name. Promise me to give
up this affair at once and for ever, or, or — '

I will do nothing of the kind. I will
not be treated as a child,' cried Ernest, ina
loud voice.

Then take the consequences, sir,'

shouted Sir Rupert, still louder. 'Leave
my presence, sir; leave the room, sir;.
leave the house, sir; and do not dare to
show yourself again, sir, till I ask you,
which will be never, never, sir, so help
me '

Ernest, with a white and rather scared
face, got up and quietly walked away.

His father and he never met again in
the flesh.

There were many efforts at reconciliation,
but all had fallen through. Ernest,
before leaving the Hall, had gone to his
mother to say good-bye, and there had been
a very painful scene. The poor woman
was torn by conflicting emotions. She was
passionately fond of her boy, and desperately
afraid of her fierce spouse. But her
maternal instincts carried the day, and she
braved her husband's anger, seeking to win

.11, ■ ■

forgiveness for her son. She failed utterly.
The parties to the quarrel were equally determined,
but in different ways. Ernest
was weakly and foolishly obstinate; Sir
Rupert, harsh, implacable, unrelenting.
Father insisted upon submission unconditional
and complete; son refused even to
admit that he was wrong. Farrington
Hall was a sad house while the dispute was
in progress, and Lady Farrington was a
very unhappy woman. Then, while matters
were still unaccommodated, came the
orders for active service, and she was in a
paroxysm of despair. She made piteous
appeals to Sir Kupert; she wrote imploring
letters to her son, she besought the
Horse Guards to delay embarkation, and
pleaded all sorts of excuses to keep him at
home. But fate and the authorities were
inexorable, and Ernest, very much against

his own will too, was compelled to start for
the Coast.

He had never revisited the Hall. His
father would not ask him, and he would
not offer himself. His mother begged to
be allowed to go to Southampton to bid
him a last farewell, but Sir Rupert positively
forbade it ; and Ernest left the country
with no one — except broken-hearted
Mimie — to bid him adieu.

This was why the news of his death
fell so heavily upon them all at home.
Lady Farrington broke down utterly. She
was like Rachel, and refused to be comforted.
Sir Rupert, although he was still
outwardly calm and impassive, felt it more
than he could say. But he showed his
grief very differently. It was a sort of
relief to him to burst forth into the loudest
invectives — not against himself, although

his parental cruelty might well have caused
him the keenest remorse, but against all
who might, by the smallest implication, be
deemed to be responsible for Ernest's untimely
end. Where was Diggle? Why
had he allowed the young fellow out of his
sight ? And Sir Garnet, what excuse would
the general make for leaving a young officer
to be thus out-matched and massacred by
the rascally foe ? He even included Mimie
Larkins in his reproaches, although she
manifestly was but little to blame. He
could not at first bring himself to think
well of Herbert, Avhose brave act in trying
to save his officer's life was hailed with enthusiasm
in this country as soon as it became
known. What had this sergeant done ?
Only his duty. It was the duty of every
sergeant or corporal in the service to lay
down his life for warrington, of course. And

the young fellow had been amply rewarded
over rewarded, if anything — for his pains.
But deeper down in Sir Rupert's heart
there was anguish and sharp regret. As a
father he was deeply grieved at the loss of
an only son ; but as the proud owner of an
old title and wide estates, it cut him to the
heart to think that he must be the last of
his line. Was it for this that he had schemed
and manoeuvred? For this that he had caused
Lady Farrington to be placed under restraint
— had abandoned her protege to
starve ? Then followed a wave of better
feeling towards the gallant young fellow
who had heaped coals of fire on his head.
What a fine action it was ! How splendidly
the young man had behaved! He half
wished that Herbert was really the heir to
the family honours, now that there was no
one else to inherit them.

Upon this point he would have met with
some sharp opposition within his family,
had he expressed his opinion. Much as
poor Ernest was regretted by all, there were
some who, after the first decorous mourning,
found themselves quite able to reconcile
themselves to his loss. To Mrs. Cavendish-dingle,
Ernest's death meant a certain
tangible gain. She could never succeed to
the baronetcy, certainly, but there were the
broad acres of Farrington ^Yh.ich^ faute de
mieux would now undoubtedly come to
her. Possibly, if Diggle did but take his
proper place in life, and could be persuaded
to enter Parliament, a grateful Government
might be brought to continue the baronetcy
through the female branch. Mrs. Cavendish
would have been only too pleased that
her infant son should some day resume the
name and arms of the Farrington family.

and that the Diggle-Farringtons should
become celebrated as the proprietors of
Farrington Hall. The son was forthcoming,
indeed more than one ; but poor Cavendish
Diggle was not himself quite equal to
the task which the ambitious Letitia Avould
have imposed upon him. The Gold Coast
campaign, in fact, had nearly cost him his
life, and had left him almost a wreck
Weeks of low fever upon a miserable sickbed
in the malarious bush, had nearly
finished him; and long before the end of
the war he had returned to England more
dead than alive. His life in the long run
was spared, but the once smart dandy reappeared
a broken, half-crippled man, one
much more fitted to spend the remainder of
his days in European health resorts, drinking
the waters and taking the baths, than
in any active struggle for parliamentary or

VOL. II. B

contested family honours. Before the return
of the Duke's Own to England he had
retired upon half-pay, and took no further
part in regimental affairs.

Herbert's glorification, however, when
he reached England duly came off, and this
without any protest on the part of Mrs.
Cavendish-dingle. She did not know
really that he was, or had ever been, a competitor
for the family estates. Besides
which, when he arrived she and her husband
were at Aix ; and however calmly she
may have accepted the sad news of Ernest's
death, she could not openly be otherwise
than pleased at the honour done to the
man who had endeavoured to save her
brother's life. Herbert, whether or no, was
invited at once to the Hall, whither he went,
not from any love for Sir Rupert, but
simply to see how the land lay, and whether

he could help the poor old dowager, who
still languished in her asylum prison.

Yet it was with a certain strange excitement
that he entered the house which
might be, and which somehow he felt ought
to be his. The baronet received him most
courteously; poor Lady Farrington fell
upon his neck and wept torrents of tears ;
he was shown into a gorgeous guest
chamber, a room all blue satin and silver,
such as he had never before seen in all his
life ; and he was treated with the most profound
respect on every side.

Lady Farrington was not equal to appearing
at table, and he dined with Sir
Kupert tete-astute. His host questioned him
closely upon the events of the campaign.
Acutely painful as was one of its episodes
to the baronet, he yet seemed to ignore
this, and was only anxious to give his guest

an opportunity of describing what lie had
seen. Possibly he was anxious also to
keep off dangerous ground, and to avoid
inconvenient questions upon points on
which Herbert was, if anything, far more
closely concerned.

Here, however, he counted without his
host. The young soldier was by nature,
and still more by his recent rough and
ready training, little disposed to beat about
the bush. He had resolved upon coming
to Farrington Hall to ascertain what could
be done to release the old Lady Farrington
from durance. He had had already one or
two communications from 'the Boy' Hanlon,
none of which, however, gave him much
hope of effecting this without the assistance
of the baronet himself. The ' Boy' had not
seen much of the old lady. She was, of
course, upon the female side of the asylum.

But Hanlon was not to be baulked by any
restrictions of sex, and as the rules of the
establishment forbade him from attending
upon a female patient, he made it his business
to secure the co-operation of a female
attendant. The person who had especial
charge of Lady Farrington was a middle-aged
damsel, to whom the blandishments of
the Boy' were by no means distasteful.
Through this impressionable daughter of
Eve, Hanlon had communicated frequently
with the old lady. He had told her of
Herbert's progress; of the young man's
advancement in the lower walks of the
military career; finally of the Ashanti
war, and Herbert's undoubted success.
Had the doctor been within easy reach, he
might have ordered Lady Farrington the
usual cooling regimen, so excited did she
become. But she escaped observation, and

under the advice of her attendant, and
indeed through her own native intelligence
she managed to preserve a calm exterior,
feeling sure that her Herbert would soon
appear to open wide her prison doors.

That he was most easier to do so was
evident from his conversation with Sir
Rupert that first night.

^ I shall be only too glad to meet your
wishes in any way,' the baronet had said.
^ At the Horse Guards, perhaps, or with
Mr. Caldwell — '

'I will not ask so much,' Herbert replied.
'I have been already treated most
liberally by the authorities. All I want is
to pay a visit to Grey stoke.'

'To Greystoke?' Sir Rupert turned
rather pale.

Yes, and with you. You see I know
everything. Why hesitate. Sir Rupert?

There need be no concealment between us.
The last time we met I was a victim — one
of your victims — but now I am above all
that, but poor Lady Farrington still suffers.'

'It would not be safe, I assure you, to
set her at large. I have that on the best
authority. She is still quite insane.'

'I have it on better that she is now
perfectly recovered.'

'May I ask who is your informant?'
Sir Rupert blandly enquired.

One of the attendants at the asylum.'

'A skilled practitioner? A medical
man ?'

'Well, no; not exactly. He was, in
fact, formerly in the Duke's Own.'

'As a surgeon?'

No, in the ranks.'

And you would set up his opinion —
the opinion of an illiterate, untrained man

against that of the highest medical
authority in the country ? Really, Mr.
Larkins — '

'He's an honest, straightforward man,.
Sir Rupert, with plenty of common sense.
His judgment may be at fault, but at any
rate his opinion is certain to be unblessed
and unprejudiced; he assures me that Lady
Farrington is perfectly fit to take care of
herself, and ought to be immediately set at
large.'

I cannot agree with your friend. I
have seen her only within these last few
days, and I think she is as bad as ever.'

I shall refer the matter, then, to one of
the Lord Chancellor's visitors,' said Herbert
displaying an intimate acquaintance with
procedure which rather surprised Sir
Rupert.

That is not necessary, I assure you.

If the poor lady is capable of taking care of
herself I do not wish to detain her. Far
from it. If it is really your wish to visit
Grey stoke, Mr. Larkins, we will go there
tomorrow.'

And thus Sir Rupert Farrington consented
to a step which could not but have
very serious consequences to himself and'
all who were dependent upon him.

VISITORS AT GREYSTOKE.

Greystoke had once been a manor-house
and place of mark m the county of Hop-shire.
A long-fronted but compact mansion,
with thick walls and a wide moat, it
still looked capable of withstanding a siege.
Not that there was any chance of one.
Admission was not difficult to obtain, provided
the usual formalities were observed.
The thing was to get out again when you
had once got in. The natural strength of
the place made it nearly as secure as a prison.
But no bolts or bars were needed ; if
the stout doors and numerous gates, deep
moat, and broad hah had not sufficed,
there was behind all the lynx-eyed watchfulness
of the attendants.

Joe Hanloii was in high favour at Grey-stoke.
In him — thanks to his long military
training — prompt unhesitating obedience
had come to be second nature. All orders
he received he carried out implicitly, and
to the letter. He was as plucky too as he
was punctual; and he could always be relied
on when there was an ugly job on
hand. Hard, tough, and resolute, he was
ready to tackle the most truculent patient,
and brave his fiercest rage. ' The Boy's'
little weakness for refreshment might have
done him harm at Greystoke, but his superiors
at the asylum were not as keen in the
detection of unsteadiness as the non-commissioned
officers of the Duke's Own; and
when Joe was at all ' on,' he managed to
keep the secret to himself Perhaps, as a
valuable servant, his masters were often
conveniently blind.

As a person of some authority, Hanlon
was at liberty to go where he pleased in
the establishment. One morning he paid
a visit to the female wing, and asked to see
Miss Pointing.

^ Good morning, Mr. Hanlon.'

Morning, Miss. How is she to-day ?'
he went on at once, and with no little excitement
in his voice.

Her ladyship ? Like a lamb. What's
amiss, Mr. Hanlon ? You look peeked.'

Miss Ponting's duties had lain for some
years with the most aristocratic patients,,
and she cultivated a refinement of language
and a fastidiousness of expression which
imposed upon no one so much as herself.
But for the firm lines of her mouth and
steady eye — traits which proved her fitness
for her present employment — she might
have been set down as a fat foolish woman

of forty, with the airs and graces of girlhood
and the pretentiousness of one who
sought to be considered superior to her
station. She had a fine eye for the main
chance, however, and this had led her to
listen willingly enough to ' the Boy's' blandishments.
There was profit, perhaps, substantial
and considerable, to be got out of
the affair.

'They're coming over this very day,'
cried Hanlon. ' Sir Rupert and the captain'
— Joe had already given Herbert promotion,
partly out of affection, and partly
to impress Miss Pouting — ' and the whole
kit of 'em.'

Well, what puts you in such a taking ?
We ain't to be trampled upon like the sands
of the seashore. We're ready for anyone
that chooses to come.'

'But is she? The captain means to

have her out, and so I tell you ; and it'll all
depend on how they find her. Is she fit to
be seen ?

'Never was better. Her appetite's
combsar^ but her manner's quite degagy^
and her temper dehonnair.^

'Will it do to prepare her? Won't it
flurry her, as when you told her of the fight
on the Coast?'

Best break it to her mathematically,
and with — with — a composing draught.
I'll tell her too to hold her tongue — she is
mindful of what I say, always — and answer
only when she's spoken to; and if I
put her into a quiet dress, and keep my
eye on her, she'll come through all right,
or call me Jenny Say Quod.'

I'll call you a brick, and a beauty, and
Mrs. Hanlon, or anything you please,' said
'the Boy,' in high glee. 'You're quite a

genius, Georgian, and I'll fight the man
who says you ain't.'

The visitors arrived punctually at eleven.
Dr. Fewster, the proprietor of the establishment,
who had been briefly apprised by
Sir Rupert, received them in state in his
drawing-room. He was a man of a not
uncommon type, but certain peculiar characteristics
were very strongly developed in him:
A superficial observer, after five minutes*
talk, would have thought him one of the
pleasantness men in the world. The moment
he met you. Dr. Fewster took possession of
you, and began to dose you with oil — not
that known in the profession as croton, cod-liver,
or castor — but the metaphorical oil
of compliment and flattery, very thinly disguised.
If he had not taken to lunacy, he
might have made a fortune in general practice,
so honeyed were his accents, and reassuring
his tone.

When Herbert was presented to him,
Dr. Fewster put out his hand, and said with
much feeling,

To shake hands with a hero is indeed
an honour for us who never leave our armchairs
at home. Let me tell you, Mr. Lar-king,
such deeds as yours send a thrill
through the whole country, and we are
proud — proud to call you one of ourselves.'

All this time he held Herbert's hand,
and was shaking it as though it was a bottle
of his own medicine, very much to Herbert's
discomfort, who inwardly apostrophised
him as an ass, a humbug, and a
cad.

^ And you. Sir Rupert, how pained yet
how pleased you must have been to welcome
him home — to have thanked him for
his devotion. Ah ! would, would to Heaven
it had been more successful — '

Dr. Fewster turned away, overcome
with emotion, but Sir Rupert, who knew
his man, said abruptly,

We have come on business, doctor.'

So I understood from your letter, although
you did not exactly specify what.
It is not then merely to visit my establishment,
which by the bye I should be only
too happy to show, but — '

To see Lady Farrington.'

'indeed ! This gentleman is perhaps acquainted
with, possibly interested in, the case ?'

This Mr. Larkins,' said Sir Rupert, not
without bitterness, ' is an old friend and
protege of her ladyship's. He has not seen
her for some years — in fact not since she
has been here.'

To be sure, to be sure, I remember
now,' and the doctor looked at Herbert
with a keen, cunning glance, wondering

VOL. II. F

whether there was anything to fear from
that quarter.

I have not yet been my rounds he
said ; ' I cannot tell how her ladyship is
this morning; but if she is presentable —
there are times, you understand, when she
is not quite, quite self-possessed, you know,
and perhaps — '

Mr. Larkins thinks that there may be
some mistake ; that the poor lady is not
what you. Dr. Fewster, and what we all
imagine. He has heard that she is perfectly
quiet and rational.'

May I ask from whom?'

Herbert did not reply. He was too
much interested in the door, at which he
was looking steadily. He was perhaps expecting
some one.

some one in the establishments Sir
Rupert answered for him.

In my establishment ? Can it be possible
that you would accept any evidence
but my own? I forbear to ask who your
informant may be' — in his own secret heart
he was registering a vow to discover, and
mentally promising the culprit a very short
shrift — but I need hardly say that information
surreptitiously obtained cannot always
be quite relied upon. Nor, may I
add, is any opinion of real value but that
of those duly accredited ; and I must maintain
mine against all comers save and except
the great lights and authorities of my
own profession.'

At this moment a servant entered with
a card, which Dr. Fewster took up carelessly,
but as he looked at it his demeanour
suddenly changed.

Where is he ?' he hurriedly inquired of
the servant. ' In my study ? or has he

gone into the building? Gentlemen, pray
forgive me, but this is a visitor whom I
cannot neglect. It is Dr. Darlington Mayne,
the eminent aliens, and as you, perhaps,
are aware, the newly-appointed Chancellor's
visitor. You will follow me, I trust?'

Sir Rupert looked savagely interrogative
at Herbert, as though to inquire whether it
was by his agency that this great official
had appeared so opportunely upon the scene.

^ I thought it would be more satisfactory
to all parties,' Herbert said, quite calmly.
A friend of mine is an intimate friend of
his, and Dr. Mayne is already in full possession
of all the facts of the case.'

The young fellow plays his game
closely,' thought the doctor, as he left the
room.

The young villain has stolen a march
upon me,' thought Sir Rupert, and so
Herbert evidently had.

Dr. Fewster was a little nervous when
he met the great man, who, without waiting
for the proprietor, had gone at once into
Lady Farrington's apartments, and was
already in close conversation with her.

Dr. Fewster? Ah ! I wished to see her
ladyship,' began Dr. Mayne, rather curtly.

Oh, of course. And how are you this
morning, my dear lady?' inquired the asy-^
lum doctor.

Very well ; perfectly well, as I have
been these five years past,' replied Lady
Farrington, with great coolness and self-possession.


The old lady had aged considerably
since we last saw her. Her hair was snow
white. There was a sort of rather mournful
expression in her dark eyes, which one sees
often in human beings and all who have
been long in captivity, and have but little

hope of release. But these eyes had lost
none of their brilliancy, and she sat up
straight in her chair, with evident signs of
strength and vitality still unimpaired. The
great news which the attendant had communicated
to her but an hour or two before,
that Herbert was close by, and meant
to get her out, somehow, had put new life
into her.

Your ladyship slept well ?' went on
Dr. Fewster, ' no visions, no visitors — from
Africa ?'

Lady Farrington's hands trembled, and
a sudden gleam flashed from her eyes,
but she saw Miss Pouting looking at her,
and instantly she subsided into perfect calm.

The reference to Herbert was artfully
made, but it failed.

I never see visions. You are talking
nonsense, Dr. Fewster.'

No apparitions ? No ghostly messages
from missing and long-lost friends ?'

Lady Farrington appeared a little agitated,
but again a glance from Miss Ponting
reassured her.

Of course not. I do not understand
you in the least.'

'Nothing from Herbert Larkins? He
has given you no warning of his approaching
return?'

This was a great trial to her ladyship,
but she bore it wonderfully well. A greater
test was in store for her.

What if I tell you he is close at hand,
that within a week, within a day or two
perhaps, you may see him again ?'

The poor lady's fortitude for a moment
gave way :

You mean that he is here at this moment,
actually here in the house. Oh, let

me see him! my sweet, sweet boy; now,
now, at once, I implore you — '

Then she stopped suddenly, but with a
manifest effort, and turning to Dr. Mayne,
said ]piteously,

It is not fair ; it is cruel to work upon
my feelings thus. This is the subject nearest
to my heart, and he knows it, hoping to
excite me and make me appear other than
I am. It is for this dear boy that I am imprisoned
here — I will speak — ' (this was in
answer to a warning gesture from Miss
Ponting). ' This gentleman is a Government
visitor, he has said so, come here on
purpose to do me justice. He shall hear
the whole story from beginning to end, and
he will know then that I have been the
victim of the hardest usage and foul
play.'

Dr. Fewster turned to Dr. Mayne with

a meaning look, which plainly implied that
he would now see the form taken by Lady
Farrington's craze. This was her weak
point — her monomania, and her madness
would soon unmistakeably be betrayed.

You shall tell me the whole story, Lady
Farrington, but privately, and in your own
way. I wish to see her ladyship alone,
quite alone.'

Dr. Mayne spoke very quietly; he was
an undemonstrative man, of few words, but
his manner and tone were one of much determination
and authority.

Meanwhile Sir Rupert and Herbert, left
to themselves, had exchanged but little conversation.
The baronet was preoccupied,
and there was a black scowl on his face,
which boded ill for any whom his anger
could touch. Herbert was silent too. He
felt that he had thrown away the scabbard,

and was fighting Sir Rupert to the
death.

The moments dragged themselves slowly
on, till presently Dr. Fewster returned,
with many apologies.

^ I am truly grieved to have kept you
so long from the object of your visit. The
fact is, Dr. Darlington Mayne also wished
to see Lady Farrington, and he is at present
closeted with her. Till he chooses to end
the interview we cannot disturb him, of
course.'

It was quite an hour later when Dr.
Mayne joined them.

These are the poor lady's friends,' said
the asylum doctor, with much formality.
Sir Rupert Farrington, Mr. Herbert Lar-king,
of the Duke's Own.'

Dr. Mayne bowed very coldly to Sir
Rupert, but put out his hand to Herbert.

^ Our mutual friend, Dr. McCosh, has
often spoken to me of you. That was a
noble deed of yours, and I am glad to know
you, Mr. Larkins.'

'But Lady Farrington?' eagerly interposed
Herbert, as soon as he civilly
could.

It is a case of some little difficulty. I
am really rather perplexed. Her ladyship
is perfectly sane, I think, and rational, except
on one point. If I could but obtain
some independent testimony on that, I
might see my way. She perseveres in
asseverating, although she can adduce
no proofs, that her son Herbert, whom
she has not seen for upwards of five and
twenty years, left a son, and that you, Mr.
Larkins, are he.'

Herbert replied slowly and with an air
of the deepest conviction,

She is perfectly right. I am.'

^ Great powers !' cried Sir Rupert, starting
to his feet and foaming with rage.
'Was there ever such matchless effrontery


'It can be fully substantiated went on
Herbert, still perfectly calm.

It is a gross and unfounded lie, from
beginning to end — a conspiracy, an attempt
to defraud

Of that the law can only judge,' said
Dr. Mayne ; ' but I must confess Mr. Lar-king'
assertion so far satisfies my mind
that I feel convinced Lady Farrington is
not suffering from any hallucination, and
I shall recommend her immediate discharge.'


You cannot, must not ; my life would
be in peril,' expostulated Sir Rupert, still
furious, but rather taken aback.

■ ■ I ■■■■!■ . ■ II - •■■■ III • ^,m.„. m . . , ., ,^m . , v >. .< » ., i i ., ,., . i i i ,

'My mind is quite made up said the
Chancellor's visitor, authoritatively.

'And I give you notice went on Herbert,
' on behalf of Lady Farrington, that
Mr. Bellhouse, her solicitor, will forthwith
commence an action against you for illegal
detention, and will require a full account
of all moneys due to her during the time
she has been under restraint.'

I care nothing for your actions,' cried
Sir Rupert, snapping his fingers, ' and if I
spend my last shilling she shall not go at
large.'

But he was compelled to give way. The
law was too strong for him, his opponents
too full of fight. And that they meant
business was clear from an advertisement
which appeared everywhere directly after
Lady Farrington was set free. It was as
follows : — ' 5,000/. Reward. To anyone

who will give authentic proofs of marriage
about 184 — between Herbert Farrington,
alias Corporal Smith, of the 12th Lancers,
and Ann, daughter of Josiah Orde, of .'


A MOMENTOUS QUESTION.

The Dowager Lady Farrington, after long
years of grief and sorrow, had chanced at
last upon happier days. Her cup of bliss
seemed filled now to overflowing. To be
free once more, released from the hateful
asylum, with its painful associations and
unbroken restraint, was in itself a great
joy; that Herbert was restored to her was
a yet greater delight, but greatest of all
was the knowledge that her heart had not
misled her, and that she had rightly recognised
him as the offspring of her own ill-used
and long-lost boy. Herbert had told
her the story as he had had it from Mrs.
Larkins, and the statement — although it

lacked formal legal proof — was more than
sufficient to satisfy her ladyship's mind.
She was, indeed, only too eager to believe
it. But had any doubt remained, it would
have been more than removed, so she declared,
by the living Herbert's extraordinary
resemblance to the one that was dead
and gone.

^As I look at you now, a full-grown
man, I seem to see my own poor son once
more,' cried the old lady, with tears of joy
in her eyes. ' You have his face, his features,
all his ways. Even the colour of
your hair and of your eyes is the same.
You are a Farrington, every inch ; I know
it, I feel it, and everybody else shall own it
also, and at once.'

Nothing would please her but that he
should assume, without loss of time, the
Farrington name and arms.

No, not yet,' he pleaded ; ' I am not
entitled to them.'

'Are you not my grandson? Who shall
gainsay that ?'

I know it, and I glory in it ; but still
the case is not satisfactorily proved. Besides,
if I am to take the name of Warrington
at all, it can only be as the head of the
house.'

'You are Sir Herbert Farrington, at
this very moment.'

I ought to be, perhaps. But you will
admit that to say so positively at present
would be quite premature. It would not
be in very good taste either, and I had
much rather let things stay as they are.'

To this Lady Farrington eventually assented,
but not with the best grace in the
world.

At any rate, everyone shall know that

VOL. II. G

I recognise and adopt you,' she said, withall
a woman's pertinacity. 'You may be
called Mr. Larkins, but you are the son of
this house. All I have is yours, now if you
wish it, and absolutely so after I am gone.'
And to prove her words she sought, in
spite of his protestations, to load him with
rich gifts. Her ladyship happily had ample
funds at her disposal. Whatever sinister
motives may have actuated Sir Rupert in
locking her up, he had behaved with scrupulous
honesty towards her effects. As the
appointed administrator, he had full power
over every penny of hers, but he never
misappropriated one. No sooner was Lady
Farrington at large, than he rendered an
exact account of his stewardship to Mr.
Bellhouse, and the balance he handed over
was very satisfactory indeed. Out of this
Lady Farrington wished to make large

settlements at once upon Herbert, contenting
herself with her jointure, which would
amply suffice for all her needs as before.
But she attached a condition that he should
retire forthwith from the profession in
which he had first begun to climb, and
reside with her, devoting himself also to the
great emprise of fully establishing his claims.
It was a severe struggle for the young
man : On the one side, gratitude to the kind
benefactress who had done so much for him
impelled him to accept the offer she so
generously made; on the other, his affection
for the service in which he had already
begun to rise urged him as strongly to reject
the conditions she wished to impose.
At any rate, he begged for time. There
was no need to decide in a hurry. He had
still six months' leave to run; something
might turn up to support his case — some

answers to the advertisement, some news of
the missing marriage lines. Lady Warrington
consented gladly enough. All she asked
was that he should remain always at her
side This time was spent in London,
whither the pair had come immediately
after Lady Farrington's discharge. Farrington
Court was hateful to her, she declared,
and for obvious reasons ; it was too
near the Hall, too near the monster who had
cast a cloud over the last half-dozen years
of her life; too full of memories she desired
now to shut out for ever. London, with its
varied interests and amusements, its busy
life, and stirring ways, was more calculated
to suit Lady Farrington's temper than a
semi-conventual seclusion in a lonely and
nearly empty country place. Mr. Bell-house
had therefore secured a snug house
in a Mayfair street, a thoroughfare noisy

with carriages, gay and lively always with
people passing continually to and fro.
Here Miss Ponting had also been installed
as lady's-maid, a very wise precaution, which
served to keep Lady Farrington always
quiet. ' The Boy' was also one of the household.
He had given himself his discharge
the day after the great scene at the asylum,
having done the business entrusted to hin
and wishing to avoid any altercation with
the angry and suspicious chief. Hanlon's
position in Vaughan-street was not at first
quite clearly defined; but, beginning as
hall-porter, he lapsed first into general factotum,
and then into Herbert's body servant
and own particular man. His appointment
was rather a sinecure ; beyond cleaning his
master's boots, to which he gave a lustre
which was the envy of every shoeblack
whom Herbert passed in the streets, and

pipeclaying his kid gloves, for want of anything
better on which to try his hand, he
had not the slightest idea of the duties of
a valet; and Herbert had as little knowledge
of what he should ask Hanlon to do.
But the two talked constantly together of
old times ; they compared notes of past
experiences, discussed old comrades, cross-questioned
each other, and wound up by
expressing their unbounded and unshaken
opinion that there never was and never
would be such a corps in any army in the
civilised world as the Duke's Own. . When
they came to this point Herbert's heart grew
heavy, and he sought to change the conversation.
' The Boy,' after a little, saw this.

'Faith, sir' — he was most religiously
respectful nowadays — 'you jib and shirk
whenever we come to talk of the old corps.
You're as bad as the colonel when a Goojerat

day came twice in the same week. What's
up, sir? You're not going to turn your
back upon the old corps ?'

that's just where it is, Joe. Lady
Farrington wants me to retire and live
always with her.'

^ And you that's only just got your commission,
sir, and that'll be adjutant when
you please, and a staff officer, and a field
officer, and a general officer, and all sorts
of officers rolled into one, before you be got
a grey hair. Belong with you, sir! It's
the wildest, maddest — well, no, that's not a
pleasant word to use in this house. But
you mustn't do it, sir ; you mustn't do it.
Only this blessed day did I see the captain
Greathed — him that's colonel now, you
know ; and he axes after you ; and ses he,
is he pretty stout? ses he; and ses I, he is
that, ses I ; and I'll be coming to see him.

ses he ; and I hope he will, this very day,
ses I, for it's a folly to talk to him, ses I ;
which it is, ses he ; I mean, ses I — but I'm
fairly bothered, like Johnny Raw at recruits'
drill.'

There was no doubt that Herbert,
although he fought against it, was chafing
much at his present life. If it was to be all
like this he would willingly, in preference,
return to ^ sentry-go.' Lady Farrington's
kindness was great and unceasing of course.
She never tired of expressing her affection,
and this in something more substantial than
mere words. He had carte blanche at the
best tailor's, a park hack, and as much
money as he could spend. For a time all
this was pleasant enough. It was his first
experience of London ; and no young man
in funds is likely to find London dull. But
it is possible to exhaust its amusements

after a time, especially when one has no
special pursuits and no hankering after
shady places and not too reputable ways.
There was no vice in Herbert, although he
was by no means a milksop or a prig. But
he knew too well what was due to himself
to lapse into the inanities which prove so
often irresistible to other young men. It
did not satisfy him to bet, and haunt the
theatres, and loaf about the Burlington
Arcade. Other and more rational ways of
employing his time he certainly found in
visiting exhibitions, seeing the sights, and
more especially in frequenting the United
Service Institution, where he devoted himself
for several hours of every day to the
continued study of the profession he was
doomed probably, and unhappily for him,
soon to leave. Often enough too he satisfied
his military cravings by attending the

Guard mounting at St. James's Palace; lie
was weak enough sometimes to accompany
a volunteer regiment on its way to the park
for drill, keeping step almost intuitively,
and enjoying the whole thing far more than
anyone in the crowd.

But all these did not half suffice to exhaust
his native energy, developed and increased
as it had been by his recent active
life. He panted continually for more to do.
He grew more and more hipped and out of
joint. He was so lonely too. Under the
peculiar circumstances of his early career it
was little likely that he would have many
acquaintances of his own age. He might
perhaps hunt up a few of his old Deadham
school friends, but school friends in afterlife
do not run up against each other much,
unless they have been at Eton, Harrow, or
the like, and belong of right to the great

world. He had no club as yet ; no military
comrades even. He had so recently passed
across the great gulf which divides the commissioned
officer from the rank and file,
that he had not been accepted by the one,
although he had left the other altogether
behind.

Nevertheless, he kept his own counsel,
and would not for the world betray to
Lady Farrington that he was not perfectly
contented with his lot. It would have been
but a poor requital for all her kindness, he
said, and he must put the best face upon
the matter. Even that greater and far
keener trial, which was daily growing closer
and closer, when he would have to cut himself
finally adrift from his much-loved profession,
he would have faced, as he had
met other really greater trials, like a man.

But he was spared this, mainly through

Colonel Greathed, and indirectly, also,
through ' the Boy.' The first came without
delay to see Herbert, but it was the latter
who had induced him to come. Naturally,
he was introduced to Lady Farrington, who
welcomed him very cordially as one of
Herbert's early patrons and friends.

^ It has been a rough experience for my
grandson,' said the old lady, who always
spoke of Herbert openly as a relation, ^ but
it will, no doubt, have been for his good.
At any rate, it* is over now, and Herbert
will live like a gentleman for the rest of his
life.'

san officer and a gentleman, I trust,'
said Colonel Greathed, laying some stress
on the first word.

No, not exactly ; he has promised me
that he will leave the service at once.'

He will be taken up and shot as a deserter

the very next day said the colonel
with mock seriousness.

But the old lady took the statement au
j^ied de la lettre.

You don't really mean that ?' she
asked, nervously.

Of course not put in Herbert.

I mean that he is, and must always bea
soldier — at heart. It's in him, part of his
nature, and he can't put it off like a slipper
or a coat.'

Lady Farrington looked hard at the
colonel, as if to grasp his meaning more
thoroughly, then turned her eyes interrogatively
upon Herbert.

You have never said a word of this,
Herbert, my sweet boy. You have expressed
no regrets, have offered no objections — ?'

Herbert hung his head rather, and hesitated
to speak.

Can it be possible that I have prayed
you to take a step which is distasteful to
you? Selfish old wretch that I am!'

^No, no, grandmother, it is not so. I
would do this and far more to gratify your
slightest wish. I will leave the service
gladly ; I don't care to remain in it, I don't
indeed.'

Herbert, I cannot quite trust to what
you say. I shall ask Colonel Greathed to
tell me the exact truth. Will you leave us
alone together, and come back in half an
hour ?'

Her ladyship pressed the colonel very
closely. She begged him to speak openly
and without reserve. In order to invite
confidence, she detailed the whole of the
circumstances connected with Herbert's
birth and parentage. She enlarged upon
his possible prospects, and the importance

of his always being at home to advance
them. What she scarcely referred to, brave
old soul ! was the pleasure she would derive
from his constant companionship.

'If you ask my advice, Lady Warrington,'
said Colonel Greathed, 'I should say
leave him to follow his profession. It will
be no hindrance to him in prosecuting his
claims; and should these fail, as I apprehend
is just possible, he may nevertheless
achieve an excellent position for himself.
His bent is so strongly marked ; he is so
promising a young soldier; he has already
done so well; he is, I firmly believe, so
keen and eager to continue in his career that
I think it would be unfair to himself, to his
friends, to the country he serves, to baulk
him and turn him aside.'

Lady Farrington was much moved.

Her eyes were full of tears, and she could
hardly speak.

It will pain you, I fear, to part with
him. You will miss him greatly, I have
no doubt. Still such partings are only
short-lived, and when they are for a young
man's good — '

'You are right. Colonel Greathed, and
I am half ashamed of myself for my selfish
weakness, but I can hold out no longer.'

She wiped her eyes and sent for Herbert.

It is settled, and in the way to please
you best, I feel sure. You shall continue
in the calling you have chosen, my brave
boy. It must and shall be so. I have not
many years to live, but I pray God will
spare me until I see you righted I hope,
but at any rate on the high road to fame.'

She kissed him tenderly on the forehead,
as if to sign the agreement thus.

but you will not leave me just yet
she said, almost piteously. ^ He need not
go back to the regiment directly, Colonel
Greathed ?'

'Certainly not; not till October, when
we embark for Gibraltar again. I shall
want him to take the adjutant then.'

VOL. II. H

BACK ON THE Rock.

As October approached, and with it the
time for rejoining his regiment, Herbert
became more and more eager and excited.
He was quite angry with himself for being
so pleased. It seemed such base ingratitude
to Lady Farrington to be so delighted
to leave her. But he was not that in the
least. He felt an increasing regard for her
which promised to develop some day into
deep affection. He was only overjoyed at
the prospect of once more resuming his
work. Those who have been long in regular
harness can best realize how flat, stale,
and unprofitable is life without a fixed
object and employment, more or less constant,
from morning till night. Neither by

inclination nor by his recent training was
Herbert of the sort to eat the bread of
idleness, or be satisfied with having nothing
to do. Therefore it was, that when his
adieux were made, and the poor old lady-left
to her solitary grief, Herbert returned

to soldiering; with all the vio:Qur and elastics
o

city of a steel spring, which has been set
free. He could never forget all he oweS
his first patron and firm friend ; he meant
to spend a certain portion of his time with
her still; he would go to her always gladly
and with the utmost alacrity, when she expressed
a wish to see him or desired to
have him at her side. But in spite of all,
he was like a schoolboy just released from
school. The expiration of his leave and his
return to duty, which is to some officers
such an inexpressible bore, was to him a
source of the most unfeigned delight.

Yet it was not without a certain trepidation
that he prepared to take up his new
position. How would his brother officers
receive him ? Would they accept him as
one of themselves ? He remembered, certainly,
that when the news of his promotion
first reached the Coast, all had congratulated
him warmly, and made many cordial
and civil speeches, declaring him to
be an honour to the Duke's Own. But
these were days of abnormal excitement;
a sharp campaign was barely ended, and
active service does much to sweep away
formality and level class distinctions. It
would be different now, perhaps, at an expensive
and brilliant mess in a gay garrison
town, where social life was always bubbling
up and boiling over in festive gatherings,
race-meetings, days with the Calpe hounds,
theatricals, and balls. Herbert had no particular

craving for these joys. But would
he be freely admitted and readily welcomed
everywhere ? Might not some, unmindful of
the fact that he had a gentleman's education,
and that possibly his birth, if he got his
rights, was better than theirs, be disposed
to look down upon him, and despise him asa
man who had ' risen from the ranks?'

Herbert was little acquainted with the
tempers and idiosyncrasies of British officers.
Although long associated with them,
it had been only as an inferior separated
from them by a wide gulf, and he saw only
what was on the surface : hrusquerie^ often,
an arrogant manner and a self-satisfied air.
He did not know that at bottom they were
honest and well-meaning fellows full of prejudices
— not all Newton perhaps, or John
Stuart Mills — but straightforward honourable
men, who were in the habit of taking

their comrades just as they found them, and
just for what they were worth. There maybe
snobs who will kotoo to a duke's son, or
revolve as satellites round a wealthy young
parvenu ; but the general verdict of a British
mess upon io, individuals who compose
it, is based always upon their intrinsic
qualities and personal claims.

The Duke's Own were not long in finding
out that Herbert Larkins was ' a man
of the right sort,' 'a thorough good chap all
round.' They saw, not without surprise,
perhaps, that he took his place among them
quite naturally, almost as though to the
manner born.

He behaved quite properly at the din-veritable
; he did not eat peas with a knife,
or drink with his mouth full ; he could
take his share in the conversation — never
very abstruse or wide in its range — and

that without dropping his h's or miscalling
his words. He could do most things, too ;
play cricket and racquets, shoot, ride or
play a rubber of whist. Above all, he had
a pleasant face and a genial manner, with a
smile and a civil word for all who spoke to
him, whether on duty or off.

This last was almost sufficient recommendation
in itself, especially when fountain
the adjutant, as it was in Herbert's case.
Colonel Greathed was not a commanding
officer to be led by the nose ; he drove his
own coach, and had his team always well in
hand. But even under his regime the adjutant
was as he must always be — a considerable
personage. He really wields much
power; he is the usual channel of communication
with the colonel ; through him officers
apply for leave or other indulgences;
he keeps the duty roster, and can, if he

pleases, do even the oldest a good turn, by
carrying out exchanges, and substituting one
name for another, even at the eleventh hour.
Over the prisoners he exercises the sway of
a task-master and pedagogue combined ;
he can prolong drill-instruction to a maddening
length ; and upon his good or evil
report much of their happiness depends.
With the non-commissioned officers, and
rank and file, the adjutant is generally an
irresponsible autocrat and king. He holds
the sergeants in the hollow of his hand; the
Colonel nearly always relies upon him to
recommend men for promotion, and it is he
who brings forward deserving private soldiers
and raises them out of the ruck. All
this tends to make his position dangerously
full of snares. He may easily become
puffed up and conceited; worse still (and
this is especially noticeable in adjutants

who have risen from the ranks), he may
drift into favouritism ; and, by reason of
his intimate acquaintance with the ins and
outs of military life, fall into the error
of knowing too much and seeing too much.
That Herbert steered clear of all the hidden
rocks which threaten the adjutant's course
was the best testimony to his worth. Although
he never swerved from his duty, no
adjutant could have been more generally
popular.

The days passed evenly and pleasantly
enough. They were happy days for Herbert,
which he remembered always in his
after life. Busy days, beginning with the
fresh morning hours, when he took the battalion
out for early drill, and ending with
the inspection of the non-commissioned officers
at tattoo. Guard-mounting parade ina
fortress bristling with sentries ; orderly-room

in a place where liquor, unfortunately,
is cheap ; much correspondence and many
intricate returns, in a garrison fully provided
with the regulation number of staff
officers, all these kept him close till it was
long past mid-day. Then there was afternoon
parade, more writing, the drill of
young officers, and a few recruits, or awkward
squads, and the day was well advanced
before he could call himself really free ; but
there were few days when he did not hind
time for a smart canter along the beach of
Gibraltar Bay, the Rotten Row of the Rock,
or for a longer ramble upon the slopes below
the Queen of Spain's Chair, or on the
San Roque road and towards the Cork Wood.
Now and again, but rarely, and chiefly
when the meet was near at hand, he gave
himself a half-holiday, and spent many enjoyable
hours with the Calpe hounds. It

was his first taste of hunting, and although
not quite of the best, perhaps, it was a
pleasant introduction to the mysteries of
sport. There was always the fair landscape
lying bright under the southern sky; the
change and movement through the fresh,
sweet-scented air, the cheerful companionship
of a field of happily-disposed people,
whom the day's outing, with its short runs
and rapid break-neck gallops, thoroughly
amused.

Ladies, not many certainly, but all very
ardent followers of the chase, invariably
attend the meets of the Calpe hounds.
Herbert saw them, each with her little
band of devoted attendants, for ladies are
scarce at Gibraltar, and all who have the
smallest pretensions to please can always
count upon a court of their own. Herbert
owed allegiance to none of the reigning

queens ; he had no leisure for flirting
and philandering, nor did he much enjoy
the garden-party, afternoon tea, or small
and early dance. When he was out with
the hounds, therefore, he ranged about
alone or with some male companion of his
own sort. He had hardly a bowing acquaintance
with any one of the fair sex
upon the Rock, and it was with no little
surprise that he found himself one day
greeted with a nod and a most friendly
smile by one whom, for the moment, he
did not seem to know.

It was Miss Prioleau.

The general, with his wife and daughter,
had been away, on leave in England,
when the Duke's Own returned to Gibraltar.
They had only been back a few days
when Herbert thus again encountered his
little friend Edith for the first time.

He raised his hat, and would have ridden
on, but the general himself came up
with outstretched hand :

'Allow me, Mr. Larkins, to congratulate
you. As one of the old regiment, I
take a pride in any one who has contributed
to its credit. You have done so, and
right well. I am glad to think you have
met with your deserts.'

'Yes, indeed,' put in the sweet voice
of the daughter, and somehow the simple
words were far more grateful to Herbert's
ears than the sonorous praises which fell
from her father's lips. 'Yes, indeed, Mr.
Larkins, it was a noble action, and we are
all proud of it.'

The bright maiden had now grown into
the fair and more staid and self-conscious,
but winsome girl. Yet she was the same
attractive little person, no less engaging,

and far more dangerous now in her budding
womanly beauty than when he had
seen her last, still almost a child in her
white habit, patronising him at the general's
inspection, and, metaphorically, patting
him on the back.

Herbert muttered a few words in acknowledgment
of the general's courteous
approval. Edith he thanked by a grateful
look, which had perhaps more meaning in
it than he intended, or that she exactly
liked.

I do believe they have found, father V
she cried; and as she spoke there was a
sudden stir and bustle at the far end of the
field. Next moment came the whimper of
a hound; then the cheering voice of the
huntsman, then the twang of a horn, then
a whole chorus of voices — for out here
everyone acted as amateur whip and unprofessional

aid — swelling up into a grand
volume of sound.

Yoicks ! Forrard ! Ga — wn a — way !^
It promised to be a capital burst. They
had been drawing the White House covert,
and the fox headed for the Majarambu
woods. The country was rough ; now and
again you came to a precipice like the side
of a house; next to a long slope studded,
as it might be, with the great boulders of
an old world glacier or moraine; then
broad uplands clothed with broad tufts of
the gum cistus, just high enough to oblige
your horse to take them in a series of quick
jumps not always very easy to sit. The
pace was good, the going difficult, and, an
unusual thing, the run was protracted for
more than a quarter of an hour. Ere long
the field began to tail ofi*, and presently
there were very few people in the first

flight. Bill Ackroyd, the huntsman, was
one, so was the M.F.H., Herbert also, and
Edith Prioleau, but without her papa. The
general had got into difficulties at a wide
drain, where, as some irreverent subalterns
remarked, it was to be hoped he might
stay, at least beyond the following Saturday,
so that they might escape the usual
weekly field-day upon the North Front.

In the exuberant enjoyment of galloping
at top speed over a break-neck country,
Edith had all but forgotten the existence
of her father. No doubt he would turn up
at the first check. Runs were not so plentiful,
and this one was far too good to lose.
She meant to see it out to the very last.

Not quite. There must be accidents
sometimes, as the Spanish journals say
when describing bull-fights ; and all at once
Edith's horse, a not too barefooted barb,

put his foot in a hole, and he and his rider
same down together.

Over and over they rolled, on the top
and close to the margin of the steep cliff, a
mixed-up mass, as it seemed to Herbert's
terrified eyes, of habit, light curls, black
hoofs, gray mane, and tail. Quick as lightning
he had dismounted and gone to the
rescue. How he managed he never remembered
; but by a great effort, and, as he
thought, after the lapse of nearly an age
of time, he succeeded in disengaging Miss
Prioleau from her horse.

She had fainted. Her face was blanched
quite white ; a small stream of crimson was
trickling from one temple as though she
had received a mortal hurt. To bring*
water in his hunting-hat from a spring hard
by, to sprinkle her brow and chafe her
hands, was all that Herbert could do until

VOL. II. I

the arrival of a number of others, among;
whom were one or two eager but officious
ladies, and the affrighted general. To them
he resigned his charge, but he waited
anxiously a little way off to hear how it
fared with the poor girl.

Happily she soon came to. The shock
of her fall had deprived her of consciousness;
a small stone had hit her forehead;
but these were the worst injuries she had
endured. Very soon she was able to remount
her horse and ride slowly home.

Herbert felt first a little neglected, although,
as he told himself, he had really
no reason to expect any extravagant thanks.
Probably no one kncAV that it was he who
had extricated Miss Prioleau from her
perilous predicament, the general and his
daughter least of all, and what did it matter
if they did ? The service was a very trifling

one, after all, and he had only done what
any other man would have done in his
place.

He was quite wrong, however, in supposing
that those whom he had served were
ungrateful. Next morning came a formal
but most courteously - worded letter of
thanks from the general, and with it a
letter from Mrs. Prioleau, repeating her
husband's phrases, and winding up with a
very friendly invitation to dine at an early
day.

Herbert gladly accepted, full of joy at
the prospect of meeting Miss Prioleau
again. He hardly considered how far the
acquaintance, if allowed to ripen, was likely
to affect his peace of mind.

THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE.

To the young military officer in whom the
reverential spirit is not entirely quenched,
the British general is often a very awful
person indeed. A halo of professional glory
surrounds the great man; strange powers —
particularly as to leave — are vested in him;
his frequent frown is terrific, his occasional
smile fails to reassure. To the officer
whose early days were spent in the ranks,
and who has never seen the general behind
the scenes, so to speak, as an English gentleman
no better than others of his class,
the formidable effect is intensified, and a
great gulf seems to separate the two.

It was with a shy feeling and rather a

sinking heart that Herbert presented himself
at Line Wall House, the residence of
the major-general commanding; but he
found himself among friends even on the
threshold. An orderly sergeant, one of the
Duke's Own, of course, and a former comrade,
took his coat and forage cap ; and the
servant who ushered him into the drawing-room
was also an old soldier of the regiment
disguised in livery, who seemed to bethe
herald of a triumphal procession as he
threw wide the doors and with stentorian
lungs announced

Mister Larkins P

The friendliness was not, however, confined
to the attendants. The general's
manner was most frank and kindly as he
came forward and shook hands. Mrs. Prior
a well-meaning, but very languid
washed-out personage, also greeted him

quite warmly, for her : while Edith received
him with such bright eyes and heightened
colour, conveying thanks and welcome all
in one, that, for the moment, he felt quite
overcome.

It was a small party of eight, carefully
chosen, probably with the idea of making
Herbert thoroughly at home. Another
subaltern like himself, but newly married,
with a pretty girlish cipher of a wife, and a
staff-surgeon, who proved to be Herbert's
Ashanti friend, M'Cosh. The general's
aide-de-camp. Captain Mountcharles, a relation
of the family, made up the number.

Edith fell to Herbert on going in to
dinner. On her other side at the table was
the aide-de-camp, who, according to custom,
took the bottom, the general being at
the other end, and Mrs. Prioleau in the
centre on the right.

The talk at dinner was not particularly
lively at first. Mrs. Prioleau never contributed
much; the general was really a
little shy himself, especially with people
whom he did not know intimately ; Edith
was rather silent, and the rest of the company
seemingly abashed, all but one. The
exception was Captain Mountcharles, whose
duty it was, no less than his inclination, to
make himself agreeable, and he acquitted
himself very well of his task.

He was a very self-satisfied young gentleman,
rather disposed to be overdressed
and with a somewhat supercilious air. The
first showed itself in the splendour of his
shirt-front, with its single stud as large asa
cheese-plate, in his enormous shirt cuff's,
which he ' shot out' with a little concerted
cough just before he made a new remark,
in the breadth of his black satin tie, and in

the size of his watch chain, which had it
been long enough would have made a cable
for a seventy-four. The latter was to be
seen in his drawling accents and his tendency
to depreciate everybody and everything.


Herbert hated him almost instinctively
from the first, but his dislike was deepened
by his seeming familiarity with Edith,
whom he called by her Christian name.
She was his cousin, so it was all right
enough, but it jarred on Herbert all the
same.

Very poor sport to-day,' said the aide-de-camp
to the general, 'you did not miss
much, sir. You weren't out, M'Cosh?
Were you, Mr. Larkins — T punctiliously
polite to Herbert, as to an inferior ; another
reason for hatred. ' How anyone can hunt
here after the shires !'

Fou never hunted in the shires, Gaston,
SO come,' said downright Edith.

I beg your pardon, Miss Edith. I did,
several seasons while you were still at
school.'

Miss Prioleau never went to school, I
think,'^put in Herbert, and she turned on
him with a bright smile.

'0, do you remember that day! I
never was so bothered, I think. French is
certainly the most difficult and detestable
of tongues.'

So I always thought,' Herbert said.

'You speak French, Mr. Larkins?'
asked the aide-de-camp, rather impertinently.


'After a fashion, that of Deadham school.

Pray do you '?'

'Were you at Deadham?' went on Captain
Mountcharles, rather shirking the question,

and seeming to imply that a man who
had been in the ranks had no right to any
education at all.

^ Ye were at more schools than that, I
take it, Larkins,' said Dr. M'Cosh ; ' I saw
you in one, and a hot 'un, where you were
the head and dux of the class.'

'You were at school together, thence
Mrs. Prioleau asked civilly, but she was
evidently too apathetic to care about the
reply.

'We played together, Mrs. Prioleau,
not with hoop or ball, or peg tops, but at
the great game of war.'

'Ashanti, I presume,' the general
said.

The idea of calling that a war, sir,'
interposed our bumptious A.D.C. ' A picnic
would be a better name.'

It was not a picnic under the usual

circumstances, at any rate,' Herbert said
quietly, as one entitled to speak.

'No foiegras and hothouse grapes, perhaps,'
went on Mountcharles ; 'but you
must admit that the whole thing was monstrously
exaggerated.

0, how can you say so ?' cried Edith,
quite eagerly.

And the honours, too, look how they
were overdone. Why there were more rewards
than for Waterloo.'

'Some of them were richly deserved;
one in particular, which I could mention,'
replied Edith, with the air of a champion
defending the right.

It isn't everyone who gets the chance
to deserve them,' said Mountcharles, rather
sulkily. He had never seen a shot fired
himself, and bore malice in his heart to all
who had had better lucy

^ Or who would make the most of
it if they had,' Edith retorted sharply, adding
in a low voice, ^ Gaston, I quite hate
you to-night: how disagreeable you can
be.'

For the remainder of the evening she
made him conscious of her high displeasure.
Mountcharles and she had hitherto been
the most excellent friends. An aide-de-camp
may be, and Mountcharles certainly
was, the very tamest of cats. He had other
claims besides those of cousinship to be
well received. With an only daughter,
young, lively, and exceedingly attractive,
both the general and Mrs. Prioleau had realised
the inconvenience and possible danger
of having a man continually about the
house, unless he were in every way an eligible
parti. Edith had plenty of time before
her, no doubt, but at her age girls are

impressionable and very apt to succumb to
the first comer if he has many opportunities
of being at her side. Mountcbarles had
been specially selected as A.D.C. by Mrs.
Prioleau, who, in spite of her languid
airs, was a shrewd, far-seeing woman, and
she felt that if anything were to happen, at
least they were safe with Gaston Mount-charles.
His father was dead, and he had
an excellent competence of his own. He
was a man of good birth, thoroughly presentable
in every way. Edith, if she could
only like him, might do very much worse.
But this night it was clear Edith did
not like him at all. Not that Mountcbarles
much cared. He had probably far too good
an opinion of himself to be cast down by
the snubbing of a girl still in her teens.
Whether or no he took her treatment of
him very much to heart does not, however,

concern my readers so much as her behaviour
to the hero of my story.

To Herbert Larkins that evening she
was gracious and engaging in the extreme.
She made him talk to her on subjects he
would probably know best. She listened
to him with that close attention which is
in itself a subtle compliment, particularly
when coming from an attractive girl, and
she smiled her approval in that frank,
straightforward way which might be interpreted
one way, but which in her, perhaps,
meant nothing at all.

The effect upon Herbert was marked
and almost instantaneous. He was in truth
little accustomed to the fascinations of the
fair sex. He had never been brought upto
flirt and philander, to roam from flower
to flower, inhaling fragrance and passing
gaily on, and he fell at once deeply and

desperately in love. His heart went out at
once to the general's daughter, without fora
moment considering whether his passion
was likely to be returned.

It was not, perhaps, exactly wise. A
man more versed in the ways of the world
would have been a little more cautious and
circumspect. Edith Prioleau counted her
swains by the score. Young ladies with
the great gift of beauty, of good birth, and
not without brains, pleasant talkers, good
dancers, forward riders, are not too common
in English society on the Rock. Among
the few belles of the place, Edith Prioleau
easily carried off the palm, and she had
always a crowd of admirers about her. She
did not resent or reject their attentions ; on
the contrary, she honoured them all with
her favour in turn, and enjoyed it amazingly,
feeling, no doubt, that they meant nothing

any more than she did, and that, therefore,
she did' no particular harm. Young soldiers
are reputed susceptible ; but it is also
true that, if knocked over and quite hopeless
one day, they are generally quite hearts



whole the next.

«

Herbert Larkins was not a man of this
sort. He was in sober serious earnest
from the first. He was like a slave, grovelling
at her feet. She might trample on
him and spurn him if she pleased, but he
was hers always, whether she would have
him or no. The worst of it was that he
could not hide his feelings. He was too
honest — he had not enough of what the
world calls savoir faire. What did he care
who knew? He was not ashamed of his
weakness. It was not a passing fancy, buta
strong attachment ; a deep-seated affection
which would last as long as he lived. Everybody

saw it : his brother-officers, like good
comrades, realising: how much his heart was
in it, forbore to chaff him and take
him to task ; the garrison generally, and
all smiled, or winked knowingly when
he was observed dancing; attendance on
Edith, looking the picture of misery unless
she threw him a word. Captain Mount-charles
saw it, so at last did the general and
his wife. Edith herself, least of all, could
not be blind to devotion which had in it
much of the unswerving unquestioning attachment
of the doer that follows at one's
heels. In all probability she would have
been overcome by it. Already that pity
which is proverbially akin to a much warmer
sentiment, had taken possession of her, and
she was in a fair way to be won had Herbert
pricked up courage to speak.

Edith's parents were growing a trifle

VOL. II. K

uneasy at Herbert's attentions. The general
did not take much notice, but — a woman
is so much more worldly in these matters
Mrs. Prioleau did.

Do you see, Robert,' she said at length,
'what is eroino; on rio^ht under our noses?
Edith, I mean, and this Mr. Larkins ?'

Well, I have had my suspicions. But
what matter ? Cannot things take their

course

V'

^ Agree to such a match for Edith?
Robert, you must be demented.'

The general had seldom seen his wife so
excited before.

^ He is a very rising young soldier.'

Who has already risen from the ranks.
It will never do. I have no false pride
about me, I think, but it is right to draw
the line somewhere. But even if there were
no other objections, that of means ought to

suffice. What are they to live upon ? His
pay ? Ridiculous and absurd.'

'He cannot be dependent on his pay.
He lives well, keeps horses, and makes altogether
too good a show. I have heard
rumours of some rich old lady in the background,
who has made him her protege''

That story might not quite bear investigation,'
said Mrs. Prioleau drily. ' We know
nothing: about Mr. Larkins — where he comes

'&

from, or to whom he belongs.'

I had no idea you were so keen, Sophia.
I confess I like the lad. However, speak
to Edith if you feel that it is necessary. I
leave it all to you.'

It was while Mrs. Prioleau waited her
opportunity that chance gave Herbert an
adverse rub.

Edith, with Captain Mountcharles as
escort, was returning from the Moorish

Castle, when she came suddenly upon
Herbert Larkins. He was leaving a small
cottage, which was evidently a soldier's
quarter. It was, in fact, the home of old
Sergeant Larkins and his wife.

'Good bye, mother,' Herbert was saying,
as the pair passed by.

Good bye, my boy ; come again soon.
You are an honest lad not to forget us,
although you've come to be so great a
man.'

And with that the old woman kissed
him tenderly on the brow, although they
stood at the cottage door, almost in the
open street.

'Whose quarter is that?' the aide-de-camp
asked of a passing orderly, pointing
back, after they had ridden a little way on.

Sergeant Larkins', sir. Principal barrack
sergeant, sir.'

^

At which Mountcharles looked hard at
Edith, and with a comical face.

Well, what do I care ? What is it tome
? It is quite proper of him. It is his
duty not to neglect his parents.'

Oh, of course. She's a dear old thing,
too, I can see that. How would you like
her for a mother-in-law, Edith Prioleau,
eh?'

How dare you suggest such a thing,
Captain Mountcharles ?' cried Edith, blushing
red.

But there was a cold chill on her heart,
and Herbert's chances seemed very small
just then.

HERBERT ON HIS METTLE.

Herbert was all unconscious that he had
been observed leaving the cottage near the
Moorish Castle; still more that he had
been overheard addressing Mrs. Larkins,
as of old, by the affectionate title of mother.
Had he heard what passed between Edith
and Captain Mountcharles upon that occasion
it might have modified his plans very
considerably. For now at length, after
much hesitation and delay, he had made
up his mind to speak to Edith on the first
opportunity, and tell her of his love. Matters
had long continued in this most unsatisfactory
state with him. He had suffered

tortures; he had been continually in suspense,
for ever torn by hopes and fears.
One day he was in the seventh heaven, the
next in the very depths of despair. He
could do no work. Edith seemed to come
between him and his duty. He thought of
her always, everywhere. He was for ever
sketching her face upon the official blotting
pad in the orderly-room; he was all but
giving Edith as the countersign when challenged
by the sentries; he very nearly
mixed up her name with the words of command
upon parade.

Latterly, however, he had been in much
better heart. She did not encourage him,
perhaps, as much as he would have liked,
but she favoured him more, he thought, than
any of his fellows. Therefore it was that
he had brought himself up to the terrible
ordeal of staking his fate upon the throw ;

and it was with this intention that he approached
Miss Prioleau the very next time
they met.

It was at a ball at the Convent, at the
well known palace or residence of the
Governor of the Rock. Edith was seated
upon a fauteuil in the 'patio or central
courtyard, between the dances. Her companion
was Captain Mountcharles.

^ May I have the pleasure of a dance,
Miss Prioleau ?' Herbert asked.

'I'm afraid I have none left.'

'You promised me the second valse —
quite a week ago.'

'Miss Prioleau is engaged for that tome,'
put in Captain Mountcharles, rather
rudely.

The next, then ?' went on Herbert to
Edith, without taking any notice of the
A.D.C.

'And for that too,' said Mountcharles,
in much the same tone as before.

'Pardon me, I was speaking to Miss
Prioleau, and I trust she will give me the
answer herself.'

It's quite — ' true she was going to say,
as the easiest way out of the thing. But
she was far too honest to tell a lie, even
about a dance, and besides there was a
mute appealing look in Herbert's face which
went to her heart. ' I mean that you are
rather late in the day, Mr. Larkins.'

She had promised not to dance with
him, that was the fact. There had been a
scene at the general's about this Mr. Lar-king,
as Mrs. Prioleau called him. Edith
had been taken rather sharply to task for
encouraging him, and both father and
mother had begged her to be careful. The
man wasn't half good enough for her, they

said. They had no absurd scruples about
birth and position, and all that, still she
ought to do much better than take a soldier
of fortune, about whom and his belongings
nothing whatever was known. Edith, remembering
the Moorish Castle adventure,
thought she could have enlightened her
parents as to Herbert's belongings, but she
had no wish to injure him or to blacken
him in their eyes. She only hotly repudiated
the charge of favouring him, and
agreed readily to do anything they wished.
She would cut him if they liked. Not
necessary? Well, snub him then? Not
necessary either. "What then? General
and Mrs. Prioleau declared they would be
satisfied if she would promise not to dance
with the objectionable pretender at the
Governor's ball, and Edith gave her word
to that effect.

This was why she had received Herbert
so coldly. The other adventure had
weighed, perhaps, with her, but not
much.

As for Herbert, he was utterly taken
aback. What could be the matter with
Edith? Why this extraordinary change?
Was the girl capricious, a mere flirt, a garrison
belle, to whom admiration was everything,
and admirers or their feelings simply
nothing at all? Herbert did not like to
think so hardly of her all at once, and resolved
to make another attempt.

'Is it quite hopeless, Miss Prioleau?
May I not have one dance, only one?' again
he pleaded, with such earnest eyes that
Edith Prioleau was touched and on the
point of giving way.

'Why did you cut me the other day,
Mr. Larkins?^ suddenly asked Captain

Mountcharles, with the idea of creating
some diversion.

^ I never cut you' — although I probably
shall, and the sooner the better — Herbert
was disposed to add. 'When and where
was it T

Near the Moorish Cottage ; you were
coming out of some soldiers' quarters.'

^ Oh yes, Sergeant Larkins.'

Relations, perhaps,' the other observed
impertinently.

Very near and very dear,' Herbert
replied promptly. This was not an occasion
on which he would deny his old friends.

At any rate you are honest, Mr.
Larkins,' Edith said, with a frank smile,
but Herbert knew from the speech that
Edith had been also present, and he seemed
to understand now why she was so different
to him.

^ Honesty is not the exclusive property
of high birth, Miss Prioleau, and I can claim
at least to have as much as my neighbours

^ Come, Edith, the music is playing,'
cried Captain Mountcharles, springing up;
we are losing half the dance.'

I'm not going to dance this,' she replied
coolly, adding, as he stared at her with
indignant surprise, ' I don't care whether
you're cross or not. Go and find some
other partners; there are plenty upstairs.
I mean to stay here. Mr. Larkins will take
care of me, I daresay.'

A quick flush of pleasure sprung to
Herbert's cheek. She was relenting; she
did not mean to quarrel with him altogether.
Perhaps after all she had been
only trying him, and was ready to yield if
he only took heart of grace to speak up and
out to her like a man.

Mountcharles, with a sulky snort and a
very savage look, had risen from his seat
and walked off, leaving Herbert considerably
elated, master of the field.

Our hero would have been less joyous,
perhaps, had he known Edith's reason for
thus appearing to favour him. With the
native quick wickedness of a daughter of
Eve, she had guessed already what was the
matter with Herbert. A man who seeks to
disguise his feelings in the presence of the
woman he loves may flatter himself that he
plays his part to perfection, but it is generally
the flimsiest attempt even to ordinary
feminine eyes, most of all to those of the
beloved object. Edith had seen through
him from the first. She knew that he was
on the brink of a declaration, that he
needed but the slightest encouragement to
fall, metaphorically, even practically, at her

feet. It was better that he and she should
come to an understanding; that he should
realise, even at some pain to himself, as
well as to her, that they could only befriends
to each other, nothing more.

There was a certain amount of coquetry
in her fresh young voice and of archness in
her bright eyes as she looked up to him
and said,

Well, Mr. Larkins ?'

He had been standing in front of her
for some minutes, seeming rather gauche
and stupid, and without uttering a word;
courage seemed to come to him at once
from her voice and look.

'I was wondering whether you would
listen to me. Miss Prioleau, while I told
you a story — a long story — '

That depends. Is it interesting ? Is
it founded on fact ? What is it about ?'

It will be as interesting as I can make
it. It is Undoubtedly true, and it is all
about myself.'

^ Your own history ?'

Yes, so far as I know it.'

She made no answer, but just moved
her skirts a little, with the gesture that
implied she wished him to sit by her side.

There were other couples in the patio,
patrolling or resting between the dances;
there might be many interruptions; there
certainly could be no privacy in this place,
and Herbert did not wish his confidences
published to all the world.

'Shall we take a turn in the garden
?' Herbert asked, rather diffidently. ' I
shall be able to speak more unreservedly
there.'

She nodded her head, and, getting up,
took his arm without a word.

They passed out from the patio to the
Convent garden — a perfect paradise that
night for lovers. The moon Alas at its full
a southern moon — and flooded every
place with warm white light ; above was
the deep purple sky, and high into it rose
the steep crags of the great Rock. The
soft and mellow air was loaded with fragrance;
a wealth of southern flowers, all
now in their full bloom, filled the beds
about, and among them were great bushes
like trees of syringa, and of the dama de
niches Which only give forth their full perfume
at night. The sweet strains of an
excellent band, playing for the dancers in
the great ball-room up-stairs, rose and fell
like a distant echo, and added greatly to
the enchantment of the scene.

Walking here with the girl of his heart,
Herbert spoke eloquently and well. He

VOL. II. L

told everything that had happened to him
from his earliest days. The poor home in
Trigger town barracks ; the sudden appearance
of the great lady who had charged
herself with his education ; the fine prospects
which seemed to open before him on
approaching manhood, and how they had
been suddenly ruined. He spoke feelingly
of the treatment he had received at the
hands of Sir Rupert Farrington.

'Which you so nobly repaid,' interjected
Edith.

He narrated the circumstances of his
birth and parentage, and expatiated upon
the affectionate devotion of old Mrs. Lar-king,
who had been a second mother to him ;
he touched lightly upon the chances which
were still his of obtaining a title to a large
estate and a good old name. He finished,
and waited to hear what she would say.

But she was silent, and for so long that
he feared she was annoyed.

You are not vexed? I have not bored
you, I hope?' he said.

^ Oh, no, no ; I was only thinking —
thinking how hardly you had been used —
how some of us, too, had misjudged you.'

She spoke in a low soft voice, which
thrilled through him.

You were not one of those, surely ?
You, whose good opinion I value above all
earthly things? Oh, Miss Prioleau, there is
so much I have still to say to you that I
hardly know how to begin. Can you not
guess why I have told you my life? I wished
only to interest you in myself, to explain
why as yet I appear to be other than I really
am. I felt it necessary, because I feared
you despised me for my lowly birth — '

No, no, indeed, I never did that.'

I knew it, I knew it, but I wished to
be perfectly sure. You are too good, Edith,
too honest to be swayed by mere class distinctions
— '

He was suddenly and rather rudely interrupted
by the abrupt tones of General
Prioleau's voice —

'But I am not, Mr. Larkins, and the
sooner you know that the better. You
probably despise them, as you do those conventional
rules of propriety by which anyone
of the gentleman class would be bound.'

The general spoke with great warmth.
There was no abatement in the airiness
of his tone as he turned to his daughter
and said,

'Edith, your mother and 1 have been
looking for you for some time past. I hardly
thought to find you here and to see that
you have not kept your promise.'

^I gave no promise; I never said I would
not speak to Mr. Larkins again,' Edith said
stoutly, although her eyes were brimming
over with tears.

Gaston, give Edith your arm, and take
her back to her mother. I have a ^vord or
two to say to this — gentleman''

Herbert, however, had by this time
found his voice. He was brave enough
too and spoke up to the general, in spite
of their disparity in rank, as one man would
to another.

I am truly sorry, sir, to have acted ina
manner which is distasteful to you, but
I cannot admit that I deserve your harsh
words. I have done nothing wrong, sir — '

'Nothing wrong!' repeated the general,
bitterly, ' not in seeking to entrap the affections
of an inexperienced young girl? Nothing
wrong in inveigling her to compromise

herself with you by this long and
solitary tete-astute ? Nothing wrong !'

^ I am deeply and sincerely attached to
your daughter, sir, and I wished to ask her
to become my wife.'

Was there ever such matchless effrontery
? You f You to aspire to my daughter's
hand? What position could you give
her? what would you live upon?'

'I am not utterly penniless; I have
good expectations ; I have hopes indeed of
succeeding to a title — '

'That of chevalier d Industrie I presume.
But this is sheer waste of time. I
know all about you — all I wish to hear —
and I want nothing further. Our acquaintance
must cease ; I forbid you to enter my
house, or ever again to address my daughter.
I decline distinctly to hold any further
communications with you. If your

own good taste does not prompt you to
accede to my wishes, [ must try to protect
myself and my family by other means.'

I will win her in site of you, general,'
said Herbert, firmly and very coolly,
although his blood was up. ' It is due to
myself to say that neither by word or deed
have I knowingly sought to entangle Miss
Prioleau in any engagement. She is under
no promise to me ; I am not certain whether
she cares for me, even as a friend.
But if God but grants me strength and
health to fight my way, she shall one day
be my wife, and that in spite of you all.'

And he walked away, leaving General
Prioleau aghast at his impudence.

ON THE TRAIL.

General Prioleau was not the pleasantness
company the morning after the Convent
ball. Although commonly counted an easygoing
good-natured man, whom nothing
seriously ruffled for long, he was this day
evidently in the vilest of tempers. No one
liked to face him. His wife was well aware
of the cause of his anger, and in her own
lymphatic way approved it, but the general
had given her a very bad quarter of an hour
over the whole affair, and had openly told
her that if she had shown a little more
energy, and had kept a more vigilant eye
upon her daughter, any such contretemfps as
this could not have occurred. Edith was

of course in utter disgrace. Her father
scowled at her at breakfast as though he
thought her guilty of the most heinous
court-martial offence, and should be immediately
brought to trial. When the aide-de-camp
came in he was taken to task for
various acts of omission and commission;
while the other members of the general's
staff, who brought him documents to discuss
and papers to sign, found him utterly
impracticable and impossible.

What chafed him most, probably, was
that the chief offender was practically beyond
the reach of his rage. A general is
a great man within the limits of his own
command, but his powers are professional
merely, and scarcely extend to life and
limb. General Prioleau was really able to
inflict upon Herbert no stronger mark of
his displeasure than to cut him, and snub

him, and refuse to grant him leave. He
might report unfavourably upon him in the
next confidential returns, but only by subordinating
his sense of duty to personal
pique, a line of conduct abhorrent to an
officer and an English gentleman, such as
General Prioleau undoubtedly was. What
would have pleased him best would have
been to order Herbert at once to leave the
Rock. Could not Colonel Greathed be
persuaded to send this pestilent young
fellow to the depot, and keep him out of
the way? Then the general remembered
that Mr. Larkins was adjutant — and a right
good adjutant — and that he could not be
transferred to the depot unless he voluntarily
resigned the appointment, which he
was little likely to do.

There is only one way out of it,' he
said at last to his wife. ^ We must send

Edith away. She shall go to England, to
her aunts, by the very next mail.'

You will be the chief sufferer by that.
You know you cannot bear to part with
the girl, even for an hour. But for that
she would have gone to school. I always
wished it. If she had, perhaps — '

'You always wish things when it's



too late to get them,' replied the general,
testily. ' However she shall go now. I am
angry with her and can spare her.'

All arrangements were laid accordingly,
and Edith Alas duly prepared for her journey
home. She did not quite object to go away,
but she consented with a very bad grace.
If this did not tend to mollify the general,
he was presently made far more angry by
what appeared to be the most audacious
pertinacity on the part of her lover.

Just within a day or two of Edith's

departure, Herbert Larkins also applied for
leave of absence to proceed to England on
very urgent private affairs.

The application bad come before the
general in the usual way, presented to him
as a matter of course with a number of
other documents.

It's the most exasperating piece of presumption
I ever heard of in all my life.
He shall not have it — not an hour !'

The commanding officer recommends
it, sir ; a substitute is named ; I really don't
think — ' said the brigade major, expostulating:.
It is so unusual a thins: for a
general officer to refuse leave which is
properly backed up and all according to
form.

what do I care about the colonel?
Does he command the brigade, or do I ?'

Oh, of course it rests with you, sir ;

still, to refuse it peremptorily and without
apparent reasons — '

Without reasons, man ? Don't you
know that — ?' the general stopped short.
His brigade-major probably did not know
the family trouble, nor w\^s there reason
why he should.

'Telegraph up for Colonel Greathed
to come and see me, as soon as possible,'
the general said, abruptly. ' I will speak
to him personally on the subject.'

The general had cooled down a little
by the time Colonel Greathed arrived.
He was quite cautious and diplomatic too,
speaking first of certain routine matters
before he approached the matter he had
really at heart.

I see your adjutant is asking for leave.
Are you sure you can spare him?'

Oh, I think so, sir.'

I don't quite like it, colonel. I have
really some hesitation about granting this
leave. I should be loth to find fault, but
your men are at their spring drills, they
want plenty of " setting-up ;" they don't
stand to their arms quite as I should like
altogether. I'm not finding fault, remember,
nothing is further from my mind. Still,
the adjutant's eye is wanted just now, and
I don't feel that it ought to be withdrawn.'

He is most anxious to go, sir. Private
affairs of some urgency require his personal
attention.'

^ He rose from the ranks, I believe; what
private affairs could he possibly have ?'

Perhaps you are not aware, general, of
Mr. Larkins' history — that he is the adopted
son of an old lady of rank — '

^ Surely there is no truth in that cock-and-bull
story ?'

Pardon me, sir, it is perfectly true. I
have the pleasure of knowing the old lady
Lady Farrington. Diggle, you may remember,
married a Farrington, but of
another branch.'

But this Mr. Larkins has no claim, I
suppose, to the name — nothing more thana
left-handed claim, I mean T

^ I am not so sure. It may be difficult
to prove his case ; but he has a case, and a
good one. At any rate, the old lady is
devotedly attached to him, and likes to see
him now and again. She has now written
pressing him most earnestly to pay her a
visit, thinking, I believe, that something
of importance is likely to turn up.'

Is this why he asks leave ? Has he no
other reasons?'

None that I am aware of, except that
he thinks of competing at the next Staff

College final examination, and wishes to
see what it is like, so as to prepare in good
time.'

The general could not well withhold his
consent any longer; but he was resolved
now to keep Edith by his side. There was,
of course, no reason why she should leave
the Rock; on the contrary, the chances of
meeting Mr. Larkins on board the steamer
or in England must be as far as possible
avoided. The man was a forward fellow, as
reckless as he was presuming ; who, it
was quite likely, would make opportunities
for prosecuting his suit. General
Prioleau was little less bitter against Herbert,
in spite of what Greathed had told
him; he could not possibly bring himself
to think of our hero as otherwise than an
ineligible and unsatisfactory parti,

Herbert himself was also greatly excited

by what had occurred. He had only
,seen Edith twice since the ball. She was
riding on the beach, closely guarded, the
general on one side, his aide-de-camp on
the other. Herbert had raised his hat, as
in duty bound, to his official superior, who
returned the salute formally. Captain
Mountcharles looked straight to his front,
and Edith bowed gravely and sadly, he
thought, in the short glimpse he caught of
her face. It was war, of course — to the
knife. The general's animosity was all the
more plainly shown by his attitude about
the leave, for Colonel Greathed had given
Herbert an outline of his interview with
the chief

I have a very shrewd notion what is
wrong with him,' Greathed said ; ^ I don't
want you to tell me more than you choose,
Larkins, but I have eyes and ears, and I

VOL. II. M

know pretty well what has been going
on.'

There is no secret in the matter, sir
and Herbert told his colonel exactly what
had happened at the ball.

You are evidently in earnest, Larkins,
and I wish you luck,' said Greathed, laughing.
'But I'm not surprised the general
was a little put out. And now what do you
mean to do ?'

'Stick to it to the last, sir. If I could
be only sure that she would wait. But ina
place like this, and with a man like
Mountcharles always close by, — I shouldn't
be in the least afraid but for that.'

'It's a long lane that has no turning.
You must make your way in the service ;
get upon the staff; lose no opportunity of
employment. Everything comes to the
man who is determined to win. Perhaps

that other affair may turn up trumps.
Lady Farrington, you say, thinks that some
important evidence will soon be forthcoming?'


^ The dear old lady is always thinking
that, sir,' said Herbert with a smile. ' Shea
little like the boy that cried wolf. There
have been so many false alarms that I
shan't believe the real thing if it ever comes
to pass.'

Have you any idea what she is expecting
now ?'

■ not in the least. She gives me only
the vaguest hints. I half fancy it is only
an affectionate ruse to get me back to England
for a time.'

But it was something more than that,
as the reader will now see.

Some eleven months had elapsed since
the last advertisement had been published,

offering a large reward for information concerning
the marriage of Herbert Warrington
and Annie Orde, but no satisfactory
answer had been received. Hope was already
failing all but the sanguine old Lady
Farrington, who kept on declaring persistently
that the right would certainly prosper
in the end. As she was the only person
who stoutly maintained that proofs of the
marriage must certainly be forthcoming, so
she was the only one who was not surprised,
when one morning a mysterious
letter arrived from no one knew where,
and sent by no one knew whom.

It was addressed to Mr. Bellhouse, who
had long been the family's solicitor, as well
as Lady Farrington's, and consisted of only
a few lines scribbled, on the back of an old
invoice for goods : —

^ Those who seek find. Search the

registers of the parish of Stickford-le-Clay,

in the county of . He who was once

Herbert Farrington sends this.'

A communication which drove Lady
Farrington nearly frantic. It revived, and
indeed supported, all her old fancies, that
her injured son was still alive. She declared
that she recognised his handwriting ;
she began once more, although a long interval
had elapsed, to hear his voice and to see
his beloved form in her dreams. She talked
incessantly about him and his probable
return. Had she not been carefully tended
and watched by her own servants, she
might have had a very serious relapse.

A lawyer's letter

Farrington Hall was an excellent specimen
of our sixteenth century domestic architecture.
It was a long low red-bricked
building, with white stone mullions, and it
stood on a gentle eminence, which dominated
the far-reaching, low-lying fat lands of
the Farrington estate. It had all the conventional
surroundings which confer dignity
on an old place ; magnificent trees, in which
lived a prosperous colony of rooks ; a great
park of velvety grass ; a broad, slow stream
at the foot of the slope on which stood the
Hall.

There had been Warrington of Warrington
from time immemorial. The transmission

of the title and estates had long been
direct from father to son ; only at rare intervals,
as in the case of the present baronet,
Sir Rupert, did distant relatives succeed.
But now at last the race was nearly run.
There were no males left, not even a far-off
cousin twenty times removed, and after Sir
Rupert's death the title would be extinct.
There was an heir for the property certainly,
but only through the female branch. Letitia
Diggle would come into everything of
course, and after her her children; but
although her eldest boy, under Sir Rupert's
will, would probably assume the Warrington
name and arms, the baronetcy could
not be his, and in consequence Mrs. Diggle
was very much aggrieved.

The Cavendish-dingles had by this
time taken up their residence at the Hall.
They came, in the first instance, by invitation,

but remained afterwards as a matter
of course. The old people liked to hear
the patter of their grandchildren's feet and
their merry shrill trebles as they played
about the place. This had to some extent
dispelled the fixed gloom which had settled
on Lady Farrington after her son's death.
Even black Sir Rupert was softened, and
seemed to take a pleasure in their prattle
and merry ways. But then Letitia had
always been an especial favourite of his.
Her cast of character was in harmony with
his. She reproduced many of his own
peculiar traits; she was as unforgiving, as
determined, and as hard. She showed
pretty plainly what she would be if she
lived to inherit the estates, and already exercised
a kind of second-hand authority,
such as heirs-apparent often usurp when
allowed. She knew the estate by heart,

every inch, every tenant. She had her own
views as to the rentals and the outgoings.
She kept a sharp look-out on the bailiff, and
gave him to understand that she Alas up to
every move. Sir Rupert, to a great extent,
let her have her own way. It pleased him
to think that the property would fall into
good hands, and Letitia's ideas were so
much in accord with his own that they seldom
fell out or disagreed.

It was amusing to see how the great
Diggle comported himself at Farrington
Hall. He was a curious example of how
low the once mighty may fall. From
having been a tremendous personage he
had sunk to the position of a mere hanger-on.
He was not even prince consort to a
reigning queen. His wife looked upon him
as an appendage, a person useful in his
way, but not entitled to have any voice in

the management of affairs, or, indeed, any
opinions of his own. He might have resented
this, and refused the rather ignominious
role but for two reasons. The
first was that his health was very indifferent,
and he had no spirit to battle for his
rights; the second, that Mrs. Diggle had
made certain discoveries as to his family
and antecedents which left him very much
in her power. The fact was that Cavendish
really belonged to the great tea firm trading
and largely advertising under the name of
Diggle; and what was more, the firm was
in a very bad way. To have married a
Diggle at all was in itself a condescension,
but to have become the wife of a pauper
Diggle was something like a ' sell.' There
had been settlements, of course, but not to
a large amount, as Diggle declared he had
but little ready cash, although his prospects

were excellent. Moreover, his hopes, undoubtedly
well-grounded at the time, of
professional advancement, which had been
not the least potent inducement to the
match, were now fading into nothingness,
*and there seemed every reason to fear that,
owing to his wretched health, Colonel Diggle
would continue a half-pay officer for the
rest of his life. A pah-venu who is poor and
without any chances of obtaining social distinction
has no raison dJetre at all, and Diggle
was fast degenerating into a mere cipher,
a poor creature who had no other claims to
respect but that of being father to the
Diggle-Farrington who would some day bethe
master of Farrington Hall.

They were at breakfast at Farrington
Hall one morning, when the post-bag arrived,
and, as usual, was opened at the
table. The letters were served out like

alms, grudgingly given, by Sir Rupert to
each, but he still kept the lion's share to
himself. All were soon deep in their
correspondence. Lady Farrington's were
gossipy letters, filling several sheets; Letitia's
the same, with a large sprinkling of
tradesmen's circulars and bills. The colonel
heard only from old soldier friends, short but
often pithy notes, having mostly the same
refrain — the writer's grievances or his forcibly
expressed conviction that the service
was going to the dogs. These last were the
soonest read, and Diggle was therefore the
only one free to notice what passed among
the others at table.

It was quite clear that Sir Rupert was
very much put out by his morning's news.
Although little given to betray what was
passing in his mind, his demeanour after
he had opened and read the first few lines

of one of his letters, was that of a man in
whom indignation, excitement, and ill-concealed
rage combined to considerably disturb.
His black eyebrows contracted, his
hard mouth was drawn down at the corners ;
*he looked up and around with fierce bloodshot
eyes, and as quickly looked down
again when he saw that he was observed by
Diggle. After that he ' took a pull on himself,'
so to speak, and folding up the evidently
offensive missive, put it with the
others, then lapsed into moody, preoccupied
silence until the breakfast was over.

I should like to speak to you, Letitia,
in the justice room, as soon as you conveniently
can come.'

He often consulted her, and there was
nothing strange, therefore, in this request,
except in the abrupt and peremptory tone
in which it was made.

The justice room, in which Sir Rupert
gave audience to constables and administered
the law when urgently required, was
also his library, study, and place of business.
It was a cheerless, formal, barely furnished
room, which took, as rooms usually
do, the colour and temper of its occupant,
and was, like him, cold and uncompromising.


Sir Rupert seated himself at his official
table, in his high magisterial chair, and
sorting his letters carefully, selected that
which had so evidently disturbed him, read
and re-read it several times.

Then Letitia joined him —

'Yes, father?'

'Sit down please. What I have to say
will take some time.' He paused —

A letter has reached me this morning
from Lady Farrington's — the dowager's —

lawyer. It may be all a hoax; let us hope
that it is; but I confess I am greatly disturbed
by what it says.'

Letitia looked at him, keenly interrogative,
but said nothing.

'You remember, no doubt, the circumstances
of the old dowager's craze ? It was
no secret in the family. She pretended
that a grandchild of hers was in existence,
who was the rio-htful heir to the title and
estates ; all that you knew, of course ?^

I had heard the absurd story. Idiotic
old woman ! I cannot understand why you
ever let her out,' said Letitia, as though her
father had full powers to commit to durance
indefinite every individual likely to injure
the Farrington family or whose brain
was touched, the two being synonymous
terms.

I did not wish to let her out, I assure

you. It was done in spite of me, and by
the person who is, I believe, at the bottom
of the newest attempt to defraud us of our
rights

^ Are they threatened? — by whom?'
Letitia was like a lioness who, with her
whelps, was about to be robbed of her
prey.

The old lady, you must know, did not
fabricate her story without something to go
upon. There was some semblance of probability.
She produced the rightful heir —
not quite at the right time, perhaps, but
there he was.'

Did you meet him T

I did ; so did you ; you knew him,
well'

I, father ? Preposterous ; where, pray,
did we meet T

He served as a private in the Duke's

Own. His name — the name he went by, at
least — was Larkins.'

^Larkins! the sergeant? Poor Ernest's
champion? Never!'

This Mr. Larkins whom I received
here at your mother's express desire, whom
I treated with the utmost consideration,
proved a snake in the grass. He first
thwarted me with regard to old Lady Farrington's
release from confinement ; then,
with her, concocted a scheme of which I
have only to-day learnt the real intent.
This letter from the lawyers is nothing more
or less than a notice to quit — a regular
notice of ejectment, in favour of Herbert
Farrington, son of Herbert of the same
name, and grandson of the last baronet.'

It's a swindle, of course, from beginning
to end; a trumped-up story. You won't

VOL. II. N

submit, father, I trust, to such a barefaced
imposition ?'

Letitia was in arms at once; for the
threatened action struck at her more, perhaps,
than any one else.

'I shall defend myself and you, you
may depend upon it. I shall not submit
tamely to any attempt at extortion. It is
really life and death to me.'

Is it not the same to me, and to my
children — to my Rupert, who some day will
be your heir? Are we to be robbed with
impunity? Certainly not.'

^ They have not told me much of their
case, of course ; a mere outline, nothing
more. But it is evidently a strong one.
They have discovered, so they say, old Herbert
Farrington's marriage — if it's a honct
side discovery we are bound to accept it,
after due verification, at least.'

What do they pretend T

'That the real Herbert Farrington,
when serving in the 12th Lancers as Corporal
Smith, married Ann Orde, and had
issue.'

'This Larkins? Sergeant Larkins of
the Duke's Own? I'll never believe it;
not if I live to a hundred. But, father,
what do you mean to do ? You will resist,
surely ; for my sake — for that of my children,
you will not give in ?'

If we could effect a compromise — '

'Never!' cried Letitia. 'Never, with
my consent. I protest against any compromise
at all.'

'It might be wise.'

Was it possible that Sir Rupert had
reasons for dreading a law-suit? No one
knew more about the case than himself.
Was he in possession of any information —

damaging facts — which he had so far kept
secret, but which would be certain to come
out on a trial ?

But a long law-suit ! It would eat up
the whole estate. No doubt this pretender,
this Mr. Larkins, would gladly come to
terms. A few thousands paid on the nail
would silence him for goods

'Don't, father; don't dream of making
such concessions,' Letitia almost shrieked.
The idea of parting thus coolly with thousands
out of the future heritage of her children
! ' No, no ; better to fight it out, to
resist to the bitter end.'

I think I must consult your mother
and Conrad.'

'What have they to say to it? I am
the person principally concerned — I and
mine— we shall be the greatest sufferers.'

Letitia,' said her father very gravely

to her, sit was not only to speak to you
concerning this letter that I asked you to
come here; it was to break some worse
news.'

Affecting us ?'

Us all, but more particularly you.'

Go on ; quick, father.'

'Till very lately I had thought that
after me there would be an end of the Warrington.
You would be sole heiress to
the estates, to which your children Avould
succeed, but the title would become extinct,
and the name, unless specially assumed.
Within the last month or two I have discovered
that I have a lawful male heir,
who must inevitably come between you
in the entail. Ernest, poor Ernest, left a
son.'

By that person, that woman ? Father,
how dare you mention her name in my presence

? What claims can such a creature asher
offspring have upon you ?'

Poor Ernest married her, Letitia. There
is not a shadow of a doubt of it. The whole
of the proofs are in my possession. The
child I have not seen, and will not see. But
your mother has; indeed, the whole thing
has come out through her.'

Ernest was always her favourite,' said
Letitia bitterly. It was being borne into
her gradually how much she was about to
lose. ' But I shall not surrender my rights
except upon compulsion, father. We have
lawyers too, you must remember ; and
where a large property is at stake, people
must look out for themselves.'

I wish, for your sake, the case was not
so clear.'

I am not at all satisfied as yet, father.
There will be two law-suits, perhaps ; and I

shall not accept any compromise, you may
depend.'

There was now a prospect of much discord
in the family at Farrington Hall.

TAKING ACTION.

There were great rejoicing in Vaughan-street
upon Herbert's return. The house
was en fete. It was lighted up as for a
grand entertainment; when the door was
opened men in smart livery were seen
ranged within the hall. Hanlon came out
first, and received Herbert as he descended
from his cab. He would have carried his
old comrade and master in bodily on his
shoulders; but as Herbert objected, 'the
Boy' contented himself with the portmanteaus.
At the foot of the stairs Miss
Pouting, with new ribbons in her cap, met
the traveller with a precisely-worded speech
of welcome, and led him to the drawing-room,

where the dowager awaited him.
She was dressed magnificently in dark velvet
and costly lace, amidst which gleamed
many diamonds of the finest water. This
was all in Herbert's honour and of the
great occasion.

Hail, Sir Herbert Farrington ! all
hail !' cried the old lady, using the language,
but having little of the appearance
of a witch in Macbeth.

My dearest grandmother,' Herbert said,
^ I am so glad to see you again, and looking
so well. Why, you are like a queen !'

I am a queen dowager receiving the
young king,' she replied, as she made him
sit by her side. ^ Let me look at you well,
my sweet boy ; you are my own son's son.
I knew it ; I felt it all along, and now there
is no longer any doubt, and you will soon
come into your own.'

^ Please dear grandmother, be more explicit.
Is there anything new ? You threw
out vague hints in your last letter; but I
am still quite in the dark.'

^ Light will soon be let in on you, my
sweet boy. At last, after all this dreary
waiting and long suspense, information has
reached Mr. Bellhouse — from the other side
of the grave, I believe — '

Herbert looked keenly at the dowager.
Was her mind again becoming unhinged ?

^ I cannot account for it otherwise. The
letter was from my Herbert, my long-lost
Herbert. Of that I have no doubt ; and is
he not dead, dead these many many years?
Mr. Bellhouse laughed at it, sneered at it
and the information it gave. Yet he was
wrong ; his prejudices misled him. He
could not deny that there was something
in it all when we found that it put us on

the right track. Now we have the only
evidence that was wanting to complete the
case.'

Not evidence of the marriage, surely ?
Can it be possible that you have discovered
that?'

'Authentic evidence of the marriage.'

And she told him the whole story as it
has been given in a previous chapter.

Now you understand, Herbert, why I
give you your title. It is yours, clearly,
by right. You must assume it at once.'

Not quite yet, I think,' Herbert replied
gently, fearing his refusal might vex
her ; ' I would still rather wait. It would
look so foolish to have to go back again.
Suppose we do not gain our cause.'

But we must and shall win it ; of that
I have not the shadow of a doubt.'

'I trust in Heaven we shall,' Herbert

said, in a voice so earnest and yet so sad
that his good old friend, with a woman's
unerring intuition, guessed that he was suffering
and sore at heart.

Something has happened to grieve
you, Herbert, dear ? You have been ill-used
; you are unhappy ? Tell me, at
once, every word.'

Herbert was willing enough. Young
men crossed in love generally ask for nothing
better than an appreciative and consolatory
listener.

^ You love her, truly, deeply, with all
your heart and soul?' said the dowager,
when she had heard all about Edith Prior
from beginning to end.

'Indeed I do, and have done so ever
since I saw her first.'

'And you think she returns it?'

I cannot be quite positive, of course.

But I should be hopeful were I certain I
did not lose ground. But when one is miles
away, and there are so many others close
by her, encouraged and approved of by her
parents, and with ever so many opportunities,
I begin to be half-afraid. She may
give way ; she may change her mind.
There is an old Spanish proverb, " The
dead and those gone away have no friends."
She will soon forget me, perhaps; she may
have done so already.'

'Stuff and nonsense!' cried the old
lady, with great spirit. ' " Faint heart" —
you know the rest — is a better proverb
than that. Win her ! Of course, you shall
win her, as you will the law-suit, the title,
estates, and everything else.'

^ What does Mr. Bellhouse say ? Is he
sanguine ?*

You know what lawyers are ;' and

from this Herbert gathered that doubts and
difficulties still stood in the way, notwithstanding
Lady Farrington's confident hopefulness.


Mr. Bellhouse is very tiresome at times.
He is a very self-opinionated man, almost
too slow and cautious for me. It was only
at my most earnest entreaty that he would
take any action at all.'

You have commenced the suit then ?^

Yes ; and given Sir Rupert notice to
quit said the Dowager, rubbing her hands
in high glee.

Has he replied ?'

He came here in person, but I would
not see him. Then he went to Mr. Bell-house,
who declined to discuss the matter
with him. The last thing was a letter from
him, imputing the basest motives to all of
us, threatening a counter-action for conspiracy

or something — and that's where it
stands now. But with God's help we shall
beat him, dear ; we shall beat him, and he
will wish that he had given in.'

Next day Herbert paid an early visit to
Mr. Bellhouse in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and
found the old lawyer, although in manner
cordial and kind, somewhat disheartening
in tone.

Do not expect too much, Mr. — shall I
still say Larkins ? Yes ? I agree with you,
it is so much better not to be premature.
Do not be over-confident, Mr. Larkins, I
beg of you; the disappointment would be
so bitter if we failed after all.'

Failure is quite on the cards, I presume
?' Herbert asked, coolly enough.

Unhappily, yes. There are flaws, not
many, but one or two serious ones, in the
chain of evidence. I have no moral doubt

myself that the marriage we have discovered
is truly that of your father and mother.
But moral proofs are not enough in a court
of justice. Our difficulty will be to establish
identity between this Corporal William
Smith and the missing Herbert Farrington.'


Mrs. Larkins will swear to him.'

'She never knew him as warrington.
All she can do is to describe the person she
knew as Smith, who ran off with her sister,
and we must compare her description with
that of Lady Farrington.'

'But there was the letter addressed
and sent to Lady Farrington after my
mother's death; surely that will go someway?'


'It is a strong presumption, I don't
deny ; but not necessarily sufficient, at least
to a British jury, when titles and large possessions

are at stake. That was why I
counselled compromise.'

'Was it rejected?'

Indignantly. Threats, moreover, were
used, as perhaps you have heard.'

'Mrs. Cavendish-dingle was at the
bottom of that, I suppose? She, as heir
apparent, would be a principal loser, supposing
things remained as they are.'

'Are you not aware of the change in
her prospects? There is a lawful male
heir, independent of you, I hear. Ernest
Farrington left a son.'

'A son? By Mimie? He married her,
then? Thank heaven for that! If, indeed,
it be true.'

'There can be no question about it.
Mrs. Ernest Farrington is accepted by the
family, and the child Ernest is mentioned

VOL. II. o

by Sir Rupert as a party to the forthcoming
suit.'

^ I wonder whether the old people, the
Larkins', are aware of this? It will gladden
their hearts. I almost wish that we were
going no further with the case. They have
been such staunch friends to me always,
that I should be loth to oust their grandson.'

'That is pure sentimentalism,' said the
matter-of-fact lawyer. ' There must be a
limit to that sort of thing, or the world
would come to an end.'

Well, perhaps so. When will the cause
come on for trial?'

'That will depend. We have gone
through the preliminaries, but have asked
for time. I am most anxious to find out
more about the letter which gave us the
great news. Lady Farrington insists that
the writer was your father.'

^ My father? Still alive?'

It seems incredible. But I am making
all possible inquiries. The letter, such as
it was, was scrawled upon the back of an
old invoice for goods. The invoice was for
powder and two shot guns, and the goods
were supplied by Messrs. Jan Steen, of
Pietermaritzburg, in Natal.'

Have you followed up that clue ?'

^ To the best of my ability. I sent a
special messenger to the Cape of Good
Hope. His instructions were to trace the
invoice from Messrs. Jan Steen, if possible,
to the person who eventually received the
goods. It may take some little time to
ferret out, but I can trust Jimlett implicitly
in all such affairs. Of course, if we could
only produce Herbert Farrington, alias
Corporal Smith, in propria j)ersond^ the
case would be won.'

Have you any news yet from Mi
Jimlett T

^ Only short business communications
resorting progress. In his last I was informed
that he had arrived at Pietermaritz-
burg, and had easily come upon Messrs.
Jan Steen. That was where the real difficulty
began, of course.'

Did they help him in any way ?'

^ They were not very cordial he says;
they deal largely with the gun-runners, or
persons employed in the contraband trade
across the frontier of Natal. Their business
is a large one — a lucrative one, and
possibly dangerous. Hence Jimlett had to
overcome considerable reticence on their
part. They acknowledged their invoice —
that, indeed, it was impossible to repudiate
but they decline to say to whom the
arms were supplied; indeed, they declare

they cannot, as all such goods pass through
many hands

And there the matter stands T
'For the present, yes. We must wait
patiently. I confess I have confidence still
in Jimlett, and feel sure he will unravel
the mystery if any man can. Perhaps we
shall hear more next mails

Nothing came, however — neither next
mail nor the one after. Meanwhile the
suit dragged itself slowly along, and went
through the usual phases and formalities.
At first it attracted but little notice from,
and excited but little interest in, the public.
The announcement in the daily papers that
a suit was pending which promised to be as
involved and interminable as the half-forgotten
Tichborne trial was classed with the
'big gooseberry' paragraphs of the 'silly
season* and treated with contempt. No

one read the short accounts which appeared
in the law notices ; and it was not until the
spring term, when the case was duly
opened, that general attention was aroused.
There was an element of romance in it.
The young claimant — not in this case an
overgrown ex-butcher, but a gallant soldier
bearing the Queen's commission and that
envied decoration the Victoria Cross — was
entitled to a certain respect, and soon won
the suffrages of the crowd. Nor was society
against him. Sir Rupert was not beloved
in his own walk of life. The great world
is generally indifferent, and often unjust,
but it is seldom very wrong in its estimate
of those who belong to it. Wicked people
may prosper well enough, and long be
fairly spoken of, but never if they are unpleasant
and disagreeable to boot. Sir
Rupert had all these bad traits, and was, inconsequence,

universally unpopular. His
character stood out all the blacker as the
case proceeded, and his treatment of the
Dowager Lady Farrington was set forth in
its true light; nor was he absolved from
harshness in his attitude towards Herbert
Larkins as a lad.

The law, nevertheless, was, as it seemed,
altogether on the side of the strong. The
claimant's case was good so far as it went,
but, as was feared, there where several serious
flaws in it. Lady Farrington's peculiarities
were brought out into somewhat
unfavourable prominence in the witness-box,
and elicited considerable merriment.
The cross-examining counsel made the
most of her craze, and turned her inside
out, so to speak, on the subject of claimants
in general and Herbert in particular. Mrs.
Larkins was so very stout and positive that

her statements could not be shaken; but
after all, although hers was the evidence
most relevant, it was entirely uncorroborated
and unsupported. Not even Herbert,
with his undoubtedly honest bearing, could
turn the scale ; and the case day after day
was going more and more in favour of Sir
Rupert, when all at once came a report
from Mr. Jimlett, which inspired the plaintiffs
with fresh — almost exaggerated — hopes.

TURNING THE SCALE.

Late in the afternoon at Westminster.
The court occupied, as it had been these
months past, with the great Farrington trial.
It had already lasted so long that the counts
sel's opening address was almost forgotten ;
yet nothing definite had come out. The
case for the claimant was approaching conclusion.
Mr. Netherpoint, Q.C., held on
bravely to the last. Like a true man he
was prepared to die game ; but it was quite
clear that Mr. Quantlet, the leader on the
opposite side, was only biding his time to
smash Mr. Netherpoint and his case into
little bits.

Interest had flagged since the commencement

of the trial. It was felt that
the whole thing was rather a hollow affair,
which must presently collapse utterly.
Only the parties to the suit retained their
anxiety. Lady Farrington, like the old
lady in Jaundice v. Jaundice, sat near Herbert,
and still strove, but in vain, to be calm.
Sir Rupert Farrington was also in court, his
dark face wearing an implacable frown,
which deepened as his eyes rested upon the
unscrupulous aggressors who sought to rob
him of his rights and all he possessed. Herbert
Larkins met his glance without quailing,
but without any particular buoyancy
of expression. He Alas, in truth, growing
a little hopeless, and almost wished the case
at an end. Everybody else seemed heartily
sick of the thing. Even the presiding
judge had yawned distinctly three times in
as many minutes ; after which he asked his

brother Netherpoint when he hoped to conclude.


Very shortly, m'lud ; there are but two
or three additional witnesses — '

material witnesses, I trust? persons
prepared to give evidence relative to the
issue ?'

Most decidedly, m'lud, most decidedly.
There is Reuben Bother, and — hey? what
d'ye mean? I cannot hear what you say.'

This was to Mr. Bellhouse; who had
come behind him, and was whispering
rather excitedly, for him, in the counsel's
ear.

Delay ? impossible. They wouldn't
give us an hour. Out of the question.'

Then a few more hurried words passed
between the lawyers ; but further conversation
was rendered impossible by the impatience
and irritability of the judge.

'What is the meaning of this interruption?
It is not to be tolerated. How much
longer, may I ask, brother Netherpoint, do
you propose to occupy the time of the
court? If you have nothing further to
bring forward I must beg of you to sit
down.'

Very important intelligence, m*lud, has
arrived; evidence which will probably
change the whole complexion of the case.
We have just heard of a witness whom I
shall require to call — '

'Is he in attendance?

No, m'lud.'

Then he ought to be. We cannot have
the time of the court wasted any more.
You have had plenty of opportunities ; if
you lose them it is your own affair.'

This witness has only just been heard
of, m'lud — '

'Psha! I shall insist upon your proceeding
with the case.'

^ We must move, then, mud, for a fresh
trial.'

'Who and what is this witness? and
why is he not here ?'

'He is not here because there has not
been time to bring him, m'lud. He has
been at the Cape of Good Hope for nearly
thirty years ; far back in the wilds, or veldt
as it is called. I believe — '

What is his name T

Mr. Netherpoint paused and looked
round, so as to give everyone full opportunity
of hearing what he said.

'His name, m'lud, is Sir Herbert Farrington.*


There was a sensation in the court.

Lady Farrington, with a half stifled
shriek, seized Herbert convulsively by the

hands, and ejaculating ^ I knew it, I knew
it,' swooned away. Sir Rupert Farrington,
as he still claimed to be called, half rose in
his seat, as if determined to protest against
this new and most audacious attempt at
fraud ; there was a flutter of excitement, a
murmur of voices in the body of the court,
the solicitors whispered and winked significantly
to one another, and the bar generally
woke up to give attention to what had
long been a threadbare and uninteresting
affair.

Meanwhile, the judge had been scanning
his notes assiduously ; Sir Rupert's counsel
and solicitors had been equally busy with
brief and papers, while Mr. Netherpoint
and Mr. Bellhouse had continued in close
confabulation, and interchanging memoranda
and ideas.

^ Sir Herbert Farrington?' the judge

asked, at length, snappishly and garrulously.
^ There is no such person in existence
that I am aware of, at present. The
young gentleman, who is one of the plaintiffs,
has no right to the title until he has
proved his claim — '

1 do not speak of him, m'lud, but of
his father.'

The father is dead. He disappeared a
generation ago,' said Mr. Quantlet, rising.

Pardon me, that assumption is entirely
unwarrantable,' replied Mr. Netherpoint.
We undertake to prove the contrary, and
will produce the man himself.'

Mr. Quantlet sat down, grumbling loudly.
The words 'personation,' 'conspiracy,'
'trumped-up witnesses,' were heard audibly
among his complaints.

Where is this person ?' asked his lordship.
'Be good enough to inform the court

of all particulars, brother Netherpoint. If
you spring a mine like this without giving
warning, you owe it to the court to make
the fullest explanation.'

'I am quite ready, m'lud. You shall
have the whole story.'

What is now to be told so closely concerns
our hero, that it must be given at
some length.

After much delay and many rebuffs,
Mr. Jimlett's inquiries had been crowned
at length with success. Tracing the line
which the gun-runners commonly took, he
had been gradually drawn towards the frontier
of Natal. While hesitating to pass beyond
the boundary, rumours reached him
of Englishmen settled among the native
tribes ; of one in particular, who had risen
to some eminence among them, and was
reputed rich in wives and cattle. This personage

he thought might give him some
information ; and, not without delay and
difficulty, he made his way to his kraal.
The object of Jimlett's inquiries was stated
with some caution to the English settler,
who had been so long resident in his savage
home, that he was almost denationalised.
But if the chief had lost many of the customs
of civilised life, just as he had discarded
the dress, he had assumed in place
of it much of that wily caution peculiar to
the savage. Jimlett could get nothing out
of him for a long time. The chief displayed
as much, if not more circumspection than
the lawyer's clerk. It seemed impossible
to draw a word out of him. He still spoke
English fluently, and was perfectly calm
and self-possessed.

I don't see what you are driving at,' he
said, after long fencing. why not throw

VOL. II. p

your cards down, and be open with me?
It's the best way to deal with a wild man.
Who are you looking for really, and why?'

I want some one to tell me whether
Herbert Farrington, youngest son of the
last baronet Farrington, is alive or dead.'

^ But why?'

'To take up the title and the family
property, and see that his son comes into it
after him.'

'His son? He had no son.'

Plow do you know?'

His mother died in childbirth ; she — '

You seem very fully informed. What
more do you know?'

Nothing — I wish I did.'

You have never sought to know, perhaps?
Had no business to know?'

Perhaps not. Is Lady Farrington still
alive ?'

Certainly ; but the title is held by Sir
Rupert — '

^ The cousin? I don't know how many
times removed. What right had he to it?'

He was the heir-at-law.'

'Why did Lady Farrington drive her
son from home by ill-usage? Poor Herbert!
No wonder he fled.'

'She has regretted it bitterly. She is
now doing her utmost to retrieve the wrong-she
has inflicted. She has welcomed, educated,
and been a staunch friend to Herbert's
son. Now that the marriage between
Herbert and Ann Orde is proved, another
link or two is all we need to establish the
younger Herbert as the rightful owner of
the title and estates.'

He cannot be quite that — not just yet.
His father, the long-lost Herbert Warrington,
is still alive.'

^ Where is he to be found? Will you
take me to him? You shall be liberally
rewarded.'

'I want no reward, and you need not
go far. I am the man.'

This was the overwhelming evidence
which Mr. Netherpoint proposed to bring,
and for which he claimed time from the
court. It was conceded, and the case was
held over to the following term.

Meanwhile gossip busied itself once
more with the case. The news of the missing
son was freely discussed. Opinions differed
very widely. Some held stoutly that
he was the man himself; others that barefaced
imposture was meant, and would in
the long run be brought home to the parties
concerned. It was a repetition of the
great Tichborne case, although on a much
smaller scale. Then the so-called Herbert

Farrington appeared, at first gaunt, wild,
unkempt, from his long life in the bush,
but unmistakably a gentleman still, and
soon resuming the manners and tone proper
to his birth and class. He was recognised
at once by all survivors. Mr. Bell-house
knew him and could swear to him ;
so could Mrs. Larkins ; the rector of 
had no doubt as to his identity.
Last of all his mother, whose injustice
had driven him forth, fell into his arms,
imploring his forgiveness, and declared he
was hardly at all changed.

He was in truth her own son. Like her
impressionable, flighty, sometimes strange
in his demeanour and ways. His whole
life was indeed an evidence of these inherited
traits. Another less sensitive nature
would have given in sooner; but he
so bitterly resented his mother's harshness,

that he would never bring himself to hold
out his hand to her first. Then in his loneliness
and isolation after his wife's death, of
which he had been informed, he broke altogether
with the world, and flew to the wilds,
from which, as we have seen, he was brought
back with extreme difficulty at the eleventh
hour.

But he arrived in time to turn the scale,
and secure victory for his son's cause.

Within a month or two of the termination
of the trial, Herbert Farrington, bearing
now his proper name, returned to the
Rock. He was something of a celebrity, as
the hero of a great trial Which had been decided
in his favour, and altogether a different
person from the unknown Larkins who
had aspired so high. He was well received
with one exception' — on every side. He

^Y as feted and made much of in his own
regiment, and received cordial congratulation
through the garrison and wherever he
went. But General Prioleau was for a longtime
unforgiving. When an easy-natured
man is embittered against any one, he is
perhaps more persistent in his dislike than
if his temper were more harsh. For a longtime
he held out against Herbert, and closed
his doors to him. But continual dropping
will wear a stone ; and Mrs. Prioleau, who
had now completely changed in her views
with regard to Herbert, kept up a continuous
flow of eulogistic words, before which
the general gradually succumbed. How
could he hope to hold his garrison when
there were traitors within? He might refuse
to see Herbert ; but Mrs. Prioleau and
Edith met him elsewhere, and the love-making
went on in spite of him, under his

very nose. Edith, too, when taxed Tritli
her misconduct, so plainly gave her father
to understand that she would marry Herbert
Farrington, and no one else, that the
general was compelled at length to give

way.

The marriage took place the same year.
Captain Mount charles felt it as a personal
affront, and resigned his appointment, so
Herbert was presently made aide-de-camp
in his place. By degrees the general has
been entirely won over by his son-in-law's
devotion to his duties, and brought, although
tardily, to acknowledge his worth. Nothing
will induce Herbert to resign his profession.
His regimental promotion is assured, and
as he is keen to take active employment
wherever it offers — a desire in which Edith,
a true soldier's wife, always encourages
him — he is certain to rise in the service and

take high honours eventually as a thoroughly
deserving ' Son of Mars.'

Only a few words are needed to dispose
of the remaining characters in this story.

It seemed as though old Lady Warrington
felt, when the law-suit was won, that
her mission was ended. She died happily,
at peace Tv^th every one, in the following
year. Her son, the new baronet. Sir Herbert
Farrington, settled at the Hall for a
time; but restlessness soon took possession
of him, and he pined for the wilds which
had so long been his home. When last
heard of by his son Herbert he was at the
head of an exploring party somewhere near
Lake Tanganyika, and meant to be absent
for some years.

^As for Mr. Rupert Farrington, he retired
into obscurity to eat out his heart with
envy, hatred, and all uncharitableness. He

was not overburdened with cash; but
through young Herbert's good offices a
moderate allowance was made him from
the estate, which was to be continued to
the little Ernest, Mimic's son. The Dingles
also sank in prestige and had to be contented
with the modest income of a half-pay
lieut-colonel, for the great Cavendish's
private means disappeared in the crash of
the tea mart, and Letitia has led him a
terrible life ever since.

Last of all, brave old Sergeant Larkins
and his worthy wife found themselves established
comfortably on a corner of the Farrington
estate, where the former grows
roses, and the latter points with pride to
the boy she once befriended and who now
returns her kindness a thousandfold.

THE END.

LONDON : ROBSON AND SONS, PRINTERS, Pages ROAD, N.W.

/

^

y

3 0112 046414592

vrjmf^,^r

m^pmti.

■iiiJ-^.
