W. H. SMITH & SON'S

SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

., % STRAND, LONDON,
AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
Novels an issued to and received from Subscribers in SETS only.

TERMS.

Foe •MBSC9*Sero OBTAINING THEIR Book FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL J

Forme Volume at a time - - £0* ?S% - " *leo

(ittretU in mort than Out V*lumt art not mvailabUfor (hit flat* tfSubtcriftum.)

For TWO Volumes „ - - - O 17 6 - 1 11 «

(Novel in mort than Two Volumes mrt not mvmUabk/or (hit dot* </ Subscription,)

Hi

ltE:

For THREE
For FOUR
For SIX

For TWELVE












IS
O

O - 2

O - 2

O - 8

O - 8



lO





O
O
O

°Jt

THE UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

LIBfiAHY


G8l5t

vel

Latest Date stamped below.

Th eft, dilation, and — "J^'t'lS- *-
for disciplinary action and may rest

the University. 333-8400

L16 l O-1096

BY

AETHT.TR GRIFFITHS

Al T THOR OF " THE CHRONICLES OF NEWGATE." " FAST ANB LOOSE,'

ETC., ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL

Limited



[All Rights reserved']

BY NICHOLS A

25, PARLIAMENT STREET,

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

i

CHAPTER I. ' page

THE COMMISSARY IS CALLED 1

CHAPTER II.

ARREST AND INTERROGATION 9

~ CHAPTER III.

THE MOUSETRAP 18

CHAPTER IV.

a spider's web 29

CHAPTER V.

THE WAR FEVER 40

CHAPTER VI.

ON DANGEROUS GROUND . 50

CHAPTER VII.

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE 59

CHAPTER VIII.

A SOUTHERN PEARL . 70

CHAPTER IX.

OFF TO THE WARS 79

-| CHAPTER X.

^ A GENERAL ACTION 91



CHAPTER XI.

J? AFTER THE BATTLE 112

CHAPTER XII. page

CATCHING A TARTAR 121

CHAPTER XIII.

NOT WAR " 132

CHAPTER XIV.

THE GOLDEN HORN 152

CHAPTER XV.

THE LAST OF LORD Loadstone 164

CHAPTER XVI.

HARD POUNDING 177

CHAPTER XVII.

A COSTLY VICTORY 190

CHAPTER XVIII.

A NOVEMBER GALE . ■. 209

CHAPTER XIX.

Uncle AND Nephew 221

CHAPTER XX.

RED TAPE 231

CHAPTER XXI.

AGAIN ON THE ROCK 2-12

CHAPTER XXII.

MR. HOBSON CALLS 252

CHAPTER XXIII.

WAR TO THE KNIFE 260

CHAPTER XXIV.

MOTHER CHARCOAL'S . . ' 269

CHAPTER I.

THE Commissary IS CALLED.

In the Paris of the first half of this century there was
no darker, dingier, or more forbidding quarter than
that which laj> north of the Rue de Tivoli, round about
the great central market, commonly called the Halles.

The worst part of it, perhaps, was the Rue Assiette
detain, or Tinplate Street. All day evil-looking loafers
lounged about its doorways, nodding lazily to the passing
workmen, who, blue-bloused, with silk cap on head,
each with his loa under his arm, came to take their
meals at the wine-shop at the corner ; or gossiping with
the porters, male and female, while the one followed
closely his usual trade as a cobbler, and the other
attended to her soup.

By day there was little traffic. Occasionally a long
dray, on a gigantic pair of wheels, drawn by a long
string of white Normandy horses in single file, with
blue harness and jangling bells, filled up the road-vol.

I. B

way. Costermongers trundled their barrows along with
strange, unmusical cries. Now and again an empty
cab returning to its stable, with weary horse and 
coachman, crawled through the street.

But at night it was otherwise. Many vehicles came
dashing down Tinplate Street: carriages, public and
private, of every variety, from the rattletrap cab hired
off the stand, or the decent coach from the livery stable,
to the smart spick-and-span brougham, with its well-appointed
horses and servants in neat livery. They all
set down at the same door, and took up from it at any
hour between midnight and dawn, waiting patiently in
file in the wide street round the corner, till the summons
came as each carriage was required.

As seen in the daytime, there was nothing strange
about the door, or the house to which it gave access.
The place purported to be an hotel — a seedy, out-elbows,
seemingly little-frequented hotel, rejoicing in
the altogether inappropriate name of the Hotel Paradis,
or the Paradise Hotel. Its outward appearance was
calculated to repel rather than invite customers; no one
would be likely to lodge there who could go elsewhere.
It had habitually a deserted look, with all its blinds
and casements close shut, as though its lodgers slept
through the day, or had gone away, never to return.

But this was only by day. At night the street-door
stood wide open, and a porter was on duty at the foot
of the staircase within. He was on the inner side of a
stout oaken door, in which was a small window, opening

with a trap. Through this he reconnoitred all arrivals,
taking stock of their appearance, and only giving
admission when satisfied as to what he saw.

The Hotel Paradis, in plain English, was a gambling-house,
largely patronised, yet with an evil reputation.
It was well known to, and constantly watched by, the
police, who were always at hand, although they seldom
interfered with the hotel.

But when the porter's wife came shrieking into the
street early one summer's morning, with wildest terror
depicted in her face, and shaking like a jelly, the police
felt bound to come to the front.

Has madame seen a ghost ? " asked a stern official
in a cocked hat and sword, accosting her abruptly.

No, no ! Fetch the commissary, quick ! A crime
has been committed — a terrible crime ! " she gasped.

This was business, and the police-officer knew what
he had to do.

Run, Jules," he said to a colleague. " You know
where M. Bontoux lives. Tell him he is wanted at the
Hotel Paradis." Then, turning to the woman, he said,
<c Now, madame, explain yourself."

It is a murder, I am afraid. A gentleman has been
stabbed."

What gentleman ? Where ? "

"In the drawing-room, upstairs. I don't know his
name, but he came here frequently. My husband will
perhaps be able to tell you; he is there. ;

B 2

))

"Lead on," said the police-officer; " take me to the
place. I will see to it myself."

They passed into the hotel through the inner portal,
and up the stairs to the first floor, where the principal
rooms were situated — three of them furnished and
decorated magnificently, altogether out of keeping with
the miserable exterior of the house, having enormous
mirrors from ceiling to floor, gilt cornices, damask
hangings, marble console tables, and chairs and sofas
in marqueterie and buhl. The first room evidently
served for reception ; there was a sideboard in one
corner, on which were the remains of a succulent
repast, and dozens of empty bottles. The second and
third rooms were more especially devoted to the business
of the establishment. Long tables, covered with
green cloth, filled up the centre of each, and were
strewed with cards, dice and their boxes, croupier's
rakes, and other implements of gaming.

The third room had been the scene of the crime.
There upon the floor lay the body of a man, a well-dressed
man, wearing the white kerseymere trousers,
the light waistcoat, and long-tailed green coat which
were then in vogue. His clothes were all spotted and
bearable with gore ; his shirt was torn open, and
plainly revealed the great gaping wound from which his
life's blood was quickly ebbing away.

The wounded man's head rested on the knee of the
night porter, a personage wearing a kind of livery, a

strongly built, truculent-looking villain, whose duties,
no doubt, comprised the putting of people out as well
as the letting them into the house.

Oh, Anatole ! my cherished one ! " began the porter's
wife. " Here are the police. Tell us then, how this
occurred."

1 ' I will tell all I know" replied her husband, looking
at the police-officer. " This morning, when the clients
had nearly all gone, and 1 was sitting half asleep in the
lodge, I heard "

Stop " said the police-officer, " not another word.
Keep all you have to say for the commissary. He is
already on the stairs."

The next minute M. Bontoux entered, accompanied
by his clerk and the official doctor of the quarter.

A crime 5 said the commissary, slowly, and with as
much dignity as was possible in a middle-aged gentleman
pulled from his bed at day-break, and compelled
to dress in a hurry. iC A crime," he repeated. st Of
that there can be no doubt. But let us establish the
fact formally. Where are the witnesses ? "

The porter, having relinquished the care of the
wounded man to the doctor, stood up slowly and saluted
the commissary.

ee Very well ; tell us what you know. Sit down " —
this to the clerk. " Produce your writing-materials and
prepare the report."

It must have been about four this morning, but I
was very drowsy, and the gentlemen had nearly all

gone," said the night porter, speaking fluently, " when
I was disturbed by the noise of a quarrel, a fight, up
here in the principal drawing-room. While I was still
rubbing my eyes, for I was very drowsy, and fancied I
was dreaming, I heard a scream, a second, and a third,
followed by a heavy fall on the floor. I rushed upstairs
then, and found this poor gentleman as you see him."

« Alone?"

Quite alone."

( But there must have been other people here. Did
they come down the stairs past you ? "

"No, sir; they must have escaped by that window.
It was open "

The commissary looked at the police-officer, who
nodded intelligently.

I had already noticed it, Mr. Commissary. The
window gives upon a low roof, which communicates
with the back street. Escape would be quite easy from
that side."

Well'' said the commissary, " and you found this
gentleman? Do you know him? His name ? Have you
ever seen him before ? "

He is M. le Baron denote ; he is a constant visitor
at the house. Very fortunate, I believe, and I heard
he won largely last night."

Ah ! " said the commissary. This fact was important,
as affording a reason for the crime. " And do you suspect
any one ? Have you any idea who was here at the
last?"

Cf

I scarcely noticed the gentlemen as they went away ;
it would be impossible for me, therefore, to say who
remained."

Then there is no clue "

<( Hush ! Mr. Commissary." It was the doctor's exclamation.
" The victim is still alive, and is trying, I
think, to speak." Evidence given at the point of death
has extreme value in every country, under every kind
of law. The commissary therefore bent his head, closely
attentive to catch any words the dying man might
utter.

Water! water!" he gasped out. " Revenge me; it
was a foul and cowardly blow."

Who struck you, can you tell us? Do you know
him?" inquired the commissary, eagerly.

"Yes. I— know — " The voice grew visibly weaker;
it sank into a whisper, and could speak only in monosyllables.


u His name — quick ! "

"There — were — three — I had no chance — Gas— -
coigne "

Strange name — not French ? "

The dying man shook his head.

Gas— tell— Engl "

It was the last supreme effort. With a long, deep
groan, the poor fellow fell back dead.

How unfortunate ! " cried the commissary, " to die
just when he would have told us all. These few words

will scarcely suffice to identify the murderers. Can
any one help us ? "

M. Bontoux looked round.

u The name he mentioned I know," said the night-porter,
quickly. " This M. Gascoigne came here frequently.
He is an Englishman. "

So I gathered from the dead man's words. Do you
know his domicile in Paris? "

Rue St. Honore, Hotel Versailles and St. Cloud. I
have seen him enter it more than once, with his wife.
He has lived there some months."

We must, if possible, lay hands on him at once.
You, Jules, hasten with another police-agent to the Rue
St. Honore ; he may have gone straight to his hotel."

And if we find him ? "

Arrest him and take him straight to the Prefecture.
I will follow. There, there ! lose no time."

11 1 am already gone," said the police-officer as he ran
downstairs.

CHAPTER II.

ARREST AND INTERROGATION.

The Hotel Versailles and St. Cloud was one of the best
hotels of Paris at this time, a time long antecedent to
the opening of such vast caravansaries as the Louvre,
the Continental, the Thence, or the Grand. It occupied
four sides of a courtyard, to which access was had by
the usual gateway. The porter's lodge was in the latter,
and this functionary, in sabots and shirt-sleeves, was
sweeping out the entrance when the police arrived in a
cab, which they ordered to wait at the door.

M. Gascoigne ? " asked the agent.

On the first floor, number forty-three," replied the
porter, without looking up. (i Monsieur has but just
returned' he went on. tl Knock gently, or you may
disturb him in his first sleep'

We shall disturb him in any case," said the police-officer,
gruffly. " Justice cannot wait'

i( The police ! " cried the porter, now recognising his

visitors for the first time. " What has happened, in
Heaven's name ? "

Stand aside ; we have no time to gossip," replied
the agent, as he passed on.

The occupant of No. 43 upon the first floor was pacing
his room with agitated steps — a young man with fair
complexion and light curly hair ; hut his blue eyes were
clouded, and his fresh, youthful face was drawn and
haggard. His attire, too — English, like his aspect —
was torn and dishevelled, his voluminous neckcloth was
disarranged, his waistcoat had lost several buttons, and
there were stains — dark purple stains — upon sleeves
and smallclothes.

What has become of her ? " he was saying as he
strode up and down ; " she has not been here ; she
could not have come home when we parted at the door
of the Vaudeville — the bed has not been slept in. Can
she have gone ? Is it possible that she has left me ? "

He sank into a chair and hid his face in his hands.

It was too horrible. To see him fall at my feet,

struck down just when I Who is there ? " he cried

suddenly, in answer to a knock at the door.

Ci Open, in the name of the law ! "

u The police here already ! What shall I do ? "

Open at once, or we shall force the door."

The young man slowly drew back the bolt and admitted
the two police-agents,

M. Grascoigne ? You will not answer to your
name ? That is equal — we arrest you."

)>

On what charge ?

It is not onr place to explain. We act by authority
: that is enough. Will you go with us quietly, or
must we use force ? "

Of what am I accused ? "

u You will hear in good time. Isidore, where is your
rope ? n

His colleague produced the long thin cord that serves
instead of handcuffs in France.

Must we tie you ? n

6i No, no ! I am ready to submit, but under protest.
You shall answer for this outrage. I am an Englishman.
I will appeal to our ambassador."

With all my heart ! We are not afraid. But enough
said. Come."

The three — police-agents and their prisoner — went
out together. On the threshold of No. 43 the officer
named Jules said —

(< Your key, monsieur — the key of your room. I will
take charge of it. Monsieur the Judge will no doubt
make a searching perquisition, and no one must enter
it till then."

The door was locked, M. Jules put the key in his
pocket, and the party went down to the cab, which was
driven off rapidly to the depot of the Prefecture.

Here the usual formalities were gone through. Rupert
Gascoigne, as the Englishman was called, was interrogated,
searched, deprived of money, watch, penknife,
and pencil-case ; his description was noted down, and

then lie was asked whether he would go into the common
prison, or pay for the accommodation of the pistole
or private " side."

For sixteen sous daily they gave him a room to himself,
with a little iron cot, a chair, and a table. Another
franc or two got him his breakfast and dinner, and he
was allowed to enjoy them with such appetite as he
could command.

No one came near him till next morning, when he
was roused from the heavy sleep that had only come to
him after dawn by a summons to appear before the
Juge oV instruction.

He was led by two policemen to a little room, barely
furnished, with one great bureau, or desk, in the centre,
at which sat the judge, his back to the window. On
one side of him was a smaller desk for the clerk, and
exactly opposite a chair for the accused, so arranged
that the light beat full upon his face.

Sit down," said the judge, abruptly.

He was a stern-looking man, dressed all in black,
still young, with a cold and impassive face, the extreme
pallor of which was heightened by his close-cut, coal-black
hair, and his small, piercing, beady black eyes.

"Your name and nationality ? "

11 Rupert Gascoigne. I am an Englishman, and as
such I must at once protest against the treatment I
have received'

ct You have been treated in accordance with the law
of France. You must abide by it, since you choose

to live here. I do not owe you this explanation, but I
give it to uphold the majesty of the law."

I shall appeal to our ambassador."

The judge waved his hand, as though the threat did
not affect him.

I must ask you to keep silence. You are here to
be interrogated ; you will only speak in reply to my
questions."

There was a pause, during which judge and accused
looked hard at each other ; the former seeking to read
the other's inmost thoughts, the latter meeting the gaze
with resolute and unflinching eyes.

What is your age ? "

'i Twenty-six."

u Are you married ? "

Yes."

u But your wife has left you."

Gascoigne started in spite of himself.

How do you know that ? " he asked, nervously.

It is for me to question. But I know it : that is
enough. Your occupation and position in life ?"

I am a gentleman, living on my means."

It is false." An angry flush rose to Gascoigne's
face as the judge thus gave him the lie. " It is false —
you are a professional gambler — a Greek — a sharper,
with no ostensible means ! "

u Pardon me, monsieur ; you are quite misinformed.
I could prove to you "

It would be useless ; the police have long known
and watched you."

" Such espionage is below contempt' cried ,
indignantly.

Silence ! Do not dare to question the conduct of
the authorities. It is the visit of persons of your stamp
to Paris that renders such precautions necessary."

If you believe all you hear from your low agents,
with their lying, scandalous reports "

11 Be careful, prisoner ; your demeanour will get you
into trouble. Our information about you is accurate
and trustworthy. Judge for yourself."

Grascoigne looked incredulous.

Listen ; you arrived in Paris three months ago,
accompanied by a young demoiselle whom you had
decoyed from her home."

She was my wife."

Yes ; you married her after your arrival here. The
official records of the 21st aggrandisement prove that —
married her without her parents' consent."

That is not so. They approved."

cc How could they ? Your wife's father is French
vice-consul at Gibraltar. Her mother is dead. Neither
was present at your marriage ; how, then, could they
approve ? "

Gascoigne did not answer.

On your first arrival you were well provided with
funds — the proceeds, no doubt, of some nefarious scheme;

a run of luck at the tables ; the plunder of some

pigeon "

• " The price of my commission in the English Army."

<f Bah ! You never were in the English Army''

I can prove it."

I shall not believe you. Being in funds, I say, you
lived riotously, stayed at one of the best hotels, kept a
landau and pair, dined at the Trois Frees and the
Rocher de Cancale, frequented the theatres ; madame
wore the most expensive toilettes. But you presently
ran short of cash."

It's not surprising. But I presume I was at liberty
to do what I liked with my own."

Coming to the end of your resources," went on the
judge, coldly ignoring the sneer, " you tried the gaming-table
again, with varying success. You went constantly
to the Hotel Paradis "

On the contrary, occasionally, not often."

You were there last night ; it is useless to deny it.
We have the deposition of the proprietor, who is well
known to the police — M. Hippolyte Ledantec ; you shall
be confronted with him."

Is he in custody? " asked Glascoigne, eagerly.

' I tell you it is not your place to question."

ic He ought to be. It was he who committed the
murder."

You know there was a murder, then ? Curious.
When the body was discovered by the porter there was

no one present. How could you know of the crime
unless you had a hand in it ? "

I saw it committed. I tried my best to save the
Baron, but Ledantec stabbed him before I could interpose."


An ingenious attempt to shift the guilt ; but it will
not serve. We know better."

te I am prepared to swear it was Ledantec. Why
should I attack the Baron ? I owed him no grudge."

Why ? I will tell you. For some time past, as I
have reminded you, your funds have been running low,
fortune has been against you at the tables, and you
could not correct it at the Hotel Paradis as you do with
less clever players "

You are taking an unfair advantage of your position,
Monsieur le Juge. Any one else who dared accuse
me of cheating "

u Bah ! no heroics. You could not correct fortune, I
say ; yet money you must have. The hotel-keeper was
pressing for his long-unpaid account. Madame, your
smart wife, was dissatisfied ; she made you scenes because
you refused her money ; in return, you ill-used
her."

It is false ! My wife has always received proper
consideration at my hands."

' You ill-used her, ill-treated her ; we have it from
herself."

Do you know, then, where she is?" interrupted

Gascoigne, with so much eagerness that it was plain he
had taken his wife's defection greatly to heart. "Why
has she left me ? With whom ? I have always suspected
that villain Ledantec ; he is an arch scoundrel, a
very devil ! "

The reasons for your wife's disappearance are sufficiently
explained by this letter."

"Tome?" said Gascoigne, stretching out his hand
for it.

To you, but impounded by us. It was found, in
our search of your apartments yesterday, placed in a
prominent place upon your dressing-table."

Give it me — it is mine V 9

No ! but you shall hear what it says. Listen : —

' I could have borne with resignation the miserable
part you have imposed upon me. After luring me
from my home with dazzling offers, after promising mea
life of luxury and splendid ease, you rudely, cruelly
dispelled the illusion, and made it plain to me that I
had shared the lot of a pauper. All this I could have
borne — poverty, however distasteful, but not the infamy,
the degradation, of being the partner and associate
of your evil deeds. Sooner than fall so low I
prefer to leave you for ever. Do not seek for me. I
have done with you. All is at an end between us! ' n

VOL. I. C

CHAPTER III.

THE MOUSETRAP.

Well," said the judge, when he had finished reading,
you see what your wife thinks of you. What do you
say now ? "

(t There is not a word of truth in that letter. It is a
tissue of misstatements from beginning to end. You
inst place no reliance upon it."

i( There you must allow me to differ from you. This
letter is, in my belief, perfectly genuine. It supplies a
most important link in the chain of evidence, and I
shall give it the weight it deserves. But enough— will
you still deny your guilt ? "

"It is Ledantec's doing* said Gascoigne, following
out a line of thought of his own. " She was nothing
loth, perhaps, for he has been instilling insidious poison
into her ears for these weeks past. I had my suspicions,

but could prove nothing ; now I know. It was
for this, to put money in his purse for her extravagance,
that he first robbed, then struck down the baron."

"Why do you still persist in this shallow line of
defence ? You cannot deceive me ; it would be far
better to make a clean breast of it at once."

I have already told you all I know. I repeat, I
saw Ledantec strike the blow."

Psha ! this is puerile. I will be frank with you.
We have the fullest and strongest evidence of your
guilt — why, then, will you not confess it ? "

I have nothing to confess ; I am perfectly innocent.
I was the poor man's friend, not his murderer. I tried
hard to save him, but, unhappily, I was too late."

You will not confess ? "

A flush of anger rose to Gascoigne's cheek j his eyes
flashed with the indignation he felt at being thus bullied
and browbeaten - 3 his lips quivered, but still he made no
reply.

Come ,' you have played this comedy long enough,"
said the judge, his manner growing more insolent, his
look more threatening. et Will you, or will you not,
confess ? "

Gascoigne met his gaze resolutely, but with a dogged,
obstinate silence, the result of a firm determination not
to utter a word.

This is unbearable,' 7 said the judge, angrily, after
having repeated his question several times without eliciting
any reply. " Take him away ! Let him be kept in

c2

complete isolation, in one of the separate cells of the
Mousetrap — the Souriciere."

At a signal from within the police entered, resumed
charge of the prisoner, and escorted him, by many
winding passages, down a steep staircase to an underground
passage, ending in a dungeon-like room, badly
lighted by one small, heavily-barred window, through
which no glimpse of the sky was seen.

Here he was left alone, and for a long time utterly
neglected. No one came near him till late in the day,
when he was brought a basin of thin soup and a hunch
of coarse ammunition bread. He spoke to his jailers,
asking for more and better food, but obtained no reply.
He asked them for paper, pens, and ink ; he wished, he
said, to make a full statement of his case to the British
Embassy, and demand its protection. Still no reply.
Maddened by this contemptuous treatment, and despairing
almost of justice, he begged, entreated the warder
to take pity on him, to tell him at least how long they
meant to keep him there in such terrible solitude, cutoff
altogether from the advice and assistance of friends.
The warder shook his head stolidly, and at length broke
silence, but only to say, {t It is by superior order 5 then
left him.

Grascoigne passed a terrible night, the second night in
durance, but far worse than the first. He was torn
now with apprehensions as to his fate ; circumstances
seemed so much against him ; the facts, as stated by the
judge, might be grossly misrepresented ; but how was

lie to dispute them? There was no justice in this miserable
country, with such a partial and one-sided system
of law. He began to fear that his life was in their
hands ; already he felt his head on the block, under the
shadow of the awful guillotine.

Nor were his personal terrors the only nightmare that
visited and oppressed him. He was harassed, tortured,
by the shameless conduct of his wife ; of the woman for
whom he had sacrificed everything — profession, fortune,
name, the affection of relatives, the respect of friends.
With base, black-hearted perfidy, she had deserted him
for another, had plotted against him, had helped to
bring him into his present terrible straits.

Once again they awoke him, unrefreshed, from the
deep sleep haunted by such hideous dreams. He was
told to dress himself and come out. At the door of his
cell the same escort — two police-agents — awaited him.

Where are you taking me ? Again before that hateful
judge ? "

Monsieur had better speak more respectfully," replied
one of them, in a warning voice.

It is no use, I tell you, his interrogating me. I have
nothing more to say."

Silence ! ' cried the other, " and march."

They led him along the passage and upstairs, but not,
as before, to the judge's cabinet. Turning aside, they
passed on one side of it, and out into the open air-there
was a cab drawn up close to the door, the prisoner
was ordered to get in, one police-agent taking his sea

alongside, the other mounting on the box. The glasses
were drawn up, and the cab drove rapidly away.
"Where are you taking me f " asked Gascoigne.
You will see' replied his conductor, coldly.
To another prison ? "

a Silence ! A prisoner is not permitted to enter into
conversation with his guard."

Thus rebuffed, Gascoigne resigned himself to gazing
mournfully through the windows as the cab rattled
along. He did not know this quarter of Paris well, but
he could see that they were passing along one of the
quays of the He de la Cite. He could see the houses
on the opposite bank, and knew from the narrowness of
the river that it was not the main stream of the Seine.
It was still early morning ; the streets were not as yet
very crowded, but as the cab entered a wide square it
came upon a throng issuing from the portals of a large
church, the congregation that had been attending some
celebration at Notre Dame. He recognised the church
as he passed it, still driving, however, by the quays.
Then they came to a low building, with a dirty, ill-kept,
unpretentious doorway. The cab passed through into
an inner court, stopped, and Gascoigne was ordered to
alight.

The police-agents, one on each side of him, took him
to a rather large but dirty, squalid-looking room, which
might have been part of an old-clothes shop. All round,
hanging from pegs, each neatly ticketed with its own
number, were sets of garments, male and female, of every

description : rags and velvets, a common blouse and
good broadcloth, side by side.

At a small common table in the centre of the room
sat G-ascoigne's judge, with the same cold face, only
darkened now by a frown.

a Once more," he said, abruptly — ' ' will you confess
your crime V 3

Gascoigne looked at him contemptuously, but held
his tongue.

"Do you still refuse? Do you still obstinately persist
in remaining dumb? Very well, we shall see'
The judge got up from his chair, and disappeared
through a side-door.

After a short pause, v Gascoigne\s escort bade him
march, and the three followed through the same door.

They entered a second chamber, smaller than the
first, the uses of which were at once obvious to ,
although he had never been there before. It
was like a low shed or workroom, lighted from above,
perfectly plain — even bald — in its decoration, but in
the centre, occupying the greater part of the space,
and leaving room only for a passage around, was a
large flat slab of marble, something like that seen in
fishmongers' shops. The similarity was maintained by
the sound of water constantly flowing and falling upon
the marble slab, as though to keep it and its burden
always fresh and cool.

But that burden ! Three corpses, stark naked but
for a decent waistband, were laid out upon the marble

table. One was that of a child who had been fished
up from the Seine that morning ; the second that of a
stonemason who had fallen from a scaffolding and
broken his neck and both legs ; the third was the murdered
man of the Hotel Paradis, the Baron denote,
stripped of his well-made clothes, lying stark and stiff
on his back, with the great knife-wound gaping red
and festering in his breast.

There ! " cried the judge, triumphantly, leaning
forward to scrutinise narrowly the effect of this hideous
confrontation upon the prisoner.

To his bitter disappointment, this carefully prepared
theatrical effect, so frequently practised and so often
successful with French criminals, altogether failed with
Gascoigne. The Englishman certainly had started at
the first sight of the corpse, but it was a natural movement
of horror which might have escaped any unconcerned
spectator at being brought into the presence of
death in such a hideous form. After betraying this first
and not unnatural sign of emotion, Gascoigne remained
perfectly cool, self-possessed, and unperturbed.

You see your victim there ; now will you confess ? '
cried the judge, almost passionately.

"Ledantec's victim, not mine," replied Gascoigne,
quietly. Then, as if in apology to himself, he added,
I could not help speaking, but I shall say nothing

more."

"He is very strong, extraordinarily strong!' cried
the judge, his rage giving place to admiration at the

obstinate fortitude of his prisoner. " In all my experience
" — this was to the police and the chief custodian
of the Morgue — " I have never come across a
more cold-blooded, cynical wretch ; but he shall not
beat me ; he shall not outrage and set the law at defiance
; we will bend his spirit yet. Take him back to
the Mousetrap ; he shall stay there until he chooses to
speak."

With this unfair threat, which was tantamount to a
sentence of unlimited imprisonment, the judge dismissed
his prisoner.

Gascoigne was marched back to the cab ; the police-agents
ordered him to re-enter it ; one of them took
his seat by his side as before, the other remounted the
box. Then the cab started on its journey back to the
Prefecture.

Gascoigne, silent, preoccupied, and outwardly calm,
was yet inwardly consumed with a fierce though impotent
rage. He was indignant at the shameful treatment
he had received. To be arraigned as a criminal
prematurely, his guilt taken for granted on the testimony
of unseen witnesses whose evidence he had no
chance of rebutting — all this, so intolerable to the spirit
of British justice, revolted him and outraged his sense
of fair play.

Yet what could he do ? He was without redress.
They had denied him his right of appeal to his ambassador
; he was forbidden to communicate with his

friends. There seemed no hope for him, no chance of
justice, no loophole of escape.

Stay ! Escape ?

As the thought flashed quickly across his brain it
lingered, taking practical shape. Surely it was worth
his while to make an effort, to strike one bold blow for
liberty now, before it was too late !

He quickly cast up the chances for and against. The
cab was following the line of quays as before, but along
the northern bank of the island, that bordering the
main stream. It was going at little better than a footpace
; the door next which he sat was on the side of the
river. What if he knocked his guardian senseless,
striking him a couple of British blows — one, two,
straight from the shoulder — then, flinging open the
door, spring out, and over the parapet into the swift-flowing
Seine ? He was an excellent swimmer ; once
in the water, surely he might trust to his luck !

These were the arguments in his favour. Against him
were the chances that his companion might show fight ;
that he might check his prisoner's exit until his comrade
on the box could come to the rescue ; or that some
officious bystander might act on the side of the law; or
that a shot might drop him as he fled ; or, finally, and
most probably of all, that he might be drowned in the
turbulent stream.

Gascoigne was not long in coming to a decision.
a Nothing venture, nothing have" was his watchword.

At this moment the cab was near the end of the Quai
aux Fleurs, near the Pont parole. There was no time
to be lost ; at any moment it might turn down from the
river, taking one of the cross streets. Setting his teeth
firmly, and nerving himself for a supreme effort, 
sprang suddenly upon the police-agent, twisted
his hands inside the stiff stock, and, having thus nearly
throttled him, felled him with two tremendous blows.

With a groan, the man fell to the bottom of the cab ;
the next instant Gascoigne had opened the door and
dropped into the roadway.

The escape was observed by one or two passers-by ;
but they were evidently people who owed the police no
good-will, for, although they stood still to watch the
fugitive, they did not give the alarm. This came first
from the policeman who had been assaulted, who,
recovering quickly from the attack, roared lustily to his
fellow for help. The cab stopped, the officials alighted
hurriedly, and looking to right and left caught sight of
Gascoigne as he stood upon the parapet and made his
plunge into the river. Both rushed to the spot, pistol
in hand.

Down below was the figure of their escaped prisoner
battling with the rapid stream. Both fired, almost
simultaneously, and one at least must have hit the
mark.

Gascoigne's body turned over and then sank, leaving
a small crimson stain upon the water.

THE THIN RED LINE.

Was he killed ? Drowned ? That is what no one
could tell ; but it was certain that no corpse answering
the Englishman's description was ever recovered from
the river j nor, on the other hand, did the police, in
spite of an active pursuit, lay hands on their prisoner
again alive.

CHAPTER IV.

a spider's web.

Some half a dozen years after the occurrences just
recorded there was a great gathering one night, at
Essendine House, a palatial mansion occupying the
whole angle of a great London square. The reception-rooms
upon the first floor, five of them, and all en suite,
and gorgeously decorated in white and gold, were
brilliantly lighted and thrown open to the best of
London society. Lady Essendine was at home to her
friends, and seemingly she had plenty of them, for the
place was thronged.

The party was by way of being musical — that is to
say, a famous pianist had been engaged to let off a lot
of rockets from his finger-tips, and a buffo singer from
the opera roared out his " Figaro la, Figaro qua' withall
the strength of his brazen lungs ; while one or two

gifted amateurs sang glees in washed-out, apologetic
accents, which were nearly lost in the din of the room.

But there was yet another singer, whose performance
was attended with rather more display. It was preluded
by a good deal of whispering and nodding of
heads. Lady Essendine posed as a charitable person,
always anxious to do good, and this singer was a protegee
of hers — an interesting but unfortunate foreigner
in very reduced circumstances, whom she had discovered
by accident, and to whom she was most anxious to give

a helping hand.

te A sweet creature," she had said quite audibly that
evening, although the object of her remarks was at her
elbow. ' ' A most engaging person ; poor thing, when
I found her she was almost destitute. Wasn't it

sad ? "

Quite pretty, too," her friends had remarked, also
ignoring the near neighbourhood of the singer.

It did not seem to matter much. The stranger sat
there calmly, proudly unconscious of all that was said
about her. Pretty ! — the epithet was well within the
mark. Beautiful, rather — magnificently, splendidly
beautiful, with a noble presence and almost queenly air.
Her small, exquisitely-proportioned head, crowned with
a coronet of deep chestnut hair, was well poised upon a
long, slender neck; she had a refined, aristocratic face,
with clear-cut features, a well-shaped, aquiline nose,
with slender nostrils ; a perfect mouth, great lustrous
dark eyes, with brows and lashes rather darker than

her hair. Her teeth were perfect — perhaps she knew
it, for her lower lip hung down a little, constantly displaying
their pearly whiteness, and adding somewhat
to the decided outline of the firm well-rounded chin.

Seated, her beauty claimed attention; but her appearance
was still more attractive when she stood up and
moved across the room, to take her seat at the piano.
Her figure was tall and commanding, full, yet faultless
in outline, as that of one in the prime of ripe, rich
womanhood, and its perfect proportions were fully set
off by her close-fitting but perfectly plain black dress.

A little hum of approval greeted her from this well-bred
audience as she sat down and swept her fingers
with a flourish over the keys. Then, without further
prelude, she sang a little French song in a pleasing,
musical voice, without much compass, but well trained ;
before the applause ended she broke into a Spanish
ballad, tender and passionate, which gained her still
greater success ; and thus accepted and approved
amidst continual cries of "Brava!" and "Encore!" she
was not allowed to leave her seat until she had sung at
least a dozen times.

When she arose from the piano Lady Essendine went
up to her, patronising and gracious.

u Oh ! thank you so much. I don't know when I
have heard anything so charming."

Other ladies followed suit, and, amidst the general
cries of approval, the beautiful singer was engaged a
dozen deep to sing at other great houses in the town.

Presently they pressed her to perform again. Was
she not paid for it ? No one. Lady Essendine least of
all, thought for one moment of her 'protegee's fatigue,
and the poor singer might have worked on till she
fainted from exhaustion had not the son of the house
interposed.

You must be tired, mademoiselle," said Lord Loadstone,
coming up to the piano. " Surely you would
like a little refreshment ? Let me take you to the tea-rooms''
and, offering his arm, he led her away, despite
his mother's black looks and frowns of displeasure.

Lydstone is so impulsive," she whispered to the first
confidant she could find. It was Colonel Wilderss, one
of the family — a poor relation, in fact, commonly called
by them " Cousin Bill" — a hale, hearty, middle-aged
man, with grey hair he was not ashamed of. but erect
and vigorous, with a soldierly air. " I wish he would
not advertise himself with such a person in this way."

a A monstrously handsome person ! " cried the blunt
soldier, evidently cordially endorsing Lord Lydstone's
taste.

"That's not the question, Colonel Wilderss; it was
not my son's place to take her to the tea-room, and I
am much annoyed. Will you, to oblige me, go and tell
Lydstone I want to speak to him ? "

Cousin Bill, docile and obsequious, hurried off to
execute her ladyship's commission. He found the pair
chatting pleasantly together in a corner of the deserted
tea-room, and delivered his message.

Oh, bother ! " cried Lord Lydstone undutifully.
What can mother want with me ? "

You had better go to her," said the colonel, who
was a little afraid of his cousin, the female head of the
house. " I will take your place here — that is to say, if
mademoiselle will permit me."

Madame," corrected Lord Lydstone, who had been
already put right himself. " Let me introduce you.
Madame Cyprienne — my cousin, Colonel Wilderss, of the
Royal Rangers. I hope we shall hear you sing again
to-night, unless you are too tired."

I shall do whatever miladi wishes," said Madame
Cyprienne, in a deep but musical voice, with a slight
foreign accent. "It is for her to command, me to
obey. She has been very kind, you know," she went
on to Colonel Wilderss, who had taken Lydstone's .seat
by her side. " But for her I should have starved."

Dear me ! how sad," said the colonel. (l Was it so
bad as that ? How did it happen. Was M. Cyprienne
unlucky ? "

She did not answer ; and the colonel, wondering,
looked up, to find her fine eyes filled with tears.

How stupid of me ! What an idiot I am ! Of
course, your husband is "

She pointed to her black dress, edged with crape, but
said nothing.

Yes, yes ! I quite understand. Pray forgive me,"
stammered the colonel, and there followed an awkward
pause.

VOL. I. D

a

"Mine is a sad story' she said at length, in
sorrowful tone. "I was left suddenly alone, unprotected,
without resources, in this strange country — to
fight my own battle, to earn a crust of bread by my own
exertions, or starve."

"Dear, dear ! " said the colonel, his sympathies fully
aroused.

<e I should have starved, but for Lady Essendine. She
heard of me. I was trying to dispose of some lace —
some very old Spanish point. You are a judge of lace,
monsieur ? "

Of course, of course ! * said the colonel, although,
as a matter of fact, he did not know Spanish point from
common cru.

This was some lace that had been in our family for
generations. You must understand we were not always
as you see me — poor; we belong to the old nobility.
My husband was highly born, but when he died I
dropped the title and became Madame Cyprienne. It
was better, don't you think ? "

"Perhaps so; I am not sure' replied the colonel,
hardly knowing what to say.

It was. The idea of a countess a pauper, begging
her bread!"

What was your title, may I ask ? " inquired the
colonel, eagerly. These tender confidences, accompanied
by an occasional encouraging glance from her
bright eyes, were rapidly increasing the interest he took
in her.

tc I am the Countess de Saint Clair," replied Madame
Cyprienne, proudly; "but I do not assume the title
now. I do not choose it to be known that I live by
singing, and by selling the remnants of our family
lace."

I hope Lady Essendine paid you a decent price'
said the colonel, pleasantly.

Madame Cyprienne shook her head, with a little
laugh —

She has been very kind — exceedingly kind — but
she knows how to drive a bargain : all women do."

What a shame ! And have you sold it all ? You
had better entrust me with the disposal of the rest."

Oh ! Colonel Wilderss, I could not think of giving
you so much trouble."

But I will ; I should like to. Send it to me. . My
chambers are in Ryder Street ; or, better still, I will
call for it if you will tell me where," said the colonel,
artfully.

I am lodging in a very poor place, not at all such
as the Countess de Saint Clair should receive in. But
I am not ashamed of it; it is in Frith Street, Soho,
No. 29a ; but I do not think you ought to come there."

A. most delightful part of the town," said the
colonel, who at the moment would have approved of
Whitechapel or the New Cut. " When shall I call ? "

In the afternoon. In the morning I am engaged in
giving lessons. But come, we have lingered here long
enough. Miladi will expect me to sing again."

D 2

Lady Essendine frowned at Cousin Bill when he
brought back her singer; but whether it was at the length
of the talk, or the withdrawal of her protegee from the
duties for which she was paid, her ladyship did not condescend
to explain. It was a little of both. She was
pleased to have hindered her son from paying marked
attention to a person in Madame Cyprienne's doubtful
position. Now she found that person exercising her
fascinations upon Colonel Wilderss, and it annoyed her,
although Cousin Bill was surely old enough to take care
of himself. Already she was changing her opinion concerning
the fair singer she had introduced into the
London world. She could not fail to notice the admiration
Madame Cyprienne generally received, especially
from the men, and she doubted whether she had done
wisely in taking her by the hand.

A few days later she had no doubt at all. To her
disgust, all the old Spanish point-lace was gone ; and
Madame Cyprienne had told her plainly that it was her
own fault for haggling over the price. Her ladyship's
disgust was heightened when she found the best piece
of all — a magnificent white mantilla — in the possession
of a rival leader of fashion, who refused to say where
she had got it, or how.

She set her emissaries at work, however — for every
great London lady has a dozen devoted, unpaid attaches,
ready to do any little commission of this kind — and the
lace was traced back to Colonel Wilderss.

u My dear," she said, one morning, to her lord, " I

am afraid Colonel Wilderss is very intimate with that
Madame Cyprienne."

lt Our eccentric Cousin Bill ! You don't say so ?
Well, there's no fool like an old fool," said Lord Essendine,
who was a very matter-of-fact, plain-spoken peer.

I always thought she was an adventuress," cried
Lady Essendine, angrily.

Then why did you take her up so hotly ? But for
you, no one would ever have heard of the woman, least
of all Cousin Bill."

Well, I have done with her now. I shall drop
hera

The mischief's done. Unless I am much mistaken,
she won't drop Cousin Bill."

Lord Essendine, who was, perhaps, behind the scenes,
was not wrong in his estimate of the influence Madame
Cyprienne exercised. Before six months were out,
Colonel Wilderss came, with rather a sheepish air, to the
head of the house, and informed him of his approaching
marriage to the Countess de Saint Clair.

That's a new title to me, Bill. Foreign, I suppose
? " Lord Essendine had the usual contempt of the
respectable Briton for titles not mentioned in Debrett
or Burke.

It's French, I fancy ; and for the moment it is in
abeyance. Madame Cyprienne tells me "

Gracious powers, William Wilderss ! have you
fallen into that woman's clutches ? "

I must ask you, Lord Essendine, to speak more respectfully
of the lady I propose to make my wife."

a You had better not ! I warn you while there is yet
time."

What do you know against her V asked the colonel,
hotly.

What do you know of or for her ? " replied the
peer, quickly. " I tell you, man, it's a disgrace to the
family. Lady Essendine will be furious. If I had any
authority over you I would forbid the marriage. In
any case," he went on, " do not look for any countenance
or support from me."

I hope we shall be able to get on without your
assistance, Lord Essendine. I thought it my duty to
inform you of my marriage, and I think I might have
been better received."

Stay, you idiot ; don't go off in a huff. I don't like
the match, I tell you frankly ; but I don't want to
quarrel. Is there anything 1 can do for you, except
attending the wedding ? I won't do that."

Colonel Wilderss could not bring himself to ask any
favours of his unsympathetic kinsman. Nevertheless,
it was through Lord Essendine's interest that he obtained
a snug staff appointment in one of the large
garrison towns ; and he did not return indignantly the
very handsome cheque paid in by his cousin to his
account as a wedding present.

He was still serving at Chatsworth, his young and

beautiful wife the life of the gay garrison, when the
war-clouds gathered dark upon the horizon, and, thanks
again to the Essendine interest, he found himself transferred,
still on the staff, to the expeditionary army
under orders for the East.

CHAPTER V.

THE WAE FEVER.

They were stirring times, those early days of '54, After
half a century of peace the shadow of a great contest
loomed dark and near. The whole British nation, sick
and tired of Russian double-dealing, was eager to cut
the knot of political difficulty with the sword. Everyone
was mad to fight ; only a few optimists, statesmen
mostly, still relying on the sedative processes of diplomacy,
had any hopes of averting war. A race reputed
peace-loving, but most pugnacious when roused, was
stirred now to its very depths. British hearts beat
high throughout the length and breadth of the land,
proudly mindful of their former prowess and manfully
hopeful of emulating former glorious deeds.

It was the same wherever Englishmen gathered under
the old flag ; in every corner of the world peopled by
offshoots from the old stock, most of all in those strongholds

and dependencies beyond sea captured in the old
wars, and still held by our arms.

It was so upon the great Rock, the commonly counted
impregnable fortress, one of the ancient pillars of Hercules
that still stands silently strong and watchful at
the mouth of the Mediterranean Sea.

Nowhere did the war fever rage higher than at
Gibraltar. Before everything, a garrison town, battlemented
and fortified on every side, resonant from morning
gunfire till watch-setting with martial sounds, its
principal pageants military, with soldiers filling its
streets, and sentinels at every corner, the prospect of
active service was naturally the one theme and topic of
the place.

As spring advanced, one of those balmy-scented
Southern springs when flowers highly prized with us
blossomed wild everywhere, even in the fissures of the
rock — when the days are already long and bright,
under ever-blue and cloudless skies, Gibraltar realised
more fully that war was close at hand. Lying in the
high road to the East, it saw daily the armed strength
of England sweep proudly by. Now a squadron of men-of-war
: not the hideous, shapeless ironclad of to-day,
but the traditional three-decker, with its tiers of snarling
teeth and its beauty of white-bellying canvas and
majestic spar. Now a troopship with its consorts, two,
or three, or more, tightly packed with their living
cargo — whole regiments of red-coated soldiers on their
way to Malta and beyond.

Such sights as these kept the garrison — friends and
comrades of those bound eastward — in a state of constant
high-pitched excitement. At first, forbidden by-strict
quarantine, there was no communication between
the sea and the shore, but all day long there were
crowds of idlers ready to line the sea-wall and greet
every ship that came in close enough with hearty repeated
cheers. When the vexatious health-rules were
relaxed, and trophies landed some of their passengers,
there was endless fraternisation, eager discussion of
coming operations, and unlimited denunciation of the
common foe.

Members of the garrison itself were, of course, frantically
jealous of all who had the better luck to belong
to the expeditionary force. That they were not under
orders for the East was the daily burden of complaint
in every barrack-room and guard-house upon the Rock.
The British soldier is an inveterate grumbler ; he quarrels
perpetually with his quarters, his food, his clothing,
and his general want of luck. Just now the bad luck of
being refused a share in an arduous campaign, with its
attendant chances of hardships, sufferings, perhaps a
violent death, made every soldier condemned to remain
in safety at Gibraltar discontented and sore at heart.

u No orders for us by the last mail, Hyde'' said a
young sergeant of the Royal Picts, as he walked briskly
up to the entrance of the Waterport Guard.

A tall, well-grown, clean-limbed young fellow of
twenty-four or five : one who prided himself on being a

smart soldier, and fully deserved the name. He was
admirably turned out ; his coatee with wings, showing
that he belonged to one of the flank companies, fitted
him to perfection ; the pale blue trousers, the hideous
fashion of the day, for which Prince Albert was said to
be responsible, were carefully cut ; his white belts were
beautifully pipe-clayed, and the use of pipe-clay was at
that time an art ; you could see your face in the polish
of his boots. A smart soldier, and as fine-looking
a young fellow as wore the Queen's uniform in 1854.
He had an open, honest face, handsome withal ; clear
bright grey eyes, broad forehead, and a firm mouth and
chin.

u Worrying yourself, as usual, for permission to have
your throat cut. Can't you bide your time, Sergeant
McKay?"

The answer came from another sergeant of the same
regiment, an elder, sterner man — a veteran evidently,
for he wore two medals for Indian campaigns, and his
bronzed, weather-beaten face showed that he had seen
service in many climes. As a soldier he was in no wise
inferior to his comrade : his uniform and appointments
were as clean and correct, but he lacked the extra
polish — the military dandyism, so to speak — of the
younger man.

War is our regular trade. Isn't it natural we
should want to be at it 1" said Sergeant McKay.

You talk like a youngster who doesn't know what
it's like," replied Sergeant Hyde. u I've seen something

of campaigning, and it's rough work at the best,
even in India, where soldiers are as well off as officers
here."

"Officers!" said McKay, rather bitterly. "They
have the best of it everywhere."

Hush ! don't be an insubordinate young idiot'
interposed his comrade, hastily. " Here come two of
them'

The sergeants sprang hastily to their feet, and,
standing strictly to attention, saluted their superiors in
proper military form.

That's what I hate," went on McKay.

Then you are no true soldier, and don't know what
proper discipline means. They are as much bound to
salute us as we them."

"Yes, but they don't."

That's their want of manners ; so much the worse
for them. Besides, I am quite sure Mr. Wilderss didn't
mean it; he is far too good an officer — always civil-spoken,
too, and considerate to the men."

"I object to saluting him more than any one else."

Why, McKay ! what's the matter with you ? What
particular fault have you to find with Mr. Wilderss ? '

I am just as good as he is."

In your own opinion, perhaps ; not in that of this
garrison — certainly not under the Mutiny Act and Articles
of War."

I am just as good. I am his cousin "

Sergeant McKay stopped suddenly, bit his lip, and
flushed very red.

So you have let the cat out of the bag at last, my
young friend' said Sergeant Hyde, quietly. " I always
thought this — that you were a gentleman "

Superior to my station, in fact."

By no means, Sergeant McKay. I should be sorry
to admit that any man, however highly born, had lost
his right to be deemed a gentleman because he is a sergeant
in the Royal Picts."

You, Hyde, are a gentleman too. I am sure of
that."

I am a sergeant in the Royal Picts. That is enough
for me and for you."

"Why did you enlist?"

Hyde shook his head gravely.

There are pages in every man's life," he said,
"which he does not care to lift again when they are
once turned down. I have not asked you for your
secret ; respect mine."

But I have nothing to conceal," said McKay,
quickly. " I am ready enough to tell you why I
enlisted."

As you please ; but, mind, I have not asked you."

There was little encouragement in this speech ; but
McKay ignored it, and went on —

'' I enlisted because I could not enter the army in any
other way. My friends could not afford to purchase mea

commission."

Why were you so wild to become a soldier ? "

"It was my father's profession. He was a captain
in "

That should have given you a claim for an ensigncy,
as an officer's son."

But my father was not in the English service. He
was only half an Englishman, really."

Indeed ! How so ? "

Although Scotch by extraction, as our name will tell
you, my father was born in Poland. He was a Russian
subject, and as such was compelled to serve in the
Russian army."

For long ? "

Until he was mixed in an unfortunate national
movement, and .only escaped execution by flight. He
lived afterwards at Geneva. It was there he met my
mother."

Is it through him or her that you are related to the
Wilderss ? »

Through my mother. She was daughter of the
Honourable Anastasius, son of the twelfth earl."

And what might be the distinguishing numeral of
the present Essendine potentate ? "

He is fourteenth earl'

Then he and your mother are first cousins ? "

Quite so ; and I am his first cousin once removed."

Ah ! that is very nice for you," said old Hyde, with a
tinge of contempt in his tone. " They're not much use to
you though, these fine relations. Surely Lord Essendine

could have got you a commission by holding up his
hand ? "

rt That's just what he would not do, and why I hate
him and the whole of the Wilderss family. Lord Essendine
has never recognised us."

Why ? Is there any reason ? "

<( The Honourable Anastasius made a poor match,
married against his father's wish, and was cut off with
a shilling. His brother, the next earl, was disposed to
make it up, but my grandfather died, and my grandmother
married again — an honest sea-captain — and the
noble peer cut her dead""

And so you joined the Royal Picts. But I wonder
you came to this regiment to serve with your cousin."

I enlisted, you know, a couple of years before he
was gazetted to the corps."

,f Do they know you took the shilling ? — that you
are now a colour-sergeant in the Royal Picts ? '

I don't think they are aware of my existence even."

Well, never mind. Don't be cast down. The time
may come when they will be proud to recognise you. It
all depends upon yourself ? "

"I will do all I know to force them, you may be

sure."

And you will have your chance, in a great war like
this which is coming. Everything is possible to a man
whose heart is in the right place. You have pluck and
spirit."

The young fellow's eyes flashed.

Trust me, Hyde j I shan't flinch, if I only get the

chance."

' You are well educated ; you can draw ; you have
picked up Spanish since you have been here; and I
suppose you inherit a taste for languages from your
Polish father?"

I don t know j at any rate, I can talk French fluently,
and I speak Russian of course."

Why, man ! the game is positively in your own
hands. You are bound to get on : mark my words."

Not if we stay here, Hyde, keeping guard upon this
old Rock and losing all the fun. Can you wonder why
I am so anxious the regiment should get the route ? '

"It will come, never fear. They will want every
soldier that carries a musket before this war is over, or
I'm a much-mistaken man. Only have patience."

How can I ? I am eating my heart out, Hyde."

"Was it to tell me this you came down here ? What
brings you to Waterport this morning ? Only to gossip

with me ? "

That, and something more. I am on duty, detailed
as orderly sergeant to one of the Expeditionary Generals ;
he is just going to land from a yacht in the bay."

Do you know his name ? "

Yes, Wilderss — another of my fine cousins. You can
understand now why I am so bitter against my relations
to-day : there are too many of them about."

I suppose that is what's brought our Mr. Wilderss
here to-day — to meet his cousin."

u And his brother ; for they are on board Lord Loadstone's
yacht."

They ! How many of them ? "

General Wilderss has his wife with him, I believe,
accompanying him to the East."

te Old idiot ! Why couldn't he leave her at home ?
Women are in the way at these times. Soldiers have
no business with wives."

That's why you never married, I suppose ? "

Hyde did not answer his question, but got up and left
his comrade abruptly, to re-enter the guard-room.

VOL. I. E

CHAPTER VI.

ON DANGEROUS GROUND.

The Arcadia, Lord Lydstone's yacht, was a fine three-master
schooner of a couple of hundred tons. She was
lying far out in the bay, amidst a. crowd of shipping
of every kind — coal-hulks, black and grimy; H.M.S.
Samarang, receiving-ship, and home of the captain of
the port ; British vessels, steamers and sailing-ships, of
every rig ; foreign craft of every aspect native to its
waters : zebecques, faluchas, and moluccas, with their
curved spars and heavy lateen sails.

A fleet of small boats surrounded the yacht, native
boats of curious build, and manned by dark-skinned
natives of the Rock, in nondescript attire — a noisy,
pushing, quarrelsome lot, eager to do business, gesticulating
wildly, and jabbering loudly in many strange
tongues. Here was a pure Spaniard, with a red sash

round his waist, and a velvet cap, round as a cart-wheel,
on his head, with a boastful of vegetables and
early fruit. There was a grave and sedate Moor, in
green turban and white flowing robes, with an assortment
of gold-braided slippers and large brass trays.
Next a Maltese milk-seller, in scanty garments, nothing
but short canvas trousers and a shirt, who had come
with cans full of goats-milk from the herds he kept on
the barren slopes of the Rock. Not far off was the
galley of the health-officer, with a crew of " scorpion"
boatmen in neat white jackets and straw hats.

On the deck of the yacht, under an awning — for the
spring sun already beat down hotly at noon — were the
owner and his guests. Lord Lydstone, cigar in mouth,
lounged lazily upon a heap of rugs and cushions at the
feet of Mrs. Wilderss, who took her ease luxuriantly, ina
comfortable cane arm-chair.

Blanche Cyprienne, Countess of St. Clair, had changed
little since her marriage. Her beauty had gained rather
than lost ; her manner was more commanding, her look
more haughty. Her fine eyes flashed insolently, or were
veiled in lazy disdain, and her voice spoke scornfully or
drawled with careless contempt, according to her mood.

So that is the Rock — the great Rock of Gibraltar,"
she was saying. " What an extraordinary-looking
place !"

You will say so, Countess, when you get on shore'
said Lord Lydstone.

E 2

-TN ' ir

"Is there anything really to see V she asked. "Is
it worth the trouble of landing V

Why, of course ! I thought it was all settled. The
general sent some hours ago to say he proposed to paj^
his respect to the Governor. You cannot help yourself

now."

a

Oh ! the general' remarked Mrs. Wilderss, as she
was generally styled — the title Countess was only used
by intimate friends — in a tone that implied she was not
at all bound by her husband's plans.

"Where is the good man just now ?" inquired Lord
Lydstone, in much the same tone.

There, forward' said Mrs. Wilderss, pointing to the
part of the deck beyond the awning. " Trying to get a
sunstroke by walking about with his head bare."

"He does that on principle, Countess, don't you
know. He wants to harden his cranium, in case he
loses his hat some day in action."

I hope he may never go into action. If he does, I
should be sorry for his men."

Not for him ? "

That may be taken for granted," she replied, in a
matter-of-fact way.

How fond you are of him ! What devoted affection
! It's lucky you have little to spare ! "

I keep it for the proper person."

"Is there none for his relatives?" asked Lydstone,
with a meaning look.

c< Do any of them deserve my affection ?"

I try very hard, Countess ; and I should so value
the smallest crumb."

Don't be foolish, Lord Lydstone ! you must not try
to make love to me ; it would be wrong. Besides, weare
too nearly connected now."

You never throw me a single kind word, Blanche."

Certainly not. I won't have it on my conscience
that I led you astray, poor innocent lamb ! A fine
thing ! What would your people say ? They're bitter
enough against me as it is ! "

The Essentials had never properly acknowledged
Colonel Wilderss's marriage, or treated his wife, the
foreign countess, other than with the coldest contempt.
Lord Lydstone knew this, and knew too that his mother
was right ; yet he could not defend her when " this
woman, whom he admired still — too much, indeed, for
his peace of mind — resented her treatment.

"Your mother has behaved disgracefully to me —
that you must admit, Lord Lydstone."

She is an old-fashioned, old-world lady, with peculiar
straitlaced notions of her own. But, if you please,
we won't talk about her."

{i Why not ? You cannot pretend that she was right
in ignoring me, flouting me, insulting me ! Am I not
your near relative's wife ? Why, Bill is only four off
the title now."

One of them being your humble servant, who devoutly
hopes that all four will long interpose between

him and the succession' said Lord Lydstone, with a
pleasant laugh.

I don't wish you any harm, of course ; still it is as
I say, and my son "

Aged two, and at present in England at nurse."

— May be the future Earl of Essendine."

He shan't be, if I can prevent it ! " cried Lord Loadstone,
gaily ; " you may rely on that. But, I say, here
is a smart gig coming off from the shore. I believe the
Governor has sent his own barge for you. Here, Bill !
I say, Bill ! "

General Wilderss came aft.

You had better put on your best clothes, general ;
they are coming to fetch you in state."

ct I suppose, on this occasion only, you will wear a
hat, Bill ?" said Mrs. Wilderss.

u I wish you would go down and get ready, my dear ;
we ought not to keep the gig' said the general, as he
himself went below to dress.

I am not so sure I shall go on shore at all," replied
his wife.

"No!" cried Lord Lydstone. " Throw the general
over, and stay on board with me'

That would be too great penance," said Mrs.
Wilderss, as she moved towards the companion-ladder.
Fve had enough of your lordship for one day."

Lydstone got up, looking rather vexed, and followed
her across the deck. When he was quite close to her side
he whispered with suppressed but manifest feeling —

cc

Why do you torture me so ? Sometimes I think
you care for me ; sometimes that you hate and detest
me. What am I think ? "

What you choose," she answered, in a low, quick
voice, evidently much displeased. " I have given you
no right to speak to me in this way. Let me pass, or I
shall appeal to my lawful protector !"

Presently Mrs. Wilderss reappeared, dressed to perfection
in some cool light fabric, serene and smiling
to every one but Lord Lydstone. She was especially
gracious to young Mr. Wilderss, who had come off in
the Governor's gig, and had been cordially welcomed
by his brother.

Another cousin," said the general, introducing him.
He was now in uniform — the general — in uniform to
suit his own fancy rather than the regulations. The
only orthodox articles of apparel were his twisted general's
scimitar and a forage-cap with a broad gold band.
His coat and waistcoat were of white cloth ; he had a
wide crimson sash round his waist, and his lower limbs
were encased in hunting-breeches and long boots.
Anastasius, one of the Royal Picts."

All soldiers, you Wilderss, all — except one." This
was specially intended to annoy Lydstone. " The future
head of the house is kept in cotton-wool; he is too
precious, I suppose, to be risked."

It is not my fault," began Lydstone. It was a sore
point with him that he had not been permitted — in deference
to his mother's fond protests — to enter the army.

Are you not coming with us, Lydstone ? " said his
young brother, greatly disappointed. " I did want to
show you our mess."

'■ I know Gibraltar by heart, and I have letters to
write. I hope you will enjoy yourself, Countess' he
added, sarcastically, as they went down the side.

There's no fear of that, now we have left you
behind," replied Mrs. Wilderss, sharply.

Why can't you and Lydstone keep better friends ? n
said General Wilderss, a little shocked at this remark.

1 ' It's his fault, not mine, and that's enough about it,"
replied Mrs. Wilderss, rather petulantly. " Did you ever
quarrel with your brother," she went on to Anastasius,
when you were boys ? "

I would not have dared. Not that I wanted to : we
three brothers were always the best of friends."

u You are an affectionate family, Mr. Wilderss ; I have
long been convinced of that," said Mrs. Wilderss, who
could not leave the subject alone.

But now the gig, impelled by six stout oarsmen, was
nearing the Waterport Guard, and was already under
the shadow of the frowning batteries of the Devil's
Tongue. High above them rose the sheer straight wall
of the rock, bristling with frowning fortifications, line
above line, and countless embrasures armed with heavy
artillery.

The wharf itself was crowded with the usual motley
polyglot gathering — sailors of all nations, soldiers of
the garrison, Spanish peasants from the neighbouring

villages, native scorpions, policemen, and inspectors of
strangers.

How amusing ! How interesting ! It's like a scene
in a play ! " cried Mrs. Wilderss, as she stepped ashore.

Escorted by her husband and cousin, they pushed
their way through the crowd towards the Waterport
gateway, and under it into the main ditch. As they
approached there was a cry of " Guard, turn out ! " and
the Waterport Guard, under its officer, fell in with
open ranks to give the general a salute. General
Wilderss acknowledged the compliment, and, while he
stood there with two fingers to his hat, Sergeant McKay
advanced and reported himself.

Your orderly, sir."

u Eh ! what ? " said the general, a little surprised.
a My orderly ! Very considerate of Sir Thomas' he
went on. " One of the Royal Picts, too, and a guard
from the same regiment ! Most attentive, I'm sure ! "

The general went up at once to the front rank of the
guard, and proceeded to inspect the men carefully.
With his own hands he altered the hang of the knapsacks
and the position of the belts; he measured in the
regular way, with two fingers, the length of the pouch
below the elbow, grumbling to himself as he went
along.

So you use harness-blacking for your pouches. I
don't approve of that. And your pipeclay ; it's got too
blue a tinge."

While he lingered thus fondly over the trifling details

a,

that, to his mind, summed up the whole duty of
general officer, his wife's voice was heard impatiently
calling him to her side.

Come, general, don't be all day ! How can you
waste time over such nonsense ! "

My dear," said her husband, gravely, as he rejoined
her, ' c this regiment is to form part of my brigade " —
McKay pricked up his ears — " it is the first time I have
seen any of it. You must allow me "

"I am going on into the town; inspecting guards
doesn't amuse me," and the general discreet abandoned
his professional duties and walked on by her side.

The guard was dismissed by its commander; the men
"lodged arms" and went back to the guard-room. Only
Sergeant Hyde remained outside, watching the retreating
figures of the Wilderss' party.

I should have known her voice again amongst a
thousand'' said the old sergeant, shaking his head;
and from the glimpse I caught of her she seemed but
little changed. I wonder whether she saw me. Not
that she would have recognised me ; I am not what I
was. No one here has made me out, although a dozen
years ago I was well known all over the Rock. Besides,
how could she see me ? I was on the other flank, and,
fortunately, she left the general to inspect us by himself.
Poor man ! I had rather be a sergeant — a private even
than stand in that general's shoes'

CHAPTER VII.

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.

The Wilderss' party, after leaving the Waterport, passed
through the Casemate Barrack Square and entered
Waterport Street, the chief thoroughfare of the town.
It was a narrow, unpretending street, very foreign in
aspect ; the houses tall and overhanging with balconies
filled with flowers ; the lattice-shutters gaily painted,
having outside blinds of brilliantly striped stuffs.

The shop fronts were small, the wares common-place ;
the best show was at the drapers, where they sold
British calicoes and piece-goods in flaunting colours, calculated
to suit the local taste.

The street, both pavement and roadway, was crowded.
In the former were long strings of pack-horses bringing

in straw and charcoal from Spain; small stout donkeys
laden with water-barrels ; officers, some in undress
uniform, many more in plain clothes, riding long-tailed
barbs ; occasionally a commissariat wagon drawn by a
pair of sleek mules, or a high-hooded caleche, with its
driver seated on the shafts, cut through the throng.
Detachments of troops, too, marched by : recruits returning
from drill upon the North Front, armed parties,
guards coming off duty, and others going on fatigue —
all these cleared the street before them. On the pavement
the crowd was as diverse as might be expected,
from the mixed population. Stately Moors rubbed
elbows with stalwart British soldiers; Barbary Jews,
dejected in mien, but with shrewd, cunning eyes,
chaffered with the itinerant vendors of freshly caught
sardines, or the newly-picked fruit of the prickly pear.
Now and again, quite out of keeping with her surroundings,
a rosy-cheeked British nursemaid passed by
escorting her charges — the blue-eyed, flaxen-haired
children of the dominant race.

General Wilderss walked along with head erect, returning
punctiliously the innumerable salutes he received,
quite happy, and in his element in this essentially
military post and stronghold. Mrs. Wilderss
seemed also to enjoy the busy, animated scene : it was
all so new to her, so different from anything she had
expected, as she was at great pains to explain. The
sight of this foreign town held by British bayonets

pleased her, she said ; she was proud to think that she
was now an Englishwoman.

It is your first visit to Gibraltar, then ? " said young
Mr. Wilderss, anxious to be civil.

Oh, yes ! " she replied ; " that is why I am so interested
— so amused by all I see."

Was this absolutely true ? She seemed, as she led
the way across the casemate square and up Waterport
Street, to know the road without guidance, and once or
twice a passer-by paused to look at her. Were they
only paying tribute to her radiant beauty, or was her's
not altogether an unfamiliar face ?

It was evident that there were those at Gibraltar who
knew her, or mistook her for some one else.

As the party reached the Commercial Square, and
the main guard, like that at Waterport, turned our todo
honour to the general, a man pushed forward from a
little group that stood respectfully behind the party,
and whispered hoarsely in Mrs. Wilderss's ear —

Bios mio ! Cyprian ! Es used ? " (Gracious Heavens
! Cyprienne ! Is it you ? )

Mrs. Wilderss stopped and looked round. At that
moment, too, young Wilderss turned angrily on the mana
black-muzzled, Spanish-looking fellow, dressed ina
suit of coarse brown cloth, short jacket, knee-breeches,
and leather gaiters — the dress, in fact, of a well-to-do
Spanish peasant — and said, sharply, ' l How dare you
speak to this lady ? What did he say to you, Mrs.
Wilderss — anything rude ? "

Mrs. Wilderss had recovered herself sufficiently to
reply in an unconcerned tone —

I did not understand his jargon; but it does not
matter in the least ; don't make any fuss, I beg."

The incident had been unobserved by any but these
two, and it must have been speedily forgotten by young
Wilderssss, for he said nothing more. But Mrs. Wilderssss,
as they passed on, and for the rest of their walk to the
Convent, as the Governor's residence is still styled,
looked anxiously behind to see if the man who had
claimed acquaintance with her was still in sight.

Yes ; he was following her. What did he mean ?

Half an hour later, when the Wilderss had made their
bow to the Governor, and it had been arranged that the
general should attend an inspection of troops upon the
North Front, Mrs. Wilderss declined to accept the seat
in the carriage offered her. She preferred, she said, to
explore the quaint old town. Mr. Wilderss and one of
the Governor's aides-decamp eagerly volunteered to
escort, but she declined.

ie Many thanks, but I'd rather go alone. I shall be
more independent."

You'll lose your way ; or be arrested by the garrison
police and taken before the town major as a suspicious
character, loitering too near the fortifications,"
said the Governor, who thought it a capital joke.

No one will interfere with me, I think," she replied,
quietly. " I am quite able to take care of myself."

She looked it just then, with her firm-set lips and
flashing eyes.

u Mrs. Wilder s will have her own way," said her husband.
" It's best to give in to her. That's what I've
found," he added, with a laugh, in which all joined.

When the horses were brought out for the parade,
Mrs. Wilderss, still persisting in her intention of walking
alone, said, gaily —

Well, gentlemen, while you are playing at soldiers
I shall go off on my own devices. If I get tired, Bill, I
shall go back to the yacht."

And with this Mrs. Wilderss walked off.

u Here, sergeant ! ?' cried the general to his orderly,
McKay. "I don't want you; you may be of use to
Mrs. Wilderss. Go after her."

iC Shall I report myself to her, sir ? "

I don't advise you, my man. She'd send you about
your business double-quick. But you can keep your
eye on her, and see she comes to no harm."

Sergeant McKay saluted and hastened out of the
courtyard. Mrs. Wilderss had already disappeared down
Convent Lane, and was just turning into the main
street. McKay followed quickly, keeping her in sight.

It was evident that the best part of Gibraltar had no
charms for Mrs. Wilderss ; she did not want to look into
the shop windows, such as they were ; nor did she
pause to admire the architectural beauties of the Garrison
Library or other severely plain masterpieces of
our military engineers. Her course was towards the

upper town, and she pressed on with quick, unfaltering
steps, as though she knew every inch of the ground.

Ten minutes' sharp walking, sometimes by steep
lanes, sometimes up long flights of stone steps, brought
her to the upper road leading to the Moorish castle.
This was essentially a native quarter ; Spanish was the
only language heard from the children who swarmed
about the doorways, or their slatternly mothers quarreling
over their washtubs, or combing out and cleansing,
in a manner that will not bear description, their
children's hair. Spanish colour prevailed, and Spanish
smells.

Still pursuing her way without hesitation, Mrs.
Wilderss presently turned up another steep alley bearing
the historic name of " Red Hot Shot Ramp," and
paused opposite a gateway leading into a dirty courtyard.
The place was a kind of livery or bait stable
patronised by muleteers and gipsy dealers, who brought
in horses from Spain.

Picking her steps carefully, Mrs. Wilderss entered the
stable-yard.

Benito Yillegas ? " she asked in fluent Spanish, of
the ostler, who stared with open-mouthed surprise at
this apparition of a fine lady in such a dirty locality.

u Benito, the commission agent and guide ? Yes,
sehora, he is with his horses inside," replied the ostler,
pointing to the stable-door.

Call him, then ! " cried Mrs. Wilderss, imperiously.
Think you that I will cross the threshold of your

piggery ? -' and she waited, stamping her foot impatiently
whilst the man did her bidding.

In another minute he came out with Benito Villages,
the man in the brown suit, who had spoken to Mrs.
Wilderss in the Commercial Square.

Cyprian," he began at once, in a half-coaxing,
half-apologetic tone.

Silence ! Answer my questions, or I will thrash
you with your own whip. How dared you intrude yourself
upon me to-day ? "

Forgive me ! I was so utterly amazed. I thought
some bright vision had descended from above, sent,
perhaps, by the Holy Virgin " — he crossed himself devoutly
— (t I could not believe it was you.'"'

Thanks ! I am not an angel from heaven, I know,
but let that pass. Answer me ! How dared you speak
to me to-day ? "

The sight of you awoke old memories ; once again
I worshipped you — your shadow — the ground on which
you trod. I thought of how you once returned my
love."

Miserable cur ! I never stooped so low'

"You would have been mine but for that cursed
Englishman who came between us, and whom you preferred.
What did you gain by listening to him ? He
lured you from your home "

No more ! The villain met with his deserts. He is
dead — dead these years — and with him all my old life,

VOL. I. F

That is what brings me here. Attend now, Benito
Villegas, to what I say ! "

I am listening," he answered, cowering before her,
and in a tone of mingled fear and passion. It was
evident this strange woman exercised an extraordinary
influence over him.

Never again must you presume to recognise me — to
address me, anywhere. If you do, take care ! I am a
great lady now — the wife of an English general. I have
great influence, much power, and can do what I please
with such scum as you. I have been with my husband
just now to the Convent, the palace of the Governor,
and I have but to ask to obtain your immediate expulsion
from the Rock. Do not anger or oppose me, manor
beware ! J '

Benito looked at her with increasing awe.

Obey my behests, on the other hand, and I will
reward you. Ask any favour ! Money ? " — she quickly
took out a little purse and handed him a ten-pound
note — "here is an earnest of what I will give you.
Interest ? Do you want the good-will of the authorities
a snug appointment in the Custom-house, or under the
police ? They are jours."

u I am your slave ; I will do your bidding, and ask
nothing in return but your approval""

Nothing ! You grow singularly self-denying, Senor
Benito."

The senora will really help me ? " said Benito, now
cringing and obsequious. " One small favour, then. I

am tired of this wandering life. Here to-day in Cadiz ;
Ronda, Malaga, tomorrow. At everybody's beck and
call — never my own master, not for an hour. I want to
settle down."

To marry ? " inquired Mrs. Wilderss, contemptuously.
In your own station ? That is better ."

I have not forgotten you, senora. But the wound
was beginning to heal "

She held up her hand with a menacing gesture.

I will not deny that I have cast my eyes upon a
maiden that pleases me," Benito confessed. "I have
known her from childhood. Her friends approve of my
suit, and would accept me ; but what lot can I offer a
wife ? "

Well, how is it to be mended ? "

For a small sum — five hundred dollars — I could
purchase a share in these stables."

You shall have the money at once as a gift."

I will promise in return never to trouble you
again."

I make no conditions ; only I warn you if you ever
offend, if you ever presume "

I shall fully merit your displeasure."

Enough said!" she cut him short. " You know my
wishes; see that they are fulfilled. You shall hear from
me again. For the present, good-day."

She gathered up the skirts of her dress, turned on
her heel, and swept out of the place.

In the gateway she ran up against Serjeant McKay,

f 2

who had been hovering about the stables from the
moment he saw Mrs. Wilderss enter the courtyard. He
had seen nothing of what passed inside, and as the
interview with Benito occupied some time he had
grown uneasy. Fearing something had happened to
the general's wife, he was on the point of going in to
jook after her when he met her coming out.

You have been following me," said Mrs. Wilderss,
sharply, and jumping with all a woman's quickness at
the right conclusion. ce Who set you to spy on me ? "

1 ' I beg your pardon, madam ; I am not a spy' said
the young serjeant, formally saluting.

Don't bandy words with me. Tell me, I insist ! "

(c The general was afraid something might happen to
you. He thought you might need assistance — perhaps
lose your way."

She looked at him very keenly as he said these last
words, watching whether there was any covert satire in
them.

But M«Kay's face betrayed nothing.

How long have you been at my heels ? How much
have you seen ? "

(t I followed you from the Convent, madam, to this
door. I have seen nothing since you went in here."

(c I daresay you are wondering what brought me to
such a place. A person in whom I take a great interest,
an old woman, lives here. I knew her years ago. Psha!
why should I condescend to explain ? Look here, Mr

Sergeant" — she took out her purse and produced a
sovereign — " take this, and drink my health ! "

The sergeant flushed crimson, and drew himself up
stiffly, as he said, with another formal salute, " Madam,
you mistake ! "

Strange ! " she exclaimed, scornfully. " I thought
all soldiers liked drink. Well, keep the money ; spend
it as you like."

"I cannot take it, madam; I am paid by the Queen
to do my duty."

And you will not take a bribe to neglect it ? Very
fine, truly ! General Wilderss shall know how well you
executed his commands. But there ! — I have had
enough of this ; I wish to return to the yacht. Show
me the shortest way back to the water side. Lead on;
I will follow you."

Sergeant McKay took a short cut down the steep
steps, and soon regained the Waterport. There Mrs.
Wilderss hailed a native boat, and, without condescending
to notice the orderly further, she seated herself in
the stern-sheets and was rowed off to the Arcadia.

Chapter VIII.

A SOUTHERN PEARL.

Mariquita ! Ma— ri— kee— tai ! "

A woman's voice, shrill and quavering, with an accent
of anger that increased each time the summons was repeated.


What's come of the young vixen ? " went on the
speaker, addressing her husband, the Tio Pedro, who
sat with her behind the counter of a small tobacconist's
shop — an ugly beldame, shrunk and shrivelled, with
grey elf-locks, sunk cheeks, and parchment complexion,
looking ninety, yet little more than half that age.
Women ripen early, are soon at their prime, and fade
prematurely, under this quickening Southern sun.

The husband was older, yet better preserved, than his
wife — a large, stout man, with a fierce face and black,

baleful eyes. All cowered before him except La Zan-dung,
as they called his wife here in Bombardier Lane.
He was at her mercy — a Spaniard resident on the Rock
by permit granted to his wife — a native of Gibraltar,
and liable to be expelled at any time unless she answered
for him.

The shop and stock-in-trade were hers, not his, and
she ruled him and the whole place.

Mariquita ! " she called again and again, till at
length, overflowing with passion, she rushed from
behind the counter into the premises at the back of the
shop.

She entered a small but well-lighted room, communicating
with a few square feet of garden. At the
end was a low fence ; beyond this the roadway intervening
between the garden and the Line wall, or seaward
fortifications.

La Zandunga looked hastily round the room. It contained
half-a-dozen small low tables, drawn near the
window and open door, and at these sat a posse of girls,
busy with deft, nimble fingers, making cigarettes and
cigars. These work people were under the immediate
control of Mariquita, the mistress's niece. She was
popular with them, evidently, for no one would answer
when La Zandunga shrieked out an angry inquiry to each.

No answer was needed. There was Mariquita at the
end of the garden, gossiping across the fence with
young Sergeant McKay.

It was quite an accident, of course. The serjeant,

2 THE THIN RED LINE.

returning to his quarters from Waterport, had seen
Mariquita within, and made her a signal she could not
mistake.

u I knew you would come out," he said, pleasantly,
when she appeared, shy and shrinking, yet with a glad
light in her eyes.

<( Vasa ! what conceit ! I was seeking a flower in
the garden," she answered demurely ; but her low voice
and heightened colour plainly showed that she was
ready to come to him whenever he called — to follow
him, indeed, all over the world.

She spoke in Spanish, with its high-flown epithets
and exaggerated metaphor, a language in which Stands
McKay, from his natural aptitude and this charming
tutorship, had made excellent progress.

My life, my jewel, my pearl ! " he cried.

A pearl, indeed, incomparable and above price for all
who could appreciate the charms and graces of bright
blooming girlhood.

Mariquita Hidalgo was still in her teens — a woman fullgrown,
but with the frank, innocent face of a child. A
slender figure, tall, but well-rounded and beautifully
poised, having the free, elastic movement of her Spanish
ancestors, whose women are the best walkers in the
world. She had, too, the olive complexion as clear and
transparent as wax, the full crimson lips, the magnificent
eyes, dark and lustrous, the indices of an ardent
temperament capable of the deepest passion, the
strongest love, or fiercest hate.

A very gracious figure indeed was this splendid
specimen of a handsome race, as she stood there coyly
talking to the man of her choice.

The contrast was strongly marked between them.
She, with raven hair, dark skin, and soft brown eyes,
was a perfect Southern brunette : quick, impatient,
impulsive, easily moved. He, fresh-coloured, blue-eyed,
with flaxen moustache, stalwart in frame, self-possessed,
reserved, almost cold and impassive in demeanour, was
as excellent a type of a native of the North.

What brings you this way, Senor don Sargent, at
this time of day ? " said Mariquita. " Was it to see me ?
It was unwise, indiscreet ; my aunt "

1 ' I have been on duty at Waterport," replied McKay,
with a rather ungallant frankness that made Mariquita
pout.

"It is plain I am only second in your thoughts. Duty
always duty. Why did not you come last night to
the Alameda when the band played ? "

I could not, star of my soul ! I was on guard."

"Did I not say so ? — duty again! And tomorrow ?
It is Sunday ; you promised to take me to Europa to
see the great cave. Is that, too, impossible ? "

McKay shook his head laughingly, and said —

You must not be angry with me, Mariquita ; our
visit to Europa must be deferred ; I am on duty everyday.
They have made me orderly "

I do not believe you," interrupted the girl, pettishly.

" Go about your business ! Do not trouble to
come here again, Don Stanislas. Benito will take me
where I want to go. 1 '

11 1 will break Benito's head whenever I catch him in
your company 5 said the young serjeant, with so much
energy that Mariquita was obliged to laugh. u Come,
dearest, be more reasonable. It is not my fault, you
know ; I am never happy away from your side. But, '
remember, I am a soldier, and must obey the orders I
receive."

I was wrong to love a soldier," said Mariquita,
growing sad and serious all at once. " Some day you
will get orders to march — to India, Constantinople,
Russia — where can any one say ? — and I shall never see
you more."

This trouble of parting near at hand had already
arisen, and half-spoilt McKay's delight at the prospect
of sailing for the East.

Do you think I shall ever forget you ? If I go, it
will be to win promotion, fame — a better, higher, more
honourable position for you to share."

It was at this moment that La Zandunga interrupted
the lovers with her resonant, unpleasant voice.

My aunt ! my aunt ! Run, Stanislas ! do not let
her see you, in Heaven's name ! "

The Serjeant disappeared promptly, but the old
virago caught a glimpse of his retreating figure.

With whom were you gossiping there, good-for-nothing

? " cried La Zandunga, fiercely. " I seemed to
catch, the colour of his coat. If I thought it was that
son of Satan, the serjeant, who is ever philandering and
following you about Who was it, I say ? "

Mariquita would not answer.

In with you, shameless, idle daughter of pauper
parents, who died in my debt, leaving you on my hands !
Is it thus that you repay me my bounty — the home I
give you — the bread you eat ? Go in, jade, and earn
it, or Fll put you into the street."

The girl, bending submissively under this storm of
invective and bitter reproach, walked slowly towards
the house. Her aunt followed, growling fiercely.

Cursed red-coat ! — common, beggarly soldier ! How
can you, an Hidalgo of the best blue blood, whose ancestors
were settled here before the English robbers
stole the fortress — before the English ? — before the
Moors ! You, an Hidalgo, to take up with a base-born
hireling cut-throat "

No more, aunt ! " Mariquita turned on her with
flashing eyes. " Call me what you like, you shall not
abuse him — my affianced lover — the man to whom I
have given my troth ! "

u What ! " screamed the old crone, now furious with
rage. a Do you dare tell me that — to my face ? Never,
impudent muzzy — never, while I have strength and
spirit and power to say you no — shall you wed this
hated English mercenary —

I will wed no one else''



"That will we see. Is not your hand promised

))

Not with my consent."

— Promised, formally, to Benito Yillegas — my husband's
cousin ? "

I have not consented. Never shall I agree. Benito
is a villain. I hate and detest him ! "

Tell him so to his face, evil-tongued slut ! — tell
him if you daie ! He is now in the house. That is
why I came to fetch you. I saw him approaching."

He knows my opinion of him, but if you wish it,
aunt, he shall hear it again," said the young girl,
undaunted ; and she walked on through the workroom,
straight into the little shop.

Benito was seated at the counter, talking confidentially,
and in a very low voice, with Tio Pedro.

Are the bales ready, uncle ? In two days from
now we can run them through like oil in a tube."

Have you settled the terms ? "

(< On both sides. Here the inspectors were difficult,
but I oiled their palms. On the other side the Customhouse
officers are my friends. All is straight and easy.

The tobacco must be shipped tomorrow "

In the same felucca ? "

Yes ; for Estepona. Be ready, then, at gunfire

He stopped suddenly as Mariquita came in.
Beautiful as a star ! " was his greeting ; and in a
fulsome, familiar tone he went on — " You are like the

sun at noon, my beauty, and burn my heart with your
bright eyes'

Insolent ! " retorted Mariquita. " Hold your
tongue'

What ! cross-grained and out of humour, sweetest ?
Come, sit here on my knee and listen, while I whisper
some good news'

<( Unless you address me more decently, Benito
Villegas, I shall not speak to you at all."

Good news ! what then ? " put in Tio Pedro, in a
coaxing voice.

My fortune is made. I have found powerful friends
here upon the Rock. Within a few days now, through
their help, I shall be part owner of la Hermandad
Stable ; and I can marry when I please."

Fortunate girl ! " said Tio Pedro, turning to
Mariquita.

It does not affect me," replied the girl, with chilling
contempt. "Had you the wealth of the Indies,
Benito Villegas, and a dukedom to offer, you should
never call me yours."

Benito's face grew black as thunder at this unequivocal
reply.

Don't mind her, my son," said the old man. " She
has lost her senses : the evil one has bitten her."

Say, rather, one of those accursed red-coats,"
interposed his wife, " who has cast a spell over her.
I thought I saw him at the garden just now. If I was
only certain "

Silly girl, beware ! " cried Benito, with bitter
meaning. (C I know him : hateful, despicable hound !
He is only trifling with you. He cares nothing for
you ; you are not to his taste. What ! He, a Northern
pale-faced boor, choose you, with your dark skin and
black hair ! Never ! I know better. Only to-day I
saw him with the woman he prefers — a fair beauty
light-complexioned like himself."

He had touched the Southern woman's most sensitive
chord. Jealousy flashed from her eyes ; a pang
of painful doubt shot through her, though she calmly
answered —

It is not true."

Ask him yourself. I tell you I saw them together :
first near our stables, and then down by Waterport —
a splendid woman ! "

Waterport ! Mc Kay had told her hft was returning
from that part of the Rock. There was something in
it, then. Was he playing her false ? No. She would
trust him still.

<c I do not believe you, Benito. Such suspicions are
worthy only of a place in your false, black heart ! '
and with these words Mariquita rushed away.

CHAPTER IX.

OFF TO THE WARS.

Next morning there was much stir and commotion in
the South Barracks, where "lay" the Royal Picts — ■
to use a soldier's phrase. The few words let drop by
General Wilderss, and overheard by Sergeant McKay,
had been verified. " The route had come," and the
regiment was under orders to join the expeditionary
army in the East.

A splendid body, standing eight hundred strong on
parade : strong, stalwart fellows, all of them, bronzed
and bearded, admirably appointed, perfectly drilled — ■
one of many such magnificent battalions, the flower of
the British army, worthily maintaining the reputation
of the finest infantry in the world.

Alas ! that long years of peace should have rusted

administrative machinery ! That so many of these
and other brave men should be sacrificed before the
year was out for want of food, fuel, and clothing — the
commonest supplies.

There seemed little need to improve a military
machine so perfect at all its points. But the fastidious
eye of Colonel Blythe, who commanded the Royal Picts,
saw many blemishes in his regiment, and he was
determined to make the most of the time still intervening
before embarkation. Parades were perpetual ;
for the inspection of arms and accoutrements, for
developing manual dexterity, and efficiency in drill.
Still he was not satisfied.

We must have a new sergeant-major," said the
old martinet to his adjutant in the orderly-room.

The post was vacant for the moment through the
promotion of its late holder to be quartermaster.

Yes, sir ; the sooner the better. The difficulty is
to choose."

I have been thinking it over, Smallfield, and have
decided to promote Hyde. Send for him."

Colour-sergeant Hyde, erect, self-possessed — a pattern
soldier in appearance and propriety — presently
marched in and stood respectfully at "attention"
before his superior.

Sergeant Hyde!" said the colonel, abruptly, "I
am going to make you a sergeant-major."

Thank you, sir," said Hyde, saluting ; " I had
rather not take it."

Heavens above ! " cried the colonel, fiercely. He
was of the old school, and used expletives freely.
You must be an idiot ! "

I am sensible, sir, of the honour you would do me,

but "

Nonsense, man ! I insist. I must have you."
No, sir," said Hyde, firmly, " I must decline the
honour."

Was there ever such an extraordinary fellow ?

Why, man alive ! it will reinstate you "

I must beg, sir," said Hyde, hastily interrupting,
and looking with intention towards the adjutant.

Yes, yes ! I understand," said the colonel. " Leave
us, Mr. Smallfield ; I wish to speak to Sergeant Hyde
alone."

You have my secret, Colonel Blythe," said Hytle,
when the adjutant had left the room, " but I have your
promise."

I was near forgetting it, I confess ; but I was so
upset, so put out, at your cursed obstinacy. Why will
you persist in keeping in the background ? Accept
this promotion, and you shall have a commission before
the year is out."

I do not want a commission ; I am perfectly happy
as I am."

Was there ever such a pig-headed fellow ? Come,

Hyde, be persuaded." The colonel got up from his

seat and walked round to where the sergeant stood,

still erect and motionless. " Come, Rupert, old com-vol.

I. G

rade, old friend," and he put his hand affectionately
on the sergeant's shoulder.

The muscles of the sergeant's face worked visibly.

<c It's no use, Blythe ; I am dead to the world. I
have no desire to rise."

But it's so aggravating ; it puts me in such a
hole' said the colonel, striding up and down the office.
"You're just the man we want — superior in every way.
You would hold your own so well with the other noncommissioned
officers. I do wish Where am I

to find another ? "

I can tell you, if you will listen to my advice."

"Yes? Speak out."

Young McKay ; he would make an excellent
sergeant-major."

I know him — a smart, sensible, intelligent young
fellow. But has he ballast — education ? "

et He is better born than you or me, colonel. A lad
of excellent parts and first-rate education. Bring him
on, and he will do you and the regiment credit yet."

The colonel sat down again at his desk, and seemed
lost in thought.

I must ask Smallfield. Call in the adjutant, will
you ? ' he added, in a voice that implied their conventional
relations as superior officer and sergeant were
resumed.

Half an hour later McKay was standing in Hyde's
place, receiving the same offer, but accepting, although
diffidently.

Cf I am not fit for the post, sir," he protested.

That's my affair. I have selected you for reasons
of my own, and the responsibility is mine""

I will try my best, sir ; that is all I can say."

It's quite enough. Do your best, and you will
satisfy me."

I can't think why he chose me," confided Stanislas
to his friend Hyde, later on, in the sergeants' mess.

Can't you ? " replied his friend, drily. " It's a case
of hidden merit receiving its right reward."

14 I have never thought that the colonel noticed me,
or distinguished me from any of the other sergeants,"
said Stanislas,

Probably your good qualities were pointed out to
him," replied Hyde, still in the same tone, " Or your
fine friends and relations have used their influence."

It is little likely ; and, as I tell you, I don't understand
it in the least."

Leave it so, No doubt you will find out some day.
In the meantime do justice to your recommendation,
whoever gave it. You have got your foot on the ladder
now, but no one can help you to climb ; that must
depend upon your own exertions,"

Yes, but you can help me, Hyde, with your advice,
encouragement, support. I am very young to be put
up so high, and over men of standing and experience
like yourself."

You will have no more loyal subordinate than me,
Sergeant-major McKay. Come to me whenever you

G 2

are in trouble or doubt. I will do all I can, you may
depend. I like you, boy, and that's enough said."

The old sergeant seized McKay's hand, shook it
warmly, and then abruptly quitted the room.

Stanislas was eager to tell this pleasing news of his
promotion to Mariquita ; but she was the last person to
hear it, notwithstanding. McKay entered at once upon
his new duties, and they kept him close from morning
till night. A good sergeant-major allows himself no
leisure. He is the first on parade, the last to leave it.
He is perpetually on the move : now inspecting guards
and pickets, now superintending drills, while all day
long he has his eye upon the conduct of the non-commissioned
officers, and the demeanour and dress of the
private men.

There was no time to hang about the tobacconist's
shop in Bombardier Lane, waiting furtively for a chance
of seeing Mariquita alone. They kept their eye upon
her, too ; and when at last he tore himself away from
his new and absorbing duties he paid two or three
visits to the place before he could speak to her.

Mariquita received him coldly — distantly.

They were standing, as usual, on each side of the
low fence at the end of the garden.

What's wrong, little star ? How have I offended
you ? "

"I wonder that you trouble to come here at all,
Don Stanislas. It's more than a week since I saw
you."

I have been so busy. My new duties : they have
made me, you know "

Throw that bone to some other dog," interrupted
Mariquita, abruptly. " I am to be no longer deceived
by your pretended duties. I know the truth : you
prefer some other girl."

Mariquita ! " protested McKay.

I have heard all. Do not try to deny it. She is
tall and fair ; one of your compatriots. You were
seen together."

'' Where, pray ? Who has told you this nonsense ? "

At Waterport. Benito saw you."

McKay laughed merrily.

l( I see it all. Why, you foolish, jealous Mariquita,
that was my general's wife — a great lady. 1 was
attending and following her about like a lackey. I
would not dare to lift my eyes to her even if I wished,
which is certainly not the case."

Mariquita was beginning to relent. Her big eyes
filled with tears, and she said in a broken voice, as
though this quarrel with her lover had pained her
greatly —

Oh, oily-tongued ! if only I could believe you ! "

"Why, of course it's true. Surely you would not
let that villain Benito make mischief between us ?
But, there ; time is too precious to waste in silly
squabbles. I can't stay long ; I can't tell when I shall
come again."

Is your love beginning to cool, Stanislas ? If so,
we had better part before "

Listen, dearest' interrupted McKay ; " I have
good news for you," and he told her of his unexpected
promotion, and of the excellent prospects it held forth.

"I am nearly certain to win a commission before
very long. Now that we are going to the war "

The war ! n Mariquita' s face turned ghastly white;
she put her hand upon her heart, and was on the
point of falling to the ground when McKay vaulted
lightly over the fence and saved her by putting his
arm round her waist.

Idiot that I was to blurt it out like that, after
thinking all the week how best to break the news !
Mariquita ! Mariquita ! speak to me, I implore you ! "

But the poor child was too much overcome to reply,
and he led her, dazed and half-fainting, to a little seat
near the house, where, with soft caresses and endearing
words, he sought to restore her to herself.

The war ! " she said, at length. " It has come,
then, the terrible news that I have so dreaded. Weare
to part, and I shall never, never see you again'

What nonsense, Mariquita ! Be brave ! Remember
you are to be a soldier's wife. Be brave, I say 7

They will kill you ! Oh ! if they only dared, I
would be revenged ! "

Bravo, my pet ! that is the proper spirit. You
would fight the Russians, wouldn't you ? "

I would do anything, Stanislas, to help you, to

shield you from harm. Why can't I go with you
Who knows ! I might save you. I, a weak, helpless
girl, would be strong if you were in danger. I am
ready, Stanislas, to sacrifice my life for yours""

Greatly touched by the deep devotion displayed by
these sweet words, McKay bent his head and kissed
her on the lips.

But at this moment the tender scene was abruptly
ended by the shrill, strident tones of La Zandunga's
voice.

So I have caught you, shameless girl, philandering
again with this rascally red-coat. May he die in a
dog-kennel ! Here, in my very house ! But, I promise
you, it is for the last time. Sola ! Benito •
Pedro ! help ! " and, screaming wildly, the old crone
tore Mariquita from McKay's side and dragged her
into the house.

The young sergeant, eager to protect his love from
ill-usage, would have followed, but he was confronted
by Benito, who now stood in the doorway, black and
menacing, with a great two-edged Albacete knife in
his hand.

Stand back, miscreant, hated Englishman, or I will
stab you to the heart."

Nothing daunted by the threat, McKay advanced
boldly on Benito ; with one hand he caught his would-be
assailant by the throat ; with the other the wrist
that was lifted to strike. A few seconds more, and
Benito had measured his length on the ground, while

his murderous weapon had passed into the possession
of McKay.

Having thus disposed of one opponent, McKay meta
second, in the person of Tio Pedro, who, slower in
his movements, had also come out in answer to his
wife's appeal.

Who are you that dares to intrude here ? " asked
Pedro, roughly. e< I will complain to the town major*
and have you punished for this."

Look to yourself, rather ! " replied McKay, hotly.
i( I stand too high to fear your threats. But you, thief
and smuggler, I will bring the police upon you and
your accomplice, who has just tried to murder me with
his knife."

Tio Pedro turned ghastly pale at the sergeant-major's
words. He had evidently no wish for a domiciliary
visit, and would have been glad to be well rid
of McKay.

u Let him be ! Let him be ! " he said, attempting
to pacify Benito, who, smarting from his recent overthrow,
seemed leady to renew the struggle. "Let
him be ! It is all a mistake. The gentleman has
explained his business here, and nothing more need be
saide''

Nothing more ! " hissed Benito, between his teeth.
Not when he has insulted me — struck me ! Nothing
more ! We shall have to settle accounts together, he
and I. Look to yourself Senior Englishman. There is

no bond that does not some day run out ; no debt that
is never paid."

McKay disdained to notice these threats, and, after
waiting a little longer in the hope of again seeing
Mariquita, he left the house.

It was his misfortune, however, not to get speech
with her again before his departure. The few short
days intervening before embarkation were full of
anxiety for him, and incessant, almost wearisome, activity.
He had made himself one moment of leisure,
and visited Bombardier Lane, but without result. Mari-quite
was invisible, and McKay was compelled to abandon
all hope of bidding his dear one good-bye.

But he was not denied one last look at the girl of his
heart. As the regiment, headed by all the bands of
the garrison, marched gaily down to the New Mole,
where the transport-ship awaited it, an excited throng
of spectators lined the way. Colonel Blythe headed his
regiment, of course, and close behind him, according
to regulation, marched the young sergeant-major, in
brave apparel, holding his head high, proudly conscious
of his honourable position. The colonel and the 
were the first men down the New Mole
stairs ; and as they passed McKay heard his name
uttered with a half-scream.

He looked round hastily, and there saw Mariquita,
with white, scared face and streaming eyes.

What could he do ? It was his duty to march on
unconscious, insensible to emotion. But this was more

than mortal man could do. He paused, lingering
irresolutely, when the colonel noticed his agitation,
and quickly guessed the exact state of the case.

f The girl I left behind me eh, sergeant-major ?
Well, fall out for a minute or two, if you like " — and,
with this kindly and considerate permission, McKay
took Mariquita aside to make his last adieux.

Adios ! vida mia" [good-bye, my life], he was saying,
when the poor girl almost fainted in his arms.

He looked round, greatly perplexed, and happily his
eye fell upon Sergeant Hyde.

Here, Hyde," he said, " take charge of this dear
girl."

What ! sergeant-major, have you been caught in the
toils of one of these bright-eyed damsels ? It is well
we have got the route. They are dangerous cattle,
these women ; and, if you let them, will hang like a
mill-stone round a soldier's neck."

c Pshaw ! man, don't moralise. This girl is my heart's
choice. Please Heaven I may return to console her for
present sorrow. But I can't wait. Help me : I can
trust you. See Mariquita safely back to her* home, and
then join us on board."

i( I shall be taken up as a deserter."

' Nonsense ! I will see to that with the adjutant. We
do not sail for two hours at least ; you will have
plenty of time."

Sergeant Hyde, although unwillingly, accepted the
trust, and thus met Mariquita for the first time.

CHAPTER X.

A GENERAL ACTION.

A long low line of coast trending along north and south
as far as the eye could reach ; nearest at hand a strip
of beach, smooth shingle cast up by the surf of westerly
gales ; next, a swelling upland, dotted with grazing
cattle, snug homesteads, aud stacks of hay and corn ;
beyond, a range of low hills, steep-faced and reddish-heed.


The Crimea ! The land of promise ; the great goal
to which the thoughts of every man in two vast hosts
had been turned for many months past. On the furze-clad
common of Cobham camp, on the long voyage
out, at G-allipoli, while eating out their hearts at irritating
inaction ; on the sweltering, malarious Bulgarian
plains, fever-stricken and cholera-cursed ; at Varna,

waiting impatiently, almost hopelessly, for orders to
sail, twenty thousand British soldiers of all ranks had
longed to look upon this Crimean shore. Ii was here,
so ran the common rumour, that the chief power of the
mighty Czar was concentrated; here stood Sebastopol,
the famous fortress, the great stronghold and arsenal of
Southern Russia ; here, at length, the opposing forces
would join issue, and the allies, after months of tedious
expectation, would find themselves face to face with
their foe.

No wonder, then, that hearts beat high as our men
gazed* eagerly upon the Crimea. The prospect southward
was still more calculated to stir emotion. The
whole surface of that Eastern sea was covered with
the navies of the Western Powers. The long array
stretched north and south for many a mile ; it extended
westward, far back to the distant horizon, and beyond :
a countless forest of masts, a jumble of sails and smoke-stacks,
a crowd of fighting-ships and transports, three-decker,
frigates, great troopers, ocean steamers, full-rigged
ships — an Armada such as the world had never
seen before. A grand display of naval power", a magnificent
expedition marshalled with perfect precision,
moving by day in well-kept parallel lines ; at night,
motionless, and studding the sea with a a second heaven
of stars''

Day dawned propitious on the morning of the landing
: a bright, and soon fierce, sun rose on a cloudless
sky. At a given signal the boats were lowered — a

nearly countless flotilla; the troops went overboard
silently and with admirable despatch, and all again, by
signal, started in one long perfect line for the shore.
Within an hour the boats were beached, the troops
sprang eagerly to land, and the invasion was completed
without accident, and unopposed.

The Royal Picts, coming straight from Gibraltar,
had joined the expedition at Varna without disembarking.
The regiment had thus been long on shipboard,
but it had lost none of its smartness, and formed upon
the beach with as much precision as on the South
Barracks parade. It fell into its place at once, upon
the right of General Wilderss's brigade, and that gallant
officer was not long in welcoming it to his command.

Every one was in the highest health and spirits,
overflowing with excitement and enthusiasm. At the
appearance of their general, the men, greatly to his
annoyance, set up a wild, irregular cheer.

Silence, men, silence ! It is most soldierlike.
Keep your shouting till you charge. Here, Colonel
Blythe, we will get rid of a little of this superfluous
energy. Advance, in skirmishing order, to the plateau,
and hold it. There are Cossacks about, and the landing
is not yet completed. But do not advance beyond the
plateau. You understand ? "

The regiment promptly executed the manoeuvre
indicated, and gained the rising ground. The view
thence inland was more extended, and at no great
distance a road crossed, along which was seen a long

line of native carts, toiling painfully, and escorted by
a few of the enemy's horse.

u We must have those carts." The speaker was a
staff-officer, the quartermaster-general, an eagle-eyed,
decisive-speaking, short, slender man, who was riding a
splendid charger, which he sat to perfection. " Colonel
Blythe ! send forward your right company at the
double, and capture them."

My brigadier ordered me not to advance," replied
the old colonel, rather stolidly.

Do as I tell you ; I will take the responsibility.
But look sharp ! "

Already, no doubt under orders from the escort, the
drivers were unharnessing their teams, with the idea
of making off with the cattle. The skirmishers of the
Royal Picts advanced quickly within range, and opened
fire — the first shots these upon Russian soil — and some
of them took effect. The carts were abandoned, and
speedily changed masters.

"We shall want those carts," said old Hyde, abruptly,
to his friend the sergeant-major. They had
watched this little episode together.

Yes, I suppose they will come in useful."

u I should think so. Are you aware that this fine
force of ours is quite without transport ? At least, I
have seen none. Do you know what that means ? "

That we shall have to be our own beasts of burden,"
said McKay, laughing, as he touched his havre-sack.
It was comfortably lined with biscuit and cold

salt pork — three days' rations, and the only food that
he or his comrades were likely to get for some time.

Fm not afraid of roughing it' said the old soldier.
{t I have done that often enough. We have got our
greatcoats and blankets, and I daresay we shan't hurt;
but I have seen something of campaigning, and I tell
you honestly I don't like the way in which we have
started on this job."

What an inveterate old grumbler you are, Hyde !
Besides, what right have you to criticise the general
and his plans ? ,J

"We have entered into this business a great deal
too lightly, T am quite convinced of that," said Hyde,
positively. " There has been no sufficient preparation."


Ci Nonsense, man ! They have been months getting
the expedition ready."

And still it is wanting in the most necessary
things. It has to trust to luck for its transport," and
the old sergeant pointed with his thumb to the captured
carts. " We may, perhaps, get as many more ;
but, even then, there won't be enough to supply us
with food if we go much further inland ; we may never
see our knapsacks again, or our tents."

'* We shan't want them ; it won't do us any harm
to sleep in the open. Napoleon always said that the
bivouac was the finest training for troops."

You will be glad enough of shelter, sergeant-major,
before to-night's out, mark my words ! The French

are better off than we are ; they have got everything
to their hands — their shelter-tents, knapsacks, and all.
They understand campaigning ; I think we have forgotten
the art."

a As if we have anything to learn from the French ! "
said the self-satisfied young Briton, by way of ending
the conversation.

But Sergeant Hyde was right, so far as the need
for shelter was concerned. As evening closed in,
heavy clouds came up from the sea, and it rained in
torrents all night.

A miserable night it was ! The whole army lay
exposed to the fury of the elements on the bleak hillside,
drenched to the skin, in pools and watercourses,
under saturated blankets, without fuel, or the chance
of lighting a bivouac fire. It was the same for all;
the generals of division, high staff-officers, colonels,
captains, and private men. The first night on Crimean
soil was no bad precursor of the dreadful winter still
to come.

Next day the prospect brightened a little. The
sun came out and dried damp clothes ; tents were
landed, only to be re-embarked when the army commenced
its march. This was on the third day after
disembarkation, when, with all the pomp and circumstance
of a parade movement, the allied generals
advanced southward along the coast. They were in
search of an enemy which had shown a strange reluctance
to come to blows, and had already missed a

splendid opportunity of interfering with the landing.


The place of honour in the order of march was
assigned to the English, who were on the left, with
that flank unprotected and "in the air" ; on their right
marched the French; on whose right, again, the Turks;
then came the sea. Moving parallel with the land-forces,
the allied fleets held undisputed dominion of
the waters. A competent critic could detect no brilliant
strategy in the operations so far ; no astute,
carefully calculated plan directed the march. One
simple and primitive idea possessed the minds of the
allied commanders, and that was to come to close
quarters, and fight the Russians wherever they could
be found.

There could be only one termination to such a military
policy as this when every hour lessened the distance
between the opposing forces. At the end of the
first day's march, most toilsome and trying to troops still
harassed by fell disease, it was plain that the enemy
were close at hand. Large bodies of their cavalry
hung black and menacing along our front — the advance
guards these of a large force in position behind. Any
moment might bring on a collision. It was nearly precipitated,
and prematurely, by the action of our horse
a small handful of cavalry, led by a fiery impatient
soldier, eager, like all under his command, to cross
swords with the enemy.

A couple of English cavalry regiments had been

VOL. I. H

pushed forward to reconnoitre the strength of the
Russians The horsemen rode out in gallant style, but
were checked by artillery fire;* a British battery galloped
up and replied. Presently the round-shot bounded
like cricket balls, but at murderous pace, across the
plain. More cavalry went forward on our side, and two
whole infantry divisions, in one of which was the Royal
Picts, followed in support.

Surely a battle was close at hand. But nothing came
of this demonstration. Why, was not quite clear, till
Hugo Wilder s, who was a captain in the Royal Lancers,
came galloping by, and exchanged a few hasty words
with the general, his cousin Bill.

What's up, Hugo ? " The general was riding justin
front of the Royal Picts, and his words were heard
by many of the regiment.

(i Just fancy ! we were on the point of having a brush
with the Cossacks, when Lord Raglan came up and
spoiled the fun."

Do you know why ? "

(i Yes ; I heard him talking to our general — I am
galloping, you know, for Lord Cardigan, who was mad
to be at them, 1 can tell you, but he wasn't allowed'"

They were far too strong for you ; I could see that
myself''

That's what Lord Raglan said. As if any one of
us was not good enough for twenty Russians ! But he
was particularly anxious, so I heard him say, not to be
drawn into an action to-day."

cr No doubt he was right' replied old Wilderss.
u Only it can't be put off much longer. Unless I am
greatly mistaken, tomorrow we shall be at it hammer
and tongs."

I hope I shall be somewhere near ! " cried Hugo,
gaily. " But where are the Royal Picts ? Oh ! here !
I want to give Anastasius good-day,"

He found his younger brother was carrying the regimental
colours, and the two young fellows exchanged
pleasant greetings. It was quite a little family party,
for just behind, in the centre of the line, stood
Serjeant-major McKay, the unacknowledged cousin.
How many of these four Wilderss would be alive next
night ?

No doubt a battle was imminent. It was more than
possible that there would be a night attack, so both
armies bivouacked in order of battle, ready to stand up
in their places and fight at the first alarm.

But the night passed uneventfully. At daybreak the
march was resumed, and the day was still young when
the allies came upon what seemed a position of immense
strength, occupied in force by the Russian troops.

It was a broad barrier of hills, at right angles with
the coast, lying straight athwart our line of march.
The hills, highest and steepest near the water's edge,
were still difficult in the centre, where the great highroad
to Sebastopol pierced the position by a deep defile ;
beyond the road, slopes more gentle ended on the outer

H 2

flank in the tall buttresslike Rourgane Hill. All along
the front ran a rapid river, the Alma, in a deep channel.
Villages nestled on its banks — one near the sea, one
midway, one on the extreme right ; and all about the
low ground rich vegetation flourished, in garden, vineyard,
and copse.

These were the heights of the Alma — historic ground,
hallowed by many memories of grim contest, vain
prowess, glorious deeds, fell carnage, and hideous
death.

We are in for it now, my boy," whispered Sergeant
Hyde, who was one of the colour-party, and stood in
the centre of the column, near McKay.

What is it ? " asked the young sergeant-major
eagerly. " A fight ? "

More than that — a general action. In another hour
or two we shall be engaged hotly along the whole line.
Some of us will lose the number of our mess before the
day is done."

The Royal Picts formed part of the second division*
under the command of Sir de Lacy Evans, a fine old
soldier, who had seen service for half a century. This
division was on the right of the English army. On the
left of Sir de Lacy Evans was the Light Division, beyond
that the Highlanders and Guards. The Third
Division was in reserve behind the Second, the Fourth
far in the rear, still near the sea-shore.

The march had hitherto been in columns, a disposition

that lent itself readily to deployment into line —
the traditional formation, peculiar to the British arms,
and the inevitable prelude to an attack.

The order now given to form line was, therefore,
promptly recognised as the signal for the approaching
struggle. It was rendered the more necessary by the
galling fire opened upon our troops by the enemy's
batteries, which crowned every point of vantage on the
hills in front.

Grandly, and with admirable precision, the three leading
divisions of the British army formed themselves
into the historic " Thin Need Line," renowned in the
annals of European warfare, from Blenheim to Waterloo.


This beautiful line, so slender, yet so imposing in its
simple, unsupported strength, was more than two miles
lDiig, and faced the right half of the Russian position.
As the divisions stood, the Guards and Highlanders
confronted the Kourgane Hill, with its greater and
lesser redoubts, armed with heavy guns and held by
dense columns of the enemy. Next them was the Light
Division, facing the vineyards and hamlets to the left
of the great high road ; before them were other earthworks,
manned by a no less formidable garrison and
artillery. The Second Division lay across the highroad,
opposite the village of Bourliouk, high above
which was an eighteen-gun battery and great masses of
Russian troops.

General Wilderss's brigade was on the extreme right

of the British front ; its right regiment was the Royal
Picts, the very centre this of the battle-field, midway
between the sea and the far left ; and here the allied
generals had their last meeting before the combat
commenced.

A single figure, sitting straight and soldier-like in his
saddle, with white hair blanched in the service of his
country — a service fraught with the perils and penalties
of war, as the empty sleeve bore witness — this single
figure rode a little in advance of the British staff. It
was Fitzroy Somerset, now Lord Raglan, the close
comrade and trusted friend of the Iron Duke, by whose
side he had ridden in every action in Spain. His face
was passive and serene. Contentment shone in every
feature. His martial spirit was stirred by the sights
and sounds of battle, once so familiar to him, but now
for forty years unheard. But the calm demeanour, the
quiet voice, the steady, unflinching gaze, all indicating
a noble unconsciousness of danger, were those, of the
chance rider in Rotten Row, not of a great commander
carrying his own life and that of thousands in his
hand.

The man who came to meet him was a soldier too,
but of a different type, cast in another mould — a
Frenchman, emotional, easily excited, quick in gesture,
rapid-speaking, with a restless, fiery eye. St.
Arnaud, too, had long tried the fortunes of war. His
was an intrepid, eager spirit, but he was torn and convulsed
with the tortures of a mortal sickness, and at

times, even at this triumphant hour, his face was drawn
and pale with inward agony.

They were near enough, these supreme chiefs, for
their conversation, or parts of it, to be heard around.
But they spoke in French, and few but McKay understood
the purport of all they said.

I am ready to advance at any moment," said Lord
Raglan. " I am only waiting for the development of
your attack."

"Bosquet started an hour ago, but he has a tremendous
climb up those cliffs."

It was General Bosquet's business to assault the left
of the Russian position, strong in natural obstacles, and
almost inaccessible to troops.

At this moment an aide-de-camp ventured to ride
forward to his general's side, and said —

Do you hear that firing, my lord ? I think the
French on the right are warmly engaged."

Are they ? " replied Lord Raglan, doubtfully ; " I
can't catch any return fire."

In any case," observed St. Arnaud, quickly, " it is
time to lend him a hand. The Prince Napoleon and
Canrobert shall now advance."

The sooner the better," said Lord Raglan, simply ;
I must wait till their attack is developed before I can

move."

You shall not wait long, my friend."
The next instant the French mounted messengers
were scouring the plain. St. Arnaud paused a moment,

then, gathering up his reins, he put spurs to his horse
and galloped away, saluted as he went by a loud and
hearty cheer.

The sound must have gladdened the heart of the
gallant Frenchman, for he promptly reined in his horse,
and, rising in his stirrups, responded with a loud
u Hurrah for Old England!" given in ringing tones,
and in excellent English. Then, still followed by
cheers, he went on his way.

It is but poor fun waiting while others begin a great
game — poor fun and dangerous too, as the English line
presently realised, while they looked impatiently for
the order to advance. The Russian gunners had got
their range, and were already plying them with shot
and shell. At the first gun, fired evidently at the
British staff, Lord Raglan, as cool and self-possessed as
ever, turned to General Wilderss, and said, briefly —
"Your men had better lie down."
May I not cast loose cartridges first, my lord ? "
said the old soldier, anxious to prepare for the serious
business of the day.

With all my heart ! But be quick ; they must not
stand up here to be shot at for nothing." Then Lord
Raglan himself, erect and fearless, resumed his observation
of the advancing French columns.

1 f Dear, dear ! how slow they are ! " cried the eager
voice of Airey, the quartermaster-general.

"Look! they are checked!" said another; "they
can't stomach the climb."

They have a tough job before them' said a third.
It will try them hard."

That the French were in difficulties was evident, for
now an aide-de-camp came galloping from Bosquet
with the grave news that the division was in danger.
He was followed by another prominent person on St.
Arnaud's staff, bringing an earnest entreaty that the
English should not delay their advance. A fierce storm
of iron hail, moreover, made inaction more and more
intolerable.

The time was come ! Lord Raglan turned and spoke
five words to General Airey. The next minute staff-officers
were galloping to each division with the glad
tidings : " The line will advance ! "

All along it men rose from the ground with a resolute
air, fell into their ranks, and then the " Thin Need Line,"
having a front of two miles and a depth of two* men,
marched grandly to the fight.

It is with the doings of the Second Division, or more

exactly with Wilderss's brigade of that body, that we are

now principally concerned.

The task before it was arduous and full of danger,

demanding devoted courage and unflinching hearts.

At the moment of the advance the village immediately
in front of them burst into flames — a fierce conflagration,
lighted by the retreating foe. The dense
columns of smoke hid the batteries beyond, and magnified
the dangers of attack; the fierce fire narrowed the
path of progress and squeezed in the advancing line.

On the left, the Light Division, moving forward with
equal determination, still further limited the ground for
action ; and, thus straitened and compressed, the division
marched upon a small front swept by a converging
fire. So cruelly hampered was the Second Division, so
stinted in breathing space, that a portion of General
Wilderss's command was shut out of the advancing line,
and circled round the right of the burning village.

In this way the Eoyal Picts got divided ; part went
with the right of the brigade, still under the personal
direction of its brigadier ; part stuck to the main body,
and followed on with the general tide of advance.
With the latter went the head-quarters of the regiment
; its colonel, colours, and sergeant-major.

They were travelling into the very jaws of death, as
it seemed. Progress was slow, and hindered by many
vexatious obstacles — low walls and brushwood, ruined
cottages, and many dangerous pitfalls on the vine-clad
slopes — obstacles that forbade all speed, yet gave no
cover from the pitiless fire that searched every corner,
and mowed men down like grass.

Casualties were terribly numerous ; yet still the
line, undaunted but with sadly decreasing numbers,
kept on its perilous way. Presently, having won
through the broken ground, a new barrier interposed.
They came upon the rapid river, rushing between steep
banks, and deep enough to drown all who risked the
fords. But there was no pause or hesitation \ the men
plunged bravely into the water, and, battling with

•

the torrent, crossed, not without difficulty and serious
loss.

Colonel Blythe, with the Royal Picts, was one of the
first men over. He rode a snow-white charger, which
he put bravely at the steep bank, and clambered up
with the coolness of one who rode well to hounds. He
gained the top, and served as a rallying-point for the
shattered remnant of his regiment, which there quickly
re-formed with as much coolness and fastidious nicety
as on a barrack-square at home.

They were under shelter here, and, pausing to
recover breath, could look round and watch how the
fight fared towards the left.

At this moment the Light Division had effected a
lodgment in the great redoubt ; but, even while they
gazed, the Russian reserves were forcing back the too-presumptuous
few. Behind, a portion of the brigade
of Guards was advancing to reinforce the wavering
line and renew the attack. Beyond, further on the
left, in an echelon, advanced three lines, one behind
the other, the Highlanders and their stout leader, Sir
Colin Campbell.

It was only a passing glimpse, however, that our
friends obtained. Their leader knew that the fortunes
of the day were still in doubt, and that every man
must throw his weight into the scale if victory was to
be assured.

The line was again ordered to advance. The slope
was steeper now ; they were scaling, really, the heights

themselves. Just above them yawned the mouths of
the heavy guns that had been dealing such havoc
while they were painfully threading the intricacies of
the low ground.

We must drive them out of that ! " shouted old
Blythe. " That battery has been playing the mischief
with us all along. Now, lads, shoulder to shoulder ;
reserve your fire till we are at close quarters, then give
them the cold steel ! "

The Royal Picts set up a ringing cheer in cordial
response to their chieftain's call. The cheer passed
quickly along the line, and all again pressed forward
in hot haste, with set teeth, and bayonets at the
charge.

A withering fire of small arms met the Royal Picts
as they approached the battery ; it was followed by
the deafening roar of artillery ; and the murderous
fire of the guns, great and small, nearly annihilated
the gallant band. Small wonder, then, that the survivors
halted irresolute, half disposed to turn back.
Colonel Blythe was down. They missed his encouraging
voice ; his noble figure was no more visible, while
his fine old white charger, riderless, his flanks streaming
with gore, was galloping madly down the hill.
Many more officers were laid low by this murderous
discharge ; amongst others, Anastasius Wilderss had
fallen, severely wounded, and his blood had spurted
out in a great pool upon the colour he carried.

All this happened in less time than it takes to

describe. It was one of those moments of dire emergency,
of great opportunity — suddenly arising, gone
as swiftly beyond recall, unless snatched up and dealt
with by a prompt, audacious spirit.

Young McKay saw it with the unerring instinct of
a true soldier. He acted instantaneously, and with
bold decision.

Stooping over his prostrate cousin, who lay entangled
amidst the folds of the now crimson silk, he gently
detached the colour, and, raising it aloft, cried —

Come on, Royal Picts ! "

The men knew his voice, and, weakened, though
not dispirited, they gallantly responded to the appeal.
Once more the line pressed forward. The short space
between them and the earthwork was quickly traversed.
Before the artillery could deal out a second salvo, the
Royal Picts were over the parapet and in the thick
of the Russians, bayoneting them as they stood at their
guns.

The battery was won.

u Well done, sergeant-major — right well done ! I
saw it all. It shan't be forgotten if we two come out
of this alive ! "

The speaker was Colonel Blythe, who, happily,
although dismounted by the shot that wounded his
horse, had so far escaped unhurt.

But this is no time for compliments ; we must look
to ourselves. The enemy is still in great strength.
They are bringing up the reserves. "

Above the battery a second line of columns loomed
large and menacing. Was this gallant handful of
Englishmen, which had so courageously gained a footing
in the enemy's works, to bear the brunt of a fresh
conflict with a new and perfectly fresh foe ? The
situation was critical. To advance would be madness ;
retreat was riot to be thought of ; yet it might cost
them their lives to maintain the ground they held.

While they paused in anxious debate, there came
sounds of firing from their right, aimed evidently at
the Russians in front of them, for the shot and shell
ploughed through the ranks of the foe.

What guns can those be ? " asked Colonel Blythe.
They are catching them nicely in flank."

11 French, sir, I expect," replied McKay. " That is
the side of their attack."

Those are English guns, I feel sure. I know the
crack they make."

He was right; the guns belonged to Turner's battery,
brought up at the most opportune juncture by Lord
Raglan's express commands. To understand their
appearance, and the important part they played in
deciding the battle on this portion of the field, we must
follow the other wing of the Royal Picts, which, when
separated from the rest of the brigade, passed round
the right flank of the village.

Hyde was with this detachment, and, as he afterwards
told McKay, he saw Lord Raglan and his staff
ride forward, alone and unprotected, across the river,

straight into the enemy's position. In the river two of
his staff were shot down, and the commander-in-chief
promptly realised the meaning of this fire.

Ah ! " he cried. " If they can enfilade us here, we
can certainly enfilade them on the rising ground above.
Bring up some guns ! "

It was not easy travelling for artillery, but Turner
was a man whom no difficulties dismayed. Within an
hour a couple of his guns had been dragged up the
steep gradient, were unlimbered, and served by the
officers themselves.

It was the fire of this artillery that relieved the
Royal Picts of their most serious apprehensions. It
tided them over the last critical phase of the hotly-contested
action, and completed the discomfiture of the
enemy on this side.

Matters had gone no less prosperously on the left.
The renewed attack of the Light Division, supported
by the Guards, had ended in the capture of the great
redoubt ; while Sir Colin Campbell, a veteran warrior,
at the head of his " bare-legged savages' as they were
christened by their affrighted foe, had made himself
master of the Kourgane Hill.

CHAPTER XI.

AFTER THE BATTLE.

The Battle of the Alma was won ! Three short hours
had sufficed to finish it, and by four o'clock the enemy-was
in full retreat. It was a flight rather than a
retreat — a headlong, ignominious stampede, in which
the fugitives cast aside their arms, accoutrements,
knapsacks, everything that could hinder them as they
ran. Pursuit, if promptly and vigorously carried out,
would assuredly have cost them dear. But the allies
were short of cavalry ; the British, greatly weakened
by their losses in this hard-fought field, could spare no
fresh troops to follow ; the French, although they had
scarcely suffered, and had a large force available, would
do nothing more ; St. Arnaud declared pursuit impossible,
and this, the first fatal error in the campaign,

allowed the beaten general to draw off his shattered
battalions.

But, if the allied leaders rejected the more abiding
and substantial fruits of victory, they did not disdain
the intoxicating but empty glories of an ovation from
their troops. The generals were everywhere received
with loud acclaims.

Deafening cheers greeted Lord Raglan as he rode
slowly down the line. The cry was taken up by
battalion after battalion, and went echoing along — the
splendid, hearty applause of men who were glorifying
their own achievements as well.

There was joy on the face of every man who had
come out of the fight unscathed — the keen satisfaction
of success, gloriously but hardly earned. Warm greetings
were interchanged by all who met and talked
together. Thus Lord Raglan and Sir Colin Campbell,
both Peninsular veterans, shook hands in memory of
comradeship on earlier fields. Few indeed had thus
fought together before ; but none were less cordial in
their expressions of thankfulness and cordial good will.
They told each other of their adventures in the day — its
episodes, perils, narrow, hair-breadth escapes ! they
inquired eagerly for friends ; and then, as they learnt
gradually the whole terrible truth, the awful price at
which victory had been secured, moments that had been
radiant grew overcast, and short-lived gladness fled.

Next to a battle lost, nothing is so dreadful as a
battle won' said Wellington, at the end, too, of his

VOL. I. I

most triumphant day. The slaughter is a sad set-off
against the glory ; groans of anguish are the converse
of exulting cheers. The field of conquest was stained
with the life's blood of thousands. The dead lay all
around; some on their backs, calmly sleeping as though
death had inflicted no pangs ; the bodies of others were
writhed and twisted with the excruciating agony of
their last hour. The wounded in every stage of suffering
strewed the ground, mutilated by round shot and
shell, shattered by grape, cut and slashed and stabbed
by bayonet and sword.

Their cries, the loud shriek of acute pain, the long-drawn
moan of the dying, the piercing appeal of those
conscious, but unable to move, filled every echo, and
one of the first and most pressing duties for all who
could be spared was to afford help and succour.

Now the incompleteness of the subsidiary services of
the English army became more strikingly apparent. It
possessed no carefully organised, well-appointed ambulance
trains, no minutely perfect field-hospitals, easily
set up and ready to work at a moment's notice ; medicines
were wanting ; there was little or no chloroform ;
the only surgical instruments were those the surgeons
carried, while these indispensable assistants were by no
means too numerous, and already worked off their legs.

Parties were organised by every regiment, with
stretchers and water-bottles, to go over the field, to
carry back the wounded to the coast, and afford what
help they could. The Royal Picts, like the rest, hasten

to send assistance to their stricken comrades. Tho
bandsmen, who had taken no part in the action, were
detailed for the duty, and the sergeant-major, at his
own earnest request, was put in charge.

As they were on the point of marching off, General
Wilderss rode up. He had been separated, it will be
remembered, from part of his brigade, and had still buta
vague idea of how it had fared in the fight.

I saw nothing of you, colonel, during the action.
Worse luck I went with the wrong lot, on the right of
the village 5

It is well some of the regiment escaped what we
went through' said Colonel Blythe, sadly. " My left
wing was nearly cut to pieces. I was never under such
a fire."

How many have you lost, do you suppose ? "

We are now mustering the regiment : a sorrowful
business enough. Seven officers are missing."

What are their names ? "

Poplar, Smart, Drybergh, Arrowsmith "

i( Anastasius — my young cousin — is he safe ? " hastily
interrupted the general.

Colonel Blythe shook his head.

I missed him half way up the hill ; he was carrying
the regimental colour, but when we got into the battery
it was in the sergeant-major's hands. I wish to bring
his — the sergeant-major's — conduct especially before
your notice, general. 3 ''

The sergeant-major's ? Very good. But if he

i2

took the colour he must know what happened to Anastasius.
Call him, will you ? "

Sergeant-major McKay came up and saluted.

Mr. Wilderss, sir," he told the general, "was wounded
as we were breasting the slope."

u You saw him go down ? Where was he hit ? "

I hadn't time to wait, sir."

I should think not' interrupted Colonel Blythe ;

'but for him, general, we should never have carried

the battery. I was dismounted, the men were checked,

and just at the right moment the sergeant-major led

them on."

Bravely done, my lad ! You shall hear of this
again ; I will make a special report to the commander
of the forces. But there, that will keep. We must see
after this poor boy."

I was just sending off a party for the purpose,"
said the colonel.

That's right. You have some idea, I suppose " —
this was to McKay — " of the place where Mr. Wilderss
fell ? "

Certainly, sir. I think I can easily find it."

Very well ; show us the way. And you, Powys " —
this was to the aide-de-camp — " ride over to the Royal
Lancers and tell Hugo Wilderss what has happened."

Then the little band of Good Samaritans set out upon
its painful mission. The autumn evening was already
closing in ; the night air blew chill across the desolate
plain ; already numbers of men were busy amongst the

wounded, assuaging their thirst from water-bottles,
covering the prostrate forms with blankets, and lending
the surgeons a helping hand.

Half an hour brought the searchers of the Royal
Picts to where young Anastasius Wilderss lay. McKay
was the first to find him, and he raised a shout of recognition
as he ran forward to the wounded officer. Unslinging
his water-bottle, he put it to his cousin's lips ;
but young Wilderss waved the precious liquid aside,
saying, although in a feeble voice —

Thank you ; but I can wait. Give it to that poor
chap over there ; he is far worse hit than I am."

It was a private of the regiment, whose breast a bullet
had pierced, and whose tortures seemed terrible.

But now the rest of the party came up. General
Wilderss dismounted, flask in hand, and the wounded
lad was rewarded for his self-denial.

A surgeon, too, had arrived, and he was anxiously
questioned as to the nature of young Wilderss's wound.

The right leg had been shattered below the knee by
a round shot ; the wound had bled profusely, but the
poor lad managed to stanch it with his shirt.

Can you save it ? " whispered the general.

Impossible ! " replied the surgeon, in the same tone.
We must amputate above the knee at once'' and he
turned up his sleeves and gave instructions to an assistant
to get ready the instruments.

The operation, performed without chloroform, and
borne with heroic fortitude, was over when Hugo

Wilderss rode up to the spot. Anastasius recognised
his brother, and answered his anxious, sorrowful greeting
with a faint smile.

ci What is to be done with him now ? " asked the
general.

u We must get him on board ship — to-night, if possible
; but how ? "

We will carry him every inch of the way' said one
of the bandsmen of the Royal Picts. Young Wilderss
was idolised by the men.

M It is three miles to the sea-shore : a long journey."

They can march in two reliefs, four carrying, four
resting' said McKay.

You must be very careful'' said the surgeon.

u Never fear ! We will carry him as easy as a baby
in its cot' replied one of the soldiers.

Yes, yes ! you can trust us' added McKay.

il Are you going with them ? M asked the general.

I should like to do so, sir."

ff And of course I shall go too'' added Captain
Wilderss; and the procession, thus formed, wended its
way to the shore.

It was midnight before McKay and the stretcher-party
were relieved of their precious charge, and when
they had seen the wounded officer embarked in one
of the ship's boats, accompanied by his brother, they
laid down where they were to rest and await the daylight.


Soon after dawn they were again on the move

making once more for the heights above the river,
where they had left their regiment. Once more, too,
they traversed the battle-field, with its ghastly sights
and distressing sounds. It was still covered with the
bodies of the dead and dying, their numbers greatly
increased, for many of the wounded had succumbed to
the tortures of the night. The figures of ministering
comrades still moved to and fro, and men of all ranks
were busily engaged in the good work.

There were others whose action was more open to
question — camp-followers and sutlers, dropped from no
one knew where, who lurked in secret hiding-places,
and issued forth, when the coast seemed clear, to
follow their loathsome trade of robbing the dead.

McKay's little party, as they trudged along, suddenly
put up one of these evil birds of prey almost at
their feet. The man rose and ran for his life, pursued
by the maledictions of the Royal Picts.

Stop him ! Stop him ! " they cried, and the fugitive
was met and turned at every point. But he
doubled like a hare, and had nearly made his escape
when he fell almost into the arms of Sergeant Hyde.

"Stick to him!" cried McKay. "We will hand
him over to the provost-marshal, who will give him a
short shrift."

A fierce struggle ensued between the fugitive and
his captor, the result of which seemed uncertain; but
the former suddenly broke loose, and again took to

his heels. He made towards the French lines, and
disappeared amongst the clefts of the steep rocks.

When McKay joined Hyde, he said to him, rather
angrily —

Why did you let the fellow go ? "

I did my best, but he was like an eel. I had far
rather have kept him. I have wanted the scoundrel
these dozen years."

You know him, then ? "

Yes," replied Hyde, sternly. " I know him well,
but I thought that he was dead. It is better so ; we
have a long account to settle, and the day of reckoning
will certainly come."

Thus ended the first collision between the opposing
armies : the first great conflict between European
troops since Waterloo. The credit gained by the
victors, whose prowess echoed through the civilised
world, was greater, perhaps, than the results achieved.
The Alma, as we shall see, might have paved the way,
under more skilful leadership, to a prompt and glorious
termination of the war. But, if it exercised no sufficient
influence upon the larger interests of the campaign,
the battle greatly affected the prospects of the
principal character in this story.

Sergeant-major McKay was presently informed that,
in recognition of the signal bravery he had displayed
at the storming of the Causeway battery, his name
had been submitted to the Queen for an ensign's commission
in the Royal Picts.

CHAPTER Nil

CATCHING A TARTAR.

After their victory at the Alma the allies tarried long
on the ground they had gained. There were many
excuses, but no sound reasons, for thus wasting precious
moments that would never return. It was
alleged that more troops had to be landed ; that the
removal of the sick and wounded to ship-board consumed
much time ; that further progress must be
postponed until the safest method of approaching
Sebastopol had been discussed in many and lengthy
councils of war.

Yet at this moment the great fortress and arsenal
lay at their mercy. They had but to put out their
hands to capture it. Menschikoff s beaten army was
long in rallying, and when at last it resumed the

coherence of a fighting force its leader withdrew it
altogether from Sebastopol, tins abandoning the fortress
to its fate.

Its chief fortifications now were on the northern
side, that nearest the allies, and within a short day's
march. Only one redoubt — the so-called Star Fort —
was of any formidable strength, and as this was close
to the seashore it was exposed to the bombardment of
the fleets. But the Star Fort lay before the French,
supposing that the original order of march was preserved
; and the French, exaggerating its powers of
resistance, could not be persuaded to face the risks
of assault. The fact was, St. Arnaud lay dying, and
for the moment all vigour was gone from the conduct
of the French arms.

Little doubt exists to-day that the northern fortifications
could not have resisted a determined attack.
That it was not attempted was another grave error ;
to be followed by yet another, when, after a hazardous
detour — the well-known " flank march" — the allies
transferred themselves to the southern side of Sebastopol,
and again neglected a palpable opportunity.
The north side might be fairly well protected; the
south was practically defenceless ; a few weak earthworks,
incomplete, and without artillery, were its only
bulwarks ; its only garrison were a few militia battalions
and some hastily-formed regiments of sailors from the
now sunken Russian ships of war.

It must undoubtedly have fallen by a coup de main.

But generals hesitated and differed, bolder spirits were
overruled, undue weight was given to the too-cautious
counsels of scientific soldiers, and it was decided to sit
down before and slowly besiege the place.

The chance on which the allies turned their backs
Was quickly seized by the enemy. One of the brightest
pages in modern military annals is that which records
how the genius and indomitable energy of one man
improvised a resolute and protracted defence ; and none
have done fuller justice to Todleben than the foes he
so long and gallantly kept at bay.

The allies now entered, almost with light hearts, upon
a siege that was to last for eleven weary months and
prove the source of unnumbered woes. In a comfortable
leisurely fashion they proceeded to break ground,
to open trenches, and approach the enemy's still unfinished
works by parallel and sap. The siege-train —
the British War Minister's fatal gift, encouraging as it
did the policy of delay — was landed, as were vast supplies
of ammunition and warlike stores. Tents, too,
were brought up to the front, and the allied encampment
soon covered the plateau from the Tchernaya to
the sea. The troops soon settled down in their new
quarters, and the heights before Sebastopol grew
gradually a hive of military industry, instinct with warlike
sounds, teeming with soldier life.

The Royal Picts found themselves posted on the
uplands above the Tchernaya valley, very near the
extreme right of the British front, and here they took

their share of the duties that now fell upon the army,
furnishing fatigue-parties to dig at the trenches, and
armed parties to cover them as they worked, and pickets
by day and night to watch the movements of the
enemy.

Since McKay's official recommendation for a commission,
he had been entrusted with duties above his
position as sergeant-major. The adjutant had been
badly wounded at the Alma, and it was generally
understood that when promoted McKay would succeed
him. Meanwhile he was entrusted with various special
missions appertaining to the rank he soon expected to
receive.

One of these was his despatch to Balaclava to make
inquiries for the knapsacks of the regiment. They had
been left on board ship, and the transport had been
expected daily in Balaclava harbour. The men were
sadly in want of a change of clothes, and neither these
nor the little odds and ends that go to make up a
soldier's comfort were available until they got their
packs. McKay was directed to take a small party with
him to land the much-needed baggage and have it
conveyed by hook or crook to the front.

He left the camp late in the afternoon, and, striking
the great Woronzoff Road just where it pierced the
Fediukine Heights, descended it until he reached the
Balaclava plain. A few miles beyond, the little town
itself was visible, or, more exactly, the forest of masts
that already crowded its little land-locked port.

Here, on the right of the communications between
the English army and its base, a long range of redoubts
had been thrown up and garrisoned by the Turks.
These crowned the summit of a range of low hillocks,
and, in marching to his point, McKay paused on the
level ground between two hills. The Turks on sentry
gave him a " Bono Johnny ! w as he passed, by way of
greeting ; but they were far too lazy and too sleepy todo
more.

It was evident they kept a poor look-out, and doubtful
strangers were as free to pass as British friends.
Just upon the rear of No. 3 Redoubt McKay and his
men came upon a fellow crouching low amongst the
broken ground. McKay would have passed by without
remark, but his first look at the stranger, who wore
no uniform and seemed a harmless, unoffending Tartar
peasant, was followed by a second and keener gaze.
He thought he recognised the man ; he certainly had
seen his face before. Directing his men to seize him,
he made a longer and closer inspection, and found that
it was the ruffian whom they had surprised and chased
on the heights above the Alma the morning after the
battle.

He is up to no good," said McKay. " We must
take him along with us."

But where ? The job they were on was a definite
one ; not the capture of chance prisoners, which would
certainly delay them on the road.

Still, remembering the last occasion on which he had

seen this man, and the mysterious remarks that Hyde
had let fall concerning him, McKay felt sure the fellow
was not what he seemed. This Tartar dress must be a
disguise : how could Hyde have made the acquaintance
years before of a Tartar peasant in the Crimea ?

Certainly the man must go with them, and therefore,
placing him securely in the midst of his party, McKay
marched on. If nothing better offered, he would hand
his prisoner over to the Commandant of Balaclava on
arrival there.

But as they trudged along, and, leaving the cavalry-encampment
on their right, approached the ground
occupied by the Highland brigade, they encountered its
general — McKay had seen him at the Alma — riding
out, accompanied by his staff.

The quick eye of Sir Colin Campbell promptly detected
the prisoner. He rode up at once to the party,
and said, in a sharp, angry tone —

What are you doing with that peasant ? Don't
you know that the orders are positive against molesting
the inhabitants ? Who is in command of this
party ? "

McKay stood forth and saluted.

You ? A sergeant-major ? Of the Royal Picts,
too ! You ought to know better. Let the man go ! "

I beg your pardon, Sir Colin," began McKay ;

« but "

Don't argue with me, sir ; do as I tell you. I have
a great mind to put you in arrest."

McKay still stood in an attitude of mute but firm
protest.

"what does the fellow mean ? Ask him, Shadwell.
I suppose he must have some reason, or he would not
defy a general officer like this'

Captain Shadwell, one of Sir Colin's staff, took
McKay aside, and, questioning him, learnt all the particulars
of the capture. McKay told him, too, what had
occurred at the Alma.

The fellow must be a spy," said Sir Colin, abruptly,
when the whole of the facts were repeated to him.
"We must cross-question him. I wonder what language
he speaks'

The general himself tried him with French ; but the
prisoner shook his head stupidly. Shadwell followed
with German, but with like result.

Fll go bail he knows both, and English too probably.
He ought to be tried in Russian now : that's
the language of the country. He is undoubtedly an
impostor if he can't speak that. I wish we could try
him in Russian. If he failed, the provost-marshal
should hang him on the nearest post."

This conversation passed in the full hearing of
McKay, and when Sir Colin stopped the sergeant-major
stepped forward, again saluted, and said
modestly —

I can speak Russian, sir."

You ? An English soldier ? In the ranks, too ?
Extraordinary ! How on earth — but that will keep.

We will put this fellow through, his facings at once.
Ask him his name, where he comes from, and all about
him. Tell him he must answer ; that his silence will
be taken as a proof he is not what he pretends. No
real Tartar peasant could fail to understand Russian."

Who and what are you ? " asked McKay. And this
first question was answered by the prisoner with an
alacrity that indicated his comprehension of every
word that had been said. He evidently wished to
save his neck.

My name is Michaelis Baidarjee. Baidar is my
home; but I have been driven out by the Cossacks
to-day."

It was a lie, no doubt. Hyde had recognised him asa
very different person.

Ask him what brings him into our lines ? " said Sir
Colin, when this answer had been duly interpreted.

I came to give valuable information to the Lords
of the Universe," he replied. " The Russians are on
the move."

Ha ! " Sir Colin' s interest was aroused. " Go on;
make him speak out. Say he shall go free if he tells
us truly all he knows."

Where are the Russians moving ? " asked McKay.

This way " — the man pointed back beyond Tchor-
forum. " They are collecting over yonder, many,
many thousands, and are marching this way."

Do you mean that they intend to attack us ? "

I think so. Why else do they come ? Yesterday

there were none. All last night they were marching ;
tomorrow, at dawn, they will be here."

Who commands them ? "

Liprandi. I saw him, and they told me his name."

This is most important'' said Sir Colin ; u we must
know more. Find out, sergeant-major, whether he can
go back safely."

Back within the Russian lines ? "

Exactly. He might go and return with the latest

news."

You would never see the fellow again, Sir Colin.
He is only humbugging us "

Put the question as I direct you," interrupted the
general, abruptly. " What we want is information ; it
must be got by any means."

Yes, I will go," the prisoner promised, joining his
hands with a gesture as if taking an oath ; <( arid I
would return this very night ; you shall have the exact
numbers ; shall know the road they are coming, when
to expect them — all."

Let him loose, then," said the general ; " but warn
him, if he plays us false, that he had better not fall
into our clutches again."

"You may trust him not to do that, sir," said
McKay, rather discontented at seeing his prisoner so
easily set free.

The general ignored the remark, but he was evidently
displeased at its tone, for he now turned sharply
on McKay, saying —

VOL. I. K

"As regards you — how comes it you speak Russian
? "

I was born in Moscow."

Of Russian parents ? "

My father was a Pole by birth, but by extraction a
Scotchman."

What is your name ? "

McKay — Stanislas Anastasius Wilderss Mckay'

Ah ! Stanislas ; I understand that. But how is it
you were christened Wilderss ? And Anastasius, too —
that is a family name, I think. Are you related to
Lord Essendine ? — a Wilderss, in fact ? "

Yes, sir, by my mother's side""

"And yet you have taken the Queen's shilling!
Strange ! But it is no business of mine. Young
scapegrace, I suppose "

My character is as good as " " yours' McKay

would have said, but his reverence for the general's
rank restrained him. fl I enlisted because I could not
enter the British army and be a soldier in any other
way."

With your friends' — your relatives'* — approval ? "

Ci With my mother's, certainly ; and of those nearest

me."

Do you know General Wilderss — here in the Crimea,
1 mean ? "

My regiment is in his brigade.' - '

Yes, yes ! I am aware of that. But have you
made yourself known to him, I mean ? "

The young sergeant-major knew that his gallantry
at the Alma had won him his general's approval, but he
was too modest to refer to that episode.

I have never claimed the relationship, sir' he
answered, simply, but with proud reticence ; " it would
not have beseemed my position."

Your sentiments do you credit, young man. That
will do ; you can continue your march. Good-day ! "

They parted ; McKay and his men went on to
Balaclava, the general towards the Second Division
camp.

Curious meeting, that, Shadwell," said Sir Colin.
If I come across Wilderss I shall tell him the story.
He might like to do his young relative — a smart soldier
evidently, or he would not be a sergeant-major so
early — a good turn""

K2

CHAPTER XIII.

"not wae!"

The spy, whatever his nationality, and however questionable
his antecedents, was right in the intelligence
he had communicated. A large Russian force was even
then on the march from Tchorgorum, pointing straight
for the Balaclava plain. The enemy had regained
heart ; emboldened by the constant influx of reinforcements,
and the inactivity of the allies, ho had grown
audacious, and was ready to try a vigorous offensive.
A blow well aimed at our communications and delivered
with intention might drive us back on our ships, perhaps
into the sea.

McKay had passed the night at Balaclava. The
transport with the knapsacks was not yet in port, and
he was loth to return to camp empty-handed. But
next morning, soon after daylight, news came back to

the little sea side town that another battle was imminent,
on the plains outside.

The handful of Royal Picts were promptly mustered
by their young commander, and marched in the direction
of the firing, which was already heard, hot and
heavy, towards the east.

As they left Balaclava, they encountered a crowd of
Turkish soldiers in full flight, making madly for the
haven, and shouting", " Ship ! ship ! " as they ran.
McKay, gathering from this stampede that already
some serious conflict had begun, hurried forward to
where he found a line of red-coats drawn up behind a
narrow ridge which barred the approaches to Balaclava.

This was the famous 93rd, in its now historic formation
— another " Thin Red Line'' which received undaunted,
and only two deep, the onslaught of the
Russian horse.

The regiment was under the personal control of its
brigadier, stout old Sir Colin, who, with his staff, stood
a little withdrawn, but closely observing all that passed.
He recognised McKay, and called out abruptly —

Halloa ! where have you dropped from ? "

I heard the tiring, sir, met the Turks retreating,
and brought up my party to reinforce and act as might
be ordered."

"It was well done, man. But enough; get yourselves
up into line there on the left, and take the word
from the colonel of the 93rd."

We have our work cut out for us, sir' said one of
his staff to Sir Colin.

We have, but we'll do it. This gorge must be held
to the death. You understand that, Colonel Aisle —
to the death ? "

You can trust us, Sir Colin."

I think so ; but I'll say just one word to the men,"
and, while the enemy's cavalry were still some distance
off, the general rode slowly down the line, speaking his
last solemn injunction —

Remember, men, there is no retreat from here.
You must die where you stand."

One and the same answer rose readily to every lip—

Ay ! ay ! Sir Colin ; we'll do that ! " shouted the
gallant Scots.*

Their veteran leader's head was clear ; his temper
cool and self-possessed. He held these brave hearts
in hand like the rider of a high-courage horse, and
knew well when to restrain, when to let go.

As the Russians approached, a few eager spirits
would have rushed forward from their ranks to encounter
their foe in the open plain ; but Sir Colin's
trumpet voice checked them with a fierce —

Ninety-third ! Ninety-third ! None of that eagerness
! "

And then a minute or two later came the signal for

Historical, cf. Kinglake's " Crimea," v. 80.

the whole line to advance. The Highlanders, and
those with them, swiftly mounted to the crest of the
ridge, and met the charging cavalry with a withering
volley. A second followed. The enemy had no stomach
former; reining in their horses, they wheeled round
and fell back as they had come.

This, however, was only the beginning of the action.
Heavy columns of the enemy now appeared in sight,
cavalry and infantry, with numerous artillery crowning
the eastern hills. A portion occupied the redoubts
abandoned by the Turks, and the attitude of the
Russians was so menacing that it seemed unlikely we
could stay their onward progress.

For the moment no troops could be interposed but
the British cavalry — the two brigades, Light and Heavy
which had their encampment in the plain, and had
been under arms, commanded by Lord Lucan, since
daybreak.

We must have up the First and Fourth Divisions,"
Lord Raglan had said, when he arrived on the battle-field
soon after eight in the morning ; at first he had treated
the news of the Russian advance lightly. Many such
moves had been reported on previous days, and all had
ended in nothing. "Let the Duke of Cambridge and
Sir George Cathcart have their orders at once. We
must trust to the cavalry till the infantry come up.
Tell Scarlettt to support the Turks'

But the Turks had given way before General Scarlettt
could stiffen their courage, and as his brigade, that of

heavy cavalry, trotted towards the redoubts, other and
more stirring work offered itself. The head of a great
column of Russian horse, three thousand sabres, came
over the crest of the hill and invited attack.

Scarlettt saw his opportunity, and, with true soldierly
promptitude, seized it. He wheeled his squadrons into
line and charged. Three went against the front, five
against the right flank, one against the left.

The intrepid ,( Heavies," outnumbered fivefold, dashed
forward at a hand gallop, and were soon swallowed up
in the solid mass. But it could not digest the terrible
dose. Just eight minutes more and the Russian column
wavered, broke, and turned.

It was a fine feat of arms, richly meriting its meed
of praise.

Well done ! well done ! " was the message that
came direct from Lord Raglan, on the hills above.

Greys ! Gallant Greys ! " cried Sir Colin Campbell,
galloping up to one of the regiments that had
made this charge. " I am sixty-one years old, but
if I were young I should be proud to be in your
ranks ! "

What luck those Heavies have ! " shouted another
and a bitterly discontented spectator of their prowess.

It was Lord Cardigan who, at the head of the Light
Brigade, sat still in his saddle, looking on.

Yet it was no one's fault but his own that he had not
been also engaged. His men were within striking
distance; they were bound, moreover, by the clearest

canons of the military art to throw their weight upon
the exposed flank of the discomfited foe.

But Lord Cardigan had strangely — obstinately, indeed
— misunderstood his orders, and, although chafing
angrily at inaction, conceived that it was his bounden
but distasteful duty to halt where he was.

Why don't he let us loose at them ? Was there
ever such a chance ? " muttered Hugo Wilderss, audibly,
and within earshot of his chief. He was .again riding
as extra aide to Lord Cardigan, who turned fiercely on
the speaker.

How dare yuu, sir, question my conduct ? You
shall answer for your insubordination "

Let me implore you, my lord, to advance," said
another voice, entreating earnestly, that of Captain
Morris, a cavalry officer who knew war well, and who
was, for the moment, in command of a magnificent
regiment of Lancers.

It is not your business to give me advice," replied
the general, haughtily. " Wait till I ask for it."

But, my lord, see ! the Russians are reeling from
the charge of the Heavies. Now if ever "

Enough, Captain Morris. My orders were to defend
this position ; and here I shall stay. I was told to
attack nothing unless they came within reach. The
enemy has not yet done that."

So the chance of annihilating the Russian cavalry was
lost, and the Light Brigade thought that its chances of

distinction were also gone for the day. Alas ! the hour
of its trial was very close at hand.

Lord Raglan had waited anxiously for the infantry
divisions he had ordered up. The first, under the
Duke of Cambridge, was now close at hand, and the
fourth, led by Sir George Cathcart, had arrived at a
point whence it might easily have reached out a hand
to recover the redoubts. But Cathcart's advance was
so leisurely that Lord Raglan feared he would be too
late to prevent the Russians from carrying off the guns
they had captured from the Turks. The enemy, it
must be understood, were showing manifest signs of
despondency : their shattered cavalry had gone rapidly
to the rear, and their infantry had halted irresolute,
inclined also to retreat.

This is the moment to strike them," decided Lord
Raglan. " They are evidently losing heart, and we
ought to get back the redoubts easily. I will send the
cavalry. They are almost on the spot, and at any rate
can get quickly over the ground. Ride, sir," to an
aide-de-camp, " and tell Lord Lucan to recover the
heights. Tell him he will have infantry, two whole
divisions, in support.' 5

They watched the aide-de-camp deliver his message ;
but still Lord Lucan, who was in supreme command of
the cavalry, made no move.

' What is he at ? " cried Lord Raglan, testily. " He
is very long about it."

There is no time to lose, rriy lord," interposed the
quartermaster-general, who had been intently watching
the redoubts with his field-glasses. " I can see them
bringing teams of horses into the redoubts. They evidently
mean to carry off our guns."

The necessity for action was more than ever urgent
and immediate.

Lord Lucan must be made to move. Here, Airey !
send him a peremptory order in writing."

The quartermaster-general produced pencil and paper
from his sabretash, and wrote as follows : —

Lord Eaglan wishes the cavalry to advance rapidly
to the front, and try to prevent the enemy from
carrying away the guns. Immediate."

That will do," said Lord Eaglan. " Let your own
aide-de-camp carry the order. He is a cavalry officer,
and can explain, if required."

It was Nolan, the enthusiastic, ardent, devoted
cavalry soldier, heart and soul, and overflowing now
with joy at his mission, and the chances of distinction
it offered the cavalry. A fine, fearless horseman, he
galloped at a breakneck pace down the steep and rocky
sides of the plateau, and quickly reached Lord Lucan's
side.

The general read his orders, with lips compressed
and lowering brow.

You come straight from Lord Raglan ? But, surely,
you are General Airey's aide-de-camp ? "

"Lord Raglan himself entrusted me with the message."


I can't believe it. It is utterly impracticable : for
any useful purpose. Quite unequal, quite inadequate,
to the risks and frightful loss it must entail."

The impetuous aide-de-camp showed visible signs of
impatience. While the general debated and discussed
his orders, instead of executing them with instant, unquestioning
despatch, a great opportunity was flitting
quickly by.

Lord Raglan's orders are " — Nolan spoke with an
irritation that was disrespectful, almost insubordinate
" his lordship's orders are that the cavalry should
attack immediately."

1 ' Attack, sir ! " replied Lord Lucan, petulantly ;
attack what ? What guns ? "

There, my lord, is your enemy," replied Nolan,
with an excited wave of his arm ; " there are your
guns ! "

The exact meaning of the gesture no man survived
to tell, but its direction was unhappily towards a
formidable Russian battery which closed the gorge of
the north valley, and not to the heights crowned by the
captured redoubts.

Lord Lucan, heated by the irritating language of his
junior officer, must have lost his power of discrimination,
for although his first instructions clearly indicated
the guns in the redoubt, and his second, brought by

Nolan, obviously referred to the same guns, the cavalry
general was misled — by his own rage, or Nolan's sweeping
gesture, who shall say ? — misled into a terrible
error.

He conceived it to be his duty to send a portion of
his cavalry against a formidable battery of Russian
guns, well posted as they were, and already sweeping
the valley with a well-directed, murderous fire.

Of the two cavalry brigades, the Light was still fresh
and untouched by the events of the day. The Heavy
Brigade, as we have seen, had already done splendid
service in routing the Russian cavalry. The turn of
the Light Brigade had come, although, unhappily, the
task entrusted to it was hopeless, foredoomed to failure
from the first.

It stood close by, proudly impatient, itn brigadier,
Lord Cardigan, at its head.

To him the divisional general imparted Lord Raglan's
order.

"You are to advance, Lord Cardigan, along the
valley, and attack the Russians at the far end," was the
order he gave.

Certainly, sir," replied Lord Cardigan, without
hesitation. " But allow me to point out to you that the
Russians have a battery in the valley in our front, and
batteries and riflemen on each flank."

"I can't help that," said Lord Lucan; "Lord
Raglan will have it so. You have no choice but to
obey.'

a

Lord Cardigan saluted with his sword ; then, rising
in his stirrups, he turned to his men, and cried aloud ina
full, firm voice —

The brigade will advance ! " — to certain death, he
might have added, for he knew it, although he never
quailed. But, settling himself in his saddle, as though
starting on a promising run with hounds, and not on a
journey from which there was no return, he said, with
splendid resignation, as he prepared to lead the
charge —

Here goes for the last of the Rudeness ! " *

All this had passed in a few minutes, and then three
lines of dauntless horsemen — in the first line, Dragoons
and Lancers ; in the second, Hussars ; in the third,
Hussars and more Dragoons — galloped down the north
valley on their perilous and mistaken errand.

They were already going at full speed, when a single
horseman, with uplifted arm and excited gesture, as
though addressing the brigade, crossed their front. It
was Nolan, who thus seemed to be braving the anger of
Lord Cardigan by interfering with the leadership of
his men.

What brought Nolan there ? The inference is only
fair and reasonable that at the very outset he had recognised
the misinterpretation of Lord Raglan's orders,
and was seeking to change the direction of the charging
horsemen, diverting them from the Russian battery
towards the redoubts, their proper goal.

The family name of the Earls of Cardigan was Bridewell.

Fate decreed that this last chance of correcting the
terrible error should be denied to the Light Brigade.
A Russian shell struck Nolan full in the chest, and
tore a way to his heart." By his untimely death the
doom of the light cavalry was sealed.

As the devoted band galloped forward to destruction,
all who observed them stood horror-stricken at the
amazing folly of this mad, mistaken charge.

Great heavens ! n cried Lord Raglan. " Why, they
will be destroyed ! Go down, Carthorse, and you,
Burghers, and find out who is responsible for this
frightful mistake ! "

"Magnificent!" was the verdict of Bosquet, a friendly
but experienced French critic. u But it is not war."

Not war — murder, rather, and sudden death.

the ceaseless fire of the guns they faced wrought
fearful havoc in the ranks of the horsemen as they
galloped on. Still the survivors went forward, un-appalled;
but it was with sadly diminished numbers
that they reached the object of their attack. The few
that got to the guns did splendid service with their
swords. The gunners were cut down as they stood,
and for the moment the battery was ours. But it was
impossible to hold it; the Light Brigade had almost
ceased to exist. Presently its shattered remnants felt
slowly back, covered by the Heavies against the pursuit
of the once more audacious Russian cavalry.

Barely half an hour had sufficed for the annihilation
of nearly six hundred soldiers, the flower of the British

Light Horse. The northern valley was like a shambles,
strewn with the dead and dying, while all about galloped
riderless horses, and dismounted troopers seeking to
regain their lines on foot. Quite half of the whole force
had been struck down, among the rest Hugo Wilderss,
whose forehead a grape-shot had pierced.

The muster of regiments after such a fight was but a
mournful ceremony. When at length the now decimated
line was re-formed, the horror of the action was
plainly seen.

It was a mad-brained trick," said Lord Cardigan,
who had marvellously escaped — " a monstrous blunder,
but it was no fault of mine."

Never mind, my lordy! " cried many gallant spirits.
We are ready to charge again ! "

"No, no, men' replied Lord Cardigan, hastily; "you
have done enough."

It was at this moment that Lord Raglan rode up, and
angrily called Lord Cardigan to account.

What did you mean, sir, by attacking guns in front
with cavalry, contrary to the usages of war ? ' ;

You must not blame me, my lord' replied Lord
Cardigan. " I only obeyed the orders of my superior
officer," and he pointed to Lord Lucan, whom Lord
Raglan then addressed with the severe reproof —

You have sacrificed the Light Brigade, Lord Lucan.
You should have used more discretion."

I never approved of the charge," protested Lord
Lucan.

Then you should not have allowed it to be made."

The battle of Balaclava was practically over, and,
although they had suffered no reverse, its results were
decidedly disadvantageous to the allies. The massacre
of the Light Brigade encouraged the Russian general
to advance again ; his columns once more crossed the
Woronzoff road, and re-occupied the redoubts in force.
The immediate result was the narrowing of the communications
between the front and the base. The use
of a great length of this Woronzoff road was forbidden,
and the British were restricted to the insufficient
tracks through Kadikoi. A principal cause this
of the difficulties of supply during the dread winter
now close at hand.

Another lesser result of the Russian advance was
that McKay and his men that afternoon were unable
to rejoin their regiment by the road they had travelled
the day before. He returned to camp by a long and
circuitous route, through Kadikoi, instead of by the
direct Woronzoff road.

It was late in the day, therefore, when he was once
more at his headquarters. He had much to tell of his
strange adventures on these two eventful days, and the
colonel, who had at once sent for him, kept him in close
colloquy, plying him with questions about the battle,
for more than an hour. It was not till he had heard
everything that Colonel Blythe handed the sergeant-major
a bundle of letters and papers, arrived that
morning by the English mail.

VOL. I. L

There is good news for you, Mckay' said he. " I
was so interested in your description that I had forgotten
to tell you. Let me congratulate you; your
name is in the Gazette" and the Colonel, taking
McKay's hand, shook it warmly.

McKay carried off his precious bundle to his tent,
and, first untying the newspaper, hunted out the Gazette.

There it was —

The Eoyal Picts — Sergeant-major Stanislas Anastasius
Wilderss McKay to be Ensign, vice Arrowsmith,
killed in action."

They had lost no time ; the reward had followed
quickly upon the gallant deed that deserved it. Barely
a month had elapsed since the Alma, yet already he
was an officer, bearing the Queen's commission, which
he had won with his own right arm.

His letters were from home — from his darling mother,
who, in simple, loving language, poured forth her joy
and pride.

tc My dearest, bravest boy," she said, 6t how nobly
you have justified the choice you made ; you were
right, and we were wrong in opposing your earnest
wish to follow in your poor father's footsteps — would
that he had lived to see this day ! It was his spirit
that moved you when, in spite of us all, of your uncles'
protests and my tears, you persisted in your resolve to
enlist. They said you had disgraced yourself and us.
It was cruel of them ; but now they are the first to
come round. I have heard from both your uncles;

they are, of course, delighted, and beg me to give you
their heartiest good wishes. Uncle Ralph said perhaps
he would write himself ; but he is so overwhelmed with
work at the Munitions Office he may not have time.
Uncle Barto you will, perhaps, see out in the Crimea ;
he has got command of the Burlington Castle, one of
the steamers chartered from his Company, and is going
at once to Balaclava.

Oh, my sweet son be careful of yourself ! " went
on the fond mother, her deep anxiety welling forth,
You are my only, only joy. I pray God hourly that
He may spare your precious life. May He have you in
His safe keeping ! M

The reading of these pleasant letters occupied
Stanislas till nightfall. Then, utterly wearied, but
with a thankful, contented heart, he threw himself
upon the ground, and slept till morning.

When he issued forth from his tent it was to receive
the cordial congratulations of his brother officers.
Sergeant Hyde came up, too, a little doubtfully, but
McKay seized his hand, saying —

You do not grudge me my good luck, I hope, old
friend ? "

I, sir ? " — the address was formal, but the tone
was full of heartfelt emotion. ei You have no heartier
well-wisher than Colour-Sergeant Hyde. Our relative
positions have changed "

Nothing can change them, or me, Hyde. You

L 2

have always been my best and staunchest friend. It
is to your advice and teachings that I owe alt this."

Go on as you have begun, my boy j the road is
open before you. Who knows ? That field-marshal's
baton may have been in your pack after all ! '

While they still talked a message was brought to
McKay from General Wilderss ; the brigadier wished
to see him at once.

How is this, Mr. McKay ? " said the general. " So
you pretend to be a cousin of mine ? Sir Colin Campbell
has told me of his meeting with you, and now I
find your name in full in the Gazette.

4f It is no pretence, sir," replied Stanislas, with

dignity.

What ! You call yourself a Wilderss ! By what

right ? "

My mother is first cousin to the present Lord

Essendine."

Through whom ? '

Her father, Anastasius Wilderss."

I know — my fathers brother. Then you belong
to the elder branch. But I never heard that he
married."

He married Priscilla Oxon in 1805."

« Privately ? "

• I believe not. But it was much against his father's
wish, and his wife was never recognised by the family.
His widow — you know my grandfather died early —

married a second time, and thus increased the breach
between the families''

It's a strange story. I don't know what to think
of it. These statements of yours — can they be substantiated
? "

Most certainly, sir, by the fullest proof. Besides,
the present Lord Essendine is quite aware of my existence,
and has acknowledged my relationship.

Never openly : you must admit that."

No, we were simple people ; not grand enough, I
suppose, for his lordship. At any rate, we were too
proud to be patronised, and preferred to go our own
way."

T acknowledge you, Mr. McKay, without hesitation,
and am proud to own so gallant a young man as my
relative. You have indeed maintained the soldierly
reputation of our family. Shake hands ! "

ei You are very kind, sir ; I hope to continue to
deserve your good opinion," and McKay rose to take
his leave.

Stay, Cousin McKay, I have more to say to you.
What is this Sir Colin tells me about your speaking
Russian ? "

Stanislas explained.

It may prove extremely useful ; we have not too
many interpreters in the army. I shall write to headquarters
and report your qualifications. Do you speak
any other languages ? "

French, Spanish, and a little Turkish."

By Jove ! you ought to be on the staff ; they want
such men as you. Can you sit on a horse ? "

"I have ridden bare-backed many a dozen miles
across the moors at home.

Faith ! I will take you myself. I want an extra
aide-de-camp, and my cousin shall have the preference.
I will send to Colonel Blythe at once; be ready to join
me. But how about your kit ? You will want horses,

uniform, and Forgive me, my young cousin : but

how are you off for cash ? You must let me be your
banker."

McKay shook his head, gratefully.

Thank you, sir ; but I have been applied from
home. One of my uncles — my mother's half-brother —
is well-to-do, and he sent me a remittance on hearing of
my promotion,"

Well, well, as you please ; but mind you come tome
if you want anything. I shall expect you to take
up your duties tomorrow." They were interrupted by
all the bugles in the brigade sounding the assembly.
What is it ? The alarm ? "

I can hear file-firing, sir, from the front'

An attack, evidently. Hurry back to your camp ;
the regiment will be turned out by the time you get
there ! "

As McKay left the general's tent he met Captain
Powys.

The outposts have been driven in on Shell Hill and
the enemy is advancing in force," said the aide-de-camp.

" We shall have another battle, I expect. It is
our turn to-day."

This was Colonel Fedeoroff's forlorn hope against our
extreme right : the sequel to Balaclava, the prelude of
Inkerman — a sharp fight while it lasted, but promptly
repulsed by our men.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE GOLDEN HORN.

Since the English and French armies had established
themselves in the Crimea and the magnitude of their
undertaking grew more and more apparent, they had
found their true base of operations at Constantinople.
Here were collected vast masses of supplies and stores,
waiting to be forwarded to the front ; here the reinforcements
— horse, foot, and guns — paused ere they
joined their respective armies ; here hospitals, extensive,
but still ill-organised and incomplete, received the sick
and wounded sent back from the Crimea ; here also
lingered, crowding the tortuous streets of Mussulman
Stamboul and filling to overflowing the French-like
suburb of Pera, a strange medley of people, a motley
crew of various faiths and many nationalities, polyglot
in tongue and curiously different in attire, drawn

together by such various motives as duty, mere
curiosity, self-interest, and greed. Jews, infidels, and
Turks were met at every corner : the first engaged in
every occupation that could help them to make money,
from touting at the bazaars to undertaking large
contracts and selling bottled beer; the second, representatives
going or coming from the forces now devoted
to upholding the Crescent ; the third, mostly apathetic,
self-indulgent, corpulent old Mussulman riding instate,
accompanied by their pipe-bearers, or sitting
half-asleep in coffee-houses or at the doors of their
shops. Now and again a bevy of Turkish ladies glided
by : mere peripatetic bundles of white linen, closely-veiled
and yellow-slippered ; or a Greek in his white
petticoat, fierce in aspect and armed to the teeth ; oran
Armenian merchant, Argonauts, Bashi-Bazouks, French
Spahis, the Bedouins of the desert, but half-disguised
as civilised troops, while occasionally there appeared,
amidst the heterogeneous throng, the plain suit of grey
ditties worn by the travelling Englishman, or the more
or less simple female costumes that hailed from London
or Paris.

Misseri's hotel did a roaring trade. It was crowded
from roof-tree to cellar. Rooms cost a fabulous price.
Mrs. Wilderss managed to be very comfortably lodged
there notwithstanding.

She still lingered in Constantinople. Her anxiety for
her husband forbade her to leave the East, although
she told her friends it was misery for her to be

separated from her infant boy. She might have had a
passage home in a dozen different steamers returning
empty, all of them in search of fresh freights of men or
material ; or there was Lord Lydstone's yacht still
lying in the Golden Horn and ready to take her anywhere
if only she said the word. But that, of course,
was out of the question, as she had laughingly told her
husband's cousin more than once when he had placed
the Arcadia at her disposal.

They met sometimes, but never on board the yacht,
for that would have outraged Mrs. Wilderss' s nice sense
of propriety. It was generally at Scutari, where poor
young Anastasius Wilderss lay hovering between life
and death, for Mrs. Wilderss, with cousinly kindliness,
came frequently to the wounded lad's bedside.

She was bound for the other side of the Bosphorus as
she went downstairs one fine morning towards the end
of October, dressed, as usual, to perfection.

A man met her as she crossed the threshold, a man
dressed like, and with the air of, an Englishman — a
pale-faced, sandy-haired man, with white eyebrows,
rather prominent cheek-bones, and a retreating chin.

u Good morning, my dear madam' He spoke with
just the faintest accent, betraying that English was not
his native tongue. " Like a good Sister, going to the
hospital again ?"

Mrs. Wilderss bowed, and, with heightened colour,
sought to pass hastily on.

What ! not one word for so old a friend ? " He
spoke now in French — perfect Parisian French.

I wish you would not address me in public : you
know you promised me that," replied Mrs. Wilderss, ina
tone of much vexation, tinged with the respect that is
born of fear.

Forgive me, madam, if I have presumed. But I
thought you would wish to hear the news 5

"News! Of what?"

Another battle, a fierce, terrible fight, in which,
thank Heaven ! the English have suffered defeat ! n He
spoke with an exultation that proved him to be a
traitor, or no Englishman.

A battle ? The English defeated ? "

Yes ; thank Heaven, beaten, massacred, disastrously
defeated ! It is only the beginning of the end. We
shall hear soon of far worse. The Czar is gathering
together all his strength ; what can the puny forces of
the allies do against him ? They will be outnumbered
thousands to one — annihilated before they can escape
to their ships."

Pshaw ! What do I care ! Whether they are
driven away from the Crimea, or remain, is much the
same to me. But, after all, this is mere talk ; you
can't terrify me by such vapourings."

I tell you I know this for a fact. The Russian
forces in the Crimea have been continually reinforced
for weeks past. I know it ; I saw them. I was therein

their midst, not many days ago. Besides, I am
behind the scenes, deep in their counsels. Rely upon
it, the allies are in imminent danger. You will hear
soon of another and far greater fight, after which it will
be all over with your friends ! "

Well, well ! my friends, as you call them, must
look to themselves. Still, this is mere talk of what maybe.
Tell me what has actually occurred. There has
been a battle : are many slain ? General Wilderss — is
he safe ? "

You need have no apprehensions for your dear
husband, madam ; his command was not engaged. The
chief brunt of the fight fell upon the cavalry, who were
cut to pieces."

What of young Wilderssss ? Hugo Wilderssss, I mean
Lord Lydstone's brother."

His name is returned amongst the killed. It will
be a blow for the noble house of Essendine, and not the
only one."

What do you mean ? "

The other brother, young Anastasius, whom you
are going to see, cannot survive, I hear."

"Poor young fellows!" said Mrs. Wilderss, with a
well-assumed show of feeling.

You pity them ? I honour your sentiments, madam ;
but, nevertheless, they can be spared, especially by

))

you,

What do you mean ?" she asked, quickly.

I mean that after they are gone only one obstacle
intervenes between you and all the Essendine wealth.
If Lord Lydstone were out of the way, the title and its
possession would come, perhaps, to your husband, certainty
to your son."

Silence ! Do not put thoughts into my head. You
must be the very fiend, I think."

I know you, Cyprienne, and every move of your
mind. We are such old friends, you see," he said, with
a sneering, cynical smile. " And now, as before, I offer
you my help."

1 ' Devil ! Do not tempt me ! "

He laughed — a cold, cruel, truculent laugh.

I know you, I repeat, and am ready to serve you as
before. Come, or send, if you want me. I am living
here in this hotel; Mr. Hobson they call me— Mr.
Joseph Hobson, of London. My number is 73. Shall
I hear from you ? "

No, no ! I will not listen to you. Let me go ! "
And Mrs. Wilderss, breaking away from him, hurried
down the street.

It was not a long walk to the waterside. There she
took a caique, or local boat, with two rowers in red
seizes, and was conveyed across the Bosphorus to the
Asiatic side.

Landing at Scutari, Mrs. Wilderss went straight to the
great palace, which was now a hospital, and treading
its long passages with the facility of one who had

travelled the road before, she presently found herself ina
spacious, lofty chamber filled with truckle-beds, and
converted now into a hospital-ward.

How is he ? " she asked, going up at once to a
sergeant who acted as superintendent and head nurse.

Mr. Wilderss, ma'am ? " replied the sergeant, with
a shake of the head.

(t No improvement ? "

Far worse, ma'am, poor young chap ! He died this
morning, soon after daylight.' 5

And my lord — was his brother present ? "

11 Lord Lydstone watched with him through the
night, and was here by the bedside when he died

Where is he now ? Lord Lydstone, I mean. J

u He went back on board his yacht, ma'am, I think.
He said he should like a little sleep. But he is to be
here again this afternoon, for the funeral."

So soon ? w

Oh, yes ! ma'am. It must take place at once, the
doctors say."

Mrs. Wilderss left the hospital, hesitating greatly
what she should do. She would have liked to see
and speak with Lydstone, but she had enough good
feeling not to intrude by following him on board the
yacht.

Then she resolved to attend the funeral too. It
would show her sympathy, and Lord Lydstone would
be bound to notice her.

He did see her, and came up after the ceremony to
shake her handie

I am so sorry for you' she began.

u It is too terrible ! " he exclaimed. " Both in one
day."

He had heard of Balaclava, then.

ei But I can't talk about it to-day. I will call on you
tomorrow, if I may, in the morning. I am going back
to England almost at once."

He came next day, and she received him in her little
sitting-room at Misseri's.

' You know how I feel for you," she said, giving him
both her hands, her fine eyes full of tears. " They
were such splendid young fellows, too. It is so sad —
so very sad."

I am very grateful for your sympathy. But wq will
not talk about ' them, please," interrupted Lord Loadstone.


You have my warmest and most affectionate sympathy.
Is there anything I can do to console you, to
prove to you how deeply, how sincerely, I feel for
you ? "

Her voice faltered, and she seemed on the point of
breaking down.

What news have you of the general ? " asked Lord
Lydstone, rather abruptly, as though to change the
conversation.

Good enough. He is all right," said Mrs. Wilderss,

dismissing inquiry for her husband in these few brusque
words.

I can't think of him just now," she went on. "It
is you and your great sorrow that fill all my heart. Oh,
Lydstone ! dear Lord Lydstone, the pity of it ! "

This tender commiseration was very captivating.
But the low, sweet voice seemed to have lost its
charm.

I think I told you yesterday, Mrs. Wilderss, that I
intended to return to England' said Lord Lydstone, ina
cold, hard voice.

"Yes ; when do you start ? "

To-morrow, I think. Have you any commands ? '

u You do not offer me a passage home ? "

Well, you see, I am travelling post haste," he
answered. " I shall only go in the yacht as far as
Trieste, and then on overland. I fear that would not
suit you ? "

I should be perfectly satisfied " — she was not
to be put off — " with any route, provided I go with
you."

You are very kind, Mrs. Wilderss," he said, more
stiffly, but visibly embarrassed. " I think, however,
that as I shall travel day and night I had better "

In other words, you decline the pleasure of my
company' she said, in a voice of much pique.

It was very plain that she had no longer any influence
over him.

But why are you in such a desperate hurry, Lord
Lydstone ? " she went on.

u I have had letters, urging me to hurry home. My
father and mother are most anxious to see me ; and
now, after what has happened, it is right that I should
be at their side."

You are a good son, Lord Lydstone," she said, but
there was the slightest sneer concealed beneath her
simple words.

u I have not been what I ought, but now that I am
the only one left I feel that I must defer to my dear
parents' wishes in every respect." He said this with
marked emphasis.

"They have views for you, I presume V Mrs.Wilders
asked, catching quickly at his meaning.

My mother has always wanted me to settle down in
life, and my father has urged me "

To marry. I understand. It is time, they think,
for you to have sown your wild oats ? "

"Precisely. I have liked my freedom, I confess.
Now there are the strongest reasons why I should
marry."

To secure the succession, I suppose."

We have surely a right to look to that ! " said Lord
Lydstone, rather haughtily.

et Oh ! of course. Every one is bound to look after
his own. And the young lady — has she been found ? '

Lord Lydstone coloured at this point-blank question.

VOL. I. M

(C

I have been long paying my addresses to Lady
Grizel Banquo," he said.

Oh ! she is your choice ? I have often seen her
and you together."

u We have been friends almost from childhood ; and
it seems quite natural "

6t That you should tie yourself for life to a redheaded,
raw-boned Scotch girl."

To an English lady of my own rank in life," interrupted
Lord Lydstone, sternly, ' { who will make me an
honest, faithful helpmate, as I have every reason to
hope and believe."

You are just cut out for domestic felicity, Lord
Lydstone. I can see you a staid, sober English peer,
a pattern of respectability, the stay and support of
your country, obeyed with reverent devotion by a fond
wife, bringing up a large family n

As young people should be brought up, I hope —
the girls as modest, God-fearing maidens ; the boys to
behave like gentlemen, and to tell the truth."

A very admirable system of education, I'm sure.
By-and-bye we shall see how nearly you have achieved
your aim."

She was disappointed and bitterly angry, feeling
that he had rebuffed and flouted her.

We part as friends, I hope ? " said Lord Lydstone,
rising to go.

Oh, certainly ! why not ? " she answered carelessly.


ff I trust you will continue to get good news from
Cousin Bill."

iC And I that you will have a speedy voyage home.
It would be provoking to be delayed when bound on
such a mission."

Then they parted, never to meet again,

M 2

CHAPTER XV.

THE LAST OF LORD Loadstone.

The mixed population of Constantinople in these busy,
stirring times was ripe for any great surprise. It was
much moved and excited by a startling bit of news that
spread very rapidly next day.

An atrocious murder had been committed on the
Stamboul side, near the Bridge of Boats.

Certainly, murders were not unknown in this hive of
complex life, harbouring as it did the very scum and
refuse of European rascality. But the victims were
mostly vile, nameless vagabonds, low Greeks, Maltese
settlers, Italian sailors, or one or other of the hybrid
mongrel ruffians following in the track of our armies,
any of whom might be sent to their long account
without being greatly missed.

It was otherwise now : the murdered man was a
prominent personage, an Englishman of high rank, a
rich and powerful representative of a great people.
No wonder that Constantinople was agitated and disturbed.


On this occasion Lord Lydstone was the murdered
man.

He had been found at daybreak by the Turkish
patrol, lying in a doorway just where he had fallen
dead, stabbed to the heart.

The body was taken to the nearest guard, and
inquiries were instituted. A card-case found on the
body led to identification, and a report made to the
British Embassy set in motion the law and justice of
the peace.

Nothing satisfactory or conclusive was brought to
light. No one could account for his lordship's presence
in that, the lowest quarter of the city ; the only clue to
his movements was furnished by his steward and body-servant
on board the yacht.

The valet came on shore and gave his evidence
before the informal court, which was dealing with the
case at the British Embassy, presided over by the
attaches.

When did you see his lordship last ? "

Last night. My lord dined on board alone. He
appeared depressed, and altogether low. He told me
he should go to bed early." ,

And did he ? "

No. Late in the evening a shore-boat came off —
one of those caiques, I think they called them — with a
letter, very urgent."

For Lord Lydstone ? "

t( For his lordship. He seemed much disturbed on
reading it."

Well ? "

My lord called me and said he would dress to go on
shore. I gave him out the suit which he was wearing
when the body was found."

He said nothing about the letter, or its contents
? "

Oh, no ! My lord was never given to talking
much, although I was his confidential valet since he
left college. He never spoke to me of his affairs. My
lord always kept his distance, as it was proper he
should."

Could you tell at all what became of this letter ? "

My lord put it in his pocket when he was dressed."

You are certain of this ? "

Most positive."

Was any such letter found in the pockets of the
deceased ? " asked the attache of the Turkish police,
through the dragoman of the Embassy.

Nothing of the kind had been found.

The letter was no doubt removed purposely. This
would destroy all trace of its origin. It was evidently

a snare, a bait to lure the poor lord on shore' said one
attache to another.

It is curious that he should have been so ready to
swallow it."

There must have been something peculiarly persuasive
in the letter."

But we have heard that he was much distressed, or
annoyed, at receiving it."

Persuasive in a good or bad sense — probably the
latter. At any rate, it was sufficient to lure him on
shore."

Of course there is something beneath all this : some
intrigue, perhaps."

The old story, c who is she ? • I suppose."

"But I thought he was devoted to his cousin, the
fair Mrs. Wilderss."

u Is she still in Constantinople ? "

Yes, I think so. Still at Misseri's, I believe."

I wonder whether she has yet heard about this
horrible affair. Some one ought to break it to her."

But no one was needed for a task from which all
shrank, with not unnatural hesitation. While they
still talked, a message was brought in to the effect
that Mrs. Wilderss was in the antechamber, and her
first words, when one of the attaches joined her,
plainly showed that she had heard of Lord Lydstone's
death.

"What a horrible, frightful business!" she said, ina

voice broken with emotion. " Oh ! this wicked,
accursed town ! How did it happen ? Do tell me all
you know."

We are completely in the dark. Wc know nothing
more than that Lord Lydstone was found stabbed at
daylight this morning in the streets of Tambour"

What could have taken him there ? "

The attache shrugged his shoulders.

There is nothing to show, except that he was inveigled
by some mysterious communication — a letter
sent on board the yacht."

Inveigled for some base purpose — robbery, perhaps
? "

Very probably. When the body was found, it had
been rifled of everything — watch, money, rings : everything
had gone."

Mrs. Wilderss sighed deeply. It might have been a
sigh of relief, but to the attache it seemed a new
symptom of horror.

But how imprudent — how frightfully imprudent—
of the poor dear lord to venture alone, and so late at
night, into that vile quarter. What could have tempted
him ? "

u That's what we are all asking. Some unusually
powerful motive must have influenced him, we may be
sure, and that I hope we may still ascertain. It will
be the first step towards detecting the authors of the
crime."

They will be discovered, you think ?"
No efforts will be spared, you may be sure. The
means at our disposal are not very first-rate, perhaps,
but we have been promised the fullest help by the
Turkish Minister of Police, and we shall leave no stone
unturned."

Oh ! I do so hope that the villains will be discovered.
Is there anything I can do ? "

u Hardly, Mrs. Wilderss. But, as you are the only
representative of the family, it would be well perhaps
for you to go on board the yacht. Poor Lord Loadstone's
papers and effects should be sealed up. One
of us will accompany you."

u I shall be delighted to be of any use. When shall
we start ? "

The sooner the better," said the attache, Mr. Loftus
by name ; and, leaving the inquiry, the two took boat,
and were presently alongside the Arcadia.

They were received by the captain, a fine specimen
of a west-country sailor, a hardy seaman, well schooled
in his profession, who had long commanded a vessel
in the Mediterranean trade, and was thus well
qualified to act as sailing-master in the Arcadia's
present cruise.

But Captain Trejago was soft-hearted, easily led,
especially by any daughter of Eve, and he had long
since succumbed to the fascinations of Mrs. Wilderss's
charms. From the day she first trod the deck of the

yacht lie had become her humblest, perhaps, but most
devoted, admirer and slave.

They exchanged a few words of sympathy and condolence.


"You have lost a good friend, Captain Trejago,"
said the lady.

He was that, ma'am. My lord was one of the
finest, noblest men that ever trod in shoe-leather. And
you, ma'am — it must be very terrible for you""

Losing him in such a way, it is that which embitters
my grief. But this gentleman " — she turned to
Mr. Loftus — " comes from the Embassy to seal up his
lordship's papers."

Quite right, ma'am. That ought to be done without
delay."

We can go down into the cabin, then ? " said Mrs.
Wilder s.

Why ! surely, ma'am, you ought to know the way.
Mr. Hemmings" — this was the valet — I' is not on board,
as you know : but I will send the second steward if you
want any help."

Assisted by the steward, Mr. Loftus proceeded in a
business-like manner to place the seals of the Embassy
upon the desk, drawers, and other receptacles in Lord
Lydstone's cabin. While they were thus employed,
Mrs. Wilderss sat at the cabin-table under the skylight,
her head resting on one hand, and in an attitude that
indicated the prostration of great sorrow. The other

hand was on the table, fingering idly the various
objects that strewed it. There were an inkstand, a
pen-tray, a seal, a blotting-book or portfolio, and many
other odds and ends.

This blotting-book, with the same listless, aimless
action, Mrs. Wilder s presently turned to, and turned
over the leaves one by one.

Between two of them she came upon a letter, left
there by accident, or to be answered perhaps that
day.

The feminine instinct of curiosity Mrs. Wilderss possessed
in no common degree. To look at the letter thus
exposed, however unworthy the action, was a temptation
such a woman could not resist. She began to read
it, almost as a matter of course, but carelessly, and
with no set purpose, as though it was little likely to
contain matter that would interest her. But after the
first few lines its perusal deeply absorbed her. A few
lines more, anoNshe closed the book, leaving her hand
inside, and looked round the cabin.

Mr. Loftus and his assistants were still busily engaged
upon their official task. Neither of them was
paying the slightest attention to her.

With the hand still concealed inside the blotter, she
folded up this missive which seemed so interesting and
important, and, having thus got it into a small compass,
easily and quickly transferred it to her pocket.

She looked anxiously round, fearing she might have
been observed. But no one had noticed her, and presently,

when Mr. Loftus had completed his work, they
again left the yacht for the shore.

So soon as Mrs. Wilderss regained the privacy of her
own room at Misseri's, which was not till late in the
day, she took out the letter she had laid hands on in
the cabin of the yacht, and read it through slowly and
carefully.

It was from Lord Lydstone's father, dated at Essendine
Towers, the principal family-seat.

My dear boy," so it ran, u your mother and I are
very grateful to you for your very full and deeply
interesting letter, with its ample, but most distressing,
account of our dear Anastasius. It is a proud, but
melancholy, satisfaction to know that he has maintained
the traditions of the family, and bled, like many a
Wilderss before him, for his country's cause. His condition
must, however, be a constant and trying anxiety,
and I beseech you, more particularly on your mother's
account, to keep us speedily informed »of his progress.
It is some consolation to think that you are by his side,
and it is only right that you should remain at Constantinople
so long as your brother is in any danger.

But do not, my dear boy, linger long in the East.
We want you back with us at home. This is your
proper place — you who are our eldest born, heir to the
title and estates — you should be here at my side. There
are other urgent reasons why you should return. You
know how anxious we are that you should marry and
settle in life. We are doubly so now. Your brothers

before this hateful war broke out made the succession,
humanly speaking, almost secure. But the chances of a
campaign are unhappily most uncertain. Anastasius has
been struck down; we may lose him, which Heaven
forbid ; a Russian bullet may rob us any day of dear
Hugo too. In such a dire and grievous calamity, you
alone — only one single, precious life — would remain to
keep the title in our line. Do not, I beseech you, suffer
it to continue thus. Come home ; marry, my son ; give
us another generation of descendants, and assure the
succession.

I have never made any secret of my wishes in this
respect ; but I have never told you the real reasons for
my deep anxiety. It was my father's earnest hope —
he inherited it from his father, as I have from mine —
that the title might never be suffered to pass tp his
brother Anastasius's heirs. My uncle had married indirect
opposition to his father's orders, in an age when
filial disobedience was deemed a very heinous offence,
and he was cut off with a shilling. I might say that
he deserved no better ; but he did not long survive to
bear the penalty of his fault. He left a child — a
daughter, however — to whom I would willingly have
lent a helping hand, but she spurned all my overtures
in a way that grieved me greatly, although I never
openly complained. That branch of the family has
continued estranged from us ; and I am certainly indisposed
to reopen communications with them.

"Yet the existence of that branch cannot be ignored.
It might, at any time, through any series of mishaps of
a kind I hardly like to contemplate, but, nevertheless,
quite possible in this world of cross-purposes and
sudden surprises, become of paramount importance in
the family ; for . in point of seniority it stands next to
ourselves. The next heir to the title, after you and
your brothers, is the grandson of Anastasius Wilderss, .
a lad of whom I know nothing, except that he is quite
unfitted to assume the dignity of an Earl of Essendine,
should fate ever will it that he should succeed. This
unfitness you will readily appreciate when I tell you
that he is at present a private soldier in a marching-regiment
in the East. Stranger still, this regiment is
the same as that in which poor Anastasius is serving —
the Eoyal Picts. The young man's name is McKay —
Stanislas Anastasius Wilderss McKay. I have never
seen him ; but I am satisfied of his existence, and of
the absolute validity of his claims. My agents have
long had their eye on him, and through them I have
full information of his movements and disposition.
He appears a decent, good sort of youth. But I iee
satisfied that we ought, as far as is possible by human
endeavour, to prevent his becoming the head of the
family.

You are now in possession of the whole of the
facts, my dear Lydstone, and I need scarcely insist
upon the way in which you are affected by them. You

will not hesitate, I am sure, after reading this letter, to
return to England the moment you can leave your poor
brother."

There was more in the letter, but it dealt with purely
business matters, which did not interest the person who
had become clandestinely possessed of it.

To say that Mrs. Wilderss read this letter with surprise
would inadequately express its effect upon her.
She was altogether taken aback, dismayed, horror-stricken
at its contents.

Now, when chance, or something worse, had cleared
the way towards the great end, after which she had
always eagerly, but almost hopelessly, hankered, a new
and entirely unexpected obstacle suddenly supervened.
Another life was thrust in between her and the proximate
enjoyment of high rank and great wealth.

Who was this interloper — this McKay — this private
soldier serving in the ranks of the Royal Picts ? What
sort of man ? What were his prospects — his age ?
Was it likely that he would stand permanently in her
way ?

These were facts which she must speedily ascertain.
The regiment to which he belonged was in the Crimea,
part of her uncle's brigade. Surely through him she
might discover all she wanted to know. But how could
this be best accomplished ?

The more she thought over it, the more convinced
she was that she ought to go in person to the Crimea,
to prosecute her inquiries on the spot. While still

doubtful as to the best means of reaching the theatre
of war, it occurred to her that she could not do better
than make use of Lord Lydstone's yacht.

It would have to go home eventually — to be paid off
and disposed of by Lord Lydstone's heirs. But there
was surely no immediate hurry for this, and Mrs.
Wilderss thought she had sufficient influence with Captain
Trejago to persuade him, not only to postpone his
departure, but to take a trip to the Crimea.

In this she was perfectly successful, and the day after
Lord Lydstone's funeral the Arcadia, with a fine breeze
aft, steered northward across the Black Sea.

It reached Balaclava on the morning of the 5th of
November, and Mrs. Wilderss immediately despatched
a messenger on shore to inform the general of her
arrival. That day, however, the general and his
brigade were very busily employed. It was the day
of Inkerman !

CHAPTER XVI.

HARD POUNDING."

Mr. Hobson, as he called himself, had been perfectly
right when he gleefully assured Mrs. Wilderss that the
Russians were gathering up their strength for a
supreme effort against the allies. Reinforcements had
been steadily pouring into the Crimea for weeks past

two of the Czar's sons had arrived to stir up the
enthusiasm of the soldiers. Menschikoff, who still commanded,
counted confidently upon inflicting exemplary
chastisement upon the invaders. He looked for nothing
less, according to an intercepted despatch, than the
destruction or capture of the whole allied army.

No doubt the enemy had now an overwhelming
superiority in numbers. The total land forces under
Prince Menschikoff's command, including the garrison
of Sebastopol, were 120,000 strong. These numbers

VOL. I. N

included a large body of cavalry and a formidable
field artillery.

The entire allied army was barely half that strength.
It was called upon, moreover, to occupy an immense
front — a front which extended from the sea at Kamiesch
to the Tchernaya, and from the Tchernaya, by a long
and circuitous route, back to the sea at Balaclava.
This line, offensive as regards the siege-works, but
defensive along the unduly extended and exposed right
flank at Balaclava, was close on twenty miles. The
great length of front made severe demands upon the
allied troops ; it could only be manned by dangerously
splitting up their whole strength into many weak units,
none of which could be very easily or rapidly reinforced
by the rest.

Perhaps the weakest part of the whole line was the
extreme right, held at this moment by the British Second
Division. Here, on an exposed and vitally important
flank, the whole available force was barely 3,000 men.
For some time past it had been intended to fortify this
flank by field-works, armed with heavy artillery. But,
although the necessity for protecting it was thus admitted,
the urgency was not exactly understood, or at
least was subordinated to other operations ; as a matter
of fact, this flank was " in the air," to use a military
phrase, lying quite open and exposed, with only an
insufficient, greatly harassed garrison on the spot, and
no supports or reserves near at hand.

The utmost assistance on which this small body could

count, as was afterwards shown, under stress, too, of
most imminent danger, was 14,000 men. Not that all
these numbers were fully available at any one time ;
they were constantly affected and diminished by casualties
in the height and heat of the action ; so that never
were there more than 13,000, French and English,
actually engaged.

On the other hand, the Russian attacking force were
70,000 strong, and they had with them 235 guns.

It was in truth another battle of giants, like Waterloo.
Hard pounding," as the great duke said of that other
fight ; a fierce trial of strength ; a protracted, seemingly
unequal, struggle between the dead weight of the
aggregate many and the individual prowess of the undaunted,
indomitable few.

The enemy's plan of action had been minutely and
carefully prepared. We know it now. He meant to
use his whole strength along his entire front — in part
with feigned and deceiving demonstrations to c< contain u
or hold inactive the troops that faced him, in part
with determined onslaught, delivered with countless
thousands, in massive columns, against the reputed
weakest point of our line.

This plan Menschikoff hastened to put into execution.
Time pressed : the enemy had learnt through spies that
an assault on Sebastopol was close at hand. Besides,
the Grand Dukes had arrived, and the troops, worked
up to the highest pitch of loyal fanatic fervour, were

N 2

mad to fight under the eyes of the sons of their father,
the holy Czar.

Dawn broke late on that drear November morning :
November the 5th — a day destined to be ever memorable
in the annals of British arms : a dawn that was delayed
and darkened by dense, driving mists, and rain-clouds,
black and lowering.

Nothing, however, had broken the repose of the
British camp, or hinted at the near approach of countless
foes.

The night had been tranquil ; the enemy quiet ; only,
in the valley beneath our pickets on the Inkerman
heights, some sentries had heard the constant rumbling
of wheels, but their officers to whom they reported did
not interpret the same aright, as the movement of
artillery.

An hour or more before daylight the church-bells of
Sebastopol rang out a joyous peal. Why not ? It was
the Sabbath morning. But these chimes, alas ! ushered
in a Sunday of struggle and bloodshed, not of peaceful
devotion and prayer.

The outlying pickets had been relieved, and were
marching ramparts ; the Second Division had had its
customary u daylight parade"; the men had stood to
their arms for half-an-hour, and, as nothing was stirring,
had been dismissed to their tents ; the fatigue-parties
had been despatched for rations, water, fuel — in a word,
the ordinary daily duties of the camp had commenced,

when the sharp rattle of musketry rang out angrily,
and well sustained in the direction of our foremost
picket on Shell Hill.

That means mischief ! " The speaker was General
Codrington, who, according to invariable rule, had
ridden out before daylight to reconnoitre and watch the
enemy. " Halt the off-going pickets ; we may want all
the men we can lay hands on."

Then this prompt and judicious commander proceeded
to line the Victoria ridge, which faced Mount Inkerman,
with the troops he had thus impounded, and galloped
off to put the rest of his brigade under arms.

The firing reached and roused another energetic
general officer, Pennefather, who now commanded the
Second Division in place of De Lacy Evans.

Sound the assembly !" he cried. " Let the division
stand to its arms. Every man must turn out : every
mother's son of them. We shall be engaged hot and
strong in less than half-an-hour."

As pugnacious as any terrier, Pennefather, with unerring
instinct, smelt the coming fight.

His division was quickly formed on what was afterwards
called the " Home Ridge," and which was its
regular parade-ground. But the general had no idea of
awaiting attack in this position. It was his plan rather
to push forward and fight the enemy wherever he could
be found. With this idea he sent a portion of his
strength down the slope to " feed the pickets," as he

himself called it, whilst another was advanced to the
right front under General Wilderss, and with this body-went
the Royal Picts. The Second Division benefited
greatly by this advance, for the Russians were now
absolute masters of the crest of the Inkerman hill, where
they established their batteries, and poured forth volley
after volley, all of which passed harmlessly over the
heads of our men. Meanwhile the alarm spread. A
continuous firing, momentarily increasing in vigour,
showed that this was no affair of outposts, but the
beginning of a great battle. The bulk of the allied
forces were under arms, and notice of the attack had
been despatched to Lord Raglan at the English headquarters.


In less than a quarter-of-an-hour, long before 7 a.m.,
Lord Raglan was in his saddle, ready to ride wherever
he might be required most.

But whither should he go ? The battle, as it seemed,
was waging all around him, on every side of the allied
position. A vigorous fire was kept up from Sebastopol ;
down in the Tchernaya valley the army, supposed to be
still under Liprandi, but really commanded by Gort-
schakoff, had advanced towards the Woronzoff road,
and threatened to repeat the tactics of Balaclava by
attacking with still greater force the right rear of our
position; last of all, around Mount Inkerman, the unceasing
sound of musketry and big guns betrayed the
development of a serious attack.

Lord Raglan was not long in doubt. He knew the
weakest point of the British position, and rightly-guessed
that the enemy would know it too.

I shall go to Inkerman," he said. " That is their
real point, I feel sure. And we must have up all the
reinforcements we can muster. You, Burghers, tell
Sir George Cathcart to move up his division and
support Pennefather and Brown. You, Steele, beg
General Bosquet to lend me all the men he can spare."

Pennefather had his hands full by the time Lord
Raglan arrived. With a paltry 3,000 odd men he was
confronting 25,000 ; but, happily, the morning was so
dark and the brushwood so thick that his men were
hardly conscious that they were thus outnumbered.

Not that they would have greatly cared ; they were
manifestly animated with a dogged determination to
deny the enemy every inch of the ground, and with
unflagging courage they disputed his advance, although
they were so few. Once more it was the " Thin Red
Line" against the heavy column: hundreds against
thousands, a task which for any other troops would
have been both hopeless and absurd.

But Pennefather's people stoutly held their own. On
his left front, one wing of the 49th Regiment routed a
whole Russian column, and drove it back at the point
of the bayonet down the hill ; to give way in turn, but
not till it was threatened by 9,000 men. Next, four
companies of the Connaught Rangers stoutly engaged
twenty times their number, and only yielded after a

stubborn fight. General Buller came up next, with a
wing of the nth, which was faced by a solid mass five
times as strong.

There are the Russians' cried Egerton, who commanded
the nth. " What shall we do, general ? "

Charge them \" was Bullets prompt reply.

The next instant the slender line, with a joyous
hurrah, was engulfed in a giant column. The effect
was instantaneous. The Russian column reeled before
the fiery charge, wavered, then broke and fled.

More to the right, Muleteer prolonged the line
with the 30th, and gave so good an account of the
Russians in his front that they, too, fell back in disorder;
and Cellars, with a party of the 49th, was
equally triumphant.

Beyond these forces, General Wilderss, with whom
young McKay now rode as extra aide, led a fraction of
his brigade, including the Royal Picts, against the
Sandbag Battery, a point deemed important because it
commanded the extreme right of the position.

On the far sides of the slopes, beyond the battery
were 4,000 Russian troops, and the mere sight of
Wilderss with his deployed line sufficed to shake the
steadiness of the foe. The Russian bugles sounded a
retreat, the leading companies faced about, and, communicating
the panic to those behind the hill, the
whole mass gave way and ran down the slope, followed
by a destructive fire from the British line.

Thus ended the first phase of this unequal contest.

Pennefatlier had triumphed to an extent of which
neither he nor his heroes were fully aware. Barely
1,200 men had routed 15,000 ! The few had achieved
a decisive victory over the many.

But the struggle had only just begun. Many more
and still severer trials awaited our starving, weary,
sorely-beset soldiers that day.

The enemy had numberless fresh and still untried
troops at hand. Column after column had been moving
steadily forward, some from the town, some from the
eastern side of the Tchernaya, and already the Russian
generals were in a position to renew the fight. A new
onslaught was now organised, to be made by 19,000
men under cover of ninety guns.

So far in those early days of the battle the brunt of
it had fallen upon the Second Division, supported by a
portion of the Light. Stout old General Pennefatlier
had had the supreme control throughout.

I will not interfere with you," Lord Raglan said,
as, standing by his staff, he watched the progress of the
fight from the ridge. " You know your ground, as you
have occupied it so long* with your camp. I'm sure I
can trust you."

Thank you, my lord. I'll do my best, never fear,"
replied Pennefather.

Their artillery fire is very troublesome, and must
be over-mastered. If I could only get up some of the
siege-train guns to help you. Let some one go back to

the artillery park, and tell them I want a couple of
eighteen pounders."

An aide-de-camp at once galloped off with the order,
but two or three eventful hours elapsed before these
guns were brought to bear upon the action.

Pennefather's men, although for the moment triumphant,
had their hands full. They showed an undaunted
front or " knotted line " of fighting-men : the
remnants of the pickets, fragments, and odds-ancients
of many regiments, mixed up and intermingled, still in
contact with the enemy, and so far still without supports.
Officers came back rather despondingly to ask for
help.

' I cannot send you a single man," was the firm reply
to one applicant. " You must stand your ground somehow."


"We should be all right, sir, but the men have run
out of ammunition."

It's no use. I can't give you a round. What does
it matter ? Don't make difficulties. Stick to your
bayonets. And remember you've got to hold on where
you are, or we shall be driven into the sea."

The want of cartridges was what the troops felt most
direly. They growled savagely and grumbled at the
mismanagement that kept back these indispensable
supplies.

Only here and there the energetic action of a few
shrewd officers did something to mend the mischief.

Thus the Royal Picts benefited by the astute promptitude
of long-headed Sergeant Hyde. He was acting as
quartermaster, and as such had been left behind in
camp, although sorely against his will, when the rest of
the regiment went out to fight. But he had heard the
long, well-sustained roll of musketry-fire, and it satisfied
one not new to war that a very close contest had
begun.

u They'll soon fire away their cartridges at this
rate," he said to himself. "If I could only get the
ammunition-reserves up to them ! I'll do it 1 And on
his own responsibility he laid hands on all the beasts
in camp : spare chargers, officers' ponies, and other
animals, and quickly loaded them with the cartridge-boxes.
Then, leading the cavalcade, he hurried to the
front, asking as he went for the Royal Picts.

He found his regiment in the Sandbag Battery, and
they received him, so soon as his errand was known,
with a wild cheer.

%< Excellently done!" cried Colonel Blythe. "You
have a good head on your shoulders, Hyde : ammunition
was the one thing we needed'

Yes," shouted a brawny soldier, " we were just
killed for want of cartridges."

And want of food," grumbled another; " sorra bite
nor sup since yesterday'

"Sergeant darling," said a third, "won't you sound
the breakfast-bugle ? Fighting on an empty stomach
is but a poor pastime."

Thus, in the interval between two combats, but
always under a galling and destructive fire, they joked
and bandied words with a freedom that discipline would
not have tolerated at any other time.

I think, colonel, I could bring up the rations :
biscuits and cold pork, anyhow," suggested Hyde.

And the grog-tub : don't forget that, sergeant,"
cried a fresh voice.

By all means, Hyde, get us what you can," replied
Blythe; "the men are all fasting, and some sort of a
meal would be very good for them, only you must keep
a sharp look-out for us. We may not be still here
when you return."

This Sandbag Battery, which for the moment the
Royal Picts still held, was the object of ceaseless contention
that day. Although at best but an empty prize,
useful to neither side, because its parapet was too high
to be fired over, the battery was lost and won, captured
and recaptured, constantly during the battle.

Even now the Russians, regaining heart, had made it
the first aim of their fresh attack.

General Dannenberg, who was now in chief command,
had a twofold object : he was resolved to press the
centre of the English position and at the same time
vigorously attack the right, throwing all his weight
first upon the Sandbag Battery.

The small force under General Wilderss, which included
the Royal Picts, soon began to feel the stress of
this renewed onslaught.

HARD POUNDING." 189

They are coming on again and in great numbers,
sir," said McKay to his general.

I see, and menacing both our flanks. We shall be
surrounded and swallowed up if we don't take care.

ft Some support ought to be near by this time, sir,
replied McKay.

Ride back, and see. I don't want to be outflanked."

McKay retired and presently came upon two battalions
of Guards, Grenadiers and Fusiliers, advancing
under the command of the Duke of Cambridge.

General Wilderss, sir, is very hard pressed in the
Sandbag Battery," said McKay, briefly.

Fll march at once to his aid," replied the duke,
promptly.

Sir George Cathcart and part of the Fourth Division
are coming up, and not far off," added one of the
staff; "we won't wait for any one. Ride on ahead,
sir," — this was to McKay, — "and let your general
know he is about to be supported by her Majesty's
Guards."

CHAPTER XVII.

A COSTLY Victory.

Now followed one of the fiercest and bloodiest episodes
of the day.

Wilderss had made the best show with his little band
and clung tenaciously to the battery yet. The Russians
came on and on, with stubborn insistence, and all along
the line a hand-to-hand fight ensued. Numbers told
at length, and the small garrison was slowly forced
back, after enduring serious loss.

It was in this retreat that General Wilderss received a
dangerous wound : a fragment of a shell tore away the
left leg below the knee.

i( Will some one kindly lift me from my horse ? " he
said quietly, schooling his face to . continue calm, in
spite of the agony he endured.

McKay was on the ground in an instant and by his
general's side.

ic Don't mind me, my boy' said the general. " Leave
me with the doctors'

On no account, sir ; I should not think of it."
Yes, yes. They want every man. Attach yourself
to Blythe ; he will command the brigade now. Do not
stay with me : I insist'

McKay yielded to the general's entreaties, but first
saw the wounded man bestowed in a litter and carried
to the rear.

Then he joined Colonel Blythe.

But now fortune smiled again. Our artillery had
stayed the Russian advance ; and the Grenadier Guards,
followed by the Fusiliers, once more regained the
coveted but worthless stronghold.

They could not hold it permanently, however: the
tide of battle ebbed and flowed across it, and the victory
leant alternately to either side. The Guards fought
like giants, outnumbered but never outmatched, wielding
their weapons with murderous prowess, and, when
iron missiles failed them, hurling rocks — Titan-like — at
their foes.

Even when won this Sandbag Battery was a perilous
prize : tempting the English leaders to adventure too
far to the front and to leave a great gap in the general
line of defence unoccupied and undefended.

Lord Eaglan saw the error and would have skilfully
averted the impending evil.

That opening leaves the left of the Guards exposed,"
he said to Airey, " Tell Cathcart to fill it."

"You are to move to the left and support the
Guards," was the message conveyed to Cathcart, " but
not to descend or leave the plateau. Those are Lord
Raglan's orders."

But Sir George chose to interpret them his own way,
and already — with Torrens's brigade and a weak body
at best — he had gone down the hill to join the Guards.
In the sharp but misdirected encounter which followed,
the general lost his life, and his force, with the Guards,
were for a time cut off from their friends.

A Russian column had wedged in at the gap and fora
time forbade retreat, but it was at length sheered off
by the first of the French reinforcements ; and the
intercepted British, in greatly diminished numbers, by
degrees won their way home.

This fighting around the Sandbag Battery had cost
us very dear : Cathcart was killed, the Guards were
decimated, and Wilders\s brigade, now commanded by
Colonel Blythe, had fallen back, spent and disorganised.
So serious indeed were these losses that for the next
hour the brigade possessed no coherent shape, and only
by dint of the unwearied exertions of its officers was it
rallied sufficiently to share in the later phases of the

fight.

Meanwhile the centre of our line, where Pennefather
stood posted on the Home Ridge, had been furiously
assailed. Gathering their forces under shelter of a

deep ravine, the Kussian general sent up column after
column, first against the left and then against the right
of the Ridge. Gravely weakened by his early encounter,
Pennefather had only a handful of his own men to
meet this attack. They were now pressed back indeed,
although their general was beginning to wield detachments
from other commands. A portion of the Fourth
Division had been put under his orders.

General Cathcart, just before his death, had come to
him with a battalion of the Rifle Brigade.

They can do anything' he had said. " Where are
they wanted most ? "

Everywhere ! " had been old Pennefather's reply.

But now, having at hand this splendid body of
infantry, of whom their leader had been so pardonably
proud, he hurled them at the flank of a column that
was forcing back its own men.

The effect of the charge was instantaneous : the
Russians could not withstand it ; and, the men of the
Second Division again advancing, the foe was pressed as
far as the Barrier, where he was held at bay.

But the left of the ridge was still menaced, although
the centre was cleared. On this flank Pennefather
disposed of some new troops, also of the Fourth Division :
the card and part of the 21st.

He rode up to their head and made them a short but
stirring address.

Now, Sixty-third, let's see what metal you are made

VOL. I. O

of ! The enemy is close upon you : directly you see
them, fire a volley and charge ! "

His answer was a vehement cheer. The card fired as
it was ordered, and then drove the Russians down the
hill.

One more trial awaited Pennefather at this period of
the battle. His right, on the Home Ridge, was now
assailed ; but here again the 20th, with their famous
Minded yell — an old historical war-cry, always cherished
and secretly practised in the corps — met and overcame
the enemy. They were actively supported by the 57th,
the gallant " Diehards/' a title they had earned at
Albert, one of the bloodiest of the Peninsular fights.

Thus, for the second time, Pennefather stood victorious
on the ground he so obstinately held. After two
hours of incessant fighting the Russians had made no
headway. But although twice repulsed they had inflicted
terrible losses on our people. They had still in
hand substantial supports untouched ; they had brought
up more and more guns ; they were as yet far from
despondent, and their generals might still count upon
making an impression by sheer weight of numbers
alone.

As for ourselves, the English were almost at the end
of their resources. There were no fresh troops to bring
up; only the Third Division remained in reserve, and
it was fully occupied in guarding the trenches.

The French, it is true, could have thrown the weight

of many thousands into the scale; but General Can-robert
had not set his more distant divisions in motion,
and the only troops that could affect the struggle —
Bosquet's — were still far to the rear.

In the contest that was now to be renewed the
balance between the offensive forces was more than
ever unequal.

Dannenberg gathered together upon the northern
slopes of Mount Inkerman some 17,000 men, partly
those who had been already defeated, but were by no
means disheartened, and partly perfectly fresh troops.
On the other hand, Pennefather's force was reduced to
a little over 3,000, to which a couple of French regiments
might now be added, 1,600 strong. The Russians
had a hundred guns in position ; the allies barely half
that number.

Yet in the struggle that was imminent the battle of
Inkerman was practically to be decided.

The Russian general had now resolved to make a
concentrated attack in column upon Pennefather's
Ridge. He sent up another great mass from the
quarry ravine, flanked and covered by crowds of skirmishers.
In the centre, the vanguard pressed forward
swiftly, drove back the slender garrison of the Barrier,
and advanced unchecked towards the Ridge. There
were no English troops to oppose their advance ; a
French battalion only was close at hand, and they
seemed to shrink from the task of opposing the foe.

o2

11 They do not seem very firm, these Frenchmen''
said Lord Raglan, who was closely watching events.
Why, gracious goodness, they are giving way ! We
must strengthen them by some of our own men. Bring
up the 55th — they have re-formed, I see. Stay ! what
is that ? "

As he spoke, an English staff officer was seen to ride
up to the wavering French battalion. From his raised
hand and impassioned gestures he was evidently addressing
them. He was speaking in French, too, it
was clear, for his harangue had the effect of restoring
confidence in the shaken body. The battalion no longer
stood irresolute, but advanced to meet the foe.

Excellently done ! " cried Lord Raglan. " Find
out for me at once who that staff-officer is."

An aide-de-camp galloped quickly to the spot, and
returned with the answer —

ee Mr. McKay, my lord, aide-de-camp to General
Wilderss."

Remember that name, Airey, and see after the
young fellow. But where is his general ? "

Wounded, and gone to the rear, my lord," was the

reply.

The bold demeanour of the French battalion restrained
the advancing enemy until some British troops could
reach the threatened point. Then together they met
the advance. The Russian attack was now fully developed,
and his great column was well up the slopes of

the ridge. While the French, animated by the warm
language of Penne father, stopped its head, a mad charge
delivered by a small portion of the 55th broke into its
flank.

The Russians halted, hesitating under this unexpected
attack. Pennefather instantly saw the check,
and gave voice to a loud " hurrah." The cry was
taken up by his men, and the French drums came to
the front and sounded the pas de charge. With a wild
burst of enthusiasm, the allies, intermingled, raced forward,
and once again the foe was driven down the hill.
At the same time his flanking columns were met and
forced back on the left by the 21st and the card.

The Barrier was again reoccupied by our troops, and
the third, the chief and most destructive Russian
onslaught, had also failed.

The day was still young; it was little past 9 'a.m.,
and the battle as yet was neither lost nor won.

The Russians had been three times discomfited and
driven back, but they still held the ground they had
first seized upon the crests of the Inkerman hill, and,
seemingly, defied the allies to dislodge them.

The English were far too weak to do this. Our
whole efforts were concentrated upon keeping the
enemy at bay at the Barrier, where Blythe, now in
chief command, managed with difficulty, and with a
very mixed force, to beat off assailants still pertinacious
and tormenting.

The French were now coming up in support, but of

their troops already on the ground two battalions had
gone astray, wandering off on a fool's errand towards
the pernicious Sandbag Battery, where they, too, were
destined to meet repulse.

Indeed, the Russians, despite their last discomfiture,
were regaining the ascendant.

But now the sagacious forethought of Lord Raglan
was to bear astonishing fruit. It has been told in the
previous chapter how he was bent upon bringing up
some of the siege-train guns, and how he had despatched
a messenger for them. His aide-de-camp had
found the colonel of the siege-park artillery anticipating
the order. Two 18-pounders, which since Balaclava
had been kept ready for instant service, were
waiting to be moved. There were no teams of horses
at hand to drag them up to the front, but the man-harness
was brought out, and the willing gunners
cheerily entered the shafts, and threw themselves with
fierce energy into the collars. Officers willingly lent a
hand, and thus the much-needed ordnance was got up
a long and toilsome incline. *

It was a slow job, however, and two full hours
elapsed before they were placed in position on the right
flank of the Home Ridge.

"At last!" was Lord Raglan's greeting; "now, my
lads, load and fire as fast as you can."

The artillery officers themselves laid their guns,
which were served and fired with promptitude and
precision.

Now followed a short but sanguinary duel. The
Russian guns answered shot for shot, and at first
worked terrible havoc in our ranks.

Colonel Gambier of the artillery was struck down :
other officers were wounded, and many of the men.

Still Lord Raglan stood his ground, watching the
action with keen interest and the most admirable self-possession.
He was perfectly unmoved by the heavy
fire and the carnage it occasioned.

One or two of his staff besought him to move a little
further to the rear, but he met the suggestion with
good-natured contempt.

• My lord rather likes being under fire than otherwise,"
whispered one aide-de-camp to another.

He certainly took it uncommonly cool, and in the
thick of it could unbend with kindly condescension
when a sergeant who was passing had his forage-cap
knocked off by the wind of a passing shot.

A near thing that, my man," he said, smiling.
The sergeant — it was Hyde, returning from the
Barrier, where he had been with more ammunition —
coolly dusted his cap on his knee, replaced it on his
head, and then, formally saluting the Commander-inches,
replied with a self-possession that delighted Lord
Raglan —

A miss is as good as a mile, my lord."
Through all this the 18-pounders kept up a ceaseless
and effective fire. They were clearly of a heavier
calibre than any the Russians owned, and soon the

weight of their metal and our gunners' unerring aim
began to tell upon the enemy's ranks.

The Russian guns were frequently shifted from spot
to spot, but they could not escape the murderous fire.

At last, in truth, the Russian hold en Inkerman hill
was shaken to the core.

Victory at last was in our grasp, and, but for the old
and fatal drawback of insufficient numbers, the battle
must have ended in a complete disaster for the Russian
arms. A vigorous offensive, undertaken by fresh troops,
must have ended in the speedy overthrow, possibly
annihilation, of the enemy.

But the only troops available for the purpose were
the French. Bosquet had now come up with his
brigade, and D'Autemarre, released by Gortschakoff's
retreat, had followed with a second. There were thus
some seven or eight thousand French available. Still
Canrobert was disinclined to move.

He was now with Lord Raglan on the Ridge, with
his arm in a sling, for he had just been struck by a
shrapnel-shell.

He was downcast and dejected, for Bosquet had gone
off on a wild-goose chase after two errant battalions,
and had shared in their repulse. Just now, indeed,
so far from proving the saviours of the hard-pressed
English, our French allies were themselves in retreat.

Lord Raglan strove to reassure his colleague.

All is going well, my general," he said ; " we are
winning the day."

I wish I could think so," replied Canrobert.

Well, but listen to the message my aide-de-camp
has brought from General Pennefather. What did he
say, Carthorse ? "

General Pennefather, my lord, says he only wants
a few fresh troops to follow the enemy up now, and
lick them to the devil. These are his very words, my
lord,"

Lord Raglan laughed heartily, and translated his
stout-hearted lieutenant's language literally for Can-robert.


Ah ! what, a brave man ! " cried the French
general, lighting up. " A splendid general, a most
valiant man."

"You see now, general ; one more effort and the day
is ours. Won't you help ? "

But, my lord, what can I do ? The Russians are
all round us still, and in great strength. See there,
there, and there," he cried, pointing with his unwounded
arm.

Tell General Pennefather to come and speak to meat
once," Lord Raglan now said to the aide-de-camp,
hoping that the gallant bearing of the victorious
veteran would infuse fresh hope in Canrobert.

Now General Pennefather galloped up, as radiantly
happy as any schoolboy who has just finished his
fifteenth round.

I should like to press them, my lord. They are

retreating already, and we could give a fine account of
them."

' What have you left to pursue with ? " asked Lord
Raglan, still hoping to encourage the French to undertake
the offensive.

(< Seven or eight hundred now, in the first brigade
alone."

To pursue thousands ! " exclaimed Canrobert, when
this was interpreted to him; "you must be mad! I
will have nothing to do with this; we have done
enough for one day."

Now again, as on the Alma, when ijie heights had
been carried by storm, the fruits of victory were lost
by our unenterprising, over-cautious allies.

This, indeed, is the true story of Inkerman, as told
on incontestable evidence of the great historian of the
war. The French did not rescue the English from
disaster ; they were themselves repulsed. At the
close of the action, when they might have actively
pursued, their irresolution robbed the victory of its
most decisive results.

It was a terrible and far too costly victory, after all.
The English army, already terribly weak, suffered such
serious losses in the fight that there were those who
would have at once re-embarked the remnants and
raised the siege. Retreat on the morrow of victory
would have been craven indeed, but to stand firm with
such shattered forces was a bold and hazardous resolve,
for which Lord Raglan deserves the fullest credit, and

the coming winter, with its terrible trials, was destined
to put his self-reliance to the proof.

It is time to return more particularly to our friends,
who took part in this hard-fought, glorious action.

By midday the worse part of the battle was over,
and although Colonel Blythe still clung to his Barrier,
whence he launched forth small parties to harass the
retreating foe, McKay was released of his attendance
upon the acting brigadier, and suffered to follow his
own general to the rear.

They had carried poor old Wilderss in a litter to one
of the hospital marquees in the rear of the Second
Division camp. The aide-de-camp found him perfectly
conscious, with two doctors by his side.

McKay was allowed to enter into conversation with
his chief.

How does it go ? " asked the old general, feebly,
but with eager interest.

(( The enemy are in full retreat, sir ; beaten all along
the line."

Thank Heaven ! " said the general, as he sank back
upon his pillow.

How are you, sir ? "

Very weak. My fighting days are done."

u You must not say that, sir; the doctors will soon
pull you round. Won't you ? " said McKay, looking
round at the nearest surgeon's face.

Of course. I have no fear, provided only the
general will keep quiet, and "

That means that I should go," said the aide-de-camp.
" I shall be close at hand, sir, for I mean to be
chief nurse," and he left the tent.

Outside the surgeon ended the sentence he had left
incomplete. •

The general' he said, " will be in no immediate
danger if we could count upon his having proper care.
With that, I think we could promise to save his life."

He shall have the most devoted attention from
me' began McKay.

We know that. But he wants more : the very best
hospital treatment, with all its comforts and appliances ;
and how can we possibly secure these here on this
bleak plateau?"

Just then one of the general's orderlies came in sight
and approached McKay.

A letter, sir, for the general, marked ' Immediate.'
"

The general can attend to no correspondence. You
know he has been desperately wounded."

Yes, sir, but the messenger would not take that for

an answer."

Who is he ? "

A seaman from Balaclava, belonging to some yacht
that has just arrived."

"Lord Lydstone's perhaps. That would indeed be
fortunate," went on McKay, turning to the doctor.
' It is the general's cousin, you know ; and on board
the yacht — if we could get him there ?

a

That is not impossible, I think. In fact, it would
have to be done."

Well, on board the yacht he would get the careful
nursing you speak of. Is he well enough, do you
think, to read this letter ? "

Under the circumstances, yes. Give it me, and I
will take it in to the general."

A few minutes later McKay was again called in to
the marquee.

Oh, McKay, I wish you would be so good "

began the wounded man. " This letter, I mean, is
from Mrs. Wilderss ; she has just arrived."

Here, in the Crimea, sir ? "

"Yes, she has come up in Lord Lydstone's yacht,
and I want you to be so good as to go to her and break
the news." He pointed sadly down the bed towards
his shattered limb.

Of course, sir, as soon as I can order out a fresh
horse I will go to Balaclava. Perhaps I had better
stay on board for a time, and make arrangements to
receive you ; if Lord Lydstone will allow me, that is to
say."

Lord Lydstone is not there. Mrs. Wilderss tells me
she has come up alone, and in the very nick of time.
But now be off, McKay, and lose no time. Be gentle
with her : it will be a great shock, I am afraid."

The aide-de-camp galloped off on his errand, and
finding a boat from the yacht waiting by the wharf in

Balaclava harbour he put up his horse and went off to
the Arcadia. She was still lying outside.

McKay's appearance was not exactly presentable.
He had been turned out at daybreak with the rest of
the division at the first alarm, and had had no time to
attend to his toilette, such as it was in these rough
campaigning days. Since then he had been in his
saddle for several hours and constantly in the heat and
turmoil of the fight. His clothes were torn, mud-encrusted,
and bloodstained ; his face was black and
grimy with gunpowder smoke.

But he had no thought of his looks as he sprang onto
the white, trimly-kept deck of the yacht.

Captain Trejago met him.

Who are you ? " asked the sailing-master, rather
abruptly.

I wish to see Mrs. Wilderss," replied McKay, still
more curtly.

You had better wash your face first' said Captain
Trejago, very jealous of the proper respect due to Mrs.
Pillars. " It is uncommonly dirty''

And so would yours be if you had been doing what
I have."

What might that be ? "

Fighting."

Perhaps you are ready to begin again ? If so, I'm
your man. But you will have to wait till we get on
shore."

Pshaw ! don't be an idiot. We have been engaged
with the Russians ever since daybreak. But there,
this is mere waste of breath. I tell you I want to see
Mrs. Wilderss. I come from the general. I am his
aide-de-camp. Show the way, will you ? "

It may be as you say," muttered Trejago, not half
satisfied. " But you will have to wait till Mrs. Wilderss
says she will receive you."

What's the matter ? Who is this person ? "

It was the voice of Mrs. Wilderss, who now advanced
from the stern of the yacht, having seen but
not overheard the latter part of the altercation.

McKay stepped forward.

I have brought you a message from the general."

Why did he not come himself ? "

It was quite impossible."

I particularly begged him to come. Who, pray,
are you ? Stay ! " she went on, " I ought to know
your face. We have met before : at Gibraltar, was it
not ? "

"Yes, at Gibraltar. I was the general's orderly
sergeant."

"And do you still hold the same distinguished
position ? "

No, Mrs. Wilderss," said McKay, simply j " I am
now a commissioned officer, and have the honour to bethe
general's aide-de-camp."

Rapid promotion that : I hope you deserved it.
May I ask your name ? "

McKay— Stanislas McKay."

Could it be possible ? The very man she was in
search of the first to speak to her on arrival here at
Balaclava ! Surely there must be some mistake ! Mastering
her emotion at the suddenness of this news, she
said —

<e You will forgive my curiosity, but have you any
other Christian names ? "

My name in full is Stanislas Anastasius Wilderss
McKay."

That answer is my best excuse for asking you the
question. You are, then, our cousin ? "

McKay bowed.

I have heard of you," said Mrs. Wilderss. "Allow
me to congratulate you," and she held out her hand.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A NOVEMBER GALE.

Will you not come down into the cabin ? " said. Mrs.
Wilderss, civilly ; " the lunch is still on the table, and I
daresay you will be glad of something to eat."

I have not touched food all day, Mrs. Wilderss."

You must have been very busy, then ? "

Surely you have heard what has happened this
morning ? "

Mrs. Wilderss looked at him amazed.

A desperate battle has been fought."

Another ! " She thought of what Mr. Hobson had
told her. " How has it ended ? In whose favour ? Are
we safe here ? "

1 ' There is no cause for alarm. The Russians have
been handsomely beaten again ; but we have suffered

VOL. I. P

considerable loss," he said, hesitating a little, fearing

to be too brusque with his bad news.

u Is that why the general could not come ? "
{C Exactly. He has had a great deal to do."
Nothing should have prevented him from coming

here""

It never seemed to have occurred to her that he had
been in any danger ; nor, as McKay noticed, had she
asked whether he was safe and well.

It was quite impossible for him to come. He —

he "

Pray go on ! You are very tantalising."

"The general has been badly wounded," McKay
now blurted out abruptly.

Dear ! dear ! " she said, rather coolly. " I am very
sorry to hear it. When and how did it occur ? "

McKay explained.

Poor dear ! " This was the first word of sympathy
she had spoken, and even now she made no offer to goto
him.

u The doctors think there is no great danger if "

u Danger ! " This seemed to rouse her. " I trust

not'

u No danger' went on McKay, "if only he can be
properly nursed. They were glad to hear of the
arrival of the yacht, and think he ought to be moved
on board."

Oh, of course this will be the best place for him.
When can he be brought ? I suppose I ought to go to

him. Will it be possible to get a conveyance to the
front ? "

Nothing bnt an ambulance, I fear. And yon know
there is no road."

Upon my word I hardly know what to say."
We could manage a saddle-horse for you, I daresay."


"I'm a very poor horsewoman: you see I'm half a
foreigner. No ; the best plan will be to stay on board
and get everything ready for the poor dear man. When
may we expect him ? M

The doctors seem to wish the removal might not be
delayed. You may see us in the morning."

So, then, I am to have the pleasure of meeting you
again, Mr. McKay ? "

I should be sorry to leave the general while I can
be of any use. He has been a kind friend to me."

"And you are a relation. Of course it is very natural
you should wish to be at his side. I am sure I shall be
delighted to have your assistance in nursing him," said
Mrs. Wilderss, very graciously; and' soon afterwards
McKay took his leave.

So that is the last stumbling-block in my son's
way : a sturdy, self-reliant sort of gentleman, likely to
be able to take care of himself. I should like to get
him into my power : but how, I wonder, how ? "

Next day they moved the wounded general to Balaclava,
and got him safely on board the Arcadia. He
was accompanied by a doctor and McKay.

p 2

Mrs. Wilderss received her husband with the tenderest
solicitude.

How truly fortunate I came here ! " she said, with
the tears in her eyes.

Lydstone made no objection, then ? Has he remained
at Constantinople ? " the general asked, feebly.

Lydstone ? Don't you know ? He " But why

should she tell him ? It would only distress him
greatly, and, in his present precarious condition, he
should be spared all kind of emotion. With this idea
she had begged Captain Trejago to say nothing as yet
of the sad end of his noble owner.

Will it not be best to get the general down to
Scutari ? " she asked the doctor.

In a day or two, yes. When he has recovered the
shaking of the move on board'

11 The captain wanted to know. He has no wish to
go inside the harbour, as it is so crowded; but he would
not like to remain long off this coast. It might be
dangerous, he says."

"A lee-shore, you know," added Captain Trejago,
for himself. " Look at those straight cliffs ; fancy our
grinding on to them, with a southerly, or rather a
south-westerly, gale ! "

Is there any immediate prospect of bad weather ? "
asked McKay. He and the sailing-master were by this
time pretty good friends.

"I don't much like the look of the glass. It's rather
jumpy ; if anything, inclined to go back. J

i)

What should you do if it came on dirty ? n the
skipper was asked.

Up stick, and run out to get an offing. It would
be our only chance, with this coast to leeward."

Three or four days later the skipper came with a
long face to the doctor.

a I like the look of it less and less. The glass has
dropped suddenly : such a drop as I've never seen out
of the tropics. Is there anything against our putting
to sea this afternoon ? "

It so happened that General Wilderss was not quite
so well.

Fd rather you waited a day or two," replied the
surgeon. " It might make all the difference to the
patient."

Well, if it must be," replied the captain, very discontentedly.


a It's his life that's in question."

Against all of ours. But let it be so. We'll try
and weather the storm."

Next morning, about dawn, it burst upon them — the
memorable hurricane of the 14th November, which did
such appalling damage on shore and at sea. Not a tent
remained standing on the plateau. The tornado swept
the whole surface clean.

At sea the sight as daylight grew stronger was
enough to make the stoutest heart, ignorant landsman's
or practised seaman's, quail. A whole fleet — great line-of-battle
ships, a crowd of transports under sail and

steam — lay at the mercy of the gale, which increased
every moment in force and fury. The waves rose with
the wind, and the white foam of " stupendous ** breakers
angrily lashed the rock-bound shore.

Will you ride it out ? " asked McKay of the
captain, as the two stood with the doctor crouched
under the gunwale of the yacht and holding on to the
shrouds.

"Why shouldn't we?" replied Trejago, shortly, as
though the question was an insult to himself and his
ship.

That's more than some can say ! " cried the doctor,
pointing to one great ship, the ill-fated Prince, which
had evidently dragged her anchors and was drifting
perilously towards the cliffs.

Our tackle is sound and the holding is good' said
Trejago, hopefully. " But we ought not to speak so
loud. It may alarm Mrs. Wilderss."

Does she not know our danger ? Some one ought
to tell her. You had better go, McKay."

The aide-de-camp made rather a wry face. He was
not fond of Mrs. Wilderss, whose manner, sometimes
oily, sometimes supercilious, was too changeable to
please him, and he felt that the woman was not true.

However, he went down to the cabin, where he found
Mrs. Wilderss, with a white, scared face, cowering in a
corner as she listened to the howling of the storm.

' Is there anything the matter ? " she cried, springing
up as he appeared, " Is there any danger ? "

c ' I trust not ; still, it is well to be prepared."

ri For what ? Do you mean that we may be lost,
drowned — here, in sight of port — all of us — my dear
general and myself ? It is too dreadful ! Why does
not the captain run inside the harbour and put us on
dry ground ? "

u I fear it would be too great a risk to try and make
the mouth of the harbour in this gale."

"Then why don't you seek help from some of the
other ships — the men-of-war ? There are plenty of
them all around.' 5

Every ship outside Balaclava is in the same stress
as ourselves. They could spare us no help, even if we
asked for it."

u What, then, are we to do ? — in Heaven's name ! "

Trust in Providence and hope for the best ! But
I think — if I might suggest — it would be as well to keep
the general in ignorance of our condition, which is not
so very desperate after all."

How do you mean ? "

( Our cables are stout Captain Trejago says, and
we ought to be able to ride out the storm."

And the Arcadia did so gallantly all that day, in the
teeth of the hurricane, which blew with unabated fury
for many more hours, and in spite of the tempest-torn
sea, which now ran mountains high.

All through that anxious day Trejago kept the deck,
watching the sky and the storm. It was late in the
afternoon when he said, with a sigh of relief —

( The wind is hauling round to the westward ; I
expect the gale will abate before long"

He was right, although to eyes less keen there was
small comfort yet in the signs of the weather.

It was an awful scene — ships everywhere in distress :
some on the point of foundering, others being dashed
to pieces on the rocks. The great waves, as they raged
past in fearful haste, bore upon their foaming crests
great masses of wreck, the dread vestiges of terrible
disasters. Amongst the floating timbers and spars,
encumbered with tangles of cordage, floated great
bundles of hay, the lost cargo of heavily-laden transports
that had gone down.

Still, as Trejago said, there was hope at last. The
gale had spent its chief force and was no longer directly
on shore. The more pressing and immediate danger
was over.

"It won't do to stop here, though," he went on,
not one second longer than we can help. Now that
there is a slant in the wind we can run south under a
close-reefed trysail and storm-jib. What say you,
doctor ? "

I'll step down and see the general."

t( Don't lose any time. I should like to slip my cable
this next half-hour. I shan't be happy till we've got

sea-room."

McKay went below with the doctor, and, while the
latter sat with his patient, the aide-de-camp had a short
talk with Mrs. Wilderss.

"The captain wants to put to sea."

'- Never ! not in this storm ! "

It is abating fast. Besides, he says it will be far
safer to be running snug under storm-canvas than
remaining here on this wild coast."

I hope he will do no such thing. It will be madness.
I must speak to him at once."

She seized a shawl, and, throwing it over her head,
ran up on deck.

McKay followed her and was by her side before she
had left the companion-ladder.

Take care, pray. There is a heavy sea on still and
the deck is very slippery. I will call Captain Trejago
if you will wait here."

One moment ; do not leave me, Mr. McKay. What
an exciting, extraordinary scene ! But how terrible ! "

The yacht rode the waves gallantly : now on their
crest, now in the trough between two giant rollers, and
always wet with spray. Fragments of wreck still came
racing by, borne swiftly by the waters and adding
greatly to the horrors of the dread story they told.

"There must have been immense loss among the
shipping," said McKay. " It is a mercy and a marvel
how we escaped."

The poor things ! To be lost — cast away on this
cruel, inhospitable land. How very, very sad ! "

It is safer, you see, to leave this dangerous
anchorage. Do you still want the captain ? He is
busy there forward."

For the moment every one was forward : they were
all intent on the straining cables and the muddle of
gear that would have to be cleared or cut away when
they got up sail.

So Mrs. Wilderss and McKay stood at the cabin
companion alone — absolutely alone — with the raging
elements, the whistling wind still three parts of a gale,
and the cruel, driving sea.

Shall I fetch the captain ? " McKay repeated.

No, no ! Don't disturb him ; no doubt he is right.
I will go below again. This is no place for me." She
took one long, last survey of the really terrifying scene,
but then, quite suddenly, there burst from her an exclamation
of horror.

There ! there ! Mr. McKay, look : on that piece of
timber — a figure, surely — some poor shipwrecked soul !
Don't you see ? "

McKay, shading his eyes, gazed intently,

No. I can make nothing out," he said at length,
shaking his head.

How strange ! I can distinguish the figure quite
plainly. But never mind, Mr. McKay; only do something.
Give him some help. Try to save him. Throw
him a rope."

McKay obediently seized a coil of rope, and, approaching
the gunwale, said, quickly —

Only you must show me where to throw."

There, towards that mast; it's coming close alongside."


In her eagerness she had followed him, and was close
behind as he gathered up the rope in a coil to cast it.

Once, twice, thrice, he whirled it round his head,
then threw it with so vigorous an action that his body
bent over and his balance was lost.

He might have regained it, but at this supreme
moment a distinct and unmistakeable push in the back
from his companion completed his discomfiture.

He clutched wildly at the shrouds with one hand —
the other still held the rope ; but fruitlessly, and in an
instant he fell down — far down into the vortex of the
seething, swirling sea."

"Ah, traitress!" he cried, as he sank, fully conscious,
as it seemed, of the foul part she had played.

Had she really wished to drown him ? Her conduct
after he had disappeared bore out this conclusion.

One hasty glance around satisfied her that McfKay's
fall had been unobserved. If she gave the alarm at
once he might still be saved.

Not yet ! " she hissed between her teeth. u In
five minutes it will be too late to help him. The waters
have closed over him — let him go down, to the very
bottom of the sea."

But she was wise in her fiendish wickedness, and
knew that as they had been seen last together she
must account for McKay's disappearance. At the end
of an interval long enough to make rescue impossible
she startled the whole yacht with her screams.

Help ! Help ! Mr. McKay ! He has fallen overboard
! "

They caine rushing aft to where she stood once more
holding on to the top of the companion, and plied her
with questions.

There ! there ! make haste ! " she cried — " for
Heaven's sake make haste ! "

A boat could hardly live in this sea' said Captain
Trejago, gravely. " Still, we must make the attempt.
Who will go with me ? " he asked, and volunteers soon
sprang to his side.

It was a service of immense danger, but the boat
was lowered, and for more than half-an-hour made such
diligent search as was possible in the weather and in
the sea.

After that time the boat was brought back to the
yacht by its brave but disappointed crew.

No chance for the poor chap," said Captain Tree
shaking his head despondingly in reply to Mrs.
Wilderss's mute but eager appeal.

Soon afterwards they got up the anchor, and the
yacht sped southward under a few rags of sail.

CHAPTER XIX.

UNCLE AND NEPHEW.

It will be well to relieve at once the anxiety which the
reader must feel — unless I have altogether failed to
interest him — in the fate of my hero, Stanislas McKay.

He was not drowned when, through the fiendish
intervention of Mrs. Wilderss, he fell from the deck of
the Arcadia, and was, as it seemed, swallowed up in the
all-devouring sea.

He went under, it is true, but only for a moment,
and, coming once more to the surface, by a few strong
strokes swam to a drifting spar. To this he clung
desperately, hoping against hope that he might yet be
picked up from the yacht. Unhappily for him, the
waves ran so high that the boat under Trejago's
guidance failed to catch sight of him, and, as we

know, returned presently to the Arcadia, after a fruitless
errand, as was thought.

Very shortly the yacht and the half-submerged man
parted company. The former was steered for the open
sea ; the latter drifted and tossed helplessly to and fro,
growing hourly weaker and more and more benumbed,
but always hanging on with convulsive tenacity to the
friendly timber that buoyed him up, and was his last
frail chance of life.

All night long he was in the water, and when day
dawned it seemed all over with him, so overpowering
was his despair. Consciousness had quite abandoned
him, and he was almost at the last gasp when he was
seen and picked up by a passing steamship, the Burlington
Castle.

Where am I ? " he asked, faintly, on coming to
himself. He was in a snug cot, in a small but cosy
cabin.

Where you'd never have been but for the smartness
of our look-out man," said a steward at his bedside.
Cast away, I suppose, in the gale ? "

No : washed overboard," replied McKay, " last
evening."

Thunder ! and in the water all those hours ! But
what was your craft ? Who and what are you ? "

u I was on board the yacht Arcadia. My name is
Stanislas McKay. I am an officer of the Royal Picts —
aide-de-camp to General Wilderss. Where ami?" he
repeated.

You'll learn that fast enough ; with friends, anyhow.
Doctor said you weren't to talk. But just drink
this, while I tell the captain you've come to. He hasn't
had sight of you yet; we hauled you aboard while it
was his watch below."

Five minutes more and the captain, a jolly English
tar, red in face and round in figure, came down, with a
loud voice and cheering manner, to welcome his treasure-trove.


Well, my hearty, so this is how I find you, eh ?
Soused in brine. Why, I hear they had to hang you
up by the heels to let the water run out of your mouth.
Come, Stanny, my boy, this won't do."

Uncle Barto ! "

The same : master of the steamship Burlington
Castle, deep in deals — timbers for huts — and other
sundries, now lying in Balaclava, waiting to be discharged.
But, my dearest lad, you've had a narrow
squeak. Tell me, how did it happen, and when ? "

I fell overboard, and I've been all night in the
water : that's all."

He did not choose as yet to make public his suspicions
as to the real origin of his nearly fatal accident.

I always said you had nine lives, Stanny, only don't
go using them up like this. There's not a tom-cat
could stand it."

it Were you out in the gale, uncle ?"

Ay ; and weathered it. At dawn, after the first
puff, I knew we'd have a twister, so I got up steam and

regularly worked against it. Made a good offing that
way, and when the storm abated came back here. We
were close in when we picked you up on a log."

It was a providential escape," said Stanislas, thankfully.
" I thought it was all over with me."

We'll set you up in no time, never fear. But tell
more about yourself. Jove ! you are a fine chap, Stanny.
Why, you'll die a general yet, if the Russians '11 let you
off a little longer, and you're not wanted for the House
of Peers."

What do you mean, uncle ?"

Why, of course, you haven't heard. There's trouble
among your fine relations. Lord Essendine has lost all
his sons."

"All?"

"Yes; all. Hugo was killed, as you know; Anastasius
died at Scutari ; and Lord Lydstone, two days
later, was found dead in the streets of Stamboul."

Dead ? How ? What did he die of, uncle ?"

A stab in the heart. He was murdered."

"And I "

He understood now the cause of the foul blow struck
at him, and the base attempt to get him also out of
the way.

You are now next heir to the peerage, in spite of
all they may say. But you'll find my lord civil enough
soon. He'll be wanting you to go straight home."

And leave the army ? Not while there's fighting
to be done, Uncle Barto. I may not be much good as

I am, but Til do all I can, trust me. I ought to begetting
on shore and back to the front."

My doctor will have a word to say to that. He
won't let you be moved till you're well and strong."

But on the second day McKay, thanks to kindly care
and plenty of nourishment, was able to leave his cot,
and on the third morning he was determined to return
to his duty.

<m I won't baulk you, Stanny," said his uncle ; " good
soldiers, like good sailors, never turn their backs on
their work. But mind, this ship is your home whenever
and wherever you like to come on board ; and if
you want anything you have only to ask for it, d'ye
hear ? "

McKay promised readily to draw upon his uncle
when needful, and then, his horse being still at Balaclava,
he once more got into the saddle and rode u"]p to
camp.

The journey prepared him a little for what he found.
All the way from Balaclava his horse struggled knee-deep
in mud : a very quagmire of black, sticky slush.
Yet this was the great highway — the only road between
the base of supply and an army engaged eight miles
distant in an arduous siege. Along it the whole of the
food, ammunition, and material had to be carried on
pony-back, or in a few ponderous carts drawn by gaunt,
over-worked teams, which too often left their wheels
fast-caught in the mire.

At the front — it had been raining in torrents for

VOL. I. Q

hours — the mud was thicker, blacker, and more
tenacious. Tents stood in pools of water ; their occupants,
harassed by trench duty, lay shivering within,
half-starved and wet.

McKay made his way at once to the colonel and
reported his return.

Oh ! so you've thought fit to come back," said
Colonel Blythe, rather grumpily. Since war and sickness
had decimated his battalion he looked upon every
absentee, from whatever cause, right or wrong, as a
recreant deserter.

I was with my general, sir," expostulated Stanislas.

e< The general has no need of an aide-de-camp now.
We want every man that can stand upright in his boots.
I have given up the command of the brigade myself so
as to look the better after my men."

McKay accepted the reproof without a murmur, and
only said —

Well, sir, I am here now, and ready to do whatever
I may be called upon. I feel my first duty is to my
own colonel and my own corps."

Do you mean that, young fellow ?" said the colonel,
thawing a little.

Certainly, sir."

Because they want to inveigle you away — on the
staff. Lord Eaglan has sent to inquire for you."

I have no desire to go, sir," said McKay, simply ;
although his face flushed red at the compliment implied
by the Commander-in-chief's message.

It seems lie was pleased with the way you rallied
those Frenchmen, and he has heard you are a good
linguist, and he wants to put you on the staff."

I had much rather stay with the regiment, sir,"
said McKay.

Are you quite sure ? You must not stand in your
own light. This is a fine chance for you to get on in
the service." The colonel's voice had become very
friendly.

n I know where my true duty lies, sir ; I owe everything
to you and to the regiment. I should not hesitate
to refuse an appointment on the general staff if it were
offered me now." McKay did not add that his future
prospects were now materially changed, and that it was
no longer of supreme importance to him to rise in his
profession.

Gi-ive me your hand, my boy," said Colonel Blythe,
visibly touched at McKay's disinterestedness. " You
are proving your gratitude in a way I shall never
forget. But let us talk business. You know I want
you as adjutant."

I shall be only too proud to act, sir."

I must have a good staff about me. We are in
great straits ; the regiment will go from bad to worse.
There are barely 200 ( duty ' men now, and it will soon
be a mere skeleton, unless we can take good care of
the rest."

Yes, sir," said McKay, feeling constrained to say
something.

Qa



They are suffering — we all are, but the men most
of all — from exposure, cold, want of proper clothing,
and, above all, from want of proper food. This is
what I wish to remedy. They are dying of dysentery,
fever, cholera — I don't know what."

The doctor, sir ? "

Can do nothing. He has few drugs ; but, as he
says, that would hardly matter if the men could have
warmth and nourishment."

Something might be done, sir, with system ; the
quartermaster "

You are right. Let us consult him. Hyde is still
acting, and he has already proved himself a shrewd,
hard-headed old soldier."

Quartermaster-sergeant Hyde — for he had accepted
the grade, although unwillingly — came and stood " at
attention ** before his superiors.

As to food, sir," he said, " the men might be provided
with hot coffee, and, I think, hot soup, on coming
off duty. I am only doubtful as to the sufficiency of
fuel."

There is any quantity of drift-wood just now —
wreckage — floating in Balaclava Harbour," suggested
McKay.

We must have it sir, somehow' said Hyde, eagerly.
iC But can we get it up to the front ? "

We'll lay an embargo on all the baggage-animals
in camp. Take the whole lot down to Balaclava, and
lay hands on every scrap of timber."

a As to clothing, sir, an uncle of mine has come up
with a heavily-laden ship — hutting-timbers mostly, but
he may have some spare blankets, sailors' pea-jackets,
jerseys, and so forth'

And boots, long boots or short — all kinds will be
acceptable. Get anything and everything that is warm.
I'll pay out of my own pocket sooner than not have
them. When can you start, Hyde ? "

Now, sir, if that will suit Mr. McKay, and I can
have the horses."

The matter was speedily arranged, and in the early
afternoon our hero and Hyde were jogging back to
Balaclava, at the head of a string of animals led and
ridden by a small selected fatigue-party of regimental
batmen and grooms.

It was the first occasion on which the two friends had
conversed freely together for months.

McKay had most to tell. He spoke first of the offer
to go on the headquarter-staff which he had refused.
Then of the strange accidents by which he had become
heir presumptive to the earldom of Essendine. Last of
all, of the narrow escape he had of his life.

Hyde pressed him on this point.

You fell overboard — lost your balance, eh ? Entirely
your own doing ? Mrs. Wilderss did not help you
at all ? "

How on earth, Hyde, did you guess that ? I never
hinted at such a thing."

I know her — do not look surprised — I know her,

and have done so intimately for years. There is
nothing she would stick at if she saw her advantage
therefrom. You were in her way ; she sought to remove
you, as, no doubt, she, or some one acting for
her, had removed Lord Lydstone, and — and — for all I
know, ever so many more."

Can she be such a fiendish wretch ? "

She is a demon, Stanislas McKay. Beware how
you cross her path. But let her also take heed how
she tries to injure you again. She will have to do with
me then."

Why, Hyde ! what extraordinary language is this ?
What do you know of Mrs. Wilder s ? What can you
mean ? "

Some day you shall hear everything, but not now.
It is too long a story. Besides, here we are at
Balaclava. Do you know where your uncle's ship
lies ? "

CHAPTER XX.

RED TAPE.

11 What ! back again so soon, Stanny," was Captain
Faulks's greeting as McKay stepped on board the
Burlington Castle. " I am right glad to see you. Is
that a friend of yours ? " pointing to Hyde. " He is
welcome too. What brings you to Balaclava ? "

McKay explained in a few words the errand on which
they had come.

Drift-wood — is that what you're after ? All right,
my hearties, I can help you to what you want. My
crew is standing idle, and I will send the second officer
out with them in the boats. They can land it for you,
and load up your horses. "

Before the afternoon Hyde started for the camp with
a plentiful supply of fuel, intending to return next

morning' to take up any other supplies that could be
secured. McKay tackled his uncle on this subject that
same evening*.

Blankets ? Yes, my boy, you shall have all we can
spare, and I daresay we can fit you out with a few
dozen jerseys, and perhaps some seamen's boots."

We want all the warm clothing we can get' said
McKay. " The men are being frozen to death."

I tell you what : there were five cases of sheepskin-jackets
I brought up — gregg, I think they call them —
what those Tartar chaps wear in Bulgaria'

The very thing ! Let's have them, uncle."

I wish you could, lad ; but they are landed and
gone into the store."

1 c The commissariat store ? I'll go after them in the
morning."

u It'll trouble you to get them. He is a hard nut,
that commissariat officer, as you'll see."

Mr. Dawber, the gentleman in question, was a middle-aged
officer of long standing, who had been brought
up in the strictest notions of professional routine. He
had regulations on the brain. He was a slave to red
tape, and was prepared to die rather than diverge from
the narrow grooves in which he had been trained.

The store over which he presided was in a state of
indescribable chaos. It could not be arranged as he
had seen stores all his life, so he did nothing to it
at all.

When McKay arrived early next day, Mr. Dawber

was being interviewed by a doctor from a hospital-ship.
The discussion had already grown rather serious.

iC I tell you my patients are dying of cold," said the
doctor. " I must have the stoves."

f It is quite impossible' replied Mr. Dawber, " without
a requisition properly signed."

By whom ? "

It's not my place, sir, to teach you the regulations,
but if you refer to page 347, paragraph 6, you will find
that no demands can be complied with unless they have
been through the commanding officer of the troops, the
senior surgeon, the principal medical officer, the senior
commissariat officer, the brigadier, and the general of
division. Bring me a requisition duly completed, and
you shall have the stoves."

But it is monstrous : preposterous ! There is not
time. It would take a week to get these signatures,
and I tell you my men are dying."

I can't help that; you must proceed according to rule."

It's little short of murder ! " said the doctor, now
furious.

And what can I do for you ? " said Mr. Dawber,
ignoring this remark, and turning to another applicant,
a quartermaster of the Guards.

I have come for six bags of coffee."

Where is your requisition ? "

The quartermaster produced a large sheet of foolscap,
covered with printing and ruled lines, a mass of figures,
and intricate calculations.

Mr. Dawber seized it, and proceeded to verify the
totals, which took him half-an-hour.

This column is incorrectly cast ; in fact, the form
is very carelessly filled in. But you shall have the
coffee — if we can find it."

Further long delay followed, during which Mr.
Dawber and his assistant rummaged the heterogeneous
contents of his overcrowded store, and at last he produced
five bags, saying —

You will have to do with this."

But it is green coffee," said the quartermaster, protesting.
" How are we to roast it ? "

That's not my business. The coffee is always issued
in the green berry. You will find that it preserves its
aroma better when roasted just before use."

We should have to burn our tent-poles or musket-stocks
to cook it," said the quartermaster. ee That
stuff's no use to me," and he went away grumbling
leaving the bags behind him.

McKay followed him out of the store.

u You won't take the coffee, then ? "

Certainly not. I wish I had the people here thai
sent out such stuff."

« May I have it ? "

If you like. It's all one to me."
Grive me the requisition, then."

Armed with this important document, he returned
and accosted Mr. Dawber.

He has changed his mind about the coffee. Yoi

can give it to me ; I will see that he gets it. Here is
the requisition. "

The commissariat officer was only too pleased to get
rid of the bags according to form.

McKay next attacked him about the gregg. Despairing,
after all he had heard, of getting them by fair
means, he resolved to try a stratagem.

You received yesterday, I believe, a consignment
from the Burlington Castle ? "

Quite so. There are the chests, still unpacked. I
have not the least idea what's inside."

u You have the bill of lading, I suppose ? "

Certainly."

May I look at it ? I come from the Burlington
Castle, and the captain thinks he was wrong to have
sent you the cases without passing the bill of lading
through the commissariat officer at headquarters. 5 ''

I believe he is right. Here is the bill ; it has not
Mr. Fielder's signature. This is most irregular. What
shall I do ? "

(i You had better give me back the bill of lading
and the cases until the proper formalities have been
observed."

You are perfectly right, my dear sir, and I am
extremely obliged to you for your suggestion."

A few minutes later McKay had possession of the
cases. With the help of some of his uncle's crew he
moved them back to the seaside, where he waited until
Hyde's arrival from the front. Then they loaded up

the gregg on the baggage-animals, and returned to
camp in triumph.

From that day the men of the Royal Picts were fairly
well off. Their condition was not exactly comfortable,
but they suffered far less than the bulk of their comrades
in the Crimea.

Their sheepskin-jackets were not very military in
appearance, but they were warm, and their heavy seamen's
boots kept out the wet. They had a sufficiency
of food, too, served hot, and prepared with rough-and-ready
skill, under the superintendence of Hyde.

He had struck up a great friendship with a Frenchman,
one of the Voltigeurs, in a neighbouring camp,
who, in return for occasional nips of sound brandy,
brought straight from the Burlington Castle, freely imparted
the whole of his culinary knowledge to the
quartermaster of the Royal Picts.

He is a first-class cook," said Hyde to his friend
McKay, "and was trained, he tells me, in one of the
best kitchens in Paris. He could make soup, I believe,
out of an old shoe."

I can't think how you get the materials for the
men's meals. That stew yesterday was never made out
of the ration-biscuit and salt pork. There was fresh
meat in it. Where did you get it ? "

Old Hyde winked gravely.

If I were to tell you it would get about, and the
men would not touch it."

You can trust me. Out with it."

There's lots of fresh meat to be got in the camp by
those who know where to look for it. Anatole " — this
was his French friend — " put me up to it."

I don't understand, Hyde. What do you mean ? "

w I mean that her Majesty's Royal Picts have been
feeding upon horseflesh. And very excellent meat, too,
full of nourishment when it is not too thin. That is
my chief difficulty with what I get."

It's only prejudice, I suppose," said McKay, laughing
; " but it will be as well, I think, to keep your secret."

But horseflesh was better than no meat, and the men
of the Royal Picts throve well and kept their strength
upon Hyde's soups and savoury stews. Thanks to the
care bestowed upon them, the regiment kept up its numbers
in a marvellous way — it even returned more men for
duty than corps which had just arrived, and the difference
between it and others in the camp-grounds close
by was so marked that Lord Raglan came over and complimented
Blythe upon the condition of his command.

"I can't tell how you manage, Blythe," said his
lordship ; " I wish we had a few more regiments like
the Picts."

It is all system, my lord, and I have reason, I
think, to be proud of ours — that and an excellent
regimental staff. I have a capital quartermaster and a
first-rate adjutant."

I should like to see them," said Lord Raglan.

McKay and Hyde were brought forward and presented
to the Commander-in-chief.

Mr. McKay, I know your name. You behaved
admirably at Inkerman. I have just had a letter, too,
about you from England."

About me, my lord ? " said Stanislas, astonished.

Yes, from Lord Essendine, your cousin. And, to
oblige him, no less than on your own account, I must
renew my offer of an appointment on the headquarter
staff."

McKay looked at the colonel and shook his head.

i( You are very good, my lord, but I prefer to stay
with my regiment."

Colonel Blythe, you really must spare him to me,"
said Lord Raglan. "We want him, and more of his
stamp."

Your wishes are law, my lord. I should prefer to
keep Mr. McKay, but I will not stand in his way if he
desires to go. I shall not miss him so much now that
everything is in good working order."

McKay was disposed still to protest, but Lord Raglan
cut him short by saying —

iC Come over to headquarters tomorrow, and report
yourself to General Airey. As for you, my fine fellow,"
Lord Raglan went on, turning to Hyde, i( you are still a
non-commissioned officer, I see."

Yes, my lord, I am only acting-quartermaster."

Well, I shall recommend you for a commission at

once."

I do not want promotion, my lord," replied Hyde.
He has refused it several times," added Blythe.

That's all nonsense ! He must take it ; it's for the
good of the service. I shall send forward your name 5
and, so saying, Lord Eaglan rode off.

Stanislas took up his duties at headquarters next
day. He was attached to the quartermaster-general's
department, and was at once closely examined as to his
capabilities and qualifications by his new chief, General
Airey, a man of extraordinarily quick perception, and a
shrewd judge of character.

You speak French ? Fluently ? Let's see," and
the general changed the conversation to that language.
That's all right. What else? Italian? German?
Russian ? "

Yes, sir, Russian."

You ought to be very useful to us. But you will
have to work hard, Mr. McKay, very hard. There are
no drones here."

McKay soon found that out. From daybreak to midnight
every one at headquarters slaved incessantly.
Horses stood ready saddled in the stables, and officers
came and went at all hours. Men needed to possess
iron constitution and indomitable energy to meet the
demands upon their strength.

Lord Raglan wants somebody to go at once to
Kamiesch," said General Airey, coming out one morning
to the room in which his staff-assistants worked
and waited for special instructions. There was no one
there but McKay, and he had that instant returned
from Balaclava. " Have you been out this morning,

Mr. McKay ? Yes ? Well, it can't be helped ; you
must go again."

I am only too ready, sir."

That's right. Lord Raglan does not spare himself,
neither must you."

11 1 know, sir. How disgraceful it is that he should
be attacked by the London newspapers and accused of
doing nothing at all ! "

"• Yes, indeed ! Why, he was writing by candle-light
at six o'clock this morning, and after breakfast he saw
us all, the heads of departments and three divisional
generals. Since then he has been writing without
intermission. By-and-by he will ride through the
camp, seeing into everything with his own eyes'

His lordship is indefatigable : it is the least we can
do to follow his example," said McKay, as he hurried
away.

This was one of many such conversations between
our hero and his new chief. By degrees the 
came to value the common-sense opinion
of this practical young soldier, and to discuss with him
unreservedly the more pressing needs of the hour.

There was as yet no improvement in the state of the
Crimean army ; on the contrary, as winter advanced, it
deteriorated, pursued still by perverse ill-luck. The
weather was terribly inclement, alternating between
extremes. Heavy snowstorms and hard frosts were
followed by thaws and drenching rains. The difficulties
of transport continued supreme. Roads, mere spongy

sloughs of despond, were nearly impassable, and the
waste of baggage-animals was so great that soon few
would remain.

To replace them with fresh supplies became of paramount
importance.

We must draw upon neighbouring countries' said
General Airey, talking it over one day with McKay.
It ought to have been done sooner. But better now
than not at all. I will send to the Levant, to Constantinople,
Italy "

li Spain' suggested McKay.

To be sure ! What do you suppose we could get
from Spain ? "

"Thousands of mules and plenty of horses."

It is worth thinking of, although the distance is
great' replied the quartermaster - general. u I will
speak to Lord Raglan at once on the subject. Bv-the-
way, I think you know Spanish ? "

Yes," said McKay, " fairly well."

Then you had better get ready to start. If any one
goes, I will send you."

This was tantamount to an order. General Airey's
advice was certain to be taken by Lord Raglan.

Next morning McKay started for Gibraltar, specially
accredited to the Governor of the fortress, and with
full powers to buy and forward baggage-animals as
expeditiously as possible.

VOL. I. K

Chapter XXI.

AGAIN ON THE ROCK.

McKay travelled as far as Constantinople in one of the
man-of-war despatch-boats used for the postal service.
There he changed into a transport homeward bound,
and proceeded on his voyage without delay.

But half-an-hour at Constantinople was enough to
gain tidings of the Arcadia and her passengers.

The yacht, he learnt, had left only a week or two
before. It had lingered a couple of months at the
Golden Horn, during which time General Wilderss lay
between life and death.

Mortification at last set in, and then all hope was
gone. The general died, and was buried at Scutari,
after which Mrs. Wilderss, still utilising the Arcadia,
started for England.

The yacht, a fast sailer, made good progress, and
was already at anchor in Gibraltar Bay on the morning
that McKay arrived.

Shall I go on board and tax her with her misdeeds
? " McKay asked himself. ' ' No ; she can wait.
I have more pressing and more pleasant business on
hand'

His first visit was to the Convent. " You shall have
every assistance from us," said the Governor, Sir
Thomas Drummond. " But what do you propose to do,
and how can I help ? "

u My object, sir, is to collect all the animals I can in
the shortest possible time. I propose, first, to set the
purchase going here — under your auspices, if you agree
then visit Alicante, Valencia, Barcelona, and ship off
all I can secure."

(( An excellent plan. Well, you shall have my hearty
co-operation. If there is anything else "

An aide-de-camp came in at this moment and
whispered a few words in his general's ear.

"What! on shore? Here in the Convent, too? Poor
soul ! of course we will see her. Let some one tell
Lady Drummond. Forgive me, Mr. McKay : a lady
has just called whom I am bound by every principle
of courtesy, consideration, and compassion to see at
once. Perhaps you will return later ? "

McKay bowed and passed out into the antechamber.
On the threshold he met Mrs. Wilderss face to face.

You ! " she gasped out, but instantly checked

r2

the exclamation of chagrin and dismay that rose to
her lips.

You hardly expected to see me, perhaps; but I was
miraculously saved."

McKay spoke slowly, and the delay gave Mrs.
Wilderss time to collect herself.

I am most thankful. It has lifted a load off my
mind. I feared you were lost."

"Yes; the sea seldom gives up its prey. But enough
about myself. You are going in to see the general, I
think ; do not let me detain you."

I shall be very pleased to see you on board the
yacht."

Thank you, Mrs. Wilderss ; I am sure you will. But
to me such a visit would be very painful. My last
recollections of the Arcadia are not too agreeable."

Of course not. You were so devoted to my poor
dear husband."

Mrs. Wilderss would not acknowledge his meaning.

But I shall see you again before I leave, I trust. "

My stay here is very short. I am only on a special
mission, and I must return to the Crimea without delay.
But we shall certainly meet again some day, Mrs.
Wilderss ; you may rely on that."

There was meaning, menace even, in this last speech,
and it gave Mrs. Wilderss food for serious thought.

McKay did not pause to say more. He was too eager
to go elsewhere.

His first visit, as in duty bound, had been to report

his arrival and set on foot the business that had brought
him. His second was to see sweet Mariquita, the girl
of his choice.

They had exchanged several letters. His had been
brief, hurried accounts of his doings, assuring her of
his safety after every action and of his unalterable
affection \ hers were the artless outpourings of a warm,
passionate nature tortured by ever-present heartrending
anxiety for the man she loved best in the world. There
had been no time to warn her of his visit to Gibraltar,
and his appearance was entirely unexpected there.

Things were much the same at the 
walked boldly in and found La Zandunga, as
usual, behind the counter, but alone. She got up, and,
not recognising him, bowed obsequiously. Officers were
rare visitors in Bombardier Lane and McKay's staff-uniform
inspired respect.

You are welcome, sir. In what can we serve you ?
Our tobacco is greatly esteemed. We import our cigars
the finest — direct from La Havana ; our cigarettes
are made in the house "

You do not seem to remember me," said McKay,
quietly. l ' I hope Mariquita is well ? "

Heaven protect me ! It is the Sergeant "

Lieutenant, you mean."

An officer! already ! You have been fortunate, sir."
La Zandunga spoke without cordiality and was evidently
hesitating how to receive him. "What brings you
here ? "

I want to see Mariquita." The old crone stared at
him with stony disapproval. « I have bnt just arrived
from the Crimea to buy horses and mules for the
army."

"Many?" Her manner instantly changed. This
was business for her husband, who dealt much in
horseflesh.

Thousands."

Won't you be seated, sir ? Let me take your hat.
Marquis— ta ! " she cried, with remarkable volubility.
The guest was clearly entitled to be treated with
honour.

Mariquita entered hastily, expecting to be chidden,
then paused shyly, seeing who was there.

Shamefaced, come; don't you know this gentleman
? * said her aunt, encouragingly. « Entertain him,
little one, while I fetch your uncle."

What does it mean ? " asked Mariquita, in amazement,
as soon as she could release herself from her
lover's embrace. « You here, Stanislas : my aunt approving
! Am I mad or asleep ? "

Neither, dearest. She sees a chance of profit out
of me—that's all. I will not baulk her. She deserves
it for leaving us alone," and he would have taken her
again into his arms.

« No, no ! Enough, Stanislas ! " said the sweet girl,
blushing a rosy red. " Sit there and be quiet. Tell
me of yourself : why you are here. The war, then, is

over ? The Holy Saints be praised ! How I hated that
war ! "

Do not say that, love ! It has been the making of
me."

Nothing would compensate me for all that I have
suffered these last few months."

But I have gained my promotion and much more.
I can offer you now a far higher position. You will bea
lady, a great lady, some day ! "

It matters little, my Stanislas, so long as I am with
you. I would have been content to share your lot,
however humble, anywhere."

This was her simple, unquestioning faith. Her love
filled all her being. She belonged, heart and soul, to
this man.

You will not leave me again, Stanislas ? " she went
on, with tender insistence.

My sweet, I must go back. My duty is there, in
the Crimea, with my comrades — with the army of my
Queen."

But if anything should happen to you — they may
hurt you, kill you ! "

Darling, there is no fear. Be brave."

Oh, Stanislas ! Suppose I should lose you — life
would be an utter blank after that ; I have no one in
the world but you."

McKay was greatly touched by this proof of her
deep-seated affection.

"It is only for a little while longer, my sweetest
girl ! Be patient and hopeful to the end. By-and-by
we shall come together, never to part again."

I am weak, foolish— too loving, perhaps. But, Stag
I cannot bear to part with you. Let me go
too!" H

Dearest, that is quite impossible ! "

If I was only near you *'

"What! you— a tender woman— in that wild land,
amidst all its dangers and trials ! "

I should fear nothing if it was for you, Stanislas.
I would give you my life - I would lay it down freely
for you."

He could find no words to thank her for such unselfish
devotion, but he pressed her to his heart again
and again.

He still held Mariquita's hand, and was soothing her
with many endearing expressions, when La Zandunga,
accompanied by Tio Pedro, returned.

The lovers flew apart, abashed at being surprised.

McKay expected nothing less than coarse abuse, but
no honey could be sweeter than the old people's accents
and words.

Do not mind us' said La Zandunga, coaxingly.
"A pair of turtle-doves," said Tio Pedro: " bashful
and timid as birds."

'? Sit down, good sir," went on the old woman , "you
can see Mariquita again. Let us talk first of this
business."

lt You want horses, I believe ? " said Tio Pedro. " I
can get you any number. What price will you pay V

What they are worth'

And a little more, which we will divide between
ourselves," added the old man, with a knowing wink.

"That's not the way with British officers," said
McKay, sternly.

It's the way with ours in Spain."

u That may be. However, I will take five hundred
from you, at twenty pounds apiece, if they are delivered
within three days."

Tio Pedro got up and walked towards the door.

1 ' I go to fetch them. I am the key of Southern
Spain. When I will, every stable-door shall be unlocked.
You shall have the horses, and more, if you choose, in
the stated time."

One moment, Senor Pedro ; I want something else
from you, and you, sehora."

They looked at him with well-disguised astonishment.

I have long loved your niece ; will you give her tome
in marriage ? "

Oh ! sir, it is too great an honour for our house.
We — she — are all unworthy. But if you insist, and are
prepared to take her as she is, dowerless, uncultured,
with only her natural gifts, she is yours."

u I want only herself. I have sufficient means for
both. They may still be modest, but I have good
prospects — the very best. Some day I shall inherit a
great fortune."

Oh ! sir, you overwhelm us. We can make you no
sufficient return for your great condescension. Only
command us, and we will faithfully execute your wishes.'

My only desire is that you should treat Mariquita
well. Take every care of her until I can return. It
will not be long, I trust, before this war is ended, and
then I will make her my wife."

McKay's last words were overheard by a man who at
this moment entered the shop.

It was Benito, who advanced with naming face and
fierce, angry eyes towards the group at the counter.

1 ' What is this — and your promise to me ? The girl
is mine ; you gave her to me months ago 5

ie Our promise was conditional on Mariquita' s consent,"
said La Zandunga, with clever evasion. u That
you have never been able to obtain. "

iC I should have secured it in time but for this scoundrel
who has come between me and my affianced bride.
He'll have to settle with me, whoever he is," and so
saying, Benito came closer to McKay, whom hitherto
he had not recognised. tl The Englishman ! " he cried,
starting back.

"Very much at your service," replied McKay, shortly.
I am not afraid of your threats. I think I can hold
my own with you as I have done before."

u We shall see," and with a muttered execration, full
of hatred and malice, he rushed from the place.

When, an hour or two later, Mrs. Wilderss hunted
him up at the Kedhot Shell Ramp, she found him in a

mood fit for any desperate deed. But, with native
cunning, lie pretended to show reluctance when she
asked him for his help.

Who is it you hate ? An Englishman ? Any one
on the Rock ?" he said. "And what do you want done ?
I have no wish to bring myself within reach of the
English law."

"It is an English officer. He is here just now, but
will presently return to the Crimea."

What is his name ? " asked Benito, eagerly, his
black heart inflamed with a wild hope of revenge.

"McKay — Stanislas McKay, of the Royal Picts."

It was his name ! A fierce, baleful light gleamed in
Benito's dark eyes; he clenched his fists and set his
teeth fast.

You know him ? " said Mrs. Wilderss, readily
interpreting these signs of hate.

u I should like to kill him \" hissed Benito.

Do so, and claim your own reward."

« But how ? When ? Where ? "

That is for you to settle. Watch him, stick to him,
dog his footsteps, follow him wherever he goes. Some
day he must give you a chance."

Leave it to me. The moment will come when I
shall sheathe my knife in his heart."

I think I can trust you. Only do it well, and never
let me see him again."

CHAPTER XXII.

MR. HOBSON CALLS.

The Arcadia went direct from Gibraltar to Southampton,
where Mrs. Wilderss left it and returned to London.

It was necessary for her to review her position and
look things in the face. Her circumstances were undoubtedly
straitened since her husband's death. She
had her pension as the widow of a general officer — but
this was a mere pittance at best — and the interest of
the small private fortune settled, at the time of the
marriage, on her and her children, should she have
any. Her income from both these sources amounted to
barely £300 a year — far too meagre an amount according
to her present ideas, burdened as she was, moreover,
with the care and education of a child.

But how was she to increase it ? The reversion of

the great Wilderss estates still eluded her grasp ; they
might never come her way, whatever lengths she might
go to secure them.

Lord Essendine ought to do something for me," she
told herself, as soon as she was settled in town. " It
was not fair to keep the existence of this hateful young
man secret ; my boy suffers by it, poor little orphan !
Surely I can make a good case of this to his lordship ;
and, after all, the child comes next."

She wrote accordingly to the family lawyers, Messrs.
Burt and Bentham, asking for an interview, and within
a day or two saw the senior partner, Mr. Burt.

He was blandly sympathetic, but distant.

' Allow me to offer my deep condolence, madam ;
but as this is, I presume, a business visit, may I
ask "

"I am left in great distress. I wish to appeal to
Lord Essendine."

On what grounds ? "

My infant son is the next heir."

' Nay ; surely you know — there is another before
him ? "

1 ' Before my boy ! Who ? What can you mean ?
Impossible ! I have never heard a syllable of this. I
shall contest it."

It suited her to deny all knowledge, thinking it
strengthened her position.

That would be quite useless. The claims of the
next heir are perfectly sound."

It is sheer robbery ! It is scandalous, outrageous !
I will go and see Lord Essendine myself."

Pardon me, madam ; I fear that is out of the
question. He is in Scotland, living in retirement.
Lady Essendine's health has failed greatly under
recent afflictions."

He must and shall know how I am situated."

You may trust me to tell him, madam, at once; and,
although I have no right to pledge his lordship, I think
I can safely say that he will meet you in a liberal
spirit."

So it proved. Lord Essendine, after a short interval,
wrote himself to Mrs. Wilderss a civil, courtly letter,
in which he promised her a handsome allowance, with a
substantial sum in cash down to furnish a house and
make herself a home.

Although still bitterly dissatisfied with her lot, she
was now not only fortified against indigence, but could
count on a life of comfort and ease. She established
herself in a snug villa down Crompton way — a small
house with a pretty garden, of the kind now fast disappearing
from what was then a near suburb of the
town. It was well mounted ; she kept several servants,
a neat brougham, and an excellent cook.

There she prepared to wait events, trusting that
Russian bullet or Benito's Spanish knife might yet rid
her of the one obstacle that still stood between her son
and the inheritance of great wealth.

It was with a distinct annoyance, then, while leading

this tranquil but luxurious life, that her man-servant
brought in a card one afternoon, bearing the name of
Hobson, and said, " The gentleman hopes you will be
able to see him at once."

"How did you find me out?" she asked, angrily,
when her visitor— the same Mr. Hobson we saw at
Constantinople — was introduced.

Ah ! How do I find everything and everybody
out ? That's my affair — my business, J may say."

And what do you want ? " went on Mrs. Wilderss,
in the same key.

First of all, to condole with you on the loss of so
many near relatives. I missed you at Constantinople
after Lord Lydstone's sad and dreadful death."

Mrs. Wilderss shuddered in spite of herself.

ff You suffer remorse ? " he said, mockingly.

She made a gesture of protest.

Sorrow, I should say. Yet you benefited
greatly ."

On the contrary, not at all. Another life still intervenes."


Another ! and you knew nothing of it ! Impossible
! "

It is too true. I am as far as ever from the accomplishment
of my hopes."

Who is this unknown interloper ? "

An English officer, at present serving in the
Crimea. His name is McKay : Stanislas McKay."

The name is familiar ; the Christian name is suggestive.
Do you know whether he is of Polish origin ?"

Yes, I have heard so. His father was once in the
Russian army."

It is the same, then. There can be no doubt of it.
And you would like to see him out of the way ? I might
help you, perhaps."

How ? I have my own agents at work."

He is in the Crimea, you say ? "

Yes, or will be within a few weeks."

If we could inveigle him into the Russian lines he
would be shot or hanged as a traitor. He is a Russian
subject in arms against his Czar."

It would be difficult, I fear, to get him into Russian
hands."

' Some stratagem might accomplish it. You have
agents at work, you say, in the Crimea ? "

They can go there."

Put me in communication with them, and leave it
all to me."

You will place me under another onerous obligation,
Hippolyte."

"No, thanks. I am about to ask a favour in return
You can help me, I think."

{( Yes ? Command me."

"You have many acquaintances in London; your
late husband's friends were military men. I want a
little information at times."

Mrs. Wilderss looked at him curiously.

Why don't you call things by their right names ?
You would like to employ me as a spy — is that what
you mean ? "

Well, if you like to put it so, yes. I suppose I can
count upon you ? "

I am sorry not to be able to oblige you, but T am
afraid I must say no."

You are growing squeamish, Cyprienne, in your
old age. To think of your having scruples ! "

I despise your sneers. It does not suit me to do
what you wish, that's all ; it would be unsafe."

What have you to lose ? "

All this." She waved her hand round the prettily-furnished
room. " Lord Essendine has been very kind
to me, and if there were any suspicions — if any rumour
got about that I was employed by or for you — he would
certainly withdraw the income he gives me."

Mr. Hobson laughed quietly.

"You have given yourself away, as they say in
America; you have put yourself in my hands, Cyprienne.
I insist now upon your doing what I wish."

You shall not browbeat me ! " She rose from her
seat, with indignation in her face. " Leave me, or I
will call the servants."

I shall go straight to Lord Essendine, then, and
tell him all I know. How would you like that ? How
about your allowance, and the protection of that great

VOL. I. S

family ? Don't you know, foolish woman, that you are
absolutely and completely in my power ? "

Mrs. Wilderss made no reply. Her face was a study;
many emotions struggled for mastery — fear, sullen
obstinacy, and impotent rage.

Come, be more reasonable' went on Mr. Hobson.
Our partnership is of long standing ; it cannot easily
be dissolved ; certainly not now. After all, what is it
I ask you ? A few questions put adroitly to the right
person, an occasional visit to some official friend ; to
keep your eyes and ears open, and be always on the
watch. Surely, there is no great trouble, no danger, in
that ? "

If you will have it so, I suppose I must agree. But
where and how am I to begin ? "

I leave it all to you, my dear madam ; you are
much more at home in this great town than I am. I
can only indicate the lines on which you should
proceed."

How shall I communicate with you ? "

Only by word of mouth. When you have anything
to say, write to me — there is my address ' — he pointed
to his card — " Duke Street, St. James's. Write just
three lines, asking me to lunch, nothing more ; I shall
understand."

"And about this hated McKay ? "

Let me know when he returns to the Crimea. We
shall be able to hit upon a plan then. But it will

require some thought, and a reckless, unscrupulous
tool."

I know the very man. He is devoted to my interests,
and a bitter enemy of McKay's/'

We shall succeed then, never fear'' and with these
words Mr. Hobson took his leaves

2

CHAPTER XXIII.

WAR TO THE KN I F E.

Since we left him at Gibraltar McKay had led a busy
life. The u Horse Purchase " was in full swing upon
the north front, where, in a short space of time, many
hundreds of animals were picketed ready for shipment
to the East. Having set this part of his enterprise on
foot, he had proceeded to the Spanish ports on the
Eastern coast and repeated the process.

Alicante was the great centre of his operations on
this side, and there, by means of dealers and contractors,
he speedily collected a large supply of mules.
They were kept in the bull-ring and the grounds adjoining,
a little way out of the town. A number of
native muleteers were engaged to look after them, and
McKay succeeded in giving the whole body of men and
mules some sort of military organisation.

They were a rough lot, these local muleteers, the
scum and riff-raff of Valencia — black-muzzled, dark-skinned
mongrels, half Moors, half Spaniards, lawless,
turbulent, and quarrelsome.

Fights were frequent amongst them — sanguinary
struggles, in which the murderous native knife played
a prominent part, and both antagonists were often
stabbed and slashed to death.

The local authorities looked askance at this gathering
of rascaldom, and gave them a wide berth. But
McKay went fearlessly amongst his reprobate followers,
administering a rough-and-ready sort of discipline,
and keeping them as far as possible within
bounds.

It was his custom to pay a nightly visit to his charge.
He went through the lines, saw that the night-patrols
were on the alert, and the rest of the men quiet.

Repeatedly the overseers next him in authority
cautioned him against venturing out of the town so
late.

There are evil people about," said his head man, a
worthy " scorpion' whom he had brought with him
from Gibraltar. " Your worship would do better to
stay at home at night."

What have I to fear ? " replied McKay, stoutly.
I have my revolver ; I can take care of myself."

They evidently did not think so, for it became the
rule for a couple of them to escort him back to town
without his knowledge.

They followed at a little distance behind him, carrying
lanterns, and keeping him always in sight.

One night McKay discovered their kind intentions,
and civilly, but firmly, put an end to the practice.

Next night he was attacked on his way back to the
hotel. A man rushed out on him from a dark corner,
and made a blow at his breast with a knife. It missed
him, although his coat was cut through.

A short encounter followed. McKay was stronger
than his assailant, whom he speedily disarmed; but he
was not so active. The fellow managed to slip through
his fingers and run ; all that McKay could do was
to send three shots after him, fired quickly from his
revolver, and without good aim.

Scoundrel ! he has got clear away," said McKay,
as he put up his weapon. " Who was it, I wonder ?
Not one of my own men ; and yet I seemed to know
him. If I did not think he was still at Gibraltar, I
should say it was that miscreant Benito. I shall have
to get him hanged, or he will do for me one of these
days."

The pistol-shots attracted no particular attention in
this deserted, dead-alive Spanish town, and McKay got
back to his hotel without challenge or inquiry.

A day or two later, as the organisation of his mule-train
was now complete, and transports were already
arriving to embark their four-footed freight, he returned
to Gibraltar, meaning to go on to the Crimea without
delay.

Of course he went to Bombardier Lane, where he was
received by the old people like a favourite son.

Mariquita, blushing and diffident, was scarcely able
to realise that her Stanislas was now at liberty to make
love to her, openly and without question.

The time, however, for their tender intercourse was
all too short. McKay expected hourly the steamer that
was to take him eastward, and his heart ached at the
prospect of parting. As for Mariquita, she had alternated
between blithe joyousness and plaintive, despairing
sorrow.

I shall never see you again, Stanislas,''' she went on
repeating, when the last mood was on her.

"Nonsense! I have come out harmless so far; I
shall do so to the end. The Russians can't hurt me."

But you have other enemies, dearest — pitiless, vindictive,
and implacable."

a Whom do you mean ? Benito ? "

You know without my telling you. He has shown
his enmity, then ? How ? Oh, Stanislas ! be on your
guard against that black-hearted man."

Should he tell her of his suspicions that it was Benito
who had attacked him at Alicante ? No ; it would only
aggravate her fears. But he tried, nevertheless, to
verify these suspicions without letting Mariquita know
the secret.

Is Benito at Gibraltar ? " he asked, quietly.

We have not seen him for weeks. Since— since— -
you know, my life ! — since you came to our house he

))

264 THE THIN RED LINE.

has kept away. But I heard my uncle say that he had
left the Rock to buy mules. He was going, I believe,
to Alicante. Did you see him there ? "

I saw many ruffians of his stamp, but I did not
distinguish our friend."

You must never let him come near you, Stanislas.
Remember what I say. He is treacherous, truculent —
a very fiend."



If he comes across my path I will put my heel upon
him like a toad. But let us talk of something more
pleasant — of you — of our future life. Shall you like to
live in England, and never see the sun ?

You will be my sun, Stanislas."

tc Then you will have to learn English

u It will be easy enough if you teach me."

Some day you will be a great lady — one of the
greatest in London, perhaps. You'll have a grand
house, carriages, magnificent dresses, diamonds "

I only want you'' she said, as she nestled closer to
his side.

It was sad that stern duty should put an end to these
pretty love passages, but the moment of separation
arrived inexorably, and, after a sad, passionate leave-taking,
McKay tore himself away.

Mariquita for days was inconsolable. She brooded
constantly in a corner, weeping silent tears, utterly
absorbed in her grief. They considerately left her
alone. Since she had become the affianced wife of a
man of McKay's rank and position, both the termagant

aunt and cross-grained uncle had treated her with
unbounded respect They would not allow her to be
vexed or worried by any one, least of all by Benito,
who, as soon as the English officer was out of the way,
again began to haunt the house.

It was about her that they were having high words a
day or two after McKay's departure.

Mariquita overheard them.

You shall not see her, I tell you ! " said La Zan-dung,
with shrill determination. " The sweet child is
sad and sick at heart."

She has broken mine, as you have your word tome.
I shall never be happy more. 5 '

He spoke as though he was in great distress, and his
grief, if false, was certainly well feigned.

Bah ! " said old Pedro. " No man ever died of
unrequited love. There are as good fish in the sea."

"I wanted this one," said Benito, in deep dejection.
No matter; I am going away. There is a fine chance
yonder, and I may perhaps forget her."

Where, then ? " asked the old woman.

"In the Crimea. I start tomorrow."

G-o, in Heaven's keeping," said Tio Pedro.

And never let us see you again' added La Zan-dung,
whose sentiments towards Benito had undergone
an entire change in the last few months.

May I not see her to say good-bye ? "

No, you would only agitate her."

Do not be so cruel. I implore you to let me speak
to her."

Be off ! " said the old woman, angrily. " You are
importunate and ill-bred."

u I will not go ; I will see her first."

Put him out, Pedro ; by force, if he will not go
quietly."

Tio Pedro rose rather reluctantly and advanced
towards Benito.

Hands off ! " cried the young man, savagely striking
at Pedro.

"What! You dare!" said the other furiously. "I
am not too old to deal with such a stripling. Begone,
I say, quicker than that ! " and Tio Pedro pushed
Benito towards the door.

There was a struggle, but it was of short duration.
Within a few seconds Benito was ejected into the
street.

By-and-by, when the coast was clear, and Mariquita
felt safe from the intrusion of the man she loathed, she
came out into the shop.

By this time the place was quiet. Tio Pedro had
gone off to a neighbouring wine-shop to exaggerate his
recent prowess, and La Zandunga sat alone behind the
counter.

Where is Benito ? Has he gone ? " asked Mari-quite,
nervously.

Yes. Did he frighten my sweet bird ? " said her

aunt, soothing her. " He is an indecent, ill-mannered
rogue, and we shall be well rid of him."

Well rid of him ? He really leaves us, then ? For
the Crimea ? "

You have guessed it. Yes. He thinks there is a
chance of finding fortune there."

Was that his only reason ? Mariquita put her hand
upon her heart, which had almost ceased beating. She
was sick with apprehension. Did not Benito's departure
forebode evil for her lover ?

Just then her eye fell upon a piece of crumpled
paper lying on the floor — part of a letter, it seemed.
Almost mechanically — with no special intention at least
she stooped to pick it up.

What have you got there ? " asked her aunt.

A letter."

It must be Benito's ; he probably dropped it in the
scuffle. Do you know that he dared to raise his hand
against my worthy husband ? "

If it is Benito's I have no desire to touch it," said
Mariquita, disdainfully.

Throw it into the yard, then," said her aunt.

Mariquita accordingly went to the back door and out
into the garden, round which she walked listlessly, once
or twice, forgetting what she held in her hand.

Then she looked at it in an aimless, absent way, and
began to read some of the words.

The letter was in Spanish, written in a female hand.
It said — '

Wait till he goes back to the Crimea, then follow
him instantly. On arrival at Balaclava go at once to
the Maltese baker whose shop is at the head of the bay
near Kadikoi ; he will give you employment. This will
explain and cover your presence in the camp. You will
visit all parts of it, selling bread. You must hang
about the English headquarters ; he is most often
there ; and remember that he is the sole object of your
errand. You must know at all times where he is and
what he is doing.

Further instructions will reach you through the
baker in the Crimea. Obey them to the letter, and you
will receive a double reward. Money to any amount
shall be yours, and you will have had your revenge
upon the man who has robbed you of your love."

After reading this carefully there was no doubt in
Mariquita's mind that Benito's mission was directed
against McKay. Her first thought was the urgency of
the danger that threatened her lover ; the second, an
eager desire to put him on his guard. But how was
she to do this ? By letter ? There was no time. By
a trusty messenger ? But whom could she send ?
There was no one from whom she could seek advice or
assistance save the old people ; and in her heart, notwithstanding
their present extreme civility, she mistrusted
both.

She was sorely puzzled what to do, but yet resolved
to save her lover somehow, even at the risk of her own
life.

CHAPTER XXIV.

AT MOTHER CHARCOAL S.

With the return of spring brighter days dawned for
the British troops in the East. The worst troubles
were ended ; supplies of all kinds were now flowing in
in great profusion ; the means of transport to the front
were enormously increased and improved, not only by the
opportune arrival of great drafts of baggage-animals,
through the exertions of men like McKay, but by the
construction of a railway for goods traffic.

The chief difficulty, however, still remained unsolved :
the siege still slowly dragged itself along. Sebastopol
refused to fall, and, with its gallant garrison under the
indomitable Todleben, still obstinately kept the Allies
at bay.

The besiegers' lines were, however, slowly but surely

tightening round the place. Many miles of trenches
were now open and innumerable batteries had been
built and armed. The struggle daily became closer and
more strenuously maintained. The opposing forces — -
besiegers and besieged — were in constant collision.
Sharpshooters interchanged shots all day long, and
guns answered guns. The Russians made frequent
sorties by night ; and every day there were hand-to-hand
conflicts for the possession of rifle-pits and the
more advanced posts.

It was a dreary, disappointing season. This siege
seemed interminable. No one saw the end of it. All
alike — from generals to common men — were despondent
and dispirited with the weariness of hope long deferred.

Why did we not attack the place ? This was the
burden of every song. The attack — always imminent,
always postponed — was the one topic of conversation
wherever soldiers met and talked together.

It was debated and discussed seriously, and from
every point of view, in the council-chamber, where
Lord Raglan met his colleagues and the great officers of
the staff. It was the gossip round the camp-fire, where
men beguiled the weary hours of trench-duty. It was
tossed from mouth to mouth by thoughtless subalterns
as they galloped on their Tartar ponies for a day's
outing to Kamiesch, when released from sterner toil.

The attack! To-morrow — next day — some day —
never ! So it went on, with a wearisome, monotonous
sameness that was perfectly exasperating.

I give you Good-day, my friend. Well, you see the
summer is now close at hand, and still we are on the
wrong side of the wall."

The speaker was M. Anatole Belhoinme, Hyde's
French friend. They had met outside a drinking-booth
in the hut-town of Kadikoi. Hyde was riding a pony ;
the other was on foot.

Ah ! my gallant Gaul, is it you ? " replied Hyde.
u Let's go in and jingle glasses together, hey ? "

"A little tear of cognac would not be amiss," replied
the Frenchman, whose excessive fondness for the fermented
liquor of his country was the chief cause of his
finding himself a sergeant in the Voltigeurs instead of
chief cook to a Parisian restaurant or an English duke.

Hyde hitched up his pony at the door, and they
entered the booth, seating themselves at one of . the
tables, if the two inverted wine-boxes used for the
purpose deserved the name. There were other soldiers
about, mostly British : a couple of sergeants of the
Guards, an assistant of the provost-marshal, some of
the new Land Transport Corps, and one or two Sardinians,
in their picturesque green tunics and cocked
hats with great plumes of black feathers.

The demand for drink was incessant and kept the
attendants busy. There were only two of them : the
proprietress, a dark-skinned lady, familiarly termed
Mother Charcoal, and a mite of a boy whom the English
customers called the* <f imp " and the French poison
(rogue).

Mother Charcoal was a stout but comely negress,
hailing originally from Jamaica, who had come to
Constantinople as stewardess in one of the transport-ships.
Being of an enterprising nature, she had
hastened to the seat of war and sunk all her ready-money
in opening a canteen. She was soon very
popular with the allied troops of every nationality and
did a roaring trade.

Some brandy — your best, my black Venus ! "
shouted Hyde.

Who you call names ? Me no Venus."

Well, Mrs. Charcoal, then ; that name suits your
colour."

What colour ? You call me coloured ? I no
common nigger, let me tell you, sal ; I a Georgetown
lady. Me wash for officers' wives and give dignity-balls
in my own home. Black Venus ! Charcoal ! You
call me my right name. Sophimisby Cleopatra Plantagenet
Sprouts : that my right name."

i( Well, Mrs. S. C. P. S., I can't get my tongue round
them all; fetch the brandy or send it. We will talk
about your pedigree and Christian names some other

time."

This chaffing colloquy had raised a general laugh
and put Hyde on good terms with the company.

tc What news from the front, sergeant ? " asked one
of the Land Transport Corps, a new comer.

Nothing much on our side, except that they say
there will be a new bombardment in a few days. But

the French were pretty busy last night, to judge from
the firing."

What was it ? "

Perhaps our friend here can tell you' and he
turned to Anatole, asking the question in French.

A glorious affair, truly ! " replied the Frenchman,
delighted to have an opportunity of launching out.

I was there — I, who speak to you."

Tell us about it," said Hyde ; " I will interpret it
to these gentlemen."

The Russians, you must understand, have been
forming ambuscades in front of our bastion Du Mat,
which have given us infinite trouble. Last night we
attacked them in three columns, 10,000 strong, and
drove them out."

Well done ! "

It was splendidly done !" went on Anatole, bombastically.
" Three times the enemy tried to retake their
ambuscades ; three times we beat them back at the
point of the bayonet, so !"

And the excitable Frenchman jumped from his
seat and went through the pantomime of charging with
the bayonet.

You lost many men ? "

Thousands. What matter ? we have many more to
come. The Imperial Guard has landed, and the reserve,
are at Constantinople."

Yes, and there are the 6 Sardines'" said another
pointing to the new uniform.
VOL. I. T

THE THIN RED LINE.

Ci Plenty of new arrivals. M. Soyer, the great
cook, landed yesterday."

' What on earth brings him ? "

He is going to teach the troops to make omelettes
and biscuit-soup."

We were ahead of him in that, I think' said Hyde,
winking at Anatole.

He is with Miss Nightingale, you know, who has
come out as head nurse. "

Heaven bless her ! "

Well, for all the new arrivals, we don't get on very
fast with the siege. "

Why don't they go into the place, without all this
shilly-shallying ? " cried an impetuous Briton. " We'd
take the place — we, the rank and file — if the generals
only would let us do the work alone."

They are a poor lot, the generals, I say."

Halt, there ! not a word against Lord Raglan,"
cried Hyde.

He is so slow."

Yes, but he is uncommon sure. Have you ever
seen him in action ? 1 have. He knows how to command
: so quiet and self-possessed. Such a different
man from the French generals, who always shout and
swear and make such a confounded row. What do you
think of your generals, Anatole ?"

Canrobert is an imbecile ; he never knows his own
mind."

Well, we shan't be troubled with him much longer,"

said a fresh arrival. " Canrobert has just resigned the
chief command."

"Impossible!" said Anatole, when the news was
interpreted to him.

It is perfectly true, I assure you," replied the last
speaker. " I have just come from the English headquarters,
and saw the new French commander-in-chief
there. Palliser, I think they call him."

Pelissier," said the French sergeant, correcting
him. "That is good news. A rare old dog of war
that. We shan't wait long to attack if he has the
ordering."

They say the Russian generals have changed lately.
Gortschakoff has succeeded Mentschikoff."

Confound those koffs ! They are worse than a cold
in the head."

And just as difficult to get rid of. Fd like to wring
their necks, and every Russian's at Sebastopol."

Mentschikoff could not have been a bad fellow,

>»

anyway,

<( How do you know that ?"

Why, one of our officers who was taken prisoner at
Inkerman has just come back to camp. I heard him
say that while he was in Sebastopol he got a letter from
his young woman at home. She said she hoped he
would take Mentschikoff prisoner, and send her home a
button off his coat."

"Well?"

The letter was read by the Russian authorities

CI

276 THE THIN RED LINE.

before they gave it him, and some one told the general
what the English girl had said."
He got mad, I suppose ? "

Not at all. He sent on the letter to its destination,
with a note of his own, presenting his compliments, and
regrets that he could not allow himself to be taken
prisoner, but saying that he had much pleasure in
inclosing the button, for transmission to England."

' A regular old brick, and no mistake ! We'll drink
his health."

It was drunk with full honours, after which Hyde,
finding the party inclined to be rather too noisy, got
up to go.

"Here !" he cried out, "some of you. What have I
got to pay ? Hurry up, my dusky duchess ; I want to
be off. Come, don't keep me waiting all day' and he
struck the table impatiently with his riding whip.

Mother Charcoal's assistant, "the imp," ran up.

How much ?"

One dollar : four shilling," said the lad, in broken
English.

There's your money ! " cried Hyde, throwing it
down, "and a 'bob' for yourself. Stop!" he added.
Who and what are you ? I have seen you before."

The lad, a mere boy, frail-looking and slightly built,
but with a handsome, rather effeminate-looking face,
tried to slink away.

What's your name ?" went on Hyde.

Pongo," replied the boy.

That's no real name. Smacks of the West Coast of
Africa. Who gave it you ? "

Mother Charcoal."

What's your country ? What language do you
talk ? "

English."

Monstrous little of that, my boy. What's your
native lingo, I mean ? Greek, Turkish, Italian, Coptic
—what ? "

Spanish," the boy confessed, in a low voice.

Hyde looked at him very intently for a few seconds ;
then, without further remark, walked out with his
French friend.

But he did not do more than say good-bye outside
the shanty ; and, leaving his horse still hitched up near
the door, he presently re-entered the canteen.

The place had emptied considerably, and he was able
to take his seat again in a corner without attracting
much attention. For half-anhalt or more he watched
this boy, who seemed to interest him so much.

C{ There's not a doubt of it. I must know what it
means," and he beckoned the " imp " towards him.

How did you get to the Crimea ? " he asked,
abruptly, speaking in excellent Spanish, when the lad,
shyly and most reluctantly, came up to him. " What
brings you here ? I must and will know. It is very
wrong. This is no place for you."

I came to save him ; he is in pressing danger'
said the boy, whose large eyes were now filled with tears.

Does he know you are in the Crimea ? "

"I have been unable to find him. I lost all my
money ; it was stolen from me directly I landed, and, if
I had not found this place with the black woman, I
should have starved."

Poor child ! Alone and unprotected in this terrible
place. It was sheer madness your coming."

i( But I could tell him in no other way."

Tell him what ? "

He has two bitter and implacable enemies, who are
sworn to take his life."

Hyde shook his head gravely.

It is true, as Heaven is my witness — perfectly true.
But read this if you doubt me," and the boy, who was
no other than Mariquita in disguise, produced the scrap
of paper she had picked up in the shop in Bombardier
Lane.

I did not doubt your words. I was thinking of
those enemies — one of them, at least — and wondering
why she is permitted to live."

He took the letter, and read it slowly.

Her handwriting ! I was sure of it. To whom was
this addressed ? "

Benito Villegas. Perhaps you know him — he is a
native of the Rock."

u I remember him years ago. And has he carried
out these instructions ? Is he here ? "

e< I cannot make out. I have looked for him, but
have been unable to find him'

Not at the address stated here ? You have been
to it ? "

(t Several times, but have never seen him."

(t He is probably in some disguise ; that would suit
his purpose best. We will hunt him up, never fear.
But Stanislas must first be warned."

You will go to him — at once ? "

u This very day. And you — won't you come too ? "

No, no ! I cannot." Mariquita blushed crimson.
He would chide me. It is wrong, I know ; I have no
right to be here, but he was in such danger. I risked
everything : his displeasure, my life, my good name."

"Yes," said Hyde, thoughtfully; " this is no place
for you ; it is a pity you came to it. Still, we should
not have known but for you ; as it is, you had better
stay here."

With Mother Charcoal ? "

Just so. She is a worthy old soul, and can be
trusted. It will be best, I think, to tell her the exact
state of the case. Leave that to me."

You will not delay in warning Stanislas ? " said
Mariquita, placing her hand on his arm.

No ; I will go directly after I have spoken to our
black friend. Be easy in your mind, little woman, or
Senor Pongo, or whatever you like to be called, and
expect to see me again, and perhaps some one else you
know, within a day or two from now."

Fate, however, decreed that Hyde should be unavoidably
delayed in his errand of warning.

On leaving Mother Charcoal's shanty the second
time, he found that his horse had disappeared. It had
been hitched up to a hook near the doorway, in company
with several others, and all were now gone.

Some mistake ? Scarcely that. One of those
rascally sailor thieves, rather ; not a four-footed beast
is safe from them. What a nuisance it is ! I suppose
I must walk back to camp."

What chafed Hyde most was the delay in getting to
headquarters. He had already made up his mind to
find McKay as soon as he could, and tell him exactly
what had occurred.

He will, of course, think first of Mariquita ; but
that matter can be easily settled. We will send her onboard
one of the hospital-ships, where she will be with
nurses of her own sex. What is really urgent is that
McKay should look to himself. We must manage,
through his interest and authority, to make a thorough
search for this villain Benito, and get him expelled
from the Crimea. That would make McKay safe, if
only for a time, although I suppose Cyprienne would
soon devise some new and more diabolical scheme. If
I could only get on a little faster ! It is most annoying
about the horse. I will go straight to headquarters on
foot, taking the camp of the Naval Brigade on my

)■>

way.

There was wisdom in this last resolution. The

sailors' camp was the Crimean pound. All animals lost
or strayed, or, more exactly, stolen, if the truth is to be
told, found their way to it. Jack did a large business
in horseflesh. Often enough a man, having traced his
missing property, was obliged to buy it back for a few
shillings, or a glass or two of grog.

It was a general joke in the Crimea that the infantry
were better mounted than the cavalry, and that the
sailors had the pick of the infantry horses.

I suppose I must go to the sailors' camp, but it's
rather out of my road," said Hyde, as he trudged along
under the hot sun.

Many more fortunate comrades, all mounted, overtook
and passed him on the way. Each time he heard
the sound of hoofs his rage increased against the
dishonest rogue who had robbed him of his pony.

Like a lift, gunner ? " said a voice behind him.
a You shall have this tit chape. Half a sov., money
down."

Hyde turned, and saw a blue-jacket astride of the
missing pony.

11 Buy it, you rascal ! why it belongs to me ! Where
did you get it ? "

I found it, yer honour'

Stole it, you mean. G-et off this instant, or I'll
give you up to the provost ! " And, so saying, Hyde
put out his hand to seize the reins.

Avast heaving there, commodore," said Jack,
digging his heels into the horse, and lifting it cleverly

VOL. I. TJ

just out of Hyde's reach. " Who finds keeps. Pay
up, or you shan't have him. Why, I deserve a pound
for looking after the dumb baste."

Hyde looked around for help, but no one was insight.
He was not to be baulked, however, and made
a fresh attempt to get alongside the pony. But each
time the sailor forged a little ahead, and this tantalising
game continued for half-an-hour.

At last, disgusted and despairing, Hyde thought it
better to make terms. He was losing valuable time.

11 1 give in, you rogue ! Pull up, and you shall have
your money."

Honour bright, gunner ? "

Here it is," said Hyde, taking out the money.

It's a fair swap. Hand over the money."

No ; you give up the pony first."

I shan't. That's not my way of doing business."

You shall ! " cried Hyde, who had been edging up
towards the sailor, and now suddenly made a grab at
his leg.

He caught it, and held it with an iron grip. But
Jack was not disposed to yield quietly. With a loud
oath, he struck viciously at the pony's side with his
disengaged foot.

It was a lively little beast, and went off at once,
Hyde still clinging tenaciously to his prey.

But Jack was determined not to be beaten. With
one hand he tried to beat off Hyde, and with the other
incited the pony to increase its pace.

In the end Hyde was thrown to the ground, and
received two nasty kicks — one in the forehead, the
other in the breast — from the heels of the excited
horse.

The sailor got clear away, and our friend Hyde was
picked up senseless half-an-hour later by a passing
ambulance-cart, and carried back to camp.

END OF VOL. I.

WESTMINSTER :
PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,
25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

f

W. H. SMITH & SON'S

bUbOVj».VA LONDON,

NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO ANDBECE; ^

Fir TWO volumes, ,,,,-;.« .«-'-^^^^^^ 220

/or THREE volumes „ ^ 8 .- | ^^ °

For FOUR . " 1 ^^ J ;; | ^ o

For SIX " " •• ^ " "

For TWELVE „ " ■

THE iJiVIVEHSITV
or !LtlNai>

V.2.

i

for disciplinary action and may result
the University. ^

Lii O-1096

BY

ARTHUR Griffiths,

AUTHOR OP " THE CHRONICLES OP NEWGATE," " FAST AND LOOSE,"

ETC., ETC,

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL

Limited



[All Mights reserved.'\

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

Contents OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER III.

A rUKVEYOE.OF NEWS , • . • . • . • • • • <^0

CHAPTER IV.

IN WHITEHALL . 41

CHAPTER V.

MR. Faults TALKS 50

CHAPTER VI.

MARIQUITA's QUEST . 61

CHAPTER VII.

INSIDE THE FORTRESS 77

CHAPTER VIII.

FROM til: dead 86

CHAPTER IX.

PAGE
IN PARIS 96

CHAPTER X.

SUSPENSE 117

CHAPTER XI.

AMONG FRIENDS AGAIN 128

CHAPTER XII.
IN Lincoln's inn , 138

CHAPTER XIII.

HUSBAND AND WIFE . 146

CHAPTER XIV.

THE SCALES REMOVED 152

CHAPTER XV.
l'envoi 159

Blue BLOOD 165

CHAPTER I.

SECRET SERVICE.

McKay, on returning to the Crimea, had resumed this
duties at headquarters. He was complimented by Lord
Eaglan and General Airey on the manner in wliicli lie
had performed his mission.

Matters have improved considerably in the month
or two you were absent' said the latter to him one
day. " Thanks to the animals you got us, we have
been able to bring up sufficient shot and shell."

When is the new bombardment to take place, su' ? ^'

At once."

And the attack ? "

I cannot tell you. Some of the French generals
are altogether against assaulting the fortress. They
would prefer operations in the open field."

^' AVhat do they want, sir ?

VOL. II. B

fj

^' They would like to divide the whole allied forces
into three distinct armies : one to remain and guard
the trenches another to go round by sea, so as to cut
the Russian communications ; and the third, when this
is completed, to attack the Mckenzie heights, and get
in at the back of the fortress."

^^ It seems rather a wild plan, sirs'
I agree with you — wild and impossible."
Does the French commander-in-chief approve of
it, sir ? "

'^ General Canrobert does ; but I think we have
nearly seen the last of him. I expect any day to hear
that he has given up the command."
^' Who will succeed him, sir ? "

^^Pelissier, I believe — a very different sort of man,
as we shall see.''^

A few days later the change which has already been
referred to took place, and Marshal Pelissier came
over to the English headquarters to take part in a
council of war. All the principal general officers of
both armies were present, and so was McKay, whose
perfect acquaintance with French made him useful in
interpreting and facilitating the free interchange of
ideas.

The new French commander-in-chief was a prominent
figure at the council — a short, stout, hard-featured
man, brusque in movements and abrupt in
speech ; a man of much decision of character, one who
made up his mind quickly, was intolerant of all opposition

and doggedly determined to force his will upon
others.

When it came to the turn of the French generals to
speak one of them began a long protest against the
attack as too hazardous. Several others brought forward
pet schemes of their own for reducing the place.

"Enough ! " said Pelissier, peremptorily. "You are
not brought here to discuss whether or how we should
attack. That point is already settled by my lord and
myself."

He looked at Lord Raglan, who bowed assent.

"We have decided to attack the outworks on the
7th of the month."

But I dissent'' began General Bosquet.

Did you not hear me ? I tell you we have decided
to attack. You are only called together to arrange
how it can best be carried out.^^

I have a paper here in which I have argued out the
principles on which an attack should be conducted'
said another, General Noel, an engineer.

Ah ! '"' said Pelissier, " you gentlemen are very
clever — I admit your scientific knowledge — but when I
want your advice I will ask for it'

While this conversation was in progress, the English
officers present were whispering amongst themselves
with undisguised satisfaction at finding that the new
commander-in-chief of the French, unlike his predecessor,
was well able to keep his subordinates in order;

B 2

and, all useless discussion having been cub short, the
plan of attack was soon arranged.

Well' said Lord Eaglan, ^' it is all clear. We shall
begin by a heavy cannonade."

To last four-and-twenty-hours/^ said Pelissier, 'sand
then the assault."

'^ At what hour ? " asked Lord E-aglan.

'' Daylight, of course ! " cried two or three French
generals in a breath.

'^ One moment' interposed General Airey. " Daybreak
is the time of all others that the enemy would
expect an attack ; they would therefore be best prepared
for it then."

A sharp argument followed, and lasted several
minutes, each side clinging tenaciously to its own
opinion.

^^Do not waste your energies, gentlemen," said
Marshal Pelissier, again interfering decidedly. ^' Lord
Eaglan and I have settled that matter for ourselves.
The attack will take place at five o'clock in the afternoon.
That will allow time for us to get established in the
enemy's works in the night after we have carried them."

Of course, gentlemen," said Lord Raglan, in breaking
up the council, "you will all understand the importance
of secrecy. Not a word of what has passed here
must be repeated outside. It would be fatal to success
if the enemy got any inkling of our intentions."

It's quite extraordinary," said General Airey to

McKay and a few more;, as they passed out from the
council-clamber, " how the enemy gets his informations'


'^ Those newspaper correspondents, I suspect, are
responsible' said another general. ^' They let out
everything, and the news, directly it is printed, is
telegraphed to Russia."

That does not entirely explain it. They must be
always several weeks behind. I am referring more
particularly to what happens at the moment. Everything
appears to be immediately known. '

Why, only the other day a Russian spy walked
coolly through our second parallels' said a French officer,
^^ and counted the number of the guns. He passed
himself off as an English traveller."

'^ Great impudence, but great pluck. I wish we had
men who would do the same. That's what I complain
of. We want a better organised secret service, and
men like Wellington's famous Captain Grant in the
Peninsular War, bold, adroit, and quick-witted, ready
to run any risks, but bound to get information in the
long run. I wish I could lay my hands on a few
Captain Grants."

McKay smarted under the sting of these reproaches,
feeling they applied, although scarcely so intended, to
him. But there was no man, after all, on the headquarter
staff better fitted to remove them. With his
enterprising spirit and intimate acquaintance with many

tongues he ought to be able to secure information that
would be useful to his chiefs.

Full of this idea he rode down that afternoon to
Balaclava the centre of all the rascaldom that had
gathered around the base of the Crimean army. He
was in search of agents whom he could employ as
emissaries into the enemy's lines.

Putting up his horse he mixed amongst the motley
crowd that thronged the ^'sutlers' town," as it was
called, which had sprung up half-a-mile outside Balaclava,
to accommodate the swarms of strangers who,
under the strict rule of Colonel Harding, had been
expelled from the port itself.

The place was like a fair — a jumble of huts and
shanties and ragged canvas tents, with narrow, irregular
lanes between them, in which the polyglot traders
bought and sold. Here were grave Armenians, scampish
Greeks from the Levant, wild-eyed Bedouins,
Tartars from Asia Minor, evil-visaged Italians, scowling
Spaniards, hoarse-voiced, slouching Whitechapel ruffians,
with a well-developed talent for dealing in stolen
goods.

As McKay stood watching the curious scene, and
replying rather curtly to the eager salesmen, who
pestered him perpetually to buy anything and everything
— food, saddlery, pocket-knives, horse-shoes, firearms,
and swords — he became conscious of a stir and
flutter among the crowd. It presently became strangely

silent, and parted obsequiously, to give passage to
some great personage who approached.

This was Major Shervinton, the provost-marshal,
supreme master and autocrat of all camp-followers,
whom he ruled with an iron hand. Close behind him
came two sturdy assistants — men who had once been
drummers, and were specially selected in an army where
flogging was the chief punishment for their prowess
with the cat-o'-nine-tales.

Woe to the sutler, whatever his rank or nation, who
fell foul of the terrible provost ! Summary arrest, the
briefest trial, and a sharp sentence peremptorily
executed, in the shape of four dozen, was the certain
treatment of all who offended against martial law.

"Hullo, McKay!" cried Shervinton, a big, burly,
pleasant-faced man, whose cheery manner was in curious
contrast with his formidable functions. " What brings
a swell from headquarters into this den of iniquity ?
Lost your servant, or looking out for one ? Don't
engage any one without asking me. They are an
abominable lot, and deserve to be hanged, all of them."

*^ You are the very fellow to help me, Shervinton,"
and McKay, taking the provost-marshal aside, told him
his errand.

I firmly believe every second man here is a spy, or
would be if he had the pluck."

Are any of them, do you think, in communication
with the Russians ? "

Lots. They come and go through the lines, I

believe, as they pleases

I wish I could find a few fellows of this sort."

^^ Perhaps I can put you in the way ; only I doubt

whether you can trust to a single word that they will tell

you."

But where shall we come upon them ? "

^^ The best plan will be to consult Valetta Joe, the
Maltese baker at the end of the lines. I have always
suspected him of being a Russian spy ; but I dare say
we could buy him over if you want him. If he tries to
play us false we will hang him the same day."

Valetta Joe was in his bread-store— a small shed
communicating with the dark, dirty, semi-subterranean
cellar behind, in which the dough was kneaded and
baked. The shed was encumbered with barrels of
inferior flour, and all around upon shelves lay the small
short rolls, dark-looking and sour-tasting, which were
sold in the camp for a shilling a piece.

"Well, Joe, what's the news from Sebastopol today
? " asked Shervinton.

'' Why you ask me, sare ? I a poor Maltese baker —
sell bread, make money. Have nothing to do with
fight."

You rascal ! You know you're in league with the
Russians. I have had my eye on you this long time.
Some of these days we'll be down upon you like a cartload
of bricks."

'' You a very hard man, Major Sliervinton, sare —
very unkind to poor Joe. I offer you bread every day
for nothing ; you say No. Why not take Joe's bread ? ^'

"Because Joe's a scoundrel to offer it. Do you
suppose I am to be bribed in that way ? But here :
I tell you what we are after. This gentleman' pointing
to McKay, " wants news from the other side."

Why you come to me ? I nothing to do with other
side."

You can help him, you know that, and you mus ;
or we will bundle you out of this and send you back to
Constantinople""

The provost-marshal's manner was not to be mistaken.
^

What can I do, sare ? "

Find out some one who can pass through the lines
and bring or send him to my friend."

'^ Who is this gentleman ? "

He is one of Lord Raglan's staff ; his name is
Mr. McKay."

A close observer would have seen that the baker
started slightly at the name and that he bent an eager,
inquisitive look upon McKay.

Will the gentleman give promise to do no harm tome
or my people ? '^

So long as you behave properly, — yes."

*' I think I know some one, then."

*^ Produce him at once."

He not here to-day ; out selling bread. Where he

find you, sare, tomorrow, or any time lie have anything
to tell ? "

'' Let him come to the headquarters and ask for my
tents said McKay. " There is my name on a piece of
paper ; if he shows that to the sentry they will let him
through'

'' Very good, sare ; you wait and see."

'^ No humbug, mind, Joe ; or I'll be down on you ! '^
added the provost-marshal. " Is that all you want,
McKay ? "

Our hero expressed himself quite satisfied, and, with
many thanks to the provost-marshal, he remounted and
rode away.

CHAPTER II.

AMONG THE COSSACKS. •

McKay was in his tent next morning finishing dressing
when his servant brought him a piece of crumpled
paper and said there was a messenger waiting to see
him. The paper was the pass given the day before to
Valetta Joe ; its bearer was a nondescript-looking
ruj0&an, in a long shaggy cloak of camels hair, whose
open throat and bare legs hinted at a great scantiness of
wardrobe beneath. He wore an old red fez, stained
purple, on the back of his bullet-head ; he had a red,
freckled face, red eyebrows, red eyes, red hair, and a
pointed red beard, both of which were very ragged and
unkempt.

Have you got anything to tell me ? " asked McKay,
sharply, in English ; and when the other shook his head

lie tried him in French, Spanish, and last of all in
Italian.

'^ News/^ replied the visitor at length, laconically ;
^' ten dollars'

McKay put the money in his hand and was told
briefly —

To morrow — sortie — Woronzoff Roads

And this was all the fellow would say.

McKay passed on this information to his chief, but
rather doubtfully, declining to vouch for it, or say
whence it had come.

It was felt, however, that no harm could be done in
accepting the news as true and preparing for a Russian
attack. The event proved the wisdom of this course.
The sortie was made next night. A Russian column of
considerable strength advanced some distance along the
Woronzoff Road, but finding the English on the alert
immediately retired.

The next piece of information that reached McKay
from the same source, but by a different messenger, was
more readily credited. He learnt this time that the
Russians intended to establish a new kind of battery in
front of the Karabel suburb.

'' What kind ? " asked McKay.

The messenger, a hungry-looking Tartar who spoke
broken English, but when encouraged explained himself
freely in Russian, said —

Big guns; they sink one end deep into the ground,
the other point very high.'^

'^ I understand. They want to give great elevation,

so as to increase the range. '^

«

'eyes, you see. They will reach right into your
camps

Again the information proved correct. Within a
couple of days the camps of the Third and Fourth
Divisions, hitherto deemed safe from the fire of the
fortress, were disturbed by the whistling of roundshot
in their midst. The fact was reported in due course to
headquarters. *

You see, sir, it is just what I was told," said McKay
to General Airey.

Upon my word, you deserve great credit. You
seem to have organised an intelligence department of
your own, and, what is more to the purpose, your
fellow seems always right."

McKay was greatly gratified at this encouragement,
and eager to be still more useful. He visited the
Maltese baker again, and urged him to continue supplying
him with news.

Trust to Joe. Wait one little bit ; you know plenty
more."

Several days passed, however, without any fresh
news. Then a new messenger came, another Tartar, a
very old man with a flowing grey beard, wearing a
long caftan like a dressing-gown to his heels, and an
enormous sheepskin cap that came far down over his
eyes, and almost hid his face. He seemed very decrepit,
and was excessively stupid, probably from old

age. He looked terribly frightened when brought to
McKay's tent stooping this shoulders and hanging his
head in the cowering, deprecating attitude of one who
expects but would not dare to ward o&, a blow.

He was tongue-tied for he made no attempt to
speak, but merely thrust forward one hand, making
a deep obeisance with the other. There was a scrap of
paper in the extended hand, which McKay took and
opened curiously. A few lines in Italian were scrawled
on it.

'' The Russians are collecting large forces beyond
the Tchernaya," ran the message. "Expect a new
attack on that side.''^

Who gave you this ? ^^ asked McKay, in Russian.

The old fellow bowed low, but made no answer.

He repeated the question in Italian and every other
language of which he was master, but obtained no reply.
The man remained stupidly, idiotically dumb, only
grovelling lower and more abjectly each time.

"What an old jackass he is ! I shall get nothing
out of him, I'm afraid. But it won't do to despise the
message, wherever it comes from. Take him outsides''
he said to his orderly, " while I go and see the
general."

You have no idea where this news comes from ? "
was General Airey's first inquiry.

The same source, I don't doubt ; but of course I
can't vouch for its accuracy."

^^ It might be very important," the general was

musing. " I am not sure whether you know what we
contemplate in these next few days ? "

^^ In the direction of the Tchernaya, sir ? ^^

Precisely. Now that the Sardinian troops have all
arrived, Lord Eaglan thinks we are strong enough to
extend our position as far as the river."

'^ I had heard nothing of it, sir ? "

^^ If this news be true, the Russians appear to be
better informed than you are, McKay."

^^ And are preparing to oppose our movement ? '^

^^ That's just what I should like to know, and what
gives so much importance to these tidings. T only wish
we could verify them. Where is your messenger ?
Who is he ? " •

A half-witted old Tartar ; you will get nothing out
of him, sir. I have been trying hard this half-hour."

But you know where the news comes from. Could
you not follow it up to its source ? "

I will do so at once, sir ;" and within half-an-hour
McKay was in his saddle, riding down to Balaclava.

Valetta Joe was in his shop, distributing a batch of
newly-baked bread to a number of itinerant vendors,
each bound to retail the loaves in the various camps.

McKay waited until the place was clear, then accosted
the baker sharply.

^^ What was the good of your sending that old
numbskull to me ? "

He give you letter. You not understand ? "

Yes, yes, I understand ; but I want to be certain
it is true'

'^ When Joe tell lies ? You believe Mm before ; if
you like, believe him against

But can't you tell me more about it ? How many
troops have the Russians collected ? Since when ?
What do they mean to do ? "

'^ You ask Kussian general, not me ; I only know
what I hear'

But it would be possible to tell, from the position
of the enemy, something of their intentions. I could
directly if I saw them'

^' Then why you not go and look for yourself ? "
asked Joe, carelessly; but there was a glitter in his
eyes which gave a deep meaning to the simple
question.

<' Why not ? " said McKay, whom the look had escaped.
" It is well worth the risk."

^^ I'll help you, if you like," went on Joe, with the
same outwardly unconcerned manner.

'' Can you ? How ? "

Very easy to pass lines. You put on Tartar clothes
same as that old man go to you to-day. He live near
Tchorgaun ; he take you right into middle of Kussian

camp."

When can he start ? " asked McKay eagerly,
accepting without hesitation all the risks of this
perilous undertaking.

c<

To-night, if you choose. Come down here by-and-by
; I have everything ready."

McKay agreed, and returned to headquarters in all
haste, where he sought out his chief and confided to
him his intentions.

You are really prepared to penetrate the enemy's
lines ? It will be a daring, dangerous job, McKay. I
should be wrong to encourage you."

It is of vital importance, you say, that we should
really know what the enemy is doing beyond the
Tchernaya. I am quite ready to go, sir."

'' Lord Raglan — all of us — indeed, will be greatly
indebted to you if you can find out. But I do not like
this idea of the disguise, McKay. You ought not to
go under false colours."

I should probably learn more."

Yes ; but do you know what your fate would be if
you were discovered ? "

''I suppose I should be hanged, sir," said McKay,
simply.

Hanged or shot. Spies — every one out of uniform
is a spy — get a very short shrift at an enemy ^s hand.
No ; you must stick to your legitimate dress. I am
sure Lord Raglan would allow you to go under no other
conditions''

^^ As you wish, sir. Only I fear I should not be so
useful as if I were disguised."

It is my order," said the general, briefly ; and after
that there was nothing more to be said.
VOL. II. C

McKay spent the rest of the afternoon at his usual
duties, and towards evening, having carefully reloaded
his revolver, and filled his pockets with Russian rouble
notes, which he obtained on purpose from the military
chest, he mounted a tough little Tartar pony, used
generally by his servant, and trotted down to the hut-town.


Valetta Joe heard with marked disapprobation
McKay's intention of carrying out his enterprise without
assuming disguise.

'^ You better stay at home : not go very far like that's
'^ Lend me a gregg to throw over my coat, and a
sheep-skin cap, and I shall easily pass the Cossack
sentries. Where is my guide ? ''

Selim — Fee ! " shouted Joe, and the old gentleman
who had visited McKay that morning came ambling
up from the cellar below.

Is that old idiot to go with me ? Why, he speaks
no known tongue ! " cried McKay.

'' Only Tartar. You know no Tartar ? Well, he
understand the stick. Show it him — so," and Joe made
a motion of striking the old man, who bent submissively
to receive the blow.

'' Does he know where he is to take me ? What weare
going to do ? "

^' All right. You trust him : he take you past cossacks'"
Joe muttered a few unintelligible instructions
to the guide, who received them with deep respect,
making a low bow, first to Joe and then to McKay.

I give him gregg and cap : you put them on when
you like."

McKay knew that he could only pass the British
sentries openly, showing his uniform as a staff officer,
so he made the guide carry the clothes, and the two
pressed forward together through Kadikoi, towards the
formidable line of works that now covered Balaclava.

He skirted the flank of one of the redoubts, and,
passing beyond the entrenchments, came at length to
our most advanced posts, a line of cavalry vedettes,
stationed at a considerable distance apart.

I am one of the headquarter staffs he said, briefly,
to the sergeant commanding the picket, " and have to
make a short reconnaissance towards Samara. You
understand ? "

'^ Are we to support you, sir ? "

'' No ; but look out for my coming back. It may not
be till daybreak, but it will be as well, perhaps, to tell
your men who I am, and to expect me. I don't want
to be shot on re-entering our own lines."

'^ Never fear, sir, so long as we know. I will tell the
officer, and make it all right."

McKay now rode slowly on, his guide at his horse's
head. They kept in the valleys, already, as night was now
advancing, deep in shade, and their figures, which could
have been clearly made out against the sky if on the
upper slopes, were nearly invisible on the lower ground.

It was a splendid summer's evening, perfectly still
and peaceful, with no sounds abroad but the ceaseless

c 2

>

chirp of innumerable grasshoppers and the faint hum
of buzzing insects ever on the wing. Only at intervals
were strange sounds wafted on the breeze and told
their own story ; the distant blare of trumpets, and the
occasional ^' thud '^ of heavy cannon, gun answering
gun between besiegers and besieged. As they fared
along, McKay once or twice inquired, more by gesture
than by voice, how far they had to go.

Each time the guide replied by a single word — ■
Cossack " — spoken almost in a whisper, and following
by his placing finger on lip.

Half-a-mile further, the guide motioned to McKay
to dismount and leave his horse, repeating the caution
Cossack ! " in the same low tone of voice.

McKay, who had now put on the gregg and sheepskin
cap, did as he was asked, and the two crept forward
together, having left the horse tethered to a bush, the
guide explaining by signs that they would presently
come back to it.

A little farther and he placed his hand upon McKay's
arms, with a motion to halt.

H — sh ! '^ said the old man, using a sound which
has the same meaning in all tongues, and held up a
finger.

McKay listened attentively, and heard voices approaching
them. Instinctively he drew his revolver
and waited events. The voices grew plainer and
plainer, then gradually faded away.

^^ Cossack!" repeated the guide, and McKay gathered

that these were a couple of Cossack sentries, from
whose clutches he had narrowly escaped.

Again our hero was urged forward, and this time
with all speed. The guide ran, followed by McKay,
for a couple of hundred yards, then halted suddenly.
What next ? He had thrown himself on the ground,
and seemed closely examining it ; in this attitude he
crept forward cautiously.

The movement was presently explained. A slight
splash told of water encountered. He had been in
search of the river, and had found it. This was the
Tchernaya — a slow sluggish stream, hidden amidst long
marshy grass, and everywhere fordable, as McKay had
heard, at this season of the year.

The guide now stood up and pointed to the river,
motioning McKay to enter it and cross.

Our hero stepped in boldly, and in all good faith,
expecting his guide to follow. But he was halfway
towards the other bank, and still the old man had
made no move.

Why this hesitation ?

McKay beckoned to him to come on. The guide
advanced a step or two, then halted irresolute.

McKay grew impatient, and repeated his motion
more peremptorily. The guide advanced another step
and again halted. He seemed to suffer from an
invincible dislike to cold water. •

Is he a cur or a traitor ? " McKay asked himself,

and drew his revolver to quicken the old man's movements
whichever lie was.

The sight of the weapon seemed to throw the guide
into a paroxysm of fear. He fell flat on the ground,
and obstinately refused to move.

All this time McKay was in the river, up to his
knees, a position not particularly comfortable. Besides,
valuable time was being wasted — the night was not too
long for what he had to do. Hastily regaining the
bank, he rejoined the guide where he lay, and kicked
him till he stood erect.

You old scoundrel ! " cried McKay, putting his
revolver to his head. " Come on ! do you understand ?
Come on, or you are a dead man ! ''

The gesture was threatening, not that McKay had
any thought of firing. He knew a pistol-shot would
raise a general alarm. Still the old man, although
trembling in every limb, would not move.

'^ Come on ! " repeated McKay, and with the idea
of dragging him forward he seized him fiercely by the
beard.

To his intense surprise, it came off in his hand.

'^ Cursed Englishman ! '^ cried a voice with which he
was perfectly familiar, and in Spanish. "You are at
my mercy now. You dare not fire ; your life is forfeited.
The enemy is all around you. I have betrayed
you into their hands""

Benito ! Can it be possible ? " But McKay did

not suffer his astonishment to interfere with his just
revenge.

On your knees, dog ! Say your prayers. I will
shoot you first, whatever happens to me."

You are too late ! " cried Benito, wrenching himself
from his grasp, and whistling shrilly as he ran
away.

McKay fired three shots at him in succession, one of
which must have told, for the scoundrel gave a great
yell of pain.

The next instant McKay was surrounded by a mob
of Cossacks and quickly made prisoner.

They had evidently been waiting for him, and the
whole enterprise was a piece of premeditated treachery,
as boldly executed as it had been craftily planned.

McKay^s captors having searched his pockets with the
nimbleness of London thieves, and deprived him of
money, watch, and all his possessions, proceeded to
handle him very roughly. He had fought and
struggled desperately, but was easily overpowered.
They were twenty to one, and their wild blood was
aroused by his resistance. He was beaten, badly
mauled, and thrown to the ground, where a number of
them held him hand and foot, whilst others produced
ropes to bind him fast. The brutal indignities to
which he was subjected made McKay wild with rage.
He addressed them in their own language, protesting
vainly against such shameful ill-usage.

Hounds ! Miscreants ! Sons of burnt mothers !

Do you dare to treat an English officer thus ? Take
me before your superior. Is there no one here in
authority ? I claim his protection''

Which you don't deserve, scurvy rogue' said a
quiet voice. " You are no officer — only a vile, disreputable
spy."

^' I can prove to you "

Bah ! how well you speak Russian. We know all
about you ; we expected you. But enough : we must
be going on.^"*

^' I don't know who you may be/^ began McKay,
hotly, " but I shall complain of you to your superior
officer""

Silence ! " replied the other, haughtily. '^ Have I
not told you to hold your tongue ? Fill his mouth with
clay, some of you, and bring* him along."

This fresh outrage nearly maddened McKay.

^^ You shall carry me, then," he spluttered out, from
where he still lay upon the ground.

Ah ! well see. Get up , will you ! Prick him with
the point of your lance, Ivanovich. Come, move yourself,"
added the officer, as McKay slowly yielded to
this painful persuasion ^' move yourself, or you shall
feel this," and the officer cracked the long lash of his
riding-whip.

^^ You shall answer for this barbarity," said McKay
I demand to be taken before the General at once."

^' You shall see him, never fear, sooner than you
might wish, perhaps."

jf

'' Take me at once before him ; I am not afraid.'

You will wait till it suits us, dog ; meanwhile, lie
there."

They had reached a rough shelter built of mud and
long reeds. It was the picket-house, the headquarters
of the troop of Cossacks, and a number of them were
lying and hanging about, their horses tethered close
by.

The officer pointed to a corner of the hut, and,
giving peremptory instructions to a couple of sentries
to watch the prisoner, for whom they would have to
answer with their lives, he disappeared.

Greatly dejected and cast down at the failure of his
enterprise, and in acute physical pain from his recent
ill-usage and the tightness of his bonds, McKay passed
the rest of the night very miserably.

Dawn came at length, but with it no relief. On the
contrary, daylight aggravated his sufferings. He could
see now the cruel scowling* visages of his captors, and
the indescribable filth and squalor of the den in which
he lay.

Get up ! '^ cried a voice ; but McKay was too much
dazed and distracted by all he had endured to understand
that the command was addressed to him.

It was repeated more arrogantly, and accompanied
by a brutal kick.

He rose slowly and reluctantly, and asked in a sullen
voice —

Where are you taking me ? ^'

^' Before his Excellency. Step out, or must we prick
you along ? "

A marli of half-an-liour under a strong escort
brought them to a large camp. They passed through
many lines of tents, and halted presently before a
smart marquee.

The Cossack officer in charge entered it , and presently
returned with the order —

'^ March him in ! ^^

McKay found himself in the presence of a broadly-built,
middle-aged man, in the long grey great-coat
worn by all ranks of the Russian army, from highest
to lowest, and the flat, circular-topped cap carried also
by all. There was nothing to indicate the rank of this
personage but a small silver ornament on each shoulder-strap,
and another in the centre of the cap. At a
button-hole on his breast, however, was a small parti-coloured
rosette, the simple record of orders and
insignia too precious to carry in the field.

There was unbounded arrogance and contempt in his
voice and manner as he addressed the prisoner, who
might have been the vilest of created things.

So '^ — he spoke in French, like most well-educated
Russians of that day, to show their aristocratic superiority
— ^^you have dared, wretch, to thrust yourself
into the bear's mouth ! You shall be hanged in half-an-hour."


^' I claim to be treated as a prisoner of war,^^ said
McKay, boldly.

^^ You ! impudent rogue ! A low camp-follower ! A
sneaking, skulking spy — taken in the very act ! You ! "

'' I am a British officer ! '' went on McKay, stoutly.
He was not to be browbeaten or abashed.

where is your uniform ? "

^' Here ! '' replied McKay, throwing open the gregg,
which he still wore, and showing the red waistcoat
beneath, and the black breeches with their broad red
stripe.

^* You said he was a civilian in Tartar disguise'
said the general, — for such was the officer's rank, —
turning to one of his staff and seeming rather staggered
at McKay's announcement. He spoke in Russian.,

'take care, Excellency; the prisoner speaks Russian."



'' Is that so ? " said the general to McKay. '' An
unusual accomplishment that, in English officers, I
expected''

Yes, I am acquainted with Russian' said McKay.
Why should he deny it ? They had heard him use that
language at the time of his capture.

How and when did you learn it ? ^'

'' I do not choose to say. What (Sin that matter ? "

Again the staff-officer interposed and whispered something
in the generals ear.

Of course ; I had forgotten." Then, turning to
McKay, he went on : '' What is your name ? "

'' McKay."

'^ Your Christian names in full ? "

'^ Stanislas Anastasius Wilderss Mckay'
^^ Exactly. Stanislas Alexandrovich McKay. I knew
your father when he was a captain in the Polish
Lancers ; was he not ? ''
'^ I cannot deny it."

He was a Russian, in the service of our holy Czar,
and you, his son, are a Russian too''

It is false ! I am an Englishman. I have never
yielded allegiance to the Czar."

'^^You will find it hard to evade your responsibility.

It is not to be put on or off like a coat. You were born

a Russian subject, and a Russian subject you remain ! "

^' I bear a commission in the army of the British

Queen. I dare you to treat me as a Russian now V

We will treat you as v/e find you, Mr. McKay : as
an interloper disguised for an improper purpose within
our lines''

*^ What shall you do with me ?" asked McKay, in a
firm voice, bit with a sinking heart.

Hang you like a dog to the nearest tree. Or, stay !
out of respect for your father, whom I knew, and if you
prefer it, you shall be shot."

I am in your power. But I warn you that, if you
execute me, the merciless act will be remembered
throughout Europe as an eternal disgrace to the Russian

arms."

This bold speech was not without its effect. The
general consulted with his staff, and a rather animated
discussion followed, at the end of which he said —

'^ I am not to be deterred by any such threats : still,
it will be better to refer your case to my superiors. I
shall send you into Sebastopol, to be dealt with as
Prince Gortschakoff may think fit, only do not expect
more at his hands than at mine. Rope or rifle — one of
them will be your fate. See he is sent off, Colonel
Golopine, will you ? And now take him away."

McKay was marched out of the marquee, still under
the escort of Cossacks. But outside he was presently
handed over to a fresh party; they brought up a shaggy
pony — it might have been the fellow of the one he had
left behind the previous night — and curtly bade him
mount. When, with hands still tied, he scrambled with
difficulty into his saddle, they tied his legs together by
a long rope under the pony's belly, and, placing him in
the centre of the escort, they started off at a jog-trot in
the direction of the town.

CHAPTER m.

A PURVEYOR OF NEWS.

Mr. Hobson gave Ms address at Duke Street, St.
James's, a lodging-louse frequented by gentlemen from
the neighbouring clubs. But lie was never there except
asleep. There was nothing strange in this, as none of
the occupants of the house were much there, except at
night-time — they lived at their clubs.

So, for all the landlady knew, did Mr. Hobson. But
we know better. He had no club, and his daily absence
from breakfast — simply a cup of coffee and a roll, which
he took in the French fashion, early — till late at night
was to be accounted for by his constant presence at his
office or place of business, although it was both and
neither. This was in a little street off Bloomsbury, the
first floor over a newspaper shop.

Mr. Hobson passed here as an agent for a country

paper. It was supposed to be his business to collect
and transmit news to his principals at a large seaport
town on the East Coast. These were days before the
present development of newspaper enterprise, when
leading provincial journals have their own London offices
and a private wire. Mr. Hobson's principles were very
liberal according to the idea of that time ; they seemed
to grudge no expense with regard to the transmission of
news.

Telegrams were costly things in those days, but Mr.
Hobson sometimes sent off half-a-dozen in the course
of a morning. He was served too, and exceedingly
well, by special agents of his own, who came to him at
all hours — in cabs driven recklessly, or on foot in a
stealthy, apologetic way, as though doubtful whether
the news they brought would be acceptable.

The office upstairs bore out the notion of the news-agency.
Its chief furniture consisted of two long,
sloping tables, on which lay files of daily papers.
There was one big book-case handy near the fireplace,
and over the desk at which Mr. Hobson sat. On the
shelves of this were ranged a couple of dozen volumes,
each bearing a label on which were various letters and
numerals.

On the desk itself were the usual writing appliances,
a large pair of scissors, and a wide-mouthed bottle of
gum.

Let us look in at Mr. Hobson on his first arrival at
his office, soon after eight o'clock.

His first business was to ring his bell, wbicli communicated
with the shop below.

My papers ! It is past eights

*' Here they are, sir, the whole lot — Times, stiver,
Morning Chronicle, and Morning Post."

*' Why do you oblige me to ask for them ? Canst you
bring them as I have told you ? It makes me so late
with my work." And, having delivered himself of
these testy remarks, he threw himself into an armchair
and proceeded to devour the morning's news.

'^ Nothing fresh from the East ? " As he now talked
to himself, this smooth-shaven, typical Englishman
spoke, strange to say, in French. " Have Messieurs
the correspondents no news ? No letter in the Post ?
None in the Morning Chronicle ? How disappointing !
Ha ! what's this ? Two columns in the Times. How
admirably that excellent paper is served ! Lets see
what it says."

He hastily ran his eye down the columns, muttering
to himself : " Ha ! mostly strong language — finding
fault. How kind of you to be dissatisfied with the
administration, and to tell us why. The siege practically
suspended, eh ? Fuses won't fit the shells — so
much the better, then the mortars can't fire.

'' But that's no news : my friends and good masters
will have found that out for themselves. Anything
else ? ' Our new battery, which is only seven hundred
yards from the enemy's guns, is nearly completed.'

Which battery does he mean ? Has he referred to it
before ? "

And Mr. Hobson as we shall still call him got up
from his seat and took a volume down from the shelf.
It was labelled " T. 14, M. 55.^^ These expressions expanded
meant that it contained extracts from the Times,
the 14th volume, for May, 1855.

After referring to an alphabetical index, he quickly
turned over the leaves of the book till he found a certain
page.

^^ Ah ! here it is," he said. " ^ We have commenced
another battery just in front of the quarries, the
nearest to the enemy's works. It will be armed with
the heaviest ordnance,' &c. &c. And now it is nearly
ready. That must be passed on without delay."*^

Mr. Hobson turned to his desk and indited a telegram.
It was addressed to Arrowsmith, Hull, and
said —

'^ New shop, as already indicated, will be opened at
once. Let our Gothenburg correspondent know."

^' I will take it over myself. But let me first see
whether there is anything to adds*

He resumed his reading, and presently came to the
following passage : —

^' ' Lord Lyons had just returned from a cruise in the
Black Sea. This confirms my impression that some
new movement is contemplated. Regiments have been
placed under orders, and there is great stir among the
fleet. A secret expedition is on the point of being

VOL. II. D

despatched somewhere, but the real destination no one
as yet knows. Camp-gossip is, of course busy ; but I
will not repeat the idle and misleading rumours that
are on every lips

^^ Another expedition planned ! I must know more
of this. Where can it be going ? Is it meant for the
Sea of Azof and Kertch, like the last, which alarmed
us so, and never got so far ?

^' What a business that was ! We heard of it long
beforehand ; preparations for transport, and the embarkation
of the troops. The fleet left Kamiesch,
steering northward, past Sebastopol, and we thought
the latter would be attacked. But lo ! next morning
the enemy were not in sight ; the fleet had returned to
Kamiesch Bay. What did it mean ? It was weeks
before I learnt the right story, and then it came from
Paris. General Canrobert had changed his mind. The
Emperor had told him not to send away any troops, but
to keep all concentrated before Sebastopol. So the
expedition to Kertch — for it was directed against
Kertch, and the northward move was only intended to
deceive us — all ended in smoke. Can they be going
again to Kertch ? It is hardly likely. They have some
deeper designs, I feel sure. This would tally with my
latest advice. Let me read once more what the Prince
says."

He took a key from his pocket, opened his desk, and
unlocked an inner receptacle, from which he took a
letter in cypher.

^' ^ We have learnt lie read, fluently, without using
any key, ^ that the enemy contemplate a great change
in their plan of operations. It is reported that they
propose to raise the siege, or at least reduce it to a
mere blockade. The great bulk of the allied army
would then be transferred to sea to another point where
it would take the field against our line of communications.
It is essential that we should know at the
earliest date whether there is any foundation in this
report. Use every endeavour to this end.'

'eyes; there can be no doubt that this surmise is
corroborated by the latest news. But I must have
more precise and correct information without delay.
How is it to be obtained ? Which of my agents can
help me best ? Lavitsky ? He works in Woolwich
Arsenal — he might know if more wheeled transport
had been ordered. Or Bauer, at Portsmouth — he

would know of any movements in the fleet. Or

Of courses'' and he slapped his forehead, despising
his own stupidity. " Cyprienne- — she can, and must,
manage this."

He proceeded to put back the papers into the secret
drawer; he replaced the volume on the shelf, and,
taking the telegram he had written in his hand, left
the office, carefully locking the door behind him.

Hailing a cab, he was driven first to a telegraph-station,
where he sent off his despatch, only adding the
words : —

Other important transactions in the shipping ind

2

terest will shortly be undertaken ; more precise details
will speedily follow."

Then he directed the cabman to drive to Thistle
Grove, Crompton.

Is Mrs. Wilderss visible yet? " he asked the servant,
on reaching her house.

'^ Madame does not receive so early replied the
man, a foreigner, speaking broken English, who was
new to the establishment, and had never seen Mr.
Hobson before.

Take in my name!" said Mr. Hobson, peremptorily.
"It is urgent, say. I must see her at once."

I will tell madame's maid."

Do so, and look sharp about it. Don't trouble
about me — be off and tell the maid. I know my way; "
and Mr. Hobson marched himself into the morning-room.


This room, in the forenoon, was on the shady side of
the house — it looked on to a pretty garden, a small,
level lawn of intensely green grass, jewelled with
flowers. The windows, reaching to the ground, were
wide open, and near one was drawn a small round
table, on which was set a dainty breakfast-service of
pink-and white china, glistening plate, and crimson
roses, standing out in pleasant relief upon the snowy
damask.

'^ Beyond question, madame has a knack of making
herself comfortable. I have seldom seen a cosier retreat
on a broiling summers day, and in this dusty.

dirty town. She lias not breakfasted yet, nor, except
for my cup of coffee, have I. I will do myself the
pleasure of joining her. A cutlet and a glass of cool
claret will suit me admirably just now, and we can talk
as we eat.^^

While he stood there, admiring cynically, Mrs.
Wilderss came in.

She was in a loose morning wrapper of pale pink,
and had seemingly taken little trouble with her day's
toilette as yet. Her neglige dress hinted at hurry in
leaving her room, and she addressed her visitor in a
hasty, impatient way.

^' What is this so urgent that you come intruding at
such an unseemly hour ? '^ ^

'' You grow indolent, my dear madame. Why, it is
half-past eleven''

"I have not yet breakfasted."

^' So I see. I am delighted. No more have I.""

^' Was it to ask yourself to breakfast that you came
here this morning ? "

'' Not entirely ; another little matter brought me ;
but we can deal with the two at the same time. Pray
order them to serve : I am excessively hungry."

Mrs. Wilderss, without answering, pettishly pulled
the bell.

^' Lay another cover," she told the man, '^ and bring
wine with the breakfast. You will want it, I suppose,"
she said to her guest y ^'1 never touch it in the

morning."

^' How charmingly you manage ! You have a special
gift as a housewife. What a delightful meal ! I have
seen nothing more refined in Paris."

There was a delicious lobster-salad, a dish of cold
cutlets and jelly, and a great heap of strawberries with
cream.

'^^JSTow get to business"* said Mrs. Wilderss, in a
snarling, ill-tempered way; ^Het^s have it out.'^

'^ It's a pity you are out of humour this morning,"
observed Mr. Hobson, with a provoking forbearance.
I have come to find fault."

Mrs. Wilderss shrugged her shoulders, implying that
she did not care.

It may seem ungracious, but I must take you to
task seriously. How is it you give me no news ? "

I tell you all I hear ; what more do you want ? "

^f A great deal. Look here, Cyprienne, I am not to
be put off with stale, second-hand gossip — the echoes of
the Clubs ; vague, empty rumours that are on everybody's
tongue long before they come to me. I must
have fresh, brand-new intelligence, straight from the
fountain-head. You must get it for me, or "

The old frightened look which we have seen on Mrs.
Wilderss' s face before when brought into antagonism
with this man returned to it, and her voice was less
firm, her manner less defiant, as she said —

Spare me your threats. You know I am most
anxious to oblige you — to help you."

*^ You have put me off too long with these vague

promises. I must have something more tangible at
once."

*sit is so difficult to find out anything."

'^ Not if you go the right way to work. A woman of
your attractions, your cleverness, ought to be able to
twist any man round her finger. You have done it
often enough already, goodness knows. Now, there's
old Faulks; when did you see him last ?"

Not a week ago."

And you got nothing out of him ? I thought he
was devoted to you."

He is most attentive, most obliging, but still exceedingly
wary. He will talk about anything rather than
business. I have tried him repeatedly. I have introduced
the subject of his nephew, of whom ho is now so
proud."

^' Your enemy, you mean — that young McKay. '

'^ Exactly. I thought that by bringing the conversation
to the Crimea I might squeeze out something important.
Bnt no ! he is always as close as an oyster."

He will be ready enough to talk about his dear
nephew before long. You may look out for some
startling news about McKay."

'^ Really ? " said Mrs. Wilder s, growing suddenly
excited. " Your plan has succeeded, then ? "

^^ Any day you may hear that he has been removed
effectually, and for ever, from your path. But for the
moment that will keep. What presses is that you
should squeeze old Faulks. There is something that I

must know to-day, or tomorrow at latest. You must
go and see him at once''

'' At his office ? "

'' Why not ? ''

But on what pretence ? I have never been there
as yet. He has always come here to lunch or dine.
He is fond of a good dinner."

^^ Ask him again."

But I could do that by letter. He may suspect me
if I go to him without some plausible excuse."

^' Trump up some story about his nephew. Only get
to him ; he will soon give you an opening you can turn
to account. I trust to your cleverness for that ; only
lose no time."

'' Must I go to-day ? "
This very afternoon ; directly you leave the house."

cc

CHAPTER lY.

IN WHITEHALL.

The Military Munitions' department was one of a dozen
or more seated at that period in and about Whitehall.
Its ostensible functions, as its title implied, were to
supply warlike and other stores to the British army
when actively engaged. But as wars had been rare for
nearly half-century it had done more during that time
towards providing a number of worthy gentlemen with
comfortable incomes than in ministering to the wants
of troops in the field.

It was an office of good traditions : highly respectable,
very old-fashioned, slow moving, not to say dilatory,
but tenacious of its dignity as regards other
departments, and obstinately wedded to its own way
of conducting the business of the country.

The most prominent personage in the department for

some little time before the outbreak of hostilities with
Russia, and during the war, was Mr. Rufus Faulks,
brother to the Captain Faulks we met on board the .
Burlington Castle , and also uncle to Stanislas McKay.

Mr. Faulks had entered the office as a lad, and, after
long years of patient service, had worked his way up
through all the grades to the very top of the permanent
staff. He had no one over him now but the
statesman who, for the time being, was responsible for
the department in Parliament — a mere politician, perfectly
raw in official routine, who had the good taste
and better sense to surrender himself blindly to the
guidance of Mr. Faulks. What could a bird of passage
know of the deep mysteries of procedure it took a lifetime
to learn ?

He was the true type and pattern of a Government
official. A prim, plethoric, middle-aged little man;
always dressed very carefully ; walking on the tips of
his toes; speaking precisely, with a priggish, self-satisfied
smirk, and giving his opinion, even on the
weather, with the air of a man who was secretly better
informed than the rest of the world.

He was very punctual in his attendance at the office,
passing the threshold of the private house in a side-street
near Whitehall, where the department was lodged
all by itself, every morning at eleven, and doing the
same thing every day at the same time with the most
praiseworthy, methodical precision. His first step was to
deposit his umbrella in one corner, his second to hang his

hat in another , his third to take an old office-coat out of
a bottom drawer in his desk substituting it for the shiny
black frock-coat he invariably wore ; then he looked
through his letters, selected all of a private and confidential
nature, and placing the morning's Times across
his knees deposited himself in an arm-chair near the
fire. He was supposed to be digesting the morning's
correspondence, and no one during this the first half-hour
of his attendance would have ventured to intrude
upon him summoned.

It was with a very black face, therefore, that when
thus occupied upon the morning that Mr. Hobson visited
Mrs. Wilderss he saw his own private messenger enter
the room. ^

What is it, Lightowlar ? I have forbidden you to
disturb me till twelve."

^' Beg pardon, sir ; very sorry, sir ! " replied the
messenger, who had been confidential valet to a Cabinet
Minister, and prided himself on the extreme polish of
his language and demeanour. ^' I am aware that you
have intimidated your disapprobation of unseasonable
interruption, but "

^^ Well, well ! out with it, or take yourself off."

Sir 'Umpire, sir; he have just come to the office
quite unforseen."

Sir Humphrey Fothergill was the Parliamentary head
of the office at this time.

Sir Humphrey here ! What an extraordinary

{(

thing !

})

The proper time for the appearance of this great
functionary was at 4 p.m., on his way to the Houses
and Mr. Faulks felt quite annoyed at the departure
from the ordinary rule.

^' Sir 'humphrey save took us all aback sir. His own
messenger, Mr. Sprott, was not in the way for the
moment, and Sir humphrey expressed himself in rather

}>

strong terms.

^' Serve Sprott right. But what has all that to do
with me ? ""

Sir 'humphrey, sir, save sent, sires — the man could
hardly bring himself to convey the message ; ^' he 'ave
sent, sir, to say he wishes to see you at once.'^

Me ? At this hour ? Impossible ! '^

This pestilent Sir Humphrey was upsetting every
tradition of the office.

Mr. Faulks again settled himself in his arm-chair,
with the air of a man who refused to move — out of his
proper groove.

Mr. Faulks ! Mr. Faulks ! " Another unseemly
intrusion. This time it was Sprott, the chief messenger,
flurried and frightened, no doubt, by recent reproof.
Sir Humphrey's going on awful, sir ; he's rung his
bell three times, and asked how long it took you to go
upstairs."

Sullenly, and sorely against his will, Mr. Faulks rose
and joined his chief.

^' I have asked for you several times,^^ said Sir Humphrey
Fothergill, a much younger man than Mr. Faulks,

new to official life, but a promising party politician,
with a great belief in himself and his importance as a
member of the House of Commons ; " you must have
come late."

"Pardon me, I was here at my usual time; but in
the thirty five years that I have had the honour to
serve in the Military Munition Department I never
remember a Parliamentary chief who came so easily as
you''

I shall come when I choose — in the middle of the
night, if it suits me or is necessary, as is more than
probable in these busy times''

Mr. Faulks waved his hands and bowed stiffly, as
much as to say that Sir Humphrey was masters his
actions, but that he need not expect to see him.

'^ You all want stirring up here," said Sir Humphrey
abruptly. '^ It is high time to give you a fillip."

I am not aware " Mr. Faulks began, in indignant
protest, but his chief cut him short.

'^ Did you read what happened in the House Fast
night ? "

I have only just glanced at the Times' replied Mr.
Faulks, in a melancholy voice, thinking how rudely his
regular perusal of the great journal had been interrupted
that morning.

^' It's not pleasant reading. There was a set attack
upon this department, and they handled us very
roughly, let me tell you. It made my ears tingle."

'' We have been abused cruelly — unfairly abused for
the last twelve months," said Mr. Faulks with a most
injured air.

'^ You richly deserved it. Amongst you the troops
in the Crimea have been dying from starvation, perishing
from cold."

^^I can assure you that is distinctly unjust. I can
assure you great quantities of warm clothing were dispatched
in due course."

^^ Ay, but when ? "

I can't give you the exact dates, but we have been
advised of their arrival these last few weeks''

'^ Warm clothing in May ? A very seasonable provision
! But it's all of a piece. How about those
fuzes ? ''

^' To what do you refer, may I ask ? '' said Mr.
Faulks very blandly ; but his blood was boiling at the
indignity of being lectured thus by a young man altogether
new to the office.

It is all in this morning's Times. The siege is at a
standstill ; the fuzes won't fit the shells. There are
plenty of 10-inch fuzes, but only 13-inch shells. Who
is to blame for that ? "

'' Our ordnance branch, I fear. But it shall be seen
to : I will address a communication to the head, calling
his attention to the error."

And when will he get the letter ? "

"■ In the course of the next two or three days.'"*

^' And Ms reply will take about the same time to
reach you T suppose ? '^

'' Probably : more or less."

Where is the office of the ordnance branch ? In
this house ? "

Oh, no ! '^ replied Mr. Faulks, in a voice full of
profound pity for the lamentable ignorance of his chief,
'at is at No. IV

'^ Just round the corner — in fact, half-a-dozen yards
off ? "

'' Yes, about that."

'^ Well, look here, Mr. Faulks : you just put on your
hat and go round the corner and see the head of the
ordnance branch, and settle all this with him in the
next five minutes, d'ye hear ? "

"What, I? personally? That would be altogether
against precedent and contrary to the rules of the
office. I really must decline to introduce such a radical
change."

'^ You will obey my order, this very instant ! It is
utterly preposterous to waste six days sending letters
backwards and forwards about a paltry matter that can
be settled by word of mouth in as many minutes. No
wonder the troops have died like rotten sheep ! "

I have been five-and-thirty years in this office "

began Mr. Faulks.

Oh ! don't bother me with your historical reminiscences,"
said Sir Humphrey, cutting him short.

'^ And never, during all that period '^ went on

Mr. Faults manfully.

^' Have you done anything to-day that could be

put off till tomorrow ? But now go and see about this
at once — do you understand ? — and then come back tome
; I have other matters to arrange. We have news
that a fresh expedition will shortly start for Merchant
we are requested to send out with all dispatch
considerable supplies of salt rations."

'' It will be necessary to refer to the Admiralty : they
will require proper notices''

^^ You will get the rations within twenty-four hours,
notice or no notice. But we will discuss that by-and-by.
Meanwhile, hurry off to the ordnance branch."

Mr. Faulks went to the door, protesting and muttering
to himself.

Stay! one word more ! It is wrong of me, perhaps, to
hint that your zeal requires any stimulus, Mr. Faulks."

Hardly, I hope. I have endeavoured for the last
five-and-thirty years ''

Yes, yes, we know all about that. But I have
been told that you looked for some special recognition
of your services — a decoration, the Order of the Bath —
from the last Administration. Now, unless you bestir
yourself, don't expect anything of the kind from us."

*^ I do not pretend to say that I have earned the
favour of my Sovereign ; but in any case it would
depend upon her most gracious Majesty whether "

Don't make any mistake about it. You can only-get
the Bath through the recommendation of your
immediate superiors. There's stimulus, if you want it.
But don't let me detain you any more''

Mr. Faulks went slowly downstairs, and still more
slowly resumed his out-of-door frock-coat ; he took up
his hat and stick in the same deliberate fashion, and
started at a snail's pace for round the corner.

He drawled and dawdled through the business, which
five minutes' sharp talk could have ended, and it was
nearly lunch-time before he returned to his chief.

Well, you might have been to the Crimea and
back ! " said Sir Humphrey, impatiently.

Matters of such moment are not to be disposed of
out of hand. Haste is certain to produce dangerous
confusion, and it has been my unvaried experience
during five-and-thirty years "

Which it has taken you to find the shortest way
next door. But there ! let us get on with our work.
Now, about this expedition to Kertch ? "

And Sir Humphrey proceeded to discuss and dispose
of great questions of supply in a prompt, off-hand way
that both silenced and terrified Mr. Faulks.

VOL. II. E

CHAPTER V.

MR. Faults TALKS.

Mr. Faulks was rather fond of good living, and, as a
rule, lie never allowed official cares to interfere with
his lunch, a meal brought in on a tray from an eating-house
in the Strand. To make a proper selection from
the bill of fare sent in every morning was a weighty
matter, taking precedence over any other work, however
pressing.

But to-day he scarcely enjoyed the haricot of lamb
with new potatoes and young peas that he found
waiting, and slightly cold, when he went downstairs
to his own room.

^^ For two pins Fd take my retirement ; 1 can claim
it; where would they be then ? "

This estimable personage shared with thousands the

strange superstition that the world cannot do without
them.

'^ This cook is falling off most terribly. The lamb is
uneatable, the potatoes are waxy, and the peas like
pills. Ugh ! I never made a worse lunch ! ^'

A large cigar and the perusal of the long-neglected
Times did not pacify him much, and he was still
fretting and fuming when his messenger brought ina
three-cornered note and asked if there was any
reply.

'* The lady, sir — a real lady, I should think — 'ave
brought it in her own bruffam, and was most particular,
sir, as you should save it at once."

Mr. Faulks took the letter and examined sit carefully.


'from that charming woman, Mrs. Wilderss, my
cousin, or rather Stanny's cousin ; but his relations are
mine. I am his uncle ; some day, if he lives, I shall
be uncle to an earl. They will treat me better perhaps
when I have all the Essendine interest at my back.
Whippersnappers like this Fothergill will scarcely dare
to snub me then. A good lad Stanislas; I always liked
him. I wish he was back amongst us, and not at that
horrid war""

'^ The lady, sir, is most anxious, sir, to have a
answer,''^ put in the messenger, recalling Mr. Faults's
attention to the letter.

Ah ! to be sure. One moments and he read the
note : —

E 2

Cannot I see you ? " it said. ^' I am oppressed
with fears for our dear Stanislas. Do please spare mea
few minutes of your valuable time.

^' Cypeienne W.'^

^' I will go down to her at once, say." And, seizing
his hat, Mr. Faulks followed the messenger into the
street, where he found Mrs. Wilderss in her tiny
brougham, at the door of the office.

^' Oh, how good of you ! '' she said, putting out a
little hand in a perfectly-fitting grey glove. " I would
not disturb you for worlds, but I was so anxious''

What has happened ? Nothing serious, I trust ? "

I do not know. I cannot say. I am terribly
upset."

Do tell me all about it."

'^ Of course ; that is why I came. But it will take
some time. Will you get into the carriage ? Are you
going anywhere ? I can take you, and tell you upon
the road."

^' I am afraid I cannot leave just at present." He
had misgivings as to his arbitrary young chief. " But
if I might suggest, and if you will honour me so far,
will you not come upstairs to my room ? "

Oh ! willingly, if you will allow me."

This was all that she wished. Very soon, escorted
by her obsequious friend, she found herself in his armchair,
pouring forth a long and intricate, not to say incomprehensible,
story about Stanislas McKay. She
had heard, she said —-it was not necessary to say how —

o

that they meant to send him on some secret expedition,
full of danger, she understood, and she thought it such
a pity — so wrong, so unfair !

'^ He ought really to return to England and take up
his proper position"" she went on. " Lord Essendine
wishes it, and so, I am sure, must jon.'^

No one will be more pleased to welcome him back
than myself," said Mr. Faulks. '' I should be glad
indeed of his countenance and support just now. They
do not treat me too well here."

^^ Can it be possible ! " she exclaimed, in a voice of
tenderest interest. '' You whom I have always thought
one of the most useful, estimable men in the public

service."

^^ Things are not what they were, my dear lady;
they do not appreciate me here. They deny me the
smallest, the most trifling recognition. Would you
believe it that, after five-and-thirty years of uninterrupted
service, they still hesitate to give me a decoration
? I ought to have had the Companionship of the
Bath at the last change of Ministry."

^' Of course you ought ; 1 have often heard Lord
Essendine say so."

^' Has he now, really ? " asked Mr. Faulks, much
flattered.

^' Frequently," went on Mrs. Wilderss, fluently, availing
herself readily of the opening he had given her.
^' I am sure he has only to know that you are disappointed
in this matter and he will give you the

warmest support. You know he belongs to the party
now in power, and a word from him ^^

^^ If he will deign to interest himself on my behalf
the matter is, of course, settled."

'^ And he shall, rely on me for that."

^^ How can I ever thank you sufficiently, dear lady,
for your most gracious, most generous encouragement
? If I can serve you in any way, command

me."

^' Wells you can oblige me in a little matter I have
much at heart."

'^ Only name it," he cried, earnestly.

Come and dine with me to-night in Thistle Grove."

^^ Is that all ? I accept with enthusiasm."

^^ Only a small party : four at the most. You know
I am still in deepest mourning. My poor dear general
she dropped her voice and her eyes.

Ah ! " said Mr. Faulks, sympathetically ; '^ you
have known great sorrows. But you must not brood,
dear lady : we should struggle with grief." He took
her hand, and looked at her in a kindly, pitying way.

The moment was ill-timed for interruption, but the
blame was Sir Humphrey's, who now sent the messenger
with a fresh and more imperious summons for
the attendance of Mr. Faulks.

He got up hurriedly, nervously, saying —

I must leave you, dear lady ; there are matters of
great urgency to be dealt with to-day."

^^ No apologies : it's my fault for trespassing here. I

will run away. To-night — do not forget me, at eight'
and Mrs. Wilderss took her departure.

The little house in Thistle Grove wore its most
smiling aspect at evening, with its soft-shaded lamps,
pretty hangings, and quantities of variegated, sweet-smelling
flowers ; it was radiant with light, full of
perfume, bright in colour.

Mrs. Wilderness guests were three — Mrs. Jones, a
staid, hard-featured, middle-aged lady in deep black,
an officer's widow like herself, as she explained, who
lived a few doors down, and was an acquaintance of the
last month or two, Mr. Hobson, and Mr. Faulks.

The dinner was almost studied in simplicity, but
absolutely perfect of its kind. Clear soup,* salmon
cutlets, a little joint, salad, and quail in vine-leaves.
The only wine was a sound medium claret, except at
dessert, when, after the French fashion, Mrs. Wilderss
gave champagne.

Through dinner the talk had been light and trivial,
but with dessert and coffee it gradually grew more
serious, and touched upon the topics of the day.

These must be trying times for you Government
officials"" said Mr. Hobson, carelessly.

Yes, indeed'' replied Mr. Faulks, with a deep sigh.
^^ I often feel that life is hardly worth having."

^^ The public service is no bed of roses," remarked
Mrs. Jones. ^' It killed my poor dear husband."

It is so disheartening to slave day after day as you

do' went on Mrs. Wilderss to Mr. Faulks, '' and got no
thanks.''^

'^ Very much the other thing ! "" cried Mr. Hobson ;
you are about the best abused people in the world, I
should say, just now."

It is hard on us, for I assure you we do our best.
We are constantly, uninterruptedly at work. I never
know a moment that I may not be wanted — that some
special messenger may not be after me. I have to
leave my address so that they can find me wherever I
am, and at any time."

'^ Is it so now ? " asked Mrs. Wilderss. " Cannot you
even give me the pleasure of your society for an hour
or two without its being known ? "

'^I do it in this way, dear lady. I leave a sealed
envelope on my hall table, which is only opened in case
of urgency."

"You don't expect to be summoned to-night, I hope? "
inquired the fair hostess.

"I cannot say; it is quite probable."

"There are, perhaps, important movements intended in
the Crimea?" asked Mr. Hobson, as he picked his strawberries
and prepared himself a sauce of sugar and cream.

You have heard so ? ^' replied Mr. Faulks.

There was something in the Times this morning from
their special correspondent. Some new expedition was
talked of."

They ought to be all shot, these correspondents,"

said Mr. Faulks, decisively. ^' They permit themselves
to canvass the conduct and character of persons of our
position with a freedom that is intolerable'

Pardon me' said Mr. Hobson, ^' but as one of the
British public, a taxpayer and bearer of the public
burden, I feel grateful to these newspaper gentlemen
for seeing that our money is properly spent."

'' I am sorry to hear you commend them' said Mr.
Faulks, in a way that implied much resentment.

^' Well, but without them we should hear of nothing
that is going on. This new expedition, for instance,
which I have a shrewd suspicion covers some deep
design."

You think so, do you ? On what ground,* pray ? "
said Mr. Faulks, with the slight sneer of superior
knowledge.

'^ The Times man hints as much. There has long
been a rumour of some change in the plan of operations,
and he seems to be right in his conjecture."

He knows nothing at all about it — how can he ? "
said Mr. Faulks, contemptuously.

You must forgive my differing with you. It is not
my business to say how he obtains his information, but
I have generally found that he is right. Now, this

great expedition "

Is all moonshine ! " cried Mr. Faulks, losing his
temper, and thrown off his guard. " It's quite a small
affair — a trip round the Sea of Azof, and the reduction
of Kertch."

'' The old affair revived, in facts
^^ Neither more nor less. There is no intention at
the present moment of drawing any large detachment
from the siege. On the contrary, every effort is being
strained to bring it to an end.''^

'^^'^ Quite right too; it ought to be vigorously prosecuted
attack should follow attack. ^^

'^ We shall hear of one or more before long' went on
Mr. Faulks, growing more and more garrulous. '^ Our
advanced trenches are creeping very near, and I expect
any day to hear that the French have stormed the
Mamelon, and our people the Quarries."

'^ Indeed ? That is very interesting. And we shall
take them — do you think ? '"'

We must. The attacking columns will be of
great strength, and the attack will be preceded by a
tremendous cannonade''

^^ So we may expect great news in the next few
days ? '■' said Mrs. Wilderss, eagerly.

'^ More bloodshed ! " added Mrs. Jones, with a deep
sigh. '' This terrible war ! "

You can't make omelettes without breaking eggs'
said Mr. Hobson, sententiously. " The more terrible a
war is, the sooner it is ended."

^' We are getting very ghastly in our talk' said Mrs.
Wilderss. " Suppose we go into the drawing-room and
have some tea."

As they passed out of the dining-room, Mr. Hobson
managed to whisper a few words.

'^ I have squeezed him dry : that was all I wanted
to know. I need not stay any longer I think."

'^ Who knows ? His special messenger may comedown
with the very latest. If so, you ought to be able
to extract that from him too."

Mrs. Wilderss spoke these words carelessly ; but, as
often happens, they correctly foretold what presently
occurred.

When they were all seated cosily around the tea-table,
Mrs. Wilderss's man brought in a great dispatch
upon a salver.

*^ For Mr. Faulks," he said, and with an air of the
greatest importance the hard-worked, indispensable
official tore open the cover. ♦

It contained a few hurried lines from Sir Humphrey
Fothergill to the following effect : —

"A telegram has just been received from Lord
Raglan. It contains painful news for you; but I
thought it best to let you have it at once."

He opened the telegram with trembling hands and
read —

yesterday, Mr. McKay, of the quartermaster-generals
staff, ventured through the enemy's lines in
the direction of the Tchernaya to make a special
reconnaissance. He unfortunately was captured. I
sent a flag of truce into Sebastopol, asking that he
might be exchanged, but have been peremptorily
refused. Gortschakoff ' asserts that he is a Russian
subject and was taken red-handed as a spy. He is to

be executed immediately. Will renew request with
strong protest, but fear there is no hope."

Mr. Faulks groaned heavily and let the telegram fall
on the ground.

"What has happened?" asked Mrs.Wilders, eagerly.

You were right — too right. That poor boy "

Stanislas ? ''

Yes ; my poor nephew has fallen into the hands of
these bloodthirsty Russians, who are resolved to execute
him as a traitor and a spy/^

CHAPTER VI.

mariquita's quest.

Hyde^s unfortunate affair with the sailor had ended ina
broken rib and a dislocated arm. He was taken back
senseless to the camp of the Royal Picts, and for some
days required the closest care. It was nearly a week
before he so far recovered himself as to be able to give
any account of what had occurred, and longer before he
remembered accurately what was taking him to headquarters
at the time of the accident.

It flashed across him quite suddenly, and with something
of a shock, that while he lay there helpless his
friend McKay was still in danger.

When shall I be able to get about again ? '' he
asked the doctor, anxiously.

"You won't be fit for duty, if that's what you're
driving at, for many a long day to come."

I can go about with my arm in a sling. I am
beginning to feel perfectly well otherwise."

What's the good of a soldier with his arm in a
sling ? No : as soon as you are fit to move I shall have
you sent down to Scutari.'^

But I don't want to go : I had much rather stay
here with the old corps."

He was thinking of the business he had still in hand.

*^ You will have to obey orders, anyhow, so make up
your mind to go.'^ ■

The regimental surgeon of the Royal Picts was a
morose old Scotchman, very obstinate and intolerant
of opposition. What he said he stuck to, and Hyde
knew that he must prepare to leave the Crimea in a
short time, probably before he was strong enough to
go in person to headquarters and find out McKay.

It would be necessary, therefore, to find some other
messenger, and, after considering what was best to be
done, he resolved to beg Colonel Blythe to come and
see him, intending to make him his confidant.

'^ Well, Rupert," said the Colonel — they were alone
together — " this is a bad business. Mainly tells me
you won't be fit for duty for months. He is going to
send you at once before a medical board."

It is very aggravating, Colonel, as I particularly
wished to be here for the next few weeks.

To be in at the death, I suppose ? We are bound
to take the place at the next attack."

I hope you may. But it is not that. Our friend
McKay is in imminent dangers ^

'^ What is the nature of the danger ? "
'^ He is pursued by the relentless hate of an infamous
woman : one who has never yet spared any who dared
to thwart or oppose her."

^^ What on earth do you mean, Hyde?^^ The colonel
thought the old sergeant was wandering in his mind.
'^ There are no women out here except Mother Charcoal,
and a few French vivandieres. How can any of
them threaten McKay ? ''■'

^^ It is as I say, colonel. By-and-by I will tell you
everything. But let me implore you to find out McKay
at once and bring him to me. I cannot, you see, go to
him."

^^ Is this very urgent ? "
'^ A matter of life and death, I assure you."
^' I will order a horse at once. It is all very mysterious
and extraordinary; but then you have been a
mystery, Rupert Hyde, a riddle and a puzzle, ever
since I have known you."

It will all be unravelled some day , colonel, never
fear; but lose no time, let me begs'' and, thus adjured,
the colonel presently mounted his horse and galloped
over to headquarters.

He arrived there the day after McKay's excursion
into the Russian lines. The young staff-officer was still
absent, and fears were already entertained as to his

safety, although it was not positively known as yet that
he had come to harm.

Let us leave Colonel Blythe and other friends exchanging
anxious conjectures as to McKay's fate and
return to Mariquita^ whose misgivings had steadily
increased from the day she had last seen Hyde.

He had promised she should see him again, and,
perhaps, Stanislas, without delay. Yet this was more
than a week since. What had become of the old
soldier? Had he fulfilled his mission of warning, or
had he been involved in the dire intrigues that
threatened her lover ?

Her lover, too ; her Stanislas — to save whom she had
come so far, braving so many dangers, and at the peril
of her maidenly self-respect — had anything happened
to him ?

The terrible uncertainty was crushing her. She
must know something, even the worst, or her apprehensions,
ever present and hourly increasing, would
kill her.

To whom could she turn in this time of cruel suspense
? Hyde had deserted her, seemingly ; in spite
of her heartfelt anxiety she could not bring herself to
approach McKay.

One other man there was ; that villain, Benito
Villegas — the source, in truth, of all her trouble —
might give her news. Bad news, possibly, but still
news, if only she could lay hands on him. Where

and how was lie hiding ? Every effort to find him had
been fruitless hitherto.

At Valetta Joe's^they knew no such name, so they
told her when she inquired cautiously for Benito from
some of the loafers hanging about the shop.

Yet that was the place to which he was to proceed
on arrival. The letter she had picked up in Bombardier
Lane said so. He must be hiding, or in disguise ;
and now, when her anxiety for her beloved Stanislas
was at its highest pitch, she was more than ever resolved
to find out somehow what Benito was doing.

One afternoon, when business was rather slack at
Mother Charcoal, she seized a chance of visiting the
hut-town. •

'any work?" she asked, in Spanish, of Palette
Joe himself, whom she met at the door of his shanty.

'^ What can you do ? Where do you come from ?
Spain ? " replied the baker in the same tongue.

Yes, from Malaga. I can do anything — try me."

Can you sell bread through the camp ? I am a
man short, and could take you on, perhaps, until he is
better Come down below, and I will give you a
basketful to hawk about."

I shall have to tell them at the canteen — Mother
Charcoal s — that I am going to leave."

"That won't do. You must come at once if you
come at all. Which will you do ?

While she still hesitated, a voice from the sumter

II. r

ranean regions at the end of the shop fell upon her
ear. Her heart gave a great jump at the sound — it
was Benito's. " Joe ! Joe ! '' he was crying, in feeble
accents.

It's take it or leave it. There are plenty of your
sort about. Well, what do you say ? ""

1 accept' said Mariquita, eagerly. '^ When shall I
begin work ? ""

Now, this minute. Come down and help me to get
a batch of bread out of the oven""

They passed down into the cellar by a short ladder,
and Mariquita found herself in a dimly - lighted
cavernous den, hot and stifling, at one end of which
glowed the grate below the oven.

^' Joe ! Joe ! " repeated Benito's voice, and Mariquita,
with difficulty, made out his figure lying on a heap of
rags in a corner of the cellar.

Well ? " answered Joe, roughly, as soon as he had
pointed out the bread-trays and desired her to get
them in order. " What's wrong with you now ? You
are always groaning and calling out."

'' Water ! " asked Benito, piteously. " This place is
like a furnace. I am suffering torments from raging*
thirst and this cruel wound. Accursed Englishman !
may I live to repay him ! "

You will have to hurry and get well, or the russians
will save you the trouble," remarked Joe.

That is my only consolation. It was I who gave
him to them."

Although bending busily over her task, Mariquita
felt lier heart beat faster and faster. These words,
which she now overheard through such a strange
chance, clearly referred to her lover.

Will they hang him, do you think ? " asked Benito.

'' As sure as the sun breeds flies. We have done our
business too well to give lira a chance of escape."*^

Would that I might hold the rope, that I might ses
his agony, his last convulsions ! That I might myself
revenge the tortures he has made me bear ! ^'

And Benito sank back upon his miserable bed,
groaning with pain.

'^ Don't whine like that, you miserable cur ! '^ said
Joe, brutally. ^' Its bad enough to have you *here at
all, without your disturbing the whole place. Why did
you come here ? "

'^ Where else could I go ? I never expected to get
so far. I was faint from loss of blood, and in frightful
pain. I thought I should die as I crawled along"*

'' Better you had than bring me into trouble, as you
will if the provost-marshal finds you here."*^

'^ It is cowardly of you to ill-treat and upbraid me.
Take care ! I am helpless now, but by-and-bj, when I
am well and strong, you shall suffer for your cruelty""

^' What ! you threaten me ? But there, it is idle to
waste words on such a wretched rogue ; I have other
work to do. Now, young imp ! '^ cried Joe, turning to
Mariquita, '^ stir yourself, and let us get out this batch
of bread."

r 2

The conversation which she had overhear d^ conveying
as it did the confirmation of her worst fears, had
agitated Mariquita exceedingly, but she knew that she
must control her emotion, and arouse no suspicions in
the minds of these villains. Benito, wounded, and in
desperate case, was in no position to recognise her, and
Joe was, of course, completely in the dark as to whom
he had admitted within his shop.

The work in the cellar was not completed and the
bread carried upstairs for an hour or more, during
which time Mariquita was able to think over and decide
what she would do. She had matured her plan when
they got upstairs.

'^ Pay me ! " she said, saucily, to Valetta Joe. ^^ I
shan't stop here."

Pay you, vile imp ? Why, I only took you on
trial ! " •

Pay me ! " she repeated. " You shan't cheat me""

'^ I owe you nothing. Be off out of this or you shall
feel the weight of my hand."

Pay me, you swindling old rogue ! " shouted Mari-quite,
in a shrill voice. '' I won't go till I get my
rights."

You won't ! " cried Joe, as he seized her roughly
by the collar and dragged her towards the door.

Villain ! Thief ! Murder ! Help, help ! He is
killing me ! " cried Mariquita, now at the top of her
voice, and this frenzied appeal had the exact effect she
hoped. A crowd of camp-followers quickly gathered

around the door of the shanty, and with it came a
couple of stalwart assistants of the provost-marshal.

What's all this ? ^' asked one of them, in a peremptory
tone. ^^ Leave that lad alone, you old rascal!"

What's he doing to you ? " asked the other.

He won't pay me my wages," said Mariquita, in a
whining, piteous voice. " He owes me three shillings."

^^ I don't, you lying little ragamuffin ! I only took
you on trial""

'she does; and he was beating me, ill-using me,"
went on Mariquita.

'ewe can't have no disturbance here," said one of
the provost-marshal's men. " You must come before
the provost, both of you ; he'll settle your .case in a
brace of shakes. Bill, you bring the old man; 1^11
take charge of the youngster."

And the two guardians of order marched their
prisoners through the hut-town to a wooden building at
the end, where Major Shervinton dealt out a simple,
rough-and-ready justice to the turbulent characters he
ruled.

This was precisely what Mariquita had hoped for.
What she sought at all hazards was to gain speech
of the provost-marshal.

They had to wait for him half-an-hour, and when he
appeared there were other cases to be dealt with first.

When it came to Valetta Joe's turn, he stoutly denied
the charge of defrauding and ill-using the lad.

I don't know about the wages, sir," said one of the

assistants ^' but we caught him in the act of cuffing
the boy'

^^ What does he owe you my lad ? '' asked Major
Shervinton.

'^ Nothing' replied Mariquita, trembling and in
very imperfect English. '^ I only wanted to get him
here to denounce him as a friend of the Russians and
a spy''

^' There's not a word of truth in what he says ! "
cried Joe, looking at her with open-mouthed astonishment.


^^ We have long had our eye upon you, my friend,
you know that; and I shall inquire into this more
closely."

^' At this moment there is a man — his name is Benito
Yillegas — in the bakehouse below the shop' said Mari-quite.
'' He is wounded ; you will find him there. Go
and seize him ; make him tell you what he has done
with the English officer, Mr. McKay."

Mr. McKay ! " said the provost-marshal, deeply
interested at once. " He is absent — missing ! Have
you heard anything of him or his fate ? "

Make Benito tell you. He has betrayed him into
the Russians' hands."

This is very important intelligence. What you
say shall be verified at once. See to the prisoners,
one of you, and let some one come with me to Joe's
shop."

Major Shervinton made short work of Benito.

^' Look here, my fine fellow, you lead better make
a clean breast of it all. What have you done with
Mr. McKay ? "

Benito shook his head, groaned, and pointed to his
wounded arm.

^' I see you have been hit ; but that won't prevent
your talking. Tell me exactly what happened — it's
your only chance ; if you don't, we will wait till your
arm is healed, and then hang you here in the middle of
the hut-town. Come, speak outer''

You will spare my life if I tell you ? "

Perhaps : if it is the truth. We shall have means
of finding out. But look sharp ! "

In feeble, faltering accents Benito told his story,
laying stress on the villainy of others and making light
of the part he had himself played.

While the provost - marshal was examining the
trembling wretch his assistants had been making a
thorough search of the shop. They came presently to
their chief, laden with a number of papers : letters,
passes signed by Gortschakoff, and other documents of
a compromising character, plainly proving that this
place had long been the centre of a cunningly-devised
secret correspondence with the enemy.

"There's enough to hang you both, and perhaps
others too, at home. As for you' he turned to Benito,
'' I will have you removed to the Balaclava hospital.
You will be better looked after there, and we shall
have you under our hands when required. Your

accomplice, the commander-in-chief will deal with,
I trust, very summarily ; we have overwhelming proofs
of his guilt''

Major Shervinton returned to his office, where the
prisoners anxiously awaited his verdict.

'^ Take Joe away, and put a double sentry over him.
I shall ride over to headquarters to report the whole

case."

Oh, good, kind, beneficent sir," began Joe, wringing
his hands, " spare me ! There no word of truth in
all this. I done nothing, I swear. I unjustly accused.
I "

'^ March him out," said Shervinton. " Such vermin
as you must be ruthlessly destroyed.

And the lad, sir ? " asked an assistant.

'' To be sure ; I had forgotten. Well, boy, you
have behaved uncommonly well. What shall we do
for you ? "

"Nothingness she faltered out, 'only save him — save
Mr. McKay."

^' Mr. McKay ! Do you know him ? What — when

" asked Major Shervinton, greatly surprised at

the agonised accents in which Mariquita spoke, yet
more, seeing that her eyes were filled with tears.
'^ Who are you ? Where do you come from ? "" he
went on, examining the little creature attentively.

He noticed now for the first time the delicate skin,
the clear-cut, regular features, the lustrous eyes ; he
remarked the fragile form, the shy, shrinking manner

of the lad, who stood diffidently, deprecatingly, before
him, and he said to himself, " What an exceedingly
handsome boy ! Boy ! " he repeated, and now suddenly
a doubt crossed his mind as to the proper sex of
the young person who evinced such a tender interest
in Stanislas McKay.

^' Some secret romance, probably,^^ he went on,
smiling at the thought, but quickly changing his
mood as he remembered how tragic its end was likely
to be.

^^ I will do all I can to save him, rest assured," he
went on aloud, " and if we recover him from the
clutches of the enemy he shall certainly know how
much he owes to you." ♦

The vivid blush that overspread her cheeks at these
words betrayed her completely.

But, my poor child," went on the provost-marshal,
in a kindly, sympathetic voice, " what are we to do
with you ? It was madness, surely, for you to venture
here. Have you any friends ? Let me see you safe
back to them. Where do you live ? ''■'

Mariquita in a low voice explained that she was
employed at Mother Charcoal's.

Does she know about you ? "

^^ Yes," acknowledged Mariquita, in a still lower,
almost inaudible voice.

'' She is a good old soul, and may be trusted to take
care of you. Still, her canteen is no place for such as
you. You shall stay with her, but only till we can

send 3''ou on to one of the trophies with female nurses
on boarder"'

Having thus decided Shervinton himself escorted
Mariquita to Mother Charcoal's^ and then rode on to
headquarters.

He arrived there half-an-hour after Colonel Blythe,
and the news he brought threw fresh light upon the
disappearance of poor McKay.

There is a woman at the bottom of it, of course'
said Sir Richard Airey. " These papers prove it/'"'
putting his finger upon the bundle Shervinton had
seized at the Maltese baker's.

*' Two women, unless I'm much mistaken' replied
the provost-marshal , and he went on to tell of Mari-quotas
devotion.

'^ Devotion, indeed' said the general, " but to no
purpose, I fear. We have little hope of saving McKay.
Lord Raglan is in despair. Prince Grortschakoff refuses
distinctly to surrender the poor fellow, or spare his
life."

'' One woman's devotion outmatched by another's
reckless greed. But, should McKay be sacrificed, she
his murderess — must not escape"' said Blythe, hotly.

Ah ! but how shall we lay hands on her ? Who
knows her ? " asked Sir Richard.

"One of my officers — Hyde. We shall get her
through him," and Blythe repeated what the old
quartermaster had said that morning.

Yes, he evidently knows. He would be the best

man to pursue her — to bring lier to judgment for her
villanies. There is enough in these papers to convict
her. But he could hardly leave the Crimea just now."

^' He happens at this moment to be going down to
Scutari, on sick leave : he could easily go on/^

"Is he strong enough ? "

'^ He is gaining strength daily ; it is only a wounded

arm."

That will be best. I will arrange with Lord Raglan
to give him leave, provided he will accept the mission."

Without further delay Blythe went back to his camp
and told Hyde all that had occurred.

Go ! Of course I will go. This very day, if the
doctor will let me. I will unmask her ; I will spoil her
game. If I cannot save Stanislas, at least she shall
not benefit by her crime."

You are sure you can find her ? "

Trust me ! People in her position are easily found.
The first Court Guide will give you her address. She
holds her head high, and must pay the penalty of
greatness."

The prospect of starting soon for England on such
an errand seemed to restore Hyde to energy and
strength.

*^ Not fit to travel ! '''' he said to the doctor, who still
expressed some doubts on that head. ^'^ Why, I am fit
for anything."

Nonsense, man ! You won't be able to use your
arm for weeks."

'^ I shan't want it. My head's sound and clear ;
that's the chief thing. The moment I get my leave
and my orders I'm off."

They gave Hyde a passage home in the Himalaya, a
man-of-war transport, and at that time one of the swiftest
steamers afloat. At the most, the journey would not
occupy more than twelve days or a fortnight. He
might not be able or in time to do much for Stanislas
in his present peril, but he at least hoped that retribution
might follow fast on the betrayal of his friend.

CHAPTER VII.

INSIDE THE PORTRESS.

It is time to return to Stanislas McKay, whose life,
forfeited under the ruthless laws of a semi-barbarous
power, still hung by a thread.

He had been taken into Sebastopol by his escort at a
rapid pace. It was a ride of half-a-dozen miles, no
more, and the greater part of it, when once they
regained the Tchernaya, followed the low ground that
margins both sides of the river.

McKay could see plainly the English cavalry vedettes
in the plain ; but, fast bound as he was, it was impossible
for him to make any signal to his friends. It was
as well that he could not try, for he would certainly
have paid the penalty with his life.

They watched him very closely, these wild, unkempt.

Half-savage horsemen ; watched him as though he were
a captive animal — a beast of prey which might at anytime
break loose and rend them.

But the rough uncivilised Cossacks of the Don were
not bad fellows after all.

Although they at first looked askance at him when
he spoke to them, these simple boors were presently
won over by the distress and sufferings of their
prisoner.

McKay was in great pain; his bonds cut into his
flesh;, he was exhausted by the night's work, dejected at
the ruin of his enterprise, uneasy as to his fate.

No food had crossed his lips for many hours, his
throat was parched and dry under the fierce heat of the
sun.

He begged piteously for water, speaking in Russian,
and using the most familiar style of address. The men
who rode on each side of him soon thawed as he called
them "his little fathers," and implored them to give
him a drink.

Presently, at the first halt," they said.

And so he had to battle with his thirst while they
still hurried on.

Suddenly the officer in command called a halt — they
had now reached the picket-house at Tract Bridge —
and rode out to the flank of the party. He seemed
perturbed, anxious in his mind, and raised his hand to
shroud his eyes as he peered eagerly across the plain.

'there!" lie shouted, rising in lis stirrups and
turning round. ^' Bring up the prisoner."

McKay was led to his side.

"What is the meaning of that's' asked the officer
haughtily, speaking in French, as he pointed to a cloud
of dust in the distant plain.

^' How can I tell you ? " replied McKay, shortly : butin
his own mind he was certain that this was the contemplated
extension of the French and Sardinian lines
towards the Tchernaya. For a moment his heart beat
high with the hope that this movement might help him
to escape.

You know, you rogue ! Tell me, or it will be the
worse for you." «

I don't know," replied McKay stoutly ; "" and if I
did I should not tell you."

Dirty spy ! You would have sold us for a price, do
the same now by the others. You owe them no allegiance
; besides, you are in our power. Tell me, and I
will let you go.^'

'^ Your bribe is wasted on me. I am a British
officer "

^' Pshaw ! Officer ? " and the fellow raised his whip
to strike McKay, but happily held his hand.

Here ! take him back," he said angrily, and McKay
was again placed in the midst of the party.

He renewed his entreaties for a drink, and a Cossack,
taking pity on him, offered him a canteen.

It was full of vodkhi, an ardent spirit beloved by the
Russian peasant, half-a-dozen drops of wliicli McKay
managed to gulp down, but they nearly burned his
throat.

^' Water ! water ! '' he asked again.

And the Cossack, evidently surprised at his want of
taste, substituted the simpler fluid ; but the charitable
act drew down upon him the displeasure of his chief.

How dare you ! without my permission ? '' cried
the officer, as he dashed the water from McKay's lips,
and punished the offending Cossack by a few sharp
strokes with his whip.

*' Come, fall in ! " the officer next said. ^^ It won't
do to linger here's And the party resumed their ride,
still in the valley, but as far as possible from the stream.

Every yard McKay's hopes sank lower and lower ;
every yard took him further from his friends, who were
advancing, he felt certain, towards the river. Large
bodies of troops, columns of infantry on the march,
covered by cavalry and accompanied by guns, were now
perfectly visible in the distant plain.

^' Look to your front ! ''■' cried the Russian officer
peremptorily to Stanislas, as he stole a furtive, lingering
glance back. '^ Faster ! Spur your horses, or
we may be picked up or shot.''^

All hope was gone now. This was the end of the
Tchernaya valley. Up there opposite were the Inkerman
heights, the sloping hills that a few months before

McKay had helped to hold. This paved, much-worn
causeway was the " Sappers' Road' leading round the
top of the harbour into the town.
No one stopped the Cossacks.

They passed a picket in a half-ruined guardhouse,
the roof of which, its door, walls, and windows, were
torn and shattered in the fierce and frequent bombardments.
Even at that moment a round shot crashed over
their heads, took the ground further off, and bounded
away. The sentry asked no questions. Some one looked
out and waved his hand in greeting to the Cossack
officer, who replied, pointing ahead, as the party rode
rapidly on.

Time pressed ; it promised to be a warm morning.
The besiegers' fire, intended no doubt to distract attention
from the movements in the Tchernaya, was constantly
increasing.

What dog's errand is this they sent mo on ? "
growled the Cossack officer, as a shell burst close to
him and killed one of the escort.

Faster ! faster ! "

And still, harassed by shot and shell, they pushed on.

All this time the road led by the water's edge ; but
presently they left it, and, crossing the head of a creek,
mounted a steep hill, which brought them to the Caravel
suburb, as it was called, a detached part of the
main town, now utterly wrecked and ruined by the
besiegers' fire.

The Cossack officer made his way to a large barrack

VOL. II. G

occupying a central elevated position and dismounted
at the principal doorway.

^^ Is it thou, Stoschberg ? " cried a friend who came
out to meet him. '^ Here, in Sebastopol ? ^'

'^ To my sorrow. Where is the general ? I have
news for him. The enemy are moving in force upon
the Tchernaya."

'' Ha ! is it so ? And that has brought you here ? "

^' That, and the escort of yonder villain — a rascally
spy, whom we caught last night in our lines.^^

^' Bring him along too ; the general may wish to
question him''

McKay was unbound, ordered to dismount, and then,
still under escort, was marched into the building. It
was roofless, but an inner chamber had been constructed
a cellar, so to speak — under the ground-floor, with a
roof of its own of rammed earth many feet thick, supported
by heavy beams. This was one of the famous
casemates invented by Todleben, impervious to shot
and shell, and affording a safe shelter to the troops.

McKay was halted at the door or aperture, across
which hung a common yellow rug. The officers passed
in, and their voices, with others, were heard in animated
discussion, which lasted some minutes ; then the one
called Stoschberg came out and fetched McKay.

He found himself in an underground apartment
plainly but comfortably furnished. In the centre,
under a hanging lamp, was a large table covered with
maps and plans, and at the table sat a tall, handsome


man, still in the prime of life. He was dressed in the

usual long plain great-coat of coarse drab cloth, but lie

had shoulder-straps of broad gold lace, and his flat muffin

cap lying in front of him was similarly ornamented.

This personage, an officer of rank evidently, looked

up sharply, and addressed McKay in French.

'' What is the meaning of this movement in the
Tchernaya ? " he asked. 'you understand French of
course ? People of your trade speak all tongues.'^

I speak Frenchmen replied McKay, "' but English is
my native tongue. I am a British officer '^

''' I have told you of his pretensions, Excellencies
interposed the Cossack officer.

Yes, yes ! this is mere waste of time. Wlmt is the
meaning of this movement in the Tchernaya, I repeat ?
Tell me, and I may save your life*'

You have no right to ask me that question, and I
decline to answer it, whatever the risk."

'^ An obstinate fellow, truly ! " said the general, half
to himself. " What do you call yourself ? "

Then followed a conversation very similar to that
which had taken place at Tchorgoun.

I, too, knew your father"" said the general, shaking
his head. " It is a bad case ; I fear you must expect
the worst."

^' I shall meet it as a soldier should," replied McKay,
stoutly. 'but I shall always protest, even with my
dying breath, that I have been foully and shamefully

G 2

used. I appeal to you, a Russian officer of high rank,
of whose name I am ignorant "

My name is Todleben, of the Imperial Engineers."

McKay started, and, notwithstanding the imminent
peril of his position, looked with interest upon the man
who was known, even in the British lines, as the heart
and soul of the defence.

*^ I appeal to you, sir,^^ he pleaded, " as a general
officer, a man of high honour and known integrity, to
protect me from outrage."

I can do nothing," replied Todleben, gravely,
shrugging his shoulders. " The Prince himself will
decide. Take him away. I cannot waste time with
him if he is not disposed to speak. Let him be kept
a close prisoner until the Prince is ready to see him."

The general then bent his head over his plans, and
took no further notice of McKay.

Our hero was again marched into the yard, made to
remount, re-bound, and led off towards the principal
part of the town. They now skirted the ridge of the
Karabel suburb, and began to descend. Half way down
they came upon a series of excavations in the side of the
hill. These were old caves that had been enlarged and
strengthened with timbers and earth. Each had its
own doorway, a massive piece of palpitating. They
were used as barracks, catenated, and practically safe
during the siege. Into one of these McKay was taken;
it was empty ; the men who occupied it were on duty

just then at the Creek Battery below. In one corner
lay a heap of straw and old blankets filthy and infested
with the liveliest vermin.

One of the escort pointed to this uninviting bed, and
told the prisoner he might rest himself there. McKay,
weary and disconsolate, gladly threw himself upon this
loathsome couch. They might shoot him next morning,
but for the time at least he could forget all his cares in
sleep.

CHAPTER Viii.

FROM THE DEAD.

We have seen how the news of Stanislas McKay's
capture by the Russians was communicated to his
uncle Mr. Faulks.

Next day the brief telegram announcing it was
published in the morning papers with many strong
comments. Although some blamed the young officer
for his rashness , and others held Lord Raglan directly
responsible for his loss, all agreed in execrating the
vindictive cruelty of the uncompromising foe.

General sympathy was expressed for Mr. McKay ;
the most august person in the land sent a message of
condolence to his mother through Lord Essendine, who
added a few kindly words on his own account.

What curse lies heavy on our line ? It seems fatal
to come within reach of heirship to the family-honours.

Ere long there will be no Wilderss left, and the title
of Essendine will become extinct' wrote the old peer to
Mrs. McKay. ^' Your boy, a fine, fearless young fellow,
whom I neglected too long and who deserved a nobler
fate, is the latest victim. Pray Heaven he may yet
escape ! I will strive hard to help him in his present
dire peril."

Lord Essendine was as good as his word. He had
great influence, political and diplomatic : great friends
in high place at every court in Europe. Among others,
the Russian ambassador at Vienna was under personal
obligations to him of long standing, and did not hesitate
when called upon to acknowledge the debt.

Telegrams came and went from London to Vienna,
from Vienna to St. Petersburg, backwards and forwards
day after day, yet nothing was effected by Lord Essendine's
anxious, energetic advocacy. The Czar himself
was appealed to, but the Autocrat of All the Russia
would not deign to intervene. He was inexorable.
The law military must take its course. Stanislas McKay
was a traitor and the son of a traitor ; he had been
actually taken red-handed in a new and still deeper
treachery, and he must suffer for his crime.

At the end of the first fortnight McKay's relations
and friends in England had almost abandoned hope.
This was what Mr. Faulks told Mrs. Wilderss, who called
every day two or three times, always in the deepest
distress.

Poor boy ! poor boy ! " she said, wringing her

hands. " To be cut off like this 1 It is too terrible !
And nothing — you are sure nothing can be done to save
him ? "

Lord Essendine is making the most strenuous
efforts ; so are we. Even Sir Humphrey Fothergill
has been most kind; and the War Minister has
repeatedly telegraphed to Lord Raglan to leave no
stone unturned."

And all without effect ? It is most sad ! " She
would have feigned the same excessive grief with the
Essendine lawyers, to whom she also paid several visits,
but the senior partner's cold eye and cynical smile
checked her heroics.

"You will not be the loser by poor McKay^s removal,"
he said, with brutal frankness, one day when
she had rather overdone her part.

'^^ As if I thought of that ! " she replied, with supreme
indignation.

'^ It is impossible for you not to think of it, my dear
madam. It would not be human nature. Why shouldn't
you ? Mr. McKay was no relation."

^^ He was my dear dead husband's devoted friend.
Nursed him after his wound "

^' I remember to have heard that, and indeed everything
that is good, of Mr. McKay. I feel sure he
would have made an excellent Earl of Essendine;
more's the pity."

I trust my son, if he inherits, will worthily maintain
the credit of the house."

So do I, my dear madam' said old Mr. Burt, with
a bow that made the speech a less doubtful compliment.

^' When will it be settled ? Why do they hesitate ?
Why delay ? '' she said to herself passionately, as she
went homewards to Thistle Grove. Her friend Mr.
Hobson was there, waiting for her ; and she repeated
the question with a fierce anxiety that proved how
closely it concerned her.

*' How impatient you grow ! Like every woman.
Everything must be done at once."

^' I am not safe yet. I begin to doubts'

'^ Can't you trust me ? I have assured you it will end
as you wish. When have I disappointed you, Lady
Lydstone ? " ^

She started at the sound of this name, once familiar,
but surrounded now by memories at once painful and
terrible.

*^ It is the rule in your English peerage that when a
son becomes a great peer, and the mother is only a
commoner, to give her one of the titles. Your Queen
does it by prerogative."

'^I might have been Lady Lydstone by right, if I had
waited," she said slowly.

'sand you repent it? Bah! it is too late. Be satisfied.
You will be rich, a great lady, respected "

She made a gesture of dissent.

'^ Yes ; respected. Great ladies always are. You
can marry again — whom you please; me, for instance
"

Again the gesture : dissent mixed with unmistakable
disgust.

^^ You are not too flattering, Cyprienne. Do not

presume on my good-nature, and remember "

'' What, pray ? "

^' What you owe me. I am entitled to claim my
reward. You must repay me some day's
^' By marrying you ? "

Her voice, as usual, began to tremble when she found
herself in antagonism with this man.

'' If that be the price I ask. Why not ? We ought
to be happy together. We have so much in common,

so many secrets "

Enough of this ! ^' she said shortly, but not
bravely.

^^ And to be Lady Lydstone's husband would give mea
certain status — a sufficient income. I could help you
to educate the boy, whom, by-the-way, I have never
seen. Yes ; the notion pleases me. I will be your
second — I beg your pardon, your third husband, probably
your last.'^

I must beg of you, Hippolyte, to be careful ; I hear
some one coming."

It was the Swiss butler, who entered rather timidly
to say a gentleman had called on important business,

What business ? Surely you have not admitted
him ? If so, you shall leave my service. You know it
is contrary to my express orders."

He said you would see him, madam ; that he came

on the part of a friend, a very ancient friend, whose
name I had but to tell you "

What name ? Go on, Francois-"""^

"■ The name — it is difficult. Ru " he spoke very

slowly, struggling with the strangeness of the sounds.
' Ru— pert— Gas ''

^' Who can this be ? " Mrs. Wilderss had turned very
white and now beckoned Hobson to step out into the
garden. " Is it a message from beyond the grave ? ''

*' Coward !'' cried her companion contemptuously.
^^ The Seine seldom surrenders its prey. Rupert 
is dead — drowned, as you know, fourteen years
ago."*^

'' But this visitor knew him — he knows of my connection
with him. Else why come in his name ? Oh,
Hippolyte, I tremble ! Help me. Support me in my
interview with this strange man."

"No; it would not be safe. If he knew Rupert
Gascoigne, he may, too, have known Ledantec. I will
not meet him."

Who is the coward now ? "

I do not choose to run unnecessary risks. But I
will help you — to this extent. See the man, if you
must see him, in the double drawing-room. I will be
within calls'

"And earshot? I understand."

"Well, what can I overhear — about you, at least —
that I do not know already ? In any case I could help
you."

It was so arranged. Mrs. Wilderss bade her servant
introduce the strctBger, and presently joined him in the
adjoining room.

'' Mr. Hyde' she began, composedly and very stiffly,
^^may I inquire the meaning of this intrusion? You

are a perfect stranger "

^' Look well at me Cyprienne Vergette. Have years

so changed me ? "

Rupert ? Impossible ! " she half-shrieked. " Rupert
is dead. He died — was drowned — when '^

'^ You deserted him, and left him, you and your vile
partner, falsely accused of a foul crimes''

'' I cannot — will not believe it. You are an impostor;
you have assumed a dead man's name's

My identity is easily proved, Cyprienne Vergette,
and the relation in which I stand to you."

'what brings you here to vex me, after all these
years ? I always hated you. I left you — Why cannot
you leave me in peace ? "

God knows I had no wish to see or speak to you
again. The world was wide enough for us both. We
should have remained for ever apart, but for yo\xv latest
and foulest crime."

What false, lying charge is this you would trump
up against me ? "

^^ The murder of my dearest friend and comrade.
Murder twice attempted. The first failed ; the second,
I fear, will prove fatal. If so, look to yourself,
madam."

What can you do ? " she said, impudently, having
regained much of her old effrontery.

Prevent you from reaping the fruits of your
iniquity. You know you were never General Wilderss's
wife ; you were always mine. Worse luck ! "

*' You cannot prove it. You are dead. You dare
not reappear."

Wait and see'' he replied, very coolly.

You have no proofs, I say, of the marriage. ^^

'they are safe at the Mairie, in Paris. French
archives are carefully kept. I have only to ask for a
certificate ; it's easy enough.^^

"For any one who could go there. But how will
you dare to show yourself in Paris ? You age proscribed
; a price is set on your head. Your life would
be forfeited. '^

I will risk all that, and more, to ruin your wicked
game."

Do so at your peril."

You threaten me, vile wretch ? Be careful. The
measure of your iniquity is nearly full. Punishment
must soon overtake you ; your misdeeds are well
known ; your complicity with "

Why should he tell her ? Why warn her of the net
that was closing round her, and thus help her to escape
from the toils ?

But she had caught at his words.

Complicity ? " she repeated, anxiously. " With
whom ? "

*^No matter. Only look to yourself. It is wars war
to the knife unquenchable war between us, remember
that''

And with these words he left the house.
Although she had shown a bold front, Mrs. Wilderss,
as we shall still call her, was greatly agitated by this
stormy scene, and it was with a blanched cheek and
faltering step that she sought her confederate in the
next room.

Mr. Hobson was gone.

Coward ! he has easily taken alarm. To desert meat
the moment that I most need advice and help ! "

But she did her friend injustice, as a letter that
came from him in the course of a few hours fully
proved.

I heard enough," wrote Mr. Hobson, " to satisfy
me that the devil is unchained and means mischief. I
never thought to see K. G. again. We must watch him
now closely, and know all his movements. If he goes
to Paris, as I heard him threaten, he will give himself
into our hands. I shall follow, in spite of the risks I
run. One word of warning to the Prefecture will put
the police on his track. Arrest, removal to Mazas,
Cayenne, or by the guillotine — what matter which ? —
will be his inevitable fate. The French law is implacable.
His hosier (criminal biography) is in the
hands of the authorities, and will be easily produced.
There must be numbers of people still living in Paris

who could identify him at once, in spite of his beard
and bronzed face. I can, if need be, although I would
rather not make myself too prominent just now. Be
tranquil ; he will not be able 'to injure us. It is his
own doom that he is preparing."

CHAPTER IX.

IN Paris.

Years lead passed since Hyde — lie was Rupert 
then — had last been in Paris. The memory of
that last sojourn and the horrors of it still clung to him
his arrest, unjust trial, escape. His bold leap into
the swift Seine, his rescue by a passing river steamer,
on which, thanks to a plausible tale, in which he explained
away the slight flesh-wound he had received
from the gendarme's pistol, he found employment asa
stoker, and so got to Rouen, thence to Havre and
the sea.

Willingly he would never have returned to the place
where he had so nearly fallen a victim. But he was
impelled by a stern sense of duty ; he came now as an
avenging spirit to unmask and punish those who had

plotted against him and this friend — unscrupulous miscreants
who were a curse to the world.

He took up his quarters in a large new hotel upon
the Boulevards.

Paris had changed greatly in these years. The
Second Empire, with its swarm of hastily-enriched
adventurers, had already done much to beautify and
improve the city. Life was more than ever gay in this
the chief home of pleasure-seekers. Luxury of the
showiest kind . everywhere in the ascendant ; smart
equipages and gaily-dressed crowds, the shop-fronts
glittering with artistic treasures, every one outwardly
happy, and leading a careless, joyous existence.

Englishmen, officers especially, were just nov welcome
guests in Paris. Mr. Hyde, of the Royal Picts,
as he entered himself upon the hotel register, with his
soldierly air, his Crimean beard, and his arm in a sling,
attracted general attention. He was treated with extraordinary
politeness everywhere by the most polite
people in the world. When he asked a question a
dozen answers were ready for him — a dozen officious
friends were prepared to escort him anywhere.

But Rupert Hyde wanted no one to teach him his
way about Paris. Within an hour of his arrival, after
he had hastily changed the garments he had worn on
the night journey, had sallied forth, and, entering the
long Rue Lafayette, made straight to the headquarters
of the 21st arrondissement. Urgent business of a public

VOL. II. H

nature had brought him to Paris but this was a private
matter which he desired to dispose of before he attended
to anything else.

The place he sought was easily found. It was a plain
gateway of yellowish-white stone, over which hung a
brand-new tricolour from a flag-staff fixed at an angle,
and on either side a striped sentry-box containing a
Garde de Paris.

The gateway led into a court-yard, in which were
half-a-dozen loungers, clustered chiefly around the
entrance to a handsome flight of stone steps within the
building.

Just within this second entrance was a functionary,
half beadle, half hall-porter, wearing a low-crowned
cocked hat and a suit of bright blue cloth plentifully
adorned with buttons, to whom Hyde addressed
himself.

The oflSce of M. the Mayor, if you please."

Upstairs ; take the first turn to the right, and
then "

But surely I know that voice ! '^ said some one
behind Hyde, who had turned round quickly.

'' What, you ! " went on the speaker ; " my excellent
English comrade — here in Paris! Oh, joyful surprise!"

Is it you ? M. Anatole Belhomme, of the Yoltigeurs ?
You have left the Crimea ? Is Sebastopol taken ? the
Russians all massacred, then ? "

'^ It is I who was massacred— almost. I received a

ball here in my leg, and was invalided last month.
But you also have suffered, comrades' And Anatole
pointed to Hyde's arm in a sling. .

^' Nothing much. Only the kick of a horse ; it does
not prevent me moving about, as you see."

^' But what brings you to Paris, my good friend ? "

I am seeking some family documents — to substantiate
an inheritance. They are here in the archives of
the Mairie."

How ? You were seeking the office of M. the
Mayor ? You ? "" And M. Anatole proceeded to scrutinise
Hyde slowly and minutely from head to foot.
^' You, a veteran with your arm in a sling, and that
brown beard — brown mixed with grey. It is strange-most
strange."

'^ Well, comrade," replied Hyde, laughing a little
uneasily, " you ought to know me again."

'close no time, friend, in getting what you want
from the Mairie. Come : I will go with you. Come :
you may be prevented if you delay. ^''

These words aroused Hyde's suspicions. Had
Cyprienne warned the French police to be on the lookout
for him ?

'^ But, Anatole, explain. Why do you lay such stress
on this ? " he asked.

'' Do as I tell you — first, the papers. I will explain
by-and-by."

There was no mistaking Anatole, and Hyde accordingly
hastened upstairs. Anatole indicated the door of

H 2

an ante-clamber, which. Hyde entered alone. It was a
large, hare room, with a long counter — inside were a
couple of desks, and at them sat several clerks — small
people wielding a very brief authority — who looked
contemptuously at him over their ledgers, and allowed
him to stand there waiting without the slightest
acknowledgment of his existence for nearly a quarter
of an hour.

'^ I have come for a certificated extract from the
registers of a civil marriage contracted here on the
27th April, 184 — '' he said, at length, m a loud, indignant
voice.

The inquiry had the effect of an electrical shock.
Two clerks at once jumped from their stools; one went
into an inner room, the other came to the counter where
Hyde stood.

^' Your name ? " he asked, abruptly. "' Your papers,
domicile, place of birth, age. The names of the parties
to the contract of marriage."

Hyde replied without hesitation, producing his passport,
a new one made out in the name of Hyde,
describing his appearance, and setting forth his condition
as an officer in Her Britannic Majesty's Regiment
of Royal Picts.

While he was thus engaged, an elderly, portly personage,
wearing a tricolour sash which was just visible
under his waistcoat, came out from the inner room,
and, taking up the passport, looked at it, and then at
Hyde.

Is that your name ? Yes ? It is different," he
went on, audibly, but to himself, 'although the description
tallies. You are an English officer, domiciled at
the Hotel Imperial, Boulevard de la Madeleine. I do
not quite understand."

Surely it is only a simple matter ! " pleaded Hyde.
Monsieur, I seek a marriage certificate."

^^ For what purpose ? "

^^ As a claim for an inheritance."

^^ Nothing more, eh ! " said the Mayor, suspiciously.
Have you any one, any friend, who will answer for
you, here ? "

*^ No one nearer than the British Embassy, except —

to be sure " he suddenly thought of Antoine, who

still waited outside, and who came in at the summons
of his friend.

^' Oh, you are with Monsieur ? " The official's face
brightened the moment he saw Anatole. ^' It is all
right, then. Give the gentleman the certificate. This
friend" — he laid the slightest stress on the word —
will be answerable for him, of course."

'^ Now, Anatole, tell me what all this means," said
Hyde, as he left the Mairie with the document he
deemed of so much importance in his pocket.

Not here'' said the Frenchman, looking over his
shoulder, nervously. "Let us go somewhere out of
sight."

The nearest wine-shop — I have not breakfasted
yet, have you ? A bottle of red seal would suit you,

I dare says said Hyde; remembering Anatole's little
weakness.

It is not to be refused. I am with you, comrade.
At the sign of the ' Pinched Nose ' we shall find the
best of everything' replied Anatole, heartily, and the
pair passed into the street.

It was barely a dozen yards to the wine-shop, and
they walked there arm-in-arm in boisterous good-fellowship,
elbowing their way through the crowd in a manner
that was not exactly popular.

"Take care, imbecile ! ^^ cried one hulking fellow
whom Anatole had shouldered off the path.

Make room, thence' replied our friend, rudely.

"Would you dare " began the other, in a

menacing voice, adding some words in a lower tone.

Excuse. I was in the wrong," said Anatole, suddenly
humbled.

You are right to avoid a quarrel," remarked Hyde,
when they were seated at table. He had been quietly
amused at his companion's easy surrender.

I could have eaten him raw. But why should I ?
He is, perhaps, a father of a family — the support of a
widowed mother : if I had destroyed him they might
have come to want. No ; let him go."

"All the same, he does not seem inclined to go.
There he is, still lurking about the front of the shop."*^

Truly ? Where ? '''' asked Anatole, in evident perturbation.
" Bah ! we will tire him of that. By the
time we have finished a second bottle "

(C

Or a third, if you will ! '' cried Hyde, cheerfully.

They had their breakfast — the most savoury dishes ;
ham and sour trout, tripe after the mode of Caen, rich
ripe Roquefort cheese, and had disposed of three bottles
of a rather rough but potent red wine, before Anatole
would speak on any but the most commonplace topics.
The Crimea, the dreadful winter, the punishment administered
to their common enemy, occupied him exclusively.


But with the fourth bottle he became more communicative.


You owe a long candle to your saint for your luck
to-day in meeting me," he said, with a slight hiccup.

Ah ! how so ? '' .

Had not I been there to give you protection you
would now be under lock and key in the depot of the
Prefecture.'^

Hyde, in spite of himself, shuddered as he thought
of his last detention in that unsavoury prison.

What, then, have you done, my English friend ? "
went on Anatole, with drunken solemnity. ^^Why
should the police seek your arrest ? "

'' But do they ? I cannot believe it.'"'

'^ It is as I tell you. I myself am in the ' cuisine '
(the Prefecture). Since my return from the war my
illustrious services have been rewarded by an appointment
of great trustee''

*ein other words, you are now a police-agent, and
you were set to watch for some one like me."

f f Why not you ? ^' asked Anatole, trying, but in vain,
to fix him with his watery eyes. ^^ In any case," he
went on, '' I wish to serve a comrade — at risk to myself,
perhaps.^^

'^ You shall not suffer for it, never fear, in the long
run. Count always upon me."

They may say that I have betrayed my trust ; that
I put friendship before duty. That has always been
my error ; I have too soft a heart."

Anatole now began to cry with emotion at his own
chivalrous self-sacrifice, which changed quickly into
bravado as he cried, striking the table noisily —

Who cares ? I would save you from the Prefect
himself."

At this moment the big man who had been watching
at the window returned, accompanied by two others.
He walked straight towards the door of the wineshop.

'■^Sacrehleu! le patron chief). You are lost! Quick!
take me by the throat."

Hyde jumped to his feet and promptly obeyed the
curious command.

'snow struggle; throw me to the ground, bolt through
the back door," whispered Anatole, hastily.

All which Hyde executed promptly and punctiliously.
Anatole suffered him to do as he pleased, and Hyde
escaped through the back entrance just as the other
policemen rushed in at the front.

After him ! Run ! Fifty francs to whoever stops
him ! "

But Hyde had the heels of them. He ran out and
through a little courtyard at the back communicating
with the street. There he found 2i fiacre, into which he
jumped, shouting to the cabman —

'' Drive on straight ahead ! A napoleon for yourself."


In this way he distanced his pursuers, and half-an-hour
later regained his hotel by a long detour.

Rather agitated and exhausted by the events of the
morning, Hyde went upstairs to his own room to rest
and review his situation.

'' It is quite evident' he said to himself, " that
Cyprienne has tried to turn the tables on me. I was
too open with her. It was incautious of me to show my
hand so soon. Of course the police have been set upon
me — the accused and still judged perpetrator of the
crime in Tinplate Street — by her. But has she acted
alone in this ?

'^ I doubt it. I doubt whether she would have come
to Paris with that express purpose, or whether the
police would have listened to her if she had.

But who assisted her ? Some one from whom she
has no secrets. Were it not that such a woman is
likely to have set up the closest relations with other
miscreants in these past years, I should say that her
agent and accomplice was Ledantec. Ledantec is still
alive ; I know that, for I saw him myself on the field
of the Alma, rifling the dead.

^' Ledantec ! We have an old score to settle, he

and I. What if lie should be mixed up in this business
that brings me to Paris ? It is quite likely. That would
explain his presence in the Crimea, which hitherto has
seemed so strange. I never could believe that so
daring and unscrupulous a villain had degenerated into
a camp-follower, hungry for plunder gained in the
basest way. It could not have been merely to prey
upon the dead that he followed in the wake of our
army. Far more likely that he was a secret agent of
the enemy. If so then, so still, most probably. What
luck if these damaging clues that I hold should lead me
also to him !

^^ But it is evident that I shall do very little if I
continue to go about as Rupert Hyde. The police are
on the alert : my movements would soon be interfered
with, and, although I have no fear now of being unable
to prove my innocence, arrest and detention of any
kind might altogether spoil my game.

^' I must assume some disguise, and to protect myself
and my case I will do so with the full knowledge of the
Embassy. It will do if I go there within an hour. By
this evening at latest the police will certainly be hereafter
Rupert Hyde/^

It must be mentioned here that the police of Paris
are supposed to be acquainted with the names of all
visitors residing in the city. The rule may be occasionally
relaxed, as now, but under the despotism of
Napoleon III. it was enforced with a rigorous exactitude.


Hyde had been barely half-a-dozen hours in Paris,
but already his name was inscribed upon the hotel-register
awaiting the inspection of the police, who
would undoubtedly call that same day to note all new
arrivals.

Before starting for the Embassy, Hyde sat down
and wrote a couple of rather lengthy letters, both for
England, which he addressed, and himself posted at
the corner of the Rue Royale.

Thence he went on, down the Faubourg St. Honore,
not many hundred yards, and soon passed under the
gateway ornamented with the arms of Great Britain,
and stood upon what, by international agreement, was
deemed a strip of British soil. m

He saw an attache, to whom he quickly explained
himself.

You wish to pursue the investigation yourself, I
gather ? Is it worth while running such a risk ? Why
not hand over the whole business to the Prefecture ? I
believe they have already put a watch upon the persons
suspected."

*^ I have no confidence in their doing it as surely as
I would myself.''^

Hyde, it will be understood, had his own reasons for
not wishing to present himself at the Prefecture.

*' You propose to assume a disguise ? As you please ;
but how can we help you ?

'' By giving me papers in exchange for my passport,

which you can hold, and by sending after" me if I do
not reappear within two or three days."

You anticipate trouble, then ; danger, perhaps."

Not necessarily, but it is as well to take precautions."


'^ Is there anything else ? "

'^ Yes ; I should like to bring my disguise and put it
on here. In the porter's lodge, a back office — anywhere."


The attache promised to get the ambassador's permission,
which was accorded in due course, and that
same afternoon Hyde entered the Embassy a well-dressed
English gentleman, and came out an evil-looking
ruffian, wearing the blue blouse and high silk cap of
the working classes. One sleeve of the blouse hung
loose across his chest, as though he had lost his arm,
but his injured limb was safe underneath the garment.
His beard was trimmed close, and on either side of his
forehead were two great curls, plastered flat on the
temple, after the fashion so popular with French
roughs.

In this attire he plunged into the lowest depths of
the city.

Amongst the papers seized at the Maltese baker's in
Kadikoi were several that gave an address in Paris.
This place was referred to constantly as the headquarters
of the organisation which supplied the Russian
enemy with intelligence, and at which a certain mysterious

person — the leading spirit evidently of the
whole nefarious company — was to be found.

'i'll find out all about him and his confederates
before Tm many hours older said Hyde, confidently,
as he presented himself at the porter's lodge of a tall,
six-storied house, of mean and forbidding aspect, close
to the Faubourg St. Martin. It was let out in small
lodgings to tenants as decayed and disreputable as
their domicile.

'' M. Sabatier ? " asked Hyde, boldly, of the porter.

On the fifth floor, the third door to the right," was
the reply.

Hyde mounted the stairs and knocked at the door
indicated. •

^' Well ? '''' asked an old woman who opened it.

'^ The patron — is he here ? I must speak to him."*^

'^ Who are you ? What brings you ? " The old woman
still held the door ajar, and denied him admission.

I have news from the Crimea — important news —
from the Maltese."

'^ Joe ? " asked the old woman, still suspicious.

Hyde nodded, and said sharply —

Be quick ! The patron must know at once. You
will have to answer for this delay."

He is absent — come again tomorrow," replied the
old woman, sulkily.

It will be worse for him — for all of us — if he does
not see me at once."

'^ I tell you lie is absent. You must come again ; ^'
and with that the woman shut the door in his face.

What was Hyde to do now ? Watch outside ? That
would hardly be safe. The police, he knew, were on
the look-out already, and they would be suspicious of
any one engaged in the same game.

There was nothing for it but to take the old woman's
reply for truth and wait till the following day. Hyde
knew his Paris well enough to find a third-class hotel
or lodging-house suitable for such a man as he now
seemed, and here, after wandering through the streets
for hours, dining at a low restaurant and visiting the
gallery of a theatre, he sought and easily obtained a bed.

Next day he returned to the Faubourg St. Martin
and was met with the same answer. The patron was
still absent.

Hyde was beginning to despair ; but he resolved to
wait one more day, intending, if still unsuccessful, to
surrender the business to other hands.

But on the third day he was admitted.

The patron will see you,'"* said the old woman, as
she led him into a small but well-lighted room communicating
with another, into which she passed, locking
the door behind her.

They kept him waiting ten minutes or more, during
which he had an uncomfortable feeling he was being
watched, although he could not tell exactly how or
from where.

There was really a small eye-lisle in the wall opposites
of the kind called in French a ^' Judas and such
as is used in prisons to observe the inmates of the cells.
Through this, Hyde had been subjected to a long and
patient examination.

It was apparently satisfactory ; for presently the
inner door was unlocked, and the old woman returned,
followed by a man whom we have seen before.

It was Mr. Hobson in person; Ledantec really, as
Hyde immediately saw, in spice of the smug, smooth
exterior, the British-cut whiskers, and the unmistakable
British garb.

^^ Here is the patrons' said the old woman ; " tell
him what you have to say'' ^

Hyde, addressing himself to Mr. Hobson, began his
story in the most perfect French he could command.
He spoke the language well, and had no reason to fear
that his accent would betray him.

The patron speaks no French' put in the old
woman. 'you ought to know that. Tell me, and I
will interpreters

Mr. Hobson played his part closely, that was clear.
A Frenchman by birth, he could hardly be ignorant of
or have forgotten his own tongue.

Hyde, following these instructions, told his story in
the briefest words. How Valetta Joe had been seized,
his shop ransacked, and many compromising papers
brought to light.

'^ Ask him how lie knows this," said Mr. Hobson
quietly.

My brother lias written to me from the Crimea.
He was in the camp when the baker was seized."

*^ What is his brother's name ? "

'^ Eugene Chabot, of the 39th Algerian battalion""

This was a name given in the papers seized.

^' Was it he who gave this address ? How did the
fellow come here ? Ask him that."

'^Yes/' Hyde said; he had learned the patron's
address from his brother, who had urged him to come
and tell what had happened without a mementos delay.

Mr. Hobson, alias Ledantec, had listened attentively
to this friendly message as it was interpreted to him bit
by bit, but without betraying the slightest concern.
Suddenly he changed his demeanour.

^^Ecoutez-moi!'''' he cried in excellent French, looking
up and darting a fierce look at the man in front of him.
Listen ! You have played a bold game and lost it.
You did not hold a sufficiently strong hand."

Hyde stood sullenly silent and unconcerned, but he
felt he was discovered.

^^ In your charming and for the most part veracious
story there is only one slight mistake, my good friend."

^' I do not understand."

^' I will t^U you. Eugene Chabot, your brother ? —
yes ; your brother. Well, he could not have written to
you as you tell me "

5J

But I assure you —
^^For the simple reason, that, just one week before
the seizure of Valetta Joe, Chabot was killed — in a
sortie from the enemy's lines'

Impossible ! I "

^' Have been lying throughout and must take the
consequences. You have thrust your head into the
lion's jaw. Hold ! "

Seeing that Hyde had thrust his one hand beneath
his blouse, seeking, no doubt, for some concealed
weapon, Hobson suddenly struck a bell on the table
before him.

Four men rushed in.

Seize him before he can use his arm ! Seize him,
and unmask him ! "

The ruffians, laying violent hands on Hyde, tore off
his blouse and dragged the wig with its elaborate curls
from his head. In the struggle he gave a sharp cry of
pain. They had touched too roughly the still helpless
arm which hung in its sling beneath the blouse.

Ah ! I knew I could not be mistaken. It is you,
then, Rupert Gascoigne ! I thought I recognised you
from the first, although it is years and years since we
met''

'^ Not quite, villain ! Cowardly traitor, murderer,
despoiler of the dead ! "

What do you mean by that ? "

That I saw you at your craven work just after the

VOL. II. I

Alma ; you ought to have been shot then. The world
would have been well rid of a miscreant."

^^ Pretty language, truly, Mr. Gascoigne ! I must
strive to deserve it."

^^ What are you going to do with me ? "

^^ I am not sure. Only do not hope for mercy. You
know too much. I might make away with you at
once "

^^ But why spill blood?" he went on, musing aloud.
The guillotine will do your business in due course if I
hand you over to the law. That will be best, safest ;
the most complete riddance, perhaps."

There was a pause.

'you see you are altogether in my power," said
Ledantec, '' either way. But I am not unreasonable. I
am prepared to spare you — for the present," he said,
with an evil smile — " only for the present, and according
as you may behave."

On what conditions will you spare me — for the
present ? " asked Hyde, elated at the unexpected
chance thus given him.

'' Tell me how you came to know of this address.
Who sent you here ? "

"Palette Joe, the Maltese baker at Kadikoi."

'describe him to me," asked Ledantec, to try Hyde.

Hyde had seen Joe more than once in his rides
through the hut-town, and his answer was perfectly
satisfactory.

'' Did he send any message ?"

^' Just what I have told you. I was to let you know
of his arrest and of the danger you would run."

Ledantec was deceived by the straightforward and
unhesitating way in which Hyde told his story.

*^ It may be so. At any rate, the warning must not
be despised. Whether or not you are to be trusted
remains to be seen. But I will keep you safe for a day
or two longer and see what turns up. In any case you
cannot do much mischief to Cypri^nne while shut fast
here."

Cyprienne ? " said Hyde, quite innocently.
I am quite aware of one reason that brought you to
Paris, but, as I have said, you cannot well execute your
threats so long as we hold you tight."

Hyde shook his head as though these remarks were
completely unintelligible. But he laughed within himself
at the thought that he had already outwitted both
Cyprienne and her accomplice, and that, wherever he
was, a prisoner or at large, events would work out her
discomfiture without him.

He had no fears for himself. They had promised
him at the British Embassy that he should be sought
out if he did not reappear within three days. Besides,
the French police had their eyes on the house. The
tables would presently be turned upon his captors in a
way that they little expected.

When, therefore, he was led by Ledantec's orders
into a little back room dimly lighted by a window

i2

looking on to a blank wall, he went like a lamb. But
physically he was not particularly comfortable ; there
were pleasant ways of spending the day than tied
hand and foot to the legs of a bedstead, and Ledantec's
farewell speech was calculated to disturb his equanimity.
Don't make a sound or a move, mind. If you

do " and he produced a glittering knife, with a

look that could not be misunderstood.

CHAPTER X.

SUSPENSE.

McKay must have slept for many hours. Daylight was
fading, and the den he occupied was nearly dark, when
he was aroused by the voices of his Russian fellow-lodgers
coming off duty for the night.

They were rough, simple fellows most of them :
boorish peasants torn from their village homes, and
forced to fight in their Cares quarrel, which he was
pleased to call a holy war. Coarse, uncultivated, but
not unkindly, and they gathered around McKay, staring
curiously at him, and plying him with questions.

His command of their language soon established
amicable relations, and presently, when supper was
ready, a nauseous mess of pasha, or thick oatmeal
porridge, boiled with salt pork, they hospitably invited
him to partake. He was a prisoner, but an honoured

guest , and they freely pressed their flasks of vodhhi
upon him when with great difficulty he had swallowed
a few spoonfuls of the black porridge.

They talked too, incessantly, notwithstanding their
fatigue, always on the same subject, this interminable
siege.

'' It's weary works said one. " I long for home."

'^ They will never take the place ; Father Todleben
will see to that. Why do they not go, and leave us in
peace ? "

It is killing work : in the batteries day and night ;
always in danger under this hellish fire. This is the
best place. You are better off, comrade, than we "
(this was to McKay) ; " for you are safe under cover
here, and in the open a man may be killed at any
time''

'^ He has dangers of his own to f ace,'^ said the under-officer
in charge of the barrack, grimly. ^' Do not envy
him till after tomorrow. '^

McKay heard these fords without emotion. He was
too wretched, too much dulled by misfortune and the
misery of his present condition, to feel fresh pain.

Yet he slept again, and was in a dazed, half-stupid
state when they fetched him out next morning and
marched him down to the waters edge, where he was
put into a man-of-war's boat and rowed across to the
north side of the harbour.

Prince Gortschakoff, the Russian commander-in-chief,
had sent for him, and about noon he was taken

before the great man, who had his head-quarters in the
Star Forts well out of reach of the besiegers' fire.

The Prince, a portly, imposing figure, of haughty-demeanour,
and speaking imperiously, accosted McKay
very curtly.

'^ I know all about you. Whether you are spy or
traitor matters little : your life is forfeited. But I will
spare it on one condition. Tell me unreservedly what
is going on in the enemy's lines."

^' I should indeed deserve your unjust epithets if I
replied' was all McKay's answer.

'^ What reinforcements have reached the allies lately ?^^
went on the Prince, utterly ignoring McKay's refusal,
and looking at him fiercely. '^ Speak out at onq^."

Our hero bore the gaze unflinchingly, and said
nothing.

^' We know that the French Imperial Guard have
arrived, and that many new regiments have joined the
English. Is an immediate attack contemplated ? "

McKay was still silent.

^^ Ill-conditioned, obstinate fool ! " cried the Prince,
angrily. '' It is your only chance. Speak, or prepare
to die ! "

You have no right to press me thus. I refuse distinctly
to betray my own side."

Your own side ! You are a Russian — it is your
duty to tell us. But I will not bandy words with you.
Let him be taken back to a place of safety and await
my orders."

Once more McKay gave himself up for lost. When
he regained the wretched casemate that was his prison
he hardly hoped to leave it, except when summoned for
execution.

But that day passed without incident, a second also,
and a third. Still our hero found himself alive.

Had they forgotten him ? Or were they too busily
engaged to attend to so small a matter as sending him
out of the world.

The latter seemed most probable. Another bombardment,
the most incessant and terrible of any that preceded
it, as McKay thought. Although hidden away,
so to speak, in the bowels of the earth, he plainly heard
the continuous cannonade, the roar of the round-shot,
the murderous music of the shells as they sang through
the air, and presently exploded with tremendous noise.

He was to have a still livelier experience of the
terrible mischief caused by the ceaseless fire of his
friends.

Late in the afternoon of the fourth day he was called
forth, always m imminent peril of his life, and taken
round the head of a harbour which was filled with men-of-war,
past the Creek Battery, and up into the main
town. They halted him at the door of a handsome
building, greatly dilapidated by round-shot and shell.
This was the naval library, the highest spot in Sebastopol,
a centre and focus of danger, but just now
occupied by the chiefs of the Russian garrison.

McKay waited, wondering what would happen to

him, and in a few minutes narrowly escaped death more
than once. First a shell burst in the street close to
him, and two bystanders were struck down by the fragments
; then another shell struck a house opposite, and
covered the neighbouring space with splinters large and
small ; next a round-shot tore down the thoroughfare,
carrying everything before it.

It was no safer inside than out. Yet McKay was
glad when they marched him in before the generals,
who were seated at the open window of the topmost
look-out, scanning the besiegers' operations with their
telescopes.

^' What is the meaning of this fire ? Have you any
idea ? " It was Todleben who asked the question.
^^ Does it prelude a general attack ? ^^

I cannot tell you," replied McKay.

Was there no talk in the enemy's lines of an expected
assault ? " asked another.

'' I do not know."

'^ You must know. You are on the headquarter-staff
of the British army."

"Who told you so? You have always denied my
claim to be treated as an English officer."

Because you are a traitor to your own country.
But it is as I say. We know as a fact that you belong
to Lord Raglan's staff ; how we know it you need not
ask."

The fact was, of course, made patent by the English
commander-in-chief, in his repeated attempts to secure

McKay's release and exchange. But the prisoner
had been told nothing of these efforts or of the
peremptory refusal that had met Lord Raglan's
demands.

I told you it would be no use' interrupted a third.
He is as obstinate as a mule."

^' Stay ! what is that ? ''"' cried Todleben, suddenly.
'^ Over there, in the direction of the Green Mamelon."

Three rockets were seen to shoot up into the evening
sky.

It is some signal' said another. '^ Yes ; heavy
columns are beginning to climb the slopes away thereto
our left."

^' And the British troops are collecting in front of
the Quarries."

At this moment the besiegers' fire, which had
slackened perceptibly, was re-opened with redoubled
strength.

Let every one return to his station without delay'
said Todleben, briefly. ^' A serious crisis is at hand.
The attack points to the Malakoff, which, as you all
know, is the key of our position."

^' Hush ! " said one of the other generals, pointing to
McKay.

'what matter?" replied Todleben. ^^ He can
hardly hope to pass on the intelligence."

But the words were not lost upon our hero, although
he had but little time then to consider their deep
meaning.

'what shall we do with the prisoner?" asked his
escort.

Take him back to his place o£ confinement''

McKay's heart was lighter that evening than it had
been at any time since his capture. He remembered
now that this was the 7th of June, the day settled for
the night attack upon the Mamelon and Quarries, and he
hoped that if these succeeded, as they must, they would
probably be followed by a further assault upon the
principal inner defences of the town.

He spent the evening and the greater part of the
night in the deepest agitation, hoping hourly, momentarily,
for deliverance.

None came, no news even; but that the struggle was
being fought out strenuously he knew from the absence
of the men that occupied his casemate, all of whom
were doubtless engaged. But towards daylight one or
two dropped in who had been wounded and forced to
retire from the batteries. From them he learnt something
of what had occurred.

The French had stormed the works on the left of the
Russian front, and had carried them once, twice, three
times. The Russians had returned again and again to
recover their lost redoubts, but had been obliged to
surrender them in the end.

In the same way the English had attacked the ambuscades
— what we call the Quarries — and between
night and dawn the Russians had made four separate

attempts to recover what had been lost at the first
onslaught.

And now it is over ? "

No one can say. We have suffered fearfully ; weare
almost broken down. If the enemy presses we
shall have to give up the town."

Pray God they may come on ! " cried McKay,
counting the moments till relief came.

But bitter disappointment was again his portion.
The day grew on, and, instead of renewed firing, perfect
quiet supervened. There was a truce, he was told,
on both sides, to bury the dead.

Now followed several dreary days, when hope had
sunk again to its lowest ebb, and all his worst apprehensions
revived. It was like a living death ; he was a
close prisoner, and never a word reached him that any
of his friends were concerning themselves with his
miserable fate.

Again there came a glimpse of hope. Surely there
was good cause : in the renewal of the bombardment,
which, after an interval of a few days, revived with yet
fiercer intention and unwavering persistence.

Surely this meant another — possibly the final — and
supreme attack ?

The firing continued without intermission for four
days. It was increased and intensified by an attack of
the allied fleet upon the seaward batteries. This new
bombardment made itself evident from the direction of

the sounds, and the merciless execution of the fiery
rockets that fell raging into the town.

At length, in the dead of night, McKay was aroused
from fitful sleep by the beating of drums and trumpets
sounding the assembly.

It was a general alarm. Troops were heard hurrying*
to their stations from all directions, and in the midst of
it all was heard — for a moment there had been a lull
in the cannonade — a sharp, long-sustained sound gf
musketry fire.

Evidently an attack, but on what points it was made,
and how it fared, McKay at first could have no idea.
But, as he listened anxiously to the sounds of conflict, it
was clear that the tide of battle was raging nearer to
him now than on any previous occasion.

He waited anxiously, his heart beating faster and
faster, as each minute the firing grew nearer and
nearer. He was in ignorance of the exact nature of
the attack until, as on the last occasion, the Russian
soldiers came back by twos and threes and re-entered
the casemate.

'^ What is going on in the front ? '' McKay asked.

*' The enemy are advancing up the ravine. We have
been driven out of the cemetery, and I doubt whether
we shall hold our ground."

They are coming on in thousands ! " cried a new
arrival. " This place is not safe. Let us fall back to
the Karabel barrack."

*' You had better come too"* said one soldier thoughtfully
to McKay, as he gathered up the long skirts of
his grey great - coat to allow of more expeditious
retreat.

'' All right' said McKay, '' I will follow."

And taking advantage of the confusion, during which
the sentries on the casemate had withdrawn, he left his
prison-chamber and got out into the main road.

The fusilade was now close at hand ; bullets whistled
continually around and pinged with a dull thud as they
flattened against the rocky ground.

The assailants were making good progress. McKay,
as he crouched below a wall on the side of the road,
could hear the glad shouts of his comrades as, with
short determined rushes, they charged forward from
point to point.

His situation was one of imminent peril truly, for he
was between two fires. But what did he care ? Only
a few minutes more, if he could but lie close, and he
would be once more surrounded by his own men.

While he waited the dawn broke, and he could watch
for himself the progress the assailants made. They
were now climbing along the slopes oE the ravine on
both sides of the harbour, occupying house after house,
and maintaining a hot fire on the retreating foe. It
was exciting, maddening ; in his eagerness McKay was
tempted to emerge from his shelter and wave encouragement
to his comrades.

Unhappily for him, the gesture was misunderstood.
The crack of half-a-dozen rifles responded promptly,
and a couple of them took fatal effect. Poor Stanislas
fell, badly wounded, with one bullet in his arm and
another in his leg.

CHAPTER XI.

AMONG FRIENDS AGAIN.

McKay lay where lie fell, and it was perhaps well for
him that lie was prostrate. The attacking parties soon
desisted from firing, and charged forward at racing-pace,
driving all who stood before them at the point
of the bayonet. They swept over and past McKay,
trampling him under foot in their hot haste to demolish
the foe.

But the wave of the advance left McKay behind it,
and well within the shelter of his own people.

Although badly wounded, he was not disabled, and
he took advantage of the first pause in the fight to
appeal for help to some men of the 38th who occupied
the wall behind which he fell.

You speak English gallows well for a Rooskie,"

said one of the men, brusquely, but not without sympathy.
'* What do you want ? Water ? Are you badly
hit ? ''

'' A bullet in my leg and a flesh-wound in my arm."

'' Hold hard ! Sawbones will be up soon. Meanwhile,
let's try and staunch the blood. We'll tear up
your shirt for a bandage."

And with rough but real kindness he tore open
McKay's old gregg so as to get at his undermine.
This action betrayed the red cloth waistcoat he still
wore.

^' Why, that's an English staff waistcoat. Quick !
How did you come by it, you murdering rogue ? "

'^ I am a staff officer." ^

^' Yon ! What do you call yourself ? "

Mr. McKay, of the Royal Picts : 
at headquarters."

'^ Save us alive ! This bangs Bannagher. Wait,
honey — wait till I call an officer."

Presently, when the wounds had been rudely but
effectively bound up, a captain of the 38th came up,
and to him McKay made himself known.

'' This is no time or place to ask how you came here.
Taken prisoner, I suppose ? "

Who are you ? What force ? "

Eyre's Brigade : of the Third Division. Told off to
attack the Creek Battery. We have carried the cemetery,
but what else we've done I have not the least
idea."

VOL. II. K

Haven't you ? Well, 1^11 tell you. You've taken
Sebastopol""

^^ Not quite, I'm afraid'

You're well inside the fortress anyway. I can tell
you that, for certain. Just above is the place in which
I was kept a prisoner."

Is that a fact ? By Jove ! what tremendous luck ! "

But can you hold your ground ? "

"Eyre will. He'll hold on by his eyelids till reinforcements
come up, never fear. And the French
have promised us support."

'* Is yours the only attack ? "

^' Dear no ! The French have gone in at the Mala-off,
and our people at the Redan,"

"How has it gone — have you any idea?" asked
McKay, anxiously.

No one knows, except the general, perhaps. Here
he comes ; and he don't look over pleased."

General Eyre, a tall, fierce-looking soldier, strode
up with a long step, talking excitedly to a staff-officer,
whom McKay recognised as one of Lord Raglan's aides-decamp.


Hold our ground ! " the general was saying. " Of
course we will, to the last. But if the French could
only come up in force we might still retrieve the day.
You see we are well inside, though I cannot say exactly
where."

At this moment the officer who had been speaking to
McKay touched his hat and said to the general —

^' There is some one here who can tell you, I think,

• J)
sir.

Who is that ? A prisoner ? "

sone of our own people. McKay, of the headquarter
staff. A man whom the Russians took, and whom we
have just recovered'

"McKay!" cried the aide-de-camp, joyfully. "Where
is he ? "

Our hero was speedily surrounded by a group of
sympathetic friends, to whom he gave a short account
of himself. Then he briefly explained to the general
the position in which they were.

It is as I thought'' said the general. " We have
pierced the Russian works above the man-of-wai* harbour,
and, if reinforced promptly, can take the whole
of the line in reverse. Will you let Lord Raglan
know? and the attack might then be renewed on this
side''

I fear there is no hope of that," said the aide-de-camp,
gloomily.

Have we failed, then ? " asked McKay.

His friend shook his head.

Completely. I cannot tell why exactly, but I know
that part of the French started prematurely. There
was some mistake about the signal-rocket. This gave
the alarm to the whole garrison."

Yes ; I heard them turning out in the middle of the
night."

'^ And the consequence was they were ready for us

kat

all points. Our attacking parties at the Redan were
met with a tremendous fire, and literally mowed down.
Our losses have been frightful. All the generals — Sir
John Campbell, Lacy, yea, and Sandford — are killed,
and ever so many more. Its quite heartbreaking.'^

'^ And will nothing more be tried to-day ? '"*

'' I fear not, although Lord Raglan is quite ready ;
but the French are very dispirited. Goodness knows
how it will end ! The only slice of luck is Egress
getting in here ; but I doubt if he can remain."

'' Why not ? ''

^* The enemy's fire is too galling, and it appears to be
on the increase."

'^ I fancy they are bringing the ships' broadsides to
bear."

'' Yes, and we are bound, to suffer severely. But
you, McKay ; I see you are wounded. We must try
and get you to the rear''

Never mind me," said McKay, pluckily ; '^ I will
take my chance and wait my turn."

The chance did not come for many hours. Eyre's
brigade continued to be terribly harassed; they were
not strong enough to advance, yet they stoutly refused
to retire. The enemy's fire continued to deal havoc
amongst them; many officers and men were struck
down; General Eyre himself was wounded severely in
the head.

All this time they waited anxiously for support, but
none appeared. At length, as night fell. Colonel

Adams, who had. succeeded Eyre in the command,
reluctantly decided to fall back.

The retreat was carried out slowly and in perfect
order, without molestation from the enemy. Now at
last the wounded were removed on stretchers as carefully
and tenderly as was possible.

McKay's hurts had been seen to early in the day.
He was placed as far as possible out of fire, and his
strength maintained by such stimulants as were available.


While the excitement lasted his pluck and endurance
held out. But there was a gradual falling-off of fire
as the night advanced, and the pains of his wounds
increased. He suffered terribly from the motion *as he
was borne back to camp, and when at last they reached
the shelter of a hospital-tent in the Third Division
camp he was in a very bad way : fits of wild delirium
alternated with death-like insensibility.

But he was once more amongst his friends. Next
morning Lord Raglan, notwithstanding his heavy cares
and preoccupation, sent over to inquire after him.

Many of the headquarter-staff came too, and Colonel
Blythe was constantly at his bedside.

On the second day the bullet was removed from the
leg, and from that moment the symptoms became more
favourable. Fever abated, and the wounds looked as
though they would heal ^' at the first intention."

He will do well enough now," said the doctor in

charge of the case ; "but lie will want careful nursing
better I fear, than lie can get in camp."

'^ Why not send him on board a hospital ship ? Could
he bear the journey to Balaclava ? "

Undoubtedly. I was going to suggest it."

'^ There is the Burlington Castle, his own nucleus ship ;
she is now fitted up as a hospital, with nurses and every
appliance. He will soon get well on board here's''

There were other and still more potent aids to convalescence
on board the Burlington Castle. A band of
devoted female nurses tended the sick ; and amongst
them, demurely clad in a black dress, her now sad
white face half hidden under an immense coif, was one
who answered to the name of Miss Hidalgo.

It was Mariquita, placed there by the kindness of the
military authorities, anxious to make all the return
possible by helping in the good work. The relationship
of the captain to Stanislas was remembered by Colonel
Blythe, and the Burlington Castle seemed the fittest
place to receive the poor girl.

Good Captain Faulks had been taken into the secret.

Poor child ! " he had said. " I will watch over her
for dear Stanny's sake. I was fond of that lad, and
she shall be like a daughter to me."

At first she seemed quite dazed and stupefied by her
grief. She gave up her lover as utterly lost, and would
not listen to the consolation and encouragement offered.

^' Hell turn up, my dear," said Captain Faulks ;

you'll see. He was not saved from drowning to die
by a Russian rope. Wait ; he'll weather the storm."

Mariquita would shake her head hopelessly and go
about her appointed task with an unflagging but
despairing diligence that was touching to see.

Uncle Barto, as he always wished her to call him, was
the first to tell her the good news.

He's found, my dear. What did I tell you ? They
couldn't keep him; I knew that."

^^ The Holy Virgin be praised!'^ cried Mariquita.
"But is he well — uninjured? When shall we see
him ? ''

^' Soon, my dear, soon. He will be brought — I mean
he will come on board in a few days now.^^ *

A simple pressure of the hand, a half-whispered exclamation
of joy in her own fluent Spanish, was the
only greeting that Mariquita gave her wounded lover
when they lifted him on to the deck of the hospital-ship.
But the vivid blush that mantled in her cheek,
and the glad light that came into her splendid eyes,
showed how much she had suffered, and how great washer
emotion at this moment of trial.

As for Stanislas, he was nearly speechless with
surprise.

You here, Mariquita ! What strange adventure is

this ? Tell me at once "

No, no," interposed the doctor ; " it is a long story'.
You are tired now, and will have plenty of time to hear

from Miss Hidalgo all about herself

y>

It was the telling of this story as she sat by the side
of his couch, hand locked in hand, and he learnt by
degrees the full measure of her self-sacrificing devotion,
that did McKay so much good. It braced and
strengthened him, giving him a new and stronger
desire to live and enjoy the unspeakable blessing of
this true woman's love.

They would have been altogether happy, these long
days of convalescence, but for his enforced absence
from his duties, and the distressing news that came
from the front.

Lord Raglan had never recovered from the disappointment
of the 18th of June. The failure of the
attack, and the loss of many personal friends, preyed
upon his spirits, and he suddenly became seriously ill.
He never rallied, sank rapidly, and died in a couple of
days, to the great grief of the whole army.

No one felt it more than McKay, to whom the sad
news was broken by his old chief.

'' It is very painful to thinks' said Sir Richard Airey,
'' that he passed away at the moment of failure ; that
he was not spared to see the fortress fall — for it must fall."*^

'^ Of course it must, sir," said McKay. '^ This last
attack ought to have succeeded. The Russians were in
sore straits.''''

*' It was the French who spoiled everything by their
premature advance. I knew we could do nothing until
they had taken the Malakoff. That is the key of the
position."

'^ You are right, sir. I myself heard Todleben say
those very words."

Did you ? That is important intelligence. It must
not be forgotten when the time comes to organise a
fresh attack."

'^ I shall be well then, I hope, sir, and able to go in
with the first column. I think I could show the way."

^^ At any rate you can say more than-most of us, for
you have been actually inside the place."

And shall be again, if you will only wait another
month ! " cried McKay.

But the doctors laughed at him when he talked like
this.

^' You will not be able to put your foot to the sound
for three months or more, and then you must make up
your mind to crutches for another six."

^^ I shall not see the next attack, then ?"

*' No ; but you will see England before many weeks
are gone. We are going to send you home at once."

^' But I had much rather not go " began McKay.

'' It's no use talking ; everything is settled."

And so it came to pass. The good ship Burlington
Castle, Bartholomew Faulks, master, having filled up
its complement of invalids and wounded men, including
Captain Stanislas McKay, steamed westward about the
middle of July.

CHAPTER XII.

IN Lincoln's inn.

Ledantec, alias Hobson, had at once reported progress
to Mrs. Wilderss. The day after his arrival in Paris she
had heard from him. He wrote —

Have no fears. The police are on his track. They
have his exact description, and are watching at the
Mairie. Directly he shows himself he will be arrested
as Rupert Glascoigne, tried, condemned. They do these
things well in France. Yon will never hear of him

assam

There was much to quiet and console her in these
words. After the dreadful surprise of Rupert's reappearance
she had been a prey to the keenest anxiety.
The whole edifice, built up with such patient, unscrupulous
effort, had threatened to crumble away.

Bitter disappointment seemed inevitable just when her
highest hopes were nearest fulfilment.

But now, thanks to her unscrupulous confederate, the
staunch friend who had stood by her so often before, the
last and worst difficulty was removed, and everything
would be well.

Another day passed without further intelligence from
Paris, but Ledantec's silence aroused no fresh apprehensions.
Doubtless there was nothing special to tell ;
matters were progressing favourably, of course ; until
her husband was actually arrested, she could expect to
hear nothing more.

On the evening of the third day, however — that, in
fact, following Gascoigne's visit to the Mairie — she had
a short letter from Lincoln's Inn. Lord Essendine's
lawyers wrote her, begging she would call on them
early next day, as they had an important communication
to make to her. His lordship himself would be
present, and their noble client had suggested, if that
would suit her, an appointment for twelve noon.

'^ At last ! They mean to do the right thing at lasts
she said, exultingly. "The proud old man is humbled;
he fears the extinction of his ancient line, and must
make overtures now to me. My boy is the heir ; they
cannot resist his rights ; his claim is undeniable. He
shall be amply provided for ; I shall insist on the most
liberal terms''

Fully satisfied of the cause of her summons to Lin-coin's

Inn, Mrs. Wilderss presented herself punctually at
twelve. Although she still schooled her face to sorrowful
commiseration with the old peer whom fate had
so sorely stricken, the elation she felt was manifest in
her proud, arrogant carriage, and the triumphant glitter
of her bold brown eyes.

Lord Essendine was with the senior partner, Mr.
Burt, when she was shown in; and although he arose"
stiffly, but courteously, from his seat, did not take her
outstretched hand, while his greeting was cold and
formal in the extreme.

There was a long pause, and, as neither of the gentlemen
spoke, Mrs. Wilderss began.

'' You sent for me, my lord "

His lordship waved his hand toward Mr. Burt, as
though she must address herself to the old lawyer.

Mrs. Wilderss," said Mr. Burt, gravely and with
great deliberation — ^' Mrs. Wilderss, if that indeed be
your correct appellation ''

And the doubt thus implied, reviving her worst fears,
sent a cold shock to her heart.

But she was outwardly brave.

How dare you ! " she cried with indignant defiance
in her tone. ^' Have you only brought me here to insult
me ? I appeal to your lordship. Is this the treatment
I am to expect ? I, your cousin's widow "

One moment, madam'' interposed the lawyer. " To
be a widow it is first necessary to have been a wife."

Do you presume to say I was not General Wilderss's
wife ? " she asked hotly.

'^ Not his lawful wife. Stay, madame he said, seeing
Mrs. Wilderss half rise from her chair. ^^ You must
hear me out. We have evidence, the clearest seemingly;
disprove it if you can."*^

'' What evidence ? "

'^ The certificate of your other marriage. It is here."

How came you by it ? ^' she inquired eagerly.

'' No matter, it is all in proper form ; you could not
contest it, understand."

Well ? I never pretended when I gave my hand to
Colonel Wilderss that I had not been married before.
He was well aware of it." •

^* But not that your first husband was alive at the
time."

'' It is false ! He was dead — drowned ; he drowned
himself in the Seine."

Your first husband is alive still, and you know it.
You have seen him yourself within these last few days.
He is ready to come forward at any time. It is he in
fact who has furnished us with these proofs."

'^ I shall protest, dispute, contest this to the uttermost.
It is a base, discreditable plot against a weak,
helpless, defenceless woman," said Mrs. Wilderss with
effrontery; but despair was in her heart.

How Ledantec has deceived her !

^' Is that all you have to say to me ? " she went on at

length after another pause. "^ You, Lord Essendine —
my husbands relative and friend one of the richest
and proudest men in this purse-proud land — how
chivalrous, how brave of you, to bring me here to load
me with vile aspersions, to rob me of my character;
my child, my little friendless orphan boy, of the inheritance
which is his by right of birth ! '^

"Do not let us get into recriminations, madam," said
Lord Essendine, speaking for the first time. " It is
to speak of your boy, mainly, that I wished for this
interview."

Poor child ! "

'^ Whatever blot may stain his birth, I cannot forget
that he has Wilderss's blood in his veins. He is Cousin
Bill's son still''

You admit so much ? Many thanks," she sneered.
And since these heavy blows have struck us, blow
after blow, he is the sole survivor of the house. I am
willing — nay, anxious — to recognise him."

'^ Indeed ! How truly generous of you ! " There
was no telling whether the speech was genuine, or
another sneer.

He cannot bear the title, but I can make him my
heir. He may succeed to the position in due course — I
hardly care how soon."

Are you mocking me. Lord Essendine ? "
'^ I am in sober earnest. I will do what I say, but
only on one condition."

'' And that is ? "

That you give up the child, absolutely, and forever."

'^ What ! part with the only thing left me to love
and cherish "

'^ One moment, madam' interposed the lawyers
'' before your emotion overpowers you. We happen to
be able to judge of the extent of your affection for your
only son."

'' How so ? "

'^ We know you care so little for him that for month
you never see the child. It was left in England when
you went to the Crimea "

With my husband. Besides, T could not have made
a nursery of Lord Lydstone's yacht." •

*^ And since you settled in London you have sent it
to a nurse in the country."

'* It was better for the child."

No doubt you know best. However, this discussionis
unnecessary. Will you comply with his lordship's
conditions, and part with the child ? "

"Never!"

Remember, the offer will not be renewed."

And what, pray, would become of me ? You
deprive me of everything — present joy in my offspring,
his affection in coming years. I shall be alone, friendless
— a beggar, perhaps.''^

'^ As to that, you must trust to his lordship's
generosity."

*^ Little as you deserve it' added Lord Essendine,
meaningly.

She turned on him at once.

'' Of what do you accuse me ? "

'^ Of much that I forbear to repeat now. But I will
spare you — I will leave you to your own conscience
and "

^^ What else, pray ? ^*

'^ The law. It may seize you yet, madam, and it hasa
tight grip."

'^ 1 shall not remain here to be so grossly insulted.
If you have anything more to say to me, my lord, you
must write."

'^ And you refuse to give up the child ? "

'^ You had better put your proposals on paper, Lord
Essendine. I may consider them in my child's interests,
although the separation would be almost too bitter to
bear. I may add, however, that I will consent to
nothing that does not include some settlement on myself
"

As to that," said the lawyer, ^' his lordship declines
to bind himself — is it not so, my lord ? "

'^ Quite ; I will make no promises. But she will not
find me ungenerous if she will accept my terms."

And so the interview ended. There was no further
reference made to the unpleasant facts now brought to
light by the letter and documents sent over by Hyde.
Mrs. Wilderss, as we shall still call her, knew that she

could not dispute them ; that any protest in the shape
of law proceedings would only make more public her
own shame and discomfiture. But if she was beaten
she would not confess it yet ; and at least she was
resolved that the enemy who had so ruthlessly betrayed
her should not enjoy his triumph.

YOL. II.

CHAPTER XIII.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

Mrs. Wilderss's first and only idea after she left Lincoln's
Inn was to get to Paris as soon as she could.
She no longer counted on much assistance from Pedantic,
nor, indeed, had she much belief in him now ; but
she yet hoped he might help her to obtain revenge.
Whatever it cost her, Rupert Gascoigne must pay the
penalty of thwarting her when she seemed, on the very
threshold of success.

Having desired her maid to pack a few things, she
hastily realised all the money she had at command and
started by the night-mail for Paris.

Paris ! Like the husband she had wronged and
deserted, she had not visited the gay city for years.
Not since she had thrown in her lot with an unspeakable

villain, joining and abetting him in a vile plot
against the man to whom she was bound by the strongest
ties in life — by loyalty, affection, honour, truth.

I hate going back there," she told herself, as the
Calais express whirled her through Abbeville, Amiens,
Creil. '' Hate it, dread it, more than I can say'

And this repugnance might be interpreted into some
glimmering remnant of good feeling were it not due to
vague fears of impending evil rather than to shame and
remorse.

She was landed at an early hour at the hotel she
resolved to patronise : a quiet, old-fashioned house in
the best part of the Rue de Tivoli, overlooking the
gardens of the Tuileries. •

She was shown to a room, and proceeded at once to
correct the ravages of the night journey. A handsome
woman still, but vain, like all her sex, and anxious to
look her best on every occasion.

Hastily swallowing a cup of coffee, as soon as her
toilette was completed she issued forth and took the
first cab she could find.

*'To the Porte St. Martin," she said; '' lose no time."

Arrived there, she alighted, dismissed the cab, and

proceeded on foot to the Faubourg St. Martin, to the

house we have visited already, and in which our friend

Hyde was still a prisoner.

Simply mentioning her name, she passed by the
porter with the air of one who knew her road, although
it was probably the first time she had come there. On

l2

the sixth floor she knocked as Hyde had done and was
admitted much as he had been.

There was no disguise about her, however, and she
sent ki her name as ^' Mrs. Wilderss , just arrived from
England, and most anxious to see Mr. Hobson."

'^ You, Cyprienne ! " said the man we know, who
answered to the names of both Hobson and Ledanlec.
'' In Paris ! This was quite unnecessary. I am arranging
everything. You had my letter ? "

'^ Pshaw ! Hippolyte, you canst befool me,"

'* Why this tone ? I tell you I have done everything'*

You may think so, but in the meantime Rupert has
stolen a march on me. He has got the papers "

Impossible ! ^'

It is so. Got them, and placed them, with a f ul
statement, in Lord Essendine's hands."

How do you know this ? ^'

From Lord Essendine's own lips ? "

How can he have done this ? He — a prisoner's

*^ Are you sure of that ? "

*^ He is fast by the leg. Come and see him. He is
in the next room."

Here ? In our power ? "

Yes : let us go and see him at once."

There was a fierce gleam in her eyes, as though she
wished to stab him, wherever she found him, to the
heart.

Hyde was where we had left him, still bound hand
and foot to the bedstead. He had spent a miserable

night, he was stiff and sore from his strange position,
and they had given him little or no food. But his
manner was defiant, and his air exulting, as he saw
Ledantec and Cyprienne approach.

Have you come to release me ? It's about time.
You will gain nothing by keeping me here."

*' Dog ! I hate yen ! '' cried Mrs. Wilderss, as she
struck him a cruel, cowardly blow on the face.

^^A pleasant greeting from the woman I made my
wife."

Would that fate had never thrown us together;
that I had never heard your name ! "

No one can wish it more sincerely than myself,"
replied Gascoigne. " It was you who wrecked and
ruined my life''

^' And what have you done to me, Rupert Glascoigne ?
Could you not leave me in peace ? Why follow me to
persecute me, to rob me and my son "

'^ Of the proceeds of your infamy ?" interrupted ,
or Hyde, as I prefer to call him ; ^' I will tell
you. Because you dared to plot against a man I esteem.
Whatever has happened to Stanislas McKay, he owes it,
I feel confident, to you. I may never see him again ^'

'you never will, and for a double reason. Do not
hope, Rupert Gascoigne, to leave this place against

And she looked capable of taking his life then and
there.

*^ Come, come ! Cyprienne ; you are going too far.
Mr. Gascoigne has not behaved very well, perhaps, but

it is not for us to call him to account. We will leave
him to the myrmidons of the law. He is wanted, we
know, by the police.''^

Am I ? " said Hyde, mockingly ; " so are others, as
you will find. At this moment the house is surrounded.
The authorities have long had their eye on Hippolyte
Ledantec, alias Hobson, the Russian spy."

The confederates looked at each other uneasily, and
Ledantec said —

It can hardly be so. But it will be well to ascertain
and take precautions. Come ! there is a way out of
this house known only to me."

And, so saying, he went towards the door, followed
by Mrs. Wilderss. Suddenly he paused, surprised by a
loud knocking outside.

They heard the old woman's voice angrily asking
who was there ; they heard the reply, spoken loudly
and authoritatively.

The police ! Open, in the name of the law. Open !
or we shall break the door down."

Next minute the apartment was invaded by a posse
of police, all of whom were drawn to where Hyde was
by his loud cries of " Here ! Here ! "

Let no one move," said the chief of the police,
briefly 'what is the meaning of this? Who are
you ? " This was to Ledantec.

My name is Mr. Hobson, a British subject, and
member of the press. I shall require you to explain
this intrusion."

'^ His real name is Ledantec ! ^' cried Hyde, interposing.
^^ Ex-gambler, and now spy in the pay of the
Russians. This woman is his accomplice."

"' And who may you be ? '"* said the police-officer,
turning to Hyde.

*' I know this gentleman," put in the attache whom
Hyde had seen at the Embassy. " He is a British
officer — Mr. Hyde."

*^ I know better ! " cried Ledantec, with a scornful
laugh. '' I denounce him as Rupert Gascoigne, the
perpetrator of the murder in Tinplate Street, fifteen
years ago. The case cannot yet be forgotten at the
Prefecture."

^' Is it possible ? " said the chief of the police, looking
curiously at Hyde. ^' Surely I should recognise you.
I was one of those from whom you escaped by jumping
into the Seine."

^' I do not deny that I am the man," replied Hyde,
calmly. "But I am innocent, and only ask a fair trial."

"' We must arrest you, anyway. Keep what you
have to say for the judge. Come ! bring them along ;
it's altogether a fine morning's work."

And within an hour Hyde found himself in his old
quarters — a separate cell of the depot of the Prefecture.
The other prisoners were lodged there also, but apart
from him and each other.

CHAPTER Xiy.

THE SCALES REMOVED.

The capture made by the police in the Faubourg
St. Martin was kept secret. Under the Second Empire
nothing was published except with the permission of
the authorities, and they had their reasons for not
talking too openly of Hyde's arrest. He was a British
subject, a military officer moreover, and these were
claims to the consideration of French justice that would
not have been so readily recognised fifteen years
before.

It was, of course, inevitable that the affair of Tinplate
Street should be re-opened. But a new complexion
was given to it by the recent arrests. Hyde had been
interrogated at once by the magistrate who had examined
him before ; the same man, but so different ;

no longer insolently positive and threatening unjustly,
but bland, considerate, obliging. The fact was he had
had a hint from his superiors to treat the Englishman
gently.

'^ The truth must come out now/^ Hyde had said,
when asked if he remembered the circumstances of his
former arrest. ^^ You have the real culprit in custody."

'^ This Ledantec, I suppose ? ^' asked the judge.

^' It was he who struck the blow ; I saw him with my
own eyes, as I told you years ago. Then he escaped by
the window into a back-street; I followed him, but he
was too quick for me. A cab waited for him, picked
him up, and he was driven away."

While Hyde was speaking the judge had turned over
the pages of a voluminous document in front of him, —
a detailed report of the previous interrogation.

'^ Your story does not vary. You have either an

excellent memory, or " and the stern magistrate

smiled quite archly — " or you are really telling me the
truth."

^' The truth ! I can swear to it."

What is more, your story is in the main corroborated.
Shortly after your escape we laid hands on
the very cabman who had helped Ledantec away. He
described the scene as you have, and through him we
got upon the trace of his fare — Ledantec, as you call
him."

But you never arrested him ? "

Until now he carefully kept away from Paris."

'^ But you have him now on a double charges

Him and his accomplice. Justice will be satisfied,
never fear''

How long" will you keep me here ? ''

<( I regret that for the present it will be impossible to
release you. We are compelled first to verify the facts
before us. But in a few days at the latest I hope your
trouble will be at an end. You have powerful friends,
Monsieur."

'^ The British Embassy, I suppose ? " said Hyde,
complacently.

^^ Yes ; and his Imperial Majesty has deigned to go
personally into your case."

Then I can wait events calmly and without fear'*

Presently, when Hyde had been removed, Ledantec
was introduced, and was received with the brutal harshness
which was the judge's habitual manner towards
prisoners.

"Your name, profession, address?" he asked abruptly.

Silas Hobson, an English journalist, residing in
Duke Street, St. James's, London."

It is false ! You have no right to the name of
Hobson. You are not an Englishman. You may reside
in London, but it is only temporarily."

Who am I then ? " asked Ledantec with a sneer.

In Paris, at your last visit, you passed as Hippolyte
Ledantec, but your real name is Serge Michaelovitch
Yasilenikoff. You are a Russian by birth, by profession
a gambler, a blacken, a cheat."

Ledantec, as I shall still call lira, merely shrugged
his shoulders in sarcastic helplessness at this abuse.

You are worse. You are a spy in the service of the
enemies of the State ; an unconnected murderer "

He bent his eyes upon the prisoner with a piercing
gaze, to watch the effect of this accusation.

Ledantec never blenched, and the judge presently
continued

"You are the real author of the crime in Tinplate
Street''

'^ M. Rupert Gascoigne is your informant, I presume,"
said Ledantec sneering; *sit is easy to rebut a charge
by throwing it on another. But you are too clever,
M. le Juge, to be imposed upon"" *

'^ You at least cannot hoodwink me. We have the
fullest evidence, let me tell you, of the crime — all the
crimes — laid to your charge. Your accomplice has
confessed."

This was said to try the prisoner, and it succeeded,
for he started slightly at the word " crimes."

'^ Accomplice ! Of whom do you speak ? ''

'^ There is a woman in custody who has been associated
with you for years. It was she who instigated
you to the robbery and murder of the Baron denote.
She joined you when you fled from the gambling-den in
Tinplate Street, and shared your flight from Paris. She
was with you in St. Petersburg till you separated after
a violent quarrel —

ii

The blame was hers," interrupted Ledantec.

'' Possibly, but you were equally to blame. In any
case she left you to shift for herself. She entered a
great English family by a false marriage, and, when
next you met her, conspired with her to bring the
wealth of that family within her grasp. You again
became her guilty partner, and plotted to take the life
of the heir to a noble English title and great estates.^^

He was referring now to McKay, but Ledantec,
misled by a guilty conscience, was thinking of Lord
Lydstone, and his mysteriously sudden death.

That was her doing ! '' he cried remorsefully. " In
removing Lord Lydstone ^'

The judge caught quickly at the new name.

'' You removed, or, more plainly, you murdered Lord
Lydstone at the instigation of your accomplice — is that
so?"

Ledantec would not confess to this, but the judge
felt certain that he had come upon the track of another
dreadful crime.

'^ There is enough against you," he went on slowly,
'' to convict you a dozen times over, enough to send you
to the guillotine. Your only hope will be to make a
clean breast of everything. By helping us to convict
your accomplice you may save your forfeited life."

"■ But I shall be sent to the galleys; to Toulon or Brest.
Life as a French galley-slave is worse than death."

You will not think so when the alternative is put
before you," said the judge, dryly; ^^ and my advice to
you is to make a full confession."

Ledantec shook this head, but it was with far less
assurance than he had shown at the beginning of his
examination. It was clear that he saw himself fast
in the toils ; that the law held him tight in its clutch ;
that unqualified submission was the only course to
pursue.

He had spoken fully and unreservedly, confessing
freely to every guilty deed in his long career of wickedness,
possessing the judge with every detail of his own
and his accomplice's crimes, when that accomplice was
brought up for interrogation in her turn.

She was ghastly pale : the rough ordeal of imprisonment
had robbed her dress and demeanour of all its
coquetry ; but she faced the magistrate with self-possessed,
insolent effrontery, and met his stern look with
cold, unflinching eyes.

Why am I brought here ? " she began, fiercely.
'' How dare you detain me ? You and your masters
shall answer for this ill-usage. I am an English lady,
belonging to one of the proudest families in the
country. The British Embassy, the British nation,
will call you to the strictest account."

Ta ! ta ! ta ! " said the judge, with a gesture of
the hand essentially French ; '^ I think you are slightly
mistaken ; you are no more English than I am. I
know you, and all about you, Cyprienne Vergette — ■
otherwise Gascoigne, otherwise Wilderss.

'^ Shall I tell you a little of your early history? How
you eloped from Gibraltar, where your father was Vice-consul

; low you came to Paris with your lover ;' your
marriage, your life, your desertion of your husband,
your association with Ledantec, your second marriage,
your plots against Milord Essendine and his family,
your murder "

It is a lie! " she interrupted him, hastily. "I never
committed murder''

^' You compassed Lord Lydstone's death, although
you did not strike the blow. You would have caused
the death of another English officer, but, happily, he
has escaped your murderous intrigues."

Only that morning the French journals had copied
from the English an account of McKay's almost providential
escape on the 18th of June.

^' But your last attempt has failed utterly. Mr. "

he referred to his papers for the name — ^^ McKay is safe
within the British lines. The agent you employed to
inveigle him into danger is dead, but with his last
breath he confessed that he had had his orders from
you. Now, Cyprienne Yergette, what have you to
say ? "

I deny everything. I protest against your jurisdiction."


The Assize Court will hear, but scarcely admit, your
plea. That tribunal and its president will deal you as
you deserve."

CHAPTER XV.

l'envoi.

The Burlington Castle made a short halt at Constantinople,
and another, somewhat longer, at Malta ; a third
was to be made at Gibraltar, where two of our most
important characters proposed to leave the ship.

The delay at Malta was to allow Miss Hidalgo to
make her appearance in the Supreme Court as principal
witness against the baker, Giuseppe Pisan, commonly
called Palette Joe.

The British military authorities in the Crimea had
hesitated to deal summarily with the spy^s offence. He
might have been hanged out of hand under the Mutiny
Act; but such swift retribution, however richly merited,
was obnoxious to our general's sense of justice.

He preferred to leave the criminal to the ordinary

tribunals of his native island. It could adjudge and
carry out any punishment short of death, if so inclined.
In the Crimea the capital sentence only would have
been possible.

The trial was short and summary. Mariquita, dressed
still in the sober, quaker-like garb of a hospital-nurse,
said what she had to say in a few simple words. Her
sweet face and artless manner were the admiration of
the whole court, and there was a little round of applause
as it came out that she had ventured so far and
braved so much out of love for the gallant soldier who
was leaning on his crutches close by her side.

Valetta Joe was found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment
for four years, and with his conviction the
readers interest in him will probably cease. It disposed
of the last of McKay's active enemies ; Benito,
as we have seen, had died in Balaclava hospital, and
Cyprienne Vergette and her accomplice were in the
grip of the French law.

The enemies had disappeared ; friends only remained.
When he landed at Gibraltar numbers came to greet
him, from the Governor himself to the Tio Pedro and
the old crone his wife. Letters had already assured
them of Mariquita's safety, and they wept crocodile
tears of joy as they clasped her once more in their
arms. .

They were her only relatives, and as such McKay
was compelled to surrender his love to them for a time.
But only for the very briefest time. He measured

their affections at its true value, and had no compunction
in asserting his claim over theirs to protect and
cherish her.

He easily persuaded them and Mariquita, but with
some tender insistence, to hurry on the marriage, and
it look place within a few short weeks of their return
to the Rock. Why should he wait ? He was his own
master; the only relative whose consent and approval
he coveted — his mother — had already promised gladly
to accept the girl of his choice.

His great relatives, the Essentials, might question
the propriety of the match, anxious that he should look
higher, and find his future bride amongst the aristocracy
to which he now rightly belonged. «

That was a point on which he meant to please himself,
and did.

When, after a short honeymoon at Granada, the
young married couple returned to Gibraltar and
travelled leisurely homewards. Lord Essendine was
one of the first to welcome him on arrival, and to
congratulate him on the beauty of his bride.

By-and-by, when the days of mourning were ended.
Lady Essendine came out of her strict retirement to
present Mrs. McKay at Court ; and the handsome
Spanish girl with the strange romantic history was
one of the greatest successes of the next London season.
Ere long the future succession of the Essendine title
was assured beyond doubt. McKay was blessed with

VOL. II. M

a numerous family — many sons came to satisfy the
head of the house that the title of Essendine and the
family name were in no danger of extinction. But
Lord Essendine lived for many years after the termination
of the Crimean war, and McKay was a general
officer and a Knight of the Bath before he became the
fifteenth Earl of Essendine.

Having thus disposed of the hero whose early career
was so chequered and eventful, I must add a word as to
the fate of the other actors in this veracious narrative.
First as to Hyde, who continued to be known by
that name to his death, preferring it greatly to the
other, with its painful memories. He remained a
prisoner in the depot of the Prefecture only a few
days. The confession made by Ledantec and the evidence
of other witnesses so amply attested the innocence
of the M. Gascoigne accused of the Tinplate
Street murder that his release followed as a matter
of course. Hide waited in Paris to hear the issue
of the trial of the real offenders, and, painful as it was
to be present at the sentence of the woman who had
once borne his name, he yet listened without flinching
to the whole story. After all, there was a certain relief
in knowing that he was well rid of her. It was little
likely that the Central prison to which she was consigned
in perpetual '' reclusion '' would ever surrender
its prey.

He heard, too, with lively satisfaction, the sentence

of his old foe, Ledantec, to hard labour at the galleys
for twenty years.

With these trials, and the penalties that followed
them, he turned down for ever the dark page of his
life, and presently returned to England, where he spent
the remainder of his leave with his old friend and
comrade, McKay.

After that had expired he returned to the Crimea,
and was present at the closing scenes of the war. He
continued to serve with the Royal Picts for many years
more — the regiment had become his home — and, as he
was in due course promoted to the post of paymaster,
his position and income were materially changed.

He lived to a green old age, retiring from the service
full of rank and honour. Colonel Hyde was long a
notable figure at his club in Pall Mall, which gained a
new and very popular chef when Anatole Belhomme
wrote him that he had been summarily dismissed from
the French police. Hyde spent a great portion of every
year at Essendine Castle, after his friend had succeeded
to the estates, and there was no more honoured guest
than he at the coming of age of Rupert, Viscount
Lydstone, his godson.

The boy whom Mrs. Wilderss had hesitated to surrender
to old Lord Essendine, from greed rather than
maternal instinct, was not neglected by the old peer.
After the mother had passed out of sight, the son was
brought up decently, given a good education, and

M 2

eventually started in life. He adopted the military
profession, and was not denied the support and encouragement
of Stanislas McKay.

Our hero was able to help his uncle, too, the much-aggrieved
functionary of the Military Munition Department,
and secured for him the decoration he had so
long coveted in vain.

Uncle Barto, the worthy captain of the Burlington
Castle, made a snug fortune by his commercial ventures
during the war, and paid regular visits to his nephew,
Stanny. Mrs. McKay, or Countess of Essendine as
she became, could never forget what she owed for his
generous hospitality on board the Burlington.

THE END.

CHAPTER I.

'' The idea is simply preposterous. I decline to entertain
it. I cannot listen to it — not for one moment.
Never ! ''

The speaker was Mrs. Purling, 'heiress of the
Purlings^^; imperious, emphatic, self-opinionated, as
women become who have had their own way all their
lives through.

But, mother," went on Harold, her only son — like
herself, large and broadly built ; but, unlike her, quiet
and rather submissive in manner, as one who had been
habitually kept under — " I am really in earnest. I am
absolutely sick of doing nothings'

^' Because you won't do what you might. There is
plenty for you to do. Has not the Duchess asked you
to Scotland ? You refuse — and such a splendid invitation
! I have offered you a yacht. I say you may
share a river in Norway with dear Lord Faro. I implore
you to drive a coach to keep racehorses, to take
your place in the best society, as the representative of
the Purling ^'

Pills ? " put in Harold, with a queer smile.

His mother's face grew black instantly.

Harold, do not dare to speak in that way. My
father's memory should be respected by my only son."

Old Purling had made all his money by a certain
chemical compound which had been adopted by the
world at large as a panacea for every ill. But the
heiress of the Purlingss hated any reference to the
Primeval Pills, although she owed to them her wealth.

I want a professions"* Harold said, returning to his
point. '' I want regular employment."

'' Well, I say go into the Guards."

I am too old. Besides, peace-soldiering, and in
London, would never suit me, I know."

*^ Bead law ; it is a gentlemanly occupation."

But most uninteresting. Now medicine '^

'^Do not let me hear the word; the mere idea is

intolerable. My son, the heir of the Purlingss must
not condescend so low."

Considering my own father was a doctor' cried
Harold, rather hotly.

Not a mere doctor. A man of science, of worldwide
repute, is not like a general practitioner, with a
red lamp and an apothecary's shop, where he makes
up "

Pills ? " said Harold, again. He was throwing
down the gauntlet indeed. Mrs. Purling had never
known him like this before.

'^ Leave the room, Harold. I decline to speak i4p you
further, or again, unless you appear in a more obedient
and decorous frame of mind."

That Mrs. Purling was what she was, the chances of
her life and her father were principally to blame. He
had begun life as an errand-boy, and ended it as a
millionnaire ; but long before he ended he had forgotten
the beginning. He had a sort of notion that he
belonged to one of the old families in the county
wherein he had bought wide estates, and he himself
styled his only daughter '' the heiress of the Purlingss,"
as if there had been Purlingss back for generations, and
he was the last, not the first, of his race. It was he
who had indoctrinated her with ideas of her own importance

; and these same views had taken so strong a
hold of him that he found it quite impossible to mate
his daughter according to his mind. He was ambitious,
as was natural to a nouveau riche; wide awake, or he
would not have made so much money. Not one of
the crowds of suitors who came forward was exactly to
his taste. He would have preferred a man of title, but
the peers who were not penniless were too proud ; and
the best baronet was an aged bankrupt, who had been
twice through the courts, and enjoyed an indifferent
name. It was strange that Isabel did not cut the
Gordian knot, and choose for herself; but she was a
dutiful daughter, and little less cautious than her
father. In the midst of it all he was called away on
some particular business of his own — to another world
and Isabel was left alone, past thirty, and unmarried
still.

The role of single blessedness may be charming to a
man of means, but it is often extremely irksome to an
heiress in her own right. Miss Purling was like a
pigeon that escapes from the inclosure at a match— an
aim for every gun around. Great ladies took her upas
a kindness to their younger sons; briefless barristers,
with visions of the Woolsack, besought her to help them
to the first step — a seat in the House ; clergymen with

great views prayed her to join them in some stupendous
charitable work, that must win for them the lawn-sleeves
; more than one impecunious soldier pleaded
with her for their tailors, whose bills without her help
they were quite unable to pay. She seemed a common
prey, fair game for every hand. This developed in her
an undue amount of suspicion and a certain hardness
of heart. She began to doubt whether there was one
disinterested man in the whole world.

But before many years had passed she realised that
unless she married there could be no prospect of peace.
Already she had quarrelled with a dozen companions of
her own sex ; she wished now to try one of the other.
But men seemed tired of proposing to her. She had
the character of being as hard and cold as iron; and
no one cared to run his head against a wall. If she
wanted a husband now the proposal must come from
her. Miss Purling in her heart rather liked the notion
; it gave her a chance of posing like a queen in
search of a consort, and years of independence had
made her very queenlike and despotic indeed. So
much so, that the only man to suit her must be a mere
cipher without a will of his own ; and he was difficult
to find. Men of the kind are not plentiful unless they
plainly perceive substantial advantage from assuming

the part. But few guessed what kind of man would
exactly suit Isabel Purling, so there were few pretenders.


Among those who flocked to her soirees — she was
fond of entertaining in spite of her disabilities as a
single woman — was a meek little professor, who lodged
in Camden Town, and who came afoot in roomy
goloshes, which now and again, in a fit of abstraction,
he carried upstairs and laid upon the tea-table or at
his hostess's feet, as though the carpet was damp and
he feared she might run the risk of catarrh. He was
reputed to be extremely erudite, a ripe scholar, and of
some fame in scientific research. But of all his discoveries
— and he had made many under the microscope
and in space — the most surprising was the discovery
that a lady who owned a deer-park and many thousands
a-year desired him to make her his wife. But
he was an obliging little man, always ready to do a
kind thing for anybody ; and he obliged Miss Purling
in the way she wished — after all, at some cost to himself.
The marriage meant little less than self-efficient
for him ; he was to take his wife's name instead
of giving her his ; he was to forego his favourite pursuits,
and from an independent man of science pass
into a mere appendage to the Purling property — part

and parcel of his wife's goods and chattels as much as
the park-palings, or her last-purchased dinner-service
of rare old " blue'

It was odd that Miss Purling's choice should have
fallen where it did ; for her tendencies were decidedly-upward,
and she would have dearly loved to be styled
'' my lady' and to have moved freely in the society of
the ^' blue-blooded of the land'' It was her distrustfulness
which had stood in the way. She feared that
in an aristocratic alliance she could not have made
her own terms. And with the results of this marriage
with Dr. Purling — as he was henceforth styled — she
had every reason to be pleased. He proved a most exemplary
husband — the chief of her subjects, nothing
more ; a loyal, unpretending vassal, who did not ask
to share the purple, but was content to sit upon the
steps of the throne. He continued a shy, reserved,
unobtrusive little man to the end of the chapter ; and
the chapter was closed without unnecessary delay as
soon as the birth of a son secured the succession of the
Purling estates. Dr. Purling felt there was nothing
more required of him, so he quietly died.

His widow raised a tremendous tablet to his memory,
eulogising his scientific attainments and domestic
worth; but, although she appeared inconsolable, she

was secretly pleased to have the uncontrolled education
of her infant son. An elderly lady with a baby-boy
is like a girl with a doll — just as the little mother
dresses and undresses its counterfeit presentment of a
child in wax and rags, crooning over its tiny cradle,
talking to it in baby-language, pretending to watch
with anxious solicitude its every mood, so Mrs. Purling
found in Harold a plaything of which she never tired.
She coddled and cosseted him to her heart's content.
If he had cried for the moon some effort would have
been made to obtain for him the loan of that pale
planet, or the best substitute for it that could begot
for cash. If his finger ached, or he had a pain
in his big toe, he was physicked with half the Pharmacopoeia
; he underwent divers systems of regimen,
was kept out of draughts, cautioned against chills,
cased in red flannel ; he might, to crown all, have
been laid by in cotton-wool. His mother's over-much
care ought to have killed him ; but he had inherited
from her a fine physique, and the lad was large-limbed,
healthy, and well grown.

And this vigilant supervision was prolonged far beyond
tie time when youths are emancipated usually
from their mother's control. Long after he had left
college, and was launched out upon the world, she

kept her hands upon the reins, ruling hij.ii with a sharp
bit, and driving him the road she decided it was best
for him to go. Mrs. Purling had grown more and more
imperious with advancing years, impatient of contradiction,
self-satisfied, very positive that everything she
did was right. She could not brook opposition to her
wishes. Those who dared to thwart her must do it at
their peril ; no nature but one entirely subservient
would be likely to continue permanently in accord with
hers ; and it was easy to predict troubles in the future
between mother and son unless he yielded always a
complete and docile submission to her will.

For a long time Harold wore his chains without a
murmur. Obedient deference had been a habit with
him from childhood, and, however irksome and galling
the slavery, it was not until he had made practical
acquaintance with the actual value of the life she wished
him to lead that there arose in him a disposition to
rebel. Mrs. Purling had all along been chafed with
the notion that she did not enjoy that social distinction
to which as a wealthy woman she considered herself
entitled. In her own estimation she ranked very high;
but the best families of the neighbourhood did not
accept her valuation. Some went so far as to call her a
vulgar old snob ; and '' snobbish," as we understand

the word she certainly was. She worshipped rank ;
and it was a very sore point with her that she was not
freely admitted into the best society of the county in
which she lived. She looked to Harold to redress her
wrongs. Where she failed a handsome young fellow,
of engaging presence and heir to a fine estate, must
assuredly succeed. He might, if he chose, be acceptable
anywhere. There was no limit to her dreams.
He might mate with a dukes daughter ; and after such
an alliance — who would presume to question the social
rights of the Purlingss ?

It was therefore her chief and greatest desire to
make a man of fashion of her son. Her purse was long
he might dip into it as deep as he pleased. Let him
but take his proper position, on an equality with the
noblest and best, and all charges would be gladly defrayed
by her. She wanted him to be a dandy, lepanto
in society, a member of the Coaching Club, well known
at Prince's, at Buckingham, at Lord's ; sought after by
dowagers ; intimate with royalties ; she would not have
seriously resented a reputation for a little wickedness,
provided he erred in the right direction — with people of
the blue blood, that is to say — and the scandal did not
go too far.

Unhappily, Harold's tastes and inclinations lay all in

the opposite direction. In external appearance lie
favoured this mother in disposition he was his father's
son. Like him reserved — he would have been shy but
for his training at school and college, which had rubbed
the sensitive skin off his self-consciousness ; like him
studious too, thoughtful, quiet, with scientific tastes and
proclivities. His friends in familiar talk called him
^ Old Steady " ; he had never got into debt or serious
trouble. Even in the midst of the whirling maze of
London life he continued steadfastly sober and sedate.

Here at once was to be found the germ of discord
between mother and son, the first gap or chink in their
friendly relations, which might widen some day into a
yawning breach. But yet Mrs. Purling could find no
fault with her son. She might resent the staid sober-mindedness
of his conduct ; but she was perforce compelled
to confess that he was a dear good son, affectionate,
devoted, considerate ; and there was much
solid comfort in the thought that the good name of the
Purlingss, as well as their substantial wealth, could be
safely intrusted to his hands. This she readily allowed ;
and, had he continued obedient and tractable until he
was grey-haired, Mrs. Purling might have gone down
into her grave without a shadow of excuse for quarreling
with her son.

VOL. II. N

It was when lie was past five-and-twenty that there
arose between them misunderstandings at first only a
small cloud no bigger than a man's hand. Harold
suddenly declared that he was sick of gallivanting
about the fashionable world ; sick of idleness — sick of
the silly purposeless existence he led ; and thereupon
announced his intention of studying medicine seriously
and as a profession. Mrs. Purling was at first aghast,
then argumentative, finally indignant. But Harold
remained inflexible, and she grew more and more
wrathful. It led at length to something like a rupture
between them. She received the news of his success in
the schools with grim contempt, condescending only to
ask once whether he wished her to buy him a practice,
or whether he meant to put up a red lamp at the
family-mansion in Berkeley Square.

Her persistent implacability gave Harold much pain,
but he did not despair of bringing her round in the
end; only, to avoid further dissensions, he wisely
resolved to keep out of her way : and as soon as he had
gained his diploma he started for Germany, intending
to prosecute his studies abroad.

CHAPTER II.

It was not until lie had been absent more than a year
that Mrs. Purling appeared to relent. She began to
yearn after her son ; she missed him and was disposed
to be reconciled, provided he would but meet her
half-way. At first she sent olive-branches in the shape
of munificent letters of credit over and above his liberal
allowance; then came more distinct overtures in lengthy
epistles which grew daily warmer in tone and plainly
showed that her resentment was passing rapidly away.
These letters of hers were her chief pleasure in life ;
she prided herself on her ability to wield the pen.
When instead of a few curt sentences in brief acknowledgment
of his letters, his mother resumed her old
custom of filling several sheets of post with advice,

N 2

gossip, odds and ends of news, mixed with stray scraps
of wisdom culled from Martin Tapper, Harold began to
hope that the worst was over and that he would soon be
forgiven in set form.

And he was right. Pardon was soon extended to
him, not quite unconditional, but weighted merely with
terms which — Mrs. Purling thought — no sensible man
could hesitate to accept.

She only asked him to settle in life. He must marry
some day — why not soon ? Not to anybody, of course,
he must be on his guard against foreign intriguing
sirens, who would entangle him if they could, — but to
some lady of rank and fashion, fitted by birth and
breeding to be the mother of generations of Purlingss
yet to be. This was the condition she annexed to
forgiveness of the past ; this the text upon which she
preached in her letters week after week. The doctrine
of judicious marriage appeared in all she wrote with the
unfailing regularity of the red thread that runs through
all the strands of Admiralty rope.

Harold smiled at the reiteration of these sentiments ;
smiled, but he had misgivings. Herein might be another
source of disagreement between his mother and
himself. Would their respective opinions agree as to
the style of girl most likely to suit him ? Then he

began to consider what style of girl his mother would
choose ; and while he was thus musing there came a
missive which plainly showed Mrs. Purling's hand.

I have been at Compton Revel for a week "

I wonder," thought Harold, when he had read thus
far, '' why they asked her there ? My dear old mother
must have been in the seventh heaven of delight. She
always longed to be on more intimate terms with Lady
Calverly.'^

I have been at Compton Revel for a week," his
mother said, " and met there a Miss Fanshawe, one of
Lord Fanshawe\s daughters, who seemed to me quite
the nicest girl I have ever known. I took to her
directly; and without conceit I may be permitted to
say that I think she took quite as readily to me. We
became immense friends. She was at such pains to be
agreeable to an uninteresting old woman like myself
that I feel convinced she has a good heart. I confess
I was charmed with her. It is not only that she is
strikingly handsome, but her whole bearing and her
style are so distinguished that she might be descended
from a long line of kings — as I make no doubt she is.

'^ Of course she has moved only in the best circles ;
her mother being dead, she has been introduced by the
Countess of Gayfeather, and goes with her ladyship

everywhere. Just imagine, she has been to State-balls
at the Palace ; the Prince has danced with her, and she
has been spoken to by the Princess ! You know how
I enjoy hearing all the news of the great world, and
Miss Fanshawe has been so obliging as to amuse me for
hours with descriptions of all she has seen and heard —
not a little, I assure you ; she is not one of those flighty
girls who have no ears but for flattery, no eyes but for
young men; she is observant, critical perhaps, but
strikingly just in her strictures on what goes on around.
I find she has thought out several of the complex
problems of our modern high-pressure life ; and really
she gave me very valuable ideas upon my favourite
theory of Made-helps,' to which I am devoting now so
much of my spare time.

'^ Miss Fanshawe has promised to pay me a long visit
at Purlington some day soon — a real act of kindness
which I fully appreciate. It will indeed be a treat to a
lonely old woman to find so entertaining a guest and
companion.

^^ When do you think of returning ? Gollop tells me
there are plenty of pheasants this year. Surely, you
have had enough of those dry German savants and that
dull university-town ? ^'

The hook was rather coarsely baited ; it would

hardly have deceived the most guileless and unsuspecting.
Harold Purling at a glance could read between
the lines ; he could trace effect to cause, and readily
understood why his mother was so anxious for his
return. '^

'' One of Lady Gayfeather's girls, is she ? I never
thought much of that lot. However — but why on
earth should Lady Calverly take my dear mother up in
this way, at the eleventh hour ? ^'

He would have wondered yet more if he had seen
how cordially Mrs. Purling had been welcomed to
Compton Revel.

^' It is so good of you to come to us' Lady Calverly
said, with effusion. '' We are so glad to have you
here, and have looked forward to it for so long."

For about seventeen years, in fact, during which
time Lord and Lady Calverly had completely ignored
the existence of their near neighbour, Mrs. Purling.
Compton Revel might have been a paradise, and the
heiress an exiled peri waiting at the gates.

The party assembled was after Mrs. Purling's own
heart. They were all great people, at least in name ;
and the heiress of the Purlingss was heard to murmur
that she did like to be in such good society — she felt so
perfectly at home. And they all made much of her.

One night lie was handed in to dinner by a Duke,
another by an ex-Cabinet Minister. The latter made
her feel proud, for the first time in her life, of her son,
and the line he had adopted so sorely against her will

^* Mr. Purling paper on toxicology," he said, ^' is
quite the cleverest thing that has appeared on the

subject. My friend. Sir William ," he mentioned

a physician of world-wide repute. " considers that Mr.
Purling will go far""

Lady Calverly followed suit by declaring that Mr.
Purling was a pattern young man, every one gave him
so good a character. They did hope to see him at
Compton Level directly he got back to England.

Then Miss Fanshawe metaphorically prostrated herself
before Mrs. Purling, and by judicious phrases and
ready sympathy completely won her good-will.

'* You certainly made an impression upon her,
Phillipa," said Lady Calverly afterwards.

^' She is a vain and rather silly old woman," Miss
Fanshawe replied. Language that might have opened
Mrs. Purling's eyes.

'' But I am very glad you became such good friends.
Purlington is a very desirable place."

Here, then, was a faint clue to the mystery of Mrs.
Purling's tardy reception at Compton Revel. Intrigue

not necessarily base, but covered by the harmless
phrase, " It would be so very nice '' — was at work to
bring about a match between Miss Fanshawe and
Harold Purling. She was one of a large family of girls
and her father was an impoverished peer. Besides, her
career so far had not been an unmixed success. Lady
Gayfeather's young ladies had the reputation of being
the " quickest '^ in the town.

'^ I have met the son* went on Lady Calverly.

^' Yes ? " Phillipa's tone was one of absolute indifference.


He is a gentleman."

I have always heard of him as a solemn prig —
'Old Steady' he was named at college. I confess
I have no special leaning to these very proper and
decorous ^^^ouths.^'

Do not say that you are harping still on that old
affair. I assure you Gilly Gillingham is unworthy of
you. You are not thinking still of each other, I sincerely
hope ? '^

I may be of him' said Phillipa bitterly " He is
not likely to think of any one — but himself."

I shall never forgive myself for surrendering you
to Lady Gayfeather. Nothing but misery seems to

hans about her and her house. This last affair

5^

There had been a terrible scandal, not many months
old, and hardly forgotten yet, which had roused Lady
Calverly to remove her cousin, Phillipa Fanshawe,
from the evil influences of Lady Gayfeather's set.
Whether or not the rescue had come in time it would
be difficult to say. Miss Fanshawe could hardly escape
scot-free from her associations, nor was it to her
advantage that rumour had bracketed her name with
that of a successful but not popular man of fashion.
There had been a talk of marriage, but he had next to
nothing ; no more had she.

'ewe must have an end to all that,'"* said Lady
Calverly decisively. ^' You must promise me to forget
Mr. Gillingham for good and all.^^

Of course," replied Phillipa ; but the pale face and
that sad look in her weary eyes belied her words.

It seemed as if she had shot her bolt at the target of
life's happiness, and that the arrow had fallen very
wide of the gold.

CHAPTER III.

When old Purling bought the shire estates there

was an ancient manor-house on the property, a picturesque
but inconvenient residence, which did not at
all come up to his ideas of a country gentleman's place.
It was therefore incontinently pulled down, and one of
the most fashionable architects of the day, having carte
blanche to build, erected a Palladian pile of wide
frontage and imposing dimensions on the most prominent
site he could find. It ought to have haunted
its author like a crime ; but he was spared, and the
punishment fell upon the innocent who dwelt around.
There was no escape from Purlington, so long as you
were within a dozen miles of it. Wherever you went
and wherever you looked, down from points of vantage

or up from quiet dells, this great white caravanserai,
with its glittering plate-glass panes and staring stucco,
forced itself upon you with the unblushing effrontery of
a brazen beauty, with painted face and bedizened in
flaunting attire. But the heiress thought it was a very
splendid place, with its pineries, conservatories, its
acres of glass, and its army of retainers in liveries of
rainbow hues. Mrs. Purling was a little afraid of her
servants, albeit strong-minded in other respects; but it
was natural she should submit to a coachman who had
once worn the royal livery, or quail before a butler who
had lived with a duke.

The butler met Harold on his return, extending to
him a gracious patronising welcome, as if he were doing
the honours of his own house.

^^ Misterarold,^' he cried, making one word of the
name and title, " this is a pleasant surprise. You wus
not expected, sir ; not in the least."

My mother is at home ? ''

'^ No, sir ; out. In the porridge. She drove Homers-ham
way."

See after my things. Here are my keys." And
Harold passed on to the little morning-room which Mrs.
Purling called her own. Having the choice of half-a-dozen
chambers, each as big as Exeter Hall, she preferred

to occupy habitually the smallest den in the
house. To his surprise he found the room not untenanted.
A young lady was at the bookcase, and she
turned seemingly in trepidation on hearing the door
open.

'^ Miss Fanshawe," thought Harold, as he advanced
with eyes that were unmistakably critical.

"I must introduce myself' he said. '^I am Harold'

'* The last of the Saxon kings ? "

No ; the first of the Purling princes. I know you
quite well. Has my mother never mentioned me ? ''

^* I only arrived yesterday's the young lady replied,
rather evading the question.

^^ My mother must be delighted. She told me she
was looking forward eagerly to your promised visits

She really spoke of me ? '^

"In her letters; again and again."

I hardly thought "

That you had taken her by storm ? You have ;
and I was surprised, for she is not easily won.^'

Not a civil speech, which this girl only resented by
placing a pair of old-fashioned double glasses across
her small nose, and looking at him with a gravity that
was quite comical.

But now that I have met you I can readily understand."


The same look through the glasses ; sphinx-like, she
seemed impervious both to depreciation and compliment.


^^ And she has left you alone all the morning ? I am
afraid you must have been bored."

Thank you. I had my work."

It was an exquisite piece of art needlework. Water-lilies
and yellow irises on a purple ground. She confessed
it was her own design.

And books ? ''

He took up Schlegel's Philosophy of History in the
original.

You read German ? "

'' yes."

And Italian ? and French ? and Sanscrit — without

doubt ? "

Not quite ; but I have looked into Max Miller, and
know something of Monies Williams."

And this was one of Lady Gayfeather's girls ! Was
this a new process, the last dodge in the perpetual
warfare between maidens and mankind ?

Harold looked at the prodigy.

In appearance she was quite unlike the conventional
type of a London young lady of fashion. Her fresh
dimpled cheeks wore roses and a pearly bloom that
spoke of healthy hours and a tranquil life ; her dress was
quiet almost to plainness ; there was nothing modern
in the style of her coiffure ; Lobo would not have been
proud of her boots. Her fair white hands were innocent
of rings; she wore no jewelry; there was no gold or
silver about hers except for the gold-rimmed glasses
that made so curious a contrast to her young face, with
its merry eyes and frame of mutinous curls.

You will not be angry said Harold earnestly " if
I tell you that you are not in the least what I expected
to find you, Miss Fanshawe ''

Miss Fanshawe ! " Her gay laugh was infectious.
^' I'm afraid "

But just now the butler came in to say that the
carriage was coming up the drive. Harold went out to
meet his mother, without noticing that the young lady
also got up and hurriedly left the room.

'sit's just like you, you stupid boy!" said the
heiress. " Why did you give me no notice ? '^

^^ I meant to have written from Paris. But it's all
for the best. You were quite right. She is perfectly
charming."

'' Who ? ^'

Miss Fanshawe. I have made her acquaintance'

In town ? '^

No, here ; in your own morning-rooms

What'' The ejaculation contained volumes. ^'Was
there ever anything so annoying ! But it is all your
fault for coming so unexpectedly."

'^ What harm ? We introduced ourselves, Miss Fan-share
"

Miss Fiddlestick ! That's Dolly Driver, your father's
cousin ! "

^' Indeed ! Then I wish I had made the acquaintance
of my father's cousins a little earlier in life. Why have
I been kept in ignorance of my relatives ? Where do
they live ? "

Mrs. Purling, instead of answering him, took him by
the arm abruptly, as if to ask him some searching
question; then suddenly checking herself, she said —

Have you had lunch ? It must be ready. Come
into the dining-room."

^' Will not Miss Driver join us ? "

^^ She will go to the housekeeper's room, where she
ought to have been sitting, and not in my boudoir."

Mother ! "

^' It's as well to be plain-spoken. Dolly Driver is not

of our rank in life. Her parents are miserably poor.

Nevertheless — as if the crime hardly deserved such

liberal pardon — '' I am not indisposed to help them.

She is going to a situation."

Poor girl ! Companion or governess ? or both ? '^
Neither ; she will Be either housemaid or under-nurses'



Harold almost jumped off his chair.

A girl like that ! as a domestic servant ! Mother,
its a disgraceful shame ! "

The disgrace is in the language you permit yourself
to use to me. Your travels have made you rather
boisterous and gauche. What disgrace can there be in
honest work ? Household work is honourable, and was
once occupation for the daughters of kings. Happily
the world grows more sensible. I look to the day as
not far distant when the wide-spread employment of
lady-helps will solve that terrible problem — the redundancy
of girls''

My cousin will not continue redundant, I feel

sure."

>i

'^ She is not your cousins

'^ Whether or no, she should be spared the degradation
you propose. She is a girl of culture, highly
educated. You cannot condemn her to the kitchen."

VOL. II. O

'^ The lady-helps have their own apartment ; but I
decline to justify myself."

And Mrs. Purling lapsed into silence. There was
friction between them already.

Where are you going ? " she asked, when lunch
was over.

'' To the housekeeper's room."

Harold, I forbid you. It's highly improper — it's
absolutely indelicate.'^

^^ She is my cousin ; besides there is a chaperone,
Mrs. High, or I'll call in the cook."

'' Do you mean to set me at defiance ? "

I mean to do what I consider right, even although
my views may not coincide with yours, mother."

For the rest of the day, indeed, Harold never left
his newly-found cousin's side. The heiress fumed and
fretted, and scolded, but all in vain. There was a new
kind of masterfulness about her son which for the
moment she was powerless to resist.

Of course she will dine with us," Harold said.
And of course she did, although Mrs. Purling looked
as if she wished every mouthful would choke her. Of
course Harold called her Dolly to her face ; was she
not his cousin ? Quite as naturally he would have
given her a cousinly kiss when he said good-night, but

something in lier pure eyes and modest face restrained
him.

Certainly she was the nicest girl he had ever met in
his life.

^^ Where's Doll ? " he asked next morning at breakfast.
" Not down ? "

^' Miss Driver is half-way to London, I hope' replied
Mrs. Purling, curtly. She was not a bad general, and
had taken prompt measures already to recover from her
temporary reverse.

^^ I shall go after her."

^* If you do, you need not trouble to return." .

Nothing more was said, but anger filled the hearts of
both mother and son.

o2

CHAPTER IV.

'^I EXPECT my dear friend, Miss Fansliawe, in a few
days, Harold. I trust you will treat her becomingly."

'^ One would think I was a bear just escaped from
the Zoo. Why should you fear discourtesy from me to
any lady ? "

^^ Because she is a friend of mine. Of late you
seemed disposed to run counter to me in every
respect."

*^ I have no such desire, I assure you' said Harold,
gravely ; and there the matter ended.

The preparation for Miss Fanshawe's reception could
not have been more ambitious if she had been a royal
princess. With much reluctance Mrs. Purling eschewed
triumphal arches and a brass band, but she redecorated

the best bedroom, and sent two carriages to the station,
although her guest could hardly be expected to travel
in both.

^^This is Miss Fanshawe/' said the heiress, with much
emphasis — " the Honourable Miss Fanshawe.^'

^' The Honourable Miss Fanshawe is only a very
humble personage, not at all deserving high-sounding
titles,"*^ said the young lady for herself. ^' My name is
Phillipa — to my friends, and as such I count you, dear
Mrs. Purling ; perhaps some day I may be allowed to
say the same of your son."

She spoke rapidly, with the fluent ease natural to a
well-bred woman. In the subdued light of the cosy
room Harold made out a tall, slight figure, well set
off by the tight-fitting ulster ; she carried her head
proudly, and seemed aristocratic to her finger-tips.

^' I should have known you anywhere, Mr. Purling,"
she went on, without a pause. " You are so like your
dear mother. You have the same eyes."

It was a wonder she did not use the adjective
"sweet" ; for her tone clearly implied that she admired
them.

I hear you are desperately and astoundingly
clever," she continued, like the brook flowing on forever.
'^ They tell me your pamphlet on vivisection

was quite masterly. How proud you must be, Mrs.
Purling, to hear such civil things said of his books ! "

*^ Do you take sugar ? " Harold asked, as he put a
cup of tea into a hand exquisitely gloved.

She looked up at him sharply, but failed to detect
any satire behind his words.

Harold thought that there was too much sugar and
butter about her altogether. Even thus early he felt
antipathetic ; yet, when they were seated at dinner, and
had an opportunity of observing her at leisure, he
could not deny that she was handsome, in a striking,
queenly sort of way ; but he thought her complexion
was too pale, and, at times, when off her guard, a
worn-out, harassed look came over her face, and a
tinge of melancholy clouded her dark eyes. But it
was not easy to find her off her guard. The unceasing
strife of several seasons had taught her to keep all the
world at sword-point ; she was armed cap-a-pie, and
ready always to fight with a clever woman's keenest
weapons — her eyes and tongue. Upon Harold she
used both with consummate skill ; it was clear that
she wished to please him, addressing herself principally
to him, asking his opinion on scientific questions,
coached up on purpose, and listening attentively when
he replied.

'^ How wise you have been to keep away from town
these years ! One gets so sick of the perpetual
round'

''1 should have thought it truly delightful," said
Mrs. Purling, who, of course, took the unknown for
the magnificent.

^' Any honest labour would be preferable."

Turn lady-help ; that's my mother's common
advice."

'' Harold, how dare you suggest such a thing to Miss
Fanshawe ? Do you know she is a peer's daughter ? "

^^ I thought you said housework would do for the
daughters of kings ; and you have proposed it to our
cousin, Dolly Dri ""

'' Were you at Ride this year, Phillipa ? '* asked
Mrs. Purling, promptly.

^^ No — at Cowes. We were yachting. Dreary business,
don't you think, Mr. Purling ? "

*^ I rather like it."

^^ Yes, if you have a pleasant party and an object.
But mere cruising" — Miss Fanshawe was quick at
shifting her ground.

'^ And you are going to Scotland ? "

^^ Probably ; and then for a round of visits. Dear,

dear, how I loathe it all ! I had far rather stay with
you."

The heiress smiled gratefully. It was indeed, the
dearest wish of her heart that Phillipa should stay with
her for good and all, and she was at no pains to conceal
the fact. To Phillipa she spoke with diffidence, doubting
whether this great personage could condescend to
favour her son. But there was no lack of frankness in
the old lady's speech.

'' If you and he would only make a match of it ! ''

Miss Fanshawe squeezed Mrs. Purling's hand affectionately.


I like him, I confess. More's the pity. Fm sure
he detests me."

'' As if it were possible ! "

'^ Trust a girl to find out whether she's appreciated.
Mr. Purling, for my sins, positively dislikes me ; or else
he has seen some one already to whom he has given his
heart."

Mrs. Purling shook her head sadly, remembering
artful Dolly Driver.

'' You do not know all your son's secrets ; no mother
does."

I do know this one, I fear."

And then Mrs. Purling described the absurd mistake
in identity.

'^ You are not angry ? "" she went on. ^' For my part,
I was furious. But nothing shall come of it, I solemnly
declare. Harold will hardly risk my serious displeasure;
but he shall know that, sooner than accept this creature
as my daughter, I would banish him for ever from my
sight."

It will not come to that, I trust, '^ said Phillipa,
earnestly, and with every appearance of good faith.

Not if you will help me, as I know you will."

Mrs. Purling was resolved now to issue positive orders
for Harold to marry Miss Fanshawe — out of hand. But
next day Phillipa suddenly announced her intention of
returning to town.

*^ You promised to stay at least a month." The
heiress was in tears.

^' 1 am heartily sorry ; but Cecilia — Lady Gay-feather
— is ill and alone. I must go to her at once."

You have a feeling heart, Phillipa. This is a
sacred duty; I cannot object. But I shall see you
again ? "

'^ As soon as I can return, dear Mrs. Purling — if you
will have me, that is to say""

The story of Lady Gayfeather's illness was a mere

fabrication. What summoned Phillipa to London was
this note :

I must see you. Can you be at Cecilia's on Saturday
?— G."

Phillipa sat alone in Lady Gayfeather^s drawing-rooms
when Mr. Gillingham was announced.

What does this mean ? " she asked.

'' I'm broke simply .'"'

^' You don't look much like it."

To say the truth, he did not ; he never did. He had
had his ups and downs ; but if he was down he hid
away in outer darkness ; if you saw him at all, he was
floating like a jaunty cork on the very top of the wave.
He was a marvel to every one ; it was a mystery how
he lasted so long. Money went away from him as rain
runs off the oiled surface of a shiny mackintosh coat.
And yet he had always plenty of it ; eclipses he might
know, but they were partial ; collapse might threaten,
but it was always delayed. He had still the best
dinners, the best cigars, the best brougham ; was hen
= vu in the best society : had the best boot-varnish in
London, and wore the most curly-brimmed hats, the
envy of every hatter but his own. To all outward
seeming there was no more fortunate prosperous man
about town ; the hard shifts to which he had been put

at times were known only to himself — and to one other
man, who had caught him tripping once, and found his
account in the fact. The pressure this man excited
drove Gilly Gillingham nearly to despair. He was
really on the brink of ruin at this moment, although he
stood before Phillipa as reckless and defiant as when
he had first won her girlish affections, and thrown them
carelessly on one side.

How can I help you ? "" asked Phillipa, when he
had repeated his news.

'^ I never imagined you could ; but you take such an
interest in me, I thought you might like to knows'

'^ And you have dragged me up to London simply to
tell me this ? "

^^ Certainly. You always took a delight in coming

when I called."

It was evident that he had a strong hold over her.
She trembled violently.

^' Are these lies I hear ? " he went on, speaking with
mocking emphasis. ^' Can it be possible you mean to
marry that cub ?^'

Who has been telling you this ? ^'

Answer my questioner"'

'^ What right have you to ask ? "

'the best. You know it. Have you not been
promised to me since — since "

'' Well, do you wish me to redeem my promise ? I
am ready to marry you now — to-day, if you please.
Ruined as you are, reckless, unprincipled, gambler — I
know not what ''■'

'that's as well. But I am obliged to you; I will
not trespass on your good-nature. I shall have enough
to do to keep myself'

We might go to a colony."

I can fancy you in the bush ! "

Anything would be preferable to the false, hollow
life I lead. I want rest. I could pray for it. I long
to lay my head peacefully where "

Wherever you please. Try Mr. Purling's shoulder.
You have my full permission.'^

Phillipa's eyes flashed fire at this heartless persiflage,


^' There is no such luck."

Can he dare to be indifferent ? How you must
hate him ! '^

As I did you."

And do still ? Thank you. But I wish you joy.
When is it to be ? "

ct

I tell you there is absolutely nothing between us.
Mr. Purling is, to the best of my belief, engaged
already.'^

'' Not with his mother's consent, surely ? Why, then,
has she made so much of you ? "

No ; not with her consent ; indeed, it is quite
against her wish. Mrs. Purling as much as told me
that if her son married this cousin he would be disinherited.
They do not agree very well together now."

It's all hers — the old woman's — in her own right ? "

So far as I know''

Gilly Gillingham lay back in his chair and mused fora
while.

It's not a bad game if the cards play true."

His evil genius, had he been present, might have
hinted that sometimes the cards played for Mr. Gillingham
a little too true.

Not a bad game. Phillipa, how do you stand with
this old beldame ? "

She pretends the most ardent affection for me."

'^ There are no other relatives, no one she would take
up if this son gave unpardonable offence ? "

Not that I know of. Besides, she calls me her
dear daughter already."

And would adopt you, doubtless, if the cub were

t(

got out of the way. Yes, it can be done, I believe,
and you can do it, Phillipa, if you please. Only persuade
the old lady to make you the heiress of the
Purlingss, and there will be an end to your troubles —
and mine."

Soon after this conversation Miss Fanshawe returned
to Purlington. The heiress smothered her
with caresses.

'^ I shall not let you go away again. We have missed
you more than I can says'

And you also, Mr. Harold ? Are you glad to seeme
again ? "

Harold bowed courteously.

'^ Of course ; I have been counting the hours to Miss
Fanshawe^s returns'

'' Fibs ! I can't believe it."

By-and-by she came to him.

ff Why cannot we be friends, Mr. Purling ? It pains
me to be hated as you hate me."

You are really quite mistaken Harold began.

*' I am ready to prove my friendship. I know all
about Miss Driver — there ! "

'' Do you know where she is at this present moment ?"
Harold asked, eagerly.

You really wish to know ? Your mother will tell

me, I daresay. How hard hit you must be ! But there
is my hand on it. You shall have all the help that I
can give."

Next day she told him.

Miss Driver is at Partridge."

'^ In service V

No ; at home. They live there. Her father is a
Custom-house officer's

That evening Harold informed his mother that important
business called him away. She remonstrated.
How could he leave the house while Miss Fanshawe
was still there ? What was the business ? At least he
might tell his mother ; or it might wait. She could not
allow him to leave.

Mere waste of words ; Harold was off next morning
to Harbridge, and Phillipa reported progress to her
co-conspirator.

*^ It promises well' said G-illy. '' I may be able to
muzzle that scoundrel after all''

CHAPTER V.

A QUAINT old red-sandstone town; the river-harbour
crowded with small craft, but now and again, like a
Triton among the minnows, a timber-brig or a trading-barque
driven in by stress of weather. When the tide
went out — as it did seemingly with no intention of
coming back, it went so far — the long level sands were
spotted with groups of fisher folk, who dug with pitchforks
for sand-eels ; while in among the rocks an army
of children gleaned great harvests of a kind of seaweed,
which served for food when times were hard.

These rocks were the seaward barrier and breakwater
of the little port, and did their duty well whenas
now, they were tried by the full force of a westerly
gale. It is blowing great guns ; the hardy sheep that

usually browse upon the upland slopes must starve
perforce to-day — they cannot stand upon the steep
incline ; the cocks and hens of the cottagers take
refuge to leeward of their homes ; every gust is laden
with atoms of sand or stone, which strike like hail or
small shot upon the face. See how the waves dash in
at the outlying rocks, hurrying onward like bloodhounds
in full cry, scuffling, struggling, madly jostling
one another in eagerness to be first in the fray ; joining
issue with tremendous crash, only to be spent, broken,
dissipated into thin air. Overhead the sky changes
almost with the speed of the blast ; sometimes the sun
winks from a corner of the leaden clouds and tinges
with glorious light the foam-bladders as they burst and
scatter around their clouds of spray; in between the
headlands the sea is churned into creaming froth, as
though the housewives of the sea-gods with unwearying
arms were whipping " trifle '' for some tremendous
bridal-feast.

The houses at Harbridge mostly faced the shore, but
all had stone porches, and the doors stood not in front,
but at one side. The modest cottage which Mr. Driver
called his own was like the rest ; but as he enters, for
all his care, a keen knife-edged gust of the pushing
wind precedes him and announces his return. Next

VOL. II. P

instant the little lobby is filled : a bevy of daughters
the good house-moliere one or two youngsters dragging
at his legs every one eager to welcome the breadwinner
home. They divest him of his wraps, soothing
him the while with that tender loving solicitude a man
hinds only at his own happy hearth.

He unfolds his budget of news : a lugger driven by
stress of weather upon the Castle Rock; suspicions of
smuggling among the roughs beyond Lameness Cove ;
Dr. Holden's new partner arrived last night.

'^ I have asked him to come up this evening. A
decent sort of chap'

Forthwith they fired a volley of questions. Was he
old or young, married or single ? had he blue eyes or
brown ? and how was he called ?

To all papa makes shift to reply. The name he had
forgotten, also the colour of his hair; but the fellow
had eyes and two arms and two legs ; he did not squint ;
had a pleasant address and all the appearance of an
unmarried man.

" How could you see that wise father ?/'' asked
Doll.

He looked so sheepish when I mentioned my
daughters. Doubtless he had heard of you, Miss Doll,
and of your dangerous wiles'

She pinched his ear. They were excellent friends,
were father and eldest daughter. Mr. Driver, a scholar
and a man of letters, who had been thankful to exchange
an uncertain footing upon the lower rungs of
the ladder of literature for a small post under Government,
had for years devoted his talents to the education
of the children. In Dolly, as his most apt pupil, he
took a peculiar pride.

Come in, doctor ! " cried Mr. Driver that night.
^' We are all dying, but only to make your acquaintance."


The new visitor was checked at the very threshold
by Dolly's cry —

Mr. Purling ! ''

And Harold stood confessed to his cousins without a
chance of further disguise.

Cousin Harold, you means' he said, as he offered
Dolly his hand.

She tried hard to hide her blushes ; and then and
there Mrs. Driver, after the manner of mothers, built
up a great castle in the air, which her husband shook
instantly to its foundations by asking unceremoniously
and not without a shade of angry suspicion in his
tone —

^' Why did you not claim relationship this morning ? "

p 2

He disliked the notion of a man stealing into his
house under false colours.

'' I waited for you to speak. You heard my names'

'^I did not catch it clearly. Besides, I had never
heard of you. None of us have. Your mother did not
choose to recognise the relationship.''^

She called you a tide-waiter," said his wife indignantly.


^^ At least I'm not a white-tied waiter," cried Mr.
Driver, with a laugh, in which all joined. Then in low
voice Dolly said —

I met Mr. Purling at Purlington."

At which her father turned upon her with newly-raised
suspicion. Why had she not mentioned the fact
before ? But something in Mrs. Driver's face deterred
him. A woman in these matters sees how the land lies,
while the cleverest man is still unable to distinguish it
from the clouds upon the horizon-line.

^* We are pleased to know you, Harold," said Mrs.
Driver, a gentle, soft voiced motherly person.

You have really come to practise here ? " went on
the father, still rather on his guard.

'^ I wanted sea-air. The change will do me good,"
replied Harold, rather evasively. ^' I like the place,
too."

Not a doubt of it. Harbridge was after his own
heart, and so were some people who lived in it. He
found it so much to bis taste that he declared within a
week or two that he thought of remaining there altogether.
He would go into partnership with the local
doctor ; perhaps he had another partnership also in his
eye.

Can't you see what's going on under your nose,
father ? " asked Mrs. Driver.

'^ What do I care ? I shall not inter fere''

'' Mrs. Purling will never give her consent. Poor
Doll ! " •

That for Mrs. Purling and her consent ! " said
Mr. Driver, snapping his fingers. ^' Doll is ever so
much too good for them — well, not for him ; he is an
honest, straightforward fellow : but as for that selfish,
silly, purse-proud old woman, she may thank Heaven if
she gains a daughter like Doll*'

That this was not Mrs. Purling's view of the question
was plainly evident from a letter which awoke Harold
rather rudely from his rosy dreams.

^^ So at length I have found you out, Harold. I
never dreamt you could be so deceitful and double-faced.
To talk of clinical lectures in town, and all the

time at Partridges philandering with that forward,
intriguing girl ! Only with the greatest difficulty have
I succeeded in learning the truth. Phillipa — who, it
seems, has known your secret all along, and to whom, I
find, you have constantly written — could not continue
indifferent to my distress of mind. Although she has
shielded you so far with a magnanimity that is truly
heroic, she has interposed at length only to save my
life.

I desire you will come to me at once. Do not disobey
me, Harold. I am very seriously displeased, and
will only consent to forgive the past when I find you
ready to bend your stubborn heart to obey my will''

Harold started at once for home. He hoped rather
against hope that he might talk his mother over ; but
her aspect was not encouraging when he met her face
to face.

No tragedy-queen could have assumed more scorn.
Mrs. Purling, having thrown herself into several attitudes,
fell at length into a chair.

I never thought' it," she said ; " not from my own
and only child. The serpent's tooth hath not such
fangs, such power to sting, as the base ingratitude of
one undutiful boy. But this fills the cup. I have done

with you — for ever, unless you give me your sacred
word of honour now, at this minute, never to speak to
Dolly Driver again."

Such a promise would be quite impossible under
any circumstances, but I distinctly refuse to give it —
upon compulsion*

Then you have fair warning. Not one penny of
my money shall you ever possess. I will never see you
again."

'^ I sincerely trust the last is only an empty threat,
my dearest mother."

She made a gesture as though she were nos to be
beguiled by soft words.

'^ As for the money, it matters little. Thank God, I
have my profession*'

At which you will starve."

'^ By which I shall earn my bread as my father did.
Besides, I can fall back upon the reputation of the
Family Pills."

I see you wish to goad me beyond endurance,
Harold. Go ! "

^^ For good and all ? "

'^ Yes ; except on the one alternative. Will you
give up this idiotic passion ? You refuse. It is on

«

your own head, then. Go — go till I send for you,
which will be never ! "

Harold went without another word — to Harbridge,
overcame Dolly's scruples, secured the practice, and
within a month was married and settled.

Mrs. Purling, in Phillipa's presence, made a great
parade of burning her will.

He has brought it all on himself, unnatural boy !
But you, darling Phillipa, will never treat me thus.
Noblesse oblige. The bright blue blood that fills your
veins would curdle at a mesalliance, I knows'

Mrs. Purling was quite calm and self-possessed,
while Miss Fanshawe, strange to say, seemed agitated
enough for both. Her hands trembled, she looked
away ; only with positive repugnance she submitted to
her new mother's affectionate embrace. A woman who
is capable of the most cold-blooded calculating intrigue
may yet have an access of remorse. Phillipa's heart
was heavy now at the moment of her triumph. It
cost her more than a passing pang to remember that
she had robbed Harold Purling of his birthright, and
had turned to her own base purpose the foolish
cravings of the silly mother's heart.

But she had put aside self-upbraiding when she met
her lover in town.

'' Faith, you are a trump, Phillipa ; but it's not
much too soon. When will you take your reward ? ''

'^ Meaning Mr. Gillingham ? Is the reward worth
taking, I wonder ? '' For a moment she held him at
bay. ^' Suppose I were to refuse you now at the
eleventh hour ? It is for you to sue. I am not what
I was. Mrs. Purling calls me the heiress of the Pur-rings,
and we may not consider Mr. Gilbert Gillingham
a very eligible parti."

'^ You dare not refuse me, Phillips' said Gilly very
seriously. " I should expose your schemes, and we
should go to the wall together. No, there is no escape
for you now ; our interests are identically

^' How am I to introduce you upon the scene ? "

^^ Quite naturally ; I shall go and stay at Compton
Revel. They will have me, for your sake, if not for my
own. I shall begin de novo — at the very beginning :
be smitten, pay you court, win over the heiress, and
propose. '''

So it fell out, and they also were married before the
end of the year.

CHAPTER VI.

Mean as had been their conduct towards Mrs. Purling
and her son Phillipa and her husband were not to be
classed with common adventurers of the ordinary type.
Born in a lower station, Gilly Gillingham might have
taken honours as a " prigs ; in his own with less luck
he might have been an Ishmaelite generally shunned.
Phillipa also might have degenerated into a mere
soured cackling hanger-on ; but they were not pariahs
by castCj but Brahmins and entitled to all due honour
so long as they floated on top of the wave. Perhaps if
near drowning no finger would have been outstretched
to save ] but there were plenty to pat them on the back
as they disported themselves on the sound dry land.
Fair-weather friends and needy relatives rallied round

their prosperity, of course ; but they were also accepted
as successful social facts by the whole of that great
world which judges for the most part by appearances,
being too idle or too much engrossed by folly to apply
more accurate or searching tests. In good society
those who cared to talk twice of the matter blamed
Harold j he was absent; besides, he had gone to the
wall, therefore he must be in the wrong. On the other
hand, the Jillinghams deserved the triumph that is
never denied success. To Grilly prosperous were forgiven
the sins of Gilly in social and moral rags. If
scandal like an evil gas had been let loose to .crystallise
upon Phillips good name, the black stains
could not adhere long to so charming a person, who
made the Purling mansion in Berkeley Square one of
the best-frequented and most fashionable in town.

There were many reasons why the Jillinghams
should find their account in perpetual junketings.
Social excitement was as the breath in Gilles nostrils;
notorious for profuse expenditure even when he was
penniless, he was now absolutely reckless with money
that was plentiful and moreover not his own. Nor was
the constant whirl of gaieties without its charm for
Phillipa ; it deadened conscience, and consoled in some
measure for the neglect and indifference she soon encountered

at Iter husbands hands. But the most
potent reason was that it fooled Mrs. Purling to this
top of her bent. Self-satisfaction beamed upon her
ample face as she found herself at length in constant
intercourse and on a social equality — as she thought —
with the potentates and powers and great ones of the
earth. Griliy Gillingham in the days of his apogee had
been the spoiled favourite of more than one titled
dame ; his success must have been great, to measure
it by the envy and hatred he evoked among his fellowmen
— even when in the cold shade there were duchesses
who fought for him still ; and now, when once more in
full blossom, all his fair friends were ready to pet him
as of old. The form in which their kindness pleased
him best — because it was most to his advantage — was
in making much of Mrs. Purling. Great people have
the knack of putting those whom they patronise on the
very best terms with themselves ; and Mrs. Purling
was so convinced of her success as a leader of fashion
that she would have asked for a peerage in her own
right, taking for arms three pills proper upon a silver
field, if she could have been certain that these honours
would not descend to her recreant son.

Whether or not, as time passed, she was absolutely
happy, she did not pause to inquire. The devotion of

her newly-adopted children was so insisting, and
they kept her so continually busy, that she had not
time for self-reproach. It was a disappointment to her
that the Jillinghams had no prospect of a family, and
her chagrin would have been increased had she known
that already a boy and girl had been born to the
rightful heirs at Harbridge. But such news was carefully
kept from her ; she was rigorously cut off from
all communication with her son. There was no safety
otherwise against mischance ; the strange processes of
the old creatures mind were inscrutable ; she might in
one spasm of an awakened conscience undo all. , For
the Jillinghams were still absolutely dependent upon
her; she could turn them out of house and home
whenever she pleased. A small settlement was all the
real property Phillipa had secured. Although with
right royal generosity Mrs. Purling gave her favourites
a liberal allowance, and promised them everything
when she was gone, yet was she like a crustacean in
the tenacity of her grip upon her own. This close-fixedness
was exceedingly distasteful to Mr. Gillingham.
He had an appetite for gold not easily appeased,
and four or five thousand a year was to him but a
mouthful to be swallowed at one gulp.

Openly of course he continued on his best behaviour.

but behind the scenes lie permitted himself to grumble
loudly at the old lady's meanness and miserly ways.

I cannot understand you Gilbert. I cannot see
what you do with all the money you get' said Phillipa
reproachfully one day when they were alone and Grilly
was enlarging upon his favourite theme. ^' You live
at free quarters, you have no expenses and ought to
have no debts."

*' Have you no debts, pray ? ''

'^ None that you are ignorant of''

"Look here, Phillipa; listen to me. I spend what
I please, how I please. I shall give no account of it to
you, nor to any one else in the world."

"^ It is not necessary. I had rather not be told. I
do not care to know," said Phillipa, womanlike, forgetting
that she had begun by wishing to be informed.
She had her own suspicions, but forbore to question
further, lest she might be brought face to face with the
outrages she feared he put upon her. '

*"' She will take to counting the potatoes next. It's
most contemptible. A mean old brute "

I shall not listen to you, Gilbert. You owe her
everything."

'' Do 1 ? I wonder what my tailor would say to that
or Reuben Isaac Melchisedec ? I've more than one

creditor; they are a prolific and, I am sorry to say, a
long-lived races

^' I hope Mrs. Purling may live to be a hundred years
at least ^^

I don't. Fd rather she was choked by one of those
pills you tell me she takes every morning and nights

There was something in his tone which made Phillipa
look at him hard. Was it possible that he contemplated
any terrible wickedness ? The mere apprehension made
her blood run cold.

^' Grilly, swear to me that you will not harbour evil
thoughts, that you will put aside the devil who is
prompting and luring you to some awful crime ! '^

Psha, Phillipa, you ought to have gone into the

Church. Moderate your transports — here comes one of
the footmen.'^

'' A person to see you, sir,'^ said the servant. *' He
'haven't got any card, but his business is very particulars'


I can't see him ; send him away. If he won't go
call the police'

^^ Says his name, sir, is Shubenacady."

Take him to the library ; I'll come""

Gillingham's face was rather pale, and his lips were
set firm when he met his visitor.

f}

What the mischief do you want ?

'five thou — ten — what you please. I know of a

splendid investments

^' In soap ? "

He was the dirtiest creature that ever was seen. He
wore a full suit of black but the coat and trousers
were white with age and dust-stains ; an open waistcoats
exposing an embroidered shirt which could not
have* been washed for months ; his hat was napless,
and had a limp brim ; no gloves, and the grimiest of
hands. But he was decorated, and wore a ribbon,
probably of St. Lucifer.

^^ In soap, or shavings, or shoddy ; what does it
matter to you ? When can I have the money ? '^

Never ; not another sixpence."

Then I shall publish all I know."

No one will believe you."

I have proofs."

'' Which are forged. I tell you I'm too strong for
you : you will find yourself in the wrong box. I am
sick of this ; and I mean to put an end to your extortion."


^' You dare me. You know the consequences'

^^ The first consequence will be that I shall give you
in charge. Be off ! "

You shall have a week to think better of it'

Grilly rang the bell.

Shall I send for a policeman or will you go ? "

He went, muttering imprecations intermixed with
threats ; but Gilly Gillingham quite proud of his
courage, seemed for the moment callous to both. He
little dreamt how soon the latter would be put into
effect.

Within a few days of this interview the greatest
event of Mrs. Purling's whole social career was due ;
she was to entertain royalty beneath her own roof.
This crowning of the edifice of her ambition filled her
with solemn awe ; the preparations for the coming ball
were stupendous, her own magnificent costume seemed
made up of diamonds and bullion and five-pound
notes.

Long before the hour of reception she might have
been seen pacing to and fro with stately splendour, contemplating
the dais erected for royalty at one end of
the room, and thinking with a glow of satisfaction that
the representative of the Purlingss had at last come to
her own. At this supreme moment she was grateful to
dear Phillipa and to Gilbert little less dear.

Then guests began to pour in. Where was Phillipa ?
Very late ; she might have dressed earlier. A servant
VOL. II. Q

was sent to call her, and Phillips hurrying down, met
Gilly on the upper floor coming out of Mrs. Purling's
bedroom.

'^ What have you been doing there ? " she asked.

^^ Mrs. Purling wanted a fan' said Grilly readily.

She might want one fan, but hardly two ; and had
Phillipa been less flurried she might have noticed that
Mrs. Purling had one already in her hand. But then
their Royal Highnesses arrived; the heiress made her
curtsey for the first time in her life, was graciously
received, and the hour of her apotheosis had actually
come. Presently the crowd became so dense that every
inch of space was covered ; people overflowed on to the
landings, and sat four or five deep upon the stairs.
Dancing was simply impossible ; however, hundreds of
couples went through the form. Phillipa, as in duty
bound, remained in the thick of the melee, but Gilly
had very early disappeared. He preferred the card-room
; his waltzing days were over, he said. He was
playing; it was not very good taste, but there were
some men who preferred a quiet rubber to looking at
princes or the antics of boys and girls, and he wished to
oblige his friends.

Can you give me a moment, Le Grace ? '' said Lord
Camberwell, coming into the card-room. ^^ I have had

BLUE BLOOD. 227

a most extraordinary letter. It accuses Grilly Gillingham
"

^' Grot bless my soul' cried old Colonel Le Thrice, " a
letter of the same sort has been sent to me ! ''

'have you had any suspicion that he played unfairly
? ''

Not the slightest ; I know he always holds the most
surprising hands that he plays for very high stakes,
that he nearly always wins

*' Is he winning now ?

Of course. Mr. Gillingham's luck never deserted lira.
He was trying now perhaps to make at one coup sufficient
to silence for a further space his enemy's tongue ;
the bets upon the odd trick alone amounted to a
thousand or more. But he was too late. His hour had
come.

Suddenly Lord Camberwell spoke in a loud peremptory
voice :

Stop ! Mr. Gillingham is cheating. He does it in
the deal. I have watched him now for three rounds''

And so have I," added Colonel Le Grace."

Gilly sprang to his feet. For a moment he seemed
disposed to brazen it out ; then he read his sentence in
the face of those who had detected and now judged
him. There was no appeal : he was doomed. From

henceforth lie was socially and morally dead and
without a word lie slunk away from the house.

The buzz of the ball-room soon caught up the ugly
scandal, and tossed it wildly from lip to lip. " Mr.
Gillingham caught cheating at cards ! " Every one
said, of course, they had suspected it all along j now
every one knew it as a fact, except those most nearly
concerned. To them it came last. To Phillipa, whose
heart it stabbed as with a knife, cut through and
through; then to Mrs. Purling, who, a little taken
aback by the sudden exodus of her guests, asked innocently
what it meant, upon which some one, without
knowing who she was, told her the exact truth.

Quite stunned by the terrible shock, dazed, terrified,
was the heiress, scarcely capable of comprehending
what had occurred. Then with a sad, scared face,
motioning Phillipa on one side, who, equally white and
grief-stricken, would have helped her, she crept slowly
upstairs, feeling that at one blow the whole fabric of
her social repute was tumbled in the dust.

The lights were out, the play was over, the house
still and silent, when, with loud shrieks, Mrs. Purling's
maid rushed to Phillipa's room.

Mrs. Purling, madam ! — my mistress, she is dying !
Come to her ! She is nearly gone ! "

In truth the poor old woman was in the extremest
agony ; it was quite terrible to see her. She gasped
as if for air ; her whole frame jerked and twitched
with the violence of her convulsions ; gradually her
body was drawn in a curve like that of a tensely-strung
bow.

The spasms abated, then recommenced ; abated, then
raged with increased fury. But through it all she was
conscious; she had even the power of speech, and
cried aloud again and again, with a bitter heart-wrung
cry, for " Harold ! Harold ! " the absent much-wronged
son. ^

^^The symptoms are those of tetanus"" said the
nearest medical practitioner, who had been called in.

He seemed fairly puzzled. " Tetanus or " He

did not finish the sentence, because the single word
that was on his lips formed a serious charge against a
person or persons unknown. '^ But there is nothing to
explain lock-jaw; while the abatement of the symptoms
points to '^ Again he paused.

The muscles of the mouth, which had been the last
attacked, gradually resumed their normal condition.
The patient appeared altogether more easy, the writings
subsided ; presently, as if utterly exhausted, she
sank off to sleep.

Harold Purling had come up post-haste flora Har-bridge
; and when the mother opened her eyes they
rested upon her son.

A hurried consultation passed in whispers between
the two doctors. Phillipa was present ; she and the
maid had not left Mrs. Purling all night.

Mother' said Harold, ^' you are out of all danger.
Tell me — do you recollect taking anything likely to
make you ill ? "

^^ Only the pills." She pointed to the family medicine
— a box of which stood always by her bedside.
She had some curious notion that it was her duty to
show belief in the Primeval Pills, and she made a
practice of swallowing two morning and night.

Harold opened the box ; examined the pills ; finally
put one into his mouth and bit it through.

Bitter as gall.

'^ They have been tampered with' he said. '^ These
contain strychnine. You have had a narrow escape of
being poisoned, dearest mother — poisoned by your own
Pills ! "

He half smiled at the conceit.

There has been foul play, I swear. It shall be
sifted to the bottom, and the guilty called to serious
account. '^

But the mystery was never solved. If Phillipa had
in her heart misgivings, she kept her suspicions to herself
; no one accused her ; there seemed explanation for
her cowed and trembling manner in Gilles downfall
and disgrace. The man himself never reappeared
openly; only now and again he swooped down and
robbed Phillipa of all she possessed — the thrift of her
allowance from Mrs. Purling.

As for the heiress, surrounded by the real love and
warm hearts of her lineal descendants, she was satisfied
to eschew all further acquaintance with people of the
Blue Blood. •

January, 1886.

Catalogues of looks

PUBLISHED BY

CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED,

INCLUDING

Drawing Examples, Diagrams, Models,
Instruments, etc.,

ISSUED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF

THE SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT,
SOUTH KENSINGTON,

FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS AND ART AND SCIENCE CLASSES,

Messrs. CHAPMAN & HALL beg to announce that an entirely New
Edition of the Writings of Mr. Carlyle, to be completed in Seventeen
Volumes, demy 8vo, is now publishing, called

THE ASHBURTON EDITION.

This Edition is handsomely printed and contains the Portraits and Illustrations,
and is issued in Monthly Volumes, at Eight Shillings a
Volume, viz. :

Vol. I. THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. Vol. i. ready.

2. THE FRENCH REVOLUTION and PAST AND PRESENT.

[Ready.

3. SARTOR RESARTUS ; HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP.

[Ready.

4. LIFE OF JOHN STERLING— LIFE OF SCHILLER.

[Ready.

5. Latter-day PAMPHLETS — EARLY KINGS OF
NORWAY— ESSAY ON THE PORTRAIT OF JOHN KNOX.

[Ready.

6. LETTERS AND SPEECHES OF OLIVER CROMWELL.

Vol. r. [Ready.

Eight Volumes are now ready.

PUBLISHED BY

CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED.

Ablest [T. Rewritten

DESIGN. Oblong, sewed, 6d.

ABOUT redmond)—

HANDBOOK OF SOCIAL ECONOMY; OR, THE

WORKER'S ABC. From the French. With a Biographical and Critical
Introduction by W. Fraser Rae. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8Vo, 4s.

THE ARMIES OF THE NATIVE STATES OF INDIA.

Reprinted from the Times by permission. Crown 8vo, 4s.
BADEN-POWELL george)—

STATE AID AND STATE INTERFERENCE. Illustrated

by Results in Commerce and Industry. Crown 8vo, gs.
Barley (G. C. T.)~

A HANDY BOOK FOR GUARDIANS OF THE POOR.

Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s.

BAYARD: HISTORY OF THE GOOD CHEVALIER,

SANS PEUR ET SANS REPROCHE. Compiled by the Loyal Serviteur;
translated into English from the French of Jordan Larches. With over 200
Illustrations. Royal Svo, 21s.

BELL [DR. J AMES), Principal of the Somerset House Laboratory —

THE CHEMISTRY OF FOODS. With Microscopic

Illustrations.

Part I. TEA, COFFEE, SUGAR, Etc. Large crown Svo, 2s. 6d.
Part II. MILK BUTTER, CEREALS, PREPARED STARCHES, Etc.
Large Crown Svo, 3s.

A 2

BEN NET ( WILLIAM) The Late-^

KING OF THE PEAK: a Romance. With Portrait.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

BENSON ^W.)-^

MANUAL OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Coloured

Frontispiece and Illustrations, imo, doth, 2S. 6d.

PRINCIPLES OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Small

4to, cloth, 15s.
BINGHAM capt. THE HON. D.)—

A SELECTION FROM THE LETTERS AND

DESPATCHES OF THE FIRST NAPOLEON. With Explanatory Notes.
3 vols, demy 8vo, ^2 2s.

THE BASTILLE: Its History and Chronicles, un the Press.
BIRD WOOD [SIR GEORGE C. M.), C.S.I.—

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF INDIA. With Map and

174 Illustrations. New Edition. Demy 8vo, 14s.
Black [JOHN STUART), F.R.S.E.—

THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDERS AND THE LAND

LAWS. Demy Svo, 9s.

ALTAVONA : FACT AND FICTION FROM MY LIFE

IN THE HIGHLANDS. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.
BLA THER WICK [Dr)—

PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF PETER Stentor,

Esq. With Illustrations by James Guthrie and A. S. Boyd. Large crown Svo, 6s.

BLOOMFIELD'S (LORD) MISSION TO THE COURT OF

BERNADOTTE. By Georgians, Baroness Bloomfield, Author of "Reminiscences
of Court and Diplomatic Life." With Portraits. Two Vols, demy Svo, 28^.

BOYLE frederick)—

ON THE BORDERLAND— BETWIXT THE REALMS

OF FACT AND FANCY. Crown Svo, los. 6d.
Boulder [Demerits C.)—

-GENERAL GORDON'S LETTERS FROM THE

CRIMEA, THE DANUBE, AND ARMENIA. 2nd Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

BRADLEY thomas), of the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich—

ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRICAL DRAWING. In Two

Parts, with Sixty Plates. Oblong folio, half bound, each Part i6s.
BRAY {MRS.)—

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF (born 1789, died 1883).

Author of the "Life of Thomas Stothard, R.a," "The White Hoods," &c.
Edited by John A, Kempe. With Portraits. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

MRS. BRAY'S NOVELS AND ROMANCES.

Net and Revised Editions with Frontispieces. 3^. dd. each.

THE WHITE HOODS ; a Romance of

Flanders.
DE Fix ; a Romance of Beam.

THE Tala ; or, The Moor of Portugal.
THE PROTESTANT; a Tale of the Times
of Queen Mary.

NOVELS FOUNDED ON TRADITIONS OF DEVON AND

CORNWALL

Fits OF FITZFORD ; a Tale of Destiny.
HENRY DE Poverty ; or, the Eve of

St. John.
TRELAWNY OF TRELAWNE ; or, a

Romance of the West.

Harleigh ; or, The Fatal Oak.
COURTENAY OF WALREDDON ;

Romance of the West.
Garland FOREST AND ROSE

League.

MISCELLANEOUS TALES.

A FATHER'S CURSE AND A DAUGHTER'S SACRIFICE.
TRIALS OF THE HEART.

Bradley {A. M.)—

HOW WE DEFENDED Arabs AND HIS FRIENDS.

A Story of Egypt and the Egyptians. Illustrated by Frederick Villiers.
Demy 8vo, 12s.

BROMLEY-DAVENPORT the late W.), M.P. —

SPORT : Fox Hunting, Salmon Fishing, Covert Shooting,

Deer Stalking. With numerous Illustrations by General Crealock, Cab.
Small 4to, 21S.
A New and Cheaper Edition in the Press,

Auckland frank)—

Log-book OF A FISHERMAN AND ZOOLOGIST.

With numerous Illustrations. Fourth Thousand. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Burnett (/?.)—

DEFINITIONS OF GEOMETRY. New Edition. 24mo,

cloth, sd.

LINEAR PERSPECTIVE, for the Use of Schools of Art.

Twenty-first Thousand. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth, 7s.

PRACTICAL GEOMETRY : The Course of Construction

of Plane Geometrical Figures. With 137 Diagrams. Eighteenth Edition. Post
8vo, cloth, 5$.

B UR LEIGH {BENNE T G.)—

DESERT WARFARE : Being the Chronicle of the Eastern

Soudan Campaign. Demy 8vo, with Maps, 12s.

CAMPION (y. .S.).—

ON THE FRONTIER. Reminiscences of Wild Sports,

Personal Adventures, and Strange Scenes. With Illustrations. Second Edition.
Demy 8vo, icon

FOOT IN SPAIN. With Illustrations. Second Edition.

Demy 8vo, 16s.

CARLYLE BIRTHDAY BOOK. Second Edition. Small

cap. 8vo, 3s.
Chamber UX alfred)—

TAPESTRY. With Woodcuts. Cloth, 2S. 6d.

CHURCH [A. H). M.A„ Oxon.—

ENGLISH PORCELAIN. A Handbook to the China

made in England during the Eighteenth Century, as illustrated by Specimens-chiefly
in the National Collection. With numerous Illustrations. Large crowns,
3S.

ENGLISH EARTHENWARE. A Handbook to the

Wares made in England during the 17th and 18th Centuries, as illustrated by-specimens
in the National Collections. With 49 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s,

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER. Illustrated. Large

crown 8vo, sewed, 6d.

FOOD : A Short Account of the Sources, Constituents,

and Uses of Food. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 3s.

PRECIOUS STONES : considered in their Scientific and

Artistic Relations. With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

CLINTON {R. H.)

A COMPENDIUM OF ENGLISH HISTORY, from the

Earliest Times to a.d. 1872. With Copious Quotations on the Leading Events and
the Constitutional History, together with Appendices. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d.

COBDEN, RICHARD, LIFE OF. By John Morley. With Portrait.
2 vols. Demy Svo, 32s.

New Edition. Portrait. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.
Popular Edition, with Portrait, sewed, is.; cloth, 2s.

CHAPMAN & HALL'S ONE SHILLING SERIES OF

WOYi^— Sewed,

MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. Written by Himself, that all who eat may read. Edited
by a Minister of the Interior. Crown Svo, is.

FAST AND LOOSE. A Novel. By Arthur Griffiths, Author of "The Chronicles of
Newgate." Crown Svo, is.

A SINGER'S STORY, as related by the Author of " Flitters, Tatters, and the Counsellor."

Crown Svo, .is.
NUMBER Ninety-nine. A Novel. By Arthur Griffiths. Crown Svo, is.

CHAPMAN & HALL'S SERIES OF POPULAR NOVELS.

New and Cheaper Editions of Popular Novels. Crozvn Svo.

KARMA. By A. P. Sinner. [In the Press.

ZERO. A Story of Monte Carlo. By Mrs. Campbell Praed. 5s.

MOLOCH. A Story of Sacrifice. By Mrs. Campbell Praed, Author of " Nadine."
Crown Svo, 6s.

THE RIGHT SORT. A Romance of the Shires. By Mrs. Edward Renard.
Illustrated, 6s.

FAUCIT OF BALLIOL. By Herman Derivable. 6s.

AN AUSTRALIAN HEROINE. By Mrs. Campbell Praed. 6s.

STORY OF AN AFRICAN FARM. By Ralph Iron. 3s.

TO LEEWARD. By F. Marion Crawford. New Edition. 5s.

AN AMERICAN POLITICIAN. By F. Marion Crawford. 53.

TIE AND TRICK. By Hawley Smart. 6s.

COOKERY—

THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY

AND BILLS OF FARE. By Major L . Large crown Svo, 8s.

OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR THE NATIONAL

TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. Containing Lessons on Cookery ;
forming the Course of Instruction in the School. Compiled by " R. O. C."
Thirteenth Thousand. Large crown Svo, 8s.

BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES. By "R. O. C."

Seventh Thousand. Crown Svo, is.

COOKERY— Continued—

HOW TO COOK FISH. A Series of Lessons in Cookery,

from the Official Handbook to the National Training School for Cookery, South
Kensington. Compiled by " R. O. C." Crown 8vo, sewed, 3d.

Sick-room COOKERY. From the Official Handbook

to the National School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by "R. O. C."
Crown 8vo, sewed, 6d.

THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. By H. F.

Wicked. Crown 8vo, 2s.
Craig george Lille)—

ENGLISH OF SHAKESPEARE. Illustrated in a Philological

Commentary on his "Julius Caesar." Seventh Edition. Post Bvo, cloth, 55.

OUTLINES OF THE HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH

LANGUAGE. Ninth Edition. Post Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d,
CRA Word (F. Marion)—

TO LEEWARD. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

AN AMERICAN POLITICIAN. New Edition. Crown

8vo, ss.
CRIPPS ( WILFRED)—

COLLEGE AND CORPORATION PLATE. With

numerous Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2S. 6d.
DA Witt michael)—

LEAVES FROM A PRISON DIARY; or, Lectures

to a Solitary Audience. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 21s.
In one vol. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.
Cheap Edition. Crown 8vo, sewed, Ninth Thousand, is. 6d

DAUB OUR G {E.)—

INTERIOR ARCHITECTURE. Doors, Vestibules, Staircases,

Anterooms, Drawing, Dining, and Bed Rooms, Libraries, Bank and Newspaper
Offices, Shop Fronts and Interiors. Half-imperial, cloth, £2 12s. 6d.

DAVIDSON ellis A.)—

PRETTY ARTS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF

LEISURE HOURS. A Book for Ladies. With Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 6s.
DA Y { WILLIAM)—

THE RACEHORSE IN TRAINING, with Hints on

Racing and Racing Reform, to which is added a Chapter on Shoeing. Fifth
Edition. 8vo, gs.

UHAUSSONVILLE vicomte)—

SALON OF MADAME NECKER. Translated by H. M.

Trollope. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, issue

KONINCK^L. L.) aid DIETZ unpractical

MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ASSAYING,

as applied to the Manufacture of Iron. Edited, with notes, by Robert Mallet.
Post 8vo, cloth, 6s.

DICKENS charles)— See pages 32—38.

THE LETTERS OF CHARLES DICKENS. Edited

by his Sister-in-law and his Eldest Daughter. Two vols, uniform with " The
Charles Dickens Edition " of his Works. Crown 8vo, 8s.

THE CHARLES DICKENS BIRTHDAY BOOK.

Compiled and Edited by his Eldest Daughter. With Five Illustrations by is
Youngest Daughter. In a handsome cap. 4to volume, 12s.

Rage [GEOFFREY)—

CRIMINAL CODE OF THE GERMAN EMPIRE.

Translated with Prolegomena, and a Commentary. Crown 8vo, 8s.

Drayton lieut-COL. A. W.)—

THE CAUSE OF THE SUPPOSED PROPER Motion

OF THE FIXED STARS. Demy 8vo, cloth, its.

PRACTICAL MILITARY SURVEYING. AND

SKETCHING. Fifth Edition. Post 8vo, cloth, 4s. 6d.

DREAMS BY A FRENCH FIRESIDE. Fairy Tales, Translated from
the German of Richard Leander by Mary Callaghan. Illustrated by
Fred. Roe. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

DUPANLOUP, MONSEIGNEUR, LIFE OF. By Abb£ F. Lagrange.

Translated from the French by Lady Herbert. With Two Portraits. 2 vols.
Svo, 32s.

DYCE's COLLECTION. A Catalogue of Printed Books and Manuscripts
bequeathed by the Rev. Alexander Dice to the South Kensington Museum.
2 vols. Royal Svo, half-morocco, 14s.

A Collection of Paintings, Miniatures, Drawings, Engravings,

Rings, and Miscellaneous Objects, bequeathed by the Rev. Alexander Dice
to the South Kensington Museum. Royal Svo, half-morocco, 6s. 6d.

DYCE william), R.A.-~

Drawing-book OF THE GOVERNMENT SCHOOL

OF DESIGN ; OR, ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT. Fifty
selected Plates. Folio, sewed, 55. ; mounted, i8s.
Text to Ditto. Sewed, 6d.

EGYPTIAN ART—

A HISTORY OF ART IN ANCIENT EGYPT. By

G. Parrot and C. Chipped. Translated by Walter Armstrong. With over
600 Illustrations. 2 vols Imperial 8vo, £2 2s.

ELLIS [A. B., Major si West India Regiment) —

WEST AFRICAN ISLANDS. Demy 8vo. 14s.

THE HISTORY OF THE 1st WEST INDIA

REGIMENT. With Maps and Coloured Frontispiece and Title-page. Demy .


THE LAND OF FETISH. Demy 8vo. 12s.

ENGEL carl)—

A DESCRIPTIVE and ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE

OF THE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS in the SOUTH KENSINGTON
MUSEUM, preceded by an Essay on the History of Musical Instruments. Second'
Edition. Royal Svo, half-morocco, 12s.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. With numerous Woodcuts.

Large crown Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d,
Escort {T, H. S.)—

ENGLAND. ITS PEOPLE, POLITY, and PURSUITS.

New and Revised Edition. Fifth Thousand. Svo, 8s.

PILLARS OF THE EMPIRE : Short Biographical

Sketches. Svo, its. 6d,
EWALD alexander CHARLES), F.S.A.-^

REPRESENTATIVE STATESMEN: Political Studies,

2 vols. Large crown Svo, ;^i 4s.

SIR ROBERT WALPOLE. A Political Biography,

1676-1745. Demy Svo, iSs.
FANE violet)—

QUEEN OF THE FAIRIES (A Village Story), and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 6s.

ANTHONY Barrington : a Drama. Crown Svo, 6s

Darnley {W.)—

LESSONS IN HORSE JUDGING, AND THE Sum

Merino OF HUNTERS. With Illustrations. Crown Svo, 4s.

FLEMING george), F.R.C.S.—

ANIMAL PLAGUES: THEIR HISTORY, NATURE,

AND PREVENTION. 8vo, cloth, 15s.

PRACTICAL HORSE-SHOEING. With 37 Illustrations.

Fifth Edition, enlarged. 8vo, sewed, 2S.

RABIES AND HYDROPHOBIA: THEIR HISTORY,

NATURE, CAUSES, SYMPTOMS, AND PREVENTION. With S Illustrations.
8vo, cloth, 153.

A MANUAL OF VETERINARY SANITARY SCIENCE

AND POLICE. With 33 Illustrations. 2 vols. Svo, 36s.
FORSTER (JOHN), M.P. for Berwick—

THE CHRONICLE of JAMES I., KING of ARAGON,

SURNAMED THE CONQUEROR. Written by Himself. Translated from
the Catalan by the late John Forster, M.P. for Berwick. With an Historical
Introduction by Don Pascal de Gayangos. 2 vols. Royal Svo, 28s.

FORSTER (JOHN)—

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. With Portraits

and other Illustrations. 15th Thousand. 3 vols. 8vo, cloth, £2 2s.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the Illustrated Library Edition of Dickens's Works. 2 vols. Demy Svo, £x 8s.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the Library Edition. Post Svo, los. 6d.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the "C. D." Edition. With Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. 7s.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the Household Edition. With Illustrations by F. Barnard. Crown 410, cloth, ss.

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR : a Biography, 1775-1864.

With Portrait. A New and Revised Edition. Demy Svo, 12s.
FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW—

FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW.— First Series, May, 1865, to

Dec, 1866. 6 vols. Cloth, 13s. each.

New Series, 1867 to 1872. In Half-yearly Volumes. Cloth,

Z3S. each

From January, 1873, to the present time, in Half-yearly

Volumes. Cloth, i6s. each.

CONTENTS OF FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW. From

the commencement to end of 1S78. Sewed, 2s.

Forum {C. D. E.)—

A DESCRIPTIVE and ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE

OF THE BRONZES OF EUROPEAN ORIGIN in the SOUTH Kensington
MUSEUM, with an Introductory Notice. Royal 8vo, half-morocco,
£i los.

A DESCRIPTIVE and ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE

OF MAIOLICA, HISPANO-MORESCO, PERSIAN, DAMASCUS, AND
RHODIAN WARES in the SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. Royal
8vo, half-morocco, £2.

MAIOLICA. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown

8vo, cloth, 2S. 6d.

BRONZES. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown

8yo, cloth, 2S. 6d.
FRANCATELLI {C, E.)—

ROYAL CONFECTIONER: English and Foreign. A

Practical Treatise. New and Cheap Edition. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s.
FRANKS {A. W.)—

JAPANESE POTTERY. Being a Native Report. Numerous

Illustrations and Marks. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Galling [ANTONIO]—

EPISODES OF MY SECOND LIFE. 2 vols. Demy 8vo,

28s.

IBERIAN REMINISCENCES. Fifteen Years' Travelling

Impressions of Spain and Portugal. With a Map. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 32s.
GORDON general)—

LETTERS FROM THE CRIMEA, THE DANUBE,

AND ARMENIA. By Demerits C. Boulder. Crown 8vo, 2nd Edition, 5s.
Worst [J. E.), Q.C., M.P.—

An ELECTION MANUAL. Containing the Parliamentary

Elections (Corrupt and Illegal Practices) Act, 1883, with Notes. New Edition.
Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

GRESWELL [WILLIAM), M.A., F.R.C.I.—

OUR SOUTH AFRICAN EMPIRE. With Map. 2 vols.

Crown Svo, 21s.

GRIFFIN sir Level HENRY), K.C.S.I.-^

THE GREAT REPUBLIC. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

GRIFFITHS major ARTHUR), Hem, Inspector 0/ Prisons—

CHRONICLES OF NEWGATE. Illustrated. New

Edition. Demy 8vo, i6s.

MEMORIALS OF MILLBANK. With Illustrations. New

Edition. Demy 8vo, 12s.
HALL sidney)—

A TRAVELLING ATLAS OF THE ENGLISH Counties.

Fifty Maps, coloured. New Edition, including the Railways, corrected
up to the present date. Demy 8vo, in roan tuck, los. 6d.

HARDY lady Diffusion

SOUTH. Demy 8vo. 14s.

THROUGH CITIES and PRAIRIE LANDS, Sketches

of an American Tour. Demy Bvo, 14s.
HATTON joseph) a?td HARVEY rev. M.)—

NEWFOUNDLAND. The Oldest British Colony. Its

History, Past and Present, and its Prospects in the Future. Illustrated from
Photographs and Sketches specially made for this work. Demy Svo, iSs.

HATTON joseph)—

TO-DAY IN AMERICA. Studies for the Old World and

the New. 2 vols. Crown Svo, 18s.
HAWKINS {FREDERICK)-^

ANNALS OF THE FRENCH STAGE: FROM ITS

ORIGIN TO THE DEATH OF RACINE. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 28s.
HERBERT {AUBERON)-^

A POLITICIAN IN TROUBLE ABOUT HIS SOUL.

Crown Svo 4s.

HILDEBRAND [HANS]—

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF SCANDINAVIA IN THE

PAGAN TIME. Illustrated. Large crown 8vo, 2S. 6d.

HILL miss G.)—

THE PLEASURES AND PROFITS OF OUR LITTLE

POULTRY FARM. Small crown 8vo, 3s,
HOLBEIN—

TWELVE HEADS AFTER HOLBEIN. Selected from

Drawings in Her Majesty's Collection at Windsor. Reproduced in Autotype, in
portfolio. £1 i6s.

HOLLINGSHEAD john)—

FOOTLIGHTS. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

Lovelace mabel)—

THE SCIENCE OF LANGUAGE: Linguistic,

PHILOLOGY, AND ETYMOLOGY. With Maps. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 5s.
HUMP HR IS {H.D.)^

PRINCIPLES OF PERSPECTIVE. Illustrated in a

Series of Examples. Oblong folio, half-bound, and Text Bvo, cloth, £x is.

INTERNATIONAL POLICY. By Frederic Harrison,

Prof. Beetle, Richard Congreve, and others. New Edition. Crown Bvo.
2S. 6d.

IRON ralph)—

THE STORY OF AN AFRICAN FARM. New Edition.

Crown Bvo, 5s.
Tarry general)—

OUTPOST DUTY. Translated, with TREATISES ON

MILITARY RECONNAISSANCE AND ON ROAD-MAKING. By Major-gen.
W. C. E. Napier. Third Edition. Crown Bvo, 55.

JEANS {W. T.)—

CREATORS OF THE AGE OF STEEL. Memoirs of

Sir W. Siemens, Sir H. Bessemer, Sir J. Wentworth, Sir J. Brown, and other
Inventors. Second Edition, Crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

JOHNSON {DR. SAMUEL)—

LIFE AND CONVERSATIONS OF DR. SAMUEL

JOHNSON. By A. Main. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d,
JONES captain DOUGLAS), R.A.—

NOTES ON MILITARY LAW. Crown 8vo, 4s.

JONES COLLECTION (HANDBOOK OF THE) IN THE SOUTH
KENSINGTON MUSEUM. Illustrated. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

KEMPIS thomas A)—

OF THE IMITATION OF CHRIST. Four Books.

Beautifully Illustrated Edition. Demy 8vo, 16s.
Renard mrs. EDWARD)—

TWILIGHT TALES. Illustrated by Edith Ellison.

Large crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

THE RIGHT SORT. Illustrated by E. Sterne. Crown

Bvo, 6s. •

KENT charles)—

HUMOUR AND PATHOS OF CHARLES DICKENS,

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS OF HIS MASTERY OF THE TERRIBLE
AND PICTURESQUE. Portrait. Crown 8vo, 6s.

KLACZKO {M. JULIAN)-^

TWO CHANCELLORS : PRINCE GORTCHAKOF and

PRINCE BISMARCK. Translated byMRS.TAiT. Newand cheaper Edition, 6s.

LACORDAIRE's CONFERENCES. JESUS CHRIST; GOD;

AND GOD AND MAN. New Edition in i vol. Crown Bvo, 6s.
LAING {S.), M.P.—

MODERN SCIENCE AND MODERN THOUGHT.

Second Edition. Demy Bvo, 12s.
LAVELEYE emile DE)—

THE ELEMENTS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY.

Translated by W. Pollard, B.A., St. John's College, Oxford. Crown Bvo, 6s.

LANDOR'S WORKS. 8 vols. Demy 8vo, 14s. each volume.

All the Volumes can be supplied excepting Vol. II., which is out 0/ print.

LECTURES ON AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE, and OTHER

PROCEEDINGS OF THE INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURE, SOUTH
KENSINGTON. 1883-4. Crown Bvo, sewed, 2s.

LEFEVRE andre)—

PHILOSOPHY, Historical and Critical. Translated, with

an Introduction, by A. W. Keene, B.A. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.
LETOURNEAU [DR. CHARLES)—

SOCIOLOGY. Based upon Ethnology. Translated by

Henry M. Trollope. Large crown Bvo, los.

BIOLOGY. Translated by William Miscall. With Illustrations.

Large crown Bvo, 6s.
LILLY {W. S.)—

SOME CHAPTERS ON EUROPEAN HISTORY. Two

Vols. Demy Bvo. [/« tie Press.

ANCIENT RELIGION AND MODERN THOUGHT.

a New and Revised Edition. Demy 8vo, 12s.

LONG james)—

DAIRY FARMING. To which is added a Description of

the Chief Continental Systems. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gs.
LOW {C. R.)—

SOLDIERS OF THE VICTORIAN AGE. 2 vols. Demy

8vO, ;^I lOS.

LYTTON robert, EARL)—

POETICAL WORKS-fables
IN SONG. 2 vols. Cap. Bvo, 12s. '•
THE WANDERER. Cap. Bvo, 6s.
POEMS, HISTORICAL AND CHARACTERISTIC. Cap. 6s.

MALLET robert)—

PRACTICAL MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ASSAYING,

as applied to the Manufacture of Iron. By L. L. De Koninck and E. Dietz.
Edited, with notes, by Robert Mallet. Post Bvo, cloth, 6s.

MASK ELL william)—

A DESCRIPTION OF THE IVORIES, ANCIENT AND

Medieval, in the SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM, with a Preface.
With numerous Photographs and Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, half-morocco, ^i is.

IVORIES : ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

HANDBOOK TO THE DYCE AND FORSTER Collections.

With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.
MEREDITH george)—

MODERN LOVE AND POEMS OF THE ENGLISH

ROADSIDE, WITH POEMS AND BALLADS. Cap. cloth, ^s.

GEORGE MEREDITH'S WORKS.

A New and Uniform Edition. In Six-Shilling Volumes. Croxvn %vo:

DIANA OF THE CROSSWAYS. ready.

EVAN HARRINGTON. t^,^^^.

THE ORDEAL OF RICHARD Fevered. ready.

EMILIA IN ENGLAND.

HARRY RICHMOND. \Rcady.

Victoria.

RHODA FLEMING.

BEAUCHAMP'S CAREER.

THE EGOIST.

Derivable sherman CHARLES)—

Bingo's BLUES. A Tale for Children of all Growths.

Illustrated by Edgar Libere, Small crown 8vo, 5s.

THE WHITE PILGRIM, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s.
FAUCIT OF BALLIOL. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MILITARY BIOGRAPHIES-frederick
THE GREAT. ByCoL.C.B.BRACKENBURY;

containing Maps and Portrait. Large crown 8vo, 4s.

London. A Sketch of the Military Life of Gideon

Ernest, Freicherr von London, sometime Generalissimo of the Austrian Forces.
By Col. G. B. Galleon, C.S.I. With Portrait and Maps. Large crown
8vo, 4s.

TURENNE. By Col. Hosier. With Portrait and Two

Maps. Large crown 8vo, 4s.

PARLIAMENTARY GENERALS OF THE GREAT

civil war By Major Walford. With Maps. [/« the Press.



MOLES WORTH ( W. Massa U)—

HISTORY OF ENGLAND FROM THE YEAR 1830

TO THE RESIGNATION OF THE GLADSTONE MINISTRY, 1874- 3 vds.
Crown 8vo, 18s.

ABRIDGED EDITION. Large crown, 7s. 6d.

MOLTKE field-MARSHAL COUNT VON)—

POLAND : AN HISTORICAL SKETCH. An Authorised

Translation, with Biographical Notice by E. S. Buchheim. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.
MORLEY henry)—

TABLES OF ENGLISH LITERATURE. Containing

20 Charts. Second Edition, with Index. Royal 4to, cloth, 12s.

In Three Parts. Parts I. and II., containing Three Charts, each is. 6d.

Part III., containing 14 Charts, 7s. Part III. also kept in Sections, i, 2, and 5,
IS. 6d. each ; 3 and 4 together, 3s. ^^"'^ The Charts sold separately.

MUNTZ eugene), From the French of—

RAPHAEL : HIS LIFE, WORKS, AND TIMES.

Edited by W; Armstrong. Illustrated with 155 Wood Engravings and 41 Full-page
Plates. Imperial 8vo, 36s.

MURPHY {J. Af.)—

RAMBLES IN NORTH-WEST AMERICA. With

Frontispiece and Map. 8vo, i6s.
MURRAY andrew), F.L.S.—

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY. Altera. With numerous

Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.
MORLEY john)—

LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RICHARD

COBDEN. Fourth Thousand. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, £1 12s.

RICHARD COBDEN. With Portrait. Large crown

8vo, 7s. 6d.

LIFE OF RICHARD COBDEN. With Portrait. Popular

Edition. 4to, sewed, is. Bound in cloth, 2s.

NAPIER {M AJ-gen. W.C.E.)—

TRANSLATION OF GEN. Tarry's OUTPOST DUTY.

With TREATISES ON MILITARY RECONNAISSANCE AND ON
ROAD-MAKING. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

NAPOLEON. A Selection from the Letters and Despatches of

the First Napoleon. With Explanatory Notes by Captain the Hon. D. Bingham.
3 vols. Demy 8vo, £2. zs.

NECKER madame)—

THE SALON OF MADAME NECKER. By Vicomte

d'Haussonville. Translated by H. M. Trollope. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, iBs.
NESBITT [ALEXANDER)—

GLASS. Illustrated. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

NEVINSON henry)—

A SKETCH OF HERDER AND HIS TIMES. With

a Portrait. Demy Svo, 14s.
NEWTON {E. TULLE Y), F.G.S.—

THE TYPICAL PARTS IN THE SKELETONS OF

A CAT, DUCK, AND CODFISH, being a Catalogue with Comparative
Description arranged in a Tabular form. Demy Svo, cloth, 3s.

NORMAN' [C. B,), late of the goth Light Infantry and Bengal Staff Corps —

TONKIN; or, FRANCE IN THE FAR EAST. With

Maps. Demy Svo, 14s.
Over professor), F.R.S., &c,-^

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL NATURAL

orders of the vegetable KINGDOM, PREPARED FOR THE
SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT, SOUTH KENSINGTON. With
109 Plates. Oblong Svo, plain, i6s. ; coloured, £\ 6s.

OXENHAM rev. H. N,)—^

SHORT STUDIES, ETHICAL AND RELIGIOUS.

Demy Svo. 12s.

SHORT STUDIES IN ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY

AND BIOGRAPHY. Demy Svo, 12s.

B 2

Parrot georges) and Chipped [CHARLES]—

A HISTORY OF ANCIENT ART IN Phoenicia

AND ITS DEPENDENCIES. Translated from the French by Walter
Armstrong, B.A. Oxon. Containing 644 Illustrations in the text, and 10 Sheets
and Coloured Plates. 2 vols. Imperial 8vo, 42s.

A HISTORY OF ART IN Chaldea AND ASSYRIA.

Translated by Walter Armstrong, B.A. Oxon. With 452 Illustrations. 2 vols.
Imperial 8vo, 42s.

A HISTORY OF ART IN ANCIENT EGYPT. Translated

from the French by W. Armstrong. With over 600 Illustrations. 2 vols.
Imperial 8vo, 42s.

PIASSETSKY [P.)—

RUSSIAN TRAVELLERS IN MONGOLIA AND

CHINA. Translated by Gordon-humming. With 75 Illustrations. 2 vols.
Crown Bvo, 24s.

PITT TA Lor [FRANK]—

THE CANTERBURY TALES. Being Selections from

the Tales of Geoffrey Chaucer rendered into Modern English-with, close
adherence to the language of the Poet. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s.

POLLEN {J. H.)—

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND

WOODWORK IN THE SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With an
Introduction, and Illustrated with numerous Coloured Photographs and Woodcuts.
Royal 8vo, half-morocco, £1 is.

GOLD AND SILVER SMITH'S WORK. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND

WOODWORK. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Pointer [E. 7.), R.A.^

TEN LECTURES ON ART. Third Edition, [in i/^ Press.

Prayed mrs. CAMPBELL)—

AUSTRALIAN LIFE : Black and White. With Illustration.

Crown 8vo, 8s.

ZERO. A Story of Monte Carlo. Crown 8vo, 5s.
AN AUSTRALIAN HEROINE. Crown 8vo, 6s.
MOLOCH. A Story of Sacrifice. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Prince { VAL), A.R.A.—

IMPERIAL INDIA. Containing numerous Illustrations

and Maps. Second Edition. Demy Svo, £1 is.

PYTCHLEY COOKERY BOOK—

THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY AND

BILLS OF FARE. By Major L . Large crown Svo, 8s.

RADICAL PROGRAMME, THE. From the Fortnightly

Review, with additions. With a Preface by the Right Hon. J. Chamberlain",
M.P. Thirteenth Thousand. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. •

RAMSDEN lady GWENDOLEN)—

A BIRTHDAY BOOK. Illustrated. Containing 46 Illustrations

from Original Drawings, and numerous other Illustrations. Royal Svo, 21s.
REDGRAVE gilbert)—

OUTLINES OF HISTORIC ORNAMENT. Translated

from the German. Edited by Gilbert Redgrave. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, 4s.

REDGRA VE gilbert R.)—

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and

Addresses of Richard Redgrave, R.A. With Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, cloth,
2s. 6d.

REDGRAVE richard)—

MANUAL AND CATECHISM ON COLOUR. 24mo,

cloth, gd.

REDGRA VE samuel)—

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE Historical
COLLECTION OF Water-colour PAINTINGS IN THE
SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With numerous Chromo-lithographs and
other Illustrations. Royal Svo, £z is.

Renal ernest)—

RECOLLECTIONS OF MY YOUTH. Translated from

the original French, and revised by Madame Renal. Crown 8vo, 8s.

Piano [JUAN F.)—

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS IN SPAIN. Illustrated. Large

crown Svo, cloth, 4s.

ROBINSON [JAMES F.)—

BRITISH BEE FARMING. Its Profits and Pleasures.

Large crown Svo, ss.

ROBINSON [J. CO-italian
SCULPTURE OF THE MIDDLE AGES

AND PERIOD OF THE REVIVAL OF ART. With 20 Engravings. Royal
Svo, cloth, 7s. 6d.

ROBSON [GEORGE)-^

ELEMENTARY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Illustrated

by a Design for an Entrance Lodge and Gate. 15 Plates. Oblong folio,
sewed, 8s.

ROBSON [REV. J. H.), M.A., Leman

ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON ALGEBRA.

Post Svo, 6s.
ROCK [THE VERY REV. CANON), Dad.—

ON TEXTILE FABRICS. A Descriptive and Illustrated

Catalogue of the Collection of Church Vestments, Dresses, Silk Stuffs, Needlework,
and Tapestries in the South Kensington Museum. Royal Svo, half-morocco,
£^ Is. 6d.

TEXTILE FABRICS. With numerous Woodcuts. Large

crown Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

ROLAND [ARTHUR]—

FARMING FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT. Edited

by William Ablest. 8 vols. Large crown 8vo, 5s. each.

DAIRY-FARMING, MANAGEMENT OF COWS, &c.

POULTRY-KEEPING.

TREE-PLANTING, FOR ORNAMENTATION OR PROFIT.

STOCK-KEEPING AND CATTLE-REARING.

DRAINAGE OF LAND, IRRIGATION, MANURES, &c.

ROOT-GROWING, HOPS, &c.

MANAGEMENT OF GRASS LANDS.

MARKET GARDENING.

RUSDEN [G. W.), germany years Clerk of the Parliament in Victoria —

A HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA. With a Coloured Map.

3 vols. Demy Svo, 50s.

A HISTORY OF NEW ZEALAND. With Maps. 3 vols.

Demy Svo, sos.
SCOTT {A. DE C, Major-general, late Royal Engineers)—

LONDON WATER : a Review of the Present Condition and

Suggested Improvements of the Metropolitan Water Supply. Crown Svo, sewed, 2S.

SCOTT-STEVENSON mrs. )—

ON SUMMER SEAS. Including the Mediterranean, the

aegean, the Ionian, and the Euxine, and a voyage down the Danube. With a
Map. Demy Svo, i6s.

OUR HOME IN CYPRUS. With a Map and illustrations.

Third Edition. Demy Svo, 14s.

OUR RIDE THROUGH ASIA MINOR. With Map.

Demy Svo, i8s.

SHEPHERD {MA/OR), Ree,—

PRAIRIE EXPERIENCES IN HANDLING CATTLE

AND SHEEP. With Illustrations and Map. Demy Svo, los. 6d.
SHIRREFF miss)—

HOME EDUCATION IN RELATION TO THE

KINDERGARTEN. Two Lectures. Crown Svo, is. 6d.

SIMMONDS [T. L.)~

ANIMAL PRODUCTS: their Preparation, Commercial

Uses, and Value. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.
Sinners {A. P.)—

ESOTERIC BUDDHISM. Annotated and enlarged by

the Author. Fifth Edition. 6s.

KARMA. A Novel. New Edition. [in the Press.

Sinners {MPS.)—

THE PURPOSE OF THEOSOPHY. Crown 8vo, 3s.

SMART {HA Whey)—

HARD LINES. Crown 8vo, 6s.
FROM POST TO FINISH. Crown, 6s.
TIE AND TRICK. Crown 8vo, 6s.

SMITH major R. Murdoch), R.E.^

PERSIAN ART. Second Edition, with additional Illustrations.

Large crown 8vo, 2S.
SNOAD mrs. PRANK)—

ECHOES OF LIFE. Including 2nd Edition (revised) of

•' Clare Peace's Diary," and " As Life Itself." Crown 8vo, 6s.
STORY {W. W.)—

Rosa DI ROMA. Seventh Edition, with Additions and

Portrait. Crown Svo, cloth, los. 6d.

CASTLE ST. ANGELO. With Illustrations. Crown

8vo, los. 6d.
SUTCLIFFE john)—

THE SCULPTOR AND ART STUDENT'S GUIDE

to the Proportions of the Human Form, with Measurements in feet and inches of
Ful-Grown Figures of Both Sexes and of Various Ages. By Dr. G. Shadow,
Member of the Academies, Stockholm, Dresden, Rome, &c. &c. Translated by
J. J. Wright. Plates reproduced by J. Sutcliffe. Oblong folio, 31s. 6d.

TAINE {H. A.)—

NOTES ON ENGLAND. Translated, with Introduction,

by W. Fraser Rae. Eighth Edition. With^Portrait. Crown Svo, 5s.
TANNER professor), F.C.S.—

HOLT CASTLE; or, Threefold Interest in Land. Crown

8vo, 4s. 6d.

JACK'S EDUCATION; OR, HOW HE LEARNT

FARMING. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

TOPINARD {DR. PA UL)—

ANTHROPOLOGY. With a Preface by Professor Paul

Broca. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Lovey lieut-COL., R.E.)~

MARTIAL LAW AND CUSTOM OF WAR. Crown 8vo.

[/« the Press.
Trail {H. D.)—

THE NEW LUCIAN. Being a Series of Dialogues of the

Dead. Demy 8vo, 12s.
TROLLOPE anthony)—

AYALA's ANGEL. Crown 8vo. 6s.

LIFE OF CICERO. 2 vols. 8vo. £1 4s.

THE CHRONICLES OF BARSETSHIRE. A Uniform

Edition, in 8 vols., large crown Svo, handsomely printed, each vol. containing

Frontispiece. 6s. each.
THE WARDEN and Barchester
TOWERS. 2 vols.
DR. THORNE.
Frame PARSONAGE.

THE SMALL HOUSE At
Arlington. 2 vols.

LAST CHRONICLE OF
Basset. 2 vols.

UNIVERSAL—

UNIVERSAL CATALOGUE OF BOOKS ON ART.

Compiled for the use of the National Art Library, and the Schools of Art in the
United Kingdom. In 2 vols. Crown 4to, half-morocco, £2 2s.

Supplemental Volume to Ditto. Crown Svo, 8s. nett.

Vernon eugene)—

ESTHETICS. Translated by W. H. Armstrong. Large

crown Svo, 7s. 6d.
WALE rev. HENRY JOHN), M.A.—

MY GRANDFATHER'S POCKET BOOK, from 1 701 to

1796. Author of " Sword and Surplice." Demy Svo, 12s.
WESTWOOD {J. O.), M.A., F.L.S., &'c.—

CATALOGUE OF THE FICTILE IVORIES IN THE

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With an Account of the Continental
Collections of Classical and Mediaeval Ivories. Royal Svo, half-morocco, £1 4s.

WHIST HANDBOOKS. By Aquarius—

THE HANDS AT WHIST. 321110, cloth gilt, is.
EASY WHIST. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.
ADVANCED WHIST. 321110, cloth gilt, is.

WHITE { WALTER)—

A MONTH IN YORKSHIRE. Post 8vo. With a Map.

Fifth Edition. 4s.

A LONDONER'S WALK TO THE LAND'S END, AND

A TRIP TO THE SCILLY ISLES. Post 8vo. With 4 Maps. Third Edition. 4s.
WICK EN {H. F.)—

THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. Crown 8vo, 2s.
WILL-O'-THE-WISPS, THE. Translated from the German

of Marie Petersen by Charlotte J. Hart. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
7s. 6d.

WORNUM{R. N.)—

ANALYSIS OF ORNAMENT: THE Characteristics
OF STYLES. With many Illustrations. Ninth Edition. Royal 8vo,
cloth, 8s.

Worse {J. J, A.)~

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF DENMARK, FROM THE

EARLIEST TIMES TO THE DANISH CONQUEST OF ENGLAND.

With Maps and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

YEO {DR. y. BURNEY)—

CLIMATE AND HEALTH RESORTS. New Edition.

Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

YOUNGE [C. D.)—

PARALLEL LIVES OF ANCIENT AND MODERN

HEROES. New Edition. imo, cloth, 4s. 6d.

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM
DESCRIPTIVE AND ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.

Royal 8^0 1 half-bound.
BRONZES OF EUROPEAN ORIGIN. By C. D. E. Forum.

£,1. 10s.

DYCE's COLLECTION OF PRINTED BOOKS AND

MANUSCRIPTS. 2 vols. 14s.

DYCE's COLLECTION OF PAINTINGS, ENGRAVINGS,

&c. 6s. 6d.

FURNITURE AND WOODWORK, ANCIENT AND

MODERN. By J. H. Pollen. £1 is.

GLASS VESSELS. By A. Nesbitt. i8s.

GOLD AND SILVER SMITH'S WORK. By J. G. Pollen.

£\ 6s.

IVORIES, ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL. By W. Masked.

21S.

IVORIES, FICTILE. By J. O. Westwood. £t 4s,

MAIOLICA, HISPANO-MORESCO, PERSIAN, Damascus
AND RHODIAN WARES. By C. D. E. Fortnum. £2.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. By C. Engel. 12s.
SCULPTURE, ITALIAN SCULPTURE OF THE MIDDLE

AGES. By J. C. Robinson. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

SWISS COINS. By R. S. Poole. £2 los.
TEXTILE FABRICS. By Rev. D. Rock. £\ his. 6d.
Water-colour PAINTING. By S. Redgrave. £\ is.
UNIVERSAL CATALOGUE OF BOOKS ON ART. 2 vols.

Small 4to, £,i is. each.

UNIVERSAL CATALOGUE OF BOOKS ON ART. Supplementary

vol. 8s, nett.

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE AND ART

HANDBOOKS.

• Handsomely printed in large craven 8vo.
Published for the Committee of the Council on Education,

ENGLISH PORCELAIN. By A. H. Church, M.A. With

numerous Illustrations. 8vo, 3s.

RUSSIAN ART AND ART OBJECTS IN RUSSIA. By

Alfred Maskell. With Illustrations. 4s. 6d.

FRENCH POTTERY. By Paul Assault and Edward

Garner. With Illustrations and marks. 3s.

ENGLISH EARTHENWARE : A Handbook to the Wares

made in England during the 17th and isti Centuries. By Prof. Church. With
Illustrations. 3s.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF DENMARK. From the Earliest

Times to the Danish Conquest of England. By J. J. A. Worse, Hon. Fas. A.,
&c. &c. With Illustrations. 3s. 6d.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF SCANDINAVIA IN THE PAGAN

TIME. By Hans Hildebrand, Royal Antiquary of .Sweden. With Illustrations.
2S. 6d.

PRECIOUS STONES. By Professor Church. With Illustrations,

zs. 6d.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF INDIA. By Sir George C. M.

BiRDWOOD, C.S.I. With Map and Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 14s.

HANDBOOK TO THE DYCE AND FORSTER Collections.

By W. Maskell. With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS IN SPAIN. By Juan F. Piano.

With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 4s.

GLASS. By Alexander Nesbitt. With Illustrations. Large

crown Svo, 2s, 6d.

GOLD AND SILVER SMITH'S WORK. By John Hunger-ford

Pollen. With Illustrations. Large crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

TAPESTRY. By Alfred Chapeau. With Illustrations. 2S. 6d.
BRONZES. By C. Drury E. Fortnum, Fas. A. With Illustrations.

Large crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER. By A. H. Church, M.A.,

Oxon. With Illustrations. Large crown Svo, sewed, 6d.

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE & ART HANDBOOKS-C^w^'m?^^^.

ANIMAL PRODUCTS : their Preparation, Commercial Uses,

and Value. By T. L. Simmonds. With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

FOOD : A Short Account of the Sources, Constituents, and Uses

of Food. By A. H. Church, M.A., 0)con. Large crown 8vo, 3s,

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY. By Andrew Murray, F.L.S.

Altera. With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

JAPANESE POTTERY. Being a Native Report. Edited by

A. W. Franks. With Illustrations and Marks. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

HANDBOOK TO THE SPECIAL LOAN COLLECTION

of Scientific Apparatus. Large crown 8vo, 3s.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS: Historical Sketches. With Illustrations.

Large crown 8vo, 3s.

TEXTILE FABRICS. By the Very Rev. Daniel Rock, Dad.

With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

JONES COLLECTION IN THE SOUTH Kensington

MUSEUM. With Portrait and Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

COLLEGE AND CORPORATION PLATE. By Wilfred

Cripps. With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

IVORIES: ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL. By William

Maskell. With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND Woodwork.

By John Hungered Pollen. With Illustrations. Large crown
8vo, 2s. 6d.

MAIOLICA. By C. Drury E. Fortnum, F.S.A. With Illustrations.

Large crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

THE CHEMISTRY OF FOODS. With Microscopic Illustrations.

By James Bell, Principal of the Somerset House Laboratory.

Part I. — Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Sugar, &c. Large crown 8vo, 2s. fid.

Part II. — Milk, Butter, Cereals, Prepared Starches, &c. Large crown 8vo, 3s.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. By Carl Engel. With Illustrations.

Large crown 8vo, 2s. fid.

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and

Addresses of Richard Redgrave, R.A. By Gilbert R. Redgrave. With
Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 2s. fid.

PERSIAN Art. By Major R. Murdoch Smith, Ree. Second

Edition, with additional Illustrations, Large crown'Svo, 2s.

CARLYLE'S (THOMAS) WORKS.

THE ASHBURTON EDITION.

An entirely New Edition of the Writings of Mr. CARLYLE, to be completed
in Seventeen Volumes, demy 8vo, is now publishing. For Particulars
see page 2.

CHEAP AND UNIFORM EDITION.

In 23 vols.^ Crown 8vo, cloth £7 Js.

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION :

A History. 2 vols., 12s.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S Letters
AND SPEECHES, with Elucidations,
&c. 3 vols., 1 8s,

LIVES OF SCHILLER AND
JOHN STERLING, i vol., 6s.

CRITICAL AND Miscellaneous
ESSAYS. 4 vols., £1 4S.

SARTOR RESARTUS AND

LECTURES ON HEROES, i vol., 6s.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS.

I vol., 6s.

CHARTISM AND PAST AND

PRESENT. I vol., 6s.

TRANSLATIONS FROM THE

GERMAN OF Musaeus, TIECK,
AND RICHTER. i vol., 6s.

WILHELM MEISTER, by Goethe.
A Translation. 2 vols., 12s.

HISTORY OF FRIEDRICH THE

SECOND, called Frederick the Great
7 vols., £2 gs.

LIBRARY EDITION COMPLETE.
Handsomely printed, in 34 vols., denny 8vo, cloth, £1S Ss.

SARTOR RESARTUS. With a Portrait, 7s. 6d.

THE FRENCH RjEVOLUTION. A History. 3 vols., each 9s.

LIFE OF FREDERICK SCHILLER AND EXAMINATION

OF HIS WORKS. With Supplement of 1872. Portrait and Plates, gs.

CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS. With Portrait.

6 vols. , each gs.

ON HEROES, HERO WORSHIP, AND THE HEROIC

IN HISTORY. 7s. 6d.

PAST AND PRESENT. 9s.



CARLYLE'S (THOMAS) WORKS.— Library Edition— C^;z//;?//^^.
OLIVER CROMWELL'S LETTERS AND SPEECHES. With

Portraits. 5 vols,, each 9s.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS. 9s.

LIFE OF JOHN STERLING. With Portrait, 9s.

HISTORY OF FREDERICK THE SECOND. 10 vols.,

each gs.

TRANSLATIONS FROM THE GERMAN. 3 vols., each 9s.

EARLY KINGS OF NORWAY 3 ESSAY ON THE Portraits
OF JOHN KNOX; AND GENERAL INDEX. With Portrait
Illustrations. 8vo, cloth, gs.

PEOPLE'S EDITION.

In ^7 vols. , small crown 8vo. Price 2s. each vol. , bound in cloth ; or in sets of

J7 vols, in ig, cloth gilt, for ;Cs ^4^'

SARTOR RESARTUS.

FRENCH REVOLUTION. 3 vols.

LIFE OF JOHN STERLING.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S Letters
AND SPEECHES. 5 vols.

ON HEROES
WORSHIP.

AND HERO

PAST AND PRESENT.

CRITICAL AND Miscellaneous

ESSAYS. 7 vols.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS.
LIFE OF SCHILLER.
FREDERICK THE GREAT.

10 vols.
WILHELM MEISTER. 3 vols.

TRANSLATIONS FROM MU-sus,
TIECK, AND RICHTER.
2 vols.

THE EARLY KINGS OF Norway
; Essay on the Portraits of Knox ;
and General Index.

SIXPENNY EDITION.

4/^, sewed.

SARTOR RESARTUS. Eightieth Thousand.

HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP.

Essays Burns, Johnson, Scott, The Diamond Necklace.

The above are also to be had in I vol , in cloth ^ 2s. 6d,

r- ' ' 1.1 1.1 - ■■■■ . — — — ■ ,»—-■■ , ii.- . II ^

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.

ORIGINAL EDITIONS.

In demy 8vo.

THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD. With Illustrations

by S. L. Files, and a Portrait engraved by Baker. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. With Forty Illustrations by Marcus

Stone. Cloth, ;^i is.

THE PICKWICK PAPERS. With Forty-three Illustrations

by Seymour and Phiz. Cloth, £x is.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £x IS.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ." With Forty Illustrations by George

Cruikshank. Cloth, £,\ is.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, ;^I IS.

DOMBEY AND SON. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £,\ IS.

DAVID COPPERFIELD. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, ;^I IS.

BLEAK HOUSE. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth,

;^I IS.

LITTLE DORRIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth,
£-^ IS.

THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP. With Seventy-five Illustrations

by George Cattermole and H. K. Browne. A New Edition. Uniform with
the other volumes, £\ is.

BARNABY RUDGE : a Tale of the Riots of 'Eighty. With

Seventy-eight Illustrations by George Cattermole and H. K. Browne. Uniform with
the other volumes, ;^i is.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS : Containing— The Christmas Carol ;

The Cricket on the Hearth ; The Chimes ; The Battle of Life ; The Haunted House.
With all the original Illustrations. Cloth, 12s.

OLIVER TWIST and TALE OF TWO CITIES. In one

volume. Cloth, £,\ is.

OLIVER TWIST. Separately. With Twenty-four Illustrations

by George Cruikshank Cloth, his.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. Separately. With Sixteen Illustrations
by Phiz. Cloth, gs.

*^^* The remainder of Dickens s Word were not originally printed in demy 8vo.



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.

LIBRARY EDITION.

In post 8vo. With the Original Illustrations, jo vols. , cloth, £12,

PICKWICK PAPERS .

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP & REPRINTED

BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES

BLEAK HOUSE

LITTLE DORRIT

DOMBEY AND SON .

DAVID COPPERFIELD

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND

SKETCHES BY "BOZ"

OLIVER TWIST

CHRISTMAS BOOKS .

A TALE OF TWO CITIES

GREAT EXPECTATIONS

PICTURES FROM ITALY & AMERICAN

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER .

CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND

EDWIN DROOD and MISCELLANIES

CHRISTMAS STORIES from " Household Words." &c. 14

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. ByJOHN Forster. With Illustrations.

Uniform with this Edition, i vol. los. 6d.

A NEW EDITION OF ABOVE, WITH THE ORIGINAL Illustrations,
IN CROWN 8vo, 30 VOLS. IN SETS ONLY.

C

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.

THE "CHARLES DICKENS" EDITION.

In Crown 8vo. In 21 vols. , cloth xvith Illustrations £j i6s.

PICKWICK PAPERS

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT

DOMBEY AND SON

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY .

DAVID COPPERFIELD

BLEAK HOUSE

LITTLE DORRIT

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND

BARNABY RUDGE

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP

A CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND
EDWIN DROOD and OTHER STORIES .
CHRISTMAS STORIES, from " Household Words " .
SKETCHES BY "BOZ"

AMERICAN NOTES and REPRINTED PIECES .

CHRISTMAS BOOKS

OLIVER TWIST

GREAT EXPECTATIONS

TALE OF TWO CITIES

Pard TIMES and PICTURES FROM ITALY

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. 7 o
THE LETTERS OF CHARLES DICKENS .2 vols. 8 o

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.
THE ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY EDITION.

Complete in 30 Volumes. Deny 8vo, los. each ; or set, £1$.

This Edition is printed on a finer paper and in a larger type than has been
employed in any previous edition. The type has been cast especially for it, and
the page is of a size to admit of the introduction of all the original illustrations.

No such attractive issue has been made of the writings of Mr. Dickens, which,
various as have been the forms of publication adapted to the demands of an ever
widely-increasing popularity, have never yet been worthily presented in a really
handsome library form.

The collection comprises all the minor writings it was Mr. Dickens's wish to
preserve.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ." With 40 Illustrations by George Cruikshank.

PICKWICK PAPERS. 2 vols. With 42 Illustrations by Phiz.

OLIVER TWIST. With 24 Illustrations by Cruikshank.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP and REPRINTED PIECES. 2 vols. With Illustrations
by Cattermole, &c .

BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES. 2 vols. With Illustrations by
Cattermole, &c.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY, i vol. With 8
Illustrations.

DOMBEY AND SON. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

DAVID COPPERFIELD. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

BLEAK HOUSE. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

LITTLE DORRIT. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. With 16 Illustrations by Phiz.

THE UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. With 17 Illustrations by Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A.,
Machine, R.A., &c. &c.

HISTORY OF ENGLAND. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

CHRISTMAS STORIES. (From "Household Words" and "All the Year
Round") With 14 Illustrations.

EDWIN DROOD AND OTHER STORIES. With 12 Illustrations by S. L.
Files.

C 2

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.

THE POPULAR LIBRARY EDITION

OF THE WORKS OF

CHARLES DICKENS,

In 30 Vols. , large crown Svo, price £6 ; separate Vols, 4J. each.

An Edition printed on good paper, containing Illustrations selected from
the Household Edition, on Plate Paper. Each Volume has about 450 pages
and 16 full-page Illustrations.

SKETCHES BY '«BOZ."

PICKWICK. 2 vols.

OLIVER TWIST.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 2 vols.

DOMBEY AND SON. 2 vols,

DAVID COPPERFIELD. 2 vols.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 2 vols.

CHRISTMAS STORIES.

BLEAK HOUSE. 2 vols.

LITTLE DORRIT. 2 vols.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP and REPRINTED PIECES. 2 vols.

BARNABY RUDGE. 2 vols. ^

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS.

TALE OF TWO CITIES.

CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND.

EDWIN DROOD and MISCELLANIES.

PICTURES FROM ITALY and AMERICAN NOTES.

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.
HOUSEHOLD EDITION.

Complete in 22 Volumes. Crown 4/^, cloth, £i^ %s. 6d.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, 55.

DAVID COPPERFIELD, with 60 Illustrations and a Portrait, cloth, 5s.

BLEAK HOUSE, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, 5s.

LITTLE DORRIT, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, 5s.

PICKWICK PAPERS, with 56 Illustrations, cloth, 55.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, 53.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, 5s.

DOMBEY AND SON, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, 5s.

EDWIN DROOD ; REPRINTED PIECES ; and other Stories, with 30 Illustrations,
cloth, 5s.

THE LIFE OF DICKENS. By John Forster. With 40 Illustrations. Cloth, 5s.

BARNABY RUDGE, with 46 Illustrations, cloth, 4s.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, with 32 Illustrations, cloth, 4s.

CHRISTMAS STORIES, with 23 Illustrations, cloth, 4s.

OLIVER TWIST, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS, with 26 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ," with 36 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, with 26 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, with 15 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY, with i8 Illustrations,
cloth, 3s.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES, with 25 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

HARD TIMES, with 20 Illustrations, cloth, 2s. 6d.

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.

MR. Dickens's Readings.

Cap. Svo, sewed.
CHRISTMAS CAROL IN PROSE, STORY OF LITTLE DOMBEY. 

POOR TRAVELLER. BOOTS AT

CRICKET ON THE HEARTH, is. THE HOLLY-TREE INN. and

CHIMES : A GOBLIN STORY, is. MRS. GAMP. is.

A CHRISTMAS CAROL, with the Original Coloured Plates,
being a reprint of the Original Edition. Small Svo, red cloth, gilt edges, 5s.

DICKENS'S CHRISTMAS BOOKS.

ONE SHILLING EACH. Reprint of the Original Editions.

A CHRISTMAS CAROL. Illustrated by John Leech.
THE CHIMES. Illustrated by John Leech.

\* The above have been out of print many years.

Tk^ Cheapest arid Hardiest Edition of

THE WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS.

The Pocket Volume Edition of Charles Dickens's Works.
In 30 Vols, small cap. Svo, /^2 5s.

JVeru and Cheap Issue of

THE WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS.

In pocket volumes.

PICKWICK PAPERS, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, 2s. '

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, 2s.

OLIVER TWIST, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, is.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ," with 8 Illustrations, cloth, is.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, 2s.

BARNABY RUDGE, with 16 Illustrations, cloth, 2s.

AMERICAN NOTES AND PICTURES FROM ITALY, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, is.6d.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, is. 6d.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, as.

SIXPENNY REPRINTS.

(I.)
READINGS FROM THE WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS.

As selected and read by himself and now published for the first time. Illustrated.

(II.)

A CHRISTMAS CAROL and THE HAUNTED MAN.

By Charles Dickens. Illustrated.

(III.)
THE CHIMES: A Goblin Story, and THE CRICKET ON

THE HEARTH. Illustrated.

(IV.)
THE BATTLE OF LIFE; A Love Story, HUNTED DOWN,

AND A HOLIDAY ROMANCE. Illustrated.
The last Three Volumes as Christmas Works, In One Volume, red cloth, 2s. 6d.

List of Books, Drawing Examples, Diagrams, Models,

Instruments, etc.,

INCLUDING

THOSE ISSUED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE SCIENCE
AND ART DEPARTMENT, SOUTH KENSINGTON, FOR THE
USE OF SCHOOLS AND ART AND SCIENCE CLASSES.

CATALOGUE OF MODERN WORKS ON SCIENCE

AND TECHNOLOGY. 8vo, sewed, is.
BENSON {IV.)—

PRINCIPLES OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR.

Small 4to, 158.

MANUAL OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Coloured

Frontispiece and Illustrations. imo, 2s. 6d.
BRADLEY (THOMAS), of the Royal Military Academy , Woolwich—

ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRICAL DRAWING. In Two

Parts, with 60 Plates. Oblong folio, half-bound, each part i6s.
Selections (from the above) of 20 Plates, for the use of the Royal Military
Academy, Woolwich. Oblong folio, half-bound, 16s.

Burnett—

LINEAR PERSPECTIVE. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, 7s.
PRACTICAL GEOMETRY. Post 8vo, 5s.
DEFINITIONS OF GEOMETRY. Third Edition. 24mo,

sewed, sd.

CARROLL john)—

FREEHAND Drawing LESSONS FOR THE BLACK

BOARD. 6s.

CUBLEY {IV. H.)—

A SYSTEM OF ELEMENTARY DRAWING. With

Illustrations and Examples. Imperial sto, sewed, 3s. 6d.

DA VISON ellis A. )—

DRAWING FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. Post

8vo, 3s.

MODEL DRAWING. imo, 3s.

Melmotte {P. H.)—

PROGRESSIVE Drawing-book FOR BEGINNERS.

lame, 3s. 6d.
DYCE—

Drawing-book OF THE GOVERNMENT SCHOOL

OF DESIGN: ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT. 50 Plates.
Small folio, sewed, 5s. : mounted, i8s.

INTRODUCTION TO DITTO. Cap. 8vo, 6d.

FOSTER vere)—

DRAWING-BOOKS :

Forty-six Numbers, at 3d. each.

DRAWING-CARDS :

Freehand Drawing : First Grade, Sets I., II., III., is. each.
Second Grade, Set I., 2s.

HENSLO W professor)—

ILLUSTRATIONS TO BE EMPLOYED IN THE

PRACTICAL LESSONS ON BOTANY. Post 8vo, sewed, 6d.
JACOBSTHAL {E.)—

GRAMMATIK DER Ornaments, in 7 Parts of 20

Plates each. Unmounted, £3 13s. 6d. ; mounted on cardboard, £11 4s, The
Parts can be had separately.

J E WITT—

HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL PERSPECTIVE. imo,

IS. 6d.
Lindsey [JOHN]—

SYMMETRY OF VEGETATION: Principles to be

Observed in the Delineation of Plants. imo, sewed, is.
MARSHALL—

HUMAN BODY. Text and Plates reduced from the large

Diagrams. 2 vols., ;^i iSi
NEWTON (E. Tully), F.G.S.—

THE TYPICAL PARTS IN THE SKELETONS OF A

CAT, DUCK, AND CODFISH, being a Catalogue with Comparative Descriptions
arranged in a Tabular Form. Demy 8vo, 3s.

OLIVER [PROFESSOR)— *

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM.

109 Plates. Oblong 8vo. Plain, i6s.; coloured, £\ 6s.
Pointer (E. y.), R.A., issued under the superintendence of—

THE SOUTH KENSINGTON DRAWING SERIES.

FREEHAND— ELEMENTARY ORNAMENT: books 6d., cards,
9d. each.

FREEHAND— FIRST GRADE : books 6d., cards is. each.

FREEHAND— SECOND GRADE: books is., cards is. 6d. each.

FREEHAND— PLANTS FROM NATURE : books 6d., cards,
IS. each.

FREEHAND— HUMAN FIGURE, ELEMENTARY: books 6d.

FREEHAND— HUMAN FIGURE, ADVANCED: books 2s.
each.

FREEHAND — FIGURES FROM THE CARTOONS OF
RAPHAEL : four books, 2s. each.

FREEHAND— ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE DRAWING.
By S. J. Cartridge, F.R.Hist.S. Books is. each j or one
volume, cloth, 5s.

REDGRAVE—

MANUAL AND CATECHISM ON COLOUR. Fifth

Edition. 24mo, sewed, gd.
ROB SON george)—

ELEMENTARY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Oblong

folio, sewed, 8s.
WALLIS george)—

Drawing-book. Oblong, sewed, 3s. 6d.j mounted, 8s.

WORNUM {R. N. )—

THE CHARACTERISTICS OF STYLES: An Introduction

to the Study of the History of Ornamental Art. Royal 8vo, 8s.

ELEMENTARY DRAWING Copy-books, for the Use of

Children from four years old and upwards, in Schools and Families. Compiled by
a Student certificated by the Science and Art Department as an Art Teacher.
Seven Books in 4to, sewed :

\* Or in Sets of Seven Books, 4s. 6d.

PRINCIPLES OF DECORATIVE ART. Folio, sewed, is.
DIAGRAM OF THE COLOURS OF THE SPECTRUM,

with Explanatory Letterpress, on roller, los. 6d.

COPIES FOR OUTLINE DRAWING:

LARGE FREEHAND EXAMPLES FOR CLASS TEACHING. Specially
prepared under the authority of the Science and Art Department. Six Sheets.
Size 60 by 40. 9s.

DYCE's ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT, 50 Selected Plates,
mounted back and front, i8s. ; unmounted, sewed, 5s.

WEITBRICHT's OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT, reproduced by Herman,
12 Plates, mounted back and front, 8s. 6d. ; unmounted, 2s.

Morgan's OUTLINES OF THE HUMAN FIGURE, reproduced by Herman,
20 Plates, mounted back and front, miss. ; unmounted, 3s. 4d.

TARSIA, from Gruner, Four Plates, mounted, 3s. 6d., unmounted, yd.

ALBERTOLLI's FOLIAGE, Four Plates, mounted, 3s. 6d. ; unmounted, sd.

OUTLINE OF TRAJAN FRIEZE, mounted, is.

WALLIS'S Drawing-book, mounted, 8s., unmounted, 3s. 6d.

OUTLINE DRAWINGS OF FLOWERS. Eight Plates, mounted, 3s. 6d. ;
unmounted, 8d.



COPIES FOR SHADED DRAWING:

COURSE OF DESIGN. By Ch. Argue (French), 20 Sheets, £-z gs,

ARCHITECTURAL STUDIES. By J. B. Triton. 10 Plates, £1

MECHANICAL STUDIES. By J. B. Triton. 15s. per dozen.

FOLIATED SCROLL FROM THE VATICAN, unmounted, sd.; mounted, is. 3d.

TWELVE HEADS after Holbein, selected from his Drawings in Her Majesty's
Collection at Windsor. Reproduced in Autotype. Half imperial, ^i i6s.

LESSONS IN SEPIA, gs. per dozen.

COLOURED EXAMPLES:

A SMALL DIAGRAM OF COLOUR, mounted, is. 6d. ; unmounted, gd.
COTMAN's PENCIL LANDSCAPES (set of g), mounted, 15s.

SEPIA DRAWINGS (set of 5), mounted, £x.
Alone's LANDSCAPES IN CHARCOAL (Six), at 4s. each, or tffe set £x 4s.

SOLID MODELS, &c. :

*Box of Models, ;^i 4s.

A Stand with a universal joint, to show the solid models, &c., £,x 18s.

*One Wire Quadrangle, with a circle and cross within it, and one straight wire. One
solid cube. One Skeleton Wire Cube. One Sphere. One Cone. One Cylinder,
One Hexagonal Prism. £"2. 2s.

Skeleton Cube in wood, 3s. 6d.
18-inch Skeleton Cube in wood, 12s.
*Three objects oiform in Pottery :

Indian Jar,
Celadon Jar
Bottle,

U8s.

6d.

*Five selected Vases in Majolica Ware, £,2 his.
*Three selected Vases in Earthenware, i8s.

Imperial Deal Frames, glazed, without sunk rings, los. each.
*Davidson's Smaller Solid Models, in Box, £,2, containing —

2 Square Slabs,
g Oblong Blocks (steps).
2 Cubes.
Square Blocks.

Octagon Prism.
Cylinder.
Cone.
Jointed Cross.

Triangular Prism.
Pyramid, Equilateral.
Pyramid, Isosceles.
Square Block,

SOLID MODELS, k.z,— Continued.

*Davidson's Advanced Drawing Models, ;^9.— The following is a brief description
of the Models : — An Obelisk — composed of 2 Octagonal Slabs, 26 and 20 inches
across, and each 3 inches high ; i Cube, 12 inches edge ; i Monolith (forming
the body of the obelisk) 3 feet high ; i Pyramid, 6 inches base ; the complete
object is thus nearly 5 feet high, A Market Cross— composed of 3 Slabs, 24, 18,
and 12 inches across, and each 3 inches high ; x Upright, 3 feet high ; 2 Cross Arms,
united by mortise and tenon joints ; complete height, 3 feet 9 inches. A Step-ladder,
23 inches high. A Kitchen Table, 14^4 inches high. A Chair to correspond.
A Four-legged Stool, with projecting top and cross rails, height 14 inches.
A Tub, with handles and projecting hoops, and the divisions between the staves
plainly marked. A strong Trestle, 18 inches high. A Hollow Cylinder, 9 inches
in diameter, and 12 inches long, divided lengthwise. A Hollow Sphere, 9 inches
in diameter, divided into semi-spheres, one of which is again divided into quarters ;
the semi-sphere, when placed on the cylinder, gives the form and principles of
shading a dome, whilst one of the quarters placed on half the cylinder forms a
niche.

*Davidson's Apparatus for Teaching Practical Geometry (22 models), ^^5.

■'Binn's Models for Illustrating the Elementary Principles of Orthographic Projection as
applied to Mechanical Drawing, in box, £^i los.

Miller's Class Drawing Models.— These Models are particularly adapted for teaching
large classes ; the stand is very strong, and the universal joint will hold the
Models in any position. Wood Models : Square Prism, 12 inches side, 18 inches
high; Hexagonal Prism, 14 inches side, iB inches high; Cube, 14 inches side:
Cylinder, 13 inches diameter, id inches high ; Hexagon Pyramid, 14 inches
diameter, 22^^ inches side ; Square Pyramid, 14 inches side, 22^^ inches side ;
Cone, 13 inches diameter, 22^^ inches side ; Skeleton Cube, 19 inches solid wood
1% inch square ; Intersecting Circles, 19 inches solid wood 2}{ by 1% inches.
IVire Models \ Triangular Prism, 17 inches side, 22 inches high ; Square Prism,
14 inches side, 20 inches high ; Hexagonal Prism, 16 inches diameter, 21 inches
high ; Cylinder, 14 inches diameter, 21 inches high ; Hexagon Pyramid, 18 inches
diameter, 24 inches high ; Square Pyramid, 17 inches side, 24 inches high ; Cone,
17 inches side, 24 inches high ; Skeleton Cube, 19 inches side; Intersecting Circles,
19 inches side ; Plain Circle, 19 inches side ; Plain Square, 19 inches side. Table,
27 inches by 21% inches. Stand. The set complete, ;^i4 13s.

Vulcanite Set Square, 5s.

Large Compasses, with chalk-holder, 55.

*Slip, two set squares and X square, 5s.

*Parker's Case of Instruments, containing 6-inch compasses with pen and pencil leg, 55.

*Prize Instrument Case, with 6-inch compasses pen and pencil leg, 2 small compasses,
pen and scale, i8s.

6-inch Compasses, with shifting pen and point, 4s. 6d.

Models, &c., entered as sets, can only be supplied in sets.

LARGE DIAGRAMS.

ASTRONOMICAL :

TWELVE SHEETS. By John Drew, Ph. Dr., F.R.S.A, Sheets, ^■z 8s. ; on
rollers and varnished, £\ 4s.

BOTANICAL :

NINE SHEETS. Illustrating a Practical Method of Teaching Botany. By Professor
Henslowe F.L.S. ;^2; on rollers and varnished, ^3 3s.

Glumaceous
Models, &c., entered as sets, can only be supplied in sets.

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:

TEN SHEETS. By William J. Glennv. In sets, £x is. •

Caxton's EXAMPLES OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, containing
32 Imperial Plates, £\.

Tunbridge's DRAWING OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. 36 Sheets,
gs. Mounted on cardboard, 18s.

GEOLOGICAL:

DIAGRAM OF BRITISH STRATA. By H. W. Bristol, F.R.S., F.G.S.
A Sheet, 4s.; on roller and varnished, 7s. 6d.

MECHANICAL :

DIAGRAMS OF THE MECHANICAL POWERS, AND THEIR Applications
IN MACHINERY AND THE ARTS GENERALLY. By
Dr. John Anderson. 8 Diagrams, highly coloured, on stout paper, 3 feet 6 inches
by 2 feet 6 inches. Sheets £1 ; mounted on rollers, £2.

DIAGRAMS OF THE Steam-engine. By Prof. Goodbye and Prof. Shelley.
Stout paper, 40 inches by 27 inches, highly coloured. 41 Diagrams (52^ Sheets),
;^6 6s.; varnished and mounted on rollers, £x\ us.

MACHINE DETAILS. By Prof. Unwind. 16 Coloured Diagrams. Sheets, £7^ zs.;
mounted on rollers and varnished, £s its'

SELECTED EXAMPLES OF MACHINES, OF IRON AND WOOD (French).
By Stanislas Petit. 60 Sheets, £2 5^- > 13s. per dozen.

• Tunbridge's DRAWINGS OF MACHINE CONSTRUCTION. 50 Sheets,
Is. 6d. Mounted, jCi 5s.

PHYSIOLOGICAL :

ELEVEN SHEETS. Illustrating Human Physiology, Life Size and Coloured from
Nature. Prepared under the direction of John Marshall, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., &c.
Each Sheet, 12s. 6d. On canvas and rollers, varnished, £a\ is.

1. THE SKELETON AND LIGAMENTS.

2. THE MUSCLES, JOINTS, AND ANIMAL MECHANICS.

3. THE VISCERA IN POSITION.— THE STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS.

4. THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION.

5. THE LYMPHATICS OR ABSORBENTS.

6. THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION.

7. THE BRAIN AND Nerves-THE ORGANS OF THE VOICE.

8&9. THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES.

10 & II. THE MICROSCOPIC STRUCTURE OF THE TEXTURES AND
ORGANS

HUMAN BODY, LIFE SIZE. By John Marshall, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. Each
Sheet, Is. 6d. ; on canvas and rollers, varnished, £x is. Explanatory Key, is.

I, 2, 3. THE SKELETON, Front, Back, and Side View.
5, 6, 7. THE MUSCLES, Front, Back, and Side View.

ZOOLOGICAL :

TEN SHEETS. Illustrating the Classification of Animals. By Robert Patterson.
^•2 ; on canvas and rollers, varnished, £^ los.

PHYSIOLOGY AND ANATOMY OF THE HONEY BEE.

Two Diagrams. 7s. 6d.

(To be had at all Libraries.)

BY A. Galling.
JENNY Jeannette : A Story without a Murder. 2 vols.

Crown 8vo.

BY MRS. CAMPBELL Prayed.
THE HEAD STATION : A Novel of Australian Life. 3 vols.

Crown 8vo.

BY TWO NEW WRITERS.

ARNOLD ROBUR. By Martin Combe and Duncan Lisle.

3 vols. Crown 8vo.

BY H. SUTHERLAND EDWARDS.
WHAT IS A GIRL TO DO ? By H. Sutherland Edwards.

3 Told. Crown 8vo.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
A GIRL IN A THOUSAND. By Jean Middlemost. 2

vols. Crown 8vo.

BY WILLIAM RAABE.

THE HUNGER-PASTOR. By William Raabe. Translated

from the German by "Arnold." 2 vols. Crown 8vo.

BY ARTHUR GRIFFITHS.
NUMBER Ninety-nine. A Novel. Crown 8vo, is.

A SINGER'S STORY, as related by the Author of '' Flitters,

Tatters, and the Counsellor." i vol. Crown 8vo, is.

CHAPMAN ^ HALL, LIMITED.

T

THE FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW.

Edited by T. H. S. ESGOTT,
HE FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW is published on the list of

every month, and a Volume is completed every Six Months.
The following are among the Contnbiitors : —

SIR RUTHERFORD ALCOCK.

MATHEW ARNOLD.

PROFESSOR BAIN.

SIR SAMUEL BAKER.

PROFESSOR BEESLY.

PAUL BERT.

BARON Georgetown BUNSEN.

DR. BRIDGES.

HON. GEORGE C. BRODRICK.

JAMES BRYCE, M.P.

THOMAS BURT, M.P.

SIR GEORGE CAMPBELL, M.P.

THE EARL OF CARNARVON.

EMILIO Caster.

RT. HON. J. CHAMBERLAIN, M.P.

PROFESSOR SIDNEY Colin.

MONTAGUE Cooks, Q.C.

L. H. COURTNEY, M.P.

G. H. DARWIN.

SIR GEORGE W. DASENT.

PROFESSOR A. V. DICEY.

RIGHT HON. H. F.\WCETT, M.P.

EDWARD A. FREEMAN.

SIR Battle Free, Bart.

J. A. FROUDE.

MRS. GARRET-ANDERSON.

J. W. L. Laisser, F.R.S.

M. E. GRANT DUFF, M.P.

THOMAS HARE.

F. HARRISON.

LORD HOUGHTON.

PROFESSOR HUXLEY.

PROFESSOR R. C. Webb.

PROFESSOR JEVONS.

ANDREW LANG.

EMILE DE LAVELEYE.

T. E. Cliffs LESLIE.

SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, M.P.

THE EARL LYTTON.

SIR H. S. MAINE.

DR. Audley.

PROFESSOR MAX MULLER.

G. OSBORNE MORGAN, Q.C, M.P.

PROFESSOR HENRY MORLEY.

WILLIAM MORRIS.

PROFESSOR H. N. MOSELEY.

F. W. H. MYERS.

F. W. NEWMAN.

PROFESSOR JOHN Nichols.

W. G. Palsgrave.

WALTER H. PATER.

RT. HON. LYON Mayfair, M.P.

DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI.

LORD SHERBROOKE.

HERBERT SPENCER.

HON. E. L. STANLEY.

SIR J. FITZJAMES STEPHEN, Q.C.

LESLIE STEPHEN.

J. HUTCHISON STIRLING.

A. C. SWINBURNE.

DR. VON Sybil.

J. A. SYMONDS.

THE REV. EDWARD F. TALBOT

(Warden of Keble College).
SIR RICHARD TEMPLE, Bart.
W. T. THORNTON
HON. LIONEL A. TOLLEMACHE.
H. D. Trail.
ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
PROFESSOR TYNDALL.
A. J. WILSON.
THE EDITOR.

&c. &c. &c.

The Fortnightly Review is published at 2s. 6d.

CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED, ii, HENRIETTA STREET,

COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS,]

[CRYSTAL PALACE Press.

f
