.\ S-V-xv >s^ \N>5 :\^JWJ5»v\\^\<>;«SNW

$^mg$jm»!y^?y?^;?; y?^^

^^^^^jjl^^^^^^^^^^^l^\i^^^i^^v^^^^^^j^^U^^^^^^i^^^^^jl^^^^^^^^j^

^\vv;\^.^.V^■X '^■\^

ipW<»WWiiil*i*i

"'0.-ov-^;^vo^.\^->^ ■ •■■■^N:-

M(^'«C<S»9iiN«9«^»»S%i»!«ei«»»»».«iMiMMi««WM(^^

BBtaawgrfWutuw t u -t i'H' gi a

' ttffl' J tBtt M flMBiM

UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS

& SON'S

SU*t5SUirnri-ivi> ' LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILVV^Y BOOKSTALLS.

■ '■ — ^ :;

NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED FR^M/SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

^ ^-7*

TERIjPS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS Obtaining THEIRvSOtflCar^FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

-v }' / 6 Months. iSllontbx.

For ONE Volume at ^ Jjlm* V — • •• £0 12 1 10

(Novel m more ihau One' yolikne ai't^ availobUfor this class of Subscription.)

For TWO Volume > ^, " *\ 17 6 1 11 6

(Novels in more ian Two HpiuMes are stot available /or this class of Subscription.)

For THREE Volumes <^' 130. .220

For FOUR „ „ 1 8 2 10

For SIX „ , 1 15 3 3

For TWELVE „ „ 3 5 5

<^

<>

■.jt^am^siSt^

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE Libraries

LIKE LUCIFER. By Denzil Vane. 3 vols.

THE BETRAYAL OF REUBEN HOLT. By Barbara

Lake. 1 vol.

THE POWER OF GOLD. By George Lambert.

2 vols.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS. By Jane Stanley.

2 vols.

LUCIA. By Mrs. Augustus Craven, author of ' A Sister's
story,' &c. Translated by Lady Herbert of Lea. 2 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

IN LETTERS OF GOLD

BY

THOMAS St. E. HAKE

• Gone she is,
And what's to come of my despised time
Is nought but bitterness.'

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved

m LETTERS OF GOLD.

Chapter I.

FOOTSTEPS.

^ On the river side of Thames Street, within
a large court-yard, there stands an old
^ mansion. Over the doorway hangs a
huge, shell-shaped canopy, or roof: it is
fashioned out of dark oak, and fantasy
totally carved. It is like an angry brow
frowning down upon the dim lamp bequeath
it.
One night, early in autumn, two men

VOL. I. B

were standing under this lamp. The courtyard
was surrounded by lofty wharves
and warehouses. The only sound, which
stole about in whispers, was the low muttering
of the tide, ebbing, or flowing, with
a soft gurgling noise among the barges
hard by : the current was seldom unheard.

The lamp over the doorway of the mansion
was the only light within the yard.
The reflection of street lamps, struggling at
the entrance of the court, penetrated no
further than the gateway. From the river
there were no direct rays of light, except
at moments when the moon broke from
black clouds, and flung a glitter across
the water resembling the flash of a
dark lantern. It was a silent, shadowy,
deserted place.

You can hear it now, Nedlicott, can't
you ?' said the elder of the two, peering

fiercely into the shadows, and then listening
with the keenness of a watch-dog:.
That's her footstep ! That's what has
been troubling me, by niojht and by day,
for fifteen years. Ay, ay. By night,' he
repeated, with a haunted look, ' by night
and by day, Nedlicott, for fifteen long
years

He was leaning heavily against the iron
railings in front of the house. His appearance,
threadbare and dejected, was
like that of a wretched being who had
been stranded by the last tide. Nedli-
cost was a good-looking man of twenty-eight
or nine. He was clad in a brown
velvet coat, and a low-crowned felt hat.
As he stepped close to the other, and
placed his hand kindly upon his shoulder,
something theatrical in the manner was
whimsically expressed.

b2

»

Wildrake/ said he, 'your brain is full
of odd fancies to-night : you want
rest

*I want sleep,' muttered Wildrake^
what I want is sleep.'

As he spoke, his head began to sink
down until it found a pillow on the broken
spikes : he then closed his eyes.

With a shrug of the shoulders Nedlicott
turned away, walking up and down the
echoing court-yard in front of the mansion.
The old house stood in sombre
shadows. In the roof there were several
gables : and a group of tall, crooked
chimneys grotesquely rose up behind
them. On each side of the massive doorway
were two large windows, with rows
of five windows on the stories above,
all as destitute of light as the dark
walls.

iN'ecllicott stopped opposite to Wildrake
and looked at him attentively.

Drifting, ' he soliloquised, ' always
drifting ; faster every day — faster and
faster.'

As though he had heard Nedlicott's
voice, Wildrake, without opening his eyes,
muttered some inarticulate words, like a
person talking in his sleep.

It's a long time,' Nedlicott still meditated
aloud, ' a honor time to be drifting.
Fifteen years ! It seems to me a very
long time indeed. What can it mean?'

At this moment the old church clocks,
in the neighbourhood of Thames Street,
bean chiming and striking in clamorous
confusion : but this discord was soon
drowned by the droning sound of the
great clock of St. Paul's.

Two !' exclaimed Xedlicott.

He approached Wildrake and laid his
hand upon his arm.

Give me your latch-keys said he, ^ and
let me open the door.'

Wildrake raised his head, and stared at
Nedlicott drowsily. He fumbled in his
pockets and succeeded in producing a
bunch of keys which he regarded with
some bewilderment.

Don't you trouble, Ned. I can manage
myself.'

Ascending the steps he rattled the keys
as he stumbled forward. Nedlicott stood
watching him, as one watches a venturesome
child.

Wildrake bent down. He groped
about with a key around a wide circumference
of the key-hole. In the midst of
this operation he stopped suddenly and
listened. The bunch of keys fell from his

grasp, jingling upon the flag-stone at his
feet.

Hark ! That's her — she is coming
back,' he whispered, * my daughter is coming
back! I never heard her footsteps
like that before — never so distinctly as I
hear them now. Eh ? Wait, Nedlicott, wait 1
A moment longer : only a moment. She is
coming back to me at last.'

He spoke in a low, awe-stricken tone
as he leant forward and listened, gripping
the railings convulsively with his long
lean fingers. There was a bright flash in
his habitually dull eyes, and his lips were
parted and trembling : every feature in his
wrinkled face seemed on the alert : his
whole attitude was that of eagerness, and
all absorbing expectation. Nedlicott stooped
down and picked up the keys.

Let me open the door,' said he.

Wildrake, as though stricken with ague,
was now shaking from head to foot.

Wait, Nedlicott, wait !' he repeated, ina
piteous tone, ' only one moment.'

But Nedlicotfc had by this time turned
the lock. The door opened slowly, groaning
on its rusty hinges. A large hall was

disclosed, where an oil lamp was burning

I
feebly in a corner. Wildrake's manner

changed. He stood up, and, exerting

a ghastly effort to master his emotion,

stepped into the hall. The door was

shut behind him ; and Nedlicott was gone.

CHAPTER 11.

AN OLD CUSTOMER.

Leading from Queenbitlie to St. Paul's, ina
steep and narrow street, was a small
dwelling wedged in between two lofty
warehouses, which gave it a thin and pinched
appearance. It was three stories high :
on the ground floor was a little shop, like a
ship's cabin ; and over the shop door, in
faded letters, was painted :

Nedlicoitj Tobacconist.

Behind the shop there was a parlour : a
snugly-furnished room, with a cheerful lire

burning in the grate. In this parlour
Nedlicott was seated on the morning after
his night with Wil drake.

A woman, with a pleasing, though
slightly worn face, was moving actively
about the room. She frequently cast a
look through the little window of the door
which communicated with the shop, as
though distracted by the shadows of
customers outside the threshold. But
her glances were still more frequently
directed towards Nedlicott, her son, as he
sat near the fire pensively smoking his
pipe.

Teddie,' said the woman, laying a hand
gently on Nedlicott's shoulder, * shall I tell
you your thoughts ?'

Yes, mother.'

You have met that man Wildrake again.
You are th ^f him.'

Nedlicott looked up and nodded.

'He puzzles me,' said be, 'more and
more every time I meet him.'

After smoking for a moment in silence,
he went on, musingly,

A secret trouble is wearing out the
man's life. What can it be ? His broken-down
condition is caused by this trouble :
I am convinced of that. He has known
brighter days.'

You told me,' said the mother, quietly,.
that he drank.'

'Yes,' said Nedlicott. 'But I doubt
if drink began it. He has been drinking
to drown this trouble — a trouble which
has weighed upon his mind for fifteen
years.'

*Ah,' said Mrs. Nedlicott, 'troubles
are neighbour's fare. Think of your poor

father dying, when you were only ten, and
leaving me almost penniless. I did not give
way, my dear : did I ?'

No, mother said Nedlicott. ' You had
me to look after.'

Mrs. Nedlicott drew closer to her son
and placed her hand caressingly on his
shoulder.

But Wildrake,' Nedlicott continued,
Wildrake is alone. That's why I pity him.
He is, as far as I can find out, quite
friendless.'

He has my son,' said the widow.

Nedlicott answered, in a thoughtful
tone :

No ; he had been drifting too long when
I ran against him.'

The widow 'smiled, and said, with
tenderness :

I sometimes think, my dear, that you

take other people's troubles too much to
heart.'

Do you ?' said Nedlicott, in a tone of
surprise. ' I don't think, mother, if you
had seen "Wildrake last nio-ht, and had
heard his strange Torts, that you would
have been less touched than I was.'

• What strange words ?'

He spoke,' said Nedlicott, ' of footsteps
which haunted him : the footsteps of a
daughter. Is it not possible that this
daughter, perhaps years ago, left her
home and has never since had the courage
to return ? Is it not possible,' he added,
that her life is too degraded, if she
still lives, to permit her ever to look her
father again in the face ?'

The mother folded her hands upon
her knees, and stared thoughtfully at the
fire.

Let US hope, my dear boy said she,
*that the trouble is nothing so bad as
that.'

At this moment the entrance to the shop
was darkened by the figure of a little old
man. His expression was an odd mixture
of shrewdness and benevolence. He had a
Jewish type of countenance. His beard
was long and white ; and his eyes, although
sometimes penetrating in their
glance, were habitually directed into
space, as if visions were passing before
him.

Mrs. Nedlicott, having caught sight of
his shadow through the little window, was
already behind the counter as he came
forward, with a swift and kindly greeting,
and put down a quaint old silver
snuff-box. While the widow was replenishing
it, he said :

May I ask, ma'am, whether Ned's at
home?'

Yes, Mr. Isaacs. "Will you step
in?'

Most willingly : T should like to have a
word with him.'

The widow led the way into the parlour,
followed by Mr. Isaacs.

Good-morning, Nedlicott,' said the old
Jew, giving the young man his hand.
Good-morning. Not disturbing dramatic
work, I hope ?'

*Not in the least,' Nedlicott asserted,
laying aside a manuscript. ' Won't you sit
down?'

Mr. Isaacs took a seat in a remote
corner, if such a term can be applied to
Mrs. Nedlicott's diminutive parlour, and
began to tap his snuff-box.

Nedlicott,' said he, ' I want your advice.

You should know something, if anyone
does, about my troublesome lodger.'

Wildrake ? .We were just talking
about him.'

The bad one ! Yes, Nedlicott. That's
the one I mean. Have you often met men
like him ?'

Not often.'

I should think not !' said the Jew.
Dear me, no : it's not possible. What
with his late hours, and his intemperate
habits, he is the worst man I ever knew.
You do your best, as I'm aware, to get him
into my house before midnight ; and I am
grateful : I am indeed. But how can you
always be at his elbow to coax or drive him
home? It's not to be expected. You
have enough to do to look after the
comedies, that's clear. You can't be
always bothered with such a dismal subject

as the bad one. He's not merry
enough for you : he's out of your line.'

Perhaps,' said Nedlicott, thoughtfully,
perhaps you are right. Though it's not
so cheerful behind the scenes of a theatre,
let me tell you, as you imagine ! Wildrake
interests me. Besides, he has, as I was
just now saying, no friends.'

None,' said the Jew, with emphasis. ^ If
he had they would come honestly forward,
and pay the renfc for that third floor front
which has been so long overdue. I think
the bad one begins to imagine that I ought
to assign the room to him for life. At
any rate, I never get a shilling — never !
And, when I ask him why he doesn't settle
up like a man, he becomes indignant, and
insults me. He calls me Shylock. What
can I do ? I haven't the heart to turn him
into the streets. Although,' the Jew

VOL. I. C

added, with anger in his tone, ^ such a bad
one deserves no better treatment. I
suppose it wouldn't be possible to find out
anything about him ?'

I doubt it,' said Nedlicott. * He has
been drifting for so many years that I
question if he remembers from what point
he started.'

You have known him, Nedlicott, for a
long time.'

eyes. Ten years,' said Nedlicott, Hen
years at least. Our first meeting, I recollect,
was at the '^Loafers' Tavern," or
Discussion Hall, as it is called. He was
playing the same part then as he played
last night. I see no change.'

He's what they call chairman, or president
at this tavern, is he not ?'

He occupies that honourable position,'
said Nedlicott. 'He has a gift of the

gab. His loquacity amuses the customers,
or "loafers*' as they are styled, who frequent
the house.'

Isn't he paid ?'

Yes, in kind,' said ISTedlicott, ' though
not in coin. He is an attraction. The
tavern-keeper, who appreciates his magnetic
qualities, supplies him with as much
meat and drink as he can swallow. His
consumption of the latter article is, as
there is no need to tell you, by no means
small. He is in fact what we call in
theatrical parlance a "draw." He creates
no end of discussion ; and if — no doubt
that is how the tavern-keeper argues — he
chooses to drink himself to death that's his
own affair.'

The old Jew shook his head distressfully
and took a pinch of snuff by way of consolation.


o2

What a bad one. to be sure he said.
Dear me, dear me ! what a bad one ! If
he stops much longer in my house, I shall
lose all my lodgers, I know I shall. It's
not respectable, Nedlicott : and, what's
more, I can't afford it. His room is worth
five shillings a week to me. I've told him
so until I'm tired. He'll have to find ten
pounds somehow, and very soon too, or
seek a lodging elsewhere. He will indeed.
You cannot blame a poor man like me,
Nedlicott, for looking a little after the rent
I've stood the bad one's nonsense sometime.
I cannot stand it much longer.'

Wait, Mr. Isaacs, wait awhile,' urged
Nedlicott, * we must see what can be done;
I dread to think what would become of
Wildrake if he had not your roof to shelter
him. I'd rather pay his rent myself
than see him turned out. He is drifting

fast enough already. He would drift out
of sight at once if sou denied him a lodging
in that old garret of yours in Gable
Court. Wait awhile, Mr. Isaacs, wait
awhile.'

Well, well,' replied the Jew, relentingly,
I don't want to be hard on the bad one.
But at the same time, as you must owen,
it's not to be expected that I should submit
to insulting language, especially from
a man who is not worth a straw. Dear
me, no; it's not to be expected.'

This earnest conversation was now interrupted
by the entrance into the little
shop of a telegraph-boy, who delivered a
telegram with two double raps upon the
counter.

From Mr. Cheadle,' said Nedlicott, as
shoon as he had removed the envelope.

The telegram ran as follows :

Come to Tarmouili hy the first trains

Ted Nedlicott was Mr. Cheadle's secretary.
His duties were not, as the world
goes, onerous, but he was expected to hold
himself in readiness to obey orders at all
hours of the day. Mr. Edwin Cheadle was
a dramatic author, who was frequently
seized with inspirations, for which there
was only one remedy. At such moments
he telegraphed to Nedlicott, who
went without loss of time, and, by the
aid of shorthand, effectually relieved
him.

I must be off at once,' said the secretary,
putting sundry MSS., bound in brown
paper, into a small black bag.

At an early age Nedlicott had developed
a talent for histrionic affairs. As soon ashe
could read and write he had been

placed in a lawyer's office. Every penny
that could be spared out of his earnings
was expended in tickets to the galleries of
theatres, and before many years he had
gained a thorough knowledge of the capacity
of every actor on the London boards.
What first brought him under the notice
of Mr. Cheadle was his telegraphy. The
dramatist was struck with the handwriting
of a letter which he received one day from
his lawyers, and he asked leave to employ
the writer to copy manuscript. By this
means Nedlicott was brought into direct
communication with Mr. Cheadle, who,
gradually discovering his aptitude for
stage business, offered him the post of
secretary.

In the course of events Nedlicott became
stage-manager at the theatre where Mr.
Cheadle's comedies were produced, and

this was Ill's position at the present
time.

You will return this evening ?' said
Mrs. Nedlicott, embracing her son.

My dear mother ! did I ever leave you
alone in the house all night ?'

You are a good son,' replied the
mother.

What time I shall be back said Nedli-
cost, ' must rest with Mr. Cheadle. It is
quite evident he added, ' that the sea-air
at Tarmouth has invigorated his dramatic
faculties. Depend upon it, he has hit upon
some new and original idea for a comedy.
I may be late.'

Nedlicott hastened out into the street,
accompanied by the old Jew. As they
walked along the great thoroughfare leading
towards London Bridge, he must have
compared the effect upon his senses of

the deafening roar of the heavy traffic,
which DOW fell upon his ears, with the
sleep silence which had reigned in the same
neighbourhood on the preceding night.
While taking leave of Wildrako's landlord
at the gateway, he glanced up at the
old mansion in Gable Court : and the painful
scene in which Wildrake had figured
under the lamp was vividly recalled.

CHAPTER III.

THE NAME OF VALROT.

Mr. Edwin Cheadle, the author of numerous
plays, is pacing up and down a bright
airy room which presents an inspiring
view of the sea. The sound of the waves
breaking against the low cliff, close under
the windows of the chalet, seems to delight
his dramatic soul, for his look constantly
melts into a jovial smile.

Outside the windows there is a balcony,
towards which Mr. Cheadle now directs

his eyes. At the edge of the balcony a girl
is standing ; her face is turned steadfastly
seaward.

Between this girl and the horizon there
is a small yacht leaping over rough waves :
sometimes in a sunlit patch of sea, sometimes
in a cloud-shadow, with showers of
spray springing high against the bow.
But, in shade or in sunshine, whether
the sail be darkened by a cloud, or brightened
by a flash of light, the boat always
holds a steady, tacking course towards the
harbour.

What a heroine !' says the dramatist,
stepping out upon the balcony.

The girl turns her head. She is tall
and beautiful.

I mean says Mr. Cheadle ; ' the heroine
for a comedy.'

A lady, languid in manner, crosses-from

another window, and enters on the
scene.

'I think, Edwin,' says she, raising her
face to Mr. Cheadle's, ' that it would not
be very difficult to point out the hero.'

The one on the sea ?' Mr. Cheadle demands,
darting a glance at the yacht.

No. On the shore.'
The dark figure of a man is approaching
from the cliff. Mr. Cheadle darts a glance
towards this figure.

'Roy Yalroy?'

Yes.'

Mr. Cheadle's face becomes even more
expressive. He strides up and down the
balcony ; nods at the yacht ; shakes his
bead playfully at Marion, and beams upon
the languid lady, bis young wife, who has
seated herself, in a drooping attitude, beside
the girl. The dramatist, advancing

to the balcony-stair, greets Roy Yalroy,
who ascends.

Yalroy's face and manner are attractive :
he is dark, and handsome, and looks
about thirty.

Shaking hands with the little group, he
remarks, in a grave tone :

I have come — I am sorry to say ' (this
with a glance at Marion) — *to bid you
good-bye.'

Mr. Cheadle's face grows serious.

Yalroy/ he protests, * let us be candid !
This situation — from a dramatic point of
view — pleases me. In comedy, an effective
exit is not to be neglected : you agree
with me, I know. Something exciting,
I hope, calls you away ?'

^ A letter from my brother.'

Mystifying, I'll be bound; eh?'

*No. The letter is perfectly lucid in

every line. My brother is on his way
home.'

Sir Michael coming to England? Incomprehensible
!'

Mr. Cheadle takes Roy Valroy's arm.
He leads him to a seat, apart from, the
ladies, at the other end of the balcony.

This news,' says he, * suggests the
comedy I want.'

He sits down, motioning his friend to a
place at his side.

The opening scene,' he continues, ' islet
us say, a balcony at Tarmouth. Yacht
in the background ; heroine in the foreground
: enter hero. We need not at
present,' adds Mr. Cheadle, * mention
names.'

.A ray of sunlight, at this moment, flashing
upon the yacht, the single sail glitters
as if washed with silver: the little flag flaps

rapidly, and the boat leaps forward with
greater speed. Mr. Cheadle glances at it,
and then resumes.

The heroine's father,' says he, ' hates
the very name of the hero. The consequence
is that the course of true love, in
this comedy, will not run smooth — which
leads me to hope,' adds the dramatist,
that the play will be a success.'

Cheadle,' says Yalroy, ' don't carry
your joke too far.'

'What?' Cheadle retorts. 'Why, I
mean to play a part myself : the hero's
friend ! The heroine's father I know well.
Capital character! IVe introduced him
into one comedy already. There will be
scenes between yourself and me. You
know the part you will play ?'

Roy Valroy rises from his seat beside
the dramatist.

The part I shall play,' he says, ^ will
be to start for London. If you suppose
adds Valroy, ' that any young lady of our
acquaintance . . /

We shall see says Mr. Cheadle, with a
prophetic nod.

The yacht, while they are speaking,
reaches the entrance to the harbour. It
begins to lower its sail. Lying in the
stern, in a lazy attitude, is a young man
in nautical attire, who scarcely seems to
observe anything beyond the yacht. But
suddenly he catches sight of Marion.
Thereupon he springs nimbly to his feet,
and, raising his eyes towards the balcony,
salutes the girl with a courteous wave of
the cap.

The yacht glides into the harbour.
Marion Aldershaw stands motionless, her
hands clasped, her face still as earnest as

when she was looking at the boat leaping
over the waves far out at sea.

EoyValroy directs an angry glance towards
the yacht. Then he turns with
impatience towards Mr. Cheadle.

It is time,' says he, * that I took my
leave.'

Yalroy had no sooner gone, than Nedli-
cost, the secretary, arrived at the chalet,
greatly to Mr. Cheadle's satisfaction.

The scene changes. An old-fashioned
dining-room, with windows that look out
upon a great heath, in a suburb near
London, is fast growing sombre ; for the
twilight is passing out of the sky. On
the dark oaken walls hang the portraits
of men and women of various periods.
A grave judge of the eighteenth century
in his judicial robes has an expression

VOL. I. D

of severity, as though pronouncing sentence
on some unhappy prisoner at the
bar ; while a cavalier of Charles the First's
time stands in a threatening attitude,
his hand upon the hilt of his sword ;
even the smile upon the bewitching face
of a lady, amongst this ancestral group,
is serious, as though in sympathy with the
faces around her.

Before the fire in an arm-chair is seated
a small man with his handkerchief over his
face. His hands are folded idly upon his lap,
and his head is thrown backwards, so that
the chin is pointed towards the ceiling.
His slow respiration and the slow ticking
of an old clock on the mantelshelf are the
only sounds to be heard, chasing each
other, as it were, over the space of silence.

In another chair sits Roy Valroy,
looking moodily at the fire with knit

brow. The strong resemblance which he
bears to more than one portrait on the
sombre walls is noticeable even in this
twilight.

Eising from his seat from time to time,
lie looks out of the window on the scene.
Through the reddening leaves of autumn
can be caught glimpses of the heath.
The sun has gone down for an hour or more
beyond this broad, open space ; but the
reflections in the sky, at the edge of the
horizon, are brilliant still, though rapidly
changing into fainter colours ; while the
heath, like a face from which life is passing
away, becomes dusky, and then dark, as the
shadow of night gradually spreads over it.

The small man raises the handkerchief
from his face. He looks vacantly around him.

How restless you are, my learned
friend,' he remarks.

D 2

Valroy, turning from the window,
throws himself into a chair.

As restless, Ludlaw,' says he, * as a
caged lion. I would go away to-night if
my brother was not coming home. I
want thorough change. I should like to
start for Switzerland, and cross the
Alps.'

^ Why,' says Ludlaw, ^ you have just had
a change : did not the sea-air agree with
you ?'

^ That's a question which I cannot answer
yet ; I have no fixed opinion except
about the Alps. Life seems purposeless,
absolutely not worth living.'

A wretched sentiment,' Ludlaw declares,
^ and one unworthy of you. Come,'
he adds, 'if there is a lady in the question,
why not say so ?'

Yalroy makes no reply.

Be candid ! If you could win her,
heart and hand, would that keep you from
climbing up Mont Blanc ?'

Eoy Valroy leans back in his chair.

I believe, Ludlaw, that you have guessed
the truth.'

Ludlaw turns his keen eyes upon Val-roy's
face.

In that case, my friend, may I be
allowed to put one or two direct questions
?'

Valroy nods carelessly at the fire.

Consider yourself placed,' says Lud-law,
bending over an arm of his chair, *in
the witness-box. Now, tell me, are you
what is called a briefless barrister ?'

Again Valroy nods.

I must request my learned friend to
answer me. Yes, or no T ^

Yes, I am.'

*You are. Now — did you or did you
not absent yourself from your chambers,
and take a trip to the sea-side ?'

'I did;

Do you remember the name of the
town ?'

Tarmouth.'

And why,' says Ludlaw, ' why, I must
inquire, of all sea-side towns in the world,
did you select Tarmouth ?

I think . . .'

No, my friend, you do not think f
You either know, or else you do not know.
Why did you choose Tarmouth ? now, be
careful

Why did I choose Tarmouth. Because
I had a friend staying there.'

A lady or a gentleman ?'
A gentleman.'

Married or single ?'

Married.'

^ All ! Can you recall his name ?'

Edwin Cheadle.'

At this point in the cross-examination
Ludlaw rises from his seat, and, standing
with his back to the fire, leans
towards Roy in a droll manner, and continues
:

*Now, on your oath,' says he, beating
time to his words impressively with his
forefinger, ' on your oath, sir ! Did you,
or did you not, know that Mr. and Mrs.
Cheadle counted among their relations or
friends, no matter which, a certain Miss
Marion Aldershaw, a young lady eminently
prepossessing, highly accomplished, and
the daughter of a merchant prince ?'

Yes. I have often heard Mrs. Cheadle
speak of Miss Aldershaw as her cousin.'

Very good. Now, has Mrs. Cheadle

ever invited you to meet this said cousin at
her house in London ?'

Frequently.'

Have you ever accepted ?'

Never.'

Now, one question more. Had you,
or had you not, the slightest suspicion,
when you started for Tarmouth, that Miss
Marion Aldershaw was staying at that
sea-side town on a visit to Mr. and Mrs.
Cheadle ?'

No, certainly not.'

*Now, be careful,' admonishes Ludlaw,
and remember that you are still on your
oath. If, sir, you had had the slightest
suspicion that Miss Marion Aldershaw was
at Tarmouth, would you have gone there ?'

*No!'

That will do ;' and Ludlaw resumes
his seat.

As Ludlaw sits down, Valroj gets up
and again begins to walk restlessly before
the windows, looking out upon the lamps
son the road over the common which shine
brightly now.

I would rather have gone,' Roy Valroy
presently bursts forth, in a passionate tone,
*to the Antipodes than have met that
girl ! Can I be in my right senses ? It
is impossible to think of anything but her :
she is always in my thoughts. If Cheadle
were to invite me back to Tarmouth, I
should not have the strength to resist. In
fact . . /

That will do, my learned friend. Sit
crown and permit me to sum up.'

Yalroy at once throws himself into his
chair, and leaning forward, with his hands
supporting his head, stares steadfastly at
the fire once more.

I will try,' Ludlaw begins, looking"
round upon the portraits as though the
were an impaneled jury, ' I will try to put
the matter clearly before you : and, I need
not add, without bias. You can then
decide for yourself whether you have any
chance of winning the hand of Miss Marion
Aldershaw.'

After this short prelude Ludlaw pauses.
Presently he resumes, in a low and impressive
voice,

In my opinion,' says he, * a great
obstacle stands in the way. What — you
naturally ask me — should cause an obstacle
? An affair which before visiting Tar-mouth
wife not, as far as you were concerned,
worth recalling. But now it becomes
one which must be referred to, and
never forgotten. Shall we start from the
time when Paul Aldershaw and your

brother were ou terms of friendship T

Roy Yalroy answers with a nod, never
changing his attitude.

Well, then, to begin ! It so happens
that there is in the city of London a great
merchant prince named Paul Aldershaw.
Not many years ago Mrs. Aldershaw, his
wife, a brilliant woman as well as a beauty,
reigned in Tyburniaia like a queen.'

Folding his arms, and throwing back
his head, Ludlaw adds, with a glance at
Yalroy :

And if Miss Marion Aldershaw resembles
her mother I am not surprised to hear
that you find her irresistible.'

Yalroy shows a slight sign of impatience.


*In Tyburnian society,' Ludlaw continues,
* your brother. Sir Michael Yale
constantly appeared. He was a

young baronet then, who had seen the
world, who knew everybody, and everything
worth talking about. Of course the
merchant prince welcomed him warmly.
For was it not remarked that when Sir
Michael Valroy was among the guests Mrs
Aldershaw was most brilliant ? Paul
Aldershaw's friends were delighted ; they
could talk about the beautiful Mrs. Alder-shaw,
and about Sir Michael too, as people
will talk about each other in society. You
know what I mean

Pausing again and looking round upon
the portraits, whose faces seemed to grow
more solemn, as the fire threw reflections
less frequently upon the walls, Ludlaw
presently proceeds :

*This satisfactory state of Tyburnian
society continued for two or three seasons.
The gossip went on about Mrs. Aldershaw,

though it was beginning to lose its freshness.
But one morning a startling report
reached many of the Tyburnian
breakfast-tables. Mrs. Aldershaw — so ran
the rumour — had disappeared.'

The fire in the hearth grows duller now
the faces of the portraits still more
solemn.

society,' pursues Ludlaw, 'watched
from its windows that morning, with eager
faces for the merchant prince. He
appeared : as if nothing had happened
Paul Aldershaw stepped into his carriage,
some said, with a firm step ; but others
declared that his manner was unsteady
and that his face showed signs of distress.
As if nothing had happened, he continued
to drive away, every morning, to the city.
Yes ! even when the rumour of Mrs.
Aldershaw's disappearance was confirmed.*

Once more Ludlaw pauses as though
expecting some word from Roy Vah^oy ;
but, as his friend still remains with his
head between his hands, Ludlaw resumes :

To describe the disappointment in Tyburn,
when nothing serious resulted from
this affair, would be difficult indeed! A
duel, somewhere on the French coast, between
Paul Aldershaw and Sir Michael
Valroy was talked of for some days ; and
then Tyburniaia began to listen for the
report of the pistol with which Paul Alder-shaw
was expected to blow out his own
brains : and, finally, Tyburniaia glanced down
the newspaper columns, hoping at least to
discover something spicy about this mysterious
business. But no satisfactory explanation
was forthcoming. Society had to be
satisfied with its own knowledge that Paul
Aldershaw had begun to lead a retired life.

He was seldom seen, except when he
entered his carriage to drive to his
oflBce in the City ; and so people gradually
ceased to take any special interest
in him. The matter was soon forgotten ;
and the elderly gentleman, with grey hair
and a slight stoop in his shoulders, was
no longer talked about, or even observed,
except as a merchant prince who had
suffered a " blight " in his prime, but who
was giving all his attention to business,
and accumulating wealth for an only
daughter to inherit.'

Looking at Roy Yalroy again, as if expecting
some comment, Ludlaw finds him
still in the same attitude. He shows by
the expression on his face that he is
listening, and that is all.

*Now, the question is,' Ludlaw asserts,
*has Paul Aldershaw forgotten that affair?

Has he forgotten his wife, and, above ally
has he forgotten the name of Valroy?
All T can say about it is this : I knew
Mr. Aldershaw intimately; and, judging
from what I could of his character, I
should be inclined to predict that the
affair lives in his memory as freshly
as if it bad just happened. If you, as
the brother of Sir Michael Valroy, went
to him, and demanded his daughter's hand
in marriage, he would not only refuse to
give his consent, but he would convince
you before the interview was over that
he would rather see his daughter in her
grave than the wife of any relation of
the man who had done him so irreparable
a wrong ! He would not be influenced by
any argument which you might bring forward
to justify your right as a free citizen,
who had never sinned against society, to

fall in love with his daughter. You
bear the name of Yalroy ! That would
be enough to create a prejudice against
you which would destroy all sense of
justice. My advice to you, therefore, my
learned friend, is to forget as soon as
possible that you have ever met the girl.
Take a philosophical view of the subject,
and go abroad ; if you think such a severe
remedy is necessary to effect a cure. But
visit Paris, not the Alps. You will be
back before a month is over, and laughing
at your own folly. You will be as happy,
in fact, and just as contented as you were
before you met Miss Marion Aldershaw!'

With these words, Ludlaw falls back
in his arm-chair, settles himself into a
comfortable attitude, and covers his head
once more with his handkerchief ; and he
is soon breathing with the same regularity

VOL. I. E

as before ; while the old clock on the
mantel-shelf seems suddenly to gain a
hearing, and to be beating time to the
breathing, though always running impatiently
ahead and then falling back to
start anew.

The shadow thrown upon the portraits
appears to have gathered over the face of
Eoy Yalroy too. He sits, his head still
resting on his hands, looking into the red
glow of the fire like one who expects to
find the solution of a problem hidden
somewhere there.

Meanwhile, along the road across the
heath, where the lamps can be seen from
the windows shining at long intervals,
comes the carriage, at a rapid pace, which
is bringing Sir Michael Valroy home after
an absence from England of many years.

CHAPTER IV.

ENLIGHTENED.

In the neighbourhood of St. Mary Axe,
in the City of London, there was — and
indeed still is — a dark and desolate old
square; a place which is sombre from
morning till night. Even at noon the
sunlight never lingers very long upon the
paved quadrangle ; for, when entering
between these tall and gloomy walls, the
shadows are always ready to advance from
nooks and corners to chase away the weak
and straggling rays. From a lofty stored



inDAD\/

house the deepest shadows fall over a
rusty iron crane with an iron pulley and
chains, not unlike a gibbet.

Opposite stands a stable, in shape resembling
a gigantic barn, but it is as
completely in ruins from roof to floor as
though it had been shaken by an
earthquake. On the other two sides of
the square, facing each other, are old
dwelling-houses, discoloured by many coatings
of dust and smoke ; houses which
might be the haunts of men's ghosts rather
than of men, for they retain no longer any
appearance of homely comfort. The windows
of these two rows of houses have a
vacant stare which they direct towards
each other. There are two staring windows
on the ground-floor, on a level with
the doorway, three upon the first floor,
and three upon the second ; and there are

two round garret-windows above, like
sleepless eyes, with chimneys on each
side, like ears which seem to be listening:
for the chimes from the old clock in the
tower of St. Andrew Understand hard by.

It was a wintry night. In the centre
of the square, in the midst of the shadows,
a solitary lamp glimmered, but so dimly
that it looked like the apparition of an
extinguished light. The glass frame which
surrounded it was broken and besmeared
with mud, and around the feeble light the
heaviest shadows seemed to congregate ;
and when a fitful gust of wind, which constantly
rushed through the archway under
the great store-house, swept round the
square, and threatened to put out the
flame, the shadows crept closer still, as
though they were the shadows of huge
wings.

With one of these fitful gusts, which
passed more frequently through the archway
into the square as the evening advanced,
there came a man whose strange
way of conducting himself gave the impression
that he was being blown in
against his will. His behaviour towards
the gusts of wind was resentful ; he turned
upon them sharply with a savage frown,
and with clenched fists, sparring as though
he were preparing for a pugilistic encounter.
Dancing a few steps forward and
then a few steps backward, sometimes
giving his adversary his face and sometimes
his back, he presently reached the
second house to the right of the archway;
and there he stopped, leaning against the
railings to recover breath.

By a glance at his face these signs of
eccentricity were explained : the features,.

as well as the arms and legs, seemed to be
carrying on a fight, for there was a mental
struofo'le at work in the man to resin
a sober expression of countenance. His
coat was threadbare, and his hands were
lean ; and his fingers, long and thin with a
nervous wriggling motion, like snakes,
were continually twitching at his coat-collar.
Having somewhat conquered his
features, and steadied himself by striking
his breast several times with his clenched
hand, he went in at the open door facing
him, on which was written in large letters
on the centre panel :

Aldershaw^ Grimwade and Company,

The office was small and gloomy; but
the clerks were numerous. They sat on
imposingly high stools at a long desk,
with the light of shaded lamps reflected on

their busy faces. Beyond this desk there
was an elevated enclosure, through the
wooden bars of which could be seen, seated
under his own particular lamp a person with
a tawny beard and with quick, bright eyes,
who more closely resembled a playful lion
than an industrious human being. He had
several ledgers with him in the cage ; and
he was turning over the leaves briskly, and
at intervals tugging at his beard. When
his head went down he began to write in
one of the books, and the fluttering would
cease ; but when his head went up the
writing would stop, and the fluttering
would begin again, as though the leaves
had been caught in a sudden draught.

As nobody seemed to pay any attention
to the entrance of the visitor, he took the
opportunity of having another facial
struggle. He took ofl his hat and placed

it on the counter before him, and his snaky
fingers came stealthily out of his pockets
and crept into his hair. Catching sight
of this individual standing at the counter,
the person in the cage stopped suddenly
in the midst of a conflict with the leaves
of the ledgers, and glared through the
bars.

Is Mr. Paul Aldershaw within?' the
visitor ventured to enquire.

A boy with long legs, who was seated on
a, stool at a separate desk in a corner, on
hearing a voice, jumped down and came upto
the counter.

What is it?' he demanded, curtly.

The visitor put his hand in his pocket,
BS though searching: for a card-case ; but
nothing resulting he ofave his collar a
nervous tug, and said :

My name is Wildrake.'

At the mention of these words, all the
clerks raised their eyes with sudden curiosity,
while the boy opening a door close at
hand, on which was inscribed Mr. Grimwade
in rusty letters, said, with more respect in
his tone :

This way, sir, if you please.'

The room which Wildrake now entered

was more like a mausoleum than an office.

Upon a low shelf, which was ranged round

the walls, were placed document-boxes,

black with dust and age. On these

boxes, to be deciphered with difficulty,

were certain abbreviated inscriptions,

having hieroglyphic reference to the

documents within. In the centre of

the office stood a desk, over which was

suspended a shaded lamp ; and at this

desk, it was evident, Mr. Grimwade had

sat at some period in the history of

the firm. On a wooden stand, by itself,
was another box, larger, more dusty,
and more black than the others ; and the
inscription was so faint upon it that the
words looked more like ' sacred to the
memory of Elijah Grimwade ' than anything
else.

Wildrake was still staring thoughtfully
at these curious figuring on the
boxes, when the office-boy peeped in at
a side door and invited him to step that
way.

Give Mr. Wildrake a chair ' — the voice
came from behind a pile of papers as the
visitor entered an adjoining room — ' give
Mr. Wildrake a chair.'

Wildrake sat down and looked at a
bald head, which was all that he could see
of the gentleman who was writing at
the table, and who continued to write

^ for some minutes without raising his
face.

Wildrake waited patiently.

At length the gentleman laid down his
pen, leaned back in his chair, and looked
up inquiringly at his visitor.

Now, John Wildrake/ said he, * what
can we do for you V

Moving nervously in his chair, Wildrake
made no reply. He looked at his hat
meditatively, and then at his boots ; but
he did not appear to gain any help from
either.

^ The old story, I suppose. Eh, Wild-rake
T

'No, Mr. Aldershaw,' said Wildrake,
not the old story, sir. Not, at least, if
you mean that I have called upon you today
to put your hand in your pocket. No,
sir, not that.'

Mr. Aldershaw, who had a pale face
with a passionless expression, except in
his grey eyes, which were keen and restless,
was in outward appearance as full of
repose as if he had been a statue. His
white hair lay on each side of his baldhead,
like closed wings. His chin appeared
behind a collar which might have
belonged to a marble bust. He sat with
his elbows on the arms of his chair, clasping
his hands, as though the reference
which his visitor had made to a pocket
prevented him from assuming any other
attitude.

What I mean is,' Wildrake continued,
throwing his head on one side, ' what I
mean is that I've called to suggest something
which the age wants badly.'

Money ?' remarked Mr. Aldershaw,.
promptly.

*No,' said Wildrake, *not money. That
is not what I mean. The age wants reforming
: the rising generation does not
open its mouth.'

Surely said Mr. Aldershaw, ^ that is
as it should be.'

'What I mean is,' Wildrake repeated,
nervously, ^ the rising generation does not
speak out distinctly : no articulation !
On that account, Mr. Aldershaw, it's a
failure.'

Possibly,' said the merchant, with impatience,
^ and if my time . . .'

Wildrake leaned slightly forward, and
raised his hand.

Permit me, Mr. Aldershaw,' said
lie, 'to make one remark. I am influenced
entirely by philanthropic motives.
Otherwise,' he added, 'I would not fora
moment trespass upon your time. I

have only one question to ask. Why, I
demand, why is the rising generation a
failure?'

He paused with his head on one side, as
though waiting for the reply with breathless
expectation.

Because,' he answered himself, in a
persuasive tone, * it is not taught
elocution.'

TVildrake looked at Mr. Aldershaw.
But that gentleman maintaining silence he
continued :

Now my plan,' said he, ' is very simple.
I intend, as philanthropist, to aid the
rising generation. I contemplate giving
lessons.'

As Mr. Aldershaw had nothing to say
against this communication, Wildrake, who
did not appear to require encouragement,
went on :

In a house,' be said, * out of Thames
Street, in fact in Gable Court, I have
a third-floor front. The room has the
merit, though not handsomely furnished,
of being commodious ; plenty of space, sir,
for the voice. The landlord, who has no
articulation worth mentioning, has asked
me to pay my rent. He is an ignorant
and most insolent person. He has refused
to accept my pamphlet on elocution. He
declares that he has no faith in words. I
have even offered him lessons gratis, sir,
actually gratis. But nothing will satisfy
him, except a ten-pound note.'

Mr. Aldershaw pressed a hand-bell on
the desk at his side.

Tell Mr. Snowy,' said he, when
a clerk appeared, * that I wish to speak to
him.'

Snowy, who was the person Wildrake

had observed in the cage with the large
ledgers, entered the room with an air
of suppressed importance. He looked
inquiringly from Mr. Aldershaw to
Wild rake.

Snowy,' said the merchant, with a
wave of his hand, ' this is Mr. Wildrake.
You may possibly have heard the name.'

Snowy assented with a slight inclination
of the head.

Mr. Wildrake,' the merchant continued,
is a man of enterprise. He is established
in Gable Court, in the neighbourhood of
Thames Street. But, as I understand, the
necessary capital — for reasons which it is
needless to mention — does not appear to
be forthcoming. The consequence is,
Snowy,' said Mr. Aldershaw, 'that we
must put the affair in your hands, and
ask you to tide over this temporary

VOL. I. F

inconvenience for Mr. "Wildrake. What
do you say ?'

Snowy looked searchingly into Mr.
Aldershaw's face ; suppressed a smile, and
replied promptly :

I can only say, sir, that if Mr. Wild-rake
will walk into Mr. Grimaces room,
I have no doubt that I shall be able to
arrange something satisfactory.'

As he spoke, Snowy went towards Mr.
Grimwade's door. He opened it and
looked in.

One moment, Snowby/ said Mr. Alder-shaw,
lifting his hand. * It is only right
that I should say a word in Mr. Wild-rake's
favour. He is a man of business.
I found him here, a clerk in
this very office, when I left college
and was taken into partnership by my
father some thirty-five years ago. John

Wildrake/ he continued, glancing towards
his visitor, ' might have been taken
into the house also. He would, in fact,
when my father died, have filled the place
of junior partner, if he had chosen to
remain with us. But he preferred a position
which was — well, more independent.
And whose fault is it if it has not proved
more lucrative ? Not John Wildrake's.
No, surely not ! I have always been so accustomed
to look upon Mr. Wildrake as a
thorough man of business that I cannot
persuade myself that he would have
resigned his position in a house like ours
unless he was confident as anyone can be
that, in some other enterprise, he would
become more quickly a millionaire.'

Mr. Aldershaw's words seemed to make
a painful impression upon Wildrake ; for, as
the merchant proceeded, he changed colour,

f2

and his nervous manner increased. He
had risen from his seat, bit, instead of
now following the manager, he turned to
Mr. Aldershaw, and said, in a shaky voice,

'Allow me, sir, to say one word.' He
glanced at Snowy and added, ^ I will follow
this gentleman immediately.'

At a nod from Mr. Aldershaw, the
manager retired into Mr. Grimwade's
room. As soon as they were alone. Wild-rake
turned quickly towards the merchant.

If you knew,' said he, ' and I have
never doubted until now that you did
know, why I became incompetent to retain
my place in your house, you would not
have spoken as you did a moment ago.'

Wildrake uttered these words rapidly :
he was trembling with agitation.

I think,' said Mr. Aldershaw, * that we
both know the reason well enough.'

Wildrake placed his hand upon the
back of a chair to steady himself, and
replied :

^ You mean that I took to drinking ?'

The merchant remained significantly
silent.

*Yes, Mr. Aldershaw/ said "Wildrake,
there is truth in that : but there was
another reason. I drank to forget my
grief.'

If you were in difficulties, Wildrake,'
said Mr. Aldershaw, kindly, ' you had only
to mention them to me.'

That,' Wildrake quickly assented, * I
have every reason to believe. But there
are troubles which men shrink from mentioning
to their best friends — even after
many years.'

A slight shade passed over Mr. 's
face.

You may remember, sir said Wildrake,
that I bad a daughter.'

The merchant looked up with surprise.

Why, surely,' said he, * you have not
lost her?'

Yes. She is lost.'

Why,' said Mr. Aldershaw, ' you told
me, years ago, that your daughter was
married.'

I told everyone the same — happily
married, Mr. Aldershaw, were my words.'

As he spoke, a look of dreadful pain
came into Wildrake's face.

But,' said the merchant, * do you mean
to say that she is dead ?'

No, not dead, sir,' said Wildrake, ^ not
dead.'

There was a pause. Then he added
looking strangely round the room,

I know that she is not dead, although

I never see her. I know that she is not
dead, sir, because I sometimes hear her
footstep. It haunts me

He again looked strangely about. Suddenly
a fierce and fixed look gathered in
his eyes.

Now,' he muttered, with clenched fists
* I hear her footstep now.'

He stepped softly, as though fascinated,
towards the window, and moved the blind
aside. He peered out into the dark
square.

Why do I never see her r' he demanded,
in a low, distracted tone. * I know it's
her footstep which I hear. I listened toit
when she was a child.'

He came slowly back to where he had
stood, still deeply moved.

'When she first left me,' he said, twitching
nervously at his coat collar, ' I so

often heard her footstep that I could not
believe that she had gone. But gradually
the truth forced itself upon me. I gave
up all hope ; I knew that she was lost.'

Mr. Aldershaw looked earnestly at Wild-rake,
and then thoughtfully bent his
head.

'I never heard anything of this said
he.

Wildrake made no reply. The merchant
continued :

I recollect your daughter perfectly
said he. * She was a very handsome and
well-educated girl. She had the voice of
2i> prima donna, I remember that she sang
at our receptions. When you told me
he added, * that she was married, I
naturally concluded that she had made
a good match, as I always believed she
would.'

Her ambition was to marry a baronet
said Wildrake, significantly. ' It was her
one fault : sbe looked above her station in
life;

He moved a step nearer to Mr. Alder-saw,
and added :

We went into society a good deal.
One evening — I remember it well — she
met the man who has caused me this grief.
She met him at your house

Mr. Aldershaw rose slowly from his
chair. He looked at Wildrake with a
stern face.

At my house ?' said he ; and there
was adorer in his tone. ' What was his
name ?'

Wildrake glanced round him rapidly.
Then, in a broken voice, and scarcely
above a whisper, he said :

Sir Michael Valroy.'

The name seemed to strike upon Mr.
Aldershaw's ear as though he had received
a blow. He bent his head, and his passionless
face shrank and wrinkled with passion.
Even Wildrake grew alarmed
at the sudden change in the merchant
prince.

Paul Aldershaw sank into his chair.
With a wave of his hand he dismissed
Wildrake, who, casting a meaning glance
at the merchant, stepped into the late Mr.
Grim wade's office, and softly closed the door.
He found Snowy, the manager, standing
there, with a searching look in his eyes,
waiting to arrange the small matter of
business which his employer had placed
in his hands.

CHAPTER V.

M Alio n's H E art.

It was an hour or more after Wildrake
had gone that Paul Aldershaw left his
office. But as he descended the dark
staircase, and passed out into the dismal
old square, he glanced about him nervously,
as though expecting at every step to
encounter the grief-stricken, drunken face
of his old clerk. He peered among the
dense shadows which seemed to have
deepened in every nook and corner as the
night had closed in ; while the lamp, in

the centre of the place, looked as though
it had been lost in a thick fog. The
merchant's carriage stood at the entrance
to the square, under the archway below
the great storehouse. Paul Aldershaw
took his seat with a certain sense of
relief ; although, as he was driven through
the crowded streets towards Tyburniaia, he
fancied more than once that he saw the
figure of Wildrake at gloomy corners,
bent in a listening attitude, as he had
seen him when haunted by the sound of
his daughter's footstep.

Paul Aldershaw had invited a few people
to dinner. The party was composed
of some half-a-dozen men : two or three
City magnates, a captain in the Horse
Guards, and Lord Mounthaw and his son
Viscount Dwyver.

The Earl of Mounthaw was an old

friend. His property in Yorkshire adjoined
an estate which Paul Aldershaw's
father had purchased years ago. As young
men, therefore, the present Lord Mount-haw
and Paul Aldershaw had met every
autumn, during the shooting season, and
had become intimately acquainted. As
time went on, a tacit understanding came
to exist between the two men that their
children — viz. : Marion Aldershaw and
Viscount Dwyver — should some day form a
matrimonial alliance.

Before the first guest was announced,
Paul Aldershaw had taken up his position
on the hearth rug in the great drawing-room
with his back to the fire, as if
warming himself up for the reception.
But he looked almost as cold as marble, if
not as pale ; for his face had regained its
passionless expression, and there was no

indication, except in his unquiet eyes, that
his mind had been so seriously disturbed
scarcely an hour ago. If Wildrake's
words, or his troubled look, still gave him
uneasiness, he had concealed the fact from
himself for the time being. He was the
wealthy Mr. Aldershaw now, a man who
acknowledged no worldly anxieties, no
cares.

Before long the guests arrived. They
were welcomed courteously by the merchant
prince, though no trace of a smile
escaped his lips.

I hear,' he said, turning to Viscount
Dwyver, soon after they were all assembled
at dinner, ' I hear that you saw
something of my daughter while you were
at Tarmouth with your yacht ?'

Dwyver was a good-looking man of
twenty-four, or thereabouts, with all the

brightness and energy of youth expressed
in every feature : and, to judge from his
manner and his mode of conversation, he
took a superlative view of everything and
everybody claiming his attention.

I had,' said he, * the pleasure of meeting
Miss Aldershaw every day. I was
absolutely enchanted, I assure you. Immensely
gratified.'

She was looking well ?'

In a most perfect state of health,'
said Dwyver. 'Positively perfect.'

One of the City magnates now asked
Dwyver some questions about his yacht,
which led to a long discussion — principally
carried on between the viscount and
the Horse Guards-man — on the subject of
regattas. When Mr. Aldershaw at length
managed to wedge in a word, he turned
the current of conversation by asking

Lord Mounthaw what he thought of the
prospects of the shooting season this autumn
in Yorkshire.

Lord Mounthaw was a square-built man,
with a fresh complexion ; he had the
strong ruddy appearance of a Yorkshire
squire. He was a true sportsman, with a
quick eye and a steady hand.

The season said he, * will be good. I
hope,* he added, Hhat we shall see you
and Marion at Mounthaw Castle on the
first.'

The merchant prince could not promise.
He had given up shooting, as Lord Mount-haw
was aware. But he should be 'at
Oaklandss' (his seat in Yorkshire), he
said, ' before the end of the season.*
That was certain.

The conversation then drifted into
sport, and from sport into politics : and,

before the leading questions before parliament
bad been exhaustively discussed, the
merchant prince proposed an adjournment
to the smoking divan adjoining the
billiard-room.

During a billiard match, which was
played between Dwyver and the captain,
Lord Mounthaw and the merchant prince
found themselves alone.

The divan was a room furnished in
Oriental fashion with luxurious lounges,
and with rugs and carpets which Paul
Aldershaw had bought in Turkey during
one of his visits to the East. The two
friends sat on a lounge looking out upon
a conservatory filled with sub-tropical
plants.

After smoking for some minutes in
silence, Lord Mounthaw turned to the merchant,
and said :

VOL. I. G

So Marion is still at Tarmouth ?'
'Yes. Still with her cousins, you know,

the Charles.'

She has been away some weeks ?'

Several weeks said the merchant.

Ah !' said the earl, ' Lady Mounthaw
was saying to me, only this afternoon,
how disappointed she was not to have
seen anything of Marion this season.'

Lady Mounthaw,' said the merchant,
is very kind.'

Why should you say that ? The affection
which Lady Mounthaw has for Marion
is, as you must be aware, very deep. You
must not forget that she has known her
since she was a child. If Marion were
Lady Mounthaw's daughter she might be
more demonstrative, but her affection
could not be more sincere.'

1 cannot doubt that.'

«

'Lady Mountliaw/ continued the ear],
*lias more than once begged me to talk to
sou, my dear Aldershaw, about Marion.
You see, we have got a son, an only son.
He is a good fellow, as you will be the
first to admit. But he is so restless. He
is so disinclined to settle down. Now
supposing, let us say supposing, that he
showed signs of an attachment for Marion,
would such a contingency meet with your
approval ? I need scarcely assure you,'
Lord Mounthaw hastened to add, ' that it
would meet with Lady Mounthaw's and
mine.'

Mounthaw,' said the merchant, holding
out his hand, ' it would not only meet
with my approval : anything that I can
possibly do in order to promote Lady
Mounthaw's wishes in this matter shall be
done. Of course pursued Paul Alders





shaw, diplomatically, ' I cannot answer for
Marion's heart. But I have every reason
to believe that it is free ; and, if your son
can win her, I shall be the first to congratulate
him, and to assure him that there
is no man living to whom I would more
willingly intrust my daughter's happiness.'


The ice was broken. The merchant
prince and Lord Mounthaw could now
freely converse together on a subject
which was of such vital interest to
both.

I've a great mind said Mr. Aldershaw,
when Lord Mounthaw was on the point of
taking his leave, ' I've a great mind to
run down to Tarmouth tomorrow. It
would be a pleasant little surprise for
Marion.'

'Ab said the earl, sit would indeed.

May I tell Lady Mounthaw,' he added,
that you are going to bring Marion back
with you ?'

I think so, ' said the merchant,
reservedly. ' Yes, I really think yoa
may.'

Long after his guests had left him
that night, Paul Aldershaw sat in his
oriental room, singularly thoughtful for a
man who seldom indulged in dreams. Fora
brief hour not even the remembrance of
Wildrake's visit to his office, and the hateful
name he had mentioned there, could
disturb him. He was mentally gloating
over the brilliant future which this contemplated
alliance with the earl's family
foreboded. The two properties in Yorkshire,
as he had long and earnestly desired,
would ultimately become one superb estate;
and his daughter Marion, his only

child, would some day be the Countess of
Mounthaw.

Paul Aldershaw had. it is true, inherited
a large fortune. But, since the year in
which he found himself the sole surviving-partner
in the great house, he had vastly
developed the business of the firm. Ho
had of late years given his undivided
attention to commerce, though in former
days he had shown a great interest in
art: himself an artist, he had filled his
house with valuable works by old masters ;
nor did he fail to patronise the modern
school. But, since domestic troubles had
overtaken him, from morning until night
he had been immersed in city affairs. Art
was forgotten : the merchant's one idea
was to become a millionaire. His talents
as a financier were known and acknowledged
throughout Europe; and yet he

Lad laboured, and gained this position,
less for the sake of accumulating riches
than as a necessary diversion. But he
now began to perceive that he had unconsciously
laboured for some more
worthy end, and that the power which his
wealth had brought him would be turned
to good account.

On the following day Paul Aldershaw
drove to the City with a brighter look
upon his face than had been seen therefor
years. Snowy, the manager, who
had a better opportunity than most
men of watching the changes in the
merchant's countenance, was puzzled to
account for it until towards the afternoon,
when, being called into the private office,
he had some reason to imagine that he
might take all the credit of this alteration
to himself.

By-the-by, Snowby/ said the merchant,
it is time we were thinking of changing
your position in the office. You are a
man in whom I have for a long time placed
very great confidence. Something must
be done.'

Snowy could not utter a word.

To-days said Mr. Aldershaw, 'I have
not a moment to spare. I am going out
of town : to Tarmouth, in fact. But we
must have a little talk together some day.
Something shall be done. That room,' he
added, * of the late Mr. Grim wade's might
be dusted. You shall occupy his office.
I wish to recognise your devotion to the
firm.'

It was not the first time that Paul

Aldershaw had referred to the dusting of

Mr. Grimwade's room ; its neglected,

gritty condition had evidently impressed

itself upon his mind, and Snowbj, who
was as quick to interpret the merchant's
slightest utterance as he was to read his
face, saw himself, the present manager, in
the dim future installed at the late Mr.
Grimwade's desk, a junior partner in the
great house.

He thanked Mr. Aldershaw in appropriate
words, and was stepping towards the door
when the merchant stopped him.

Snowbj,' said he, ^ have you seen "Wild-rake
again ?'

No, sir,' said Snowy, ' I have seen
nothing of him.*

Have you his address ?'

Yes. It is on the draft, which he gave
me, for the ten pounds.'

How is the bill dated ?'

At one month.'

The merchant reflected for a moment.

When it falls due said he, ' arrange to
call for payment yourself.'

Certainly,' said the manager. ' But
he added, with a shrewd look, ' I doubt if
it will be met.'

It will not be met,' said Paul Aldershaw.
In fact, it is possible that Wildrake will
borrow more money. If he does,' added
the merchant, ' you can let him have some.
Indeed, I should be glad if you would look
after him now and then.'

It shall be done, sir,' said Snowy.

Yes. Look after him,' repeated the
merchant, abstractedly. ' A man of John
Wildrake's character demands it. He is
dangerous to society.'

Snowy assented.

Now it appears said the merchant, confidentially,
'that Wildrake has, or fancies

that he has, a grievance against somebody :
a very heavy grievance.'

Pausing, for a moment with a graver
look on his face, he added :

In fact, the fellow will be communicative
: drunkards always are. He will tell
you about a daughter who has been led
astray ; and there may be some truth in
his story. He is therefore to be pitied.
Besides Paul Aldershaw concluded, * as a
former clerk in this house, it is our duty to
look after him. In plain words, Snowy,
if the thing is possible we must keep him
out of mischief.'

When Paul Aldershaw left his office he
drove to his club, instead of returning to
Tyburniaia. Here he dined, before starting
for Tarmouth, mindful of his intention,
as he had declared to Lord Mound

to give Marion a pleasant little
surprise.

At Tarmouth it is a moonlight night.
The windows of Mr. Cheadle's room at the
<3h^let are wide open ; the sea-breeze, blowing
from the south, is as mild as in midsummer.
The stars are brilliant, for there
is scarcely a cloud in the sky.

Mr. Cheadle is seated at his table, pen
in hand, engaged in constructing his new
comedy. But he is not so deeply absorbed
but that he can frequently find time to
casta meaning glance towards the balcony.
His pretty wife is asleep in an arm-chair, ina
dark corner of the room, with a novel on
her lap. She never disturbs Mr. Headless
dramatic inspirations.

On the balcony, side-beside, are Marion
Aldershaw and no other than Eoy Valroy.

The path of light upon the water, reaching
from the horizon towards the beach,
divides the waves into two restless seas.
The white breakers are dashing monotonously
against the cliff below the balcony.
No other sound can be heard along the
shore.

While I was away,' Yalroy is saying
to Marion, in a low voice, * I was thinking
deeply, very deeply, of something which I
cannot any longer keep from you. Something
which I had intended speaking of
when I saw you last. "Will you listen tome
now V

He looks into Marion's face. There is
a quivering of her lips, but no word reaches
Yalroy's ear.

I do not wish,' Valroy pursues, conscious
of her distress, * to give you pain.
But when shall we be alone again, as weare

now? This may be the last time for
many months to come. I cannot let the
chance go by without telling you that I
love you.'

She bends her head, and turns it from
him. But she raises her hand slowly, as
though groping in the dark. Valroy
seizes the hand and holds it in his own.
He whispers very softly :

Do you love me ?'

Marion looks round. The moonlight
trembles in her dark eyes as she raises
them to Valroy's face.

Yes,' says she, in a whisper like his
own. *No one but you.'

The tone in which he answers, dear
Marion !' makes her heart beat fast. Fora
while they are both silent. Marion's
eyes are bent intently upon the moonlit
path over the waves as though it were

the way, in a dream, to some splendid
destiny.

Why did you say just now Marion
presently inquires, in a subdued voice,
Hhat this might be the last time that
we should meet for many months to
come ?'

Yalroy feels a pang at his heart.

Do you wish to know to-night ? You
will learn that soon enough, Marion, without
me.'

Marion becomes thoughtful.

^ It is not wrong to love you ?' says she.
Is it, Eoy ?'

This is the first time that she has called
him by his Christian name. It is a new
sensation to him : it is so sweetly and so
timidly pronounced.

No, Marion

And yet,' Marion confesses, ' I have a

strange presentiment. Something seems
to tell me that in loving you I shall displease
my father. But it is too late now,'
she hastens to add, ' to think of that — too
late

While speaking, Marion has kept her
eyes fixed upon the sea. Suddenly sho
hears a voice in Mr. Cheadle's room : a
voice which startles her. She looks quickly
round.

She sees her father : he is stepping towards
the dramatist, who, with a genial
smile, takes his hand.

Where is Marion ?'

This is his first question as he glances
about the room.

Balcony says Mr. Cheadle, curtly, and
with a wave of his hand towards the windows.
* Sea in the background. Moonlight.'


Marion's father frowns.

^ But,' says be, with surprise, ' my daughter
is not alone.'

No,' says Mr. Cheadle. ' That— from
a dramatic point of view — would never
do.'

What do you mean ? Speak plainly.'

There is anger in the father's voice. He
quickly adds :

Is it Lord Dwyver ?'

^No.'

Who, then ?'

Marion sees Mr. Cheadle give a rapid
glance towards the balcony, and then into
her father's face.

Sit down, Aldershaw/ says he, soothingly,
' and I will tell you who.'

Her father slowly takes a. seat and
regards the dramatist with sternness and
suspicion.

VOL. I. H

TU not attempt,' says Mr. Cheadle, sto
deceive you. I'm a slave — from a dramatic
point of view — to situation. I must,
so to speak, breathe an atmosphere of
comedy. It's necessary to my existence.
I've invited some one to my house whom
you — except from a dramatic point of
view — could not desire your daughter to
meet.'

Marion sees her father's face grow
sterner.

Don't try my patience, Cheadle. I
have asked you to tell me his name.'

One moment,' says the dramatist ; ' I
am coming to that. You will be justly
indignant ; and I wish you to understand
that I am to blame : no one else. I plead
guilty and crave your pardon. His name
is Roy Valroy.'

Marion sees her father's face wrinkle

and grow dark : lie can scarcely recognise
it, so disfigured does it become with
passion. He springs from bis chair and
takes a step towards the windows.

But he has not time to cross the room
before Marion is at his side. He looks at
her with cruel severity, falls back and
sinks into his chair.

Mr. Cheadle closes the windows and
draws the curtains with great dramatic
promptness, and stands before the drapery
with folded arms.

h2

CHAPTER VI.

THE MANAGER AT HOME.

The interest in John Wildrake which
Snowy began to experience as soon as
the responsibility of ' keeping him out of
mischief was imposed upon him by the
merchant prince, was equalled only by his
concern regarding the precious dust which
had been so long preserved in the late
Mr. Grimwade's office.

These two subjects frequently demanded
serious reflection. On his way home to
Brixton the manager could think of nothing

else ; they were subjects which
threatened to become of supreme importance
to him, and in some inexplicable manner,
as it seemed, fatally connected ; for,
without any logical reason for drawing
such a conclusion, Snowy argued that, if
Wildrake ' came to grief ' through neglect
on his part, the dust would be let to go on
accumulating; but that if no disaster overtook
the old clerk, Mr. Grimwade's * dust '
would eventually be got rid of, and the
faded name upon the panel outside his
door would be removed, and his own name
written there instead.

The ' little place,' as Snowy called his
villa at Brixton, was among a row of detached
little places with square gardens
in front, and with gravel walks and flowerbeds
like toy parks. So closely did these
bijou residences resemble each other in

every detail, on both sides of the road
that looking from end to end was like
peeping into opposite mirrors ; for they
were mere reflections, the one row of the
other. The trees which were planted at
regular intervals on each side of the way
in the style of a boulevard, were not remarkable
for luxuriant growth ; but there
were enough branches to attract numberless
sparrows, that twittered loudly, as
if satisfied that by some accident they
had found their way into the country.

Where is Miss Kate ?' said Snowy
meeting the servant-girl in the hall, as he
let himself into his villa with his latchkey.


With Madame Helene, sir.'

Snowy nodded approvingly as he
stepped into his sitting-room, and then
added :

Tell Miss Kate that I have come home.'

The room which Snowy entered was
small. It was connected, however, by
folding-doors with another of the same
size. From the windows of the front one
there was a view of the * boulevard ;' but
from the other was to be seen, over an
oblong garden, an extensive area of
cabbage fields beyond which the sun was
setting behind an atmosphere of London
smoke.

Snowy had scarcely taken a turn across
the room when a young girl made her
appearance, and ran like a child into his
arms.

She was about eighteen years of age,
and one of the brightest looking girls
imaginable. She had large, laughing
eyes, a perfect rosebud of a mouth, and
brown wavy hair lit up with a golden tint

which seemed to be stray sunshine.
Her features were small and delicately
formed, and her figure was so well proportioned
that she appeared smaller than
she actually was. There was something
indescribably expressive in her hands ; they
attracted almost as much attention as her
face. They were such busy hands, so constantly
in motion, so white and long, and
dimpled too like her cheeks.

Father,' said she, with her hands placed
tenderly on Snowy's shoulders and with
her red lips raised for a kiss, ' what a good-tempered
face you have brought home this
evening. Has anything remarkable happened
at the office ?'

*Why, yes, Kate, my dear,' said her
father, * something remarkable has, or I
should say, is going to happen.'

Kate placed her arm in her father's, and

clasping her hands, and glanced up laughingly,
she said :

Come down into the " snuggery," and
tell me all about it while I make the
tea.'

The ' snuggery,' as Kate called it, was a
little parlour below stairs, next to the
kitchen. It was half above ground and
half below, so that standing at the window
you found your eyes on a level with the
front garden, with a small railed area
intervening.

When Kate had placed her father in the
arm-chair, and had given the kettle a playful
bump on the top of a cheerful fire, she
began to lay the cloth in a busy, bustling
manner, singing snatches of songs. She
took from the cupboard sundry cups and
saucers and plates, not forgetting to give
her parent a smile each time she caught

his eye. During one of these expeditions
Snowy, impatient with his news, commenced
by saying :

Well, Kate, my dear, the fact is . . . .*

Wait a minute, father,' cried Katie,
IVe forgotten the teapot ;' and she hastened
into the kitchen to search for that important
commodity.

When she presently returned, he began
again.

The fact is, my dear . . . .'

snow, let me make the tea first,' said
Kate, glancing at the kettle, * the water is
boiling ; and if your news is very surprising
I shall scald myself as sure as fate. Only
wait half-a-minute now, father, and I will
come and sit down, with nothing to do but
to pour out your tea and to listen to the
latest news.'

When these preparations were at last

completed, and Kate had cut the bread and
poured out the tea, she settled down with
a merry look, and said :

*I am ready now, father, to give you
all my attention.'

Snowy stirred his tea, and then fixed his
eyes earnestly upon his daughter.

*What should you say,' he demanded,
what should you say to an important
change : to a change, my dear, in our
social, indeed, I may say in our financial
position ?'

Kate glanced up quickly with a puzzled
face.

What should I say, father ?'

Ay, Katie,' said he, ' what should you
say supposing that instead of living as we
do in a small house, and letting our first
floor, we had a fine house in the west-end
in one of the squares, and a box at the

opera for the season ? What should you
say if, instead of the Brixton bus, we had
our own carriage, drove in Hyde Park,
and received no end of company?'

I do not understand,' said Kate.

Then,' said Snowy, * I will explain myself
more clearly. All this has been offered
in prospective : all that a man can
desire in the way of wealth has been
promised me to-day by Mr. Paul Alder-shaw.
In a word : Mr. Grimwade's room
is going to be dusted.'

As he finished speaking Snowy's eyes
sparkled, and he looked triumphantly into
his daughter's face to watch the effect of
his last words.

Katie did not even smile. After a pause,
she simply said :

Is that all, father ?'

Snowy's face expressed sudden surprise.

All, my dear?' said he. ' Does not the
news content you ?'

Katie made no reply.

Why, there is scarcely a man on 'Change,'
said her father, ' who will not grow envious
when he hears about it. Ever since
Mr. Grimwade's death, which occurred
you know, more than half-century ago,
the great question on 'Change has been :
who will occupy the vacant place in Grim-wade,
Aldershaw and Company's office ?
It is the direct road to wealth. It means
that if I live to reach Mr. Paul Alder-shaw
's age — no very great age to reach,
after all — I shall be, like him, a very rich
man, and you, Kate, an heiress. Why
Katie,' he concluded, what more would
you have?'

Still Katie did not answer.

You will, of course,' her father went on

with enthusiasm, ^ marry a man of position.
There is no reason, when we have a house
in Belgrade Square, why you should not.
Such things have happened. Why not
again ?'

Katie's eyes were bent thoughtfully to
the ground : she did not even raise them
when her father paused as though expecting
some reply.

Your education has not been neglected,'
pursued Snowy, reflectively, 'and you are
beginning to improve your music and
your French in the society of Madame
Helene. And as to beauty,' he added, with a
look of pride, ' I defy anyone to point me
out a prettier girl.'

Eising at last from her seat, Katie went
to her parent's side, and leaned over him
with her arm around his neck.

'Father,' said she, 'I am more than contented

bere. I wish for nothing: better
than to live in this little home with you,
where we have lived alone so Ions: and so
happily

She touched his forehead with her lips,
and then slowly sat down before the fire at
his feet and rested her arm upon his knee.

*In a grand house,' she pleaded, ina
low voice, 'we should never be together
like this. There would be servants
waiting upon us, and watching
our movements at every step, until we
grew ashamed to own that we loved
each other. There would be visitors
to entertain, and dinner-parties to give ;
and the people would not care for us,
any more, I am afraid, than we should
care for them. I should grow weary of
life, feather ; would not you ?'

A look of disappointment crossed Snowy's

face, but he answered his daughter
in a cheerful voice, as he stroked her hair
caressingly.

Well, well, my dear said he, ' you
are young, still very young; there is
plenty of time. You do not understand
yet the advantages of being rich. You
do not understand. Besides,' he added,
'nothing definite has been settled. Mr.
Grimwade's room cannot be dusted in a
day. It will be early enough to question
our good fortune after the deed of partnership
has been signed. Meanwhile,
Katie, you can talk over the subject with
Madame Helen. She is evidently a
woman of the world.'

*That may be,' said Katie, thoughtfully
; ' but no argument would convince
me that all the wealth of London would
make us happier than we are now.*

Not wishing, apparently, to urge the
matter further, Snowbj changed the subject
by inquiring,

How do you like our new lodger ?*

I think Madame Helene charming,*
said Katie, ' and we are great friends already.
She seems quite delighted at the
idea of helping me with my music. We
have been playing and singing together
all the afternoon.'

She has a fine voice,' said Snowy,
certainly, a very fine voice

Yes, father,' said Kate ; ' singing is
her profession.'

indeed!'

So she told me to-day,' said Kate.
'In fact, she has been quite confidential.'


Ah !' ■ said Snowy. ' Now, I wonder
who she is.'

VOL. I. I

'She did not precisely tell me that,'
said Kate. *But she told me that she
was alone in the world, and that she
had lived many years in Paris, where
she had made her living by singing' and
by teaching music*

*But you do not know who she is?'

No, father,' said Kate. ' Beyond this,
she told me nothing : but I am sure
from her manner and her conversation
that she is a lady.'

Unquestionably, my dear,' said Snowy.
' She referred me to her bankers
in Paris. I believe Madame Helene to be
highly respectable.'

'No one could have doubted that, father,'
said Kate.

There, my dear,' said Snowy, ' you
are wrong. In business, we doubt that
people are respectable until we have been

furnished with their credentials. Our
first floor apartments were to let : Madame
Hel^ne applied for them. I suggested
that it was customary to exchange
references. Madame Helene was quite
agreeable. The references satisfied both
parties, and the matter was settled ; and,'
added Mr. Aldershaw's manager, 'I am
very pleased to think it has ; for I have
wished for some time past that my little
girl could find a suitable companion
during the hours I am compelled to be
away from home.'

Katie now rose from her place at her
father's feet, and gave him a playful
embrace.

Shall we pay Madame Helene a visit
this evening?' said she. 'I know that
she would be delighted — indeed, she said
she should — if we went to her room and

i2

had a little music. She admires your
voice very much, father. In fact, I should
make you quite vain if I told you half
she has said about it

Snowy chuckled with delight. After
his day in the city, the manager's greatest
pleasure was to hear his own voice.
Scarcely an evening went by without some
music ; for Katie was as willing to accompany
her father upon the piano as he was
to sing his songs : the consequence was
that Snowy had a repertoire sufficiently
varied and extensive to have satisfied a
tenor at the opera. He readily agreed to
Kate's proposal that they should ^ go up '^
to Madame Helene's 'apartments as he
called them ; and they presently mounted
the staircase arm-in-arm and knocked
modestly at their lodger's door.

Madame Helene, who was seated at the

piano when they entered, rose to welcome
her visitors. She was not very young :
thirty-five may have been about her age,
for her handsome features were marked
with that strength of expression which
only makes its stamp upon a woman's face
with time ; and seldom even then unless
she has seen the world and suffered. Her
eyes were still bright and beautiful ; but
what a depth of sadness seemed to lie
buried there even when she smiled !

*We have come,' said Snowy, when
they were seated, * we have come to petition
you to sing to us, Madame Helene.
Music, as you know, is my hobby after
business hours ; so, since you have given
us some encouragement, you must be
prepared to find us rather troublesome.'

Madame Helene assured him that his
visits could not be too frequent : that what

she wanted was an appreciative audience.

But,' she added, ' I shall not be satisfied,
Mr. Snowy, unless you sing on all
occasions when you come to see me.'

Snowy laughingly declared that he
would not hide his talent under a bushel :
and thus a pleasant evening commenced,
Katie played and sang in her homely
style with taste and simplicity : a little
nervous in the presence of Madame
Hel^ne, but this was a charm rather thana
defect. Then with what pride she
played the accompaniments to her father's
songs ! and with what confidence he sang
them ! How energetically he raised himself
on tiptoe when he appeared in danger
of not reaching the high notes, and how
careful he was to bend down, with his
nose almost on a level with the music,,
when he came to the low ones !

Then, what could have surpassed their
rapture when Madame Helen sat down to
the piano and began that song which has
touched so many hearts, that simple
melody of ' Home, Sweet Home !' They
listened to a true artist whose emotion
seemed to them so real that tears started
into their eyes as she proceeded ; perhaps
all the more readily because they knew the
music and the words so well and acknowledged
the song to be their favourite
air.

When it was finished, and Madame
Hel^ne had closed the music-book, neither
ventured to utter a word.

Snowy was the first to break the
silence.

By-the-by,* said he, * talking of " Home,
Sweet Home," reminds me, Katie, that I
shall be out one evening soon until somewhat

later than usual. For the fact is, I
have undertaken a little private business
for Mr. Aldershaw. A little matter,
Madame Hellenes he explained, turning
towards his lodger with an apologetic air,
a little matter relating to an old clerk
whom Mr. Aldershaw was compelled to
discharge some years ago — before ins time,
in fact — on account of a tendency he had
to drink.'

A slight change came over the face of
Madame Helene.

An old clerk of Mr. Aldershaw's ?' she
said, quietly.

A clerk, Madame Helene,' said Snowy,
with earnestness, * who might have been a
partner in the house ; but, owing to his sad
propensity, he is now, I have reason to
fear, almost destitute. He professes to
teach elocution; but all that, I should

imagine, is mere talk. I have been
commissioned to look after him, and to
prevent him, if possible, from falling into
3, more helpless condition. He had . . .'

The change in Madame Helene's face,
although a shade more marked, would not
have been observed except by such watchful
eyes as Kate Snowy's.

Are you il], Madame Helene ?'

The shoulders of Madame Helene appeared
to shiver.

It is nothing,' she said, seating herself
nearer the fire. ' I am a little cold, I think :
that is all. You were saying,Mr.Snowby . . . ?'

*I was merely going to observe,' remarked
Snowy, still apologetically, 'that
my reason for taking a peculiar interest
in this man, is that he had a daughter
who was not what a daughter should
be. She left her home years ago. "Wild-rake,

as he is called, has gone from bad
to worse since then. He leads the life of
a drunkard ; and for this his heartless
daughter is, in my opinion, responsible.'

You are severe, Mr. Snowy,' said Madame
Helene. in a low voice.

Is it possible,' said Snowy, sto speak
too severely of a woman who has, by her
conduct, ruined his prospects in life, and
made him a disgrace to society — even
dangerous — as Mr. Aldershaw justly remarked.'


Still, Mr. Snowy,' pleaded Madame
Helene, 'you must admit that what
may appear unnatural on the daughter's
part is sometimes possible of explanation.
The strangest things happen. This
woman may not be so heartless, so very
wicked, as you suppose. She may have
been more sinned against than sinning.'

That,' said Snowbj, ' I cannot deny.
For I am as ignorant at present of the
details of this affair as you are, Madame
Heine. I am judging of this woman's
conduct from the little I have learnt
through Mr. Paul Aldershaw. He has
told me simply that she was led astray, and
I conclude that this broke her father's heart.
If it is true — and there is, I understand,
no reason to doubt it — surely that is
enough to justify my condemnation ? I
question if I could find any term sufficiently
severe to express my opinion of a child of
mine if she treated me so cruelly. I should
curse her ! though. I own that I might be
sorry for it afterwards.'

Father !' said Katie, with her arms
thrown suddenly around his neck, * why
are you so earnest about a trouble that can
never come to you ? We shall always live

happily together, you know we shall,
whether it be in Belgrade Square, as you
have fancied, or in this quiet little
home. Why, there are tears in your eyes I
Do you think it possible I could leave
you ?'

There were tears in Madame Helene's
eyes too, as she rose in a restless manner
and went over to the piano, and began
to touch the chords, as though to conceal
what sounded strangely like a sob.

CHAPTER VII.

CONSCIENCE STRICKEN.

Pump Court, Temple, is one of those
sanctuaries within a sanctuary where
silence still retains a stronghold, although
it is only a few short paces from one of the
most deafening thoroughfares in London.
All noises belonorinor to the outer world are
excluded from its precincts : or, if they enter
there, are solemnly entombed. At one end
there is a sombre, covered way which leads
into courts not less effectually protected
against sounds: at the other, through a
narrow opening, there are courts again

where the timid splash of the temple
fountain can be heard, hard by. The
silence indeed would sometimes seem as
though guarded by the disembodied spirits
of lawyers who had once resided there :
for occasionally people passing in and out
of Pump Court appear anxious not to disturb
the echoes even of their own footsteps
; and as they ascend, or descend, the
old wooden staircases, through the arched
and open doorways, they converse in
confidential voices, as though fearing the
representatives of the law who live there
still.

The echoes were awakened, one morning,
by the light step of a lady who was closely
veiled, and who entered Pump Court as if
half disposed to hastily retreat again from
a place where the silence was so embarrassing.
But, after stopping and reflecting fora

moment, she decided to ascend one of the
creaking staircases. She knocked at a dark
oaken door across which was written :

Mi Horace Ludlaw. Mr. Roy Valroy.

A thin, tall youth, with a gloomy countenance,
answered the summons. He
belonged to the common official species :
too large for an errand boy, and too small
for a clerk. He was, in fact, going
throuo'hthe transformation stao^e from one
to the other.

The lady presented her card and said :

I wish to see Mr. Ludlaw.'

The youth opened a door in the passage
opposite to the entrance.

At present,' said he, ' Mr. Ludlaw is
engaged. But,' he added, condescendingly,
'if you will step in here, we will send in
your name.'

The room was small and dull. It
looked like a little prison : there was only
one tiny window crossed with iron bars,
and covered with dust. The furniture
consisted of an inky table, a chair, and
an old copying press for taking the impressions
of legal letters. After offering
the chair to the lady the youth retired,,
closing the door softly.

With the lady's card between his finger
and thumb, the youth entered a room at
the end of the passage, where he knew that
Mr. Ludlaw was deeply engaged in smoking
a cigarette in his arm-chair before the fire,
enveloped in his loose morning costume, his
small body almost lost among soft cushions.
On the table at his elbow, amidst a pile of
documents, lying loosely together or tied
with red tape, was his half finished breakfast.
On the floor around his chair were

the morning papers. Documents covered
half his desk near one of the windows, and
some of the chairs against the walls were
heaped up with others. There were documents
open on his lap : but he was not
reading. His whole attention appeared to
be devoted to the cigarette.

The youth took a winding path across
the room, and presented the card. Lud-law
read the name with an angry
frown :

Madame Helene,

Rose Villa, The Boulevard

Brixton.

He continued to look so long and so
earnestly at the card that the youth ventured
to suggest :

The lady is waiting, sir, in the
oflBce.*

VOL. I. K

Ludlaw turned the card about absently
and threw it on the table.

Grubby said he to the youth, while
pouring himself out a cup of coffee, * will
you oblige me by vanishing T

Grubby skipped between the documents
and disappeared.

Ludlaw drank his coffee and smoked
his cigarette with great deliberation, showing
no signs of haste or uneasiness in his
manner, except an occasional repetition of
the frown. When he had finished, and
had sat for some minutes with an undecided
air, he stood up with his back to the fire,
and, with his eyes on the rug, remarked
in a low tone, as though he were summing
up his thoughts :

Now I wonder what this woman wants
with me?'

He touched the hand-bell on the table.
Grubby entered.

Clear away the breakfast, and open
the windows for a moment,' said he ; ' the
room is full of tobacco-smoke. Will you
be kind enough to look sharp?'

While the boy was obeying these orders
briskly, Ludlaw went into an adjoining
room to make his toilet. He gave care
to every detail in his dress, and then,
returning to this seat at the table, began
to busy himself with his papers, throwing
them, if it were possible, into greater
disorder.

After a while he ao^ain rano^ his bell.

There is some one waiting to see me,
I think you said ?' remarked Ludlaw,
absent-minded.

Yes, sir,' said the youth — ' a lady.

Show the lady in.'

Ludlaw was so absorbed in reading
documents when Madame Helene entered

that he did not immediately look up. She
raised her veil and waited patiently.

*You are still engaged, Mr. Ludlaw?'
said she at last, to attract his attention.

Ludlaw rose slowly from his seat with
an air of greater abstraction in his face.

'Ah!' said he, 'my dear Lady . I
should say Madame H^l^ne,' — he corrected
himself with a glance at her card — ' how
do you do ?'

Madame Helene held out her hand.

What a long time — how many years,'
Ludlaw continued, with the hand in his,
since I had the pleasure of seeing you ?'

'Many years indeed,' said Madame
Helene.

Ludlaw removed some documents from
a chair which he placed for his visitor.

*Let me see,' he observed, reseating
himself and hunting among his papers

with an increased appearance of preoccupation
— ' let me see : you have called,
you say, to ask my advice about Sir
Michael Yalroy ?'

No, I did not say that.'

Ludlaw looked up with surprise.

Did you not ?' said he. ' How muddled
I am this morning ! I really must beg
your pardon.'

Madame Helene played nervously with
her gloved fingers. Ludlaw watched her
under his eyebrows. He seldom looked
at anyone straight in the face for more
than a second.

I have ventured to come and see you
said the lady, in a trembling voice, ' about
my father.'

Ludlaw's face expressed bewilderment.

'I'm afraid,' said he, apologetically —
•* I'm afraid — it's so many years, you know

I'm afraid I've forgotten his name
'Mr. John Wildrake/ said Madame
Helene.

To be sure !' said Ludlaw, brightening.
How could I have forgotten ? But it is
so many years ago. Pray tell me, is Mr.
Wildrake still living ?'

Yes,' said Madame Helene, with tears
starting into her eyes, * still living.'

There was a slight pause, during which
Ludlaw trifled with a paper-knife upon
which he kept his eyes attentively fixed.

'You once showed yourself to be my
friend,' said Madame Helene. *May I
count upon your friendship still ?'

My dear Lady . . . Madame Helene,
I should say . . . can you doubt it ?'

Thus encouraged to speak, Madame
Helene hesitated no longer.

You can do me a service,' she said, 'a

most inestimable service. You can bring
about a meeting, perhaps a reconciliation,
between my father and me. I have
come to ask you, as a great favour, to do
this.'

With an air of painful distraction Ludlow
got up, and cast his eyes around the
room: first upon the documents upon
the table, then upon the chairs, then upon
the desk, and finally upon those lying indistinct
heaps upon the floor.

One moment,' said he, ^ one moment.'

His eye settled upon a pile in a corner
near a bookshelf. From beneath he extracted
a tin box, and from this box he
produced some papers.

Ah r said he, selecting a small bundle,
bound round with red tape. * Here weare
! '' Valroy — Wildrake," ' he continued,
reading the superscription, ^ 'correspondence,

matrimonial agreement'* I took
the precaution, as you perceive, to seal this
packet.'

He sat down again ; and, after having
read one or two pages here and there, and
made several pencil notes on the margins,
he looked up and said :

The whole affair had escaped my
memory ! You were saying . . . But
stay,' he suddenly added, ' perhaps it will
simplify matters if first of all I put one
or two questions. Will you permit me ?'

Madame Helene readily assented.

You were saying that Mr. Wildrake is
still alive,' commenced Ludlaw, scrutinizing
the legal deed, instead of the face of
Madame Hel5ne. ' Have you seen, or, in
fact, held any communication with that
gentleman since the date of your marriage
with . . .'

'None whatever, Mr. Ludlaw,' said Madame
Helene. ' Indeed . . .*

Yery good. You gave your promise,
did you not — never to hold any communication
with Mr. Wildrake, never to
mention to him, in fact, that you were
married, without the written consent oE
Sir Michael Yalroy?'

Yes, I promised,' said Madame Helene,
in a tone of distress. ' I promised.
But . . .'

Confine yourself for the moment, if
you will be so good,' said Ludlaw, firmly,
though with marked politeness, ' to answering
my questions. You promised,
you say, never to hold any communication
with Mr. Wildrake, without Sir Michael's
consent. As a matter of form, I must
-ask you : have you kept that promise ?'

Yes.'

Absolutely ?'

Yes.'

^ But you wish now to have that promise
a D nulled?'

Indeed I do.'

^ You desire, in fact, to gain the permission
of Sir Michael Yalroy to have an
interview or interviews with your father ?'

Yes ; if you think, after all these years,'
said Madame Helene, ' that it is necessary
to obtain my husband's consent.'

If / think it necessary,' repeated Lud-law
; ' surely, madame, you would not ask
me to be a party to a meeting unless I
had the consent of Sir Michael in black
and white.'

Can it possibly be obtained ?' said Madame
Helene.

Ludlaw tapped his fingers thoughtfully
with the paper-knife before replying.

*I cannot say,' said he, 'but I will try
what I can do.'

Shall you see him soon ?' said Madame
Helena, eagerly ; ' shall I have to wait
many days ?'

Sir Michael Valroy is in England,'
said Ludlaw, * as perhaps you are
aware . . .'

Yes.'

I will see to it very soon,' said
Ludlaw, cautiously ; ' and you shall hear
from me. But,' he added, ' what, may
I ask, is your reason for desiring to
see Mr. Wildrake after so many years,
you know ?'

Can you not guess, Mr. Ludlaw ?'

Ludlaw's face broke into a provoking
smile.

'Really, madame,' said he, *you must
not expect a man in the legal profession

to do that. Answer my question, if you
please.'

I wish to tell him,' said she, ^ what
he should have been told long ago : that
I am the wife of Sir Michael Valroy. I
wish to meet my father here, if you will
allow me, and explain to him that I was
forced by my husband to conceal from
him my marriage. I wish to gain, if
possible, his forgiveness . . .'

I understand,' Ludlaw repeated, as
though it were a mere business matter.
His forgiveness.'

^My long absence from England,' continued
Madame Helene, ^ and my separation
from my husband, is perhaps but
^ poor excuse for my conduct. But had
I thought, had I even dreamed, that
what I have done could have caused
so much misery, I should have tried long,

long ago to put these family matters
right. Is it too late?' she added. ^I
sometimes fear, Mr. Ludlaw, that it is.
The news that I have gathered about
my father makes me shrink with dread
from this meeting which must be arranged
between us, even if I fail 'to obtain the
consent of Sir Michael Yalroy.'

It can never take place here,' said
Ludlaw, firmly, ^ without Sir Michael's
permission. It is better that you should
at once understand that.'

'But,' pleaded Madame Helene, 'my
father is leading a most unhappy life —
the life of a drunkard ! He is living in
some poor garret in the City. I dare
not go near him there. He would not
listen to me. It is only here, in your
presence, with all the legal proofs at hand
to place before his eyes, that I can ever

hope to convince bim that I am married,
or hope to find once more a place in his
heart.'

Ludlaw lent an attentive ear, though
he still kept his eyes fixed upon the
paper-knife.

'You hear, then, of Mr. Wildrake,'
Ludlaw suggested, ' through some friend,
perhaps ?'

*My landlord, Mr. Snowy,' Madame
Helene explained, ' is now Mr. Paul 's
chief clerk.'

Indeed !' said Ludlaw. ., ' Then Mr.
Wildrake has left the firm, I conclude ?'

Years ago,' said Madame Helene ; ' but
Mr. Aldershaw supplies him with money,
I believe, indirectly. In fact, it is Mr.
Snowy who has been deputed by the
merchant to visit my father. I have learnt
much through him : and it is almost more

than I can bear. Mr. Snowy little
thought, when he spoke the other evening
of John Wildrake's sad life, who was
listening to the story ! If I had the
courage to face my father, I would goto
that poor garret in the City, and
implore him to turn from his evil ways.*

Without the consent of Sir Michael
Valroy ?' said Ludlavv. ' Surely not.'

•' I sometimes think so,' said Madame
Hel^ne, with an air of desperation. ' I
sometimes think my duty lies there, at
my father's side. Indeed, can there be
any doubt that it is so ?'

*Yes,' said Ludlaw. 'You must not
give way to impulse. It is your duty,
now, to wait.'

He placed the deed and the bundle of
letters, as he spoke, in their former order,
tying them again with the red tape. He

now laid them beside him on the table.

I will be guided by your advice said
Madame Helene, with a sigh, as she rose

and held out her hand. * Yes, I am impulsive,
Mr. Ludlaw, I know. But I am
sure, under the circumstances, that you
will not criticise my conduct too severely.'

After this interview with Ludlaw, it
seemed to Madame Helen as though the
deep trouble which had for many years
weighed upon her conscience was beginning
to grow lighter. A sense of hope,
even of happiness, already opened out
before her at the prospect of seeing her
father, and bestowing upon him a care
and affection which she had so long and
so undutifully withheld. Bound by an
agreement, as sacred as an oath, to keep
her marriage with Sir Michael Yalroy a

secret, she was too proud, or perhaps too
broken in spirit, through grief and disappointment,
when a separation from her
husband took place, to demand a release
from her promise. Under the pseudonym
of ' Madame Helene,' she had commenced
her career as a singer. Her success had
proved greater than she had anticipated.
She became a favourite with the public :
her beauty pleased as much as her voice.
This sudden and complete change in her
life had had the effect, as frequently happens,
of altering her character. The past,
when recurring to her mind, presented
such a dismal picture that she had not the
fortitude to face that portion of it which
it was still possible to rectify.

For ten years and more she had left
undone that which she was trying her best
to do now. Her inclination had been

VOL. I. L

often strong, but at the eleventh hour her
courage had always failed her. Instead of
completing her good intention while the
impulse lasted, she found in her art a pretext
for procrastination ; and her good
purpose, gradually growing weak, was
abandoned, and then forgotten in the
midst of her brilliant achievements before
the footlights.

Until she found her home with the
Snowy, Madame Hel5ne was even ignorant
that her father was no longer a clerk
in the great house of Aldershaw, Grim-wade,
and Company. That he was leading
a miserable life, as Snowy had described
it in her presence, was now first made
known to her as something almost impossible
to realise. She had purposely taken
up her residence with the manager, hoping
to gain news of her parent. It had come

with a swiftness she had not anticipated.
But instead of learning, as she expected todo,
that he was a partner in the firm, she
was told that he was destitute, living in a
wretched garret in some crowded part
of the old city ! The discovery had
stricken her with remorse. Her resolution
was taken, and her interview with Ludlaw
had been the result.

It was with feverish impatience that she
awaited the decision which must come
from Sir Michael Valroy before she could
move another step : to gain recognition and
forgiveness from her father was now her
one thought. The days passed slowly :
they seemed longer than those unheeded
years which had gone since she had fled
from home.

She was beset with many fears. Would
her husband bind her to the promise to

L 2

keep their unhappy union a secret? She
could not conceal from herself the disquietude
which a refusal would awaken in
her heart ; to restrain the impulse which
bid her rebel against Sir Michael Yalroj,
should he design to hold her to that
promise still, seemed contrary to tho
promptings of her woman's nature.

But for the consolation which her young
companion, Kate Snowy, unconsciously
bestowed by her cheerful presence in her
apartments, it is doubtful if Madame
Hel^ne could have quietly endured the
painful situation a single day. She recognised
qualities in the character of the
girl which gave her courage ; while talking
with her, or teaching her, she was herself
learning a lesson which enabled her to
bear her distress with more submission.

Watching Katie late one afternoon, as

she stood looking oat of the window upon
the leafless * boulevard,' Madame Helene
called her presently to her side by the
fire.

Is it not early,' said she, ' to be expecting
your father's return ?'

I think not,' Katie answered, glancing
at the clock, ' if it was his intention to
come straight home from the City. But
I was wondering whether it was not just
possible that he had gone to-night to visit
that poor old clerk

Madame Helene suppressed a sigh while
asking, in a low voice :

Did he say that he should go there
this evening ?'

'No,' said Katie. 'But he told me he
should 2:0 some evenings soon.'

For a little while Madame Helene was
silent. Then she looked up and said,

Katie, you have a very kind father
With the brightest smile upon her face

Katie replied :

He is the best and dearest in the
world.'

Ah !' said Madame Helene, meditatively,
what will he do without you ?'

Without me?' repeated Katie, with
surprise, ^ I never intend to leave him.
We made up our minds, I think it must
have been when I was a baby, when my
mother died, that we would always live
together.'

My dear child,' said her friend, with
earnestness, ' such a resolution might be
weakened tomorrow by the presence in
your tender young heart of a deeper
affection than the love you bear towards
your father.'

Katie looked almost sad.

I know what you mean,' said she.

Then is it wise,' said Madame Helene,
^ to indulge in ideas which some day
may bring needless pain ? Perhaps you
have already had some cause to suffer in
your heart . . .'

No, indeed,' said Katie, * my deepest
love has always been, and still is, for my
father. I know no other love; I do not
wish to know another.'

Madame Helene bent her head and
clasped her hands as though she were
suffering pain at Katie's words.

So I thought and felt, my child, not
many years ago.'

For a moment Kate was silent, but her
thoughtfulness increased.

The only thing that sometimes troubles
me,' the girl presently confessed, * is that
father will not be content, when Mr.

Grimwade's room is dusted, and he becomes
a partner in the firm, to remain in
this neighbourhood, where we are so quiet
and so happy, but will move into the West-end,
where, as he seriously believes, my
future husband is waiting for me among
the upper ranks of society. I hardly
know,' she added, with a smile, * whether
to laugh or whether to cry when I think
about it, as I often do; for to marry
anyone above me in station could, I am
quite sure, only lead to unhappiness.'

No one,' said Madame Helene, ' knows
that better than I do.'

For this reason,' continued Kate, * I
prefer to be always what I am now : his
little housekeeper. If I married someone
in high life, I should not please myself
; and, if I married some one in my
own position, I should not, 1 fear, please

my father. This is all that I meant, dear
madame, when I said that it was my wish
and my intention never to leave him.'

Madame Helene looked approvingly into
the girl's face.

'Your good sense, Katie,' said she,
will always guide you rightly. Though
most women with your beauty would
show signs of restlessness and discontent :
would, indeed, expect to be admired,
petted, and spoilt. If such women are
sometimes happier than you are, they
sometimes suffer more ; far more, my
child, than will ever, I hope, fall to your
lot in life to suffer. They find out when
too late, let us suppose, that they have
married a man above them in station, with
ideas of domestic life utterly different to
their own. Perhaps,' added Madame
Helene, in a low voice, * perhaps a separation,

or something even worse, is the
result. Perhaps the marriage, in some
instance, has been so contrary to the
"wishes of her friends that the woman has
chosen her husband without the consent,
even without the knowledge, of her parents.
Thus, at a moment's notice, she may be
thrown upon the world with nothing but
her own abilities to aid her in facing it

*That is a sad picture,' said Katie,
in a low voice.

But that, my child,' Madame Helene
pursued, ' is not always all. Even if the
wife, separated from her husband and her
friends, is fortunate enough to support
herself, or even grow rich, the time may
come when she longs to see her parents
again : a father, like your own , dear
Katie, after years have passed, may still bo
living.'

^ It is never, I hope, too late,* said
Katie, ' to go and receive his forgiveness
T

'No, no,' was the reply, * never too late,
I sincerely hope and pray

The evening had grown dusk while they
were talking, and the room was so dark
now that Katie could only see the face of
Madame Helen by the light of the fire. It
wore a look which made her heart beat
faster : a look that half revealed a secret
which the young girl shrank from surmising
when she thought that she would
perhaps soon be forced to share it with her
friend.

CHAPTER VIII.

ELOCUTION.

One dark evening, Snowy found himself
standing on the steps of the old mansion
in Gable Court, where John Wildrake
lived. A sense of strange curiosity, not
unmixed with alarm at the gloomy aspect
of the place, and of the river beyond,
took possession of Mr. Aldershaw's trusty
manager. He paused for a moment with
a certain degree of indecision.

For it was not altogether his uneasiness,
when he glanced at the entrance, which
caused him hesitation before demanding

admittance. The number' of bell-handles
on both sides of the door, ranged beneath
each other like stops in an organ, puzzled
him greatly. Under one bell-handle he
read, on a small brass-plate, the word
'Engraver,' under another, 'Printer,' under
another, ' Midwife'; but none of them,
out of a dozen or more, suggested John
Wildrake, nor even elocution. Noticing
at last one handle which had no professional
plate beneath it, Snowy took
courage, gave a sharp pull, and waited the
result with impatience.

After an interval of some minutes, he
heard footsteps approaching : the door
was slowly opened, and before him there
stood an old man, in a skull-cap, with a
long white beard.

Does Mr. Wildrake live here ?'
Without replying to this question, Mr.

Isaacs, the landlord (for ifc was Nedlicott's
friend, the Jew), held the door open still
wider, and, with a slight wave of the hand,
invited Snowy to enter.

The hall into which the manager obediently
stepped bore a striking resemblance
to the chancel of an old church
or chapel. It was paved with stone, worn
in many parts, like the steps outside.
The panelled walls, sombre in colour
through age, were hung with tablets.
These tablets were cased in quaint, ornamental
frames filled with scriptural passages.
Two large frames, extending frown
the ceiling almost to the floor, held, in
letters of gold, the ten commandments.
They stood out in bold relief against the
dark background. The only light was an
oil-lamp placed in a corner at the foot of
the broad open staircase.

May I inquire, sir,' said the old man,
whether you are a friend of Mr. Wild-rake's
?*

Yes,' said Snowy, after a moment's
reflection — ' a friend

In that case replied the Jew, * you
will find his door facing you at the top
of the third staircase. But if you are
not a friend, sir, if you are one of Mr.
Wildrake's creditors, and think that there
is any chance of getting your money, let
me advise you not to waste your time by
going up. I doubt if he has sixpence in
the world.'

indeed!'

The old man shook his head slowly and
sorrowfully.

'Yes,' said he, 'I doubt it very much.
My name,' he went on to explain, ' is
Benjamin Isaacs, and I am Mr. Wildrake's

landlord ; and, to be perfectly candid with
you, I doubt if he has even a penny.'

That's not very satisfactory,' said
Snowy. * Do you think so T

I do not think so,' said the old man,
with decision.

'It does not look, for example,' said
Snowy, * as if elocution was a very paying
profession.'

'Elocution?' said the old man, scornfully.
' Mr. Wildrake is mad.'

With some anger in his voice, but with
the visionary look in his eyes, he continued
:

Elocution ! I wonder what next ? He
has always some scheme in his head for
improving the condition of the rising
generation, as he calls it. If he invented
some scheme for improving his own condition,
and left the rising generation alone,

which is quite capable of taking care of
itself, he would soon be a more prosperous
man. If you are his friend,' added
he, ' tell him so to his face, as I have
told him over and over again.'

He took the quaint silver snuff-box
from a deep waistcoat pocket, and then
resumed.

You may think,' said he, tapping the
box meditatively — 'you may think, sir,
that all this is no business of mine ; that
if Mr. Wildrake chooses to waste his time
in what I consider senseless schemes, he
has a right to do so. But I take an
interest in my lodgers ; I call them my
children.'

He paused to take a pinch of snuff with
a self-satisfied, patriarchal air, and then
turned his gaze towards the tablets on
the walls.

VOL. I. M

This is our trade,' he pursued, in a
lower tone, and with a wave of the hand
towards the frames containing the ten
commandments ; ' we decorate the holy
places, and we reserve the ground-floor
here for our workshops and our dwelling.
The rest we let out unfurnished. The
house is always full. My children are
very good children, as a rule. The third
floor front is the only bad one in the
house at present ; the only really bad one.
But he is very bad indeed, sir, very bad
indeed,' repeated the old man, in a trembling
voice, as he slowly walked towards
a door behind the wall leading to a small
yard where there was a shed crowded with
working materials — * very bad indeed.
You will find his door facing you, if you.
will walk upstairs. The third floor front,
sir — the third floor front.'

While uttering these words the old Jew
disappeared.

With his curiosity by no means diminished,
Snowy mounted the dark staircase.


He knocked softly at the door indicated
no answer. Ho knocked again somewhat
louder : still no answer. So he ventured
to turn the handle.

The room, on first entering, appeared to
Snowy to be empty. It was large, and
had three windows, the blinds of which
were drawn down. A guttering candle
stood upon a low chest of drawers, near
the door. The furniture was very scanty :
a small table under the window, a couple
of chairs, and a wooden bed in a shady
corner near the fire-place. Upon this bed
Snowy perceived, as he stepped towards
it, a man lying full length, wrapped in a

m2

long, grey dressing-gown, with his face
towards the wall.

Snowy stood, somewhat embarrassed,
in the centre of the room, coughed, and
then uttered Wildrake's name.

The man moved himself upon his elbow,
with his head in a listening attitude, and
his face still to the wall.

Hush !' he whispered, ' whose footsteps
are those ? Don't you hear them ? 1 hear
them, all day and all night long. But I
-never see her ; I never see her face.'

Snowy took a step nearer to the bed.

'Mr. Wildrake,' said he, 'I have called
to pay you a visit. My name is Snowy.*

Snowy ?' repeated Wildrake, turning
his face towards his visitor, and shading
his eyes with his hand. ' Snowy ? I've
a bad memory for names unless they are
creditors. What I mean is , . .'

I'm Mr. Paul Aldershaw's manager,'
explained Mr. Snowy. ' You may recollect
that, when you were last at the ofi&ce,
we arranged a small transaction together
in Mr. Grimwade's room.'

John "Wildrake looked searchingly into
Snowy's face. He then rose from the
bed, thrust his hands deeply into the
pockets of his dressing-gown, and beo^an
to walk up and down the room, hugging
himself, and with his head bent thoughtfully
to the ground. Presently he stopped
and said, with a motion of the shoulder,

Sit down.'

At the same time he seated himself
opposite to Snowy, at the edge of his
bed.

I have had it on my mind,' said he,
for some days past, to settle that little
affair, I have indeed. But I have had so

many engagements, and I have had so
many expenses since I announced my
intention of giving lessons in elocution,
that I have found it next to impossible to
give that bill a thought. If my memory
does not mislead me he added, * it was a
draft at one month's sight for ten pounds
ten shillings, and no pence r'

Precisely,' said Snowy, taking out a
pocket-book, ' precisely.'

Ah !' said Wildrake, * I see you have
the draft with you. That's business.
Would you allow me to glance over it ?'

Snowy handed the document to Wild-rake,
who looked at it for a moment in
silence.

I perceive,' said he, raising his eyes, ' I
perceive that it is already due.'

Yes,' said Snowy, * it is due to-day.'

• And you have been put to the trouble,*

said Wildrake, with some concern, *sou
have been put to the inconvenience of
calling for payment.'

Snowy smiled complacently.

I have been put to no inconvenience
said he. * In fact, as a former clerk in the
house of Aldershaw, Grimwade and Company,
you are aware that we are always in
the habit, like other houses, of presenting
our drafts when they fall due. It is a
mere matter of business. It is not a
question of convenience. The question is,
can you meet the bill to-day ?'

To tell you the truth,' said Wildrake,
I cannot.'

Then,' said Snowy, ' perhaps you will
consent to leave the matter in my hands.
In a word,' added he, ' if you will agree to
endorse the bill over to me, Mr. Wildrake,
I will undertake to meet it for you.'

John Wildrake looked at Snowbj with
surprise. Then rising from his seat upon
the edge of the bed he went over to his
visitor and gave him his hand.

I should be very much obliged to you,'
said he, * very much obliged if you would.
But,' he added, with his eye again on the
paper, *but let us clearly understand each
other. I shall be, it would appear, no longer
in debt to the house in the old square.
I shall be in debt to you and for the same
amount, neither more nor less, namely : ten
pounds, ten shillings, and no pence ?'

That's said Snowy, ' is precisely the
situation.'

*Air

John Wildrake again glanced at Snowy
and again at the paper. Then, thrusting
his hands once more into his pockets, he
gave himself another hug, and began to

walk up and down the large careless
room, deep in thought.

^ Now, I am wondering,' said he, after a
long pause, ' whether I understand you
rightly. I am wondering whether you, as
one of the rising generation, take any
interest in elocution ; whether you recognise
its importance in the nineteenth century.
If you do, sir, I need scarcely
remind you that the man who is master of
the art of speaking, in public or in private,
holds the secret of success in life ; that to
"be able to express oneself with aptitude
fluency, and precision, is to be able to
triumph over the human race.'

He walked to the end of the chamber
and back to where Snowy was seated, and
then continued :

'Now, let us choose a profession,' said
he. • Let us take any calling in life you

like. Let us take the law. A man is
accused wrongfully of crime. He looks
out for a lawyer who has mastered the art
of elocution. If he does not find one
possessing aptitude, fluency, and precision,
what happens ? He is hanged !'

Wildrake again paused and looked at the
manager as though to study the effect of
his words. Then with a wave of his hand
he continued :

Or,' said he, ' let us take commerce. A
manufacturer wishes to introduce a new
article to the trade. It is the very commodity,
let us suppose, that the public is
waiting for. It combines the minimum of
price with the maximum of durability.
But the manufacturer knows nothing of
elocution ; he cannot speak with aptitude,
fluency, and precision. He has not a
spark of eloquence. What is the result ?

The article is a drug in the market !'

Pausing once more with his eyes fixed
on Snowy's face, Wildrake then concluded.


snow, what I propose,' said he, 'is this.
I owe you ten pounds. Shall I pay you
this amount at my earliest convenience ?
or,' he added, as though he had received a
sudden inspiration, ' will you take some
lessons in elocution and allow me in that
way to balance our account?'

Some lessons in elocution,' said Snowy,
with promptness, ' would cancel the
debt.'

*Ah ! Then we'll commence at once,'
said Wildrake, with energy. ' But, first
of air — and he looked down into a large
pewter pot on the mantel-shelf — ' what
can I offer you r'

The manager expressed his thanks, but

declared that he did not feel thirsty.

The bitter beer over the road, in

Thames Street,' said Wildrake, jerking
his thumb towards the windows, 'is not

bad. The brandy is excellent. You had
better take something

Snowy, thus appealed to, said,
^ Well, then, a glass of bitter.'
^ Good !' said Wildrake ; and he immediately
plunged his hands into his pockets.
But, apparently failing to discover that
of which he was in search, he went over
to a coat which hung behind the door,
like a scare-crow, under his hat.

He examined the pockets with a result
equally unsatisfactory. At this moment,
the candle on the chest of drawers spluttered
and went out.

Good !' he repeated, with cheerfulness.
Y\\ strike a light.'

Wildrake began to grope about the
room. Presently he came across a box
of matches, and a flat, tin candlestick.
As soon as the lucifer was applied, the
candle guttered down one side, as the
other had done. Wildrake, with this
gloomy light in his hand, walked towards
the door. After standing pensively for
some moments, he turned suddenly towards
Snowy, and said briskly :

'You haven't half-a-crown, have you,
which you could lend me ?'

Snowy took the coin from his purse,
and handed it to Wildrake.

Good r said he, ' very good.'

He then went out into the passage, and
called up the staircase persuasively :

Mimosa ?'

Not a sound.

Are you there,' repeated Wildrake, still

more persuasively, ^ Mimosa ! Are you
there ?'

As Wildrake repeated the name the
third time, a scuffling was heard on the
landing above, and something seemed to
fall down a flight of stairs and arrive,
somewhat out of breath, at Wildrake's
door.

Come in. Mimosa I Have you hurt
yourself ?'

Something came into the room sideways
something which might have been an old
woman or a young girl. The individual
was short and thin, and somewhat bent
in the shoulders. Her dress was a loose,
cotton gown ; and her hair, which was
in a very dishevelled condition, was twisted
up in a loose knot behind. She had
sleepy eyes, and a pale, thin face, relieved
by patches of black. Altogether, she

looked as thouo^li she bad been awakened
out of a sound nap on a bed of coals.
Have you hurt yourself ?'
'Lor ! no, sir. I ain't hurt myself.'
Her expression was vacant. She had
entered the room with her mouth open,
and she kept it open, to let out the words,
without moving her lips. The sound
came from somewhere within, as it might
have come from the mouth of a telephone.
That girl, sir, falls up and downstairs
at all hours of the day. She never hurts
herself,' said Wildrake, pointing her out
to Snowy as though she were some remarkable
automaton. ' Did you ever
hurt yourself in'your life, Mimosa ?'
Lor ! no. sir ; not me.'
'I want you to run an errand. Take
these,' said Wildrake, handing the girl the
half-crown, the pewter pot, and the black

bottle. ' Take these, and get me a pint
of bitter, six of brandy, a screw of tobacco,
and two clay pipes.'

She disappeared almost before he had
ceased speaking, as though she knew the
message already by heart. The next moment,
a noise, which sounded like an exciting
race between ' Mimosa,' the pewter
pot, and the black bottle, was heard down
the staircase, step by step, in quick succession,
until the front-door was shut with
a slam.

John Wildrake now divested himself of
his dressing-gown, and put on the black
coat, the only other article of wearing
apparel, except the hat, to be seen in the
room. He now began to assume all the
airs of a host. From a cupboard in the
panelled wall he brought forth two tumblers
and placed them on the table with as.

much ceremony as if he were preparing a
banquet. He filled a water-jug with
water from a tap on the staircase, and set
that on the table also, regarding it sideways
with an ironical smile. He had just
completed these preliminaries when the
unmistakable sound of Mimosa, the pewter
pot, and the black bottle, falling rapidly
upstairs was heard. Thereupon Wildrake
immediately hastened out, candle in hand,
to meet them, with an expression of some
anxiety.

Now, the first lesson I shall give you
in elocution,' said John Wildrake, pouring
out a glass of ale for Snowy with a
sparkling head of froth at the finish, ' will
be at the Loafers' Hall, in Fleet Street.
Have you ever been there ?'

Snowy said he had never even heard of
the Loafers' Hall.

VOL. I. N

^ All !' said Wildrake, in a regretful
tone, * the rising generation has much to
learn.*

Snowy could not deny that there was
considerable truth in Mr. Wildrake's
remark.

*The ''Loafers' Hall" Wildrake explained,
while assisting himself to brandy
out of the black bottle, and sprinkling it
cautiously with drops of water, Hie
Loafers' Hall is a hall for discussion,
and the men who speak there are men of
intellect and learning. They are men who
are thorough masters of elocution. You
will gain more knowledge of the art of
speaking, in public or private, with aptitude,
fluency, and precision, by spending
one evening with me there than I could
possibly teach you in a month in my own
apartments.'

How often,' said Snowbj, ' do you
discuss ?'

Three times a week,' said Wildrake,
lighting his clay pipe at the candle.
There is a discussion to-night. The subject
is " Capital Punishment." '

Snowy expressed, as his opinion, that
the question was one which could nob be
discussed too often.

Then come,' said Wildrake, ^ and take
your first lesson to-night. I will introduce
you to men with such intellects as you don't
meet with every day. Their language,
during the debates, may sometimes not
be what one might call parliamentary ; but
you will soon discover that there is more
than one genuine Cicero among them.
Their eloquence is, at times, most extraordinary.'


Snowy declared himself interested.

n2

But,' he added, ^ I am so much engaged.
I see so little of ** life." My duties in the
City keep me there all day : and in the
evening I generally remain at home with
my daughter, who . . .'

Wildrake looked up quickly into Snowy's
face. 'You have a daughter,* said
he, in a low voice.

Yes. But she has at last found a
suitable companion,' said Snowy. ^ This
is a great relief to me. I can now see
something, perhaps, of the world. Until
our lodger, Madame Helene, came to live
with us, I seldom stirred from home in the
evening without my Kate. I never had
the heart to leave her alone. Some men
would. I never could, never !'

So,' said Wildrake, watching a cloud of
tobacco from his pipe, — 'so you have a
daughter.'

Yes ; ^' one fair daughter," ' said ,
with a smile.

While Snowy was speaking, the expression
on Wildrake's face was undergoing
a marked change : and he began
to pass his long fingers over his features
nervously, and to look around the room
with his head on one side as though some
sound had reached his ears which troubled
him. He leaned towards Snowy after a
short pause, and, touching his arm with
the end of his clay pipe, said, with a look
of suppressed fierceness in his eyes,

*shad a daughter once.'

Indeed ?'

Hush !' said Wildrake. ' Listen.'

He rose from his seat and walked softly
towards the door.

Listen !' he repeated. ' Do you hear
footsteps outside ?'

On the staircase ?'

*Yes;

No said Suowbj, 'not a sound.'

I hear them,' said Wildrake. ' They're
my daughter's footsteps. I hear them all
day — all night long. But I never see her
face now — I never see her face.'

He began to pace up and down the
room slowly like a hunted animal, stopping
to listen at every turn, and passing
his hands nervously over his face.

When I lie down at night, I hear her
footsteps most distinctly. The sound is
always there,' said he, touching his ears.
It haunts me ; I cannot sleep. I know
how it will end,' he added, leaning his
elbows on the mantelshelf and burying
his face in his hands. * I know how it
will end, unless I can get rest. I know
how it will end.'

Snowbj, thinking to rouse him from
these melancholy thoughts, got up from
his chair, and said, in a cheerful tone :

Come, Mr. Wildrake, we were talking
of visiting the Loafers' Hall to-night. Is
it not time to go ?'

Wildrake started : he recovered his
former manner at the mention of Loafers'
Hall as though by magic.

Ah,' said he, buttoning his coat tightly
to his neck, * to be sure ! the lesson in
elocution. What time is it? It must begetting
late.'

He emptied out into his glass what remained
of the brandy, and drank it off.

Half-past eight said Snowy, referring
to his watch.

Wildrake put on his hat and said :

Then let us start at once. The debate
begins at nine.'

He took up the candle, and opened the
door to lead the way. Lifting his long,
trembling fingers above the flame, Wild-rake
threw a shadow on the wall as they
descended the staircase — a shadow which
reminded Snowy of a thing like a large
spider crawling after them.

CHAPTER IX.

DEBATING.

The clock over the small platform or
rostrum in the Loafers' discussion hall
was striking nine when John Wildrake
seated himself at a table as the chairman-elect.
The room was not crowded. About
a dozen men who supported the * chair '
sat at the centre table placed in front of
this elevated spot, and a few scattered
individuals, who looked as if they had
opinions exclusively their own, which they
had no intention of expressing, occupied
tables near the walls.

Snowy retired to a place among these
neutral 'loafers.' In shape the hall resembled
a saloon on board ship. There
were no windows, the ceiling being covered
with a skylight. The floor was
freshly sanded, and the furniture was of
dark-coloured mahogany, presenting a
very tempting picture of old-fashioned
laziness.

Wildrake opened the discussion on
capital punishment, appealing strongly
for reformation. He was listened to
with attention. His earnestness was imposing,
and his strange manner, and
still stranger mode of expressing himself,
awakened an interest in him as well
as in the subject. With his face flushed
with drink, his watery eyes flashing
with indignation, his trembling hand outstretched,
and his long forefinger frequently

pointed as tliougli at some phantom
which rose up before him in the
hall, he demanded of the gentlemen there
assembled whether any of them had domestic
hearths, and, if so, whether they
had wives or daughters. This was the
most impressive part of his oration.

^ These are sacred charges ! We guard
them with our last drop of blood,' said
he, in a deep, fierce tone; 'and the villain,'
he added, stabbing with his finger
at the phantom, 'the villain who steals
into our homes and robs us of one of
these should be treated like a dog. Would
you, then, hang the man who takes the
law into his own hands and slays this
hound ? would you hang him ?'

For an hour or more Wildrake continued
illustrating his words with examples, pointing
at his phantom as the cause of every

crime. Everyone appeared satisfied with
the entertainment : the room was soon
enveloped in clouds of tobacco smoke from
the long clay pipes ; and the waiter never
ceased to pass in and out from the bar
conveying refreshments to the customers ;
and sometimes, getting in the way of Wild-rake's
pointed finger, he created a burst
■of merriment. But at last, when Wildrake
showed no signs of bringing his speech to
a conclusion, a gentleman with a fiery face
and red whiskers began to grow impatient,
and rose from his seat, uttering protests
against the * chair.' Each time he got
upon his legs, there was an uproar. In the
midst of one of these interruptions, Wild-rake,
who had been kept well supplied by
the waiter with glasses of ^ brandy hot,' sat
down, and resting his head on his arm
went off into a sort of lethargy. The

gentleman with the fiery face and red
whiskers profiting by this incident jumped
up and continued on his legs until he
succeeded in gaining a hearing. He
principally addressed abusive remarks towards
the ' chair,' who replied by breathing
heavily, as though he were being suffocated.
At length Wildrake, like a man attempting
to exhibit in his own person a scene on
the scaffold, began to lean over the edge
of his hio'h table as though he were being
hanged ; and finally he dropped to the
ground as if he had been cut down by the
executioner.

The 'chair' being now vacated, and
moreover it being nearly midnight, an
adjournment of this debate on capital
punishment was proposed, seconded, and
carried unanimously.

The Loafers began to disperse : but a few

lingered on their way out of the tavern to
have a parting glass at the bar. Meanwhile
Snowbj had assisted the eccentric
chairman to rise from his undignified
position.

*What I want said Wildrake, in a dissatisfied
tone, looking wearily round, * what
I want is sleep. I want rest.'

He took a step, as he spoke, towards an
old-fashioned arm-chair which stood temptingly
near, sat down, and closed his
eyes.

Snowy regarded him with perplexity.
Under any circumstances he would not
have left Wildrake to find his way home in
his present condition without some compunction.
But, having undertaken to
keep the old clerk out of mischief, it was
clearly his duty, he considered, to see
Wildrake safely lodged inside that old

mansion in Gable Court. He began to
think, too, of Katie, and the anxiety his
absence might cause her. He had not
anticipated remaining so late with Wild-rake.


In the midst of these embarrassing
reflections the door leading from the bar
was opened. Nedlicott, Mr. Cheadle's
secretary, stepped into the room.

He raised his hat in his brisk manner on
perceiving a stranger, and, looking from
Wildrake to Snowy, he said, in a polite
tone :

The " chair " has been making merry
this evening, it would seem, sir T

Yes. Rather too merry,' answered
Snowy, smiling sadly.

Nedlicott placed his hand gently upon
Wildrake's shoulder.

Do you happen said he, looking with

curiosity into Snowy's face, ^ do you
happen to know anything about this
gentleman ?'

'Yes:

Nedlicott again looked at Snowy, and
with deeper curiosity this time.

May I ask,' said he, ' whether he has
found a friend ?'

I hope so,' was Snowy's cautious
reply.

Ah,' said Nedlicott, stroking his chin,
that's good news. Though I fear that
friendship comes too late to be of benefit.
He's drifting.'

Wildrake moved in his chair without
raising his head.

What I want,' he muttered, in a thick
voice, ' what I want is rest.'

He's drifting fast,' Nedlicott continued
; 'and, when a man like this begins to

drift, you may keep him afloat, but you
can't turn him back on his course. He
will go on drifting ; nothing will prevent
it.'

Rest,' said "Wildrake, passing his
fingers over his face in his nervous
manner. ' I want rest !'

I've seen a good deal of this sort of
thing,' Nedlicott declared, with another
glance at Wildrake, and a jerk of his head
at the world in general. ' They often
drift more quickly. We keep them afloat ;
that's all. They go on drifting.'

*Best,' repeated Wildrake.

snow, this man ISTedlicott went on,
^ this man has had a trouble, and it often
affects him here;' and Nedlicott touched
his forehead with his finger ; ' and often
after these debates he is somewhat troublesome
to get home.'

VOL. I.

*But said Snowy, with some impatience,
'be must be got there somehow.
What would you suggest ? A cab ? The
fact is,' added he, consulting his watch
with an anxious face, ' the fact is, I am
pressed for time

In that case, said Nedlicott, ' leave him
to me.'

You're very good,' said Snowy. * Indeed,
you would be doing me a great
favour if you would undertake to see him
on his way. His address . . .'

Gable Court, Thames Street,' said
Nedlicott, with a smile. ' This is not the
first time that I have accompanied Mr.
Wildrake to his lodgings : not the first
time by any means. We are old friends,'
added he, again placing his hand on
Wildrake's shoulder ; * friends of some
years' standing, eh, old man ?'

Snowy began to button up this coat as
lie moved towards the door.

Then, I will wish you good-evening,
sir,' said he, raising his hat to IN'edlicott ;
"* and,' he added, ' many thanks for taking
this responsibility off my shoulders tonight.'


'Don't mention it,' said Nedlicott;
I generally look in here on debating
nights, after we have finished at our
theatre — the " Frivolity," you know — and
if Wildrake needs an arm I give it him.
Perhaps,' he continued, walking with
Snowy towards the door of the tavern,
perhaps I shall have the pleasure of seeing
you here again some night?'

'I should not be surprised,' said Snowy;
' indeed, I think it is very probable.'

Nedlicott took out a pocket-book, and
said:

o 2

Will you accept my card ? The fact
is,' he added, half apologetically, *you are
the first who, to my knowledge, has shown
the slightest interest in this unfortunate
man. I should really like to meet you
again. That is my name.'

Snowy took the card : upon it was-written
:

Mr. Edward Nedlicott Fresco Club.

'Next Saturday,' said JSTedlicott, 'is a
musical night at the " Fresco." I shall be
there at eleven p.m. Perhaps you could
find time to drop in. The music is not
bad ; mostly professional.'

Snowy said he should be delighted.
Next Saturday, he declared, would suit
him admirably.

'Besides,' he added, 'music is my hobby.'

athens said Nedlicott, with cordiality,
^ I shall expect you. Good-night.'

When Nedlicott returned to the discussion
hall, Wildrake was seated in the
same attitude. He was breathing in a
sonorous tone. His hat had fallen forward,
almost hiding his face, and his
hands hung helplessly over the arms of
the chair.

Come,' said Nedlicott, bending down,
and touching him gently. ' Come, Wild-rake
! It is time to start. You will not
find her by sitting here. Come,' he repeated,
closer to his ear. ' Come and look
for her — your daughter''

Nedlicott's last words had a strange
effect. Wildrake started, clenched his
fists, opened his eyes, and stared about
him. Then he looked up into his friend's
face.

*Ned said he, clutching Nedlicott's
arm. *Ned, I heard her footsteps tonight
; I heard them more distinctly than
I have heard them for many a day.'

Come then,' said Nedlicott ; ^ come at
once.'

Wildrake rose from his seat, and, fumbling
with the buttons of his coat in his
nervous manner, said :

'I'm ready, Ned, I'm ready.'

He put his hat straight, steadied himself,
and walked out into the bar, followed
by Nedlicott, with a gleam of purpose
in his eyes.

There were still a few ^ loafers ' standing
round the counter talking with the
landlord, a stout man, with a round
face, closely shaved, and small, twinkling
eyes.

'Mr. Wildrake,' said the tavern-keepers

turning to the chairman, ^ give it a name,
sir. What shall it be ? Brandy ?'

Brandy,' said Wildrake, looking round
his collar towards Nedlicott anxiously.
'Brandy hot.'

Mr. JSFedlicott,' continued the landlord,
'you'll join us in a glass, sir, before you
go?'

Then he added, looking round upon
his customers :

*Eh, gentlemen? Let us drink Mr.
Wildrake's health !'

Everyone echoed the landlord's sentiments,
in which Nedlicott joined, although
he looked serious and stroked his chin.

What I want,' said Wildrake, responding
to the toast by leaning against the
bar, and grasping his tumbler, with his
inanimate condition creeping over him
again. ' What I want is sleep.'

*Not you!' said the gentleman with
the fiery face and the red whiskers, who
was among the loitering loafers' at the
bar. * Not you ! It is a fact recognised
by the medical profession that we sleep
too much.'

*I know said Wildrake, eyeing the
leader of the opposition with anger. 'I
know, sir, what I'm talking about.'

The waiter here began to move about
in a confidential manner.

Time, gentlemen,' said he, looking at
the clock. ^ If you please, gentlemen,
time !'

Your speech to-night,' said the opposition,
frowning at this interruption, * was
eloquent. But that you know what you
are talking about is a question which we
will discuss when we resume the debate
on capital punishment.*

We will !' said Wildrake, emptying his
glass of brandy at a gulp. ' We will !
As, in fact he added, ' I have expressed
to-night my opinion. I will repeat, sir,
that there are some men — I say some —
who ought to be hanged.'

'Ah,' said the leader of the opposition,
in an insinuating tone.

The waiter here began to lower the
gas.

If you please, gentlemen,' said he,
persuasively ; * if you please.'

'But there are other men,' continued
Wildrake, ' there are other men to whom
the law should show mercy. For how,' he
added, looking around him and striking
his fist upon the counter until the glasses
rattled again, ' how can we always governour
passions !' .

True,' said the opposition leader, ' very

true ! We sleep too much : we eat too
much. I may say, indeed, we drink too
much. Quite right, Mr. Wildrake, quite
right !'

Drink ?' said Wildrake, again striking
the counter with his fist. * I hate it.
I want sleep. What I want is rest.'

He leaned forward against the country
and his head fell heavily upon his arm.

Time, gentlemen the waiter repeated,
holding the principal tavern door temptingly
open, 'if you please.'

Come, Wildrake,' said Nedlicott, touching
the drunkard's arm, ' come along.'

i'm ready, Ned,' answered Wildrake
rousing himself. i'm ready.'

The waiter now began to manoeuvre as
if the customers were a flock of sheep. He
endeavoured to induce one to pass out at
the door as though satisfied that the rest

T

would follow. After several attempts his
method succeeded, and the ' loafers ' went
laughing and talking into the street,
where l^edlicott bid them good-night, and,
taking Wildrake's arm, led him through
dark by-ways and alleys towards Gable
Court. .

John Wildrake impeded progress at
every turning. Sometimes he leaned
against a post at the corner of a street ;
sometimes sat down upon a doorstep,
refusing to stir. But they reached the
court at last ; when the noise of the traffic
had ceased, and the chimes of the old
church clocks sounded like the voice of
the great metropolis murmuring in its-sleep.
Wildrake tottered against the railings
in front of the old house and reposed
his head upon the spikes, as he had often
done before.

I want rest,' he repeated, turning over
uncomfortably on these broken spikes ;
what I want is rest.'

Then, why don't you go to bed ?' said
Nedlicott, impatiently.

'Bed?' said Wildrake, with contempt.
I get no rest there. Footsteps,' he groaned,
' footsteps all night long.'

Give me your latch-key.'

Wildrake slowly obeyed, and then sat
down upon the doorstep with his head
between his hands.

Nedlicott opened the door, and, bidding
Wildrake good-night, walked away.

Either a wholesome terror of encountering
the old Jew, or the consciousness that
the responsibility of mounting to his bedchamber
had fallen upon his own shoulders
now that Nedlicott had left him, may
account for the partial soberness which

Wildrake regained. He rose, and stumbled
into the strange old hall, making repulsive
grimaces at the expiring lamp. Here and
there the words written upon the tablets
in letters of gold upon the walls were
readable, but for the most part hidden in
shade : a solemn place even by daylight,
but in the dead of night the solemnity
seemed intense, almost awful, with this
weird figure in the centre.

Presently Wildrake took a step forward,
and then another, pausing at each stride to
pass his long fingers over his face, and to
make fresh grimaces at the light. By
this eccentric process he reached his candle,
applied it to the lamp, and then commenced
to ascend, balancing himself like
a man upon a tight-rope who seems bent,
body and mind, on preventing himself
from falling.

He gained his room at last. Placing
his guttering candle on the table, among
the empty glasses which still stood there,
he changed his coat for his old grey
dressing-gown, and threw himself upon his
bed.

For some time he lay quite still, breathing
heavily, and muttering incoherently,
like one who is troubled with restless
dreams. But suddenly he started up, leaned
on his elbow, and listened. There was an
expression of complete wakefulness in his
eyes, and his hand shook as though attacked
by palsy.

Still listening, he went softly towards the
door and bent down with his trembling
fingers on the latch, as if he expected every
moment that some one would enter. Turning
away presently with a look of disappointment,
he began to pace to and fro,

stopping to listen at every turn. At length
he fell into a chair, and, flinging his arms
upon the table with a groan, covered his
face with his hands, as though to shut out
something: intolerable, something overmastering.


He rose after a while, and, opening the
cupboard near the fire-place, took down a
large bluish bottle and poured a colourless
liquid into a glass and drank it hastily.

Then he again sank wearily upon his
bed, listening still, but gradually closing
his eyes, as though overcome by the
weight of an overpowering sleep.

By this time the candle on the table,
having burnt down to the socket, went out,
and the dawning light of a foggy day stole
into the room and reached the figure of
Wildrake. He was resting his head upon
his arm with his face turned towards the

wall; and sleeping so soundly now, and lying
motionless, that, but for his low regular
breathing, one might have believed him
dead.

CHAPTER X.

DISCLOSURES.

"With her hands pressed tightly together,
Madame Helene, standing near one of the
windows of her room, waited anxiously for
the return of Snowy from his visit to
John Wildrake. The look on the handsome,
passionate face was intensely painful
: her cheeks were feverish, and her
eyes filled frequently with hot tears as a
picture rose before her of a miserable
garret in the old city where her father,
whom she had so thoughtlessly forsaken,
dragged out his wretched life. She was

VOL. I. P

restlessly impatient to learn whether he was
actually so destitute and broken-hearted
as Paul Aldershaw had described him to
his manager : it seemed to her to need
strong confirmation before she could realize
such a sad fatality.

It was past midnight. In an arm-chair
by the fire, tired out at last, Katie had
fallen fast asleep. There were no marks
of care upon her dimpled cheeks, and the
expression about her lips was playful ; no
sorrow had yet touched her young heart.
While watching the girl sleeping there,
without one real trouble on her conscience,
Madame Helene prayed fervently that she
might never know such grief as that which
had overtaken her, and destroyed all her
own happiness in life.

At last the sound of wheels reached her
ears ; and next moment a cab came rattling

down the boulevard and stopped at
Rose Villa. Madame Helene put her hand
quickly to her side, and sank into a chair.
Katie started up with a dreamy look in her
eyes.

Did father call me ?' said she.

No, Katie. But he has come home :
I hear him on the staircase. Don't leave
me ; ask him to come in. It is cold, and
the fire in the parlour must have gone out
hours ago.'

Kate ran to the door and met her father,
as she always did, with open arms when
he reached the top of the stairs.

A touching scene at any time for Madame
Helene to witness, but never so
affecting as now. But she conquered her
emotion, as she had been forced to do so
often before an audience, and advanced to
welcome the manager into her sitting



room without a visible trace of agitations
except in her voice, which trembled
slightly.

Katie has been keeping me company
said she. ^ I hope I have not done wrong
to let her sit up so late ?'

Snowy drew his daughter near him,
and placed his arm round her neck.

I am afraid, Madame H^lene/ he said,
that I am most to blame. But the fact
is I have been kept in town much later
than I expected. Much later

Madame H615ne looked swiftly into the
manager's face.

Not, I hope she said, ' for any reason
which you consider serious ?'

The managers expression became suddenly
grave.

I will tell you,' said he, ^ in two wordy
if it will not be tiring you ?[

Hastening to assure Snowy that she
was not in the least fatigued, Madame
Hel^ne wheeled a chair for him nearer the
fire, and then sat down opposite with her
back turned to the light. Katie placed
herself upon the rug at her father's feet,
and looked up with deep interest expressed
in her young face.

What Mr. Aldershaw stated to me,'
the manager began, in a thoughtful tone,
'about his old clerk, John Wildrake, is
only too true ; for as to the flight of a
daughter from her father's home some
years ago, and as to the drunken life
which it was believed that Wildrake was
leading, there can be no shadow of a
doubt. 1 have been to-night to the comfortless
garret, a room in an old house out
of Thames Street, in which he lives. I
have seen him with a strange look in his

face, wliicli I shall never forget, when
listening as he fancied to the footsteps of
his daughter. I have seen him drink until
he fell senseless from his chair : for I went
with him to a tavern which he frequents :
I went on purpose to judge what he was
with my own eyes. No argument can, in
my opinion, have any effect upon him now.
He is beyond all hope ; a shattered, ruined
man.'

Madame Helene clasped her hands and
said:

scan no one save him ?'

No one.'

Not even his daughter ?'

The tone of distress in which she spoke
brought a puzzled look to Snowy's
face.

If she returned T said he.

Yes.'

That would be more likely, now,' said
Snowbj, ' to kill him.'

Not if lie knew all

^ All ?' said the manager, with a start,
all what?'

All that I, miserable woman that I am,
alone could tell him.'

You, madame ?'

*Yes.'

I do not understand,' said Snowbj,
still more perplexed.

I am the one for whose footsteps he
listens said Madame Helene, in a low
tone, ' the wretched daughter whom he
has lost.'

Snowbj stared blankly at his lodger;
then he rose slowly from his chair.

Come,' said he, in a stern voice, and
with a glance at Kate, as he moved towards
the door.

Katie stood on the hearth-rug motionless,
with her head bent.

Come,' her father repeated. ' This is
not the place for you.'

Madame Helene, rising hastily, appealed
to the manager in a supplicating tone.

Do not judge me unheard,' she pleaded.
Listen, for pity's sake ! If I have done
wrong, I have suffered deeply for my
wickedness.'

Thus appealed to, Snowy returned to
the fireside, and, when Madame Helene
had resumed her seat, he again sat down,
intimating that he was prepared to listen
as she wished. Katie again threw herself
at her father's feet, but with her eyes now
turned with a wondering look in them
towards her friend.

Not more than fifteen years ago,'
Madame Helene began, ' mj life was full

of happiness and promise. My poor
father had very much the same position,
as you know, which you now have in
Mr. Aldershaw's firm. I received an
excellent education, and my voice, which
seemed to astonish everyone who heard
it even when I was a child, was carefully
trained, and, when I grew up, we were
asked out a good deal. I sang wherever
I went. I was fond of company, and
liked being petted and admired. Among
the grand houses to which we were invited,
Mr. x\ldershaw's was the one we
went to perhaps most of all. It was there
I met the man with whom I was mad
enough to fall in love. It was indeed a
madness, for I married him without my
father's consent, even without his knowledge.'


For a moment Madame Helene was

silent. The recollection of those days in
which she met Sir Michael Valroy at the
merchant prince's mansion in Tyburniaia
seemed to trouble her greatly. But she
soon overcame these signs of distress, and
continued.

I promised,' said she, ' never to mention
the marriage to living soul. It was
secretly performed in London, and we
started for the Continent the same day.
A lawyer, a great friend of my husband's,
was our witness. The clergyman who
married us is dead.'

'what reason,' Snowy thoughtfully
demanded, ^ could your husband have for
secresy ?'

No reason,' said Madame Heleue,
'except that he disliked my father, or
perhaps, as I sometimes think, feared
him. My husband occupies a position in

society above the one in which I was
born. He is proud, quick-tempered, and
very exacting. We have been separated
for some years.'

He is still alive ?' said Snowy, with
surprise.

Yes.'

And still holds you to your promise ?'
'Let me explain. From the day I

became this man's wife,' resumed Madame
Helene, ^I seldom had the courage even
to think about my father. We led a life
of constant gaiety, which made it easier
for me to forget the past. We travelled allover
Europe, never resting a month in one
place. If I had had enough strength of mind
to reflect, I might have acted differently.
Time went on, and the separation came at
last. I refused the allowance my husband
offered me through his lawyer, this friend

who witnessed our marriage. I chose the
stage as a profession, and succeeded. It
became still easier to forget my father :
for, when my thoughts reverted to the
past, I threw my whole soul into the work
which must be done to gain public
approbation.'

Madame Helene sighed deeply, and then
concluded :

But I was growing weary,' said she,
^ weary at last of the nightly sounds of
applause, which I had at first so eagerly
courted, when an incident happened which
led me to form a resolution that, even if I
could not see my father, I would at least
find out whether he was alive and still
prosperous. I heard of you, Mr. Snowy,
through a lady in Paris. She told me that
you were a clerk in Mr. Aldershaw's
house, in London. She had lived in your

r*

house, 1 think, at one time. At any rate
she knew that you wished to let part of
your villa to some one who would be a suitable
companion for your daughter. I
made further enquiries through my bankers,
and then wrote to you, as you know. I
saw that by residing with you I could
easily hear all I wished to hear without
attracting suspicion. I was prepared ta
learn that my father was unhappy, or in
ill-health. I even feared he might be dead.
But I was not prepared for news of him
such as you have brought home to-night.'

And yet,' said Snowy, ^ I have only
confirmed what I mentioned about Mr.
Wildrake in this very room several days-ago.
You could then have taken steps to
see him . . .'

Indeed I did said Madame Helene.
I went at once to this lawyer, who lives

in London, and implored him to gain my
husband's consent to a meeting between
my father and me. He promised to do his
best. But he has neither written nor been
to see me yet. Now she added, in a low
voice, ' I have told you all.'

That night, long after the manager and
his daughter had retired, Madame Hel^ne
sat with a wakeful look in her eyes, pondering
over the various scenes in her life
since the time when she quitted her father's
home to become the wife of Sir Michael
Yalroy. How quickly the years had gone
by ! They were years in which she had
satisfied a foolish ambition. She was now
reaping her harvest, with a wretched sense
of reproach fulness and guilt. During those
years she had been stepping thoughtlessly
into every path in which she perceived a

gleam of sunshine, while her father was
being daily driven by grief and shame into
darkened ways. Was it too late to make
some amends for the misery her conduct
had occasioned ? She had waited with
impatience for several days for a response
to her appeal, through Ludlaw, to Sir
michael Yalroy. She could wait no longer.
It was her duty to take some steps more
stringent and decisive, in order to gain
the consent of her husband to see her
father.

Xo reason that could be deemed justifiable
occurred to her mind which Sir
michael might put forward to bind her
still to the promise she had made without
purpose or reflection. Years had now
passed : the necessity for action was desperately
urgent. It was a matter of life
and death. No obstacle should stand in

the way which would prevent her from
rescuing her father from the ignominious
plight into which he had fallen. She was
comparatively rich : she would provide
an agreeable home. For the rest of his
life, she would devote herself to him.
In some quiet spot, where they could
regard their trouble as something half
forgotten in the past, she would give him
an earnest proof of her desire to gain his
full forgiveness.

The dawn of the morning which found
John Wildrake lying upon his bed, and
sleeping so soundly, with his head resting
on his arm, never grew much brighter
upon that dull wintry day. A thick,
November fog was hanging over the river
when the sun rose; and when it set, towards
four o'clock in the afternoon, the

fog was still impenetrable and motionless
over the dismal city.

Wildrake never stirred. From daybreak
until the sun again went down, he
lay in the same attitude, insensible to all
that was going on in the world outside
his gloomy garret. The noise of the
heavy traffic lumbering through Thames
Street to and from the docks failed to
awaken him : he was deaf to the shrill
whistle of steamers or of steam-tugs on
the Thames, towing long black chains
of barges against the tide, which never
ceased its ebb and flow beneath his windows
; nor could the cries which sometimes
rose in the midst of other sounds
succeed in rousing him. And when all
these noises began to die out on the ' silent
highway ' and in the great thoroughfares,
the fog thickened, and the night

VOL. I. Q

became intensely chilly and dark. Still
Wildrake slept on, with a peaceful look
on his wrinkled face, and with the quiet
breathing of a young child.

All day long he had lain in his bedchamber
undisturbed. Had he been
dead his isolation could not have been
greater. Seemingly, he was entirely
forgotten.

Not entirely : for, when it had been
dark for some hours, and there was nota
sound within the old mansion, nor without,
Wildrake's door was slowly opened,
and Mimosa — the black patches on her
face and a candle in her hand — crept in
on tip-toe, and looked about with staring
eyes, and with a mouth gaping wide, as
though searching for something to fill the
gap. She placed the candle on the table
between the windows, and, stepping across

the room towards the bed, put her hand
timidly on Wildrake's shoulder.

^ Master,' she whispered, ' are you
asleep?'

He was so sound asleep, that he neither
answered nor even moved a muscle. Mimosa
glanced blankly around her, as
though frightened. Then she began to
shake Wildrake violently, as if she were
seized with a panic. But, as soon as she
ceased shaking him, he lay quite motionless
as before.

It's the fog,' said this strange little
woman, suddenly fixing her eyes upon the
candle. ' It's been and stifled him !'

The fog had certainly entered the room :
it was hovering about and hanging over
the candle like a dim cloud. Mimosa, with
sudden energy, hurried out upon the landing
and soon came back with shavings and

q2

lumps of coal in a shovel. She knelt
down before the fireplace and began to
lay the fire in a nervous manner, frequently
adding; to the black patches on her
cheeks. Then she applied the candle to
the shavings, and soon succeeded in producing
a cheerful blaze. The fog in the
room began to diminish, and Mimosa looked
as hopefully towards the figure lying on
the bed as her automatic face would permit.
She then drew a chair in front of
the hearth, and sitting down with her feet
raised upon the fender she folded her arms
and gazed vacantly at the flames.

So lost was she in thought — if such a
condition of mind can be applied to one
who seemed to be constantly more or less
wanting — so dreamy, or abstracted, that
when the door presently creaked she did
not turn round. The old Jew, Mr. Isaacs,

was looking into the room with only ibis
head visible from the black skull-cap to the
long white beard.

Mimosa 1'

Tbe little woman started and jumped up
from her chair.

'What's the matter?* the Jew demanded.


She jerked her elbow towards the
figure on the bed, and answered, in a
whisper :

'Something's up.'

The Jew stepped into the room, and
taking the candle in his hand held it over
Wildrake, and bending down peered closely
into his face.

He is a bad one !' Mr. Isaacs emphatically
declared, as he directed his gaze into
the distance, and solemnly shook his head.
^ He has been playing one of his old tricks.

He'll play them once too often some day.

It's a strong dose this time ; as strong ashe

can stand, and perhaps stronger. I

never did come across such a bad one

never.'

It ain't the fog then, ain't it ?'

The old Jew looked at Mimosa, and

placed his hand on her shoulder.

Something worse than that, my girl,'

said he, ' something even worse than

drink.'

What's that ?'

Mr. Isaacs pointed towards the mantelshelf
where the bluish bottle still stood,,
out of which Wildrake had drunk a certain
colourless liquid on the preceding night.

A deadly draught,' said the Jew, impressively.
^ When he thinks he can't sleep
he goes and gets it there.'

Does he ? I'll throw it away.'

*!N"o. He may never wake,' the Jew
Predicted. ' Touch nothings.'

Mimosa gaped at the bluish bottle and
then at the figure on the bed.

Touch nothing,' repeated the Jew, with
emphasis, 'but remain here until I return.
I shall not be gone long.'

Once more he held the candle over Wild-rake,
and again looked keenly into ibis
face. Then, placing the candle back upon
tie table, he hastened from the room.

A few minutes afterwards, Mimosa heard
the heavy slam of the front door. She
ran to the window and looked out eagerly
into the night. The distant lamps down
the dark river towards London Bridge
showed only like blurred spaces of light
which seemed to add intenseness to the
thick, foggy atmosphere on every side.
Peering down into Gable Court, the girl

observed a misty figure suddenly expand
upon the pavement close under the door
lamp, and then disappear ; at the same
time a hurried footstep caught her ear
which almost instantly died away underneath
the archway in the direction in
which the figure had vanished. She
turned from the window in alarm, and
crept softly back to the hearth. Resuming
her seat in front of the fire, she
frequently cast a startled look over hqr
shoulder towards the prostrate figure pf
Wildrake.

The figure which Mimosa had seen
from the window to expand on the pavement
under the door-lamp in Gable Court,
and then to disappear, was that of the old
Jew. Enveloped in a thick pea-jacket,
and with a rough fur cap down to his

-eyebrows and over his ears, Mr. Isaacs
was hastening out into Thames Street,
and making his way eastward through the
thick fog.

It was not late ; but being a Saturday,
and the night thoroughly uncongenial, the
streets in the City were almost deserted.
Those among the busy people who still
remained abroad were passing with haste
within the limited spaces of light under
the lamps, and then as rapidly dwindling
into misty phantoms. Everyone seemed
anxiously bent upon discovering the nearest
way, out of the damp and suffocating
atmosphere, to their own homes.

Crossing Thames Street, and turning
into one of the lanes leading towards St.
Paul's, Mr. Isaacs presently reached the
door of the little tobacco-shop where
Xedlicott lived.

Stepping in, he found Mrs. Nedlicott
behind the counter.

Is your son at home ?'

Walk in, Mr. Isaacs,' said Nedlicott's
mother, with a smile of recognition.

Mr. Isaacs took off his fur cap, and,
turning down the collar of his coat as
though to let out the fog, passed through
the shop and entered the parlour. Nedli-
cost was seated over a cup of tea reading
a manuscript in a brown-paper cover.

Anything amiss ?' inquired Mr. Cradle's
secretary, looking up from his work
into the Jew's anxious face.

The old man gave him a significant nod.

Sit down, Mr. Isaacs,' said Nedlicott,
placing a chair near the fire.

No, thank you ; T can't stop a minute
said he ; ' but I thought you would like
to know.'

What ?'

He has swallowed another dose.'
^ A strong one ?'

Very strong. We canst wake him this
time.'

That's bad,' Nedlicott replied. ' What
says the doctor ?'

I'm on my way there now,' said the

Jew. *I thought I'd look in upon you

first : I was afraid you might be gone, if

I didn't. You may be wanted, you

know.'

'Yes : I understand.'

Can you come with me ?'

To see Wildrake ?' said l^edlicott.

Yes.'

Impossible ! I've got an appointment
with Mr. Cheadle.'

Still at Tarmouth ?' said the Jew.

No. He has returned to town.'

Ah ! Then you'll look in later.' "

Yes. Though I fear said the secretary,
* that it won't be much before midnight.
It's my evening, you see, at the
"Fresco." I'm expected.'

'At midnight, then said the Jew,
moving towards the door, * you'll step
over, eh?'

You may count upon that,' said Nedli-
cost, 'on my way home I shall not fail
to call.'

At the door the Jew looked back, and
said,

'You haven't seen Wildrake's friend
again, have you ?'

Snowy ?' said Nedlicott,

The Jew nodded in his solemn manner.

No. But I expect to meet him at the
Fresco Club to-night.'

That's lucky,' said Mr. Isaacs, gazing

thoughtfully into the distance, 'for, you
see, Mr. Nedlicott, if my bad one yonder
never wakes, as it's possible he may never
do . . .'

'Quite possible, Mr. Isaacs.'

'Why, then, Mr. Snowy will be also
wanted, eh ?'

'I understand,' Nedlicott repeated, as
before, in an expressive tone.

The Jew put on his fur cap and looked
with keenness at Nedlicott.

My bad one, you know,' said he, with
his fingers on the door-handle, * has found
a friend in Mr. Snowy, or what seems tome
like one. Mr. Snowy has only called
once ; but he has given him money, or lent
it to him, which is the same thing. What
can it mean ? Not charity. There is
some motive in the business. Men don't
give away their money to such a one

as Wildrake without an object : not
they.'

There is a good reason for Mr. 's
interest in your lodger, Mr. Isaacs, I
firmly believe,' said the secretary.

I hope so,' the Jew replied, in a
suspicious tone. ' But we must keep this
friend in sight if we want to find out who
the bad one is. For Mr. Snowy, depend
upon it, knows all about him.'

^ We shall see,' said JS"edlicott.

If Wildrake has such friends,' the Jew
surmised, ' or even friends who can afford
to pay half the sum which is owing for
rent, I should like to know something
about them. Here's a year passed since
I've seen a penny. And now, I suppose,'
he added, ' there's going to be a doctor's
bill, or perhaps something worse.'

He pulled the cap down over his ear

with au emphatic tug, and shook his head
solemnly.

A queer business,' he concluded, ' very
queer. But I mustn't stand here to gossip.
He may be dead, if I do, before I get back.
He's a bad one, Mr. Nedlicott, a very bad
one indeed.'

Battening his pea-jacket tightly round
his throat, and still shaking his head, the
old Jew hastily took leave of the secretary,
and hurried out again into the foggy
night.

CHAPTER XL

REPRIMANDED.

Within a large library, in a house in
Cheyne Walk at Chelsea, sits Mr. Cheadle,
the dramatist, waiting with impatience the
arrival of his secretary Ted Nedlicott.

Ever since the night of Paul Aldershaw's^
sudden and unexpected appearance at the
chalet at Tarmouth, which led to the
discovery of Eoy Valroy and Marion upon
the balcony together, Mr. Cheadle has been
plotting to bring about another * scene ' in
the comedy.' His expectations reach a

climax soon after his return to town. A
letter arrives from the merchant prince inviting
him and his wife to dinner ; and,
when the evening comes round the
dramatist is keen to start for Tyburniaia.
But there is business with his secretary,
of a theatrical nature, which must be settled
first.

Mr. Cheadle starts up from his chair a
dozen times, looks at his watch, and sinks
down again.

'I wonder,' he ejaculates, 'what makes
ISfedlicott so late ?'

At last there is a knock at the door, and
in walks Nedlicott^ brisk in his manner, and
with the bundle of MS. in the brown-paper
cover under his arm.

What's that ?' the dramatist demands,
with his jovial eyes fixed upon the bundle,

'snobs"'

VOL. I, R

My comedy ? It's finished !'

Not yet,' Nedlicott declares ; ' Miss
Pennethorne is jealous.'

^ But,' the dramatist questions, ^ is that
anything new ?'

No,' says the secretary, * but her signs
of indisposition begin to alarm me.'

What can she want ?'

More lines

Why,' Mr. Beadle affirms, * her role is
too long already.'

Nedlicott strokes his chin.

I think,' says he, ' that, if you were to
shorten Miss Thornycroft's part, Miss
Pennethorne would recover.'

The dramatist seats himself at his desk.

That's easily done !'

He holds a consultation with his secretary
over each line: the operation of cutting
down ' is soon completed, and Mr. Cheadle

bands back to !N"ecllicotfc the prompter's
copy of his new and original comedy
Nobs,' in its revised form.

There are other matters, however, of
importance, beside Thornycroft and Penne-thorn,
which need discussion : among
them the question arises as to whether one
of the principal actors in snobs,' upon
whose head a piece of stage scenery has
accidentally fallen during rehearsal, will
be able to appear upon the first night.
But everything is at last satisfactorily
arranged between Mr. Cheadle and his
secretary. Nedlicott then takes his leave,
and hastens away in his cab, through the
fog, to the Fresco Club.

Eager for the ' scene ' with the merchant
prince, Mr. Cheadle seats himself in his
carriage beside his wife in one of his most
dramatic moods.

E 2

I am going to receive a reprimand
says he, as they drive towards Tyburniaia.

Aldershaw is evidently in earnest.'

*We were wrong,' says Ada Cheadle, ina
tone of repentance.

*Yery wrong. As Aldersliaw's relations,
we should never have allowed a
Yalroy to enter our house.'

It is not too late, perhaps,' Ada suggests,
' to mend matters even now.'

What !' says the dramatist, aghast ;

would you alter the comedy?'

Ada makes no reply. She leans back
languidly, and closes her eyes.

Their reception by Paul Aldershaw —
standing in the drawing-room, With his
back to the fire — is chilling. But Mr.
Cheadle is not discouraged.

Where is Marion ?' says he, looking
about with a genial smile.

Marion enters, as he speaks, from her
boudoir adjoining. There is something
defiant in her tall figure, as well as in her
face. She holds herself erect as she steps
across the room to embrace her cousin
Ada, and to shake hands with Mr. Cheadle.

Dinner is announced, for there are to
be no other guests. Miss Blessitt, Marion's
ex-governess, glides into the room like
Banco's ghost when the others have taken
their places, and sinks into her seat. She
is solemn, angular, and pale. She moves
her eyes from one person to another, whenever
a remark is made, without moving
her neck. But Miss Blessitt never utters
a word ; she always seems to be saying to
herself : ' I know my position. You may
try to drag me into the conversation, but
sou can't make me speak.'

Mr. Cheadle is very talkative. He hasa

great store of dramatic anecdotes ; he
relates one after another in his liveliest
style. Paul Aldershaw takes no pains to
disguise the fact that these stories fail to
interest him. The ladies are amused, but
the situation is awkward, and their faces
express their sense of relief when the time
arrives for them to retire.

Headless says Paul Aldershaw, as soon
as they are alone, * I want to have a little
serious talk with you. Will you smoke ?'

I have no objection to a cigar

Let us take our coffee, then,' says the
merchant, rising, ' in the smoking-room.'

They step into the oriental divan. The
dramatist throws himself upon a lounge
and lights his cigar ; the coffee is served ;
the merchant prince seats himself opposite
to Mr. Cheadle, and, with his legs crossed
reposes fully, * opens the scene.'

Cheadle,' says he, ' how is it that I
found a gentleman named Yaboy a visitor
at your house ?'

Mr. Cheadle promptly replies :

For a dramatic purpose.'

Is he an actor, then ?'

No,' Mr. Cheadle confesses, ^ although
he seems disposed to play a part.'

Let us understand each other,' says
the merchant, with some signs of impatience.
' I saw him that evening on your
balcony with Marion. Has that anything
to do with the part he seems disposed to
play ?'

I cannot deny,' Mr. Cheadle owns, with
twinkling eyes, * that it has.'

Then all I can say is,' remarks Paul
Aldershaw, ^ that I consider your conduct
extremely reprehensible.'

Mr. Cheadle frankly admits that.

Not,' says the merchant, * that 1 have
any wish to dictate to you who you should
invite to your house, or who you should
not. If in yours, or your wife's opinion, a
scoundrel or any of his relations are the
sort of people to cultivate, you have unquestionably
a right to do so. But, at
the same time, it is only reasonable to
expect that you will give those among
your friends who have no particular desire
to meet such people, some warning of your
intention.'

'Scoundrel?' mutters Mr. Cheadle, with
a good-humoured smile.

They can then, you know,' says Paul
Aldershaw, without heeding the interruption,
' stay away. Or,' he adds, * if they
have daughters, they can keep them at
home out of such society. You will.

I am sure, perceive the justice of my
remark.'

But inquires ]mr. Cheadle, argumentative,
'in this case, does it quite
apply ?'

'No one,' says the merchant, 'has had
better means of judging whether the man
I have just mentioned was fit company for
Marion or not. It applies most emphatically
to him. Why have you ever admitted
such a person, knowing what you
know about his family, even inside your
gate ?'

The dramatist is candid : no one can
accuse him of not being that. He owns
to his weakness. He is, as he has often
repeated, a slave to his art. When this
situation occurred to him, he explains, regardless
of the consequences, he planned

a meeting between Roy Valroy and
Marion.

'It's a little comedy,' Mr. Cheadle ends
up by remarking, ' a little comedy, in fact,
of which I have — from a dramatic point of
view — reason to be proud.'

Paul Aldershaw, without changing his
reposeful attitude, darts an angry look at
the dramatist.

'Cheadle,' says he, 'I am willing to
make every allowance for your mode of
expressing yourself : I am even ready to
believe that you have no intention of being
offensive. Your style of language, indeed,
may be considered among your theatrical
friends a mark of your ability. I gave
you credit, however, for possessing greater
discrimination than to reckon me among
that class of your admirers.'

In this quiet, but severe manner the-merchant

gives vent to bis vrratb. But Mr.
Cheadle is not the least disconcerted. His
eyes sparkle with humour ; and he regards
Paul Aldershaw, with a criticising twist of
the neck, as though watchdog an actor in
one of his comedies.

What I wished to convey,' the dramatist
explains, * when I spoke of a little
comedy, is simply this. Here we have
for the hero, let us say, a man of family ;
in fact, the brother of a baronet. And,'
he adds, ' for the heroine, the daughter
of a gentleman of fortune. The two
young people meet in society. They admire
each other ; and, being both gifted,
they interest each other. Then comes
the dramatic situation. There is reason
to conjecture that any inclination to marry
would be opposed.'

Most decidedly.'

Putting his cigar to his lips, Mr.
Cheadle smokes in silence for a moment.
He then continues :

The heroine's father has a great antipathy
to the hero's family. No argument
showing that the hero is not accountable
for his brother's conduct; no
facts which can be set down to prove
that the hero is a thorough man of honour
will have any avail. Is not that true
comedy ?' v

*Upon my word, Cheadle,' says the
merchant, with a dark frown, *you are
irrepressible. If you cannot take a serious
view of the subject, we had better not
prolong this conversation.'

My dear Aldershaw,' Mr. Cheadle persuasively
demands, 'are you not somewhat
unreasonable ? You seem to expect
too much of me. Grow serious over

comedy? Impossible ! In spite,' the dramatist
suddenly adds, ^ in spite of all
you may do to oppose it, the little comedy
which has bes^un will go on till the curtain
falls on the last act ! Why, the fact
is, to be thoroughly candid with you, Roy
Yalroy is seriously in love with your
daughter.'

'And Marion?' says Paul Aldershaw,
quickly. ^ You will be telling me next
that she cares for this fellow.'

^'No: at least, not at present,' says
the dramatist.

If I thought she did . . . ' Paul Alder-shaw
begins.

Mr. Cheadle looks into the merchant
prince's face anxiously for a conclusion
to the sentence. But he does not finish
it, except by a passing flash of passion
in his eyes, which the author comprehends

and admires as being tborouorhlj
dramatic.

There is a long pause. Meanwhile,
Paul Aldershaw, having risen from his
seat, commences to pace up and down,
with his head bent thoughtfully, and his
hands clasped behind his back. Mr.
Cheadle sits watching him, and waiting
for him to break the silence.

I was wrong,' says the merchant prince
at last, as though giving expression to
his meditations rather than addressing the
dramatist, ' very wrong not to speak to
Marion a year since, before she went out
into the world, of what happened in our
family long ago. She would then have
been prepared to meet the danger which
has come upon her. I most fervently
hope that it may not be too late to speak
even now. I should never rest if I

thought she loved aDjone whom I could
not receive at my house. I should never
rest night or day, if I thought it possible
that she could conceive the slightest
affection for a Yalroy.'

Stopping at this point, and turning towards
Mr. Cheadle, the merchant looks
bim severely in the face.

'I believed,' says he, Hhat Marion would
be protected, at least by her relations,
from such a calamity as the one which
threatens her at this moment. I believed
that her Cousin Ada would have watched
over her like an elder sister, and kept
her out of the society of people of whom
she knew I should disapprove. If I had
not believed this, I should never have
permitted Marion to visit you during your
stay at Tarmouth.'

Give her relations credit, at any rate,'

says Mr. Cheadle, ' for having mentioned
to you, when they invited Marion to Tar-mouth,
that Lord Dwyver was cruising
about in the neighbourhood. It is not,,
after all, a comedy entirely of my contrivance.'


Lord Dwyver,' says the merchant prince,
resuming his seat and his reposeful attitude,
* belongs to a class of society of a
very different stamp. I have a strong
friendship, as you know, for the young
man. Nothing, in fact, would give me
greater pleasure than to form an alliance
with the family of Mounthaw. That
however,' he adds, * is another question.'

'Not quite,' says Mr. Cheadle. 'Lord
Dwyver and Eoy Valroy are playing parts
in the same comedy. As 1 said to my
wife the other day, a little jealousy — from
a dramatic point of view — is always advisable.

Now, in my opinion, Dwyver is
somewhat piqued at the discovery that he
is not without a rival. He was expected
at Tarmouth with his yacht the day after
you were there.'

How is it,' Paul Aldershaw quickly demands,
' that you omitted to mention
that ? I should have liked to have shaken
hands with him : I should have liked very
much to have had a little talk with Lord
Mounthaw's son

If I had known,' says Mr. Cheadle,
that you were coming to take Marion
away, I should have arranged things
differently.'

Ah !'

Your sudden appearance on the scene,
you know,' says Mr. Cheadle, * was a
dramatic surprise.'

*Ah!'

A^OL. I. S

We bad planned,' Mr. Cheadle goes onto
remark, * that Lord Dwyver should see
a good deal more of Marion. But you
ran off with her, you knov/ — you ran off
with her.'

For a very good reason,' says Paul
Aldershaw. * But I should have liked to
have seen something of my young friend
before we left. And so,' he adds, thoughtfully,
* so perhaps would Marion.'

Undoubtedly.'

We must fix a day,' the merchant
prince continues, 'for a little dinner-party
here, and invite Lord Dwyver.
I should not wish him to think that I
am otherwise than delighted to know
that it pleases him to pay Marion some
attention.'

Very naturally.'

They have known each other,' pursues

the merchant, ' though not very intimately,
ever since they vere children. They have
played together in the home park at
Mounthaw. They have ridden out on
their ponies together more than once.
On one occasion, I remember, Marion's
pony ran away, and, if young Dwyver had
not galloped after her and caught therein,
she would probably have been
thrown. I don't suppose they have forgotten
that.'

Tar too dramatic,' says Mr. Cheadle,
to be forgotten.'

They will probably see something of
each other,' the merchant predicts, ' at
Mounthaw Castle, if I can spare the time
to run down to my property, which adjoins,
you know, during this winter. Now
that they have been thrown together
again, I have no doubt it would be agrees



able both to Marion and to Lord Mount-haw's
son to meet there

Quite consistent says Mr. Cheadle,
with the comedy.'

But as to this Yalroy/ says Paul Alder-shaw,
with another dark frown, ' no time
must be lost in warning Marion against
him. I do not know, at present, how
much it will be necessary to break to her
of the past. Not a word has ever been
broached between us on the subject.
Yet something should be told to her, something
that will show her that to continue
her acquaintance with this gentleman would
meet with my displeasure ; no doubt,
indeed, must be left in her mind that I
should exercise the most strenuous opposition
to any proposals of marriage from
such a quarter. I would make almost
any sacrifice which I thought would result

in happiness for Marion. But such a
sacrifice as that it would be unnatural to
expect. Perhaps,' the merchant prince
adds, with a glance at Mr. Cheadle, ' perhaps
your wife would undertake to express
mj views to Marion on this subject. What
do you think ?'

I think,' says Mr. Cheadle, ' that her
cousin Ada is the very person — from a
dramatic point of view — who should be
chosen to communicate your wishes to
Marion.'

That,' says Paul Aldershaw, ' is my
opinion. Ada must know, better than you
or I can, how much to say and how much
to conceal. She is probably in Marion's
confidence, and if there is any reason for
alarm, owing to any signs of partiality
for this fellow Yalroy, she will not hesitate
to mention the whole truth. If, however,

there is no serious display of sentiment
there will be no necessity to speak to
Marion of the Valroy family except as one
which her father has an intense aversion
to : an intense aversion.'

I understand,' says Mr. Cheadle.

There would be no objection,' says
Paul Aldershaw, 'if Ada also took some
opportunity of awakening a further interest
in Lord Dwy ver. Not that I have ever
taken any pains to hide from Marion my
sincere admiration for Lord Mounthaw's
son : on the contrary, I never lose a chance
of praising my young friend, for he is
really deserving of the highest praise.
But if your wife extols him also, why all
the better, you understand, why all the
better, eh ?'

Yes,' says Mr. Cheadle, * all the better
from a dramatic point of view.'

That,' Paul Aldershaw says, meditatively,
' is, I think, all that I had to say to you
about Marion. What I wish, and what I
have tried to impress upon you, is that
the society you may invite her to meet at
your house shall always be — if your
theatrical connection will admit of it —
perfectly select. Otherwise, I must forbid
her to visit you. I should be sorry to put
any restraint upon Marion's actions : I
should be excessively sorry to separate
her from her cousin Ada, who is almost
her only friend. But that would clearly
be my duty, if anything of a nature
resembling what, in fact, we have been
talking about should occur again. We
will now,' concludes the merchant prince,
rising from his seat, ' if you have no objection,
join the ladies.'

Mr. Cheadle assents : and in this manner

the curtain falls, as the dramatist would
express it, on another scene in Yalroy
comedy.

CHAPTER XII.

A QUIET PIPE.

At the door of the Fresco Club Nedlicott
met Snowy.

'I have just seen Wildrake,' said Paul
Aldershaw's manager, as soon as he had
shaken hands with Mr. Cheadle's secretary.


How is he ?'

Still sleeping.*

They stood on the pavement in the
fog, regarding each other with anxious
faces.

The doctor appears doubtful Snowy
declared, ' whether he will recover. He
has done all that can be done. Another
hour or two will decide the question.'

You know what he drinks ?'
Snowbj nodded.

It's a wonder,' said he, ' that he is still
alive.'

The two men mounted the steps. The
Fresco Club, the centre house in a block
of buildings, faced the Thames Embankment.
The terrace seemed to be resting
upon black clouds, so dense and dark lay
the fog on the river below.

Won't you come in ?' said Nedlicott^
noticing a slight hesitation in Snowy's
manner.

Not to-night,' said Snowy, glancing
towards the bright and warm-looking; club
hall from whence the stifled sound of

music and laughter struck upon this ear ;
another evening.'

Are you going back,' said Nedlicott, ' to
see Ail drake ?'

Yes : I am alarmed about him

Give me five minutes,' said Nedlicott,
'and then we'll go together.'

Snowy readily consented : and Nedli-
cost led the way through the hall, and up
the staircase, to the first-floor. Here he
stopped, and turned to Snowy with a
mysterious look, and said, in a dramatic
whisper :

Hush ! Follow me.'

He opened the door facing him. They
found themselves in a good-sized diningroom,
with small tables ranged round the
walls. At the further end was a curtained
entrance, to which Nedlicott pointed,
and, still whispering, said :

The music-room. They are expecting
me there now

To sing ?' Snowy inquired.

Yes. I am expected to sing.'

'Shall you?'

*No said Nedlicott, 'we will have a
glass of wine, and then make our escape.
I cannot sing comic songs to-night. Wild-rake
has upset me.'

He gave instructions to a servant who
was in attendance ; and then he and
Snowy sat down at one of the tables to
drink their wine.

Would you like,' said Nedlicott, presently,
' to have a peep at them ?'

Snowy confessed to a sense of curiosity.


Be careful, then whispered Mr. Cradle's
secretary, ' be very careful not to
expose me to view. If you do, there will

be cries for me to appear, and our escape
will be impossible.'

Snowy drew the curtain cautiously
aside. It was a large and lofty room, and
crowded to overflowing with men dressed,
for the most part artistically, in brown
velvet coats and coloured neckties ; and
many of them wore their hair long, and
thrown back from their foreheads. The
chairs were arranged in rows. In a corner
of the room there was a piano, and on one
side of it stood a honos table, facings the
audience, at which was seated a young man
with a bald head, surrounded by friends.
Pictures occupied every available space
upon the walls. The ceiling was painted
with nude figures floating in clouds — an
unnecessary detail, as the room was filled
with tobacco smoke, which answered the
same end. Between the honos table and the

piano, at the moment when Snowy looked
in upon this jovial assembly, a member of
the Fresco Club was giving imitations of
popular actors. He presently concluded,
and retired to his seat, somewhere in the
smoke, amidst a loud burst of applause.

Now is the moment,' said Nedlicott,
touching Snowy on the arm, ' to make
our escape.'

With the same droll look of mystery on
his face, Nedlicott hastened to quit the
Fresco,' accompanied by the manager.
At the club door they stepped into a cab
and drove towards Wildrake's lodgings in
the city.

Snowy's interest in Wildrake had
greatly increased since the strange confession
on the part of his lodger. The
responsibility of keeping Mr. Aldershaw's
old clerk out of mischief had become

grave in the extreme. If anything serious
should ever happen through his neglect,
not only would the merchant prince's
displeasure be incurred, but the shock to
]madame Helene, under existing circumstances,
would be crushing. "Without the
active co-operation of his newly-discovered,
friend, Nedlicott, the manager would
have been perplexed beyond measure.
But, with the kind-hearted and energetic
support of one who had for some time
been acquainted with Wildrake's eccentric
habits and mode of life, Snowy experienced
a sense of relief. In case of need,
he could call Nedlicott to his aid to
answer for his exact conduct in this
affair.

As they entered the gateway of the old
court-yard the clock of St. Paul's struck
eight.

Shylock will be surprised said Nedli-
cost, * to see me so early.'

Who ?' inquired Snowy.

Wildrake's landlord,' Nedlicott explained.


When the old Jew presently let them
into the sombre hall there was a hopeful
look on his face. The 'Bad One,' as he
hastened to acquaint his visitors, had
come to his senses,' and seemed rather
invigorated . than weakened by his long
sleep.

Shall we go up ?' said the manager.

No,' said Nedlicott, * 1 would not
advise that now.'

^ You are right,' said the Jew, with an
expressive nod. * He never needed excitement
less than he does to-night.'

So the two men took leave of Mr.
Isaacs, and wandered out into Thames

Street in an unsettled state of mind. The
favourable turn events had taken with
regard to John Wildrake had relieved
both ; but it was not so easy to recover
from the depression which the incident
had occasioned.

"What do you propose ?' said the secretary.
* I have no heart for the Fresco Club
this evening.'

'I propose,' said Snowy, 'that you
should come down to my little place at
Brixton, and smoke a quiet pipe. There
is nothing,' added the manager, ' like the
domestic hearth on a cold foofo^y nio^ht such
as this.'

ISTedlicott thankfully accepted the invitation.
It was seldom, owing to his professional
duties, that he could call an
evening his own. If by chance one of Mr.
Cheadle's comedies was not being acted,

VOL. I. T

there was sure to be a rehearsal which
detained the secretary at the theatre until
nearly midnight. On Sundays he never
stirred out of doors : it was the one day in
the week which he devoted to his mother.
It was a real day of rest for both. Nedli-
pott ceased to think of Mr. Cheadle and
his dramatic views of life, and the old lady
showed no signs of being haunted by the
shadows of customers. The shutters of
the little shop were put up ; and they sat
together in the parlour undisturbed. That
had been Nedlicott's custom ever since he
was a boy, a custom which no worldly
pleasures had yet tempted him to break
through.

As Snowy entered the hall of his villa,
followed by Nedlicott, a light step was heard
on the stairs. The next moment Katie

appeared ; and, having no eyes except for
the manager, she threw her arms round his
neck in her most natural and charming
manner.

Why, father,' said she, 'I never expected
to see you for hours.'

Suddenly she caught sight of Nedlicott.
He was standing, hat in hand, behind her
father, regarding her with a glance of unlimited
admiration.

The secretary was a decidedly good-looking
man. His features were regular and
full of a playful, kind-natured expression.
His long fair moustache suited his 
artistic style of dress. His
eyes were dark and handsome.

A deep blush mounted to Katie's pretty
face, and she seemed disposed in her confusion
to beat a quick retreat.

j\Ir. Xedlicott,' said Snowy, hastening

t2

to introduce the secretary, 'has come ta
have a bit of supper with us, and a quiet
pipe. Where can we get warm, Katie,
this wretched night, and make ourselves
generally comfortable ?'

ft

There is a good fire suggested Katie
with a swift, bashful look at the visitor,
down stairs.'

In the snuggery ?'

Yes, father.'

Snowy turned inquiringly towards
Nedlicott.

What shall you say,' he demanded, ' if
we ask you to allow us to drop all ceremony
and take you into our little room
below ?

I shall consider myself honoured,'
said Nedlicott, with a laughing glance at
Katie.

That's settled then,' said Snowy, cheerfully,

' Katie, my dear, will you show the
way ?'

Nedlicott had been living until to-night
under the impression that his mother's small
parlour, behind the little shop, was the
coziest in Christendom. But the snuggery,
as soon as he stepped into it, appeared
to him even more cozy. Every corner of
the room looked so neat and bright and
agreeable ; the curtains were so closely
drawn, and the arm-chairs were placed so
near the hearth that one might have imagined
that the fact of their coming in, cold
and depressed, out of the fog, had been
anxiously anticipated ; for on entering, all
sense of inquietude, all chilliness seemed
suddenly removed.

Could the sprightly figure of Kate
Snowy, bending over the fire to stir it
into a brighter blaze, have inspired this

reflection on Nedlicott's part? Katie's
cheerful presence would have made any
room appear homely and inviting. So,,
at least, thought Nedlicott, who watched
her movements with an interest which it
would have taken him no trouble to explain.
He was enchanted. Never had
mortal man seen anyone with such winning
manners ! Every look and action
was full of fascination for him.

Make yourself at home,' said Snowy,
motioning Nedlicott to the hearth with
a hospitable wave of the hand. *You
will always be welcome.'

The artless way in which Katie assisted
the servant to lay the cloth for supper,
raised her still higher in ISTedlicott's estimation.
There was no pretence at playing
the grand lady. She was the unaffected
girl who had household duties

to perform. The presence of a stranger
suggested to her no reason for changing
her simple character.

When the cloth had been removed,
Katie came and sat down quietly beside
her father, and filled his pipe for him,
as she had done ever since she was a
child.

I thought,' said Nedlicott, who was
comfortably seated in a chair opposite
the manager, * I thought, until I met
you at the Loafers' Hall, that the " Bad
One, " as Shylock calls him, had no
friends.'

Wildrake,' said Snowy, * has had one
powerful friend all his life. His name,
I may tell you in strict confidence, is Paul
Aldershaw.'

'Indeed?'

*Yes. It is only just continued the
manager, 'that you who have shown Wild-rake
so much kindness, should know this.
The man was a clerk for many years in
Mr. Aldershaw's house. A great trouble
overtook him. He broke down under the
weight of it. He was forced to resign
his situation.'

Since then said Nedlicott, ' he has
been drifting.'

Precisely. From time to time he has
applied to Mr. Aldershaw for assistance.
He has, I believe, never been refused.
Lately, however, he has grown troublesome
; and, in one of his drunken fits, he
had the hardiness to pay Mr. Aldershaw
a visit at the office. This annoying circumstance
induced Mr. Aldershaw to place
Wildrake, in a sense, under my charge.
I don't know,' added Snowy, ' whether I

mentioned to sou that I am Mr. Alder-shaw's
manager?'

^No,' said Nedlicott, 'you had not
mentioned that.'

'The night,' Snowy went on, 'the
night upon which we were so fortunate
as to meet at the Loafers' Hall was my
first experience with Wildrake. I can
never thank you enough for coming so
promptly to the rescue.'

It was no more,' said Nedlicott, with
a smile, ' than I had previously done a
hundred times. The *' Loafers' " is a
favourite tavern with actors; and, on my
way home I look in, on business as much
as pleasure. Wildrake, as I soon found
out, lived in the same direction as I did.
That is how we first became acquainted.'

Katie, looking up at Xedlicott, ventured
to inquire :

^ Is that long ago ?'

Ten years at least said he, ' I can
remember him when I was almost a boy.
At that time, long before 1 became Mr.
Cheadle's secretary, I frequently saw
Wildrake seated on the doorstep of the
old house where he still lodges. It has
always been my habit, if I do not find
him at the tavern, to take a peep in at
the gateway as I pass to see whether
he is sitting there ; and many a time, I
do not doubt, have I saved him from
spending the night upon his steps by
opening the door for him with his latchkey.'


^ A strange character,' said Snowy.

Strange indeed,' said Nedlicott, with
an earnest look. ' That footstep which
he fancies that he hears — which, in fact,
has for a long time haunted him — has

become a complete mania. It is that,
more than anything, which is wearing him
out. He can get no natural sleep. At
times, when he is in his most restless
mode, he wanders abroad all night long ;
he has the footstep in his ear, which he
takes to be his daughter's, and he follows
this imaginary sound through the dark
and silent streets of the City. I have
often found him wandering after midnight
in the narrow courts and alleys around
the old city churches and churchyards,
and such-like dismal haunts, constantly
stopping to listen, and then wandering
on again.'

How very sad !' said Katie, with tears
in her eyes.

Yes,' said Nedlicott. ' It is one out
of many of those melancholy sights which
I, who am obliged to be out later than

most meD, meet with along my beaten
track, as I call it, through Thames Street
to my mother's home.'

After a moment's pause, Nedlicott
added,

The time is past, I fear, for reclaiming
Wildrake. But I am rejoiced to hear
you say that he has a friend ; for I need
not count him now among the miserable
crowd. It will not be a case for the
workhouse, after all, as I was afraid it
would be some day.'

No,' said Snowy, 'it is not so bad
as that. I cannot explain the situation
to-night. The story of his life, as Katie
and I have lately learnt, is very painful.
But the time is not far distant, I hope,
when everything will be done to find John
Wildrake a more congenial home than his
present garret. And,' added the manager,

there is at least one I know who will
express a heartfelt gratitude to you for
all the kindness you have shown towards
this unfortunate man.'

Indeed said Katie, fervently, * indeed,
there is more than one

Xo expressions of gratitude, if any
were his due, could recompense Nedlicofct
as did Katie's look or her tone of voice
as she uttered these simple words. He
was amply requited if she recognised an
atom of merit in his conduct towards
"Wildrake. He scarcely dared to hope
that so trivial an action as that of interesting
himself in this broken down man
could induce her to give a second thought
to his existence ; but, if such a consequence
were possible, the current of his life might
be changed.

That night, on his road home, Nedli-

cost was building castles in the air, in
which uncertain edifices Kate Snowy
lived and moved. He recalled over andover
again every word, every look, from
the moment he entered the villa at Brixton
until he took his leave ; for the sound
of her voice and the varying expression
on her face still seemed to abide with him
after he had quitted her presence.

The fog hung thick and motionless over
the city, as it had hung all day, when
Nedlicott reached Thames Street and
made his way towards the little shop in.
the narrow lane near St. Paul's. He let
himself into the house, and crept noiselessly
upstairs to his bed-room on the first-floor.
It was small, but very orderly, and
characteristic of Mr. Cheadle's secretary.
On a writing-table under the window there
was a quantity of MS. in the conventional

brown-paper binding. The walls were
covered with theatrical portraits; andover
the mantel-shelf, among sundry playbills,
were a number of photographs of
histrionic interest. A book-case against
the wall in a corner held Nedlicott's
library ; it principally consisted of the
British drama and an old edition of Pepys'
diary in several volumes.

There was a small fire in the grate.
IN'edlicott took down from the shelf a
volume of the diary, lit his pipe, and drew
his chair towards the hearth.

It had been his habit for years to read,
before retiring, a page out of the great
journal : for Nedlicott, since he was a boy,
had never been weary of following Mr.
Pepys to the court ; or to the King's
Theatre, where he sat near the king and
the Duke of York, and saw * Midsummer
Xiofht's Dream.'

But Pepys' diary had lost its interest
for Nedlicott. The voice of Kate Snowy
sounded too pleasantly in his ears : and,
although he continued to read, he had no
conception of what the diary was recording
; for he seemed to be carrying
on a conversation all the while in the
snuggery with Kate. Indeed, it is doubtful
whether Pepys himself could have got
a sentence into the secretary's head had
he appeared in the flesh and gone on
gossiping about the court, or the play, all
night long.

CHAPTER Xii.

UNCHANGED.

On a certain afternoon, which need not be
specified, Roy Yalroy paid a visit to the
chambers in Pump Court.

His brain was agitated with thoughts of
Marion. He had learnt that the girl
would ' appear as Mr. Cheadle expressed
it, at his house to-day ; and that if the
hero ' did not call (at an hour proposed)
a scene in the comedy would be lost : a
scene,' as the dramatist assured him,
which — from a dramatic point of view —
might be made highly effective.'

VOL. I. u

To meet Marion, as it will be surmised,
Eoy Valroy was willing to submit to this
theatrical language, though it was possibly
not very gratifying to be told that the
situation ' was one which created, in the
mind of Mr. Cheadle, a motive for comedy ;
but so deep was his love for Marion that
Yalroy was prepared to undergo any
affliction which would bring him, even for
one hour, into Marion's presence.

Valroy,' said Ludlaw, looking up from
legal documents and throwing himself
back in his chair, ' I begin to think that
I owe you an apology.'

I do not understand,' said Eoy, ashe
leant against the mantel-shelf negligently.


Let me explain. When,' said Ludlaw,
^ I asked you to accept a joint share with
me in these rooms I intended that you

should have enough space in them to
wield a pen, even if you were not disposed
to follow conscientiously the legal profession.
You have expressed an ambition to
make literature your goal. Has it been
possible in this place to prosecute your
studies, or even to carry out any plan of
work? No. I have impeded you at
every step. You have been obliged to
take to flight, whenever you have had an
inspiration, into a more congenial atmosphere.'


*You talk,' said Yalroy, ^as though I
had the habits of a swallow.'

For years,' pursued Ludlaw, I * have

been encroaching upon you in these

chambers. I drive you, with my heaps of

papers, from every position you take up.

There is not a corner which you can call

your own.'

u2

*Is not the hearth-rugs Valroy enquired
still neutral ground ?'

There is no table Ludlaw went on,,
casting his eyes about him, *not even a
chair, except the one in which I sit, which
remains unencumbered. I am positively
in possession

Yalroy shrugged his shoulders and
broke into a smile.

Nine points in the law said he.

Then the barrister continued, with a
wave of his hand towards a side doors
there's your bed-room. It is invaded by
my boxes, bundles of old briefs, books,
and in fact all the hostile paraphernalia
which belongs and appertains to our learned
calling.'

Disturb nothing said Eoy. ^ Requires*
cant in pace J

'Perhaps,' replied Ludlaw, 'you are

right. If you seriously contemplate matrimony,
nothing will be gained by a sudden
reform of my conduct. I have become
confirmed in my habits. My papers may
appear to you to be in a state of chaos :
but that is of no consequence to you. To
my thinking they are admirably arranged.
I know at a glance where to lay my hand
on any document. Every man has his
own method of work : you see mine. A
scheme of re-adjustment,' the barrister
confessed, ' may possibly some day have to
be considered : but not yet : that is an
occupation which I reserve for my declining
days. It will be some consolation
to have it said of me, when I am dead,
that I had a well-regulated mind, and that
I left my documents behind me in perfect
order.'

'Your epitaph shall be,' remarked

Valroy, '^ Deeds not words." I hope, however,
that you will not mention in your
will that you wish your papers buried
with you. They would fill a whole
cemetery.'

'You are strangely facetious. What is
the matter, my learned friend ?' said '
Ludlaw. * Sit down. I must get ready
to start. I have business with your
brother.'

To-night? I had hoped you would dine
with me at the club.'

Impossible,' Ludlaw declared, rising
slowly. ^ The business is urgent.'

Valroy threw himself into the vacated
chair, and stretched his legs towards the
fire, while Ludlaw retreated into an adjoining
room.

It would have given energy to Yalroy's
character could he have entertained a

remote prospect of making Marion Alder-shaw
his wife. He was ambitious ; but
it was the ambition which needs an
object.

To leave Ludlaw in sole possession of
the chambers, and to work out a career for
himself, had long been a latent thought ;
for he was one of those young men of fortune
whose intellect, education, and knowledge
of the world would have enabled
him to achieve distinction. He had
studied law as a mere pastime, seldom
residence in chambers after he had been
called to the bar.

Since he had left college, indeed, he had
spent some years in travel : and the insight
he had acquired concerning men and
their ways in several European capitals
was varied, if not profound. He had
had from boyhood the advantage of Lud-lawes

companionship : and the result of
association with such a man was in many
respects beneficial; for the barrister frequently
joined Yalroy, during vacation
time, in his foreign peregrinations.

Ludlaw, now reappearing in coat and
hat, Roy Yalroy rose from the arm-chair,
and the two friends strolled out of the
chambers together.

^ There is some talk, Cheadle tells me
said Roy, as they went through the quiet
courts and passages towards the Temple
gateway, ' about a marriage between
Marion and young Dwyver.'

An old notion,' said 'Ludlaw, * of Paul
Aldershaw's.'

'Yes. The Mounthaw estate,' replied
Yalroy, * adjoins Aldershaw's property in
Yorkshire.'

Ludlaw took Yalroy's arm. They walked

up and down the Cloisters for a while
in silence.

that fact said Ludlaw,with a meaning
glance, ^ should interest you deeply.'

In what way ?'

Simply this,' said Ludlaw. * Mount-haw
Castle may some day be sours. Your
grandfather, I need not remind you, was
a cousin of the late Earl of Mounthaw.
There is, at present, only one life, besides
your brother's between you and Mounthaw.'

Eoy Yalroy laughed.

'What would you give,' said he, 'for the
reversion?'

Ludlaw looked serious.

My learned friend,' said he, 'you are
becoming unbearably facetious. Are sou
contemplating a visit to the Cheadles ?
If so, you had better change your mood.'

'Yes, Ludlaw, I am going to Chelsea.'

And with these words the two men parted.
The drawing-room windows of Mr.
Cheadle's house in Chelsea, five in number,
look out upon the gardens in Cheyne
Walk. At one of these windows Ada
Cheadle is seated the same afternoon,
waiting in expectation of a visit from
Marion Aldershaw.

Ada has undertaken the task of communicating
to Marion her fathers mandate
with regard to her future conduct
towards Eoy Yalroy. The time is
considered ripe for explanations : the
episode which many years ago had occurred
in the Aldershaw family is a mystery
to the girl, which cannot reasonably
remain any longer undivulged. In fact
it is recognised, at last, that Marion's
childhood has come to an end : she into
be acknowledged as a woman, capable

of reflection on worldly affairs, and gifted
with the courage to resist the shock of
painful revelations.

Marion is so honos in arriving that Ada.-
who is easily worn out with waiting, falls
asleep in her chair. She is at length
awakened by the noise of Mr. Aldershaw's
carriage and pair driving up to the front-door.


Marion alights, and is shown upstairs.
Ada rises languidly to meet her as she
steps into the room.

'I have been wishing so much,' cries
Marion, throwing her arms impulsively
around her cousin's neck, ' that this afternoon
would come.'

In this old-fashioned drawing-room of
Mr. Cheadle's the centre window is a
deep bay, furnished with warm curtains
and easy-chairs. Into this snug recess

Marion and Ada presently retire to bave
their serious talk.

When the tea-tray has been placed on
a little table beside there, and Ada has
poured out the tea into diminutive china
cups :

My dear Marion,' says she, becoming
more wakeful, ' are you really prepared to
listen to family disclosures ?'

I came, Ada,' replies Marion, ' on purpose.
I know that you have my father's
leave to speak to me.'

Yes. It is even his wish.'

Sipping her tea for a while in silence,
Ada at last places her empty cup upon
the tray and regards Marion thoughtfully.

You were telling me,' she begins,
one evening at Tarmouth, that when a
child you believed that you had one friend ;
but you could, I think you said, recall

nothing now beyond a face. Do you
remember, Marion ?'

Indeed I do,' says Marion, fervently.
A loving face bending over me is what I
recollect ; and I think she adds, with a
pensive look, ' it must have been at night,
for I still see the face sometimes in my
dreams.'

Ada places her hand softly upon Marion's
arm.

That face,' says she, * was your
mother's.'

Marion clasps her hands, and tears
spring into her eyes.

As I have always from childhood hoped
and prayed !' she cries. ' But why have I
never been told of her before ?'

Her heart is beating with the thought
of bow much misery her constant doubt
has cost her. The great, lonely Tyburn

mansion, in which she was born and
bred, had bewildered her ever since that
face had vanished. Silence had reigned
like death in every room. She had scarcely
seen anyone from one year's end to another,
except her governess, whose sternness
had only inspired her with fear
and reserve. It was not until her cousin
Ada came to live in town that Marion
discovered some one in whom she could
freely confide. She had never ceased to
regard her father with a sense of awe.
Her visits to him in his library had been
always made with a sort of regal formality;
his unbending attitude, his dark brow, and
solemn tone had left upon her mind a
mysterious and painful impression ; aud
this coldness and severity repelled the
faintest signs of attachment on her part.
She was eager to express her affection and

sympathy towards him, but her courage
had always failed.

For a moment she lives again in these
wondering, infant days. Ada watches her
dreamy face without a word ; but after a
while she places her hand once more on
Marion's arm, to recall her to herself, but
with a gentleness which expresses the
depth of her compassion for the girl.

Shall I go on ?'

Marion starts and wakes out of her
dream.

^ Yes, Ada, I wish to know all.'

Ada Cheadle leans back in her chair,
but keeps her eyes fixed on Marion.

'You were so very young,' says she,
when you last saw your mother, that it
seems surprising you should have retained
any recollection of her face. And are
you sure that it was a loving face you

saw?' adds Ada, doubtfully. 'I do not
think, my dear Marion, that it can ever
have been that ; for, if your mother had
had any love for you, she would never
have left you : she could never have acted
as she has done towards your father.'

Marion turns so pale as she listens to
these words that Ada looks at her in
alarm. Her eyes, raised for a moment
with a piteous and supplicating expression,
denote the acuteness of her distress.

Why, I thought,' she avows, ' that my
mother was dead.'

Ada answers her in a low tone.

Your father would have preferred even
her death, Marion, to the calamity which
actually happened.'

The girl bends her head like one solemnly
condemned ; for the truth breaks
upon her senses with such cruel force.

It overshadows and chills her heart.
Every gleam of sunshine in her young
life seems to vanish. She understands all
that has happened now — everything : even
before her cousin Ada speaks another
word.

When at last the afflictive tale of Sir
Michael Valroy's villainy has been told,
Marion sits, with her head still bowed,
in an attitude of grief and despair. The
gloomy afternoon is dusky and full of
shadows ; for the day is now drawing to
a close. But it seems to suit Marion's
mood ; she had so often lingered alone at
sunset when a child to recall the face of
the one being whom she never had reason
to doubt, until now, had loved her.

After a while a reassuring thought finds
expression.

VOL. I. X

Perhaps she loved me once, before the
temptation came, as she must have loved
my father — before she left us both, and
. . Yes ! it must always be a loving face
to me.'

There is some consolation in this reflection
; for a faint smile touches her
lips like a passing ray of light.

Then she looks round and discovers
that she is alone.

The door presently opens, and Marion
hears a footstep in the room. She
does not move, believing that it is Ada
Cheadle who has returned, to resume
her seat by her side, to cheer her with
words of sympathy, which she so much
needs.

But when no one approaches, and yet
the footstep seems to stay, Marion glances
up.

She starts and rises hastily. Eoy
Yalroy is standing before her in the
floating.

Marion springs forward joyfully to
meet him. But as she reaches his side
she draws back ; for a rush of overpowering
thoughts possesses her, and she
cannot touch his outstretched hands, nor
look into his face.

Since that memorable night upon the
balcony, outside the chalet at Tarmouth,
they had not met : that hour when the
sound of the sea was beatings in their ears
and the moonlight shaped its way across
the waves — that hour in which he had
opened his heart to her, and she had
trustfully confessed her love for him.
How vividly she remembers all — all that
took place that night, as she stands before

x2

him now ! Her father's appearance in the
boudoir, his words with Mr. Cheadle, and
his angry look, had puzzled her then. But
now she comprehends clearly his displeasure.
He hates with reason the name of
Valroy — the name she loves.

Roy Valroy takes her hands. She does
not instantly withdraw them ; that would
be too heartless. But she trembles at his
touch.

How changed you are, Marion !' he
declares, in a low and injured tone.

Her heart beats fast at the sound of his
voice ; but still she hesitates to look into
his face. That would betray too suddenly
her thoughts.

Eoy,' says she, scarcely above a whisper,
why are you here ?'

She does not dare express her intense
delight at seeing him once more. She

must keep strode; guard upon her thoughts
and words or else her courage will fail.
This is the hard part she is forced to play ;
for it is her father's wish that she should
think no more of Roy Yalroy than if they
had never met.

Have I done wrong?' pleads Roy, in a
tone which almost melts her. * It is so
honos since I have seen you, Marion. You
must forgive me.'

Roy,' she answers, tearfully, * I shall
never see you again.'

Never ?'

She releases her hands from his, as
though they were something which bound
her to life, and then moves away.

Never,' says she ; ' I must obey my
father.'

Her cousin, Ada, has broken the news
to her that her father intends that she

shall marry Lord Dwyver. Marion longs
to tell all this to Eoy. But she never
can ; it would completely unnerve her for
the severe task which it is her duty to
perform. But Eoy will not doubt her
love whatever may happen ; she is confident
that he will understand it all, and
pity her.

Marion stands near the window, in the
uncertain light, knowing in her heart that
with this moment of leave-taking between
them their dream must end. Roy steps
towards her and stands at her side.
Presently he speaks ; and listening, as
though she were at the brink of her own
grave, she scarcely breathes.

Marion,' he owns, in a faltering voice,
I believed, in the face of every obstacle,
that we might some day be happy. 1

loved you so deeply that I did not reflect,
as I should have done ; and I am grieved
angry with myself for my conduct. I
should have known — indeed I did know —
as soon as I heard your name, that what I
wished could never be ! But I think I
loved you, dear,' says Eoy, looking down
with great tenderness into Marion's face
the first moment we met — before I knew
that it would be wrong to win your
heart.'

Marion is silent. She looks up through
her tears, but cannot trust herself to
speak; for every word he is uttering fills
her heart with a sense of mingled grief
and joy ; she is recalling, as though it
were but yesterday, that first meeting
between them. It was one sunny autumn
day at Tarmouth, within sight and sound

of the sea ; she was walking on the shore
with Ada, and she had scarcely dared to
glance towards him ; but at that moment,
Marion now thinks, she too had first known
what it was to love.

• 1

I shall never,' pursues Yalroy, * never
forget you, Marion : never change. During
my travels — for I am going abroad — you
will be constantly in my thoughts. Every
word you have ever spoken to me will be
treasured : for there is nothing you have
ever said which I can forget. And when
I am hundreds of miles away, no matter
where, I shall picture to myself those
happy hours at dear old Tarmouth ; but
most of all I shall think of this hour —
this miserable moment for both of us — in
which I am forced, Marion, to say goodbye.'


Roy Valroy seizes her trembling hands

and raises them, with a sudden and
passionate impulse, to his lips : and then,
with an imploring, piteous look — but without
another word — he leaves Marion standing
there, alone and motionless, in the
twilight.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM House.

3 0112 046417264

s<^^\^^^^^■^^

^^;s^'^^^'^^w^?^^^^^•\f^T^* ^v^'*>.'^av«.

OF Thou

N 1 Verity

or ILLINOIS

& SON'S

LIBRARY,

London,
BOOKSTALLS.

r^bicHbert tn SETS OJilr-

^

S€

or iwo voiurao» ,,

(N0%mU in mart thin Pm* Volumes t
For THREE „ ,,

For FOUR „ ».

For SIX „

For TWELVE „

ROM A Counter BOOKtTALL I
6 Montis*. n UoodUk

£0 12 O ^ t 1 O
>U/br tht tu* ffSu^teriftion,)

O 17 6 - 1 11 «

. - 1 8 O - 2 2 O

1 8 O - 2 lO O

. . 1 IB O - 8 8 O

8 00-880

;i^.''':

VOL. II.

IN LETTERS OF GOLD"

BY

THOMAS St. E. HAKE

Gone she is,
And what's to come of my despised time
Is nought but bitterness.'

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

)/ .^

U LETTERS OF GOLD.

CHAPTER I.

Ludlow's SUSPICIONS.

After parting with his * learned friend afc
the Temple gateway, Ludlaw took the train
to Batswing Heath, the large common on
the outskirts of London where Sir Michael
Valroy lived.

At the time when Ludlaw first became
the baronet's legal adviser, some
twenty years ago, both he and Sir Michael
were newly entering on life. The baronet

VOL. II. B

was rich and well-connected : Ludlaw was
comparatively poor and without friends ;
and his eagerness to gain a position in the
world was his avowed reason for showing
himself ready and willing to make himself
indispensable to others. There happened
to be some matters respecting the Yalroy
estate which required adjustment: Lud-law
proved himself priceless. Then again
the baronet became involved in monetary
difficulties : once more Ludlaw was consulted,
and extricated him with surprising
cleverness. For these, and other services,
Sir Michael Yalroy rewarded Ludlaw with
introductions into the best circles ; and
not only as his friend, but as a keen
man of affairs. The lawyer played his
cards well : he succeeded in society,
while making steady progress in the legal
profession.

Seated iu a corner of the railway carriage,
Ludlaw took from his pocket a letter
which he read repeatedly by the dim light
overhead. He regarded the writing as
one might contemplate a face which had
given cause for anger : there was a dark
frown on his brow and his thin lips were
firmly closed. The letter was from
Madame Helene : it was extremely curt,
and ran as follows :

This delay is maddening. Unless I .
hear from you at once, I shall consider myself
at liberty to act independently in the
matter upon which I consulted with you
some days ago.'

No one could boast of a more convenient
memory than Ludlaw. He had designedly
forgotten his promise to intercede with Sir
Michael Valroy on behalf of Madame
Helene. He knew enough of her character

b2

to be fairly satisfied that lie would take
no decisive .steps before making a final
appeal. This left him time to choose a
moment most favourable and convenient
for approaching the baronet on such a
distasteful subject. In Ludlaw's opinion,
this affair had only now begun to assume
a grave aspect : hitherto it had not been
deserving of serious thought. But to venture
on further delay would be dangerous.
Ludlaw perceived that Madame Helene
Twas deeply in earnest ; and if she visited
John Wildrake without the baronet's consent
the blame would fall upon him : for
he had undertaken to acquaint Sir Michael
Yalroy with Madame Helene's resolve to
effect a reconciliation between herself and
her broken-down father.

On leaving Batswiug Heath Station,
Ludlaw turned into a narrow way, between

high walls, leading towards the common.
It was a dark night, and the lamps through
this lane were placed some distance apart ;
so Ludlaw took the precaution of keeping
in the centre of the road as he stepped
along.

He had frequently walked this way at a
later hour. But for some inexplicable
reason he experienced on this occasion a
feeling of danger foreign to his matter-of-fact
nature. Was he in a nervous state ?
-or was it some unforeseen presentiment?
He put this question to himself, but
without eliciting any satisfactory explanation.
All that he could positively declare
was that he felt a decided sense of relief
when he came to the end of the lane, and
reached the open heath.

At this corner, where the roads parted
at an angle across the common, stood a

small country inn. It was the last stage,
in the good old times, at which the coaches
stopped before entering London. On the
green facing the entrance stood a tall white
post where the sign-board still swung
and upon which could be seen by the light
of the road-lamp, written in old style, ' Ye
Hunted Stag.'

As Ludlaw passed the inn he glanced
towards the window of the bar-parlour.
He noticed two men in the room : the
one, standing with his back to the fire, heat
once recognised as that of the landlord ;.
the other, seated at a table upon which
he was leaning both his arms, appeared
to Ludlaw in some remote manner to be
well known to him.

But when, or where, had he seen the
face?

Curiosity prompted him to stop, and

even turn back. He approached as close
to the window as he well could without
being observed. Then he looked more
attentively at the man. He was talking to
the landlord in a low voice. It was impossible
to distinguish the words : but
from his manner the conversation appeared
deeply interesting and earnest. His dress
was shabby ; a black, thread-bare coat,
buttoned tightly round his neck, and a
dilapidated old hat. He was smoking a
long clay pipe, and a glass of grog was
standing at his side upon the table.

Ludlaw searched his memory through a
long gallery of faces, dating over a number
of eventful years ; he threw an inquisitive
glance over the past, taking a rapid view
of society and of the various courts of
justice to recall the name of the man
to whom this strangely familiar face

belonged. He searched for some moments
in vain. But suddenly a peculiar look
startled bird, and the identification quickly
followed. He exclaimed aloud :

*John Wildrake!'

How terribly the face had changed,
since he had met Wildrake at Mrs. 's
receptions in Tyburniaia, could
only be realised now that the recognition
was complete ; though to shape out of the
red and swollen features a fine, intelligent
countenance, such as Ludlaw had had
good reason to admire in former days,
was no easy task. The brow had grown
painfully severe and wrinkled, and the
eyebrows shaggy and grey. The eyes
had lost their brightness, and the well-formed
mouth had become vicious, and
was drawn down at the corners into an
expression of resentment and scorn.

With something more than mere curiosity
now, Ludlaw stepped into the inn.
The door of the bar-parlour being open,
he could see the two men, while standing
outside the bar, without being seen.

A lamp placed upon the mantel-shelf
lit up pictures on the walls chiefly of
coaches preparing to start at the door of
^ Ye Hunted Stag,' or at full speed on the
road ; there were also pictures of Derby
winners, and of celebrated jockeys ; altogether,
a choice gallery of sport and
travel.

The landlord was a tall, shrewd-looking
man, closely shaved. He wore tight-fitting
breeches, and a coat cut in hunting
style, which gave him a somewhat
racy ' appearance. He was eyeing his
eccentric-looking customer with some
degree of suspicion.

What you mean is Wildrake was saying,
There have not been many changes
in this neighbourhood in your time, — eh,
landlord ?'

No changes whatever.'

No houses sold, eh ? No building going
on ?'

None,* said the landlord, shortly.

Nothing about this heath,' Wildrake,
suggested, with a jerk of his head, * except
old mansions. And all, I suppose,
inhabited by old families ?'

Just that.'

Been here many years ?' Wildrake
abruptly demanded.

A goodish number.'

'In that case,' Wildrake continued,
taking a sip at his grog, 'in that case
you must be well-acquainted with most

of the names of those who live about
here ?'

Say all replied the landlord, * everyone
of them, and you will be nearer the
mark

^h, now I shouldn't wonder,' said
Wildrake, glancing at the landlord knowingly,
* I shouldn't wonder if you could
tell, if you chose, some queer stories about
one or two. Queer stories, eh?'

I shouldn't wonder.'

Tor instance,' Wildrake remarked,
Hhat house with the sphinxes on the-gates
has a queer appearance. You know
who lives there, of course ?'

'Well,' said the landlord, smiling, *I
ought to know. I was a servant in the
family there for twenty years. I left
when Sir Michael Valroy, the present

baronet, went abroad. I was his father's,
valet;

Wildrake again sipped his grog and then
said :

Went abroad, eh ? So IVe heard.'

Yes, he went abroad said the landlord
; ' and we began to think,' he added,
*that Sir Michael never would come
back

But he did, eh ?'

Yes. Only a week or so ago.'
Wildrake now rose from his seat, and

having paid the reckoning, observed, with
a glance towards the window,

A dark night for a walk, eh, landlord?'


'You'll find it so across the common.
Are you going far ?'

To London,' said Wildrake, moving towards
the door.

That's not a long distance said the
landlord, * for a man who knows the road.'

*No distance at all,' said Wildrake,
hurrying out, though not very steady in his
gait. * Good-night.'

Good-night,' said the landlord.

Wildrake took no notice of Ludlaw,
though he passed close by him. But the
barrister hastened on to the door-step
and looked after Wildrake keenly : he
watched him as he walked away in an unsteady
slouching manner, seeming to glance
about him to the right and left, and to
peer into the gloomy night, like an animal
in search of prey. Presently he stopped
and appeared to be listening : he struck his
chest with his fist, and then started off at a
quicker pace, stumbling along the road which
led across the common until he disappeared
into the darkness.

*Why, Mr. Ludlow said the landlord,
I thought I couldn't be mistaken. Good-evening,
sir.'

*Spicer,' said Ludlaw, turning quickly
round, ' do you know the man who has
just gone out ?'

No,' said Spicer. * I've seen him about on
the common, once or twice. A strange
looking customer, ain't he ?'

'He told you just now,' said Ludlaw,
that he was going to London.'
Yes. So I understood him.'
He has taken the opposite direction.'

Well,' said Spicer, meditatively, ' he
did seem one of the sort who don't
know their own minds for two minutes
together.'

Ludlaw nodded and said :

Give me one of your choice cigars.'
The landlord hastened to take down a

box from a. corner shelf. Ludlaw selected
a cigar, lighted it, and smoked for a while
in silence. He was still standing at the
door of the inn, with his eyes turned towards
the direction which Wildrake had
taken. Presently he said, with a sudden
glance at the landlord :

Spicer, I have my suspicions.'

I beg your pardon, sir.'

Keep an eye said Ludlaw, ' upon that
man's movements if he comes into this
neighbourhood again. He is a notorious
character about town.'

Known, am I to understand, to the
police ?'

That's very possible.'

Spicer cocked his head shrewdly on one
side:

You don't surprise me, sir. He looked
it from head to foot.'

How long,' Ludlaw demanded, *had he
been lounging about here.'

He came in said Spicer, ' somewhere
near dusk. He ordered a brandy hot : and
then he fell asleep in the bar-parlour with
his head on the table. I had some difficulty
in rousing him, and then I could only
keep him awake by talking. He was the
worse for drink, I could have sworn, as
soon as I caught sight of him.'

He has the reputation,' said Ludlaw,
of seldom being sober. Will you let me
know if you see him again ? I have my
grave suspicions.'

'You may rely upon it, sir,' said the
landlord of the ' Stag.' ' I shall not
forget.'

'Not a word about the man, remember
that, to anyone.'

With this admonition, Ludlaw took his

leave, and stepped out quickly across the
heath.

Sir Michael Yalroy's house lay on the
opposite side of the common. Ludlaw
chose the path which, as he well knew, led
to a point nearest to the gates. It was a
dark, lonely walk of nearly a mile, and the
thoughts which were passing through the
barrister's mind with regard to John
Wildrake did not assist to dissipate the
effect of the surrounding gloom. A
vast shadow, as it seemed, was hanging
overhead ; while along the roads, which
intersected the heath, the lamps with their
small, glimmering circles of light gave
a wider and deeper expansion to the
darkness.

The appearance of Wildrake in this
neighbourhood could, as it appeared to
Ludlaw, be no mere coincidence. He had

VOL. II. c

evidently some fixed purpose in visiting
the * Hunted Stag :' some strong design in
questioning the landlord about the return
of Sir Michael Valroy from abroad. His
reference to * the house with the sphinxes
on the gates' indicated clearly that his
thoughts were directed towards the
baronet.

But what could be his motive ? If
Wildrake suspected Sir Michael Valroy of
having led his daughter astray, and had
waited all these years for his coming
home in order to confront and question
him, it was indeed time that an explanation
of the whole affair was accorded him.
By obtaining Sir Michael's consent to a
meeting between Madame HeI5ue and her
father this desirable end would be achieved.
This was all supposition on Ludlaw's part :
but he resolved to seize upon this incident

as affording the most irrefutable argument
in favour of a reconciliation.

In the midst of these reflections he
reached the park entrance to Sir Michael
Yalroy's mansion. Standing at the gates,
while the lodge-keeper answered the bell,
he happened to glance up at the two
stern, stoney-faced sphinxes reposing therewith
lamps on pedestals behind them : and
the shadows which flitted across their solemn
features suggested the ludicrous
thought to Ludlaw's mind that the one
was whispering to the other about the
mysteries of coming events which concerned
the house of Valroy.

Upon the same evening, an hour later,
Ludlaw was seated among the family portraits,
in the old dining-hall, facing Sir
Michael Yalroy.

c2

Sir Michael, who leant his elbow on the
table, with his head resting upon his hand,
looked sternly at the barrister. He had by
nature a severe expression, black, cruel
eyes, and a heavy brow. His dark beard
was slightly tinged with grey. He was a
large, powerfully-built man : and against
the light of the shaded lamp behind him he
appeared almost gigantic.

You have something to communicate,
Ludlaw,' ho remarked. 'Why don't you
speak?'

Drink another glass of wine first
Ludlaw replied, glancing towards the
decanters. ' Your nerves may require
stimulating.*

The baronet rejected this friendly counsel
with an angry gesture of the hand.
I am the bearer of a message.*
'Tome?

'Yes said Ludlaw; 'and the message
is from your wife, Lady Yalroy. She is in
London.'

'What?'

I was honoured with a visit from her, at
Pump Court, a day or two ago,' Ludlaw continued.
'Lady Valroy introduced herself
as an old client who had come to ask, as a
matter of business, my legal advice. She
has petitioned me to intercede with you on
her behalf. May I state the case ?'

Is it worth while ?'

^ Yes. Lady Valroy, after years of uncomplaining
submission to the terms expressed
in an agreement between her and
yourself, begs leave to have the contract
annulled. I refer,' Ludlaw explained, ' to
the one entered into immediately prior
to your marriage. The conditions of that
contract were that Helen Wildrake should,

when married, cease to bold any communication
with her father, John Wild-rake,
without the sanction of Sir Michael
Yalroy.'

Is the woman mad ?'

Lady Valroy begs leave,' pursued Lud-lave,
'to resume relations with the said
father. She has heard indirectly that he
has taken to drink, and has fallen into
a state of destitution, and she believes
that her undutiful conduct is the cause
of it. She is full of repentance, and eager
to make amends.'

Sir Michael Valroy had risen from his
seat, while Ludlaw was still speaking, and
commenced pacing to and fro. He now
stopped, and answered, in a firm and
angry voice,

Tell her,' said he, * that I insist upon
her adhering to the terms mentioned in

the deed which, was drawn up by you
before our marriage. I will never give
my consent to a meeting between her
and her father. My motive in exacting
that agreement was, as you know, in order
to provide against the possibility of having
to discuss the matter at some future time.
No sentimental talk about her father's
destitution will have any effect with me.
On the contrary, it confirms me in my
decision, and strengthens me in my resolute
tion not to yield one jot.*

He paused and looked at Ludlaw fixedly,
as though expecting some reply ; but,
receiving none, he continued :

I know John Wildrake of old. I foresaw,
before I married his daughter, that
he would end his days in drink. It was
on that man s account that I determined
to keep my marriage secret. I never considered

the connection as otherwise than
most disreputable. Is my wife anxious
he fiercely demanded, ' to be known in
every low tavern in London as Lady
Valroy?*

for your sake,' said Ludlaw, ^I am
confident she would take every precaution
to prevent a scandal.'

''No precaution will keep silent a
drunkard's tongue,' said Sir Michael Yale
^ But why,' he added, ' why waste
time in discussing the matter? I shall
not alter my decision.'

'In that case,' said Ludlaw, 'I have
something to propose. It may prevent
Lady Yalroy from acting in a mad,
impulsive manner, as I fear she will,
when I acquaint her with your sentiments.'


What is your suggestion ?'
'Consent,' said Ludlaw, ' to an interview

with Lady Valroy.'

A black look crossed the baronet's
face.

*At Pump Court,' added Ludlaw, persuasively,
' and in my presence.'

As a matter of business ?'

Precisely.'

No emotional nonsense?'

*I will guarantee that.' •

'Well, then,' said Sir Michael, reluctantly,
I'll agree.'
'When?'

The sooner,' the baronet replied, ' the
better.'

Then he resumed his pacing to and
fro. Suddenly he stepped towards the
door.

I am going,' said he, ' for a sharp walk
across the heath. I feel restless, and out
of sorts.'

Ludlaw looked up with a start.

To-night?'

The baronet observed this change of
manner with suspicion.

^ Why not ?' said he. ' Do you know of
any reason ?'

Yes.'

You surprise me.'

I came this evening,' said Ludlaw,
past " The Hunted Stag." In the bar-parlour
of the inn I saw John Wildrake. I
am convinced that he is prowling about on
the common at this very hour.'

What then ?'

^ In your present mood,' said Ludlaw, ' I
need scarcely remind you that it would be

better that you should not encounter that
man. He has probably been suspecting
you, all these years, of knowing something
about his daughter's disappearance.'

*If we meet said Sir Michael Valroy,
with an angry flash in his eyes, sand he
questions me, he shall have his answer. I
promise him that !'

With these words he went out. Ludlaw
heard his quick footstep as he crossed the
hall ; and then the loud slam of the
front door sounded in the barrister's ear,
and shook the very walls of the old
mansion.

It cannot be said that Ludlaw's sense
of uneasiness, if he felt any regarding
Sir Michael Valroy, lasted many minutes
after the baronet had left the room. The
barrister was a man of cool reflection,.

accustomed to look upon the business of
life as a disagreeable necessity of circumstance.
Besides, he had dined well at the
baronet's table, and a certain feeling of
drowsiness began to overtake him when he
found himself alone : so he drew his chair
closer to the fire, and, covering his face
with his handkerchief, presently fell into a
comfortable doze. The ticking of the clock
on the mantel-shelf once more kept pace
with his breathing, and then ran ahead as
it had frequently done before : and the old
portraits of the Valroy family, upon whose
faces there seemed to be a settled expression
of gloom, looked dismally down
upon the barrister, as he sat there sleeping
as though in disapproval of his presumption,
as a visitor, in affecting such a very
cosy attitude in one of the ancestral armchairs.


An hour passed — two hours.

Meanwhile Ludlaw had a strange dream.

He dreamt that he was seated over the
hearth, in the chambers at Pump Court,
and that the lamp gradually grew dimmer
and dimmer, until at last he was left in
darkness. Then he dreamt that he got
up slowly from his chair and groped his
way through the bed-room in search of a
light, and that, finding none, he came
back by the passage, where all was equally
dark, and again entered his study. Ashe
pushed open the door he observed a
tall white figure, with the face of Lady
Valroy, standing behind his chair ; one
hand was raised over her heart as though
to protect it, and with the other she
pointed towards a chair on the opposite
side of the chimney-corner : glancing in
that direction he perceived Sir Michael

Yalroy with a pistol, which he was aiming
towards the figure ; suddenly he pulled
the trigger, and the report of the pistol
rang through the chambers.

Ludlaw started and awoke.

Snatching the handkerchief from his
face he looked in bewilderment around
him. For a moment he still imagined
himself in the study at Pump Court ; for
the first object that caught his attention
was Sir Michael Yalroy standing near the
dining-hall door, with a face as pale as
death.

'What's happened?'

The baronet did not at once reply. He
stepped towards the fire and sank down
in a chair. As he plucked nervously at
his beard, Ludlaw remarked that there
was a stain, in colour resembling blood,
on the back of Sir Michael Yalroy 's

hand. The baronet's eye followed Lud-law's
glance. '

I have met him,' said he.

Who ?'

John Wildrake,' said Sir Michael
Yalroy.

CHAPTER 11.

DEGRADED.

On Batswing Heath, at a point where
two roads meet, there is a sign-post at one
corner. Opposite to it stands a lamp. The
light from this lamp, illuminating a limited
space, fell upon a prostrate figure lying
motionless beneath the sign-post, face
downward.

It had become such a gloomy night that
the clouds overhead lowered until they
were almost on a level with the ground :
a night so ponderous and opaque that not

even a gleam of light stole in from any
point of the horizon ; there was not upon
this broad expanse of common one ray
to help the expression of lingering day
or coming dawn. The four arms of the
sign-post pointed to black shadows ; they
seemed to indicate that a mystery was in
this darkness to be .discovered in the
sombre ways across the heath.

Presently the figure moved, and a
ghastly face was raised towards the lamp.
It was the face of John Wildrake.

The old clerk lifted himself upon his
elbow, and glanced about him into the
night. Suddenly he seemed to gain some
recollection of where he was ; for he threw
himself once more upon his face with a
deep groan, as if to shut out the remembrance.


*I asked him for my daughter,' he

VOL, IT, D

moaned, 'I asked him to give her back
to me, and he struck me down

For a moment he lay quite still.

'The blow he muttered, in a piteous
tone, 'the blow has stunned me

Then he crept feebly towards the signpost,
and leant his back against it, and
passed his hand across his forehead. He
was trembling violently. But there was
a look of fierce resentment gathering over
his features ; his teeth were set with the
ferocity of an injured animal; he was
staring with stoney fixedness, as though
at some mental spectre, with a strange
and deadly hatred in his eyes.

He had been struck down. The degrading
truth had awakened a latent
energy in the man. A dogged purpose
had seized upon his senses, and it had
taken such a strong hold upon his nature

that he submitted with readiness, stubbornly
resolved to put all reflection on
one side, and yield himself up to the
impulse.

In the distance, along the cross-road
running east and west, a carriage was
advancing at a quick pace ; the carriage
lamps flashed into the night, and the
tramping of the horses' hoofs sounded
every moment louder in Wildrake's ear.

He tried to get upon his legs, but fell
back helplessly.

His face grew pale and still more expressive
of retaliation. He shook from
head to foot, as though attacked by a
violent fit of ague; he uttered a savage
imprecation, between his chattering teeth,
in a deep and agonising tone. His
voice became hoarse with a passion
which seemed like the ravings of a 
D 2

man : and then lie fell over once more, a
motionless figure, with his face to the
ground.

The carriage drew nearer : it soon
reached the four cross-roads. As it was
passing the sign-post a man's head appeared
at the carriage-window, and a
voice cried out :

Stop !'

The carriage came to a standstill. A
footman descended and stood at the
carriage-door.

There is some one lying there. See
what has happened.*

The servant stepped towards Wildrake,
and questioned him. He moved, and
answered :

I have been struck down.'

The gentleman at the carriage window
demanded :

Where do you live ?'
^ In London.'

Do you wish to go there?'
eyes.'

There was a short silence.

Help the man to rise.'
The servant obeyed.

Wildrake staggered forward and stopped,
passing his hand nervously over his
face.

Can you walk ?' the gentleman inquired.


Not a step,' said Wildrake, feebly, ^ not
to save my life.'

*Get in, then, beside me. I am going
to London.'

Wildrake looked bewildered.

Take a seat in your carriage ?'

Yes. That is what I offer you.'

The old clerk came slowly forward, with

bis hand resting for support on the servant's
shoulder.

I am deeply obliged said he, in a
low voice.

He was soon assisted into the carriage,,
and the horses started off along their road.
During the drive not a word passed
between ' Wildrake and his unknown
benefactor. The old clerk had squeezed
himself into a corner of the carriage :
and he sat there with folded arms, and
with his head bent low. The dogged purpose
which possessed him was doing active
work within his brain : and although more
than once a shudder passed over him, at
the vividness and horror of his own
thoughts, there were no signs of a disposition
to falter. His attitude was one of
unswerving resolution to vindicate the

injuries of which he was not the only
victim.

The dark common was soon left behind.
Passing along a well-lighted road, the carriage
crossed a bridge over the Thames,
and presently came in sight of the great
clock tower at Westminster. London was
now reached; and after driving along
Whitehall, and through the Strand, the
carriage drew up at the Temple gateway.


Are you better ?'

Yes. I can walk now,' said Wildrake,
stepping out slowly, — 'I can walk now.
I am deeply obliged to you. Goodnight.'


Then Wildrake moved away, with the
strange, hasty manner of a blind man
groping his way along a familiar road.

The gentleman, standing on the pavement,
watched bim attentively as he went
down Fleet Street in the direction of the
City, and gradually became indistinguishable
in the crowd : he then turned round
to address the servant, and his face became
visible. It was Ludlaw.

I shall want you said he, ' to take
back a letter to Sir Michael. Step up with
me to the chambers. The letter must be
delivered into his hands to-night.'

The barrister led the way. As he
mounted the stairs in Pump Court, he was
reminded of the unpleasant dream he had
had that very evening while awaiting Sir
Michael Yalroy's return from his walk
upon Batswing Heath. On entering
the chambers a cold sensation crept over
him, and he hastened to light the lamp
and dispel the passing fancy of a white

figure standing behind his arm-chair.
The events of the day had affected his
nerves.

Seating himself at his desk, Ludlaw
wrote to Sir Michael as follows :

*My principal object in borrowing your
carriage to-night was to convey Wildrake
to London. I found him lying at the crossroads
where, in your passion, you knocked
him down. He had sufficiently recovered
his strength when we reached Fleet Street
to be able to walk home. By this I am
greatly relieved : for I had no wish to be retained
for your defence in a case in which
no display of eloquent pleading could
have secured you a favourable verdict.'

Having dismissed the servant with this
note to the baronet in token of reproof,
Ludlaw fell into a meditation
over the delicate question of Sir Michael

aDd Lady Yalroy's 'agreement,' which was
shortly to be discussed between them in
his presence.

Wildrake, in the meantime, making his
way along Fleet Street, came to the turning
which led towards the Loafers' Hall.
At that moment a number of 'loafers'
were leaving the tavern ; for it was past
midnight, and the doors were being closed.
The talking and laughter was loud and
riotous : a hubbub of voices, among which
only stray words and broken sentences
reached his ear. At sight of these men
Wildrake shrank back with a sudden
apprehension of being recognised, and
sought shelter within the shadow of a
doorway to let this noisy crowd pass. For
coarse companionship and revelry had
apparently no longer any interest for him :

he even seemed to fear that this change
which had come over him within the last
few hours should be read in his face and
bring down upon him insult and jeers.
His attitude, as he stood there looking out
from his hiding-place, was that of a man
who contemplates committing a crime and
who dreads observation.

These 'loafers' having dispersed at last,
he crept guiltily forth to continue on his
road homeward. He had not proceeded ♦
many steps before he heard some one walking
behind him at a quick pace. He
glanced round nervously, and found himself
face to face with Nedlicott.

Mr. Cheadle's secretary, returning home
from the ' Frivolity,' was on the look-out
for Wildrake, who so often needed his
assistance about this hour. He was surprised
to see him standing there so steady

before him. He regarded the old clerk
more closely. He then noticed that his
forehead was swollen between the eyebrows,
and that there were marks of blood
on his pale face.

But something in the man's expression
most attracted Nedlicott's attention. It
startled him.

What's the matter?' he exclaimed.
You are terribly changed. What ails
you, Wildrake ?'

Don't question me now,' Wildrake
answered, in a low, hurried tone. * Give
me your arm, Ned. Help me to get
home.'

What have you been drinking?'
'Nothing.'

'What?'

Not a drop. On my honour, Ned, nota
drop.'

You come from the " Loafers." Don't
you?'

No. That is all ended,' said Wildrake,
all ended now.'

Leaning upon Nedlicott's arm, he moved
along in silence. It was a slow pace, but,
unlike his usual loitering, steady and decisive.
There was no apparent disposition
to stop on his way to-night at favourite
corners, nor to sink upon convenient doorsteps
as a place for ' rest :' no plaintive
demands for ^ sleep' escaped his lips : there
seemed indeed a wakefulness and a force
in his manner which Nedlicott, in the
years he had known Wildrake, had no recollection
of witnessing before. But, what
seemed most surprising, he made no reference
to his lost daughter : he showed no
signs of being disturbed by her footsteps :
he did not even listen for that haunting

sound. But was not something else, something
even more serious than that, haunting
him on his way home to-night ? A
black look, like a shadow, was stamped
upon his face : his eyes, as though bent
upon this something in his path, were
fixed and full of anger.

Turning at last out of Thames Street,
through the open gateway, they entered
the old courtyard. But it was not until
Wildrake stood upon his doorstep under
the dim lamp that he addressed a word to
Nedlicott, or even gave any indication that
he was conscious of his presence, though
leaning upon his arm. He then disengaged
himself, and twisted round, as though
he had been suddenly roused by a passing
thought.

Ned,' said he, clenching his fist and

clutching with his other hand the iron
railing, * I've been struck down.*

How's that ?'

Wildrake pointed energetically across
the dark river.

Out there,' he cried, in excitement —
out there, upon the heath, I have met
to-night the man I've been waiting to
meet for fifteen years — ay, ISTedlicott, more
than fifteen years — the man who has
brought all this trouble upon me — who
has made me what you see me now, a
poor, miserable drunkard.'

His quick, angry utterance half stifled
him ; but, after a moment of silence, he
recovered, breath.

I watched,' said he, ' and watched for
his return to England until I nearly lost
all hope. If I have crossed that heath

once during those long years, I have
crossed it a thousand times. It was always
the same answer when I made inquiries
— '* still abroad." Sometimes, in
my great anxiety and doubt, I have lain
down under the shadow of his gates, like
a common tramp, all night long. For I
had a sort of notion,' added Wildrake,
lowering his voice, * that she, my daughter
might come that way. It was there, at
those gates, that her footstep sounded
most distinctly — always at those gates.'

He paused with a grief-stricken look in
his face

Since we've met — since that man and
I have met again, face to face,' Wildrake
quickly resumed, * her footstep has ceased
to torment me. What torments me now
is his voice : his words still ring in my
ear. I see his face still, and his uplifted

arm — his arm raised against me, Nedlicott,
against me. He insulted me, and then
struck me down.'

Who ?'

Wildrake, instead of replying, passed

his trembling hands in his bewildered way

across his forehead. Then he looked piteously

at Nedlicott.
•J

The man that robbed me of my daughter,'
said he at last, in a subdued and
shaky tone — * it is of him that I am speaking
; and to-nights crossing the heath once
more, I found out that he had returned.
I even learnt that he was in the habit of
taking walks upon the common after dark.
No time, no place could be better, as it
seemed to me, in which to accost him and
demand what had become of her. I waited
about for hours in an agony of expectation.
It seemed so long that I began to

VOL. II. E

fear that I should see a streak of light in
the east, as I had so often done, and not
have encountered him

Wildrake's manner, for a moment, became
thoughtful ; he appeared to be recalling
to mind those tedious hours. But
presently he glanced up again with a flash
of anger in his face.

But he came at last,' cried he, ' came
suddenly upon me at the cross-roads, and
I placed myself straight in his path. I
could see by his look that he recognised me,
before 1 uttered one word. He stopped,
and retreated a step : and then I spoke
and implored him to give my daughter
back to me, if she was still alive. He
answered, with an oath, that he knew nothing
about the " woman," and he ordered mein
an insolent tone, to get out of his way.
But I stood my ground : and then words,

which it makes my brain burn to think of,
passed between us. His passion was
more furious than mine. At last he
sprang at me and struck me in the face
with his fist, and I fell back stunned !'

These words, though scarcely spoken
above a whisper, were uttered with surprising
energy, and when Wildrake ceased
his lips still trembled and his face was
white with rage.

Nedlicott, greatly alarmed about the *
old clerk, placed his hand upon his
shoulder and tried to soothe him.

Wildrake,' said he, 'you are working
yourself into a fever. Do not do that.
You have been insulted, grossly, I am
ready to admit. But this outburst of
anger will not mend matters between you
and this man. When you are calmer, we
will talk about this again. Whether you

e2

UBRARV

UNIVERSITY OF \IUN01S

have acted wisely in choosing a dark and
a lonely spot to settle such a serious affair
I will not discuss. It is late, and you
are too feverish to-nis^ht.'

'Ned,' replied Wildrake, in a strange
tone, ' do you think that any man, who has
suffered such treatment as I have suffered,
can ever get calmer ?'

Yes, he should,' said Nedlicott : * if he
would only reflect.'

Should he ? why ?' answered Wildrake,
with vehemence ; * the more I reflect, the
more incensed I am against the man: I seem
to see more clearly every moment what a
heartless villain he is. Don't ask me to reflect.
I am already driven mad with that !'

In his agony of mind he sank against the
railings, and his head dropped upon his
arms. Nedlicott tried every means to persuade
him to go in, and get the rest which

he never needed more, never more than
now. He spoke to him kindly : be spoke
to him in a severe tone ; but no words
would move him. He never changed his
attitude, nor uttered one syllable in reply
to his friend's eloquent remonstrance.

So long did Wildrake remain motionless
there, with his head upon the railings,
that when he looked up and stared about
him he missed Nedlicott. Was he gone?
He listened. No sound reached his ear
except that endless lapping o£ the tide in
the shadows under the wharves beyond the
dark court-yard : for the old city was still
sleeping, and the black night still covered
every corner of the sky.

Wildrake's face, as he glanced searchingly

around, became once more full of

wakefulness and energy ; his features were

even more emphatically marked with that

expression of intenseness and stubborn
purpose which had sprung into them, like
an inspiration, as he lay helpless upon
Batswing Heath. He had the appearance
of a man who, when haunted by one overpowering
motive, excludes every other
impulse or thought : for he no longer
groaned, or leant for support against the
broken spikes of the old mansion ; he stood
up a firm and resolute figure, with some
show of nervous force in all his limbs.

Presently he moved softly across Gable
Court, and walked towards the river. Fora
while he lingered there, like the ebbing
tide, in the deep gloom under a great
warehouse : he stood quite still, looking
intently over the ' silent highway ' into
the blackness beyond.

All of a sudden he turned and fled with
a low cry upon his lips : his step was-noiseless,

but hurried, as though he were
terror-stricken by something he had seen,
something more dreadful than he could
find courage to face, even as a mere creation
of his own heated brain.

He reached the doorstep, and hastened
to let himself in to the sombre old hall.
The place looked more gloomy than usual ;
for the little oil lamp, in its retired corner,
was on the point of expiring.

Groping his way towards his candle,
which stood upon a table near the foot of
the staircase, Wildrake applied it to this
dying flame ; he had no sooner lighted it
than the lamp spluttered feebly and went
out.

Wildrake raised his candle, and, shading
it with his hand, he peered about
cautiously before ascending the stairs. Ashe
looked around him, his eyes fell upon

two massive tablets, belonging to the old
Jew, containing the ten commandments.
A startled look came into bis eyes, and be
caught bis breath as tbougb be bad received
a mortal stab.

Tbe shadow of bis band was trembling
over these words, written in letters of
gold:

Thou shalt do no murder.

He staggered and fell back heavily
against the wall ; the candlestick dropped
from bis fingers, clattering upon the stone
floor, and be was left in darkness.

CHAPTER III.

FAINT HEARTS.

Teddie,' said Mrs. Nedlicott, stepping
one evening out of the shop into the little
parlour, ^ it's five o'clock

The room was very sombre, for December
was advancing. Besides, this cosy
retreat never had been famous for its
sunny aspect, even at noon on a midsummer's
day ; for a great warehouse at
the back had doomed that side of the
house to lasting shadows.

Strike a light, mother,' said Nedlicott,

and give us a cup of tea. I must be ofF
soon.'

He bad been taking an afternoon nap in
anticipation of late hours at the ' Frivolity
Theatre.'

When the candle was lighted, Mr.
Cheadle's secretary found that during his
nap the table had been laid, and that the
kettle was now singing cheerfully on the
hob.

Why !' said he, putting his arm playfully
round his mother's waist, * what a
good soul you are ! You're always looking
after your son's comfort, ain't you ?'

'Ah!' sighed Mrs. Nedlicott, 4t won't
be for long.'

Not for long ?' echoed the son, seating
himself at the table. * I don't know what
you mean, mother. You're not going to
die yet, are you ?'

Mrs. Nedlicotfc sat down opposite to her
son and began to pour out the tea.

Ah ! Teddie, I can see !' said she, with
a meaning glance at her son, 'I can see,
my dear, plainly enough.'

I've no doubt you can,' said Nedlicott,
laughing. 'Your eyes are still as bright,
I'll be bound, as ever they were. What
then ?'

Nothing,' replied the widow, evasively ;
all I mean to say is that young men who
have been in the habit of resting at home
on the Sabbath don't spend their Sunday
evenings away from home without a reason.
I repeat, my dear, it won't be for
long. You are going to leave me.'

Why, mother,' began Nedlicott, ' I
thought you knew my reason . . .'

There was a time, Teddie,' interrupted
Mrs. Nedlicott, ' when you were pleased,,

as I thought, to devote the only spare
evening that you have in the week tome.'


*And so I should be now,' said Nedli-
cost, earnestly. * But it so happens that,
being engaged every night at the Frivolity,
I am obliged to choose Sunday for
calling upon Mr. Snowy. Otherwise I
should never be able to see him ; and . . .'

There was a time,* repeated Mrs. ISfed-
licott, ' when I thought that you were
not only pleased, but happy and contented
with my society. But I suppose the
widow added, resignedly, 'that the subjects
requiring discussion between you
and Mr. Snowy are more to your taste.
Is the man writing a drama ?'

'My dear mother said JSFedlicott, with
earnestness, the subject discussed between
us — as you know very well — the

subject of mutual interest is John Wild-rake.
We have great hope of rescuing
him from his miserable condition.'

That,' said Mrs. Nedlicott, ' is all very
well : highly meritorious and philanthropic.
But you won't make me believe,
Teddie, that two men ever found it worth
their while to spend a whole evening once
a week in talking about nothing else
except a poor, old, broken-down individual
like Mr. Wildrake. There are other
reasons, my dear, other reasons. Didn't
you tell me, some weeks ago, that Mr.
Snowy had a daughter?'

I may,' said Nedlicott, stooping down
to light his pipe at the fire, 'have mentioned
the fact.'

The exertion brought a rush of colour
to his cheeks.

Ah, Teddie,' said the mother, * you not

only mentioned the fact ; you told me, if
I am not mistaken, that she was very
pretty. You spoke, indeed, of her beautiful
nature, her cheerful disposition, and
her deep affection for her father. You
were so eloquent in her praise upon that
occasion that I began at once to have my
suspicions.'

Why, mother,' said Nedlicott, blowing
aside a cloud of tobacco, ' what on earth
could you suspect?'

*I began to suspect,' said Mrs. Nedli-
cost, ' that you had fallen in love.'

Nedlicott commenced knocking the
ashes vigorously out of his pipe.

Just like you,' said he, * always getting
some nonsense of that sort into your old
head about me.'

I began to suspect,' reiterated his
mother, ' that all the talk with Mr. Snowy

about this unfortunate old clerk was
not altogether the cause of my son's armchair
being empty every Sunday evening.
I began to suspect that it was somebody
else who was robbing me of his society
somebody with a sweet voice and laughing
eyes

Nedlicott made no reply. He went on
smoking pensively.

And many an evening continued the
widow, 'when seated here alone by the
fireside, especially of a Sunday evening,
I have thought to myself the time is coming
now when Teddie will leave me for
good. He has found some one who will
make for him a happier home than a
mother can ever hope to do : a brighter
and a happier home

Still Nedlicott was silent.

It's the way of the world,' Mrs. 

admitted, * it's the way of the world.
And nobody shall say that I was not prepared
to bear resignedly and even with
cheerfulness any deprivation which might
add to my son's happiness. But why, I have
sometimes wondered, why doesn't he take
his mother into his confidence ? He knows
how ready she has always been to participate
in all his joys and sorrows ever since
he was a boy. That's what is hurting her
feelings. She doesn't like being treated
as a stranger.'

Nedlicott laid down his pipe and held
out his hand in his frank manner.

^ Forgive me, mother,' said he, * I am a
selfish, ungrateful son. But somehow I
never could pluck up the courage to tell
you plainly what is only too true, that I
love Kate Snowy. I love her more
deeply than I can well express. It is a

mad, hopeless passion, for I don't believe
that I have the slightest chance of winning
her. She is everything that is good
and beautiful : far too good, and far too
beautiful, to ever care for an ordinary
chap like me. Why, she is my superior in
every respect : in nobleness of character,
in education, and in social position. I'm
only a handy man at a West-end show,
with a few pounds a week. It's not good
enough, mother. It would not provide a
suitable home for such an angel.'

The mother looked thoughtfully into her
son's face.

If she loves you,' said the widow, * she
would consent to live in a garret. But
you are misrepresenting yourself, my dear,
and your affairs. The salary you receive
from Mr. Cheadle is by no means despicable
; and, as for your social position, your

VOL. II. F

father was a gentleman born and bred.
A dispensing chemist in Shoreditch is as
good as a City clerk any day. And that
is all Mr. Snowy is — a clerk in the
City.'

*Mr. Snowby/ said Nedlicott, *is only
a clerk at present. But he is a clerk in
the great house of Aldershaw, Grimwade
and Company. His prospects are brilliant.
He told me, only last Sunday, that
there was every likelihood of his being
taken into partnership at an early date ;
in fact, that it was only a question of dusting
and re-decorating the late Mr. Grim-wade's
private office, which has been unoccupied
for half-century. Mr. Snowy
will some day be a millionaire ; and
it is his intention to choose a husband for
his daughter among the best ranks of
society.'

That ' said Mrs. Nedlicott, * sounds tome
very foolish. An unequal match often
brings misery. Miss Snowy, from what
you tell me, must be a quiet, homely girl.
She does not want an aristocratic husband.
She is the sort of woman to make
a steady, hard-working man, like my son,
an excellent wife.'

'Much too good for me, mother,*
persisted Nedlicott, ' much too good forme.'


Faint heart,' said the old-fashioned
widow, * never won fair lady. Mr. Snowy
must like you, or else he would never have
invited you to his house. And if his
daughter,' added Mrs. Nedlicott, * has not
already seen some loveable qualities in my
son, she is not the quick, bright-eyed girl
he has described her to be. I am quite
sure of that.'

f2

Nedlicott rose from bis seat and embraced
his mother with unusual vigour.
He then put on his hat and overcoat ; and
with the indispensable prompter's copy, in
the brown-paper cover, under his arm, the
secretary started off for the Frivolity
Theatre with a lighter step and a more
hopeful look on his face.

Owing to active preparations for the
production of Mr. Cheadle's new comedy,
Nobs,' Nedlicott had lately been too busy
to visit Wildrake. Since the night upon
which he had perplexed the secretary by
his plaintive story of having at last
encountered the man who had robbed him
of his daughter, nothing Nedlicott was told
had been heard of him at the Loafers'
Tavern. He had forsaken his old haunts.
This appeared to Nedlicott somewhat
strange. Yet he saw no cause for alarm :

'he relied upon Wildrake's landlord, who
was ever ready to step over to the little
shop to lodge complaints against the ^ bad
one' upon the slightest provocation. It
was, therefore, more from a sense of
curiosity than from disquietude that the
secretary now turned into the dark courtyard,
on his way through Thames Street,
and mounted the worn steps of the dismal
mansion to learn news of the old clerk.

By the light of the little oil lamp, in the
corner of the hall, Nedlicott noticed a
mysterious expression on Mr. Isaac's face
when he had let him in, and had softly
closed the door.

*Mr. Nedlicott,' whispered the Jew. 'Did
you ever know such a change ? He's not
the same man.'

You refer to Wildrake.'

The Jew nodded.

You find, perhaps,' Nedlicott hinted
that he is less unruly than he was ?'

Why said Mr. Isaacs, that's just where
it is ! I can't accuse him of being unruly
any longer. I wish I could ; for I liked
him better when he was a bad one than I
do now. I liked him much better, Mr.
Nedlicott, very much better.'

It is some days said Nedlicott, ' since I
have seen Wildrake.'

In that case said the Jew, ' you would
scarcely know him.'

Is he at home ?'

^No. He creeps out now, every
evening, as soon as it begins to get dark.
Just before daylight he returns.'

Drunk, or sober ?'

Perfectly sober. He never touches a
drop,' said the Jew, ^ and he never speaks
to anyone ; he goes about like a man in

Hs sleep. It makes my blood crawl to
look at him. He stares vacantly before
him, as though he were blind. It's my
opinion, Mr. Nedlicott, that he is getting
weak-headed. And he must be weak in
the legs, too added Mr. Isaacs, ' for he
carries a thick oaken stick about with him
wherever he goes.'

Nedlicott cautiously inquired :

How do you explain this change ?'

I can in no way account for it,' was
the reply.

Does he never listen now,' said the
secretary, ' for his daughter's footsteps ?'

Never. That craziness has left him.'

This, then,' said Nedlicott, ' must be a
new form of mania.'

^ Yes ; and one,' persisted the Jew, * that
I don't like the looks of. His sottish ways
were comprehensible ; but when a man is

SO secret and so queer, I don't know what
to make of it at all

Nedlicott endeavoured to reassure the
old Jew. He declared that Wildrake's
friends were showing signs of recognition :
that there was even some talk of providing
him with a suitable home.

The sooner the better,' said Mr. Isaacs,
as Nedlicott moved towards the door —
the sooner the better. Let them pay his
rent, so long in arrears, and take him
away. If I don't get rid of him, he
will, some day, drive me as crazy as
himself.'

In a small room behind the scenes at
the * Frivolity,' an hour later, sits Mr.
Cheadle's secretary. The noise of hammering
and scene-shifting strikes incessantly
upon the ear. It is the first night

of *Nobs Mr. Cheadle's new comedy, and
Nedlicott is overwhelmed with work. His
door is as constantly opened and shut asa
steam-valve, letting in the head of an
actor, a scene-shifter, or the call-boy: a
question is asked, and answered, and the
head vanishes, and another appears. In
the midst of this bustle and interruption,
Nedlicott gives and receives instructions
with the coolness of a sea-captain getting
his ship under weigh.

Presently in walks Mr. Beadle.

Want me, Nedlicott?'

No. Mr. Cheadle is not in requisition.

Pennethorne all right ?'

Yes : perfectly recovered.

*AndThornycroft?'

Never^'better in her life.

If you should want me,' says the dramatist,
impressively, you'll find me in

front of the house. I shall stop there
until it's time to ring up

Mr. Cheadle disappears down a dark
staircase, and, passing along a narrow
passage, enters by a private way the corridor
of the theatre. In the saloon he
encounters Eoy Yalroy.

Why,' exclaims the dramatist, * it's my
hero !'

He shakes Yalroy cordially by the
hand.

You're the very man,' he adds, * that I
wanted to see.'

Mr. Cheadle takes his hero's arm and
leads him into the smoking-room.

'Let me congratulate you,' says he,
upon the admirable manner in which you
are playing your part. When do you leave
England ?'

They are seated face to face in a quiet
corner.

To-night,' says Valroy.

'You could not Mr. Cheadle asserts
have chosen — from a dramatic point of
view — a more opportune moment.'

'Why so?'

Because remarks the dramatist, ' Dwy-
ver stands out prominently to-night as
your rival. The scene takes place at Lord
Mounthaw's house in Palace Gardens.'

Is Marion going to Lady Mounthaw's
this evening ?'

Precisely ! Enter Marion Aldershaw
and the merchant. Aristocratic crowd in
the background. Dwyver steps on to the
scene. Dialogue between heroine and
rival. Merchant looks on delighted. In
this scene the hero does not appear.'

A look of trouble crosses Valroy's
face.

All is at an end,' he declares, * between
Marion and myself.'

Yes — for the present says Mr. Cheadle,
quite right. That idea was admirably
carried out in the scene which took place
in my drawing-room at Chelsea. It was
very effective — from a dramatic point of
view — very effective indeed. But, don't
forget, the last act remains to be
played. A year — perhaps two years —
may elapse. That is a mere matter of
detail.'

Valroy rises and holds out his hand.

Good-bye, Cheadle,' says he, ' I shall
never come back to England.'

Never ? That would spoil the
comedy !'

I am serious.'

But, my dear Yalroj, you must,' Mr.
Cheadle insists ; ' you must take the lead
in the last act. I shall count upon you. Is
it not the very situation — from a dramatic
point of view — which we want to complete
the comedy ? Return of hero from abroad
tableau — curtain !*

With this the two men part. Roy
Yalroy, who cannot be induced to remain,
leaves the theatre, and Mr. Cheadle
hurries to his private box to witness the
rise of the curtain upon his new comedy.
The comedy is a great success ; roars of
laughter from first to last. The curtain
falls amidst great applause. There are
cries of ' author I' on every side. Mr.
Cheadle leaves his box and arrives at the
wings by the narrow passage. Nedlicott
is standing in readiness with a corner of
the stage curtain in his hand which he

holds back for the dramatist. A perfect
ovation greets the author as he appears
before the footlights. But Mr. Cheadle,
to whom these flattering signs of popular
recognition are matters of constant occurrence,
bows his acknowledgements as a mere
duty without any show of emotion beyond
a jovial smile.

It was late that night before Nedlicott
turned his steps homeward. It being a
musical evening at the 'Fresco he lingered
at that artistic club to learn the
various opinions of his theatrical friends
about Mr. Cheadle's comedy, and to receive
congratulations upon the manner in
which he had placed the play upon the
boards.' Besides, he had to take his
seat at the supper-table with some of the

members of the Frivolity company — an
invariable custom upon first nights; nor
did he escape after supper until he had
sung his club song, and had received a
somewhat boisterous encore.

Such a custom had it become with the
secretary to encounter Wildrake at some
point in his walk home between the
Loafers' Tavern and Thames Street that
he had begun of late actually to miss
the companionship of his troublesome
charge. The habit of looking out for
the old clerk on doorsteps or in dark
corners still clung to him ; for scarcely a
night had passed for many years — until
this change in the man's character had
developed itself — without the weird figure
of Wildrake being discovered by the way.
The sense of desolation in Nedlicott's

mind became almost as deep as though
Wildrake were dead; Thames Street
seemed to have grown longer and more
dismal through the absence at this solitary
and silent hour of the night of the
bad one ' at his side.

Glancing about him — up one dark street
and down another — Nedlicott observed
when coming in sight of the approach to
Southwark Bridge, some one advancing
at a quick pace. Passing under the light
of a street lamp, the figure was at once
recognisable as Wildrake's. In his hand
he carried a heavy stick. His walk was
firm and his manner resolute, and his face
exhibited the same dogged look of unchangeable
purpose which Nedlicott had
remarked there when he had last encountered
this strange individual.

The secretary stood at the corner of

the street, almost in his path, waiting for
him. But Wildrake passed without a
sign of recognition — without turning his
head to the right or to the left. He was
looking pale and haggard, in spite of his
apparent energy. His whole appearance
was more neglected, his hair whiter, and
his eyes wild and vacant in expression,
as though that one haunting thought still
pursued him which had seemed to predominate
so fiercely upon the night
on which he had complained to Nedlicott
that he had been struck down.

It was impossible for Nedlicott, as he
regarded Wildrake, to conceal from himself
his sense of increased anxiety at this
rapid alteration, and he was forced to
agree with the old Jew in giving a preference
to Wildrake's state of drunken
imbecility as less alarming than his

VOL. II. G

present sullen and incomprehensible condition.


Not being eager at this late hour, and
while he was in this strange mood, to
attract Wildrake's attention, Nedlicott
followed the old clerk as he hurried
along Thames Street and entered the
court-yard.

Stopping in the shadows at the gateway,
Mr. Cheadle's secretary watched him
mount the steps under the solitary lamplight,
and let himself into the house without
lingering for an instant outside.
Never, during all the years that Nedlicott
had known Wildrake, had he seen him
manifest so much firmness and force of
character: and, had Wildrake's face worn a
different expression, he would have hailed
this transformation with a certain degree
of hope for the man's future. But every

phase in his conduct pointed towards a
tragic end : lie had apparently only encountered
along his downward course a
different current with which he was drifting
faster than before.

g2

CHAPTER IV.

A Family QUESTION.

Dressed for the reception at Lady Mount-haw's,
the last reception of the season,
Marion descended from her room to join
her father in his library.

It was the same library which she had
so often entered, when a child, with an
awe-stricken face and timid step : a great,
solemn-looking room that in those wondering
days of childhood had appeared to
her to contain a thousand mysteries : the
thick, dark-red curtains drawn across the

windows concealed behind their massive
folds, as she* thought, secrets too profound
to be divulged ; and the huge book-case,
which covered the whole of one wall, had
perplexed her even more: for she had
once seen her father pass through a door
in the very centre of it, and disappear
from sight. As she stood before her father
now, and looked around her, these infant
fancies rose vividly in her mind. Nothing
in the room was changed : it was a room
which seemed to illustrate a memorable
page in the earliest records of her
life.

Eising front his chair, as soon as Marion
appeared, Paul Aldershaw stepped forward
to meet her. He had never paid her this
attention before : one of which she did not
hail to fully comprehend the meaning. It
was the first indication her father had

given lier that he no longer considered hera
child.

'No frown darkened his brow : there was
even something approaching a smile upon
his face as he placed his hands gently on
Marion's shoulders.

He held her at arm's length to study
her appearance.

'Why, Marion,' said he, with a sudden
flash of admiration in his eyes, *I never
saw you looking so handsome.'

There is a supreme moment in everyone's
life when the last vestige of childhood
vanishes. This was Marion's. She
Alas now a woman possessed of worldly
cares: and they had come to her asa
sad birthright that must be borne.
She was indeed more beautiful ; for
these very cares had given new shades
of expression to her face : there wa

an intense look in her eyes, a defiant
curl about the lips, and a more
erect and dignified bearing. All traces of
the girl were effaced.

But it had only been by exerting a
strong mastery over her inclinations that
Marion had gained sufficient strength to
control the impulse to rebel against her
unhappy destiny ; it was then that she
recognised the stern need of bending to
her father s will. To accept his decision
with regard to Eoy Valroy was an obvious
duty. His life had been clouded for years
by a dark and overwhelming sorrow ; and
she was ready to make any sacrifice which
could remove the weight of grief, in some
measure, from his heart.

Sit down, Marion said Paul Alder-shaw,
placing his daughter in his own armchair
near the fire. * I wish to say a few

words to you before we start for Palace
Gardens.'

He took one or two turns across
the room at a thoughtful pace. Marion
watched him without a word ; but her heart
was beating painfully with expectation.
Then he came and stood beside her,
with one arm leaning on the mantelshelf,
and looked down earnestly into her
face.

^ I am not quite sure said he, in a slow,
formal tone, ' whether I mentioned to you,
Marion, that when you were staying with
the Cheadles at Tarmouth Lord Mount-haw
dined with me here in a quiet,
bachelor fashion. While his son, that
excellent young friend of mine, and a few
gentlemen I had invited to meet him,
were amusing themselves in the billiard-room
after dinner, the earl and I had a

little chat together over our coffee; quite a
friendly little chat,' repeated the merchant
prince, pensively, ^ and, as you may suppose.
Lord Mounthaw made very kind
inquiries after you.'

Pausing for a moment, with a keener
glance at Marion, he resumed :

Well, I need not tell you, I am convinced,
what an interest the Mounthaw
family take in everything connected with
your happiness. Lady Mounthaw looks
upon you, as Lord Mounthaw remarked
on this very occasion, almost in the light
of a daughter. She sent you a message —
and one which you will appreciate — expressing
her regret that she had seen so
little of you in town during this season.
Yon will not forget, I know, to assure
Lady Mounthaw how much you value
such indications of friendship. Did

you see much of Lord Dwyver at Tar-mouth
? '

Yes said Marion, in a low tone, ' he
called rather often.'

*Ah,' said her father, drawing himself
up in front of the fire, 'I'm glad to
hear that. It will please Lady Mount-haw.'


After warming his hands behind his
back for a moment, the merchant again
regarded his daughter.

The fact is, Marion,' he pursued, ^ we
must always bear in mind that the Mount-haws,
in Yorkshire, are distinguished
neighbours of ours : and,' added Mr.
Aldershaw, ^ I cannot too strongly impress
upon you the importance of im-improving
our friendly relations with
the family. Is it not clear that the
Mounthaws are constantly seeking our

society ? Lord Dwyver may have lead a
hundred reasons, as far as I know, for
choosing the coast of Tarmouth for his
yachting expeditions this year. Tarmouth
is considered an excellent little harbour,
and most convenient for the regattas;
but the fact that he often called at the
comet proves that he has adopted, to a
certain extent, his mother's views about
you. And you know what they are:
no one is to be compared with Marion ?
Eh?'

*It is very gratifying,' said the girl,
distressfully, with her eyes bent to the
ground, ' to know that Lady Mounthaw —
that anyone — cares for me.'

A slight shadow crossed Paul Alder-shaw's
face.

Is that,' said he, ' is that quite the
tone, Marion, I have a right to expect?

I must confess I do not understand
you;

Marion, ber bead still bent, made no
reply.

One would really suppose Mr. Alder-saw
resumed, ' that you doubted better
these friendly demonstrations on the part
of the Mountbaw family were genuine. I
am at a loss to conjecture, if such is the
case, what your reason can be. Surely
Lady Mountbaw could not, with justice,
be accused of any want of sincerity in ber
motive ? If ber expressions of love for
you are not inspired by feelings of pure
affection, 1 am a worse judge of character
than I fancied. Ever since you were a
child,' persisted the merchant prince, emphatically,
' playing in the grounds about
Mountbaw Castle with her son. Lady

Mounthaw lias seemed to me to take quite
a tender interest in you. It would be
strange if, after years of close observation,
I should happen to have been deceived ;
very strange indeed

Marion looked up into her father's
face.

I have never said she, ^ had any
reason to question Lady Mounthaw's
affection for me.'

Then what,' demanded Mr. Aldershaw,
what is it, Marion, that displeases you ?
From your manner it would seem that my
reference to the Mounthaw family is distasteful
; and consequently you must not
be surprised if I appear somewhat irritated.
It grieves me to find that you
should think it advisable to take up such
an attitude.'

Again the merchant prince began to
pace to and fro, glancing sternly at Marion
as she had so often seen him look when
she was a child.

Paul Aldershaw was naturally mistrustful;
and his commercial training had
tended to develop this feature in his
character. For not only were his suspicions
easily roused, but, even in the face
of evidence proving that he was unjustified
in his conclusions, he would sometimes
exhibit an extraordinary bias which
no argument would remove.

It would be too absurd,' said he, stopping
suddenly in the centre of the room,
^ too absurd to imagine that any conversation
you may have had with your cousin,
Ada Cheadle, has prejudiced you against
any particular member of the Mounthaw
family. The Cheadles, though not over-refined,

would scarcely be guilty of deriding
my friends, the Mounthaws ; nor can
I believe, even did Mr. Cheadle indulge in
any of his vulgar, dramatic insinuations,
that my daughter's judgment would be
affected. No, Marion ; your apparent indifference,
when a woman of Lady Mount-haw's
disposition shows such an attachment
for you, is quite unaccountable.'

Marion rose from her chair, and, with an
appealing look, approached her father.

I cannot bear,' said she, clasping
her hands, ' to hear you judge me so
harshly. Yon would not if you only
understood me better. I am thankful,
from my heart, that I am so fortunate
as to have attracted Lady Mounthaw
towards me. But what I want, what I
desire much more is to gain your love.
Did you only know,' added the girl, in a

tone of intense fervour, ^ how I have longed
for years to be devoted to you, to get
closer to your heart, you could not misinterpret
my meaning as you have done
to-night.'

Her face was pale and animated : and,
as she ceased to speak, her eyes, kindling
with passion, flashed a reproachful glance
at her father ; but the look soon melted
into one of tenderness, through gathering
tears.

Silence ensued. Paul Aldershaw's face
expressed the struggle at work within him.
He turned away impatiently, and stepped
towards the hearth, and stood once more
with his back to the fire. His head was
bent, and his brow became deeply wrinkled
and careworn. Suddenly he raised his
eyes, and fixed them upon his daughter.

marion,' said he, in a subdued tone,

stretching out his hands towards her.
Marion, my child !'

The girl, uttering a cry of joy, sprang
towards her father. He received her in
his arms.

Don't think, my dear,' said he, touching
her forehead with his lips, * don't think
any more about the past. All that must
be forgotten now. In speaking to you
this evening about the Mounthaw family,
I had but one object : your future happiness.
Lord Mounthaw has spoken to me
about his son. He and Lady Mounthaw
are anxious to see him settled in life.
They have taken me into their confidence :
they have frankly acknowledged that ever
since you and the young viscount made
each other's acquaintance as children, at
Mounthaw Castle, they have cherished a
hope that you might some day form

VOL. II. H

an attachment. You have, both of you,
arrived at a discreet age : so I have promised
the earl, as Ada Cheadle may have
told you, to ascertain what your sentiments
might be about an alliance with
the house of Mounthaw/

At these words, the thoughts of her
love for Roy rose up before Marion with
crushing force. Her heart was filled with
pain and despair; for she knew that it
was a hopeless passion — that they had
agreed to part, and had parted. But the
dream was not ended : it could never end.
While she lived, she could give her love
to no other man. The mere suggestion
that she should marry Lord Dwyver increased
her devotion towards Yalroy.

Her father waited in silence, as though
expecting some reply. But Marion could
not trust herself to speak.

'Perhaps said Mr. Aldershaw, kindly,
perhaps you would like to take time for
reflection. It were but right. Follow
your own inclinations : I have no desire
to influence you — to do so would be immoral
and unjust. It would give me great
pleasure, I admit, to see you the wife of
Lord Dwyver : I have wished for years
that such an event might come about some
day. But I will only say one word more
about it now. This offer of marriage —
as I think we may almost consider it —
is one of the most enviable that could
well fall to any woman's lot in life. It
would be looked upon by the world asa
brilliant match : for two wealthy estates,
adjoining each other, in Yorkshire, would
eventually belong to one family : the great
family of Mounthaw. It would become
one of the richest families in the kingdom.

h2

But concluded the merchant prince, Sewell
talk no more about the matter tonight.
It is time we were starting for
Palace Gardens. So think it over quietly,
Marion. I have no wish to hasten your

It was nearly midnight when Paul
Aldershaw and his daughter drove up to
the Earl of Mounthaw's house in Palace
Gardens, St. James's. Every approach
was blocked with carriages ; for a rumour
of some political movement was in the
wind, and a crush was the natural consequence.


Having ascended the crowded staircase,
the merchant prince, with Marion on his
arm, had some difficulty in making his
way through the ante-room and boudoir,
into the drawing-room where Lady Mount-haw

was ' seated.' They reached her chair
at last.

I can never forgive you, Miss Alder-saw,'
said the countess, *for your long
absence from town, unless you make me a
promise.'

Marion smilingly demanded by what
means she could reinstate herself in Lady
Mounthaw's good graces.

*You must walk over from Oaklandss
every day this Christmas, and lunch with
us at Mounthaw.'

Oaklandss was the name of Mr. Alder-shaw's
estate in Yorkshire.

It will be a delightful pilgrimage,'
said Marion, * across the park.'

The countess turned laughingly to the
merchant prince.

Could anything, Mr. Aldershaw, be more
fair ?'

The Countess of Mounthaw, bad small
delicate features. The paleness of her complexion
was remarkable : but what rendered
it so strikingly white and transparent
in appearance was the almost raven hue of
her hair. Her eyes were of a dark blue :
they expressed the benignity and brightness
of her disposition ; for they sparkled
whenever she spoke. Homeliness and
keen sympathy gave characteristic beauty
to her face. But Lady Moon thaw's engaging
manner, and her intense vivacity
were her chief attractions in society.

Lord Mounthaw joined them. After
exchanging a few words with Marion, he
addressed himself to Paul Aldershaw.

'You have heard,' said he, conclusively,.
the latest news from Yorkshire ?'

''No:

Is it possible ? Our member,' said

the earl, 'has accepted the Chiltern
Hundreds.'

The member for Mounthaw T
'Yes. The Eight Honourable gentleman,'
replied Lord Mounthaw, with parliamentary
playfulness, 'the member for
Mounthaw.'

'It is time,' Mr. Aldershaw declared.
He must be eighty.*

Seventy-six. He has represented our
borough in Parliament for thirty-five
years.'

Is Lord Dwyver on shore,' inquired
the merchant, ' and ready to address the
constituents ?'

Yes. He is here to-night. To-morrow,'
said the earl, * he starts for Mounthaw.'

The coming election was the principal
topic of conversation at Lady Mounthaw's
reception. Marion, as she moved with

her father among this brilliant gathering,
heard scarcely any other subject discussed.
In their progress they encountered the
embryo member for Mounthaw. In appearance
the viscount displayed his accustomed
vigorous health and energy.
His face was ruddy and sunburnt ; for he
had just landed from along cruise, and had
brought evidences of the sea-breeze with
him to Palace Gardens.

'We got caught off the Needles in a
terrific storm said he, conversing with
Marion, in his emphatic style ; •' and,
though we were as nearly lost as possible,
I never enjoyed myself so much in my life.'

He talked to her of Tarmouth and of
the sea. But Marion thoughts were
wandering in other directions, and she
could scarcely conceal from Lord Dwy-
ver that what he was saying did not

interest her very deeply. She was dreaming
of Roy Valroy, and wondering where
he was, and whether he was thinking
of her. More than once she fancied
that she saw his face in the great, changing
crowd assembled around her ; for
Marion knew that Eoy was related to
the Mounthaw family, and sometimes attended
their receptions.

But as she was standing at the head of
the staircase, before descending with her
father to their carriage, some words
reached her ear which completely dissipated
all hope of gaining a glimpse of
Eoy that evening.

The conversation was being carried on
between a group of gentlemen standing
near Marion.

*Why does not Mr. Valroy contest the
borough ?'

He would have no chance : Lord
Dwyver is the popular candidate.'

That may be. But was not Mr. Val-roy's
grandfather at one time member for
Mounthaw?'

Half a century ago. However, Mr.
Yalroy has left England.'

'Indeed?'

Yes. He has gone to Africa to join
an exploring expedition. I met his friend,
Mr. Ludlaw, at the club. Lord Dwyver
will be elected without opposition.'

The words ' left England ' sank like a
heavy blow upon Marion's heart. Eoy
Yalroy had started upon a journey into
a country in which his life would be endangered
at every turn. It was all her
fault. She had driven him abroad; and
if he met his death she would die of grief.
A mist gathered before her eyes; the

faces around her grew dim, and the sound
of voices seemed more distant and subdued.
She pressed her father's arm to
hasten his steps. He looked at her in
alarm, and spoke to her ; but she could
not answer. She clung more closely to
his side, fearing that her senses would
forsake her, and that she would fall before
they could reach their carriage. A feeling
of suffocation almost stifled her a&
they made their way do\7n the staircase.


Marion was conscious that people moved
aside for them to pass, and that her sudden
indisposition caused a commotion
among Lady Mounthaw's guests. Then
she thought she heard among others Lord
Dwyver s voice.

She was in the open air at last. It
quickly revived her. She looked round,

and saw the viscount standing at her
side.

*Are you better, Miss Aldershawr' he
inquired, with concern.

Marion thanked him. It was nothing :
only a little faintness. She was quite
recovered.

The carriage came to the door. Marion
stepped in, followed by her father.

*I shall call tomorrow, before leaving
town,' said Dwyver, as he stood at the
carriage-window. 'My mother will be
terribly anxious. Miss Aldershaw, to know
how you are.'

You are very kind said the merchant
prince. ' Your visit will be very welcome.
Good night.'

Not a word passed between Marion and
her father during the drive home. They
soon reached the great Tyburnian square

and drew up at Paul Aldershaw's mansion.
In the hall Marion bade her father
good-night and hastened to her own
room.

She dismissed her maid, and sank down
wearily, though with a certain sense of
relief at finding herself alone. The events
of the evening recurred with cruel force
to her mind.

Marion dreaded most thoroughly the
prospect of meeting Lord Dwyver on the
morrow : and yet if she refused she would
incur displeasure. But her confiding
nature shrank from the thought of secrecy
; she was seized with a resolution to
confess to her father that she loved Eoy
Valroy — that it was a passion too deep to
admit of the possibility of ever marrying
another. Such an avowal to him might
alienate them once more: the estrangement

between them might become even
greater than when she was a child. Still
if she shared the burden of her distress,
by so candid a declaration of her unconquerable
love, a heavy weight would be
removed from her heart.

All these thoughts kept her brain too
restless for sleep. She waited with wakeful
eyes for the dawn.

CHAPTER V.

THE MICE PLAT.

One Sunday, on a bright December morning,
Kate Snowy tripped into Madame,
Helene's room dressed for church, in the
prettiest of bonnets, and looking as fresh
and rosy as though it were a midsummer's
day.

*Is Mr. Nedlicott coming this afternoon
?' said her friend, looking up with a
smile from a bundle of letters which she
was reading at her desk.

We expect him to dinner,' said Katie.

Father received a letter from Mr. Nedli-
cost last night.'

Did he mention anything about . . /
Madame Helene hesitated, ' Mr. Wild-rake?'


eyes.'

What has happened ?'

Nothing,' said Kate, * nothing that
need alarm you. He simply repeats, perhaps
more emphatically, that no time
should be lost in removing him from his
present wretched lodging.'

*No time shall be lost,' said Madame
Helene, with firmness. * I have heard
from my lawyer at last. He has appointed
to see me tomorrow.'

T am glad of that,' said the girl, sympathetically,
for this cruel suspense is
making you look terribly ill.'

'It is killing me,' said Madame Helene,

in a low tone. * If it had not been for
Mr. Nedlicott's kindness I could never
have borne it so long. I hope some day
to thank him for his friendship towards
my poor father.'

Will you not dine with us to-day ?'

No, Katie. I am not fit company for
anyone at present. I must postpone the
pleasure a little longer of making Mr.
Nedlicott's acquaintance.'

Kate Snowy had begun to look forward,
as a natural event, to Nedlicott's
visits on Sunday ; and her father, had he
been as observant in domestic life as he
was in commercial, would have remarked
that Katie's face grew brighter when the
day of rest came round.

Snowy was waiting for his daughter in
the hall, with some signs of impatience :
for punctuality was part of his religion.

VOL. n. I

He was a regular attendant at the little
church, at the end of the 'boulevard-with
its unfinished steeple and monotonous bell
which was now clanging madly in the sharp
cold air.

Been having a gossip, my^dear,' said
Snowy, ' with Madame Helene ?'

She was inquiring about the old clerk
Ah,' said Snowy, with a serious look,

I'm afraid, from ISTedlicott's account, that
Wildrake is going from bad to worse.
But we shall hear,' he added, * what he
has to report when he comes to-day. No
news about that man, however distressing,
would surprise me. I look upon him as
lost.'

Kate made no reply ; and they walked
the rest of the way to church in silence.
After the service was over, Kate Snowy
proposed, as it was such a fine day, that

they should take a little stroll before
dinner.

Which way shall we go ?' Snowy
inquired.

Kate modestly suggested that the road
leading to the railway station was a pleasant
walk.

Well, my dear said the manager, ' I
confess I never saw anything remarkably
pleasant about it. But perhaps he went
on to acknowledge, * perhaps, as it leads to
the City, that may be prejudice on my
part. Do you think that Nedlicott will
come down by train?'

Katie did not, of course, feel competent
to form any opinion upon that question.

He might, you know,' said Snowy ;
and if we met him, why, we could then
return home by the cabbage fields and get
an appetite for dinner.'

i2

How pretty Kate Snowy looked — how
buoyant and happy ! Could her father
suppose when he glanced into her face
that it was entirely caused by the prospect
of a walk through cabbage fields with him ?
The manager cannot have been so blind
as that.

By some extraordinary coincidence, just
as they came in sight of Brixton Station
Nedlicott stepped out into the road and
advanced towards them.

Why, father,' said Katie, in a tone of
well-feigned surprise, * there he is !'

A walk round the outer boundaries of a
market-garden in a London suburb, on a
winter's morning, could scarcely be considered
romantic. But there was something
in Katie's light step and cheery laugh
which seemed to Nedlicott to make both
time and place enchanting.

It was a very short walk, far too short
in Nedlicott's opinion ; and neither he
nor Katie had much to say to each
other. Indeed, Snowy did most of the
talking.

Well, Nedlicott/ said he, as they strolled
along, ^ is Mr. Cheadle's comedy a success ?
By-the-by/ he added, without waiting fora
reply, ' it was very thoughtful of you to
send us tickets. But we don't, you see,
often go to the theatre. It's too far for
quiet people like ourselves, too inconvenient.
When Mr. Grimwade's room has been
dusted — and I have every reason to believe
that Mr. Aldershaw is thinking seriously
of having it done — we shall take a house
in the West-end. And as soon as we
get settled down we shall have a carriage.
We must pay several visits to
the Frivolity then, and have our laugh

over Mr. Cheadle's comedies. Mustn't
we, Katie ?'

Yes, father,' said Katie, ' if you like.'

If I like ?' Snowy ejaculated.

Katie took her father playfully by the
arm, and looking up into his face replied, ina
laughing tone :

Why, you know very well, father, that
you could not make me more contented than
I am now. So, if we went to live in the
West-end, it would be to please you, not to
make me happier.'

Snowy glanced at Mr. Cheadle's
secretary.

Now, would you believe it, Nedlicott ?'
said he. * That's always the answer my
daughter gives me when I talk about a
house near Hyde Park and a carriage and
pair r

Having dispensed with all ceremony

towards Nedlicott, on the evening of his
first visit to the villa, Snowy offered no
apology for dining down-stairs on Sundays
in the 'snuggery.' Mr. Aldershaw's
manager had long ago explained to the
secretary that — the late Mr. Grimwade's
office being still in a dusty condition— it
was necessary to give as little trouble as
possible, as they kept only one servant : in
fact, that accumulation of dust in the old
City square was made responsible for every *
difficulty in Snowy's household. As soon
as that business of dusting was accomplished,
the new leaf would be turned over.
After dinner Snowy produced an excellent
bottle of wine and a box of cigars of
the best brand : ' samples,' as the manager
acknowledged with a wink, * from friends
in the City.'

Katie had gone to have a talk with

Madame Helene and the two men were
seated over their samples, Snowy discussing
their merits in the best commercial
style. When the manager's eloquence was
fairly exhausted, Nedlicott ventured to
broach the subject of Wildrake.

Is the prospect better,' said Nedlicott,
of providing a home for Mr. Aldershaw's
old clerk?'

Snowy shook his head doubtingly.

^ The delay,' said he * makes me begin to
despair. The question still remains :
Will any more be done for him than is
done at present? But we shall know for
certain in a few days.'

For a moment Nedlicott made no reply.
Then he said :

I have no wish, as you know, to pry
into other people's affairs. But I would
suggest, Mr. Snowy, that those who talk

of providing a more congenial lodging for
Wildrake should be told that, in a few days,
it may be too late.'

May I ask your reason . . /

Yes. It is only right you should know,'
said Nedlicott.

He paused, looked pensively at Snowy,
and then added :

Wildrake has met the man who, ashe
declares, robbed him of his daughter.'

Is it possible ?'

They encountered each other said
Nedlicott, * upon some heath, as far as I
loan ascertain, near London. Angry words
passed between them. Wildrake was
struck down. He wallet half stunned on
the road-side. That is his story. I met
him in Fleet Street, on his way home,
the very night upon which this happened.
He was so altered, I scarcely knew him.'

For the worse ?'

Yes. So, at least, I consider replied
Nedlicott, * although he has given up
drinking. He talks no more about his
daughter. His whole mind, I am convinced,
is bent upon revenge.'

Snowbj's face became grave.

• I begin to understand more clearly
said the manager, ' Mr. Aldershaw's words
to me when he asked me to look after
Wildrake.'

What did he say ?'

That a man of Wildrake's habits was a
danger to society,' replied Snowy ; ' that, if
the thing was possible, we must keep him
out of mischief.'

That is my opinion,' said Nedlicott. ' I
see in this change cause for great anxiety.
It is only in the power of his friends, if he
has any, to avert a tragic end.'

For a moment both men were silent.
Then Snowy said :

I will lose no time in consulting Mr.
Aldershaw's views on the subject. There
is one other, whose name I should not be
justified in mentioning, who must not be
kept in ignorance of what is happening.
Pardon me. I am forced to be somewhat
mysterious even in talking about Wildrake
with you

Don't let that trouble you,' said
Nedlicott.

Meanwhile, Katie, having had her talk
with Madame Helen began to bethink
herself of the household duties which, on a
Sunday afternoon, fell to her lot : for once
a week the servant was allowed a few
hours' liberty. The tea table had to be
laid in the back parlour, or more strictly

speaking in Katie's boudoir; and Kate
prided herself on having everything
prepared by the time her father had
finished his after-dinner cigar in the
snuggery.

To Katie's surprise she found, on entering
her little boudoir, that Nedlicott
was there alone. He was standing at
the window looking very thoughtfully
across the cabbage-fields at the setting
sun.

Where is father, Mr. Nedlicott ?' said
she.

Down-stairs in his arm-chair,' replied
Nedlicott, smiling. ' He seemed, I
thought, inclined to have a nap. So 1 left
him.'

He sometimes takes forty winks, as he
calls it,' said Katie, 'on Sunday afternoons.'


She began to clear some books from the
table, and then took from the cupboard a
tea-tray upon which she arranged a small
china tea-set which seldom made its
appearance except on Sundays, or special
occasions.

You always seem to me so very busy,*
said Nedlicott, in a slightly discontented
tone, as he watched every movement of the
young girl.

Do I ?' said Katie, absently, while
arranging the cups and saucers.

So busy,* Nedlicott continued, * that
we never have any talk together.'

*No?'

'Never,' asserted Nedlicott. * Yet I
have been wishing to say a few words to
you for . . . well, I don't know how long.
Won't you sit down now ?'

Katie gave Nedlicott a swift glance.

*Let me make the tea first sbe pleaded;
may I ?'

'No;

'I won't be a minute, I promise you.
May I, please ?'

No.'

Katie sank into a chair.

I never thought said she, * that you
could be such a tyrant.'

Nedlicott took a seat beside her.

Do you dislike me for it ?'

'N— no;

That gives me courage Nedlicott declared.
' It is very far from my wish to
displease you.'

For a moment he was silent.

*Miss Snowby/ said he, looking tenderly
into her face, 'from the first evening
I saw you — that delightful evening we
passed together in the little room downstairs

— I have longed to tell you what
I can now no longer keep to myself. I
love you. If you can give me any
hope of ever gaining your affection, you
will make me happier than I can find
words to express

Katie bent her head, and made no
answer.

I know very well,' Nedlicott confessed,
*that, in the very short time we have
been acquainted, it is unfair to expect
that you should look upon me even as a *
friend. But it seems to me as though
I had known you not for a few weeks
only, but for years. Indeed, from Sunday
to Sunday is like a life-time : for I look
forward so eagerly to seeing you again.'

Katie, with her head still bent, said, in a
low tone :

The week seems very long to me.'

Katie ! Is it possible, when I am
away, that you sometimes give me a
thought ?'

Sometimes I' Katie echoed, with tears
in her eyes. ' I am always thinking about
you, and all your kindness to that poor
old clerk. Do you remember telling us
all about him that evening in the snuggery
? How he must love you ! No one,
who knows what a generous heart you
have, could help loving you. But I never
dreamt,' she added, in a tone of wonder
that you cared for me.'

^ Darling ! I love you with all my heart.'
Katie raised her face. Her eyes beamed
-with a passion she tried no longer to.
conceal. The ruby lips, half-parted, seemed
to solicit a kiss : and Nedlicott lost
no time in snatching the first kiss that
a lover had ever placed upon them.

For a while, neither spoke a word.
The sun went down beyond the cabbage-fields,
and Katie's household duties were
left to take care of themselves.

*May I speak to your father, Katie?'
Nedlicott presently demanded.

Katie reflected for a moment before
replying.

I think,' said she, with a slight smile,
that, if I spoke to him myself, perhaps
it would be wiser. He has, as you know,
rather odd ideas about me. Not that he
ever dreams, in his kind heart, of anything
beyond my happiness : but he hasa
pet notion that his daughter ought to
make a brilliant marriage in that fashionable
circle in which Mr. Aldershaw moves,
in the neighbourhood of Tyburniaia or Park
Lane. He seems to forget how quietly
she has been brought up, and what simple

VOL. II. K

tastes she has acquired as his little housekeeper.
The fact that Mr. Aldershaw has
of late vaguely hinted at a junior partnership
in the great house, has rather turned
his dear old head. His castles in the air
must be very cautiously destroyed. Don't
you agree with me ?'

^ Yes, Katie,' said Nedlicott, ' for I ain
very far from being rich. I cannot offer
you a home such as your father would
choose. I can provide nothing larger thana
little house like this one.'

I wish for nothing better,' cried Katie.
*I have told my father a hundred times
how contented I am. In a grand London
house, I should be wretched. You heard
me say so to-day.'

*Yes: and I gathered hope from your
words said Nedlicott. ' But, Katie, when
you speak to your father he will probably

exclaim, " Who is Edward Nedlicott ? I
only know him as Mr. Cheadle's secretary
and as a member of the Fresco Club. I
should like to know something about his
birth and parentage !" We must not forget
that.'

Edward ?' said Kate, dreamily. ' What
a charming name ! But does not Mr.
Wildrake always call you Ned ?'

^Yery often.'

I thought so remarked Katie, in a still
more dreamy tone, * for I always think
of you as Ned. May I call you Ned ?'

Nedlicott laughed, and smoothed her
cheek caressingly.

Whatever you please, my sweet one.'

Well, then, Ned,' said Katie, dimpling
with smiles. * Please goon. Your birth
and parentage : how like a romance that
sounds !'

k2

Yes : the opening chapter,' said Nedli-
cost. *Doesitnot? I was born, my beloved,
of poor but respectable parents.
My father, who was a wholesale and retail
chemist in the East-end, died when I was
a mere child

' Is this true ?'

Yes : founded on fact. My mother,
anxious to provide a comfortable home
for her only son (that's me), purchased a
small tobacco business in the neighbourhood
of Queenhithe, where she still resides.'


Wholesale and retail ?'

Retail only. The son (that's me again)
occupies the first-floor front : the table in
this little room is strewed with prompters'
copies of Mr. Cheadle's plays. The library,
it should be mentioned, fills a couple of
shelves in a remote corner : it is principally

composed of Pepys' diary, and odd
volumes of the British drama. In an
arm-chair, drawn near the fire, this only
son has sometimes indulged in wild
dreams of one day winning the heart and
hand of . . .'

What nonsense !' cried Katie, laughing.
*But seriously. May I pay your
mother a visit soon? I long to see
her.'

Everything depends said Nedlicott,
upon your father.'

Yes, I know,' said Katie, pensive once
more, — ' I know.'

My mother,' Nedlicott declared, ' will
be delighted to make your acquaintance :
though there is one thing you have done,'
added he, with a smile, ' for which
you will find it difficult to gain her
forgiveness.'

What can that be ?'

Before I met you,' said Nedlicott, *I
never quitted the house on Sunday.
For my absence — every Sunday now
my mother lays the blame at your
door.'

Katie looked up earnestly into her
lover's face.

We must not let our happiness give
others a moment's pain,' said she. *I
shall go and cheer up the old lady on
week-days when you are away. She will
forgive me then.'

She will forgive you to-night,' said
Nedlicott, *as soon as she knows how
happy you have made her son.'

Listen ! Could that be Snowy's step
upon the stairs? Katie jumped up and
began to busy herself about making the
tea. Fortunately the little brass kettle

the hob was just beginning to boil
over: so no more time must be lost. But
it really was getting rather too dusky for
two young people, not known as lovers,
to be found seated alone on a Sunday
afternoon. However, Nedlicott, accustomed
to ' situations,' had lit the candles
and lowered the window-blind before Mr.
Aldershaw's manager made his appearance
upon the scene.

'Why, Katie said he, stepping into
the room, 'I think I must have fallen
asleep.'

'So I was just saying to Mr. Nedlicott,'
replied Katie, emptying tea-spoonfuls of
tea into the teapot in a reckless manner.
'Your forty winks have been four hundred
to-day. I was thinking seriously of
coming downstairs to wake you up.'

The evening seemed to Katie to pass

more quickly than any evening since she
had known Nedlicott ; for her heart was
overflowing with happiness in the knowledge
that she was loved. Her light step
became lighter, and her laugh more merry
still. Even her beauty gained expression.
A dreamy look softened at certain moments
the scintillations which lit up her
eyes, and the dimples, playing about the
corners of her mouth, were sometimes
subdued by an air of unwonted thoughtfulness.
These delicate lights and shades,
in Nedlicott's opinion, enhanced her loveliness.


So the hour soon came round for 
to take his leave, and Katie could
scarcely suppress the tears which sprang
to her eyes. But her father, offering to
walk with their friend to the station, she
ran to fetch his hat, and helped him with

his over-coat; and ia this way she managed
to conceal the pang which she felt
at parting with her lover for the first
time.

Katie stood upon the steps watching
them down the ' boulevard ' into the darkness.
She then closed the door reluctantly,
and went upstairs to Madame
Helene.

She was seated near the fire with that
look of anxiety which Katie had noticed
more frequently of late. The beautiful
dark eyes were swollen with weeping, and
the brow weary and careworn. But
Katie presence seldom failed to disperse
these gloomy shadows ; indeed, Madame
Helene called Katie the one ray of sunshine
in her life.

How I envy you, my child,' said she,
^ your happy face !'

Katie sank down upon the hearth-rug
her favourite place when alone with
Madame Helene — and, leaning her arms
upon the seat of a chair, looked up at her
friend.

Do you remember, Helen,* (this was
the name by which Sir Michael Valroy's
wife had taught the girl to call her), ' do
you remember saying that some day I
might know a deeper love than the love
I bear towards my father ?'

Yes, Katie, I remember.'

That love has come to me now,' said
Kate ; ' a love that I never dreamed of
knowing a few weeks ago : a love that I
cannot cast out of my heart, even if my
father disapproves.'

He will not oppose your choice.'

Can you, Helen, guess his name?' said
Katie

Helen stroked Kate's head caressingly.

I guessed it long ago. To-day he has
spoken to my Kate.'

Yes. He has opened his heart to me,
and I have given him my love.'

He has chosen well, Katie said Helen
and so have you.'

Oh, I wish that I could think,' said
Katie, with a sigh, ' that father will be of
your opinion.'

I have no doubt he will.'

When he is told that he is not rich ?'
said Katie ; * and that he doesn't live near
Hyde Park?'

Yes. He will acknowledge him in spite
of that.'

Kate became very thoughtful.

If father does consent,' said she, clasping
her hands, ^ I shall smother him with
kisses.'

Helen regarded the girl with a smile.

And who, Katie said she, * could wish
for a more handsome reward ?'

Katie laughed and springing up threw her
arms play fully around Helen Valroy's neck.
Then, hearing her father s footstep in the
hall, she ran down-stairs singing more
blithely than any bird on a cloudless
morning in spring.

CHAPTER VI.

A COUPLE OF CLIENTS.

Once more, after weeks of dreary suspense
Lady Valroy found herself waiting Lud-law's
pleasure in the little prison-like office
in Pump Court. There was nothing in
the barrister's letter which had brought
her there to increase her hope or despair :
for it contained no reference to the subject
so near to her heart. The day and the
precise hour upon which Ludlaw could
grant her an interview were specified in
polite terms: not a word more. The

barrister was not the man to commit himself
in writing to any opinion that would
leave room for the slightest misinterpretation.
He used the law for self-protection
with the same skill with which an able
soldier wields his sword.

Helen Yalroj — for such was Madame
Helene's true name — had hastened to keep
the appointment at the hour appointed.
Her patience, tried by this long delay, was
completely exhausted : and had she not
been well acquainted with the characters
of the men with whom she was dealing,
she would have put her threat to visit
John Wildrake into execution after
her last interview with Ludlaw. But a
certain indefinable dread of the consequences
had restrained her. Ludlaw, as
Helen had reflected, was a man whom it
would be wiser not to offend, and the

terror which Sir Michael Valroy had inspired
years ago was still something more
than a mere recollection. Yet events had
begun to assume such a serious aspect that,
had Ludlaw allowed another day to expire,
she would, in spite of these circumstances,
have acted upon her own responsibility.
Could Ludlaw be cognisant of this ?

It was a question which Lady Yalroy
asked herself repeatedly. But to get an
insight into Ludlaw's mind was as difficult
as to gain a glimpse of the outer world
between the bars of the dusty window of
the room in which she was seated. The
lawyer, she well knew, prided himself
upon being impenetrable.

The most gloomy thoughts took possession
of Helen's mind as the minutes passed
without Ludlaw exhibiting any indications
of being at leisure. Was he purposely

inflicting this additional torture ? It was
surely cruel enough to have kept her for
weeks in a feverish state of anxiety. She
felt a strong disposition to escape from
this dismal little dungeon, and make good
her retreat before her intention could be
suspected.

Nearly an hour went by. Had Ludlaw
forgotten his appointment? Tired of
waiting, and indignant at the lawyer's
want of courtesy towards her, Helen Yale
had placed her hand upon the latch,
with the intention of leaving the chambers,
when a loud knock at the door of
the common staircase obliged her to drawback.
There was something in the sound
familiar to her ears. She stood quite
motionless and listened.

She heard the quick step of the office-boy,
and the opening of the outer door.

Then an imperious voice demanded : ' Is
Mr. Ludlaw at home T

Helen started.

Sir Michael Valroj !

She sank into the chair, trembling.

This way, sir, if you please.'

Helen sprang up, with her hand upon
the door, as though to prevent his entrance
; but, to her relief, the step passed
down the passage, another door was
opened and shut, and all was silent — all
but her heart, which beat fast and loud.

What could this mean ? She had been
inveigled into a trap. Ludlaw and her
husband had plotted together and arranged
that the latter should be present at the
interview. For a moment all her courage
fled — all hope of success forsook her.

But she quickly controlled the overwhelming
sense of despair into which the

VOL. II. L

shock from this surprise had thrown her.
She recollected the pitiable errand upon
which she had come : to demand the right
to save her father from the depths of
misery, perhaps even from death. Her
courage revived ; it was better, perhaps,
however painful after so many years of
separation, that she should meet her husband
once more. If she failed to rouse
his pity more than she could have done
through the mediation of his legal friend,
she would at least give a convincing proof
that she was sincere in her appeal.

She was scarcely allowed time for these
reflections, or to recover her presence of
mind, when the boy came to her with the
request that she would step into Mr. Lud-law's
room.

Upon the hearth-rug, with his back to
the fire, stood Sir Michael Valroy, stroking

his dark beard. He glanced sternly
at his wife, without any other sign of recognition.
Ludlaw, however, rose as she
entered, and indicated a chair near his
desk. He then resumed his seat between
his two clients. Playing with a paperknife,
with which he frequently tapped the
palm of his hand, the barrister looked
from one to the other with his usual air
of abstraction.

'A question has arisen,' said he, glancing
at a document lying open upon the
desk, 'a question has arisen with regard
to a clause in an agreement. This agreement
is signed by both of you, and dated
prior to your marriage ' — he looked from
one client to the other, and then more
searchingly at the document — ' prior to
the marriage of Helen Wildrake and Sir
Michael Valroy. In a clause, it is stipu-

L 2

lated that you, Lady Yalroy, should not
only cease to hold communication with
your father, but guard the fact of your
union with Sir Michael Valroy as a secret
until such time as your husband might
choose to give publicity to the marriage.
You do not deny, madame, being a party
to this deed ?'

^ No. There was a clause, as you describe
it '

^ One moment ! That having been admitted,'
said Ludlaw, 'would you kindly
state, as a mere matter of form, whether
your application to me to obtain from
Sir Michael Yalroy a certain modification
more especially regarding this clause, was
or was not spontaneous ?'

Helen Valroy looked from Ludlaw to
the baronet with a rapid flash of the
eyes.

I was prompted by my own conscience,'
she answered, in a low tone.

Not by me,' questioned Ludlaw, ' not
by any human being?'

By no living soul.'

Ludlaw regarded Sir Michael shrewdly.
At the same time he gave the palm of
his hand four distinct taps with the paperknife,
as though mentally and with emphasis
repeating Lady Valroy's last words.

^ Will you have the goodness,' said Sir
Michael, frowning at Ludlaw, and then at
his watch, ' to get on a little quicker.'

Ludlaw regarded the baronet with a
provoking smile.

My dear Sir Michael,' said he, ' let
me beg of you not to prejudice the case
by signs of impatience or ill-temper. You
should know, considering how many years
we have been acquainted, that my pace

is the one at which to arrive most expeditiously
at an understanding

The lawyer then turned to his other
client.

You had, as I gathered from our last
interview,' said he, 'acquired, on your
arrival in London, some very distressing
intelligence about your father ?'

'Tes: from my landlord,' said Helen.

This landlord being,' Ludlaw prompted
her, ' beauclerk in a certain merchant's
ofl&ce, in which John Wildrake had formerly
been employed ?'

eyes.'

'Another question,' said Ludlaw. 'Was
your father dismissed from this office ?'

*Yes.'

On account of his intemperate habits ?'

So I was told.'

The barrister leaned back in his chair*

Now said he, ^ this is precisely, in
conveying your message to Sir Michael
Yalroy, what I stated : that this was the
painful news which had reached your ears.
John Wildrake had lost his situation,
owing to inebriety : moreover, that he was
living in a garret, and in a destitute condition.
Correct me, if I am wrong.'

He paused, with a look at Lady Valroy.
She remained silent with her head bent.

This being the case,' Ludlaw continued,
I explained to Sir Michael that you had
been moved to compassion — that your
sense of duty towards your parent had impelled
you to make this request. Your
earnest wish was that this clause in the
agreement, prohibiting the publicity of
your marriage, should be annulled.'

Helen Yalroy looked up into Ludlaw's
face.

Not absolutely for my sake,' said she,
but, because my father vowed not to recognise
me as his daughter unless I gave
him a convincing proof that I was married.
Having gained his forgiveness for my
thoughtless conduct, I would, as I assured
you, exact from him a promise never
to mention my alliance with Sir Michael
Yalroy.'

The baronet made an impatient movement
as though about to speak.

Permit me !' said Ludlaw, raising his
paper-knife expressively. * That is precisely
the point, Lady Valroy, at which
we stumble. Sir Michael has no confidence
. . . .'

Never had an atom,' interposed the
baronet.

Never had one atom of confidence,'
repeated Ludlaw, ' in John Wildrake : not

the man, he considers, to be trusted with
a secret. His intemperance, his tendency
to gossip with every stray acquaintance he
meets with at low taverns, may be cited in
support of that opinion. Sir Michael Val-roy
cannot, under these circumstances,
consent to cancel the clause now under consideration
in this agreement. Quite impossible
r and Ludlaw struck with the
paper-knife the palm of his hand twice, with
a pause between each tap, to strengthen ^
the emphasis.

Stroking his beard with an air of satisfaction,
the baronet nodded as a sign of
approval at the manner in which the
lawyer had given utterance to this
decision.

For some moments no one spoke. Lud-law
regarded one client and then the other
without moving his neck, but with a restless

eye. Lady Valroy was the first to
break the silence.

Do me the favour, Mr. Ludlaw,' said
she, 'to ask Sir Michael Valroy if he
seriously considers that his reason for
standing in the way of a reconciliation
between me and my father is a sufficient
one, considering the very exceptional circumstances
of the case.'

Ludlaw looked inquiringly at the
baronet.

Tell Lady Valroy,' said Sir Michael,
addressing his legal friend, * that I consider
my reason more than a sufficient one :
that if I had been anxious that my name
should form a topic of conversation in low
taverns I should not have made this binding
compact between us. I never believed
in Wildrake's sobriety, even in the first days
of our acquaintance. There was every

need, as events have proved, for taking
this precaution.'

The lawyer communicated this reply by
a glance at Lady Valroy.

Does Sir Michael Valroy suppose
Helen hastened to demand, * that, having
once satisfied my father that I was married
immediately after leaving his house, I
should not use every means in my power,
as I have declared, to enforce the strictest
silence ? I have formed my plans. If
necessary I would even consent to go
abroad with my father and never leave
him as long as I lived. I am culpable.
In acting as I have done, 1 have brought
this misery upon him. I will now devote
myself to him gladly — not only as a duty,
but with the hope of convincing him that
I regret more than I can express the mad
step I was persuaded to take without consulting

his wishes. Sir Michael Yalroy
shall never again hear of his unhappy
wife — nor of John Wildrake — if he will
release her from this promise given fifteen
years ago without reflection, without realizing
what a cruel wrong she was inflicting
upon others.'

With clasped hands, and in a low, supplicating
voice, Helen Valroy bending towards
Ludlaw's desk made this earnest
appeal. Her lips trembled, and tears
started to her eyes before she had ceased
to speak.

Ludlaw was not unmoved : for he
frowned very severely at his paper-knife
which he twisted about with his fingers
in a rapid, nervous manner.

Sir Michael Valroy showed no sign of
emotion.

'Ludlaw,' said he, impatiently, 'is there

any object in prolonging this discussion?
I came here to-day at your suggestion.
You seem to be of opinion that if I expressed
my disapproval, in your presence,
there would be no need to remonstrate
further with Lady Yalroy. This scheme
he added, in a tone of contempt, ' for conducting
John Wildrake into retirement is
not worth arguing about. Whether lie
would, or would not, consent to leave his
garret is a matter of pure speculation. At
no moment since that deed was signed ' —
and the baronet pointed to the document
on Ludlaw's table — ^ have I felt less disposed
to see it cancelled. I have good
reason to suspect, as Lady Valroy may as
well know, that John Wildrake is mad.
That decides the matter. We are wasting
time by listening to all this sentiment. Be
kind enough, Ludlaw, to wish Lady Valroy

good-morning ; and allow me to take my
leave.'

Saying which, Sir Michael seized his
hat, and stepped towards the door.

Stay,' said Lady Valroy, rising from
her chair and turning towards the baronet.
'I have one question to ask you, Sir
Michael, which you cannot refuse to answer.
Have you met my father since
your return to England?'

Sir Michael stopped and stared fixedly
at Lady Valroy.

'Why?'

Helen glanced at Ludlaw and then again
faced Sir Michael Valroy.

Because,' said she, in a broken voice,
something has reached my ear which I
can scarcely credit. I am told that, not
many days ago, my poor father encountered

you upon Batswing Heath and demanded
news of his daughter.'

What then ?'

I am told,' continued Lady Valroy,
that you struck him a heavy blow with
your fist, and left him lying half-stunned
by the roadside.'

*Well?'

I wish to know if this is true.'

That I was accosted one night after
dark,' said the baronet, defiantly, ' by a
maniac, who represented himself to be
John Wildrake, is true enough. He
stood in my path and used insulting
language. I treated him as I should have
treated any other tramp. I knocked him
down.

Helen Valroy shuddered, and a look of
deep pain crossed her face. But she

quickly recovered herself, and her eyes
flashed with passion:

Yon have acted,' cried she, *not only
like a coward, but with a want of foresight
which I could hardly have imagined
possible in a man of your cunning and
calculating nature. I loved you once ;
and, but for this unpardonable insult to
my father, I should have loved you still,
in spite of all the heartless treatment I
have received. But now I despise and
hate you.'

The baronet could not meet her glance.
Her scornful tone and her look of anger
seemed to cow him. But his face was
dark with rage.

I refused,' continued Lady Valroy, * to
believe this story unless confirmed by Mr.
Ludlaw or by you. And if you had
agreed to cancel this document, which I

was brainless enough to sign, I would
never have mentioned the subject. You
have forced me to speak by withholding
your consent. I must see my father
now.'

'Most, Lady Valroy?' questioned Lud-law.'


*Yes. It is imperative she replied,

that I should see him, and at once.'

May I ask your reason T Ludlaw
demanded.

To prevent a crime,' answered Lady
Valroy, in a low tone.

What !' Sir Michael exclaimed, taking
a quick step towards his wife.

*Ever since that night,' she replied,

my father, I am told, has strangely altered.
He no longer frequents the taverns at
which he was so often seen. All day he
remains at home, and after dark he dis-vol.

IL M

appears, mysteriously, from the house ia
Gable Court. His manner, they say, is
stern and revengeful. Is it not more
than probable that he goes to Batswing
Heath, hoping to encounter Sir Michael
Valroy? I dread the very thought of
another meeting between them. I claim
the right, after what has happened, to see
my father with a view of pacifying him.
It is the least I can do in order to
prevent . . .'

The baronet clenched his hand.

So,' he cried, * my life is threatened —
is it ? Ludlaw,' he added, ' what clever
trick is this ? A likely way of gaining
my consent ! Let me advise you,' — Sir
Michael turned fiercely towards his wife, —
let me advise you to be careful how you
play with me !'

He stepped so close to her, with his

clenched hand raised menacingly, that
she recoiled with a look of alarm.

Ludlaw rose from his chair.

Sir Michael !' said he, persuasively,
let me implore you to curb your anger.
There may be some reason after all for
Lady Valroy's anxiety.'

Nothing of the sort !' retorted the
baronet, white with passion. 'I tell you
the whole business is a fraud. This woman
has come to London on purpose to
contrive, if she can, my ruin and disgrace.
She has taken lodgings, as she boldly tells
us, in the house of Paul Aldershaw's head
clerk. What can have been her motive ?
There can only have been one. It was
to spy and plot with John Wildrake's
friends until they had revived the fellow's
enmity and to direct it against me.'

'Your suspicion,' said Helen Valroy,

ivr 2

with flashing eyes, * is unjust ; it is unmanly.
Your name, whatever happened,
never escaped by lips. I have considered
you, as Mr. Ludlaw knows, from first to
last. I have waited for weeks, although
hearing the most agonising accounts about
mj father, because I would not break my
promise to you. T have shown some
impatience, I will not deny, in my
letters to Mr. Ludlaw. But I have
done nothing to deserve such a cruel
censure as this.'

Ludlaw's face was thoughtful. After a
moment's reflection, he turned to Sir
Michael and said :

'Lady Valroy is right.'

The only effect of this verdict was to
increase the baronet's rage.

I deny it !' he exclaimed. * If Lady
Valroy was sincere, she would have come

forward with this petition years ago. Is
it Dot obvious ? Why, surely there can be
no question about that ! But no — she
bided her time, she waited my return
from abroad. She thought, by letting this
miserable hound loose upon me, to get
everything her own way. Does the
woman forget with whom she has to
deal ?'

While speaking, Sir Michael Yalroy
paced to and fro with quick strides, utterly
regardless of the bundles of papers
which lay, according to Ludlaw's system
of order, upon the floor. He stamped
down upon these documents in his anger,
or sent one or two flying with his foot
across the room at every step.

Ludlaw looked on, speechless with dismay.
Suddenly the baronet stopped, in
the midst of the scattered documents, and

faced his wife with a look of fury in his
eyes.

Let me hear no more he warned her,
'about this scandalous affair. Be careful
not to act contrary to my decision. You
signed the deed without a murmur; you
cannot revoke now. It is too late. Make
the attempt even by one imprudent word
at your peril!'

With these words he went out, treading
heavily along the passage, and slamming
the staircase-door loudly behind him.

CHAPTER VII.

NOT WISELY, BUT TOO WELL.

Marion entered the breakfast-room on the
morning after the reception at Lady
Mounthaw's with some degree of trepidation
: for she was resolved to confess to
her father all that had passed between her
and Roy Yalroy. The avowal would destroy
all the hopes which he had so long
entertained of an alliance with the Mount-haw
family ; and she anticipated a display
of indignation which it would be difficult
to endure. This reflection, however, did

not weaken her in her purpose. The
ordeal, as she reasoned, must be gone
through, sooner or later. It was better
faced at once ; she dreaded to think that,
by a day's delay, she might be compelled,
against her will, to marry Lord Dwj^ver.

It was late that morning — much later
than, usual — before Paul Aldershaw made
his appearance. He so seldom went into
society, beyond an occasional and sedate
dinner-party, that even a reception fatigued
him. But he came down at last,
and without the shadow of a frown upon
his brow.

'Marion,' he demanded, glancing out of
window, ' what do you say to a drive to
the City with me this morning?'

He had never before asked her to accompany
him to his office. The girl
could hardly believe her senses. For

years past she Iliad watched him each
morning from her window as he stepped
into his carriage, and she had often longed
to take a seat at his side. Her eyes
sparkled at the prospect of such a new
delight.

The merchant remarked the change in
her face. He placed his hand gently upon
Marion's shoulder.

'No one knows,' said he, ' how tedious
this drive is every day — how wearisome
city life is to me.'

There was a pensive look in his eyes and
a strange sadness in his tone which Marion
had never observed before. She glanced
up with a timid expression into his face.

Why do you work so hard,' the girl
inquired, 'at what is distasteful? There
can be no compulsion where there is so
much wealth.'

Paul Aldershaw's brow became clouded.

Some men are forced to work,' said
he, * even when rich, in order to divert
their thoughts. Without incessant occupation,
life for years past would have
been unbearable

He paced once or twice up and down
the room in silence. Then, turning towards
the door, he beckoned with a
solemn uplifted finger to his daughter.

Come with me to the library. I have
something to tell you, Marion

He led the way. But, having reached
the library, he only paused a moment.
Taking a key from his desk, he opened
the secret door in the centre of the bookcase
— the door by which Marion had seen
him disappear so mysteriously when she
was a child. He passed through and
invited her to follow.

Marion found herself almost in darkness.
But her father, stepping forward
drew back some heavy curtains and
admitted a flood of light.

The stood in a large room which in
every detail resembled an artist's studio.
The furniture was antique in character ;
a great arm-chair covered with green velvet,
another of dark wood fantastically
carved, rugs lying here and there on the
oaken floor, and huge picture-frames leaning
against the panelled walls. A small
marble statue of Apollo on a pedestal
occupied one corner, and many other
works of art lay about on the mantelshelf,
or on brackets, or on the ground.
An easel, near the window, was hidden
under massive folds of thick black drapery.
The merchant walked towards this
easel. Marion watched his movement

-with a quick beating heart. He glanced
at lier keenly, and then, with a trembling
hand, he lifted the covering and disclosed
to view a large picture on the point of
completion.

Marion gave an exclamation of surprise.
On a low couch lay a child three or four
years of age, with fair curling hair and
laughing features. Bending over it, in
an attitude of devotion, was the figure of
a very beautiful woman. Her hands were
clasped, and she was gazing at the child
with dark passionate eyes, and with a
breathless expression upon the half-parted
lips. The brow was slightly troubled, as
though by some passing thought ; otherwise
the whole form, as well as the face,
indicated a strange and almost painful
devotion.

My mother !*

In a low, awe-stricken voice, Marion
uttered the cry, and then, sinking down
before the picture, she burst into tears.
All the distressing recollections of her
lonely childhood recurred as she looked
once more upon the face of the one being
by whom she had imagined she was loved
the friend that had brightened her day-dreams,
and whom she thought that
nothing but death could have taken from
her.

Yes,' said the merchant, in a broken
voice, * that is your mother, as I painted
her years ago. I worshipped her. I
would not have believed it possible that a
woman with such a face could be so false
to husband and child. I have been cruelly
deceived.'

Marion did not speak or move. She
still knelt before that faithless mother*

Her tears flowed faster at her father's
words.

Never,' continued he, ' never, Marion,
since the day she left us have I touched
that picture. I closed my studio. 1
cursed her, and I cursed the name of
Valroy !'

An acute pain passed through Marion's
heart. She sprang up ; and with a supplicating
look she placed her hand upon her
father's arm.

If you cannot forget the past,' said she,
Mf you cannot forgive, do not speak a
word, I implore you, against the name of
Yalroy. I cannot bear it ! I know that
you have every reason to be embittered : I
grieve to think of all the agony you must
have suffered. I remember my mother
bending over me when a child : I have
pictured her to myself as you have painted

her there. Could you suppose, young as I '
was, that her loss caused me no sorrow ?
It has been a sadness for both of us. But
it is more than sad, more than piteous
now. Can you not guess why I cannot
bear to hear you speak against the name ?
It is the name I love— this name which
you have cursed.'

Marion !'

1 love Eoy Valroy — the brother of the
man who has brought all this trouble upon
our house.'

A look of calm despair, more painful to
witness than a burst of auger, came over
the merchant's face.

This,' said he — ' this is what I feared.'

Marion regarded her father with deep
contrition.

I cannot change my nature,' she pleaded,
with a soft look in her eyes. ' I have

tried so hard to forget him ! But it is not
possible. I shall love him always now —
always : as long as I live.'

The merchant knit his brow and
demanded, as though uttering his
thoughts aloud rather than addressing
Marion :

So he has dared to speak to you of
love.'

Yes. He has spoken.'

What has been your answer?'
Marion was silent. She stood with her

eyes bent to the ground, her long lashes
trembling and her lips pale.

*If you have accepted him,' said the
merchant, sternly, ' you have ceased to be
my daughter. It is a question of choice
between him and me.'

I have chosen.'

She sank down into a chair, in a dreamy

posture, with her head resting on her hand.
After a moment's pause, she raised her eyes
full of pensiveness.

When we first met,' said she, in a low
tone, ^ I did not even know his name : and
even if I had I could not have understood
that it was wrong to care for him. I was
never told to avoid his society : no one
warned me, until it was too late, that the
acquaintance would incur your displeasure.
But when Ada spoke to me, when I understood
all, I refused to see him Only once
since then, by mere chance, he found meat
the Cheadles' house. And then . . .'
Well, Marion. What then ?'
We took leave of each other,' continued
Marion, tearfully ; * we agreed never to meet
any more. I told Roy Valroy that it was
your wish and that it was my duty to obey.
He owned that he had acted wrongly ; and

VOL. II. N

in his disappointment and despair he has
gone abroad. He does not intend to
return to England : so all is at an end
between us.'

I heard nothing about that.*

It happened days ago,' said Marion ;
and now,' she added, persuasively, *canyou
not understand how impossible it is for me
ever to love another ? I am willing to do
all in my power to please you. But could
that be by giving my hand to anyone, however
rich or poor, unless I could give with
it my whole heart ?'

For a moment the merchant made no
reply. He stood, lost in thought, with his
eyes turned upon Marion.

*I had begun to hope,' said he, 'that
this wearisome City life — the wealth that had
been added to the house by my unceasing
labours — would carry with it some recompense

after all. My expectations with regard
to an alliance with the Mounthaw
family had begun to revive : the dream of
my life, that Oaklandss and Mounthaw
should become one estate, seemed actually
on the point of being fulfilled. I am deeply
disappointed. Not,' he hastened to add,
-' that I blame you. I blame the Cheadles.
What right had they to introduce such a
character to my daughter ?'

If you only knew how good and noble
E,oy Valroy is,' said Marion, with spirit. * If
you had met him, you would not deny
that. But you never will.'

He placed his hand upon the cloth, and
flung it angrily over the picture of his wife
and child,

Those two men,' said he, who have,
one after the other, brought so many
troubles into our lives, must be forgotten :

nor,

if that be impossible, never mentioned
between us. I appreciate your conduct.
You have acted honourably in a very
difficult and painful affair : I shall never
forget that. You have done what was
right : you have considered me. You have
had the good sense to know that the mere
rumour of an alliance, with such a disreputable
family, would not only distress
me beyond measure, but injure my character
and position. You are a loyal
daughter.'

The girl rose and stood beside her father,
with her head bent, silent and submissive.
He kissed her, and with more tenderness
than on the previous evening when she had
confessed a craving to get nearer to his
heart.

Marion,' said he, in a kindly tone, ' you
have given me a strong proof of your

affection. If your inclinations are not
free . . . /

Indeed, they are not

Why, then, we must mention to
the Earl of Mounthaw that for the
present . . . /

'I shall never change,' said Marion. *I
never can consent to what has been proposed
by Lord Moanthaw.'

Perhaps,' the merchant gently urged,
in a year, or two years' time . . . .'

Never,' said Marion, in a low voice.
Never.'

Very well,' he replied, with a suppressed
sigh. ' Let us say no more about it. I
will write to Lord Mounthaw. That will
end the matter.'

As they drove to the City that morning,
side by side, Marion knew that she had

awakened that latent affection which had
lain dormant ever since her father had felt
that crushing sorrow. The deep affection
had been roused at last. And yet with all
the happiness it brought there was one sad
reflection which could not be banished.
The nearer they were drawn towards
each other, the greater became the distance
separating her from Roy Valroy.
How gladly would she — had such a choice
been possible — have offered ber life as a
preferable sacrifice !

Before descending from his carriage, at
the entrance to the old City square, the
merchant proposed to Marion that she
should drive to Cheyne Walk and spend
the day with Ada Cheadle.

Of course,' said Mr. Aldershaw, ^ supposing
Lord Dwyver called, you could not

receive him. I should not wish it now,
even if Miss Blessitt was in town.'

The ex-governess had gone to Oak-lands
to superintend certain preparations
for the reception of the family at Christmas.


But added the merchant, ' my letter to
the Earl of Mounthaw makes it very
improbable that Lord Dwyver will call.
I have written, and I have expressed our
decision in terms too distinct to be misinterpreted.'


Frequently during that day, in the
midst of his City affairs, Paul Aldershaw
rose from his desk and paced to and fro in
his oflBce with a restless step. The morning
with Marion in his deserted studio and
the sight of that painting which he had

left unfinished had stirred up stern reflections
about the past. The declaration,
from his daughter's own lips, that she
loved the brother of the man whose very
name sent the hot blood tingling through
his veins, was intolerable. He would
sooner have seen her dead than such a
thing should have happened. He reproached
himself severely. If he had
shown a stronger interest in Marion —
if he had not kept her so long in ignorance
about her mother — this event would never
have occurred : she would never have loved
Boy Valroy. But he had not realized, so
immersed had he been in his own affairs,
that it was possible that anyone, unless it
were Lord Dwyver, would win Marion's
heart. Too late he had discovered his
error — too late he had tried to rectify his
fault. For this shortsightedness he was

experiencing keen disappointment and deep
regret.

Marion's candid avowal of a passion
which she had abandoned for his sake,
went straight to the merchant's heart. He
felt his position painfully. It seemed unjust
to deny anything to such a daughter :
and if he could have purchased happiness
for her at any other price there would
have been no refusal, whether the demand
were upon his pride or his pocket. But
to give his consent to Marion s marriage
with a Valroy was impossible : the very
thought appeared repulsive to his haughty
nature.

His resentment towards Sir Michael
Valroy recurred with redoubled force. He
was the cause of all the trouble which had
overtaken — which had embittered his whole
life : and once more he cursed him, as he

had cursed him in a moment of supreme
agony years ago.

The afternoon shadows gathering in the
old square, Paul Aldershaw's lamp was
lighted, and his blinds drawn down. Then
he began to apply himself to work with
strange energy: not like a man who is
compelled, through stress of time, to accomplish
certain undertakings, but like
one who believes by force of work and will
to conquer embarrassing thoughts. The
struggle was fierce. Watching his face,
one would have almost imagined that
phantom voices were whispering in his
ears. He frequently started, looked wrath
uUy around the room, and sometimes rose
from his chair with his hand outstretched,
as if to ward something from him which
was getting too near, and even impeding

respiration. Pacing once or twice up and
down the room, after such an interruption,
he settled down again in his chair and
began to exert a new impulse for work
among his papers. But the maddening
voices seemed soon to swarm as before,
like irritating insects on a hot summer
night. Then, as before, he became enraged
and restless. He was as cruelly
tormented in his mind as though a fever
had attacked his brain.

Suddenly he observed, in one of his
pacing, that the door which communicated
with the late Mr. Grimwade's room stood
open. The discovery startled him : not
that there was anything very startling in
the fact. For the old ledgers being kept
there, besides endless boxes of old letters,
which had sometimes to be examined by

IN LETTERS OF GOLD.

clerks ; and the door, not being easy to
close, might have swung open of its own
accord. The merchant stepped towards
the door, and peered into the dusty old
office.

The room was full of murky moonlight ;
for it entered through grimy panes into
this abandoned and sepulchral apartment
where the dust lay thick in many places :
on the late Mr. Grimaces desk, on the
boxes which lumbered the high shelves,
on the cobwebs in corners where flies, as
long dead as Mr. Grimwade himself, still
clung persistently, as though waiting upon
that treacherous field of battle for interment
after their unequal fight. The blinds
were broken : and, glancing out of window,
Paul Aldershaw perceived the crescent
moon hanging in a clear wintry sky above

the quaint roofs and chimneys of the old
houses opposite. The sight seemed to
have a chilling effect upon his nerves, for
he turned away with a shudder, and,
shutting the door, he returned to his
chair. His face was still pale and
anxious.

He presently took from his drawer a
small volume. It was bound with a steel
clasp, and was under lock and key. He
unlocked the clasp and opened the book.
It was a journal, already half-filled with
memoranda. With a trembling hand the
merchant turned to a page upon which he
read his last entry :

'7/ John Wildrake murders Sir Michael
Valroy, the fault will be mine. It is only hy
the strictest supervision that the crime may

he averted. 1 can read this terrible fact
in Williams face, while he stands before me
to-day arid throws the blame ujoon that man's
shoulders of his daughters loss and of his
own demoralisation'

CHAPTER VIII.

THE Dark POOL.

Upon the same evening, and about the
same hour that Paul Aldershaw had looked
through the open door into the late
Mr. Grimwade's moonlit office, the crescent
moon was shining brightly over Bats-wing
Heath. Along a pathway, between
the low gorse, came Spicer, the landlord
of the * Hunted Stag,' walking at a brisk
pace. The air was bleak, although
there was scarcely a breath of wind on
the common.

Dressed in a well-fitting top-coat, which

reached below his knees, and a low-crowned
hat, Spicer had a very sporting
appearance. He had been visiting a
neighbour, and was on his way home
to supper. He whistled as he went,
as innkeepers have an idle knack of
doing, in a low tone but with marked
vivacity e it is possible that the clear,
moonlit sk}'- inspired this musical turn of
mind.

Suddenly he stopped whistling. Upon
the road, which crossed his path at
right angles, he noticed the figure of a
man approaching. There was something
in the movement and slouching gait which
he seemed to recognise. A clump of
old trees stood near the high-road.
Spicer quickened his pace, and, reaching
these trees, concealed himself behind one
of them and waited.

The man went bj with a hurried step.
He passed so near that, by reaching out
his arm, Spicer could have touched him.
He appeared breathless from running, or
from fright : for he coughed and choked,
while looking with scared eyes over his
shoulder, as he hastened on. His face
was deadly pale. His clothes were torn
and covered with mud.

Spicer knew him at once : it was Wild-rake.
It was the man whom Sir Michael
Valroy's friend, Ludlaw, had declared he
had reason to suspect. The landlord gave
vent to a low whistle : but this time the
tone expressed intense surprise. Next
moment Spicer sprang into the road.

His first thought was to stop Wildrake.
But after looking up and down the highway,
and neither seeing nor hearing anyone,
as he expected he should, in pursuit,

VOL. II. o

he resolved not to interfere. What business
was it of his ? He was not a
constable, and therefore had no authority
to arrest a fugitive tramp, or whatever
Wildrake might be, on suspicion. It was
an affair, to all appearance, for the police.
His duty, no doubt, would be to report
what he had witnessed. But he did not
consider himself justified in taking a
personal responsibility in the matter.

With these reflections, Spicer continued
on his way towards the ' Hunted Stag.'
But Wildrake's face and his strange appearance
never ceased to haunt him.

As he stepped into the inn, Spicer
looked about him as though half-expecting
to see Wildrake seated in the bar-parlour.
But the room was empty.

A buxom woman came out of the
kitchen to meet the landlord.

why, Spicer,' said she, with a glance
at his face, ' you look worried.'

Spicer walked into the kitchen and sat
down.

Something has given me a turn.*

The landlady — for it was Spicer's wife
regarded him fixedly.

Not a ghost, I hope ?'

No ; but a man with a face as white,
if not whiter.'

'Whitman?'

Spicer related the incident to his wife.
When he had finished, she uttered no
comment ; but she appeared, nevertheless,
to be brooding while she laid the table
for supper.

When they had finished their evening
meal, and Spicer had lit his pipe, she
ventured to make a suggestion.

I think, Spicer,' said she, ' I'dvjose

o2

no time, if I were you, in seeing Mr.
Ludlaw.'

*What — go to London to-night?'

He's at Sir Michael Valroy's,' said the
landlady. *I saw him pass by here this
evening.'

Spicer jumped up hurriedly.

*Why,' he demanded, tugging on his
top-coat, * why didn't you say so before ?'

'Because, Spicer, I didn't wish to spoil
your supper.'

Spicer placed his hands on his wife's
broad shoulders, and saluted her on each
of her plump cheeks.

My dear,' said he, regarding her with
admiration, ' I've always held that you
were a woman . . .'

Hadn't you better start?'

I'm off !' said Spicer.

Once more the landlord stepped out

quickly across the heath, but with no
apparent inclination for whistling now;
nor did he seem interested in the splendid
moonlight, except so far as it might
aid him in choosing the shortest direction
towards Sir Michael Valroy's house.
Roused to a sense of responsibility at
lasts Spicer became surprisingly engrossed
and energetic. Wildrake's face had inspired
in him a grim surmise.

While the landlord of the ' Hunted
Stag' was making his way across the
heath on his errand to Ludlaw, the barrister
was seated in Sir Michael Valroy's
dining-room, as he had so often sat before,
ensconced in a great arm-chair in front of
the fire. His handkerchief as usual was
thrown over his face, and he was fast
asleep ; and as usual the portraits of the
Valroy family looked down upon him

gloomily out of their frames. Sir Michael
had gone, in spite of Ludlaw's protestations,
for his walk upon the common.
The baronet had been even more restless
and perverse since the meeting with his
wife in Ludlaw's chambers : his mental
condition had, in fact, perplexed Ludlaw.
No further conversation on the subject of
Lady Valroy's petition, as Ludlaw soon
found, was at all possible. At the mere
mention of that affair, Sir Michael had
flown into a passion more violent than he
had exhibited on previous occasions. Lud-law
had therefore been compelled to
regard the matter as one which could only
be adjusted by time and circumstance.

Ludlaw was awakened by the entrance
of a servant. He lifted the handkerchief
from his face.

Spicer has called, sir, and wishes to
see you.'

The landlord of the '' Hunted Stag' ?"
*Yes, sir.'

Show him in.'

Spicer stepped softly into the room,
hat in hand. He bowed respectfully,
seeming to include the portrait of his
late master, the old baronet, in his
salute.

Well, Spicer, what's the news ?'
'Bad, sir, I'm afraid.'

Sit down,' said Ludlaw.

The landlord took a seat near the door.

'Well, Spicer?'

Well, sir,' he replied, ' I've come over,
as I thought, in duty bound, to speak
to you about a man you may remember
seeing one night in the bar-parlour — a

man about whom you said sou had
suspicions.'

*I recollect Ludlaw declared. * A fellow
called Wildrake/

Yes, that was his name
What about him ?'

Tve seen him again this evening

At your inn ?'

'No; on the common said Spicer.
He was stepping out at a great rate, as
though he were running away from somebody,
or something, which had scared him.
His clothes were bespattered with mud.
He had, in my opinion, a guilty look ; and
I am perhaps to blame for letting him
pass by without a word. So Fve come,
sir, to ask your advice.'

The expression on Ludlaw's face suddenly
changed.

At what hour was this ?'

Between seven and eight.*

Ludlaw glanced at the clock on the
mantelshelf. It was some minutes past
ten.'

The situation disquieted Ludlaw. He
had dined with Sir Michael Valroy at six
o'clock. At seven the baronet had gone
out. Had he again encountered Wild-rake?
Spicer's description of the man's
appearance reminded him of Lady Valroy's
words. She had heard of the unlucky
meeting, and she had pleaded for permission
to see her father, if only to appease
his anger against the baronet. She
had expressed a fear that his life was
threatened. Ludlaw began to share her
alarm.

In which direction was Wildrake going
?' he inquired.

Towards London.'

Could you point out the spot at which
he passed you ?'

^ With the greatest ease.'

Ludlaw rose instantly from his armchair.


*Spicer,' said he, 'we will walk there
together.'

Then you think it serious, Mr. Lud-law
?'

Very serious indeed.'

Hastily putting on his coat and hat,
Ludlaw went into the night without another
word, followed by Spicer. Along
the avenue leading to the gates, quaint
patches of moonlight, which had crept
through the bare branches of the trees,
lay in their path. The great solemn
sphinxes, on each side of the gateway,
had dark shadows on their stony faces.

But beyond, out on the common, the earth
was as shadowless as though it were a
moonlit sea. The two men issued forth
out of the uncertain light and struck
across the heath.

After walking nearly a mile, they
came in sight of the clump of trees
where Spicer had watched Wildrake unperceived.


This,' said Spicer, when they reached
the spot, ' is where I stood ; and this,' he
added, stepping out into the highway, ' is
the direction Wildrake took. The road, as
you see, runs east and west. He was going
eastward, towards the City.'

'In that case,' said Ludlaw, Met us
go westward. But not so fast now. We
must keep our eyes open and our ears
too.'

Spicer glanced at the barrister keenly.

Mr. Ludlaw,' said he, ' what do you
suspect ?'

Foul play.'

Murder ?'

That's the word

For some minutes they walked along in
silence, keeping well in the centre of the
road : there were no sounds except their
footfalls — no shadow except their own
which advanced before them, like phantom
guides.

Presently Ludlaw looked at his watch.
It wanted an hour of midnight. That Sir
Michael was still abroad, the barrister had
little doubt : for he had kept the pathways
leading to the house well in sight, and nota,
single moving object had he yet seen.
He listened unceasingly for the gate-bell,
which, had it rung, would have reached

his ear. His alarm increased at every
step.

Spicer lie presently remarked, ' when
I told you that I had grown suspicious
about Wildrake, I referred to what I fear
has now happened.'

I understand, sir.'

'For many years Ludlaw pursued,.
Wildrake bas had a real or imaginary
grievance, I will not undertake to decide
which, against Sir Michael Yalroy. They
lately met, as I have reason to know, on
this very common : angry words have been
exchanged between them, and even blows.
It so chances that Sir Michael is out on
the heath to-night : he has been out here
since seven o'clock. Now it seems to meas
a piece of very strong circumstantial
evidence, judging from your description of
Wildrake's appearance, that the two have

met again. And Sir Michael added the
lawyer, *not having returned, leads me
to fear that the issue has been disastrous.'
'That's what Mrs. Spicer thinks,'

Wildrake,' said Ludlaw, ' is a dangerous
character. His mind is disordered
by drink. Having once got the notion
into his head he would not hesitate to
commit any crime — not even a murder.'

Spicer looked anxiously around.

Should we not do well to give the
alarm ?'

I have thought of that.'

*Have you a motive, Mr. Ludlaw, intaking
this direction ?'

More motives than one.'

Coming to a broad path which curved
to the left, out of the main road, Lud-law
arrested his steps and turned to
Spicer.

I have a fancy said he, * to explore
this corner.'

'I see your reason
What is it ?'

On one side of that path said Spicer,
there is a dark pool.'

Well ?'

Wildrake's clothes were muddy : but
the roads are dry.'

Consequently . . .'

That may be the spot.'

Ludlaw nodded and led the way. The
path descended into a small valley, the
sides of which were covered with thick
bushes of brushwood and gorse. In the
centre of this hollow lay a large pool,
oblong in shape. The side of the pool
which was bordered by the pathway was
fenced off with white railings. The waste
or overflow fell through an arched passage

under the path into a rivulet not wider
than a ditch. The sound of the water
trickling into this rivulet reached them
like a faint whisper. At the railings Lud-law
stopped and glanced about him. Then
he looked down intently into the pool as
though he would fathom its depth. But
he only encountered a reflection of the
crescent moon in an immeasurable profundity
of bright sky.

Is this pool deep ?' he inquired of
Spicer.

Deep enough to drown a man.'

^ Here? where we stand?'

Anywhere, sir, within a foot or two of
the bank. At this point, at the very edge,
it's deep enough to drown a horse.'

They walked round the margin of the
pool slowly, looking in every direction, and
pausing at every step to listen or examine

the ground. It was so swampy in many-places
that they sank up to their ankles in
mud. But they both continued to advance,
although they came upon no mark
or evidence which could assist them in
prosecuting their search. The reflection
of the moon in the water followed their
footsteps as they made the circuit of the
pool ; it seemed to regard them suspiciously,
like a huge, half-closed eye.

They had once more reached the white
railings, and were staring at each other
with blank faces, when the noise of a
horse's hoofs upon the road struck upon
their ears.

A swift animal,' Spicer remarked.

Yes,' replied Ludlaw, * and the very
thing we need.'

He hastened up the path, by which they
had come, leading to the highway. Spicer

VOL. II. p

followed. In the distance they saw, on
the moonlit road, a light dog-cart, in which
were seated three men, coming towards
them at a quick pace.

CHAPTER IX.

THE Record OF A CRIME.

Closing the journal, and locking the clasp,
Paul Aldershaw replaced it in his drawer.
For some minutes he sat quite motionless
with a dark troubled look. He then
touched his bell, and asked for Snowy.

The manager made his appearance.

'I should like,' said Paul Aldershaw,
to have a few words with you, Snowy,
when you have despatched the letters. It
will not inconvenience you, I hope, to stop
at the office half-an-hour or so later this
evening ?'

p2

Not in the least.'

Very good. When you have dismissed
the clerks, come to me.'

The merchant prince now began to
busy himself with some papers on his
desk before him. His face was thoughtful
: he had suppressed the painful look.
He was calm and statue-like.

Are you at leisure now ?' he demanded,
looking up as Snowy stepped into the
room.

Perfectly, Mr. Aldershaw.'

'Be good enough, Snowy, to take a
chair.'

The manager drew one forward, and,
seating himself opposite to the merchant,
waited for him to speak.

I have serious thoughts,' began Paul
Aldershaw, after a pause, * of making some
changes in the office. I find that my

health will no longer support this constant
wear and tear of City life ; nor is it
necessary, even supposing my nerves were
stronger, that I should continue to give
undivided attention to commerce. The
affairs of the firm, as you have good reason
to know, are in a very satisfactory condition
; I have no desire to increase our
connection at home or abroad. In fact, it
would be advisable to consider whether, in
the course of next year, we could not readjust
affairs with foreign correspondents.
But that is a matter of detail which we
will reserve for discussion upon another
occasion. I wish to consolidate the
business, you will understand, rather than
extend it.'

In this princely style he addressed his
manager. A prime minister could scarcely
have been more dignified, or formal, had

he been making a statement to bis secretary
on affairs of state. Snowy listened
attentively without offering to interrupt the
merchant.

^ First and foremost Paul Aldershaw
continued, ' it must be distinctly understood
that I have no intention of retiring.
I shall ask you to take the helm, if I may
so express myself, but I shall not leave the
ship. In all probability I shall reside at
Oaklandss a great part of the year. That,
however, is not a matter of certainty, nor
is it of great importance, for wherever I
am I shall have too much confidence in
you ^o feel any anxiety. In fact, if I gave
myself she slightest uneasiness I should be
defeating my object. I am going to take
things quietly,' added the merchant. ' I amin
need of repose.'

He leaned back in his chair with his legs

crossed and his hands clasped together in
his most statuesque attitude.

establish yourself,' he instructed his
manager, ' in Mr. Grimwade's room. Get
rid of the dust : re-arrange the document-boxes
and old ledgers. That's the first
thing to be done. I have no personal
recollection of our late senior partner ;
but my father, I remember, always held
him in high esteem as being very businesslike
and methodical ; so it is high time
we began to show some respect for his
memory by putting his office in order. I
am quite sure that you will do all in your
power, Snowy, to prove yourself a worthy
successor to Mr. Grimwade.'

*You may rely upon that, Mr. Alder-shaw.'


swell,' the merchant went on, taking a
document from his desk, * here, you see.

is a rough draft of the deed which the
lawyers have drawn up under my direction,
with reference to this matter. You
will have the right per procuration to sign
for the firm. The concern will be carried
on under your superintendence ; a
percentage of the profits, derived from
the business, will be placed to your credit,
and, independent of that, you will have
the right to draw a specified sum per
annum as manager. In fact, you will
virtually occupy the position of junior
partner in the house.'

^ An enviable position indeed,' said
Snowy.

Possibly,' Paul Aldershaw acknowledged,
with a look of pride; 'but not
more than you merit. Your patience,
tact, and intelligence could not be surpassed
; your industry has been unflagging.

You have made yourself indispensable tome.
That is the whole secret

The merchant smiled blandly, and
handed the draft of the momentous
document to Snowy.

Examine this carefully,' said he, ' and
then return it to me. If you have any
amendments to suggest, I shall be ready
and willing to consider them. That is
all, I think, that I have to say on this
subject to-night. Now, with regard to
John Wildrake . . . What noise is that ?'

'I heard nothing said Snowy, glancing
about the room.

You have dismissed the clerks ?'

Every one of them.'

*Yery odd,' said the merchant. ' I am
certainly under the impression that I
heard some one in the office. My nerves
must indeed be out of order. I must

get away from town as soon as possible
Shall I take a look round ? Perhaps
. . .'

By no means,' Paul Aldershaw insisted,
raising his hand. *It is of no great
moment whether there was a noise or
not. What have you to report to me
about Wildrake ?'

He is going from bad to worse.'

You mean, he drinks more deeply?'

No, Mr. Aldershaw,'" said Snowy, with
some hesitation.

'What then?'

He has met the man,' said Snowy,
against whom he has this supposed
grievance.'

Concerning his lost daughter ?'

*Yes.'

That this daughter was an inmate of
Snowy's house, and a different woman to

what one imagined, was a secret which the
manager could not disclose, even to the
merchant, without committing a breach of
confidence ; and Paul Aldershaw, he was
convinced, would have been the first to
acknowledge this if placed in a similar
position. This reflection relieved his
conscience with regard to that portion
of the affair which related to Madame
Helen.

But John Wildrake's attitude at the
present moment was another matter :
Snowbj was accountable to the merchant,
in a certain degree, for the old clerk's
conduct. It was therefore his duty to
repeat what he had recently heard from
his vigilant friend Nedlicott about the
man.

swell?' said the merchant, with signs
of anxiety.

This meeting,' said Snowy, ' bas distracted
him. It has changed his character,
his very mode of life. He has
become a sober and uncommunicative
person. He steals out after dark, no
one knows where. He has not been
seen at his favourite tavern for days.
If he ever was bent on mischief, Mr.
Aldershaw — if he ever was a danger to
society, as you once yourself suggested,
he is so now. For this man whom he has
met, according to Wildrake's own account,
struck him down without satisfying him
about his daughter, and quitted him as he
might have done a dog.'

The merchant looked up quickly, as
though doubting if he had heard aright,
and demanded :

*Did you say, "struck Wildrake down?'

Before Snowy could reply, the door of

Mr. Grimwade's oflSce, leading into Paul
Aldershaw's room, slowly opened. The
murky light from the crescent moon fell
upon the threshold. John Wildrake appeared
like an apparition. His face was
ghastly, his eyes restless and unnaturally
bright ; he glared about him without
seeming to fix his attention for an
instant upon any object. His nervous
fingers crept constantly over his features,
or clutched at his torn and muddy
clothes. His plight was pitiable and
repulsive.

At sight of this weird figure, Paul
Aldershaw sprang to his feet. The beating
of his heart seemed arrested, and a
chill crept through his veins ; a dreadful
thought had flashed upon him.

'Wildrake!' he exclaimed, in a broken
voice, * what does this mean ?'

Wild rake stared at the merchant, and
then bent his eyes to the ground, and
passed his hand across his forehead. He
offered no word of explanation ; he looked
as though his thoughts had been scattered
by an overwhelming shock. The merchant
again addressed him.

Can I do anything for you ?'

Nothing.'

Then why have you come here ?' said
Paul Aldershaw, ' and at this hour ?'

Wildrake's eyes wandered, and he
twitched more nervously still at the collar
of his coat.

'That's the question,' said he, slowly,
^ which I'm asking myself — why am I here
to-night ? Why, of all the wretched nights
of my life, should I venture to come hereon
this one, the most wretched ?'

He paused with an air of great trouble
and perplexity.

It's for the last time,' said he — * the
last time. I'm going to take a journey.
It's a long one — a very long journey,
Mr. Aldershaw. I shall never come
back.'

The merchant turned to his manager
without hesitation.

Snowy,' said he, * provide John
Wild rake with any money he may
require . . .'

^No, no,' interrupted Wildrake, ^ my
journey is paid.'

Paul Aldershaw glanced keenly at Wild-rake's
face.

Are you going to emigrate ?'

*Yes, Mr. Aldershaw. You might call
it emigration.'

Why so ?'

Why ? Because, sir, everything is
found,' replied Wildrake, in a confused
manner. * Passage free.'

Again the merchant looked searchingly
at his old clerk.

When do you start, Wildrake, on this
journey ?'

^ To-night. Can I have a word with you,
sir, alone?'

The merchant made a sign to his manager
to leave them.

The clerk's office had a dark and deserted
appearance. Snowy returned to
his desk and sat down. His mind was
uneasy ; he regretted being excluded
from this interview. He had a presentiment
of disaster. He could distinguish
the voices of the merchant and his old
clerk: broken words even reached him.

Wildrake's voice predominated. The tone
was passionately excited. There were
agonizing pauses ; and when the merchant
spoke it was only to utter a short and
angry exclamation or remonstrance.
Snowy's senses were therefore strung to a
high nervous pitch.

Suddenly a shriek of horror came from
Mr. Aldershaw's room.

Snowy leaped from his chair and ran in
breathless.

The merchant was stretched upon the
ground between his chair and the writing-table.
He lay there a motionless heap
with his hands tightly clenched above his
head. Snowy threw a hasty glance
around. There were no signs of any
violence having been committed. The
shaded lamp was burning steadily upon
the table : not an article in the room was

VOL. II. Q

disarranged. Wildrake was standing with
his hand on Mr. Grimwade's door. He
cast a scared look at Snowbj over his
shoulder and disappeared. The look
haunted the manager for days.

Lifting the merchant from the floor
Snowy discovered that he was rigid and
black in the face. He hastened to loosen
his collar, and used every means in his
power to revive him. Struggling for some
moments as though with death, Paul
Aldershaw began at last to show signs oE
consciousness. The colour returned to
his cheeks and he opened his eyes.

Where,' said he, grasping Snowy's arm,
where is Wildrake ?'

Gone.'

You have let him escape ?'

Snowy explained to the merchant the
situation in which he had found him. To

have busied himself at such a moment with
attempting to detain Wildrake, he averred,
might have resulted in his (Mr. Alder-shaw's)
death.

^ True he owned. ' How could you
know ?'

His voice was strangely agitated, and
his hands trembled like a palsied old
man's.

Assist me to my carriage said he, rising
in a feeble manner. * I am rather
shaken. I've received some startling
news

Snowy gave the merchant his arm.
They went down the staircase slowly.
The moon was still visible, above the tall
houses in the old square, and touched that
side of the quadrangle upon which they
came out. The other side lay in deep
shadows. Paul Aldershaw shuddered as

q2

they issued forti into the gloomy might,

The air is keen said he, peering
nervously about. ^ Is my carriage there ?'

It was waiting outside the dark archway
beyond the square. As soon as the
merchant had taken his seat, he whispered
hurriedly to Snowy, who stood at the
carriage window :

Take a cab. Drive post-haste to Scotland
Yard. Bring a detective with you
to my house. It is of vital importance
that not a moment should be
lost;

I understand.'

It is a matter of life and death,' added
Paul Aldershaw.

On descending from his carriage and
stepping into the hall of his great Tyburn
mansion, the merchant observed
Marion on the staircase. She looked at

him wistfully, and then something in his
face impelled her to hasten to his side.
They went into Mr. Aldershaw's room
together.

As soon as the door was closed he sank
into his chair, near the fire, pale and
shivering. Marion regarded him with
alarm.

Father,' said the girl, ' how ill you
look !'

She took his hand : it was deadly cold
and still trembling.

Has anything happened ?'

*Yes, Marion, something said he,
deeply agitated, — ' something which I
would have given a fortune to prevent.'

And a look of agony crossed his
face.

I am expecting a visitor,' he presently
added, rousing himself. * I must brace

my nerves for the interview. He ray
arrive at any moment

Marion proved herself devoted. Swiftly,
but without a sound, she went in search
of wine. She forbade a servant to enter
the library. She brought her father his
dressing-gown and slippers for the first
time with her own hands, and tended him
without an unnecessary word or movement.
He rapidly recovered his usual composure:
and it was only in his restless
eyes that the active working of his brain
now found expression.

There was a knock at the library
door.

At last,' said the merchant. * Leave
me, Marion.'

As Marion hastened from the room
Snowy stepped in, followed by a 

man with piercing black eyes
and a black tuft of whisker under each
ear — a typical detective.

The merchant motioned to his visitors
to be seated.

this evening said Paul Aldershaw,
glancing at the detective, ' in fact, scarcely
an hour ago, I received an extraordinary
communication. Briefly, it is
this.'

The detective took from a side pocket an
oblong note-book. Detaching a pencil, he
prepared, while making a table of his
knee, to write his memoranda.

Detained later than usual, at the office,
with Mr. Snowy,' the merchant explained,
with a wave of the hand towards his
manager, ' I was interrupted in the midst
of some business by a man, who, without

any ceremony, walked into my room and
asked leave to have a few words with mein
private.'

The detective looked up from his notebook.


Anyone, sir, of whom you had previous
knowledge ?'

Yes : an old clerk.'

What name ?'
^JohnWildrake.'

Address?'

Gable Court, Thames Street.'
The detective nodded.

Well-known, sir,' said he, * to the
Force.'

*His appearance,' continued the merchant,
* roused my suspicions. His
clothes were in rags and covered with
mud. I agreed to hear, in private, what
he had to say. At first I thought he

must be out of his mind : his words were
so like the ravings of a madman. But I
soon had reason — being acquainted with
John Wildrake's character — to change my
opinion. His story was long and disconnected.
To repeat it in detail now
would be wasting precious moments. I
will rapidly relate the mere substance of
his disclosure without unnecessary detail
or comment. You must accept it for
what it is worth.'

The detective expressed his approval.

This evening, about seven o'clock the
merchant began, john Wildrake walks
out, as he says, to Batswing Heath.
There he descries Sir Michael Valroy — a
man for whom he entertains a most
deadly hatred. He has gone there in
search of his enemy, and with the direct
object of doing him bodily harm. He

steps up behind him without a word or
warning. Wildrake carries a heavy stick
in his hand. At the very moment when
Sir Michael Valroy turns and faces him
he delivers his blow. He fells his victim
like an ox, before he can grapple with his
assailant, or before he can even stand on
guard. In a word, Sir Michael Valois
stretched upon the road on Batswing
Common, in clear moonlight, dead at
Wildrake's feet.'

The intensely earnest tone in which the
merchant spoke, his contracted eyebrows,
and his keen look fixed as though upon a
dreadful vision of the scene which he was
recounting, had a deep effect upon Snowy.
He could scarcely have turned paler
had he been witnessing the deed. The
detective, perfectly unmoved, did not even
raise his eyes from his note-book. His

pencil even, although it became stationary,
pointed towards the page upon which he
had been writing, in readiness when Mr.
Aldershaw should think fit to resume.
The merchant hardly paused a moment.


What happens then ?' he resumed.
John Wildrake, aghast at the situation
looks about him for a likely place in
which to conceal this terrible evidence of
his crime. He is at his wits' end. The
large pool on the common, within view
from where he stands, catches his eye.
No doubt — as you will find if you go
there — it conceals a secret in this still
moonlit night. It is the sort of place
which might be chosen for hiding some
hideous handiwork. Wildrake quickly
makes his choice. In a deep spot in this, pool
he sinks out of sight all traces of his deed.

The tragedy is played out. He then takes
to flight. He reaches the City. Passing
by the old square, in which he has spent
his best days, he stops and enters. Ina
bewildered, half crazy state of mind he
finds himself in my office. Seeing me
there, his former friend, he makes this
awful confession.'

The detective closed his note-book,
dropped it into his side pocket, and rising
quickly, said,

You have nothing, sir, to add ?'

Nothing,' said the merchant, ' except
to warn you that Wildrake is still at
large.'

Good-night, sir,' said the detective,
stepping towards the door.

One moment. You are going to make
a search ?'

Yes.'

The merchant turned to Snowy.

I would ask you, as a favour, to be one
of the party. Can this be managed T he
added, addressing the detective.

Certainly.'

The two men took their leave.

A light dog-cart awaited them at the
corner of the square. Snowy mounted
into a seat behind, and the detective placed
himself beside the driver.

They went swiftly along in the direction
which led towards the Thames. One of
the bridges was soon crossed ; and presently
passing through a large suburb, southwest
of London, they came out upon Bats-wing
Heath.

Not a word was spoken during the drive.
But Snowy, looking over his shoulder
as they sped across the common, uttered
an exclamation of surprise at seeing two

men step into the middle of the moonlit
road directly in their path.

These men as it will be surmised, were
Ludlaw and the landlord of ' The Hunted
Stag.'

CHAPTER X.

DRIFTED.

Ted Nedlicott on his way home from the
Frivolity ' was arrested by the sound of
voices at the gate-way of Gable Court.
The voices were not loud — no more than
excited whispers issuing from the open
door of the old mansion. As Nedlicott
hurried into the yard, with a sense of
serious misgiving, Mr. Isaacs came oat to
meet him. The Jew had a scared look on
his face.

What is it now ?' the secretary demanded.


The worst,' said the Jew, wringing his
hands, 'the worst that could possibly
happen. He is accused of murder.'

Wildrake ?' exclaimed Nedlicott.

Yes.'

Where is he ?'

Upstairs. Hush !' said the Jew, lowering
his voice. * He has planned his escape.
If he is guilty . . .'

The old man stopped.

'Well?'

He will cheat justice.'

How ?'

The Jew put his face close to 's,
and uttered a few words in his
ear.

Nedlicott started back and looked anxiously
at Mr. Isaacs.

So soon ?'

^ Yes. This time there is no hope.'

The two men stood upon the steps, outside
the door, under the lamp, staring awestricken
into each other s faces. Midnight
struck, awakening low echoes in the
court-yard. With the last stroke of the
deep bell of St. Paul's, the City fell once
more, as it seemed, into a dead repose ;
only on the river-side, among the barges,
could be heard the muttering of the current
in its rapid course. That tide was
ebbing fast !

The house door being open, Nedlicott
observed dark figures moving about in the
hall and up and down the sombre staircase.
A man in a thick top-coat, with piercing
black eyes and a tuft of black whisker
under each ear, came out and looked
at him keenly and then went in again.

VOL. II. R

As this man disappeared, the Jew glanced
at Nedlicott significantly. Nedlicott
nodded and asked :

Is Mr. Snowy here ?*

^No.'

I'll go for him,' said the secretary, * at
once.'

That's right,' said Mr. Isaacs, approvingly.
^ He will certainly be wanted.'

Nedlicott hastened out into Thames
Street, and turned his steps towards
Blackfriars. Engaging the first cab he
met, he drove to Brixton in search of
Mr. Aldershaw's manager.

On more than one occasion Nedlicott
had remarked, when conversing with
Snowy about Wildrake, that some important
incidents connected with the old
clerk's life were known to him — incidents
about which he was evidently forced to

guard silence. Snowy, he remembered,
had only gone so far as to hint at the
existence of some person or persons interested
in Wildrake who would one day
express their gratitude to him for having
befriended a stranger by the wayside.
Nedlicott was the last man to seek any
such acknowledgment ; but the fact that
Mr. Aldershaw's manager was better acquainted
with Wildrake's story — at least
in earlier days — made it imperative that
he (Nedlicott) should acquaint Snowy
with everything which came under his
notice regarding this unfortunate man.
Would the news, thought Nedlicott, which
he was conveying to-night be the last?
It was greatly to be feared ; and he
dreaded to think what might be the issue
of his visit on so tragic an errand as the
one upon which he was now bent.

b2

The little villa at Brixton, at this
midnight hour, contained two watching,
anxious women ; for Snowy had not yet
returned home. They were in Helen
Yalroy's room, where they had passed
so many evenings together. Both were
strangely silent and self-absorbed. Helen,
full of inquietude, rose frequently and went
to the window to look out into the leafless
boulevard upon the cold moonlit
night. Since the painful meeting with
her husband in Ludlaw's chambers on
the previous day, she had known no rest.

^ Katie,' said she, 'that hideous presentiment
about which I spoke to you
this morning clings to me and grows
stronger every moment. I cannot shake
it off. I must go and see him, even tonight.'


Kate Snowy, seated at the table with

her face between ber hands, turned her
dreamy eyes towards her friend.

At this late hour, Helen ?'

^ Yes ; something urges me.'
'Wait. Father will return soon.'

I cannot !' said Helen, rising hurriedly
from her chair.

^ Would you go alone?'

*I would do anything,' was the answer,
to end this suspense.'

She passed into an adjoining room, and
came quickly back with a hooded cloak
thrown around her. Katie started up
aud placed a hand upon her arm.

Helen ! are you mad ?'

*I shall be she replied, moving towards
the door, ' if I stay here inactive
any longer.'

Katie appealed to her in an earnest,
supplicating tone.

*I implore — wait until father comes
home. He may be there now; he may
bring you news of him which will ease
your mind. You have been so patient
for weeks, dear Helen ; be patient one
hour more . . .'

Another hour ? It is an age. No ; do
not try to change my purpose. I have
been weak and purposeless too long ! I
must not lose a moment now. What
years I have wasted ! and he has been
listening and waiting for me all this while.
You would not wish me, Katie, to reach
his wretched garret when it is too late ?
That is what I most dread : it is the presentiment
which has troubled me all day.
Too late ? It would be terrible.'

Deeply agitated, she once more laid her
hand upon the door.

Listen !* said Katie, springing towards

the window. ^ Is not that the sound of
wheels ?'

'Yes!'

They stood side by side, holding each
other in expressive silence. A vehicle
driving rapidly up to the house : Katie lifted
the curtain and looked down into the
road. Some one stepped out and came
quickly through the little gateway. Katie's
heart beat fast.

It's Mr. Nedlicott,' she whispered, recognising
him in the moonlight. ' It's my
Ned!'

Alone?' said Helen, with a look of alarm -,
what can it mean ?'

There was a low knock at the hall door.

You shall soon know.'

Saying which, Katie fled down-stairs.

Helen Valroy sank into a chair with
her head resting upon her hands. In

this attitude, bewildered by anxious surprising,
she waited. She was as pale and
motionless as a statue, her cloak still
around her in agitated folds. Her eyes,
"which were feverishly bright, were fixed
and stricken with a look of painful expectation
: her face was startling in its tragic
beauty : every line was reposeful yet full
of life.

A few minutes passed and Katie returned.
She came quietly beside her friend
and sat down.

^ Helen,' said she, ' dear Helen.'

Helen Yalroy did not change her attitude;
but she half closed her eyes as
though listening with strange attention to
the tone of Katie's voice.

Mr. Nedlicott comes from Gable Court.
Will you go back with him ?'

Helen lifted her head suddenly and

looked with consternation into Katie's
face.

You do not dissuade me now?'
^ No, not now.'

Why not ? Because he is dead ?'
No, Helen. It is because . . .'

What, Katie ?'

The girl bent closely over her friend and
said, in a low voice,

'Because the end is near.'

Without a word Helen rose from her
chair. A slight shudder passed over her
as she drew her cloak about her shoulders ;
then, moving quickly across the room, she
followed Katie down-stairs.

An hour later — when the tide was still
ebbing on its dark way past Gable Court —
Helen Valroy hurriedly ascended the steps
of the old mansion. Nedlicott was at her

side, and they at once gained admittance
at the hands of the watchful Jew.

Entering the dimly-lighted hall, Nedli-
cost spoke a word in Mr. Isaacs' ear, and
then led the way up the dark, oaken staircase
towards John Wildrake's room. The
voices had ceased : the shadowy forms
which Nedlicott had seen — even the man
with the piercing black eyes — had disappeared.
The Jew remained at the foot
of the stairs stroking his long white beard,
and with the far-off look in his pensive
gaze.

On reaching the third-floor landing,
Helen Yalroy observed, in an obscure
corner near the door, an uncouth, crouching
form. The head was bent forward,
and the long, tangled hair fell over the
knees, which were tightly embraced by
the two bare, long arms. This strange

creature was shaken by stifled sobs.
Helen stopped, and touched Nedlicott's
arm.

Who is this ?' she whispered, with a
look of wonder in her face.

'A waif,' said Nedlicott. * She is called
Mimosa.'

Why is she crying ?'

Nedlicott answered, in a low voice :

He was kind to her. It must be for

him — for John Wildrake.'

'Did she tend him, sometimes, do you

think ?'

Yes, like a faithful slave.*

Helen knelt down beside Mimosa. Taking
the girl's small, thin hand in hers, she
bent gently over it. A tear fell upon
the hand as she touched it with her lips.
Then rising, she turned quickly away,
and followed Nedlicott into Wildrake's

chamber. The guttering candle was burning
on the chest of drawers, feebly lighting
up the miserable garret. Helen glanced
despairingly around her. On the squalid
bed, in his old, grey dressing-gown, lay
John Wildrake, her neglected father. His
head was thrown back on his right arm :
the collar, wide open, exposed the throat,
but he was breathing heavily, and his eyes
were half closed. He looked like one ina
profound and troubled sleep.

After gazing in amazement for some
moments at this wretched figure, as though
it were difficult of identification, Helen
turned an appealing look at Nedlicott.
He comprehended her meaning at once,
and, moving towards the door, he went
out, closing it softly behind him.

No sooner alone than Helen stepped
swiftly to the bed-side, and threw herself

down with a low and agonizing cry. The
cloak, disengaged from her shoulders, fell
in a whirl of folds at her feet. Her long
arms encircled the sleeping figure : her
eyes were fixed intently on the worn and
wrinkled face.

The change in her father, since she had
left her home to become the wife of Sir
Michael Yalroy, surpassed all expectation,
although more than fifteen years had gone
by. It was pitiable. Had she met him
without previous warning, recognition
would have been difficult indeed.

Wildrake stirred : low muttering sounds
escaped his lips, which gradually formed
themselves into words.

Listen ! Don't you hear it now? One
moment, Ned : only one moment. She's
coming back. That's my daughter's footstep.
Hark ! I never heard it so distinct

— never so distinctly as to-night. She's
coming back at last.'

The muttering grew inaudible and the
painful breathing continued, the eyes
being still partly closed. Helen's regard
was fixed upon her father's face with an
intense expression.

Had he heard her enter his room ? or
was this raving, Helen wondered, the
reminiscence of the footsteps which had
haunted him for so many years ? His
brain was consumed by fever : she watched
with eagerness every shadow of a change
which passed over him. Presently Wild-rake
resumed, with a slight start,

No, Mr. Aldershaw. No, sir, not that !
I've a scheme for teaching the rising
generation how to speak . . . the rising
generation. I've taken a third-floor front.
My landlord . I owe him money.

What I mean is . . . money. Eh ? Has
he faith in elocution ? Not he ! He's an
ignorant Jew. He has asked me to pay
my rent. What? That's what. 1 told
everyone . . . happily married ! No, no.
She is lost. Do I know him ? Do I know
the man who has robbed me of my daughter
? . . . Yes, that's his name : Sir Michael
Yalroy I'

A few unintelligible and broken sentences
followed ; and then for awhile he
remained silent : as though the imaginary
interview with the merchant prince had
come to an end. But another scene began
to exert its influence over his feverish
fancy — a scene of stirring and tragic intensity.
An exclamation escaped his lips,
and he struggled into a sitting posture,
and with his eyes wide open and as watchful
as a hawk's. He stared as though a

vision were rising up, and passing before
him in the dimly-lighted room.

Now,' he whispered, gasping for breath ,
and ghastly pale, ' now ! It's my turn at
last. He struck me down. Did he think
to do that with impunity? I asked him
for my daughter, and he struck me down 1
. . How swiftly he walks ! Does he
suspect that I am close behind ? . . . Sto,
no. He does not look back . he suspects
nothing. He shall not escape me
I have sworn that. There is no
power that can hold my hand . . . there
is no power. Hush ! Does he hear ?
No . . . That's well. Softly . . . softly
i . now I'

He raised his right arm and aimed so
vicious a blow at the air that he fell over
with a groan on his left side. His whole
expression was full of vindictiveness and

destruction. Helen Valroy recoiled with
a look of horror.

The vision was still in his eyes, but
now as though directly below his feet.

How the moonlight clings to his face !
. . He's sinking, sinking fast. What
shadow is that? Is it the black cloud
over the pool ? Ha ! he is rising — rising
out of the pool. Why is he dressed
in white? Keep him down — keep
him down. The water is red with his
blood r

He shrieked plaintively : then, falling
back with a gasp upon his pillow, he lay
silent and motionless. The terrified look in
his eyes subsided, and the heavy breathing
ceased : for the sleep John Wildrake had
fallen into now was one out of which he
would never awake. He had drifted :
drifted at last beyond the sound of

VOL. II. s

his daughter's footsteps — the footsteps
which had haunted him for so many
years.

Pacing up and down this dismal chamber
— as though with those luckless footsteps
she were essaying to re-animate her
dead father, and wring from him a contradiction
of her dreadful thoughts —
Helen Valroy's face underwent a startling
change. The tenderness of her expression
vanished, and her beautiful features became
hard and haggard, like the features
of an old woman. Her eyes, a moment
before flooded with tears, now flashed
with passionate resentment and reproach,
and the lines which crossed her forehead
were fierce and unforgiving. She shrank
back, shuddering each time she passed his
bed. Her brain was throbbing madly, for
she could not cast aside a conviction

which had thrust itself upon her : the
dead man seemed uttering the words :

Her husband is murdered: her father
has done the deed.

Throwing her cloak once more around
her with trembling hands, Helen Valroy
fled from the room with one swift glance
behind. The shock of her discovery had
stricken her with a bewilderment more
serious than the deepest grief : a terror
had seized upon her which threatened
to unhinge her mind, and destroy all
rational reflection at the moment when it
was needed most. She descended the
staircase, listening at every step, with a
piteous look of mental aberration gathering
in her eyes. She met no one ; but as
she passed along the hall a light, issuing
through a half-open door, attracted her
attention. She peered into the room. It

s2

was a large work-shop, filled with frames
tablets, and other church decorations in
an unfinished state. In this room she
perceived Nedlicott and the old Jew
standing over a low fire, and speaking
together in subdued voices.

Who told you this ?' ISFedlicott questioned
the old Jew.

The detective.'

As being Wildrake's story ?'

His confession,' the Jew affirmed. * The
bad one openly avowed his crime to Paul
Aldershaw.'

There is no doubt . . . '

None. The details have proved correct.'


They have found Sir Michael Yalroy ?'

Dead.'

In the pool ?'

Yes ; on Batswing Heath,' replied the

Jew. ' You remember the heavy stick
which Wildrake carried about with him at
night?'

I remember.'

That was his weapon. He killed Sir
Michael Valroy with that.'

Helen waited to hear no more. She
glided noiselessly along the hall. The
front door was standing ajar, and she
passed into Gable Court, her arms outstretched,
as though she had been sud *
deny struck with blindness. Crossing
the old yard with staggering footsteps, she
stopped and leaned half swooning against
the wall of a great warehouse at the riverside,
among the shadows.

The sound of the ebbing tide, whispering
around the dark barges, presently fell
upon her ear. She uttered a low cry,
and, turning with a sudden impulse, she

approached the water's edge. She could
see nothing below her feet ; but from the
lapping noise of the current against the
bank, at the spot where she stood, Helen
Valroy knew that with one step she could
end all the misery and shame which had
fallen upon her.

She had reached the brink, and was
about to spring forward, when she felt
two arms clasped round her figure like a
vice. She was held forcibly back.

Who's this ?' she cried, struggling
to free herself. * 1 implore you, let me
go.'

Not me.'

What is your name ?'

Mimosa. Do you know me now ?'
'Yes.'

Then listen ! Let me die with you

*Why?' Helen demanded, in a tone of
surprise.

Because I liked him. I don't want to
live.'

Have you no friends ?'

Not now he's gone.'

No home ?'

There's a cupboard on the staircase.
It belonged to him: it's where he kept
his lumber. That was my home. I've no
home now.'

'Poor child!'

Helen Valroy stooped and placed her
arms protecting round the girl.

Mimosa knelt down at her feet and
burst into tears.

Don't cry, Mimosa. You shall have
another home.'

Near you ?'

Yes, Dear me : miles and miles away.'

You do not wish to die ?'

^ No, no, please God, not now V

She shuddered, and hastened from the

river's edge, and out of the shadows.
Mimosa followed.
The tide had turned, and Helen Valroy

was saved.

Chapter XL

THE LAST ACT.

Years have gone by — three long years.

The great house of Aldershaw, Grim-wade
and Company still prospers. Paul
Aldershaw, carrying out his project of
dusting the late Mr. Grimwade's office,
has instated Mr. Snowy there as junior
partner: this plan enables the merchant
prince to pass some months of the year
at Oaklandss, his country seat in Yorkshire.


Marion, more devoted than ever to her

father, cannot be induced to leave him
although she has had many brilliant offers
of marriage.

There is no reserve between Marion and
her father now — except on one subject:
Roy Yalroy.

Paul Aldershaw's character is altered.
He is no longer the haughty, statuesque
personage of former days. He has become
natural : his manner is genial towards
everyone. Even his interest in art
has revived.

Snowy, who takes much credit to
himself concerning this change, is deeply
gratified; for he has, he believes, since
his promotion, lifted a load off Mr. Alder-shaw's
shoulders. And whether Snowy's
theory be true or false, as to his share
in bringing about the merchant's rejuvenescence,
no one denies, who knows anything

about the great house, that the
junior partner is the right man in the
right place.

Snowy's dream of a mansion in Park
Lane and a carriage and pair has dissolved.
He begins to acknowledge (to
himself) that Katie was right ; the * little
place at Brixton ' is good enough for him.
He lives there all alone ; for Katie and
Nedlicott are married : but they rent a
villa on the opposite side of the * boulevard,'
and there is another Katie there
now who is often taken over, and sits on
Snowy's knee, and puts her arms around
his neck, just as Katie herself had done
when she was a child.

Nedlicott, who has become part-proprietor
of the * Frivolity,' still superintends
the production of Mr. Cheadle's comedies.
Nor has Nedlicott's popularity at the

'Fresco' diminished. He sings his one
great song there (for the members will
not hear of any ' change of programme ')
every Saturday evening with rounds of
applause. Snowy has been elected a
member of the club : but that gentleman's
dignified position, as partner in the house
of Aldershaw, will no longer permit him
to own that he has a voice. He has never
been known to sing a song, even at home,
since the deed of partnership has been
signed.

Nedlicott's mother, who has not yet
quite forgiven Katie for taking her son
away from her, still looks out through the
glass window of her snug parlour for the
shadows of customers. And scarcely a
day passes without the shadow of the old
Jew darkening the threshold ; for he looks
in to have his snuff-box replenished, and

to gossip with Mrs. Nedlicott about ibis
lodgers : and sometimes, when shaking
his bead over some troublesome * floor ' in
Gable Court;, wbo happens to be in arrears
with his rent, he is reminded of the * bad
one,' and his gaze becomes distant and
melancholy. That eccentric lodger and
all his tragic surroundings can never be
forgotten.

Helen Valroy leads a restless life
abroad. She corresponds with Katie ;
but her letters are seldom dated from the
same town. She is sometimes in Italy,
sometimes in Switzerland, sometimes in
France. Mimosa travels with her. That
late inhabitant of Gable Court, now that
the black patches have been permanently
removed from her face, exhibits signs of
beauty ; and, under Helen's careful supervision,
she is developing some brain

power which was not supposed to exist
during the Gable Court period of her
existence.

Another, though less frequent correspondent
of Helen Valroy's is Ludlaw.
In his matter-of-fact, business-like manner,
he continues to show himself her
friend. He has, in fact, the same kind of
affection for old clients which he has for
old deeds. Surrounded by these documents
in Pump Court, he has only to
glance around him to recal to mind the
causes ' in which he has pleaded eloquently
any time these twenty years. That he
has a fine, original intellect nobody ever
doubts ; but his ^ system of order ' is one
which cannot be explained to any person's
satisfaction except his own.

Ludlaw — as he sits one morning over

his breakfast and cigarette at his chambers
in Pump Court — looks the same ashe
did three years ago. It is true that
his hair is touched with grey, and that
the crows feet at the corners of his eyes
are becoming pronounced. But these
shadings ' give an expression of increased
shrewdness to his face.

Presently a knock at the staircase door
brings a flash of expectation to the lawyer's
eyes. He rises hastily, and stands
in a listening attitude.

There is a quick step in the passage,
and the door opens, and a handsome fellow,
with a sunburnt face, springs into the
room.

My learned friend !'

Ludlaw ! How are you ?'

The two men shake hands very heartily,

and then look at each other with searching
eyes.

So,' declares Ludlaw, ^ you have come
back to England at last !'

Yes ; at last.'

That's well asserts the lawyer. ' You
have acted wisely. You will win her
now.'

Is it possible that Marion . . .'

Quite possible. She's not married
yet.'

Eoy sinks into Ludlaw's chair. Since
his parting with Marion at the Cheadles'
house in Chelsea, three years ago, he has
never once set foot in England. He has
become a famous traveller ; the most unfrequented
regions of Asia, Africa, and
America have been explored by him. He
has escaped death a dozen times, and, of

course, in a dozen different ways. Reckless
in adventure, he has sought rather than
avoided danger. Life without Marion was
valueless to him.

At length news reached him — news
that was many months old— relating how
Viscount Dwyver, Lord Mounthaw's only
SOD, was drowned. He had been caught
in a storm off the Irish coast, while
cruising with his yacht, and all hands onboard
had perished.

A year passed : and then came news of
the death of the Earl of Mounthaw. He
was reported never to have recovered from
the shock which he had sustained on
hearing of his son's loss. Lady Mount-haw
survived her husband only a few
months.

Eoy Valroy, thus finding himself unex-

VOL. II. T

pectedly the owner of Mounthaw, resolved
to return at once to England.

*I have travelled, Ludlaw, night and
day from Marseilles. Did you get my
telegram ?'

Yes. I expected you this morning.'
Ah ! Shall we start to-day for Mount-haw?'


This afternoon Ludlaw replies. * You
must submit to an interview with the
late earl's solicitors before you leave
town. I have made an appointment
for you at eleven o'clock in Lincoln's
Inn.'

Many thanks. Now give me something
to eat and tell me all the news.
How like old times ! Do you remember
our days here together when I was first
called to the Bar? Ah, Ludlaw, what

an age it seems : and yet I am still
young !'

Next morning — a bright midsummer's
morning in July — Roy Valroy is walking
briskly across the fields from Mount-haw,
and soon reaches the home park
leading to Oaklandss.

Paul Aldershaw's mansion comes insight
when Roy turns into the old avenue
— an avenue of elm-trees nearly a
mile in length.

His heart beats wildly at the thought of
meeting Marion once more. Will she have
forgotten ? That is the one question
which he repeals to himself a hundred
times. Will she have forgotten?

As he approaches the house — a fine
Elizabethan structure — a gentleman

T 2

appears in sight and advances to meet
him.

My hero ! why,' he exclaims, ^ I do
declare — from a dramatic point of view —
this is the situation I am waiting for. You
have saved the comedy !'

Have I, Cheadle?'

^ Have you ? Why, I'll undertake as
soon as you like to ring down the curtain [
Act the fifth : scene — avenue : mansion in
the background. Enter hero . . .'

Now, Cheadle, be serious. How
is . . .?'

Marion ? In perfect health, and more
lovely than ever !'

Does she know ?'

Of course ! Why, every man, woman,
and child, within ten miles of Oaklandss
knew of your arrival last night.'

But, Cheadle . . :

swell?'

Do you think that Mr. Aldershaw, as a
neighbour, will receive me ?'

What a question ! Now, how can I
from a dramatic point of view — give
you an answer ? It would spoil the
play

Silence ensues. Eoy walks beside the
incorrigible dramatist towards the house.
They cross the lawn, and a flower-garden,
and enter a boudoir through open windows.
There they discover Ada Cheadle, in an
arm-chair, fast asleep. She has not
changed.

Ada, my dear,' says Mr. Cheadle, rousing
his wife. ' Here's our old hero,
Yalroy !'

Ada shakes hands with Roy in a languid

manner, and very much as she would
have done had she met him only the day
before.

Will you tell Marion ? says Mr. Cheadle,
as soon as a few words have been exchanged
between Yalroy and his wife.
Will you tell Marion that Eoy is here ?
We must not forget our heroine.'

Ada rises, and with a languid smile
leaves the room ; but she moves so slowly
that Valroy is almost tempted to rush out
before her and announce himself with a
shout.

And now Mr. Cheadle remarks, stepping
towards the windows. ' I'll retire.
It's more dramatic. What's the next
scene? Meeting between hero and heroine
after a lapse of three years ! I
shall be ready to ring down the curtain

soon : you leave all that business tome.'


With these words Mr. Cheadle makes
his exit, and Valroy finds himself
alone.

It is an anxious moment. Eoy Val-roy's
heart beats faster still. The
minutes seem like hours. Will she never
come?

The door opens at last, and Marion
steps into the room. She holds out her
hand hesitatingly as he advances towards
her. The greeting is like that of friends
not of lovers — except that both are
silent.

You are at Mounthaw now.'

Yes : at Mounthaw.'

Have you been long in England ?'
Since yesterday.'

Eoy Valroj, gaining courage, begins to
study Marion's face. He sees a change
which pains him. She is no less beautiful
now than when they parted ; but her face
is thin and more pale ; and there is in
her eyes a look as though of weariness
through watching too closely the flight of
years.

Roy ventures to inquire, ' Is Mr. Alder-shaw
well ?'

Quite well Marion replies. * He is
away from home.'

^ In London ?'

Yes ; on City affairs,' says Marion.
He does not return for some days.'

Not for some days ! Roy Valroy can
scarcely conceal his disappointment. The
merchant prince's absence means delay.
He had walked over from Mounthaw

picturing to himself a satisfactory interview
with Paul Aldershaw ; and then a
delightful scene with Marion — a scene of
love such as he had known in the old days
after their meeting by the sea. He had
pictured her springing into his arms — or
at least bursting into tears : he had forgotten
that three years had passed since
they parted. But her calmness and dignity
teach him to realize the length of time to
its utmost now.

Taking leave of Marion, after lingering
for a while, he wanders back to Mounthaw
over the fields, strangely depressed and
wishing that he had remained abroad.

And yet he cannot find, in his heart,
that Marion has been colder towards
him than he has been towards her. She
had not refused to see him ; and could he-expect

a different reception after the lapse
of years ? They had been lovers once ;
but that was all ended long ago by mutual
consent.

Eoy waits, by Ludlaw's advice, until
the merchant prince shall return to Oak-lands.


Some days pass. Eoy is growing impatient.
But one morning, on returning
home from a drive with Ludlaw across
the park, he finds a note in Marion
handwriting. It is an invitation to dinner
at Oaklandss ; Mr. Aldershaw has
returned.

Valroy remains all that summer at
Mounthaw ; and scarcely a day passes
without a visit to Oaklandss. He and
Marion become lovers once more ; and after

this second wooing — more passionate than
the first — Marion is won.

In the following spring, Roy Valroy,
Earl of Mounthaw, and Marion Alder-shaw
are married. All the tenants
on the two estates are invited to the
wedding.

Thus the ambitious projects which the
merchant prince had once planned are at
last fulfilled, not only to his heart's
content, but to the content of all those
who are loved by him at Mounthaw.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HODSK.

HURST & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS,

LONDON:

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

ff

MESSRS. HUEST AND Blackens

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

Reminiscences OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev C.

A. Wilkinson, Mea., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

2 vols. With portrait of the King. 21s.
An interesting book, entitled ' Reminiscences of the Court and Times of King
Ernest of Hanover,' has just been published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett. The
two volumes in which these reminiscences of a septuagenarian are comprised
abound in characteristic stories of the old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities
English and foreign, of the early part of this century, and, indeed, of all kinds and
conditions of men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by
his courtly or pastoral office." — <S< James's Gazette.

One of the most interesting and amusing books of this season ; it abounds in
good and new stories of King Ernest, and also of a perfect host of celebrities, both
English and GermsiXi.'"— Truth.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Boyle,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated
by Maps and Plans. sos. •

Mr. Royle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe
not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with
it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards
mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Royle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will unhesitatingly acquit
Mr. Royle of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding"— <S^.
James's Gazette.

THE PALACE AND THE HOSPITAL; or,

Chronicles of Greenwich. By the Rev. A. Gr. Estrange,
Author of ' The Village of Palaces,' ' The Friendships of Mary
Russell Mitford,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.
"Under the title of 'The Palace and the Hospital,' Mr. L'L'Estrange has provided
for those who have a taste for topography, or rather for the historical and biographical
annals of a locality famous in history, two volumes which are rich in
romantic interest, and his pages abound in curious and interesting glimpses of
old manners." — Daily Neics.

Mr. L'L'Estrange's volumes will well repay perusal, and readers who may not
be well versed in English history will gather from them information, agreeably
told, as to many matters besides Greenwich Palace Hospital"— Qwee/i.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol. demy 8vo, With
Map of Route. 15s.

The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject," — Morning Post.

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," " A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jeaffreson 's account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many." — Morning Post.

"Mr. Jeaffreson's book has corrected in not a few cases errors committed by
previous biographers of Shelley, and he has produced fresh and interesting documentary
evidence bearing upon the poet's career." — Graphic.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

'' Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout"— jl/ornjngr Po.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating." — Scotsman.

'• This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit." — Morning Advertiser.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szdlczewski. 2 vols. 21s.
"This book contains a good deal of interesting matter. M. Niemojowski's description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia— tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Burials of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts." — Saturday Review.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

with the 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By

Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab., Formerly Surgeon of the

Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What

makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative

anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation

of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories." — Saturday Review.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. L'L'Estrange,

Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Leland. 2

vols. 21s.

"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success"— ^cac^emy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family"— G'rap/jjc.

THE PICTORIAL PRESS : Its Origin and Progress.
By Mason Jackson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With 150
Illustrations. 16s.
Mr. Mason Jackson's learned and exhaustive work on the ' Pictorial Press,'
with its rare and Curious illustrations, should be acquired and appreciatively consulted,
not only by those amateurs of the art, in the exercise, criticism, and bibliography
of which Mr. Jackson is so skilled a proficient, but by students of the
history of journalism." — Gt. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Molly, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With

Portrait. 21s.

"Peg "Woiflngton makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.

Molly has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life in

the middle of the eighteenth century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to us without

any of the dust and rust of time"— Gr. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. sos.
These volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Russia, Lithuania, and
Poland, during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of
permanent value to the students of history." — Morning Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 Alterations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through \ti
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company." — Times.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. d'Idevillb. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity He was, indeed, a general who
may serve as a pattern to all countries, and his name deserves to live long in thb
memory of his countrymen"— .d^/tenceMm.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,
Camp, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, Cab.,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy I" 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
"When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Ahoy!
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success.
Scarcely a page in his volume but has its little anecdote and these stories have a
real touch of humour in them," — Globe.



GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route, Miss.

A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Misa Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the country." — St. James's Gazette.

Every lovfir of Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest of English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smith's 'Glimpses ' are lively and pleasant." — Academy.

These ' Glimpses ' are presented to us in a very bright and sensible fashion
It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The chapter on the language and
character of the modern Greeks is well worth reading for the sound judgment
and knowledge of the subject which it displays"— Pati tian Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.
2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24:S.
This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called tho ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr Liszt, Bernstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of our native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. Hullah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes"— Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 158.
Madame de "Witt has done justice to her f other's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the sxxbiect."— Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE In SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 6s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice ; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly And even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of th&Wie."— British
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— 5i. James's Gazette.

Lodge's PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

FIFTY-if TH Edition N FOR 1886.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility. »

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually berne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book"— times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the auhject."— Spectator :

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the d&y."— Post.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, Cs.

DONOV^lSr:

A MODERN ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time." — Standard.

' Donovan ' is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The tone
of the novel is excellent and very high." — Daily News.

"Wee T^V^O.

This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident." — Times.

"' "We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyell is a capable writer and a clear-headed t'h.\rikeT.''''—Athenceum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought." — Scotsman.

IN THE OOEDElSr DAYS.

Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads"— ^Si^eciaior.

' In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than background"— G^«arcZi«yi.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters— the learned Cornelia especially ;
the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming ; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real Vde."'— Academy.

"won by Waiting ' is a very pleasing and well-written tale; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained, A book
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and influence, is a great boon
to the young people in our families"— /^re««aH.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THRO' LOVE AND WAR. By Violet Fane,

Author of " Sophy : or the Adventures of a Savage," &c. 3 vols.

' Thro' Love and War ' has a succinct and intelligible plot, and is written
with a quaint combination of acute perception, veiled sarcasm, and broad fun,
which is certain to ensure for it a wide popularity." — The Wield.

We find, as we might expect from Miss Fane's past work, these three volumes
brimful of cynical and racy humour, yet not lacking in serious foundation." — Times.

SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART. By John Berwick
Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," " The Tenth Earl,"
&c. 3 vols.
' Sir Robert Shirley, Bart,' is a thoroughly good story. The hook is wholesome
in tone, and will please all those whose taste is not perverted by a too
highly-spiced style of fiction.' — Morning Post.

A FAIRE Dalzell. By Esse Stuart. 3 vols.

"For she was faire, as faire mote ever bee." — Spenser's Faire Queene.
"In 'A Faire Dalzell,' the interest is steadily maintained, and the progress of
the plot gives rise to some strong situations in the third volume." — Athenaeum.

THE VERGE OF NIGHT. By Percy Greg,

Author of "Ivy: Cousin and Bride," &c. 3 vols.

This novel, which abounds in incidents more or less startling, is one of remarkable
power, pathos, and well-managed passion." — Figaro.

"Mr. Percy Greg has so intermingled the political and the domestic action in
his clever novel that they make a unity which enables the reader to foUo^ the
development of character and events with untiring interest"— *Scotsmen?.

MADAME DE Pressed. By E. Frances

Pointer, Author of " My Little Lady," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols,
"A charming story, full of originality. The dialogue is full of life, and the

characters are strongly and concisely &va,vjn.''— Saturday Review.
"A novel of considerable quiet charm, containing much natural dialogue.

There is refined portraiture and graceful description in the 'boo^'^—Athenseum.

ENTANGLED. By Miss Fairfax Byrne, Author

of " A Fair Country Maid." 3 vols.
'Entangled' is a story of real genius. Miss Byrne shows her full powers in
her marvellously vivid and impressive treatment of strong or delicate situations.
The writer holds us as the ancient mariner held his listener, and for the time we
live only in the lives which are acting or agonising before us." — Academy.

THE LAW FORBIDS. By Katharine King,

Author of " The Queen of the Regiment," " Off the Roll," &c. 3 vols.

There are several effective incidents, and there is much admirable character-sketching
in 'The Law Forbids.' " — Academy.

We find in ' The Law Forbids ' that wholesome, breezy freshness which
forms the atmosphere of Miss King's preceding stories. There are some excellent
sketches of life and character"— ^S/Jeda^or.

FAIR KATHERINE. By Harley Dale. 3 vols.

' Fair Katherine ' is a very clever novel indeed ; all the leading characters are
clearly drawn and individualized, and the dialogue is natural and suitable"—
Academy.

PUBLISHED BY HUEST & BLACKETT.

LUCIA (Le Valiant). By Mrs. Augustus-craven,

Author of " A Sister's Story." Translated by Lady
Herbert of Lea. 2 vols.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS. By Jane

Stanley. 2 vols.

A DIAMOND IN THE Enough. By Alice

O'Hanlon, Author of " The Unforseen," &c. 3 vols.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM. By May Crommelix,

Author of " Quoonie," " A Jewel of a Girl," (tec. 3 vols.

THE FAVOURITE OF FORTUNE. By Ella

Curtis (Shirley Smith), Author of " All for Herself," " His Last
Stake." 3 vols.

' The Favourite of Fortune ' is an entertaining story, with distinct merit and
attractions." — Athenaeum.

"This novel is by far the best Miss Curtis has yet written, and it deserves success
; there is plenty of action and go, an abundance of incident, and a vei-y well-constructed
plot." — Vanity Fair.

VENGEANCE IS MINE. By Eliza Pollard,

Author of " Hope Deferred," " Lady Superior," <tec. 3 vols.
A singularly interesting book, with plenty of action, plenty of love-making,
plenty of sorrow, and plenty of complications"— Zont^ow/'/f/aro.

UNTIL THE DAY BREAKS. By Emily Spender,

Author of " Restored," " Son and Heir," &c. 3 vols.

Miss Spender always did creditable work, and in most respects she seems to
have increased in strength from novel to novel. ' Until the Day Breaks ' contains
some of her most successful writing; it is really a delightful story'' — Athenaeum.

'Until the Day Breaks ' is a clever and rather entertaining story." — Satmxlay
Eevierc.

A FAIR MAID. By F. W. Robinson, Author of

Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols.
"Mr. Robinson has devoted much of his remarkable powers of description to
the task of bringing before the readers of English fiction the sorrows of England's
homeless waif. Not that 'A Fair Maid' is so powerful as 'No Church,' or so
humorous as 'Grandmother's Money;' but it is sweeter in temper, more idyllic
in suggestion, and written in much purer style." — Athenaeum.

MARION'S MARRIED LIFE. By the Author of

Anne Dysart," " Sir John," &c. 3 vols.
"This story is interesting, and told in an unaffected manner. It shows knowledge
of character, considerable descriptive power, and testifies to sound, wholesome
views of life'" — St. James's Gazette.

THE KING CAN DO NO WRONG. By Pamela

Sneyd, Author of " Jack Urquhart's Daughter." 2 vols.

This novel gives evidence of imagination, insight into character, and power of
delineation"— ^</ie?!fCMm.

Shows command of exceptional narrative and descriptive power— the story is
told with cleverness and forces"— Scotsman.

HUEST & BLACKETT'S

STANDARD LIBRARY.

LONDON:

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

ff

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OP

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY

Sir J. E. Millais, Sir J. Gilbert, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Pott, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hast and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Edition
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound." — Morning Post.

II.— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

•'The now and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John HaHfax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching"— Athenaeum.

Il— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
Information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

"Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The 'Realities of Eastern
Trsi^vel ' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day Hier'— Globe.

IV.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

'Nathalie 'is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant. We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathalie ' high amon
books of its class." — Athenaeum.

v.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OP "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane, ifhey are thoughts we would wish women to
think : they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate & higher toxic of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Athenaeum.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit"— Morning Pest.

VI.— ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

• Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations ir
the life, wii.h a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— i/^orntn
Post.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Bui war's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimen of light literature that ever
have been written," — Messenger.

Vii— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Woman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented ifr Papal domination."
Atfienxmn.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Creak. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English"—
Athenaeum.

' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned ; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral— most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core." — Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Atfienimitn.

From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very^j
pleasant reading"— Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell pr
Jnced hia reminiscences of Johnson." — Observer.

XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE VALLEY OP A HUNDRED FIRES,"

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often tovin±"—Athenasu7n.

Nil— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book."
John Bull.

Xii— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily intervfoyen."— Illustrated News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

It were impossible to praise too highly this m-ost interesting book, whether we should
bave regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition— and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of actions"— Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

«'We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Norlaw' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with ah energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

'the Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Observer.

XVI.— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unexaggerated,
and full of opportune instruction." — The Times.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject The work
is engaging, because rea-V'—Alhenxuin.

XVII.— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of Actions'— i/or«injr Post.

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Mise
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive"— if orninflf Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

"If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between 'John Halifax' anc5
'The Cantons.' "Standard.
The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
"This is in every sense a charming novel"— Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

"This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories"— /o/m Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's-attention.
The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen.
Ba.wn."— 'Illustrated News.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAYANAGH.

• Adfele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it ia a charming story,,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

' Awhile' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
John Bull.

' Ad^Ie ' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It is a very clever
novel" — Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and henutifnl."— Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. Th
ixjok will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author"— Saturday Review,

Xxii— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We commend • Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel. The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting"— ^i/jewoeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

A book to be read and re-read; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable book." — Athenaeum.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It ia well worth the
study." — Athenaeum.
A work of great originality, merit, and power"— ^SiancJard

Xxvi— MISTRESS AND Male.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— AthmcBum. •

A charming tale, charmingly io\±"— Standard.

"All lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Crank's charming
stories." — John Bull.

XXVII.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

"This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches"— 2>ai;y News.

Xxviii— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
Authorised Copyright English Translation.

The merits of ' Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of gQmxxs."— Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as
'Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art
and so we intend it"— Tie Times.

XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— Saturday Review.

Xxxi— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading"— AtfieTiceum.

' St Slave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded"— i/orntnfif Post.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— Po*.

Xxxii— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own"— Z't>ne*.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last"— Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a living in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Pall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former yroTkB."—Athenceum.

Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement ' Agnes ' ia
a Story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers."- iforntn^ Post.

XXXVI.— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF '' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the effort." — Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble hook"— Nomina Post.

' A Noble Life ' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest"
Daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and yfelV— Times.
We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting hooker'— Saturday Review.

Xxxvii— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAG DONALD, LL.D.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and ieelmgB."—Athenoeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"' The Woman's Kingdom * sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

•' ' The "Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters ara
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole work
4ipi.rkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

XLI.— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAG DONALD, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— Title*.

XLII.— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of tha
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post

"brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works"— Z)a% Telegraph.

XLIII.— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist"— Z)at7y News.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that wo ever tba^"— Standard.
' The Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works." — Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
.series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed la
the few delicate touches by which this success ol love-story is sketched o\xi."— The Echo.

XLVI.— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
••'A Rose in June' ia as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even » The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

XLVII.— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its Mad"— Saturday Review.

XLVIII.— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Pbcebe, Junior, herself is admirably dviawiL'"— Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour." — Athenaeum.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP *' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— 7%fl Times.
'There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum.

LII.— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of hlgh-clasft
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the 'booke"— Athenaeum.

Lni.-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland"— rtmes.

LIV.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

Mr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will b«
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet"— f/jfi Times.

'SAM SUCK, THE CLOCKIAKER;

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"We enjoy our old friend's company with unabated relish. This work is a rattling
miscellany of sharp sayings, stories, and hard hits. It is full of fun and f&nGY."'—Athenceum.

Since Sam's first work he has written nothing so fresh, racy, and genuinely humorous as
this. Every line of it tells in some way or other— instructively, satirically, jocosely', or
wittily. Admiration of Sam's mature talents, and laughter at his droll yarns, constantly
alternate as with inhaling avidity we peruse the work. The Clockmaker proves himself
the fastest time-killer a-going." — Observer.

WISE SAWS AND MODERN INSTANCES.

This delightful book will be the most popular, as beyond doubt it is the best, of all the
author's admirable works"— Standard.

The book before us will be read and laughed over. Its quaint and racy dialect will
please some readers — its abundance of yarns will amuse others. There is something to
suit readers of every humour." — Athenaeum.

The humour of Sam Slick is inexhaustible. He is ever and everywhere a welcome
visitor; smiles greet his approach, and wit and wisdom hang upon his tongue. We promise
our readers a great treat from the perusal of these ' Wise Saws,' which contain a.
world of practical wisdom, and a treasury of the richest fun." — Morning Post.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

By common consent this work is regarded as one of the raciest, truest to life, most
humorous, and most interesting works which have proceeded from the prolific pen of its
author. We all know what shrewdness of observation, what power of graphic description,
what natural resources of drollery, and what a happy method of hitting off the
broader characteristics of the life he reviews, belong to Judge Haliburton. We have all
those qualities here ; but they are balanced by a serious literary purpose, and are employed
in the communication of information respecting certain phases of colonial experience'
which impart to the work an element of sober utility"— ^«nc^«2/ Times,

TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

No man has done more than the facetious Judge Haliburton, through the mouth of the
inimitable ' Sam,' to make the old parent country recognise and appreciate her queer
transatlantic progeny. His present collection of comic stories and laughable traits is a
budget of fun, full of rich specimens of American humour." — Globe.

Yankees, portrayed in its raciest aspect, constitutes the contents of these superlatively
entertaining sketches. The work embraces the most varied topics — political parties
religious eccentricities, the flights of literature, and the absurdities of pretenders to learning,
all come in for their share of satire ; while we have specimens of genuine American
exaggerations and graphic pictures of social and domestic life as it is. The work will
have a wide circulation." — John Bull.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

"In this highly entertaining work we are treated to another cargo of capital stories
from the inexhaustible store of our Yankee friend. In the volume before us he dishes up,
with his accustomed humour and terseness of style, a vast number of tales, none more
entertaining than another, and all of them graphically illustrative of the ways and manners
of brother Jonathan. The anomalies of American law, the extraordinary adventures
incident to life in the backwoods, and, above all, the peculiarities of American society, are
variously, powerfully, and, for the most part, amusingly exemplified." — John Bull.

"In the picturesque delineation of character, and the felicitous portraiture of national
features, no writer equals Judge Haliburton, and the subjects embraced in the present
delightful book call forth, in new and vigorous exercise, his peculiar powers. 'Tho
Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of his previous works"— Pois.

LONDON : Hurst AND Blackett, PUBLISHERS.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

Each in One Volume Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, price 6s,

JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman.

This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man— a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households"— examiner.

"The story is very interesting The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic lite, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
Success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
bishistory is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
-that few will read without becoming wiser and better"— Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written
and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady
may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

"These thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of 'John Halifax.' " — Standard.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and la
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit." — Most.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

'We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, but
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and read
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal. The whole
book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy; and, in addition to its other merits, it is
written in good careful English." — Athenaeum.

NOTHING NEW.

'" Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made ' John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

The reader will find these narratives calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author as one of the first novelists of our day," — John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters
are masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax," — Most.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

"These studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful"— fw^.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(continued.)

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

"A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
some true to the highest nature — and she has entangled them in a story which keeps us
in suspense till the knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyse the secret.
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake ' a novel without a fault"— TAe Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
which forma one of the comforts of a well-appointed h.QmQy— Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to road as it is instructive." — Athenaeum.
This book is written with the same true-hearted earnestness as ' John Halifax.' The
spirit of the whole work is excellent." — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly io\±''— Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax ' speaks out
of a generous heart the purest truths of \vle:— Examiner.

Few men, and no women, will read 'A Noble Life ' without finding themselves the
better." — Spectator.

A story of powerful and pathetic interest"— Z)a% News. ^

A BRAVE LADY.

A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit." — Examiner.

"A most charming stores"— Standard.

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." Post.

HANNAH.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist"— Z>ai7y News.

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

THE UNKIND WORD.

The author of 'John Halifax' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to
mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
all that la truly noble, pure, and womanly"— i/rt/^ec^ Sei-vice Magazine.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

' Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— ?%e Times.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome"— ^<^e«<?M7».
A book that all should read. Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors
in elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and
dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural
and c\Qa,t.— Morning Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

MRS. Oliphant.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

' Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Mainland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a ' mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— iforninjr
Most.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Ofiserrer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

"In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
.a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland." — Times.

AGNES.

' Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.

Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
;always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement ' Agnes ' is a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Morning Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE.

•' ' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
.touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— .dcocJemy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— (Saturday Review.

LONDON : HUEST AND Blackett, PUBLISHERS.

George MAC DOMLD, LL.D.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the V70rk from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read 'Clarissa Harlowe'out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— PaW Mall Gazette.

The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty." — Daily News.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true poet" — Examiner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— ^i^ewopw/w.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mac
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and colour"— Saturday
Review.

This noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr. Mac Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London New.

• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of Action that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced."
— British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues in ' Robert Falconer ' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
again." — Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

"A clever novel. The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac T)om\±'"— Morning Post.

David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections are
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating"— (?Zo6e.

SIR Gibber

Sir Gibbie ' is a book of geniuses PaZZ Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long iu our
memory." — Athenaeum.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description." — Graphic.

' Sir Gibbie ' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced."
— Scotsman.

"' Sir Gibbie ' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it Is a grand work, to be
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over." — Morning Post,

LONDON : HUEST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE woman's KINGDOM.

christian's MISTAKE.

A NOBLE LIFE.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.

A BRAVE LADY.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

WORKS by GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

WORKS by MRS. LIFE ANT.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS

LASS
THE LAIRD OF Norland
ROSE IN JUNE.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSS-gray.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.
AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

WORKS by the A Author of ' SAM SLICK:
Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE.
WISE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; Or LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

LONDON: HURST AND BLACKETT.

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNOIt-URIANA

3 0112 046417272

»

lii

»i

»
