OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



H 165

V. I

o



GRAHAM ASPEN, PAINTER.

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE Libraries

Geraldine. By Vere Clavering, author of 'A

Modern Delilah.' 3 vols.

A GAME OF CHANCE. Ey Ella Curtis (Shirley

Smith), author of 'The Favourite of Fortune,' &c. 3 vols.

VIOLET Vivian, M.F.H. By May Crommelin and

J. Moray Brown. 3 vols.

RESTITUTION. By Anne Beale, author of 4 Fay

Arlington,' * The Pennant Family,' &c. 3 vols.

MISTRESS BEATRICE COPE, or Passages in the

Life of a Jacobite's Daughter. By M. E. Le Clerc. 2 vols.

HURST & Blackett, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

A NOVEL

BY

GEORGE False

AUTHOR OF 'WEEPING FERRY,' ETC

Lie scattered at the feet of men like flowers.'

Wordsworth.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

TAPIOCA TERRACE.

1 It was a very unfortunate circumstance, very I'
This speech, sufficiently commonplace and
apparently destitute of obscure intention, was
made almost simultaneously by two persons in
the innermost seclusion of their respective chambers,
and the privacy with which the individual
souls were thus unburdened proved that the
sentiment expressed was not quite the one which
would have been proclaimed from the house-top
by either speaker, more especially as it was
accompanied, in each case, by a pursing of the
brow and a biting of the nether lip, significant
of vexation.

VOL. I. B

The fact, however, that two or even twenty
persons should make an identical remark regarding
one and the same event is, after all, not very
singular ; but it certainly was strange that a third
individual should, in the recesses of his home,
break out in a monologue at about the same
time in the exactly opposite sense, saying, * It
was indeed a lucky circumstance !'

Still, on reflection, it must be admitted that a
diversity of opinion as to the same matter is in
the natural order of things, and is only another
proof that, in contemplating any object, the
point of view makes all the difference. Man
being by nature a contentious animal takes the
side which happens to be antagonistic to yours,
and will, for the mere sake of controversy, argue
with all the vigour of a life-long conviction,
whether conviction exists or not. And, indeed,
without debate and disputation, existence
here would lose half its zest ; with absolute unanimity
on all points, what a dull world this
would be !

But, in the case before us, polemics had
nothing whatever to do ; in fact, it did not seem
to admit of two opinions, consequently it was,

to say the least, strange that people could differ
respecting the really providential escape of an
elderly lady from being run over ; and it was
still more remarkable that the elderly lady
should ascribe all her subsequent troubles to
that event ; and that everybody else should, in
like manner, trace their misfortunes to the same
catastrophe.

Surely if the adjective ' fortunate ' could befittingly
and indisputably applied to any circumstance,
it would be the timely rescue of a
harmless old woman from beneath the wheels of
one of Pickford's vans ! How, then, could it be
viewed as unfortunate ! Perhaps the epithet
was intended to apply to the accident ? Well,
unquestionably the accident was very unfortunate.
Very. But the threatened disaster was so
obviously and completely eclipsed by the fortunate
deliverance which intervened that the
dolorous ejaculation quoted at the beginning of
this chapter seems a good deal out of place, even
with this interpretation ; and one is, on reflection,
driven to the conclusion that the phrase could
hardly have been intended for the accident, and
still less for the escape. Unless, indeed, we

B 2

adopt the monstrous hypothesis that demoralised
regretted the escape, and that Pickford's van
had not in this instance proved a fateful Juggernaut
to the venerable lady, to the immediate
advantage of her heirs, administrators and
assigns ; but this assumption is too horrible to
be entertained for a moment, more especially
since one of the individuals taking the pessimist
view of the event was the good lady's spiritual
shepherdess, and the other her financial adviser.
Mrs. Sparragus had survived two husbands,
and had piously laid their remains in the same
grave ; and, when the days of mourning in each
instance were duly accomplished, she found
solace in the fact that each partner had recognised
her conjugal devotion, and had very
properly rewarded it with a substantial provision.
Mr. Flinders, her first spouse, was in
the drug trade, and had, in a moment of happy
inspiration, invented and patented a pill, the
Flinders' Pill, of miraculous properties, which a
grateful public took up — or rather took down —
with such avidity that he speedily found himself
in circumstances of enviable comfort ; so much
so that he was able to gratify the one wish of

Mrs. Flinders' heart, which was to have a dear
little place in the country and to keep a cow.
He thereupon purchased a small farm which
happened to be in the market, and was within
easy reach of his shop in Clapham. An amateur
bailiff, Mr. Sparragus, was engaged and placed
in charge of the property, which was henceforward
known as Flinders' Farm, but which
the neighbours said might, as a commercial
speculation, have been more appropriately
called Flinders' Folly ; for, whether attributable
to the inaptitude of the bailiff, or the
impracticability of the soil, or the perversity
of the elements, it proved altogether unremunerative,
however pleasant and healthful as a
resort from Saturday night to Monday morning;
for Flinders found, when he came to
balance his farm accounts, that his crops cost
fifty per cent, more than they realised: that
his strawberries averaged three and sixpence a
dozen, his cherries a penny a-piece, and his
eggs — when he got any, which was at rare
intervals — sentence three-farthings, allowing
himself the usual trade discount. But there
was, on the other hand, an unlimited supply of

groundsel and chickweed for the canary, and
Mr. Flinders had the satisfaction of knowing
that he could have supplied Covent Garden
with any quantity of that particular crop, had
there been a demand for it.

But Mr. Flinders, who had invented the pill
for the public health, invented the farm for his
own. If it had not paid as a speculation, it-should
be a success as a sanatorium for himself;
it should recoup him his outlay in a handsome
percentage of health. True, the drainage was
abominable and the rooms stuffy, owing to its
small windows — the house having been built at
the period when light and air were measured
with a foot-rule and taxed with a vengeance.
But all that could be remedied, — the pill would
pay for it ; and Flinders, with characteristic
energy, set to work and enlarged the windows,
reconstructed the drains, and animated the place
generally with the happiest results ; and he and
his wife might have continued to this day to
pay their hebdomadal visit per omnibus, and
proudly sit under their own cherry-tree, had he
not been called upon to pay his debt to Nature,

having caught a fever whilst investigating a
cesspool.

He lay desperately ill, and his case seemed
to offer an excellent opportunity for the powers
of the miraculous pill to be called into play ;
but the great inventor persistently refused his
own panacea, the natural consequence being
that he was a dead man in four-ands twenty
hours, thus ceding his place by Mrs. Flinders'
side much earlier than he need have done —
supposing the testimonials appended to his
advertisements were authentic, and the cures
based on fact.

Mrs. Flinders was one of those dependent,
clinging creatures who need the strong and
robust support of man, otherwise they droop
and fade away, and hard must be the heart
that could view such helplessness without
hastening to the rescue. Mr. Sparragus, the
bailiff, was not the man to observe her grief
unmoved, more especially as the farm was a
nice little property and capable of expansion ;
he therefore lost no time in offering the solitary
mourner the consolation of his manly sympathy.

Fate or Fortune, moreover, seemed to urge
him onward, for, at this juncture, his revered
sire, a grocer, died in the fulness of years and
plenitude of prosperity, leaving him the
business and a block of houses which he had
built and named Tapioca Terrace, as a tribute
of respect to his trade in general and to that
nutritious article in particular. Mr. Sparragus
thus found himself in a position of social
equality with his well-to-do mistress, who, in
her lonely walks in the pastoral environments
of the farm, frequently chanced to encounter the
well-to-do bailiff. It will, therefore, surprise no
one but the most bigoted and uncompromising
misogynist that the frail vine leant towards
and clung to the robustious sympathiser more
and more, day by day, and that in due course
the Flinders' and Sparragus' fortunes were
amalgamated and became one. But the happy
union was all too brief. The new firm was
fated to speedy dissolution. Mr. Sparragus,
being now master of the pill, indulged in it to
excess, the result being precisely the same as
his predecessor's obstinate renunciation of it,
for he departed hence prematurely, leaving Mrs.

Sparragus doubly bereft and in greater need
than ever of a strong arm and virile heart to
sustain her.

Tapioca Terrace consisted of three houses,
with bay windows and a neat balcony running
along the drawing-rooms, and Mrs. Sparragus
was so fortunate as to find a tenant for one of
them in a gentleman of great business capabilities,
who paid his rent the day it was due,
and, moreover, gave her the benefit of his experience
and knowledge of commercial affairs.
Mr. Stephen Honey dew was a city man, and
that title ac once secured the widow's respect
and confidence, and he very soon proved his
capacity by forming a little syndicate to rent
the farm, and, enlarging on the original happy
idea of the defunct Flinders, he started it as a
sanatorium for the benefit of humanity at large;
the accruing rent being at the same time laid
out by him with such excellent judgment that
it produced a most remunerative rate of interest.
Mr. Honey dew resided at No. 3, Mrs. Sparragus
occupied No. 2, while No. 1 was let to the relict
of the Reverend Ebenezer Lipperty, formerly
minister of the chapel hard by, and her stepdaughter,

Lena, or to speak more strictly,
Leonora Jane.

Mrs. Sparragus was thus very advantageously
placed in respect of neighbours, who vied with
each other in the little amenities which go to
lighten the burden of sorrows that weigh on
even well-to-do widows. Mr. Honeydew on
the right giving her, as I have stated, the benefit
of his masterly knowledge of finance, and
Mrs. Lipperty on the left ministering to her in
the manner becoming the relict of a Rev.
Ebenezer.

Mrs. Sparragus had passed the meridian of
life, and was, in fact, in the advanced evening;,
and as, in the natural world, the closing-in is
often foreshadowed by gentle gradations of
colour, serene tranquillity, and a universal preparedness
for rest, so, in the worthy relict of
Flinders and Sparragus in succession, were observable
a simplicity and trustfulness which
could not fail to awaken a sincere interest.

Competition in social matters has a tendency
very similar to that in the commercial world —
namely, it does not always tend to fraternity.
No. 1 and No. 3 were so emulous of priority in

Mrs. Sparragus's good opinion that they grew to
be suspicious of one another, and, like chess-players,
studied each other's moves with a view
to counteraction. If Mr. Honeydew handed the
lonely widow a dish of scarlet-runners or a cucumber
over the garden wall, Mrs. Lipperty
immediately conveyed a pot of home-made jam
or a tea-cake in at the front door. If Mr. Honey-dew
on the right raised his hat to his client
while she was attending to her flower-beds,
Mrs. Lipperty on the left kissed her hand to her
and complimented her upon her good looks. Soit
came about that No. 1 and No. 3 viewed each
other as poachers on the No. 2 preserve, and
hated one another accordingly ; but, when the
news got about that Mrs. Sparragus had narrowly
escaped death through the intervention
of a young man, who not only brought her
home but was actually addressed as a friend
and assured of her lasting gratitude, No. 1 and
No. 3 for once took the same view, and, as stated
in the commencement of this chapter, ejaculated
to the effect that it was a very unfortunate
circumstance, for who knows what the consequences
may be !

The misadventure in question occurred thus :
Mrs. Sparragus was in the habit of going to the
Bank of England half-yearly to receive her
dividends, and, on the occasion in question, the
usual brougham was requisitioned and the good
lady started on the expedition with becoming
solemnity, her departure being witnessed with
peculiar interest by her watchful and affectionate
neighbours.

The flyman conducted her safely to the Bank,
and, having deposited her at the entrance,
moved away according to regulations, and
awaited her some little distance off. Having
duly received her money, Mrs. Sparragus
emerged from the building, and, not discovering
her cab, she stepped into the middle of the
road anxiously searching for the vehicle right
and left. At that instant a Pickford's van came
galloping along in her direction, the horses
beyond control. The shouts of the passers-by,
the din of the traffic, the wild gestures of the
horrified throngs as they realised her great peril,
utterly paralysed the poor woman, who, giving
herself up for lost, simply covered her face with
her hands and helplessly awaited her fate.

The horses were close "upon her, and in
another moment she must have been clashed
down and crushed, when a young man sprang
forward and, seizing her by the shoulders, swung
her with extraordinary dexterity clear of the
wheels which grazed his own shoulder. A shout
of applause greeted the young man as he supported
the fainting lady to the pavement. The
flyman, recognising his employer, drove up and
she was assisted into the carriage. As the poor
woman was excessively agitated, and, in fact,
hardly conscious, the young man felt it incumbent
on him to see her home, finding from the
driver that she was unattended. He therefore
took his seat by her side.

The ubiquitous newspaper reporter witnessed
the accident, and in the journals there appeared
the following paragraph next morning : —

Narrow Escape — Yesterday at about twelve-o'clock
an elderly lady was crossing the road near the
Bank of England when one of Pickford's vans, heavily
laden, bore down upon her in spite of the strenuous
efforts of the driver to restrain his young and spirited
horses. To the horror of the by-sanders the lady
seemed unconscious of her peril, and had it not been

for the extraordinary presence of mind of a young man
who was passing, and who literally snatched her from
"beneath the horses' heads, she must inevitably have been
killed. A cab coming up, the lady and her rescuer
drove away and their names did not transpire. It was
noticed that the young man only just escaped the van
himself, for his coat was torn from his shoulder by the
wheels. After their departure, the police picked up a
sketch-book which doubtless belonged to the lady or
the gentleman. It was found to contain some admirable
sketches in pencil and ink. As there was no
name in it, the police are unable to restore it, and it
remains in charge of the authorities at the Mansion
House awaiting a claimant.

The fly arrived in clue course at Tapioca Terrace,
and, as Mrs. Sparragus was still much unnerved,
the young man offered his arm, which
was gratefully accepted, and No. 1 and No. 3,
knowing as yet nothing of the circumstances
narrated above, were more than surprised — they
were scandalised on beholding so unwonted a
spectacle as the widow leaning on the arm of a
stranger.

Mr. Honeydew instantly saw in the attentive
young man a rival financier, and Mrs. Lipperty,
with equal alacrity, suspected him to be a wolf
in sheep's clothing invading her fold and corrupting

the most cherished member of her flock.
The consequence was they emerged simultaneously
from their respective abodes with the
intention of defeating the machinations of the
strange bad man by their presence, where they
were only in time, as the door of No. 2 closed
behind Mrs. Sparragus and her visitor, to hear
her say,

I can never, never repay you ! I can never,
never sufficiently show my gratitude !'

Whereupon Mrs. Lipperty and Mr. Honeydew,
baffled and abashed, were under the necessity of
retreating to their respective quarters outmanoeuvred
by the most innocent of tacticians, for
Mrs. Sparragus had not the faintest idea that inclosing
the door behind her she had performed
the masterly stroke of filling her virtuous censor
at No. 1 with indignation, and sending away
her confidential adviser at No. 3 confused and
alarmed.

Mr. Honey dew's reflections on the apparently
trivial event were decidedly morbid. * Nothing
could be more unsatisfactory to me just now,'
he meditated, * than for the old lady to enlarge
her acquaintance. In fact, up to this time her

circle of acquaintance has been confined to myself",
— the people at No. 1 are not worthy of
her consideration ; her list of friends — reliable,
trusted friends — has hitherto begun and ended
with me. I was first, middle, and last. Consequently,
it lias been my happy privilege to
manage her affairs with extraordinary advantage
to her. But, when a simple soul like her
gets hold of a new acquaintance, that new
acquaintance invariably meddles and muddles
and messes everything. That fellow had a
keen and hungry look, and no doubt he scented
coin, and, as she told him she could never
repay him, it's a cool hundred to one that he'll
repay himself, and all my care of her will be
simply so much of my valuable time wasted.
Certainly, nothing could be more unsatisfactory.'

Mrs. Lipperty was not, like her rival at
No. 3, reduced to the narrow range of soliloquy,
for her step-daughter Lena was present
to receive the full force of her vexation and
consequent flow of vituperation.

8 Oh, the world, the world !' she screamed, as
she entered the room where Lena was reading
■ the wicked, wicked world !'

Lena was naturally much disturbed, and anxiously
inquired what the wicked world had been
doing.

< That old thing next door, whom I have
cared for as the apple of my eye, has gone
astray 1'

Lena was pained at the announcement, and
offered to go in search of her and bring her
home again.

Morally, Leonora Jane, morally.' Mrs. Lip-party
always gave Lena her full complement of
baptismal names when she rebuked her. ' She
has been and picked up some one and brought
him home.'

Lena thought it a virtue rather than a vice
to pick up anyone who needed such assistance.


i Oh, the depravity of human nature ! To
bring home a young man !'

Lena still failed to see the enormity of the
offence :

1 1 suppose he's a friend of hers.'

1 Don't talk to me of friends, Leonora Jane.
Why, she has no friend but myself! There's
that worldly man at No. 3 — you won't pretend

VOL. I. C

that he's to be mentioned in the same breath
as me V I tell you, she hasn't a friend outside
me.'

An acquaintance.'

'People at her age oughtn't to make acquaintances,
Leonora Jane, and I'm surprised
that you do not condemn such goings-on.'

Lena with perfect simplicity said she thought
it rather nice to make acquaintances, for she
was conscious of her own poverty in that particular,
any interchange of civilities outside the
chapel walls being sternly interdicted.

Then, Leonora Jane, all I can say is, you
haven't profited much by all my teaching and
example, and I'm truly thankful your poor dear
father was removed before his daughter had
such ideas. Oh, the awful times, when one's
foes are they of one's own household !'

Lena was singularly natural and ingenuous,
notwithstanding a course of discipline which
ought to have made her subtle, suspicious, rancorous,
and selfish. She was far from destitute
of romance, though it had never as yet
been in evidence. She possessed great intelligence
and faculties which, however cramped

and tethered, could not be crushed altogether ;
and, beyond all and above all, she was graced
with that most beautiful of woman's attributes,
a tender, true, and sympathetic heart.

Her step-mother's concluding observation,
intended to crush her like a catapult, only provoked
her curiosity :

Mamma dear '

Don't call me " mamma " — I'm only your
step-mother, and I get reminded of it often
enough, Leonora Jane !'

Mamma dear,' repeated Lena, calmly and
gently, ' is it so Avrong to make friends !'
Friends ! Bah ! I don't believe in them.'
But you are a friend to Mrs. Sparragus V
That's very true,' promptly responded Mrs.
Lipperty — ' very true.'

« Then why should we doubt that she may
have other friends equally sincere V

'It isn't altogether desirable,' replied Mrs.
Lipperty, testily.

< Not desirable, mamma ! — why not?'
I suppose I must speak more plainly, Leonora
Jane, as you are now old enough to understand
these things. Mrs. Sparragus has conc



seised to me more than once that I am her best,
her only friend.'

How sad !' meditated Lena aloud.

c Not so sad when you understand that it may
make all the difference to us

Lena was at a loss to comprehend her
step-mother's meaning ; it appeared to her
that it must make all the difference to Mrs.
Sparragus.

'Mrs. Sparragus is a woman of some property,'
continued Mrs. Lipperty, confidentially.

I suppose she is.'

And people who have no family or relatives
usually bequeath their possessions to a valued
friend.'

I dare say that is so.'

And, as I am that valued friend, Mrs. Spar-rages
has made a Will in my favour — a proof of
her appreciation of the little good it has been
my happy destiny to be to her in this world of
falsehood and insincerity.'

Mrs. Lipperty awaited a burst of rapturous
approval from Lena, who, however, received
the information with great placidity, if not with
cool indifference.

Therefore, Leonora Jane, you can perhaps
understand that I can scarcely view with satisfaction
the intervention of a new acquaintance
next door.'

Why not, mamma ?'

This inquiry, proving that the confidential
communication she had made was entirely
thrown away, so exasperated Mrs. Lipperty
that, muttering « Stupid little fool !' she dashed
out of the room, slamming the door behind
her.

Lena's perplexity was extreme. Why should
so ordinary an event as a friendly visit next
door provoke such vehement displeasure 1 Why
such suspicion ? Why such condemnation % Was
the young man so palpably evil-disposed ? Was
the brand of vice stamped upon him? Surely
it must be so, otherwise her mamma would
never be moved to such righteous indignation.
She would judge for herself, and catch a glimpse
of the dreadful man as he quitted No. 2.

Lena had hardly taken a commanding position
at her window when the door of No. 2
opened, and the vicious worldling, the arch-intruder,
courteously raising his hat as he turned

away, strode quietly and with unconscious dignity
down the gravel-path into the road, and,
without turning his eyes to the right or to the
left, walked along Tapioca Terrace, and vanished
from the view of all the eyes which followed
his movements.

That fellow knows what he's about muttered
Mr. Honey dew, savagely. * Ten to one,
nay, a hundred pounds to a shilling, he'll
circumvent that old woman next door. I think
I'll follow him, and find out who he is.'

Whereupon, Mr. Honeydew slipped out at the
side-door, and took the road which the young
man had taken.

'He's a sneak, if ever there was one,' said
good Mrs. Lipperty between her teeth. * He
hasn't been long in finding out that old thing's
weak point. I dare say he has gone away with
her instructions for a fresh Will in his pocket.
Drat him P

'Oh, dear! oh, dear!' exclaimed Mrs. asparagus,
hurrying to the window, * I wish he'd
come back a moment. I can't let him go like
that ! It seems so ungrateful of me !' and the
good woman beckoned with all her energy to

the departing stranger, who, however, strode
away wholly unconscious of the mental distress
and wild gestures of the staid and respectable
lady he had just quitted.

1 1 can't imagine,' thought Lena, * why mamma
grudges Mrs. Sparragus her new acquaintance.
He appears so nice — a perfect gentleman. For
my part, I — I wish mamma had such a friend.'
And Lena was very thoughtful the rest of the
day. She felt the first faint stir of romance in
her young bosom, and the new sensation almost
alarmed her — but it was very, very sweet.

CHAPTER II.

GRAHAM ASPEN,

Mrs. Sparragus, still agitated, led the way to
her sitting-room, the young man following with
some hesitation, and as he reached the door he
paused and said,

Now, madam, that I have had the pleasure
of seeing you home, I will, with your permission,
take my leave

1 Oh ! no, pray don't go yet, sir. Rest a
moment pleaded the lady, almost pathetically ;
and, indicating a chair, she motioned to him to
be seated, and the young man complied with
courtesy and deliberation.

He was a youth of three-and-twenty, of well-proportioned
but spare frame, fine features, and
a countenance * sicklied o'er ' with suffering as

well as the * pale cast of thought His attire,
moreover, bespoke the hard lines within which
his lot was placed, but he bore himself with an
easy dignity which was natural to him, and
bespoke a sterling character that poverty could
not affect.

Oh, dear me !' exclaimed Mrs. Sparragus,
fanning herself with her handkerchief and
wiping her moistened eyes, ' what a wonderful
escape I have had !'

1 1 think, madam, you were in some little
danger ; but these escapes are constantly occurring
in the city, and are thought nothing of

Ah ! but / think a very great deal of it, sir,
and shall never, never forget that, if it hadn't
been for you, and you alone, I '

Anyone else would have done exactly the
same ; I happened to be nearest to you, that
was all,' interrupted the young man.

'Nay, sir, nobody else advanced a step to
help me.'

It so happened that I was crossing the road
at the same moment.'

'But your wonderful courage and strength,
too!'

The young man smiled. As regards ' courage
he felt it would have been cowardice to have
acted otherwise, and, as to ' strength,' he still
trembled and felt faint with the physical effort
involved in the performance.

1 assure you, madam, it was the commonest
act possible, which anyone else would have
done — and done less roughly

Nothing could have been gentler !' remonstrated
Mrs. Sparragus, bursting into tears. ' Oh,
I — I can never thank you enough !' and the
good soul buried her face in her muff.

I need no thanks — I deserve none for doing
what I was bound to do, believe me / and the
young man rose to leave.

If you will not remain longer — and I have
no right to ask you — I hope you will at any rate
let me know the name of my preserver, sir !' and
Mrs. Sparragus looked almost imploringly at the
young man, who, after a moment's hesitation,
drew his card-case from his breast-pocket.

That I may take an opportunity of making
you some return she continued, with significance.


The young man replaced the card-case in his

pocket as a flush of offended pride swept across
his pale features.

'If you will permit me, madam, 1 would
rather remain — unknown,' he replied.

'Oh, why?'

'Because the pleasure — sincere pleasure — I
felt in having rendered a trifling service would
be wholly destroyed if there was the smallest
possibility of any "return " being made.'

Mrs. Sparragus could hardly understand such
disinterestedness, for she had never met with
any objections on the part of anyone to accept
substantial recognition for services rendered,
and she rubbed her eyes in astonishment as the
young man rose and offered his hand, saying,

It has afforded me more pleasure than I can
express to have done anything deserving such
grateful feelings, and now I must bid you
farewell.'

Mrs. Sparragus took the extended hand.

But your card, please !' she urged.

Oh, no !' replied the young man, laughing r
'it really isn't worth while!' and, waving a
respectful adieu to the disappointed widow, he
left the room.

Only when the street-door closed did Mrs.
Sparragus feel the full extent of her vexation,
and she rushed to the window to catch a last
glimpse of her unknown preserver, who rapidly
traversed the gravel-path wholly unconscious of
the scrutiny with which he was being observed
by numbers one, two, and three.

As he strode homeward he reviewed the
whole event of the morning, and shuddered as he
contemplated the imminent danger in which the
good lady had been.

By Jove!' he muttered, drawing a deep
breath, ' I was afraid to tell the good lady the
full extent of the danger for fear of horrifying
her, but another instant, and the poor soul must
have been crushed to death ! I thank God that
I was there ! my life, after all, has not been
wholly useless !' and he went his way with a contentedness
which was a new sensation to him.

Suddenly he paused, and, plunging his hands
anxiously into either pocket, exclaimed, with
extreme vexation,

1 Gone ! my sketch-book gone ! I have dropped
it somewhere. How careless of me! for I'm
sure I had it with me when I left home ;

and unfortunately my sketches of the " Queen
of the Glen " and " The Sisters " were in it
ideas for pictures, and I doubt whether I
can possibly remember the lovely effect of light
and shade as I saw the trees in the forest. Oh,
it is worse than vexatious — it is a grievous loss !
But such is my luck. Time and toil wasted,
and my little bit of strength cast to the winds !
Had I remained at home this misfortune would
not have occurred to me — but, stay, had I remained
at home a dire calamity had happened
to that poor lady. How trivial my mischance is,
after all, compared with that which might have
befallen another ! If that is the price to pay
for the privilege of saving a human life, who
would grudge it?' and the young man pursued
his way with a relaxed step but a more resigned
spirit.

Graham Aspen (such was his name) was an
art-student, having finished his novitiate in the
schools with honour, and lived in Thistle Grove,
Brompton, where his modest possessions were
contained in a single room, which consequently
served as atelier and bed-chamber, the latter
portion of it being concealed by a curtain drawn

across it, and which formed an appropriate
background for his easel, on which rested a canvas
covered with a silk scarf. Models, studies,
draperies, books, and the materials and paraphernalia
of his craft lay about in ' most admired
disorder,' and were evidence that the occupier
gave scant attention to personal comfort and
appearances as usually understood ; but a keen
observer would have accounted for the neglect
as his glance rested on sundry bottles of medicines
standing on the mantelpiece.

Not until he reached his chamber did he
realise the extent to which he had taxed his
strength in the adventure of the morning, and
not till then was the extent of his morning's loss
made evident, when with a repetition of the exclamation,
* Lost !' he threw himself into a chair
and yielded to the depression which had of late
become habitual with him.

Stay !' he ejaculated, rising after a long interval
of rest from his seat and taking a draught
of cordial, ' I see the whole effect in my mind's
eye ! yes, just as it was. Oh, if I could but fix
it !' and taking up a new canvas he dashed in
with a masterly pencil the scene which had inspired

the lost sketch of the * Queen of the Glen.'
1 Ah !' he cried as he laid down his palette, ' it is
not lost I" and wiping his moistened forehead he
sank back exhausted with the effort.

In Graham Aspen were united genius and
bodily frailty, as is too often the case, the vital
force failing to keep pace with the winged
imagination. The creative faculty in the young
artist made havoc with the mechanism with
which it was allied, and it was no unusual thing
for the revulsion of energy to occur [after its
abnormal exercise. It was so on the present
occasion. For the remainder of the day he
scarcely moved hand or foot, but surrendered
himself to enforced repose and reverie. Once he
rose and removed the handkerchief which concealed
the picture on the easel, and a face of
singular beauty and sweet expression was revealed.
Graham sat before it, and his eyes were
rivetted to it. It was purely an ideal study. He
had never seen the original of such a head, but
like another Pygmalion he seemed entranced by
the creation of his own hands. It might be an
abstract passion, a passion of the rapt soul, a
passion causing no heart-throb and no delirium, if

such be possible in a young man of twenty-three
summers ; but assuredly the creation of his own
hand had a fascination for him which was almost
idolatry. And the potent spell which had
evoked this singular work and guided his pencil
was no beautiful reality met in the flesh, no
siren of social life, no artless, sweet girl-graduate
who had crossed his path, but simply a voice, a
human voice, and nothing more.

Graham Aspen, subject to moods of melancholy
and fits of depression, which left him unable
to study, was wont, when under these
visitations, to seek distraction in sylvan haunts,
or by the broad ocean, where Nature usually
won him back to patient endurance. In one
of these dolorous attacks, he hurried away to
the New Forest, and there courted tranquillity
and a return of energy. But on that occasion
he sought alleviation in vain. The beauty of
the scene, the balmy air, the perfect harmony
surrounding him had no power to solace. In
vain he wandered hither and thither ; in vain
he sought forgetfulness in exploring the beauty
so profusely spread before him. The spirit of
revolt and discontent mocked him, and held him

in thrall. The effort was useless, and he returned
to his hotel; and there again the foul
fiend taunted him. Why cling to vain and
irksome existence 1 "Why struggle against increasing
failure of body and mind ? Why endure
these ever-recurring attacks, when eternal
repose is so easy of acquisition? Why cling
to a life of unrest, a life of joyless labour with a
stricken body, when a mere prick in the arm
would ensure forgetfulness and peace? There
was fascination in the hateful suggestion ;
witchery in the mad thought. Yes, yes, better
snatch the rest Nature denies. Why live % Why
suffer, without kindred to love or friends to
sympathise? Existence such as this has neither
joy, nor hope, nor purpose. Let it end! A
burdened, useless life had better cease to be !
The dire resolution was made with the phlegm
characteristic of Graham in his saner mood.
He was calm in that moment of mental distraction.
One farewell look at Nature, and then —

and then Through the open window there

was borne a clear, sweet voice, singing, with
surpassing melody, the simple air of ■ Auld Robin
Gray.'

VOL. I. I)

Aspen started; he awoke; he threw off the
terrible incubus that had unmanned him, for
that song recalled his mother. She used to sing
it, and the voice was as hers! — soft, pure, cultured.
He peered through the window, but
nobody was visible. He listened entranced, for
the song still rippled on the breeze. It proceeded
from an adjoining room, and was followed
by admiring comments on the lovely
sunset, and long after it had ceased the young
man hung over the sill, lost in a reverie of precious
memories. All the night through, Graham
heard, in imagination, the tones which, coming,
as it seemed to his active mind, from one who
had passed away, were little less than angelic.
Nor had he the least vulgar curiosity as to the
singer. He took no measures on the morrow,
as most men would have done, to satisfy himself
as to the possessor of the voice. Had he
inquired, he would have learnt that a lady and
her daughter were sojourning there with a view
to sketch, and Aspen might, with the assistance
of the landlord, have obtained a casual
interview with the mother, or a glimpse of the
maiden. Easily might he have compassed a

rencontre with one or both in the walks and
woods ; easily might he have submitted his
sketches to them with the freedom and good-fellowship
which are common between brothers
and sisters of the brush ; but no ! he had surrendered
himself to a happy illusion, which had
dispelled a noxious delirium. At a moment of
dire temptation a voice had intervened, and
thus was conjured up before his imagination
a vision of perfect womanhood. He saw his
dead mother, and he was content. The breathing
reality might equal, or even surpass the
fair face of his conception — but it might destroy
the charm ! He dared not risk disenchantment.


Unfavourable weather setting in, the company
at the inn dispersed, and, within a few days,
Aspen too had turned his back regretfully upon
the spot which, notwithstanding that terrible
half-hour of aberration, was invested with a
strange charm, for the voice was with him
still

Nor, on reaching home, could he rest until,
putting a new canvas on his easel, he touched
in reverently and tenderly the features of the

d2

ideal as conjured up m a moment of keen sensibility
by the strains he had heard.

Unconsciously he traced the features of his
mother spiritualised, for it was her face that the
well-remembered song called up from the far-off
past. Beauty of form and colour were
there, but they were the beauty pud the colour
of one who had passed the pools of the grave
and had been translated to the higher life. Withall
the fervour of religious feeling, with the
unwearied enthusiasm of a zealot, Graham
devoted day and night to the perfecting of his
conception. And so jealous of it did he become
as the work proceeded that no eye but
his own was allowed to rest on it, and it was
kept veiled, as we have seen.

Twilight had closed in, and as Aspen gazed
upon the face, which he had grown almost to
adore, it grew more and more indistinct, when
suddenly he was startled by the appearance of
a female form with identical features standing
in front of the picture with her eyes fixed upon
his. The last faint rays of light barely sufficed
to adumbrate the dainty outline which, without
a rustle or a footfall, drew nearer and nearer.

Graham, his heart in a tumult, his eyes flashing
with amazement and terror, waited for the
voice which he was so sure belonged to the
form that he would, without a moment's hesitation,
have staked his existence upon it, but it
was denied him ; and, in his growing impatience,
he tried to challenge his visitor, but he was
speechless. Stirred to a state of excitement
bordering on frenzy, the young artist attempted
to stretch forth his hand and grasp the arm of
the fair creature who stood within his reach ;
but the effort was in vain — he was powerless.
And so intense had in a few moments grown his
agitation that its prolongation must end in
very madness. With a wild cry he sprang
from his seat, and, as he burst through the spell,
the mirage vanished, the phantom of his overwrought
brain faded into the painted head on
the easel, and he found himself alone.

The agitation of a few moments' duration
was followed by a reaction of many hours'
prostration, and then supervened a long attack
of the cough which had become almost chronic ;
but rest and patient resignation soon brought
relief and strength and interest in his studies.

And, in resuming his pencil, he could for
the moment forget the oppressive secret of
which he could not divest himself. Graham
Aspen was too sagacious, too brave, too honest
to ignore the fact which was so patent whenever
he beheld his features in the glass ; and
when, with all his philosophy and composure,
he realised the sad truth, he was ready to confess
to himself that ambition, which was folly
in other men, was madness in him, the pursuit
of common pleasures worse than vanity, and
love almost a crime. For him length of
days was an unmeaning phrase, — no vista
of life's road to be traversed could he present
to his mind's eye as he glanced at his
hollow cheeks and wrestled with the cough
which convulsed him. Why toil for more than
the daily bread ? The world's honour and its
praise were for the robust and the hopeful;
but he, from the serene vantage-ground of one
who was already far on the journey hence,
could view it all with indifference, if not with
contempt. If he laboured, as indeed he did at
times with extraordinary assiduity, it was to

satisfy a sense of duty — he was bound to
exercise the faculties with which he was endowed;
and if, in that employment, he had
conjured up on his canvas a beautiful creation,
and had gazed upon it till he grew to love it, it
was in response to the yearnings of nature, it
was to gratify a passion which had been purged
and etherealised.

His landscape grew apace, for his interest in
his work increased as his conception took concrete
form, and in a few days the * Queen of the
Glen,' a graceful and fairy-like silver birch,
received the last touch. But the customary
penalty of unwonted exertion had to be paid,
and Graham had again to lament the burden of
the flesh. Was it needful — was it his duty to
still combat his infirmities % he would ask himself.
Yes, he replied. He was bound by every
law of nature to employ every known means to
eke out his store of strength and prolong his
days. With this righteous and wholesome conviction
came the resolution to seek advice, to
consult a physician, and here a difficulty started
up — his insufficient means. But the impediment

was recognised only to be thrust aside. His
poetic mind and busy band had created the
wherewithal. There stood the ' Queen of the
Glen,' and its sale would furnish the necessary
funds.

Without hesitation or compunction he carried
the work, which he had intended to grace his
studio withal, to the well-known dealers, Glare
and Gooley, to whom he modestly and anxiously
submitted it.

4 Landscape !' meditated Mr. Glare aloud,
shrugging his shoulders, * a drug in the market.
When will you artists take a hint from the
French and paint figures 1 Indies, for instance,
and Phrases, Andromeda, Auroras, and suchlike
I The market's never glutted with them ;
they sell, sir, in any quantity. As for this sort
of thing, trees— birch, isn't it I — why, we may
have it on our hands for ' — the dealer began to
scrutinise the painting more closely — ' for
months.' He put on his glasses and examined
it afresh. ' Humph ! it's not by any means bad ;
but these landscapes are so — ' and he took the
picture into a stronger light. ' I've seen trees
worse painted, I must confess. Look here,

Gooley,' calling to his colleague. ' This young
man wants to dispose of this.'

'Landscape ! No use. Can't buy any more.
No demand,' announced Gooley, scarcely glancing
at the work. However, he did glance at it
over his partner's shoulder a second and even a
third time, whispering in his ear.

4 It's natural, young man,' he said, turning to
Graham, who stood bashful and dejected ; 4 1
may even call it pretty. The treatment is new,
the style original ; but, unfortunately, our class
of customers prefer something more ' — and the
connoisseur studied the painting keenly — * something
more — you know '

1 Yes,' quietly and meekly responded Graham,
6 thank you. I'm sorry I have troubled you ;'
and he advanced to relieve them of the
picture.

It is just possible we might be able to do
with it,' said Glare, indifferently, without offering
to relinquish the work, though Aspen's
hand was already upon it. ' What are you
willing to take for it V

6 1 thought of asking fifteen or twenty
pounds,' returned the artist, with hesitation.

Glare and Gooley stepped aside, and, still
examining the picture, conferred together.

How much did you say V demanded Glare,
sharply, almost severely, which had its effect on
Aspen.

< Ten.'

Well, I suppose we must take it,' replied the
dealer, placing it on an easel ; ■ but 1 must ask
you to sign it; we make that a condition
always.'

If that is the case, I will, of course, do so,
and will take it away for the purpose,' answered
Graham.

Oh ! you need not have that trouble ; we
keep tubes of colours in case of need,' promptly
responded Glare, at the same moment producing
the pigments. ' You can make yourself at
home, sir, and mix any tint in keeping with the
foreground. In the meantime I will draw the
cheque.'

Graham signed the picture as desired, and,
receiving payment, rose to take leave.

'If you have anything more to dispose of,
we should be glad to see it,' said Glare,
patronisingly.

I have nothing.'

'Perhaps you will paint us something V
put in Gooley, rattling the coin in his pocket.

<I don't paint Andromeda and Phrases, 7
quietly replied Graham, without any intention in
the way of retort.

We do not ask you for figure subjects,'
promptly responded Gooley.

No,' followed Glare, ' we think you are more
in your element with this style of art,' pointing
to the work they had just purchased ; ' we
should be glad if you would paint us a pendant
to it.'

< Thank you.'

And, as we are always glad to encourage
rising talent, we should not refuse say, fifteen
pounds — if up to the mark.'

Thank you !' and Graham rose, and, saluting
his patrons with cold respect, took his leave y
casting a last regretful glance at the ' Queen of
the Glen.'

'All gone now!' he muttered to himself, as he
turned homeward with measured step. ' The
sketch lost and the painting gone.'

As soon as he was clear of the shop, Messieurs

Glare and Gooley bent over the picture in eager
contemplation.

8 1 don't know when I've seen a tree touched
in with such grace and tenderness said Glare,
adjusting his glasses.

And true to nature !' continued Gooley, with
enthusiasm, ' why, it's a gem !'

Graham Aspen,' read Glare, as he deciphered
the signature : ' the name's new to me.'

1 And to me.'

1 But, if he goes on painting like this, it'll soon
be in everybody's mouth. What shall we price
itatr

Fifty guineas.'

< Yes !' and Glare put their private mark upon
it accordingly.

4 Pity you didn't get his address,' observed
Glare, reproachfully : ' I should have liked to
have kept him to ourselves.'

A thousand pities, but really I was so taken
with the picture that I never thought — but
wait — who's the frame-maker?' and he turned
the picture round and read ' P. Toddy, Carver
and Gilder, Fulham Road ;' and beneath it was
inscribed, ' G. Aspen, Esq., 9, Thistle Grove.'

4 Well that is a bit of luck !' ejaculated Glare
and Gooley simultaneously ; ' we'll drop in upon
him one of these days. It won't do to let him
slip through our fingers. But he evidently
requires to be managed — we mustn't be in a
hurry, for these artists are sometimes so confoundedly
touchy, and, although this young fellow
appears weakly and half-starved, he's not
wanting in pride.'

And Messieurs Glare and Gooley, after placing
their new acquisition in every situation in their
gallery experimentally, assigned to it the most
select position in their cabinet of choice works.

CHAPTER III.

THE CONSULTATION.

Graham Aspen was now in a position to give
effect to a long-standing resolve to learn from an
expert the actual state of his disorder, and to
obtain from him, if possible, some forecast of
his fate. With that sad and solemn intention
he went, a few days after his transaction with
Glare and Gooley, to Saville Row, and knocked
at the door of the famous specialist, Dr. Eustace.
Shown into the dining-room, he there found
several ladies and gentlemen awaiting their
turn to be summoned to the physician's presence,
some conferring together in whispers, some
staring at the pictures on the walls, some turning
over the periodicals spread on the table,
and some, silent and moody, looking vacantly

into space. To an artist, the materials for a
picture furnished in a physician's waiting-room
are deeply impressive. The spectacle cannot
but be mournful, for it tells of suffering and
mortality, and presents sometimes fortitude,
sometimes resignation, but more often stolid
resistance to the inevitable. Its ominous walls
are, however, not unfrequently illumined by
unselfish devotion which is hardly less than
heroic, and a cheerful patience which seems
scarcely of earth. Opposite to Graham sat a
father fondling a slight, fair, pale child on his
knee, using every device to appear cheerful,
while now and again he surreptitiously brushed
away the tears which welled in his eyes. Presently
they were invited into the consulting-room,
and, as they passed Graham, he heard a
suppressed groan as the father whispered to the
child,

Now, my precious one, we're going to see
what pretty things the kind gentleman has got
to'show us ;' and the frail child clapped her hands
for joy.

The next to be called was a man of middle
age, but who had already outlived the fair

illusions of life, and only sought the physician's
aid to lighten its heavy burdens. Contrasted
with him was a young man still enamoured of
the pleasures which had sapped his once
vigorous powers, and who hoped to deceive the
lynx-eyed expert as to the origin of his malady,
even as he deceived himself,

At the far end of the room in comparative obscurity
was a group, composed, evidently, of an
invalid mother and her daughter. The mother
was a delicate lady, and the daughter a fine
handsome girl, abounding in health and strength,
and though Graham could not distinguish their
features, and made no attempt to overhear their
conversation, he could not fail to observe that
the daughter was lavishing the utmost care and
tenderness on the parent. Watching the varying
expressions of her countenance, her anxiety
exaggerated the symptoms, and conjured up all
manner of evil foreboclements, and she would
now moisten her temples with eau-de-cologne,
and now hold a vinaigrette to her nostrils,
smoothing her hair, kissing her, and cheering
her with the sweet words of parental endearment,
which in her early childhood her mother

doubtless addressed to her, thus reversing their
respective positions in a manner which was at
once touching and mirth-provoking.

Darling pet ! Poor little invalid ! I think it
looks better. Its eyes are so bright, and
there's a wee bit of colour on its dear cheeks !
You do feel stronger, my precious one, do you
not?'

Yes, dear child, I'm stronger to-day.'

And do you know what I'm going to do V

enquired the daughter, gazing passionately into

her mothers eyes, and kissing them.

I can't imagine.'

'I'm going to take it out of town, if Dr.
Eustace will let me ; and as he thinks so highly
of Flinders' Farm, for its air, water and drainage,
I intend to take it there, and bring the colour
again to its cheeks, and strength to its limbs.
There !'

1 That will be kind of you,' replied the lady,
with assumed submission, humouring her
daughter's loving conceit.

Whether it was that Graham was of a sympathetic
nature, or that his physical strength,
which had never wholly recovered from the

VOL. I. E

exploit in Cheapside, suddenly failed him, or
that the room in which the patients assembled
had become oppressive, or that he had walked
too far or too rapidly — whatever the cause, the
young lady had scarcely ceased speaking when
there was a singing in his ears, a cold sweat
burst out from head to foot, the room spun
round, his heart failed him, and he fell back ina
swoon upon the sofa.

It was the work of an instant for the young
girl to rush to his assistance, support his head,
dash eau-de-cologne in his face, and ring the
bell. Servants were instantly in attendance,
Dr. Eustace appeared, and the young artist, still
unconscious, was carried to an adjoining room
and laid on a couch.

The untoward incident greatly agitated the
invalid lady, and her daughter was hardly less
distressed, but Dr. Eustace was able in the
course of a few minutes to reassure them, stating
that the attack was not at all serious, and arose,
in fact, from his having fasted too long ; but the
patient was already recovered, and desired him
to express his deep concern for having caused
the ladies a moment's disturbance.

But, Dr. Eustace,' urged the young lady with
sadness, * he looked so exceedingly ill.'

Yes, my dear Miss Tierney, he is undoubtedly
in a bad state ;' and he tapped his own chest
with his finger.

The young lady seemed much distressed.

'Can nothing be done for him V she enquired,
earnestly.

k We shall see. We shall see.'

'You'll let us know, won't you?' asked the
invalid mother, turning to the physician, ' for
we both feel so sincerely for him.'

Oh, yes, please let us know,' echoed the
young lady, pitifully.

1 I will, madam.'

By the time the ladies' interview with Dr.
Eustace had ceased, Graham, who had been
kindly furnished with refreshment, had rallied,
and was shown into the consulting-room, where
Dr. Eustace received him with great kindness.

Pray be seated, sir,' he said, encouragingly ;
and, before we go into your case, let me urge
you never to take these long walks on an empty
stomach. Few men are strong enough to doit.
Your little attack was not induced by any

E 2

organic derangement, but purely for want of
food.'

This authoritative statement was comforting
to the young man, who had viewed it as symptomatic
of his malady. The physician placed
him in a chair with his face in a strong light,
scanning his features with a penetrating eye
and peculiar interest.

You have a cough, I dare say, though I have
not heard it.'

Yes, I have always had a cough.'

I Everybody coughs more or less in this climate,'
replied the expert, carelessly. ' May I
ask your name V

Graham,' replied the young man ; and the
physician made entries in his journal under the
heading * Mr. Graham.'

You look about twenty-three.'
That is my age.'
Have you been weighed lately V

I I was weighed six months ago.'
'What did you scale then I'

Ten stone twelve.'

Would you mind sitting on this machine of
mine ? Thank you ;' and Graham sat on the

scale accordingly. The dial behind him indicated
barely ten stone.

That will do ;' and the patient resumed his
former seat without having noticed the indication
shown by the machine.

6 1 think I must ask you to strip, Mr.
Graham said the physician, still busily making
notes.

Graham stripped to the waist, and the physician
applied all the tests with stethoscope to
chest and back, rapping and manipulating with
infinite patience and care, ascertaining his temperature
and pulse, and ultimately desiring him
to resume his clothing, which, he did not fail to
observe, was scanty and worn. He also noted
the scar on his shoulder where he had been
grazed by the wheel of the van.

Do you know, Mr. Graham, that I am dreadfully
inquisitive, for I like to learn all about my
patients ; so you will excuse my inquiring your
profession or vocation V

6 1 am an artist.'

'Well, I thought so,' replied the doctor, cheerily
; ' and that circumstance interests me, for I
must tell you I dabble in art a little, and my

friends say it ought to have been my profession
instead of my recreation.'

Graham expressed his gratification at the
information, and, glancing round the room, he
noticed some fine etchings of landscapes, and
ventured to inquire whether they were his performances.


Yes ; I never travel without some plates in
the carnage, with the ground ready prepared,
and if I am detained anywhere, as occasionally
happens, I stroll about, and, if I discover a bit I
like, I just etch it then and there, and when I
get home I bite it in.'

Aspen expressed his admiration.

Of course, the things are vile to your cultured
eye, Mr. Graham,' continued the expert,
still ' taking stock ' of the young man, and entering
every fact as it came under observation
in his journal ; ' but I never like to be idle, and
I dare say you are equally industrious V

It was a point-blank question, put with a
purpose evidently.

Ah,' replied Graham, abashed, * I must confess
that I waste time sadly.'

You sit and ruminate, perhaps V

Sometimes for days, sir.'

« Well replied Dr. Eustace, jotting down his
notes, ' some people lie fallow, as it were, then
work furiously.'

1 1 do so.'

1 Enthusiastically — almost passionately ?

« Yes.'

And you become prostrated by the intense
mental and bodily effort V

< That is the case.'

1 This is precisely what I surmised when you
entered the room.'

Graham was struck with astonishment and
admiration at the physician's penetration.

'Now tell me, Mr. Graham, about your —
parents ;' he hesitated at the last word, as one
does who is touching a sore wound.

Graham made no reply, though he endeavoured
to do so. A spasm shot through his heart
and flushed his cheek.

'I see, I see,' said the expert, soothingly;
1 my own dear father and mother died young !
Our wonderful organs are so soon thrown out
of gear. You probably have — brothers and
sisters?'

Graham again paused.

Ah, it does so happen, too often ! Half the
population succumb before they reach maturity:'
and he recorded the facts elicited by the patient's
silence.

I had a brother and a sister,' answered Graham,
sorrowfully, ' but they, like my father, died,
I believe, of — consumption. But I never knew
the particulars, as they died while I was at
college in Germany.'

Consumption, the scourge of these islands !'
reflected Dr. Eustace aloud, making a final
entry and closing the journal.

He then drew his chair close to the artist and
took his hand.

1 My young friend,' he said, with the utmost
gentleness, 'you come to me with great misgivings
as to your state, and, if I am not deceived,
you wish to hear what I have to say, be
it good news or bad V

6 1 do so, most distinctly.'

1 Your own view of your condition is, I think,
an unfavourable one V

i I confess it is not very hopeful.'

And, bearing in mind the decease of your

brother and sister, you imagine the taint to be
hereditary V

6 Such has been my conviction V

6 Conviction, exactly ; and let me tell you
that, so intimately and wonderfully do the mind
and body act and re-act, a rooted conviction
will often call into existence and renewed vitality
a disease which had, otherwise, exhausted
itself and died out.'

Graham had no rejoinder to offer either in
support or in contradiction of this statement.

Consequently, as you have admitted, you
brood over it, you surrender yourself to a summary
and unwarranted conclusion. This, my
friend, emasculates the mental faculties, so to
speak, and the body pays for it. Hence the
inability at times to pursue the art you love.
Hence the prostration, the consequent lowering
of the power of resistance, and the possibly fatal
issue !'

The physician enunciated his views with decision
and gravity, which startled Graham, but
they were so evidently dictated by a kindly and
sympathetic feeling that the young artist was
deeply touched.

Continued the expert :

'You are apt, Mr. Graham, to neglect yourself
and think wholly of your art. That is
wrong — grievously wrong ; the body needs cultivation
as much as the mind. You close your
eyes to human fellowship. That is sinful —
positively. You renounce the recreations and
simple pleasures pursued by other men. That
is the height of folly.'

Graham inclined his head in admission of the
charges.

You see, I am taking most unusual interest
in your case. Some day I will tell you the
reason ;' and the physician seemed to be lost in
an abstraction for a few moments. He then
continued : ' All I will permit myself to impart is
that which you desire to hear — the actual condition
of your vital organs.'

'Yes,' eagerly responded the young man,
yes, it is that, and only that.'

I may be in error, my friend — I hope I am.
We doctors, you know, are only mortals, and as
fallible as other men. But, if I am not mistaken,
there arc complications in your case. There

are indications of incipient tubercles in the left
lung. The right is at present sound, but maybe
affected any day if you take cold — and then
and then — no human aid can save you unless
we can get up your strength. But understand,
dear sir, I'm hopeful, for you have youth, and
youth will often falsify our unfavourable conclusions
and reverse the conditions upon which
they were based. Moreover, you are wise
enough, I think, to avoid excesses and excitements,
and this is as good for you as any prescription
I can give.'

Graham weighed every word which fell
from the physician, and, though his utterance
seemed to flatter hope, he divined his thoughts
while he heard his speech, and Graham felt
sure that on the whole his opinion was unfavourable.


If I may ask you to speak without reservation,'
said the young artist, after an uneasy interval
of silence, during which the physician
looked at his clock which was an involuntary
intimation to his patient that he bad nothing
more to say, * I would beg you to tell me how

long you think a person in my state might be
expected to live V

The question was put so calmly, so directly,
and with such manifest faith in the physician's
candour that Dr. Eustace was taken aback, and
he gazed on the young man's placid face with
surprise and admiration.

1 will be perfectly frank with you, Mr.
Graham, for, with a man of your temperament,
anything in the shape of a quibble would be unjustifiable.
If you survive three years, there is
no reason why you should not live ten, thirty, or
fifty years. At the present moment you are at
low water mark. You have lost materially in
weight within the last six months, consequently
your recuperative powers are less than they
should be. But I say again, you have the invaluable,
inestimable fund of youth, and Nature
is generous to youth, as a rule. Moreover,' continued
the kindly gentleman, rising and laying a
friendly hand on Graham's shoulder, ' your profession
favours us. Follow it without blind
enthusiasm. Live much in the open air. Take
plenty of exercise and plain food. Cease to be
-a recluse. Get cheerful companionship. Don't

watch the phases of your disease ; forget it,
and, above all, — be hopeful. The last word
I have to say is the best. Hope !' and the
good doctor held out his hand to take leave of
his patient.

Graham rose, and, gratefully thanking him,
modestly laid the fee on the table.

My dear friend,' said Dr. Eustace, intercepting
him in the act, ' it is a rule with me never to
accept a fee from a brother artist — if I may be
allowed to arrogate so much ! therefore, pray
gratify me by not making me break my rule !'

Graham recognised the physician's delicacy
and generosity.

But if you will permit me,' continued the
physician, ' I should so like to visit your studio !
Would you mind favouring me with your
address V

I have only a single room,' said Graham, without
hesitation, ' and really I have nothing to
show you.'

Dr. Eustace rightly understood this as an
objection on the part of the young man to receive
a visit, and with the utmost delicacy he
forbore to repeat the enquiry.

Let me see you again in a month he
said.

4 Yes, I will come again in a month.'

The young artist thereupon took his leave and
retraced his steps to Thistle Grove with a sense
of relief. He had challenged the oracle and it
had not answered enigmatically.

Three years,' he muttered, * he gives me
three years ! That's more than I expected.
Why, 'tis a life-time ! Anything may be accomplished
in three years !'

Dr. Eustace re-opened his journal, and, having
completed his diagnosis of Graham's complaint,
he at once fulfilled his promise to the lady who
had preceded Aspen in his consulting-room, and
wrote as follows :

1 The young gentleman who fainted here this
morning, and in whom you evinced so kind an
interest, is, I regret to say, in a condition which
gives cause for some anxiety. There is a suspicion
of phthisis in the family history which he
gives me, and there are complications. The
disease is hereditary, which is a bad feature.
His mind, moreover, is somewhat morbid on

the subject. There is a tendency to melancholia,
but I cannot say that he may not throw it oft',
though I do not find much ground for believing
that he will. Therefore my opinion is, on the
whole, decidedly unfavourable, though I admit
the case is obscure. I only hope 1 may be
wrong, for he is a young man of no common
order of mind, in whom I feel a keen interest.
He is an artist, and that again evokes my
sympathies;' &c, &c.

Graham Aspen regained his modest home, and,
as was his habit, he cast a jealous and hurried
glance in the direction of his easel which supported
the pictured head. The silken scarf was
over it as usual, but he did not notice that it
had been disturbed.

As he pondered on the interview of the
morning, the extreme kindness of the physician's
manner recurred again and again, and
he felt that he had made but a shabby return
in withholding his full name. A morbid shyness
and lack of self-confidence caused him
to lead the life of a recluse, as Dr. Eustace
had discovered; and it seemed like ingratitude

after that good man's frank and friendly
treatment of him to misinform him on so trivial
a point.

1 The consequence of my stupidity is, that I
can never call upon him again, however much
I may need his valuable advice.'

Such was the result of Graham's meditations.


'Strange meditated Dr. Eustace, as he
rested in the evening by the fireside vainly
endeavouring to fix his attention on his book ;
1 'tis strange how that young man, Graham,
recalled my poor Mildred ! the same voice,
the same cast of features, the same slight
frame. Ah,' he continued, sighing, ' I wonder
what the poor girl's fate is! Since she ran
away from school with that vagabond Sinclair,
and married him, she has been lost to us.
Lost as effectually as though the grave itself
had closed over her on that fatal day. 'Tis
strange, indeed, how instantly and vividly the
mind brings back the almost forgotten past
at the sound of a voice, at the sight of a
face ! Poor Mildred, so fair, so good, so frail
in health, I think I see you now!' and Dr.

Eustace gave himself up to reverie into which
the personality of Graham forced itself again
and again.

The kindly physician felt, moreover, a dissatisfaction
with himself which was purely professional.
Contrary to his habit of reticence,
he had, in an unguarded moment, been betrayed
into forecasting the young man's fate, basing
his opinion on the family history he had drawn
from him, and the familiar law of heredity in
these diseases. He felt it was ill-advised in him
thus to commit himself, especially with a patient
of the peculiar temperament of this interesting
young man ; and Dr. Eustace was more than
vexed, he was pained.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IV.

LENA.

Graham Aspen had barely got clear of Tapioca
Terrace, when Mrs. Lipperty, eager to make
herself acquainted with the equivocal circumstances
occurring next door, donned her most
monastic attire, and, with a book in her hand
and a homily on her lips, sallied forth, and gave
a lugubrious knock at No. 2.

If Susan did not immediately respond to the
summons, it was not in consequence of any
defect in her auditory faculties, for the knock
was only too well heard and too well known,
and the damsel was, in fact, intercepted by her
mistress as she was on her way to the door.
Susan had judiciously solved the perplexing
problem of her mistress's return, in a state of

agitation, with a stranger, by listening at the
keyhole, and she was therefore not surprised
when Mrs. Sparragus, calling her, said, in an
undertone, ' Susan, I can't see her,' at the same
time retreating to her bed-room.

Susan put up the chain, and, opening the
door a few inches, said, in reply to Mrs.
Lipperty,

Missus ain't very well;, she's been dreadfully
upset.'

'Ah! by that man V

1 No, mem, by one of them Pickford's vans as
nearly ruined over her.'

Nearly ran over her !'

Yes, mem, and it was all along o' that young
man.'

That she was nearly run over f '

4 No, no, that she escaped.' And Susan recited
the adventure in the most graphic manner,
adding touches of her own to make it dramatic.
4 He's the 'handsomest and nicest young gent as
ever I see !'

But who is he V demanded Mrs. Lipperty,
sharply, disgusted to find the intruder had
already an ally in Susan.

f2

That's just the thing as puts my poor missus
out so.'

'How is that?'

Why, she'd give anything to find out who he
is, and he refused to tell her.'

<I can't imagine why she should be so
anxious to know,' urged Mrs. Lipperty, inquiringly.


« Can't you % I can

Tell me the reason, Susan. You are such
an intelligent girl.'

Wouldn't you or anyone else want to reward
a 'handsome young man for saving you from one
of them Pickford's vans V

6 Does she wish to reward him V

Course she do. Ain't it natural she should V

Mrs. Lipperty saw it all at a glance. The
foolish old woman desired to prove her gratitude
in the only manner a person of her age,
possessing a nice little property and money in
the Funds, could. She evidently meant to
make him her heir.

This must never be !' meditated the relict of
the Rev. Ebenezer ; * I must warn her against
committing this atrocious folly. She shall not

be the victim of this person's cupidity, if I can
prevent it !'

Turning to Susan, she continued,

My good girl, it is necessary that I see your
poor mistress to administer comfort in this distressing
matter.'

That's exactly what she don't want,' promptly
responded Susan, closing the door another
inch as if apprehensive that the spare figure in
black might squeeze through the narrow
aperture.

You don't understand me, my good girl.'

But it seem my missus do, for she said jest
now, " Susan, if that Mrs. Lipperty comes here
a-bothering and a-preaching, tell her I'm laying
down and ain't to be disturbed, for I'm that
upset I can't stand her goings-on, which is bad
enough when I'm well, goodness knows, which
I ain't." '

Did the poor dear say all this V sighed Mrs.
Lipperty, with upcast eyes, at the same time
biting a piece out of the finger of her black
glove. < Really V

Lor', yes, and ever so much more. She says,
says she, "That there woman at No. 1 is a

perfect' nuisance with her long face and her
solemn talk — I can't a-bear it, and I've half a
mind to go right away to Flinders' for the sake
of peace." Them's her very words, and 1 tell
you plump and plain, mem, because I know you
likes to hear the truth.'

1 Yes, Susan, I love the truth,' piously responded
Mrs. Lipperty, clasping her hands and
gnawing her tongue at the same time. . ' Give
my dearest love to your mistress. I wouldn't
on any account disturb her. Good afternoon ;'
and the amiable ministrant, apprehending further
confidences from the too veracious Susan, turned
from the door, which was punctually and effectually
closed.

Denied the satisfaction of delivering her
bosom of its stored-up invective on the head
of Mrs. Sparragus or the bad young man with
mercenary designs, Mrs. Lipperty was reduced
to the alternative of directing it towards an
offender nearer home, whose shortcomings and
general perversity exhausted her vocabulary of
censure, compendious though the volume was,
that offender was Lena.

When the spiritual legatee and relict of the

Rev. Ebenezer entered her step-daughter's room,
she found her by the open window, apparently
absorbed in thought, a closed book lying by her
side.

Leonora Jane I'

1 Yes, mamma,' replied Lena, roused from her
reverie and starting at the abrupt intrusion ; * I
am here.'

So I perceive ; and may I ask what you are
occupied with V

1 am doing nothing.'

Doing nothing ! Then let me recommend
you not to do it, but, on the contrary, to use
the faculties which the Almighty has given
you, and do something,' retorted Mrs. Lipperty,
with scathing severity. 'Remember, Leonora
Jane, "doing nothing" is an invitation to
Satan; it is opening the door to the enemy,
who enters in and very soon makes you busy
enough !'

'Nothing would delight me more, mamma,
than to have employment.'

Hem ! This is the first time I have heard
you say as much. And you haven't given any
particular evidence of a passion for work.'

I have not had the opportunity, mamma
calmly responded Lena.

Not had the opportunity ! Where there's
the will there is always the opportunity ! It
hasn't occurred to you that Maria would be glad
of a little assistance on washing-days in hang-ingot
and ironing? And I don't remember
your ever offering to make a pudding or peel
the potatoes.'

I didn't know, mamma, that you wished me
to do those things.'

I wish you to be of use in the world, and not
to eat the bread of idleness.'

That is exactly what I desire to be, mamma,
if you will allow me to do that for which I feel
fitted.'

1 Girls of your age, Leonora Jane, can't possibly
know what they are fitted for. They usually
allow their elders to direct them.'

I should only be too thankful to be directed,'
replied Lena, sorrowfully, 'if I had a friend
to do so ;' and she burst into tears.

'Well, that's about as insulting and ungrateful
a remark as you could have made!
Friend, indeed ! and, pray, who has been your

friend all these years ? Who has clothed and
fed yon, and shown you how full to overflowing
you are of evil, and how depraved the
natural man within you is ? Who has never
wearied in this thankless task? Answer arne,
Leonora Jane ! who V

Yes, mamma'; you have done all this.'
Then it seems that you have yet to learn
that they are our truest friends who tell us
our faults. Oh, fie, fie! Never let me again
hear you talk such hollow cant about desiring
to be directed how to employ yourself. To
think that such pharisaical stuff should bespoken
by a child of my beloved Ebenezer!
The best thing you can do, Leonora Jane, is
to scourge your own refractory nature and try
to tread in my footsteps and dispense a little
happiness amongst those with whom it has
pleased the Almighty to place you !' and, with
this parthian shot, the excellent and beneficent
lady retreated to her own chamber.

What was the effect of this tirade upon
Lena? Just what might have been foreseen
with a pure-minded and intelligent girl.
Until lately the four walls of their abode had

contained all she cared for or dreamt of.
Her home was her world. Habit had centred
everything there, and a natural contentedness
and obedience to authority had rendered her to
all appearances characterless. But her stepmother's
ever-ready strictures and railing
accusations had rent the veil that shut everything
from her mental view, and had gradually
let in light until she saw how truly barren the
place was. Hitherto a rigid monasticism had
excluded from her all but matters personal and
domestic ; a spurious moral regimen had so
restricted her horizon that up to this time real
human interests and fellowships found no place
in it, and she might have lapsed and wasted
down into the degenerate and emasculate
creature of which the ascetic is made. But
her step-mother's excessive and coarse austerity
saved her, for it called into activity a
vital power which had been hitherto dormant.
She awoke to the consciousness that her
existence was mechanical, little more than
animal : that the area of her mental functions
was a narrow circle of prejudice which admitted
neither light nor warmth, and that the

better part of her was numb and useless, like a
paralysed right arm, and denied its natural
exercise.

The knowledge once gained was bound to
increase and to broaden out into the vast field
of human concerns. Lena, after much mental
conflict, awoke and felt she must be free or else
die. The spirit that asserted itself unbidden
was not that of revolt, but of firm, calm protest.
Dutiful by nature, discipline had made her
dependent ; but, in an hour of trial, Will declared
itself, and Lena the child became transformed
into the woman animated with the power to
comprehend the actualities of life, and to take
her share in its work. She seemed to chafe like
a cagecl bird pleading to spread its unused
pinions and beating against the iron bars. And,
as this sense burst into conviction with electric
suddenness, the careless gaiety of her young-heart
mellowed down into a settled gravity, for
she felt that she had responsibilities. And r
beyond this, she foresaw the uncompromising-animosity
of her step-mother in the new departure
to which she must now be committed, and
she issues seemed portentous. But the sense of

independence of action proper to adolescence
seemed to gain strength the more she contemplated
her position, and, though she tossed on
her bed in unrest the whole night through, the
hours were employed in that fit mental debate
from which sound results are evolved.

When she descended to the breakfast-table in
the morning her resolution was formed. She
met her step-mother with her wonted dutiful
greeting.

8 Lena,' said Mrs. Lipperty, who also had
passed an unquiet night, reviewing the events
of the day, her dissatisfaction being equally
divided between Mrs. Sparragus and her stepdaughter
; ' Lena, I wish you to pay a visit at
No. 2 to-day, and see if the old lady is disposed
to be at all communicative about that affair of
yesterday. I wish particularly to know; and,
as she refused to receive me yesterday, which
surprised me greatly, seeing that my only object
in calling was to offer her comfort and consolation,
I prefer that you go and gather all you
can.'

I hope you will spare me an errand which is
not to my taste, mamma,' quietly responded

Lena ; ' I have great respect for Mrs. Sparragus,
and, when I call to see her, I do so without any
motive.'

I thought as much ! This is you who so
desire to be directed ! The very first thing I
wish you to do you decline.'

I ask you not to send me on an errand which
does not seem to me quite creditable.'

'Now you are taking upon yourself to censure
me!'

I think, mamma, you will grant that it is
time I had opinions of my own.'

1 Certainly not, if they are contrary to mine,,
as, of course, in a giddy, simple girl they must
be.'

Then I'm afraid I must claim the right to
think for myself,' answered Lena, in a tone of
firmness which startled her step-mother.

Matters are come to a pretty state ! This
looks very much like open revolt !' ejaculated
Mrs. Lipperty, gazing fiercely at the rebel
across the table. But the rebel remained calm
and unabashed.

I speak as I do, mamma, because I see the
time has come for me to do so, and I am sure

you would wish me to be frank and plain in a
matter which is serious — at least, to me.'

Mrs. Lipperty had no rejoinder sufficiently
crushing ready. She could only make a gesture
of impatience and contempt.

Lena drew a deep breath, and continued :

« I should have thought you would have
remembered that young people are not always
children, but grow up, and have, soon or late,
to take their places in a world of action and
labour, and, the longer they close their eyes to
the duty of fitting themselves for their future, the
more unready will they be when that future
comes upon them !'

Hem ! All this is out of a book, I suppose !'
interrupted Mrs Lipperty, with bitterness ; ' I've
certainly read it somewhere.'

I may have gathered it from a book, mamma,
and it may yet be true,' replied Lena, with unconscious
sarcasm ; ' and I feel more and more
that it is true. And, being true, I must claim to
l>e allowed to employ such faculties as I have
as best I can ; for I agree with you that it is a
sin to eat the bread of idleness.'

Lena had never before given utterance to so

serious and philosophic a speech, and for a
moment she felt awed at her own temerity ; but,
meeting her step-mother's hard, un sympathising
gaze, she was confirmed in her resolve to speak
definitely, and, therefore, continued :

I have thought very seriously during the
night upon what you said yesterday, and I have
formed a resolution to work.'

Work won't harm you, I suppose,' replied
Mrs. Lipperty, with a sneer.

No, mamma ; and I mean to work very, very
hard.'

1 can't object to that, Leonora Jane ;' and
Mrs. Lipperty wondered whether Lena intended
to undertake the washing, the cooking, or the
window-cleaning.

1 have made up my mind to take up a profession,
and to try my chance of success.'

1 A profession. Hem ! and, pray, what profession
have you selected ? The stage V inquired
the good lady, with withering contempt.
I think I might cultivate my taste for music
with advantage.'

And may I ask what instrument you propose
to take up V

1 The violin.'

Exactly ! I expected as much. A man's
instrument, of course. Why not the cornet, or,
better still, the trombone, a still more manly
one ? Is this the kind of " work " which it becomes
a young girl to do f Oh, I'm shocked !
I'm ashamed of you, Leonora Jane !'

I believe ladies play the violin now-a-days,'
argued Lena, with gentle remonstrance.

1 Oh, dear yes ! " Ladies " do queer things
now-a-days — things that I blush to think of,
and fiddling is one of them, and the very last
thing they study is modesty, and no doubt you'll
soon be as forward as any of them ! But mind,
Leonora Jane, I wash my hands of it. I know
your obstinate disposition, and I see you are
bent on going headlong to destruction. Oh,
I'm truly thankful your poor, dear father isn't
here to see this day ! To think that a daughter
of his should come to this, to fiddle ! To perform,
I suppose, in those sinks of iniquity, the
theatres ! Don't ask my consent, for you won't
get it! The sin shan't lie at my door. Remember
that !'

I hope nothing but good will come of it,

mamma ; and, with God's blessing, no harm
can.'

'Don't, don't! I can't stay and hear you
talk so, Leonora Jane. It's profane ! But, of
course, where people give themselves up to the
vanities and follies of this wicked world, they
cast reverence to the winds !'

Lena made no attempt to justify herself; she
had announced her resolution, and her stepmother's
vituperation seemed the natural
consequence.

1 1 suppose,' continued Mrs. Lipperty, tauntingly,
' that, as you have money of your own,
you intend to exercise this " freedom " elsewhere
than under my roof?'

I had no such idea, mamma.'

6 Then you actually expect to be allowed to
follow your unhappy bent here, in spite of my
disapproval V

All I ask is to be permitted to work out my
own future and strive to be a credit to you,
mamma.'

If you wish to work and be a credit, you
can help Maria ; but I'll have no fiddling
here !'

VOL. I. G

Very well, mamma. I can obey you in this,'
replied Lena, without bitterness or vexation ;
and Mrs. Lipperty, satisfied in having scourged
her step-daughter to the best of her ability, rose
from the table and quitted the room.

Left alone, and the necessity for firmness and
self-control removed, Lena's fortitude gave way,
and, burying her face in her hands, she burst
into tears.

No sympathy, no encouragement, no friend !'
she murmured amid her sobs ; ' it is very, very
hard. Not in the whole world is there one to
whom I can turn for counsel. Mrs. Sparragus
is kind and good ; but, if I told her my trouble,
she might blame mamma, and I do not wish
that. No, I must bear my trials like others. It
rests with myself to overcome them. Twenty
friends could only cheer me to be brave, and 1
must be brave without them.'

Lena's tears had dried, and her fair face was
illumined by the enthusiasm which stirred her
heart. Sweeping back her rich, auburn tresses,
and drawing a deep breath, as though a burden
had been cast off, and the armour of a clear
conscience put on, she looked the beau ideal of

an English girl, for character, independence,
and natural grace were visible in e very-gesture.
She was transformed. The apathy,
born of dull surroundings and perpetual ,
had given place to animation, and
even gaiety, at the bare idea of the difficult
task she had resolved upon. A future seemed
to open out as she dwelt upon it, and, with the
fervour of simple faith, she offered up a prayer
for strength and guidance in the arduous study
she had determined to pursue.

When she rose from her knees she wore a
smile of contentedness which was evidence that
a life-long burden had been laid aside.

g2

CHAPTER V.

THE INTRUDER.

In spite of Dr. Eustace's encouraging advice,
his own momentary good resolution, and the
tempting offer of patronage made by Glare and
Gooley, Graham Aspen, unaware of the diverse
interests in himself which he had unwittingly
created, allowed day after day to pass without
profitable employment. A physical and mental
reaction had set in, and vacuity of thought and
nervous inactivity held him in thrall, which he
had no energy to throw off. The pictured face
of his idea was the one object of contemplation,
and, as we have seen, whenever his eyes were
satiated with the worship of it, he piously covered
it over, and, locking his door behind him, strolled
abroad.

On more than one occasion he had, on returning
to his room, been startled by the ruffled
appearance of the scarf which enveloped the
painting. Surely it had been disturbed ? And
a spasm of jealous anger would thrill him. But,
on reflection, he admitted the possibility of his
having brushed past it as he hurried ; or it may
have been the draught from the closing door
that disturbed it. And the suspicion was dismissed
again and again. Feeling more languid
than usual, Graham one day returned almost immediately
after quitting his room, and, mechanically
locking his door and removing the key, he
flung himself upon his bed, and drew the curtain,
composing himself for sleep. He had not
remained long in that condition, when he
thought he heard the sound of a foot without,
and presently it seemed that a key grated in
the lock.

Surely he must be dreaming ! But no, beyond
a doubt, the handle is turned, and the
door opens, and is gently closed behind a figure.
Through the narrow opening of the curtains,
Graham gazes spell-bound, and sees a rough
and ungainly youth advance into the room.

The artist is too astonished to move, or challenge
the intruder, who looks more like a phantom
than a marauder ; and all he can do is to
watch and wait. The youth had a small package
in his hand, which he laid aside, and at
once seated himself on the chair Graham occupied
opposite the easel on which stood his
ideal portrait, and carefully removed the scarf.
Ho remained for some moments rapt in contemplation
of the work which Graham, hardly
able to contain his indignation, expected to see
him take possession of, and then decamp. Instead,
however, of doing so, he made himself
quite at home on Graham's chair, and, unfolding
the package which he had brought with
him, exposed to view a copy of Graham's ideal
head, which he placed beside the original, and
glanced from one to the other with the air of an
art-critic. Presently he opened his colour-box,
and proceeded to advance his work, when Graham,
no longer able to remain a passive observer
of the sacrilegious act, sprang from his bed, and,
bursting through the curtains, threw himself
upon the awe-stricken intruder, shrieking,
« Wretch ! Villain ! What are you doing V

The petrified youth dropped his colour-box,
sank on to his knees, and burst into tears.

Speak, rascal, or I'll choke you !' and Graham
seized him by the throat.

I — 1 — was only trying to copy your beautiful
picture, sir,' replied the boy, in broken
accents.

1 Imp ! where did you get the key from V
demanded the enraged artist, holding a fist
against the lad's nose.

It's mother's, sir, please.'

Mother ! who is your mother V

1 Mrs. Starkie, sir, downstairs,' answered the
terrified youth, still on his knees.

'Mrs. Starkie, the landlady?'

Yes, please, sir.'

Graham Aspen relaxed his hold of the lad's
throat and ran to the bell, which he rang
violently.

Mrs. Starkie hurried up in alarm and entered
the room gasping for breath. Graham pointed
with out-stretched arm and menacing finger to
the shivering culprit in the chair.

1 Do you know this boy, Mrs. Starkie?' he
demanded, in tragic tones.

< Why, sir, if it ain't our Jem !' answered
the landlady, hardly able to articulate intelligibly.


'Did you know he was in the habit of entering
my studio in my absence V

Lor' bless you, sir, I never dremp of such a
thing !' responded Mrs. Starkie with evident
veracity.

But you knew there was a duplicate key to
my door?'

Well, it's this way. You see, sir, lodgers is
always a-losing their keys, and so I has two
keys to all the doors in case of accidents.'

And to all the drawers and tea-caddies too,
I suppose, Mrs. Starkie,' retorted Graham, severely
caustic.

Good gracious, no ! sir. I shouldn't go and
do no such thing !' answered the landlady, her
susceptible feelings deeply harrowed by the
imputation.

Jem, you evil, bad boy, how dare you do such
a thing V she continued, wiping her eyes with
her apron.

Jem, caught red-handed, could offer nothing
in explanation or extenuation.

Turning to Aspen, Mrs. Starkie proceeded to
explain :

'To tell you the truth, sir, I can't make
nothing of 'im. He's that stooped, I've no
patience !'

In what respect is he stupid f ' enquired
Graham, gradually mollified by the bearing of
the hardened criminal.

He's that dull, sir, that he can't hardly clean
knives decently, let alone boots, and as for
winders, why, he makes em dirtier than they was
before V

1 Is there nothing else he can do V asked the
artist, relaxing more and more.

1 I sends him of errands sometimes, but lor', sir,
it's a thousand to one but he goes to the wrong
shop, and brings home a mutton-chop instead of
a pound of candles. He can't be relied on for
nothing, his head's so choke full of they everlasting
picture !'

'Pictures?'

Oh yes, sir, morning, noon, and night, drawing,
drawing, drawing, till I'm downright sick!
Why, there's never a bit o' clean paper lying
about but Jem goes and spiles it 'mediately.'

'How

Why, by drawing picture on it ! And the worst
of it was, his uncle went and give him a sovereign,
and I told him to go and buy himself a
jacket for Sunday.'

'And didn't he do so?'

Not a bit of it, sir. Away he went and
bought a box of nasty paints,' replied Mrs. Starkie,
pathetically.

The culprit sat overwhelmed at the too true
recital of his misdeeds and timorously raised his
large bright eyes to Graham, who at the
moment seemed to him justice personified ; and
if the artist had pronounced judgment there and
then, and condemned him in the extremest of
penalties, it would have been submitted to without
the faintest protest, so veracious was the
long catalogue of his offences-as set forth by his
mother. Graham's eye caught his, and there
passed from one to the other a magnetic current
of human sympathy which was to last through
life.

Graham took up the copy of his ideal work
which Jem had in his abashment secreted under

a chair, and he was astonished at the original
talent displayed in it.

Did you do the whole of this, my boy V he
enquired, in a reassuring tone.

4 Yes, sir,' answered Jem, wondering whether
that was an aggravation of his crime.

4 Has he ever had instruction V asked the
artist, turning to Mrs. Starkie.

Lor, no ! the mischief is, he teaches himself,
and I'm downright tired of boxing 'is ears, that
lam!'

Graham took the lad's hand.

1 Jem, I was more than angry with you for
coming in here as you did ; but, now that I
understand your object, I not only forgive you,,
but I am really pleased. In future you are free
to come and work here whenever you wish, and
if I can help you, as I think 1 can, I will — if
you will let me !'

Jem burst into tears.

'Ah, you may well be ashamed of herself,
Jem!' exclaimed Mrs. Starkie, admonishingly,
for I quite expected Mr. Aspen was a-going to
give you in charge. To think that a child of

mine should dare to go into lodgers' rooms
unbeknown !'

1 My dear Mrs. Starkie,' remonstrated Graham,
I think we have both said enough about his
misdeeds. He didn't touch either my tea-caddy
or my purse. The only thing he has robbed me
of has been — my conceit. Leave me to punish
him for that in my own way, will you V

With all my 'art, sir, and I hope the flogging
you give him will do him more good than mine
does, for I'm downright sick and tired of galloping
'im !' And Mrs. Starkie, relieved of a
hopeless burden and the bane of her existence
as a struggling landlady, left her incorrigible
son at her lodger's mercy, and descended to her
room below.

Graham turned to Jem, and, seeing tears still
trickling down his face, spoke to him sympathetically
:

4 Are you unhappy, my boy V

Jem made no reply, but sobbed afresh.
Graham repeated the inquiry, 'Are you unhappy
r

4 Oh ! no, sir. I am happy, very happy.'

Is that a reason for your tears, Jem f '

1 Yes, sir.'

Jem, in truth, was in tears of joy and an
overflowing heart. The artist comprehended it
at its true value, and he felt happy too.

As a pretext for being alone, Graham desired
the youth to fetch his drawings for his inspection,
for he needed solitude to reflect upon a
new and unexpected vista which seemed to-open
out in his life.

Three years !' he meditated, pressing his-hand
to his throbbing temples ; * Eustace gives
me three years — and three years seemed a lifetime
when I had scarcely looked or cared for as
many months ; but, now that an interest in life
has suddenly sprung into existence, how far too
short a time it is for me to do what I would for
this gifted boy ! Only three short years to
assist the throes of genius ! As for myself, all
the power that was ever in me is spent in this
one device ;' and Graham turned to the face of
his ideal ; ' all is gone from me now ! But I can
be a foster-father, if not the father of something
that may be fit to live. This boy's natural bent
may be a power in art — why not ? and it shall
be mine to watch its growth !'

Jem presently re-entered laden with a heap
of miscellaneous scraps of all shapes and sizes,
which he bashfully placed on the table beside
Graham, who at once glanced over them. They
consisted of drawings in pen and ink, pencil and
water-colours. Sunsets, clouds, flowers, and
even efforts in landscape, various objects of
furniture, his mother in all views, and even a
sketch of Graham himself — the one object of
Jem's secret veneration.

The young artist was prepared to find indications
of latent ability, but he was astonished
at the promise shown in the sketches before him.
He could discern no special inclination in favour
of any one subject — the youthful essayist seemed
equally attracted by figure subjects, landscape,
or landscape. That the performances were
immature, crude, and tentative was evident and
unavoidable ; but Graham was astonished at
their near approach to accuracy, their decision
of touch, and that pardonable exaggeration
which gives evidence of boldness and breadth
of view.

Without betraying the impressions made
upon him, or injudiciously applauding Jem's

performances, Graham laid a gentle hand on
his shoulder and drew him to his side.
How old are you, my lad V he asked.

Seventeen, sir.'

And how long have you tried to draw V
i I can't remember, sir. Always, 1 think.'
How old were you when you drew this?'

pointing to a sketch of a cat.

It's further back than I can tell you ; the cat

has been dead ever so many years.'

And these sunsets and clouds?'

Last year, sir

1 And which do you like doing best, cats or
sunsets V

Oh, sunsets!' responded Jem, promptly.

Here are drawings of men and women ;
which do you prefer, — figures or sunsets V

Jem reflected and was at a loss for an answer.

I like both, sir.'

The reply pleased Graham greatly, it indicated
largeness of capacity. Taking up a drawing
of a chair, he asked the youth why he made the
back legs so much shorter and slighter than the
front.

1 Because they look shorter and thinner.'

Why is that V

Jem could not explain.

■ Shall I show you how to find whether the
legs of this chair are right or wrong V

Oh, yes, sir, please answered Jem, with
enthusiasm ; whereupon Graham drew on the
paper the simple lines of perspective, explaining
the meaning of the terms and their application,
which Jem imbibed with avidity.

You see now that the legs of your chair are
not quite right,' demonstrated Graham.

No, sir, the back legs are not short enough,
after all !' exclaimed Jem, laughing at the discovery.


Exactly. And you will in all your drawings
remember my first lesson, and make your distances
and proportions correct by the aid of such
lines as I have drawn V

1 Yes, sir.'

And shall 1 teach you all I know, Jem V enquired
Graham, in tones which bespoke more
than kindness ; and the question sent such a
thrill through Jem that he was mute so far as
making an articulate reply. He seemed bewildered
between surprise and joy.

Perhaps it would be better if I got you
placed in a school under masters V

I Oh no, sir, with you ! — with you !' replied
Jem, spasmodically.

But why with me V enquired Graham.
Jem turned to the face on the easel.

I I only want to be taught to paint like that,
sir ! But I never, never shall !'

1 Poor boy !' meditated Graham, ' how little he
knows of the power that is in him !'

Taking up a sunset he asked how he obtained
a certain tint. Jem replied that he did not know.

1 But you didn't find this grey in your colour-box
V

No, sir ; I mixed all sorts together till I got
what 1 wanted V

6 My boy, the best painter can do no more.
The only difference is that they know how
to mix and do it ; while you do it without
knowing.'

Yes, sir,' answered Jem, not quite grasping
the antithetical explanation Graham had propounded,
and which was a sincere compliment
to the lad, who, in fact, accepted it as a rebuke
in all meekness.

VOL. I. H

The colloquy at that moment was interrupted
by a knock at the door.

Come in !'

And Mrs. Starkie entered.

'If you've quite done chastising of that
naughty boy, Mr. Aspen, — and I'm truly obliged
to you, sir, and I 'ope you've give it 'im
well ! — I want him to clean the knives and peel
the partakers !'

Mrs. Starkie,' said Graham, placing himself
between his landlady and her son, ' don't you
think it is quite time he earned his own living V

6 Earn his living, Mr. Aspen ! Lor' a mercy
me ! Why, he'll never earn the salt he eats !'

Well, do you know, Mrs. Starkie, I think of
giving him a trial.'

'You, Mr. Aspen 1 ?' exclaimed the landlady,
incredulous, and doubtful of her lodger's sanity.

'Yes. I find I want assistance, and Jem,
you know, is rather fond of mixing colours.'

Oh, drat him, yes, those nasty paints, he's
for ever messing himself with 'em ! and wipes
them brushes on towels or anything !'

Well, Mrs. Starkie, if you see no objection
to his making these messes in here instead of

downstairs, I propose to engage him on the spot
to help me at a pound a month.'

Mrs. Starkie threw up both her hands in
wonderment, and looked from Jem to Graham,
and from Graham to Jem in complete confusion
of brains.

That, you know, will be at the rate of twelve
pounds a year, Mrs. Starkie, and I daresay you
will be able to get a girl to clean knives and
peel potatoes far better than Jem, at half that
sum,' continued Graham ; ' and you'll have no
more of this horrible litter down below,' indicating
the pile of drawings on the table and
floor, 'and that will be worth something considerable,
eh?'

'But, Mr. Aspen, you're a-joking, surely?
You can't be serious ?'

I never felt more serious in my life !' and
Graham spoke the literal truth.

Well, Mr. Aspen,' replied the landlady, wiping
her face with the back of her hand, and
planting her feet firmly in evidence of unbounded
resolution, 'I can only say I've too
much respect' for you to consent to your a-
saddling yourself with such a bargain as Jem

h2

to save me, which it is my 'ard lot to bear, and
I'm very thankful, sir, jest the same ; but, no,
I've got a conscience, 1 'ave, and I couldn't
take advantage of anybody, let alone a lodger
as I respects like my own flesh and blood !' and
Mrs. Starkie mopped her face, as if it had been
a kitchen utensil.

This view of the proposition disconcerted
Graham considerably, and he felt rather nonplussed.
However, he continued :

But if I wish it, Mrs. Starkie, I can't possibly
blame you, whatever happens. '

6 'Course you wouldn't, Mr. Aspen. Why,
you're the last man to do such a thing as blame
me ! You've not been in my house for over a
year without my finding out that you're the
kindheartedest young gentleman as ever was !
and I'm not a-going to let my Jem upset your
peace o' mind if I know it. There !'

You don't quite understand me, Mrs. Starkie.
I really must have assistance, you know

As for that, Mr. Aspen, I won't say, and if
you like I'll look about for a good handy boy or
girl from the Orphan School. There's Mrs.
Sober's Betsy, a willing', 'ard working gall as'Il

keep the place tidy, and she washes beautiful !
and I know she'd rub your paints well, for I've
seen her hearthstone the door-step, and it's a
sight to see her do it, it is !'

Graham was getting desperate : he was at a
loss for arguments :

4 It is truly kind of you, Mrs. Starkie, to have
such consideration for me, but my mind is made
up. I engage Jem P

Then, Mr. Aspen, for your own good I must
say no, 1 wouldn't for the world !'

You refuse to consent?' demanded Graham,
fiercely, while Jem could be heard sobbing in
the corner of the room.

6 'Course I do, Mr. Aspen, or I shouldn't be no
friend !' retorted the landlady, decisively.

Graham was baffled. However, he had one
more card to play :

Very well, Mrs. Starkie, I see I have been
with you too long. I give you notice to vacate
this room this day week.'

It was Graham's trump card, and it won the
trick.

Mrs. Starkie clasped her hands together, and
gave evidence of great internal commotion by

dropping into a chair. Graham followed up
his advantage :

This day week I leave you. I see by a bill
in the window opposite there's a room to let
there !'

1 Oh, Mr. Aspen, would you be so cruel to a
poor widow V pitifully pleaded the landlady,
to go and leave her jest because she wanted to
act fair by you and not let you go and do yourself
no wrong 1 And then to lodge opposite !'

Tt rests with you, Mrs. Starkie. Let me
engage Jem, and I'll remain here — as long as I
live — (Graham muttered to himself, < 'twill be
but three years !') but, if you refuse to let Jem be
with me, you can look out for another lodger in
my place.'

Oh, sir,' sobbed the landlady, surrendering,
4 1 won't say another word ! Take the boy and
keep him as long as you like for nothing ! I
know you'll be glad to be rid of 'im before
you're a week older. And please remember,
Mr. Aspen, that I'm not to blame. It ain't my
doing, the Lord knows it ain't V Turning to
her shivering son she apostrophised him, * Jem,
you idle, good-for-nothing boy, this kind, good

gentleman is a-going to be your master ; and,
when he sends you of errands, I hope you won't
make them ridiculous blunders which you does
whenever I sends you ; and, when he tells you
to buy a bundle of firewood, don't go and bring
home a lead-pencil instead, as you did once ; and
pray, for goodness sake, don't get and mess
every bit of writing-paper which Mr. Aspen
leaves about with them nasty paints you bought
with your uncle's sovereign. Now don't ; and
do try and be a credit to your mother's bringing-up.
Will you, Jem V

< Yes, mother,' responded Jem, with a bursting
heart, ' I'll try my best.'

Thereupon the landlady descended to her
quarters, and left Graham and Jem friends —
for life.

CHAPTER VI.
FLINDERS' farm.

Mrs. Asparagus, true to the intention she had
expressed, migrated to Flinders as soon as she
felt equal to the journey, in the hope of regaining,
in that salubrious i locality, the composure which
her recent escape had so cruelly disturbed, and
which the' too-neighbourly attentions of Mrs.
Lipperty tended to dissipate rather than
restore.

Flinders had been let, as we know, to a
syndicate through the agency of Mr. Honey-dew.
The syndicate was rather limited; it
consisted of Mr. Honeydew. The farm was
placed in charge of a manager, named Blowers,
a man of enterprise and muscle, who had been
a handy-man at an infirmary and had married

an equally energetic young person who had
graduated as a hospital-nurse. This worthy
couple were quite at home as custodians of
Flinders' Farm, which was judiciously advertised
by the syndicate (through the agency of
Mr. Honeydew) as the most salubrious, snuggest,
and best-conducted retreat for convalescents in
the kingdom, in virtue of its excellent system of
drainage, its quietude, its pastoral environment,
fine air direct from the Downs, and a pump of
pure water on the premises. Added to these
hygienic advantages, there were the delights of
milk from the cow, eggs fresh from the nest, a
billiard-table, a racket-court, and a quiet pony
to ride or drive.

Situated on a gentle slope facing the south,
you had only to stand for a moment on the
terrace in front of the house, to burst into
rapturous panegyrics on the beauties of its site.
Eight away to the Surrey hills the country undulated
in broad waves, on the crests of which
woods and plantations rested like mossy crowns ;
and, here and there, mansions and homesteads
nestled among their fine timber and well-cultivated
land, while cattle and sheep, dotted about

in all directions, were proof sufficient that the
inhabitants thereof throve comfortably under
its benignant skies. The late lamented Matthew
Flinders, the owner who had given his
name to the farm, possessed, beyond his genius
for the invention of pills, very pronounced views
on matters of hygiene, and made the farm the
arena of incessant efforts to secure perfection in
that respect, being convinced that length of
days was attainable if due care be taken in
respect of drainage, ventilation, and warm socks.
Unhappily, just as he achieved the object of his
ambition, he caught a fever there while disinfecting
a cess-pool, and passed away from the
scene of his labours, — hence the sobriquet of
Flinders' Folly applied to the farm by his less
enlightened neighbours.

But the syndicate, assisted by Tom Blowers,
saw that great possibilities lay dormant in the
place, needing only judicious development. It
was known far and wide that the defunct
Flinders had nearly ruined himself, in spite of
the pill, in elaborating the system of drainage
(which meant sanitation) which was to prolong
his days indefinitely; and the syndicate conceive

the brilliant idea of challenging inspection
by the whole medical profession, inviting
editors to see for themselves the advantages of
the establishment, and intimating that they
were prepared to receive a limited number of
boarders.

It was a decided hit. Medical men made
special expeditions to Flinders. Medical journals
sent experts to view, sniff, and report.
The medical men and the medical experts
sniffed at the drains accordingly ; tasted the
water ; tested the milk ; felt the walls ; viewed
the panorama from the terrace ; partook of
luncheon ; and declared in leading articles that
the place supplied a want. The natural results
followed. Flinders' Farm, as well as the Flinders'
Pill, was soon in everybody's mouth, and
the syndicate had to increase the accommodation
by adding wings and annexes for the
numerous clients in search of three-score years
and ten, and not a few beyond.

Mrs. Sparragus having, in the lease which
her financial adviser, Mr. Honeydew, read to
her, secured for herself certain accommodation
at all reasonable times, she had only to

notify her intention of coming down, when the
necessary preparations for her reception were
made.

When Mrs. Sparragus reached Flinders, she
found that rooms in the Hermitage, a cottage
in the grounds adjacent to hers, were reserved
for a patient of Dr. Eustace, who stood in need
of a change; and, in fact, the lady, whose
name was Tierney, accompanied by her daughter,
arrived at the farm within a few hours of
Mrs. Sparragus herself. Two or three other
sojourners were in the larger house, which
almost partook of the character of an hotel —
or rather of one of those ' stations ' which
afford accommodation to travellers in Norway,
and which are, in fact, farms ; — farms cultivating
crops of humanity. Mrs. Sparragus in her
daily walks among the pretty lanes and byways,
which were hedged in by wild rose and
honeysuckle, necessarily encountered Mrs. Tier-ney
and her daughter, who occasionally sketched,
and a recognition would take place, then a
friendly salute, and finally a more familiar
greeting and an inquiry as to health. These
interchanges of kindness ripened into sympathy.

4 1 fear,' said Mrs. Sparragus, one morning,
addressing the elder lady, * that you do not gain
strength very rapidly.'

No,' replied the daughter, who was knitting
a shawl for her mother, 'dear mamma is so
delicate. I have to take such care of her — 1
can't allow her out of my sight.'

It is so,' said Mrs. Tierney, laughing. * Hester
treats me just as her child ; she watches me like
a little mother. I sometimes tell her our
natural positions in respect of one another are
reversed.'

So they are, darling !' exclaimed Hester, as
if the idea could admit of no question ; * you've
taken care of me long enough ; and isn't it
right that I should give back in my poor way
some of your love, my precious one !' and Hester
tenderly kissed her mother, who looked
intensely happy in her child's arms.

Mrs. Sparragus watched the little drama with
deep interest, and her eyes filled with tears.

Have you been blessed with children V asked
Mrs. Tierney, observing her emotion.

Ah, no ; a child is the one blessing I desired,
and heaven has denied me ; and now that I am

old I feel the want so much !' replied Mrs.
Sparragus, sadly.

< 1 can fully enter into your feelings,' said Mrs.
Tierney, sympathetically ; * but we have to be
thankful for the good that falls to us, and put it
to the best use

That is exactly what I feel and what I wish.
The years are fast running out, and it may soon
be beyond my power to make good use of my
means. It seems so strange, but it is true, Mrs.
Tierney, I have not a friend this side the grave !'
and Mrs. Sparragus fairly wept.

The two ladies looked incredulous.

Not a friend !' they echoed. ' Impossible !'

I suppose it is my own fault, but it is true.
I have everything I can need — except a loving
friend, and not having that I have nothing exclaimed
Mrs. Sparragus, in broken accents. ' I
thought lately that Providence had indeed sent
me the faithful friend I pined for, for he seemed
to spring out of the ground suddenly; but, ah,
be vanished as he came !'

The two ladies looked more and more incredulous;
whereupon Mrs. Sparragus narrated her

peril in Cheapside and her rescue by an unknown
man, and Mrs. Tierney and Hester were
deeply interested, and expressed their sympathy
in cordial terms.

But wasn't it unkind of him to refuse to tell
me his name?' asked Mrs. Span-ague, feeling
sure of an affirmative response.

It may have seemed to you unkind,' replied
Mrs. Tierney; 'but to my mind the act was
rendered still more noble by his determination
to remain unknown.'

But he seemed needy, and so modest, too.
He was just such a person as one would be
proud to benefit !' argued Mrs. Sparragus.

That makes the service more and more
unique,' rejoined the other lady.

'And for my part,' interposed Hester, with
unusual enthusiasm, ' I think the action you
have related would have lost half its beauty if
the young man had given you the opportunity
of rewarding him. I go even further, and say
that even to know the man in the ordinary
sense of common acquaintanceship, and to talk
to him about that deed in ordinary conversation

would be to rob it of its grace. Had I been in
his place, I should most certainly have preferred
not to be known.'

Mrs. Tierney was surprised at this unwonted
outburst on the part of her daughter, who, withall
her endowments of head and heart, had
never evinced an excess of philosophy and
much less of romance.

But, my dear child,' she replied, in tones of
amused remonstrance, ' I suppose, if such a thing-were
to happen to you, you would be grievously
disappointed if the hero fled without the reward
of your grateful acknowledgments?'

'His own heart would tell him how deep
those thanks were far better than anything I
could express in words !'

Yet, surely, to give utterance to them would
be a satisfaction to yourself, if not to him,
Hester V urged Mrs. Tierney, more and more
amused.

To say " I thank you " is to pay the debt in
the common way, and so it passes from remembrance,
and there an end. I almost feel it
would in such a case be sweeter to bear the
burden of the debt all through life, and for ever

dwell on the service in secret, and have the
actor ever before your mind's eye. It seems tome
that the deed and the doer of it would thus
rise high above common things and become ina
manner sacred, while the interchange of
thankfulness and courtesies would soon vulgarise
both.'

Hester delivered this rhapsodical speech with
an earnestness which gave it quite a solemn
character, and indicated that it was inspired by
feelings far from shallow.

Mrs. Sparragus laughed, for she failed to
grasp anything so transcendental. Mrs. Tierney
looked grave, for a new feature in her daughter's
character seemed to be budding out.

'It's all very beautiful, Miss Hester,' said
Mrs. Sparragus, mirthfully ; * but I've lived in
the world a good many years, and I never met
anyone before that young man who objected to
be thanked for what they did for me. On the
contrary, people have allowed me to thank and
reward them for what they have done badly or
even not at all. Your ideas are what I call
poetry, and very pretty indeed as such ; but
you know, my dear young lady, neither poetry

VOL. I. I

nor promises butter parsnips in this world.
People can't live long on them !' and Mrs.
Sparragus laughed immoderately at her own
illustration, till Hester laughed too.

Now, my dear child,' said Mrs. Tierney, following
Mrs. Sparragus's ironical onslaught, ' I'll
put a case to you which is in some respects a
parallel one. You remember when we were
consulting Dr. Eustace a few weeks ago a young
man fainted in the waiting-room V

Oh, yes, mamma,' responded Hester, with
animation.

Well, when he sank on the couch a dear girl
of my acquaintance sprang to his assistance,
raised him, and rested his head for a moment on
her bosom till assistance arrived.'

Hester's eyes were fixed on the ground. She
made no reply. The knitting-needles moved
about idly and ineffectually.

How deadly pale he looked ! and what
singularly fine features he had,' meditated Mrs.
Tierney, wandering a moment from her
argument.

Hester remained silent.

Well, he never breathed a word of thanks ;

we never heard his voice. But I well remember
when, later on, Dr. Eustace told you he had
been commissioned by the young gentleman to
tender to you his grateful thanks for your timely
aid, you were not at all displeased ; but, on the
contrary, you seemed touched, for your eyes
filled with tears.'

Hester could not deny it. The knitting-needles
played about more and more ineffectually.


'And when we reached home you talked
about nothing else, and thought it so graceful
and becoming in the poor invalid to send a
message of thanks through the doctor. " Such
deep thanks for so trifling a service," you said,
with evident pleasure. Now, would you have
been quite so content, Hester, if no such message
had reached you? would you have been better
pleased to have him mute V

Dear mamma, I can't argue about it. You
are so dreadfully practical,' replied Hester,
worsted.

6 My darling child, we have to be practical in
this world of give and take, and, though thanks
are not very solid things, they are the small

i2

change that help us along and make the way-smooth
; they must be offered and received for
what they are worth.'

I do not question that, dear mamma, and
never did. I know it is so. I was thinking of
the noble services we sometimes hear of, and
which seem to me high above payment, and are
their own reward without the giving and taking
of thanks, which reduce the action to a lower
level. But let us say no more about it, darling.
I dare say I am quite in the wrong.'

Mrs. Sparragus desired to know the circumstances
referred to by Mrs. Tierney, and the
latter lady related them.

'It seems to me an exceedingly bad symptom
when fainting occurs so suddenly,' opined Mrs.
Sparragus.

< It was awfully sudden,' replied Hester, with
undisguised pain. 'I was talking to dear
mamma when he reeled and sank on to the sofa.
I fear he is in a bad state.'

Dr. Eustace almost implied that the case was
hopeless,' added Mrs. Tierney.

An artist, too !' meditated Hester, aloud ;
full of a noble ambition, probably. His heart,

no doubt, so set on fame that he does not feel
the hand of death nearing him.'

The strange thing was,' continued Mrs. Tier-ney,
turning to Mrs. Sparragus, * that, though
he gave his name '

1 Graham,' interrupted Hester.

Yes, Graham ; he withheld his address from
Dr. Eustace, — a most unusual scruple in a
patient.'

1 Why, he was almost as peculiar as my young
gentleman !' exclaimed Mrs. Sparragus.

< How so V

He not only refused his address but even his
name, for fear I should make him some return —
which, between you and me, I intended doing.'

'The young gentleman to whom you refer
evidently divined your purpose, but that does
not explain Mr. Graham's reticence as regards
the doctor. What do you think, Hester V

6 1 think his natural delicacy and modesty
would incline him to act so,' said Hester, in reply
to her challenge ; ' but no one can explain the
feelings of others ; and 1 can no more account
for his silence as to his abode than for his
swoon !'

Mrs. Tierney quitting the room at the moment,
Hester and Mrs. Sparragus were alone, the
latter continuing the topic :

Of course you cannot ; but I must say I was
puzzled when my young man — I call him mine,
you know, to distinguish him from yours, — refused
his name for fear of being recompensed,
and when he was gone I said to myself, " Well,
1 don't believe there's another young man in all
London like him." But, you see, my dear Miss
Tierney, I was wrong — there are two equally
shy of being known.'

'Did you say your young man was very
needy V inquired Hester, after a pause.

4 He appeared very needy indeed, — just such
a person as one would be proud to do a kindness
to.'

'Delicate, too, did you say?'

Yes, he looked pale and pinched.'

'His age?'

Probably two or three-and-twenty. Poor
youth, he had all the manners of a gentleman.
With all his courage and strength, he was so
gentle !'

Hester turned her face to Mrs. Sparragus attentively,

as though awaiting a still fuller description,
and Mrs. Sparragus was only too
ready to respond, for it was a gratification to her
to relate the misadventure and glorify the hero :

1 And I don't know when I have seen such a
face as he had. It was like wax — so colourless,
but the features were so fine — straight nose,
firm chin, thick eyebrows — that it would be
almost impossible to forget it ; in fact, it positively
haunts me.'

< Did you say his hair was black V inquired
Hester, much interested.

1 I don't remember saying so, my dear ; but it
certainly was quite black, and soft and silky asa
woman's. Ah, he must have suspected what
my feelings were and what my heart was bent
upon, when I asked his name, and his pride got
the better of him ;' and Mrs. Sparragus relapsed
into a serious vein.

Hester remained mute and pensive.

1 Miss Tierney,' resumed Mrs. Sparragus, confidentially,
' give me your opinion ; if I had told
him that I desired to treat him — as — as — a son,
you know, would he still have refused to give
me his name V

Hester could not reply off-hand ; the question
was novel, and the springs of human action are
obscure. She needed introspection ; she placed
herself in the young man's position, and endeavoured
to comprehend and share the feelings
which seemed to have animated him, and at
length she replied,

I believe he would still have refused.'

'But why?' demanded Mrs. Sparragus, in
surprise, and not without vexation ; ' pray why,
Miss Hester V

6 Because I believe the young man, for some
reason we can never know, is indifferent to those
things which most of us seek, and, if you had
proposed to treat him as a son, he would have
understood it as an offer of riches, which he
probably despises, therefore his answer would
have been " No." '

The conversation was here interrupted by the
return of Mrs. Tierney, and Hester, profiting by
the opportunity, took up her neglected knitting
and retired to her room, thoughtful and perturbed.
Why perturbed ?

Because she felt as though, unawares, she had
lighted upon a discovery which ought to be

respected as a secret belonging to another, and
the belief had grown into conviction as Mrs.
Sparragus had painted in lucid words the complexion,
features, and form of her rescuer, and
the conviction had penetrated her bosom as a
precious thing which it would have been almost
base and sacrilegious to divulge, and therefore
it was something to be tenderly borne about,
till circumstances should either confirm or
confute the hypothesis which she had conceived.


Flinders, with its invalids, real and imaginary,
was under the necessity of engaging the services
of a medical attendant, not only for those residents
who actually needed his care, but more
especially for those who did not. To the valetudinarian,
there is no one so precious as the
doctor. The days and the hours intervening
between his visits are counted, and the event
itself is the red-letter day in the patient's calendar.
There was Major Twister, as hale a man
of sixty-five as you would desire to see, who
became dangerously indignant if you hinted
the faintest doubt that he was the most distressing
living example of a dyspeptic, and

whose insulted feelings could only be assuaged
by your blood in mortal combat, if you suggested
that there was a reasonable probability
that he would live a fortnight. The major was
Dr. Dimbledon's model patient, because he declared
he took the most nauseous physic with
infinite relish, received him at all hours with
the cordial welcome of a brother, and hung
with rapt and reverent attention upon every
word which fell from his inspired lips.

The weather was fine, and the vigorous major
was playing at rackets with the muscular
Blowers at the back of the building, when the
familiar sound of the doctor's cob cantering up
the gravel-drive reached his ear. To drop the
ball, dart into the house, rush to his room, slip
on his night-cap, and fling himself full length onto
the sofa, was the work of a moment ; for he
had grown expert in the manoeuvre from practice
— as he always received the doctor in that
doleful plight.

Ah ! D.,' he gasped (he always abbreviated
the name of his most cherished friend to the
initial letter, as though the miserable remnant of
his life was too short to admit of his giving it in

full), * thankful to see you ! Here I am, just
where you left me.'

My dear major, how are we to-day?' inquired
Dr. Dimbledon, surveying his patient
curiously.

Just alive, but frightfully weak.'

6 Tut, tut ! dear me !' reflected the doctor,
feeling his pulse, which beat like a navvy's.

'Can hardly stand; I'm so shaky.'

And the appetite V

6 Don't mention it, D. It's cruel. Why, this
liver of mine — or rather, what's left of it — must
be as rotten as a medlar !' gasped the prostrate
man.

Sleep V inquired the doctor.

Not a wink, D. Not a wink ! In fact, I'm
played out.'

Dr. Dimbledon put on an air of deep compassion,
which was a recognised part of the programme,
and requested the major to allow him
to inspect his tongue, when he muttered to
himself, ' Tut, tut !' which, being a sound of
evil omen, gave the major extreme satisfaction.

I'm afraid you didn't take that draught last
night V he said, chidingly.

The major groaned : ' Then my case is hopeless.
Yes, sir, I have taken it with the punctuality
and resolution of the Iron Duke himself, as
the clock struck ten each night ;' and he groaned
again.

The doctor pursed his brows. (It was all in
the programme.)

1 Not so satisfactory as I could have wished,'
he said, with a view to gratify his patient.

8 Could hardly be worse, D. ; in fact, you may
almost consider me dead and buried. Now, my
dear doctor, what is to be done ? Hadn't you
better give me up f

Oh, no, not just yet. Suppose you try a
glass or two of port after dinner

< And nuts?'

4 Yes ; in moderation.'

(Port and nuts had, in fact, been the invariable
adjuncts to the major's dinner for years, as
the doctor very well knew.)

Well, D., I can only say I shall obey your
orders with slavish devotion, even if it costs me
my life. By the way, doctor, who is this Mrs.
Sparragus, who has lately arrived here I '

'She was the freeholder of the place, and

turned it into money ; a grocer's widow, uncommonly
well off.'

But she has presented me with a box of pills
with her compliments,' urged the major, with an
air of droll perplexity.

That's explained by her being a druggist's
widow, too.'

Dash it ! Did the druggist leave her well
off also V

1 He left her the Flinders' Pill and Flinders'
Farm, both good properties, and the grocer left
her Tapioca Terrace.'

I Hem !' and the major relapsed into silence,
and Dr. Dimbledon's quick ear caught a phrase
or two as the patient soliloquised : * A widow —
uncommonly well off. By Jove ! I'll — I'll '

I I must now pay my respects to Mrs. Asparagus,'
said the doctor, without appearing to have
overheard the words which escaped the major.
Can I be the bearer of any message from you V

The major instantly forgot his role of moribund
patient, and springing off the couch took
a Venetian flower-holder which he had recently
purchased, and placing in it a Gloire-de-Dijon
rose requested the astonished doctor to present

it to Mrs. Sparragus as a humble offering in
grateful acknowledgment of her extreme kindness
in sending him a box of the invaluable
pill.

In the hall the doctor found Mrs. Blowers.
Well, doctor, how do you find our poor major?'
she enquired ; and Mrs. Blowers smiled. She
had not been a hospital nurse without learning
a thing or two.

Very bad case replied the doctor, with a
closure of the left eyelid. 'He's got a complaint
neither you nor I suspected, Mrs. Blowers.'

Indeed !' exclaimed the ex-hospital nurse,
with unfeigned surprise. ' There's nothing in
the world the matter with the liver V she enquired,
with confidence.

The soundest liver I ever came across.'

Digestive organs V

8 He's got the digestion of an ostrich.'

< Head r

1 Ah ! a little queer there, perhaps. But it's
worse than that, Mrs. Blowers.'

'Heart?'

There you have it ! But it must be a secret,
Mrs. Blowers, between you and me.'

Oh yes, doctor, of course. But I really
never should have thought the heart was
affected. Not aneurism, eh?'

Dr. Dimbledon whispered into the ear of the
ex-hospital nurse :

It's an incipient attack of Sparragus fever.
It will be violent while it lasts, as the
patient is so amazingly robust for his age,
but it won't kill him. He'll get over it, and
stick to his port-wine and nuts !' and the doctor,
laughing till he was purple in the face with the
effort of suppression, proceeded to Mrs. Asparagus's
room, leaving Mrs. Blowers in fits. He
found the widow alone.

I come in two capacities,' he said, gaily,
first to offer my respects and congratulations on
that wonderful escape in Cheapsicle, and, secondly,
as an ambassador.'

'An ambassador, Dr. Dimbledon,' she repeated,
with a puzzled air ; ' an ambassador V

Yes, from Major Twister ;' and Dr. Wimbledon
presented the vase and the flower and the
message, adding to the latter what appropriate
supplementary periphrasis he could invent byway
of garnish.

1 Really I don't think I ought to accept such
a beautiful flower-glass,' she commented, inquiringly.


I assure you he considers it a wretched return
for the pill, from which I sincerely hope
he will derive benefit.'

Well, do you know, I should never have sentit
to him had I not heard him say that nothing
you gave him did him the least good,' exclaimed
Mrs. Sparragus, with perfect simplicity ; and
observing the doctor's chagrin she hastened to
add — ' but it's no fault of yours, Dr. Dimbledon,
it's his own doing entirely, for I'm told by Mrs.
Blowers that he puts away your physic in the
cupboard as fast as it arrives, and there it is in
rows by the dozen and not a cork drawn !'

This information was still less flattering to
Dr. Dimbledon, who may, however, have seen in
it an explanation of the major's robust state
of health.

1 Ah, Mrs. Sparragus, he's a capital fellow ;
but a beetle — just a beetle — self-willed.'

peculiar, — eh, doctor V

A trifle, perhaps.'

< Crazed V

1 Nay, I won't say that ! Let us say infatuated,'
urged the doctor, quaintly.

Infatuated,' echoed the widow, glancing
at the flower which seemed eloquent testimony
in support of Dr. Wimbledon diagnosis of the
major's complaint. 'Whoever is he infatuated
with

Oh, not with any person. It's the pill.'

The widow appeared to be relieved, for she
wiped her eyes.

'Poor dear man, if they give him comfort, I'll
send him a supply.'

I feel quite sure he will not treat your pills
as it seems he treats my draughts, Mrs. Asparagus,'
he rejoined, good-humouredly, whereupon
they both laughed ; but it would be difficult to
explain why they were hilarious, for the doctor,
in spite of his natural amiability, felt less vexed
at his professional failure than at his ambassadorial
success. ' Is it possible,' he reflected, ashe
bestrode his hack after taking leave of Mrs.
Sparragus, ' that I have incautiously established
some kind of reciprocity between the major and
the pill — the gilded pill ! Can I, by conveying
to her the major's impassioned acknowledgments,

VOL. I. K

have awakened in her simple mind an interest
which may have results no sincere friend of
either of them could desire ? It was certainly
thoughtless of me to fling the rich widow at the
major's head ! She seemed quite pliant and
even grateful for his civilities. It was certainly
very indiscreet of me ;' and Dr. Dimbledon
wended homeward with vexation in his breast.

And Mrs. Sparragus had gloomy reflections
too:

Would he have sent me all that flummery
along with the flower if I hadn't been well-to-do
? and would everybody be so attentive if I
were only a poor old woman ? Ah, where shall
I find anyone so truly a friend, so disinterested
as that young man whom I would fain treat asa
son — for no son could have done more forme
than he did! — but who was too noble to
consent to be thanked, much less rewarded!
Oh, money, money, money ! — I begin to think it
drives away real friends and attracts the false ;'
and Mrs. Sparragus felt more alone in the world
than ever.

CHAPTER VII.

TWO STUDENTS.

Two aspirants in diverse walks of art were pursuing
their several studies with an ardour which
bespoke enthusiasm and the possession more or
less of natural gifts, and the result in each case
was the rapid acquisition of skill. Zeal, which
is the concentration of the mental faculties
upon an object congenial to the sympathies,
will shorten the dull and dreary road trodden by
the novice, for his feet are winged with the
energy of a passion. Lena and Jem were the
students. Jem possessed the inborn feeling for
art, which, like some subtle force in nature, lies
dormant and unsuspected till fortuitous contact
with its correlative releases the imprisoned
energy and gives a new power to the world.

k2

Lena with a more modest ambition, and lacking
the swift acquisitiveness and adaptability which
we call genius, had yet the indefatigable
industry and resolution to succeed which are
faculties hardly inferior to the former, and, if
anything, more to be desired, for the reason that
they are less erratic. Happily for Lena, she
enjoyed a certain income secured to her under
her father's Will ; she was, therefore, to that
extent, free from the domination of her stepmother,
whose authority over her actions she
had never till now for a moment questioned.
Mrs. Lipperty's recent arbitrary conduct towards
her had, however, precipitated a step which,
soon or late, she must have taken in the assertion
of personal freedom and liberty of thought, which
she seemed suddenly to have discovered to be
her natural right.

Having put her hand to the plough, she was
not of a character to look back. She sought
at once for a professional instructor of the
violin, and Herr Stomper, to whom she was
introduced by the chief of the musical establishment
to which she repaired, at once received
her as a pupil, and placed her under the care

of his wife, who was peculiarly apt in teaching
the rudiments of the art, owing to her sympathetic
nature no less than to her skill with the
violin. Lena soon discovered that she had taken
up an instrument of extreme difficulty, and fora
moment she was a prey to despair. But her
brave heart rallied to the occasion after a few
tears, and she was braced in nerve and resolution
to succeed. By nature deft, and possessing a
fine ear for harmony, the ordinary drudgery of
practice ' partook more of the character of
those exercises indulged in by experts in the
intervals of serious work — it was not laborious
plodding, but rather recreation, and it was not
long before she reached the limit of the Frau's
domain as instructress, and was promoted to
the tutelage of the Herr.

Herr Stomper was a maestro in the full sense
of the term — he schooled his pupils thoroughly ;
but he had an amiable weakness — he grew
enthusiastic over them, and would insist that
their abilities were phenomenal. He never
admitted that he could turn out mediocrity
even if he tried ; the consequence was that
everyone was a star, and therefore no one shone

in particular. But the dull level of excellence
among his pupils received an eruptive impulse
when, after a few months' close study
and incessant fingering, Lena was prevailed
upon to compete with her fellow-students in
the presence of friends and amateurs gathered
together at one of the Herr's periodical reunions.
It was evident that the extreme diffidence
with which she took her place on the dais prepared
the audience for disastrous failure, and a
tolerant indifference was accorded to the trembling
essayist. But, as soon as the bow began
thrilling the strings of her violin, her embarrassment
was dissipated and became lost in the
growing interest with which she rendered the
score, and, as her interest increased, her energy
grew, aod, with her energy, her skill. The
audience, no longer inattentive, watched the
young girl with keen sympathy. They noted
how, after the many blunders she made, she
courageously repeated the bar again and again
until the fault was triumphantly purged ; and,
although the piece performed was simple and
elementary, Lena played it with infinite feeling,
and at its termination she became conscious

of the ordeal she had undergone, and with faltering
step and beating heart she resumed her
seat with the applause of the audience ringing
in her ears. Herr Stomper gracefully received
the compliments which reached him from all
sides on the marvellous results of his system of
instruction, — compliments which Lena, who
withdrew from observation, was only too thankful
to be spared.

He replied : ' Yah ; if ze Fraulein does not lay
are well sunday soon, it shall not be ze fault
of Herr Stomper ;' and, by the gesture of his
head, hands and shoulders, he seemed to add,
4 You see 1 am producing another phenomenon.'

But the sympathy with which Lena was
greeted by strangers was not by any means
reflected at No. 1, Tapioca Terrace, and the
young girl had to live down the daily discouragement
of her step-mother's homilies.

• Leonora, I can't think how a girl brought
up as you have been can all of a sudden go
about the streets with that frightful fiddle-case,
which looks for all the world like a baby's
coffin, in your hand ! I declare it doesn't look
modest ! indeed, I'm not sure it is decent ! And

then to go fiddling before a room full of people !
It's hardly respectable, Leonora Jane ! and ita
mercy your poor, dear father didn't live to
see the day when his only child, who used to
know how to conduct herself, does such things.
But, remember, I wash my hands of the consequences,
as I said before.'

Lena would reply, if at all, in a few words :
Whatever happens, mamma, I can never reproach
you ;' and she would go her way sorrowfully
yet unfalteringly ; but the way was all the
more hard to traverse since her only relative
strewed it with thorns.

Among her fellow-pupils was Ethel Clive,
who made advances towards Lena, whom she
had long recognised as a girl of a disposition
congenial to her own; but Lena, not yet free
of the insularity and indifference generated by
her solitary life and narrow training, received
her kindly approaches with discouraging formality,
which gave Ethel pain she was generous
enough to conceal. Again and again she
offered her the little courtesies which are the
instincts of a cultivated mind ; and Lena,
notwithstanding her ready appreciation, responded!

gracefully and sweetly enough, but ina
manner which did not invite nearer familiarity.


Ethel, the daughter of Mr. Clive, a city magnate,
was a girl of singularly frank and genuine
character, and the more difficult of approach
Lena seemed to be the more desirous she felt
to secure her friendship, until at length in
desperation she one day fairly clasped the
astonished Lena in her arms, and, kissing her,
said, 'I love you, Lena; why may we not befriends
V

Lena was at a loss for words to reply, for she
was overcome, and could only kiss Ethel in
return.

1 Why do you always avoid me V asked Miss
Clive, looking into her eyes, which were filling
with tears.

I never thought of avoiding you, dear Miss
Clive.'

< Don't call me " Miss Clive ;" call me Ethel, if
you care for me.'

I never thought of avoiding you, Ethel
dear ; it is only my foolish way.'

I thought you had, perhaps, so many

friends you did not care to add me to the
number.'

Lena sighed :

I have not many friends.'

'Then all I can say is, you ought to have.
How is it ? Don't you go out much V

I never go anywhere excepting to tea-meetings
at chapel with mamma,' replied Lena,
with perfect simplicity.

Ethel's first impulse was to burst into laughter,
but the grave and earnest face of her friend repressed
the inclination in a moment, and she
became quite subdued. Her habit of mixing in
society had quickened her intelligence and
savoir-faire, and she understood at once that
Lena must be dealt with tenderly as a child,
and the narrow range of her experience be
treated with respect.

Notwithstanding the wide difference between
the two girls, speaking in a worldly sense, there
was sufficient in common to make their divergence
a foil to each ; in fact, each seemed the
complement of the other. Ethel's vivacity and
her acquisition of ton in society were charmingly

contrasted with Lena's unobtrusive demeanour
and her almost ascetic simplicity of
attire, while they possessed in an equal degree
that freshness and purity of heart which are the
brightest jewel in the zone of our English
maidens.

Lena and Ethel were not long in learning the
story of each other's lives. Lena's was uneventful
enough; she had chiefly to listen to
Ethel's recital of her travels, friendships, adventures,
and so forth. She described her
father, the kindest and most indulgent of
fathers (she had never known her mother), and
she should not rest till she had introduced her
friend to him ; in fact, he was impatient to
make her acquaintance.

After much coaxing, Lena consented to
accompany her companion to Regent's Park,
where she resided, and one day after their
studies she returned in the brougham with
Ethel to luncheon. The sumptuousness of her
friend's home dazed the simple girl ; the luxury
of the surroundings and the profusion of the
table almost distressed her, and she was half-disposed

to accept her step-mother's denunciation
of the rich as well-grounded, and to
admit with her that in taking up the fiddle she
was plunging into the vortex of dissipation, —
for were not, she asked herself, costliness of
decoration, richness and elegance of furniture,
variety of viands, wasteful excess? and was
not excess dissipation? But when Ethel, in
describing her father's character, told her how
largely and widely and secretly he gave, how
he built cottages, established soup-kitchens,
endowed almshouses, and visited the sick, she
admitted to herself that he was a prince among
men, and that he deserved to live like a prince.
She found Mr. Clive as plain in manner as he
was magnificent in deed ; as destitute of assumption
as he was abundant in sympathy.
He took great interest in his modest visitor,
and, while studying Lena's character, drew
from her all sorts of little confidences about
her home and neighbours. He had never
heard of Tapioca Terrace, or of Mrs. Asparagus,
or even Mr. Honeydew, a fellow-citizen —
excellent man, no doubt — but the Flinders' Pill
and Flinders' Farm, oh, yes, he knew them both

by repute, — admirable institution that farm —
excellent specific that pill, for all he knew to
the contrary.

But it interested him greatly to hear that
Miss Lipperty knew the owner of the famous
farm and still more famous pill, and that terribly
narrow escape which Miss Lipperty had described,
how distressing ! Why, he remembered
the circumstance quite well, owing to an incident
connected with it. Had Miss Lipperty ever
heard of the sketch-book? No? Did not Mrs.
Sparragus complain of having lost a sketchbook?
No? Then it must have belonged to
the young hero, for it was picked up exactly
where the lady was rescued, and he was
evidently an artist, and one of no mean ability.
But it seemed he was unconscious of the value
of his sketches, or indifferent as to their recovery,
for he had never taken any steps whatever with
that view.

It was now Lena's turn to be interested in
the artist, — or, rather, to experience a great
revival of the interest she had felt from the
day she had caught a glimpse of his pale, handsome
face and slight but well-proportioned

figure as he withdrew from No 2, and when
Mrs. Sparragus recited his heroic action her
interest ripened into admiration ; and now her
curiosity was rewarded by a discovery : he was
an artist — a painter ! and painting had peculiar
charms for her.

Oh,' she meditated, ' what a pleasure it
would be, were it possible to discover the young
man and make — Mrs. Sparragus happy ! To
learn all about him, his home, his habits, his
family, to tell — Mrs. Sparragus ! Oh what joy
to accomplish all this for — Mrs. Sparragus's
sake !' Such thoughts as these flitted unbidden
through Lena's mind, and stirred her heart
strangely as Mr. Clive, offering his arm, conducted
her down the richly-carpeted stairs, and
handed her, with Ethel, into the carriage which
was to take her to Tapioca Terrace.

Remember, Miss Lena,' he said, as he bade
her adieu, ' you are Ethel's cherished friend, and
therefore you will always be welcome here.
Promise that you will come often

Lena faltered her thanks.

Papa says " often." Please answer him,

dear,' said Ethel, imploringly; 'say you will
come often.'

1 1 will come sometimes ; I cannot leave dear
mamma often she added, gravely.

1 No, no, we must not be selfish, Ethel ; Mrs.
Lipperty finds it hard to spare her, I am sure.
We shall be grateful whenever she allows us to
have her daughter.'

And, the signal being given, the carriage*
drove off.

< Lena,' said Ethel, as they sped along, ' I
should so like to see your mamma. May I step
in with you?'

Lena found herself in a difficulty ; she had
had such painful evidence of her step-mother's
hostility to the pursuit she had taken up, and
which she denounced as odious frivolity, that
she was very doubtful of the reception which
any musical friend, or indeed any acquaintance
of hers, might receive ; but then, again, it was
more than probable that, when Mrs. Lipperty
saw how refined and sweet a companion she
had found, all her objections and evil vaticinations
would take flight like vapours before the

rising sun, with the happy result that henceforward
she would encourage with her approval
the efforts she was making to accomplish herself
in a difficult art.

Yes, dear, I shall be glad for you to know
mamma ; she will be pleased to see you.'

When the brougham reached Tapioca Terrace
Mrs. Lipperty, who was at the window, concluded
that it stopped at the wrong gate, and
that it was a visitor for Mrs. Sparragus, who
had just returned from Flinders'. This assumption
opened up a wild field for conjecture.
Who could it be ? Somebody after her money,
no doubt, or perhaps a lawyer come to confer
about a fresh Will, or possibly — but all speculation
was suddenly arrested by the appearance
of Lena and a lady emerging from the carriage
and entering the gate. Mrs. Lipperty was
stupefied.

What is the meaning of this? Isn't it bad
enough for her to go and pick up with all
manner of characters, but she must have the
audacity to bring her people here ! I'm not
going to countenance such behaviour by seeing
the person. No, indeed !' and Mrs. Lipperty

ascended the stairs, and reached her bed-room
as Lena knocked at the door. Admitted by the
servant before Mrs. Lipperty could forbid it,
Lena was in the act of conducting her friend
to the sitting-room, when her step-mother, leaning
over the banisters, called out, in an acrid
voice :

Leonora Jane, what person are you bringing
into my house V

6 It is Miss Clive, mamma, a friend of mine.'

A friend of yours ! and pray what right have
you to go and pick up what you call friends
without my sanction V

6 But surely, mamma,' remonstrated Lena, in
agony, ' you will approve when I tell you '

1 don't wish for any explanations, Leonora
Jane. You have begun by acting in direct
defiance of my wishes, and this is the first
result.'

Ethel could not remain silent. Her affection
for her friend compelled her to speak.

May I have the pleasure of a few words with
you, Mrs. Lipperty?' she said, with all the
urbanity she could command.

Certainly not, madam.'

VOL. I. L

But is it right to reproach Lena before you
know V expostulated Ethel, in astonishment.

I know quite enough, madam. Mind, I don't
say there's anything wrong about you. No, I'm
too charitable to even suppose such a thing.
You may be an angel of purity and piety ; but,
all the same, I don't choose to have Leonora
Jane bringing people here I know nothing
about.'

Then, of course, I will leave at once

Thank you ;' and Mrs. Lipperty slammed
her bed-room door by way of intimating that
the interview was concluded. When Ethel
turned to Lena she found her sobbing, her face
buried in her hands.

'Poor child!' she said, tenderly embracing her,
I now understand what was in your thoughts
when you said you had not many friends ; and I
see why you hesitated to bring me home.
Borne /' and Ethel burst into tears. ' Lena,' she
said, holding her in her arms, 'you will continue
to be submissive and you will not suffer in vain.
These are the trials which bring out the good that
is in us. 1 see its effect already in you. So
cheer up, dear, and remember what papa said.'

Lena found it hard to speak.

You are both too kind to me,' she replied, in
broken accents.

Papa told you I was much attached to you ;
but now that 1 have seen your home, Lena, I
think I love you more than ever. Remember,
dear, that you have sincere friends at Regent's
Park ;' and, with another tender embrace, the
girls parted and the brougham drove away.

When Ethel and her father met in the evening,
she related the circumstances attending her
visit to Tapioca Terrace, and Mr. Clive was no
less pained than herself.

'I wish,' he said, after reflecting, 'that you
could prevail upon Lena to pay you a long
visit ; you seem so happy together. Nature has
denied you that which you would have prized
so much — a sister ; but Providence seems to
have thrown one in your way. Do you think
she would consent to come V

'Mrs. Lipperty would never consent, papa,
and therefore Lena would not.'

1 1 fear it is so,' replied Mr. Clive, sorrowfully ;
submission is second nature in her, and, as it is
evident her step-mother is entirely averse to her

l2

musical studies, nothing but a powerful instinct
in that direction, and, indeed, a passion for the
art, has induced her to go counter to Mrs. Lip-party's
wishes. Would it avail at all, Ethel, if I
called on that lady V

'I think, papa, if you were to make the acquaintance
of the lady living next door to her,
Mrs. Sparragus, and interest her in Lena's musical
talent, much good might come of it, for the poor
girl tells me they are very intimate with their
neighbour, who is as kind and generous as Mrs.
Lipperty is evidently harsh, and who is, moreover,
attached to Lena, as indeed everyone must
be who knows her.'

1 But I don't quite see how I can call upon a
lady to whom I am a perfect stranger,' argued
Mr. Clive. ' Stay,' he exclaimed, after a few
moments' cogitation, ' isn't she the owner of
Flinders?'

'Yes, papa, she is or was. I believe it is
sold.'

Then I can with perfect propriety call to
confer with her on the salubrity of that famous
resort, and, indeed, we may some day visit the
place.'

'I should be delighted to do so,' rejoined
Ethel, with enthusiasm.

'I'll drive over there tomorrow; it will be
quite interesting to talk to the old lady about
her narrow escape, and tell her about the sketchbook
which is waiting to be claimed.'

Had No. 1 and No. 3, Tapioca Terrace, had
the faintest idea of the energy of the gentleman
who purposed to pay a visit to No. 2, and who
never failed in any beneficent action which he
had once resolved upon, they would have deplored
more than ever the unfortunate circumstance
which had brought it all about.

Another aspirant in another branch of art was
meanwhile strenuously ploughing his way along
the rough and difficult path of rudimentary
study. Jem Starkie, under the guiding hand
of Graham Aspen, advanced with extraordinary
rapidity in the acquisition of the technicalities
and principles of his art. He evinced the utmost
aptitude to grasp every essential element as it
was explained. The laws of proportion, perspective,
and chromatic harmony were understood
almost as soon as expounded, and discussed
with an intelligence which shamed Graham

himself; and, in fact, that expert limner and
skilled cole-mist confessed to himself that in
teaching Jem he learnt a great deal from his
humble pupil. And this similarity of taste and
predilection attached the young man and the
youth more and more to one another, till from
friends they grew to be brothers in the noblest
sense of the word.

Graham thought nothing of the days and
weeks devoted to fertilising the rare natural
gifts Jem possessed, and which already gave
promise of rich results. Graham's life, hitherto
dulled and weighted by the burden of suffering,
seemed to be reanimated by labours which under
ordinary circumstances would have prostrated
him. The cough which used to shatter him so
cruelly came and passed unnoticed ; the hours
of wakefulness, hitherto so regular in their recurrence,
grew fewer and more rare ; appetite,
which he could hardly say existed at all, revived
so palpably that Mrs. Starkie persisted in charging
Jem with surreptitiously devouring her
lodger's viands, which, since his admission to
the artist's sanctum, had disappeared with
alarming regularity and rapidity, — results all

really traceable to the happy influence of the
stimulus given to his earnest nature by the
young and zealous neophyte. The face of
Graham's ideal, hitherto kept jealously screened
from view, was always exposed to Jem, and
he, who formerly feasted upon it surreptitiously
and burglariously, now gazed upon it
with all the freedom and enjoyment of actual
possession.

< Whose portrait is it V he one day inquired,
his curiosity on the point being for the first time
aroused. * I don't remember any lady coming
here to sit while you were painting it.'

'No one ever sat for it; it was spiritually
discerned,' replied Graham, with solemnity.

1 Spiritually ! I don't quite understand,' said
the puzzled student.

• I heard a voice, and immediately saw the
face.'

'Where?'

4 In my mind's eye, Horatio.'

Jem was more puzzled than ever.

1 Is it like the lady whose voice you heard V

That I shall never know. Nor do 1 think I
care to know.'

Jem stared in incredulity.

1 Had you been in my place, Jem, I dare say
you would have desired to see the girl whose
voice alone thrilled every fibre of your nature V

Certainly I should.'

I have no such wish.'

Jem found it difficult to suppress an ejaculation
of amazement.

'Tis strange !' he meditated.

No, my dear Jem, it is not strange. You
will some day admit that the ideal in art is
fraught with purer joy than the actual, just as
imagination is a higher faculty than sense.'

You told me the other day never to paint
without Nature.'

And 1 repeat it again and again. But an
artist must do more than copy ; he must create.
Study beauty, Jem, till it becomes photographed,
so to speak, on your mind. Your mind will
intensify the beauties, and add others of its
own. Transfer the picture, then, from your
mind to your canvas, and you produce a work
which will be remembered.'

Graham propounded his dogma with all the
gravity of a professor. Since Jem had sat at

his feet, lie found the dictatorial habit grow upon
him, and, as the youth received all he said with
the reverence accorded to gospel, he evidently
tried to live up to his new dignity and responsibility.


Moreover, Graham felt his importance growing
in other quarters. He had received a letter
from Messieurs Glare and Gooley, who had discovered
his address on the back of the picture
they had purchased of him, anxiously inquiring
whether he had finished the pendant to it
which they had commissioned him to paint ;
and, as Graham's funds were pretty well exhausted,
he had been industriously painting
from the remembrance of a lost sketch of three
graceful birch-trees, which he had made down
in Surrey, and which he called 'The Sisters,'
and to which he had just put the finishing
touches — touches so inexpressibly sweet, and
even sad, to the artist, who is loth to turn
away from the labour which has been to him
a joy. He called Jem to view it in its completion.


The youth stood before the picture a longtime
in silence.

6 Well, Jem, will it do V demanded the artist,
impatiently.

'It is a beautiful idea,' he replied, in tones
which indicated a mental reservation of some
kind, which Graham detected.

But is there anything the matter with it?'

I've no doubt it's all right. It isn't likely
you would paint anything that isn't,' replied the
youth, with an effort.

My dear Jem, out with it, if anything strikes
you,' urged Graham, anxiously scanning the
youth's face.

I daresay I'm wrong — of course I am — but
but — is the light on the trees quite right V

Go on.'

And, with the sun where it is, is the shadow
cast by them as it would be V

< Go on.'

Oh, that's all. I'm sure I'm too stupid to
understand, — and would the background be as
distinct as this in the evening?' added Jem,
trembling at his temerity.

Graham threw himself back in his chair, and,
with the severity of a critic and the impartiality

of a judge, considered all the points indicated
by Jem. Yes, the light was false. Yes, the
shadows were impossible. Yes, the distance
was falsely rendered.

6 Jem,' he said, turning to the youth, who was
reproaching himself for his audacity, ' what an
eye you've got ! You have put your finger on
three fatal defects. Of course the picture is
wrong. It's false, because it's painted from
memory, and without Nature. You have given
me a lesson, Jem ; and I will give you one in
return. Do as I do, Jem, and never let a picture
go out of your hands which is not true.' And
without compunction, and with a shout of
triumph, Graham drew a keen penknife through
and through the canvas, cutting it into ribbons
before the amazed and horrified Jem y
who endeavoured ineffectually to arrest hm
hand.

Thus in a moment was destroyed the wherewithal
to pay his way, but thus was inculcated
and established the fundamental principle so
dear to Graham Aspen — that truth is the first
essential in art, and that to achieve truth you

must repair to the fountain of all truth, which
is Nature.

A day or two after this untoward end of the
young artist's labours, a second letter arrived
from Glare and Gooley, enclosing a cheque for
twenty pounds, and informing him that a client
had just purchased the ' Queen of the Glen,'
and, having paid a handsome price for it, they
had pleasure in supplementing the amount he
had received for it by the enclosed, etc.

This communication embarrassed Graham
exceedingly. His pride revolted against accepting
a honorarium from any quarter, least of all
from dealers who disparaged his painting like
common hucksters, and who, it was evident,
only now did him justice with an object,
and his first impulse was proudly to return
the cheque ; but on second thoughts
he remembered that the price he had named
for the * Queen of the Glen ' was twenty
guineas ; he determined, therefore, to retain ten
guineas in full payment of that amount, and
return the balance, thus preserving his independence,
and at the same time adequately remunerating
himself.

4 Jem,' he said, with unaffected warmth, ' this
cash comes most opportunely. We will go together
and paint from Nature the group of trees
I endeavoured to paint from memory, and we
shall see how truly you were right, and how
miserably I was wrong.'

Weather favouring inclination, and timely
funds being in hand, the friends proceeded to
give effect to their resolution, and they went
down into Surrey at once and made for one of
the charming woodlands of the county where
1 The Sisters ' were enshrined in all the beauty of
their spring livery ; and Graham, stimulated by
the presence of his critical pupil, drew, with all
his ancient vigour and delicacy of colour, the
graceful group of trees which Jem viewed with
the rapture of a true artist, and which his
companion and master rendered with perfect
justice.

CHAPTER VIII.

TWISTER REDIVIVUS.

The return of Mrs. Sparragus to Tapioca Terrace
was the signal for a renewal of the healthy
competition between No. 1 and No. 3, each
occupant of the houses right and left being
intent upon outshining the other in those little
neighbourly amenities which often have a value
and result out of proportion to their dimensions.
Mr. Honeydew and Mrs. Lipperty in succession
offered her a welcome which was unquestionably
genuine in each case, for the reason that
neither of them liked to lose sight of her. Nothing
could be less satisfactory to her attached
neighbours than for Mrs. Sparragus to make
acquaintances, and they had both observed
with concern that ever since that unfortunate

circumstance in Cheapside the good soul had
been unsettled, and so decidedly less cordial
in her reception of them that it amounted to
ingratitude. She had, moreover, gone off to
Flinders avowedly to compose her shattered
nerves, enjoy a change, and see new faces, —
ideas which had never entered the outermost
precincts of her brain before the untoward event
referred to. Her sudden return to town would
have afforded No. 1 and No. 3 unqualified satisfaction
if, in answer to confidential inquiries
from Mr. Honey dew and Mrs. Lipperty, Mrs.
Blowers had not assured them that she had
made friends of all the visitors at the farm, and
that a major had almost lived on the Flinders'
Pill on purpose to prove his attachment to the
proprietress of that infallible specific for the
prolongation of life.

This information spread dismay within the
two bosoms : Mrs. Sparragus had not only found
a friend, but an actual admirer ! But this, however,
hardly accounted for her unpremeditated
flight from the groves of Flinders, redolent of
honeysuckle, roses, mignonette, and admirers.
Had Dr. Dimbledon been interrogated on oath

as to the cause, he would have had to express
his suspicion that Mrs. Sparragus had been put
to flight by an excess of the article she had
always craved for — namely, a friend —-judging
from a few remarks which had escaped Major
Twister during a recent visit. He found the
major even more prostrate than usual, with his
white night-cap drawn over his eyes like a man
about to be hanged. He was almost too feeble
to speak, though, singularly enough, in driving
up to the door, Dr. Dimbledon happened to
glance through the billiard-room window where
he distinctly saw the major, in his shirt-sleeves,
stretching over the table, with the cue in his
hand and his right leg in the air, making a
stroke, whereupon a rattling cannon followed.
He could, moreover, have sworn that he heard
his patient exclaim, ' By gad, here's the doctor !'
succeeded by a stampede and a death-like
silence.

'Ah, D.,' he gasped, as the doctor entered,
here I am exactly where you left me ; thankful
that you haven't thrown my case up in despair.
You're just in time to see about the last of me.'

'So bad as that? dear me, dear me,' replied

Dr. Dimbledon, gnawing his tongue to preserve
his gravity, at the same time feeling his patient's
pulse, which as usual beat like a steam-engine.
4 1 mustn't allow you to get low. I fear there is
something on your mind.'

This latter observation was intended to offer
the major an opportunity to make any confession
he pleased with respect to Mrs. Sparragus. The
major evaded it.

■ Yes, Fm awfully low

4 Do you persevere with the port-wine V

6 And nuts — yes, I do my best

< 1 think a lamb chop for luncheon might dono
harm

Oh, horror ! Spare, me, D., if you have the
smallest mercy ! Give me physic as much as
you please, but oh ! spare me lamb chops ;' (rump
steak and mushrooms or veal cutlets and tomato
sauce or truffles was the major's ordinary
luncheon).

Well, well, we wont be hard upon you. A
tea-spoonful of beef-tea, every two hours — can
you manage that V

6 I'll try,' sighed the major, sinking on to his
pillow.

VOL. I. M

Ah, I see you have faith in the Flinders' Pill,'
said Dr. Dimbledon, gaily pointing to a half-emptied
box.

This speech, like the former one, was intended
to draw a confession from the major. He forgot
to evade it.

1 Yes, the old lady was good enough to send
me a fresh supply. 'Pon my soul, she's a
clipper !'

Clipper or no clipper, she evidently takes a
great interest in your case

Do you really think so V demanded the moribund
major, with extraordinary earnestness and
vitality.

Undoubtedly ; I never knew her give away
a pill before

Twister manifested remarkable interest in the
statement, considering the extremity to which
he was reduced.

< D., is that a fact V

1 Ask anybody

Well, I suppose, as a gentleman, I ought to
make some little acknowledgment, eh V

6 Of course you thanked her?'

1 9a va.'

1 You might present her with another flower,'
suggested the doctor, who had been informed
by Mrs. Blowers that the gallant major had been
sending carnations to Mrs. Sparragus every
morning.

Could I V replied the guilty major, interrogatively.


'Why not? When young people do such
things, it means something — but, my dear sir, at
your age, you know '

At my age !' echoed the major, adjusting his
peruke which had got askew in his excitement ;
1 what do you mean to imply V

4 Oh, I had no intention of implying anything;
I merely reflected that, at our age, you know,
most people have ceased to be romantic. But
you're a remarkable man, Twister, and I've no
doubt Mrs. Sparragus would be of the same
opinion if she were to express her real feelings.'

The major bolted the bait.

Well, do you know, from her demeanour, I
believe you're right, D. She says, " How d'ye
do, major?" when we meet, in tones so confoundedly
tender that I'm dashed if they don't
almost bring my heart into my mouth !'

M2

Why, my dear Twister, I shall begin to
think you're spoons on the widow !' retorted the
doctor, with affected cordiality, whereupon the
major laughed and slapped his knee with a
vigour altogether incompatible with his physical
helplessness.

Egad ! D., if I were a marrying man '

1 Yes, it's fortunate you are not.'

1 And if I were not the miserable wreck I am,'
continued the major, suddenly recollecting his
desperate condition, and pulling his night-cap
over his eyes, * by Jove ! I'd — I'd — have a shot
at her !'

And no one could blame you, Twister ; but,
under existing circumstances, it would of course
be '

< Madness

Well, let us say imprudence.'

'No, no, D., madness and nothing less!' vociferated
the patient, as Dr. Dimbledon, enjoining
absolute rest and a spoonful of beef-tea every
two hours, took his leave.

As soon as he had mounted the gig and driven
off, the miserable wreck sprang from his couch,
flung his night-cap across the room, skipped to

his writing-table, and gleefully took his seat
before it.

I've humbugged old D. again he ejaculated,
rubbing his hands. ' He thinks I'm played out
and haven't a week to live. He'll be rather
astonished when he hears Mrs. Sparragus is
about to become Mrs. Twister ! For, of course,
I've only got to offer her the chance !' and the
major sat down to indite a love-letter.

As Dr. Dimbledon drove away he, too, busied
himself with reflections :

1 Old Twister would certainly be the most
consummate actor I ever met, if he didn't overstep
the modesty of nature. If he had told me in so
many words that he meant to propose to the
widow, I should not have understood it better
than I did. I can't object to his making a fool
of himself by playing at illness — many people
do that more or less cleverly, and it doesn't
hurt me. But I don't intend to allow him to
marry the rich widow. No, no, Twister, I can't
stand that. I've had my bit of fun at your
expense, but this joke mustn't go any farther.'

The following letter was handed with two
carnations — red and white — to the astonished

Mrs. Sparragus the following day by the boy in
buttons, who was almost as much amazed as
Mrs. Sparragus on receiving from the amorous
major half-a-crown to ensure its punctual
delivery : —

Feeling wholly unable to give verbal utterance
to the subject upon which existence itself
hangs, I approach you, through the dull medium
of pen, ink, and paper, to express, however
feebly, the intensity of my gratitude for a bounteous
supply of the miraculous pill. But, potent
as is that infallible specific in its influence on
my unworthy body, it is as nothing compared
with the vitality conveyed to my better nature
by a gift which brings the gentle and gracious
giver before me whenever I drop one of those
precious globular particles behind my vile
tongue. And why ? Because that superb pill
at once opened my eyes and acted upon my
dull and languid imagination. I felt for the
first time the existence of a deep-seated obstacle
to happiness which not even the pill could
remove, but which the Giver could by a single
word abolish for ever ! Love is wont to express
itself in symbols ; therefore, dear madam, I send

you two carnations — a red and a white one.
You will readily interpret their significance.
You will not fail to observe that they are bound
together in one odorous bouquet, while, disunited
and apart, the sweetness of each is
wasted on the desert air, and each flower droops
and prematurely fades for lack of support. Need
I tell you whom the white flower represents,
and whom the red % No — the heart of a true
woman promptly seizes and assimilates the
faintest utterances of a loyal man, and therefore
the words of a Twister, however feeble,
will not be wasted on a generous and sympathetic
Sparragus.'

1 By Jove, Cornelius !' ejaculated the major,
addressing himself in tones of profound admiration,
' you're a genius ! I never should have
expected such masterly tactics in one who
always blundered in the field. Why, this brilliant
move adds a good thousand a year to
your income ! And why shouldn't you double
that amount? Why not invent another pill?
There's any amount of material in the cupboard
yonder. Piles upon piles of old Dimbledon's
boluses. Why not make a botch-potch of the

lot and turn them out afresh, spick and span
new ; patent the pill, call it The Twister ? That'll
fetch 'em, I reckon ! It sounds ever so much
more taking than The Flinders, and will pay
twice as well, no doubt. Dear, dull old D.,
who evidently thinks I haven't a week to live,
will be rather astonished when I invite him to
the wedding. Egad, I'll ask him to give
Lucinda away !'

The boy in buttons handed the bouquet and
the letter to Mrs. Sparragus, who was getting
rather tired of the daily sacrifice of flowers
offered by the grateful major, but the letter
gave a novelty to the stale proceeding.

'Poor man!' she meditated, hesitating to
burst the seal, and scrutinising the address, * his
handwriting is very tremulous ; but no wonder,
considering that he has one foot in the grave.
It's a pity he takes the trouble to write to
thank me, but I daresay it amuses the unfortunate
creature ;' and the widow spread open
the epistle and adjusted her spectacles.

Mrs. Sparragus spelt her way through the
letter from beginning to end without in the
least grasping its purport. Her first momentary

impression was that the major was writing
a story, and had sent her the first chapter for
perusal.

'Very pretty, but rather flighty. I prefer
more easy reading; I'm not clever with long
words, for I haven't had so much schooling as
the major. But, stay, it's rather queer to begin
a story-book in this way, and then he goes on
about the pill. That's an odd thing to begin a
tale with ! And then to go and put names into
print — he didn't ought to do that in a story-book
; and then, farther on, he says, " Dear
madam' just like a letter — but, but — is it a
letter ? I do believe it is ; and, now I read it
through again, there's not a doubt about it. It's
for all the world like a love-letter ! Why, it is
a love-letter! Good gracious! He can't — no,
he can't mean it for me. Yet it's addressed tome,
along with the carnations he's been sending
me every day for a week. Oh, dear, oh, dear !
the poor thing must be going off his head. I
don't feel quite safe. He may get dangerous,
and break out at any moment ; who knows 1
Anyhow, I won't stay here to run any risks ; I'll
go back to Tapioca Terrace this very afternoon.

I shall feel more comfortable to have about
twenty miles between us.'

To reply to the epistle never entered Mrs.
Sparragus's head for a moment. The only question
in her mind was, whether she ought to call
in Dr. Wimbledon or the police, for the poor
man's own security. But then, he might be
quite harmless, and it would be the ruin of
Flinders to have a fuss made. No, she would
slip away quietly.

And Mrs. Sparragus accordingly packed up
her belongings ; gave out that she had received
a letter which necessitated her return to town
sooner than she had intended ; and so took leave.
Mrs. Tierney and her daughter had already left,
or she might have consulted them on the actual
facts, for she held them both in great esteem.
To confide in any of the hypochondriac residents
was out of the question, — the major's
madness might be infectious, and cheerful and
salubrious Flinders might become another Coney
Hatch.

But the kindly creature could not sever her
acquaintance with poor Major Twister without
a parting token of sympathy. She sent him

another box of the wonder-working pill by the
boy in buttons, hoping it might cool him.

'Any message, ma'am?' inquired that mercurial
youth, on receiving orders to hand the
package to the major.

'No.'

6 Then I'm not to say anything, ma'am V

1 Say whatever you please, only give the
package to Major Twister,' answered Mrs.
Sparragus, as she turned away.

The boy in buttons possessed quite as much
shrewdness and love of mischief as the average
of boys in buttons, and his daily commission to
convey a flower from the major to Mrs. Asparagus
had not been thrown away upon him, however
it may have been wasted on the widow.
He, moreover, realised the fact that half-crowns
were not usually dispensed for nothing, and, ashe
had received carte blanche to * say what he
pleased,' he determined to reward the major for
his bounty. He therefore repaired at once to
his room, and gleefully placed the box of pills
in his hands.

Aha !' ejaculated the major, springing from
his seat, ' from that excellent creature V

Yes, sir, with her love.'

Is that a fact V demanded Twister, almost
breathless with delight.

The boy in buttons satisfied his conscience by
a liberal allowance of mental reservation. He
nodded his head, at the same time saying to
himself, ' Over the left,' which is understood to
qualify and render nugatory and harmless any
assertion previously made.

The major chinked the silver coins in his
pocket, which stimulated the boy in buttons to
further confidences.

She looked quite 'handsome and smiled like a
angel, sir.'

The major whipped out another half-crown,
and gave it to the intelligent youth, who was
quite prepared to continue to do business on the
same remunerative terms as long as the major
pleased.

< Of course she looked handsome,' retorted
the major, as though the adjective was not sufficiently
flattering for the occasion; whereupon
the boy in buttons made a tremendous plunge,
which he valued at about half-a-sovereign.

1 She'd like a lock of your hair, sir !' and he

glanced at the major's very palpable peruke
which was all awry.

No ! you don't mean it V

Yes replied the mendacious youth, with the
mental reservation, ' Over the left.'

If the major hesitated to lay a lock of his
ambrosial hair on the altar of affection, it was
for the reason that it would not grow again ;
and, if he delayed to reward the boy in
buttons for this superb contribution to his
egoism, it was because he felt that the coins
in his pocket were wholly inadequate to the
occasion.

How marvellously well the young ambassador
must have executed his commission to effect
such results! What might not such a bright
intermediary bring about % As a coadjutor, he
was simply invaluable.

My boy !' he said, turning to him, ' what's your
name V

4 Paul, sir.'

'Paul, it's my intention to give you promotion.
Double pay, board wages, and beer
money.'

< When, sirs

i As soon as I come into possession of Flinders
— that is to say, of Mrs. Sparragus.'

The boy in buttons was grievously disappointed.
He would have preferred five shillings
on the spot.

We shall want a butler, Paul ; I'll make you
my major-domo as a reward for — for '

The major glanced at the boy in buttons and
saw that his face was purple with suppressed
laughter which, in fact, he could no longer control,
and he exploded in spite of his hands forced
against his jaws. The major was not so infatuated
as to take leave of his reasoning faculties;
on the contrary, they had become unusually
acute, and he saw at once that he was being
hoaxed. He sprang to his feet, and before the
boy in buttons realised the turn of events he
seized him by his cravat, exclaiming between
his grinding teeth :

Hound ! you're humbugging me !'

The boy in buttons, terrified to death, could
only gasp :

1 Please, sir, it was only in fun !'

Fun ! you miserable puppy ! I'll teach you
to make fan with me !' and opening the door he

administered to the boy with his foot sufficient
momentum to cause him to clear a whole flight
of stairs without the customary gradation of
steps and risers, displaying an amount of physical
power truly phenomenal in a person so
destitute of stamina as to be unequal to the
effort of eating a lamb chop.

The feat accomplished, the major strode up
and down his room like a caged lion at feeding-time,
his quart-dlieure with the boy in buttons
having stirred in his manly bosom a desire for
fresh encounters. But the sight of the Flinders'
Pill soothed the bellicose spirit within him and
operated upon his better nature.

1 At all events,' he meditated, grasping the
box of boluses, ' there's no humbug here. There's
no doubt about this substantial token. What
does it symbolise ? Ah ! I can interpret it.
Instead of sending me an unmeaning flower, she
presents to me — herself ! for is not the pill herself,
and, indeed, the best part of herself 1 and
this is her delicate way of confiding to me that
precious commodity, and thus consenting to
amalgamate the fortunes of The Twister and
The Flinders-cum-Sparragus! Egad, Cornelius,

you've manoeuvred well. Your tactics have
been masterly. It only now remains for you
to bivouac on the field of your triumphant
exploit.'

Mrs. Sparragus had taken her departure an
hour before the little episode of the boy in
buttons, and at the station she met Dr. Wimbledon
who had just alighted from a train. Salutations
exchanged, the conversation turned quite
naturally in the direction of Major Twister.
- ' Doctor,' said Mrs. Sparragus, gravely, at the
same time tapping her forehead with a finger
significantly, ' is he all right here V

Hem ! between you and me, hardly. He's
subject to cerebral excitement at times.'

At all dangerous ?'

A mental twist is always unpleasant.'

Is his likely to be so V urged the widow, with
bated breath.

8 That depends upon the phase of the disorder.
I should hope the major's won't take an
amorous turn.'

Would that be serious?'

Decidedly,' replied Dr. Dimbledon, with
emphasis, for he had intercepted the widow at

the station with the intention of putting her on
her guard as to the gallant major.

« I'm afraid it is rather amorous,' said Mrs.
Sparragus, with a bashful hesitancy, for she
saw the absurdity of the admission she felt
it right to make ; ' for, do you know, he has
sent me a — a — what I can only call a love-letter.'


The doctor feigned astonishment and the
utmost amusement.

« No, really V

1 Yes, and here's the document :' and the
widow felt relieved in her mind the moment
she had got rid of the letter, which Dr. Wimbledon
perused.

'Morbid,' he muttered, as he folded up the
epistle and slid it into his pocket.

6 Dangerous, doctor V

6 No, it will pass off if you take no notice and
send him no more pills. Ill get Blowers to
administer a double dose of tennis twice a day,
which will produce a healthy reaction. But
here's your train, dear madam ;' and the doctor
handed the grateful widow into her carriage.

There'll be no more pills from me, you may

VOL. I. N

be sure !' she said, exultingly, as the train
moved off.

'In that case, there will be no more love-letters
from him rejoined the doctor, raising
his hat ; and he at once drove to the farm, and
sent for Blowers.

< Blowers,' he said, with gravity, ' if you wish
to maintain the character of Flinders, you and
your wife must study the individuality of your
boarders, and act accordingly.'

1 So we do,' retorted Blowers, aggrieved.

There's the major, for instance.'

Yes; he's always upsetting himself, I know ;
but no wonder, to see him eat.'

He'll have a fit, Blowers, unless you give
him adequate exercise.'

How am I to exercise him V He isn't a
horse !'

Work him with billiards, tennis, rackets, —
anything. Give him no time to write love-letters.
Work him, I say, to death, or he'll
make such a fool of himself the public will
begin to think you take in lunatics.'

CHAPTER IX.

A NEW ALLY.

A FEW days after the return of Mrs. Sparragus
to Tapioca Terrace, that highly decorous neighbourhood
was thrown into a ferment by the
arrival of a carnage and pair, with footman
and coachman in livery, which pulled up in
front of No. 2. The phenomenon was so wholly
inexplicable that No. 1 and No. 3 could only
surmise that the driver had made an absurd
mistake and that the brave equipage would
speedily bear away. But, so far from such
being the fact, the footman threw open the
carriage-door and a portly gentleman emerged
from it and walked with measured step up the
gravel pathway to the house and knocked,
handing his card to the servant.

n2

Mrs. Sparragus was quite as much perplexed
as her neighbours at a visit from a strange
gentleman, and when she read the card, l Mr,
Alderman Olive,' she felt alarmed, for her idea
of an alderman was a magistrate sitting in the
judgment-seat at the Mansion House, uttering
words of wisdom and pronouncing doom on
malefactors.

Good gracious me !' she exclaimed, as Susan
handed her the card, ' what have I been guilty
of? But perhaps it's a mistake. Did he ask for
mew

c Yes, mem ; and he had your name quite pat.
"Is Mistress Sparragus at home?" says he.
Yes," says I, wondering at his impudence.
I should like to see her, if she's not engaged,"
says he. Oh, mem, I hope there's nothing the
matter ! Is all the taxes paid V

Mrs. Sparragus was too perplexed to satisfy
Susan on this point ; she felt something dreadful
was going to happen, and she recollected
that a tea-stalk floated in her cup at breakfast
that very morning — an infallible sign that a
stranger would call during the day, and, as it
proved hard when placed between her teeth,

it was evident that the stranger's visit would
be disagreeable.

1 Yes, mem, I came all over when T see that
stranger a-floating in your tea. It always comes
true ! Last time you had one, you know, a
man got inside this very room and presented
you with a tract, and when he had bowed himself
out, lo ! and behold, your bottle of salts
with the silver top was gone ! But I was determined
you shouldn't be robbed that way again,
so I left this party on the door-mats

1 An alderman on the door-mat !' exclaimed
the widow in dismay. * Susan, go instantly and
show him into the dining-room and beg his
pardon ! Do you know, he can send you to
prison for contempt of court, as they call it?'

1 Lor', mem !' and Susan hastened to atone by
showing the visitor into the dining-room, having
first locked up the plate-basket ; and Mrs.
Sparragus, having satisfied herself before the
cheval-glass that her cap was rightly adjusted,
her hair smooth, her collar tasty, and her
appearance in general sufficiently becoming to
appear before the court, descended, making a
low curtsey to the awe-inspiring alderman, just

as female defendants are wont to do to propitiate
the judge when placed in the dock, with a
view to mitigation of penalties.

Susan felt so anxious and doubtful as to
the visitor's object that her ear and eye were
alternately jammed against the key-hole. She
had grave suspicions as to the stranger, and at
once constituted herself her mistress's bodyguard.


'Mrs. Sparragus,' said Mr. Clive, making a
respectful inclination of the head, ' I hardly
know how to apologise for the liberty I have
taken in calling. My only excuse is, that Miss
Lipperty, who, I believe, lives next door to you,
is a dear friend of my daughter's ; I have consequently
known you for a long time by name,
for she has often told us of your kind feeling
towards her, and your interest in her. It is just
possible she may have mentioned my daughter's
name V

1 Oh, yes, Lena has often spoken of a Miss
Clive,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, greatly relieved
at finding that, after all, an alderman was human
and could sometimes talk like other people.

4 And she has also related to us the circumstances

of your providential escape in the city
some months ago. I well remember the event,
for it happened close to the Mansion House,
where I happened to be.'

Without intending it, Mr. Clive touched upon
a topic which at once secured her confidence
for it went straight to her heart.

Ah !' she responded, wiping her eyes, * that
was indeed an escape !'

4 And I have ventured to call to offer you my
sincere congratulations on it.'

4 And to think that the brave young man who
saved me has hardly been thanked !' pursued
the widow, with genuine sorrow.

I Well, that's an omission which I apprehend
can easily be rectified suggested Mr. Clive, byway
of consoling Mrs. Sparragus.

How am I to rectify the omission, if I never
see the man and never even learn his name!'
she demanded, with excellent reason.

1 assumed that you had made yourself acquainted
with the name of your rescuer replied
Mr. Clive.

I I tried to, but he refused to tell me.'

1 That proves him to be disinterested — a man

of the right stamp — a man one would be glad
to know.'

8 Ah, what wo aid I not give to know him !'

This speech was delivered with such an unaffected
earnestness that Mr. Clive was impressed
by it. A man of active sympathies,
which were ever ready to take substantial form
in practice, he saw at once that he might make
a worthy woman happy, and his resolution was
at once formed.

Do you know, Mrs. Sparragus, that I am
almost as desirous as yourself to discover this
young man V

1 Indeed, sir?' exclaimed the widow, delighted
to find the alderman more and more human.

6 Yes ; we've got at the Mansion House a
sketch-book which was picked up on the spot
where your accident occurred, and we have no
doubt that it belongs to the young man to whom
we wish to restore it, but, as yet, he has not
turned up to claim it.'

'Poor, dear fellow. Not only is he unrewarded,
but he is actually a loser by his good
act !' meditated Mrs. Sparragus, again wiping
her eyes.

I am thinking,' said Mr. Clive, his face
brightening with the pleasure he felt at the
thought, ' that I might employ my time worse
than in searching for this young man.'

Oh, how will you go about it?'

4 1 hardly know yet ; but, as I have some
influence in the city, and possess, moreover,
some little energy when I make up my mind to
succeed, I am hopeful that, if he is to be found,
I shall find him.'

Mrs. Sparragus gazed upon her interlocutor
with astonishment and admiration — so far as
she could without irreverence admire so augustan
embodiment of wisdom as an alderman.

And, if you really do succeed, will you let me
know all about him V she asked, appealingly.

My first action shall be to bring him to you.'
Mrs. Sparragus fairly wept, and Susan, hearing
her sobs, burst open the door, and advanced
to her rescue.

Do you want me, mem V she enquired,
casting fierce glances at Mr. Clive who, instead
of quailing before her indignation, laughed
merrily.

Susan, leave the room,' replied Mrs. Spar-rages,

peremptorily ; ' when I want you I will
ring the bell. I can't teach that girl manners
she added, addressing Mr. Clive, 'try all I may.'

'She's a little rough, but honest, no doubt,
and that is a great virtue replied Mr. Clive,
amiably.

Susan accordingly withdrew, though with
manifest reluctance, leaving the door ajar, as
more convenient than the keyhole for observation.
At the same moment a brilliant idea
occurred to that watchful maiden. Why not
summon to her assistance Mrs. Lipperty ? Whoso
fit as that censorious lady to crush the foe of
innocence and the enemy of decorum ? Susan
knew their severe neighbour would be taking
observations from her window, and that she had
but to make a sign with her finger to bring her
to the rescue in an instant, and Susan did not
hesitate to do what duty and inclination suggested.
She thereupon opened the street door
and at once discerned, as she had anticipated,
an eye, bright and penetrating as that of a
hawk or a cat or any other beast of prey, rivet ted
on No. 2. Mrs. Lipperty at once divined Susan's
summons, and, having already assumed her

black bonnet and blacker gloves, was at her
side before she could repeat it. Mrs. Lipperty
had not only the keen eye of the panther, but
also the noiseless foot, and she reached the
dining-room door swiftly, silently, and stealthily.

You are intimate with the lady next door 1'
inquired Mr. Clive.

< Oh, yes.'

And her daughter V

Yes — Lena.'

She seems a very sweet girl,' continued Mr.
Clive, ' and it is chiefly on her account I have
presumed to call upon you.'

Mrs. Sparragus signified by her silence that
she was prepared to listen. Mrs. Lipperty was
equally attentive.

I fear Miss Lipperty is not so happy in her
home as she deserves to be.'

• Does she say she is unhappy V inquired Mrs.
Sparragus, who had never viewed No. 1 as an
unclouded Eden.

She is the last person to complain, but, from

what I gather, her mother '

1 Step-mother,' corrected Mrs. Sparragus.

I should have said her step-mother (so

different from what a mother would be !) hardly
considers her youth, her feelings, or her tastes.'

Susan began to think she had not shown a
wise discretion in inviting her neighbour to
participate in the proceedings when she saw
the sable eavesdropper gnawing her nether lip,
while her nose grew crimson with congested
wrath.

Mrs. Lipperty is — between ourselves — one of
the hardest, unmercifully woman I ever met,
and Lena is to be pitied replied Mrs. Asparagus,
in a whisper, as though she feared her
voice might penetrate the nine-inch wall which
separated her from No. 1. It need scarcely be
added that it travelled through the opening in
the door.

Is it possible V

You didn't know her husband, I suppose?'
No ; I had not that honour.'

Then you ought to thank your stars that you
hadn't! Why, sir, he was about as stern a
minister as ever told a congregation all about
their sins — and she would make six of him !'
Mrs. Sparragus made the damnatory communication,
which fell like hail upon Mrs. Lipperty's

tympanum, fearfully and tragically, but at the
same time with a volubility and eagerness which
proved that her estimate of her friend had been
long stored up, and that she was not a little
thankful to have found somebody to whom she
could unburden herself. * Do you know, I
attended his chapel, and one day, during his
sermon, two or three of his people left, they
couldn't stand his attacks, and, as they went
out, he said, " There goes Mrs. Perkins, and
now Middleton is off. I suppose the cap fits
them ; and now, I declare, Mrs. Man's is packing
up to go too. It's a pity they can't bear to
hear the plain truth !" Well, Mr. Clive, between
ourselves, that woman next door is just like what
her husband was — only ever so much worse;
he used to be whips, but she is scorpions P
Having relieved her mind of a load borne
patiently for years, Mrs. Sparragus felt better,
and actually laughed at the portrait she had
sketched of her attached neighbour.

Oh, my !' groaned Susan, implying thereby'
that she realised the tactical error she had committed,
* goodness gracious P

But it was too late to moralise in haste ; she

-could only repent at leisure. She glanced at
her companion eavesdropper, whose gloved
hands opened and closed spasmodically, as
though she were rending a victim, the tips of
her cloth gloves representing talons, her nose
deepening from crimson to purple.

Mr. Clive could not refrain from laughing in
concert with Mrs. Sparragus at the graphic
picture the latter had drawn, but it is more
than probable that his hilarity would have been
less pronounced had he been conscious of the
proximity of the ' scorpion ' in question.

'I apprehend it is no laughing matter for
Miss Lena,' he said, resuming his gravity, 'a
young lady of refinement and great natural
gifts.'

Ah, poor girl !'

With a laudable ambition to accomplish
herself in an elegant art.'

Mrs. Sparragus groaned :

If it had pleased the Lord to give me such
a child !'

I was thinking that, even as it is, you might
render her a most valuable service, as you are
intimate with Mrs. Lipperty.'

<0h, How?'

I have no doubt your opinion would have
great weight with that lady.'

Mrs. Sparragus demurred : * Not a bit.'

Nay, your kind and generous heart would
reach hers.'

'I don't believe she's got one!' interposed
Mrs. Sparragus, with humour.

Another storm of hailstones on the listener's
tympanum, only the hailstones were now red-hot.


Most of us are vulnerable somewhere,'
argued Mr. Clive. ' Mrs. Lipperty has a weak
spot.'

'You wouldn't think so if you heard her
exhort me.'

'May I ask the subject of her exhortations?'

Since my accident in the city, and the desire
I have expressed to find the young man who
saved me, she has never ceased warning me of
the sin of changing my mind.'

'Changing your mind!' inquired Mr. Clive,
with animation, as light seemed to be let in on
an interesting question. 'In respect of what,
may I ask V

■ Oh, my Will

Mr. Clive was far too delicate-minded to
afford the widow the opportunity of imparting-further
confidences, which she seemed so ready
to do; her last reply gave him matter for
reflection.

'Now my neighbour at No. 3, who helps me
to manage my affairs, is far too gentlemanly to
touch upon that subject.'

'Is that Mr. Honeydew of whom I have
heard Miss Lena speak V

Yes. The kindest, amiablest man possible,
I don't know what I should do without his
assistance.'

He is a great business-man, I understand V

'Very great. He found some one to take
Flinders off my hands, and arranged it all so
nicely.'

1 That must have been very satisfactory to
you.'

And he invested the money — three thousand
five hundred pounds — for me so well that I'm
getting ten per cent, for it.'

Ten per cent. !' exclaimed Mr. Clive ; ' whatever
can it be placed in V

1 Oh ! something good, for he brings me the
money as regular as quarter-day comes round,
and won't accept any remuneration — but, of
course, I shall make him a proper return some
day. He isn't like that young and brave
gentleman we want to discover, and can't.'

Mr. Clive found in these unexpected confidences
much matter for cogitation, and some
moments passed before he spoke in reply.

'Mr. Honeydew is evidently a very active,
energetic person,' he said at length, as he rose
to take leave ; ' but these are matters into which
I, a stranger, have no right to enter. I ventured
to call in the interest of my daughter's
friend, Miss Lena ; and if you can induce her
step-mother to '

To be more humane V interposed Mrs. Spar-rages.


Well, yes, it amounts to that, I fear. You
will deserve her gratitude — and that, I am convinced,
you will receive.'

Mrs. Sparragus was lost in thought for some
moments. At length, taking Mr. Olive's extended
hand, she replied,

'She is a sweet girl, and I shall not forget

VOL. I.

her. If I find that Mrs. Lipperty continues to
treat the girl harshly, I shall make a codicil to
my Will, and substitute Lena's name for hers.'

This delivery, given in the calm, solemn tones
which bespeak resolution, fell upon the tympanum
outside the door with galvanising effect,
and Susan, with great presence of mind and
adroitness, rattled a tray-full of crockery, to
drown an ejaculation, which was not altogether
benedictory, that escaped the relict of the Rev.
Ebenezer, as she staggered from her coign of
vantage, and made for the street-door.

As Mr. Clive crossed the threshold, he almost
collided with Susan and the tray of crockery,
and he caught sight of a black skirt vanishing
through the doorway, in the direction of No. 1.
A moment's reflection explained the phenomenon,
and, as Susan showed him out, he remarked,
carelessly,

If Mrs. Lipperty had waited a little, I could
have related my interview with your mistress.'

No need for that ; she heard it well enough,'
replied Susan, without circumlocution.

Whereupon Mr. Clive regained his brougham,
and drove away, much exercised in mind at the

facts forced upon him by Mrs. Sparragus, and
the glimpses Mrs. Lipperty had afforded him of
her character as well as her skirt.

Meanwhile, that exemplary lady sought her
chamber in a state of irascibility quite remarkable
in a person of her well-ordered demeanour.
The knit brows, clenched hands, and spasmodic
movement of the lips looked like swearing ; but,
as nothing audible escaped her, and as her
aspect before the world was that of the world's
censor — calm, cold, implacable — that supposition
must be dismissed, and the peculiar muscular
action described must be attributed to grief for
the sins of her neighbours in general, and Mrs.
Sparragus in particular.

'To be called " scorpions " by the woman
I've treated so well ! To be described as unmerciful
by the woman I've feasted with homemade
jam and cranberry pies ! To be made
out a tyrant, because I've mourned in sackcloth
and ashes over Leonora Jane's hateful craze
after the fiddle and the gross things of the
world to which it leads ; and to hear her
threaten to make a codicil to the Will — the Will
which, with infinite pains, I assisted her to

o2

make — oh, the base, treacherous, false old woman
! Shall I burst in upon her, and heap upon
her offending head my righteous indignation ?
Shall I crush her with the weight of her misdeeds?
— Stay, would it be prudent to have
words, and afford her a pretext to quit my
fold % To drive her into making that codicil ?
To put a barrier between us — a gulf between
No. 1 and No. 2, and perhaps throw her into
the arms of No. 3 ? To tear up the Will I so
carefully drew up, and cast all my expectations
to the winds % No ! it wouldn't be consistent
with Christian charity. No ; I must forgive I
I must remember that the best of us err — that
even I myself am fallible. Besides, there are
two prowling wolves instead of one ready to
rob me of my precious one, if I afford them the
smallest chance. No ; I must forgive.'

Mrs. Lipperty removed her black cloth gloves,
whose finger-tips suggested talons, and drew
on kid, which she always wore when her intentions
were pacific ; and, hastily culling a handful
of parsley (having observed the delivery of
a neck of mutton at No. 2), she tripped gaily
from house to house, and gave a cheery rat-tat

at the door instead of the customary portentous
thud, suggestive of impending doom.

'I've come to see your dear mistress she
said, in the most gracious tone she could command,
to the astonishment of Susan, who anticipated
a ' tremendous row.'

Mrs. Sparragus, on hearing the well-known
accents, though in a less acrid key, felt all the
pangs of guilt. Only a few minutes ago, she
had been ' speaking her mind ' about that redoubtable
person, and her unexpected advent
seemed to her conscience to mean nothing less
than swift retribution ; and, as the spare, sable,
angular figure entered the room, with the votive
offering of parsley in her hand, Mrs. Sparragus
closed her eyes, abashed. She would receive
her chastisement with resignation.

'My dearest Lucinda,' said Mrs. Lipperty,
gushingly, 'you're going to have neck of
mutton, — sly thing ! so I've brought you some
garnish for it.'

Mrs. Sparragus could hardly offer her thanks,
so great was her confusion.

I'm rather surprised that your attentive
friend at No. 3 hasn't anticipated me, for, no

doubt, he saw the joint delivered, as he takes
such an interest in everything that occurs here,
and parsley grows in his garden rank and
weedy,' continued the amiable lady, in tones of
acerbity which she endeavoured in vain to disguise
by laughing ; ' but unfortunately Mr.
Honeydew is so very — very '

At this moment Susan entered the room
placing on the table a bottle of capers which
Mr. Honeydew had sent, 'with his compliments.'


There !' ejaculated Mrs. Lipperty, ' didn't I
tell you so 1 Oh, how well I understand that
man's motives !'

6 1 don't deserve the kindness you both offer
me,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, sadly, without
noticing the remark made by one friend at the
expense of another. 'I sometimes wish you
were not so good to me, for I feel 1 can never
make a proper return !'

This observation was extremely unsatisfactory
to Mrs Lipperty ; it seemed to imply that she
did not intend to make the proper return which
had been arranged, and this was altogether at
variance with her views,— a change of purpose

manifestly brought about by those designing
men's visits, on some pretence or other connected
with that unfortunate circumstance in Cheapside.
It would, however, be highly impolitic
to betray disappointment, or to appear to wish
to divert Mrs. Sparragus from her purpose.
Better refrain from pursuing the subject at
present.

'Have you seen that darling child of mine,
lately V enquired Mrs Lipperty, with a view to
lead up to the object of her visit.

4 Lena?'

1 Yes, bless her !'

She hardly ever comes near me,' replied Mrs.
Sparragus, regretfully.

For the reason that she has so little leisure
since she took up the violin.'

Mrs. Sparragus was astonished to hear a
cheerful allusion to a subject hitherto severely
tabooed ; and terms of endearment employed
by Mrs. Lipperty with 'reference to her stepdaughter
appeared, from their novelty, quite
unnatural.

1 And I'm so delighted at the progress she
has made. It is truly wonderful.'

'Really?'

Yes ; and the dearest wish I have, so far as
this world is concerned, is that she may achieve
the success she deserves

Mrs. Sparragus could hardly believe her
ears.

4 But I thought you had an objection to Lena
studying the instrument?'

It was simply politic in me to conceal my
satisfaction with a view to regulate her enthusiasm
for her health's sake, you know.'

I understand,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, greatly
relieved, for Alderman Clive had given her a
commission to bring about this favourable state
of feeling in the step-mother which she thought
would prove hopeless of accomplishment, ' and
I am thankful to hear you say this,' she
added.

Mrs. Lipperty was thankful to hear her say
she was thankful. She wished to satisfy her
that she had misjudged her, and, if she had succeeded,
the threatened codicil would never bethought
of again.

I'm glad you approve of my method.'
'You can't be too indulgent to her; she

deserves all the kindness you can show her, poor
child.'

Yes, she is poor ; and, as I am no better off,
poor she will be all her life,' returned Mrs.
Lipperty, with pathos.

Let us hope there is better fortune and a
bright future in store for her,' said Mrs. Asparagus,
cheerfully.

Ah, you are so good and generous ! Had it
not been for your noble, beneficent intentions,
there was literally no hope — I mean, in a worldly
sense, of course — for either of us

Mrs. Sparragus made no reply, which Mrs.
Lipperty considered an unfavourable symptom.
She continued :

And, however fixed and wise and christianly
your resolution may have been, evil influences
are always abroad' (this was a shaft sent in the
direction of Alderman Clive), ' and bad advisers
are often lurking nearer home ;' (this shot was
sent to Mr. Honeydew's address).

So far as I have the power, I shall avoid
evil influences.'

'That is a most proper resolution, Lucinda
dear.'

And I shall endeavour, with God's help, todo
what is right by everyone.'

1 A beautiful and pious wish !' exclaimed Mrs.
Lipperty, with gush, though she was not without
misgivings; for there was a certain obscurity
and ambiguity in the speech which might or
might not bear a favourable interpretation.

6 Most beautiful and pious !' she repeated, with
rapt admiration, pressing together the black kid
gloves which were innocent of talons, hoping
that her holy enthusiasm might elicit something
more clear and satisfactory, which, in fact, it
did.

I have always considered that, when my
lamented Matthew left me the Pill and the Farm,
and my other lamented left me Tapioca Terrace,
the little properties were only mine in trust, and
that it behoved me to make such a disposition
of them that, at a later day, they should fall into
worthy and deserving hands.'

Most noble and praiseworthy !' and the black
kid gloves, destitute of talons, gave renewed
demonstration of pious rapture.

'And whenever anything happens to me —

and I pray the Almighty that I may not be
unprepared '

• Beautiful, beautiful !'

1 My Will will be found in the right-hand top
drawer of my wardrobe, underneath the French
plum-box containing the grant of the grave
where both my lamented lie, and where I wish
also to be interred. I think it right to tell you
this, just as I have informed my friend, Mr.
Honey dew, so that there may be no difficulty
when it does happen.'

1 How intensely touching !'

1 only mention this because life is very uncertain,
and there is no one in the house with
me except Susan.'

4 But, dear Lucinda, I '

Yes, you are next door, and Mr. Honey dew
is also near.'

But I, dear Lucinda '

Oh, I'm sure you would come instantly, if
summoned — but there, we won't say any more
on the subject. I merely wished to make it
known that I have not neglected my duty as
regards the disposition of what property I have.

I will not detain you longer ; it is kind of you
to give me so much of your valuable time.'

Mrs. Lipperty received her cone with admirable
good-humour, and, kissing Mrs. Sparragus
on both cheeks, she bade her adieu and returned
to No. 1, far from reassured as regarded the
Will and the threatened codicil.

« I don't half like her making a confidant of
that man at No. 3,' she muttered, as she inserted
the latch-key and opened her door ; ' and then
there's that new prowler who has just forced
himself upon her to serve his own ends. And
that's not the worst of it, for the old woman is
craving to find the fellow who dragged her from
under the wheels in Cheapside ! I think it's a
pity he didn't leave her alone !'

But this last thought was not actually embodied
in words — it was only conceived.

CHAPTER X.

THE < QUEEN OF THE GLEN.'

Mr. Clive, citizen of London and alderman, was
nothing if not practical. He was wont to admit
that he was as destitute of poetry and imagination
as a locomotive, but that, like a locomotive,
he always went straight away to the
point and invariably reached it when once his
mind was made up to do so. Ample employment
though he found both for head and hands
during the hours consecrated to business, method
and concentration of attention to the subject
before him enabled him to bring it to an issue
with singular promptitude, and left him sufficient
leisure to take up any extraneous matter
which, in fact, gave zest to his ordinary avocations,
and, was, at the same time, a recreation.

The day following his visit to Mrs. Sparragus
he glanced down his notes of agenda, and
there found jotted down two words — 'sketchbook.'
The reminder was needless, for his
interest in Mrs. Spartans's perilous adventure,
in Lena, and in the intangible young man, was so
thorough that it was not easy to dismiss it from
his mind, even in the presence of business claiming
attention.

The purport of the memorandum was, as we
know, to trace and find the young hero of Mrs.
Asparagus rescue, and in his official character
it was quite within Mr. Clive's province to set
in motion the whole machinery of city police
in the search, had he so willed. But no such
idea crossed his mind. He was not a man to
abuse his power for private purposes. Nor did
he propose to advertise. Publicity was undesirable
on every ground ; the enquiry must be
quiet and personal. Mr. Clive carefully examined
the sketch-book ; it was clearly the work
of an accomplished artist. Unversed though
he was in art-methods and mysteries, Mr. Clive
saw that only a consummate expert could, with
a few scratches, produce the effect of a picture,

with a mere wash of colour the suggestion of
a landscape. One sketch in particular captivated
him, — an outline of a solitary birch-tree.
Touched with extreme tenderness and grace, it
had all the force of a finished drawing, and heat
once determined to have it photographed.
Surely the individuality of style would be
identified by the landscape-painters? Surely
the man who could do this had already made
his mark? He would circulate it among the
profession, informing them by letter that a
sketch-book containing this among other studies
remained in the hands of the authorities, who
desired to restore it to the owner, requesting
their advice and assistance in discovering the
artist.

The circular letters, with a photographic
copy, were accordingly issued by Mr. Clive to
the leading artists in that particular walk ; but,
beyond causing visits of inspection from the
profession, or notes expressive of admiration of
sketches which they could ascribe to no known
man, the result was failure, — a term which in
Mr. Olive's vocabulary meant success delayed,
and nothing more.

His next argument was, that as artists, like
other people, live by their industry, and, to be
able to do so, must sell their productions, this
man must have business relations with those
foster-mothers of art, the publishers and the
dealers ; and, as the leading firms were not
very numerous, he employed his leisure afternoons
in driving to the Agnes, the Colnaghis,
the Graves, and the Vokinses — to all the first
houses in that trade, with the same negative
result — success was still deferred. But smaller
men, he then argued, would probably be
addressed by an unknown and needy artist.
So Mr. Clive sent his photograph and a letter
to the smaller men, requesting to be informed
whether they had any work corresponding in
character to the sketch inclosed. The smaller
men replied by return of post, inviting his
inspection of their collections, which contained
examples by the first artists in landscape,
figure subjects, historical, ideal, and genre, but
they could not positively ascribe the sketch
which he did them the honour to enclose to
anyone in particular, though they could get it

carried out in a finished painting, if desired — at
a very moderate price.

The sketch was sent to Glare and Gooley
among the rest of the smaller men, and Glare
and Gooley did not respond like the others by
return of post, for the reason that they recognised
the artist's hand instantly and took time
to consider the object of an inquiry which was
altogether so peculiar, and, being addressed
from the Mansion House, it suggested criminal
proceedings. Had they purchased a stolen
picture ? Was it a case analagous with the
missing Gainsborough? Was it a piratical
reproduction of some well-known artist ? For
the sketch was evidently a memorandum, an
impression of the ' Queen of the Glen,' which,
stood on the easel before them. Glare and
Gooley took time to consider before replying
to the letter; they might find themselves
landed in a law-suit, if not a criminal
trial, for the goods might not have been honestly
come by. The name of Graham Aspen
written upon it proved nothing. Anyone
could call himself Graham Aspen. Then, again,
vol. i. r

it might be a bona fide inquiry — everything
depended upon the person making it, and Glare
and Gooley glanced at the name at the foot of
the letter. Richard Olive ! Why, that is the
alderman, one of the most respected and most
solid men in the city ! and Glare and Gooley
exclaimed in chorus, * This means business,' and
answered the letter, assuring Mr. Clive that it
afforded them the greatest pleasure to be able to
reply in the affirmative to his inquiry — that they
had, in fact, a painting by a very rising artist
corresponding in every particular to the sketch
enclosed, and if he would do them the honour
to visit their gallery they would be proud to
submit it for his inspection.

When the letter was delivered at Regent's
Park, Mr. Clive was sitting in his library listening
to a duet which Lena and his daughter were
playing, and his eyes being closed, the letter
was laid on the table unobserved. Lena had
so won a place in the respect and affection of
Mr. Clive and Ethel that she was already treated
as a daughter and sister, and since practising on
the violin alone at Tapioca Terrace was dull
work, notwithstanding Mrs. Lipperty's new-born

zeal in her behalf, she could not refuse the
welcome offered her by Mr. Clive, who had a
room fitted up for her adjoining Ethel's, and
bade her consider his daughter's home her home
whenever she could be spared by Mrs. Lipperty.
Ethel was particularly gentle and loving on the
present occasion, for it was the eve of Lena's
birthday, and, with girls of their age, birthdays
are grave events demanding solemn observance.

To-morrow, ah, Lena, tomorrow will be a
great day !' said Mr. Clive, gently rallying the
young girl, who appeared a little absent.

Lena had nothing to say, and only blushed.

4 Ethel, how are you going to celebrate the
day?' he enquired, turning to his daughter.

1 Practising, papa !' replied Ethel, joyously.

What ! grinding for the pleasure of the thing V
urged Mr. Clive, with amusement.

4 Yes; we have both made up our minds to
grind and grind till we can play that sonata of
Beethoven's which you are so fond of, papa, as
it ought to be played.'

4 Is it so, Lena V he asked.

Yes, Mr. Clive ; it is the only return 1 can
make for all your kindness to me

p2

'Nay, my child,' answered Mr. Clive, taking
Lena's hand, ' the debt of gratitude is with me,
for you have made Ethel happier than she ever
was before, — and you have made Ethel's father
feel that he has two daughters instead of one, r
added Mr. Clive, not without emotion.

Ethel and Lena were not less moved, for Mr.
Clive never spoke idly, and Ethel kissed him
with tears in her eyes. She then embraced
Lena, saying,

'What are you thinking about, dear, you're a
wee bit dull V

'I was only thinking of what your good
father has been doing to make Mrs. Sparragus
happy, and all to no purpose. It is so disappointing
to him.'

When you know papa better, Lena, you will
understand that disappointment only seems to
stimulate him. He doesn't admit failure until
he sees that Providence is distinctly against him
then he bows in submission. He is most
anxious to succeed for three reasons. One is,
to gratify the laudable curiosity of good Mrs.
Sparragus ; the second is, to restore the sketch-look

to the rightful owner. Can you guess the
third reason, Leaf

Lena could not guess the third reason.

'It is his desire to gratify — his daughter's
beloved friend

Lena neither admitted nor denied that she
had such a wish, which was proof sufficient that
her friends had divined correctly. Suddenly the
two girls were startled by an exclamation from
the other end of the room where Mr. Clive was
reading a letter which he had found lying before
him.

'On the track at last!' shouted Mr. Clive,
starting to his feet. ' Hurrah !'

The girls could only surmise that some city
defaulter — a fraudulent trader, a peculating
clerk had been run to earth, and they were half
disposed to pity the unhappy wretch.

4 What has the unfortunate creature been
doing, papa T inquired Ethel, almost rebuking
her father's merciless exultation.

The unfortunate creature who rescued Mrs.
Sparragus from certain death is within reach,
that's all, Ethel,' replied Mr. Clive, with hilarity,

at the same time displaying the letter, which
the girls sprang forward to read.

Messieurs Glare and Gooley never termed an
epistle which created more breathless anxiety.
It was read and re-read in the deepest silence,
though Mr. Clive was not so absorbed in it that
he failed to notice Lena's face, which was suddenly
overspread with a flush, and to hear a
spasmodic inspiration of the breath which betrayed
deep feeling.

1 Oh, papa, let us go to these people at once ! r
implored Ethel, clapping her hands. * May I
order the carriage Y

We will go tomorrow,' replied Mr. Clive.

1 Why tomorrow V Ethel demanded, in tones
of disappointment.

Did I not tell Lena just now that tomorrow
will be a great day? Let me have credit for
being a bit of a prophet, and wait to see what
it brings forth.'

The violins were laid aside, reading was
neglected, conversation ceased, for the father
and the daughter and the daughter's friend were
busied with speculations according to their
respective bents. Ethel hoped the unknown

artist might be found, for Lena seemed to wish
it. Lena hoped he might be discovered because
it would make Mrs. Sparragus happy.
Mr. Clive desired it, because, should he succeed
in his endeavour to trace the young man, he
would have the satisfaction of restoring to him
his own, clearing up a small mystery, assisting
Mrs. Sparragus in a laudable wish, and —
pleasing Lena.

When Lena returned to Tapioca Terrace she
was surprised to see Mrs. Lipperty emerge from
No. 3, the abode of Mr. Honeydew, who bowed
her out with every demonstration of esteem.
The circumstance as between neighbours would
in an ordinary way be not only natural but
highly probable, relations more or less friendly
usually existing between near residents in
suburban districts. But we have seen that No.
1 and No. 3 Tapioca Terrace mistrusted one
another in respect of the good lady at No. 2 to
a degree verging on actual detestation, the consequence
being that they never exchanged recognitions,
and never failed to use every opportunity
to damage one another in the opinion of
the confiding and simple Mrs. Sparragus. The

feud had often caused Lena both shame and
sorrow, so absolutely incapable was she of
understanding either prejudice, suspicion, or
greed. It was, therefore, with astonishment
and not with displeasure that she witnessed the
unusual spectacle.

Dear mamma she exclaimed, cheerfully,
'■ you've been to pay Mr. Honeydew a visit, I'm
glad to see.'

1 Yes ; I had occasion to do so.'

About anything particular V inquired Lena,
interested.

I don't feel at all bound to explain everything
to you, Leonora Jane,' curtly replied Mrs.
Lipperty, thus terminating the dialogue, at the
same time jotting down sundry notes, which she
evidently feared might escape her memory.

Where is Thistle Grove V she suddenly inquired,
reading her notes and turning to her
step-daughter.

'Thistle Grove,' repeated Lena, taxing her
memory. < I really don't know ; but I suppose
it can be easily found.'
Of course.'
Certain information communicated over the

garden-wall by the faithful Susan to Mrs. Lip-party
as to the result of the interview between
her mistress and the young man, and subsequently
with Mr. Clive, had greatly exercised
that censorious lady, for she saw at once that
the unfortunate circumstance which brought
about Mrs. Sparragus's rescue had impregnated
that good lady's mind with new ideas and fresh
interests, to the danger of the interests and ideas
antecedent to that deplorable event ; and, from
all that could be learned, these novel notions
were hugged with extraordinary tenacity and
threatened to have consequences highly reprehensible,
and therefore unsatisfactory to Mrs.
Lipperty, who thus argued the question :

That young man had, somehow or another,
so infatuated the old woman that she'll never
rest till she has found out who he is, and made
him her heir. There wasn't much danger, so
long as she only raved about it, but that man
Clive declared he meant to discover him, and
no doubt he knows how to set about it. I used
to think Honeydew a danger — for he is clever
and unscrupulous — but the old woman's eyes
could easily be opened wide enough to see

through him ; and I can manage that at anytime.
Now, I wonder what Honeydew's views
are about this business ? Perhaps it would be
prudent to bury the hatchet for the moment,
and seek his advice in presence of a common
enemy, — for I know well enough Honey dew is
after her money — that's as clear as noonday.
Yes, I'll confer with him, — there's no one else I
can consult in so delicate a matter. Lena —
wretched, obstinate simpleton — would be worse
than useless. I'll go to No. 3.'

Whereupon, the relict of the Rev. Ebenezer,
well aware that her detested rival, Honey-dew,
was at home, — for the outgoings and returning
of her neighbours were the subject of
daily observation — attired herself, and presently
rang the bell at No. 3.

1 Does Mr. Honeydew happen to be at home?'

Yes, ma'am.'

4 Would you ask him if '

4 Pray step in, Mrs. Lipperty ; happy to see
you,' said the gentleman himself, appearing at
the door.

Oh, thank you so much ;' and Mrs. Lipperty

entered, Mr. Honeydew showing her into his
sanctum.

1 I've called began Mrs. Lipperty, confidentially,
' about our dear friend next door.'

4 Ah, yes ; about that narrow escape. Wonderful,
wasn't it V

Miraculous — and serious.'

'Very.'

8 The poor dear has seemed so changed ever
since that, knowing the warmth of your regard
and your disinterested friendship for her, I
thought I might ask your opinion.'

In respect of what, pray?'

1 The dear soul seems so unsettled about her
her affairs,' stammered Mrs. Lipperty, feeling
a little doubtful, after all, as to Mr. Honey dew's
cordiality.

< Her affairs !'

Mr. Honeydew opened his ears and eyes very
wide indeed, because he had been managing
her financial matters to Mrs. Sparragus's entire
satisfaction for a considerable time.

1 know it will be best for me to be very
plain and straight-forward in anything I 

say about our dear friend. You would wish
its

Most decidedly,' replied Mr. Honeydew, with
perfect sincerity.

She is for ever talking about the young man
who, so providentially, saved her from certain
death. She is determined to find him.'

i Let her do so, by all means.'

6 But he may be one of those worldly-minded,
unregenerate people who are always seeking
whom they may devour.'

1 1 hardly think so.'

I'm rejoiced to hear you say that. You
have, no doubt, good reasons for so favourable
an opinion V

'I judge by the style of the man and his
abode.'

Ah, you have seen him V

Yes ; I saw him when he brought the old
lady home.'

But, as to his abode V

1 I followed him thither, feeling just a little
bit curious — as, probably, you also were — as to
who and what he was.'

You actually followed him home ! How

very judicious ! I really must compliment you.
And, pray, where does the man live V

In Thistle Grove.' Mr. Honeydew hesitated
a moment before giving the information, but he
did not see that it could be of any use to Mrs.
Lipperty, and, moreover, it would prove to her
that candour was his weak point. * No. 9.'

1 Indeed ! And his name V

Well, that wasn't so easy to get hold of. I
couldn't ask him the question point-blank, so I
tried the neighbouring tradespeople. It was
no use going to the tailor's, for evidently he
was not wastefully extravagant in the article
of clothing ; so I tried the beer-shop. They
had no such customer. I then purchased a
cigar at the tobacconist's, and asked them the
name of the young man at No. 9. They didn't
know; therefore, I suppose he doesn't smoke.
So I dropped in at the baker's. Yes, a young
man at No. 9 did casually purchase a loaf there.
He was said to be an artist named Aspen.'

How amusing !' exclaimed Mrs. Lipperty,
clapping her hands.

Rather a shaky name, eh V inquired Mr.
Honeydew, with a laugh; and Mrs. Lipperty

thought the notion still more amusing. * A very
appropriate name for a shaky person.'

1 Now you know as much as I do about the
young man,' added Mr. Honeydew, with his
characteristic candour, wondering meanwhile
what Mrs. Lipperty would do with the information.


Many, many thanks ! I must confess I felt
a beetle bit curious — but nothing beyond that, I
assure you.'

Oh, I'm perfectly satisfied of that,' promptly
replied Mr. Honeydew, who said to himself, ' I
see what your little game is.'

'What would not our dear Mrs. Sparragus
give for the information !' speculated Mrs. Lip-party,
confidentially.

Then by all means tell her,' rejoined Mr.
Honeydew, with airy frankness, his prevailing
weakness getting the better of his judgment, as
usual.

1 Tell her ! Why, she'd make a Will tomorrow
in his favour.'

4 And why should she not 1 If she thinks she
can't do better with her money, let her leave it
to him, if she fancies him.'

1 But there are older friends, nearer and
dearer, remember — yourself, for instance,' remonstrated
the astonished Mrs. Lipperty, dwelling
with tender delicacy upon the latter's words.

Mr. Honeydew burst out laughing :

Oh, as to that, I know what her intentions
at present are.'

< Really !'

All I am to have is the cuckoo-clock and a
plated soup-ladle. And I shall be perfectly
satisfied.'

And all the rest V

Goes to a dear friend residing not a hundred
miles from No. 2 ; but a sense of delicacy forbids
my communicating the name of the fortunate
lady to Mrs. Lipperty/

Mrs. Lipperty gave every evidence of amazement
at the facts confided to her by the too
candid financier, though, having herself drawn
up the Will, the information was not such news
as it appeared to be. She wiped her eyes,
and Mr. Honeydew thrust his tongue into his
cheek.

But, if her curiosity as to the young man
should be gratified, she'd go and upset all this

righteous distribution of property,' argued the
relief of the Rev. Ebenezer.

« No doubt she will. Nothing else will cure
her desire to ferret out this young man. But,
that deed accomplished, she'll trouble herself
no more about him, and in six months she'll put
the Will behind the fire and make a fresh one,
and I shall get the cuckoo-clock again, and the
dear friend not a hundred miles off will get her
lion's share just as before.'

i Oh, dear, how beautifully you put it!'

Making Wills is the last infirmity of some
noble minds, you knoAV, and if you discourage
or attempt to thwart them, why — so much the
worse for you ;' and Mr. Honeydew laughed so
robustly that Mrs. Lipperty thought him the
nicest man she had ever seen, but far, far too
candid. Thereupon she rose and graciously
took leave of Mr. Honeydew, who escorted her
to the door, and returned, greatly re-assured, to
No. 1, but entirely dissenting from Mr. Honey-dew's
views as to the policy of enlightening
Mrs. Sparragus at present.

The following day was Lena's birthday, but
the event was not marked by any features to

distinguish it. No bouquet, no deliriously mysterious
package, no gratulations card lay on
Lena's cover at breakfast to surprise and delight
her. Mrs. Lipperty was far too sensible
to indulge in folly of that kind. The only circumstance
to signalise the occasion was a return
to her normal habit of animadversion and a
homily across the table more mordant, if possible,
than usual, as became the relict of the
Rev. Ebenezer.

'Eighteen! Well, I hope, Leonora Jane,
that the next eighteen years will be employed
more profitably than the last.'

I hope so too, mamma.'

For I can assure you that, until the old Adam
is thoroughly purged out of us, the best of us
are but filthy rags.'

I know it too well, mamma.'

Yes, no doubt you know it — you can't
pretend you don't, Leonora Jane, for I have
felt it my duty to follow the noble example
of your lamented father, and remind you that
your inward part is very wickedness ; — it's no
use sighing, Leonora Jane, it sounds so like
hypocrisy, when one knows that you are all the

VOL. I. Q

time imagining mischief in your heart and
walking after vanity.'

Lena had nothing to say in self-defence, she
supposed she was only receiving her deserts, so
she submitted meekly and almost gratefully to
the flagellation appropriate to the momentous
event of her anniversary.

But, alas ! her worldly-mindedness returned
when the appointed hour arrived for her appearance
at Regent's Park, and all the consciousness
of a reprobate heart vanished into thin air the
moment she found herself in the brougham with
Mr. Clive and Ethel, bound for the art-gallery
belonging to Glare and Gooley.

Those gentlemen did not fail to be at their
posts, and were, in fact, awaiting the visit of the
well-known alderman with more than ordinary
interest, for they scented business and arranged
their prints and canvases in the most alluring
order. All the gems of their collection were
placed on view, the only exception being the
Queen of the Glen.' As they gave the finishing
touch to their gallery, the carriage drove
up, and, almost before it came to a standstill,
Mr. Clive and the young ladies sprang out and

entered the shop. Casting a rapid glance
through the contents, the visitors uttered exclamations
of disappointment, — they had anticipated
finding a picture corresponding to the
sketch, and not one in all the choice examples
of old and modern masters arrayed before
them held their interested attention for a
moment.

Not here,' said Mr. Clive, sorrowfully, ' we
might have saved ourselves the pains of
coming.'

1 Permit me, Alderman Clive, to show you
something in our cabinet ;' and, so saying, Mr.
Glare led the way through a rich portiere into
an inner chamber, and the visitors, entering
somewhat perfunctorily, stood astonished before
an easel supporting the ' Queen of the Glen.'

Long and in silence they gazed on the lovely
painting whose beauty was enhanced by rich
draperies, and a soft light which seemed coexistent
with the atmosphere in the picture.
There indeed was the perfected idea noted with
such delicate tenderness in the sketch. The
graceful birch-tree stood in its natural beauty
apart from its congeners which seemed to keep

Q2

at a respectful distance, and yet in attendance,
and apparently inclining in the direction of the
favoured tree. The visitors felt that a touch of
humanity pervaded the work, — the lonely tree
seemed to feel the burden of solitude, and Lena
was the first to break the silence, saying, in a
whisper to Ethel,

It reminds me of one who pines for a companion
;' and she pressed Ethel's arm, for the
tree symbolised her own great need of other
days.

Is it for sale V enquired Mr. Clive, turning to
the dealer, who replied in the affirmative. ' I
will take it,' said the alderman ; * let me have it
to-days

I will dispatch it at once, sir.'

'What have I to pay for it?' asked Mr.
Clive, opening his cheque-book, and taking up
a pen.

'Fifty guineas.'

And Mr. Clive drew a cheque for that amount.

Papa,' exclaimed Ethel, gleefully, ' we have
found the artist's name in the corner of the
picture.'

< Ah ! what is it V

{ Graham Aspen,' interposed Glare, handing a
receipt to Mr. Give ; ' a most promising artist,
destined, undoubtedly, to take high rank among
our landscape-painters.'

What is his address ? I should be glad to
pay him a visit.'

Messieurs Glare and Gooley exchanged
glances. It was not at all consistent with the
interests of their business to bring patron and
artist into personal contact ; they preferred that
all transactions should be effected through them.
In fact, they viewed Aspen as a discovery, the
monopoly of which belonged to them.

'Unfortunately he didn't leave his address
with us; but we commissioned a companion
picture, and we expect him to bring it any
day.'

8 Give me the refusal of it ; and above all
things let me have his address.'

So saying, the party re-entered the carnage
and drove away.

I am disappointed in one respect,' said Mr.
Clive, as they journeyed along, exulting in the
success of their expedition ; ' I foretold that
Lena's birthday was going to be a great day,

but it would have been a greater day if we
could have discovered our hero's address as well
as his name.'

Strangely enough at that moment Mrs.
Lipperty's question recurred to Lena's memory :
Where is Thistle Grove V and involuntarily,
almost unconsciously, she repeated aloud the
words : < Where is Thistle Grove V

Mr. Clive was considerably surprised at an
inquiry which seemed made in response to his
allusion to his hero's address.

4 Ha ! Does he live at Thistle Grove V
Lena hastened to explain away the words
which had escaped her.

Well, it is singular, but I happen to know
that Thistle Grove is a favourite resort of
artists ;' and he pulled the check-string, whereupon
the carriage was drawn up and the footman
descended. 'Tell Stevens to drive to
Thistle Grove.'

1 Papa !' exclaimed Ethel, in wonderment,

whatever are you going to Thistle Grove for?'

I am just a bit superstitious, my dear, and

there may be something in Mrs. Lipperty's

innocent question. At all events, it will dono

harm to extend our drive, even if my character
for common-sense should suffer.'

The carriage drew up at the corner of the
street. The footman descended and inquired
the number of the house at which his master
desired to stop.

6 This will do ;' and Mr. Olive got out. Reconnoitering
the neighbourhood for a likely-place
to make inquiries, he pitched upon the
one particular house where information could be
obtained — namely, the baker's.

Can you tell me whether a Mr. Aspen lives
in the Grove V

Yes, sir, at No. 9.'

An artist, is he not V

Yes, an artist, so I am told.'

Thank you ;' and Mr. Clive, making a note
of the address, returned to the carriage.

1 Well, dear papa,' said Ethel, in accents of
playful derision, * has your character for commonsense
suffered or not'

You shall judge for yourself some day.'
« What do you mean by that, papa V

I mean that this is a far greater day than I
promised Lena it should be.'

Mr. Clive thought it prudent not to divulge
what he had learnt at the baker's until later,
and his daughter interpreted his silence as
failure.

On arriving home he found the picture in the
library, delivered with Messieurs Glare and
Gooley's respectful thanks. Rejoining his
daughter in the saloon, he inquired what
birthday gift she had prepared for Lena, and
Ethel showed him a diamond ring which she
proposed to offer her.

She is not a girl that cares for jewellery.
That will not do.'

1 Then what am I to give the dear girl V asked
Ethel, disappointed.

1 Leave it with me to select something.'

But there is so little time to think about it,
papa.'

4 Time enough, my child. Where is Lena !'

8 In the garden

1 Go and join her.'

Ethel found her friend busily culling flowers,
and she at once co-operated with her in an employment
which is always provocative of interest,
for the judicious arrangement of colour and form

in the composition of a nosegay is no mean test
of taste, and women almost invariably succeed
in this delicate occupation.

When the task was accomplished, Ethel enquired
the purpose for which Lena destined the
beautiful and fragrant bouquet.

I wish to place it in your father's room,' she
replied, in her quiet way.

Why?' enquired Ethel, amused.

1 Because he loves flowers, and, as this is my
birthday, I thought I might be allowed the
privilege of doing something in token of my
grateful attachment to him.'

When, half-an-hour later, Lena sought her
room she was overcome by an object which
met her gaze. Hanging against the wall was
the ' Queen of [the Glen,' to which was attached
a card inscribed thus :

To my valued friend Lena, in token of my
affection and respect.

< Ethel Clive.'

CHAPTER XL

MISGIVINGS.

Her sojourn at Flinders had effected a great
deal for Mrs. Tierney, and its reputation for
salubrity appeared justified; for the lady, delicate
in frame as in constitution, had returned home
in unusual health, and amongst the earliest visits
of congratulation paid was one from her friend
and medical adviser, Dr. Eustace, who had sent
her thither and who was sincerely gratified at
the result.

Doctor,' said Mrs. Tierney, grasping his
hand, ' I am deeply indebted to you for this
recovery, for I ascribe it to your judicious
treatment.'

1 Ah, my dear madam,' he replied, gravely,
when a patient speaks in those terms I feel

humbled, for I know how little I have really had
to do with the return to health.'

But you sent me to Flinders,' she rejoined,
as if that fact was conclusive and proved her
point.

'Yes; because I knew that mother Nature
might there do for you that which the College
of Physicians and Apothecaries' Hall combined
would not effect here. Besides,' he added,
pointing to Hester, who was sitting by her
mother and watching every movement with the
utmost interest, * next to Nature your burden of
debt lies here. We doctors too often get credit
which is due to the undemonstrative nurse.'

1 feel I have done almost nothing,' earnestly
disputed Hester ; ' there is so little I can do.'

4 Dear child,' replied Mrs. Tierney, drawing
her daughter closer to her, 'she has indeed been
a devoted little nurse.'

Say dutiful, mamma ; I have only done my
duty,' remonstrated Hester, burying her face in
her mother's bosom.

It is pure devotion,' insisted Mrs Tierney.

Hester shook her head.

1 Which is the right word, doctor, duty or

devotion ? You shall decide between us,' said
Mrs. Tierney, with vivacity.

1 Devotion, as between parent and child, is a
natural instinct. Duty is a moral grace. The
seat of devotion is the heart. Duty springs
from the mind. If I am asked to diagnose
the case before me continued the physician,
humour playing about his benign face, *I
should say that duty and devotion go hand in
hand, and filial love, the purest of human passions,
sanctifies both. Equally happy should the giver
and receiver be in such a conjunction !'

Mrs Tierney pronounced the referee's judgment
as wise as it was nattering. The doctor
continued :

8 1 know Miss Tierney has nursed you
well. I see the result in you and the capacity
in her.'

1 Ah, yes, it is indeed so.'

4 Allow me to moralise and add that there is
not a surer evidence of natural grace and cultured
mind than that gentle care for the sick
which our women manifest, and which is one of
the finest features of our time. We doctors see
it, and rejoice to see it.'

Everything you say is true,' responded Mrs.
Tierney, with enthusiasm ; ' and you seem to be
able to read our thoughts. This dear child has
so often said she is never so happy as when
nursing the sick ; if it be only a bird or a kitten,
she seems in her element.'

I quite believe it, for it is just what I should
have expected. In Miss Hester's character I see
self-sacrifice, self-denial, patience, courage, and,
above all, piety. These are qualities which
plead for exercise, and where is there such a
field for their exercise as in ministering to the
sick

Hester looked very grave, but her features
were irradiated by a fervour which proved the
depth of her feelings.

I cannot admit or lay claim to all the kind
and generous things you say,' she replied, * but
mamma has told you the direction in which my
tastes lie, and I feel I should be very happy if I
might be allowed to employ myself in some useful
way among the sick poor.'

Turning to Mrs. Tierney, Dr. Eustace continued
:

You know, dear madam, that Ave physicians-train

ourselves to study our patients, and to
read much that is invisible to other eyes. I
have of course seen the affectionate care and
anxiety your child has evinced for you in your
hour of weakness and pain ; the indefatigable
and almost maternal tenderness, the forethought
and the firmness shown under trying circumstances


Yes ; and at all hours !'

And, if I understand character at all, I should
say that to alleviate human suffering and sorrow,
by the pious offices which a true woman
views as her highest privilege, would be to
your daughter the crowning joy of your life. '

Hester was too moved to speak. A deep
breath drawn was her only rejoinder, but it
implied acquiescence.

8 Dear doctor,' interposed Mrs. Tierney, as the
difficulties of the situation flashed across her
mind, * though I admit the truth of all you say,
and rejoice to confirm your estimate of this precious
child, I hardly think she feels her vocation
lies seriously in that direction, though she would
do her best when cases came in her way, no
doubt. Is it as I suppose, darling V

6 1 should like to give myself to it entirely
replied Hester, softly.

What,— as a profession V

Yes, dear mamma.'

Mrs. Tierney's eyes filled with tears as she
contemplated her daughter's earnest face, and at
the same time conjured up the weightiest objections
to the project.

4 My darling, you don't know^what you are
proposing to undertake.'

Yes, dear mamma, I have been thinking
about it for a long time.'

1 But the risks !'

< What risks, dear V

'Ask Dr. Eustace to enlighten you.'

The kindly physician turned to Hester.

My dear girl,' he said, taking a seat opposite
her, ' I should not be your friend if I did not
point out both the pros and the cons in this
business, especially when the latter are said to
preponderate.'

'I should wish to know the worst, Dr.
Eustace.'

To begin with, there is always the danger of
infection.'

Yes, but how very rarely do you hear of
either doctor or nurse taking infection,' argued
Hester.

It is true ; but still the danger exists. Then
there is the saddening spectacle of human
anguish, besides many things from which the
tender heart recoils, and which you cannot even
have imagined. These should deter yon, Miss
Tierney.*

They do not and would not deter me, because
I should nerve myself to bear them.'

Then there would be the prejudice to your
own health ; the loss of rest ; the burden of
other people's domestic sorrows ; — these things
should make a young lady pause and shrink
from such a calling.'

1 1 have considered all this, Dr. Eustace, and
I do not shrink, much less hesitate. These are
the " cons." Please tell dear mamma the
pros," ' continued Hester, earnestly ; ' she
needs to be cheered

'Now then for the "pros;" the result of
my experience is, that the gains outweigh the
cost,' said the physician, encouragingly.

Yes, yes,' exclaimed Hester, with every

manifestation of delight, 'I have come to that
conclusion.'

'Few joys exceed those we feel in mitigating
the sufferings of others ; of faithfully discharging
the common duties of humanity ; of winning
back the hue of health to the pallid cheek ; of
listening to the first few simple words that well
up from the grateful heart ; to be watched for
lovingly and anxiously, and to go one's way
bearing the precious burden of an approving
conscience ; — these are the rewards that outweigh
the pains a hundred times over

Hester turned a radiant face to her mother
who had long been silent and said,

These are the rewards, dear mamma ; may
I not have them V

Mrs. Tierney felt too moved to answer. She
signified by a glance at Dr. Eustace that she
assigned the decision to him.

Your daughter,' he began, speaking with the
seriousness the case demanded, ' is not, with all
her earnestness, an enthusiast merely, — had she
been so I should have done my utmost to
dissuade her from entertaining this idea, — but
she is a calm and capable thinker, who has

VOL. I. B

reasoned out a noble conception and arrived at
a sound conclusion, as I should have expected.
The dangers I pointed out had no deterrent
effect ; the possible risks of infection and even of
death had no terrors for her. I therefore say,
without hesitation or misgiving, that she is
marked out by nature for the noble calling to
which she aspires, and I think, dear madam,
you should not withhold your consent

It was an ordeal both for mother and child ;
both were impressed with the gravity of the
situation, and at length Hester broke the
silence :

'If you disapprove, darling, I will try to
think no more about it.'

I wish it, my precious child. Go, and may
the Father of us all protect you V and Mrs Tier-ney
burst into tears.

Dr. Eustace saw that it rested with him to
conjure away the doubts and apprehensions
which evidently afflicted Mrs. Tierney.

4 Your daughter shall be exposed to no needless
trials, toils or dangers. Intentionally I
dwelt upon them with emphasis by way of
crucial test. But she can do this beneficent

service in the fullest sense without all the perils
I suggested. Confer together, ponder it welland,
if you agree that it shall be undertaken, I
will place her under Mrs. Beaver, a skilled and
very judicious nurse, who will be another
mother to her, and, associated with her, she shall
have the opportunity of administering consolation
and comfort to those in need of them, and
exercising her healing powers on the suffering.
Leave it to me.'

Thereupon Dr. Eustace withdrew.

It was an issue of moment in Hester's life
and her mother recognised it as such. But she
was both a true woman and a good mother, and,
while pointing out the many objections and
difficulties, she nevertheless dwelt with admiration
on the nobleness and honourableness of the
calling, and, giving her the benefit of her wise
and matured discretion, left her absolutely
mistress of her actions. And if there was a
moment's hesitancy in Hester's mind it was on
account of her mother. Would she be justified
in leaving her 1 This doubt her mother instantly
dismissed. Thanks to Hester's good nursing
and the fine air of Flinders, she was now in

r2

excellent health ; she could safely be left. In
the course of a few days, Hester wrote to Dr.
Eustace in these terms :

If I have delayed writing on the subject of
our discussion it has not been in consequence of
any change of purpose on my part, and if I
have felt any hesitancy it has been from a fear
of my falling short of the high estimate you, in
your goodness, have formed of me. But, even
with this drawback, I am ready to serve those
to whom I may be useful, and dear mamma not
only permits but encourages me to place myself
in your hands.'

Dr. Eustace lost no time in bringing Hester
and Mrs. Beaver into association, and the young
novice went into training in one of those
excellent institutions for gentlewomen which
Dr. Eustace visited professionally.

Hester speedily won the respect of the inmates
by her thoughtful care, deft service and
cheerful manner, while her sympathetic interest
in her patients' affairs secured for her their
genuine affection.

Mrs. Tierney, who watched her child with

great solicitude, saw by her bright demeanour,
chastened though it was by the constant
spectacle of human suffering, that she had not
mistaken her vocation, and, when Dr. Eustace
next visited her, she gave full expression to her
satisfaction.

Do you know,' she said, * the dear girl
doesn't in the least fulfil the promise of her early
childhood.'

'I recollect she used to be frolicsome as a
young girl.'

Say frivolous, rather ! I may say mischievous.'


It was the pretty mischief of a kitten,' interposed
the physician ; ' a sign of health and
strength and good digestion.'

But the playful kitten changed into the demure
cat so suddenly,' she remarked.

'Was the transformation so very sudden?'
inquired Dr. Eustace, amused.

Indeed it was. I may say it took place in a
day — in an hour, even ; almost in a moment !'
responded Mrs. Tierney, in the confidential
tones of one who imparts a secret.

How, pray V

You remember that startling incident when
I visited you some months ago V
1 When the young artist swooned V
Yes. I date the change from that day.'
Dr. Eustace recalled all the incidents ; the
sympathy the young girl evinced for the sufferer,
her solicitude for his restoration in subsequent
conversations, and her animation whenever
reference was made to him.

My dear madam,' he said, * if it was as you
suppose, and the beautiful traits in your daughter's
character were really called into activity
by that accidental circumstance, it is only another
proof that trifles are often fruitful of great
issues. That moment may have decided your
child's future. It gave a direction, sharp and
sudden, to her mind, turning it into a channel
fraught with great benefit to others and happiness
to herself. Therefore let us be thankful
that it was as it was.'

8 Yes, I am indeed thankful. Still,' continued
Mrs. Tierney, with some anxiety, after a moment's
pause, * you will not, I am sure, doctor,
allow the dear girl to sacrifice her precious

health, in this praiseworthy employment, which
has now lasted some months.'

1 1 am too selfish to sacrifice the nurse for the
sake of the patient, — I value them too highly for
that ; and you have only anticipated me, Mrs.
Tierney, on a point I was intending to touch
upon.'

Mrs. Tierney expressed her satisfaction at this
statement.

The nurse is the doctor's right hand. They
see with his eyes, and lead the patient with
infinite care along the tedious road to recovery
to which the physician only points the way. I
have watched your dear child with no slight
anxiety, for I have seen how absolutely she
surrenders herself to the cause she has espoused,
and how completely she forgets herself in the
discharge of her pious duties. The natural
result follows. Her physical resources are drawn
upon largely, and her reserve of strength is not
what I should desire to see. Notwithstanding
her buoyancy of spirits and her bravery, she
flags, unconsciously to herself, but palpably tome.
I propose, therefore, to give her a few

weeks' vacation. Take her away. Give her
rest and pure air.'

Mrs. Tierney was rejoiced at the suggestion,
and lost no time in arranging to give effect toit,
for Dr. Eustace's opinion was confirmatory of
her own apprehensions; she had observed the
lassitude which Hester betrayed after her day's
labours, and her evenings were too frequently
passed in involuntary repose. Especially noticeable
was the fact that, whereas hitherto she was
wont to entertain and delight her mother and
friends with song after song, endowed as she
was with a voice of singular beauty, she now
declared herself unequal to the effort, and was
consequently neither invited nor encouraged to
sing.

Dr. Eustace's parting words were :
I would not have you let her imagine that
you are anxious and apprehensive. It might
bring about the evil you dread. You need a
change yourself ; she will accompany you necessarily.
And, whithersoever you go, let her pursue
her beneficent inclinations. You are too
wise to thwart a tendency which has developed
into a holy passion. Every cottage, every cabin

will be a field for her ministrations ; for sorrow
and suffering are to be found everywhere.'

Dr. Eustace then took leave of Mrs. Tierney.
He had received an urgent summons from
Alderman Clive.

The worthy alderman made it a rule to do
nothing in a hurry ; and this was in a great
measure the secret of his successes, — he considered
well, made up his mind, and then went
straight to his goal, as has been already stated.
Many men, probably most men, finding themselves
on the trail of a man with whom they
desired to have personal intercourse, would have
followed the scent at once, and have sought
the desired interview there and then ; but Mr.
Clive was for the moment content, — he had discovered
the young artist's abode, surely that
was sufficient success for the day. To-morrow
he would visit him alone, and afford himself the
pleasure of making the acquaintance of the
gifted author of the * Queen of the Glen,' and
commission a companion picture. His business
in the city concluded, he drove to Brompton,
and, dismissing his carriage, he made his way
on foot to Thistle Grove. Reaching No. 9, he

rang the bell, which was answered by a little
girl.

'Does Mr. Aspen live here?' he inquired.

1 Yes, sir.*

Can I see him V

1 Please go upstairs to his room.'

Which is his room V

The first door on the landing, sir.'

Mr. Olive, as he ascended the stairs, was
struck with the modesty of the dwelling, which
seemed hardly in keeping with the genius which
was so palpable in the painting.

'How often it happens,' he meditated, 'that
the most gifted men enjoy little and covet less
the good things of life ! Art must indeed be
its own reward. This young painter, for a
paltry fifty pounds, parts with a work which
will be a delight to generations, and deems
himself paid. No sordid ambition his! no
rapacity for lucre here ! Such facts should bea
forcible lesson to us men of ease and plenty !'

These reflections occupied his mind as he
mounted the stairs with a soft and almost timorous
foot and reached the door, when he
knocked with his gloved hand. Noiselessly and

gently the door was opened, and a pale and
anxious face appeared. It was Jem.

Jem interrogated the visitor by a glance ; he
spoke no word.

6 1 have called to see Mr. Aspen, if he is not
too much engaged said the alderman.

'Hush!' exclaimed the youth, in a hoarse
whisper. ' Hush ! he is asleep, I am thankful
to say ;' and Jem laid a finger on his lips, while
tears rolled down his pallid cheeks.

'Is he ill?' demanded Mr. Olive, alarmed at
the appearance of the young man.

{ III !' answered Jem, and a spasm seemed to
stifle his voice. • 111 ! He's dying !'

CHAPTER XII.

RUN TO EARTH.

Dying !' Mr. Clive was a man of no nervous
and feeble constitution, no morbid sensibility ;
but the brief response made by Jem, confirmed
as it was in its alarming import by Jem's facial
expression, sent a thrill and a chill to his heart
which for a moment seemed to paralyse him,
for he felt unable to advance or retire. Dying !
The gifted painter of the lovely tree. Dying !
The brave rescuer of the aged lady ! It is too
sad. It cannot be true.

Jem opened the door to allow Mr. Clive to
enter the sick-chamber, if he so desired. He
asked no questions as to his right to the privilege
; he could read in his face the language
which can be neither assumed nor concealed, —

sympathy deep and true, and that was credential
sufficient for the young man. All he did
was to enjoin silence by a motion of the hand.
Mr. Clive stepped into the room, but the light
was so subdued by a curtain stretched across
the window that it was some moments before
his eyes were reconciled to the gloom. Gradually
the scene became revealed, and Mr. Clive's
eyes sought the suffering occupant. Lying on
a camp-bedstead at the end of the chamber,
which was partly concealed by hanging drapery,
was a wasted figure of a young man
whose face, pinched and pallid, was yet remarkable
for its expression of dignity and serenity.
A rug was carefully spread over him ; a nosegay
stood on a little table beside the bed, at the
head of which was placed a chair. The rug
and the nosegay were Jem's, and he at once
took his seat on the chair at the head of the
bed, and gave the sleeper the watchful attention
which the visitor had for a moment interrupted,
and which was resumed as though no
visitor were present.

Mr. Clive's glance passed for a moment from
the sufferer to the surroundings, and the worldly

condition of the occupant was at once manifest.
Almost Spartan in its simplicity, and in the
absence of even the faintest pretence to luxury,
it was conspicuously clean and orderly. Brushes
and pencils, paints and palettes, easels and canvases,
books and folios, studies, draperies and
casts no longer in use, were arranged with a
method which, to Mr. Clive, seemed remarkable,
as method and order are not, as he knew, proverbially
characteristic of artists. The order
and the method were Jem's, — they had come to
him as an instinct in a sick chamber, though
hitherto, as Mrs. Starkie was never weary of
testifying, he was by nature, and in the bosom
of his family, the incarnation of untidiness and
misrule.

If Jem wondered (as, possibly, he did) who
the stranger was, and what his errand was, no
sign of wonderment, no interrogatory glance
escaped him. He had eyes and thought, hope
and fear for one creature only at that moment, —
the beloved friend at whose side he watched,
and whom he believed to be entering upon his
journey hence. And if the devoted youth was
so strangely forgetful of so palpable a duty to

a dying friend, as that of summoning medical
aid, it was because that friend had avowed his
pious resignation to the inevitable, and had
prayed to be allowed to die in peace ; and to
Jem his wish was law. At one moment the
prostrate man had a strong desire to summon
Dr. Eustace, if only to let him see that the
three years' span which he promised him was
all too liberal ; for the day and the hour were
already upon him. But he had not the courage
again to face the man whose kindness he had
so ill-requited, by withholding his name and
dwelling-place — and, indeed, he reflected, it were
better, both for his own sake and for the sake
of the only living creature who cared for him —
that loyal and loving friend who smoothed his
pillow and bathed his brow with the gentle
hand of a woman — for Jem's sake it were better
that he should pass away now than later.

To Mr. Clive, the absence of the usual courtesies
and the interchange of ordinary civilities
between himself and Jem were both natural and
fitting. Mr. Clive comprehended perfectly Jem's
concentration of heart and mind on one thought
a thought which commanded respect and admiration

— and he was content to remain a passive
observer of a domestic episode of singular
pathos. As his sight became more perfectly
accustomed to the subdued light, he noted the
varying expression on the face of the sleeper,
who was evidently disturbed by a dream. A
tremulous movement of the hands, a spasm of
the breath, indicated distress, which re-acted on
Jem painfully, and he was on the point of arousing
the sleeper, with a view to terminate his
misery, when Mr. Clive, bending forward, whispered
in his ear :

'Pray excuse me, but I think it might be
dangerous to awaken him suddenly. It might
be too great a shock.'

Jem's hand was at once arrested ; he saw
that the caution was wise. Turning to Mr.
Clive, with appealing eyes, he said,

1 Sir, are you a doctor f

'No.'

1 Are you a friend of Mr. Aspen V

I wish to be a friend. I presume you are
his brother V

i Oh, no, sir ; I'm only his pupil.'

Do you live here V

Yes ; the landlady is my mother, Mrs. Starkie.
I am Jem.'

Can I see your mother V

6 Yes, sir ; she is downstairs.'

Mr. Clive turned towards the door, when words
from the bed — words disjointed and incoherent
arrested his foot.

Again I hear it ! that sweet, soft voice ; my
mother's, yet not my mother's ! That song and
that face ! I'll paint it ! Yes, if I live long
enough — that song — that face; let me, let

me ' and the dreamer turned in his bed,

and relapsed into a deep sleep.

Jem quite comprehended the train of ideas
which agitated Aspen, and which was a pure
enigma to Mr. Clive, and, without reflection, he
said, in a subdued tone, ' And he did paint it,'
at the same moment glancing towards a canvas
on the easel, covered over.

Really?' answered Mr. Clive, in the same
low key, as he followed the direction of Jem's
gaze. * May I see it?' and he advanced a hand
towards the picture.

4 No, no !' replied Jem, peremptorily ; ' you
cannot, sir ; nobody but me has ever seen it !'
VOL. I. S

and he stepped to the easel and made the covering
more secure.

Mr. Give, the art-patron, the liberal supporter
of every benevolent work, the man of
sterling character and great wealth, saw no
affront in the curt prohibition, but, on the contrary,
he recognised in it a fine delicacy on the
part of the painter and loyalty on that of the
pupil. He was puzzled but not pained. It
was extraordinary, but at the same time it had
the ring of a noble independence about it, and
Mr. Give not only respected the interdiction,
but it increased his sorrowing interest in the
dying artist.

Descending to the hall he found the little girl
who had apparently been in conversation with
somebody at the door, for Mr. Clive, glancing in
that direction, observed a vanishing skirt — a
black skirt which he recognised, for he had seen
the identical article at Tapioca Terrace when he
paid Mrs. Sparragus his visit. The coincidence
at once struck him as remarkable, — Mrs. Lip-party
here ! That sombre lady excited no interest
person ally, but her movements in the two



instances under Mr. Olive's observation did so
to a very considerable degree.

6 Was that lady a friend of your mistress's V
he inquired of the little girl.

Don't think so, sir. She wanted to know if
Mr. Aspen lives here.'

• Ah ! and you told her that he does V

Yes, sir ; and 1 said he is dying !'

And she was much shocked V

Dreadful, sir, for she says, says she, " Poor
dear, poor dear ! But the Lord's will be done !"
and didn't she rub her eyes P

'And then V

6 And then the poor lady went away, sir.'

If Mr. Olive discovered any reasonable explanation
of the fact of a person making
inquiries as to a perfect stranger and manifesting
such deep grief on hearing of his
deplorable condition of health, he gave no
visible or audible expression of the discovery,
but inquired of the little girl where Mrs. Starkie
was, to which question she replied that Mrs.
Starkie was in the kitchen a-making beef-tea,
whereupon Mr. Olive requested the damsel to
fetch that good woman.

S2

Mrs. Starkie responded to the summons, and
at once gave vent to her feelings.

Oh, sir, isn't it dreadful V

You mean Mr. Aspen's condition V responded
Mr. Clive, sadly.

'Yes, poor young man, — such a gentleman,
too ! I've let lodgings now for over twenty
years — it'll be twenty-one years come Michaelmas
— and I've never had his like in the house,.
nor I won't, for I don't believe there's the like
of dear Mr. Aspen in all London.'

I quite believe he is a worthy fellow.'

'Worthy; that's not the word, sir: he's
beautiful ! and the beautiful ain't long for this
world, as everybody knows ; — and I can't forgive
myself, no, I can't.'

I'm sorry to hear you say that.'

4 How can I, sir ? To go and hurt the feelings
of the dear young gentleman who only
wanted to be good and kind to our Jem, and
for me to be that contrary and throw cold water
till he was nearly drove to give me notice to
quit and go and live opposite where the bill's
in the window. How can I forgive myself, and
him a-doing

Let us hope, my dear Mrs Starkie, that he
may yet rally.'

Yes ; may the Lord be merciful ! and I'm
making some beef-tea, which Jem bought a
pound of beef out of his money-box, and it's
been stewing all the morning.'

1 Excellent ! But I should like with your
permission to send him some soup from a house
I know of in the city. It will help to strengthen
him.'

Very well, he shall have every drop of it ;
you may depend, sir.'

Of that I am quite sure, Mrs. Starkie.'

1 Yes, sir, you may depend.'

'But there is one matter', Mrs. Starkie, in
which you have been wrong.'

6 Me wrong !'

Yes, in not calling in a doctor to see Mr.
Aspen.'

'There, you see, that comes of your not
knowing, but when I tell you Mr. Aspen forbid
it when I wanted to, and said he wouldn't see
no doctor and told Jem, and Jem's that fond of
him it's downright foolish, and I say so to his
face as I say it behind his back — he's foolish,

and nothing would induce Jem to fetch a doctor
and it's hard to be told it's my fault, sir ;' and
Mrs. Starkie sighed and gave every evidence of
lacerated feelings.

6 1 quite understand, my dear madam, that,
from motives of true kindness and in obedience
to Mr. Aspen's wish, you and your son have
neglected an obvious duty — but, better late
than never, you know ; therefore, I will bring a
friend of mine who understands these cases and
who will tell us the exact state of things. I've
no doubt you've done quite right so far as nursing
goes.'

1 As for that, I only make his beef-tea and do
his bit of washing,' interrupted Mrs. Starkie,
meekly, * our Jem does everything else. Lor',
sir, he seems as if he was born to it ! He watches
day and night, feeds him, physics him, dresses
and undresses him, reads to him, prays for him,
and never takes his own clothes off ; it's downright
beautiful, sir ! and though I'm his mother,
and didn't ought, I say it's beautiful to see Jem
a-nursing that young man!' and Mrs. Starkie
fairly gasped for want of breath.

Your son deserves all the praise you give
him.'

That I never do, sir, I'm afraid! I aren't
encourage him, for, if I did, he'd make ten times
more messes than he does with them nasty paints,
which he hasn't a pocket-handkerchief fit to be
seen, let alone the table-cloths! No, sir, I
aren't praise our Jem, much as I love the
lad!'

But I understood from him that he was Mr.
Aspen's pupil !' answered Mr. Clive, interrogatively.


'Ah, sir, I begin to think that's all a part of
the young gentleman's disease. It must be his
complaint, for he took to our Jem so violent
all because he tried to copy a pictor of his.'

'A picture of a tree?' enquired Mr. Clive,
eagerly, for he was more and more interested in
Mrs Starkie's disclosures.

No, not that tree — and it was a pretty tree !
I never could keep my eyes off that when I was
trying to tidy his room, — and, do you know, he
got ten pounds for it !'

Ten pounds V replied Mr. Clive, shocked.

Yes ; but it was a portrait of a voice, as Mr.
Aspen called it — and you may well look astonished,
sir, but, as I said, that's his complaint, — and
our Jem he tried to copy that pictor of a voice ;
it was a face of a girl which I should call fantastic
— but that's neither here nor there — and he
caught our Jem at it, and he nearly killed him ;
and serve him right, I say, for what business
had he to go messing with them 'horrible paints
in a lodger's room, and let himself in with my key
unbeknown ? which is bad enough in his own
room, and all the walls daubed over with sunsets
and such rubbish ! Well, sir, he changed all of
a sudden, which proves to me that it's his
disease, and now they're always together, and
away they must go a-painting in the country,
and that's where he caught his cold, — I mean
Mr. Aspen, of course, but, for my part, though
he says he's dying, and Jem says he's dying, I
don't think he's half so bad as he was after his
exertion a-saving an old lady somewhere in the
city, so they say ; and, between you and me, I
don't think he has ever been quite right since.
Ah, he was bad then !'

Mr. Olive perceiving no limit to the good

landlady's rhetoric, and feeling the necessity of
ordering the soup and summoning the physician
without loss of time, looked at his watch, and,
pleading engagements, hurried away, intimating
that in the course of the day he should return
with a friend, and he hoped Jem would not deny
them admission to the sick-chamber.

During the afternoon Dr. Eustace arrived,
according to appointment, at Regent's Park,
where he found Mr. Clive anxiously awaiting
him.

My dear Eustace,' he said, grasping his
hand, * I'm going to put your skill to the test. I
have found a young man who, the people about
him say, is dying. If human power can prolong
his days, you will do it. And, as the man
is too poor to requite your service, I know you
will be all the more anxious to snatch him from
the grave

Dr. Eustace became very thoughtful, and
requested all possible information as to the case.

4 Bv a train of circumstances, which I need
not trouble you with, I found myself this morning
in the chamber of a young artist who lay
unconscious on his bed. I am keenly interested

in him, as you, Eustace, will be, not only inconsequence
of his poverty, but also on account
of his patient submission to what he conceives
to be his impending decease, and his artistic
ability, which is remarkable.'

What is his ailment V inquired Dr. Eustace,
1 consumption V

Yes ; so far as I can judge from his wasted
appearance.'

The most hopeless of all,' sorrowfully replied
the physician; 'you must not expect much of
science in those cases, my dear Clive.'

Then, appearing suddenly to recall a parallel
case, he desired to know the patient's name.

'Aspen,' replied Mr. Clive, as they stepped
into the brougham, and, ordering the coachman
to drive to 9, Thistle Grove, Mr. Clive enlivened
the journey by describing Jem, and doing full
justice to his devotion, and to his honest
mother's volubility.

Mrs. Starkie opened the door and at once
reported progress :

You may take your friend into the room to
see him, sir : the delicious soup you sent did it !
I don't believe anything else would have got

over Jem, for he says, says he, " Mother, that's
the wonderfully soup that ever was. The
moment he swallowed it he seemed to pick up,
and, though Mr. Aspen said I wasn't to fetch no
doctor, he didn't forbid me admitting a friend,
and anyone who sends such stuff as that there
soup is a friend, and no mistake, and he may
bring anybody he likes !" So, gents, you may
go up.'

The door was opened by Jem in response to
Mr. Olive's gentle knock, and the visitors were
received with a nod and a smile which constituted
at once a grateful recognition and a
welcome.

When Dr. Eustace and Mr. Olive entered the
room, Aspen was in a sitting posture, propped
up by pillows and enveloped in a shawl which
partly concealed his features, but, while greeting
the strangers with a slight inclination of the
head, his action seemed to convey the inquiry,
Who are you, and what brings you here ?'

Mr. Olive correctly interpreted it, and, addressing
Graham, said,

Mr. Aspen, we are neither idle persons nor
curious ; we only ask to be viewed as friends

and allowed to lighten, so far as our humble
efforts go, the cares and labours of your devoted
companion, Jem.'

You are very, very good, sir,' responded
Aspen, in subdued accents.

'And this gentleman,' continued Mr. Clive,
introducing Dr. Eustace, 'feels a very great
interest in your case, so far as I have described
the little I gathered from your good landlady,
and he hopes you will allow him to prescribe
for you. He is a medical man.'

Aspen glanced at Jem, ad Jem discerned in
that glance a reproach for having summoned a
doctor.

'This is the gentleman who sent you the
soup,' Jem hastened to explain, in extenuation
of his breach of orders, as he indicated Alderman
Clive , ' and this other gentleman is his
friend.'

Aspen gave a slight inclination of the head to
indicate assent if not approval, and Dr. Eustace
accordingly took the seat by the bedside. The
young man's features were still partly obscured
by the shawl, and the physician peered curiously
and with evident perplexity, for he seemed

in search of a clue to a strong impression which
he had, but could not define.

You are very weak, sir, I perceive.'
Very ;' in muffled tones.

1 Weakness is not necessarily disease. It may
arise from too great abstemiousness.'

Aspen understood the euphemism — it was a
delicate way of ascribing his weakness to his
poverty, and he resented it.

'1 beg your pardon, sir. I have as much-food
as I desire.'

The retort was given clearly and incisively,,
and Dr. Eustace started. He raised the shawl,
and obtained a full view of the patient's face.
His impression was verified. It was Mr. Graham*,
The physician took the young artist's hand, and
placed a finger on his pulse.

No doubt you do, but food is not always
assimilated, and in that case it fails to nourish.
We must try to improve the digestive organs,
which appear to me somewhat impaired. Does
your cough trouble you V

4 Very much,' replied Aspen, without raising-his
head ; at the same time it was evident, from*
a certain restlessness and nervous action, that:

his mind was disturbed. This did not escape
the keen eye of the physician.

I dare say you are longing to get back
to work he ventured, glancing round the
room.

No ; I have done with that for ever.'

1 Nonsense, my dear sir. You must allow meas
a bit of a physiologist, to contradict you.
You are below par, as they say in the City;
but, as soon as we have got up your physical
strength, you will think, and speak, and act asa
young, vigorous, and ambitious man should,'
argued Dr. Eustace, consolingly.

I have no ambition now — at least, for myself.
I should have wished to see my dear
companion here' — pointing to Jem, who stood
at the foot of the bed — ' gain the position he
will some day occupy. But that is not to be.'

4 Why not, my dear sir V

Look at my face, look at my hands, sir. Do
you not see that I have not three years to live?'
remonstrated the sick artist.

I have been observing your face and hands
ever since I entered the room, and I am happy
to say that I arrive at a different conclusion.'

'Then your opinion clashes materially with
Dr. Eustace's V

'Have you any confidence, then, in Dr.
Eustace?'

'Absolute confidence,' replied Aspen, with
emphasis, a flush overspreading his features ashe
spoke.

Then, pray, sir, why did you not call in Dr.
Eustace V

Because — because I once acted snappishly,
and requited his kindness badly.'

Indeed ; may I ask how V

Though I was a stranger, he treated me as a
friend, and inquired my name and address.
I misled him as to my name, and I refused
altogether to give him my address. That was
the action of a snob.'

Dr. Eustace puts a more generous construction
upon it.'

How can you possibly know what construction
he puts upon it V

Because 1 am Dr. Eustace.'

Graham started at the announcement. It was
a surprise and a shock he seemed hardly equal
to, and looking his visitor full in the face for

the first time, and recognising him, he betrayed
genuine distress, which the kind physician
hastened to dispel.

But why you should gratuitously vex yourself
respecting a trifle which was, in fact, as
humorous as it was innocent, I can't conceive.
If you wished to preserve an incognito, you
were perfectly free to do so.'

But how did you find me out?' inquired the
artist.

This gentleman, Alderman Clive, — whose mission
in the world is to perform acts of kindness,
brought me here,' replied Dr. Eustace, indicating
his companion, whom Graham had not
observed, and who advanced to the bed-side,
his presence evidently increasing the patient's
perplexity.

'You naturally wonder, Mr. Aspen, why I
intrude upon you, and why, without asking
permission, I ventured to bring my friend, Dr.
Eustace,' said Mr. Clive.

Yes, sir,' replied the young man, ' I am
wondering why you should take so much
trouble concerning a stranger.'

'Did you ever lose a small sketch-book?'
inquired Mr. Clive.

My sketch-book !' echoed Graham, in tones
of incredulity and astonishment, at the same
time pressing his hand to his head. ' My sketchbook
!'

1 1 cannot say positively that the one I know
of is yours, but, if you will allow me, I will
bring it for identification. It was picked up in
Cheapside some months ago.'

'It was there that I must have lost mine
responded Aspen, with energy ; and Dr. Eustace,
observing the young artist's agitation, interfered,
giving his opinion that he was not sufficiently
strong to bear a lengthened interview, and therefore
it would be better to leave matters at the
interesting point arrived at until Alderman
Clive gave effect to his promise to produce the
sketch-book. Thereupon the visitors rose to
take leave.

I will give some instructions to your landlady,
and your friend and pupil who, however,
gives evidence of possessing such excellent
judgment and true devotion that suggestions

VOL. I. T

from me almost amount to presumption. You
will remember when you consulted me in Savile
Row my last injunction to you was to hope.
I can say nothing better now : hope ; but to
that salutary advice I would add : submit. L et
others think and act and provide. Ask no
questions; conjure up no scruples. Submit.
Believe that a higher Power than the fallible
and feeble creatures you see beside you at
this moment is providing for your needs, and
submit.'

'Dr. Eustace, I will submit.'

< And hope V

And hope.'

The kind physician offered his hand, which
Graham grasped passionately, and while Mr.
Clive was doing the same gracious act, lingering
beside the sick man with words of encouragement
and consolation, Dr. Eustace,
prompted by a natural curiosity to see an
example of Aspen's artistic ability of which he
had intuitively formed a high estimate, raised
the silken scarf which covered a canvas on an
easel, without a thought as to any discourtesy
in the act, and he was struck with amazement

as a painting, recalling a well-remembered and
beloved face, met his gaze. Had he not been
from habit and discipline a man who kept his
feelings under perfect control, he must have
betrayed both pain and pleasure as he muttered
to himself the name ' Mildred !'

As the two gentlemen journeyed homeward a
gravity oppressed them both, and for some
minutes no words were spoken by either. At
length Alderman Clive remarked that the young
artist interested him greatly, adding,

There is a fine independence about him, an
unworthiness which is rare and charming. His
very reluctance on one occasion to divulge his
name arose from delicacy of feeling and a fear
of recompense for a service rendered.'

You refer to his reticence with the old lady
whom you told me he rescued V

< Yes

But can you explain his reticence with me V
1 Diffidence merely.'

That was my opinion at the time ; but while
I was in his room just now I discovered the
real cause

< Indeed V

T 2

The physician hesitated for a moment to
divulge the conviction which had forced itself
upon him, and which he felt needed confirmation
to justify his announcing it as a fact ; but
the idea of discovering a surviving relative was
so fascinating to the lonely man, and one in
which, he was sure, his friend Clive would cordially
sympathise, that his scruples vanished.
He replied :

6 It was a natural but unconscious reluctance
to give me pain. That frail, needy, half-starved
and perhaps dying youth is, I firmly believe, the
son of my dead sister Mildred ! But, Clive, nota
word, 1 pray you, to anyone on the subject
till I know, beyond a doubt, whether it is so.'

CHAPTER XIII.

DANGER AHEAD.

Notwithstanding the airy indifference displayed
by Mr. Honeydew in his interview with
Mrs. Lipperty as regarded the young man who
had rendered such timely service to their
neighbour, he still entertained the grave misgivings
he had originally felt, for he had considered
the possible issues of the act with the
far-reaching intelligence of a man versed in
calculations and averages, and the logical
argument seemed to point to results decidedly
unsatisfactory ; and, as he traced matters back
to their inception, he deplored more and more
the unfortunate circumstance which led to the
appearance of a stranger on the field which he
had hitherto viewed as his own.

In his interviews with Mrs. Sparragus which,
unlike those daily indulged in by Mrs. Lipperty,
were comparatively rare, he cordially adopted
her estimate of the young man, and, as evidence
of his sincerity, he confessed that he had employed
himself day after day in the endeavour
to obtain traces of him, for the sole purpose of
gratifying her ardent desire to search him out ;
but, unhappily, he had hitherto failed. The
young hero had effaced himself; and, nothing-more
being practicable, he thought the best advice
he could offer her was to endeavour to dismiss
him from her thoughts.

When, however, Mrs. Sparragus told him at a
later day that Mr. Clive had visited her — a
fact which he had observed for himself — and
that he had pledged himself to produce the
young man, if it were possible, good Mr. Honey-dew
had to turn his back to the light and have
a violent fit of coughing to conceal the colour
which overspread his usually sallow face. It
was more than annoying, it was disgusting, to
have a second stranger start up, and volunteer
to find the first, and more particularly so as he

proved to be a city man, like himself, and therefore
probably an expert in matters of finance.

As soon as he had recovered his composure
he replied,

Well, that is singular ! I too have persevered
in my researches, and it will be a race
between me and the worthy alderman as to
which of us will bring you the tidings.'

Indeed ! how so V

1 Well ; I think I have got hold of a clue.'

Mrs. Sparragus was dumb between gratification
and incredulity.

I have been informed that there is an artist
corresponding to his description living somewhere
in Brompton.'

'But — but is it the same?' demanded Mrs.
Sparragus, anxiously.

4 That we must find out.'

1 Oh, if you succeed, you will render me a
great service.'

4 My great desire is to be of use to you, Mrs.
Sparragus.'

I fear I am already too great a tax upon
your kindness, Mr. Honeydew.'

4 Nay, nay,' replied he, with a gesture of the
hand which conveyed that the observation made
by Mrs. Sparragus gave him intense pain, and
that he could not possibly endure a repetition of
it ; ' if you really feel that, my dear lady, I can
only say that I have laboured in vain in your
interests ever since I have had the pleasure of
your acquaintance.'

Mrs. Sparragus perceived at once that she had
lacerated her friend's feelings, and she hastened
to anoint them with a healing balm.

4 1 hope you will forgive my blundering way
of saying things ; you know I'm only a simple
old lady.'

4 Oh, Mrs. Sparragus !'

I only desire to say I do not wish to presume
upon good nature.'

4 Let me assure you, Mrs. Sparragus, that I

only live to be of service to my fellow-creatures.'

4 How noble ! You will, therefore, I am sure,

approve of my desire to reward that brave

young gentleman,' she said, hesitatingly.

4 It is precisely what I should have suggested
if I had felt privileged to give advice.'

4 1 am so glad to hear you say so, for I am

sure, if you approve, it is the right thing todo.'


No real friend could think otherwise,' urged
Mr. Honeydew, with a decision which induced
Mrs. Sparragus to be still more communicative.

'You know I have neither chick nor child V
resumed the widow, with doleful modulation of
voice.

'Alas, yes!' and Mr. Honeydew appeared to
hurl bitter reproaches at Destiny for having
denied her the joys of maternity ; 'a sad, sad
truth.'

And I cannot forget and I ought not to forget
that, but for the young man, I should not
have lived to see this day !'

• I can only say that he deserves everything
you contemplate doing for him said Mr.
Honeydew, cordially supporting the idea which
Mrs. Sparragus was evidently incubating, with
a view to learn the full extent of it ; ' no
one could entertain any other feeling for a
moment.'

Ah, sir, people look at things so differently.
Now, there's Mrs. Lipperty ; do you know that
she's quite violent at the bare hint from me that

I intend to make certain bequests beyond—
Tapioca Terrace

She is evidently afraid you may be imposed
upon,' rejoined Mr. Honeydew, judiciously ; ' she
is, I believe, an excellent person.'

I don't wish to say a word against her, and
I daresay I'm not so fond of her as I ought to
be.'

That is to be regretted ;' and Mr. Honeydew
looked grave and distressed, but he had to gnaw
his tongue to produce that expression.

1 And as we're on the subject,' resumed Mrs.
Sparragus, ' I may ask your advice on a delicate
matter. I wish, as a proof that I have no ill-will
against Mrs. Lipperty, to leave her a
memento, — some little thing in token of good
feeling, you know. I'm under no obligation to
her whatever — she has never done anything but
remind me of my sins and shortcomings, — though
I daresay I ought to be grateful for that ; but I
desire to prove to her that she is not altogether
forgotten. Now will you give me the benefit
of your clever brains and suggest what that
memento should be V

Mr. Honeydew was hardly prepared for such
wholesale confidences. Mrs. Sparragus had
never consulted him in this delicate matter
before, nor had she enlightened him as to her
intentions, though she had entrusted to him, as
the custodian of her securities, her testamentary
papers in a sealed envelope, which envelope he
had felt it incumbent on him, in her interest, to
open with a view to satisfy himself that the
instrument was in proper form and valid.

Well, really, I'm hardly qualified to '

1 Oh, yes, you are ! Pray tell me what to do
1 But I hardly like to say what I myself should
do under the circumstances

I beg you will. That's exactly what I wish
The opportunity for a superb act of retaliation
which was thus offered Honeydew could
not be resisted ; he replied,

If I were in your place, I should leave Mrs,
Lipperty, in token of my affection, my — my — '

1 Speak freely, please.'

My cuckoo-clock and my plated soup-ladle.'
Mrs. Sparragus was struck with the felicity

of the suggestion. What could possibly be

more graceful as a tribute of respect? The
cuckoo-clock had been her maternal grandmother's,
and the fact of its being worn-out and
the cuckoo no longer vocal only enhanced its
value. The crust of several generations lay-thick
upon its wheels, which was a title to
veneration, and its face, marred and scarred
with age, rendered the gift more complimentary
and significant. And, singular coincidence !
these were the very mementos she had originally
destined for Mr. Honeydew in the will
prepared by Mrs. Lipperty, and there could be
no doubt that the alteration in her wishes as
regards these precious relics would be highly
appreciated by that lady.

I consider the suggestion capital, and I
decide to act upon it, and will see Tangle and
Wrench about it. And now I must ask your
advice upon one other little matter, — though I
really feel quite ashamed!'

I shall be grieved if you hesitate to make
use of me.'

Those dividends of mine, you know. 1 quite
dread going to the Bank of England since
that '

1 That unfortunate circumstance V

< Yes.'

It is natural, and nothing but a sense of
delicacy has prevented my offering to go and
receive them for you.'

'But could it possibly be done?' inquired
Mrs. Sparragus, energetically, like one who
grasps at a hope which may prove fallacious.
1 It can't, can it V

'Yes, under a power-of-attorney ; and Mr.
Honeydew explained the use of that valuable
instrument by which he could not only receive
her dividends and hand her the cash, but he
would also be able, in the event of her requiring
funds, to sell out whatever she wished without
her being troubled to cross the threshold of her
house.

The suggestion, like everything which emanated
from him, was pronounced admirable*
and that question was consequently set at rest
by Mrs. Sparragus requesting her friend to give
effect to his kind offer.

It is such a comfort to me to get these things
settled, for I never could give my mind to money
matters.'

That is not an unusual failing with ladies.'

And when I think how naturally it all comes
to you, and how easily you managed all my
little investments, and how nicely you arranged
the Flinders' business, I consider you the most
wonderful person I know.'

Oh, these things are mere A B C to us men
of business,' explained Mr. Honeydew, with
becoming diffidence ; then, as though asking
the idlest of idle questions, he continued : ' I
have no doubt if your friend, Mr. Olive, is a
man of business he would tell you the same.'

Yes, perhaps, for he is, as you say, a man of
business — an alderman, you know.'

Indeed ! is he Alderman Olive !'

1 The same ; a magistrate at the Mansion
House.'

The information surprised Mr. Honeydew
considerably.

How very interesting !'

i Isn't it ? and to think he should condescend
to visit an every-day person like me.'

Most flattering ! The only wonder is, what
his object was in visiting you V

Oh, it was dear Lena's doing. She told him
all about Flinders.'

'Flinders!' echoed Mr. Honeydew, with a
start.

Yes, she told him what a healthy place it
is for invalids ; and she also related about my
narrow escape and interested him about the
young man that everyone is trying to discover ;
that was all.'

1 understand. And as he is such a kind,
good gentleman, I think, if I had been you, I
should have confided in him so as to secure his
friendship.'

c Oh, I did. I told him how beautifully and
profitably you managed my affairs for me and
got me ten per cent, for some of my money

Mr. Honeydew had another violent fit of
coughing, which prevented his making any
distinct rejoinder, though Mrs. Sparragus
thought she heard a sound like an imprecation,
which filled her with amazement. Mr. Honey-dew,
observing her gesture, hastened to relieve
her mind :

'This cough of mine tears me to pieces! I

really lose my self-command when the fit seizes
me.'

1 Yes, it must be very trying, I've no doubt,'
replied Mrs. Sparragus, quite reassured.

Whereupon Mr. Honeydew rose, and, cordially
grasping the widow's hand, withdrew to
No. 3.

As soon as Mrs. Lipperty, from her observatory,
saw that the rather protracted conference
between her neighbours was concluded,
and that the field was again clear, she slid on
her black kid gloves and called to pay her visit
at No. 2. Shown into the drawing-room,
where she was intentionally left for several
minutes by Susan with the object of intimating
infer entirely that her presence was not the
dearest wish of Mrs. Sparragus's heart, the
relict of the Rev. Ebenezer had ample time to
prepare a homily on .the vanity of mundane
things in general and the faithlessness of manor
rather of one man in particular, namely,
Mr. Honeydew, though she was already disposed
to put Mr. Olive and Graham Aspen in
the same odious category. When Mrs. Asparagus
eventually joined her, she was absorbed

in the perusal of the Lamentations of Jeremiah,
a book she invariably carried in her pocket, and
produced when anything approaching levity or
undue exuberance of spirits was manifested in
her presence.

When Mrs. Sparragus greeted her, she
replied,

I was just reflecting, my dear, that we are
all more or less Jobs and Jeremiah. Is it not
so!'

We all have our trials,' replied Mrs. Asparagus,
with gravity.

I am glad you feel that, Lucinda, for what
else is life, after all? You, my poor dear
friend, have had more than your share of
sorrow !'

Mrs. Sparragus did not seem quite to realise
the melancholy fact, so Mrs. Lipperty
explained :

I'm sure when I buried my Ebenezer I had
but one desire, which was to lie beside him.
What, then, must be your feelings when not one
but two — yes, two beloved ones are gathered
into the same resting-place !'

Mrs. Sparragus sighed.

VOL. I. U

But, if anything can assuage sorrow, it is
sympathy, eh?'

'Yes, yes, sympathy is very precious indeed !'

And I trust my poor sympathy has not been
altogether valueless, Lucinda?'

1 How could it be so V

If one thing pleases me more than another it
is the belief that others beside myself feel a joy
in ministering to you.'

This euphemistic speech was rather wasted on
Mrs. Sparragus, who did not for a moment
believe that she was a cause of joy to anybody,
especially to Mrs. Lipperty; she merely
sighed again.

« I allude to — to No. o.'

Ah, yes — Mr. Honeydew is very good to me.'

Latterly, in particular.'

Yes ; so kind of late, ever since my narrow
escape in the city.'

That was indeed an unfortunate circumstance
!' and Mrs. Lipperty was never more
sincere in her life than in making that rejoinder.

'But good sometimes comes even of these
accidents ; and if Mr. Honeydew should succeed
in finding that brave young man — he says he

has a clue already — things may turn out better
for it.'

Mrs. Lipperty smiled approval, while her
thoughts ran thus :

Idiot that he is to encourage her whim !
But it won't do to allow him to be more zealous
than myself; I must trump his last card.'

4 That is exactly what I was hoping, for you
know, my dear Lucinda, that our trials here
below are blessings in disguise ; and, if Mr.
Honey dew has been busying himself in furthering
your wishes, I have not been less active.
And, in fact, my object in coming to-day was to
administer some crumbs of comfort.'

Mrs. Sparragus quaked. The comfort to
which she was accustomed from the relict of the
Reverend Ebenezer usually took the shape of
admonitions and exhortations, and at the present
moment she felt she could hardly appreciate the
delicate service.

I came to tell you that i have discovered his
name and address.'

'Whose name?' demanded Mrs. Sparragus,
with a start ; ' not the young man's V

i Yes, dear Lucinda, the name and address and

u2

ever so much more about the brave young
man.'

Mrs. Sparragus's first impulse was to fling her
arms round her friend's neck by way of expressing
the delight to which she failed to give
utterance, but, in spite of the benign smile which
met her gaze, there appeared in her neighbour's
eyes a fierce and deterrent glare, which chilled
and dissipated the feeling and left her motionless
as well as silent.

Mrs. Lipperty waited for a rejoinder and an
urgent entreaty for the information which she
had intimated she was in a position to impart,
but Mrs. Sparragus remained dazed and dumb.

Perhaps, Lucinda, you are hardly well enough
to hear the news to-day V ventured Mrs. Liberty,
a good deal perplexed.

'It is so,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, without
raising her eyes from the ground, dreading
nothing so much as a prolonged discourse of
Mrs. Lipperty 's on any subject.

Then I will tell you another day, dear, when
I hope to find you more like yourself;' and Mrs.
Lipperty, not a little vexed at her failure to
trump Mr. Honey dew's last card, retreated

crest-fallen from the field and sought her own
home.

The day was unquestionably a remarkable
one in Mrs. Sparragus's calendar, for, in the
course of the afternoon, a brougham drew up,
and Alderman Clive advanced to the door.

Susan was quite prepared to be scandalised,
and asked her mistress whether ' that impudent
man was to be admitted,' to which Mrs. Asparagus
sharply replied,

The gentleman is a friend of Lena, therefore
he is to be treated as a friend of mine, Susan.
Now you know.'

Oh, mem, if the gent's a friend of dear Miss
Lena's I'm sure he's welcome !' and Susan flew
to the door and opened it with a smile which
rather confused Mr. Clive, and made him feel
disposed to blush, and ushered him into the
drawing-room with a bob which was almost too
much for his magisterial gravity.

My missus ain't engaged,' she said, confidentially,
with the accompaniment of a little
snigger.

Mrs. Sparragus received her visitor with
unaffected cordiality. Though comparatively

a stranger, she felt she knew him, for Lena had
minutely described his character and related
some of his good deeds ; moreover, she had not
failed to notice that the object of his former
visit was not to serve himself.

When I last had the pleasure of seeing you,
madam,' he said, accepting a seat which Susan
placed for him beside her mistress, but which,
to Susan's surprise, he removed to a more convenient
distance, 'you remember, I daresay,
that I made a promise

To seek for the young man who saved my
life.'

Precisely ; I now have the pleasure to tell
you that I have seen him, and I hope soon to
be able to bring him here to visit you, or to take
you to him.'

Mrs. Sparragus, notwithstanding the gratification
she felt, fairly laughed.

Well, if it isn't like the newspapers which
bring out fresh news every half-hour !' a remark
which naturally puzzled Mr. Clive, who requested
to be enlightened.

Why, this morning my neighbour at No. 3
came in to tell me he thought he had found

a clue ; half-an-hour after my neighbour at
No. 1 called to inform me she had ascertained
his name and address ; and now you've not only
found him, but you're going to bring him here !
Isn't that just like the newspapers with their
new editions V And Mr. Clive admitted the
parallel, whereupon they both laughed merrily,
which satisfied Susan, who was at her post at
the key-hole, that matters were progressing
as they should do, and she began to think that
they would not make by any means a bad couple
after all.

With such zealous friends right and left of
you,' resumed Mr. Clive, after a few moments'
silence (which Susan accounted for by saying to
herself, ' he's squeezing of her hand now, you
may depend '), « I really feel that you don't need
my humble services.'

'Oh, I hope, sir, you do not think I value
your kindness less just because others are trying
to do the same thing,' pleaded Mrs. Asparagus,
anxiously.

'Not at all; I merely thought that, as the
gentleman next door manages everything for
you so successfully, you might prefer that he

should have the pleasure of carrying out your
wishes in this matter.'

Oh, in business, yes, he's wonderful, but this
is quite another thing.'

Quite ; and I daresay he prefers financing.'

He's never so much at home as when he is
up to his eyes in it, sir ; and, as if he hadn't
enough to think about, he offered this very
morning to save me the trouble of going to the
Bank to get my bits of dividends, by taking out
what he calls a power.'

1 1 understand.'

'And I needn't tell you I was always on
thorns with my bonds and deeds and things in
this house in a chest of drawers which might be
unlocked with a hair-pins

'And he has kindly relieved you of that
anxiety, too V

Oh, yes ; they're all in his fire-proof chest at
his office

Just so. Where is his office V

In — in — what's its name — Crooked Friars.'

Crutched Friars.'

< That's it. Crutched Friars— No. 50.'

Mr. Clive, with his inveterate habit, made a

note of the address in his pocket-book, remarking
that it might be useful to know the
address of such a clever man of business, an
observation which gratified Mrs. Sparragus exceedingly.


4 We have been wandering away from the
object of my visit, madam,' resumed Mr. Clive,
with genial humour. ' I came to report about
your young hero, whose name is Graham Aspen.'

Mrs. Sparragus repeated the name over andover
again with quiet exultation.

'When will you bring him here, sir?' she
inquired, eagerly.

t J re g re t to say he is at present too ill to
come.'

<iiir

Yes, seriously ill.'

Oh, let me go to him !' said Mrs. Sparragus,
appealing to her visitor imploringly.

That cannot be at present. The doctor
enjoins quiet, and forbids all possible excitement.
As soon as he permits it, I will, with
your permission, drive you thither.'

This offer was gratefully accepted, and, as
Mr. Clive rose to take leave, Mrs. Sparragus

opened her desk, and, slipping a bank-note into
an envelope, she said,

You have been so very, very good, sir, may
I ask one more kindness V

I fear I must refuse the one service which I
imagine you wish to solicit,' replied Mr. Clive,
glancing at the envelope.

It would make me happy to give him this,
just to meet present need, without his knowing
who sent it.'

My dear lady, such an act would give
him pain. I am sure you do not wish to do
that.'

But he seemed so poor.'

He is an artist, and a gentleman ; and to
remind him of his poverty, or to suggest charity,
would be to humiliate him.'

Can I then do nothing V asked the widow,
with genuine distress, as tears filled her eyes.

Mr. Clive reflected for some moments. He
sincerely desired to benefit Graham, and also
to gratify the generous impulse of Mrs. Spar-rages.
The brief silence which ensued was
explained by Susan with entire satisfaction to
herself :

I repose he's a-whispering something pretty ;
and how kindly my missus takes to it !'

Mrs. Sparragus awaited her visitor's reply.
She felt confident that he would devise a solution
of the difficulty ; and she was not disappointed.


An artist lives by his art,' said Mr. Clive, in
response to her question, 'and, consequently,
commissions are neither unwelcome nor out of
place.'

6 But what could I commission him to do V
inquired Mrs. Sparragus, in astonishment.

Why not let him paint your portrait V

My portrait !' echoed the widow. * My portrait
! Why, I haven't a friend in the world
whom I would burden with it, and,' she added,
sadly, ' I haven't a friend who would care to
give it house-room.'

1 can't believe that for a moment, clear
madam. However, perhaps you have a friend
whose portrait you would like to possess. Let
him paint that friend.'

Mrs. Sparragus mentally ran down her list of
acquaintances — it did not take long to do so —
and she found only one whom, on the ground of

mutual attachment, she could pronounce a
friend.

There is only one whose face I would care
to have always before me, sir, and that one is
Lena.'

The suggestion was gratifying to Mr. Clive,
and at first it seemed peculiarly felicitous ; but
on consideration it seemed not quite devoid of
objections : would it be wise, would it be kind
to either Lena or Graham to bring them into
the familiar position of painter and sitter? He
remembered that Lena took a more than ordinary
interest in the young artist, though she
had scarcely seen him and had never exchanged
a word with him. He had observed how animated,
but at the same time silent, she always
was whenever his name was mentioned, and
how her colour would come and go as his
courage and patience and sufferings were descanted
upon. It was quite evident she admired
his character and pitied his trials, and these
sentiments lay dangerously near a deeper and
warmer feeling. Ought that warmer feeling to
be conjured up? Socially there could be no
possible objection ; and, if reciprocity could be

relied od, the result would be happiness. But
would it be right to submit Lena to the chance
of disillusion, disappointment, and anguish %

Aspen, with all his fine qualities, was too
much of an anchorite ; he was phlegmatic, and
apparently unemotional. If Lena sat to him,
he would, no doubt, do his task ably, but it
might be to him purely a technical study. Her
face might be to him an object to be rendered
pictorially, and there an end. He might neither
look for nor see nor suspect the existence of a
heart vital with tenderness and a mind rich in
feminine graces, ready for companionship, and,
if so, how terrible would be the ordeal to Lena !
Then, on the other hand, supposing that Aspen
should not be unimpressionable ; supposing that
the grateful current of sympathy pass from one
to the other, and the artist awaken to the discovery
that Lena's presence is to him more than
that of any other living creature, would his
diffidence or pride, or whatever the sentiment
in which he was encased, dissolve beneath the
witchery, and would he study her heart as well
as her features ?

Weighing anxiously all the eventualities, Mr.

Clive decided that the possible issue was worth
the risk, and he replied,

'I consider, madam, your idea felicitous, and
in every way unobjectionable ; when Mr. Aspen
is sufficiently restored to health, I will acquaint
him with your wish to commission a portrait
which I have very little doubt he will gladly
undertake.'

Stay,' interposed Mrs. Sparragus, ' I would
rather he were not told that the order conies
from me.'

Very well, madam, he shall not know. And
I think, on the whole, that it is not necessary
to tell him.'

And Mr. Clive withdrew, leaving Mrs. Asparagus
radiant with generous pleasure, he himself
being hardly less contented ; nor was the satisfaction
visible on their faces lost upon Susan,
who reflected it with compound interest on her
own as she opened the door for the departing
visitor, saying to herself,

It's all settled, and no time lost. Well, he's
a nicer-looking gent than I thought him, and
they won't make at all a bad couple. Lawks !

how easy it seems to make up your mind ! I
don't believe I could do it in such an 'hurry V
But on further reflection she thought she should
like to try.

Mr. dive's meditations ran in quite another
channel.

'Poor confiding old soul! that man of business
of hers will rob her of her last dime. She
had a wonderful escape in Cheapside, but what
is to be done to save her from another danger
of which she little dreams V

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London ; Printed by Duncan Macdonald, Blenheim House.

OF THE
U N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS



H \65
v. 2

o



GRAHAM ASPEN, PAINTER.

VOL. II.

A Novel

BY

GEORGE False

AUTHOR OF 'WEEPING FERRY,' ETC

• The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless,
Lie scattered at the feet of men like flowers.'

Wordsworth.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

NEW TIES.

Dr. Eustace watched the phases of Aspen's
complaint with more than ordinary professional
interest ; for, as we know, he had discovered in
the young man something beyond his pronounced
characteristics and fine independence.
His voice and his personality had, as it were,
recalled to palpable existence a sister who had
passed away ; and the conviction that the resemblance
was more than fortuitous which
Eustace felt certainly gained confirmation in
the statement about his family which the patient
unreservedly made, unsuspicious as he was of
the motives which prompted the physician to
VOL. II. 15

catechise him so strictly on that point. His
sister, Mildred, had, he was aware, married
again after the decease of her husband, Sinclair ;
but beyond that fact he knew nothing. Sinclair
had estranged her from her kin, consequently
she became lost sight of; and the fact of her
having had children by her second husband and
that all save one were in their graves, together
with both parents, was thus unknown to him.
The information elicited from Graham at their
first interview, that consumption had carried
them off, one and all, was a startling disclosure.
Pathologically it was remarkable ; personally it
was most disquieting. He had never heard of
the existence of the taint in his family, and now
he suddenly learns that sister and children succumbed
to the dire scourge. Its inception, progress
and phthisical characteristics should, if possible,
be known, both in the interests of science
and for his private information. Fortunately
an old colleague and fellow-student of his was
in practice in Bombay, where his sister resided
and died, and he lost no time in addressing to
him certain questions requiring specific and
authentic data as to the malady, and which hein

his professional capacity, would have no
difficulty in obtaining.

Meanwhile Aspen continued to justify the
treatment resorted to by Dr. Eustace in conjunction
with Alderman Clive, and scrupulously
carried out by Jem, consisting mainly of nutritious
soups and toothsome dishes from Birch's in
Cornwall. With returning strength Aspen found
new interests in life, and those growing interests
centred in Jem. He felt as though his
faithful companion and nurse bad turned aside
for the moment the grim intruder Death, and
had opened before his aching eyes a bright
vista of days to come ; of companionship in the
study of Nature and the subtleties of Art ; and
the development of the gifts with which his
friend was so richly stored, and which it had
been his privilege and his pride to discover and
foster. Aspen found cheer and comfort in the
thought that, ere the three years' lease of life
promised him by Dr. Eustace ran out, he could in
some measure make return to Jem for his affectionate
care of him ; but his debt to Dr. Eustace,
and still more to Mr. Clive, weighed upon him.
How could he give evidence of the gratitude he

B 2

felt to those gentlemen? Were he another
Croesus he would not now for a moment dream
of rewarding Eustace with vulgar coin ; but
he possessed within himself a fund beyond the
reach of opulence : his hand and his pencil should
some day pay the debt both to Eustace and Clive,
if strength were only given him again.

And did Mr. Clive feel that Aspen was his
debtor for these timely benefactions'? His view
was precisely the reverse. He was beholden to
the young man for some of the most pleasurable
moments he had experienced, and, as he
paid him frequent visits and subsidised Mrs
Starkie for his benefit, he watched his gradual
convalescence with the anxiety of a father.
When he considered him able to bear the news,
he reminded him that the lost sketch-book was
safe, and, as the best possible evidence of the
fact, he drew it from his pocket and placed it in
the astonished artist's hands.

Had Mr. Clive restored a lost jewel of great worth
it could hardly have afforded the young man such
extreme pleasure as he evinced in repossessing
those precious notes of his fugitive impressions.
It contained the condensed record of truthful

observation when his art-faculty was keen, and
within its narrow compass lay the germs of works
to be created. His first act was to open it at
the page containing his sketch from Nature of
4 The Sisters,' and there he found striking confirmation
of Jem's objections to the picture recently
painted.

Calling his friend he said,

Jem, my boy, you thought it idiotic of me to
destroy the painting which I did from memory.
Here is my justification for that act. The
light from the setting sun and the shadows of
the trees are exactly where you said they should
have been, and where they were not in the
picture. This proves that your natural sense of
truth is superior to my schooled and cultivated
eye. Mr. Olive,' added Graham, turning with a
beaming face to his visitor, ' I am glad to admit
in your presence that my pupil is already my
master.'

I think the pupil may dissent from that
statement,' replied Mr. Clive, merrily.

Mr. Aspen is so good, he talks in that manner
to encourage me,' explained Jem, blushing
at the speech he felt forced to make. ' Everybody

understands that he says such things out
of pure kindness of heart

'Not having had an opportunity of seeing
your pupil's performances, I am not able to confirm
or to contradict your assertion, but if he
can paint a better picture than the " Queen of
the Glen " I will admit all you say. And the
allusion to that lovely painting brings me to one
of the objects of my visit. The " Queen of the
Glen," which was on sale at Glare and Gooley's,
is in the possession of a young lady of my acquaintance
named Lipperty, and a desire has
been expressed that her portrait be painted. I
have ventured to recommend that you, Mr.
Aspen, be engaged to do it.'

Mr. Olive had scarcely completed his speech
when Jem actually danced for joy. At length,
he thought, something is happening to cheer his
beloved master. The sketch-book is restored to
him, and now, close upon that, comes a commission
for a picture, and all these unforeseen
strokes of fortune following his returning health
best stroke of all ! Had these good things
fallen to Jem's own lot, he would not have
exulted so much, as Aspen knew quite well.

Aspen, on the other hand, made no demonstration,
and, for several moments, no reply. He
thought he saw in these welcome events the
beneficent hand of Mr. Clive, and he hesitated
to make the grateful response which rose to his
lips. Under other circumstances, and with
almost any other person, his spirit of independence
might have led him to decline an offer
which, however gracefully made, was charity ;
but the hesitation passed away the moment he
looked in Mr. Olive's earnest face. What right
had he, Graham, to check the kindly current of
his good deeds? He himself knew there is
nothing so sweet as the act of administering to
the necessities of others ; it would be nothing
less than boorish of him to meet Mr. Olive's
intentions ungraciously.

1 1 am but a poor hand, sir, at making
speeches,' he said, in tones that betrayed much
feeling, 'but you may measure my gratitude for
all your goodness by Jem's joy. We share each
other's fortunes, good and bad, but I fear I'm
only a " sleeping partner " in the business !'

I'm more than gratified that you accept the
commission. But I have now to ask your

pardon for having fixed the price without first
consulting you ; the fact is, I am a business man,
and was desirous of having the matter settled,
and your patron expressed the same wish. I
therefore named a hundred guineas, and that
sum was agreed upon at once.'

Aspen could scarcely believe himself awake, —
the amount seemed simply fabulous, and the
whole incident nebulous and impossible. As
for Jem, he was only just able to rush outside
the door when he burst into tears — tears of unqualified
joy — and sent up to Heaven a tribute
of thanks in his own simple way.

1 But, dear sir,' remonstrated Graham, in grave
perplexity, * I should not have named the half
or the quarter of that sum.'

That only proves that your estimate of your
work and that of others don't agree. I think,
in this instance, you must give way. When
will you take a sitting?' and Mr. Clive spoke
with a decision which compelled a distinct
reply.

Whenever convenient to the lady,' answered
Graham, mechanically, and without reflection.

Shall we say tomorrow f '

1 Yes, to-morrow replied the artist, perfunctorily,
turning over the leaves of his sketchbook.


'At noon?'

Whenever agreeable to the lady.'

Good ;' and Mr. Clive took leave of the young
man before he quite realised the fact that he
was under engagement to commence his first
portrait from life within a few hours.

Mr. Clive had a still more delicate mission to
can through : he had to prevail upon Lena to
sit. On reaching home, he found the two girls,
violins in hand, busy with their positions and
scales.

Miss Lipperty,' he said, after complimenting
her upon the extraordinary progress she had
made in a few months, ' you will be pleased to
hear that the gifted painter of the " Queen of the
Glen " has a commission for a portrait.'

I am indeed gratified to hear it ; he is
certain to do it well. Is it a lady or a gentleman?'


1 A lady, and one you know perfectly well.'
Indeed !' and, after a moment's thought, she
added with unaffected delight, ' it is Ethel !'

'No

But I know no one else — it must be you,
dear.'

1 It is not I. The fortunate girl is a very dear
friend of mine replied Ethel, laughing.

Lena ran down the list of those friends of
Ethel whom she knew, but failed to guess
aright.

I give it up,' she said at length ; ' tell me who
it is, dear.'

Don't you think a girl is to be envied the
advantage of having her portrait painted by so
clever an artist V

i Well, dear Ethel, I cannot say that envy is a
feeling we ought to admit, but I confess 1 consider
it a privilege to sit to so gifted a man
answered Lena ; adding, ' why not tell me who
the fortunate girl is V

6 As it seems to interest you so greatly, I will
not delay to gratify your curiosity. It is my
dear Lena's face Mr. Aspen is engaged to
paint.'

Lena started; the sudden announcement
thrilled her in a manner hard to define. Was it

pleasure ? was it vexation ? was it a secret wish
gratified? was it confusion? Lena could not
have assented to either postulate ; she was only
conscious of surprise. Turning to Mr. Clive she
met his smiling face and a gesture confirmatory
of Ethel's statement.

1 It is all arranged,' he said, ' if you will consent
to sit.'

But why, sir, have you arranged it ?'

For the gratification of Mrs. Sparragus \
and Mr. Clive, observing Lena's expression of
incredulity and wonder, explained that Mrs.
Sparragus, desiring to benefit the gallant hero
of her rescue, had decided to commission a portrait,
and had herself named Lena as the only
friend whose face it would be a pleasure to
her to have always before her.

Two such sufficient reasons, — a timely service
to a worthy man and a mark of esteem for herself
— decided Lena to assist in so gracious an
act, and she signified as much in a few simple
words ; but when Mr. Clive, with his inveterate
practicality and promptitude in matters of business,
intimated that the preliminary sitting was

fixed for the morrow, Lena's courage failed her,
and, offering excuses, she retired to her room,
whither Ethel followed her.

How will it end f ' asked Mr. Clive of himself,
as he rightly interpreted the young girl's discomposure,
* she has pondered so much on what
she heard of this young man that her sympathies
with him are dangerously alive. Was it wise of
me to force her into his society ? May not her
happiness be involved in this matter? I can
only hope it will end well.'

Lena, on her return home, informed her stepmother
that she had been requested to sit for
her portrait by Mrs. Sparragus, and that model
of outward propriety was even more scandalised
than she had been with regard to the
violin.

A painting of you ! Why, the woman must
be getting foolish in her old age ; and I'm only
surprised — I mean to say, I'm not in the least
surprised, Leonora Jane, at your lending yourself
to such vanities. Mrs. Sparragus knew
better than to ask me to sit ; if she had, I should
very soon have explained to her the folly,
and I may say, the sin of it. Oh ! it's enough to

make your poor dear father turn in his grave !
Faugh ! I'm shocked !'

But her indignation reached its culminating
point when she learned that the artist to be
employed was the very man who had saved
Mrs. Sparragus from imminent danger.

What, sit to that starveling ! Sit in his garret
day after day, to be stared at ! Bah ! But I
might have expected it. Fiddling leads naturally
to this sort of thing ; and then there's no
stopping your downward career. Well, Leonora
Jane, I'm sure my dull house can't suit your
tastes now ; and, I assure you, I'm not going to
adapt my habits to these wild ideas. I hope I
have too much self-respect for that, Leonora
Jane ;' and a good deal more in the same vein.

Lena had, of late, been enjoying the gentle
and refined intercourse of her friends, and found
it hard to endure a continuance of the strictures
and animadversions which had hitherto been
administered as regularly as her daily bread ;
and the present coarse onslaught called into
activity the spirit which had been subjugated,
but not extinguished.

Mamma,' she said, with perfect self-control,

we have very often spoken our feelings freely
to one another, and, unhappily, we differ in
almost everything.'

Yes ; we could hardly differ more,' replied
the exemplary lady, with acerbity.

That being so, I have made up my mind to
accept an offer of my friends to take up my
abode with them, and thus relieve you of a
burden you have borne too long.'

There was a decision and finality in Lena's
utterance which startled Mrs. Lipperty. Evidently
there was no argument which she was
capable of employing in the least likely to shake
her resolution. But the fact of Lena quitting
home would be nothing less than a scandal,
and Mrs. Sparragus, who proved her regard for
her by ordering her portrait, would of course
take her part ; then good-bye to all the expectations
she had so long nursed. The old
woman would be sure to substitute Lena's name
for hers, or, perhaps (folly almost as great),
she would leave all her property to a hospital.
She must appeal to her tender feelings.

My dear Lena,' she answered, ' I fully appreciate
your delicacy, but you hardly consider

the consequence of such a step to me. True,
I'm only your step-mother, but you are my only
precious child, and it would break my heart to
be deserted by you

I think, mamma, you exaggerate the sorrow
my absence would cause you. On the contrary,
I hope that, with your love for me, you will be
resigned, when you know I am with those who
will treat me well.'

Mrs. Lipperty pressed her handkerchief to her
eyes, in evidence of emotion too deep for words
but not for supposititious tears. Ultimately, she
was able to gasp,

Is there never to be an end of my trials ?
Oh, that the child of my Ebenezer should at last
forsake me !'

But Lena, untouched by the pathos, unsubdued
by the censure, quietly rose, and saying,
with perfect good-humour, ' Mamma, it is for
the best, and you will think so, if you love me,'
retired to her room, leaving Mrs. Lipperty gnashing
her teeth, and giving utterance to inarticulate
phrases, which were evidently not benedictions,
for they wound up with a distinct
anathema : ' Drat the girl !'

The following day, when Lena and Ethel met
for their customary practice, Ethel remarked an
unusual absence and inability on the part of her
friend to concentrate her attention on her study,
and so preoccupied and oppressed did she appear,
that Ethel, laying aside her violin, embraced her
affectionately, asking the cause of her sadness.

You and your good and generous father
have many times offered to receive me into
your family.'

f Yes, and, to our sorrow, you have always
refused.'

Is it too late to withdraw my refusal V

6 Too late !' cried Ethel, in a transport of hope,
how could it be too late % Say you accept,
dear.'

1 1 consent to come as your — companion ; I
will remain in your service as long as you care
to have me, then I will leave.'

'No, no, you will come as my sister!' and
Ethel seized Lena in her arms. ' As my sister,
never to part !' and the orphan girl buried her
face in her friend's bosom, shedding tears of
gratitude and joy.

When Mr. Clive returned later in the day,

Ethel led her friend by the hand to him, saying,

Papa, Lena has at last consented to our wish.
We are sisters. She will make this her home.'

Mr. Clive folded the two fair girls in one
embrace, saying, with evident emotion,

May the sweet companionship endure many,
many years !' and, with fatherly tenderness, he
kissed each daughter on the forehead.

The faces of the two girls, radiant with happiness,
were close together before him, challenging
involuntary comparison, and Mr. Clive
could not help observing how greatly Ethel's
round and rosy face contrasted with Lena's,
which was pale and somewhat careworn, while
a darkness round the orbit of the eyes indicated
the absence of perfect health.

'You do not feel quite well, my child?' he
said, inquiringly, with the utmost compassion.

Oh, yes, I am well, — quite well !' replied
Lena, smiling. But the next moment she burst
into tears.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER II.

PAINTER AND SITTER.

Had the matter of the proposed portrait rested
with Graham, it is not unlikely that it might
have been adjourned to the Greek Calends; but
Jem with great sagacity constituted himself the
ruling spirit in this particular, and took the
most direct steps to give effect to Mr. Clive's
arrangement for a sitting on the morrow by
putting everything in readiness. Jem, though
not as yet deeply versed in human character,
seemed to be conscious that ladies, not to say
mankind in general, sometimes change their
minds, and that plans postponed are as good as
plans abandoned altogether. Therefore, when
Graham rose in the morning, he found the
studio portion of his chamber set off to the best

possible advantage, and adapted, so far as their
modest properties admitted, for a lady's presence.
A throne was extemporised and canvas
placed; chalks and charcoal, paint, pencils and
palette were ranged conveniently for the artist's
hand, and the few objects of interest and
beauty possessed by Graham were judiciously
placed with a view to effect.

'My dear Jem,' cried the painter, surveying
the scene with admiration, ' as you have made
so brilliant a beginning, you had better go on
with the job while I look on and take a
lesson.'

Have I done too much V timidly inquired
Jem, interpreting his masters remark as deprecatory.


8 On the contrary, you have shown excellent
taste in arranging our properties.'

Jem blushed.

I can see the hand of an artist in every
detail. You put this old cuirass in the corner
to lighten its gloom. That bit of Japanese
blue is to tell against the grey background, and
that amber scarf stands out invaluably against
the black velvet jacket. The sketches and

C 2

j

studies in the foreground complete the composition.'


Jem, in great confusion, stammered that he
did it all by chance.

1 No, Jem, it was not chance. It was unconscious
intuition. My room is a picture for
the first time, and, if you care to please me,
you will paint it exactly as it is. I set you the
task.'

Jem's heart beat audibly, and he was about
to respond gratefully to his master's commendation
when Mrs. Starkie entered the room with
Aspen's modest breakfast. The change in the
appearance of the room caught her eye in a
moment, and she stood gazing in wonderment.
At length her feelings found expression :

This is one of your tricks, Jem, and I wonder
how you dare ! To think you should go and
litter Mr. Aspen's room just as you do your
own ! Look at the floor ! Why, I never saw
such a mess in all my life, — except in your bedroom
! And that bit of armour taken down
from the wall and not even dusted ! and the
china jars taken out of the cupboard where
they were packed away safe ! I'm sure, Mr.

Aspen, you must have the temper of an angel
to keep our Jem and allow him to take such
liberties ! Oh, what a job I shall have to get
things straight again !'

My dear Mrs. Starkie,' replied Graham,
vastly amused, ' we artists are an untidy tribe,
and are, I fear, incurable. Jem, you see, has
caught the disease, but, if it doesn't spread
beyond this room, I don't think it can distress
you very much. When 1 wish it tidied, 1 will
make him do it ; but for the present I prefer it
being left exactly as it is.'

What, Mr. Aspen, with all those pictures and
things on the floor, and that armour with dust
on it an inch thick !'

I'm ashamed to say that, if the dust were
even two inches thick, I would rather not have
the armour touched.'

Mrs. Starkie had her own private opinion of
Mr. Aspen's ideas of domestic propriety, but
she refrained from giving it expression, as she
glanced at the house opposite and saw by the
bill in the window that the apartments were
still to let.

Punctually to the hour appointed, Mr. dive's

carriage drove up, and Graham received his
visitors with grace, if not with the cordiality
which is born of confidence. It was his first
professional engagement, and Mr. Give, noting
his embarrassment, thought it better to withdraw,
promising to return in a couple of hours.

Ethel was greatly interested and vivacious,
sustaining conversation when it flagged, assisting
and encouraging her friend, and doing her
utmost to put both artist and sitter at ease.
Lena, on the other hand, was bashful and silent ;
she spoke in whispers to Ethel, and seemed
scarcely able to raise her eyes to Graham.
Ethel rightly interpreted this : it arose from the
gratification of a long-cherished desire to seethe
hero of Mrs. Sparragus's adventure and the
painter of the ' Queen of the Glen.' Lena had
formed a conception of the man from the slightest
materials, and she felt a pleasure akin to
joy in finding that he did not fall short of her
idea. Hence the quietude of her demeanour ;
hence her diffidence and gravity, — her joy was
a secret not to be betrayed.

Aspen seized a pose which Ethel pronounced
characteristic of his sitter. He sketched in the

head slightly turned and inclined, the eves cast
down. This also met with Ethel's approval. It
was. moreover, a treatment with which the
artist sympathised ; it is probable he would have
failed had Ethel been his subject. With unerring
precision he caught the features and
expression, and when, at the expiration of the
time arranged, Mr. dive returned, he was surprised
at the progress made, and the promise of
success was the theme of conversation for the
remainder of the day.

Mr. Clive was curious to know all particulars
connected with the sitting.

I Mr. Aspen is, no doubt, a very clever
artist, papa,' said Ethel ; ' but, do you know,
he scarcely spoke the whole time we were
there.'

He is not a man accustomed to the society
of ladies, I think, and is a poor hand at small
talk,' answered Mr. Clive in explanation.

Then we should have been thankful for talk
of some other kind,' rejoined Ethel, laughing.
What say you, Lena V

I I was quite satisfied, dear, because I dare say
if he had entertained us with conversation, it

j

might have distracted his attention from his
work.'

That is precisely my notion,' said Mr. Clive ;
an artist should be wholly and absolutely
absorbed in his art to the exclusion of all
surroundings.'

'Perhaps, as the portrait advances, Mr. Graham
will be less engrossed with his study, and
we may hear the sound of his voice. I think
Lena would not object to some little interchange
of ideas with this clever man — eh,
Lena?'

'As I said before, dear Ethel, I am quite
satisfied, though, no doubt, Mr. Aspen's conversation
would be very instructive.'

The sittings were repeated on alternate days,
and the portrait advanced under Aspen's skilful
hand with remarkable rapidity. But the hours
devoted to the sittings grew more and more dull
and tedious to Ethel. The artist, around whom
a veil of mystery had been cast, and upon whom,
in consequence, a romantic interest had centred,
proved disappointing; as an artist he was a
great success, but socially he was a failure. He
worked with amazing assiduity, but the silence

which reigned during the process was most
depressing. The painter had no idea that his
visitors could find it irksome, and he made no
attempt to dispel the tedium by even the cheap
device of allusion to the weather or other topics
of the day. He threw himself absolutely into the
study of the outward Lena without betraying the
smallest curiosity as to the Lena within. Ethel
fully expected that the sweet, pensive and delicate
face would call into existence in the mind of the
platonic artist something approaching to interest
; nay, she foresaw the possibility, not to say
probability, of the painter succumbing to the
unconscious charm of the winsome girl whose
features he was portraying with such devoted
zeal, and she watched curiously and impatiently
for the dawning symptoms of passion. But, no ;
with all his enthusiasm for art he proved a very
stoic. He threw himself into the study of Lena's
face just as he would have studied a fair landscape
or a lovely statue. He discovered in it
harmonious form, refinement and peculiar grace,
and with academic precision he endeavoured
faithfully to transfer those rare qualities to his
canvas. Even Jem, who, as his pupil and with

the ladies' permission, was allowed to be present,
was not unmoved as he glanced from the calm,
thoughtful face to its counterfeit, while his
master, whose enviable privilege it was to gaze
on it to his heart's content and look unrebuked
into her soft sad eyes, was content to
con it over as something to be reproduced in
paint.

To Lena the hours devoted to sitting were
fraught with a placid contentment. In assuring
Ethel that she was satisfied, she used no figure
of speech ; she was more than pleased in assisting
a good and gifted artist to follow his profession
and furnish his scanty purse ; and to find
herself in the society of one whom her imagination
had endowed with every manly grace was
more than gratification — it was joy, calm and
secret, and the serenity of her demeanour and
the seeming melancholy of her expression meant
a condition of happiness too deep and too pure
to be demonstrative.

Dr. Eustace, in the triple capacity of physician,
friend and artist, called occasionally to
interview the patient and inspect the work. As
regarded the former, he was gratified with the

result of his prescription, generously dispensed
by Mr. Clive with the assistance of Birch of
Corn hill, and scrupulously administered by Jem.
As to the portrait, it was excellent as a work *of
art, admirable as a likeness, and when, in answer
to his enquiry, Aspen assured him it was his
first serious work in portraiture, Dr. Eustace
could hardly suppress an exclamation of incredulity,
for he had too distinct a recollection of a
peep he had surreptitiously obtained of a
remarkable study of a head over which a veil
was thrown.

Is it really your first portrait V he asked.

Yes, my first.'

Dr. Eustace was too frank and too much interested
in the picture he had seen to hesitate
to confess his sin in stealing a glance at the
jealously guarded work, and with humorous-contrition
he pleaded guilty to having gratified
an irresistible curiosity.

I conclude,' he added, ' that it is not a work
of yours.'

It is mine,' replied Graham, without betraying
his surprise at the act, ' it is an ideal study*
nothing more.'

You surprise me. It struck me as marvellously
true to life. In fact, the face has
rather haunted me, for it seemed to recall the
features of one who is no more'*

There was a pleading sadness in the physician's
words, so unusual with him, that both Graham
and Jem were struck by it, and the latter,
glancing expressively at his master, seemed to
suggest that he should gratify his visitor with
another sight of it, and Aspen, prompt to evince
his respect and gratitude to the kind physician,
at once produced the study from its hiding-place,
and set it on an easel.

Instead of the comments Aspen awaited, and
the commendations Jem expected, Dr. Eustace
contemplated the work in silence for several
minutes, and Jem, who stood near him awaiting
the applause which he seemed so reluctant to
bestow, was surprised to hear a saddened sigh.

There is an individuality about it,' he said,
after an interval, 'which raises it above the
level of ordinary creations of the imagination ;
but, being so, it would be interesting to analyse
the mental process of its genesis. Were I to
venture upon a conjecture, I should say your

inspiration is clue, perhaps unconsciously, to the
impression of a living reality.'

1 It may have been soi

A beloved face is known to have so stamped
itself upon a great painter's mind that it became
his ideal, and, as such, was portrayed in
all his creations. This beautiful study of yours
is so replete with characteristics that I should
suspect it is rather a reminiscence than an
original conception — a reminiscence, possibly, of
a sister or — a mother.'

Dr. Eustace anxiously scrutinised the young
man's features. If, as he surmised from the
resemblance and from facts he had elicited,
Aspen was really Mildred's son, his words would
call into activity feelings which could hardly be
concealed, and the result was precisely what
the sagacious physician anticipated. Graham
did not immediately reply, but a pained expression
in his face, a restlessness, a flashing
eye, a flushed face told too clearly that the
doctor's speculation had probed his heart
sharply.

1 Yes, sir ; memory must have aided imagination.
In my effort to conceive the face of a

perfect woman, unconsciously I limned the
features of the only being I ever loved, — my
mother.'

She died, I think you informed me, at
Bombay V ventured the physician.

Yes, of consumption. Her first husband,
"Sinclair, and my father, both died in India.'

This fact was conclusive. There was not the
shadow of a doubt now that Dr. Eustace was in
"the presence of his sister's son. The natural
act of most men under the circumstances would
have been to make a dramatic scene on the
spot, formulate felicitations on the happy recovery
of the long-lost relative, and pledge
themselves to an everlasting bond of good-will
and affection. Dr. Eustace's habit of mind forbade
hasty conclusion or impetuous action. He
deliberated : ' Would it be wise and kind to
spring upon this young man the astonishing
fact? To one of his peculiar sensibility and
independence of character the intelligence might
prove hardly less than a shock. He had so
long nursed the conviction that he was alone in
the world that a condition of melancholia had
developed in him, and it was far from certain

that a sudden discovery of this nature might not
precipitate a crisis in his present delicate state
of health.' The doctor therefore decided to
postpone the announcement, more particularly
as he was expecting from his old colleague
at Bombay full replies to his categorical
questions.

Pointing to the picture as he rose to leave,
Dr. Eustace said,

Should you ever be willing to part with it,
I should be glad, at whatever price you might
put upon it, to '

The speech was never completed. A gesture
of Graham's, an angry glance, a thrill as of pain
arrested the words on the physician's lips, and
he felt dominated by the unexpressed but peremptory
refusal of the young artist to allow the
ill-considered offer to be formulated. Taking
leave of Graham with the best grace he could
in his abashment command, he drove home.

Mr. Clive, true to his promise, arranged for
Mrs. Sparragus to pay a visit to her preserver,
which he had delayed till she could have the
double satisfaction of seeing him and the portrait
she had, unknown to him, commissioned.

When, on the appointed day, the alderman's
brave equipage drew up, and Mr. Clive, leaving
Ethel and Lena in the carriage, advanced to the
door, the terrace was convulsed to its moral
foundations. No. 1 and No. 3 discerned still
more pernicious results traceable to that unfortunate
circumstance in Cheapside, and fresh
machinations against the well-to-do and confiding
widow. No. 2, in the person of the
widow herself, was divided between awe and
exultation ; and, in the person of Susan, was
simply delirious, for she saw in it a huge stride
in the direction of the happy event which she
had long foreseen, and which, in her opinion,
ought at once to be prepared for by the publication
of the banns. Mrs. Sparragus, not having
made the same discovery, was, notwithstanding
her contending feelings, too serene, in Susan's
view, for the occasion, and that damsel was
ready to admonish her for her lack of enthusiasm
at the approach of her adorer, so different from
her own demeanour under similar circumstances.
Her satisfaction, moreover, at seeing her mistress
thus gallantly carried off was somewhat marred
by the fact that the ' gent ' was so oblivious of

his privileges that he failed to encircle the lady's
waist with his arm and imprint an impassioned
kiss upon her lips — a neglect of duty which
she, Susan, could never forgive in her young
man.

It would be hard to say which of the quartette
in the carnage looked forward with the keener
interest to the pending visit; but it is probable
that Lena felt a placid joy while the others experienced
satisfaction. She was proud to be
something — if only a sitter — to the brave and
gifted youth ; and anything which did him
honour seemed to reflect a modicum of honour
upon her. She could not quite understand why
she should feel this. Beyond the present
momentary relationship existing between them,
she was not even a friend; but somehow his
good name was precious to her, and anything
tending to his welfare made her happy. His
very indifference to her, beyond her function as
somebody to be painted, exalted him in her
estimation, — he was superior to the common
foible, and Lena forgot her moments of disappointment
in her admiration of Aspen's Spartan
impenetrability.

VOL. II. I>

The artist received his visitors with his
habitual grace, — grace which placed them at
their ease without encouraging a nearer
approach. Mrs. Sparragus, however, grasped
his hand with an effusiveness which quite disconcerted
Graham, who declared, with truth,
that he had quite forgotten the event in Cheapside
to which the worthy woman adverted with
tears in her eyes ; and her admiring gaze was so
rivetted on the artist that she quite forgot the
second object of her visit — namely, the portrait.
When, at length, her attention was directed toit
by Mr. Clive, she made ample amends for her
tardiness by a perfect rhapsody.

t Why, there's Lena ! Bless her heart ! it's
her very self! Oh — look at her dear eyes,
downcast and just a little sad ! Beautiful !
I've seen her look like that a hundred times.
And her pale cheeks too ! If ever there was a
living likeness, that's one !' and Mrs. Sparragus,
seeing the inconsistency of kissing the painting,
kissed the blushing original again and again in
evidence of her admiration of the counterpart.

Mr. Clive and Ethel appreciated this genuine

drama in silence, but Jem, not yet habituated to
the decorous self-constraint of society, had a
little comedy all to himself, and, not deeming
himself altogether justified in testifying his
delight at Graham's success in the same original
manner as Mrs. Sparragus, clapped his hands
and fairly danced in the exuberance of his
feelings, to the astonishment of everybody.

4 You see, Mr. Clive,' said Aspen, turning to
the alderman and feeling called upon to explain
Jem's histrionic exercise, ' my pupil is as unconventional
and natural in his manners as he is
in his art. He aims at truth in painting, and
is as incapable of disguise or affectation in
act.'

The company, with one voice, proclaimed
their admiration of such rare qualities, and Mr.
Clive ventured to express a desire to see a
sample of Jem's artistic skill, as he had viewed
a sample of his physical performance. Thereupon
Graham placed upon an easel Jem's representation
of the studio in which they were
assembled.

'I have told my friend and pupil,' said Grad

2

ham, earnestly, * that, however humble the
subject of his study, the same art must be conscientiously
and completely employed as in the
rendering of the noblest design. He delights in
sunsets, storms at sea, and other glorious phenomena
; but I think it better that he should end
with these grand phases of Nature instead of
beginning with them ; therefore I set him this
poor, unpromising task. I will leave you to
judge of his success.'

There could be but one opinion of the work,
and the visitors accorded it the generous commendation
to which it was justly entitled ; Mrs.
Sparragus, with the sharp eyes of a genuine
housewife, was the first to point out its realistic
merits :

Look at the armour, it hasn't been dusted
for months, and one of those blue jars is chipped !
and the prints on the floor — how untidy! one
ou the top of another ; and that bronze candlestick
— why, I could take hold of it, it's so
real! and who's this sitting with his back tous?
Why, it's you, Mr. Aspen, painting dear
Lena!'

4 Yes,' replied Aspen, * Jem wished it, and I

submitted, because 1 like an artist to have an
absolute will, so far as his work is concerned.'

I quite take your view,' answered Mr.
Clive ; ' the labour is his, the praise or blame
will be his, — therefore the manner of carrying
out the idea should be wholly his. But I don't
understand why Mr. Starkie should not have
given us the features of his revered master
instead of the back of his head,' continued the
alderman, with quiet humour.

1 Oh, I can explain that,' interposed Ethel,
archly ; i don't you see that he has painted Mr.
Aspen gazing earnestly and anxiously into
Lena's face, which is, of course, only right and
natural; therefore he was obliged to represent
him in this position.'

4 Of course !' cut in Mrs. Sparragus, w r ho
grasped the situation with extraordinary intelligence,
and desired to promote what she conceived
to be an excellent understanding, fruitful
of the happiest possibilities, between painter and
sitter ; ' you surely wouldn't have him turn his
back upon such a sweet face as our Lena's !
Why, it would be positively unnatural ! and
Mr. Jem knew what was the right thing to do ;

and there they sit, looking at one another, as
they ought to do at their age.*

Lena felt just a momentary thrill of exultation
at this lucid explanation, but when she glanced
at Aspen, and saw on his placid countenance an
utter absence of appreciation of Ethel's playful
sally and Mrs. Sparragus's reflections, the thrill
of joy gave way to a spasm of disappointment,
which, however, she speedily reasoned away
with her calm, unselfish habit ; and when the
visitors took leave of the artist, who escorted
them to the carriage, no one except Mr. Clive,
who had detected the fleeting thought, suspected
that the sweet and lovable girl had endured a
pang of exquisite mental suffering.

CHAPTER III.

THE NEOPHYTE.

Sing me that song again, please ma'am ; it
sounds like Heaven.'

The voice, feeble and plaintive, thus speaking
was that of a young girl of fourteen years,
wasted, hollow-eyed, marked for the grave, as
she lay on her little bed, her head propped up
with pillows extemporised out of clothing, in a
humble cottage in the neighbourhood of Flinders,
tenanted by a small farmer and his wife,
the parents of the sick child. On the bed and
table near at hand loving hands had placed the
wild flowers the sufferer used to find her happiness
in culling in the green lanes and woods,
with such fruits and dainties as the honest man

could command, while picture-books, entertaining
and religious, texts emblazoned, even toys,
were scattered about in the pious hope that they
might attract the poor sufferer's attention and
speed a ray of light and cheer to her heart in
this dark hour. The lattice thrown open gave
the young girl a clear view of the fast-setting
sun, so typical of her closing life, which spread
a singularly rich and glowing light over the
western sky, and the sufferer's gaze, no longer
careful of Art's devices, was fixed upon this
wondrous spectacle. Whether it was that the
glorious landscape recalled the song for which
she pleaded, or whether the impression produced
by the song made her more observant and
appreciative of the scene before her, matters
little.

Looking amazed at the sky, she pictured to
herself the wonders beyond, and she asked for
the song which seemed to recall heaven.

The person addressed was the nurse who had
undertaken the care of her, too well aware that
the utmost within the range of human power
was to smooth the downward path and comfort
the poor body in its exhaustion. The nurse,

moving about the room, noiseless, deft, unwearied,
at once came to the bed-side, and,
tenderly caressing the child, replied,

1 Martha dear, 1 was afraid my singing wearied
you

Oh, no, Miss Tierney, that could never be.'
1 Then I will sing the song you like best ;'
and Hester sang —

'Tis sweet to feel, when bowed with pain,

That 'tis the hand of Love which presses ;
That loss of earthly ease is gain ;

That Heaven in striking often blesses,
And that, perchance, our worst distresses
May purge away a stain.'

The young sufferer seemed almost in an
ecstasy as the sweet, soft voice of the singer
gave the words with perfect clearness and
melody.

i Do you feel that this is true, dear Martha V
inquired Hester, leaning over her with moistened
eyes.

Yes, I know it is true, Miss Tierney ; and
that's why I am ill. It is to make me a better
girl. Will you, please, sing the next verse, for
that is true too.'

1 We live to learn that all below —

The wealth, the beauty, and the pleasure,

Will wither as the flowers that grow,
And mock us like a phantom treasure,
While, like an ocean without measure,

God's gifts for ever flow.*

Yes, Miss Tierney,' said the young girl, her
large eyes flashing, and her thin lips moving
without distinct articulation, ' I like that
too.'

Do you feel, dear child, that you are poor
that you may be rich V inquired Hester, her
speech lowered to a whisper.

I do, I do !' replied Martha, in the same
tone. ' Go on, please,' she added, quickly, as
though time pressed.

1 1 know and feel that even I,

A worm upon the highway creeping,
Shall wake again, although I die,

Beyond this world of want and weeping,
In Jesus' safe and tender keeping,
In realms of joy on high.'

The poor child made no articulate response,
but, by the motion of her lips, Hester understood
— ' It is all true !' and the sufferer, smiling,
pressed her hand in token of gratitude. It was

a real joy to Hester to administer to the earnest
and active mind as she administered to the-prostrate
body, and soothe to pious resignation
a spirit in which youth and hope might have
created regret if not revolt ; and the gentle
nurse could not repress her tears, as she kissed
the burning lips of the dying girl. Suddenly,
drawing a deep breath, Martha made a great
effort to rise in her bed, and the hue which
overspread her face roused Hester to a consciousness
that the great change was at hand.
Alarmed, she rushed from the room, and summoned
Mrs. Beaver and the mother, who were
busy in the kitchen, and who hastily sped to the
bed-side.

Martha was sitting erect, with her arms
stretched upward, her respiration spasmodic,
her eyes glassy. And, as though her last
breath should be dedicated to her Saviour,
she repeated, distinctly and accurately, a line
from the little song which Hester had composed
for her, and sang, ' I shall awake, although
I die, in Jesus' safe ' The exertion

cost her her puny store of strength, and with
it fled all knowledge, all suffering — everything,

except peace ; and Martha sank back into
Hester's arms, smiling, as her pure spirit winged
its way to Eternity. Mrs. Beaver placed her
hand in the region of the child's heart, and
said, * She is gone !' The mother broke into
lamentations, and Hester, falling on her knees,
commended the flitting, guileless spirit to the
All-merciful. And thus Hester's first service
at a death-bed ended.

My dear,' said Mrs. Beaver, when the gentle
novice had regained her composure, * one cannot
but admire your overflowing sympathy, for
it is beautiful ; but really, Miss Tierney, you'll
break down in health unless you bear these
things more bravely.'

1 1 don't think I'm wanting in courage,'
meekly expostulated Hester ; ' I can't think it
cowardly to feel.'

No, my dear, we are bound to have proper
feelings ; but, if we are to break our hearts over
every case we take in hand, there would soon
be no nurses left.'

c Perhaps some day I shall grow indifferent in
the presence of suffering, but I hope not

4 You never will be indifferent, Miss Hester ;

your nature is to pity, and-with you pity is a
passion. Dr. Eustace told me how intensely
you felt once for a patient of his, a perfect
stranger to you, who happened to faint in your
presence.'

Hester's cheeks, till now pale with watching,,
were suddenly overspread with a deep flush ;
she made no reply.

Xot that I mean to say the young man's
case wasn't one to touch the hardest heart
when you know all,' continued 3Jrs. Beaver,
meditatively.

Hester started ; the flush retreated from her
face, which was now ashy pale, and she demanded
in tones of anxiety what there was
unfavourable in his case.

There, now, Miss Tierney, you see how
ready you are to distress yourself over every
trouble you hear of! and that's what I say is so
bad for a nurse. A lamp, you know, that is forever
alight soon burns itself out.'

'But about the unfavourable ' insisted

Hester.

f Ah, that's soon told. It appears the young
man's parents and brother and sister were all

carried off by consumption, and Dr. Eustace
doesn't give him more than three years.'

Three years !'

If he goes and catches colds. And I'm told
he's one of those artists that go and sit out in
the wet fields and damp woods painting pictures.
Why, I call it downright sinful to tempt
Providence so ! Of course, he'll catch cold
upon cold, for they say he's painting here at
Flinders.'

1 At Flinders !' echoed Hester, unable to conceal
her surprise at the announcement.

'Yes ; and I hear he's out in all weathers, so
I fully expect he'll have inflammation of the
lungs, and then it'll be three months instead of
three years ; and if I saw him sitting about,
running such dreadful risks, I'd tell him my
mind, that I would, for it's my duty.'

Hester seemed a prey to disturbing feelings
as she listened to Mrs. Beaver's prognosis.

Yes,' she replied, after a few moments' interval,
* I think it would be your duty to caution
anyone incurring such serious risk.'

4 And I'm very much disposed, now that the
case of poor Martha is over, to go and see Mrs.

Blowers, and find from her what the young
man is doing at Flinders. If it's true that he's
continually sitting in the damp grass under an
umbrella, instead of resting, as Dr. Eustace
ordered, I shan't be happy till I've warned him
of the consequences.'

Hester could not but approve of Mrs. Beaver's
solicitude for Dr. Eustace's patient, and the
worthy woman, thus encouraged, lost no time
in visiting Mrs. Blowers, whom she found so
highly excited that it seemed vain to interrogate
her about the consumptive artist ; she
could talk about nobody except Major Twister,
and Mrs. Beaver had to defer the object of her
visit.

4 He'll be the ruin of Flinders, that he will !'
exclaimed Mrs. Blowers ; ' he's frightened Mrs.
Sparragus away, and he's got such an appetite,
we're out of pocket by him, and now he's going
to fight a duel !'

6 A duel! Xot with the poor consumptive
artist, 1 hope,' interposed Mrs. Beaver, in
dismay.

No, no, worse than that, ever so much.
He's going to fight the doctor ! And he's certain

to kill him, for poor dear Wimbledon never
fired a pistol in his life "

6 But what has the doctor done? Has he
over-physicked him V

1 Over-physicked him ! nonsense, Mrs. Beaver;
the major loves physic to such a degree he
hoards it up as a miser does gold, and gloats
over it !'

Then what's it all about V

Well, it's all about Mrs. Sparragus.'

Mrs. Sparragus ! Poor, harmless woman,
whatever can she have to do with the major?'
demanded Mrs. Beaver, amazed.

■ Nothing in the world, dear old soul ! It's
that urchin, Paul, who is at the bottom of it.'

Mrs. Beaver was more perplexed than ever,
and Mrs. Blowers, with a view to narrate all
the circumstances, invited Mrs. Beaver to
partake of tea, and led the way to her private
apartment.

It was too true : the boy in buttons was at
the bottom of it.

The major was sipping his old crusted and
cracking walnuts, when, in glancing through
the window, he saw Dr. Dimbledon confidentially

talking to Paul. This unusual circumstance
was still more unaccountable when the
major detected, or thought he detected, certain
significant gestures in his direction on the
part of the doctor, and responsive action on
the part of the boy in buttons. In a moment
the major felt his martial ire rise. He was
evidently the butt of the doctor's sarcasm, and
a jest to the boy in buttons. He, the hero of a
dozen fields on Brighton Downs, the victor in a
hundred skirmishes at Wormwood Scrubs, he,
a butt and a jest! No, by Mars, no ! He will
smite the faithless compounder of lotions hip
and thigh ! But how best to proceed ? His
military training taught him to make no rash
movement — to conceal his tactics — to dissemble.
He would parley with the enemy. "With this
intent, he rang for the boy in buttons to clear
away the dessert ; and by way of starting a
conversation, evinced great interest in Paul,
and inquired after his parents, when Paul
informed him that his father was ostler to Dr.
Dimbledon.

That statement seemed to mollify the bellicose
major, for it seemed probable that, after

VOL. II. E

all, the boy's family concerns were the subject
of the conversation.

But this, whether a fact or not, did not appear
to Paul sufficiently exciting to elicit half-crowns,
so he at once denied the soft impeachment
— it was not about his father, but about
somebody else ; and the boy fabricated a snigger
which the major was at liberty to interpret
according to his taste. The major was
swift to draw the most unsatisfactory conclusions,
and his mercurial wrath again shot up the
thermometer.

Was it about me you were talking?'

'No, sir,' replied Paul, with the utmost
readiness.

The answer relieved the major's mind, — old
Dimbledon was not such a humbug after all !
and, having little curiosity beyond, he intimated
to the boy in buttons that he might take his
departure. But this was altogether at variance
with Paul's views, — he had not earned the usual
half-crown. Though young in years, and
diminutive in size, the boy in buttons had the
wit and readiness of more heroic proportions,
and, although he had not yet realised the

depth, breadth, and height of the amatory
sentiment when it stirs in the human breast, he
knew that, whatever it was, it paid handsomely
if yon fan it properly ; and, with that object,
he resolved to infuse a dash of jealousy
into the major's flagging interest.

'Doctor's in love,' he said, audaciously
winking.

'What!' ejaculated Major Twister, uncertain
that he heard aright, and altogether oblivious
of the boy's recent little peccadillo.

Doctor Dimbledon's in love.'

The major burst into immoderate laughter.

In love ! dear old D. ? With whom V

I mustn't tell ; it's a secret.'

Oh, that means five shillings, I suppose V
said Major Twister, slipping some coins into
Paul's hand. ' Now, out with it.'

1 1 think, sir, I'd better not,' ventured the boy,
his courage failing him at the last moment.

Then hand me back that crown, you young
mongrel,' retorted the major, fiercely,

But the boy in buttons had no idea of relinquishing
money once in his pocket, so his
scruples vanished.

E 2

He's in love with — with the widow.'

'What widow?'

'Mrs. Sparragus.'

The major bounded from his chair and gave
such copious utterance to the language attributed
to the British army in Flanders that the
boy in buttons repented his imprudence in infusing
the dash of jealousy, and endeavoured to
palliate the mischief he had conjured up.

4 Please, sir, I didn't mean any harm.'

Of course not, my boy. I'm immensely indebted
to you for telling me the truth. Somebody
will have to suffer for it, but it won't be
you, Paul.'

4 Oh, sir, please forgive me !'

4 Forgive you ! Why, you shall have a
sovereign for this when I next draw my pay !
And, as I said before, you shall be my butler
as soon as I marry the widow. But, as true as
I'm a Twister, I'll let daylight into the carcase
of that treacherous compounder of vile decoctions
at three-and-sixpence a bottle !'

Oh, sir, if you 11 forgive me this once, I'll
never — never '

4 My dear Paul, you've done me an immense

service, and you shall have double the wages
you get here. If anyone has to forgive you, it's
that base old Dimbledon, who will have to pay
for his treachery before he's many days older.'

4 But, sir, it was all my '

Yes, your honesty. You're too conscientious,
my boy, to keep me in ignorance of this
rascally plot of old Dimbledon, though, to save
his worthless skin, I can quite understand you'd
withdraw all you have told me, if you could.
But it's too late, and I'll be shot if I don't drill
a hole or two in the old pachyderm '

Oh, sir,' cried the peccant Paul, ready to
refund his unhallowed gains and make a clean
breast of his tricks; but the irascible major
gave him no time, for he hurried Paul out of
the room and sat down to his desk to indite a
cartel which ran thus, and was delivered to Dr.
Dimbledon by the next post : —

You not only try to poison me with your
beastly decoctions, but, availing yourself of my
unsuspecting confidences, you endeavour to kill
me twice over by fixing your frivolous affections
upon the woman I mean to marry ! I ama

man of few words, but, by Hercules, you shall
learn that a Twister of the Twisters goes
straight to the point. Mrs. Sparragus cant
marry both of us — at least, not at once, so one
or other must be removed, and there is only one
way known to a Twister to do that effectually.
I am the injured and insulted party, but I waive
my right as to choice of weapons ; I leave it to
you to decide. Say whether you prefer to be
run through with the rapier or riddled with the
revolver. All I insist on is, that blood be spilt
within twenty-four hours, and I await the visit
of your seconds. Yours, &c,

Cornelius Twister.'

Poor dear fellow !' exclaimed Dr. Dimbledon,
calmly folding up the letter after careful perusal ;
I always had a fear that his hallucinations
would sooner or later develop into mania, but I
hardly expected it yet ; and, though he's as
harmless as a duckling, I think it better to put
him away. Dear old Twister ! but I ascribe it
to his inordinate devotion to port-wine and nuts
and his perversity in rejecting my counteractive
treatment

And Dr. Dimbledon, knowing the necessity of
promptitude in such cases, sent two medical
practitioners to examine and certify. These
gentlemen, being introduced to the major as
Dr. Dimbledon's seconds, had no difficulty in
obtaining an interview, and, as the gallant major,
snatching off his peruke and flourishing it over
his head, fulminated anathemas in the direction
of that recreant conductor of powders and
potions, again employing the emphatic language
ascribed to the British Army in Flanders, the
two experts had no hesitation in certifying, and,
within twenty-four hours, the heroic Twister
was securely locked up in the County Lunatic
Asylum, the myrmidons of that beneficent institution
being ably assisted by the muscular
Dick Blowers in attiring the astonished and
recalcitrant major in a strait-waistcoat.

As soon as Mrs. Beaver could revert to the
object of her visit, Mrs. Blowers, having exhausted
her stored-up indignation regarding the
demented major and the peccant boy in
buttons, enlightened her on the subject of the
artist.

'And he's another madman, my dear,' she

cried, raising her hands by way of conveying
some idea of the hopelessness of the case ; * mad
as a hatter !'

Mad !' naturally echoed Mrs. Beaver, in
amazement and horror.

Well, I call anyone mad who goes about the
damp fields and lanes without his goloshes,' explained
Mrs. Blowers ; ' and delicate as he is in
the chest, too.'

Mrs. Beaver, on reflection, thought the epithet
not a bit too severe.

'If it isn't madness, it's folly, which is much
the same thing. But where does he go

tor

1 Oh, he's painting the dead oak out there by
the warren, and he's got a young fellow with
him who is painting too.'

I think I'll walk round that way,' ventured
Mrs. Beaver.

1 Then pray take his goloshes and entreat
him to wear them.'

Certainly ; it will afford me great pleasure if
I can prevail upon him to do so. In fact, it's my
duty to caution him.'

Mrs. Beaver, armed with the goloshes and

rested with delegated authority, returned to the
cottage where Hester awaited her, and the two
at once sallied forth in the direction of the
blasted oak, Mrs. Beaver resolute and voluble ;
Hester timid and silent.

I've no patience with people who are weak
in the lungs playing such pranks. I'll speak
pretty plainly to him, that I will.'

Be gentle with him Mrs. Beaver,' pleaded
Hester; 'it is only indiscretion.'

1 Indiscretion ! Miss Tierney ; and is not indiscretion
the cause of more than half the troubles
of this life V

Hester could not gainsay the nurse's argument.
She only suggested that she herself had
better remain apart during the contemplated
castigation.

Certainly not, my dear Miss Tierney. Nurses
must support one another. We are professional,
you know, and he'll have to obey our orders ;
but we shall have to hold together and be
firm.'

Hester felt anything but firm ; her knees shook
as they advanced towards the reckless offender
against hygiene, wh^ was apparently quite

unconscious of the near approach of the sanitary
censors.

Mrs. Beaver marched bravely through bracken
and tangle, followed timorously at a distance by
her coadjutor, till she reached the spot where two
artists quietly pursued their studies. One was a
robust youth, the other a pale, spare young man,
the latter evidently the owner of the goloshes ;
it was upon his head the indignant remonstrance
of outraged medical science should fall.
But, singularly enough, all Mrs. Beaver's rigour
faded away as she contemplated her victim.
His serenity, his handsome, colourless face, his
dignity of bearing arrested the censure on her
lips, and when, conscious of her presence, he
rose from his camp-stool and saluted her, the
censure was dissipated into thin air.

Oh, how lovely !' she exclaimed, oblivious of
the object of her descent upon Aspen ; ' wonderful
! Why, I never saw anything so life-like !
Struck by lightning, I suppose, mrV

6 Yes, madam, ten years ago.'

'May my friend have a peep V inquired Mrs.
Beaver, beckoning Hester.

Most certainly,' replied Aspen, making way

for Hester without actually observing his second
visitor, who gazed enraptured upon the vigorous
representation of the blasted and bleached
oak.

1 Weird and ghostly,' whispered Hester to Mrs.
Beaver.

My friend says it is weird and ghostly, sir
remarked Mrs. Beaver, turning to the two
artists who stood aside together.

'That is precisely its character— and its
fault.'

No, no, it is its merit,' remonstrated Hester ;
but the words did not reach Aspen.

'And my companion, who is an infallible
critic as well as a clever painter, says I ought to
balance the dead tree by a bit of life and
colour — a figure, in fact ; but I am not so
fortunate as to know anyone whom I could ask
to sit there.'

Mrs. Beaver glanced at Hester, whose dainty
figure and rich auburn hair seemed to mark her
for pictorial treatment, while the bright shawl
she had hurriedly thrown over her shoulders
offered the precise thing the artist required.

Oh, if we could be of any use to you, sir, in

your beautiful picture, I'm sure we should be
only too happy,' she ventured, adopting the
plural without authority from Hester, whose
eyes were still fascinated by the painting.

'I feel deeply sensible of your goodness,'
replied Aspen, cordially ; * but I have no right
to accept such a service.'

But the ladies offer it of their free will,'
interposed Jem, who saw how valuable such an
addition would be in the present stage of the
picture, and had no such scruples as Graham,
and no idea of allowing him to throw away the
chance.

Yes,' added Mrs. Beaver, ' we wish to be of
service, sir.'

Graham could not disregard Jem's importunate
gestures in addition to Mrs. Beaver's
reiterated offer.

If you really can spare the time and can endure
the tedious function for ten or twenty
minutes, I certainly should be glad to sketch
you, sitting on that stone near the tree.'

We shall be delighted — at least, my friend
will. I myself must go back to Jackson's cottage.
We have been nursing his poor little girl,

Martha, who died this morning, and there are
several things I have to see to. But my friend
can stay as long as you require her. She has
nothing to do till we are called to another case

And, so saying, Mrs. Beaver, altogether
oblivious of the goloshes, which were still in
her hand, waved an adieu to Hester, who was
too stupefied by her precipitate desertion of her
to find words to express her disapproval, and
returned to Jackson's cottage.

Graham now for the first time turned his
attention to his second visitor, who stood embarrassed,
watching the vanishing form of Mrs.
Beaver, whom she seemed desirous of following.

I If it would be in the least degree irksome or
inconvenient to you to remain, I beg you will
not hesitate a moment to join your friend,' said
Graham, in gentle and encouraging accents
which at once reassured Hester.

I I would rather remain, sir,' she replied, bashfully,
at the same time moving in the direction
of the tree. ■ Shall I sit on the stone V

If you please.'

'Do you wish me to place myself in any-particular
attitude, sir V

No ; take your seat in your own natural
way I

Graham watched the girl as she walked easily
and modestly to the spot indicated and took a
position of perfect grace, her eyes cast down
and her shawl thrown loosely across her knees.
It was strange, and to Graham wholly unaccountable,
but the cadence of her voice in the
few words which had escaped her affected him
in a manner which, though pleasurable, was not
altogether painful, but the pain felt like the
excess of pleasure.

Hardly aware that he was surrendering to an
influence which dominated him with a soothing
witchery, Graham, though standing before his
easel in the semblance of an artist at work, was
as motionless as the tree on his canvas. He
gazed on the seated figure before him, — an
obliging nurse, amiable enough to pose for his
convenience — but his gaze was vacant, — he saw
beyond. And, as the invaluable minutes passed
without profit, Jem grew impatient, anxious,
.alarmed.

Mr. Aspen,' he said, touching the young

I

man's arm, 'she is placed where you wished,
why do you not sketch her in V

Graham started : the pressure of Jem's hand
broke the spell of silence.

I had forgotten what I was about. You are
right, Jem. The young woman will come
admirably into the picture ;' and, without more
loss of time, he outlined the simple and graceful
figure exactly as it appeared. The operation
was hardly complete when Mrs. Beaver reappeared,
surprising everybody and rendering
further study impossible.

1 Dear me, dear me !' she exclaimed, out of
breath, ' to think I should have forgotten the
goloshes ! I was so full of that tree that they
went right out of my head. I want you to
put them on, sir, please. It is so dangerous for
anyone in — in your condition to stand in the
damp grass. I've known so many bad cases, all
in consequence of wet shoes.'

Graham smiled. It was an injudicious allusion,
but he took it good-humouredly.

'Perhaps, in those other cases to which you
refer, dry shoes would have made all the difference,

but, in my case, it can be of no consequence.
You see, I have sketched in your
friend, and I feel immensely grateful for her
kindness in sitting ;' and Graham desired Jem
to inform the young woman that the sketch was
made.

'But you haven't painted the colours yet
urged Mrs. Beaver, examining the work.

No ; I have only drawn the outline.'

Then you will require us again V

6 1 can hardly presume to ask such a favour a
second time,' replied Graham, with great deference.
' I think I can fill in the colour now that
I have the form.'

'Oh, but is that the right way?' demanded
Mrs. Beaver, in evident doubt.

6 No, ma'am, it is not the right way,' answered
Jem, observing his master's hesitancy. ' It's not
the way Mr. Aspen teaches me to paint.'

Mrs. Beaver at once perceived that the artist's
speech was prompted by modesty and consideration
for his sitter. So she undertook to settle
the point :

1 Will you be painting here tomorrow?'

Every day.'

1 At the same hour V

< Yes.'

Then we shall be here too — unless we are
ordered off to a new case. And we hope you will
allow us to be of use to you, for we really like
sitting.'

Mrs. Beaver again indulged in the plural
number without consulting Hester. Possibly
she remembered that, at Hester's age — age of
romance and tender sentiment — it would have
charmed her young, fresh heart to have been
gazed at by the hour by such eyes as Aspen's.
And her conjecture did not seem altogether
wrong, for Hester, who heard the offer thus
handsomely made, showed no sign of demurrer,
but, on the contrary, seemed by the play of her
mouth and pose of her head to assent.

i But really '

We shall be here. Any way, if I can't
manage to come, my friend will. So that's
settled.'

It was useless for Graham to affect objections,
— they stuck in his throat ; and, before he
could succeed in formulating a polite protest
against such self-sacrifice on the part of the

VOL. II. F

younger nurse, the two companions were beyond
hearing, unless he shouted, which he was
hardly disposed to do.

Satisfaction, differing in origin and degree,
was felt by each. Jem was jubilant, — the figure
would be put in accurately. Graham drew a
breath, — it could not but be a pleasure — nay, a joy
to look upon so fair, so calm and so sweet a
face. Hester's heart beat at the thought that
Fate had again thrown her in the path of the
man whose head, unknown to him, once lay
upon her bosom. And Mrs. Beaver had done
her duty in warning the artist of the danger he
exposed himself to in going about damp fields
without goloshes.

CHAPTER IV.

A VISION OF THE NIGHT.

Mrs. Sparragus had retired to rest ; Susan had
performed the last duties of the day by bolting
the doors, extinguishing the lights, and 'tidy T -
ing up ' generally, and finally seeking her
chamber. All was quiet and conducive to
slumber. But Mrs. Sparragus lay restful.
and counted the strokes of the hall-clock as it
recorded midnight and the small hours that
succeeded. She was in that state of sleepy
wakefulness which is neither one thing nor the
other, and yet partakes of both conditions.
In this indefinite somnolency the brain, which
in actual sleep invests its own creations with
the semblance of reality, is apt to contemplate

p2

facts as figments, — the mere embodiments of a
busy fancy. Mrs. Sparragus was thus dreamily
watching the flickering of the night-light on
the hob, when she thought she saw the door
gently opened. She naturally supposed Susan
had occasion to speak to her, when a man
noiselessly entered. He seemed to hesitate,
uncertain of the situation, and cast a hurried
glance around. In the French phrase, for
which we have no equivalent, il oriental.
Yes, there was the bed ; there the chest of
drawers ; there the wardrobe. Once he seemed
to start as he glanced at the portraits of Flinders
and Sparragus, whose eyes were fixed
upon the daring invader of the sanctuary.
He approached the bed, and Mrs. Sparragus,
spell-bound, made no movement; no word
escaped her. The intruder gazed intently into
her face, and in the dim light of the taper she
must have appeared asleep, and he evidently
concluded that she was so. Nevertheless, it
seemed in the dim light that the man, to make
assurance sure, took from his pocket a handkerchief
and a vial. Was it his intention to
sprinkle the contents of the latter upon the fori



mer, and hold it to the nostrils of the sleeper,
thus producing partial insensibility? Apparently.
It dulled the power to move or speak,
but it left the faculty of observation undiminished.


Stealthily the figure moved to a certain
drawer in the wardrobe, which he or it opened,
raised the French plum-box, and from beneath
it took a long envelope, on which was inscribed,
' My Will. Also a list of securities in
charge of my friend, Stephen Honey dew ;
also his receipt for the same.' The burglar or
wraith opened the document to satisfy himself
that what he sought was really there, replaced
the Will in the envelope, and slid the other
papers into his breast-pocket, closing the
drawer. He then returned to the bedside
and again keenly scrutinised the face of the
helpless sleeper. In terror Mrs. Sparragus had
closed her eyes, and she appeared to be in a
deep sleep. The man, real or imaginary,
seemed to debate : shall he administer another
inhalation? shall he make detection or even
suspicion impossible ? A few minutes more of
the handkerchief, and all would be safe ! The

victim was stout, short-necked, advanced in
life. ' Apoplexy ' would be the easy medical
declaration. Yes, it shall be done ! Mrs.
Sparragus, still powerless with the dire incubus,
could see it in the glare of his eyes
and in his clenched teeth as his hand drew
forth the handkerchief which should prolong
her sleep for ever, when a sharp sound in an
adjoining room seemed to strike him with
alarm. The sound was unquestionably real,
however doubtful the vision. It was Susan
turning in her little bed, which creaked in its
joints under the movement. But the innocent
noise served to arrest the threatening hand, filling
the intruder with alarm, for he hastily and
noiselessly retreated as he had entered, and left
Mrs. Sparragus still watching the flickering
light on the hob.

Scarcely had the figure, living or fantastic,
vanished, when Mrs. Sparragus, throwing off
the terrible nightmare, cried sufficiently loud to
rouse Susan, who flew to her mistress in great
alarm.

Oh, Susan V she exclaimed, her face blanched
with terror, ' there's been a man in here !'

8 Nonsense, mem,' replied Susan, casting a
glance round the room and looking under the
bed, * you've been a-dreaming.'

1 I tell you I saw a man come in, and he stood
exactly where you stand now.'

1 Oh, mem, it's that welsh rabbit.'

What do you say?'

It's all along of that welsh rabbit. I
don't think you ought to eat such things at
night.'

1 Susan, I never was more certain of anything
in my life.'

1 Yes, mem, I know. It's always like that.
I'm certain to have it after cucumber. All I
can say is that, if a man did come in here, he
must have come down the chimney, for the
doors is all bolted and barred.'

Are you certain all the doors are fastened?'
demanded Mrs. Sparragus, losing faith in her
senses.

Certain, mem ; but, to quite satisfy you and
myself that you've had the nightmare, I'll go
and see ;' and Susan, taking a candle, descended
to the hall and basement examining the fastenings,
which were intact. Returning and assuring

her mistress of the fact, Mrs. Sparragus
began to accept Susan's hypothesis of the
phenomenon.

You see, mem, here's your watch and the
ring with Mr. Sparragus's hair in it, and the
brooch with Mr. Flinders's hair, and your purse
all just where you left them on the drawers. Is
it likely burglars would come into a room and
see all them lovely things and not touch them ?
It's redik'lus, mem.'

Mrs. Sparragus was convinced : it was absurd.
She had had a horrible dream, and that was all.
And Susan, rough but tender-hearted, proposed
to remain in the room the remainder of the
night, and insisted upon occupying the couch
at the foot of her mistress's bed. Thus comforted
and protected, Mrs. Sparragus forgot her
trouble and slept soundly till the morning, her
slumbers not being disturbed even by Susan's
resonant snoring.

Lena chanced to call in the course of the
morning to report progress with the painting,
and Mrs. Sparragus, still much disturbed in
mind by the dream, related it to her visitor in
all its details.

Do you know, my clear, it was that real I
.seemed to feel the man's breath as be stood
over me ! They say dreams only last a moment,
but I could hear my watch ticking ever so
long, and then he put a handkerchief to my
face and I seemed to forget where I was for a
little while, and then I heard the watch tick
again and there he was by the wardrobe, and
to think all that should only occupy a moment !'

What did he appear to be doing V asked
Lena, interested and a little anxious. ' Did he
seem to be a thief V

1 Oh, no, my dear, he didn't touch a thing.
There lay my watch and my purse, and there
he left them.'

And you had never seen the man before V

Well, now, it is singular you should ask that
question, for, do you know, the man looked just
like Mr. Honey dew, — but I wouldn't for the
world let him know I ever had such an idea,
even in a dream ! But it will be a lesson,
dear Lena, and nothing will induce me ever
again to eat welsh rabbit at night, fond as I am
of it.'

When Lena reached Regent's Park she found

Mr. Clive, who had returned from the city before
his usual hour, and she naturally related Mrs.
Sparragus's remarkable dream and her great
mental disturbance. Mr. Clive listened to the
narrative with keen attention, and even required
a repetition of it.

'You seem particularly interested, papa, in
the dear old lady's nightmare,' said Ethel,
laughing at the gravity evinced by Mr. Clive.

'Yes, child, it certainly does interest me a
good deal ; it's rather remarkable.'

'But so are most dreams — especially after
welsh rabbits V retorted Ethel, with an air of
contemptuousness.

Granted ; but when two persons' dreams fit
one into the other exactly, it is, to say the
least, unusual.'

What can you mean, papa V

'Just this. If Mrs. Sparragus's matter was
all a dream, my friend Lapwing had a dream
also, and the circumstances of the two dreams
adjust themselves to one another with the precision
of cause and effect.'

Lena and Ethel betrayed the utmost perplexity
and scepticism.

1 So that you may understand my meaning, I
will tell you a little story. I bad occasion to
appoint a young man in our employ to a
particular duty, and, to enable bim to be quiet
and undisturbed, I engaged rooms for bim
at 50, Crutched Friars, a situation admirably
suited for the business be undertook. Bedrooms
on the same landing, facing bis, were
occupied by a commercial agent, and the
name on the door was, " Mr. Stephen Honeyed.


Honeydew !' ejaculated Lena. ' That's the
name of the gentleman living at No. 3, Tapioca
Terrace.'

Then, I suppose, it must be the same person,'
replied Mr. Clive, indifferently. ' Anyhow, Lapwing
and Honeydew constantly meeting on the
stairs, a quasi-acquaintance sprang up between
them, and, as Lapwing is rather " green," or
what they call " soft in the upper story," Honey-dew
took advantage of bis good, easy nature,
and made use of his services, sending him on all
sorts of errands, as if be bad been bis own
clerk

That was really too bad,' interposed Ethel

with indignation ; ' for, of course, he had to
neglect your business.'

Lapwing is one of those people who don't
consider that for a moment. I saw him just
now, and, on my inquiring how he was getting
on, he mentioned Honeydew, and said that, instead
of going to business at eleven o'clock as
usual, he arrived there this morning at nine, ina,
great state of excitement, and, on Lapwing
asking " What's up ?" Honeydew explained that
he had just received telegrams informing him
of his aged father's sudden death at Glasgow,
and that he must start off by the ten o'clock
train for the north, to arrange affairs, and consign
his honoured remains to the family vault in
the necropolis.'

Poor man. How distressing !' said Ethel.

Wasn't it ? Lapwing offered all possible
condolences. Could he do anything to expedite
matters ? he asked. Yes, Mr. Honeydew would
be grateful if he would go to Cook's office, and
buy a ticket, to save time. This Lapwing, with
-characteristic good-nature, did, and when he
got back to Crutched Friars there was a strong
em ell of burnt paper, which Honeydew explained

was the accidental ignition of a newspaper while
was lighting his pipe. Would he kindly calla
cab? Lapwing amiably fetched a cab. Would
he crown all his noble service by trotting to
Euston with him, helping him with his luggage,
and seeing him off? Certainly. Lapwing was
such a fool, he didn't see when his good-nature
was being abused.'

I think Lapwing was to blame to forget his
own duties to that extent,' put in Ethel : ' don't
you, Lena V

1 Perhaps he had finished his task,' suggested
Lena, in defence of Lapwing.

By no means ; he hadn't got half through it.
However, he jumped into the cab, and they
were just in time to catch the " Flying Scotchman
" for the north. Honevdew took his seat,
and had only time to say " Ta-ta !" to Lapwing,,
when the train moved off.'

4 And Lapwing returned to his office V surmised
Lena, hoping that he did not get into trouble.

Well, no, he didn't. Lapwing is as eccentric
as he is soft in the upper story. He thought he
should like a ride in the train, as he had enjoyed
the drive in the cab so much. So, what should.

lie do, but, exchanging a few words with the
guard, he jumped into the van at the tail of the
train

And went all the way to Glasgow?' inquired
Lena, despairing of being able to say another
word in extenuation of Lapwing's lapses.

« There has hardly been time for his return
from Scotland, as all this happened only this
morning, and I have just seen Lapwing,' explained
Mr. Give. 'He did not go beyond
Willesden.'

'Why?'

4 Because he observed that Mr. Honeydew got
out there, and, making all possible haste, caught a
train on the opposite platform, bound for Euston.'

For Euston !'

1 Yes, the station from which he had just
started.'

Then the poor man had forgotten something
! I think it was very unkind of Lapwing
not to offer to see after it so as to enable him to
go and bury his father,' said Ethel.

Well, I told you Lapwing was the reverse of
brilliant, so you mustn't blame him.'

He allowed poor Honeydew to return all

alone V enquired Ethel, much interested in
Honeydew.

By no means. He did as before, and got
into the guard's van and returned to Euston
too.'

I How stupid !'

Wasn't it ! However, that's Lapwing's
queer way. At Euston, Honeydew jumped into
a cab, and that wag Lapwing jumped into
another cab, and told the driver to follow the
first, just for the fun of the thing.'

It doesn't appear to me particularly funny
interposed Ethel, impatiently.

I I quite admit that ; it wasn't a bit funny,
but Lapwings ideas are peculiar. The cab engaged
by Honeydew drove to Waterloo Station,
and there he took a ticket for Southampton
by the train timed to catch the boat for Havre.'

1 And Lapwing was sufficiently funny to take
a ticket for the same destination?' demanded
Ethel, satirically, more and more impressed by
the imbecility of the young man in her father's
employment.

No ; Lapwing seems to have had enough
fun. But he kept up the joke by passing it onto

a friend, named Mac, whom he met on the
platform, and his friend must have been about
as soft in his upper story as himself, for he
quite entered into it, and actually took a
ticket for Southampton, and, as it happened,
was shown into the same compartment as
Honeydew.'

4 And, pray, what next, papa V

'Lapwing's friend and Honeydew will probably
travel to Havre by the same boat, and
thence, I daresay, to New York, for a steamer
is advertised to sail from that port tomorrow.'

But it appears to me about the most absurd
thing imaginable to go and do what Lapwing
did for no reason whatever V said Miss Clive,
contemptuously.

You will have a different opinion of Lapwing,
when I tell you that he is one of the most
intelligent and cleverest detectives in London.'

'Papa!'

Yes, my dear, and if Mac, who is another
skilful member of the same force, does his duty
equally well, it is possible Mrs. Sparragus may
not be reduced to beggary ; but I feel dubious
about it.'

Ethel and Lena gazed at Mr. Clive in dumb
amazement and dismay.

I Oh, pray explain, papa !' cried Ethel, in unaffected
pain ; ' we cannot in the least understand
what it all means. You said Lapwing
dreamt all this !'

I I said that, if Mrs. Sparragus's affair was, as
supposed, a dream, Lapwing's was also a dream,
and that the two dreams fitted into one another
like cause and effect. However, Lapwing's
was not in the least a dream, and Mrs. Spar-rages's
was equally real, and there is a direct
connection between the two.'

But, if Lapwing knew Honeydew had robbed
the poor lady, why did he not arrest him V

1 Because he had no power to do so. Honey-dew
may be as innocent as Mrs. Sparragus herself,
and I may have been doing him a cruel injustice,
and Lapwing, with all his 'cuteness,
may have been making a lot of incredible
blunders. We must wait and see ; and the
first thing for me to do is to pay a visit to
Tapioca Terrace.'

The brougham was waiting at the door, and
Mr. Clive at once proceeded to give effect to his

VOL. II. G

intentions, leaving Ethel and Lena dazed with
the alarming news.

When Mr. Clive reached Tapioca Terrace, the
sombre expression on his face was, in Susan's
view, a very unsatisfactory sign. It was evident
that matters did not proceed as she could wish.
Her first impulse on announcing the arrival of
the widow's adorer was to espouse his cause,
and implore her not to dash his spirits and throw
cold water on his affections ; but, recollecting
that Mrs. Sparragus had suffered terrible things
in a dream, he had, no doubt, come to comfort
her, and so Susan forbore, hoping that everything
would come right in the end. She therefore
led the way to the drawing-room, and then
proceeded to assist her mistress to adjust her
best cap and give the touch of grace to her
attire generally.

Left to his own cogitations and devices fora
few minutes, Mr. Clive theorised. As he drove
up to Tapioca Terrace his quick eye had discerned
the balcony common to the three houses,
and, as soon as he found himself alone, he scrutinised
the stage more nearly. What was thereto
impede direct communication? a low rail,

which a child might step over. And the window
ah ! it was unbolted. How grossly careless of
Susan ! But was it Susan's negligence ? flow
easily might a casual visitor push back the bolt
and forget to replace it. And Mr. Olive's
theory seemed to gain confirmation, for he drew
a deep breath and sighed ' Poor lady !' and
continued to theorise.

Dear madam,' he said, saluting Mrs. Spar-rages,
in his usual courteous and kindly manner,
1 1 will not offer an apology for disturbing you,
for the reason that mv visit is in connection with
an anxiety I feel regarding the news Lena
brought us this morning.'

6 Ah, she has told you all about my strange
and painful dream.'

I shall rejoice if we can satisfy ourselves
that it was only a dream.'

Mrs. Sparragus was too perplexed by her
visitor's doubt on the subject to reply.

1 It is my habit, madam, to investigate very
thoroughly any matter I take in hand. Perhaps,
therefore, you will not deem me impertinent if I
ask you a few questions with that view.'

Oh, Mr. Olive, I can have no objection to

G 2

answer any questions you wish to put;' and
Mrs. Sparragus trembled, — she again felt like a
criminal in the dock before the magistrate.
4 Have you had any visitors in this room lately?'
No ; only Mr. Honey dew, who was shown inhere
two or three days ago.'

Would you mind sending your servant to
inquire whether that gentleman is at home V

4 Certainly ;' and Mrs. Sparragus gave orders
to Susan accordingly.

4 Your bed-room is on this floor V
4 Yes, sir

4 Have you ever had chloroform administered
to you V
4 Never.'

6 Then you have no knowledge of its odour
or the sensations it produces V
4 1 have not.'

4 The man you saw in your dream touched
neither your purse nor your watch, Lena tells
me?'

4 Neither ; and that satisfies me it was no real
thief,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, decisively; for she
had her theory as well as Mr. Clive his, and she
considered that point conclusive.

Certainly that is a strong argument in favour
of a hallucination. Where did the spectre appear
to stand?'

In front of my wardrobe.'

1 Is there a drawer in it V

There is.'

4 Do you keep valuables in it V

Oh, dear, no, only some papers.'

Newspapers V

Mrs. Sparragus laughed at the idle question.

Lor' no ; my Will and receipts Mr. Honeydew
gave me from time to time in exchange for my
deeds, securities and such-like.'

He was good enough to take charge of your
deeds and such-like V

Yes, because he has an iron safe at his office
in Crutched Friars, and I needn't tell you they
were always in danger here.'
Precisely.'

Susan returned and reported that the servant
at No. 3 stated in reply to her enquiry that Mr.
Honeydew had left London early in the morning
for Glasgow, his father having died suddenly.


Precisely,' repeated Mr. Clive. It was evident

his theory was receiving confirmation. ' I
dare say, as it was all a dream, you have not
had the curiosity to examine your drawer to
see whether the Will and other papers remain
undisturbed V

No, I have not.'

Would you mind, just to remove my last
scruple, going to inspect those documents V

Mrs. Sparragus at once proceeded to her
chamber, glad to find it in her power to confute
a lot of groundless and gratuitous doubts. She
presently returned, however, much less satisfied
but still unsuspicious.

My Will is there in its usual place.'

I'm pleased to hear that,' replied Mr. Olive,
cordially ; adding, ' and all the other documents
toot"

Well, no : I must have mislaid them.'

< But they were with the Will V

i Yes ; I don't remember moving them.'

The truth of Mr. Olive's theory was being
demonstrated more and more automatically.

4 Pardon my apparent inquisitiveness in asking
another question,' urged Mr. Olive, with
deference. * Have you a banker?'

4 No : only Mr. Honevdew.'

He is, in fact, your man of business V

Yes ; since niy fright in the city he has managed
everything for me. He is what you call
my attorney.'

Receives your dividends ; sells out of the
funds when you require money, and all that
sort of thing V

1 Yes; and, when I decided to let Flinders, he
managed it all for me.'

• Who is your tenant there V

• I don't recollect the name, — I think Mr.
Honeydew said he had let it to a syndicate or
something.'

1 You signed documents of some kind, I
presume V

Oh, yes, several.'
'Deeds?'

Yes, deeds.'

In the presence of witnesses, no doubt V

Yes, he always brought two of his clerks to
see me sign.'

'And you never read the papers you put your
name to?'

Never : for what would have been the use ?

I don't understand these things ; besides, I knew
that everything my friend did was right.'

I conclude that Mr. Honeydew took away
with him all the papers you had signed?'

Yes, to lock up in his iron chest for security.'
Mr. Clive with difficulty suppressed a groan
as he rose, saying to himself,

1 There is not a moment to lose, if, in fact, it
is not already too late !' then addressing Mrs.
Sparragus, ' I hope, madam, the many questions
1 have felt it my duty as a friend to put
to you have not appeared to you idle and
impertinent V

< Oh, no, Mr. Clive. I'm sure it's very good
and kind of you to take such an interest in an
old woman's dream.'

And the worthy alderman bade the widow
adieu, and drove at once to the city.

Lapwing was transformed from the vacant,
gaping loon, as presented to Mr. Honeydew's
observation, into the smart, wary, resolute officer
of the law that he actually was ; and, on Mr.
Clive reaching his place of business, Lapwing
was there awaiting him. He reported that he
had entered Honeydew's office with a skeleton

key, and found the room in the utmost disorder.
There was very little furniture, and neither
books nor documents of anv kind were to be

%J

seen. There was not even a bit of damnatory
blotting-paper. The only paper intact was a
London and North-western time-table, which
was lying open turned down at the ten a.m.
down train for the north, evidently intended to
mislead.

The rest of the day was employed in making
investigations at the Bank of England, at his
private banker's, and at brokers' offices whither
Lapwing had on several occasions obligingly
gone to cash cheques and carry letters. Mr.
Clive's theories gained disastrous confirmation.
Securities belonging to Mrs. Sparragus had been
realised, and her money in the Funds sold out
and everything turned into Bank of England
notes. The wretch had beggared his too-confiding
friend ! Unfortunately, an interval must
elapse before a warrant could be issued for his
apprehension, and, though he had booked for
Southampton as he had booked for Glasgow, it
was only a surmise that his design was to catch
the New York steamer at Havre, for that too

may have been a ruse. Happily, however, Mac
was following him like his shadow, and a telegram
to the authorities in New York would meet
the case, supposing that port to be his destination.


Manifestly there was weighty work to be
done, but Mr. Clive was by no means despairing
of success, — he had the brains, the money, and
the enterprise of the City of London at his command,
and the long arm of the law was already
in requisition. These were potent factors to
have set in motion, and he . must await the
result, with all the patience at his command ;
but he looked forward with anxiety to the
receipt of the next despatch from Mac.

CHAPTER V.

LIGHT AND SHADE.

Few epidemics spread with such rapidity, gaining
accretion as they travel, as the news of one's
neighbour's misfortunes. And the infection,
however distressing, is not altogether destitute
of mitigation, for an opportunity is afforded of
contemplating with serene composure one's own
happy immunity from a like visitation. Everybody
who retails the story points his moral and
awards the censure with insisting liberality,
the moral and the censure being always at the
expense of the sufferer. Clapham knew it in
its full dimensions, and a good deal beyond,
long before Mrs. Sparragus had an idea of any
worse trouble than a wild dream of the night.

Clapham discussed the affair before the person
concerned had quite realised it. Clapham
mottled up the amount and discounted the consequences
before the victim knew she was a
shilling the worse for it. Clapham saw, in its
mind's eye, the well-to-do widow of Tapioca
Terrace in a blue check gown and a black straw
bonnet — the lively livery of the Clapham Workhouse
; and Clapham pronounced its unanimous
verdict, that Mrs. Sparragus got no more than
she deserved, as she had been so egregiously
stupid as to put herself in the hands of a rogue.
But surely, while the Clapham gossips had
their say and flung their stone, the loving friend,
the counsellor, the spiritual censor at No. 1
flew to her side, cheered her with her sympathy
and eased her heart and soul of the burden 1
Oh, dear, no. Mrs. Lipperty knew better than
to waste breath in further exhortations. The
news, gathered from the green grocer, confirmed
by the buttermilk and supplemented by everybody
she visited in the suburb, filled her with
disgust and indignation, — but the indignation
and disgust, in obedience to invariable custom,
were directed against Mrs. Sparragus.

1 Stupid old thing ! what's the use of my
troubling myself any more about her? So
nicely as I had arranged her affairs, even down
to making her Will, and then for her to allow
that man at No. 3, whom I warned her not to
trust, to clean her out like an eggshell at breakfast.
I've no patience with such crass folly,
and the best way for me to let her feel the full
weight of my censure is to keep away

Therefore Mrs. Lipperty, to make her abhorrence
more pronounced, packed up her boxes,
gave her maid-of-all-work an unlimited leave,
locked up the house, and went off to meditate
at Heme Bay on the instability of human
schemes and the faithlessness of widows with
money in the Funds and other disposable
property.

But, while Clapham speculated more or less
correctly, Mr. Olive knew. Investigation, which
with him was prompt and exhaustive, put him
in possession of facts woefully conclusive. The
only hope was that the pitiless delinquent
might be arrested. Mac had wired from Southampton
that the man had taken passage for
Havre, as Mr. Clive and Lapwing had anticipated

; and from Havre a letter from the reliable
detective informed them that a berth had been
secured for New York in the French mail steamer,
by Honeydew, and that he, Mac, had done
the same. Nothing could be more satisfactory.
There was hope. If he should be arrested he
could be made to disgorge, and that his arrest
was assured by the watchful attendance of
Mac and a telegram to the authorities in New
York, there could be no reasonable doubt.

Nevertheless, Mr. Clive felt it his duty to prepare
the poor unfriended lady for the worst, and
he lost no time in paying her the sad, necessary
visit.

4 1 have come,' he said, taking her hand, ' to
warn you of what may happen. If it should
not happen, we shall all thank God that a great
disaster has been averted. If it should come
about, we must view it as one of those mysterious
dispensations of Divine government which
may in the end prove to be to our moral, if notour
material, advantage.'

Mr. Clive then related the facts with which
everybody except Mrs. Sparragus was fully
acquainted. He told, moreover, the sad story

of his investigations at sundry brokers' and
bankers', aided by the information acquired by
Lapwing in his capacity of handy-man to
Honey dew, and finally of Honeydew's flight,
which appeared the worst fact of all. But he
entreated Mrs. Sparragus to keep a brave heart ;
there was hope, he assured her, great hope, for
he could not escape the hands of the law, which
were, in fact, already closing upon him in the
person of the trustworthy Mac, and, unless her
property had been already dissipated in Honey-dew's
reckless speculations, it was reasonable
to hope it might be recovered.

Mrs. Sparragus, stunned and speechless, was
slow to realise the situation ; but, as the facts
gradually stood out in their grim nakedness, the
dismay and prostration which Mr. Clive had
apprehended were in no way manifested. With
wonderful composure she appeared to survey
the altered circumstances; serenely though sadly
she admitted that the brief remainder of her
life must be a struggle, but she had much to be
thankful for, her life had been long and fairly
happy ; and, above all, there was Flinders —
Flinders was spared, and that consoled her.

Mr. Clive, incapable of deceiving or allowing
her to deceive herself, assured her that it gave
him infinite pain to inform her that, so far as
could be ascertained, the deeds relating to
Flinders had vanished, and there was every
reason to fear that among the documents she
had blindly signed was a legal conveyance of
the property to Honeydew, and in that case it
must be viewed as gone with the rest.

The announcement was crushing. Mrs. Spar-rages
reeled under the blow.

Flinders gone ! The home of my happy
younger days ! The pride of both my husbands !
The one thing I valued and intended to give toto
— oh, I could bear anything but that !' and
Mrs. Sparragus burst into a paroxysm of grief.

It was useless for Mr. Clive to endeavour to
moderate her anguish ; it must run its course. In
silence he awaited the composure which must
follow such a surrender to grief. Even Susan,
with her ear at the key-hole, realised the
situation too well to dare to rush summoned to
her mistress's aid, greatly as she felt inclined todo
so; and there was a long silence, broken
only by the poor lady's sobs.

< It was the best thing I possessed,' she said,
in broken accents, ' the only thing I really
prized, and I intended to reward,' — and again
she was overcome, — ' to reward the one to whom
I owe so much ! I am indeed poor now !'

I fear, dear madam, I was precipitate in
what I said. Perhaps '

Oh, no ; I did as you suppose. I signed the
deed conveying the property to Honeydew to
facilitate matters, as he suggested.'

He knew your intentions V

'Perfectly ; they are in the Will

< Have you the Will in your own custody?'

Yes ; it was with the other papers, and that
is the only thing left.'

Mr. Give viewed this as a very grave proof of
Honeydew's successful appropriation of the
poor lady's property. Having the substance,
anyone was welcome to the shadow of a gift
which no longer existed. In grim mockery he
left the paper containing the solemn distribution,
while he flitted with the tangible corpus of
the testator's possession. It was hard for the
kind-hearted alderman to suppress an exclamation
of dismay as he contemplated the complete

VOL. IL H

destitution of the confiding woman. He felt he
must hurry away lest he should betray the alarm
he felt.

'Let me leave you, dear madam, with the
conviction that, come what may, you will show
how a true woman can submit,' he said, in faltering
accents.

4 Yes, sir, I will try to do so.'

To be calm under trial is a noble and Christian
virtue, and at the same time it is true
philosophy; and, when disaster overtakes us
through no folly of our own, half the bitterness
is spared us. We feel the consolation of
martyrs

Thereupon Mr. Clive withdrew. As he closed
the door, a subdued ejaculation from Mrs. Spar-rages
caught his ear :

Flinders gone ! oh, my heart will break !'

Glancing up at the terrace as he drove away,
Mr. Clive noticed that the shutters and blinds
both at No. 1 and No. 3 were closed. 'Poor
soul !' he reflected, with sorrow and indignation,
deserted by both her so-called friends. If ever
I felt it a duty to lend a protecting hand to
the unfortunate, it is in this case!' and Mr

Clive's active brain and honest heart were as
busy with Mrs. Sparragus's concerns as though
they had been his own.

Lena, though suffering with a strange prostration
and depression which she concealed
for fear of paining her attached protectors, paid
daily visits to her afflicted friend, whom she
comforted with the tender sympathy which
seems the special attribute of woman. As a
daughter she shared her sorrow, and as a
friend she sustained her with the cheerful
axiom of the silver lining to the darkest cloud,
and why not therefore hope, even when the
most threatening trouble weighs upon us, that
there may, in God's providence, be a happier
issue from it than we deem possible 1 How
could such sweet counsel fail 1 But Mrs. Spar-rages
was not so absorbed in her own calamity
as to be regardless of the concerns of others,
and she was not long in discerning the evidences
of languor in her visitor which she endeavoured
to conceal from observation.

'My child,' she said, placing a gentle hand
upon her, 'you look ill. What ails you,
dear V

h2

Nothing — almost nothing. I feel just a little
weak at times, that's all.'

But your eyes look heavy. Your lips are
not ruddy as they used to be. And your hands
are thin and moist.'

Oh, dear Mrs. Sparragus, it's only the
weather. Besides, I haven't had much exercise
lately.'

'It's that riddle, I believe,' surmised Mrs.
Sparragus ; s you are working too hard, my
dear child ; and then you've been sitting day
after day to the artist, eh V

< Yes ;' and Lena's pale face was for a moment
flushed.

Ah, that's it. But it must be very pleasant
to sit to such a nice, clever, noble young
fellow V

4 He is very clever.'

And as good as he is clever.'

6 1 have no doubt he is very good.'
'And I'm sure it must be a great delight to
him to have to paint such a face,' continued
Mrs. Sparragus, smoothing her hair and passing
a hand over her cheek, as a tender mother
might do.

Lena hung down her head, and made no
reply.

And, if he knew how good and true a heart
beats in this gentle bosom, I do believe he
would '

Hush, dear. Don't talk so of me, please !'

Well, my child, I won't say any more to
you. But, if ever I have the opportunity
of telling Mr. Aspen that I have known you
from a child, and that I don't believe there's a
sweeter '

1 Oh, Mrs. Sparragus !' cried Lena, flinging
herself upon the widow's neck, 'you will distress
me beyond everything, if you speak of me to
anybody in this way.'

1 But Mr. Aspen would '

Mr. Aspen is a painter, and he has had to
paint me, just as he paints a tree, or any other
thing. Of course I am no more to him than a
face to be put on canvas ; and I must entreat
you to promise never to try for a moment to
make him think of me beyond that !'

Well, well, my dear child ; if it pains you, I
won't.'

Thank you, dear Mrs. Sparragus,' exclaimed

Lena, kissing her affectionately. ' I'm sure
can trust you not to break your promise.'

And Lena returned to Regent's Park with a
sore heart.

The evil tidings had travelled to Flinders
almost metaphorically, for Blowers knew all
about it quite as soon as Clapham; for the
reason that Lapwing, representing an influential
suburban journal, paid a visit next day to that
salubrious resort for a personal inspection of it,
with a view to a descriptive article in an
early number. It was only necessary for him
to state the object of his mission to be received
by Blowers with effusive attention, and Lapwing
was enthusiastic in his appreciation of the
charms and advantages of the place.

I must compliment you, sir, upon the arrangements
here : they are perfect. I presume you
are the owner of the property?' ventured Lapwing,
with gush, as he strolled on to the
terrace.

1 Not exactly,' replied Blowers, scratching his
head, as he hesitated to say more.

It ought to be, and, in my opinion, it will bea
splendid success,' continued Lapwing, admiringly.

*' I only wish I had a pecuniary interest
in it. What a lovely view !'

I've always had the same confidence as you,
and, as the best proof of my faith, I may tell
you I've a considerable stake in it,' said Blowers,
with becoming pride.

1 I'm glad to hear that ! Ah ! this sort of
thing is better than journalism. You rich men
have the advantage over us poor devils.'

'Oh, don't suppose I'm one of your moneyed
swells ! I've worked for my living, and saved
a trifle, that's all.'

And put your little pile into this prime concern,
eh V and Lapwing gushed more than
ever.

Well, yes ; I've lent it to the syndicate, and
get a handsome percentage.'

Capital ! And the syndicate gave you a — a
bond or something? Excellent!'

Its bond would be, as you say, excellent.
But I happen to have something far, far more
satisfactory,' responded Blowers, drawing himself
up, in evidence of substantiality, both physical
and pecuniary. i I hold the original title-deeds
!' and the manager laughed exultingly.

'I see, Mr. Blowers, you are prudence personified.
Ah, there's nothing like caution, yet
how rare it is !' said Lapwing, taking a final
survey of the premises. ' I assure you, I have
enjoyed my visit to Flinders greatly. By-the-way,
is there any connection between this place
and the Flinders' Pill one hears so much about?'

Of course there is. The man who invented
the pill invented this farm.'

1 Is it possible ? And is the pill as splendid a
success as the farm V

It was a success as long as the patent lasted,
but it expired some time ago, and the old lady
who was proprietor of it gets nothing out of the
pill now.'

< An old lady, eh f What is her name V

1 Sparragus.'

'Sparragus, Sparragus!' repeated Lapwing,
cudgelling his brain to recall some incident
associated with the name ; ' why, surely that's
not the old lady at Clapham who was cleaned
out like a whistle yesterday by a man named
Honey — Honeydew V and he looked Dick full
in the face.

Dick's substantiality did not avail him much

against the blow thus suddenly administered.
He reeled under it like a drunken man, and
sank into a garden-seat which Lapwing opportunely
placed behind him.

1 Honey dew done this V he gasped, inquiringly,

Yes; and bolted.'

Blowers sat with fixed staring eyes and open
mouth for some seconds as the curt statement
travelled to his dull brain and made riot there,
and the visitor prudently fixed his attention on
the distant hills to afford him time to recover.

What a superb view !' he exclaimed, with
enthusiasm ; 'surely those are the Downs, eh V

This little by-play afforded Blowers time to
recover the semblance of composure and to
reflect on the imprudence of giving evidence of
mental disturbance in the presence of a stranger
who, however, fortunately, was too much absorbed
in his business of journalist to notice it.

What a picture might be painted of this
scene ! I dare say you have no end of artists-down
here V

Blowers had by this time pulled himself
together.

Yes ; there's a couple of them down in

the hollow yonder now, painting a dead tree.'

'Indeed ! Staying here, I suppose?'

No ; they live at the cottage under the hill
there. You may just see the thatched roof to
the right and Blowers indicated the spot.

I see,' said the journalist, noting the situation,
' rural, indeed. 1 may possibly get a
nearer view of it as 1 go along the road ;' and
Lapwing, thanking Blowers for his civility in
allowing him to inspect the famous Farm, left,
and kept the thatch-roof cottage in view as he
traversed the road till he reached the gate.

'Is Mr. Graham Aspen within?' he inquired
of the dame who responded to his knock.

'Yes, sir, he's inside.'

Please tell him some one has called with a
message from Alderman Olive.'

Aspen immediately came to the door ; anybody
from Mr. Olive would be certain to receive
a cordial welcome. Without needless preamble,
Lapwing handed him a letter which, he said,
the alderman preferred not to entrust to the
post, as letters addressed to country places
sometimes got delayed or even lost.

Aspen was in the act of laying his palette

preparatory to sallying forth to the blasted
tree, and Jem had shouldered the easel and
other paraphernalia when the visitor arrived.
Opening the letter while Lapwing strolled
among the flower-beds and patted the retriever
that trotted np to him, Aspen found the contents
to be bank-notes to the value of a hundred
guineas, with a letter from Mr. Give stating
that it afforded him the greatest pleasure to bethe
medium of the remittance from the individual
who had commissioned the portrait of Miss
Lena, and which he had so ably and satisfactorily
advanced towards completion. Mr. Olive added
that, should he desire any further sittings, Miss
Lena would be happy to attend.

Lapwing was instructed to be particular in
obtaining a reply on this latter point.

The sensation of suddenly possessing a hoard
of wealth for the first time in one's life is usually
of the character of delirium ; a delicious exaltation
overcomes you ; your breast heaves with
its unwonted inspirations ; your heart leaps with
a strange joy ; every object about you is irradiated
; every person gracious.

Aspen, with all his reserve and nice observances,

was no cynic, and he felt the intoxication
of unexpected wealth. After long years of comparative
destitution ; after ekeing out the slender
pittance which had reverted to him by ill-requited
labour with his pencil; after forced
abstention from the necessaries of life which had,
in fact, brought him almost to the grave, he
found himself, as by the stroke of a necromancers
wand, rich beyond the wildest of his
dreams. Fortunately the bearer of the letter
had his nose buried in a pot of mignonette, and
did not witness an act of extravagance which
proved that Aspen was both human and young.
He seized Jem, flung his arms round his neck
and kissed him.

Jem he said, as tears welled in his eyes,
ever since I have known you you have brought
me good luck. And now, see, we are millionaires
! Here's a hundred pounds and more !
Now, thank God, we can work without a care

Jem, as we know, was naturally emotional,
and, as we have seen, his vehemence of feeling
found relief in capers. On the present
occasion he danced round the room to such
purpose that he swept to the ground a tin tea-tray,

which was propped against the wall decoratively,
and it fell with such a thunderous clatter
that it brought the good dame with a scream
into the room, while Lapwing, with natural
instinct, rushed to the rescue, expecting to witness
a violent breach of the peace, and prepared
to take somebody into custody.

To the surprise of Lapwing and the dame,
Aspen was perusing the letter as if quite unconscious
of the vacate which had hardly
ceased, and Jem, with a grin, was quietly replacing
the tea-tray in its normal position as a
mural ornament.

Aspen took a turn in the garden with Lapwing,
and desired his grateful acknowledgments
to Mr. Clive for his agency, in anticipation of the
thanks which he hoped in a few days to tender
personally on his return to Thistle Grove.

1 With regard to Miss Lena V inquired Lapwing,
' I was to take back an answer as to her
offer to sit again if you wished it.'

Aspen evinced no emotion ; there was no
start, no flush, not the faintest symptom of
interest as the name reached him. It merely
recalled the face on the canvas. Did he

need another study of the sitter? Would it be
of the slightest advantage to the work as to
expression, tone, or quality if he saw the subject
again ? No ; the picture was virtually
finished.

'Thank you, no. Tell Mr. Clive, with my
compliments, that I will not trouble the lady
again.'

And Graham's thoughts were instantly with
the winsome nursing-sister, who so graciously
sat for his service almost every day beside the
dead tree. When Lapwing took the answer
back, Mr. Clive seemed to have anticipated it,
for he said with a sigh,

Poor Lena, I feared it would be so !'

The evil tidings of Mrs. Sparragus's misfortune
reached Major Twister, just as it reached
every one else, and the private asylum in which
he now disported was favourable for quiet
meditation. And it had a peculiar and instantaneous
effect upon the major. Its action was
that of a tonic. It served as a mental febrifuge.
In a word, it cured him. He awoke as from a
morbid dream.

i Well, I was an ass to go to loggerheads with
dear old D. and threaten to let daylight into
him, and so get myself put under lock-and-key
in this beastly hole, all about that silly old
woman ! Bless me ! who would have believed
that, simpleton as she is, she'd be crank enough
to put all her coin in the way of the first sharper
who came along. But, by Jove, he's a clever
fellow, that Honeydew ! How neatly he seems
to have cleaned her out, — and netted it all without
marrying her ! Got all the swag and made
himself as scarce as a cuckoo in August. A
genius, that fellow ! And here am I, reduced
to rations again in my old age, and my port-wine
and nuts cut off, and I'm told to help
myself to cod-liver oil, all along of that old
figure ! Hang it ! Ill send a shot into old D.
through the post !' and the major sat down at
his desk.

He assured dear old D. he was dying to embrace
him and make amends for that absurd
letter written after copious libations elsewhere
than at the pump. He need not be afraid to
pay him a visit, for the deadliest weapon in his

possession was his tooth-brush. If his dear D.
would come and fetch him out of that filthy-den
he swore he would drink every drop of
physic he liked to send him in future. But as
for the beastly Flinders' Pill — bah ! he would not
touch one with a pair of tongs ! And as for Spar-rages
! why, even the succulent vegetable which
the name suggested, and which he used to be
partial to, would henceforward be tabooed !'

The Commissioners in Lunacy, paying their
periodical visit, came to the conclusion, which
the medical attendant and Dr. Dimbledon confirmed,
that the major's little aberration, consequent
upon sunstroke in India, had so greatly
moderated that the homicidal tendency which
had been manifested had entirely passed off,
and they therefore certified for his discharge.

Dr. Dimbledon found the major marching to
and fro in a corner of the grounds with the
rhythmic precision of a sentinel on duty, keeping
aloof from the other patients, who were
scattered about industriously engaged according
to their respective peculiarities, haranguing,
moping, laughing, skipping, sky-gazing, and
what not. The moment he caught sight of the

doctor, the gallant major snatched off his wig,
which he tossed high in the air, exclaiming,
Thank God ! D., you've come to take me out
of this bear-garden !' and he flung himself into
the arms of the enemy he had intended to run
through the body.

D. had a phaeton at the door, and, on his
inquiring whether he proposed to take residence
again at Flinders, the major preferred to run upto
town and secure chambers near his club. He
did not explain to Dr. Dimbledon the reason for
this decision, for it did not seem altogether
heroic in a gallant major, whose silken ,
suspended on the wall of his chamber,
was evidence that he had worn Her Majesty's
uniform, to do so, — the fact being that he was
afraid to encounter the boy in buttons.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER VI.

THE DEAD TREE.

Graham Aspen's contentment and Jem's jubilation
over the little fortune which had, as it
seemed, dropped from the skies into their common
pocket, lasted about an hour, for, at the
expiration of that period, their flattering visions
of relief from anxiety as to ways and means, so
paralysing to the artistic mind, gave place to
quite another train of thoughts and sentiments.

The two friends resumed the march interrupted
by Lapwing, and, seizing the paraphernalia
of their craft, sallied forth in the direction
of the dead tree — fatale arum ! towards which
Aspen seemed drawn by a strange influence.
Anxiously scanning the scene, Graham quickly

discerned the object of his search, — Mrs. Beaver
and her young companion advancing towards
the same bourne.

It was to be the last sitting, Mrs. Beaver and
her colleague being on the point of quitting the
neighbourhood, and Aspen was conscious of a
troubled feeling as the thought recurred that
the kind and gracious personage whose presence
had redeemed the work on his easel from a
picture of utter desolation and decay, was no
longer to lend the contrast of youth and health
and beauty to the weird, dead tree. Graham
felt the folly of permitting sentiment, however
vague, to disturb the stoical relationship which
exists between the painter and his casual sitter.
All feeling, all faculties of head and heart are,
at such times, concentrated on his art. He is,
on these occasions, sequestered from the questions
which at other times rule and pervade
him. He rises superior to the susceptibilities of
common humanity, for the only passion which
possesses him is the sublime faculty of presenting
Nature as in a mirror, truthfully and therefore
beautifully.

Graham combated the feeling which stealthily

i2

assailed him, and courteously, even coldly r
saluting his visitors, he proceeded to take his
position, while Jem gallantly conducted Hester
to the tree-side and arranged her in accordance
with the position adopted. Mrs. Beaver,
deeming her presence undesirable, explored the
wood, culling wild-flowers for a nosegay.

Aspen worked rapidly ; a touch here, a touch
there, put in with unfaltering precision, was
always the needed touch to maintain the harmonious
progress of the picture. But his brush
returned again and again with a fascinated
obedience to the human episode. The outline,
the pose, the serene and saddened feeling pervading
the modest figure by the dead tree fixed
his interest to the exclusion of all the rest, and
he would certainly have elaborated it still more
if Jem had not recalled him to a condition of
artistic sobriety by saying,

4 Oh, Mr. Aspen, you will spoil your picture I
Are you not bringing that figure too forward V

The admonition was as timely as it was sagacious,
and Graham's painting was saved from a
discordant note.

Mrs. Beaver, returning laden with ferns and

flowers, nearly dropped her collection in her
surprise and admiration of the picture :

'Why, 1 never saw anything so wonderful !
To think it's only a bit of paint F

Yes,' quietly responded Aspen, amused,
there's about twopenny worth of it.'

That may be, sir, but I dare say your two-pennyworth
of paint is now worth twenty
pounds — if not more V

Graham shrugged his shoulders.

But I suppose twenty pounds wouldn't buy
it, sir ? Because, if it could be bought for that,
a friend of mine would like above all things to
have it.'

1 Your friend does me great honour,' replied
Graham, surprised at such a proposal from a
person in Mrs. Beaver's position, 'but I have
no intention now of parting with this picture.'

By this time Hester had rejoined Mrs. Beaver,
and they both viewed the painting with intense
interest; and Mrs. Beaver, seizing an opportunity
when they were quite alone, whispered
in Hester's ear,

He refuses to sell it.'

Whether the announcement had any effect

upon the younger woman could not be decidedly
affirmed, but an expression of disappointment
which at first passed over her usually
placid face was followed by a smile which
seemed to indicate pleasure.

Mrs. Beaver strolled away to join Jem, who
was hurriedly noting in his sketch-book a passing
sky effect in water-colours.

Graham advanced to Hester.

4 You are leaving this place,' he said, in faltering
accents.

Yes, sir, though we would gladly have remained
longer in this pretty country ; but, you
know, our life is not an idle one, — there is plenty
for us to do.'

4 Yes, you devote yourselves to good deeds.'

4 We nurse the sick.'

4 You have certainly made a beautiful choice
for the exercise of your gifts.'

Hester was silent.

4 1 think there is nothing I admire more thana
free-will surrender of oneself to such a work.'

4 The rewards one meets with are very sweet,'
replied Hester, raising her eyes to Graham's.

The rewards cannot be too great for the

deserts,' he said, gazing into her face with a
deep interest not altogether free from sadness ;
had you remained longer, 1 should have ventured
to ask you to permit me to make a study
of your head.'

Unfortunately we have to leave, you see
replied Hester, without noticing the compliment
conveyed in Aspen's speech, though her cheeks
were for an instant flushed.

True ; and I am already under too great a
debt for the assistance you have rendered me,
to the immense advantage of my picture.'

8 If I have been of any real use, it will be an
additional pleasure for me to remember.'

The simple words, unaffectedly spoken,
thrilled Aspen strangely. Whether it was the
tone of voice or the confession that the meetings
had been a pleasure to her which would
not be forgotten, he could not explain, but at
that moment, for the first time in his life, he
gazed with impassioned earnestness upon the
face of woman.

I should like, if I may so far presume, to
know the name of my sitter,' he presently said,
suddenly awakening to a sense of the indiscretion,

if not impropriety, of allowing a chance
acquaintance to disturb the quiet tenor of his
life.

4 They call me Sister Hester ;' and her face
again glowed with colour.

4 1 asked the question,' continued Graham,
combating his emotions, ' because I had a feeling
that we must have met before. Your voice
seems to take me back somewhere

Hester's first impulse was to revert to the
meeting in Dr. Eustace's waiting-room, but the
occasion, she remembered, was not a happy
one ; he had fainted, as Dr. Eustace had explained,
for want of sufficient food, and to recall
it might give pain.

We may Have met somewhere,' she replied,
slightly averting her face, and preparing to
withdraw, as Mrs. Beaver had rejoined her.

Do look at this charming bit of sky !' exclaimed
Mrs. Beaver, beckoning Hester, and
directing her attention to Jem's sketch. ' Isn't
it lovely !'

• It is indeed beautiful,' replied Hester, with
enthusiasm, — ' it is a perfect gem !' and she gave
proof of her appreciation by commenting upon

the skilful gradation of light and the natural
way in which the colours merged into each
other.

Oh, it's only a poor daub,' said Jem, laughing;
' I happen to have a weakness for skies

1 call it strength,' retorted Hester, with
genuine warmth. ' So far as it goes, it is
perfect.'

Jem tore the leaf from his book.

If it is worth offering you, will you accept
it V he said, simply and cordially.

■ Oh, sir, I couldn't '

1 Nay, take it, please,' interposed Graham —
take it as a little souvenir from my young

friend. It will serve to recall ' he could

get no further, his brain was confused ; that
voice seemed to carry him back far, far, even
to his childhood ; — but he must master the absurd
weakness, — he must not give way to his
morbid fancy. ' Take it, Sister Hester,' he
continued, recovering his self-command ; ' my
young friend wishes it. You will not pain him
by refusing \tV

I shall value it as one of my treasures,' replied
the young woman, placing it between the

leaves of her book, ' and I shall inscribe the date
upon it that this day may never be forgotten.'

Graham and Jem saluted their two visitors
as they withdrew, and in a few minutes their
forms gradually vanished over the hill, until
they were lost to view, and Graham's field of
vision became a blank.

When they were alone, Jem related to his
master the sad news of Mrs. Sparragus's misfortune,
as narrated by Mrs. Beaver while he
was sketching the cloud, and the tidings of the
cruel injury filled Graham with sorrow and
indignation.

Robbed !' he exclaimed — ' ruined ! 1 can't
believe anything so monstrous as the cold-blooded
robbery of such a simple, trusting old
woman.' And Jem recited the details as given
by Mrs. Beaver.

For several minutes Graham was lost in
meditation, and Jem, seeing the hopelessness
of more work, quietly limbered up, preparatory
to returning whenever his master should give
the signal.

Jem,' said Aspen, suddenly brightening up,
and laying a hand upon his companion's shoulder,

' when we received this bundle of money,'
and he took the bank-notes from his pocket,
we acted as the common herd acts — we exulted
in the prospect of spending it, eh V

1 No ; we exulted in the thought of being,
able to pay our way,' quietly suggested Jem,
correcting his master's unwarranted assumption.


1 Nay, Jem, we gloated over it in a way unworthy
of men who have at our fingers' ends
the power to coin the little we need to supply
our wants. Mine,' he added, solemnly, ' are
few, and may soon be none at all :' and he
thought of Dr. Eustace's unfavourable prediction
as he drew a deep breath. ' It is not noble
of us, Jem, to be avaricious.'

Really, sir,' remonstrated Jem, who was the
least avaricious of mankind, ' I can't think you
mean '

No, Jem ; I used the wrong word. I should
have said selfish.'

Jem could not admit that it was selfish to
receive payment for work honestly done, and he
said so.

1 haven't quite explained myself,' pursued

Graham ; ' I was contemplating poor Mrs. Spar-rages's
position in contrast with ours.'
8 Ah, the contrast is sad indeed.'

Does anything occur to your generous heart,
Jem, in this hour of our prosperity V

Jem saw Graham's notion instantly.

I'd present her with ten pounds,' he answered,
gaily.

< Ten pounds ! — only ten V

Well, sir, you might perhaps go as far as
twenty under the circumstances ;' and Jem felt
he had made a magnificent concession, and
awaited his master's commendation.

Jem, knowing your good and generous
nature ; remembering that you have given me
jour time, your care, your little savings out of
your money-box when you knew I needed it, I
cannot quite understand why you should be so
niggardly to this unfortunate lady !'

Jem looked amazed. He was more and more
bewildered. He had voted a fifth of their fund
Aspen called it their fund — to a person they
hardly knew, and whom Aspen had already
happily snatched from imminent death, and thus
rendered an inestimable service ; surely that was

as much as could reasonably be clone by anyone.


1 What more would you do, sir V he asked, in
despair.

1 Jem, 1 should have recognised your nature
and disposition if you had replied, " Give the
dear soul a hundred." '

Jem opened his eyes and mouth wider than
they had ever been opened before, and Graham
was at first fearful of asphyxia, and commenced
rubbing and punching him in the ribs, as the
only remedial measure that occurred to him; but
Jem dispelled his apprehensions by replying, as
soon as he had recovered his breath,

1 I made a mistake, I ought to have said a
hundred ;' and Jem groaned, partly from the
effects of the friction and partly at the thought
that their precious hoard was going at one fell
swoop.

1 That's a fine spirit, my dear boy, and worthy
of the artist you are ! I will take your advice ;'
(Jem groaned aloud) ' we'll do it at once. It
will help the poor, confiding old soul to tide
over pressing claims, and show her that if she
has a declared enemy, she has a secret friend \

and, believe me, Jem, no expenditure of the
coin on ourselves, no indulgence we could buy
with it, will be half so sweet or half so profitable
as this little act of charity.'

Jem was convinced. His economical instincts
yielded and took flight in the presence of
his master's generous enthusiasm. Aspen's self-denial
was contagious ; Jem had already learnt
to see that whatever he did was the right thing
to do, and his faith in Aspen's nobility of character
was only confirmed by this latest proof of
it. Yes ; it would be an uncommon employment
of his newly-acquired wealth, andes praiseworthy
as it was uncommon.

Then, like a couple of paladins, the two friends
took counsel together as they walked homeward
as to the best means of carrying out their
-chivalrous scheme, and they agreed that the
gift must be anonymous. Aspen had already
given proof of his opinion that to be thanked fora
gift or a service was to be in a manner paid
for it. A kind act was, according to his moral
code, robbed of its grace if the doer of it tarried
ito be praised.

It was strange how Aspen's interests in life

multiplied with improving health. Until quite
recently he viewed himself as an anchorite by
destiny. In the isolation of his modest chamber,
struggling against his united adversaries, ill-health
and carling necessity, he had grown indifferent,
and in that dark hour in the New
Forest he was even mad, and it was only in the
spasmodic exercise of the art he loved that he
could discover that existence was something
more than pain and sorrow.

But the appearance of Jem in his narrow
world was as the dawn of a brighter day, for,
simultaneously with that event, some of the
vigour proper to youth seemed to assert itself,
and activity, hope, and artistic skill became less
fitful. And the recluse who had discovered that
his heart could respond to the affection Jem felt
for him, found that friendship, true and tried,
was a precious thing to have and to give, and
it was his happy fortune to possess this rare
thing in Dr. Eustace and Mr. Give. And his
heart, once opened to these human influences,
seemed more and more receptive of them. He
was more easily reached. He viewed mankind
through a clearer and a healthier medium. He

learnt that, if there is evil in the heart of man,
there is a wonderful amount of goodness, and
that, on the whole, the goodness preponderates.
He saw it in Mrs. Beaver ; it was charmingly
exemplified in Sister Hester, — oh, how evident it
was in her face, her action, her demeanour ! and
how that poor, dear, wronged woman, Mrs.
Sparragus, had given proof of it on the day he
had so happily been instrumental in her preservation,
desiring to testify it by some act
which he had churlishly disdained. Aspen thus
awoke to the fact that life was full of possible
joys and opportunities of service, and that to
ignore the one and deny the other is to violate
the first law of existence on earth.

The friends returned to Brompton the following
day, full of the beneficent scheme they had
resolved upon, and which the night's reflections
had only confirmed. Jem took a letter containing
the bank-notes received from Lapwing to
No. 2, Tapioca Terrace, addressed to Mrs.
Sparragus, begging her to accept, as a token of
sympathy with her in the cruel wrong she had
sustained, this gift from one who, though almost
a stranger, claimed the privilege of employing

the means placed in his hands by Providence, in
the way such means were intended to be employed
by the Giver of all.

Susan, whose eyes were red with crying asher
arms were with work, took the letter to her
mistress, who was in her room gazing alternately
on the portraits of the late Flinders and the
late Sparragus, holding imaginary conversation
with one defunct spouse and then with the
other on the calamity which had befallen her,
eliciting their opinions which, with their eyes
fixed upon her and following her as she moved
about the room, were decidedly condemnatory.

Yes,' she said, sighing, ' I know I deserve it
for my folly in trusting anyone after you. I
ought to have known better, but you were
both so good and kind to me, you spoilt
me!'

The portraits seemed to frown and reply:
1 We did, and this is the consequence.'

Oh, it is too true ! If you had neglected
me, and left me to shift for myself a bit, it
would have done me good and sharpened my
wits

Then you mean to say it's our fault?' the

VOL. II. K

fierce eyes seemed to say as they glared on the
penitent widow from the wall.

6 No, no ! It's all mine, and only mine ! I
didn't know the value of what you did for me,
so I didn't deserve it, and this is just retribution,
and I can bear it all — except losing the
farm !'

The portraits seemed to start in their frames,
and their eyes to flash fire : ' The farm lost !'

6 Yes !' she answered, abashed ; ' I was indolent,
and made over the title-deeds to him to
avoid all bother, and of course he took advantage

of it;

You didn't deserve the farm,' scowled the
painted husbands.

6 1 didn't ! I didn't ! but it will break my heart
if you '

'Please, mem, here's a letter,' interposed
Susan, alarmed at her mistress's ' goings-on,' and
thinking it her duty to recall her to her senses.
It won't do no good, mem, you raving about
that vagabond, Honeydew, which I think a
better name would be Pizon, for he's poisoned
your happiness and mine too ! and I know I
shall never again have such a good missus !' and

Susan burst into tears as she handed the letter
to Mrs. Sparragus.

'My good girl,' remonstrated the latter,
touched by the girl's grief, ' you are young, and
have, I hope, a long life before you, and you
will, I trust, be happy, as you deserve to be ;
and when you're older you'll think of me as a
foolish, easy old woman who only gave you food
and shelter and a poor twelve pounds a-year
for all your care and devotion.'

Oh, mem,' replied Susan, cut to the quick by
her mistress's prophetic sketch of her future
opinion, ' don't say " only," mem ! I'm sure
you have been wonderful kind to me ; and, as
for wages, I'd serve you for nothing, if you'd
let me, and I should be proud and 'happy to doit,
mem !' and Susan's ruddy cheeks streamed
with her honest tears.

My good Susan, I feel grateful for such
devotion; it's more than I deserve. As long
as I have a home you shall not leave me,
unless you wish it. But you know, when
people lose their all, there are only two places
left for them, — the union or the grave, and then,
in either case, my good girl, we must part.'

k2

Oh, mem !' and Susan, in the intensity of her
grief, could say no more. She buried her face
in her apron and rushed from the room, leaving
her mistress hardly less moved, who
reflected within herself, 'I am not friendless
with such a faithful girl as that clinging to me !
Truly, misfortune is not an unmixed evil, — it
teaches us many precious things, and among
them it shows us our true friends !'

Mrs. Sparragus opened the letter which
Susan had placed in her hands, and when her
eyes fell upon the contents, which she had
surmised was an ordinary circular, she was
fairly unbounded. Bank of England notes !
a veritable pile of money! Surely it must be
another dream! If not a dream, the man,
Honey dew, had in mercy sent her the wherewithal
to live for the present ; and Mrs. Spar-rages,
leaping to this generous conclusion, felt
ready to forgive the traitor who had plundered
her. But the accompanying unsigned letter
dispelled the supposition, and Mrs. Sparragus
was at once floundering about in a sea of conjecture.
Who could the donor be 1 Towards
whom should the gratitude which was ready to

burst from her heart be turned t Was there in
the wide world a single friend capable of this
anonymous act of generosity ! Could it be
Mrs. Lipperty ? Impossible. Lena 1 Yes,
Lena was quite the one to do it ; but she had
not the means. Mr. Clive ? Ah, that was the
source of it! The act was characteristic of
him. His habit of private beneficence was
well-known; Lena had often talked of it.
Undoubtedly, the gift was from him. It was
noble ; it was Christian-like — it seemed providential,
— she would not pain the generous heart
by exhibiting a foolish pride, she would use it
in all thankfulness and humility as a gift from
the Dispenser of all good.

When Susan re-entered the room, she found
her mistress's face beaming with a contentedness
which recent circumstances could not, in her
opinion, justify.

Why, mem, excuse me, but you don't look
like the same you was just now !' she exclaimed,
her own features throwing off the
dolorous cast which they had worn. ' I can't
make it out.'

My good girl,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, with

gravity, ' God is good to us when we least expect
it, and, perhaps, least deserve it. The
letter you brought me comes like an answer to
our prayers for help and protection

And Mrs. Sparragus, having no idea of reservation
or mystery with her faithful handmaiden,
spread before her the contents of the
letter.

Oh, mem, I never !' was all the astonished
Susan could give utterance to. It exhausted
her vocabulary of wonderment. She had
recourse to gesture, and clasped her hands,
pressing them against her heaving bosom ; ' and
you don't know who sent it V she asked, incredulous
of her eyes and ears.

4 No, Susan ; I can only guess.'

'It's dear Miss Lena's doing!' archly suggested
Susan, who was really a very sagacious
girl.

It's what dear Lena would have done, if she
could, but it is not in her power to do this.'

1 Then it's the alderman !' and Susan, observing
by her mistress's smile that she acquiesced
in that conjecture, laughed hysterically.

'You've read my thoughts, Susan !' answered
Mrs. Sparragus ; 'it is the good Mr. Clive.'

'Not a doubt, mem,' responded Susan, whose
favourite speculation as to the impending alliance
of her mistress with the alderman, which
had received a rude shock, was now r revived ;
and it's only right he should.'

Mrs. Sparragus's start of amazement at this
rejoinder, as she ejaculated, ' Susan ! what do
you mean by that remark V satisfied the young
woman that matters had not altogether reached
the desired maturity, and she was on the point
of endeavouring to explain away the obscure
doctrine she had laid down, w r hen her attention
was diverted bv the sound of wheels, and,
glancing through the window, she exclaimed,

Why, if here isn't the alderman himself !
There ! I knew I was right !'

CHAPTER VII.

BAFFLED.

When Mr. Clive entered the house, there was
on his face an expression of anxious thought
which Susan considered quite out of harmony
with his recent magnificent act of gallantry and
devotion to the afflicted and lonely widow ; and
Mrs. Sparragus, also noticing his dejected air,
rightly conjectured that the investigations so
energetically made by the kind alderman in her
interest had resulted unsatisfactorily.

When he took her hand, and inquired as to
her health, Mr. Olive's features resumed their
normal cheeriness, and she was reassured.

'Thank you,' she replied. 'I feel so much
better within the last hour ;' and she emphasised

the closing words, and looked at her visitor with
a beaming smile.

Mr. Give was much gratified, and not a little
surprised, at the frame of mind in which he
found her. He trusted it might continue,
and added that a patient and hopeful heart
was a very precious possession in this world
of trial. Mr. Give spoke with a significant
gravity, which could not fail to impress his
hearer.

1 Yes, sir, none of us escape trials. Yesterday

I felt crushed, but this morning ' and she

smiled in his face again.

i This morning?' echoed Mr. Give, awaiting,
with curiosity, the completion of the sentence,
and an explanation of the smile.

1 This morning I found that my trouble had
brought to light a true friend, and it makes me
feel so happy that I can hardly remember my
loss in thinking of what I have gained.'

Mr. Give was more perplexed than ever, and
begged for an explanation.

4 Ah, sir,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, with tears in
her eyes, ' how can I tell you what I think of
your generosity to me !' and a choking in the

throat prevented her giving the explanation
desired.

Mr. Olive could only wait for it in silence.

So unexpected, so timely, and, oh, so modestly
and beautifully done !' and Mrs. Sparragus
again relapsed into her pocket-handkerchief.

1 really '

Yes, Mr. Olive, I know. It's your noble way
of doing good. But you'll have your reward !
And I hope it will be in this world as well as in
the next !' and, if Susan had witnessed the admiring
gaze Mrs. Sparragus focussed upon the
alderman, she would have felt more and more
confident that the publication of the banns was
only a question of days.

It is delightful to hear you express yourself
in these gracious terms, Mrs. Sparragus, but
evidently '

Oh, yes, Mr. Olive, I quite understand, you
desire that your splendid gift of this morning
should be, like all your good deeds, secret. It
is your way, and I wouldn't, I couldn't make
the bad return of alluding to it, beyond offering
to you my truest, deepest, best thanks !' and

the pocket-handkerchief was again in active-requisition.


Mr. Olive now saw that some event to her
advantage had occurred, and that he was
credited with it, and he felt it necessary to elicit
the facts.

Will you gratify me by letting me know
what it is for which I am receiving your
gratitude V

Why, for the bank-notes you sent me this
morning, of course !' and Mrs. Sparragus gave a
triumphant chuckle in bringing conviction 
the anonymous donor.

Mr. Olive could hardly maintain the composure
which he felt the occasion required.

1 1 should like to see them for a moment,' he
said.

1 Certainly ; if anyone has a right to do so, it
is you, sir !' replied Mrs. Sparragus, opening-her
work-box and handing the letter to her
visitor. * I'm not a prophetess, but I should say
it is not the first time you have set eyes on
them, Mr. Olive !' she added, with arch humour.

Mr. Olive spread open the packet, read the

letter, and, observing the numbers of the notes
which he recognised, he replied,

I suppose I must confess that I have seen
them before.'

1 1 felt certain of it. Susan was as sure as I
was that it was you !'

You and Susan are both too good in your
opinion of me. However, if you will promise
to make use of the money, some day I will tell
you a little history connected with these notes

It was a subtle appeal on the part of Mr.
Clive to the curiosity of womankind in general,
and it elicited the desired promise from Mrs.
Sparragus.

I couldn't be so ungrateful, sir, as to pain
you by refusing it. But, oh, I have no right to
such wonderful kindness I' and the poor widow
was overwhelmed with conflicting emotions,
leaving Mr. Clive in uninterrupted meditation.

When have I done a thing so noble as this
poor artist !' he reflected. ' I give of my abundance
: it costs me nothing. I have not one
luxury or pleasure less, so I am in no way impoverished.
But this young man, with a splendid
forgetfulness of himself which is surely

divinely inspired, gives, not of his superfluity,,
but his all ! He gives without hesitation his
hard earnings — his very bread ! and, shrinking
from the honour which attaches to such an action,
he does it by stealth and only claims to bethe
instrument of Providence. Assuredly this
young man's principles are as exalted as his
talent is great.'

Mrs. Sparragus having recovered her former
composure, Mr. Clive resumed the interrupted
conversation :

I did not, as you will believe, come here to
talk about the bank-notes."

Oh, no, sir, I'm quite certain of that.'

My object in paying this visit was to report
the result of my investigations with reference to
this sad, sad business.'

How shall I ever thank you enough !'

4 What I have to say will entitle me to no
thanks, for it is not the good news I hope to
bring you.'

4 I'm sure you have done all that it is in
the power of anyone to do, and for that I am
deeply grateful.'

Some persons, from a mistaken kindness,.

would withhold from you anything of a painful
nature, but I feel I should be showing want
of confidence in your moral strength if I kept
you in ignorance of facts which concern you
so nearly.'

How good of you, sir !'

I have already told you that, on enquiry at
the various places of business, we found that
Honey dew had sold your funded property and
everything else you had placed in his custody
and turned them into cash, and, after raising
-enough money on the security of Flinders, had
gone abroad.'

Yes, sir, I know all this. Is Flinders absolutely
lost V

'Absolutely.'

Mrs. Sparragus, notwithstanding her great
self-control, groaned in anguish.

6 Unfortunately you signed a document conveying
it to Honeydew. It became his, and he
has lodged the deeds with Blowers, the manager
of the farm.'

1 Oh, Mr. Blowers will return them to me.'

No ; in the first place, he has lent a sum of
money upon the security — which, of course,

might be easily arranged, — but the property
being vested in Honeydew, no one else but
Honevdew can claim them.'

1/

Oh, but Hone}*dew, when he knows '

He will never know. He can never return
them. Honeydew is dead.'

< Dead !'

It was a perilous thing on the part of Mr.
Clive to make known the startling and appalling
fact without preamble. He reckoned upon her
naturally equable temperament, but he had not
considered the paramount feature of her character
— sympathy, and his announcement opened
the flood-gates of it.

Dead !' she exclaimed, i poor Mr. Honeydew
dead ! So suddenly ! Cut off in the midst of
his busy, busy life !' and Mrs. Sparragus clasped
her hands in her distress.

Some minutes elapsed before the good woman
could recover speech, and Mr. Clive contemplated
her disinterestedness with admiration.

How true,' he reflected, * is the Christian
precept — that the greatest of all human graces
is charity ! This defrauded woman already
forgives her pitiless spoiler !'

What was it that carried him off V she asked,
in tones of commiseration.

I will tell you. One of our detective police,
named Mac, stationed at Southampton, acting
on Lapwing's information, took a berth for
Havre and subsequently for New York in the
same vessel as Honeydew. We have been
anxiously awaiting news from Mac, and to-day
the mail brought us a letter from him. I would
read it, if I felt sure you could bear to hear it.'

1 1 can bear it, sir.'

6 It contains intelligence of a distressing
nature.'

I can bear it. Poor Mr. Honeydew !'

The letter runs thus : " Everything satisfactory
after we left Havre. I got a berth in
the cabin adjoining Honeydew, and he was
never out of my sight, excepting at night. At first
he was shy of everyone, and he hardly gave a
civil answer when I spoke to him ; but after
two or three days rubbing shoulders with him
at meals and offering him a Manilla, telling
queer stories in the smoking-saloon and playing
poker with him, we got to be quite friendly. I
had shown the captain my credentials and

given him the tip, so he kept his eye on our
friend if I happened to be away, and it was
arranged that, when the pilot-boat came alongside,
I should send a despatch ashore to the
authorities, so that there should be no hitch.
As we neared Sandy Hook, I noticed our friend
get shy again ; lost his appetite ; refused my
cigars, and wouldn't play poker, and took to
writing. Thinks I, ' That'll be something interesting,
if one could only read it. Perhaps it's a
little history of how he did it. Perhaps it's
about some speculations he's got in his mind,
and what he means to do with the cash,' for I
often saw him overhauling his pocket-book
which was stuffed with bank-notes. Well,
when we made Sandy Hook and got fairly into
the roads, he was a-walking up and down the
saloon deck, with a rapid step, as though something
troubled his mind, and, of course, I was
taking a constitutional too, when he suddenly
stopped, and beckoning to me he says, ' Mac,
my dear fellow, are you fond of adventures?'
Well, yes says I, * fairly so, if they're interesting.'
'Would you like to read something
I have been jotting down just to pass the
VOL. II. L

time V ' Indeed, Honeydew, I should vastly.'
(It was the very thing I had been longing to
get hold of.) ' Very well,' says he, quite
bright, ' as 1 know you will appreciate what
I've been writing, you may see it, if you don't
mind going to my cabin, and, if you open my
courier's bag, you'll find the paper in it.' (I
had been longing to see the inside of that very
bag !) ' And, if you'll shell out another of your
Manilla, I'll smoke it while you're gone.'
Right,' says I ; and down I went pretty sharp
after handing him my cigar-case and giving the
captain a wink as I passed under the bridge,
where he was standing. The captain gave two
winks in reply, which meant ' All right, I'll
keep an eye on him till you come back.' I got
to his berth, but before I could open the bag
there was a tremendous hull abo loo on deck,
4 Man overboard ! Heave a line ! Throw out
a life-buoy ! Lower a boat !' I flew up the
stairs, rushed to the side of the vessel, where
everyone was crowding, and I was only just intime
to see a small object like a cork bobbing
up and down in the sea a quarter-of-a-mile

behind the ship. In another moment it sank
for ever. It was Honeydew !" '

Drowned!' cried Mrs. Sparragus, in irrepressible
horror. ' Drowned V

Unhappily, yes. Boats were lowered, Mac
jumped into one of them, and they rowed over
the spot where he was last seen. It was too
late, Honeydew was prisoned in the deep waters.'

He fell into the sea by accident V
No, by design. He chose to rush into the
presence of his Maker rather than submit to the
judgment of man for his baseness to you.'

Oh, Mr. dive, to think that I should have
been the cause of such an awful death ! Poor
Mr. Honeydew !'

4 The thing to deplore is that he should
have crowned his many sins by this worst of
crimes.'

6 Oh, I w r ould have forgiven him all the wrong
he did me rather than this should have happened
!' exclaimed Mrs. Sparragus, with genuine
distress.

1 am sure you w r ould. But sometimes pity
is misapplied. He did not merit even your

L2

posthumous sympathy. He was base towards
you even to the last moment of his life.'

Mrs. Sparragus looked incredulous.

To satisfy you that I am doing no injustice
to the memory of this man, I will read you the
paper to which he had referred when he sent
Mac to his cabin. It runs thus : " I think this
is about the first time in my life that I have
been outwitted, and I don't mean it to happen
again. But I must do Lapwing the justice to
say he did his bit of acting uncommonly well.
Mac is quite second-rate compared with him.
Of course I'm checkmated, and 1 throw up the
sponge so far as to admit it. But I'm not going
to allow the good people who put Lapwing and
Mac on to this job to make much coin out of its
success. I might have left that old simpleton,
Mrs. Sparragus, some stray sprats out of the
haul ; but if I did they would be pounced upon
by that hypocritical and rapacious old cat at
No. 1, and, as I shouldn't die happy if I thought
she would get anything beyond the cuckoo-clock
and plated soup-ladle, it will all have to
go along with me, and I don't think that even
that avaricious hag, Mrs. Lipperty, will care to

follow me to get hold of it. I suppose Lapwing
was put on by Clive, and, if Lapwing hadn't
been the veriest booby to look at, I should have
been a match for the alderman. Now I see
T'm like a rat in a cage. I twigged Mac the
second day out, and then the whole thing
dawned upon me. It was cleverly done, I
admit, and I now see, by the captain's oblique
glances at me, that he has had the straight tip
from Mac. So, as I know what's in store forme
as soon as we touched land, (for no doubt
Clive has wired to New York), and as I don't
like the idea of the Tombs, the hulks, and the
silent system, I mean to circumvent all these
clever people by making a hole in the sea and
taking every dollar with me. I may tell Mrs.
Sparragus that, as soon as I had turned her
money over in the American market and made
my pile, I should have repaid the loan with
interest, but, as she has thought proper to allow
Clive to meddle and spoil the business all round,
she'll have to do without it in this world. —
Stephen Hoxeydew." '

Mrs. Sparragus buried her face in her hands
and sobbed without the ability to speak. The

grief she felt was not that her whole means oi
livelihood lay fathoms deep in the Atlantic, but
that the once-trusted, once-honoured spoiler lay
there unshriven, unconfessed.

Mr. Give had discharged his painful duty, he
had only to add, in answer to her generous
suggestion that it might have been an accident,
that, as soon as Mac had descended to the cabin,
Honeydew was observed by the captain to walk
to the stern of the vessel, button his coat across
his breast, step over the rail, and plunge headlong
into the foaming billows with a laugh
which the crew described as demoniacal.

A strict search in Honeydew's berth was at
once instituted. The courier's sack contained
the document to which he had alluded, some
tobacco, and a newspaper, in which an advertisement
appeared, notifying the sale at the auction
mart of the freehold of Tapioca Terrace.

This concluding detail in Mac's dispatch was
an unexpected shock to Mr. Give. He had
heard nothing of this last supreme imprudence of
Mrs. Sparragus. Had the property been actually
sold ? Lapwing was dispatched to the auctioneer,
and brought back the very perplexing

confirmation of his fears. Tapioca Terrace had
been included in the same deed as Flinders and
had been sold at the mart by order of Honey-dew,
and paid for the day before his departure
for America.

Mr. Clive did not hesitate to question Mrs.
Sparragus on the subject :

Did you deposit the title-deeds of these three
houses with Honeydew?'

He took charge of all my valuable papers
for safety.'

Did you convey Tapioca Terrace to him?'

< I don't think I did.'

1 Then you are not aware that it was fully
described and included in the indenture which
you signed conveying Flinders to him?'

1 Oh, no. He never told me it was included.'

4 And you did not read the document before
signing it?'

I did not. Mr. Honevdew said it was not
necessary. But, sir, you don't mean to say these
houses are gone as well as Flinders?' demanded
the bereaved and credulous woman, as the
possibility of such a crowning disaster began to
dawn upon her mind. ' These houses '

Are as irrecoverably lost as Flinders.'
To say that Mrs. Sparragus was dazed on
hearing this announcement is hardly to express
the conflict of bewilderment, pain and paralysis
of the reasoning faculties which overcame her
like a distressing dream, as its full significance
reached her brain. She was speechless. She
realised at last a condition of. things which she
sometimes figured to herself as the most dolorous
result in a worldly sense of human inconsequence
and folly, — the loss of all that the world recognises
as a passport to respect, and she felt
already the chilling indifference, the scathing
censure, the pitiless scorn reserved for the
squanderer of hereditary wealth, of which
Mrs. Lipperty had already given her a foretaste.


With no vain reproaches directed against her
base betrayer, with no wild lamentations over a
dire visitation, of which her conscience acquitted
her, did the poor woman give expression to the
anguish of her heart. She simply buried her
face in her handkerchief and surrendered herself
to relieving tears.

Mr. Olive closed his eyes and was lost in

thought. His busy brain surveyed the entire
situation, just as an expert chess-player contemplates
blindfolded the field of mimic battle in
which he finds himself worsted. All avenues to
escape seem barred ; science for once is apparently
of no avail — checkmate is threatened,
and the baffled player is ready to resign. But
Mr. Give, like a strategist who is slow to admit
that fate is against him, viewed the desperate
state of affairs with the composure characteristic
of him in all difficulties, and presently a smile
which traversed his thoughtful features, and a
momentary play of the mouth, would have been
interpreted by a physiognomist as eloquent of a
state of mind far removed from despair and
imminent surrender. He quietly rose, while
poor Mrs. Sparragus was still wrapt in her uncomplaining
grief, and left the room. In the
hall he encountered the inevitable Susan — faithful
sentinel, always on guard — and, whispering,
he said,

Go to your mistress. Comfort her with your
sympathy and care ; you have been true to her
in her prosperity, and I know you will cling to
her now.'

But, oh, sir !' sobbed Susan, in the greatest
distress, ' my poor missus will never get over it.'

You must do your best, nevertheless, to cheer
her. Remember, whatever happens, kindness
to those in trouble is never thrown away. Good
deeds, Susan, if they fail of their intention, return
to the doer of them. If they make no one
else happy, they bring the happiness home
again ; so it is not wasted.'

As soon as the door closed behind the alderman,
Susan hurried to her mistress, and, flinging
herself on to her knees beside her, she
clasped her in her arms, and her sympathy, too
deep for her simple language, expressed itself
in a flood of tears.

And Mr. Clive, regaining his carriage, ordered
his servant to bid the coachman drive to Tangle
and Wrench, Mrs. Sparragus's solicitors.

CHAPTER VIII.

JEM'S FIRST PATRON,

When Graham Aspen reached his modest
chamber in Thistle Grove, he found two letters
which had just arrived lying on his table. One
was from Messieurs Glare and Gooley, saying
their Mr. Gooley would do himself the pleasure
of calling on him on the following day. The
other letter was from Dr. Eustace, inviting
Aspen to favour him with a visit some afternoon
at his convenience, as he much desired Iris
opinion upon an etching he had just made at
Haddington; and he was still more anxious to
have ocular proof of the improvement in his
health, respecting which he had received the
most satisfactory information from Mrs. Beaver

and Sister Hester, both of whom had, it seemed,
met him somewhere in the neighbourhood of
Flinders, and who had so much to say about
him that was interesting, though Mrs. Beaver
had animadverted strongly, and with perfect
justice, upon his habit of tramping the wet
fields without his goloshes ! Graham replied
that, beyond his personal feelings of respect and
esteem, which alone would urge him to respond
at once to his kind invitation, his admiration for
his original and eminent skill with the etching-point
prompted him to fix an early day, which
he named, and to which he looked forward with
pleasurable anticipations.

And Aspen, in employing the phrase ' respect
and esteem,' employed it in no sense conventionally.
He had been deeply penetrated by
the genuine, unbounded and disinterested goodness
shown him by both Dr. Eustace and Alderman
Clive, and which had awakened in his own
breast a readiness to view human nature in a
kindlier and more appreciative spirit than had
latterly been his habit, isolated as he had become
within the narrow boundary of ' self from his
enforced solitude and the burden of the suffering

flesh. The world, since this new and genial
intimacy, had grown sunnier, and fellowship
seemed not only possible but necessary to
healthful existence. So infectious is human
kindness ; so blest an epidemic may charity be !
There was another allusion in the physician's
note which thrilled Aspen with unwonted pleasure.
It was the passage stating that Mrs.
Beaver and Sister Hester had felt an interest in
him. Strange transformation of character ! He y
the anchorite, the recluse, the man who had
hitherto felt as an alien for whom the world had.
no care, had grown under the fostering warmth
of example to yearn for human sympathy ! That
these women, or rather that one of them, had
carried away a pleasurable remembrance of him
was a sweet thing to meditate upon. Yesterday
he had endeavoured to banish Sister Hester
from his thoughts ; to-day he felt that he was-privileged
to remember her as a friend, — a
friend, to be sure, whom there was no reasonable
probability of his meeting again, but she
might nevertheless be reckoned as one added to-that
unique list of friends which comprised Mr.
Clive, Dr. Eustace, and Jem.

The following morning, while Aspen was
engaged upon his dead tree, Mrs. Starkie, opening
the door, announced a gentleman, at the
same time handing him a card bearings superscription
— Messieurs Glare and Gooley. The
frequently-recurring arrival of carnages and
cabs at her door since Jem had entered into
artistic relationship with her lodger seemed to
point to an improvement in Aspen's fortunes, and
she began to admit that, after all, ' messing with
those nasty paints ' was not altogether unproductive
of advantage to Jem ; and as she was
before all things a good mother, and, next to
that, a conscientious landlady, she had, in the
solitude of her back-parlour, — now no longer
defaced by Jem's experimental performances
with pencils and pigments, — conceived the truly
great idea of laying a sacrifice on the altar of
maternal affection, and with that view was in
the act of counting out twenty-five sovereigns,
the fruit of long years of thrift and self-denial,
when Mr. Gooley, of the firm of Glare and
Gooley, arrived.

• ' So glad, Mr. Aspen, to find you at home,
and painting, too ! I consider myself most

fortunate. Not having been favoured with an
inspection of anything more from your skilful
hand, we began to think you must have gone
abroad or taken up some other branch of art.
Ah, another of your incomparable studies of
trees ! May we look at it?'

Graham replied by an assenting inclination of
the head. Glare and Gooley, in the person of
Mr. Gooley, advanced and sat down before the
easel and remained absorbed for several minutes
in its examination.

"We should be glad to have it, Mr. Aspen,' he
said, rising from his chair and preparing to make
a memorandum in his pocket-book, as though
the bargain was virtually completed. i What is
the price V

I am not going to part with it,' quietly
replied Graham. ' I intend to keep it.'

Glare and Gooley, in the person of Mr. Goo-ley,
looked amazed. The abode of the artist,
which is usually indicative of pecuniary status
and worldly condition in general, did not appear
to him to justify such abstinence from profitable
negotiations.

It's a pity,' he said, with an impatient jerk

of the head which seemed to imply, ' you artists
are an impracticable tribe ;' and his eye, glancing
round the room, fell on Jem's painting of
the studio in which he sat.

Excellent !' he exclaimed ; ' admirable : and
quite another style of art. Interiors are always
popular, and we rarely meet with anything
so forcible, Rembrandtisb, and in every
way original as this. I like it even better
than the other one,' pointing to the dead tree.

It is superior to it,' rejoined Aspen, with
sincerity.

I think I never saw armour put in so
judiciously ; and the lady sitting for her portrait
what a sweet face ! Why, surely it must bethe
lady who was so deeply impressed by the
beauty of the " Queen of the Glen," when she
and Miss Olive came with the alderman to
purchase it V

i It was Alderman Olive who bought it V

Yes ; he had the original sketch photographed
and sent round to all the trade. He
couldn't rest till he found — but perhaps we
oughtn't to mention these things, as he does
not appear to have done so V continued Glare

and Gooley, in the person of Gooley, abruptly
breaking off, conscious of neglecting a discreet
trade reserve.

'No ; if Mr. dive had wished it to transpire,
he would have acquainted me with the fact
when he visited me.'

'Ah ! Mr. Clive has paid you a visit V inquired
Glare and Gooley in surprise, not unmingled
with annoyance.

Several,' was Aspen's laconic reply, as the
noble beneficence of the good man was thus
unexpectedly revealed to him.

To return to this admirable interior, Mr.
Aspen, is it sold?'

< No.'

Then we may secure it V continued Glare
and Gooley, in the person of Gooley, who had
in his eye a Manchester client who had built a
gallery at their recommendation, and took whatever
they sent him.

< Yes

And the price V he asked, carelessly, opening
his memorandum-book to make a note of
the transaction.

1 Forty guineas,' replied Aspen, suppressing
VOL. II. M

the delight he felt in being able to do his friend
Jem a service.

6 Thank you. We will pay that price with
pleasure.' Then, glancing again at the painting
and failing to discover Aspen's name upon it,
he continued : * You will not object to sign
it!'

1 1 am not the painter. It is by Jem Starkie,
who shares my studio.'

8 Jem Starkie 1 We don't think we know that
name,' replied Messrs Glare and Gooley, in the
person of Gooley, a good deal disconcerted,
pondering on the entry rather hastily made in
his memorandum-book.

'Possibly not. But Mr. Starkie will have no
objection to sign it.'

I dare say. But, when we proposed to purchase
it, we concluded, finding it in Mr. Aspen's
studio, that it was by Mr. Aspen.'

That may be,' retorted Graham, brusquely,
4 but, as you have justly remarked, the picture
is Rembrandtish and far superior to my poor
dead tree, it must be immaterial who painted it.
A good thing is a good thing, and its value is
just its own intrinsic worth.'

1 Very happily put, Mr. Aspen ; but in our
trade it is not quite so immaterial, and we have
to remember that business is business, you
know,' argued Glare and Gooley : ' the public is so
absurdly prejudiced in favour of a name. I believe
if John Smith of Whitechapel, let us say,
painted the " Transfiguration," that masterpiece
of Rafael wouldn't be looked at till John Smith
had made a name. Now, with " Graham
Aspen ' at the corner of a picture, we could
place it at once, but with Jem What's-his-name
written there, it might remain on our hands
for years.'

Consequently, you cancel the bargain just
now made, and entered in your note-book V

1 Xot altogether. But I fear the picture is
not worth more than ten pounds to our firm.'

Graham calmly and quietly opened the studio-door
to its full extent, and turning to Glare and
Gooley, in the person of Gooley, he said,

4 1 will not detain you longer, sir ; I am, as you
perceived when you entered the room, busy,
and bread is not to be earned by fruitless
talk.'

But, my dear sir,' remonstrated Glare and

m2

Gooley, discomfited, « our first transaction was so
satisfactory '

6 Yes, doubtless,' interrupted Graham, with
rising spirit, * our first transaction will also be
our last. I wish you good-morning, Mr.
Gooley.'

Messieurs Glare and Gooley, staggered but
not silenced, resumed :

On second thoughts, we will take it at the
price you named, and I will, if you please, draw
a '



On behalf of Mr. Starkie, I decline your
offer. On his account and on my own I decline
all transactions with a firm which deals in names
and not in works

Aspen's rejoinder was enunciated so imperiously,
there was such dignity and stern pride
in his bearing, that Glare and Gooley, hat in
hand, crest-fallen and disappointed, shuffled out
of the room, muttering apologies ; and as the
door was quietly but decidedly closed behind the
firm, they, in the person of Gooley, inveighed
bitterly against their own lack of tact and foresight
in alienating at once the painter of the
Queen of the Glen,' which had brought them

the respectable profit of a hundred and fifty percent.,
and an artist as yet unknown to fame, but
whose work was not unworthy of Rembrandt,
and whom it would have been well worth the
firm's while to secure.

When Jem returned, Graham informed him
that a dealer had called, and seeing his 'interior
' had consented to purchase it at forty
guineas.

Jem's transports of delight took the usual
form, and he danced round the room.

Forty guineas !' he cried, incredulous of his
auditory faculties. 'Forty guineas?'

Yes; and I refused it

J Refused forty guineas V

1 1 declined to let the dealer have it at any
price. ,

Jem's saltatory exercise sustained a severe
reaction. He sank into a chair in astonishment
and dismay.

■ I fear, my dear Jem, that my stubborn and
unreasoning pride has stood in the way of your
interests. I hope you will forgive me, but I
could not stand this huckster's way of setting a
value on a work of art. You have produced

what everyone must call a fine picture, but a
you cannot produce what this dealer values stil
more, that is to say, "a name," your picture loses
half its beauty, and nearly all its market value.
This being nakedly and unblushingly stated by
the dealer, as a reason for lowering the price I
put upon it as fair and reasonable, forced me to
show him the door.'

Jem's faith in the wisdom of his friend and
master had never wavered : it was as absolute
as his confidence in his art, and the effect of
the stunning blow his feelings had received had
passed ois before Aspen's explanatory speech
was concluded.

'Everything you say, like everything you do
Mr. Aspen, is a lesson to me, and I know, if I
follow your lead, I shan't be far wrong

My dear boy,' replied Graham, interrupting
Jem's too appreciative rejoinder, 6 you have
only to follow your own healthy instincts and
exercise the art-power that is in you, and you
will be a better man and a greater painter than
ever I can make you.'

Jem was not to be silenced where he felt
strongly, and he resumed :



I have never forgotten that you once destroyed
a painting of yours as a lesson to me to
consider nothing done that was cot both well
done and completely done. And now you have
shown me that an artist should be not only
conscientious but also independent, and that
his work should stand on its merits alone.'

Right or wrong, Jem, that has always been
a rule with me,' replied Graham, laying a
brotherly hand on Jem's shoulder, feeling proud
of his friend's estimate of him ; ' and it is surely
well to keep in view a guiding principle in one's
life no less than in one's art.'

The dialogue between the two friends was
interrupted by Mrs. Starkie, who entered the
room with a tray containing luncheon. Since
the association of Jem with her lodger, she had
constituted herself Aspen's mother as well as
Jem's, so far as creature comforts were concerned,
and this arrangement, judiciously initiated
and placed on a permanent footing by Dr.
Eustace and Alderman Clive, was manifestly to
the advantage of Aspen, who had hitherto
studiously neglected his first natural duty —
self-preservation.

Mrs. Starkie bustled about doing nothing
particular, and doing it so effectually that
neither Aspen nor Jem noticed the maternal
glances, the speechless expressions of affection
which were addressed by her to her son,
evidence of a desire to give utterance to some
sentiment with which her bosom swelled, but
which hung fire from excess of joy. The
eloquent dumb-show at length attracted Aspen's
attention from the fact that silence was not
Mrs. Starkie's prevailing characteristic, and
turning to her curiously he saw the radiant
smile which played upon her face as she ogled
her son.

You seem in a happy frame of mind, Mrs.
Starkie,' exclaimed Graham, rallying the worthy
woman, ' surely something good has happened,
ehV

6 Ah, Mr. Aspen, if I waited for the good
things of this world, it would be a long time
before I smiled ; so do you know what I
do?'

6 No, really I do not

*I find my happiness in my thoughts.'

Well, then, I can only say, Mrs. Starkie, that

you are as good a philosopher as you are
excellent a cook, for one's thoughts are the best
of all sources of happiness,' replied Graham,
with admiration. 'And may I ask what has
occupied your thoughts with such enviable
results V

I've been thinking about my Jem.'

Bravo ! You can't think too much or too
well of Jem,' said Graham, enthusiastically.

6 That's just what I have come to feel, sir.
Jem's all I have to care for ; he's all I've got —
and he's all I want ;' and Mrs. Starkie stroked
her son's head, in evidence of the pride and
affection she had hitherto concealed from view
with Spartan resolution ; ' and, if I've been hard
with the dear boy about that box of paints he
bought with the sovereign his uncle gave him,
it was only because I couldn't keep a clean
towel or a table-cloth, and as for his pocket-handkerchiefs,
they were in that mess, Mr. Aspen,
that I had to boil 'em and boil 'em again,
and I couldn't, for the life of me, get out the
stains.'

4 That dreadful macguilp !' interposed Aspen,
highly amused.

-

6 So you will believe me when I say it was
all for Jem's good that I rated him.*

I'm quite sure of that, Mrs. Starkie, and Jem
knows it too.'

'But now I hear people talking about the
dear boy's cleverness, — his skies and his clouds,
his pictures of the country, and all that, — I see I
was wrong in being angry with him about his
everlasting paintings and drawings, and Jem was
right. He did it because he could no more help
drawing than a duck can help swimming, and I
ought to have seen it, I ought !' and Mrs. Starkie
wiped her eyes with the corner of her apron.

You both did what Nature prompted you todo,
and therefore neither of you did the wrong
thing,' said Graham, in comforting accents.
Besides, Jem is overwhelmed with his emotions
at your gracious words.'

(The fact was, Jem was as red as a peony
with the effort to suppress the laughter which
convulsed him.)

'But words, Mr. Aspen, are nothing without
deeds ; and I've determined that Jem shall see
that his mother feels for him, and feels in the
right place !' and Mrs. Starkie thereupon felt in

her pocket, and drew from that comprehensive
receptacle a leather bag of coin. 4 This little
nest-egg, which I put by for a rainy day, I've
made up my mind to give Jem now, and he may
spend it in paint and brushes, and whatever he
likes ;' and the kind-hearted woman placed the
bag in her astonished son's hands, saying, 'Jemmy
darling, there's twenty-five sovereigns, and,
if you want more, when that's gone, tell your
mother, and she will see what she can find in
her old stocking. Give me a kiss for it !' and
Mrs. iStarkie held out her arms for Jem to fall
into them, when Aspen interposed by stepping
between the mother and the son. If Mrs.
Starkie thought that her lodger's object was to
intercept the kiss in its passage, and appropriate
it. she was speedily reassured :

Before you give Jem the kiss, — which he will
know how to return with interest, — allow me to
have a voice in the transaction,' said Aspen,
while Jem and his mother awaited, with a
puzzled mien, his explanations. i Jem has become
a man of business, Mrs. Starkie,' began
Graham, with mock gravity ; ' he has just
broken off a transaction with a dealer, because,

i

in our opinion, his terms were not satisfactory.
Now, your proposal seems to Jem to err equally
in the opposite direction. You offer Jem twenty-five
pounds for a kiss, which Jem thinks altogether
out of proportion. Is it not so, Jem V

Jem grinned from ear to ear. He thought,
in his innermost conscience, that twenty-live
pounds was an excellent price to pay for a kiss.
Surely Mr. Aspen was not going to raise it to
fifty?

Yes, I see I am expressing Jem's views
exactly,' continued Graham, turning to Mrs.
Starkie, who sat with her hands in her lap, justa
trifle confused ; ' and he positively refuses toto
It is so, Jem, is it not V

Jem felt idiotic, and incapable of a lucid
answer. He could only obey his instinct, sitting,
as he was, at the feet of his Gamaliel, and
stammer a vacant ' Yes

4 He refuses to give kisses for any other commodity
than kisses, and on those terms he is
prepared to deal with you liberally. But, if you
hand him so solid an article as twenty-five
pounds, Jem insists upon giving you value for
your money, and, as he has only one article at

present in stock at all equivalent (though he
has an inexhaustible mine, as yet undeveloped,.
in his brains and hands), he has decided to let
you have, in exchange for your handsome
tender, this serious and well-composed painting.
Mrs. Starkie, I congratulate you. You
are Jem's first patron, as you ought to be. You
possess Jem's first really good picture, as you
ought to do. And Jem has made a fair bargain
; the picture is worth the money, though
Jem asked the dealer forty guineas for it,
knowing the habit of the tribe to abate ; and
Jem's first patron has made a fair bargain too,
for in ten years time that picture will fetch ten
times the amount paid for it at Christie's. Now,
Jem, you may give your mother the kiss which
I interrupted, and don't let your mother be a
loser by the delay.'

i\.nd Aspen had the gratification of witnessing
the homely pathos of a tender and earnest
embrace of a mother and her son, and he remembered
the joy which he himself was wont
to feel in his far-off childhood, when he was
folded in the arms of that loving one, now in
Heaven, whose voice and face were to this day

174 GRAHAM ASPEN, PAINTER.

the one central spirit of his happiest reveries.

Mrs. Starkie burst into tears as Jem took his
interior ' from the easel and handed it to her,
saying,

Mother, if I feel grateful to Mr. Aspen for
this happy suggestion, how much more gratitude
do I not owe you for your loving care and
patience all these years ! and it will always
please me to recollect that, added to all your
goodness to me, you were my first patron.'

Unquestionably, Aspen the ascetic had discovered
the secret of dispensing and experiencing
happiness.

CHAPTER IX.

HISTORY AND HISTORY.

The clay named by Aspen for his visit to Dr.
Eustace arrived, and the physician received him
in his ' den,' a room which a more pretentious
amateur would call his atelier, with remarkable
cordiality. The room, if compared with his
other well-arranged and symmetrical apartments,
was very fitly styled a den, for about it
were scattered in artistic disorder the utensils
and materials of the craft he affected, — copperplates,
reflectors, shades, etching tools, acids,
wax, varnish, hot plate and proofs taken at
progressive stages of the l biting-in,' while the
walls were adorned with prints of the great
masters of the art, from Rembrandt to Landseer.

Placing his visitor in a chair, Dr. Eustace
said,

Before we talk art or history (for I have
history as well as art to discuss with you), let
us see where we are in the far more important
matter of health. Would you mind stripping V

By way of reply, Aspen threw off his clothing
and presented his chest to the physician, who at
once noted a remarkable improvement in his
condition.

6 Why, my dear sir, you are not the same man
you were ! Flabbiness gone ; flesh firm ; skin
tense and healthy ; action of the heart strong and
regular, and weight — just sit on these scales a
moment — ah ! weight increased, — ten stone —
nay, eleven stone within a pound ! Why, my
dear Mr. Aspen, what have you been doing to
bring about this metamorphosis V

Aspen could not fail to be amused and even
touched by the physician's evident delight in
his improved condition; he replied modestly,
but without hesitation,

'I have been eating and drinking the good
things ordered by you in conjunction with Mr.
Clive.'

I must commend your obedience. I do not
find all my patients equally submissive ;' and
the physician applied the stethoscope to breast
and back and examined the respiratory organs
exhaustively.

'Positively normal !' he ejaculated, with unaffected
pleasure ; ' you put me to shame, for I
must confess that, when I examined you a
twelvemonth ago, I formed an opinion not
altogether hopeful.'

You gave me three years,' ventured Aspen,
somewhat sorrowfully.

1 did, and I thought that period more than
I was justified in prognosticating, considering
your condition. But, if you continue to recuperate
as you have done, I don't see why you
should ever die !' and the kindly physician
laughed at the handsome amends he was now
making for his shabby treatment of his patient
on the occasion referred to. ' I fear I took
your own estimate of your case when you
first consulted me,' he continued. i It was nota
hopeful one. I should imagine that physical
existence is not so burdensome to you as it

was?'

VOL. II. N

Many interests make my life now a happier
one

And health enables you to maintain those
interests. Ah, sir, there's no possession comparable
to health, — health which we squander
away like reckless gamesters, but which no
change of luck can win back again ! But to
return to your case. In referring to my notes I
find my opinion in a great measure influenced by
the history you gave me of your family. Those
data are very important to us in diagnosing, and
you unintentionally misled me.'

4 How so 1 I believe I correctly described the
nature of the diseases which carried off my
people.'

Undoubtedly you believed so ; but it affords
me immense satisfaction to find that your information
on this vital point was singularly
inexact.'

1 Inexact V

1 In every particular. Not one feature of the
cases, as you related them, was correct

Aspen, still confident, shook his head, incredulous
of the physician's assertion, for he remembered

that the facts were of common notoriety
and comment when he was a boy.

You stated that your parents and brother and
sister all fell a prey to consumption V

< Yes.'

1 And your authority for that statement was,
probably, rumour.'

Everybody knew it.'

1 Is that all ! I generally find that what
everybody knows no one knows, for they will
all differ in their knowledge of the facts, for the
reason that each individual in imparting the
story adds a little garnish on his own account.
Now, it is with me a point of professional duty
never to accept hearsay evidence as final. I
must have it established by irrefutable proof.
And I feel sure that, when I produce that proof
to you, you will abandon the belief you have
nursed from boyhood on the faith of gossip.'

• I hope I shall always be open to conviction
whenever I am wrong,' replied Aspen, still confident
of his own accuracy.

For personal, no less than for professional
reasons, I desired to confirm or remove my

N 2

suspicions, and, having an old friend and fellow-student
practising in Bombay, I wrote out to
him shortly after our first interview, giving him
such information as I had gathered from you,
and instructing him to have made a careful
examination among the records as to the causes
of death of each member of your family. The
long interval since I wrote has not been wasted.
I have just received from him an exhaustive
report on all points, and I hope that the facts I
have in store for you will be as grateful to you
as they are to me.'

Aspen, who had by this time resumed his
habiliments, signified by his earnest and pleased
expression that he appreciated the physician's
extreme goodness in making investigations in
his interest.

This is the substance of the report,' continued
Dr. Eustace, opening the document. ' Your
father, Theodore Aspen, civil engineer, died at
Hyderabad on the 5th of September, 1865, of
aneurism of the aorta, brought on by overexertion
in the construction of a bridge at that
place. His age was forty-five. Mildred Aspen,
relict of the above-named, died at Bombay, on

the 13th of June, 1867, of diphtheria, aged thirty-eight.
Since the death of her husband, she
had suffered with melancholia, following an
attack of rheumatic fever. Jeffrey Aspen, son
of Theodore Aspen, died October 4th, 1867, of
inflammation of the lungs, brought on by
exposure in thin clothing on a cold night. He
was sixteen years of age. Celia Aspen, daughter
of Theodore Aspen, died at Bombay, December
1st, 1867, aged fifteen years. Her disease was
obscure, but the liver was enlarged and the
digestive organs impaired. There were, moreover,
latent tubercles on the lungs, but this had
no connection with her death. These extracts,'
continued Dr. Eustace, handing the document
to Aspen, 'are duly attested, and are therefore
absolutely reliable. Do you accept them as
such V

6 Dear sir,' replied Graham, with a deep
breath, as though a life-long burden had been
lifted from his mind, 'how shall I sufficiently
express my grateful sense of your wonderful
kindness to me in everyday? 1 accept it as
another benefit received at your hands, the
latest and perhaps the greatest.'

My investigations did not cease at this
point. They took another direction continued
Dr. Eustace, gazing with earnestness in Aspen's
face.

I am quite at a loss to conceive why you
should take such trouble on my account, Dr.
Eustace.'

If you remember, I told you, when you first
consulted me, that I felt a great interest in you,
and I added that some day I would tell you the
reason.'

I recollect it distinctly, for it struck me as
so improbable that I'm ashamed to say I viewed
it as an idle remark.'

I hope I don't often make idle remarks.'
rejoined the physician, with good humour, ' and
the time has arrived for me to justify that
speech. I think you told me you are without
a living relative V

6 It is so. I have survived them all.'

I Your parents had neither sisters nor brothers V

I I never heard of any.'

1 Sad. I can well conceive that, to a man of
your nature, the possession of relations, even
remote, would have been a source of happiness.'

The absence of any such bond has, I own,
embittered my life,' replied Graham, with a
decision that showed that he spoke as he felt.

'Do you know,' resumed Dr. Eustace, 'that
our lots in this particular are identical. I amin
the same position as yourself as regards kith
and kin.'

Indeed f

Would it interest you to hear my family
history V

Greatly.'

My father was in the navy, and fell a victim
to yellow fever on the Gold Coast in the year
1840, when I was twenty-two years of age.'

'Pardon my interrupting you,' said Aspen,
with an energy which rather startled the
physician. ' but I already find an extraordinary
analogy between our histories. That is precisely
the date and the circumstances of my
grandfathers death, who was, like your father,
in the Royal Navy.'

Singular,' was Dr. Eustace's reply, as he
continued : ' My mother was left with two
children, myself and a daughter, fourteen years
of age, but the shock of my father's death was

so crushing that within a few weeks we were
orphans. I was thus early left the sole protector
of that young girl, and I did my best
to discharge the duties which had devolved
upon me. My sister was remarkably beautiful,
and that, unhappily, led to a severance, and my
guardianship lasted barely three years, for Mildred
(that was her name) formed an attachment.'
Dr. Eustace glanced at Aspen, who
seemed to grow nervous and agitated as he
proceeded : ' And the attachment was one
which I, as her guardian, did not approve.
But Mildred had always been humoured, as
beautiful girls are wont to be, and, beyond her
fair face (I see it now ! pure in form, brilliant in
complexion), she was gifted with a singularly
sweet voice which captivated all hearers, and
that tended to make her wilful. She disregarded
my protests and married, in spite of
me, a Captain Sinclair.'

The physician again glanced at Aspen, whose
agitation became almost painful.

■ Captain Sinclair, unwilling to meet me,
compelled Mildred to terminate all intercourse
with me, and he took her to Calcutta, where he

joined his regiment. It was a great grief tome,
for I loved my sister tenderly — ay, tenderly
as a father, — and I endeavoured to re-open the
intimacy ; but I suppose Mildred was never
allowed to reply to my letters, for she never
wrote, and thus we became lost to one another.
T heard, incidentally, that Sinclair died of dysentery,
and I wrote to Mildred, but either my
letter miscarried or she resolved to maintain
her husband's injunctions, for no answer ever
reached me.'

Dr. Eustace kept an observant eye on his
visitor, and, accurately divining the intensity of
his feelings, remained silent to afford him an
opportunity of comment.

And Graham's attention was, in fact, too
much concentrated on his own thoughts and on
a startling conviction which burst upon him to
heed further speech at present. He already
began to view Dr. Eustace with different feelings.
There was a change in their positions.
Hitherto he had been to him a most valued and
respected medical adviser and friend, who had,
moreover, a title to his esteem as an artist of
no mean power. But now there burst upon

his imagination the possibility of a relationship
which had only existed in his dreams. Like a
vital force for long years pent up and numbed,
like a living organism touched by the genial
warmth of spring and aroused from liberation,
this new hope quivered into activity ; the
craving of an isolated heart for the accordant
thrill of kinship already caught a sympathetic
response. Either he was in presence of the
most extraordinary coincidence conceivable, or
his mother's brother (of whom he had never
heard) stood before him. Graham felt the momentousness
of the crisis — it might influence
his life. Should the flattering hope prove fallacious,
he could hardly find fortitude to bear
up against the disappointment. If, on the other
hand, his surmise should be justified, who could
foresee the effect upon a nature which had
hitherto shrunk, hermit-like, into itself for lack
of that congenial love which is born of affinity ?
The point must be cleared up at once; he could
not endure suspense. Stirring himself as for an
encounter, bracing himself for a great effort, he
said, turning to the physician, who was accurately
following the course of his reflections :

I believe it is in my power to take up the
history of your sister where it escaped you and
passed into the unknown.'

1 Is it possible V responded Dr. Eustace, feigning
surprise : for he had, as we know, long since
conjectured that the young artist was no other
than Mildred's son, but he desired that Graham
should have the pleasure of the discovery. ' Is
it really possible V

4 Your sister Mildred married again, and by
her second husband she had two sons and a
daughter, of wdiorn only one survives ; she has
been dead many years.'

< Ah !'

1 Yes ; and the name of her second husband
was — ' (Dr. Eustace could hear the beating of
Graham's heart) — ; was Aspen. The surviving
son is named Graham.'

The revelation was made, the claim put forward,
the challenge accepted. Would Dr. Eustace
respond loyally, generously, joyfully, as
Graham hoped ? It was a moment of exquisite
suspense for the young man, but it was only a
moment. The physician held out a hand, which
Graham grasped eagerly.

The discovery you have made, Graham, was
a suspicion in my mind the first time we met.
Later on, the suspicion became a moral conviction,
and the conviction received confirmation
when my letters arrived from Bombay. We
have each become enriched — at least, I feel soin
the discovery of a kinsman sent, as it were,
from the spirit-world.'

'If your pleasure is great,' replied Graham,
much moved, ' my joy is overwhelming. Happiness
comes upon me too fast ! A year ago I
was alone and aloof from all fellowship. Then
my faithful friend Jem crossed my path, and I had
hardly taken him to my heart when Mr. Clive
and you descended upon me as emissaries from
Heaven itself, to humanise me and show me
what goodness there is after all in man ; and
now, to crown all these surprises, I find myself
possessor of the one thing I desired, but which
Destiny seemed to have denied me, a surviving
relative.'

Dr. Eustace was more than gratified at the
reciprocity of sentiment shown by Graham in
this speech, and, in proof of his satisfaction, heat
once took him into his confidence :

1 I have made myself acquainted with your
history and present circumstances, Graham, and,
that I may not have an advantage, it is reasonable
you should be told, as a member of the
family, more about me.'

'Dear sir,' replied Graham, modestly, 'greatly
as everything concerning you will interest me,
I have no curiosity whatever as regards your
more personal affairs.'

4 1 am quite sure of that. But I think it will
serve to cement the friendship which will, I
hope, ripen into a sentiment conducing to the
happiness of both of us if I tell you that, after a
long life devoted to science, supplemented by
mv recreations in art in leisure hours, I find
myself in a position which the world calls
affluent. Now I have lived long enough to know
the secret of enjoying that which all men covet
wealth, namely, its just employment, and, as
Science and Art can both alike claim me as
their devotee, it is and has long been my desire
to apply my otherwise unprofitable accumulation
in promoting the interests of each. As regards
the cause of Science, I see my way pretty clearly
: it is my proper domain. But, as to Art, I

am but as a child on the sea-shore, snatching a
fearful joy in the margin of the waters into
which he has no strength to plunge. Your
advent, my dear Graham, is most opportune, and
I shall ask you to give me the benefit of your
knowledge, so that, while unable myself to take
a position in the honourable brotherhood of
artists to which you belong, I may yet assist recruits
to join the ranks, and thus help forward
the art-power which lies dormant in this country,
needing only a fostering hand to give it
.activity. But this we can discuss later on. I
will only say now that, if anything suggests
itself to you iu which my purse can be made
available in the cause I have indicated, I shall
esteem it a favour if you call upon me to make
good my professions. Can I do anything for
your estimable companion, Jem V

'In a pecuniary way, no replied Graham,
gently and appreciatively. ' Jem prefers to
enjoy the fruits of labour. He feels that, to bean
artist, he must preserve that independence
which belongs to those who earn the bread
they eat. Jem would feel humiliated by any

offer of assistance, however kindly and gracefully
made.'

Ah ! I recognise there the wholesome teaching,
the manly spirit of Jem's master,' exclaimed
Dr. Eustace, with admiration ; i and if I mistake
not he will be a worthy pupil in art as in
morals. When I asked the question, I meant it
to apply to Jem's paintings. I should like to
possess that admirable "interior," if he could
part with it.'

1 It is already sold.'

Really ? Who is the fortunate purchaser V

His mother, Mrs. Starkie.'

Dr. Eustace could hardly conceal the amusement
which the information afforded him, but
he hastened to recognise the propriety of a
transaction by which a mother enjoyed the firstfruits
of her child's genius.

There again I believe I see the controlling
hand of Jem's master and friend,' he replied,
looking at Aspen with an approving smile ; ' but
when the claims of maternity are quite satisfied
perhaps I may hope to secure a bit of Jem's. In
the meantime, my dear Graham, I have a still

greater demand to make upon you. As you
may know, I have never married, have never
tasted the joys of fatherhood, but I think I
should be near to that experience if you would
consider that you have a home here whenever
leisure permits and inclination leads your steps to
my door. And remember, Graham, I am not
offering you a refuge or conferring a benefit ;
I ask this of you as a favour, as a pleasure, asa
source of happiness to myself !'

The two men, the uncle and the nephew,
closed hands in a cordial grip which had loyalty
and affection in it. Neither spoke; Aspen's
heart was moved to its depths with gratitude,
while Dr. Eustace felt so flushed with unaccustomed
joy that speech was for the moment impossible,
and he hastily withdrew to an inner
room to indulge in the rare luxury of tears.

The next day Graham revisited Savile Row,
conveying thither with excessive, care a picture
wrapped in a covering, and which he placed on
a chair in his uncle's den. When Dr. Eustace,
who was absent, returned, he found a letter
thus worded :

You have already discovered in my ideal the

face ot your sister Mildred, my beloved mother,
painted from the image of her in my heart under
the spell of a voice which recalled hers. The
study which I refused to sell to you as a
stranger, I feel both, pride and pleasure in offering
for your acceptance, not only as my mother's
brother, but also in recognition of your great
goodness to me. You will, I am sure, value it
not only in memory of her whose features it recalls,
but also of her son, should your first
estimate of the span of life in store for him
prove prophetic !'

VOL. II. O

CHAPTER X.

THE 'AT HOME.'

< That's capital !' cried Ethel Clive, as she and
Lena concluded the duet they had been assiduously
rehearsing in preparation for a musical * at
home ' for which Ethel had issued invitations ;
grand ! Why, it will bring down the house,
Lena, and Herr Stomper will simply go frantic
with delight V

Lena smiled at her friend's enthusiasm,
though she did not share it. To gratify Ethel,
whom she loved as a sister, she had persevered
with extraordinary zeal, and had so mastered
the nice fingering of the violin as to justify the
expectation so hopefully entertained by her
companion and the pride evinced by her master.

Had she followed the dictates of nature, she
would have laid the instrument aside for awhile,
if not altogether, notwithstanding her devotion
to the art, for it involved a strain upon her
mental and physical powers which at times she
felt hardly able to bear. Every serious effort
now made in study was followed by prostration.
Lassitude was the penalty of exertion ; but for
Ethel's sake the penalty was freely paid ; for
Ethel's sake the prostration was concealed. It
is true the keen eye of Mr. Give detected with
the anxiety of a father the lessening roundness
of contour and lustre of complexion ; but Lena
always met his inquiries with a cheerful and reassuring
response, until he believed his apprehensions
were groundless. Dr. Eustace, when
visiting the house, had not failed to note unsatisfactory
symptoms, and he had given her
friendly cautions as to clothing, diet, rest, exposure
to certain conditions of atmosphere, and
exercise. But Lena, regardless of self, entered
keenly into all Ethel's projects, joining in her
expeditions and assisting in her gaieties at the
inevitable price of a further forfeiture of her
waning strength.

o2

The concert had been arranged by Mr. Clive
and Ethel, partly to afford Lena some diversion
and partly to gratify many friends with an exhibition
of the great progress the girls had
made with the difficult instrument they had
taken up. Among the invited guests were the
Herr, of course, Mrs. and Miss Tierney, Dr.
Eustace, Aspen, and Jem Starkie, and the
entertainment was looked forward to with great
interest, though Lena in her heart dreaded an
ordeal which she felt would tax her scant store
of strength grievously. Mr. Clive, too, was not
altogether free from anxiety. He had marked a
failure of energy which the young girl, to avoid
giving pain to her friends, had endeavoured to
conceal, and he at one moment suggested that
the proposed gathering should be adjourned on
Lena's account ; but Ethel had set her heart
upon it, and Lena, with her habitual devotion,
could see no reason for postponement, and gave
her vigorous support to Ethel's wish for the
arrangement to stand. Mr. Clive, therefore,
gave way.

Graham Aspen and Jem drove to Regent's
Park with Dr. Eustace, and when they arrived

the company were assembled and the brilliantly-lighted
rooms were thronged. At the end of
the drawing-room was raised a dais on which
were arranged che pianoforte and other needful
accessories for the use of the performers,
one of whom was in evidence, the concert
having already commenced. The gentleman,
Mr. Vamp, was reciting the tragic episode of a
shipwreck as narrated by an ancient mariner
who views it from the rock-bound coast. The
tempest rages ; the thunders crash ; the billows
foam ; the timbers creak, and the riven sails are
earned away. The gifted Mr. Vamp unfolds
the dire catastrophe with increasing vehemence.
With his raven locks thrown back, his eyes rolling
in fine frenzy, his voice hoarse in its vain
contest with the howling winds, the ancient
mariner simulates the shouts of the officers and
cries of the doomed crew as an avalanche of
water sweeps men and gear and cargo into the
angry waves. The young ladies among the
company sigh distressfully ; the elder ladies
wipe their tearful eyes ; the wall-flowers purse
their brows, envious of the dramatic power possessed
by Mr. Vamp, as, with outstretched arms

and a wail of agony, the ancient mariner,
descrying through the spray and the wreckage
a fellow-creature battling with the merciless
breakers, plunges from the rock into the foam
and drags him to shore. More tears, more sighs,
more envious frowns among the breathless
auditory. The manner of the gifted Mr. Vamp
now changed, for the ancient mariner tells, in
accents of tender emotion, how he carries the
moribund sailor to his cabin and chafes him
back to life, and how, the tempest being spent
and the fury of the winds abated, he leads the
resuscitated youth from the dark cabin into the
light of day, and, ah ! his features recall those of
his only boy who was carried off by a press-gang
and had died at Trafalgar, fighting his
country's battles. The boy speaks ; his voice
thrills the ancient mariner ; he gives his name —
Each ; the ancient mariner starts; he says he had a
father once ; the ancient mariner is now convinced.
He confronts the young man, views him from
his boots to his crown ; he recognises him by his
blue eyes — so like his mother's ! — and a tattoo-mark
on his wrist. ' Yes, yes — it is^-it is my
long-lost son V and Mr. Vamp, with a low

obeisance in response to acclamations, retires
from the stage. The old ladies dry their tears ;
the younger ones breathe freely again, and the
wall-flowers caress their mustachios, each
thankful for the happy anti-climax, and forgetting
all about the captain, crew, and passengers
in the ill-fated vessel who were not long-lost
sons, with blue eyes — so like their mother's ! —
and who did not providentially return in a
tempest to bless the latter days of ancient
manners.

Jem, who had never witnessed anything of
the kind before, was amazingly struck with the
performance, and made rapid and droll sketches
on the back of his programme of Mr. Vamp,
which he negligently threw aside, and which,
falling into critical hands, were highly relished,
being handed about among the envious wallflowers,
and even exhibited to Mr. Vamp himself,
to the dismay of the peccant Jem, who, in
the estimation of the envious wall-flowers,
became as great a hero as the hero he had
depicted, while by Mr. Vamp he was viewed
with mortal hatred and contempt.

The next event in the programme was a

performance in dumb show by another amateur.
I get my living by jugglery said a
fair, agile gentleman, as he mounted the dais,
and, buttoning his coat across his chest and
tying a silk handkerchief round his head, he was
at once transformed into the mountebank he
personated. He began by clearing a space
among the spectators with an imaginary rope,
and laid his hat on the ground for anticipated
coppers. He then drew attention to his biceps,
smote his broad chest, and gave evidence of the
possession of herculean strength. He proceeded
to lift from the ground an imaginary cannon-ball
of at least ninety pounds, which he rolled with
the greatest ease over his massive biceps, up
and down his arm, round his shoulders on to
the other biceps, and along his forearm to the
tips of his fingers, when it fell to the ground
with an imaginary crash as he proudly acknowledged
the imaginary plaudits of the mob.

His next feat was an imaginary plate with an
equally imaginary wand. Flinging the plate
high in the air, he adroitly caught it on the
point of his wand, and spun it round with extraordinary
dexterity and velocity, resting the

wand now on his finger, now on his chin, and
now in the corner of his eye, the whirling plate
maintaining its speed. Once it seemed that a
catastrophe was imminent, — the imaginary plate
threatened to lose its equilibrium. It was an
agonising moment for the juggler ; his features
became horribly contorted; he swayed hither
and thither in the desperate effort to maintain
the perpendicularity of the imaginary wand,
in another moment it will be down ! — but, no,
with a supreme effort he recovers the upright
position, the plate spins again merrily until the
acrobat, removing the imaginary wand from its
resting-place in the corner of his eye, terminates
the difficult feat by lightly catching the imaginary
plate in his hand, and, with his face radiant
with pride and satisfaction, he bows in acknowledgment
of the thundering applause (imaginary)
of the populace. To perform the next and final
act, he is obliged again to have recourse to the
rope-end to drive back the encroaching mob.
Taking up one by one several imaginary balls,
they are played hand-overland with faultless
precision, sometimes they are thrown up backwards
or from under his legs and apparently in

j

hopeless confusion, but, wherever a ball is falling,
there a hand is ready to receive it and return it
into space ; the acrobat following its motion
with unerring eyes. This successfully accomplished,
he lays aside all the imaginary balls
but one, and, tying round his forehead an imaginary
cup, he flings the ball several hundred
feet into the air, and focusses the imaginary cup
to receive the falling ball. It w r as a moment of
tremendous suspense ; if the ball should deviate
tin eighth of an inch from the exact centre the
performer must inevitably lose an eye, if, indeed,
he does not get his skull fractured. But no, he
is infallible ! With a supposititious thud, the
imaginary ball plumps into the imaginary cup,
and the triumphant artist, radiant with his
success, bows again and again in response to
the imaginary acclamations of the multitude.
The verisimilitude of the business is completed
by the acrobat picking up his cap and handing
it round for the coppers. And here Mr. Clive's
guests showed such high appreciation of the
amateur's personation that shillings and half-crowns
were showered on to the dais from all
sides, whereupon the acrobat, snatching off his

fillet and turning down the lappets of his coat,
reappeared in his normal character of a gentleman
in evening-dress, and, gathering together the
handsome proceeds of the contribution, he gracefully
slid the coins into a collecting-box for
charitable purposes which Miss Olive kept in a
corner of the room, and regained his seat amid
the plaudits (no longer imaginary) of the delighted
company.

Jem, obeying an inveterate instinct, had made
some spirited sketches on the back of a second
programme, which was eagerly pounced upon
by the wall-flowers, and so great was the
competition for its possession that one of them
conceived the brilliant idea of offering to purchase
it :

• Ha, haw, my dear sellar, take a sov. for

itr

Yes,' said Jem, without hesitation ; and the
luminous wall-flower handed Jem the coin which
he felt no little pride in at once slipping into
Ethel's collecting-box.

Mr. Clive, making his way to Aspen, asked
to be allowed to introduce him to Miss Lipperty,
whose acquaintance he had already made, with

a view to his taking her down to the ices. The
act on Mr. Olive's part was premeditated. He had
noticed that, in his hours of professional occupation,
Aspen had neglected those little amenities
which are the lubricants of social life, and, as he
felt sure that Lena found more than common
pleasure in his society, he wished to afford him
an opportunity of atoning for an apparent slight
which he well knew was alone due to his
absorption in his art.

Graham saluted Lena with the courtesy due
both to his host and herself, and, offering his
arm, performed the enviable function with perfect
grace. The fact of partaking food together
places persons on a common footing at
once ; familiarity is admitted, and conventionality
laid aside ; and Lena found in the conversation
of the young artist all the charm with
which her imagination had invested him. In
withdrawing from the dining-room, the conservatory
(illumined with lanterns of many
devices and fairy-lamps scattered among the
plants) invited exploration, and Graham led the
not unwilling girl into it. The soft plash of a
fountain ; the gurgling of a tiny waterfall over

masses of toff, and among ferns and grasses ;
the cooing of doves, and the activity of birds
in the aviary, all combined to lend enchantment
to the fragrant retreat.

Placing Lena in a rustic chair, he took a seat
by her side.

I see, by the programme,' he said, looking
into her face, 'that we are to be favoured with
an example of your skill on the violin V

Yes,' replied Lena, ' Ethel and I are to playa
duet. Mr. Clive wishes it, but I rather dread
the ordeal.'

'Why so V

I don't know how I shall bear the presence
of such a company.'

'I can quite understand that feeling. It is
natural ; it is becoming. But you must dismiss
it. Forget that there are eyes and ears in the
room. Concentrate every faculty on the score,
see nothing else ; be conscious of nothing
else, and you will be as secluded as in your
own room''

It is excellent advice,' replied Lena, smiling,
1 and I will endeavour to act upon it.'

That is right. It is possible to isolate one's-self

in a crowd. It is a matter of resolution,
and, unless I am greatly mistaken in you, you
possess resolution in no common degree

Lena felt encouraged. The advice was grateful
and opportune, and, coming from Aspen,
sank deep. That brief interchange of thoughts,
how fraught with happiness it seemed, as she
dwelt upon it afterwards! The earnest, expressive
eyes of the young artist fixed upon her
in the soft light of that quiet seclusion, how
they won her from all else ! Too brief the joy !
Too like the unreality of a dream was the
momentary felicity !

Are you fond of flowers V he asked.

Oh, yes,' she replied, dreamily.

Graham culled a white moss-rose.

1 This is as beautiful as it is uncommon. May
I present it to you V

Lena's thanks were scarcely audible, but
Graham might have heard the beating of her
heart, as he offered his arm, and conducted
her to the saloon.

Herr Stomper was in great feather. A grand
advertisement of his system was about to be
presented. It was known that he turned out

nothing but phenomenons, and Fraulein Lip-party,
he assured everybody, ' surpass zem all.'
Ethel was growing anxious at Lena's prolonged
absence, as the moment was drawing near for
their duet. A song of unusual excellence had
drawn the company from other parts of the
house, and the room was now thronged. Dr.
Eustace, Aspen, and Jem were together, awaiting
with anticipation the joint performance, as
Mr. Olive led his daughter and Lena on to the
dais.

Ethel commenced. With confidence, delicacy,
and skill, she ran over the opening bar up to
the point where the second violin joins.

Now you sail see !' whispered the Herr to
those about him, his white waistcoat expanding
with proud anticipation. • Listen !' and, in the
perfect silence, Lena drew the bow across the
strings as Ethel paused. But, in place of the
soft chord expected, a harsh, tentative sound
grated on the ear. Ethel proceeded. Lena
again plied the bow, and the curious audience
listened for the masterful notes which were
coming. Strange ! the only audible sound was
that evoked from Ethel's instrument, marred,

however, again and again by tuneless sounds
from her companion's.

Lena's eves were fixed on the score before
her, but she saw nothing. She repeated to herself
Aspen's advice to give herself up absolutely
to her task ; but, alas ! Aspen's words, Aspen's
earnest face haunted her ; the glamour of those
few moments in the conservatory dulled her
senses to all else, — she was under a spell with
which it was vain to contend — the soft voice,
the plashing water, the cooing doves, the perfumed
air had intoxicated her — she was lost.
Ethel, with wonderful nerve, endeavoured to
conceal the situation, and played vigorously,
whispering, ' Lena ! Lena !' But poor Lena was
dazed. Her brain, enfeebled by a subtle and
insidious disease, and over-wrought by too
great devotion to study, failed her at the
critical moment, and suddenly becoming conscious
of the painful dilemma, and being
overwhelmed with confusion, her arms fell to
her sides, and had it not been for the prompt
assistance of Mr. Clive, who was close at hand,
the stricken violinist must have sunk to the
floor.

The tragic catastrophe caused veritable consternation.
Herr Stomper was beside himself.
Aspen and Jem were paralysed. Dr. Eustace
was instantly at Lena's side administering
restoratives, and in a few minutes he was able
to allay the anxiety of the company by stating
that it was only a passing ailment, due in a
great measure to the excitement of the occasion
acting upon a nervous temperament.

The other performers judiciously aided in
dissipating the disquietude which prevailed,
and the concert proceeded, the only guest
present who refused to be comforted being
Herr Stomper, whose favourite phenomenon, on
whom his hopes of a splendid advertisement of
his system had rested, failed so grievously.
Glees, madrigals and recitals, flute and harp,
succeeded each other, until a song without accompaniment,
by Miss Tierney, was reached.

Aspen was examining a folio of engravings
with Dr. Eustace and Jem when Miss Tierney
was led on to the dais. As the first words of
the song reached him he stood with suspended
breath, and when he heard the fuller notes he
started like one under magnetic influence, —
VOL. II. P

power of speech or action seemed gone from
him. The song was old and familiar to everyone,
bnt the voice of the singer was wonderfully
sweet and tender. With rare modulation and
pathos Miss Tierney thrilled the company with
the simple air of ' Auld Robin Gray,' and, as she
ceased, perfect stillness prevailed for a moment,
and then a burst of applause rent the air. Aspen
seemed unable to turn his eyes in the direction
of the singer, so rapt he seemed, so strongly
impressed.

That voice !' he said to Dr. Eustace, ' did
you recognise it I And the song.'

< It recalls Mildred's.'

Yes, it is my mother's.'

'It is Sister Hester,' whispered Jem, leaning
across to Graham ; * Sister Hester whom
you painted by the dead tree.'

Graham turned at the announcement, and, to
his surprise, recognised his sitter, as Jem had
stated. He interrogated Dr. Eustace by a
gesture.

'Miss Hester Tierney, daughter of an old
friend and patient, has joined the nursing
sisterhood rejoined the physician. 'It was

she whom you saw with Nurse Beaver at Flinders.
She devotes herself to that noble
service.'

4 But the voice !' urged Graham, eagerly, 'the
voice !'

1 Is singularly sweet.'

Had it not been for such a voice, singing
that song — my mother's song, — at the instant of
my great temptation, I should not have been a
living man to-day.' After a few moments' reflection
he resumed : ' Will you introduce me ?
I must speak to that girl.'

Dr. Eustace, greatly surprised, acceded to
Graham's request. His strange statement needed
explanation. But this was neither the time nor
the place to ask for it. Making his way to
where .Airs. Tierney and Hester were sitting, he
presented his nephew to them.

Mr. Aspen is not quite a stranger to your
daughter,' he said, after the formal introduction.

Xo,' replied Mrs. Tierney, ' Hester has told
me all about their interesting meeting in the
neighbourhood of Flinders, where Beaver and
she had been nursing at the death-bed of a
sweet child.'

p 2

Graham was too well disciplined to give
evidence of the strong feeling which stirred
him, and fell, with the best grace possible, into
conversation on the topics of the evening. He
made no allusion to Hester's song.

We were so pained,' said Mrs. Tierney, addressing
Dr. Eustace, i at poor Miss Lipperty's
breakdown. Hester desired to go to her assistance,
but as you and Miss Clive were there she
felt her services were not needed.'

Miss Lena needs only rest. To one of her
sensibility the ordeal of this evening was, 1
must admit, greatly trying, though, had her
health been satisfactory, she would, no doubt,
have accomplished her task.'

'Poor girl, she looks ill.'

Dr. Eustace made no reply, but by his
significant glance Mrs. Tierney understood that
he took a serious view of Lena's case, and as
she was much interested in her she thought it
probable that the physician might enlighten
her further in confidence ; she therefore said :

May I ask you, doctor, to take me down to a
cup of coffee?'

The doctor offered ten thousand apologies

for his negligence in not soliciting the pleasure.

• And I dare say Mr. Aspen will favour Hester
by giving her his arm V she continued, turning
to the young artist, who at that moment felt
ready to make any sacrifice in the world for
that very privilege.

I fear mamma is presuming upon your slight
knowledge of me, Mr. Aspen,' ventured Hester
as they descended the stairs.

Your mamma must possess the power of
divining one's thoughts, for she has granted mea
pleasure I scarcely dared to ask !'

Evidently it was Aspen's fate that evening to
make startling remarks. He had astonished
Dr. Eustace a few minutes before. It was now
Hester's turn to be surprised. Surely he is nota
man to deal in idle phrases and persiflage 1
she reflected. He is not a man to indulge in
hollow compliments and meaningless professions?

'But we are nearly strangers to one another,'
she contended, in tones of gentle rebuke which
invited reply.

We are not quite such strangers as you
imagine,' was Aspen's ambiguous answer, as they
entered the dining-room. Another startling

assertion for Hester to cogitate upon as she
sipped her coffee !

Aspen, whether by accident or design, subsequently
led Miss Tierney towards the conservatory,
the picturesqueness of which elicited
her admiring exclamations.

6 You would like to stroll round it V enquired
Aspen.

Very much indeed.'

Did Aspen feel a momentary qualm of conscience
as he remembered the brief but agreeable
tete-astute he had enjoyed with Lena barely
an hour ago in the same spot % Was he
conscious of treachery to the maiden into whose
rapt soul he had poured such earnest, cheering
words at the moment of her misgiving? Did
he know that his courtesy and kindness had so
filled her brain with a sweet delirium that
disaster instead of success resulted ! No ;
Graham had not the faintest idea of these
things. He had acted as became a gallant
cavalier, and Lena's inexplicable failure pained
him as it pained everyone else present. But
now quite a different sentiment actuated him.

New, unsuspected activities stirred within him.
His heart, which had seemed responsive to
Sister Hester, leaned irresistibly towards Hester
Tierney.

Aspen placed her in the seat occupied by
Lena, in the leafy nook amid the soothing
sounds of plashing water and cooing doves,
and the soft light of lanterns and fairy lamps.

I surprised you just now,' said Graham,
taking a seat by Hester's side, ' by asserting,
perhaps too abruptly and too confidently, that
we are not quite such strangers to each other
as you supposed.'

'I must own that I was rather surprised,'
replied Hester, with humour.

1 It was an assumption of mine based upon a
conviction that, as there are no two faces identical,
so there cannot be two voices quite the
same. My dear mother had a most sweet voice,
and one song in particular she sang with exquisite
tenderness. A year or more ago I heard
the same song in the New Forest sung by a
voice wonderfully like my mother's. It reached
me like a voice from the realm of spirits, recalling

GRAHAM ASPEN, PAINTER.

ing me to reason at a moment of terrible temptation.
It saved me ! To-night I have heard
a voice which I believe to be the same singing
the same song, " Auld Robin Gray."

Hester enquired the date of his visit to the
New Forest, which Graham gave accurately.

It is the same voice,' replied Hester, deeply
moved, as she remembered the corresponding
date of her visit with her mother to that
place.

4 How visible is the controlling hand of Providence
!' exclaimed Graham. ' If I tell you,
Miss Tierney, that you have been an influence
in my life from that hour to this, I shall hardly
do you justice. You have been more. Unconsciously
to both of us, you have called into
existence a healthier tone of mind. When 1
first heard the voice which took me back to my
early youth, I conjured you in my imagination,
not as I rejoice to see you, but as one hardly
less fair, and that ideal has been to me a solace
and companion and a power for good. If Ave
never meet again, I shall be the richer for tonight's
revelation, and I shall carry to the

grave, not the face I bad conceived, but the
face I now behold.'

Graham's utterance was choked by emotion,
and almost unconsciously he took Hester's hand,
and their eyes met.

He rose, for he felt he had presumed upon
his opportunity ; and, as Hester also rose and
took his proffered arm, she said, with a hardihood
which surprised her as she remembered
the event afterwards,

Why must we never meet again?'

Upon this hint he spake :

'May I be permitted some day to divulge
still further the influence which, unknown to
you, you have exercised over me since that
day, and again since we met in the field at
Flinders V

Yes,' was the response which reached his
enraptured ears as she lingered to gather a
spray of mignonette.

'Perhaps I may venture to call upon you?'
he added, with bated breath.

Mamma will invite you to visit us,' replied
Hester, as they re-entered the concert-room.

The keen eye of the physician rightly divined
by Aspen's beaming countenance that the ideal
face pictured on the canvas had been ousted
from its shrine in his heart by a real face and a
living soul as loyal and as pure as his own, and
he rejoiced that it was so.

The no less observant eye of Mrs. Tierney
detected in Hester's face a smile of contentment
which satisfied her that, in requesting the graceful
artist to offer her his arm, she had not displeased
her daughter.

CHAPTER XL

THE LAST WISH.

Dr. Eustace repaired the following clay to
Regent's Park, led thither by personal no less
than by professional anxiety as to the condition
of the young girl who had failed so sadly at a
moment of hopeful expectancy, and who had
already won his kindliest sympathy both on
account of her manifest frailty of constitution,
and also for her bright disposition and gentle
nature. When his carriage drew up, Ethel
hastened to meet him, and led the way to the
dining-room. She answered his inquiries by
stating that Lena had passed a restless night
and had wandered.

That is to be expected in her weak condition,'

he explained. ' Was she quite incoherent V

No ; she seemed under the impression that
her mother had reproached her for playing the
violin before the public, and had finally expelled
her from her home, and that she had sought
shelter with Mrs. Sparragus ; but that unhappy
woman was as homeless as herself, and reduced
to destitution, and then, as I gathered from her
sobs, they tramped the streets together, and
were nearly run over, when a young man
snatched them from destruction, and she awoke
with a delirious cry.'

'I see the association of ideas remarked
Dr. Eustace ; £ did she comment upon her
dream?'

6 1 asked why she screamed, she said she could
only remember that some one took her in his
strong arms and she felt safe.'

'Has she referred to the concert V

6 She only enquired about Hester Tierney's
song, and whether Mr. Aspen liked it.'

6 And, of course, you told her he did V

6 Yes ; and she was pleased to hear that he
took her down to coffee. And she wanted to
know whether they visited the conservatory, —

wasn't that singular, because, von know, they
did, and remained there a long time V

And you naturally told her so V

i Oh yes, and she smiled and said no more,
and fell asleep.'

Dr. Eustace entered the bed-room. He found
the patient tranquil and endeavouring to fix her
attention on a book. A glance satisfied the
expert that last night's disaster, followed by a
disturbing dream, had already told upon her.
Her face was white and transparent as wax,
while a bright spot of colour on either cheek
betrayed a sad truth. Her thin hand, pencilled
with blue veins, lying on the coverlet, confirmed
the fatal sign. Already the contour of her face
and bust had lost its roundness, and the fitful
cough, deep, hollow, convulsive, left no hope
that youth would triumph in the end.

With his accustomed kindness, Dr. Eustace
interested Lena by referring to the topics of the
day, cheering her with vivacious remarks and
anecdotes while attentively observing the indications
of her disease. Without disturbing her or
interrupting the thread of his conversation, he
placed his head against her bosom and then

between her shoulders. A moment sufficed to
inform him on the subject of his investigations,
and his lively sallies and encouraging comments
flowed on as before.

1 1 think we must give Miss Lena a nurse to
look after her little comforts,' he said, smiling at
the sufferer. ' We mustn't allow Miss Clive to
knock herself up.'

Oh, she is so good to me, Dr. Eustace, so
very, very good.'

'My dear child,' said Ethel, kissing her, * it
is a real happiness to me to be of use to
you.'

4 1 know it, Ethel ; you and your father are
ruining me !' replied Lena, admonishingly.

That's why I think we had better have an
experienced nurse who won't ruin her, you
know,' interposed the physician, addressing
Ethel. * It always disturbs an invalid to think
she is taxing a friend, however willing that
friend may be. What does Miss Lena herself
say V

6 1 should wish to have a nurse.'

That's right and sensible. Now, if you have
-a preference for anyone, Miss Lena, pray tellus.

It is always best for a patient to have the
nurse of his or her choice. There is Mrs.
Beaver

Lena was silent for some minutes, she was
considering the point and formulating her
decision.

Let Hester Tierney come,' she said, and relapsed
into meditation without stating her
reasons for the preference.

Dr. Eustace entirely concurred in Lena's
choice, and it was at once decided that Hester
Tierney should undertake as soon as possible
the duties for which she was pre-eminently
qualified.

On descending the stairs, the physician found
Mr. Olive awaiting him, and he followed him
into the dining-room, closing the door behind
him.

• My dear Eustace, tell me exactly what state
you find our poor child in,' said Mr. Clive, with
great solicitude ; ' is she better V

Dr. Eustace shrugged his shoulders and replied,
sorrowfully,

She will never be better,'

Mr. Clive was deeply shocked. He desired

the physician to be seated, and took a chair by
his side.

Tell me everything,' he said, in a subdued
voice.

I grieve to say the left lung is gone ; the
right one is highly congested.'

But you do not forbid us to hope V urged
Mr. Clive, pathetically.

4 What have I just told you? Can you find
hope in what I said ? Listen to that cough, —
note how hollow and deep it is. Hark ! That
is the answer to your question.'

Mr. Clive buried his face in his hands.

My poor, fatherless, motherless child ! So
bright, so pure-minded, so gentle ! We had
such hope in her, we loved her, Ethel and I, as
though she belonged to us !'

1 It is an inscrutable mystery, Clive, that the
precious should be so often taken just when
their lives seem to promise so much,' argued
the physician, solemnly, ' but we see it everyday.'


Do you think the poor girl is conscious of
her state V

6 1 believe she is, for she seems often lost in

meditation. I think, Clive, her friends should
be warned.'

Friends ! The poor child has none. But
do you mean to suggest, Eustace, that her end
is near V

1 She cannot live many weeks.'

Dr. Eustace left Mr. Clive fairly unmanned ;
he loved Lena as his own child, and the
prospect of losing her so soon was a bitter
grief. Fortunately his busy life afforded him
many distractions from this domestic sorrow,
and a few minutes after Dr. Eustace's departure
another visitor was announced. It was Lapwing,
who was immediately admitted and

closeted with him in his private room.

Sister Hester arrived at the house within a

few hours, and relieved Ethel, who had kept
unwearied watch at the bedside of her friend
ever since her attack. Hester and Lena had
met but rarely ; nevertheless, they esteemed one
another sincerely, for they were of an age, and
there was a greater identity of disposition between
them than between Lena and Miss
Clive, though these latter were deeply attached
to one another, and Miss Clive ceded her place
vol. ir. Q

with great reluctance and only on the stipulation
that she should spend half a day in the
sick-room occasionally, to enable Hester to
obtain necessary change and rest.

Lena with great interest watched Hester as
she busied herself in the numberless little
offices which go to alleviate the irksome and
painful hours of sickness, and she observed that
again and again she stood rapt before the painting
of the ' Queen of the Glen ' which hung on
the wall, and the circumstance seemed to be a
gratification to the sufferer, who remembered
that her friend Ethel rarely noticed it, and she
one day challenged Hester on the subject.

You seem to like that painting, Hester V

It is lovely.'

Do you know who painted it V

1 1 see Graham Aspen's name on it,' replied
Hester, colouring slightly.

What is your opinion of that gentleman V

Hester was rather taken aback by the abruptness
and nature of the question ; but she replied,
with perfect candour :

I think him a very able artist and a goodman.'


1 I am glad you think so well of him. I wish
you to do so.'

It was a strange remark for the sick girl to
make, and Hester betrayed surprise, which
Lena noticed.

I Some day I will explain myself, but I do
not feel quite able to-day,' she said, and closed
her eyes as though seeking sleep. Presently
she resumed : 'Not to-day — not to-day.'

Another long pause ensued, while Hester,
noiselessly moving about, ministered to her
comforts. At length Lena continued :

I I have heard from Ethel such an account
of your song at oar concert the other night,
Hester, that I long to hear it. Would you
sing it to me V

1 My dear Lena, I will do anything that can
afford you pleasure,' and Hester stood at
the foot of the bed and at once complied
with the poor sufferer's request, singing ' Auld
Robin Gray ' with her accustomed sweetness
and pathos.

Thank you, I can now understand all Ethel
told me,' said Lena, much moved.

Q 2

What can Ethel have told you V inquired
Hester, whose curiosity was excited.

That Graham Aspen was quite affected by
your voice.'

'Indeed!'

'Did he not tell you so when you strolled
together into the conservatory?'

There was neither bitterness nor sarcasm in
this question. The words came to Lena's lips,
and she spoke with her usual confidence and
candour.

Yes,' answered Hester, with equal frankness ;
he said the song recalled his mother.'

1 If you did that, you enjoyed a most precious
privilege, and it ought to have made you happy,
Hester.'

< It did.'

Lena made no further remark at the time,
but Hester noticed that she again relapsed into
the mood of thought which had been her habit
of late, and sometimes a tear would trickle down
her cheek, giving evidence of a great mental
disturbance, when Hester would endeavour to
win her back to her more natural state of tranquillity
by reading some book of her choice.

Mr. Clive and Ethel were frequent visitors in
the sick chamber, and they always quitted it
much comforted and reassured, for Lena received
them with a placid joy which illumined her face
and gave them a delusive hope that possibly
Dr. Eustace might have erred in his diagnosis
of her case.

Would you wish me to invite Mrs. Lipperty
to visit you V inquired Mr. Clive, on one occasion,
feeling it a duty not to allow her relatives
to remain in ignorance of the precarious state of
her health.

If you think she ought to be informed that
I — I — am ill, do so. But I don't know how I
shall be able to bear her reproofs and exhortations
now !' was Lena's sorrowful reply, and it
decided Mr. Clive at once.

Perhaps we had better wait, dear Lena,
till you are — strong again V he inquired,
pitifully.

8 Yes, yes ;' and the sick girl closing her eyes
was sufficient intimation that she was unequal
to further conversation, and he withdrew.

Hester dear,' she said, one day, reviving
somewhat after much suffering and great prostration,

' come and sit by me ; I wish to speak
to you while I have the power.'

Hester hurried to her side.

Come close. 1 can't speak very loud to-day.
You know, dear, as well as I do, and Dr. Eustace,
that I shall not be a burden to my good,
generous friends here much longer, — don't weep,
dear, it will be so much better for me and for
everybody when — when — it comes.'

Hester held Lena's hand, upon which the
tears fell fast as she hung over the sufferer.

4 1 have a secret which I intended to carry
with me to the grave, dear friend, but I have
been thinking that, if I confide it to you, I shall
feel happier, and you may some day be happier
too for the knowledge.'

Hester folded the poor girl in her gentle arms
and kissed her. Lena responded to the kiss
passionately.

'From what Ethel has told me, Mr. Aspen
has given evidence of a feeling towards you
which he has never shown to anyone, and you
evinced no displeasure. This is an immense
comfort to me ; for, Hester, I love that man.'

Hester unconsciously manifested surprise.

1 You are naturally astonished at my daring
to love a man who has never permitted himself
to have a thought about me, and whom I have
seen but rarely. You must not blame me,
Hester,' she continued, after a pause, turning
appealingly to the devoted girl, in whose arms
she felt sheltered, ' I never meant him to know
it, nobody could even suspect it by my manner,
but I loved him for his fine character, his unselfishness,
his courage, and his poverty. And now,
dear, I have an entreaty to make to you.'

Lena rested a few minutes and tasted a
refreshing and sustaining draught which Hester
handed her.

1 Words spoken on a death-bed are solemn
and sacred, and what I wish to say is not in
idleness. If you would be a happy woman,
Hester, give him encouragement when he
approaches you. Take him to your heart ; share
the noble purpose of his life, to guide, to encourage,
to help, and happiness such as I have
dared to dream of will be yours.'

Lena, exhausted with the effort, sank on to
her pillow, but, though weak and emaciated,
she was in no way depressed. On the contrary,

she seemed as if a burden had been thrown off
her mind, and, while Hester sobbed distressfully,
she was serene and even bright.

1 1 do not wish to speak of this again, Hester.
It is done with. I feel happier, and I can now
give all my thoughts to other things. But, incase
I may not always be able to collect my ideas,
there is one last service I wish to ask, dear.'

Hester pressed her hand in token of assent,
for she could not speak.

In that box on my table you will find a
white moss-rose. It is withered already. I
should like it placed on my bosom when '

Lena did not complete the sentence, but it
was needless. Hester comprehended her thought,
and the girls could only surrender themselves
to the exquisite relief of tears as they clung to
one another in an embrace of tender affection.

A few days before her spirit took flight, Lena
asked Hester for pen, ink, and paper, saying,

I have but one possession, dear, beyond my
little income which dies with me, and that is
the precious picture facing me, given me by
good Mr. Olive on my last birthday. It is for
you, dear, and I must make my little will.'

Whereupon she wrote with a feeble hand her
wish in a few words, signing the paper.

It was her last act and deed. Within a few
hours a messenger arrived at Saville Row,
summoning Dr. Eustace. When he arrived
Lena was beyond human aid. Hester and
Ethel stood beside the bed, each holding the
hand she extended to them, while Mr. Clive
supported her in his arms. Her face was turned
to Hester, her eyes fixed upon hers with a smile
of perfect peace and happiness and trust as she
drew her last breath. It was only by her closing
eyelids and the dull weight of the poor, wasted
body that they knew she had passed to her last
sleep.

On the day of the funeral, after the body had
been lowered into the grave and the mourners
had departed, a young man, who had lingered
behind, stepped to the grave-side and scattered
upon the coffin the contents of a basket of flowers
he had in his hand. It was the last tribute of
respect and esteem offered to the memory of the
dead. The man was Graham Aspen.

CHAPTER XII.

JEM'S first pupil

Jem Starkie was as welcome a visitor at Saville
Row as Graham Aspen himself, for the acute
physician was not slow to discern in him as
strong and natural a feeling for art as that
evinced by his nephew ; consequently, his
treasures of engravings and paintings were
always accessible to him, and Jem, to Dr.
Eustace's gratification, so appreciated the privilege
that he invaded the ' den ' and the diningroom
at all hours. Some of the physician's
most valuable paintings hung in the latter room,
and, when Jem betook himself thither in the
morning, the numerous patients awaiting their
turn for an interview with the great specialist

-wondered what ailment it could possibly be
which brought to that lugubrious ante-room so
handsome a young man who, instead of vacantly
leaning over journals, magazines, and funny
books provided to kill time, made at once for a
Claude, or a Turner, or a Sal vat or Rosa, and
planted himself before it with the steadiness of
a camera, his eyes being the lens and his brain
the sensitive plate. He thus ' took ' the examples
of the respective masters, and then, as if shutting
up the photographic apparatus of his mind,
retreated from the room, to the stupefaction of
the other visitors, who naturally imagined themselves
superseded in their visit to the consulting-room
by the stalwart young man who, however,
sped back to Thistle Grove the richer for the
technical method he had mastered, and which
he applied to the work in hand.

With his art-education under Graham, Jem's
more social, mental, and personal graces matured.
Doubtless the improvement in the
latter was in some degree traceable to Mrs.
Starkie's culinary successes, supplemented as
they were by the frequent delivery of nutritious
and toothsome compounds from the laboratory

of Birch, of Cornliill. Certain it is, that the
amelioration discernible in the pupil in all
respects dated from the hour of his audacious
entry into Aspen's penetrate and the noble
absolution he received on the spot for that
offence.

And Jem more than requited his master for
his generous encouragement. His mind expanded
with its new and healthy activity, and,
as if to prove that it was not confined to one
groove of art, he varied his daily studies by
recreating himself in the evening with music,
and with that view he procured a either and
taxed its capabilities, as well as his own, in
his bed-room. Not unfrequently Mrs. Starkie,
distracted with his tentative fingering, would
burst into the room, her hands pressed to her
ears, and present to his abashed gaze a picture
of horror worthy of Le Brun's pencil ; but she
suppressed the exclamations of distress which
rose to her lips, remembering how time had
falsified her evil movements when, in the early
days, he ' messed everything in the house with
his nasty paints,' and she reflected that it might
in the end turn out that those unearthly twangs

and tweaks were the rudiments of beautiful
music, as the daubs on his pinafores ripened
into pictures which people were beginning to
clamour for : so the worthy woman stuffed wool
into her ears, and bore the infliction with
motherly resignation and hope. And her hope
was justified by the result. Jem's performance
soon ceased to be agonising, the wool was
thrown into the fire, and Jem was encouraged
to play and even to sing in his mother's sitting-room,
until, finding infinite pleasure in his
success, she had serious thoughts of counting
out another twenty-five sovereigns and handing
it to him as a well-merited honorarium.

In the studio Jem was now left much to his
own devices, Graham being absent a good
deal. The unusual circumstance perplexed
Jem, and, in reply to his inquiries, Graham
stated that he was painting a portrait in Eaton
Square, the light in that neighbourhood being
more favourable than in Thistle Grove. This
explanation was satisfactory to a certain extent,
but it did not account for the necessity
of Graham's attendance at Eaton Square in the
evening when there was no daylight, nor for his

regular visits there on Sundays, a day he scrupulously
devoted to rest and books.

A solution of this problem was, however,
obtained from Mr. Clive. That gentleman,
faithful to his original professions of friendly
interest, frequently drove to Thistle Grove to
visit Aspen, and on one of these occasions he
found Jem alone, and Graham's absence was
naturally alluded to.

Don't you know where he goes to V he
asked, amused at Jem's anxiety.

6 No, I do not.'

'Hasn't he told you anything 1 ?'

He has told me he is painting a portrait in
Eaton Square, and he finds the light there
admirable.'

Mr. Clive laughed heartily :

< Is that all V

He says there is some fine stained glass in
St. Peter's Church, so I suppose he spends his
Sundays in the sacred edifice.'

Mr. Clive again burst into laughter, which
was to Jem simply inexplicable.

8 You are evidently not admitted into Aspen's

secret counsels,' remarked the alderman, quaintly.

Jem was not aware that he was quite
excluded from his friend's confidences.

But there is one thing no man admits until
he's found out,' pursued the alderman.

Jem was still perplexed.

'And that is — when he's in love,' explained
Mr. Give. ' Can you understand now why
Aspen spends his mornings and evenings and
Sundays in Eaton Square?'

Jem scratched his head, but the operation
did not assist his imagination.

'Mrs. and Miss Tierney live in Eaton Square,
and I'm sure you will agree with me, Starkie,
that our dear Graham can't look too much on
Miss Hester's sweet face and into her soft eves,
with a view to painting her portrait faithfully ;
and, as it behoves an artist to convey character
as well as features, our friend cannot do better
than spend his evenings in her society, and take
her to St. Peter's Church on Sunday. That's
the way to do it effectually.'

It all now stood revealed to Jem's intelligence.
He remembered that Mrs. Tierney had sent

Aspen an invitation to her house ; and lie had
not forgotten that, when Sister Hester so obligingly
sat beside the dead tree, to be painted
for the sake of a bit of colour, Aspen laboured
at that bit of colour day after day, to the neglect
of the beautiful tree, till he, Jem, found it necessary
to tell him that he was giving too much
attention to the bit of colour, and thereby
damaging his composition. And then he recollected,
when Miss Tierney sang 'Auld Robin
Gray ' at Mr. Olive's ' At home Aspen was like
a dazed man, and, when he took the fair songstress
down to coffee, he strayed with her into
the conservatory, and they appeared to lose
themselves in its labyrinthine avenues, for they
did not emerge from it for twenty minutes. All
these reminiscences served to convey to Jem's
mind confirmation of Mr. dive's dictum : that
no man admits that he is in love till he is found
out ; and Jem thought that love must be a very
peculiar complaint.

When Mr. Clive arrived, Jem was busy upon
a sky-study, and, while the conversation above
described was taking place, he was attentively
studying the work, discovering its force and truth.

It strikes me that grand bit of colour is
exactly the thing needed to relieve a sombre
corner in my dining-room, and the size — four
feet three by eight — ,' he continued, measuring
it with a rule which happened to be at hand,
is just what I want. But perhaps you wouldn't
object to give me the advantage of your opinion
by coming to Regent's Park and viewing the
position, eh?'

Jem assured Mr. Clive that it would afford
him pleasure to do so.

Come this evening ; we are alone. Dinner
at a quarter-tonight.'

Jem was overwhelmed, and cast about for
excuses ; but his inventive faculties were as
obfuscated as his wits generally, under the
surprise : and, before he could pull himself together,
Mr. Clive was on his feet, and adding,
Mind, a quarter-tonight ; and, after dinner,
we'll turn over some drawings, and ask Ethel to
give us a little music,' he descended the stairs,
and regained his brougham.

Jem recovered his normal composure by the
time named, and, as the clock chimed the third
quarter, he arrived at the house, with almost

VOL. II. R

vulgar punctuality. His reception was so cordial
and genuine that any timidity under which he
laboured was at once dispelled. Ethel was
greatly struck by his manly, unaffected grace
and handsome features ; and Mr. Clive found,
in his conversation at the dinner-table, both
originality and sound sense. On adjourning to
the drawing-room, Ethel was already at the
pianoforte, playing with excellent skill, and Jem
at once stepped to her side, and turned over
the leaves of the music.

1 see you read music V she said, inquiringly,
as she concluded the sonata she had played.

< Yes.'

Then you play?' she asked.

1 What little I do can hardly be called playing,'
replied Jem, blushing.

What instrument do you play V persisted
Ethel, taking no notice of his disclaimer.

I — I distract my poor mother by making the
most atrocious noise possible with the either.'

The either ! The most delightful instrument
ever invented ! Papa, Mr. Starkie plays the
either !' she cried, cruelly publishing the fact
which Jem had betrayed confidentially, and

which he would have given worlds to recall.

Then I can only say Mr. Starkie behaved
very unhandsomely in not bringing the instrument
with him,' replied Mr. Clive, with assumed
gravity and indignation. ' But there is always
a remedy for these lapses and atonement for
these sins, — Mr. Starkie will have to come again
tomorrow evening and bring it, or I can send
Jarvis over in the morning to fetch it. Which
shall it be, Mr. Starkie V

Jem glanced at Ethel for deliverance from
the embarrassing situation, and he encountered
nothing but laughing, pitiless eyes, and an uncompromising
echo of her father's speech :
1 Which shall it be V There was no escape for
Jem, and no mercy. Everybody's hand was
against him, so he surrendered.

I'll bring it if you really wish it,' he replied,
abashed.

We do, we do !' insisted Mr. Clive and Ethel
at once, the latter adding, ' I shall look forward
to tomorrow with extreme pleasure.' The
observation was audible to Jem, but it did not
extend to Mr. Clive who was at the other side of

the room.

R 2

The following evening, Jem, obedient to his
patron's order, arrived at the house with the
vulgar punctuality of the previous day, and,
strange to say, he felt little or nothing of the
hesitation which beset him on that occasion.
Even the prospect of having to perform and
possibly making himself ridiculous in the presence
of his kind friends did not afflict him, for the
half dozen words addressed to him by Ethel
fortified him wonderfully, and he entered the
drawing-room with comparative confidence.

Isn't Mr. Starkie kind, papa, he has brought
his either V exclaimed Ethel, with vivacity.

c Mr. Starkie is more than kind, he is indulgent,
he is granting our great wish at the sacrifice of
his own modest reserve.'

Jem stammered some amiable platitude as he
drew the instrument from its case, and placed it
before him.

Shall I accompany you V enquired Ethel,
opening the pianoforte for that purpose.

Jem thanked her sincerely. But he would
prefer to blunder through the piece alone, and
he spread open a simple version of ' Home, sweet
Home.' Then, without affectation of incapability,

he passed his hands over the strings with
excellent feeling, playing the simple notes "with
accuracy, and at the same time singing the
words in a subdued, but perfectly clear and
harmonious voice, to the astonishment of his
hosts, who gave expression to their delight
without stint.

Commendation coming from a quarter so
versed in the science of music was an extreme
encouragement to the amateur, and the remainder
of the evening was spent in the performance
of such pieces as he had mastered.
Ethel occasionally playing on her violin, or the
pianoforte. When Jem rose to take leave, Mr.
Olive suddenly recollected that the folio of
drawings had not been overhauled ; but, as the
hour was late, perhaps Mr. Starkie would favour
them with his company another evening for the
purpose of examining them, an invitation which
Jem was not by any means disposed to decline.

On the day fixed, Jem repaired to Regent's
Park to inspect the contents of the folio, when
he found Ethel alone in the drawing-room
intent upon eliciting dulcet notes from a either
with which her father at her request had provided

her. Jem was naturally surprised, and
as naturally gratified, and, as Ethel betrayed
great awkwardness in fingering the strings, Jem
explained the peculiarities of the instrument,
and, in fact, gave instruction so lucidly that,
with an intelligent pupil like Ethel, the task was
as easy as it was agreeable.

When Mr. Olive entered the room he found
Jem bending over the young girl and directing
her movements with absorbing interest, watching
her delicate hands as they daintily swept
the strings.

Excellent !' he cried, greatly amused. ' Why,
Ethel, my child, you must surely have been
studying the either for months in secret?'

1 Mr. Starkie is such an able teacher, papa,
that I can't help learning,' replied Ethel, turning
a radiant face to her father.

'Do you find her pretty apt, Mr. Starkie?'
inquired Mr. Clive, addressing the young artist.

1 So apt, sir, that it is a delightful task to explain
to her the little I know.'

That being the case, should I be taxing
your kindness too much in asking you to give

Ethel the advantage of ycmr friendly guidance
till we find a professional roaster V

Jem blushed and his heart bounded and his
breath became spasmodic, and he could never
explain to himself why his answer to Mr.
Clive's question was simply ' Thank you.' The
confusion of his wits might have been due to
the responsibility of imparting instruction ; or
to his conscientious scruples in accepting a
function he felt too unlearned himself to honestly
accept ; or to a hesitation in taking up a
branch of art which was fascinating enough to
wean him from his more serious studies with
the brush. Jem, as he tramped home that
night, endeavoured to ascribe his perplexity to
one or other of these convictions ; but the vision
of a fair face and soft white hands hovering
over the either again and again presented itself
as if to contradict each hypothesis as he advanced
it, until the astounding conviction
forced itself upon his mind that he must belabouring
under the same complaint as Graham
Aspen !

CHAPTER XIII.

CONFESSIONS.

The light in Eaton Square was unquestionably
favourable to the due examination of the lineaments
of Aspen's sitter, but the process was slow,
nevertheless, and the portrait advanced towards
completion at a pace altogether at variance with
Aspen's habit of dashing precision and effect. And
a critical examination of the result of the artist's
labours would have been the reverse of flattering.
It would have been said that his hand
had lost its cunning, or else that he had not
given the subject his accustomed care. And
this last explanation would have been accurate ;
for the fact was, the portrait had been proposed
by Aspen as a means to an end, and that

end was the more recondite study of Hester's
mind. He had discovered that she had become
everything to him, and he had to satisfy himself
that his estimate of her was well-founded ;
and he had, moreover, to learn whether he was
anything to her. In all the affairs of his life,
Graham endeavoured to keep in view one
principle : to mature his idea and then to carry
it out effectually and completely, and in the
grave matter which now occupied his mind
he felt the vital necessity of thoroughness.
Hester Tierney had called into activity a dormant
power in his breast — a power which
appeared buried in his mother's grave, and the
love thus strangely vivified was intense, all-absorbing,
— but it was not blind. His naturally
philosophic mind was not divorced from his
heart in this matter, and thus it was that, while
appearing intent upon Hester's winsome face,
he was searching her mind, denying himself
the happiness of passing the outskirts of the
domain towards which passion urged him till he
knew more of the inner life.

Graham and Hester were left much together;
Mrs. Tierney had household matters to

attend to and visits to pay, consequently the portrait
remained almost stationary for the reason
already given.

In the room which served the purposes of an
atelier for the occasion was hung Lena's bequest
to Sister Hester, the ' Queen of the Glen,
and it naturally afforded a subject for conversation
and admiring comment on the part of
Hester ; and this again led to inquiries as to the
destination of the ' Beautiful in Death ' picture
the dead tree.

'Mrs. Beaver and 1 were greatly impressed
by that painting, it was touched in such a
pathetic key, if I may so describe it.'

It was so conceived. Death is always
associated in my mind with sublimity; and,
though I hope my mind is not a morbid one,
the contemplation of a dead thing, — a thing
which has been clad in all the beauty of health
and freshness, — which has rejoiced in its day of
strength and so ripened to its decline, is a profound,
solemn pleasure, for it sums up human
life, its ambitions, its pride, its joy ; all this has
vanished, and a memory of it only remains.

That dead tree symbolised to me a beautiful

m

existence which has long passed away.'

Had Hester not studied Graham's peculiarity
of mind, and learnt how intensely he loved the
memory of his mother, she would have been at
a loss to understand these utterances.

i The thought is a beautiful one,' she replied,
with deep feeling, ' and one cannot but reverence
the sentiment. The tree is a thins* of
beauty, its lifelessness notwithstanding. But it
seems a pity — a mistake — to have placed a living
object in contrast with it, to disturb its
wholesome moral.'

6 Not so!' promptly interposed Graham, 'not
so, in this instance. The conjunction is, on the
contrary, most happy, and seems to make complete
the pictured emblem.'

Hester divined Graham's thought, she understood
that in his imagination he figured himself
beside a loved one who had passed away, and a
flattering pride stirred her heart.

You have not parted with that picture V she
said, inquiringly.

« No.'

< Why not V

'Can you ask that question?' demanded
Graham, reproachfully.

Hester felt she deserved the rebuke.

It was wrong of me to suggest it. Pray forgive
me,' she faltered ; ' with such sacred associations
attaching to it, you would not be likely
to part with that picture.'

After this dialogue there was a long silence.
Graham put a touch here and a touch thereupon
the portrait for which Hester was sitting,
but the mere fact of looking into Hester's face
seemed to dissipate his artistic faculty. At
any time he found it difficult to talk and
paint simultaneously. To-day he could only
talk.

I daresay, Miss Tierney, you think me a
strange compound of weakness and superstition
to be so influenced by a voice as I have
been — and still am — by yours V he said, laying
down his palette. ' Tell me your opinion without
fear or reserve.'

c 1 say, without fear or reserve, that it is a
beautiful, noble infirmity to imagine the voice
of a beloved mother long passed away, and to

be encouraged by it in a moment of trial to
pursue the better way.'

'And if that supposed voice from beyond the
grave should arrest the hand of a frenzied
wretch on the very point of violating the
sanctity of his own life, and lead him gently
and lovingly back to reason and the possibilities
of usefulness, — if such a result should be
brought about by such an agency, what would
you say of it I Tell me, Miss Tierney, without
hesitation.'

I say, without hesitation, that if such a
thing has been, I see in it the visible, merciful,
beneficent hand of God,' was Hester's deliberate
and solemn reply.

Pardon me if I am catechising you beyond
the bounds of reason, but I cannot resist the
temptation of pursuing this interesting interrogatory.
I learn so much and am so much
cheered and strengthened in finding that our
views are identical in this particular.'

'I assure you, Mr. Aspen, it is more than
pleasure to me to discuss these things. It is
so rarely that one meets with a friend whose
ideas take this direction,' replied Hester, thus

inviting Graham to develop his thoughts
further.

Admitting the mysterious and potent influence
for good of the voice I have heard at such
a supreme moment, is it strange that from that
hour to this, and from this hour to my life's end,
the person owning that voice should be, as it
were, the arbiter of my fate, the centre of all
things to me, the source of happiness, the goal
of all my hopes % Answer me, as before,
frankly and freely.'

It was a tremendous issue for a lover to put
before a young girl, and Hester hesitated to
reply. Lena's injunction rang in her ears, ' Do
not discourage him ;' and Hester too easily interpreted
Graham's thought, and the direction of
his wish not to recognise the truth of Lena's
surmise.

But the encouraging response in her heart
failed to find expression from her lips.

You do not answer V urged Aspen, anxiously.


The responsibility is too vast for anyone to
incur. To possess such absolute power over
the hopes and happiness of a generous heart

and a noble intellect seems to me as awful as
it is glorious.'

But have you not found, Miss Tierney, that,
in your pious ministration to the sick, strength
and resolution have always been given you for
the duty you had to perform V

Yes, it is always so.'

Then why can you doubt that the power
which enables you to fulfil your mission of
beneficence in one direction would fail to
strengthen you in another?'

Lena's dying admonition again recurred to
Hester, ' Do not discourage him;' and she
replied :

I was wrong to doubt. If such a noble
trust fell to my lot, every faculty of body and
mind would be employed in its discharge.'

Graham was moved with a deep joy. Feelings
hitherto unknown and unsuspected stirred
him. He found himself admitted to the confidences,
the aspirations, the ruling principles of
the woman towards whom he yearned with an
absorbing passion. He had unveiled his heart
to her in a symbol. She had comprehended,
and answered in the plain language of faith and

loyalty, and his happiness seemed too great for
immediate realisation. He looked into her upturned
face, and met the earnest soft eyes of
perfect sympathy which told him that which no
words of Hester's could have betrayed. He
took her willing hand.

< Hester !' he said, in tones scarcely above a
whisper, 'Hester, you are necessary to my happiness.
But that avowal shall never pass my
lips again, if you tell me in this moment of
mutual confession that I am not necessary to
yours.'

Hester hung her head and was silent, but
Graham could hear her heart throbbing, and
could see the crimson mounting to her face.

If I am not everything to you, Hester, as
you are to me, — if you have a hope or a thought
in which I have no place, and if life has fair
promises for you regardless of my participation
in it, — I vow here, in this solemn hour, never tolet
my shadow cross your path, never by a look,
sigh or breath after to-day, to *

Hester started, and placed her hand upon her
lover's lips.

6 Graham !' she said, bursting into tears,

< Graham, do I deserve these threats V and her
head sank on to his shoulder.

1 Say you love me, Hester.'

1 I have long loved you, Graham.'

Then let us henceforward live for one
another whispered the young artist, as he held
her in a passionate embrace.

4 Yes,' was the soft response as their lips met,
and Lena's injunction was fulfilled.

It was surprising how the portrait advanced
after the felicitous understanding thus arrived
at. The light in Eaton Square did not materially
improve, but Aspen's perception of Hester's
form, texture, and colour became amazingly
keen, and he applied himself to his work with
such success that when Mrs. Tierney entered
the room a few days after the episode above
described, she was astonished at the transformation.


1 Why, Mr. Aspen, what has happened ?
When I last saw the painting, I must confess to
you I was in despair ! It looked no more like
my child than a bad photograph might do, and
day after day it seemed to get worse and

VOL. II. S

worse ! And now, as by a miracle, it has
burst into a magnificent portrait ! What has
happened V

6 Yes, a miracle has happened, my dear Mrs.
Tierney/ replied Graham, joyously ; ' shall I
tell your dear mother how it was wrought V
he continued, turning to Hester, who assented
and ran out of the room to escape the consequences.


i My dear Mrs. Tierney,' commenced Graham,
leading her to a couch and taking a seat by her
side, 'if your daughter's portrait has not advanced
satisfactorily of late, it is because I have
been engaged in a more absorbing study. Success
or failure in a picture concerns my professional
reputation alone; success or failure in
the matter of my recent scrutiny involves my
happiness — my life. And not mine alone.'

Mrs. Tierney perceived the direction of his
words, and encouraged him by a sign to
proceed.

Although I have endeavoured to conceal my
aspirations under a passive bearing, it is not improbable
you may have suspected that my feelings
regarding your daughter have not been

those placid ones of common friendship. I see
by your gesture that it is so. I am glad of
this. It emboldens me to speak without reservation.'


Graham drew a deep breath, and paused a few
moments, then continued :

1 1 have found that I was not mistaken when
I attributed noble aims, high principles, womanly
self-devotion, and the tenderest of hearts to
Hester ; and to my joy I found that she has
viewed me as not altogether destitute of those
qualities which go to make a man worthy of
esteem. Satisfied on these vital points, I have
in a few plain words confessed myself to her ; I
have told her how, unknowingly, she has a long
while past possessed a saving influence over me,
until she has become necessary to my happiness
and to the completion of the purpose of my life.
And this I now declare to you. Question
Hester, and she will own to you, as she has
owned to me, that I have a place in her
heart.'

Mrs. Tierney was touched by the candour and
earnestness of Graham's avowal, and laying a
gentle hand on his arm she said :

s 2

Whether I consider my child's happiness or
my own, I find nothing bnt satisfaction in what
I have seen and known and now hear from your
own lips. That Hester had been to you an
influence for good is a grateful surprise to me,
for I happen to know that you, equally unconsciously,
have been the means of directing
her thoughts to the beneficent work of tending
the sick.'

Aspen evinced the greatest surprise at this
statement.

You will remember that, when you first consulted
Dr. Eustace, you were seized with an
illness in the waiting-room and swooned.'

< Yes.'

But you do not know that a young girl present
flew to your assistance, bathed your temples
with Cologne water, and supported your head on
her shoulder. That girl was Hester, and that
was her first experience in nursing. But it was
a happy circumstance, for it called into existence
a faculty which, since that day, has grown
and demanded exercise, and its exercise has been
a blessing to herself as well as to others.

Graham heard the statement without an immediate

rejoinder ; he was absorbed in thought.
At length he replied :

Again I discern the controlling hand of
Destiny ! Events which we call accidental have
their definite purposes ! Unconsciously we
have been in preparation for the responsibility
of each other's happiness. Our minds have been
guided to the same bourne, and the finger of
Providence, which has so wondrously moulded
them into harmony, is gradually revealed to us !
I now feel that I have done right in this
matter.'

1 And you will have your reward.'

CHAPTER XIV.

TANGLE V. Asparagus.

No. 2, Tapioca Terrace, was the arena of a
great conflict. It was not the actual collision
of hostile forces bent on mutual destruction ;
nor the bloodless war of words which convulses
the gladiators of debate ; nor the clash of those
intellectual combatants who give and receive
rapier-thrusts of wit and repartee ; but it was
none the less the scene of a great and agonising
struggle, for Mrs. Sparragus had to suffer the
silent rebukes of her husbands as they hung side
by side and glared at her from their gilt frames
on the wall.

Ever since the disaster which had annihilated
her comfortable means and which had been

brought about by her guide, counsellor, and
friend, Stephen Honeydew, the pictured architects
of her fortune showed her no mercy. No
matter in what part of her bed-room she sought
refuge, their fierce eyes followed her. They
stared at her in the silent watches of the night
with their sleepless, glazed eyes. It was useless
to extinguish the night-light. Their angry
flashes only grew more vivid, and the poor
widow's appeal for pardon only drew upon
her a darker frown and more condemnatory
scowl.

You know nobody suffers for it but me !' she
would remonstrate, 'nobody but me and Susan.
Don't crush me with those angry looks ! I know
I deserve it. The mischief is done, and I'll
bear the consequences patiently if you'll only
pity me ! I'll pinch and pare and starve — yes,
I'll starve without a murmur if you'll only look
with kinder eyes ! You think me ungrateful ?
Noll have always been grateful to you both
in my prosperity, and I'll be grateful to you
in my rags ! You are right, — I don't deserve all
the love and kindness you lavished on me. I
was more than stupid — I was wicked. But you

both spoiled me, — I thought all men were as good
and noble as you, when I ought to have known
there was no one like you in all the world !
Yes, I have wasted all your bounty provided forme
in my ignorance and indolence ! But, oh,
turn away those eyes ! They used to look so
lovingly at me. I can't bear it ! I shall die —
I must die !'

Oh, mem !' exclaimed Susan, roused from her
slumbers by her mistress's lamentations, and
entering the room with a candle, ' don't worry
your poor self so dreadfully about them picture.
Of course their eyes follow you about the room ;
and they follow me about too till I almost blush
and I think it quite rude of 'em, and, if you'll
allow me, I'll turn them with their faces to the
wall so that we may only have the backs of their
heads, which I should prefer !' and Susan
advanced to give effect to her brilliant suggestion
when she received a rebuke from her
mistress which effectually cured her of offering
a remedy of that kind.

Susan, go back to your room ! What business
have you to come in and listen to our conversation
!'

1 I'm sure, mem, I'd no idea of listening, only
it grieves me to see you taking on so, and not a
bit of use if you was to cry your eyes out. I
can't bear to hear you for ever a-scolding of
yourself!'

1 Then, Susan, if you can't bear to see that I've
got a conscience, you can look out for another
place ! I can manage very well, there's only
the bit of cooking to do, and the bed to make,
and the bell to answer.'

'Oh, mem!'

1 And glad you ought to be to get away
from all this ruin which I've brought upon
myself !'

Susan sobbed.

And what right have I to expect you to
starve and suffer for my sins ! No, Susan, you
don't deserve it. You've had no share in bringing
it about, and 1 can't allow you to share the
consequences. I give you a month's warning,
and you can go and be happier in another
place where there's no foolish old woman to
trouble you !'

These concluding words completed Susan's
discomfiture, they caused the cup of her grief

to brim over ; all distinction of mistress and
maid was forgotten, and she fell weeping on to
Mrs. Sparragus's neck.

Oh, mem, unless you want to break my
heart, never talk again about me looking after
another place ! Scold me if you like, but, oh,
mem, never give me warning ! I couldn't leave
you ! I won't leave you ! I should never be
happy again if I deserted you in your misery !
I don't want no wages, and I can do with very
little food. I'm fond of dry bread and there is
nothing nicer than weak tea. Let me stay, dear
missus, I'll never say anything to upset you !'
and Susan kissed her mistress again and again.

Go, my poor child, and take your rest. I'm
grieved that I said anything to pain you. Go !'
and Mrs. Sparragus buried her face in her handkerchief,
while Susan reluctantly obeyed the
order and noiselessly withdrew to her room,
which adjoined her mistress's.

Next morning the dialogue of the night, with
its threats and appeals, its tears and laments,
was forgotten, for the sun shone, the perfume
from the flower-beds filled the house, and Susan
carolled over her work as though it realised

her conceptions of earthly felicity. Happiness
is contagious ; a bright presence in a home
diffuses brightness, and sorrow and discontent
flit like mists before the sun. It was so in this
instance. Mrs. Sparragus seemed to have castoff
her morbid mood with her night-cap ; she
no longer apostrophised the portraits of the
successive late-lamented, but bustled about
and gave Susan a kindly ■ good-morrow ' instead
of notice to quit ; and yet her affairs were nota
whit less desperate, nor her hope of ever
propitiating the successive late-lamented a
fraction greater. It was due partly to her
natural spirit of resignation to the inevitable
trials of life, but still more to Susan. Susan
chirruped like a bird, for she was happy, happy
in her conviction that her mistress said what
she did not mean, — a thing which in the abstract
she considered positively wicked, but in
the present case highly praiseworthy, and that,
consequently, no severance would ever take
place ; and Mrs. Sparragus on her part had
discovered that the poor drudge, the humble,
untutored hireling, was as necessary to her
own happiness as she was to hers, and that

knowledge was a balm to her wounded heart.
It was joy evolved from sorrow.

8 Oh my !' exclaimed Susan, gazing at Aspen's
painting of Lena, as she placed on the table a
nosegay she had gathered, 'how that poor,
dear Miss Lena haunts me ! I can't keep my
eyes off that beautiful pictor of her ! It makes
me happy to look at it ! Now, that's a face,
mem, that does one good. See how she smiles,
poor dear ! She never looks black. Do you
know, mem, every time I catch sight of that
sweet face a-smiling at me I come all over ! for
it seems as if the poor dear, when she died,
sent her blessed spirit to be with us.'

Blessed indeed !' repeated Mrs. Sparragus,
piously.

'Yes, mem, and whenever I have naughty
thoughts I look at her, and she seems to say,
Susan, that isn't the way to be happy like
me !" and then I'm sorry, and try to be better.'

I rejoice to hear this, Susan.'

And I hope you'll forgive me, mem, for saying
so, but I think if you was to sit and talk to
her instead of to those two picture in the bedroom,
she'd give you comfort in this dreadful

misfortune, instead of scolding you like the two
why, dear me, if here isn't Mr. dive's carriage
a-pulling up at the gate, mem !' and Susan
rushed to the window.

< Mr. Clive V

Yes, and another gent along with 'im carrying
a blue bag. I'll run and get your company
cap, mem !' and Susan darted into the
bed-room and immediately returned with a clean
crape cap which she popped on to her mistress's
head almost before that good woman quite
realised the situation, and before Mr. Clive had
knocked at the door,

My dear Mrs. Sparragus,' said Mr. Clive,
after the ordinary greeting, ? our friend Mr.
Tangle and 1 have come to talk to you about
this sad, sad business, if you have no objection

i Oh, no, sir ;' with a sigh.

When I fully comprehended the extent of
the calamity, I felt it my duty to make your
solicitors, Messieurs Tangle and Wrench, acquainted
with the circumstances.'

It was very good of you, sir.'

And I must say,' interposed Tangle, rubbing
his hands together, ' that in all my professional

experience I never met with a case in which
there was such consummate villainy on one
side and — and '

Amiable credulity,' suggested Mr. Clive.

Wicked folly,' suggested Mrs. Sparragus.

Amiable credulity on the other,' added Mr.
Tangle, still rubbing his hands together.

Ah, sir, you put it too kindly,' replied Mrs.
Sparragus ; ' it was foolish and worse than
foolish of me, and I deserve to suffer.'

And from what I know of you, Mrs. Asparagus,
you are resigning yourself to the consequences,
whatever they may be?' put in Mr.
Olive, sympathetically.

6 The Lord helping me, I hope to bear it !'•

i Our good friends, Messieurs Tangle and
Wrench, have taken up the case with their
customary judgment '

Greatly assisted by Mr. Olive,' interposed
Tangle.

And, as you know, they have from time to
time brought sundry documents which you have
.signed.'

< Yes, Mr. Olive.'

Perhaps, Mr. Tangle, you will explain the
present position.'

Certainly.'

Then addressing Mrs. Sparragus, the solicitor
continue" 1 :

When we had all the circumstances before us,
we had to confess ourselves nonplussed — that is
to say, we were staggered.'

4 Ah, yes, how could it be otherwise?'

1 Unless, you know, we could find a way out
of the dilemma, and, between you and me, it
must be a very remarkable difficulty if the law
can't do something towards getting out of it ;'
and Mr. Tangle rubbed his hands together and
laughed.

But the laughter did not prove infectious.
Mrs. Sparragus failed to discover any joke to the
remark, and Mr. Olive's eyes were fixed on the
life-like portrait of Lena.

Mr. dive has given us invaluable aid, and
we had an able coadjutor in Lapwing, who
seems to be a man of resources ; and, finally,
you have assisted us more than anybody.'

I assisted you V echoed the widow, in

astonishment. ' Why, I've not stirred from this
house !'

It wasn't necessary that you should. You
signed your name to the papers I brought, and
we couldn't wish for greater assistance.'

How strange that seems !' reflected Mrs.
Sparragus.

Precisely. A piece of paper with the right
words upon it can effect more than an entire
regiment of the Guards !'

Mrs. Sparragus opened her eyes and mouth to
their fullest extent, and she was only able to
gasp inarticulately :

Dear me !'

I've known a document reduce a client of
ours to beggary,' continued Tangle, by way
of illustration, * and another document upset the
first and put our client all right again.'

6 Wonderful !'

Now, if such a result could be by any means
brought about with this dreadful mess of yours,
may I ask what your feelings would beV

Mrs. Sparragus shook her head in evidence of
incredulity and the absurdity of the hypothesis.
Mr. Clive took up the parable :

We earnestly hope you will preserve your
usual calmness, and that the only feeling you
have will be that of thankfulness when we tell
you that the case just described by Mr. Tangle
is your own. In the skilful hands of your solicitor
all the cruel wrong under which you have
suffered has been repaired and the evil wrought
by Honeydew undone, and I most heartily congratulate
you !' and Mr. Clive held out his hand
which Mrs. Sparragus took mechanically.

But — but — this is more than I can understand,
sir — it is all a dream !'

I will explain it in a few words,' said Tangle,
opening his bag and selecting one of several
papers tied together with red tape. * Honey-dew,
under the powers you imprudently allowed
him to procure, gradually converted all your
funded property and other securities into cash,
that is to say, into Bank of England notes.
Those notes, there is not a doubt, he in his
pocket at the bottom of the Atlantic. AA r e have,
in spite of the difficulties, obtained the numbers
of the whole of them, and, upon the production
of the indemnity which you have signed, the
Bank has replaced them. The total amount is,
VOL. II. T

we find, seven thousand two hundred and fifty-five
pounds, and that sum is in our safe custody
as representing you.'

Mrs. Sparragus held up her hands in speechless
amazement as Mr. Tangle handed her a detailed
statement. If a pleasurable thought crossed
her dazed mind at that moment it was a conviction
that the two successive late-lamented
would no longer frown upon her in anger.

1 The next difficulty,' continued Tangle, with
oracular solemnity, ' was with the Flinders property
and Tapioca Terrace. These you had
assigned to Honeydew — or rather he had
assigned them to himself, as you executed the
indenture in blind confidence, — and Honeydew
raised money upon them ; but, as you have made
a declaration that you signed the said document
under a misapprehension and without being
acquainted with its purport, the deed was
fraudulently obtained, and is therefore vitiated.
That was our case, and the Court of Chancery
did not hesitate to annul the transfer. Mr.
Blowers held the deeds as security for the
advance, and we gave him notice of the fraud
and called upon him to produce and surrender the

said deeds on payment of the amount advanced,
with interest due and his costs. This was satisfactorily
concluded yesterday, and when 1 tell
you that the title-deeds of Flinders and Tapioca
Terrace are in this blue-bag, you will admit that
the bits of paper you signed have, as I said,
effected more than a whole regiment of the
Guards could have done.'

If a rejoinder rose from Mrs. Sparragus's heart
to her lips it had no time for utterance, for a
hysterical cry outside the door startled the
widow and her visitors. Mr. dive rushed to
the spot, and there found Susan tottering and
clinging to the banister in her agitation. On
Mr. Clive inquiring the cause of her distress she
said,

Oh, sir, is it true that my missus is put all
light again?'

What can you mean, Susan?'

'That villain, Honeydew! Is it really true
that you've got it all back, sir V

Susan, Susan, you've been listening !' Mr.
Clive said, admonishingly.

Yes, sir, I always do when I expect my
missus is likely to take on, and I made sure you

T 2



had come with more bad news when I see you
looking so serious and the lawyer with his blue
bag. Oh, sir, tell me : is it all right V

Yes, Susan.'

6 The Lord be praised !' and Susan dashed
into the pantry, stifling her sobs of joy in her
cotton-frock.

As soon as Mrs. Sparragus was restored to
comparative equanimity under Mr. dive's gentle
suasion, and she was able to grasp the astounding
fact that, by the aid of the law and the
instrumentality of the documents she had signed,
as advised by Tangle and Wrench, she was not
much the worse for Honeydew's machinations,
Tangle thought the moment opportune to remind
her that he was prepared to take her further
instructions. Now, instructions in matters of
business were precisely the one thing Mrs.
Sparragus was incapable of giving. She was
quite a typical housewife, and in giving orders
to Susan or to butcher, baker, and buttermilk,
she was not to be surpassed in discretion and
logical sequence of ideas. But she had never
had occasion to give her mind to matters of
business, as Honey dew had discovered, and each

of her successive late-lamented had considerately
forborne to tax her outside her domestic
province ; when Tangle, therefore, broached
the uncongenial topic she declared, with her
natural candour and simplicity, that she did not
understand him a bit.

This apparent fact gave Mr. Clive serious
misgivings, — should a second Honeydew turnup,
all the mischief might be repeated and not
end so innocuously ! The dear old soul must
be saved from herself! He therefore offered a
suggestion, — that the whole amount be paid to
her bankers, who would invest it in the funds
and receive the dividends in the usual way. The
deeds relating to Flinders and Tapioca Terrace
would, of course, be lodged in the same safe
custody. At this point Mrs. Sparragus suddenly
evinced a perfect mastery of business by interposing
a negative.

No,' she said, with emphasis ; ' no.'

Mr. Clive, notwithstanding his astonishment,
was delighted at the tardy display of resolution
of some kind.

'What course do you propose to adopt?' he
asked.

Do just as you say with everything, except
Flinders.'

Then what are your wishes as to Flinders 1 *
enquired the lawyer.

Is Flinders really mine again V

i Undoubtedly.'

'And I can dispose of it as I wish?'

6 Most certainly.'

v

Then the dearest wish of my heart will be
gratified ! 1 give it to Mr. Aspen.'

Tangle dropped his pen and gazed at Mrs.
Sparragus over his spectacles in a manner
which seemed to say, ' Well, this tops everything
!'

To Mr. Graham Aspen,' repeated the widow,
to avoid the possibility of a mistake, which was
another proof of the rapid development of her
business instincts.

1 Give the Flinders property away ! surely, my
dear madam, you '

Yes, to Graham Aspen. Be very particular
about the name, if you please

What, fling Flinders at his head !' expostulated
Tangle 'you can hardly mean '

Yes, I do mean it.'

But if Mr. Aspen should decline the gift?'
urged the solicitor, fairly cornered.

Then Mr. Aspen can fling it back again
replied Mrs. Sparragus, with the serene dignity
of one who has mastered a legal difficulty of
great magnitude.

Tangle glanced towards Mr. Clive for help in
the peculiar situation ; he felt thoroughly beaten.

1 Yes,' said the alderman, ' 1 happen to know
that such has long been Mrs. Sparragus's wish.
She feels she owes him a debt, and he certainly
once rendered her a great service. But I naturally
supposed she intended it as a bequest.'

Why may I not have the happiness of seeing
him enjoy it?' pathetically asked the widow.

There is no reason, dear madam, why you
should not. It is a noble recognition of a
gallant service, and I cannot but admire your
resolution.'

6 Then I am to take it as your instructions V
enquired Tangle, resuming his pen.

1 Yes, if you please, — and be very particular
about the name — Graham Aspen, Painter.'

On taking leave of Mrs. Sparragus, Mr. Olive
said.

I think you will be confirmed in your high
opinion of Mr. Aspen when I tell you that the
anonymous gift you received, and with which
you wrongly credited me, was from Aspen, who
was deeply touched by your cruel wrongs at
the hands of Honeydew. It was the price he
received for Lena's portrait.'

'But I have never paid him for it!' replied
Mrs. Sparragus, much perplexed.

Some one else who also pitied your position
paid the money, but I am not at liberty to
divulge names.'

Tears flooded Mrs. Sparragus's eyes.

Was it you, sir, who did this V

Mr. Clive, remembering that Lapwing was
the individual who actually made the payment,
felt justified in prevaricating.

No, it was not I who paid him. Be content
to remain in ignorance of the donor, since he
wishes it. It is enough for you to know that
it has enabled Aspen to prove himself worthy
of the splendid reward you are contemplating.'

CHAPTER XY.

FLINDERS.

Dr. Eustace and Mr. Give were closeted together
in the physician's * den,' engaged in conversation
which greatly interested them. The
topic was neither etching nor engraving, nor
was it in any respect pathological, for Mr.
Give appeared in excellent health and spirits,
and in no need of the doctor.

The moment I received Graham's letter,'
said Dr. Eustace, ' I sent to you, for 1 have no
doubt he wants to consult me about this splendid
offer of Mrs. Sparragus, and, as you have as
great an affection for him as I have, 1 wished
you to join your voice to mine in case his honourable
pride should prompt him to decline ;

and I also wish you to be made acquainted
with a scheme of my own.'

'I consider it a great privilege to be present
at such an interesting discussion.'

At this moment the servant ushered in the
young artist, who was cordially greeted by both
gentlemen.

You wonder what brings me here, 1 daresay,'
said Aspen, seriously.

We surmise that you have received a communication
from Tangle and Wrench on behalf
of Mrs. Sparragus.'

It is so. Then you are probably aware that
she wishes to give me Flinders V

1 Yes ; and both Clive and I rejoice for her
sake no less than yours.'

Graham looked surprised : ' For her sake V

'Certainly. She has long had the desire to
make this disposition of that property, and her
first idea on recovering her sober senses after
the accomplishment of the restitution was at
Once to gratify a wish which does her honour.
And she has done right.'

1 So say I,' contributed Mr. Clive.

But, dear sir, — Flinders ! How can I rob the

generous woman of such a property?' demanded
Graham, with a start.

You are called upon to undertake a responsibility,
and that is, to make it impossible for
other Honeydews to swindle her out of it,'
quietly replied Eustace.

1 But I should be crushed with the burden of
it!'

I have greater confidence in your nerves,
your heart, and your brains !' retorted the physician,
quaintly, 'for I have diagnosed them all.'

Would you have me abandon art?' pathetically
demanded Aspen, glancing from Dr. Eustace
to Mr. Clive.

You are now touching upon the point we
wish to bring you to. Clive is the last man to
wish you to abandon the profession you adorn.
As for me, I have already told you, — and I repeat
it in the presence of my dear old friend
Clive,— that my intention is to make some use of
the superfluous means I have accumulated by employing
a portion of it in the interests of Science
and an equal portion in the advancement of
British Art, — the two fields of study which divide
my attachment, and 1 wish, as I have stated,.

that through your instrumentality effect should
be given to the latter. The problem was, how
could the object be accomplished? and Mrs.
Sparragus has afforded a solution — she gives
you Flinders. Take it, and thank God for it!'

'But, dear sir, where is the solution?' demanded
Graham, in bewilderment.

Flinders is the solution. It is a famous
health-resort. In conjunction with your friend
Starkie make it equally famous as an art-resort,
and here my purse comes in. Reconstruct and
adapt the place as an art-school in the truest
sense. Let your aim be the highest ; tolerate
no mediocrity ; allow no trifling with art ; stamp
out all meretriciousness ; show that it should be
pursued seriously, if at all. Let your motto be
Nature, and your first and last canon Truth.
You are thorough ; Starkie is thorough ; resolve
that everything done under your sway shall be
thorough, and you will render the Art of your
country a great service, and good Mrs. Asparagus
will have assisted in a noble work, although
without actually intending it

The picture sketched by Dr. Eustace thus
rapidly and earnestly was dazzling, inspiriting,

irresistible, and Aspen, whatever his prepossession
may have been, could find no word of dissent ;
and Mr. Olive, while extolling the scheme, only
regretted that he saw no way in which he
could ask to be allowed to share in it, since his
friend Eustace seemed to monopolise, with Mrs.
Sparragus, all contributory power.

Nay, my dear Olive,' replied the physician,
unless my senses have deceived me latterly,
when I have looked in at Regent's Park, and
found your daughter absorbed in the study of
the either under an instructor, you will, by-and-by,
have to contribute more than either of us,
namely, the dearest possession you have. And
continued Dr. Eustace, laying a hand on Graham's
shoulder, ; I shrewdly suspect that another
valued friend and patient of mine, residing in
Eaton Square, will equally be called upon to
make a great sacrifice. But I heartily encourage
both her and Olive, for infinite gain will
follow each surrender, — the furtherance of human
happiness : the deserved reward of conspicuous
worth.'

Neither Mr. Olive nor Graham requested explanations
; the physician's delicate allusions

were perfectly understood by both, and they
afforded each of them matter for reflection.

Now, my dear Graham, the whole matter
is before yon, — give us your decision. Is
Flinders to have the great future I have
sketched V

6 1 will accept the gift and undertake the
duty you have so generously proposed,' replied
Aspen, after serious consideration, ' but I must
ask two concessions. One is, that my benefactress
shall reside on the property, so that I
may be as a son to her, and cheer, as best I
may, her declining years

1 The resolution is worthy of you, Graham,
and, happily, the thing can be easily arranged,
for there is the Hermitage, a charming cottage
an the grounds, which she had been accustomed
to occupy occasionally, and which will therefore
suit her exactly

And, secondly, I must ask to be allowed to
set up a tablet to the effect that the establishment
of Flinders as a school for the advancement
of British Art is due to the munificence of
Dr. Eustace

Well ; be it so, if that removes the last

difficulty, and, to justify the statement, I place
at your disposal twenty thousand pounds, to
enable you to make Flinders worthy of the high
purpose for which it is destined. Give me
your hand, Graham ; and Clive is the witness of
our compact, which needs no lawyer's assistance
to make valid, since the money is already placed
to the credit of an account opened this morning
in your name at my bankers.'

Graham stupefied could offer no reply beyond
a grateful pressure of the hand held out to him,
and Mr. Clive was equally speechless in the
presence of such magnificent and well-applied
bounty.

My desire no less than my duty now is to
visit my benefactress,' said Graham, rising from
his seat after some moments' silence.

Yes,' answered the physician, ' that is the
right thing to do. And let her see that the
man who saved her life will do his best to prolong
it and make the remainder of it happy.'

Xo. 2, Tapioca Terrace, was no longer the
dolorous scene of heart-searchings and lamentations
it had of late been. The complete

retaliation effected by the law, — set in motion
by Mr. Clive, — was moral as well as material, for,
not only was Fortune benign, but the portraits
hanging side by side in the widow's bed-room
no longer frowned upon her, and in her joy
she called upon Susan to bear witness to a
smile which played about the mouth of the
defunct Sparragus, and a glance of conjugal
tenderness which was visible in the painted
eyes of the equally defunct Flinders. But
Susan showed a becoming sense of propriety,
and would admit nothing of the kind. Their eyes
followed her about the room just the same as
heretofore, and she did not like it a bit, and
she recommended her mistress to go and look
at poor, dear Miss Lena's face, which was worth
a hundred of those old gentlemen — an estimate
of comparative value which took the widow's
breath away, and, before she was sufficiently
recovered to reply, a knock at the door terminated
the conversation. Susan, having peeped
through the window, flew back to her mistress
and whispered,

1 It's the young gent as saved you from being
run over!'

« Mr. Aspen?'

I Yes, mem. Shall I fetch your new crape cap ?'
8 No. Show him in at once

1 have come, Mrs. Sparragus,' said Graham,
after being welcomed, ' to thank you with all
my heart for an act of extraordinary generosity
which your solicitors inform me you propose todo.'


If I may,' replied Mrs. Sparragus, almost
appealingly; 'my fear has been that, as you
discouraged my thanks when I owed you my
life, you might reject them now that they take
shape in something beyond words. Say you
accept Flinders.'

I I accept your splendid gift with all the
gratitude I am capable of.'

Mrs. Sparragus's emotion could not be repressed.
She burst into tears — tears of unaffected
joy.

Aspen eventually explained the scheme proposed
by Dr. Eustace, and backed by his noble
endowment, and he added that Flinders, which
would be the home of everything he held dear
in this world, needed one presence to make it
complete.

VOL. II. U

Of course you will marry some worthy girl,
and then your happiness will be perfect,' ventured
Mrs. Sparragus, sympathetically.

'Yes, it will be perfect if the friend to whom
I owe so much is there to witness it.'

< Dr. Eustace V

No ; Mrs. Sparragus. I ask you to make
your home at the Hermitage, so that I may be
as a son and my wife as a daughter to you.'

Mrs. Sparragus could scarcely articulate words
of assent, so great was the commotion of joy in
her. heart, and Aspen's attention was diverted
from her by a distinct and palpable sound outside
the door like the clapping of hands. Mrs.
Sparragus was too agitated to explain the
phenomenon, and Aspen could only conceive it
to be some kind of spirit manifestation.

A year has elapsed. The interval between
spring and spring is long enough to test most
human projects, promises and professions, and
the year which has elapsed has witnessed the
growth and maturing of the several interests
with which this history deals. Sincerity, energy,
and solid worth have ripened to happy issues, as

only such qualities can, and the fruit is sweet
for those whose privilege it is to gather, to
taste, and to distribute.

Flinders, the healthful hobby of the inventor
of the innocuous pill, has been transformed
into an ideal school. It is become the birthplace
and the home of creative art. Already
the known talent of Graham Aspen (remembered
for his success in many an academic
contest) has caused not a few earnest votaries
of the painter's craft to rally to his classes;
already Jem Starkie has shown the daring-and
the strength of original power, impatient of the
restrictions of traditionary methods and orthodox
routine ; already under these two guiding forces
Flinders is unique, and is destined to be famous
as the Alma Mater of a great revival in British
Art.

Other enterprises too have ripened under the
benign suns of nature and fitness. Jem's patient
and persistent initiation of Ethel in the mysteries
of the either resulted in the production of
perfect harmony, — the harmony of hearts inclose
accord : and precisely the same effect was
consequent on Graham's philosophical study of

u 2

Hester — unison which pleads for union ; and,
in fact, the day has arrived fraught with hopes
in which even Flinders is not included, for a
double wedding has been celebrated at St.
Peter's Church, Eaton Square, at which the two
fast friends figured as principals, besides two
maidens of singular grace and beauty ; and, as
Graham with Hester on his arm, and Jem with
Ethel clinging to him, walked slowly and joyfully
down the aisle to the inspiriting swell of
the organ and jubilant chant of voices, fervent
though silent benedictions followed them from
the hearts of Mr. Olive, Dr. Eustace, Mrs. Tierney,
and Mrs. Sparragus.

And those faithful friends will witness the
realisation of their wishes, for in the fulness of
time the brides of to-day will be as daughters
to Mrs. Sparragus, whose initial act has
helped to bring about the blessed consummation,
for the good widow has already fixed
her home at the Hermitage, under the care and
guardianship of the faithful Susan (whose little
weakness for listening at keyhole for her
mistress's protection is no longer necessary, for
none but trusted friends ever visit her now) ;

and, despite the trials of the past, she already
finds that peace and happiness are attainable
when the heart is in the right place.

The last heard of Mrs. Lippertv was that she-had
been gazetted a colonel in the Salvation
Army at Heme Bay ; but she proved herself such
a moral martinet to the unfortunate victims under
her command, to say nothing of the public at
large, that they talked of petitioning the 
to have her drummed out of the
regiment as an insufferable nuisance.

Major Twister occupied chambers near his
club, but one day he suddenly paid his account
and vacated, to the amazement and indignation
of the landlord, who had, with a view to the
greater comfort of the major, that very morning-instituted
a boy in buttons to wait on him.

THE END.

London : Printed by Duncan Macdonald, Blenheim House

-a

Hues & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

LONDON:

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

&-

-ff

Established annually, in One Vol., royal 8vo, with the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. 6d.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.
FIFTY-EIG Th Edition N FOR 1889.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband I
being a Baronet or Knight, Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject." — Spectator:

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day." — Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

MESSRS. HURST Aj\ t D BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

TO SIAM AND MALAYA in the Duke of Sutherland's
Yacht ' Sans Peur.' By Mrs. Florence Caddy, Author of
1 Through the Fields with Linnaeus,' &c. With a Portrait of the
Duke of Sutherland. 1 vol. demy Svo. 12s.
Context; :— Lessepsia— The Red Sea— To the Far East— A Royal Cremation-high
Life in Asia — Young Siam — Cynthia — Thirty Years' Progress in Siam —
Return to the Nineteenth Century— The Sultan of Johore— Mar— Ceylon —
The Return Voyage— Egypt

REMINISCENCES OF J. L. Tools, the Comedian.
Related by Himself and Chronicled by Joseph Hatton.
With upwards of Eighty Original Illustrations by Alfred Bryan
and W. H. Margetson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
The work will, of course, be read by everybody interested in the stage, and

every play-goer will desire to include it among his literary treasures." — Globe.

SCOTTISH MOORS AND INDIAN JUNGLES.

Scenes of Sport in the Less and India. By Captain J. T.

Nb wall, late Indian Staff Corps. Author of "Eastern Hunters,"

u Hog-Hunting in the East," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With twelve

full-page Illustrations. 12s.
"The author's descriptions are animated, and his book will afford genuine
entertainment to those who have any affinity for works of its class." — Daily Nets.
Captain Newall writes as a sportsman should." — Scots Observer.

BANDOBAST AND KHABAR; Reminiscences of

India. By Colonel Cuthbert Larking. With twelve Illustrations,

from original Drawings by the Author. 1 vol. small 4to. 10s. 6d.

The author's accounts of tiger hunts will be entertaining both to those who

have met and those who desire to meet the king of the Indian fauna in his own

dominions." — Morning Post.

■•Any person contemplating a short trip to India will And in this book some
useful hints with regard to outfit, &c." — Field.

REMINISCENCES OF ETON (Kate's TIME).

By the Ret. C. Allies Wilkinson, M.A., Author of "Reminiscences
of the Court and Times of King Ernest of Hanover."
With Portrait of Dr. Kate. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
"Mr. "Wilkinson book is thoroughly fresh and entertaining; it is crammed
full of good stories, and will be a joy to all Etonians." — Graphic.

'•Mr. Wilkinson has written an exceedingly good book on Eton. It is the work
of a thoroughly enthusiastic Etonian." — Saturday Review.

LADY HAMILTON AND LORD NELSON. An

Historical Biography based on Letters and other Documents in

the possession of Alfred Morrison, Esq., of Fonthill, Wiltshire.

By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The real Lord Byron,"

(fee. 2 vols, crown Svo. 21s.
Mr. Jeaffreson may be thanked for the new and favourable light which he has
been able to throw upon the public and private conduct both of Lady Hamilton
and of Nelson." — Globe.

'• It only remains for us to compliment Mr. Jeaffreson upon tho reliable, painstaking,
thorough way in which he has dealt with the story of Lady Hamilton,
without offending the moral sense of his readers." — Academy.

FOUR MONTHS' CRUISE IN A SAILING

YACHT. By Lady Ernestine Edgcumbe and Lady Mary
Wood. With Illustrations. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

"The whole journey is recounted in such a way as to make the narrative
agreeable reading, and to intending travellers in the same track it contains many
useful hints and suggestions." — Queen.

'ras a whole, the book may be commended as a pleasant and thoroughly English
account of a pastime peculiar to the Anglo-saxon race." — Morning Post.

Shinar SKETCHES : With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. 6d.

"A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman." — Horse andHourd.

The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,
and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know.' — Scotsman.

•' The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in such a
pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for whom the
subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional advantage of some
spirited illustrations." — The Field.

Mr. Moray Brown records his long experiences among big game in India with
capital spirit and style ; there are some thrilling pages on pig-sticking and tiger-shooting."
— The World.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell us." — Daily
Telegraph.

'through Cyprus' maybe heartily commended to readers who are fond of
an entertaining and chatty narration of incidents of travel." — Scotsman.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.

A. Wilkinson, M.A., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.
Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of
the King. 6s.

Mr. Wilkinson's descriptions of the Court balls, where even the ladies took
precedence according to military rank, of the characters he met with, and of the
Hanoverian clergy of those days, will be found decidedly interesting*' — Spectator.

An interesting book, which abounds in characteristic stories of the old king,
in anecdotes of many celebrities, English and foreign, of the early part of this
century, and, indeed, of all kinds and conditions of men and women with whom
the author was brought in contact by his courtly or pastoral office." — St. James's
Gazette.

One of the most interesting and amusing books of this season ; it abounds in
good and new stories of King Ernest, and also of a perfect host of celebrities, both
English and German." — Truth.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, M.A., Author of ' The County Families,' &c
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels." — Daily Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading"— Daily News.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IX MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Muhxo, M.D., Cab.,

Author of " Reminiscences of Military Service with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders," &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. the PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
The story which. Dr. Monroe has to tell is one which never flags or ceases to
be instructive as well as interesting'" — Spectator.

"These Records should be in the hands of every soldier, for the sake of the
information which they give and the spirit which informs them." — Globe.
'Full of interesting notes on the army and army life." — Graphic

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

and the Events which led to them. By Charles Rote,

Barrister-at-law. 2 vols, demy Svo. "With Maps and Plans. sos.

"Mr. Boyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question" — Athenaeum.

The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view, his volumes may be thought
to contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary,
perhaps, in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will unhesitatingly
acquit Mr. Boyle of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding." —
St. James's Gazette.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

Ashton, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.

1 vol. small 4to. 12s.
The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume." — Globe.
•• Mr. Ashton has produced a volume of light and pleasant character." — Post.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
Madame de "Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject." — Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT * TO

THOSE IX SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.
"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature'' — Athenaeum.

These letters are exceptionally graceful and touching, and may be read with
profit' — Graphic.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"
"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.
This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating." — Scotsman.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2, demy Svo. sos.
"The volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, and Poland
during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of permanent
value to the students of history"— Morning Post.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE TRACK OF THE STORM : A Novel. By

Dora Russell, Author of • Footprints in the Snow,' ' The Broken

Seal,' &c. 3 vols.
Miss Russell's new book has many of the best features of the modern English
novel ; it is precisely the bright freshness which runs through the book that constitutes
its great charm." — Morning Post.

A MODERN DELILAH. BjVereClavering. 3 v.

"The novel deserves praise for its naturalness and ease of style, and for the
simple force with which its main characters are presented." — Scotsman.

A BITTER REPENTANCE. By Lady Virginia

Sanders. 3 vols.
Lady Virginia Sanders 1 new novel is told with more than average skill ; the
author has a fertile imagination, which enables her to vary, ad libitum, the situations
in which she places her personages." — Morning Post.

A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCES. By

Harry Landor. 3 vols.
"Some of the scenes are pathetic and interesting to a degree, and there in
scarcely a chapter that could be passed over from absence of interest." — The
Society Herald.

A FAIR CRUSADER; A Story of To-day. By

William Stall, Author of "Larry Lohengrin," "A Queer
Race," &c. 2 vols.
The interest does not halt for a moment in these pages, full of incident and
adventure." — Morning Post.

Minette : an Idyll of Provence. By the Author

of ' Vera,' ' Blue Roses,' &c. (Second Edition.) 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
"The tale in itself is true to nature and tenderly pathetic." — Morning Post.
"This is a particularly well-told story." — Globe.

THE LASSES OF LEVERHOUSE. By Jessie

Fothergill, Author of 'Kith and Kin,' 'The First Violin,' &c.
1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
"There is a youthful freshness and heartiness in the author's way of telling her
story which makes the book peculiarly enjoyable." — Scotsman.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of "A Sea Queen," "The Wreck
of the Grosvenor," &c. 1 vol. 6s.
Mr. Clark Russell is at his best in ' The Golden Hope,' which means that this
book of his is one of the finest books of its kind in our language." — Academy.

A HOUSE PARTY. By Ouida. (Second Edition.)

1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
The sketches of character are hit off with accuracy of observation and with a
firm and clear outline"— Daily Telegraph.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' <fec. 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 6s.
"A bright and wholesome story"— St. James's Gazette.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

Geraldine. By Vere Clavering, Author of

A Modern Delilah.' 3 vols.

GRAHAM ASPEN, PAINTER : A Novel. By

George False, Author of ' Weeping Ferry,' &c. 2 vols.

A GAME OF CHANCE. By Ella Curtis (Shirley

Smith), Author of " The Favourite of Fortune," &c. 3 vols.

VIOLET Vivian, M.F.H. By May Crommelin,

Author of " Queene," and J. Moray Brown, Author of " Shinar
Sketches." 3 vols.
"Between them, these authors in double harness have produced an uncommonly
good mixture of sport and love-ifcaking." — St. James's Gazette.

RESTITUTION. By Anne Beale, Author of ' Fay

Arlington,' ' The Pennant Family,' ' Squire Lisle's Bequest,' &c.
3 vols.
Miss Beale excels in pictures of still life, and the portraits of the old ladies of
'Roselands' shew her to possess observation and a sense of humour." — Post.

MISTRESS BEATRICE COPE, or Passages in

the Lite of a Jacobite's Daughter. By M. E. Le Clerc. 2 vols.
A simple, natural, credible romance charged with the colour of the time, and
satisfying the mind of a thoughtful reader." — Athenaeum.

THROUGH THE LONG NIGHT. Bv Mrs. E.

Lt>>~ Len'TOX, Author of ' Patricia Kimball,' ' Pastor Carew

lone,' &c. 3 vols.

"It is scarcely necessary to sign 'Through the Long Night,' for the practised

pen of Mrs. Lynn Linton stands revealed on every page of it. It is like so many

of its predecessors, hard and bright, full of entertaining reflection and brisk

development of plot" — Saturday Review.

Deronda. By the Countess of Munster. 3 vols.

"ewe shall await with pleasant expectation further contributions to contemporary
sectional literature from the unquestionably clever author of ' Deronda.' '* —
daily Telegraph.

HUGH Warrington. By Gertrude Force, Author

of ' In the Old Palazzo,' ' Driven before the Storm,' &c. 3 vols.
"The story is pleasantly told, and we think it will add to the authoress's popularity.
" —Literary World.

THE YOUNGEST MISS GREEN. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of ' Grandmother's Money,' &c. 3 vols.
"The plot of this story is admirably constructed, and its secret so carefully
concealed that the reader most familiar with the surprises of the novelist will be
quite taken aback when he discovers who the real murderer of Drusilla Lincoln
is It is one of the most ' gritty' novels that have been published for a longtime."
— Academy.

A DAUGHTER OF DIVES. By Leith Derwent,

Author of ' Circe's Lovers,' ' King Lazarus,' &c. 3 vols.
"Headers will find Mr. Leith Derwent's plot interesting, exciting, and original,
and worked out with considerable acquaintance of peoples and climes." — Piccadilly.

THE DEATH SHIP : A Strange Story. By W.

Clark Russell, Author of ' The Wreck of the Grosvenor,' ' The
Golden Hope,' &c. 3 vols.
The best of all the authors novels both in conception and execution." — Graphic



EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo.

THE B fthfTu S thor of 'Molly Sawn,' 'Phyllis,' 'Airy Fairy
Lilian,' ' Lady Grasmere,' Etc.

"NTTTJETTE- An Idyll of Provence.

BytheAuthorlf 'Vera 'Blue Roses,' ' The Manure Alps

and their Seaboard,' Etc.
THE LASSES OF LEVERHOTJSE. , t

By Jessie Fothergill, Author of 'Kith and Km, me
First Violin,' 'Probation,' Etc.

THE GOLDEN HOPE. . ', , 4rp ,

By Clark Russell, Author of 'A Sea Queen, 'The

Wreck of the Grosvenor,' Etc.

ON THE SCENT. . , iQ

By Lady Margaret Majestie, Author of Dita, Once

More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' Etc.

H1S gZ SSSS^S* Halifax, Gentleman,' ' A Life for \
Life,' 'Christian's Mistake,' Etc.

MY gSJTJSr ^fShor of ' Onrnia Ya„ita S ,' 'Viva,

'Mignon,' 'Dolores,' ' Rhone,' Etc.
<*ftPTTY- or the Adventures of a Savage. ■*-.

By Violet Fane, Author of 'Denril Place,' 'Anthony

Barrington,' Etc.

A TOT Author of ' Under Two Flags,' ' Such

'Othman,' Etc.
OMNIA Vanity : A Tale of Society.

By Mss Forrester, Author of 'My Lord and My Lady,

'Viva,' 'Mignon,' Etc.
THE BETRAYAL OF REUBEN HOLT.

By Barbara Lake.

PIA By KK* ' **» Halifax, Gentleman,' 'His Lit,
Mother,' ' A Life for a Life,' Etc.

THE Brandies. Allow

By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford-hose, Author

< Strictly Tied Up,' Etc.

LONDON : HURST AND Blackett, LIMITED.
