WILLOW - GARTH

^ goM

BY

WILLIAM M. HARDINGE

AUTHOR OF 'EUGENIA' AND 'CLIFFORD GRAY'

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. L

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

Pu&lisf)crs in (l^rnmarg to f^cr Places? tfje queen


G., C, &• Co.

Oi

DEDICATION

Wa .

Because outside this region of my life
There lies for ever something known not yet,
A world wherein you enter and find set
^ Your crystal throne of rest from human strife,

Because beyond these bounded eyes of mine
There spreads the vision of a wider sphere,
And there your daylight is as mine is here
And there you know what I at most divine,

Because my hoped or future is your now.

Because you have all that I have not and I

Have nothing that you have not, — by aid by

Might have, when reaching you, yet dream not how /-

Therefore this vase whereinto memory pours
Wine that is stranger not to tears or blood.
With whatsoever of hope be here or good,

This book of mine — is yours as I am yours.

August 1886.

Bevis of Hamtouii.

These violent delights have violent end.>^

BOOK THE First
STRANGERHOOD

STEANGEEHOOD

VOL. I.

)/>

HE

A YOUNG man of eight and twenty, standing
in a leafy lane, waiting for his life to come to him.

To present him exactly at this instant, he
is leaning on a white gate which he has unchained
and which he is swinging to and fro
before him while his lips are pressed on one of
the little wooden spikes at the end of it.

When he stands upright he is tall : you
can tell that he is tall even now, though his
arms are crossed on the gate and his head
leans upon them ; his limbs are long, and his
figure slim rather than broad.

Despite his brown velveteen coat, well worn
as any keeper's, his loose corduroy breeches
and common gaiters, the characteristic of his

air is distinction. He has what is called a
gentlemanlike look.

But he is not a gentleman : he belongs by
birth to precisely that class of which he has
no trace upon him : he is son of a bailiff,
grandson of a bailiff; he is just the exceptional
caprice of a yeoman stock. His name, like
his father's name, and his grandfather's before
him, is John Lyne. It is part of himself,
like a nerve. He has been brought up quietly
and rather sadly. His existence has been
little more than the experience of fields ; but
this air of distinction is his own.

In many village churches, if you look along
the row of singing men who have been pressed
into choir-service, you will see one instance at
least of this exceptional type. To six or
eight fair, rough-haired, thick-set men, there
will be one of slimmer build — dark-haired
and dark eyed, the hair finer than theirs,
the expression of the eye at once gentler
and more inquisitive.

Such a contrast to his neighbours — pushed
to its extreme limit of unusualness — is John

Lyne. Without being so great a dandy as
many a spruce and independent young farmer
near, he has always something of this look of
a prince in disguise. His skin has more
bloom than theirs, his hair is not crisp but
silky, its curl not strong but fine; and his
moustache and short soft whisker would need
but little trimming to fit him for Bond Street.
Among his kinsmen — fellows of the same class,
but of different appearance — this air is accentuated
: perhaps, if one were really to see him
in Bond Street, he would suggest the country ;
it would be odd, at least, if he should not, for
out of it he has never been and is never likely
to be.

Only it is the unlikely that happens.

No doubt an hundred years ago some
nomad ancestress — who may have been a
thorn in the side of John's progenitors — some
daughter of Heth — brought into his race this
lither form, this deeper colouring, these more
nervous, longer-fingered hands. If so her revenge
has been long delayed, now to be quite
fully bodied forth in him.

Yet John's is not a gipsy's face so much asa
gentleman's : that again is the point to observe
in him : and what strikes you when he
looks at you — which he does shyly and often
with change of colour — not with the merely
honest, stolid stare of his kind — is rather the
extreme limpidness of his gaze under the
dark eyelashes, and the extreme softness of
his lips and hair, than anything foreign or
obtrusive.

Adaptable he is : that is the word that best
expresses him ; but he is without corresponding
energy to guide his adaptability into form.
He is modest and unambitious. He has a
bent towards knowledge, a leaning towards
comfort; he has had vague notions of the
pleasantness of some trade that should have todo
with culture — of house-decoration or house-agency
— but of the affectation, the willingness,
of the house-decorator or the house-agent
he has none. Nor has he yet troubled himself
as to whether his natural turn is towards his
life, with its monotony and its interests
incidental to farming and shooting, any more

than he has hesitated over his breakfast when
he is hungry.

To say of a man that he is interesting and
graceful is to call up an image that seems
ridiculous and effeminate. Nothing could be
less ridiculous than John Lyne, nothing more
simply masculine. But his seriousness and
his manliness are alike almost orientally cast,
and an observant critic who weighed epithets
would decide that interesting, graceful, and
adaptable are the terms that describe him
best. Perhaps he is lovable too.

Well as he would harmonise with any
surroundings, he could hardly be more picturesquely
set than he is at this moment, though
the scene about him is as ordinary as his
occupation and his attitude.

It is an October afternoon, which rather
forecasts November than recalls September:
there is not a trace of sunshine: the stones
and mud of the rough road are wet, but there
is no shine upon them : the sky is like a gray
veil soaked with rain : not a breath whispers
in the hedges, not a leaf stirs. If there is a

sound now and then it is only the determinate
sound of some live thing in sudden motion :
the rooks caw loudly all the time, but they are
far off and their noise seems merely to time the
silence. When you look at the picture, the only
sound in it seems to be made by colour. The
colour in the trees and hedgerows is so intense,
between the earth and sky, that it seems to
be speaking aloud, vibrating like chords on a
stringed instrument. The dumb gray of distance
and the dumb foreground brown give a
sort of voice to the berried roses, to the glowing
ash and the violet shoots of elder. It ' is
uttered in a steamy scent, but it affects one like
speech : the glowing growths of leaf and cluster
seem to demand an answer. And the same
endowment of assertion is upon the face and
figure of John Lyne.

If one could interpret the voice that one
hears from such a group ! It seems to say,
Behold us I we are come to completion : weare
mature, and we wait. Things like us you
may see complete again, but us never. Sunshine
and rain have ripened us to this, but —

for our little span — we are independent of
either now. We live and we lighten the year.
Time passes and we fall : but behold us now.'
To pass at such a moment open-eyed and to
see the picture and to hear the voices — it is
worth years of learning.

And some one passes ! John, whose ears
are used to the rooks' monotone and the
squirrels' interruption, has long heard wheels
approaching; and he leisurely swings back
the gate and raises his brown cap as a carriage
drives quickly by. The horses are familiar to
him, and so is the small shining brougham
behind the gray liveries; but he looks with
shy intentness in through the closed window,
where a girl is sitting, brilliant, alert, alone.

For John Lyne has not come there to
complete the midland landscape or to demand
recognition of the passer-by. It is an accident
that he does either ; he has come up the lane
to open this rough gate — the last of many —
for the advent to Whiteknyghts of Miss
Waldine de Stair.

SHE

Miss Waldine de Stair, although lie is on
her way to Whiteknyghts to make it her home,
has no recollections of the place. She is the
lately-orphaned niece of the lady to whose
invalided lord Whiteknyghts belongs, and she
is returning to England, after many years of
absence, in a mood that is all impatience. It
is just as she anticipated it would be — gray,
rain-soaked sky and endless leafy lane that
jolts her with its ruts and stones. Neither
have her first impressions at the station been
pleasant ones. Lady Grenvers has not met
her, partly owing to his lordship's being less
well and partly to a constitutional laziness
that avails itself of any excuse for inaction ;

and the message of welcome that has been
brought her, affectionately couched in one of
Lady Grenvers' little blazoned notes, has
struck her as insincere. Because Waldine, for
all her French breeding, has a holy horror of
shams.

'My dearest Yal,' it runs (that being
the recognised abbreviation for this young
lady's fanciful Hungarian name), ' welcome to
Whiteknyghts ! I wanted so to come and say
it, but I can't. Grenvers is too ill to be left,
and I sit spellbound with dulness till your
sunshine falls upon me. So you must make
my '' fiery-footed steeds gallop apace." Your
maid had better come in the waggonette withall
your traps : dont you think my cream-satin
linings are too nice for traps and maids ?

Longingly and lovingly yours,

'Ethelinda Grenvers.

Pes. — I always think it's such a blessing
not to be met : there's a quite charming 
pulls up in front. You darling !'

Truth to tell. Miss Waldine de Stair's is a

^

very impulsive and affectionate heart which is
not to be contented by exaggerated expression
or the sight of cream-satin linings, even when
they set off her own beautiful face in Lady
Grenvers' much-prized mirror. She has descended
from the train, looking like a flower
out of its dark sheath, and with her veil in
her hand, that it may not be in the way of a
kiss to her aunt. All about her there is a
fragrance, a freshness which neither hat-brim
nor gray skies can dull. And there is nobody
but a footman and a porter on the platform !
Neither footman nor porter are human to her,
though they seem not only human but interesting
to her maid ; and she enters the
perfectly-appointed brougham with a sort of
chill upon her which the scented note does not
dispel. ' What shall I see first, here, that is
alive V is her thought as she looks out of the
window. A long road first, by the side of the
line, only different from other roads because
it is bordered by telegraph-wires which are no
new feature in the scene to her after her
journey; and then a little sleepy hamlet,

>v

where there are geese and the white pinafores
of children ; and presently a lodge, where a
woman runs out to curtsey at the open gate
just too late to be seen. And then miles of
drive, through the autumn lanes, with an
occasional gate to break it, tilted back to the
side and propped open with a big stone ; and
it occurs to Miss de Stair that some one has
propped back the gates very carefully — someone
who must just have passed, else why save
the footman this duty ? — a child no doubt,
and that, if she sees the child, she will give
him a little nod and smile; towards the
production of which her neck and lips are set.
The horses go very fast, scenting the stable
with alacrity after their five-mile trot ; there
is only one more gate to pass before the
precincts of the Court are reached. That
much she dimly remembers, though it is ten
years since she has seen the place. At this
last gate, perhaps, the child will be, and she
can fancy on its face a look of welcome. She
glances out intently, with a sort of consciousness
of making her gaze an attractive one the

while, and as the brougham passes through the
2:ate she sees — ' Oh ! one cannot nod at him :
it is a head monsieur ' — John Lyne looking
in at the carriage window, with his cap doffed
and his serious, handsome eyes just meeting
hers.

The half-born smile becomes a little twitch
of the red lips, but the curve of the neck has
its will. Miss Waldine de Stair gives a slight
involuntary bow ; it is half politeness, half
shyness ; it is the sort of bow that a young
lady gives to a man of whose remembering
her she is diffident, or to a possible friend as
yet not introduced who has done her some
trivial service. ' No doubt the beau monsieur
has come to shoot, and will be made known to
her in the evening ; meanwhile he has done
her a civility,' and she laughs to herself to
think how narrowly she escaped giving him
that nod and smile which she had meant for
the child.

That nod and smile of thanks would hardly
have seemed strange to John Lyne, nor would
its alternative have seemed strange ; he is not

on the look-out for either courtesy or disdain.
He opened the gate for the carriage : she
might have passed him without notice or she
might have given him a graceful glance of
thanks, as understanding his position there.
But this peculiar little bow — constrained as if
half intercepted — which, if one could analyse
so small a thing, is voluntarily vague, and
leaves scope for any future acquaintanceship —
this is a wholly new sign to him ; a scrap, as
it were, of the dialect of some strange country
where men and women meet each other in tin-certainty.
There is pride in it and there is
timidity ; and his meeting with guests at the
Court is not wont to give scope for either.
He colours faintly as he settles his cap, half
wondering whether he should have doffed it
or not : perhaps his attitude had seemed to
claim this look, and yet she had inclined her
shoulders to him almost before he saw her.
Why did she look away from him at once ?
It had almost seemed to him that she too
flushed after that moment of their gaze.

She not only flushed crimson, as a matter

of fact, but the instant the brougham had shot
past him she burst out laughing.

The little gate-boy ! ' she says to herself,
ce heaii monsieur /' and then the flower-gardens
come into view and she thinks no
more of John Lyne.

But he looks after the carriage in a wistful
wonder. He has stept up to a new plane of
observation, and the step costs.

There is nothing in the flower-garden at
AVhiteknyghts, there is nothing in any garden,
which is as fresh and floral as this girl. She
is like a rose with the consciousness of a
woman. To describe her accurately, as she
walks quickly up the stone steps of the porch,
she is above the middle height, and her figure
is rather supple than slim. It is exquisitely
modelled, exquisitely balanced on her trim
feet, but it has the firmness of fruit, not the
pliability of grass. She is the reverse of
willowy. Her face too has the look of
smooth-skinned, feckless fruit ; if she presses
her cheek the quick blood leaps to stain it,
but it fades again at once to its habitual

bloomy pallor. Her lips are red, bent like a
lovely bow : her teeth are like fine porcelain.
But the rarity of her aspect is most in her
clear sapphire eyes, which glow like wells of
light under their curved lashes. They have
a radiance like gems, a flame which may be
hot or cold. There is no soul in her face — no
mind seems to have worn traces on its beauty ;
there is no stamp of thought, no sign of care ;
and her mourning seems unlikely upon her,
slight as it is, though it suits her bloom so
well. There is an alertness about her, a
swing, with which no sombre tones agree-^
and yet her face is not a merry one.

Passion and pride : these traits, perhaps,
years hence, may be read plainest in her features;
they lend themselves best to the expression
of these ; but they are not yet used
enough to expression to wear the stamp of
either tnood habitually. They are fair characters
which speak no sentence, fair syllables
not yet made language. The quality of her
nature is there, but the current in which it
shall move is not yet determined. The tree

VOL. I. 2

blossoms : the water flows : but there is need
of a gardener for the bloom and of a channel
for the stream. And the gardener and the
channel, these are for fate to find.

But, inexperienced as Waldine is as yet,
hers is not a fluid nature. One would compare
it rather to wax than water : she is what
she will be, but as yet undeterminate. Her
passion and her pride are only impatience
and coolness at present. She holds her head
high, but it is by instinct — not by resolve.

She is not very loquacious or very humorous
; but there are possibilities of eloquence
and satire in her look. On the whole, attractive
as well as beautiful ; but, strangely enough,
less attractive than she might be if less beautiful.
There is something about her beauty
which sets her aloof from others — which makes
her an object of surprise rather than of sympathy,
and this surprise is of a kind that will
affect men more than women. A woman
will say ' she is adorable,' and yet feel no
wish to rival her ; a man will merely say ' she
is handsome,' and not desire to speak to her.

And perhaps the woman's liking has its root
in the perception of the man's enthralled
regard : one has heard of such a consequence
from such a cause. But she has seen few
enough men hitherto.

Waldine de Stair is nineteen, and she is an
orphan : she has a small private fortune, which
she has inherited from her mother, the greater
part of whose means, and all whose affections,
were dissipated by the adventurous Belgian
count with whom — as Edith Fane, Lady
Grenvers' only sister — she saw fit to run away.
Waldine does not remember her father ; but
she has handsome portraits of him which she
regards with more-affection than the faded
photographs of her mother whom she remembers
well. Madame de Stair, after her
idolised scapegrace's death, sank into a fretful
invalidism, and had Waldine educated like a
French girl, in convent and school. And with
her schoolmates she remained — when her
mother had dwindled and flickered out of life
until Lady Grenvers, in an access combined
of conscience towards her and boredom

with the country, sent for her to Whiteknyghts
a few days ago. On receipt of Lady Grenvers'
affectionate note — Lady Grenvers' strong point
was in her affectionate notes ; they saved hera
deal of trouble, and she always managed to
insert what she wanted in them more easily
than she could say it verbally — Miss Waldine
felt at first a rapture of pleasure. She was
to explore a new world : she was to begin to
make her life ! But when she came to leave
her school friends, among whom she had been a
sort of princess-royal, the rapture materially
cooled. Nor did Lady Grenvers take much
trouble about her coming, after once that first
note was written. In that first note she wanted
to prove that she was an angel, for some
years of comparative neglect towards her niece
had called her angelhood into question even
in her own estimation ; this done, she really
did not care whether the girl came or not.
It would not make much difference either way
to Lady Grenvers ; there was plenty of room
at Whiteknyghts, and Waldine had plenty of
money to dress well with, and would need no

allowance. 'All I ask Lady Grenvers had
pathetically said to her one neighbour (of
whom more anon), 'is peace — 'peace and not
to have to meet her ; I can't bear scenes ; I
shall send a note by Edward,' — with Lady
Grenvers, the wide general statement very
soon narrowed down to the particular. And
her neighbour had answered, ' If a note will
ensure your peace, you would be a fool not
to write it.'

One more exact glance at Waldine before
the hall-door shuts behind her. She is J;all
and dark — that is to say, her hair is dark —
very English-looking despite her birth and
bringing up. She is not yet of age, but she
will have about three hundred a year.

It sounds as if it ought to express her
in some way — this category of her qualities,
personal and temporal; but it does not. It
expresses her no more than it expresses a
flower to say the number of its petals and the
soil it favours.

She is a woman and she is young.

THEY

But then, unfortunately, just the same description
would apply to Lady Grenvers ; and
Lady Grenvers is as different to her niece as
artificial mignonette from real. Lady Renders
is very like artificial mignonette. The
definition, to be exact for her, should be
parenthetically elucidated — * She is an (artificial)
woman, and she is (artificially) young.'

Lady Grenvers — Ethelinda Grenvers, as her
friends always call her — has somehow crept
into the chapter descriptive of Waldine de
Stair. She has a way of creeping into things
without cutting any particular figure when
she gets there — like an insect — which is at
once her satisfaction and her bane. It is

something in this way that she crept into
Whiteknyghts and Lord Grenvers' heart — that
being the precise order of her aim for the
position. She is well-born and well-to-do :
she has been, and indeed still is, exceedingly
pretty. It was just a chance she did not
marry the Count de Stair herself ; but as she
did not, she blamed her sister for having done
so. Lady Grenvers has been fortunate without
any intrinsic merit or special plan. She
owns it herself, with that descent from the
general to the particular which gives such
]point to her otherwise vague speeches : * I
was made to sympathise ; my peculiar quality
is for the sphere of mercy — so lucky that
Grenvers is an invalid ! ' But this form of
speech, this accidental commentary of self-explanation,
together with her mania for
avoiding — or leading up to — 'scenes' by
little notes, has been illustrated already.

Lady Grenvers is eight and thirty. She
has a way of saying that she is ' so much
younger than poor Edith was;' but, literally,
this formula has become untrue. She was a

year younger than Madame de Stair when
Madame de Stair died, more than a year ago.
She is now rather older than Waldine's mother
lived to be. But the formula has not varied,
and it will not vary. It is elastic and convenient
; and much of Lady Grenvers' conversation,
as well as much of her figure, is
made up of elastic and convenient formulas.

Lady Grenvers is fond of saying that she is
never bored' ; which, unlike many of her
formulas, is wholly true ; but it is doubtful
whether she deserves praise for her contentment.
It is difficult to imagine a moth bored :
if there is no flame to fly into, there is at least
something to gnaw into holes. She is also
fond of saying that 'wherever she is, she
makes her own little world about her;' but
then, to start with, her ' own little world ' is
in great measure the creation of her fancy.

In fine, she is contented mainly because her
sphere is infinitesimally small ; it is bounded,
one might say, by ' self and something to
worry' — opposite poles which she is fond of
bringing into relation with each other.

Although Lady Grenvers is, in a sense,
romantic, there is no one whom the real
romance of things more readily escapes. She
is so busy weaving little webs about herself
that she has no manner of perception how the
webs which fortune really weaves for others'
central selves cross and recross her. One
expects a nature like this to awaken at last
and perceive the truth — to awaken paralysed
and suffocated at what it finds has been done
about it, not wholly without its own agency,
while it has been occupied, to the best ot its
intentions, upon quite other things. But it
does not awaken ; it is not in its nature to
awaken because it has not slept. What has
seemed like sleep is its capacity of normal
vigilance. There is a restlessness which is
more blind than slumber.

Lady Grenvers, if she is attached to anyone,
is attached to her husband : she has novices.
She scarcely believes in vices, because
the amount of passion vice requires is beyond
her ken ; and the county considers her a model
wife, because she is a stay-at-home and no

flirt. ' Dear Ethelinda,' her neighbour often
says ; * give her a bit of looking-glass and a
powder-puff, with a quire of scented notepaper,
and she's happy for a week ;' which is a
brusque rendering of her ladyship's own pet
description of herself as ' a philosopher — so
fond of contemplation.'

It is not strange that Lady Grenvers should
be fond of her husband : he merits a tender
touch in description, for he bears a maimed
life patiently.

Some accident out hunting has transformed
him from a hale squire in middle age to a
merely helpless sufferer. Before this accident
befell him he was so much addicted to out-door
pleasures that, beyond thinking his wife very
pretty and very charming, he troubled little
about her ; but since he has been crippled he
has perceived her shallowness only to attempt
to give it depth. He has contrived to make
her happiness the gauge of his ; so that, perhaps,
they are well suited after all. What
Lady Grenvers needs for her pleasure are a long
purse and a little spoiling : give her these, and

she will pose at once for being generous and
sympathetic. His lordship spoils her to her
heart's desire, and, though he is by no means
rich for his rank, he can afford her bric-d-brac
and tea-gowns. There is a story of Lord Renders
that, when the forlorn hope of some great
German doctor's opinion was suggested to him
for his spinal trouble, her ladyship had just
happened to set her mind upon the choice of
sable-tails. The story might be made to sound
more tragic than it should, for no doubt Lord
Grenvers would have sent for the doctor Jaad
he greatly believed in him, while not stinting
his wife in her fineries. And perhaps he was
over particular about his income accounts.
But the fact just stands that, after but a few
minutes' consideration. Lord Grenvers told his
medical advisers that he had no faith in the
chance of cure, and that her ladyship wrote by
the same post to decide upon the selected
sables. It is hard to relate the incident lightly
enough. He was neither mean nor rash : she
was neither cruel nor grasping : but the little
affair suffices to sum up their attitude. And

of such a mutual position, strange to say, it is
not seldom that great love is born. Lord
Grenvers loves his wife gravely and consciously,
and imagines she is more to him than she is ;
Lady Grenvers loves her lord lightly and unconsciously,
and imagines — that she is all the
world and all in all to him ! So ever the
world goes on, and the little easy gift meets
the recompense and passes . for the boon —
deceiving the giver too. And the great gift,
that has no times and seasons and knows no
limit — it is never seen to be a gift at all : it is
just a thing that is — like blood to beat at the
heart or air to breathe. For, if it were not
thus, what would be the need of living life at
all, or what the use of an expected heaven ?

Lord Grenvers has his own rooms and his
own attendants. Over these her ladyship has
what control she will; she comes and goes,
and sends his nurses with orders to her maid.
Over her coming and going he, voluntarily,
has no control, but all the same he is the
lodestar of her life. She has leave to go to
London whenever she will and for as long as

she is likely to be amused there — and she
never cares to go : she may fill Whiteknyghts
with people and have her ' own little world '
about her in the flesh for ever if she wishes it
and she never cares to ask a creature.

Indeed, without being aware of it, she is
almost angry with Lord Grenvers for not
having prevented her asking Waldine to come,
though there never was the remotest chance
that he would prevent it.

For all which, if her coming is not a
success, he will bear the blame. ' She is. an
irresponsible agent,' says their neighbour;
he is a responsible patient.'

It is to these folk, and thus, that Waldine
de Stair has come.

Chapter IV.

IT

And this is her welcome. She is taken up
the broad and trebly-carpeted stairway to
where baize doors shut off Lady Grenvers'
rooms. The whole house looks to her empty
and dull. It is part of Lady Grenvers' programme
that it should look so ; it assists the
impression she makes. And then, almost
before the footman can open the red doors
for her, she finds herself quite smothered and
suffocated in scent and lace, receiving a volley
of kittenish kisses.

'MyYsil; at last !' says her ladyship; *rand
gracious! what a height! sam always considered
tall. How are you ? You shall get your tea-gown
on and have some tea ; I always say that

nothing rests me like complete deshabille. Do
you like mine ? All ! how like your poor father !
just the same straight nose. My nose '

But what the special charm of Lady Renders'
nose is, in her own esteem, Val never
hears ; for with the quickness of nineteen she
interrupts her aunt by a cry of pleasure as
they enter a firelight boudoir on which all her
ladyship's taste — which is of the luxuriously
decorative order — and all Lord Grenvers' spare
shillings have been expended.

Oh 1 what a pretty room !'

^ My nest,' says her ladyship blandly,
passing with equal satisfaction from nose to
nest, so only the discussion touches on herself.
My nest, dear Val, where you have entree
libre — unless, of course, I'm writing. Isn't it
sweet ? Pink always suits me — odd, for I'm
so fair.'

Val glances quickly at her aunt, whom she
remembers rather dark than fair ; certainly
there is no question about her ladyship's blonde
tresses now, and the girl passes her hand over
her eyes to be sure that this sylph who makes

her welcome is really the sister who was her
faded mother's junior by but a year.

'So fair murmurs Lady Grenvers pensively,
contemplating her own charms in her
mind's eye till their pathos moves her, — ' So
fair — and 'phil ; now for you, Val, a warm
amber, don't you think, like firelight, or perhaps
French gray — French gray, of course,
first when you begin to leave off your mourning.
Ah ! dear, yes ; it will be something for
us to think of. Where's your maid, dear?
and how did you like the brougham ?'

Everything is charming,' says Val, who
has no foreign accent but just separates her
words from each other a little, as if her native
tongue were not quite usual to her, as indeed
it is not yet. ' But I have no tea-gowns ; I did
not know that you were so smart ; I did not
remember.'

Grenvers likes to see me nice,' says her
ladyship complacently but with a martyr's
sigh; 'Do you think me nice? Tell me,
dear Val, how does everything about me strike
you? first impressions are so much, and I

want your first impressions of me to be nice
ones.' She kisses her niece and holds her at
arm's length, obviously to be observed herself
rather than to observe Val's simple dress.

You strike me as Parisian,' she answers ;
*it is not like the country' (Lady Grenvers
sighs with pleasure), ' and the room is delightful
— what sofas and what flowers ! Oh ! Aunt
Ethelinda, is that picture you

Me, by Millais,' says Lady Grenvers,
rising and contemplating the picture, as she
does a hundred times a day ; ' looks cU>7ie-
up, I always say : like me ten years hence,
not like me now ' (which, perhaps, at the rate
of her rejuvenescence, is true enough) ! ' Here
you have me again by Frank Miles : pretty,
but he hasn't made the body fit me. Me by
Lacretelle — such a good gown. Me and the
dog by a local man. Me on china — horrid ! Me
by myself, on glass — crystoleum, you know,
Val ; nothing like art, is there ? real art, sofar
above photography ! I never made a good
photograph ; this was done from a picture.
Here I am again on this screen, leaning over

VOL. I. 3

Grenvers' chair ; I did it — " like what you remember
Grenvers?" Yes, it's a photograph
of him cut out and stuck on. I got the local
man to touch in the head of me — sweet expression
; he shall paint you. He idealises
a little — quite a genius, in fact — but never
flatters ! '

The portraits of Lady Grenvers with which
she has had to do are like her in all but
feature. She has, as it were, had a portrait of
her gowns, graces, and surroundings, with a
lovely girl's face for central figure, arranged to
suit her own notion of what she would wish to
be ; and to the production of many such a portrait
the local man has lent what gifts he has.

^ But you will be quite tired of pictures :
here is tea — do you, or don't you' (in a
whisper) ? ' No ? I always put just the least
drop of something in mine. I'm nervous and
far from strong.'

Fm very strong,' says Val, in her clear,
vibrating voice, 'and not in the least nervous.'

Ah ! ' says her ladyship with an envious
sigh ; and she settles herself in a dormeuse

and pours the brandy into her tea, while she
pushes some sugared cakes to her niece. ^ Now
tell me all about it — abroad, you know, and
your school — and what are they wearing in
Paris?'

Yal tells her what she can, which is not
much : she tells Lady Grenvers of her regret
at leaving the kind sisters with whom she has
passed so many of her most impressionable
years — to the recital of which regret her ladyship
does not even feign attention, sitting
meanwhile with wide open eyes staring before
her as if she were dead — and she tells her of
the presents that her school friends have made
her, and of visits she has paid to some of them
at French country houses — to all of which
Lady Grenvers, coming to life again a little,
says, ' Ah ! charming ! ' and she tells her what
she knows, which is still less, of the shops in
Paris.

And I have brought you a fan,' she adds
shyly, not quite knowing whether this spoilt
child will care for the gift ; — ' a feather-fan.'

A fan ? ' cries Lady Grenvers, quite alive

again now ; 'feathers ? Oh, Val, if you knew
how I have thirsted for a feather-fan ; where is
it ? Oh your maid must be here : ring the bell !
why didn't you bring it in the brougham "? —
and I will tell you what we will do ; we will
show it to Grenvers. Or no ! you shall come
and see him and say nothing — mind, nothing —
about the fan. And then this evening I will
ivear it — it's black, of course ? yes, mourning ;
you see my tea-gown is mourning, sort of lilac
I will wear it with a mantilla. You have no
notion how well a mantilla suits me : and
Grenvers hasn't seen me in a mantilla for
months. Come and see him ! and then we will
go and dress early — but mind, not a word
about the fan ! ' Lady Grenvers skips off the
sofa, and Val rises, perplexed and rather tired,
to remake acquaintance with her uncle.

The house has struck her as old-fashioned
as she drove up to it ; but all the rooms that
Lady Grenvers favours are Belgravian. It is,
however, to the untouched part that they repair
to find his lordship's rooms, made bright
by his lordship's welcome.

On their way thither Lady Grenvers airily
throws open a door into a comfortable but
ordinary chamber destined for her niece, more
to find out if Yal's maid is unpacking the fan
than to show the girl what preparations have
been made for her comfort. 'No one there
yet ! ' she says in a tone of keen disappointment,
ah well ! you shall explore your own domain
by and by, but you might have brought it
with you. I hate suspense !'

Lord Grenvers is lying, as he ever has to
lie, upon a locomotive couch which science has
invented for him and adapted wonderfully to
his needs. He is looking rather listlessly
out of the window, which frames squarely a
landscape of monotonous hue — for it is twilight
now — only accented by the yellow and
red of single dahlias in the foreground. A
nurse is reading aloud to him something of
Dickens, and it amuses him although he does
not smile : a person who is always pursuing
amusement as a distraction seldom smiles, just
as a snuff-taker seldom sneezes.

But he smiles when her ladyship enters

with Val. ' I am glad you have brought her at
once,' he says, looking at the girl with interest.

There is an age, perhaps it is nineteen,
which resents being looked at with interest.
Deep down in Waldine's organisation there
is, no doubt, a sense of sympathy ; but it
has not yet had its way with her. As Lord
Grenvers takes her hand and gazes at her she
is surprised to find that she feels shy of him :
her robustness shrinks from his soft manner.
This phenomenon of shyness in herself astonishes
her the more because she is anxious
to like her uncle and full of goodwill towards
him, and she knows him to be noteworthy,
though she does not half know how noteworthy
he is. It is an accident of her age,, and it
oppresses her like physical discomfort. And
the worst of it is that Lord Grenvers is clearly
sensitive enough to feel the reaction of this
shyness.

Lady Grenvers, of course, does not feel it ;
she utilise the opportunity of being charming
which the moment lends her. ' I think that
you must Mss your uncle, Val,' she says

with a meditative air, as she seats herself on a
little footstool before the couch, with her back
to the light. The girl colours and laughs, but
she only sits down and stares out of the
window. Lord Grenvers looks at her, his
glance changing a little from its air of kindly
welcome to one of keener observation ; he
does not propose that Waldine should act on
her aunt's suggestion ; on the contrary :

'Ah! Linda,' he says, 'your tame bear is
not kissable now' — which remark only adds
to Val's uneasiness.

But it gives Lady Grenvers another opportunity,
and she effusively stoops forward and
kisses the astrachan rug which covers his
lordship's knees.

It seems to Val as if she had been with
them for years ; but it is not because she feels
at home : it is rather because she feels — all of
a sudden and with the desperate impulse of
her years — that she will never be more at
home with them than she is now; that his
lordship is difficult and her ladyship absurd.

The impression is founded enough, but

she is wrong to put any value upon it at
present.

After watching her for a moment, Lord
Grenvers says gently : ' Yes, Miss Waldine
de Stair, this is what we are. I wonder how
you will like us.'

Oh ! I shall like you very much,' says
Val ; but nothing else comes to her to be
added to this cools promise : her simple and
affectionate days have not furnished her with
a precedent to this little scene.

I don't know that,' he says, ' but we mean
to like you ; and you are to be quite at home
here ; you are to do precisely what you please ;
we don't know much about seventeen' — he
says seventeen, meaning not to patronise Val
but to please Lady Grenvers, this being always
his first thought; nor does it occur to him
that the girl may resent her age being
underrated ; but she does.

I am nineteen,' she answers ; and the fact
of making this" assertion seems to prevent her
being able to thank him for the freedom he is
bestowing upon her, as she had meant to do.

Ah ! nineteen ! ' he says ; ' that is two years
nearer to me, but it's a long way off still.' He
feels, looking at her as she sits there, radiant
and upright, that he has never said a truer
word : and she too feels that there is a whole
lifetime — and the lifetime of a different life
too — between herself and this gentle invalid
who is forty years her senior.

He is not one to make advances ; to stop
an incidental clause of his speech is often to
interrupt the whole, and he does not go on to
tell her any plans he may have roughly sketched
for her amusement. He turns his face towards
his wife ; and as Val steals a glance at it, in
self-reproach, she thinks how distinguished
and handsome he is. 'And you, Linda?' he
says in a tone still more pronounced suited
to a child ; ' what have you been doing all the
afternoon V

Vas memory rushes back to Lady Grenvers'
note and its assertion that her husband was
too ill to be left ; but she need not alarm
herself; her aunt has quite forgotten the
contents of that harmless document.

I, dear ? — a thousand things,' says Lady
Grenvers slowly, lifting her delicate eyebrows
as if she would try and shift the weight of her
occupations by confessing them ; ' you know
how many notes I had to write, and you know
but you never quite realise — how everything
falls on me here : everything wants the architectonic
eye — isn't that good Greek?' — Lady
Grenvers is exceedingly proud of the 'less
Greek ' she knows.

Oh yes ! Aristotelian — Platonic — what
you will.'

'Well,' she goes on, opening and shutting
her eyes at him, like a sleepy cat, ' these
architectonic orbs have had to look through
various books and bills and to catch this short
day's light for a little pursuit of the muses —
the day's are short now, are they not?' she
concludes dreamily, turning to Val, — ' and art
always demands one's hest!

'Oh yes!' says the girl, 'but I like long twilights
; I like to walk in autumn, to walk quickly,
until I feel almost tingling in the still air ; I like
to feel the darkness and the dew stealing down

upon me and up to me, and to think : '* Ah ! I
am so warm and so bright that you cannot chill
me; the darker you fall and the colder you
rise the brighter and the warmer I get. " '

Lady Grenvers shivers a little. 'Horrid!'
she says vaguely, — her synonym for dissent.

His lordship sighs ; he too loved a brisk
walk on October evenings once.

Neither of them can encourage her ; nature
and accident are against her chances. ' I
suppose I may walk here,' she ends rather
flatly, ashamed to have said so much.

You mays walk,' says Lord Grenvers with
forced cheerfulness, *till all is blue.'

Even the tip of your nose,' concludes her
ladyship sweetly: — 'But when you've done
making my flesh creep with your damps and
your darks, perhaps you'll let me talk of something
more in my jooor darling's line than long
wet rambles.'

Val is mute ; she blames herself more than
she need ; for she is unaware that her aunt
rides roughshod over her husband's nerves if
she be herself in the mood to describe any

out-door exercise that she may chance to have
enjoyed, for she has what she calls her
Atlanta moments The fact is that she has
learnt so long to think of nobody but herself that
she never perceives what confidences she may
stunt or what companionship she may lose in
others. She kisses the astrachan rug again, and
says, 'You must come into the dining-room
to-night to dinner ; I have done the table with
autumn leaves as a surprise to Val ! Oh ! and
talk of surprises ; I've such a surprise for you /'

'Ah!' says his lordship, while Yal looks
on in astonished silence.

And you'll never guess what it is,^ says
her ladyship, rising and pouncing on a little
clock which stands by the couch, ' but I'll
give you a hint : I'm going to dress early !
And we are sitting here in pitch darkness,
and I've a hundred things to do first. Oh !
the books are come from Muche's ; I will have
them sent you here. Altogether, you see,
darling, that we cannot stay, for I mean Val
to be my right hand now.'

She gives her niece a sign, links her arm

in lies, and has got her out of the room before
either his lordship or she can utter a syllable
of protest.

Poor saint ! ' she whispers confidentially
to her niece, when they are in the anteroom :
he does hate strangers so ; but he'll get used
to you in time ! — You must go to his lordship
now, Sister Frances ; he's quite worn out with
talking ; or stay, will you get the books undone
for me — the books from Muche's ? they
are in my boudoir, and he really had rather be
quite alone for the present ! '

I am so sorry I said that about walking,'
says Val in a contrite voice.

^ Oh never mind, dear,' — in the tone of
one who forgives a personal injustice ; ' but
you know I'm not strong, and it makes me
feel my delicacy more when people talk of
active pursuits.' She has quite forgotten that
it was on her husband's behalf she professed to
intervene : what is with her always is the
sense of her central self.

And now they are in the corridor again, on
which Val's room gives : and from its open door

they hear a sound charming to Lady Grenvers'
ears — the rustle of tissue paper and the unclasping
of boxes.

*I will give you your fan says Val,
puzzled and disappointed — a little angry.

Lady Grenvers kisses her as she takes the
box from her hands : then she runs to the glass,
and in an instant is practising with her new
treasure which seems to surpass her utmost expectations,
for Lady Grenvers is very cheaply
and very sincerely pleased. It is merely a
fan of black ostrich feathers with ' Ethelinda *
in silver on the tortoiseshell mounts.

Val goes to the window, half not to laugh
at her aunt and half to see the view. It
is nearly dark now, and there are wavelets
of steamy mist upon the grass. But the
colours of the trees across the park — there is
no telling their beauty. The window is near
a corner of the house, and she can see to
south and east. ' Now tell me where I am,'
she says ; ' it is so long ago that I was here
that I have quite forgotten.'

Oh ! my dear, I never have time to lookout

of the window. Let me try!' — pointing
with the fan ; ' that's the park, as far as you can
see ; my eyes are not good at distance ; but
yours can see Netherfield Church, no doubt,
through the trees — west — and very horrid it
looks if you can. Pretty, the time of year, isn't
it V — as if it had just dawned on her that it is
autumn.

And to the left,' says Val ; ' it looks so
tangled and so leafy there.'

Ah ! it will soon get over looking tangled
and leafy : but beyond it is for ever green.
I thought you would like to see something
which looks always like summer : it was quite
mAj idea to give you this room. When the
leaves fall you will see a fir wood in the distance,
with a sort of fringe of little trees about it,
like fine lace ; I do assure you it gave me an
inspiration for a winter bonnet one year.'

'What is the wood?' says Val, standing
with her hands clasped behind her.

Oh ! it is where the lake is, and where
Grenvers lets nobody go for fear of disturbing
wild ducks — he used to be a great sportsman

once, you know, and they are still his keenest
interest. It's an odd cut-throat looking place,
but the fir-trees are always grand. It is called
the Willow-Garth.'

That moment before evening when the sun
has set but the land is not yet dark : it has
some sadness ever in its calm ! And the girl
is tired, perhaps, with her journey, and the
freshness of her rather tame experiences. Anyway
the place she does not see, but which is
to be her winter surety of summer, seems to
rise up before her through the brown and
crimson leaves. She still stands at the window,
her hands still clasped behind her, the
beautiful curves of her figure showing against
the gray pane ; but a gravity steals over her
flower-like face and her eyes are veiled. Lady
Grenvers only wonders ' where she gets her
stays,' that is just the sort of thing she always
does wonder at a juncture of silence and calm,
but even Lady Grenvers does not ask the
crude question ; even Lady Grenvers, though
she does not know it, is awed for an instant's
space as Waldine from the untroubled sleep of

youth passes to the first flicker of the wings
of her dream.

And then, what is great being vague and
what is trivial being obtrusive, and the song
of the future having — after all — no voice to
compare with the twitter of the present ; the
flight of fate is hushed by the approach of
a lady's-maid, and that heart - fulness which
means presage is dashed by the dressing-bell.

VOL. I.

WALDINE WRITES

Whiteknyghts Court, October 11th.

Dearest Elsie — Will you believe that I miss
you though I am only here since yesterday ?
No, you won't believe it ; but it is true. You
will think I mean by ' miss you ' that I should
like to see you, but I don t ; I mean that I am
absolutely homesick for Brussels. You will
want to know what I do, and one would
think that it was early yet to be able to tell
you that, but it isn't : I feel that the days
will be alike — not that they must be quite all
like to-day, or I shall find myself the owner
of a forest !

Well, but about my advent. You know
that I can't go through the whole story of my

journey: I hate detail unless it is about some
happy moment, and the happy moment was
not there. I arrived — let that suffice. Arrived
to what, do you think ? — a loving Aunt
Ethelinda on the platform to match the note
that summoned me away from you all ? Nothing
of the sort — an empty carriage, and,
when I got here, empty kisses from her ladyship
and empty civility from him. Elsie,
Elsie ! what shall I do here ? You have no
notion how impossible it looks. I am sure
they are going to he hind to me ; and you
know what an unregenerate soul I have in that
matter. I abhor people to be kind to me :
I want them to beat me instead. There is
no one here but my aunt and Lord Grenvers
there is not going to be any one. They are
mostly quite alone, and, to do them justice,
they don't seem to mind it. He, poor fellow,
is paralysed, or something of that sort — and
you know how I dislike people who are ill ; — I
can't help it ; I always think they ought to be
killed off. As for her, she spends her time
in dressing and fancying that she is artistic.

UNIVERSITY OF.
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

My own idea is that the artistic talent finds
its scope upon her face — for oh ! my dear
Elsie, I really do believe that Aunt Ethelinda
does ujp !

However, she looks very pretty — yesterday
evening looked lovely — in a mantilla, and
with the feather-fan we chose, which has
been a great success : I only hope you and I
may look as well when we're — well, I won't
say how many years of age — say twice as old
as we are now ! And I only hope we may be
as easily pleased with a feather-fan.

But the evening ! Oh ! how dull it was :
they read the papers and yawned. I played
the piano ; but you know I don't care greatly
for the piano, and my violin was not unpacked ;
and, if it had been, I misdoubt Aunt Linda's
skill as an accompanied. I played vilely, and
Lord Grenvers knew it ; she said, ' Charming :
what a gift touch is ! Benedict used to say
there was no touch like mine !' That is just
the kind of thing she always says, really, and,
ambiguous though it be, I always long to
shake her.

Always ' — ' always ' — and I have been here
twenty-four hours.

But one thing was good : they gave me
leave to walk alone : you may guess that I
availed myself of that leave to-day. One
sleeps well here, and there is no breakfast
hour ; but still I was abroad by half-past
eleven prepared to explore. One wears what
one likes, and I put on my plainest black
stuff dress. The day was so lovely — is so
lovely still, though it is nearly dark, and I
write by owl's light. I had only a straw fiat
no jacket — and I felt — oh ! don't you know
how I feel in the morning ? — as if I must fling
myself into a river and swim, or climb a tree
or — well ! I did neither, but I confess I
jumped the ditches.

Do you remember telling me once that,
wherever I was, things would happen to me ?
Well, even here I have had an adventure ; I
have touched upon it already, have I not ? I
am full of it still — an adventure, for I have
been shopping, and I have bought — a tree !

Listen. My impulse was to get away from

the park — out of sight of the house, anywhere
into the open. So I crossed the carriage drive,
and turned into a little wood. Oh ! if you
could be here and paint the colours of that
little wood ! There is a path through it that
looks as if it led to heaven ; it is overarched
with branches that literally rain down gold.
And all along the hedge, for there is a rose-hedge
at one side of it, it is bright with hips
aren't they called hips, the things that
used to be roses ? — which are like clusters of
coral. I gathered a handful of them, and oh 1
how they pricked my fingers.

The path does not lead to heaven ; it leads
only into a road which is much more of a
thoroughfare — what a word to use in these
wilds! — the road that runs to the station.
One of the posts of a gate there had a little
placard fastened on it — an affiche relating to
the 'sale of timber and firewood at White-knights
to-day,' stating that Messrs. So-ands
and their men would arrange for the
conveyance of the wood purchased, by waggon
or steam, to the railway — just an advertisement,

in fact, of some contractor, but it
sufficed to show me that there was something
more than usual in the air.

Down the road I saw a big break with
some common-looking men in it, who were
drinking beer and eating sandwiches : you
know what a horror I have of common men.
I have also a horror of going back the way I
came, and so I turned into the wilds and found
some fields. Here, at least, I thought, there
can be no ' sale of timber and firewood ; ' but
presently I found I was wrong. For 'the
timber sale was a local one, Elsie, and in the
open air ! The fields were very still, but the
cows in them had a disturbed look, and there
was altogether a different feeling on me to
what I had in the coppice : I felt, although the
solitude was unbroken, that I had left shelter
and come out on to a green stage. The gates
between the meadows were open, and there was
a trodden path between them. I went into
the field where there were fewest cows — and
these at the other end — and shut the gate.
Then I looked about for a seat, for I was tired.

There were scarcely any trees in the field,
though there were several oaks all round it,
some of them wreathed with ivy ; but just in
the centre was an oddly-grown ash-tree, grown
see how learned I am become in trees ! — out
of the flat bole of an older ash, which furnished
me with a seat. The growth up from this
trunk divided, so that I could lean back and
look between the stems, which stretched to
the sky like two broad arms. I sat down and
peered up into the branches. The tree was at
its loveliest ; it had not lost a single leaf, but
all the leaves were changed. I had noticed, as
I walked, how the ash throws away its leaves
in green fans and clusters, not waiting for them
to wither or fall separately down, carpeting
the lanes with ferny sprays, all sapful still.
But this tree kept every leaf: there was
not one lying in the meadow, there was not
one missing from the boughs : and every
leaf was gold, and burnt like a fine flame
against the sober sky. It was just the perfect
blossom of the meadow, and completed its perfection
:

Oh ! the oak and the ash and the bonny ivy tree,
They flourish at home in my ain countrey.'

There they were, ' flourishing at home ' in
the country that is mine now. . . . All of a
sudden I saw a knot of men standing in the
field next this one, on the farther side of the
hedge. They were grouped quietly round a
huge fallen log, and the assemblage had the
air of a rustic funeral. I guessed at once that
they had something to do with the ^ sale of
timber and firewood ' I had seen advertised on
the gatepost. No doubt they were looking at
these stark stripped trees to buy them. It
occurred to me that the trees must have been
blown down first : you see I am not much of
an agriculturist : perhaps that will come.

They were not only looking at them, they
were bidding for them there and then. A
smart-looking auctioneer was standing on the
trunk of a big bare oak, with a pencil and a
catalogue in his hand, and the miscellaneous
crowd was silently nodding as he mounted up
the price. I could not hear, but their gestures
were so simple and so relevant that I could

imagine all that was said. And I was amused
until, with one accord, they turned away and
made for this field of mine. I had not seen
that there was a stile in the hedge between
my field and theirs — across the path I had
come by there lay more fallen timber — so,
thought I, they will only pass through this
meadow, and the chances are that they will
not see me under my tree in the open, away
from the footpath side.

Picture my amazement, Elsie, when the
whole group made steadily for my shelter —
not a woman among them ! What in the
world were they going to do — picnic ?

Not they : the auctioneer stepped forward —
he was on the other side of the tree to where I
sat, but I could see him between the fork of it
and the men closed round him. Then he
began at once : —

Lot eleven — an ash-tree containing fifteen
cubic feet of wood — what shall I say, gentlemen ?
fine-grown tree — now, gentlemen' — he did not
add that there was a fairly fine-grown dryad
concealed behind the tree in a state of shyness

and mystification — ' very fine young ash — anyone
give me a bid \ ten shillings ! '

Elsie, Elsie ! they are going to sell this
crown of the fields, this miracle of the meadows,
this life that had taken years of making —
for ten shillings — the price of one of my
evening shoes, of a stall at a theatre. It
broke upon me all of a sudden, as if I were
seeing a crime. The unconsciousness of the
victim, the coolness of the conspirators ! I
became desperate to hinder them and to
save its life — its life that sheltered me.
*Ten shillings, gentlemen, only ten shillings,
this fine young tree — the boughs alone worth
the money for firewood — shall I say fifteen ?
No — twelve and sixpence then ? Yes. Going
for twelve shillings and sixpence — going,
going. . . :

Fifteen shillings,' I cried out as loudly as
I could, appearing in my excitement from
between the twin trunks of my ash-tree. And
when I had said it I really think I should
have died of shame if it had not been that the
assemblage in general and the smart young

auctioneer in particular looked far more embarrassed
than I was. The auctioneer dropped
his pencil : the crowd stared : as for me, I
thought all at once of a text which reassured
me a little by making me laugh, 'The ass,
speaking with man's voice, rebuked the madness
of the prophet!' I did not qiiote the
text, but I thanked heaven for it in my heart
of hearts, for if I had not laughed I must have
cried ! To make matters worse, down fell my
bunch of berries, and, as I stooped to save
them, that ungrateful ash-tree nearly knocked
my hat off. I suppose there was not a soul
among them knew who I was — how should
they \ and the sting of it was that they were
not all Netherfield men ; there were buyers
from a distance, and they had a more town
look than the rustic contractors in their
corduroys and caps. One of these townsmen,
who was dressed in plaid-patterned knickerbockers
and smoking a cigar, stared at me
with a look I could not escape : when I
laughed, he laughed quite loudly and said,
Ah ! Mr. Thirscombe, you didn't mention

there was a young lady in this lot, or I guess
you'd have run up the price of it a bit.' — I
think that it was he who had nodded the
twelve and sixpence.

And then a man — one of ourselves, you
know, quite different — a man who was standing
behind, and had seemed to be only watching
the sale, went up to him and touched him
on the arm. And I felt I was quite safe.

The auctioneer recovered himself: he was
stupid, he did not take off his hat ; he only said,
Fifteen shillings ?' so that I lost my temper.

I want to buy this tree,' I said, ' do you
not understand ? Fifteen shillings you called :
or I will give you a napoleon ; I do not want
him to have it.'

The crowd tittered a little, and my plaid-pattered
admirer fell back. Then the man
who had prevented his rudeness came across
to me — and, my dear, he knew my name !

Excuse me. Miss de Stair,' he said, taking
off his hat — and yet I could see that he was
far more nervous really than I was — for oh,
Elsie, I was only amused ! — ' If you wish this

ash to be spared, will you allow me to tell Mr.
Thirscombe so ? ' Such an odd request from a
stranger ! of course I said, ' Thank you ; I
will pay for the tree if no one else bids more ;
if any one does bid more I will outbid him ;
you need not trouble yourself. I am obliged
to you.'

He looked prodigiously perplexed, but kept
his place by me, as if he had some sort of
right to be there ; and the auctioneer stept
across to him and said something which I
could not hear. But the tree was mine.

Just then an elderly man came from the
field the group had last quitted, and the men
flocked to him, and I suppose they told him
the incident. He was Lord Grenvers' agent,
I have since discovered ; and I imagine that he
hesitated whether to tell me to go about my
business or not, since I had not yet made his
acquaintance. At all events, he did not cross
the meadow to me at first. I was still standing
on the bole of the tree ; my unknown
champion stood a pace or two off; he did not
come nearer and there did not seem anything

impertinent in his attitude ; but I felt the
silence awkward, and, after my manner when
flustered, I launched into rapid speech.

For, as I glanced at him, it occurred to me
that I had seen him before — that he was, in
point of fact, the first person I had seen at
Whiteknyghts, standing in a lane I drove
through from the station.

I think it was you who opened the gate
for me yesterday,' I said.

He bowed, as if his civility had been the
merest duty. ^I happened to be there she
said quite low, ' and I knew the carriage would
pass.' His manner was so shy, so deferential,
that I took courage and looked at him. From
the vantage-ground of my tree — my own tree,
Elsie ! — I was brave. Elsie, he is very handsome
and very gentle — tall and rather foreign-looking,
but yet he has an English face — and
I liked his clothes ; he had a short coat, the
colour of a faded leaf, a plain brown hat and
reddish brown gaiters : he seemed so at home
in the fields, under the boughs of my ash tree —
the beautifully thing I have ever bought.

When I looked at him he coloured like a girl,
so I glanced up into the branches.

What makes the tree cost so little I said,
^ and why do they sell it ? '

It is grown from an old stool he said ; ' it
will never be much of a tree : in three years
it will probably die.'

But it is the ornament of the field,' I said,
rather ashamed of my heroism now.

He smiled— his lips are soft and his teeth
so white and even. — ' Oh yes,' he said, ' it
looks well here, but it is out of sight ; this
meadow is not in any range of view, and
farmers don't like ash-trees in pasture land.'

Will this tree do much harm if it remains?'
I said, feeling a little guilty.

Oh no, it will not exhaust the soil ; and it
is pretty.'

He looked up at the golden leaves just as I
looked down from them, and I saw full into
his eyes : they were so clear and bright.
Drdle de chose! Elsie, do you know I have
never looked into any man's eyes before ?

He was not observing me ; he was quite

critically examining my purchase, and the smile
was still upon his mouth (I seemed to see his
face so well), and it was pleasant — that was all ;
then I became aware that the group was passing
on, and the agent coming towards us. I stept
down from the tree, and he stooped to pick up
a handful of my red berries from the turf ' I
have to thank you,' I said, by way of leave-taking.


Oh no,' he answered simply, ' I am John
Lyne.'

And he held out the berries ; but it occurred
to me that it would look to the agent as if I
were shaking hands with Mr. ' John Lyne ' if I
took them ; so I did not take them. I only said,
Never mind them, thank you, I have plenty.'

Elsie, he did not do as young men do in
books ! — he let them drop. Only I saw that
one spray of rose-leaf and scarlet fruit clung to
his coat by the thorns. I wonder if he ever
found it and remembered that it had been mine ?

Then the agent came up, and I felt shy
again, but only shy of my action, which he
was kind enough to allow. 'The tree is of

VOL. I. 5

small value for timber he said, ' only fit for
firewood ; I am sure that his lordship will
let it stand if you wish it ; there are plenty
more to sell. It has got a name too, because
of its odd double growth : the people hereabouts
call it the Twin.'

I thanked him : ' I will tell my aunt about
it,' I said.

Or John Lyne can tell his lordship,' he
replied ; ' he is going up to the Court while
luncheon is brought here, to report the sale,
which is of a tentative sort in these parts.'

Elsie ! Elsie ! I have told you all the story,
and now do you know what I want to do ? I
want to put my arms round your neck and
my head on your shoulder before I give you
the clue. Let us imagine it ! come closer,
closer : I do not mean you to see my face
while I tell you — not even a bit of my neck
or my ear. Oh ! it is well that you should be
away ; I think my very hair would blush.
Elsie, John Lyne is Uncle Grrenvers' bailiff ! —

Yours, dear, yours, —

Waldine de Stair.

Postscript. — You won't think anything of
my adventure after all, I have told it so ill. I
wanted my last revelation to astonish you as
much as it astonished me, but I was bursting
with it all the while, and it cast its shadow
before. Nor is it really in the least amusing.
After all, what is there funny in his being a
bailiff? But it is nice to have the tree. Those
two slim boughs growing upwards from the
mutual bole : such a curve they take against
the sky ! And then the golden crown which
links them both together. To behold it iS to
envy, to possess it is to be glad. It seems tome
as if within my heart some sudden double
tree were firmly set, topped with such burnished
bloom. . . . One falls a-dreaming ! '

m^/^

JOHN LYNE's lesson

Then slowly, slowly, she came up.
And slowly she came nigh him.' —

John Lyne has a sweet voice, and he is apt
to beguile the hours therewith as he rides
from farm to hamlet and from hamlet to farm
upon the Denham mare.

The Denham mare has not even a name :
she is John's most intimate comrade, and
often seems by the turn of her ear or the
meditative glance of her mild eye as if she
were sharing his thoughts or listening to his
songs.

But to the Lynes she is only the Denham
mare. There is a fund of gentleness in John
even a possible appreciation of the pathetic

fallacy, but he is no more romanticist than
classics as yet. As yet a horse is only a
horse to him and a tree a tree. The one
means merely locomotion and the other merely
timber. So that to-day he is not a little
puzzled.

Because it has just dawned above his horizon
that there is a way of regarding a tree which
has no practical bearings, and, all the same, is
not without its charm. He has read a considerable
set of books for his station, and
mythological books among them, but he has
never yet applied mythology : he has waited
in ignorance till a young lady, of a type which,
if described to him, he might hitherto have
deemed mythological, should familiarise him
with the notion of a wood-nymph and endow
a worthless ash with significance and feeling.
As the Denham mare takes him along the
well-known bridle-path at a foot's pace he
looks from side to side at the trees, his reins
slack upon the horse's neck, and sings — after
his manner — as he goes.

But he is not thinking of his song ; he is

thinking of the caprice of a woman. He is
wondering which tree would please her ;
whether that bare oak which is but the support
for the dark berried ivy now, or that rare
copper beech, or that variegated maple. He
does not know that any tree would have been
the same to her at that moment and in that
mood : from her whim of an instant he sets to
work to learn a serious lesson in his ever
imaginative leisure. And the Denham mare
looks serious too.

Presently John stops singing to light his
pipe : as he searches his side pocket for a
match his fingers arrest themselves at the
touch of something sharp. He draws it out :
it is Waldine's spray of autumn rose-leaf and
fruit, so that after all, he thinks to himself
as he replaces it, there is no doubt of her
being real ! And very real she begins to grow
for him as he reviews their chance meetings.

"With his face aglow, he recalls the feeling
that had come upon him when she gave him
that incomprehensible little bow on the previous
day : — his brain had photographed her

attitude so well, no wonder that lie recognised
her at once under the ash-tree ; — and thence
he falls to vague musing, uncertain whether
or no she resented also that slight service
which he only rendered as a matter of duty.
It does not occur to him that she judged his
position wrongly. Experience lends him no
precedent which shall guide him to translate
her mien.

And then, the Denham mare chancing to
tread upon a stone, he abruptly wonders
whether she cares for horses, and if she would
not, a fortiori, be more solicitous on their behalf
than on an ash-tree's.

Or on a fir's ? for it is fir-trees that are
now in view : as he rides along the grassy
stone-strewn path the character of the scene
has changed : there is a hint of moorland in
the air, the foliage is wilder, the hedge less
trimmed. It is the way to the Willow-Garth.

He is riding there to see whether some
apparatus for wild-duck shooting has been
properly put up, for it is a survival of Lord
Grenvers' sporting days that he cares still to

have his boats and guns in order. In a valise
slung over John's shoulder there is a length
of gauze, coffee stained into the colour of a
faded leaf, which his lordship has been preparing
all the morning to delude the birds
and hide the rough machinery. And the
Denham mare knows her way to the Willow-garth
: the place is a favourite retreat of her
master's, not only for work and sport but forrest
and reading. There is no place in all the
country-side as undisturbed.

The wood thickens ; it is all firs now — Scotch
firs and larch ; the ride is carpeted with piny
needles ; the weak autumn sun has no strength
through the evergreen branches to light the way
or to disperse the damp ; but at the end of the
thicket there is, as it were, a feathering of
delicate boughs, quite bare of leaf, and underneath
them a rustic gate ; beyond, firs again,
with no clearing or way through them, only
little trodden tracks which lead to the secluded
lake. And the tops of these firs show dark
against the feathering willows.

At the gate John dismounts, and ties the

Denham mare to a post, more from habit than
for prevention of her wandering. Then he
pulls a handful of weeds from a little mound
close by, so bringing to light a rough wooden
slab slanted against the mound, on which some
words are carved. It is here that he buried a
favourite dog last year. The carving is not
ill done, for John is apt to take pains with
what he puts in hand ; and the words are
interspersed with hieroglyphics after a quaint
custom of the country-side. There are two
lines only, and they run thus — •

Eye finder, Heart choosetli,
Love binder, Death loosely.' ■

illustrated, as might be, by symbols — the eye,
the heart, the little winged love and the
skull ; and underneath the lines is the dog's
name, ' Flirt.' It is John's custom to keep the
slab clear of grass, and to contemplate his
handiwork not without pride when he goes to
the Willow-Garth.

And thither he now goes as noiselessly ashe
can, not to disturb the birds.

So going, he does not disturb either Miss

Waldine de Stair, who is just entering the
copse by a stile lower down ; she has skirted
the enclosure, as a bee flits round a flower,
hesitating whether to go in or not, but the
stile has decided her, and her dress is now
making its little rustle among the reeds.

As she comes up to the wooden slab a ray
of sunshine falling on the carved letters attracts
her quick eyes to it at once. ^ Some fancy
of Aunt Ethelinda's, this,' she thinks ; and
stoops down to make out the singular inscription.


Its gist is not patent to her at first, but
she is not long before she solves its general
sense : * Flirt,' she says to herself softly, and
then she reads the lines again. Because they
are unusual they seem to her pathetic, and
perhaps there was pathos in their first suggestion.
' That is too real for Aunt Ethelinda,'
she thinks ; and she approves it.

Waldine's letter has cleared her mental
atmosphere : she is one of those girls who can
write off an impression — that is to say, when
it is once registered it has passed. It is

astonishing how easily she has digested the
lesson that John Lyne is only the bailiff at
Whiteknyghts. For two reasons : first, because
the word ' bailiff ' seems to her to belong to a
category of words that have to do with the
country — 'squire' is another: to say to
Waldine that Lord Grenvers is a squire and
John Lyne is a bailiff' only conveys to her
that both Lord Grenvers and John Lyne live
in the country : no distinct profession is called
up by either term : she would receive with equal
calm an assertion that Lord Grenvers was a
bailiff and John Lyne a squire, and in her
heart of hearts she believes them both to be
farmers. — Second, because, the previous evening,
when she told Lady Grenvers her adventure,
that lady was in a gushing mood.
She said, ' How nice of you, dear Val, to
be so enthusiastic ! / am always enthusiastic —
hate to see trees cut down. And you were so
safe with John Lyne : isn't he handsome ?
so well bred, and such a good manner. He is
all in all to my poor saint : and as to Charlotte
Lupton — you must really wear that black

gauze veil when we go to see her tomorrow —
so softening ! Charlotte has an eye like a hawk
for subjects; and you 11 have to sit to her:
she's the only decent woman in these parts —
at least, decent, poor darling! she's not:
but so amusing :' — and thus her desultory talk
had merged John's quiet personality into her
neighbour's more robust characteristics ; the
link between them, which did not transpire in
Lady Grenvers' fluent chatter, being that Mrs.
Lupton had once painted John Lyne's portrait.
His position at Whiteknyghts was indeed
that peculiar position into which a man of
quite humble and rustic origin can sooner fall
than his superior in station. Lord Grenvers
treated him almost like a son — was in the habit
of sending for him every day and taking his
advice on more matters connected with the
estate than were strictly in his province. He
was part of Whiteknyghts ; and, if familiarity
has anything to say to possession, the place
was more his than another's, for the old
yeoman breed of which he came had lived
there . from century to century. His interests

were Lord Grenvers' interests — to imagine
that he would run counter to these was
inconceivable to both. A stranger or a man
of means in John Lyne's position would have
been too independent to be treated thus : he
would have had extraneous pursuits, connections
who were not born and bred with
their horizon bounded by Whiteknyghts — so
to be less utterly trusted. With John Lyne
all pursuits and all connections were known,
and the presumption was that all was known
that there was to know in John Lena — a
conclusion one too readily deduces from
premises of custom and likeness.

If Lady Grenvers had ever troubled her
head about any one but herself and formulated
her opinion of John Lyne, she would have
said that he was handsome, — because Charlotte
Lupton had painted him, not because she had
really observed it, — and that he was a blessing,
because he distracted her poor saint, who
relied upon him. Pressed to answer how she
regarded him herself, she would have said
she regarded him as a miracle and as a man

for whom lie, personally, had a strange
attraction — ' as something quite removed from
his own sphere and a sort of ideal being;'
unaware all the while that his opinion of her
was a poor one. Further pressed to answer
whether she viewed him in the light of a
servant, she would have said, ' John Lyne ?
good gracious, no ! he is quite one of ourselves,'
lifted her eyebrows, so laying aside the
weight of the discussion, begged the question
and dropped the subject.

You could never argue with Lady
Grenvers.

Meanwhile Waldine reread Flirt's epitaph,
and wonders whose device it is : until, so
wondering, she sees the Denham mare, looking
almost over her shoulder and wondering very
much about her. Val is fond of animals ; but
as she pats the horse's head over the fence
which is between them she sees that the mare
is saddled and judges the rider to be near
enough to make withdrawal discreet. * Perhaps
it is Mr. John Lyne's horse ' — but it has an
attractive nose : she pats it still. And then

there comes a faint wliilF of tobacco smoke on
the still damp air, more perceptible than the
noiseless footstep that follows.

So John Lynesees her there, midway bet ween
his live mare and his dead dog, just within the
gate of the garth, the willows close behind her,
and the reeds and firs in front. The surprise is
all his, for she has made up her mind that it is his
horse long ago — this girl's senses are like flames
and she is glad of the opportunity to set him
in his right place, which the meeting affords : he
is swell bred,' her aunt has said, and she is 'safe
with him ' ; she will show him that she knows
him to be an integral nerve of Whiteknyghts.

Good day to you, Mr. Lyne,' she says
pleasantly, unaware that the prefix has any
novelty or strangeness for him, and only
meaning to be simple and kind.

His greeting in return, as he slips his pipe
into his pocket, is respectful and. slow. He is
too shy of her : she must reassure him ; what
more natural than that she should speak of
the Denham mare ?

Is it Lord Grenvers' horse V she asks.

'No, Miss de Stair, it is mine.' (So bailiffs,
whatever they are, have horses of their own !)
What is its name ? '

Its name ? Oh it has no name; we call her
the Denham mare V

'Why that?'

Because we bought her at a sale at Denham
over yonder ;' — he points with his crop westward.
— ' It is Lord Mountravers' place.'

But you ought to call her by a name,' she
answers : — ' You name your dogs, why don't
you name your horses V

He follows the direction of her look, and
their eyes rest on .Flirt's epitaph.

Oh ! my old dog, Flirt,' he says, a little
sheepishly.

Yes : I knew it was yours ; that is a
very curious inscription, what is it ? " Eye
finder '"

" Heart choose," ' he goes on.

Oh yes, I was right then : but the rest is
less clear. What is that figure with the wings ?'

That is Love — they call him,' says John
Lyne.

" Love bindetli/' ' repeats Waldine slowly.

'^ Love bindeth/' ' he says again ; ' and the
other carving is Death.'

" Death looseth/' ' the girl concludes.

There is an instant's pause : the words
seem strangely grave, passed between strangers
so. Then —

" Loospth/' ' she asks, ^or ^^oseth" ? Which
does it mean ? '

I think it is " loose," ' — he replies, with
the air of one who has considered the subject.

" Loseth " would rhyme,' she says "absently
; ' but " Love binder. Death loose :"
that makes for the other. " Loose " or
"loseth" — which does death do?' (with a
smile.)

I think it loose,' says John Lyne, ' for
the dead I do not think that there is loss.'

'You should know, as you put it there.
"Death loose". — yes. 'flirt I'' — she says
abruptly, — ' I like your epitaph ! Thank you,
Mr. Lyne.'

Thank you, Miss de Stair.'

As he prepares to step aside for her to go,

VOL. I. 6

there is something in the leisure and the
deference of his movements which, now — as
before — impels Waldine to go on talking,
though she is well aware she has paid him all
due attention. How far she is attracted to
him merely by his attractiveness she does not
know : but somewhat.

Is that a bulrush ? ' she asks, her fair
eyes roving a little beyond the cleared space.

Yes, Miss de Stair ; there are several.'

I wish I had a knife.'

Will you allow me to cut it for you ? '

Thank you. If you will lend me your
knife, I should like to get it myself.'

He hands her a large useful knife : — ' Shall
I unclasp it ? '

'Thanks;' she takes the knife which he
has opened, and moves away a few paces,
walking daintily between the reeds. He does
not like to follow, but he moves after her.
It is very much wetter there than it looks,'
he says apprehensively ; but at the same
moment he puts up his hand to raise his cap
before he leaves her — not wishing to seem as

if lie were waiting for his knife : he wants to
leave her free.

Impossible ! Even in that moment she has
made a false step into the deep morass to which
the Willow-Garth tends as it nears the hidden
lake ; she has passed a stalwart tree by but one
step, and her instinct is to save herself by it
without turning round. She is as lithe as a
panther ; she flings her supple body back and
catches — not the fir-tree stem — with her right
hand. John Lyne has reached the tree and his
right arm is raised to his head, close to the
bough. As she grasps — she knows not what,
but it helps her to spring back, the open knife
in her hand strikes deep into his wrist ; for it is
his arm, and not the bough, that she has seized.

It is she that cries out, not he. The thrust
is such a fierce one and has come so suddenly
with a force the girl could not have used in a
case of deliberate aim — that he turns sick and
white ; the blood rushes from his face and lips,
and his arm droops.

Waldine stands by him on firm land.
What has she done ? Will he faint ? The resistance

that the knife-blade found in his flesh
has struck her deadly chill.

I beg your pardon,' he says — but his eyes
close.

In a moment of desperation Waldine has
flung aside the knife — only to see the blood
welling from his wounded wrist. She catches
the handkerchief out of his breast-pocket ; it
is the most evident bandage near. As she
draws it up there comes out with it a spray of
roseleaf and red berry, which falls to the
ground at her feet.

In that moment John has steadied himself,
and the colour returns to his lips.

Pray don't trouble, Miss de Stair,' he says.
It was my fault : I thought to warn you.' He
takes his handkerchief from her and binds his
wrist — not to let her see the gash.

'Are you hurt?' asks Waldine in a low
voice : having once cried out she is more than
calm ; her manner is almost rigid in its intensity
; — but her heart beats fast.

He smiles, ' Oh no, indeed ; I will get you
the bulrush if you like.'

No says the girl, who seems to feel the
air heavy about her, — 'No: if you are not
faint and if you can ride, get on your Denham
mare and ride up to the Court : his lordship's
nurses will bind up the wound rightly. Go at
once !'

Her manner is so earnest as to be imperious ;
and the hurt is not slight. Clearly it is
right that he should go — but he leaves her
with hesitation.

Pray do not venture over the reeds to the
lake,' he says ; * there is a footpath to the boathouse
; and the marsh on either side is
treacherous !'

I will keep the path,' she answers.

Then he withdraws, lifting his left hand to
his cap with a smile ; and she, still standing
there, hears him loose the Denham mare and
ride away.

Side away, still thinking, but not singing
any longer — wounded how and where ?

Forecasting

Over the Willow Garth there is a young
moon shining : all the while she has been
there, but it is not till now, when the gray
day wanes in afternoon, that she is seen ; and
she is shining right upon the blade of John
Lyne's knife where it lies at Waldine's feet.

As she hears the paces of the Denham mare
quicken, the girl stoops down and picks it up,
wondering why it is that she should tremble :
I meant to be only nice to him,' she thinks,
and I have stabbed him like this ! ' — she is on
the point of shutting it when her warm fingers
touch his blood upon the blade.

A sort of sickness steals upon her nerves
till she averts her eyes ; and then she sees the

spray of roseleaf and red berry which fell from
John's coat-pocket when she bound his hand :
there are no rose-trees near.

She blushes softly : — *Was it mine?' she
asks herself aloud : but she does not care to
answer. Only her instinct is to leave it there :
she has yet so much to learn : life is for her
an immense fund of answers to riddles yet unformed,
and her curiosity knows no limit of
discretion. To know, to discover ! That is
enough for her. Let time and chance arrange !

A faint air stirs the spray ; she grasps .the
knife again and thrusts it through the stems,
the blade's length in the ground : she will not
touch it again.

The young moon brightens over her dark
head in the autumn sky ; the crystal daylight
which she aids shines on the steel handle, on
the red rose-fruit and the golden leaves. The
knife is deep in the cool damp mould, and the
stain on the blade is hidden, but there is
blood upon her fingers — blood.

She rises with a little quick sigh : her face
is very beautiful as its expression of youth is

reasserted after the moment of trouble ; why
should she not go forward to the lake and dip
her hand in the water ? and afterwards ? — her
heart is set upon that bulrush still.

And so it will be with her always, to the
end of time.

THE END OF BOOK I.

Familiarity

NEW FACES

Mrs. Lupton is at home

The announcement is not nearly as trivial
as it sounds : it is significant though it i^ ina
sense untrue, for Mrs. Lupton is never as
little at home in her own house as when the
county is admitted to its precincts.

The county is admitted this afternoon.

Mrs. Lupton is a widow: she has everything
in the world that heart can desire or
the mind of woman devise, except a husband
or a child. And the bent of her mind is not
toward these, though she often speaks of both
regretfully.

Of her true heart's desire she never speaks ;
she is too wise for that ; she just acts as if she

had got it — her heart's desire is fame. If one
be famous, to be false is merely incidental.

Mrs. Lupton is really not a dull woman, but
her cleverness is more one of manner than of
solid worth : she has the knack of making people
at home, and of drawing them out — ' picking
their brains,' she calls it to herself. But this
is a form of genius which leaves its owner unnoticed
and unknown : and to be noticed and
known is Mrs. Lupton's burning wish. It is not
enough for her to notice and know others ; she
uses her talents in that way as a means to an end.

To paint pictures, compose songs, write
books, act plays — pursuits of which people are
apt to be content with one — these are some of
the things Mrs. Lupton wishes to do well.
But she wishes also for that indefinable
distinction which surrounds 'a personality.'
Nothing is too odd for Mrs. Lupton, nothing
too far-fetched: if she hears of a strange
incident she must needs eclipse it in her own
experience. But the worst of it is that the
eccentric fancies and the remarkable events do
not occur to Mrs. Lupton or befall her without

her diligent pursuit. She is not original, and
there is nothing else she cares in the least to be.
She has all the talents and — to a far greater
degree — the talent of exhibiting them ; but
she has not the mainspring that sets them
going, though it is as a social mainspring that
she would fain be regarded herself.

Perhaps it is because — honestly — she does
not greatly care for anything, that she has
convinced herself she cares only for the least
tangible of boons. Perhaps the ideal fame
would still recede if she obtained the actual.

Mrs. Lupton is handsome and well-dressed :
she has a fine house and twelve thousand a
year. There has never been a breath of slander
on her life : she believes that it would have
been more to the purpose if there had been.

She reviews the past : she says to herself, in
an off-hand sort of way, ' Mary, Queen of Scots
Mrs. Browning — Rosa Bonheur — Rachel' —
and cannot, for the life of her, see why she
should not bring the full nature of each of
these in relation to the others'. Is she not
made of the same attributes as they ?

Alas for the blindness of the present ! Mrs.
Lupton is likely to remain a disappointed
woman ; and the chances are against the
futile setting things to rights — as far, at
least, as for the first or last of these famous
ladies.

It is perverse of the county, but so it is.
Mrs. Lupton may say the most outrageous
things and do — or try to do — the most extraordinary
acts, but the county will not either
acclaim her or whisper against her. Neither
fame nor infamy is to be her portion, but only
a hearty welcome from every neighbour she
visits, and crowded Saturdays.

Mrs. Lupton has a conscience towards the
people she expects, and she never fails to
provide them with fresh company. Her house
is large and exceedingly well mounted in all
respects ; every week it accommodates a fresh
series of guests from Friday to Monday. Mrs.
Lupton always asks people to come to heron
Friday because she delights in running
counter to the old-fashioned prejudice against
the luck of that day and to the objections of

High Church ascetics ; but none of them ever
cry out or make any excuse ; it might be
Monday for all they say. The result is that
Saturday is her 'day,' and to be visible on
Saturday afternoon for a couple of hours is all
the penance she exacts of her friends.

This particular Saturday Mrs. Lupton is
relying rather upon Waldine's advent to create
interest, not only among the county people
but in her own house-party which is therefore
in itself a shade less brilliant than usual.

For Lady Grenvers, in a pathetic note,
has enlisted her dear Charlotte ' to help her
ivith Vol;' and Mrs. Lupton, like a good stage
manager, is determined not to let the girl be
eclipsed on her first appearance. She rather
wishes Waldine were a murderess or black ;
but as she is only a white Belgian, she is
careful that the distinctiveness of the people
who meet her should not be too pronounced.

Mrs. Lupton herself, however, being already
known to all these people, can afford to be
pronounced, and very pronounced indeed she
is this afternoon. Her little fair head is

cropped closer than ever : one would say she
was under orders to keep it cool and prevent
brain congestion from too much mental fire :
her magnificent velvet gown is fastened recklessly
back with silver buckles, and over it she
wears a common painting apron, upon which
various mottoes, which might suggest ' a history
are roughly worked. Her hands are ring-less
and have stains of paint — oddly enough,
upon the hacks of them !

She is sitting on a music-stool at the grand
piano, the brackets of which are littered with
manuscript songs and pieces, amid which are
an inkstand and a big quill pen. Nearly
opposite to her, and well in view, a breadth of
brocaded satin is flung across a chair with bunches
of artificial flowers thrown upon it, and the book
of a modern French comedy open among them.
On another chair is an immense feathered hat,
atop of a wicker tray of real flowers, on which
is tossed a silver chdtelaine with a pair of
scissors. The effect of Mrs. Lupton's ' corner '
is too intelligible to be real. You can piece
together all her pursuits; indeed they have

been invented for your edification, to be
eloquent of her versatility and success.

The atmosphere is a very pleasant one —
the large room is luxuriously furnished, and
the people in it are not crowded over each
other, for Mrs. Lupton's main idea is to be
discriminating : she button-holes a guest and
takes him away from the rest for a moment:
when she brings him back to the others —
generally, to do her justice, having got something
from him — he feels that an understanding
has been established between his handsome
hostess and himself (in return for some trivial
service or suggestion) in which the rest do
not participate. When Lady Grenvers enters
with Waldine, Mrs. Lupton has thus buttonholed
a rising young composer.

But he writes to me,' she is saying ;
that it is the spirit of my words he fails to
catch — and you caught that so well ; now for
you and me music is our speech to each other :
we can explain things so ! What I want is for
you to read my words to yourself — they are a
sort of paraphrase of Cheer's, not a translator.

I. 7

tion, so I call them mine — and then to play
me what they musically mean to you; you
might even jot it down in this little book forme
— never mind if it's hurried, I promise not
to show it to any one — and then I can tell
him what you and I think is the musical
phrase — or the motive, don't you call it '? I
want so to give him his chance ; perhaps
better not say you and I — people talk so. It
would be charming for us if he should adopt
our '^ motive'' — my 'motive'' I mean' (this rather
archly) — * it would make a sort of link : the
world is full of . . . Ethelinda ! Ethelinda !
is it shes And will she ever overlook this
painting-apron and get to know' — kissing
Val affectionately — ' the worth of the woman's
heart beneath it V

The rising composer is shelved ; he sits
down on the music-stool and touches the notes
without sounding them, partly to oblige Mrs.
Lupton and partly to cover her base desertion
of him, as she takes Val to a window and
studies her features.

Oh ! you'll do !' she says enthusiastically,

after a moment. ' I knew I should like you,
but I didn't know you'd do ?'

'Do?' says Yal, with a laugh that is half
nervous and half amused ; — ' do for what ? '

Why, for my '' Elsie Jenner ?" '

I have a friend called Elsie,' says Yal,
who does not know the book.

Then that decides it,' says Mrs. Lupton
gravely. — ' You know I am a fatalist. I am
painting Holmes's 'elsie" charming the snakes,
and you are the type. Mr. Collington, come and
see if she is not the type. Mademoiselle de
Stair — (or Countess Waldine, is it ? No — only
Miss de Stair, you say, Ethelinda: quite right),
Miss de Stair — Mr. Collington, my diis
Achates about my poor picture. Cecil, do you
see what / see about that look of hers — that
serpentine charm ? Yes ! I see you do see it just
as I do ; couldn't you jot it down ? Presently
you must. Now do bring her some tea to
fortify her for fresh acquaintances. Ethelinda,
it wasn't your ovm choice, that bonnet V —

And that is all of Mrs. Lupton that Yal
hears for the moment.

The girl is almost immediately the centre
of curiosity, if not of attraction, in the room.
Her embarrassment has not made her awkward,
it has only heightened her colour and brightened
her long sapphire eyes. After her drive the
room strikes warm to her, for her jacket is
closely fitting and bound with fur. Under
her dark hat, over the brim of which the gauze
veil is turned back, her face has the sort of
freshness that a branch of apple-blossom makes
in a room where spring has not yet banished
the winter's fire.

Lady Grenvers looks like an exquisite
exotic, there is no question but that she is to
be admired : with Yal it is an open question,
she has the air of defying admiration — at least
she does not court it openly like her Circassian
aunt — and though Mr. Collington, the London
painter, can talk to her, the neighbouring
squires are shy.

Plenty of these gentlemen helps to furnish
Mrs. Lupton's drawing-room with patches of
heather-coloured suits or gleam of bright
riding-boots and gray breeches : Mrs. Lupton

goes in for a following of young cavaliers,
which Lady Grenvers feels sure will save hera
deal of trouble, for she is never * at home ' at
Whiteknyghts, owing, as she affirms, to the
health of her ' poor saint ' ; in reality, to her
own inherent laziness. Among them is young
Launcelot Denham, Lord Mountravers' second
son, who greatly affects Lady Grenvers, and
whose allegiance she is not unwilling to transfer

'&

g

to her niece.

^ My Yal,' she says presently, ' I want to
introduce Mr. Launcelot Denham to yon ; he
is a great ally of ours.'

Waldine bows, wondering to herself why
the name should be familiar ; and then, as she
says something to the young sportsman who
is staring at her with all his eyes, she recalls
John Lyne's Denham mare.

The Hon. Launcelot is a well-looking
fellow enough, but he is not to compare with
John Lyne in personal beauty : unfortunately
it is not his own image which his name
represents to Waldine, although her glance
softens as she speaks to him.

You have ridden over,' she says, looking
at his boots.

Yes : I'm always riding over here — awfully
jolly neighbour, Mrs. Lupton : — but you don't
know that yet, do you?' He is struggling
with the notion that he ought to address
Waldine in French or German, and takes
refuge in monosyllabic discourse.

Oh yes, I do ; and she must be so clever.'

'Oh rather! she did a terra cotta model
of my horse, at least of a horse I had — a mare,
rather came to grief — not up to my weight,
so I '

Sold her to our bailiff — did you V

By Jove ! yes ! why. Miss de Stair, you
must take a real interest in horses.'

So there is a ' link forged,' as Mrs. Lupton
would say, between them thenceforward. That
is the way these links are forged in life ; a horse
is noticed just because it belongs to one man,
and the other man who has sold it to him
takes the notice it has earned as a personal
tribute to himself.

You must tell me more about your horses,'

says Val ; as she says it she looks straight
before her, and her eyes are full of dreams.
The Hon. Launcelot is greatly flattered, and
luckily there is no opportunity for him to be
disabused, as Mrs. Lupton comes upon the
tete-d-tSte at this juncture.

Sit still,' she says to Waldine, as she
passes ; ' Mr. Collington is jotting me down
your head ' — whereat the Hon. Launcelot and
Miss de Stair laugh heartily together.

Mr. Collington is much amused at the
fragments of discourse he hears about him ashe
sits in a corner doing a bit of Mrs.
Lupton's painting for her as the young
musician is doing a bit of her music at the
piano ; upstairs there is an invalid author who
is revising — or rather rewriting — her book for
her, if they only knew it, so that her triple
intellect is, as it were, at work by proxy ;
the twitter of the natives strikes Mr. Wellington
as very vapid, — the first meet of the season,
which is drawing near, being the only appreciable
topic of talk.

No one used to be fonder of hunting than I

was,' says Lady|Grenvers, who is frightened out
of her life at a horse — ' quite an Amazon ; but
naturally after Grenvers' accident, one couldn't
ride. I shall drive to the meet with Val.'

Does Miss de Stair ride V

^ Oh ! after a fashion ; I shall make my
favourite John Lyne see her through her
paces : he is as good a riding-master as any in
the kingdom.'

I heard John Lyne had been ill.'

Oh ! he is well again : you know what
my poor saint is, Charlotte, if anybody's
finger aches. He had a cold, that was all, and
Grenvers insisted on the doctor.'

I'm afraid he must have caught it sitting
to me for Meleager;' says Mrs. Lupton in a
loud, innocent voice ; — ' he had to have so very
little clothes on.'

One or two dowagers laugh ; but, although
Mrs. Lupton has purposely thrown the remark
at them, they decline to look scandalised or to
treat her with more anger than they would a
luckless child ; it is her lot to be privileged
thus, and it chagrins her.

Art is so exacting murmurs Lady Renders,
— 'sam such an artist.'

Which we must take to mean that you're
exact', says Mrs. Lupton ; ' exactly so —-for
you're the most exacting little pet in the
world.'

This being precisely the sort of nonsense-talk
to suit the dowagers' views of humour,
and precisely the sort of nonsense-compliment
to satisfy Lady Grenvers, Mrs. Lupton scores
more by that singularly inane speech than she
would have done by a much more apposite
and witty remark. — Of all which conversation
Waldine's ears, unaccustomed to a roomful of
chattering English, catch but the name that
has more significance to her now than another's.

Evidently Mr. John Lyne is a possible
topic of conversation among these ladies.

She stays quite still, attentive but silent,
and Mr. CoUington begins to wish she would
sit to him on his own account. Perhaps he
would paint her as Imogen : he is not sure.
There is a burly Royal Academician laughing
over his tea ; there is an exceedingly dull old

General prosing to a fat lady on a sofa ; there
are three girls who never utter, but sit on
another sofa and stare ; there are the squireens,
the painter, the song-maker, the dowagers ;
there are Lady Grenvers and Waldine, Mrs.
Lupton and Launcelot Denham. Besides these
there are more distant groups, each gathered
round its special star from the firmament of
the house-party; there is pretty Mrs. North
doing palmistry, and an American brother and
sister ' willing each other ' to perform all sorts
of antics in the most barefaced imposture ;
there is the ghostly presence of John Lyne.

Only at this odd, distraught, scattered
moment of time does it occur to Waldine that
she is anxious about him. She is suddenly
conscious that she does not want to listen to
the Hon. Launcelot's talk, but that she does
want to know about John's wounded wrist.
The wish is such a tiny one that if she were
alone she would hardly notice it; but it
asserts itself, out of all proportion, in the
empty bustle of unreality around her. Was
his hand properly bound up ? Did she act

rightly in sending him to Whiteknyghts ? The
whole affair may be very trivial, but at least it
is matter of fact. And a matter of fact — a
reality that is hers and not another's — is what
this girl needs in her life. Perhaps in life it
is the one thing needful.

Her right hand droops a little ; she has
unloved it for the exigences of some enticing
cakes for which Mrs. Lupton's still-room is
famous. As she begins wondering about
John Lyne, a big collie dog of that lady's
thrusts its hard cold nose between her fingers :
the half born wonder changes thus into a
wonder whether the dog with the epitaph was
a collie, and Mrs. Lupton's collie gets a
stroke of the head in consequence ; and then
the epitaph itself recurs to Val : she moves
restlessly as her thoughts quicken.

'The days shorten fast,' Mr. Denham is
saying ; ' how the mist comes up outside !'

And Waldine sees the dog's grave, as she left
it a few hours ago, with that wonderful young
moon looking down on it, just at the turn of
the day. It must be very wet there now, in

the Willow Garth ; and how brightly the moon
must shine ! A great desire frets her to go
and look at the place — is the knife there still,
and the twig of berried rose ? How tiresome
the artificial voices are, how close and warm
the rooms are getting, now that the tall
footmen have carried in the lamps : it is
surely time to go !

Mr. Denham is too much taken up with
watching Val to be surprised she does not
answer. He is quite unsophisticated enough
to wish to do only one thing at once ; while
he may look at her he does not want her to
talk. And she is not exactly absent ; her
thought is like a well into which her mind can
dip ; she comes up again from her dive to the
surface and hears Mrs. Lupton holding forth
upon the vanity of life.

Mrs. Lupton's life is as full of occupation
as life can be, and every pursuit she undertakes
is a delight to her ; but it is part of her creed
that she should affect to despise it.

My life,' she is saying, ' what is it ? I
don't dare let myself think, that is all ; there

is SO much to be done : one paints, writes,
plays, because one must. Oh yes ! I don't
deny that I'm a bit of an idler every now
and then : I take a draught of thought — the
*^ bashful Hippocrene." And I will tell you,
for a secret, how I take it. I drive down to
the old glade where the orangery used to be ;
there is a headless statue there to whom I tell
my thoughts — he can't repeat them ! I get
out of the carriage and walk a little way ;
then I find a seat which nobody can find but
me ; and there I sit. It is close to my heedless
statue; he has got a pan-pipe in his
hands, which he is raising to his lips, but he
cannot blow it. Time has silenced him as it
silences us all : his attitude remains : I sit
and watch him, only hoping, when I do come
back to mundane matters, that Cecil Collington
won't discover me there one day and put me
into a picture !'

What a woman she is,' murmurs the old
General, who is deaf enough to imagine he
speaks under his breath when he is bawling
like a town-crier: — 'What a woman ! heart and

brain! soul and mind!' — he is rewarded by
a radiant smile.

The whole truth of this elegant fiction of
Mrs. Lupton's is this : she saw a year ago at
the Royal Academy a wonderful painting by
a foreign artist of a beautiful woman sitting ina
rherie by a statue, with a carriage-and-pair
waiting for her in the distance. Discovering
some such a statue within a short drive of her
house, she has had a seat placed near it and
has — once, at all events — posed, for very nearly
five full minutes, in the attitude of the pictured
lady when there happened to be somebody
passing. But Waldine does not know this,
and Mrs. Lupton's profession of solitary
dreaming chances to suit her mood.

Lucky statue ! ' the old General goes on
shouting, in his notion of a whisper ; and Val,
meeting Mrs. Lupton's consciously-abstracted
gaze, smiles very pleasantly upon both the
old General and her.

Things are always happening to me, you
know,' Mrs. Lupton goes on artlessly ; ' people
call the country dull : but I always say if you

want things to happen, come to the country :
one centres round a pursuit, a personality —
one is not trammelled. If I had a lover I
would say to him, " I love you best in the
country," — but of course there with a sigh,
there I speak as a fool.'

Every one but Val is rather amused with
Mrs. Lupton : it only surprises Val that she
is not amused ; she is interested — reading between
the lines, she is unaware how very
much more she is reading than is really in the
text.

But a propos,' says Mrs. Lupton, rising,
a propos I don't quite know of what — fools, I
suppose — I must show you my bonbons. I
have had the most astonishing bonbons sent
me from Paris by an old friend. Cecil, ask
Mrs. North for the box.'

The box is an immense Noah's ark which
contains every kind of creature wrought in
sugar, from a flea to an elephant. It is just
the sort of toy to please Lady Grenvers, and
this Mrs. Lupton knew well when she commissioned
one of her swains to secure it. Mr.

Collington rescues it from Mrs. North, who is
making it a vehicle for flirtation of rather a
broad sort, which consists in pairing the
animals amiss.

Oh ! how heavenly it is!' says Lady
Grenvers ; ' I am always so fond of bonbons.'

Then nobody must betray me,' says Mrs.
Lupton, in a stage whisper, ' I am going to be
horribly insincere and unromantic and all the
rest of it ! The thing is to play some dreadful
game with (I know I've interrupted Dolly
North in playing it already), and I feel, if I
don't get rid of it, / shall play that dreadful
game and go out of my mind ; — what little
mind the composition of the chansonnette has
left me. I call upon Fate ! that game shall
be never played ! Everybody, come and
choose a sugar animal, and when you have
got home, say to yourselves — each and all :
** Thanks be to fate, I have prevented Charlotte
becoming imbecile over that shocking toy,"
Poor Maurice /' — With this delicate incidental
allusion to the donor of the gift, Mrs. Lupton
proceeds recklessly to distribute its contents.

The ark is for Ethelinda,' she says. ' Now,
Miss de Stair — or Val, if I may call you so —
what will you have, — fish, flesh, or fowl ? '

I will have the dog,' says Waldine, spying
a sugar collie.

'Oh, Charlotte!' cries Lady Grenvers,
how like dear old Flirt ! '

Who's like dear old Flirt?' says Mrs.
Lupton rather crossly, scenting an allusion of
which Lady Grenvers is both guiltless and
incapable.

That sugar dog — the darling ! Oh t I'm
so glad you've got it, Val, it's just like John
Lyne's dog. You'll give it to me, won't you?'

No,' says Val, ' I must not give it you ; I
want it myself — for luck.' And yet, half
ashamed, she holds it out towards Lady
Grenvers all the while, — who forthwith ceases
to want it, having perceived a rhinoceros of
more engaging aspect.

Mrs. Lupton's ark serves to bring her
guests well into relation with each other, to
shuffle them together in a sort of general post.
Val finds the old General quoting an extinct

f VOL. I. 8

prize-poem to her loudly and with abundant
gesture ; Mr. Denham has lapsed into Lady
Grenvers' pocket again, and they are giggling
over a sugar mule. The old General's prize-poem
blunts his hearer's nerves ; it spreads a
sort of abstraction about her ; she does not
hear the words, only a noise in her ears like
the sea, afloat on which is a little boat of self,
wondering, 'What shall I do with all these
people ? What of it all — pursuits or play — is
unreal, what of it real ? '

She sees the woodland glade, the man who
has something to do in life, — who is serious,
active, earnest. And then the end of the old
General's quotation wakes her up to see Mrs.
North and the squireens imitating kangaroos
with bursts of imbecile laughter, and to feel
Lady Grenvers pinching her arm with the
only two fingers she has not got hung with
toys and onions, as a signal for departure.

OLD FRIENDS

In these changeless autumn days Waldine de
Stair becomes familiarised with many things
not previously in her experience. She gets
to know the copper bronze of fallen beech-leaves
upon belts of moss, the shapes of trees
against a sunless or a sunset sky, the creak of
boughs in a rare south-west wind, the continual
skip of squirrels and flight of birds.
She is young enough, and awake enough, to
be occupied with all these things ; but she is
not of a nature which these things content.
The girl is made to be herself an activity,
not of observation alone, but of concentred
life.

And her life is aimless. She has the days

to herself now that Lady Grenvers has once
done her the honours of Mrs. Lupton's house.
In that visit her aunt has consigned her to Mrs.
Lupton for her edification and amusement in
the future ; she betakes herself again to her
boudoir and her dressing-room, with occasional
raids on the 'dear saint's' tranquillity, and
her conscience is at rest. Crystoleum and
veloutine, these are the interests that last
with her.

The dear saint himself has not, at present,
his due charms for Yal ; she sees him everyday
but makes no approach towards intimacy
with him, and her reserve has the effect of
heightening his sensitive shyness ; occasionally
she reads to him, but she does not read as well
as his nurses ; her voice is musical and her
mouth is beautiful, but nineteen is an age
too self - conscious to lose itself in a book
under the gaze of studious eyes. He tells her
to put down the book and talk to him — and
then she puts down the book, but she does
not talk.

She writes her letters and she walks in the

garden ; occasionally lie plays the piano — lie
has been diffident of introducing her violin ;
in the afternoon she drives with Lady Grenvers,
though that lady's favourite mode of ' driving '
is to order the carriage and go up to dress,
becoming gradually so absorbed in the pleasures
of the toilet that she ends by sending the
horses merely to be exercised. She reads a
little in the evening, and yawns a good deal
always. It is a life almost incredibly monotonous
; neither Lord Grenvers, with his invalid
regime and pursuits calculated not to task
his strength but to occupy all his time, nor
Lady Grenvers, with her perpetual self study
and self worship, have the faintest notion how
irksome it is. Waldine does not know herself
how weary she gets of it, but she is unconsciously
ripening into a state to which any
excitement is pleasure. Often she goes upstairs
to her room, and stands looking at
herself in the glass — not from vanity, but for
companionship. ' What is there to do here ? '
she says to herself; 'what is there to think
about ? — nothing ! '

And then she will walk to the window and
see where the wind-swept trees are just beginning
to let the fir-band of the Willow-Garth
appear.

You are for ever in your bedroom, Yal,'
says Lady Grenvers to her one day ; ' so like
me, that is : I always say, Give me my own
little room and I trouble nobody — always did
say so from a child ; but it's not a good habit.'

I have everything there,' says Val ; ' that
charming writing-table '

But no piano ! I will tell you what I am
going to do : I am going to give you that
sitting-room which opens on to the west
terrace ; there is a piano in the library which
shall be wheeled in there for you, and then
you won't disturb anybody when you practise.
My nerves are not like other women's nerves ;
and I feel sometimes when I hear you in the
library — you know it's just underneath me —
that I must scream and die.'

Oh ! I'm so sorry,' says Val, horror-stricken
at this terrible picture.

But your playing mustn't be stopped.

darling,' says Lady Grenvers affectionately,
there being nothing that so puts her into good
humour as persuading others that she has been
martyred; 'and I shall give you your own
sanctum this very day. It's at the end of
Grenvers' corridor, so you won't feel deserted,
and not a soul in the house can hear you,
whatever you do. Come and see the room ; it
wants airing.'

The scheme is a delight to Val, the more
so as she knows that the windows of this
particular room open down to the ground ;
she will be able to run out into the garden
without the formality of passing through the
hall and making a dignified exit through the
heavy portals, the creak of which always
summons the vacuous footmen.

It is a wet morning, and, when a big wood-fire
is ablaze in the grate, she passes it in moving
the appliances of her writing-table, her work-frames,
and the few books she has of her own,
into the long, cosy room. When the position
of the piano is decided, she sets the door open
till she shall hear one of Lord Grenvers' nurses

passing along the corridor, who will find out
for her when the servants can move it in.

'I won't go into the dear saint's den
she thinks with a smile, as she looks at her
crumpled dress. — Lord Grenvers' taste in
costume ought to be critical by now.

The door at the farther end of the corridor
opens : she runs lightly towards it, for she
knows that if she calls to the nurse, the patient
will bid her come in. Then the person who
has opened the door comes out. And it is
John Lyne.

Oh ! ' says Val, quite under her breath,
still unwilling that Lord Grenvers should hear
her.

Oh ! Miss de Stair,' says John ; and he
holds the door open for her, thinking she is
going into her uncle's room ; but before she
can consider the matter she has motioned to
him to close it, which he does; it shuts
closely, for there is a rim of gutta-percha
round it to assist the screen within to keep
off all draught from the invalid. They stand
in the corridor together ; John in shadow.

Waldine under a high window. It is all done
in an instant, but when it is done the position
is embarrassing ; they have not met for nearly
a week as it happens — for John has been
collecting rents at some outlying farms. Where
their last meeting was is suddenly recalled to
Waldine as she notices a black band round the
young man's wrist.

How is your wound V she says, when she
has recovered herself from the moment's shock.

It is perfectly right, thank you, Miss de
Stair,' he answers; 'I have it bound up still
because it is the right hand — that is all.' He
does not add that the hurt was a singularly
severe one and all but maimed him for life,
which is the case.

'I did not know what to do with your
knife; I threw it down on the ground.' She
has forgotten the spray of rose-hips ; but of a
sudden she remembers it, and the quick blood
rushes to her face.

I found it, thank you,' says John quietly,
and, for all the thought that he has given the
subject, he says not a word more ; only his

eyes look away from her, and his face crimsons
too — the crisis is intolerable.

Mr. Lyne,' says Waldine after the moment,
is Sister Frances with his lordship ? I wanted
her — but it does not matter.' She makes a
step backward towards the door she has come
out of; to her surprise John follows her, —
evidently his way lies here : — ' Where are you
going?' she asks him quickly.

To the home farm,' he answers her. ' I
come in every morning by this side-door.' He
points down a passage at an angle with Waldine's
sitting-room, at the end of which is
a little door of which he has the key.

I did not know there was a way out there,'
she says. (Decidedly it would be absurd for
him to alter his way to Lord Grenvers' rooms
because he has to pass her door.)

Oh yes !' says John ; ' I come to his lordship
every morning about this time ; can I do
nothing for you, Miss de Stair ?'

His tone is so natural that Waldine is
encouraged — they are close to her sanctum
now, and the door is open. ' Lady Grenvers

has given me this room for music,' she says,
and I wanted to see when they would move
the piano, and to ask the nurse to get me
some flowers : it rains, but she goes out in all
weathers for a turn.'

I go out in all weathers,' says John Lyne ;
would you allow me to get the flowers V

^ Thank you,' says Waldine ; she is very
anxious to beautify the room, which has an
unoccupied air as yet, and she is rather anxious
to end a meeting which has made her strangely
nervous : — 'Thank you ; there is the basket,' —
she hands him a large basket and a pair of
garden-scissors, and he goes out by the side-door.


There are not many kinds of flowers bloom
in the Whiteknyghts garden — some overblown,
rain-drenched geraniums and cancellaria, large
store of single dahlias, shining against the
dark borders like solid stars of light, marigolds,
violets, daisies, and all-coloured chrysanthemums
; here and there a pinched-up rose.
John Lyne, to whom the place of each flower
is known, walks from bed to bed on the

familiar lawn and cuts his basketful skilfully,
not without taste. His movement is quiet
and easy ; it is pleasant to watch him — very
pleasant !

And Waldine watches him ; there is nothing
else to do : she stands at one of the long
windows in the warm room and looks out into
the chill, dripping day. She is hardly aware
that she approves of John's nosegay ; she
hardly knows that she is following his choice ;
it is enough that she does not disapprove, and
that she continues to follow him with her
eyes.

His everyday clothes are too well-worn to
look common. They have adapted themselves
to his figure as well as any gentleman's could
do ; his face is peculiarly handsome and vivid
under the gray sky, in the cold light ; and he
is not self-conscious ; he is doing his best, but
he is unaware that he is watched. After a
few minutes Waldine opens the window ; she
is not one to stand long idle. He is coming
up the terrace-steps with his basket, and she
will prevent his having to enter the house

again. ' Thank you very much,' she says, and
holds out her hand for the flowers.

He is close to her when she opens the
window : there comes out with her, to his
senses — the keener for the still, soft air — a sort
of perfume, a breath of indoor luxury and
warmth, more suggested than felt, no doubt,
from the glowing fire which burns behind
her, for she is backed by flame and flickering
walls as he by mist and mould. As he hands
her the basket he sees a late white rose growing
near the window ; he cuts it and strips off
the needless leaves before he returns the scissors;
then he lays them back in the basket which
she holds, and offers her the flower respectfully.

Oh, a rose !' she says with pleasure ; but
she does not stretch out her hand to take it ;
she hesitates for a second, and then puts the
basket forward towards him again : — it is full
of the bright flowers, over which her face shows
brightest. There is something indescribably
lovely in her attitude ; she looks like incarnate
summer. Her head is bare, and the vine-tendrils
of her dark hair lie soft and rich

about her forehead ; her mouth is smiling and
her cheeks flush faintly ; she is a revelation
of beauty to John Lyne, and her action with
the basket of flowers — meant only to be distant
and prevent her taking the rose from his hand
has an expansive air of giving something in
exchange. John is unused to such passages,
and his hand shakes as he drops the white
rose lightly on the top. He feels that he is
carried farther on some strange tide than his
experience can pilot him. Were he a man of
the world he would, be able to cover his shyness
by speech, and so prevent its being reflected ;
as it is, Waldine observes it and tries, as before,
to reassure him — to her own confusion.

So you come to Lord Grenvers every
morning, Mr. Lyne?'

Yes, Miss de Stair ; there is mostly something
to see him about, and anyway I come.'

Then it would be kind of you to bring me
some bulrushes one day ; I cannot get them
for myself, you know.'

I am glad you did not try ; I will bring
them tomorrow.'

Oh, there is no kind of hurry ; I may not
get the piano placed to-day, and I want to
arrange them with some evergreens to hide
the back of it.'

John looks meditatively into the room across
her shoulder. He takes pains to realise the
proposed plan of decoration, which is new to
him. He has thought piano-backs unsightly
ere now.

Is a piano better for being out from the
wall V he asks.

Oh yes ! and so much pleasant • for
singing.'

He glances wistfully at her full, soft throat,
but has not courage to say what is in his
mind. But Waldine knows it.

Lady Grenvers tells me you sing,' she says.

Yes ; I am very fond of music. I have
bought a piano. Her ladyship was kind
enough to try it once.'

Val laughs, and John smiles a little under
his moustache ; she surmises, and he recalls,
the false harmonies and trivial turns in which
Lady Grenvers indulged on that occasion ;

their mutual amusement brings them nearer
to each other ; then, with a sense of confidence
in him, she says :

I will ask her to take me to see it.'

My mother will be happy to show it you,
Miss de Stair. It is a Broadsword.'

Shall you not be there V

I am mostly out of doors ; but I will be
there if I know of your coming.'

^ I will tell you — when we have fixed the
day — the morning before : I shall see you
when you are coming to Lord Grenvers.' She
steps backwards ; the sound of her words
is different to her intention; she had not
meant to hint that she must of necessity see
him daily.

'Thank you, Miss de Stair;' she gives him
a little nod and he withdraws.

It is raining heavily ; partly it is the rain
that has determined her to go in and close the
window, partly it is the sense that she is
talking to him too freely. She does not
think of the rain for him ; it does not even
occur to her that he is wet. But when she

has gone back into the warm room and shut
the window, she still stands looking out. She
watches him along the terrace; she has a
feeling that she loses something with his
going — what is it ? Her hand is on the hasp
of the window ; she leans her cheek upon the
upraised arm, and looks intently forth. He
does not turn ; he walks down the steps and
is lost to view behind the laurels. When he
is gone she seems still to hear his footsteps ;
the days are not yet when the sound of them
shall seem never to leave her ears, but for a
few seconds she does hear them still. And
for those seconds she does not move. Then
she breathes a small soft sigh ; last, she
takes up the white rosebud, almost mechanically,
and fastens it in her bosom.

VOL. I.

WALDINE WRITES

Whiteknyghts Court, November I4:th.

Elsie, dear — I have your answer to my letter:
answer,' one calls it, when I had nothing to
tell you and you can tell me so much : it is I
that should ' answer ' you, and say how much
I have liked to hear of Brussels and the good
old days that still go on for you.

But you know that I can't : I'm not a
polite correspondent; I can only tell you of
the things I do, — and I do almost nothing.

But I am not unhappy ; you seem to have
imagined I am bored, but I am not bored —
really not ; and my surroundings are charming.
I have a beautiful sitting-room with my
books and my writing-table and my piano

and plenty of flowers and — oh! bulrushes,
very nice bulrushes, which the ' bailiff,' as you
call him, got me from the Willow-garth. I
tried to get some for myself one day, but only
succeeded in sticking the knife into the bailiff" ;
but I think he forgave me ; he has a forgiving
disposition.

Elsie, why are you so serious ? I want to
talk to you about things seriously by and by ;
but first I must make you laugh. I have
found out Aunt Ethelinda. She is a humbug,
and the only person she really takes pains to
humbug is herself. As (to do her justice) she
has taken no pains whatever to humbug me,
it is not very clever of me to have seen
through her ; but, once having done so, I
don't seem to care greatly about her company,
which relieves her entirely. I'm certain
she was dreadfully afraid I should be fond
of her !

As to his lordship, he's impossible ! Patient
and kind and all the rest of it, but just impossible.
Still I am not without friends, and
I have an admirer.

Of him by and by ! My chief friend is a
Mrs. Lupton, who is our only neighbour ; she
is a widow, saddled with a place here to which
she comes for a few weeks every year, and she
has rather interesting Saturdays. She is a
perfect exhibition in herself; there's nothing
she does not do, and I rather envy her,
though I'm not certain that I like her. She
gives one ' views' and I find myself thinking
over her suggestions when she's gone, and
wondering why I should not put them into
practice, as perhaps I shall. ' Live ! ' she is
always saying to me ; ' think of Catharine of
Russia, or, if you like it better, think of St.
Catharine of Siena — ce que c'est que d'etre
femme' I feel that she will never rest
till she has made me either saint or sinner,
and yet she does not strike me as being one
or the other herself; when I tell her so she
sighs, however, and looks exceedingly mysterious,
so I am forced to conjecture that
there is a great deal more behind the scenes
than I observe. She is pretty and bright. I
need hardly tell you that it was her house

where I met my admirer, for we see no one
here.

My admirer is a Mr. Denham — the Hon.
Launcelot Sidney Denham. I am told he is
very nice indeed, but I don't care in the least
about him. He is a large-hearted young
gentleman who used to be a pet of Aunt
Ethelinda's before her clothes wholly engrossed
her attention, as they do now ; then
he transferred his affections to Mrs. Lupton,
who has, not unthankful, given him up to me.

He rides over, and it seems to amuse him ;
it does not amuse me. He is not ill-looking
and very good-natured, but — Elsie ! Elsie ! I
can't be entertaining. I want to ask you a
question — What in the world are we made of?
There ! it is verily put.

I want to tell you the truth. My life is
dull — soil — but I am not dull in my life.
What is the reason ? it is this. Elsie, I have
only one interest here, only one thought at all
in my day : * Shall I see him f and (truthfully,
if not grammatically) 'him' is not Mr. L. S. D.
Pray observe how humorous I am, without

any trouble of my own, over my admirer s
initials ! I suppose I ought to have told
you that, although he is a second son, he is —
thanks to a fortune left him by his mother —
quite as advantageous a 'parti as these initials
can make him.

About this thought of mine : up to a certain
hour in the day it is, * Shall I see him this
morning ? ' after that it becomes, ' Shall I see
him tomorrow?' and I see him every day.
That is the worst of it — if there can be any
worst in what is only good — if a day should
come when I do not see him, what shall I do f
Can life outlive such loss f

The incident, to word it coldly, is not a
very stirring one ; briefly it is this. At a
certain hour — there or thereabouts — a man
comes up the terrace in front of my window ;
he unlocks a door and walks into the house; I
hear him pass my door. He does not come to
see me ; but while he is in the house I do not
work or read or play : I remain unoccupied,
although I am alone, I don't know why. And
when I hear his footsteps pass my door I go

softly to the window and look out — I do not
watch for his coming, I know he will come —
and then I see him; and that is all. Does
this renew the image in my brain ?

Often I do not see his face ; I am afraid
lest he should see me. Sometimes I only catch
the merest glimpse of him as he goes down the
terrace-steps. When he is gone I can read or
play or work again ; I could almost say I feel
glad to be rid of him, but the gladness is not
gladness because he is gone. It is the sort of
relief one feels when one has got some little
duty done : — ' Now for the other things — the
things that do not matter ! '

It is more than a fortnight, dear, since this
began : I was busy arranging my sitting-room
and I wanted some flowers : I thought to find
Lord Grenvers' nurse, and I found — John Lyne !
John Lyne gathered me the flowers — not badly
for a ' bailiff" ' (as you call him) ; and the very
next day he brought me some bulrushes. Yes !
I have told you. He knocked at the door ashe
passed the room, and I happened to be
there. He had not meant to seek me, for, as

fate would have it, I did not hear his knock,
but he came quickly in to put the reeds upon
the table ; and there I was at the other end
of the room with my head in the book-box we
packed together, you and I.

What occurred ? Well, what could occur ?
he is free of the house always ; he comes into
Lord Grenvers' sitting-room, and it is very like
mine. I took my head out of the book-box
and said, * Good morning I ' What is there the
least extraordinary in that ? Nothing.

But I liked to see his face change when he
saw me ; he pulled off his cap quickly, and I
could see that he was glad. His hair is curly,
very fine and soft; he is always handsome, but
when I saw him without his cap I could tell at
once why Mrs. Lupton had modelled him, or
painted him, or maligned him in some dreadful
way. He is more than handsome, he is positively
beautiful. Aunt Ethelinda says that
she's in love with him — at least she puts it in
her odd reverse way, which is quite transparent.
She says, ' John Lyne is handsome enough to
understand looks : he is a great admirer of mine.'

Well ! ' you say, like your old inexorable
self, 'he is beautiful, this bailiff — what then?
he comes into your boudoir with his bulrushes
as meek as Moses — well ! daughter of Pharaoh,
what of it ? ' It is like being in the confessional
writing to you, Elsie, but, like the confessional,
this letter is a voluntary risk; I take the
consequences. Something rather unfortunate
rather vulgar — chanced to occur.

Among the flowers he had gathered for me,
the morning before, was a late white rosebud.
It was grateful for indoor warmth, and opened
into a pretty rose. I was wearing it, and I
think he saw it ? * Did I explain it '? ' Of course
I didn't, but I'm afraid I looked at it, which
was nearly as bad. Wasn't it lucky that he
only brought me bulrushes ? I can't wear a
bunch of them ! Perhaps it was lucky and
perhaps not : if he had brought other flowers,
he might have noticed that I did not wear them
the next day : as he brought only bulrushes,
there was no possible slight he could observe.

Casuist ! And why should I slight him ?
And why should he see what I wear ? I don't

even remember whether he saw me next day
or not ; I only know that I saw him. Else
should I not be living still.

I only know that everything about me seems
to round itself into his coming. Life's sand
drips : then there comes a moment when the
hour-glass is turned — one begins one's day
afresh. Everybody's hour-glass is turned at
some moment or another. Tm sure post time
turns his lordship's hour-glass and dressing-time
my aunt's. A certain spur to fuller
vigour in the twenty-four hours is as needful
as sleep. I should think the Hon. Launcelot's
hour-glass was turned at dinner — but mine and
John Lyne's then.

Oh yes ! Elsie. Oh yes ! mine and his.
There is no question !

*But you say, 'you don't know if he
thinks of you; you don't know if he sees
you ; how can you tell that his life hangs on
the same hinge as yours? you may imagine
this, but how can you say that you are sure ? '
Elsie, don't you recollect how we used to laugh
at Mademoiselle Vieuxtemps' English novels ?

Don't you recollect the Countess in one of
them — the poor companion who 'turned out
to be a Countess' — with a fine disregard of
English probabilities? Don't you recollect
how we laughed at her answer to the ex-pupil's
exclamation, 'But you don't mean to
say you are a Countess V 'I don't mean to
say it, hut I am.'

And in a double sense, thus : I don't mean
to say that I'm the moment of John Lyne's
day ; but I am, Elsie, but I am !

Irrational ; it may be so : I never was
much of a hand at arguments, but I see what
is : and there is something about him when
he catches sight of me which shows me I am
not forgotten when I am away. Believe me,
I have not done much to encourage this. I
have planned an expedition to see his new
piano — he is fond of music — to please Aunt
Linda, but I have put it off afresh whenever
she has referred to it ; it has not yet taken
place. Oh ! I might have seen him oftener
than I have ; I might have been more with
him ; don't doubt it. But why should I ?

He is here and I am here, and life is not
dull. . . .

Mrs. Lupton called just as I wrote those
last words : she is gone now, but she has left
me rather angry. There is a brightness and
swing about her which carries one along with
her while she talks, but none the less one
knows she will immolate one in her next epigram.
' Ah ! ' she said, ' you've got a den
now, and a secret way to it, and all sorts of
possibilities. How I envy you having somebody
to hoodwink ! not that Ethelinda cares
what you do, I suppose, or what any one else
does, so long as she keeps her powder dry ! '
I laughed, but all the while I was nervous,
and I think she was surprised — no, disappointed,
I should say — that I was not amazed
at her. But I am so amazed at myself that I
can't be stirred into any wonder by another.
It seems so extraordinary, that. Of course
it comes from having nothing here to do.

Elsie, did I tell you he was dark and tall,
like the hero of our day-dreams, and far more
goodly than any dream of mine % But he is

not a prince, and he is not proud or masterful,

as the princes of our day-dreams were. He

is only gentle and earnest ; and — and, Elsie,

I think I like him as he is — I think I like

him. — Yours ever,

Waldine de Stair.

Mrs. Lupton is getting up a concert : that
was what she came about. I am going to
play the cavatina of Eaff. At this moment
I'm exactly in the mood for it : when the
time comes I daresay I shall want to play a
tarentelle or a because — ' ce que chest que
d'Stre femme,' to quote Mrs. Lupton again.
She is full of all sorts of schemes, and talks of
tableaux. Must people always plan something
? Can't they be just content to live —
as I am now \

MRS. Lufton S SCHEME

'My great notion,' Mrs. Lupton had said to
the unheeding Waldine, as she said to everyone
whom she admitted to the coveted privileges
of her intimacy, ' is tableaux. Oh ! not
the sort of thing you were used to at school —
historical and romantic pictures " — no ; nor
Mrs. Farley's waxwork " either. I want
something far more comprehensive, and, to
say the truth, the very least bit shocking too.
My notion is " Tableaux classical and oriental."
That will admit the Bible : — Fm so
fond of the Bible.'

Whether she was 'fond of the Bible' or
no, it was true that Mrs. Lupton wanted to
shock the county. Nor could she, after earnest

cogitation, devise a better means than by
the arrangement of a series of live pictures
which should set the familiar personages of
Holy Writ on an historic level with those of
classical antiquity, and even at a slight disadvantage
in comparison. ' Niobe ' and ' Lot's
Wife,' ' Nautical ' and * the Woman of Samaria,'
they were all tumbled one with the other
"p^le-mele in Mrs. Lupton's understanding
which was in a state of ferment from continued
alternations of Ober-Ammergau and
the British Museum. ' I'm a sort of social
Wagner, without the music,' she would say
to Mr. CoUington or another of her admirers
who was within the screen ; ' and I must
complete my Parsifal before I die. "Mary
Magdalene" and "Sundry," — it's a grand
association, but I really don't know that it's
as grand as my idea of two pictures in series,
to be called the "Birth of Love." First, a
sea-piece — "Venus rising from the foam"
(lots of gauze, of course) — and second, '' The
Nativity — an Eastern pastoral." But I suppose,
Cecil, there are objections ? The dowagers

wouldn't like Venus, and the parsons
wouldn't stand the manger : I must give up
one or the other : I don't think I can give uji
Venus, and Ethelinda Grenvers would fairly
revel in the part ; but there's no moral in the
one picture without the other. I don't quite
know what the moral is in the two ; you may
take it so many different ways, you see. The
classical, material creature, naked and unashamed
(not really naked, of course, poor
• Ethelinda ! ) and the domestic interior. / confess
to being rather a pagan, but still one
would manage, no doubt, to prove the immense
superiority of the latter, and teach the proper
lesson.'

Thus Mrs. Lupton, with her pretty feet
on the fender, twisting her slight nervous
fingers among the gold ornaments on her
chatelaine.

But this was only in the twilight at her
own house : her criticism was more within
limits at Whiteknyghts, and was judiciously
bounded by that patronising clause that she
was 'so fond of the Bible.' Moreover, she

was careful to talk of the entertainment she
was planning as ' a charity concert.'

What the charity was or what the music
should be, Mrs. Lupton did not care a fig.
But she cared a great deal for her scheme, and,
as the shortening days wore on towards winter,
it ripened quickly. When really possessed of
an idea Mrs. Lupton gripped it like a tiger
and worried it like a cat : as far as painstaking
went she was a genius. And she had
a good notion that nothing ought to be dull.

*I won't have intervals,' was her heroic
determination ; ' I shall have a little stage in
front of my drop curtain, and the moment the
picture's been shown I shall turn one of you
on to recite or sing — play the bones or stand
on your head, or something interesting and
graceful of that sort — and before " Venus " —
for I must have Venus ; it'll be seven years'
new life to Ethelinda (like typhoid fever) — I
shall have refreshments. The dowagers will
stand anything after my champagne ! Poor
dears ! they begin the night like nuns and
end it like witches !'

VOL. I. 10

When Lady Grenvers heard that she was
to figure in Mrs. Lupton's tableaux as Venus,
her joy knew no limit. Of course she said at
once that she ' couldn't ' — all the time perfectly
convinced that if any living woman
looked the part, it was she. It is true this
joy was rather dashed when Mr. CoUington
showed her a drawing of the Venus for whom
she was to pose — a sad-looking lady 'after
Botticelli' (for Mrs. Lupton was all for the
highest in art), covered with roses 'embroiled
a little,' and altogether conventional
and sober. Lady Grenvers had dreamed a
creation that was something between a waxen
statue and a danseuse in a transformation
scene, and was rather annoyed at being
perpetually told that Venus was to look
pale and weary — 'not in the least young or
vulgar,' as Mr. CoUington trenchantly put
it.

Still Venus was Venus all the world over,
and, whatever artistic ideas of the Goddess of
Love and Beauty there might be, even if she
had to blacken her face for the character, to

have been chosen to represent her was a boast
which warmed her ladyship's heart.

She was perpetually summoning Val upstairs
to her warm boudoir to see her in some
fresh combination of sea-coloured gauze and
pearls, which the girl was quick enough to
know was out of the question, but in which
Lady Grenvers certainly contrived to look
marvellously pretty. Then the combination
could not be sent back but had to be arranged
into a gown, or transformed somehow and
brought to bear upon the * dear saint's ' vfeion ;
he meanwhile receiving all these various impressions
with his wonted placidity.

It was rather a trying time for Waldine ;
her own part in the tableaux was not yet
determined. She had, however, her music to
practise and the enlivenment of some sort of
plan, which was perpetually brought to the
front by a visit from the projector — for
Mrs. Lupton's house was within easy walking
distance of Whiteknyghts. During these
walks and talks it was that her programme
was gradually evolved.

It was ultimately decided that the tableaux
should represent ' Faith, Hope, and Love ' ;
not a very novel idea, but one which would
commend itself to the comprehension of
dowagers and curates and leave scope for all
sorts of picturesque vagaries by way of illustration.
The counsel of a bishop had been sought,
and Lady Grenvers' hazardous kaleidoscope
was thereby reduced into order without losing
any of its possible piquancy. He who ran
might read, but, at the same time, he who
wished to walk decorously might shut his eyes
and not be scandalised.

Faith ! the brazen serpent ! ' said Mrs.
Lupton to the bishop, who nodded approval,
but suggested as an alternative the ' Pool of
Siloam,' with Mrs. Lupton as an angel. The
bishop was a courtier and a little bit of a flirt.

I shall not take so prominent a part,
said Mrs. Lupton diffidently : ' I shall not
even act the '' brazen serpent " myself, though
Fm sure many of the women about here think
me fit for the rule with very little make-up
indeed. But I want a contrast — an oriental

group and then a classic figure, Bishop. I
thought of Dance.'

The bishop raised his eyebrows, and said,
'Why not Antigone?' to which Mrs. Lupton,
after some demur, consented.

'Not that I see where Faith comes in,'
she added ; ' still, it's a figure subject, and will
be the very thing for Miss de Stair : just that
vivid girl and the dead body, with a bird or
two. Any one will do for the dead body.
And now. Bishop, what about " Hope ?" '

'The dove coming to the ark,' proposed
the bishop.

'Father a well worn subject, the ark,'
murmured Mrs. Lupton, but as she could not
for the moment think of anything better
which involved a good group, she assented,
afterwards accepting for herself the part of
'Pandora' in a classical figure j)!^^^^^ to
follow : — ' I think my guests will have to bethe
evils,' she said softly, ' and my bishop the
cardinal virtue

The bishop, in return for this, had to
sanction Lady Grenvers' 'Venus,' but he set his

episcopal face rigidly against the 'Nativity,'
and a compromise was effected by the elaboration
of a group representing the 'Wise
men from the East and the Shepherds the
whole to wind up with a tableau, in which
the three principal ladies should represent the
three ' cardinal virtues ' in semi-religious and
semi-aesthetic guise.

Then the bishop gravely read out the edifying
list, to which he gave his sanction : —

Faith, Hope, and Love,'

Oriental and Classical Pictures.

Faith. Group, ' The Brazen Serpent.'

Single-figure Picture | Miss DE Stair.
Antigone ' )

Hope. Group, 'The Return of the Dove to the Ark.'

Single-figure Picture | Mrs. Lupton.
Pandora ' J

Love. Group, 'A Bethlehem Pastoral'

Single-figure Picture | rj.^^ lady Grenvers.
The Birth of Venus ' J

Final Tableau.
The Christian Virtues.'

'Ethelinda, with her hair (or somebody
else's hair) down her back, must be Faith

clinging to a cross concluded Mrs. Lupton
quickly, to paralyse the bishop's protest, — ' I
must be Hope, with an anchor. (I've a good
mind to do the part drest like William in
"Black-eyed Susan," but I suppose I mustn't :)
and Waldine must be Love, with a heart in
her hand. I'm determined Ethelinda shan't
have it all her own way. We shall stand
apart first and then show again, after an
interval, grouped. Now, Bishop ! '

The bishop started from a reverie, during
which his consecrated eye had remained
riveted upon one word in the programme.
I really don't think, dear Mrs. Lupton,' he
said at last, ' that we can call her Venus.'

Aphrodite then,' said Mrs. Lupton smartly;
'nobody knows she was Venus;' and to this
nomenclature the bishop reluctantly consented,
but it required considerable persuasion on Mrs.
Lupton's part to convince Lady Grenvers that
the goddesses were one and the same; however,
the consultation of a classical dictionary set
her mind at rest, and the rough draft of the
programme was completed by the words : —

The whole with incidental music, arranged
and partly composed by Mrs. Lupton.'
Whether Mrs. Lupton had composed Eaff's
cavatina, which Waldine was to play during
the Aphrodite tableau, and the fine melodies
which were to accompany other pictures, or
not, it was considered invidious to particularise.
The main features of the programme thus
determined and the bishop's sanction obtained,
Mrs. Lupton's real troubles began in earnest.
Popular though she was, and obvious though
it became to all her circle that the three chief
characters should be represented by Lady
Grenvers, Waldine, and herself, the three
larger groups left ample scope for jealousies
and heart-burnings among less favoured individuals.
' The Serpent, the Dove, and the
Star,' as she flippantly called these pictures,
were her chief sources of perplexity for days.
It required the tact of Portia and the charm
of Cleopatra to convince the parents of the
county why their daughters were better suited
for one part than for another, whether nature
had formed them for dying Israelitish maidens,

wives of the sons of Noah, or angels. It was
still more difficult to convince the ladies
themselves. However, as all the characters
were beautifully dressed at Mrs. Lupton's own
expense, she ended by having it quite her own
way at the very end.

Lady Grenvers alone was independent in
the matter of costume. ' / loan so little ! '
she rightly said, which made Mrs. Lupton
laugh and threaten to have a cloak in readiness
to throw over her, lest she should not provide
enough for les convenances; and she insisted
also upon dressing Waldine.

As Antigone the girl was to wear a plain
white robe, which became her beauty well
though to a certain degree it softened its peculiar
characteristic of life ; but in the last picture
this characteristic was heightened by the dress,
which was of flame-coloured silk : it was, in
fact, one of the very ' combinations ' which
Lady Grenvers had essayed for Venus and
afterwards discarded.

You see, darling she said to Val, ^ I shall
have to resume the angels. Charlotte has put

me after that tiresome pastoral, and as it's
religious and all that sort of thing, it would
never do to kill it ; I don't think it would be
good taste. My idea is formed. I shall be
'plus ange que les anges : how often I have
had that said to me ere now !'

'Very well,' said Val; and the flame-coloured
garment was hers.

She did not greatly care : no doubt her
apathy was due, to some extent, to the fact
of Lady Grenvers extreme anxiety that they
should outshine the rest ; by contrast she
became cold ; but it was also due to her not
specially wishing to please any one who was
likely to be there : she was, natively, too
handsome to have any fears about her looks,
while Lady Grenvers was simply destroyed by
apprehensions lest she should not appear at
her best. Meanwhile Val played the cavatina
of Eaff", and bethought herself thereon. Other
music might have been less incentive to a
passionate ideal.

TENTATIVE

Dawns at last the eventful morning of
rehearsal, when Mr. CoUington is ruler of
the elements and Mrs. Lupton petrel of ,the
storm. She knows neither disquiet nor fatigue :
she trips about in a plain dark gown and
revels in the confusion around her. Wrecked
hopes of damsels disappointed in their dresses,
shattered argosies of promise — what are these
to Mrs. Lupton ? They are no more than
the charity,' which bobs up and down like a
buoy upon the troubled surface ; about which,
though she hovers over it with outstretched
wings, the birdlike hostess cares no whit
whether it sink or swim.

The men are all for Mrs. Lupton ; she has

provided them with charming clothes, easy to
wear and not in the least ridiculous. There
has been a slight hitch in the Noah's ark
figures, Mr. Denham having suggested that
they should wear Chesterfield coats and pot-hats,
which are the nearest approach to the
garments depicted on his little brother's toy
men. It is as much as she can do to forbear
accepting the suggestion ; nothing would please
Mrs. Lupton better than to dress one, at least,
of the Scriptural tableaux in opera honffe
fashion, but she reminds herself with a sigh
that ' there is the bishop.'

Picturesque Israelites in various garb, sons
and nephews of Noah (that, to say truth, are
uncommonly like a mob of Italian sailors),
shepherds, and travelling kings — the one
group easy, the other gorgeous of garb — these
wait all on Mrs. Lupton's will, beguiling the
time with cigarettes and little jokes about
each other's bare legs and arms, which are not
vastly different to the jokes among real stage
supers. For it is a notable quality of masculine
witticism that it is much the same style of jest

which makes a man laugh, be he costermonger
or prince. The ladies' j ones are more sui generis
a great deal, and rather more spiteful, but the
authors thereof look bewilderingly pretty in
their grease-paint, or, perhaps, in despite of it,
and are in fair good humour ; — none of them
but Lady Grenvers and Yal, who are notoriously
Mrs. Lupton's intimates, being unduly
promoted above the rest.

The Hon. Launcelot Denham is 'Ham.'
*Den-am,' Mrs. Lupton has said, with an
irresistible little touch of her outstretched
finger on his arm, during her oracular distribution
of the parts. He is talking to Waldine,
who has slipt the white Greek robe she is to
wear as Antigone over her morning dress.
His conversation is not brilliant : he is an apt
retailer of the best worn riddles, and his part
gives him an opportunity.

«'« Why can't you starve in the desert'"
he asks Val, rather shamefacedly, though
a apropos,

'because of the sand ivhich is there"'
she replies without a smile.

^'Why are there sandwiches in the desert'"
he goes on persistently.

" Because you find Ham mustered and
bred there," ' she answers, and this time she
laughs a little at the personality of the riddle ;
but the laugh is advisedly contemptuous.

"But why is there no butter in the desert ?'"

I'm sure I don't know ; I never heard anymore.
Two riddles of that sort are two too
many.'

" Because, when Lot's wife was turned into
a pillar of salt, all the family but her (butter —
do you see it ?) ran away into the plain." '

He tells her the answer with considerable
empressement, as one who is quite certain he
is quoting a really good thing this time, and
she vouchsafes a more amused laugh which
amply rewards him. They look as if they
were getting on capitally together.

So thinks John Lyne, who has entered
Mrs. Lupton's hall at this juncture. John
Lyne is not to act : he is to sing with an
unseen chorus who are to render a Christmas
carol during the Bethlehem pastoral. He

comes in with several others — contingents, in
fact, of the church choirs in the parishes over
which Lupton and Whiteknyghts hold sway —
and amid them he shows like a ruby among
flints. Indeed, even against the squires he is
very notable, not only for his handsome face,
but the quietness of his deportment.

Ah ! ' says Mrs. Lupton, ' this looks like
business ; here is my beautiful Mr. Lyne 'rand
all his company" — I'm nothing if not Scriptural
to-day. I hope the earth won't open and
swallow me.'

Waldine turns her head : she is not rouged
for Mr. Collington has absolved the single
figure artists for the day; they are only to
stand in their place while he determines their
accessories during this first rehearsal — one
could fancy her clear cheek paler. She looks
at John Lyne, and the little amused laugh she
has vouchsafed to Mr. Denham closes into a
slight smile of recognition : it is strange to
her to see him here and thus.

There is no need for her to speak to him,
but she does not care to talk longer to Mr.

Denham, or to hear any more of his riddles.
She moves aside with Mrs. Lupton, who is
organising the first tableau, with which she
has nothing to do ; for into the oriental condemnation
she has not fallen. The crowd
around them thins, and, in ridiculous procession,
the Israelites bear the brazen serpent of
Mr. Collington's design from the hall into an
inner drawing-room, which will serve as the
stage. There is a muster organ under the
staircase, and a band of ladies and men go upto
it to sing the ^ Dal tuo stella soglio,' of
Rossini, which has been judged appropriate.
The melody swells up from the fresh strong
voices of the girls, but the men are sadly
drowned. — *You must go and strengthen
them, Mr. Lyne,' says Mrs. Lupton ; and John
leaves his rustic phalanx and ranges himself
with the gentry.

It is the first time that Waldine has heard
that sweet tenor voice of his about which
Lady Grenvers raves. Her ladyship is not a
great church-goer, and it so happens that the
only Sunday morning she took Val to the

AV^liiteknyghts matins was the Sunday during
John Lyne's absence at a distance for some
rent collection ; other Sundays he has done
his best in that choir in vain, for she has not
been there to hear him.

Why don't you go and join them, Yal?'
says Mrs. Lupton.

I prefer to listen,' the girl answers ; and
it is true.

There is a great deal more to listen to than
the mere chorus. Amateur carpenters, amateur
artists, amateur singers — they are all filling the
hall with more or less melodious din.

Who will sing the solos ? '

'Bother the solos.' 'Oh! no, really.' 'But
that will be three women.' 'Where's the
bishop ? ' ' Bother the bishop 1 ' ' Here, some
man — any man' — and then with a slight
difference of intonation, partly due to shyness,
partly to a sense of patronage — ' Mr.
Lyne, won't you sing the solo V It is the
clear voice of a girl that asks him.

John flushes : ' I don't know Italian,' he
says simply.

VOL. I. 11

Oh ! you'll get it up.' ' You can do it in
English.' ' Anything you like.' — That is the
recurring burden of Mrs. Lupton's guests, for
they are most of them, good-natured. — ' Only
fire away.' So the chorus ' fires away,' and
in turn comes John Lyne's solo.

His singing is not faultless by any means,
but it is the singing of an angel compared with
that of the Lancashire squires ; and his voice
is beautiful. It has that slight readiness which
extreme cultivation often destroys, but which
is in itself a charm. It is not hell-like or
silver ; it is just the sweet, strong voice of a
young man in his prime. And his ear is true.
Waldine listens ; she does not move a muscle,
and she does not look at any of the singing
group, much less at John ; but she feels her
heart-beats quicken. She tries not to attend
so closely to his singing : why should it matter
to her at all whether he sings well or ill ? But
her notice has been arrested; she cannot choose
but hear, just as these heart-beats cannot
choose but quicken.

Bravo ! John Lyne,' says Mrs. Lupton,

and then she goes round to the front room to
look at the tableau, with a sense of having
been encouraging and kindly, which refreshes
her like water.

Waldine is almost the only one who neither
acts nor sings nor puts herself at all in the way
in this first picture. Her single figure piece
comes next to it, and she is therefore exempt ;
so that it happens to her to be standing, about
midway between John's rustic phalanx and
the vocal group, with Mr. Denham still in
attendance. When the music is over John
crosses again to the abashed choristers before
the crowd comes off the stage, while yet the
hall is nearly empty. As he passes Waldine
he salutes her.

If you would rather sing in Italian,' she
says to him quickly, ' I could teach you the
words directly.'

'Thank you greatly. Miss de Stair; it is
awkward for me not to know.'

I see it is : I will tell you tomorrow
morning.'

What time should I come up ? '

Oh ! your usual time : you cau come tome
on your way from Lord Grenvers. I am
always in my room then.' She blushes and
bites her lip ; she still does not look at
him : he is radiant with pleasure, though not
man of the world enough to know the value of
her speech.

Lucky dog says the Hon. Launcelot ; ' I
suppose he sees you every day ! '

No, never,' says Waldine curtly ; ' he has
something better to do.'

And then Mrs. Lupton's clear, swift voice is
heard : — ' It's lovely, Cecil, it really is — such a
nice Moses, and the music sounds so well.
Nobody stirred but the serpent : he wobbled
awfully ! Now, Yal, Antigone comes next ;
I hope you are ready.'

Oh yes ! ' says Waldine ; ' I have nothing
to do but to stand still in an attitude ; only
I must be told exactly what attitude. Aunt
Linda has tried so many. But oh ! Mrs.
Lupton, who's to be the brother ? '

Brother ? what brother ? Oh Cecil, the
body ! we've forgotten the dead body ! Here,

Mr. Denham, you'll do nicely. You've only
got to lie down and look up at an artificial vulture
to keep you steady. Oh ! but you're Ham /'

^ I ham' retorts the Hon. Launcelot with
a vulgar bow.

Oh yes, and you haven't a classic air at all,
and you're in the next tableau. Mr. Lyne —
Val, you wouldn't mind Mr. Lyne, would you ?
his name needn't appear on the programme,
and his face won't be seen.' (Thus Mrs. Lupton
in a hurried whisper.)

*I shall be delighted to have Mr. Lyne,*
says Waldine ; ' I'd rather it was some one I
know well. I hate strangers.'

Mrs. Lupton is far too busy and Mr. Denham
far too self-conscious to notice her heightened
tone ; but John Lyne hears it, and it flatters
him though he has not heard Mrs. Lupton's
whisper. That lady does not think it worth
her while to ask him if he will ' play the body'
or not. She seizes him by the coat-sleeve and
bears him through a door on to the wooden
platform.

Lie down,' she says, ' and Mr. Collington

will put you to rights ; ' which Mr. Collington
does without more ado. He covers John for
the nonce with a bit of drapery which happens
to be near at hand — by and by it is to serve fora
wave in Lady Grenvers' Aphrodite tableau.

There is a curious cross light upon the
platform, which shines whitely on John's face
as he lies down. The dark rings of his hair
show glossy and full of life against the bare
boards. As is natural with him in real action,
so now in attitudinising, his shyness finds
refuge in extreme stillness. He gazes rigidly
up, as Mrs. Lupton hops on to a chair and helps
to suspend a horrible-looking bird above him.
Meanwhile Mr. Collington sprinkles the white
drapery with water to make it set more closely
to his limbs, disregarding Mrs. Lupton's laughing
protest that 'it will give Ethelinda her
death of cold.'

Under John's silky black moustache there is
a quiet smile, but one would hardly guess it
looking at him from a distance. The flatness
of his posture, the wet white gauze, the high
lio^ht on his low forehead and curved cheek

combine to give him an awful look, which
is the stronger by contrast to Mr. Collington's
fidgety movement and Mrs. Lupton's nervous
perching.

To Waldine, as she steps on to the platform,
the scene has a ghastly air — as if some nurse
and doctor were busy round a dead man ; she
cannot repress a little shudder.

Where am I to stand ? ' she says.

You are to stoop forward and crouch here,'
says Mr. Collington ; 'it will be an effect of
light, sunset, fire, and all sorts of lovely rays
upon your face. And you must try and combine
horror with faith. Of course he should
be farther off, but he's so good-looking I really
think we must show him. We can conventionalities
the picture as if it were a frieze — so.
Yes, you can clasp your arms round your left
knee if you like : that's capital ! I want to see
first how still you can keep.'

John Lyne is on the right-hand side of the
stage ; there are accessories of a kind of pyre,
of herbage, of a lowering sky. Towards the
left is Waldine, supported by a more shadowy

figure as Ismene, for which one of the Miss Den-hams
is pressed into the service. This figure
is waving aside the birds which hover near.
Mrs. Lupton, having suspended the vulture to
her liking, is busy with some magnesium light,
which flares suddenly on Waldine's face, its
features composed into the requisite expression.
Will you let down your hair, Val ? ' says Mrs.
Lupton laughing, ' or will you have one of my
wigs ? '

Too intent to smile, Waldine unfastens her
luxuriant hair, which falls in a dark mass over
her shoulders. John Lyne turns his face the
least bit towards her.

Now then, Cecil ! — shut your eyes, Mr.
Lyne ! — Oh no, Val — more dramatic ; think of
something dreadful. Think that he is lying
there dead (What? ''Lyne there dead." Oh
Cecil, you monster, and I never forgive a pun 1 ).
Do, Waldine, think that he is dead and that
the bird will peck his eyes out. Think that
he is helpless and that you love him.'

A burning blush floods the girl's cheek under
the glare. It is only a thought that is suggested

to her, but it has put a sense into words. She
opens her glorious eyes wide and fixes them on
John Lyne's face. Not to move she concentrates
both gaze and thought into a rush that is stiller
than calm. * He is dead and he lies out there
and I love him,' she thinks to herself intensely,
over and over again, till it is as if a seal were
being stamped upon her brain. Her look
changes ; her lips part and her cheek fades —
only the eyes widen and burn.

That's splendid,' she hears Mr. Collington
say ; ' now keep that look exactly.' •

His voice sounds hollow and far away ; he
has jumped off the picture-stage into the room
where the spectators are to sit ; the effect of
his departure is to make Waldine feel quite
alone, and she is able to intensify her gaze the
more. A swirl of artificial thought rushes
through her brain : 'It is cold,' she thinks, 'and
presently it will be night and the vultures are
there. He is dead and he lies out on the plain
and I love him ; ' then a singing comes in her
ears, and thought, with movement, stops, or
seems to stop, like a whirling wheel.

It is the sound of some sad music of
Mendelssohn's which they are trying in the
hall that rouses her — vague fitful music, undecided
on as yet, which comes into her
consciousness like bursts of rainy wind on a
fitful autumn day. Then Mrs. Lupton runs
across the stage and kisses her with a butterfly
kiss. ' You're a darling, Yal,' she says, * and a
born actress ! '

The strain of earnestness into which the
girl has forced herself makes this rapid salute
seem singularly unreal and dull. She brushes
her hair together with her hands and twists it
into a knot as she still half kneels upon the floor.
The action is exquisitely graceful and not in
the least self-conscious : it is admirable not
only to the eyes of Mrs. Lupton and Mr. Cecil
CoUington. John Lyne feels again that warm
fragrance steal towards him that breathed such
enchantment over his senses on the terrace at
Whiteknyghts.

Just then a footman comes upon the scene
with a note from Lady Grenvers to Mrs.
Lupton : —

Whitekntghts.

Dearest Charlotte — No ; it's not to be.
Conceive Venus — Aphrodite, I mean — puce
with cold, but literally puce and voiceless.

You must let me do without rehearsal,
unless you come over and rehearse me here.
In my bath, if that would do ! — You hioiv
how delicate my lungs are, and Grenvers
won't hear of my going out to-day. Rehearsal
and performance are never the same
with me. I'm one of those inspired idiots
with whom the moment is all. I sacrifice
Yal. Freeze her or toast her, she's invulnerable
as Achilles — wasn't it Achilles ? You see
I write in the real Greek spirit. — Your loving,

Ethelinda.

Pes. — Of course death alone will keep me
away on the night. What sort of age was
Aphrodite? It cant be true she had a
daughter-in-law V

' The meaning of all which is,' says Mrs.
Lupton impatiently, handing the note to Mr.
Collington, 'that Ethelinda's too vain to come
in a high frock and too old 'pour se recollected

midi!" "The Greek spirit!" I wonder if
the real Aphrodite will ever forgive me — but
Pan is dead ! Come, Val, my pet musician
will put Mr. Lyne and his myrmidons through
their carol while we go in to luncheon ! '

TWO INTERIORS

A GOOD mile or more from Whiteknyghts Hall,
in the direction of Mrs. Lupton's summer-palace
and close to Waldine's ash-tree, is the
house where the Lynes have lived — father
and son — for many generations. It stands
alone in the few fields that are its demesne,
but it is sheltered by a wood which separates
it from the open meadow where the ' Twin '
grows. It has a solid, almost a sad air, being
built of the old gray stone of the country,
without ornament except such as time has
wrought, and this is of the simplest.

You approach it, from the left of a bye-road,
by a little gate and a path through a
vegetable-garden, where there is a carefully-tended

border of common flowers ; the only
face the house turns to the road is, as it were,
a great granary with vast folding doors, the
first of a small range of farm-buildings used
for stables and storehouse, for the house looks
away from the road into the wood, towards
the south-west. The slow hand of centuries
has softened its angles with ivy, but the ivy
is neatly trimmed, and the only accent on the
whole front of the place is from a scarlet-berries
climber, with leaves of blackest green,
which makes a necklace of coral round the
door and lower windows. The ordinary-looking
house is beautified in form by a rough
tower, built once for pigeons, which one can
hardly credit to be, what indeed it is, the
accidental product of use, so much does it
dignify the entire building. What with this
tower, the ivy and the unequal roofs of the
granary and stables, the little place has at a
distance the air of a ruin. Always sober of
aspect — grave, as befits the home of people
whose lives are serious and useful — John
Lyne's house never looks so solemn as at

sunset in autumn. All the leafless trees
behind it stand like skeletons against a sky-that
to-night is as an inky fleece under
which, low down on the horizon, is the scarlet
stain of the dying day. The scene is one which
has a magic to calm the fever of unrest — a
wet November foreground, the lane with its
still pools and ditches, — the yellow of fallen
leaves paper-dry upon the slowly mud — the
sombre wood to leftward, bare boughs that
have no witness but occasional evergreen
among which dead oaks buried in ivy staid
like tall monuments of summer, the house
with its vague tower dark against the wet
shine of the dappled sky, even the dull red of
its roofs blurred out of recognition by the
lucidity behind them. Sunset, sadness, wet :
it would be difficult to find a greater contrast
to Mrs. Lupton's crowded hall at noon.

Custom blunts all ; and John Lyne is not
surprised at this contrast, as a stranger could
not fail to be ; still he is made of yet finer
nerves than the average stranger, and the
contrast makes itself felt — not altogether uneasily

; it is some relief to him just now to
be at home, for his day has been unusual and
exciting, full of the ferment of a new unprecedented
pleasure.

It is past five o'clock, and Mrs. Lupton s
rehearsal has joined the limbo of forgotten
things. After luncheon the energy of its
executants dwindled, as fictitious energy will ;
and by four, or half-past four, most of the
company were on their homeward way, the
house-party having sunk into a tea-gown
torpor. The carol has been pronounced ' quite
charming,' the rustics have been regaled with
beef and beer, and John Lyne has said goodnight
to his humble followers, one after the
other, and walked the last mile and more of
the familiar way alone. He comes along the
wet lane now fronting the sunset, so that one
can observe him well.

Were he habitually light of step one would
notice that his gait was altered ; leisurely
though he always walks, his pace is slower;
he seems to befit the scene. There is a trace
of autumn and the evening on him. Tall

and sedate, he walks along a certain rut, his
hands thrust into the side-pockets of his
greatcoat, his head rather bent. His eyes
look down, but there is a sort of shining
under their lids and lashes — a steady glow
and it is not the light of his cigar. He is
thinking, thinking, thinking — and his thought
burns in his eyes, as such thoughts will. How
do hearts stand the fire of thoughts like these ?

So quiet it is ! the very damp of the air
breathes stillness ; by and by, perhaps after
sunset, there will be rain, but at present 'all
nature seems to hold herself in suspense
watching the agony of the day's death and its
burial ; the funeral plumes are there, and as
John's hand is on his homestead latch they
seem to lean a little lower to shut out the
sun. — ' Go not, happy day !'

He does not raise his eyes ; the latch is so
familiar, the garden-path has been so often
trodden, he could go blindfold in ; but he stops
a moment and listens — not a sound ! His
mother is no doubt at Netherfield, his father,
who is old and deaf, raking a patch of kitchen
VOL. I. 12

garden a hundred yards away. Yes ! he can
see the bent shoulders stooping in the distance.
He throws away his cigar; he goes up the
path and opens the door. There is a small
dark passage with* a room on either side : the
room to the left has neither light nor fire ; it
is the parlour, only inhabited on Sunday.
But it is into the parlour that John goes.
He threads his way through encumbering
chairs and tables, deftly contriving not to
spin one crochet antimacassar off its slippery
perch ; he makes his course up to a small
piano which stands, bright and cared-for,
against the wall. He sits down on the stool
before it and unlocks it, for the key is turned.
Then he sets his hands upon the keys, where
they are less at home than on gates and
latches ; and softly, softly, for one foot is on
the left pedal, he plays an air which he has
just heard.

In the right-hand room there is a fire, and
a cosy wooden arm-chair is drawn up before it ;
and within reach of the chair is a table spread
with tea-things and cold meat, and there area

teapot on the fender and a kettle singing on
the hob, with the homely but not comfortless
appliance of his wonted evening meal. But
he is careless of it all for once.

The moon brightens and looks in at the
parlour window : she has seen the old shiny
chairs, and the white crochet, and the green
tablecloths with the shells and beadwork very
often ; one would fancy her serene highness
should be chary of her light on them ! But
not often has she seen this young Endymion
thus — unlit, unfed — sit playing in the sacred
parlour of his sires, with his boots unchanged
and the fumes of meadow-damp and smoke
still in his clothes.

In a sense he is intent upon the air he
plays; his eyes look down upon his hands —
brown hands and used to work, but not coarse
or rough — but the thoughts of his heart are
far away. They clasp an image which has
entered into his soul at last, where for many a
day past its home has been preparing. The
home is fully furnished now, the chamber
ready. As he looks at his hands he smiles :

on the right wrist is the cicatrice of a wound
that is dear to him for her sake. He would
not part with that wound for kingdoms.

There is no restlessness in John Lyne's
love. Awe, reverence, consecration, these
there are, but not surprise or fear. Uneasiness
dwells not where there is no room for
questioning, and this mood is too absorbed for
questions ; it is saturated with emotion like a
field with dew, and the emotion, like the dew,
brings with it force and calm.

As the mood passes a little with the deciphered
tune, there takes its place a consciousness
of humility, a self-mistrust which is the
characteristic of men who, like John Lyne,
are always having their powers fairly tested.
Though out of the sphere of rivalry, his life is
such that he cannot deceive himself in it ; he
has no undigested estimate of his worth to
puff himself out withal, as an idler man might
have. But comparison is new to him, and he
sets to compare himself with the squires in
whose company he has been.

He starts with his hands; there is no doubt

that the squires' hands, seen there indoors,
were whiter than his : he glances ruefully
along his coat-sleeve; there is no doubt his
clothes fit him less well than theirs. He
thinks of his own face, and wonders what
figure it cut among theirs — a poorer one,
perhaps, than clothes or hands. Their heads
were so closely trimmed, all after one pattern ;
their features had so neat an air — perhaps it
was only his being out of the fashion that
fitted him for the picture. There is a tinge of
bitterness in that ! •

He rises and shuts the piano ; he takes
a light-box from his pocket, but it is empty ;
he walks to the mantelpiece and feels for
matches; over the mantelpiece is a common
looking-glass, its gilt edge preserved by yellow
gauze. As he strikes a match the light shines
on his reflected face ; it is so different to his
mental picture of it that he is startled. He
is holding the match almost level with his
chin, and its phosphoric glare lights up his
features like a torch. He is paler than usual
from the evening damp and the darkness —

perhaps it is this that refines him so — but he
cannot prevent a recognition that he has the
advantage over the squires ; nor can he hinder
himself smiling a little as he drops the match
into the grate and turns away. He hangs up
coat and hat in the hall ; he goes into the
kitchen, which his folk are not too civilised
to use for their meals ; he lights a candle, stirs
the fire, and contemplates his fare. But he
does not want to eat ; he leans back in his
place and crosses his hands on his knees ; his
mind banquets on the memory of Waldine de
Stair to the destruction of his body's appetite.
Her beauty is the festival of his soul.

What is she doing now ? what is the end
of her day %

He is not unaware of the course of life at
Whiteknyghts ; indeed, it has been so usual a
spectacle with him that he has never given it
much consideration ; it has never struck him
as strange that Lord and Lady Grenvers' day
should be timed so differently to his own.
He has come home to his tea-supper and
early bed without making it a point to remark

that he will be asleep before they have done
their dinner. It occurs to him now in an
awakening to the inequalities of life. When
he looks at the little table spread before
him it has a common air which he has not
hitherto noticed.

He pushes aside his almost untasted tea;
an immense desire enters into him to see how
the tide of the day sets at this moment about
the great house ; he does not remember to have
ever been there at exactly this hour. He rises
and takes his hat from the peg in the hall. * Ashe
goes out of the door he meets his father — a
man of few words, the scope of whose ideas is
bounded by the term of *his lordship's interests.'
He was bailiff at Whiteknyghts for
thirty years before the position, with most of
the responsibility, devolved on John.

Going out again, my lad ? ' he asks his
son.

Yes, father ; just up to the Court, that's
all,' is the answer; and 'the Court' being a
talisman to excuse all commands, Mr. Lyne
senior asks no further.

It is dark now — half-past six o'clock or
later — and John walks briskly along a cinder-path
which shortens the way to the house :
a quarter of an hour brings him to the gardens,
and he crosses them towards the door he is
wont to go in by of mornings : he has reached
it before he pulls himself together to recollect
that he has no errand. Shall he invent an
excuse to see his lordship or shall he return ?
while he hesitates, he walks forward a pace or
two and finds himself in front of Waldine's
window, his footsteps noiseless on the grass
borders of the flower-beds before it which he
stripped at her bidding.

She has returned from Mrs. Lupton's rehearsal
about half an hour ago, a little tired
of it all : she has duly described it as best she
can to the invalided Ethelinda, and declined
the tea which that lady imbibes at intervals,
between five and six o'clock, to an incredible
extent. Then she has betaken herself to her
own room for some violin practice, after
changing her neat dress for an easy wrapper.
But somehow, although she has taken her

violin out of its case, she has not played yet.
There is a brilliant fire, and the chill of wintry
dark outside is so far from unpleasant to her,
in the glow that she is in, that she has ordered
the footman not to shut up for the present.
Until she shall ring the bell — which may not
be till dressing-time, an hour hence — she is
likely to be undisturbed alone.

So that the picture which meets John s
gaze as he looks in at the long French window
is one of beauty at ease. The brightness of
the fire dances on the walls of the cheerful
room, full of flowers and books and music,
quickening them all to vivid life. At right
angles to the fireplace is a luxurious couch,
covered with a fur rug, and upon it in the
steady light, not the mere flicker, of the flame,
Waldine is sitting with her violin beside her.
Her attitude is pensive, but it is full of force
and vigour. Looking at her it seems to John
as if the violin must sound a note, and the
whole picture start into fire and vanish.

For Waldine is never listless or languid :
she sits now with her eyes gazing into the

fire and her right hand playing with the
strings of her violin ; and her thoughts are
far away — where and in whose keeping John
little knows ! But there is power in her
gesture all the same. She looks a meeting-place
of various elementary strengths.

To John, who has never seen her but in
plain morning dress, she is a vision of beauty
realised beyond his remembrance. She wears
a soft long dressing-gown, which recalls the
Greek garment she donned as Antigone at
Mrs. Lupton's house, but which drapes her
far more classically than that did, hustled on
over her dark walking-gown. She has no
ornaments whatever : she has taken off herrings
and the firelight catches them — a little
pile of gems — as they lie on a table near.
Her hair is plainly knotted up behind, her
exquisitely-shaped dark head is not immaculately
smooth, stray locks shine gold in the
prevailing glow. The expression of her lovely
young face, even of the curves of her figure, is
one of rest and utter unself-consciousness. Out
of the cold John peers into the warmth ; he

can almost fancy that he feels the fragrant
atmosphere of the room through the thick
pane. His senses are with her, and it seems
to him as if his whole being is concentrated
upon watching how the soft small fingers of
the white ringlets hand play on the slender
strings. Straining his ears, he fancies he can
catch at short quick intervals the slight thrum
and twang she makes upon her violin. It is
a moment made up of flame and music, which
are like the flame and music of a dream — the
heat unfelt, the sound unheard by the sleeper —
but it suffices to make John regardless of the
cold and silence about him. Oh ! dream
within a dream, what are you dreaming now ?
Could this vision of flame and music arrest
the thoughts that are skimming through her
brain, she would find them all tinctured with
the persuasive influence of the young man
who is watching her. As she thinks over her
afternoon's amusement, she is just faintly
conscious that it does not afford her only what
it needs of pleasure in the recollection. Waldine
has a fairly keen sense of humour —

none readier than she to see the ridiculous in
the pursuits of those about her. But that
satirical pleasure is not one which should
induce her to sit in this idle languor ; it might
produce a smart letter, or a sudden laugh in
the midst of other occupations ; it could hardly
prove in itself a sufficient occupation. No ;
and for the tableaux she has cared nothing ;
this pleasure that is about her now like a spell
is a pleasure woven round a tangible image
which has reality enough to give life to all the
impressions in which it has had part. Hitherto
she has known nothing like it : its present
effect is to lap her in stillness and silence
though all her senses are intensely vigilant
the while.

She has been sitting thus for many minutes
before John's coming, and for many minutes
more he watches her, not knowing that he
does so, only feeling that he has found the
home of his heart at last. After a time his
gaze troubles her, perhaps it is keen enough
to disturb her meditations, or perhaps she
tries to rouse herself, anyway she rises suddenly,

brushing a louder twang from the violin
strings as she lets them go; she leans on the 
with one foot forward on the fender.
Over the mantelshelf is a glass, in which she
never looks, but John sees her face reflected
in it, and it strikes him with an odd sense of
fitness how well her image pairs with that he
saw in his own looking-glass at home. It is
not that he thinks of himself, only the lately-beheld
image recurs to his remembrance and
forms a match to hers ; — will he ever watch
her in that glass again, and how ? *

After a few moments she begins pacing
about the room ; her rest has left her ; she
has entered on disquiet. As the outer air
gets chilled the large fire burns more fiercely,
and the room is warm. She walks from
one end of it to the other, sometimes
appearing in shadow, sometimes in light.
She begins to be conscious that it is of no
use settling to anything, that her present
state is that state of ' waiting for the morrow '
which she wrote of to her friend. Once, when
she is again standing in the light, she looks

towards the fire and smiles ; her hands are
clasped behind her as she does so, and she
stops and balances herself to and fro, leaning
forward a little ; then she takes up her mesmeric
walk again.

John Lyne forgets that he is not with her ;
he stands by the window, one strong arm
resting on the stonework of the house, the
hand over his lips to prevent his breath dimming
the glass. He watches her. Suddenly
she draws a long sweet sigh ; then with her
wonted swiftness of movement she comes
straight up to the window and lightly flings
open the half of it farthest from him ; she sighs
again, as if the evening air refreshed her, a
different sigh as of one waking out of sleep ;
and on the sigh she breathes her thought in
words, ' Oh, if he were here !' she says aloud.

He hears her and he is there !

Chapter Il

AN INTERVIEW

Two suspense hearts meeting thus suddenly
either full of thought for the other, cannot be
called surprised ; but there is a shock in the
revelation of their mutual dependence which
keeps them silent for a moment. The disclosure
is beyond recovery once and for ever.

Strangely enough, it is John Lyne who is
the more confused ; perhaps because he recognises
their position more fully ; he is conscious
that he has been eavesdropping. Waldine is
hardly confused ; to find him there is a
great satisfaction to her, and that is all.
But it is John who speaks first, as first recognising
the need of explanation.

I beg your pardon,' he says in a low voice.'

'Why?' says Waldine vaguely, and then
she adds as an after thought, ' Good-evening.'

Good-evening, Miss de Stair.'

You have, perhaps, come up alDout the
Italian ? '

No,' returns John, too naturally truthful
to be as inventive as he could wish.

Or about something for Lord Grenvers ? '

'No.'

Then why are you come ? ' her voice
trembles a little and yet the chill of the outer
air seems to have frozen it already, her tone
is so distant. The expansive self revealed
looks like a receding ghost to both of them.

'Oh,' says John quickly, 'I came to see
you — to see if you had returned ; I meant no
harm, but I saw the light and '

I do not see that you have done harm.
I am glad to see you.'

The monosyllables drop from her lips with
a graceful frigidity. He cannot wholly hear
the quick breaths taken beneath these frost-wreaths
of rhetoric.

You do not mind my having come ? ' he

asks in an altered voice. He is standing in the
path now, fronting her, and the firelight shines
upon his face.

Mind it ? oh no, what is it to me ? '

Nothing ? ' — it is her tone that gives him
courage.

Oh yes — something.' She turns her head
aside and speaks low, as if to herself, — ' I was
just wishing you were here,' she says softly :
and then, as if she recognised the tenderness in
her own voice, ' I was thinking of the tableaux,
Mr. Lyne : ' and John thinks he has never
heard anything sweeter than the sound of his
name as she speaks it.

Shall you really be inclined to teach me
how to say the words right ? ' he hazards.

*0h yes — now if you like, or when you
like, indeed — I have nothing to do here.'

I am afraid you find it dull in our country
after being abroad ? '

No ' — the word is spoken on the indrawn

breath, as if she answered him more rapidly

than she would. Her head is still turned

away and he ventures to gaze at her face, not

VOL. I. 13

knowing that she can see him plainly all the
time in some instinctive way. His gaze and
her perception of it make her reiterate her
words, ' No, I am not dull,' she says again ;
I am very happy here — somehow.'

Mrs. Lupton's house makes a change for
you.'

Yes ; but I don't care for change — and I
don't care much for Mrs. Lupton,' she adds
with a little laugh, in complete confidence.
I think I like the country and the quiet and
the winter' — she stretches out her arm from
under the eaves of the window — ' It is raining,'
she says quickly — and indeed the whole air is
wet with soft damp.

It is nothing,' says John — ' a sort of mist :
I have no distance to go.'

You need not go yet.'

Not if you wish me to stay.'

I do not wish you to go. Come in,' she
adds abruptly, — ' I do not see why you should
not come in. I want to show you the bulrushes
for which I never thanked you.'

She goes back into the room, and he,

half wondering at his own temerity, follows
her.

The room is very warm, the air blows
coldly in : ' Shut the window,' she says without
looking round ; he shuts it. Then for an
instant there is utter silence ; their thoughts
race, wind swift, along the tense lines of their
consciousness ; they can hear each other's
hearts beat. John has a strange feeling upon
him that he has done and is doing something
wrong, but Waldine is only bent upon going
with the tide. Whither is she drifting — along
what river to what sea ? she does not ask —
the voyage is too dangerously sweet. Only
let them keep together !

To have come in seems to have changed
the character of their meeting ; the room is so
dark, so warm, so full of intimate life ; its
shelter stifles all formalities, but somehow
neither of them ventures to glance at the
other.

'Those are your bulrushes,' says Waldine
after a moment or two.

They look very beautiful,' says John, in a

tone which is the echo of hers ; they both
speak beneath their breath, as if fearful of
being heard.

As he turns away from where he stands
behind her, to examine the artistic arrangement
of the reeds against the back of the
upright piano, she steals a glance at him and
sees that his coat is wet with the fine mist
that has been falling. ' Won't you take your
coat off, Mr. Lyne V she asks him simply.

I don't think I ought to stay,' says John
suddenly ; ' I am taking ujd your time.'

Oh ! my time,' she interrupts him impatiently
— so impatiently that at last he
looks at her and is amazed at the radiance of
her beauty seen thus near, and undimmed by
the glass between them — ' don't stay if you
don't wish to : but I have spoken to my aunt
about the Italian — the opera is there on the
piano.'

Will her ladyship let you hear me read
the words. Miss de Stair ? '

Of course. Why are you so solemn ? '

'Here, and now V

Of course : she says you are quite one
of ourselves

It seems too much happiness.'

There is no mistaking his tone, whatever
doubt there may be of the meaning of hers.
A mad pleasure steals into her senses ; she
will increase that vibration in his voice, she
will push the charm to its limit. * Her ladyship
says,' she continues slowly, 'that she is glad
you are to be in the tableaux ; that it will be
something for me to do to teach you to say the
words, and that she thinks you had better .read
them with me alone for fear she should distract
your attention because you admire her so much.'

Is that so, Miss de Stair V

It is difficult for him to answer her calmly,
for she is pouring wine into his veins with her
words. But he feels more and more that a
responsibility almost beyond his bearing is
being thrust ujDon him. How can he be with
her alone and not tell her what is in his heart ?

His hesitation and confusion perplex her.
Perhaps you had rather not read them now ? '
she asks, in a tone of disappointment.

Oh ! if you are so kind,' he says in an
easy voice which costs him an effort.

Then take off your coat ; and I will ring
for a lamp

She crosses the room towards the bell ; he
stands for a second irresolute, as if he would
take off his coat as she bids him, and then
impulsively —

No,' he says to her, ^ do not ring. I want
to speak to you first.'

His tone arrests her as her hand is on the
cord. It is absolutely unlike any tone she
has yet heard ever in any man's voice. It is
a tone of command under which entreaty
pleads. Her hand drops to her side and her
heart stops beating.

'What do you want to say?' she asks,
frightened she knows not why.

I want to say,' says John Lyne, opening
his great-coat as if the warm room choked him,
but not taking it off — on the contrary, holding
his hat in his hand while he speaks, — ' that
very often great things are the result of quite
simple things, and that this simple thing of

your helping me to read some Italian may
become a great thing, and bring about great
things for me. I do not want you to do it
without thought, not knowing what you do.'

She recovers herself a little as she realises
that his tone is merely the effect of his strong
desire for her to do what is right ; as she
recovers herself she becomes intrepid — she is
too direct to return an evasive answer.

I know what I do she says firmly.

'Hardly,' — says John Lyne, taking a step
forward and standing near to her, — * hardly
you can. But it shall not be my fault that
you do not know it. I want to tell you that
it is not the same to me to be with you that it
is to be with her ladyship.'

She does not smile, listening, as she would
smile if she read his speech : her eyes soften as
she looks into the fire : she stands still as stone ;
she comprehends the sweetness of that difference.

To be with you,' he goes on, ' I only
guess what it is to me : but I do guess it and
you cannot : it turns my life to flame. If this
is your will, tell me I may come and I will

come — thankfully — do I say thankfully ? to
come to you will be like heaven. All ! let me
come ! . . . But if you do not want me, say
so now. It will be best.'

I do want you she says in the same voice.
She hears him, but of all he says to her only
those four words, * Ah ! let me come ! ' ring in
her heart.

Still he does not cease to warn her. ' I
came,' he says, 'to see the windows of your
room this evening ; that was all : I find you.
And even now, if you will, I can forget that I
have found you. But after this time I shall
never be able to forget you when^I go away.'

I do not want you to forget me.'

And I shall forget you never. But though
you ask me to stay, though you bid me to
think of you, for your sake I shall not stay
and I shall not think of you without leave.
Will you now, for your own sake, ask your aunt
if I may stay ? '

There is no need. She would not understand.'


Then I shall go to his lordship.'

What shall you say to him ? '

I shall say that you have told me you will
hear me read the words of the chorus, and I
shall ask him if he has any objection to my
going to you now — alone.'

'As you will

If he objects, I shall know that he thinks
me presuming : I shall then ask leave to hear
you read them once, before her ladyship, tomorrow.
And I shall recall them, do not fear.'

If he does not object ? '

If he does not object I shall return.' .

Neither of them speaks another word. They
feel like people who have staked their chance
on the throw of a die. Until they know what
they have cast, they dare not utter. John
crosses the room behind Waldine and goes out
at the door without looking back. Waldine
remains absolutely motionless upon the hearth-rug,
still staring fixedly into the fire. The
only change she has made in her attitude is
that with both her hands she has taken hold
of the back of a chair behind her. She is alone
for several minutes, and she can scarcely be

said to think the while : what she has done
she does not know and she does not care, but
until she sees the upshot of it she cannot
distract her attention. * No doubt he is right
she says to herself presently, aloud.

It is astonishing, the lightning-speed at
which her faith in this man has grown. There
is no appreciable cause for it beyond the facts
that she has always heard him praised, and that
on two occasions he has been of some slight
service to her. Perhaps the insincerity of Lady
Grenvers has something to do with it, and perhaps
not. More likely the mind has followed
up the intuitive judgment of the heart towards
possession.

After about seven minutes a footstep
comes along the passage — a lighter footstep
than John Lyne's — and it is followed by the
entrance of one of Lord Grenvers' nurses.

If you please, Miss de Stair,' says this
functionary, ' have you Moses ? '

Have I lohatf says Waldine impatiently.

'Moses, Miss de Stair. His lordship has
sent me to ask you to bring in Moses.'

Moses is on the piano says Waldine
absently : still like one in a dream site walks
across the room and takes the opera spoken of
in this homely way into her hand — ' Moses is
among the bulrushes,' she adds with a short
^ laugh, which is not a laugh of amusement, as
the loose front of her wrapper rustles against
John's reeds that whisper always of the Willow-garth.


Will you take Moses to his lordship ? '
asks the nurse stupidly, not knowing her
errand.

No — yes. Does he wish to see me ? '
If quite convenient, Miss de Stair.'
Without another word Waldine carries the
libretto along the corridor and walks into her
uncle's sitting-room. It is fully lit, and the
light blinds her for an instant.

Oh ! Sister Frances is an emissary for the
gods,' says Lord Grenvers ; ' thank you so much,
Val. I hear you are going to teach John Lyne
Italian. But why should you bother about it ?
I'll put him through his paces. Where are
the words ? Have you nothing smaller than

this tome? Shade of Caxton! what print!
Put the lamp a bit nearer, John, will you ? '
He snatches an unusual pleasure in the sense
of being useful to some one.

John moves the lamp towards the invalid's
left hand: as he does so the glare from its
thick glass globe is full upon his face — his eyes
shine like happy stars. Waldine finds the place
in the libretto, but Lord Grenvers cannot read
the small and cramped letters below the music.
Oh ! you must do it after all,' he says.

'Dal tuo stella soglio, Signor, ti volga
a noi ! ' says Waldine.

Tell him what it means says his lordship,
charmed with the sweet accents.

Down from Thy starry throne. Lord, turn
towards us ! ' she says quickly.

A tremendous nerve-shattering clang from
the hall-gong follows immediately upon her
words. Lord Grenvers starts and puts his
hands to his ears.

My dear Yal,' he says when the hideous
din has ceased, ' it's an incantation ! For God's
sake let's be warned in time ! With all my

other infirmities I can't afford to be made blind
and deaf by microscopic print and responsive
thunder. Evidently the seance must be without
me. You must go to Miss de Stair's
sitting-room tomorrow, John, before you come
to mine. At this rate I shall know when you
are learning Italian by the walls tumbling
about my ears I suppose. Val, you must run
and dress, or you won't be in it with Linda.'

Then they look at each other. John's face
is only happier, more reassured in expression :
Waldine has undergone a transformation ;-she
looks like an incarnate laugh, a live ripple of
water, anything that is all joy and light.
Very well, tomorrow,' she says softly.

Demain, qui sait oil nous serons demain f
Lavender est a Dieu, le temps est dans sa
onainj quotes his lordship in answer. John
opens the door for her, but Waldine does not
glance at him again. Is he not hers — hers ?
need she look at him or speak to him at all ?
She runs upstairs singing ; as John passes out,
a moment later, he hears her lovely voice
along the great staircase —

FAMILIARITY

^ Dal t'uo stella soglio,
Signor, ti volga a noV

He goes out into the dripping night; the

prayer is echoed in his heart — poor heart

that is to be the shrine of such a prayer forever

!

QUANDO Legem

But fate intervenes against that meeting as
planned and sanctioned. Fate in the shape
of Ethelinda Grenvers with an ailment —
cold.

Slight cold ; not unbecoming cold, but cold
that requires caresses, companionship, and an
absolutely new tea-gown. — ' For, Yal,' she says
piteously, really I was never puce before
scarlet I've been and mauve, but puce ! —
and my poor little nose so swollen. Give me
that hand-glass, darling, and let me see if it's
worse. And I can't see to read, and my armis
too stiff to write with. You mustn't leave
me a moment this morning. I wish I could
give you my cold, you'd shake it off so much

sooner — and it's not so fatal for you to have
the outlines thicken.'

Thank you says Waldine laughing ; despite
the annoyance of being kept upstairs
all the morning, her mood is so buoyant that
she cannot be ill-tempered.

But I can't, of course ; fragile people
always catch cold but they can't give it.'

'I shall cultivate fragile people,' says the
girl absently, her roving thoughts away
already in the keeping of a man who, if not
Herculean, is certainly not fragile yet.

What were sou going to do this morning,
Val?'

Teach Mr. Lyne Italian.'

Oh ! but I can't be left alone. Don't you
think he'd like to see my tea-gown ? to love
it is a liberal education, as somebody said of
something.'

No doubt he would think it adorable.'

Then he must come up here, Val, to my
boudoir. Yoiire here, so it's quite correct.'

Waldine hesitates : this is not the meeting
of which her dreams have been full.

Aren't you too ilH' she says in a tone
more suggestive than sympathetic.

I don't think so says her ladyship meditatively,
regarding her nose again in the hand-glass
: ' and it is only the left wing that is red.
Perhaps Stephanie has some velocities — though
cosmetics are always dangerous — and I can
turn my left side to the wall. John Lyne is
not so strong as he looks, and perhaps I can
give him my cold ! Anything that I can do for
that good end — short of kissing him' —

Waldine turns away ; of a sudden her face
is like fire : she is silent. But if she were
plum-coloured and dumb, Lady Grenvers
would never know it.

Yes,' she goes on, ' you must write him a
line, this alarm has made my eyes stream
so ; if I can write a note to my dear saint, it's
all I shall be able to do till this evening,
when, come what may, I must be carried
down to see him. Write Mr. Lyne a note,
Val ; I'll dictate it.'

Waldine sits down, all Lady Grenvers'
elaborate writing appointments before her.
VOL. I. 14

She puts pen to paper, a smile hovering about
her beautiful lips.

" Dear Mr. Lyne," ' she writes, * '' come up,
I've something to give you." '

" Something to give him," ' Aunt Linda ? '

Yes, Val, my cold.'

'But he won't understand.'

How do you know what he understands ?
he'll be intrigue beyond anything. Mr. Lyne
and I are very old friends, Val. You've no
notion how spiritiielle his nature is.'

I daresay.'

I believe Charlotte Lupton flirted with
him abominably. The lengths she goes ! But
no doubt it " lifted his horizon," as she says.'

How do you mean ? ' — Waldine traces
arabesques on the blotting-paper as she asks
the question.

Oh ! she made him read her all sorts of
poetry while he sat to her — filled his head
with fancies. And look at the result ! he
likes romance — turns from her, with all her
cleverness, to poor romantic me ! '

Turns from her ? '

Well, not really, of course ; but he was
never responsive. Charlotte crawled before
him — crawled, there's no other word. And he
just treated her as if she were a book. He
learned all he could from her, thanked her,
shut her up, and put her back on the shelf.'
What did Mrs. Lupton expect ? '
Lady Grenvers meditatively resumed the
hand-glass — ' I can't imagine ; another slave,
I suppose. You know, Yal, I daresay it seems
odd to you, one's liking John Lyne ; but he's
not like anybody else's bailiff. In the first
place, he comes of an admirable stock — they're
poor as rats, the Lynes, and really I think
that's because they're so honest. Still, as
regards race — you should hear Grenvers trace
them! Then he's so bright. Look at his
talent for music — you may imagine Charlotte
cultivated that — and his voice is lovely. He's
read I don't know what : they say his lectures
to the Netherfield boys are capital — and he has
natural taste: Charlotte never gave him his
taste : I really should not be surprised if he
understood my tea-gown.'

Very likely.'

Of course it's a difficult tea-gown — this
shot-silk always is difficult ; but, when one is
out of sorts, one cries out for a shot-silk. One
mottles, and nothing can contradict motte like
shot I '

No. What else shall I say to Mr. Lyne V

Nothing else ; it's only a word to be
handed him when he conies — so much civilly
than a message —

'dear Mr. Lyne — Come up, I've something
to give you.

'yours truly,

Ethelinda Grenvers." '

I hope the paper smells nice ; does it, Val ? '

'Weeks.'

'You word it coarsely, but I know what
you mean — mousseline. Put a postcript, " Excuse
my tea-gown," or else, perhaps, he won't
give his mind to it. What about the music ?
I do so hate helping people improve themselves
— horrid ! '

It is only the words from More in Egitto
the libretto is in Uncle Egbert's room.'

Then Stephanie can fetch it. Poor darling,
he's not there yet, I suppose : what's the
time?'

Half-past eleven.'

How do you know V

(' How does she know V when all her pulses
are ringing out the hour !) — ' I can see the
time by that horse-shoe clock on the further
table.'

Oh yes ! so can I, though gray eyes are
never strong — what is it they say, Les yeiix
gris '

Vont au Paradis' says Val obligingly.
Lady Grenvers closes the yeux gris with a

pleased smile. ' So nice of you, dear Val,' she
says, as if the quotation were not of her own
seeking — ' now touch that bell and Stephanie
will give the note to James.'

Val folds the note and directs it, experiencing
a definite pleasure as her pen traces
the name which her heart echoes so often.
Then she sits still : there seems nothing left to
long for. Although the meeting will not be
what she has been imagining, there is a trepidation

in her which is glad of her aunt's shelter :
to go and meet him alone would have been difficult
when the moment came. Besides what does
it matter whether there are others present or
not? — to see him again, that is the great thing.

Certainly he looks worth waiting to see
when he makes his appearance ten minutes
later, immediately upon receipt of the summons.
The new excitement he has entered on, by robbing
him of sleep, has added brilliancy to his
look ; his face is flushed and his aspect bright
and eager. Waldine's heart swells with happy
pride as she feels, rather than sees, him
enter. — ' It is my king,' the pulses beat out in
her ears and temples.

As for him, he only knows that he is in her
presence once more ; he does not criticise her
air, though it could bear criticism bravely.
He only knows that the bright boudoir contains
her, that the firelight is upon her, that
Lady Grenvers is near her : nothing has an
independent existence for him now : in her
presence is life for him.

Of which changed mood her ladyship is

naturally unaware. She leans back among lier
cushions with a light laugh, and claps her
tiny hands together childishly. — ' The dear
good fellow !' she cries. * Oh John ! I sent for
you to give you my cold.'

He is not flurried : he smiles pleasantly.
To a nature like his, love is sunshine, breeze,
warm rain. Under the influence of the passion
he expands and thrives.

'I wish I could catch it,' he says; 'I'm
afraid it will be easier caught than an Italian
accent.'

Whose Italian accent he does not say, anymore
than one says of a bright day, ' whose
brightness?' — all that can in any way affect
him must be hers — hers !

She has not spoken yet, and she does not
speak now ; she just stretches out her hand for
the libretto which he has brought upstairs with
him. Nor does she say ' Thank you ' when he
gives it her ; she turns over the pages quickly
to find the place. She has moved round a little
on her chair, so that her back is to the window,
and he, being fresh from out of doors, divines

rather than sees in the shaded light the smile
that is sculptured on her lips, and hides in
her drooped eyelids like scent in rose-leaves.

Meanwhile Lady Grenvers relapses into the
contemplation of her nose. It is characteristic
of her that, for all the precautions she took
against its being observed, it is the first topic
upon which she enters.

A propos of Italian,' she says. ' I wonder
what sort of a nose Venus had ? — not that she
was an Italian, was she, John ? I asked Charlotte
and she said she was 'divinely cosmopolitan":
still there was an Italian Venus —
De Medici or De Canova or something — the
sort of person I could not possibly represent,
by the way — and presumably she had a nose.
Let us hope it was of the port-wine order.'

When are the tableaux to be ?' asks John,
as balancing the probabilities of cure.

The day after tomorrow ! conceive it, in this
weather. And so you are to be in one of them,
John, as Miss de Stair's brother : who was he V

Polynices, his name was,' says John, the
smile widening round his white teeth. ' I

asked his lordship about him last night : ita
fine story.'

It's a horrid name,' says Lady Grenvers,
turning the hand-glass towards the light : — ^ I
always say his lordship and I have got the
most unusual names permissible — Egbert and
Ethelinda — like some dreadful old English
king and queen. I can see them — he with a
short skirt and pointed toes, and she with her
hair in little bird-cages at the side of her head,
sucking poison from his arm — but Polynices —
(^a passe la permission! Polynices wlftitf
how thankful one should be that there is a
limit to the license of one's sponsors ! Fancy
Polynices Grenvers — but Polly would save it.'

I'm rather glad my name admits of such
a simple abbreviation,' says Waldine. * I can
forgive my Hungarian godfather.'

"'Wald" is German for woodland,' says
Lady Grenvers, as if she had made an original
discovery in philology : — ' Perhaps Waldine
means the lady of the woodland, Yal V

Perhaps.'

'My name is short enough,' says John

Lyne simply : ' and it's my father's aod grandfather's,
and goes further back than that, by
the tombstones. I'm rather proud of it,
though Mr. Butler, the Netherfield curate, says
it's like a servant's name.'

'At all events it's not so like a servant's name
as " Butler," ' says Yal, ' and for the matter of
that, it's as royal as Egbert or Ethelinda.'

They all laugh at this irrational sally, and
Lady Grenvers — to whom her own name is
really the most beautifully-sounding word in
language, says fatuously, 'Ethelinda, Ethel-inca
!' as if it were the point under discussion.
I always wish Grenvers were a baronet,' she
concludes untruthfully, ' and I were an earl's
daughter — '' Sir Egbert and Lady Ethelinda
Grenvers !" well, perhaps, after all it's as well
that he isn't— it's rather too much of a mouthful.
By the bye, Val, you're a countess, of course ! '

John Lyne looks quickly from one to the
other.

Oh ! we're all countesses abroad,' she says
carelessly: 'I am proud to be an "English
meet." '

I wonder whether Mrs. Lupton will have
it on her programmes says Lady Grenvers
apprehensively, ' " The Countess Waldine de
Stair as Antigone ; " it might be a draw ; but
I confess I like to sound the smartest person
there — poor little humble me ! '

*" Faith" says Waldine, quoting from an
imaginary programme, ^ '' Antigone with the
body of Polynices — Miss Waldine de Stair
and Mr. John Lyne." 'love," 'aphrodite
rising from the sea — The Lady Grenvers of
Whiteknyghts." You shall have the honours.'

The way her sweet young voice has travelled
over their names has caused both John Lyne
and herself a perceptible thrill ; it seems to
bring them leagues nearer together. Lady
Grenvers, of course, is absorbed by the apotheosis
of her own dignity.

Ah ! ' she says with an attentive purr of
pleasure, ' now you go on with Moses, while I
see how my nose is. What a beautiful rhyme!
but I really must attend to that member, and
put poetry aside for the time.'

She rises from her sofa and shimmers into

her dressing-room, which adjoins the boudoir,
where, under cover of calling Stephanie (who
is not there), she bluffs the offending nostril
with pearl powder. For one half minute Waldine
and John are alone. They are seated at
some little distance from each other — she with
her back to the window, he facing the light.
They look at each other, and the look is better
than speech. They will pine for such a look
as that by and by, as cut flowers pine for sunshine.
Then she blushes and ruffles the pages
of the book upon her lap as his gaze steadies
upon her and urges her to utterance.

So, you see, it was all right.'

'But this is not what I wanted.'

What did you want ? '

To be alone with you.'

For an instant she draws in her breath ;
then, ' But you will Italianise yourself better
here, no doubt,' she says provokingly — which
statement he cannot deny.

Lady Grenvers returns, radiant. 'It is
better ! ' she says in triumph ; ' do come to the
light and look at it, Yal; it is only purple now.'

Waldine looks at the medicated feature,
which was never, in reality, so much as pink,
and which is now satin-smooth with powder.
Yes,' she replies absently, as before.

And then the seance, as Lord Grenvers
called it, takes place forthwith, and she
habituates John's voice to the southern
accents. He is an apt pupil.

When they have read and reread the lines,
Lady Grenvers asks him with artless malice,
Did Mrs. Lupton never teach you any Italian,
John?'

Waldine looks at him earnestly as he
answers 'No.' He says nothing more. If
Mrs. Lupton did 'go lengths' with him, asher
ladyship imagines, he is evidently not the
man to narrate them. As a matter of fact
she did not ; the reputation contented her.

Lady Grenvers is a little discomfited ; she
takes refuge again in the question of the hour,
You've no notion, Val, how nervous I feel,'
she says : — * Charlotte has no nerves, and I
don't think you have either ; the other people
will all huddle together, but poor, poor me —

quite alone among the "sad sea waves." I
hope they'll all know who Aphrodite was !
Do you, John ? '

Yes, I do says John Lyne, smiling again,
^ thanks to his lordship ; he made me into a
regular classical dictionary last winter. I
know all the loves of all the gods.'

'Ah yes, I remember; now your part is
easy enough. Miss de Stair tells me. You've
only got to lie down and pretend to be dead.
Why, Flirt could have done that ! '

The mention of the dog's name recalls their
meeting in the Willow-Garth to both of them.
There is silence ; in the silence Lady Grenvers
yawns. John feels that he ought to take his
leave. ' I hope I have not tired you,' he says,
rising to go down to Lord Grenvers.

No,' she answers, with innocent candour,
no — not very much ; but you've annoyed mea
little; you've never admired my new tea-gown.
And it is so becoming.'

To tell the truth, he had not even observed
it ; but as she does not wait for him to answer
there is no need for him to forge an excuse.

Till Thursday evening ! ' she says with a
gracious nod.

Then Waldine rises and holds out her hand.
*■ Good-bye she says ; but she makes a slight
movement towards the door as she says it.
Will not the longing of her soul lead them
unseen away ?

He touches her beautiful hand with his
burning fingers ; it is cool as marble, and
the flush has passed from her face, yet somehow
he divines how the blood is circling round
her heart. He divines also, not amiss, that
she would say some word to him in private.

But this is not to be. ' When I think her
ladyship cries after him, ' of the deshahilU in
which you will see me on Thursday I tremble. I
must try and think you are really dead. Don't
leave me, Val — she concludes, as Waldine,
almost without knowing it, takes a pace or two
after her lover when he goes out : — ' Don't
leave me ! I'm too wretchedly ill ; and besides
if Stephanie were to meet you about the house
before she knew John Lyne was gone, she
would be sure to say I was alone with

him. You've no notion how careful I
have to be. She's as thick as thieves with
Charlotte Lupton's maid, and one can't be
too particular.'

WALDINE WRITES

Whiteknyghts Court, Wednesday, December 6th.

Elsie mine! — Conceive that I am in three
places at once this evening : bodily I-am
sitting with Aunt Ethelinda, mentally I am
with you, spiritually I am — neither here nor
there. I have your letter, which is interesting
enough if I were in the humour to be interested
in it; the fault of it is what Aunt
Ethelinda confessed to me just now was, she
thought, the fault of Mrs. Lupton's conversation,
*You know, Val, she doesn't seem to
understand Me.' I am grown more selfish
than ever, Elsie : I have found a pearl, and so
I don't care any more to hear of pebble playthings.
All the same, tell me your news ; it
VOL. L 15

is good to compare what I have to absorb me
now, with the trifles in which I found all my
interest last year. Is not that precisely the
reverse of what you expected I should write
when I had been a few weeks in the country ?

Elsie, you are very sympathetic and very
kind and all the rest of it, but, frankly, what
you say to me does not do me half the good
that what I say to you does. To recount the
happiness which happens to me ! it is a pursuit
that is half thanksgiving and half prayer. By
the time you say ' Amen ' — by post, remember
there is fresh material for both.

You wonder then,' you say, 'that I have
time to write ! ' My dear, one must speak to
some one or else ' break forth in singing ! ' I
can't speak to Aunt Linda ; she shuts me up by
force of sheer inattention ; she is naively unmoved
by anything that I can tell her ; and
so this letter is just instead of speech or song.
It shall be a regular scena. We will commence
with an orchestral description ; we will
proceed to a recitative of meditation ; we will
be as stately as we can in our grand air, and

I advise you to put your fingers in your
ears before the quick movement, in case it
should stun you.

The introduction sounds homelier than it
really is. The scene is Aunt Linda's boudoir,
which is just perfect ; the company Aunt
Linda and myself. She is finally curing a
cold. I confess I never perceived the cold ;
but she made an excuse of it to Mrs. Lupton,
so she has been bound to victimise herself for
it two days : I only hope she really had one,
else I tremble to think in what the aconite
and alarm she has assimilated will result.
She is now on the sofa, sipping some decoction
before she goes to bed and reading
a French journal on dress. I am here to
calm her nerves : we have both got our
dressing-gowns on and have talked ourselves
tired about tomorrow. It is eleven o'clock :
twenty-four hours from now the tableaux will
be a thing of the past. The night is very cold :
I can tell it by the way the fire burns between
the satin curtains in the grate : when I get to my
own room I shall open the window and look out.

For now — (I'm afraid I've launched into
the recitative of meditation already) — now I
am never cold or tired or ill. The day is not
long enough for thinking, the night is too
short for dreams. Things that used to excite
me leave me unmoved, feelings that used to
chill me find me warm. Physically I seem to
have created an atmosphere for myself :
nothing pierces it as far as to the heart of me.
If the house were on fire I should try to be
frightened, if Aunt Ethelinda were burnt I
should try to be sorry. But what she calls
the real Me ' has no room for fear or grief.
It is curious how sometimes even my own
mind does not know the things that are
occupying my own heart. The other day I
was thinking some wholly trivial thought ; if
I recollect rightly, it was that the servants
were very extravagant in candles here. — Yes !
that was exactly it : I was thinking, ' They
put me fresh lights in my looking-glass
brackets every evening, what would Madame
have said to that at Brussels ? ' and glancing,
by accident, between the candles, at my face

in the glass I saw that my eyes and cheeks
were wet with tears. I was not crying for
Brussels, I was not crying about the candles,
I was crying — without knowing it — because
of ' the thoughts of my heart.'

And to-night Aunt Ethelinda was discussing
a ball-gown — for herself, so it really was a
serious matter, and one to which I was giving
my best attention — when she broke off from
her harangue to ask me why I was smiling.
Perhaps it is the heart and not the brain
which brings one tears and smiles. Even
with me, however, there are moments which
make claims on both ; but these are moments
that have not to do with looking-glasses or
ball-gowns !

The other day I passed a cottage where a
woman was sitting writing a letter. She was
absorbed in her task — no easy one for a person
of her station : she was writing at a table with
a large sheet of foreign letter-paper spread out
before her. And she was nursing a little
child. It struck me that if the letter was
hard to write, the pen difficult to handle, the

hardness and the difficulty mattered less to
her because of that little child ; scarcely
could anything vex or please her much that
did not reach her through him. Elsie ! that
little child is like the hope of love in my
heart : it wakes me and it fills my dream : it
is the first fruits of my life. Dors enfant !
. . but though it sleeps it is not gone.

All of which you have not yet found the
maternal instinct to appreciate quite thoroughly ;
so my recitative bores you. Changement de
scene ! I will give you my grand air.

The Hon. L. S. D. has been here again
this afternoon. He comes — occasionally, let
us say, but I do not always see as much of
him as I did this time. When Aunt Ethelinda
is ill she remains in her rooms the greater part
of the day, but, if she happens to have a new
garment on, she likes to see visitors all the
same. And she has a new tea-gown now.

When he called I went down to the drawing-room
to receive him. Aunt Ethelinda said,
Keep him ten minutes before you bring him
up.' She treats herself as if she were a * snapdragon

' for children. She allows no one into
the room before the raisins are alight. — I'm not
sure there isn't a dash of brandy in her illumination
also; but perhaps that's ill-natured! — In
those ten minutes I became better acquainted
with Mr. Denham than I had in the collected
hours of our meetings thitherto. His impression
was that I kept him talking because I
liked to have him all to myself, and, though
I was burning to say frankly ' We must stay
down here till my aunt is arranged I managed
to control the inclination. Why spoil such
innocent sport ?

Mr. Denham,' you say, ' is a very shadowy
figure ! ' My dear Elsie, he may be a great
many things, but he certainly is not that ;
there is plenty of him. I always find myself
compassionate his horse. He is heavy not
only corporeally but mentally — at least I find
him so ; but he means to be nice, and I see
him at a disadvantage because he likes me
and he does not know my tastes at present.
He tries all sorts of channels in his voyages of
discovery to make out what I do like; and

this amuses me into trying to be the more
elusive. If I were married to such a man I
think I should be trying to elude him all my
life. I can conceive of happiness so.

You don't look satisfied about him ! Well,
you shall have the interview word for word.

I came downstairs and walked into the
room. He was standing with his back to me
pretending to look out of the window. He
can't pretend even with his back. I made a
face at his back, but it is not conductive to
his brain ; he did not see the face. I should
not have liked him if he had seen it, but I
despised him because he didn't. I held out
my hand : ' Lady Grenvers will be delighted
to see you, Mr. Denham,' — that was precisely
the witticism with which I favoured him at
starting.

Oh ! thank you. Miss de Stair ' — that was
his witticism in reply. Apparently he did not
think it came up to mine. Nor do I. We
sat down.

It was really you I came to see,' he said
in a tentative tone.

Alas it ? ' I answered sweetly ; but I suppose
not so sweetly as was expected of me, for
he added nervously, * about the tableaux.'

Oh ! the tableaux ? '

Yes ; I'm so afraid you thought me an oaf
about the body. Poly — what's his name ? '

Polynices ? ' (remark my air of distinction
and conjecture the cause !)

Oh ! that's it — yes ! I should so have
liked to be in it with you ; but you've no sort
of notion how I'm rigged out as Ham, and that
ark business is the next scene. I couldn't have
got dressed in time, and I thought it wouldn't
do to appear in bathing costume, though I
daresay Ham took a header now and then.'

I fancy not. Orientals are not great
swimmers.'

Oh ! you're so awfully learned. But
seriously ; of course Mr. Lyne is such a
good-looking chap and all that — far better
fitted for the part than I am ; but I should
have liked you to look at me as you looked at
him. And I thought, perhaps, it wasn't too
late for me to nip in ? '

It is too late for you " to nip in," Mr.
Denham. Do you not know that Mr. Lyne
and I rehearse the picture daily from ten till
four.'

You don't think he'd give it up ? — he's
an awfully good-natured chap, you know,
Miss de Stair, a thorough gentleman — if you'd
say the word ? '

I do " say the word" — a thorough gentleman.'
— (You may imagine, my Elsie, that I
got some pleasure out of that little bit of
obtuseness !)

I don't mean that ; I mean if you'd say
you'd like me to be in it.'

^ But I shouldn't — I mean I shouldn't like
to have to think of you as dead.' (For, Elsie,
you don't need to be told that there is nothing
I would not have said to retain my original
brother. — * Brother,' that's a very slight relationship,
I think.)

The Hon. Launcelot was greatly pleased
at my answer. Luckily his pleasure flustered
him ; and I was so desperately afraid he
would revert to the subject that I tried to

fluster him still more. Perhaps this flapping
goose would flap away !

We spoke of you this morning,' I said.
Lord Grenvers was immensely amused at a
rustic account that was sent him for some
pew - repairs in church : he says he read
it first, 'the Eight Hon. the Lord Renders,
L. S. D.," and then he saw that the
letters were supposed to be over a little seventeen
and fourpence at the bottom of the
page.'

*And did you remember that those were
my initials ? '

I think so ; I forget if it was his lordship
or I that recollected them.'

Oh ! I'm afraid it must have been his
lordship, for, if you forget that already, you
could hardly be likely to remember my
name.'

\ One would think so. And I always find
the annals of great men so dull.'

A pause ; then he said rather weakly, ' Yes ;
I used to be called " Dibs " at Eton, just because
of those unlucky initials.'

'"Dibs?"'

Yes ; it sounds nice when you say it ; it
means the needful, you know

'The needful Dibs

No, not exactly that ; money — V argent i '
(in a desperate effort to explain, conceiving
that a girl who did not understand slang must
be either a foreigner or a fool !)

Et c'est hen voice petit nom cela — '^ de
V argent''

Eh ! I beg your pardon ? '

I thought you wanted to talk French.'

No ; not at all. I say. Miss de Stair,
you're rather hard on a chap ; you won't say
a good word to Mrs. Lupton about the body-snatching
business,' —

Is that your English slang for my beautiful
Antigone picture ? '

Oh ! I never open my mouth but I put
my foot in it, as somebody said; I'm very
sorry. And you're laughing at me in your
sleeve all the time.'

Not in my sleeve, I think.'

Well ! just as you like. I'd rather be

laughed at by you than praised by any one
else in the world.'

You mean, it's such a good compliment ? '

I mean that I never was so far gone — I
mean — Miss de Stair, don't be angry, but will
you let me speak to you ? '

I am here and I listen.'

But that's a formidable way of listening ;
and what I want to say cannot be said when
you are formidable.'

I am as God made me, Mr. Denham.'
'And you are the most perfect work of

God; that is part of what I want to
say

'Then you had better not say anything
more : I was reverent but you blaspheme.'

He got up as if he would come quite close tome
: I got up too — ' Yes,' I added ; ' I suppose
we must go upstairs now.'

soh! no— no.'

But naturally I was inexorable, 'pour des
raisons; — among which the chief was that Aunt
Ethelinda's ten minutes were up. I had watched
the clock tick out those foolish moments.

So I marched my recalcitrant swain upstairs,
where the snap-dragon was alight.

Elsie, is that flirting ? It is very like the
nonsense we used to rehearse at Brussels, which
we imagined would seem so intoxicating and so
delicious. But when it came to pass, it did not
amuse me. No pulse quickened : my heart never
beat more evenly. No, it is not flirting ; it is a
concession to flirting. And the distinction is all.

Aunt Ethelinda flirts : I mean she really
does enjoy the insincere emotion : I wish you
could have seen her when I brought Mr.
Denham in. I entered first and there was nota
symptom of a sneeze about her : but as he
followed me in she made the prettiest moue
conceivable, and held up the tiniest handkerchief
with a sneeze like a little cry.

Say " bless you ! " ' she called out, * for I
quite believe I'm dying.'

I'm rather proud of my Aunt Ethelinda,
despite that grim comment of yours : — ' I don't
like her at all.' I'm more than proud of her,
I'm fond of her : one must be, she is so engaging.
And I'm almost ashamed to sit writing all

this about her, while she lies there looking so
pretty. So I won't describe the way she flirted
with 'Launce.' — glance, my dog as Shakespeare
says ! ' that was one of her sweet
nothings — the quotation is surely not quite
correct ? I must ask Mrs. Lupton : the other
day she said to me, * I shall keep a notebook
for Lady Grenvers' quotations ; she's the
typical scholiast.' The pity of it all was that
her flirtation was thrown away on Mr. Denham
not that she could perceive that, her rosy
spectacles are always turned within. But* soit
was. He became silent and shy : only he
managed to say something of what he came to
say before he went. He managed to say how
much luckier he was than most second sons :
he has inherited his mothers fortune, as, I
think, I told you (she was a brewer's
daughter). He said he had everything but a
home and a wife, and he should have to go to
some ' Universal Provider ' for both, for his
life would never be made until he had them.
It never occurred to her ladyship that the wife
in perspective was intended to be me : I fancy

she forgot she was married and made certain
he was going to propose to her ! And she
looked so charmingly embarrassed that I almost
thought so myself, and began to wonder what
combination ' she would devise for her bridesmaids'
dresses. Recovering myself, however,
I appropriately introduced the subject of Venus,
not matrimonial but pictorial ; and he had
then to hear all her qualms about tomorrow
evening. Thereupon tea was brought, and very
soon it was pitch dark, and he had to make
the best of his way home.

It was quite touching,' said my Aunt
Ethelinda, 'the way he spoke of his empty
life. Val, dear, you know I'm rather younger
than your dear mother was, but I want you to
tell me how old you honestly think I look.'
When I said I thought she both looked and
seemed a good deal younger than I was, I am
quite sure she ceased to wonder that Mr.
Denham found his life empty !

What do you think, Elsie ?

Well,' you reply drily, ' what do you ? '

I, what do I think ? Let us strike the last

chord of our grand air, for our heaxi seigneur
having apprised us of the state of his dissections
and the resources of his pocket, is departed.
Let us change the key for the cahaletta — et
puis, cantons !

I think of nothing, nothing ; I love — I am
loved. One does not think of these things,
dear ; one feels and is them : but one thinks
of nothing else. He was here this morning
but I could not see him. Do you fancy it was
Aunt Ethelinda that detained me? No. I
knew when he came into the house, I knew
when he left it. But to be near him, that I
could not venture. I went away and hid
myself. Do I not want to see him ? No.
Do I not miss him ? No. He is here always.
Yesterday he said that he wished to be with
me alone. Perhaps a man has more courage
than a woman. I, for my part, can hardly
conceive that wish. It may happen that we
shall be alone and a word be said. Heaven
happens; but after death. It seems to me that
only through the grave and gate of death shall
we be able to speak face to face . . . and — ah !
VOL. I. 16

beloved ! — if to be alive is still to be apart,
were not mutual death far better ?

Fool ! my mouth smiles and my eyes
twitch with tears ; Aunt Ethelinda is singularly
silent ; I wonder if she is reading my
secret through these grimaces she must so
despise. Not she ! I must ring for Stephanie.
Aunt Ethelinda has fallen fast asleep. *To
bed ! to bed ! ' — Your belated

Val.

QUEEN VENUS

A CONFLICT between dazzling daylight and
winter cold ! But the daylight, because it is
Mrs. Lupton's daylight, wins its way. Nothing
stands against Mrs Lupton — not even the
bishop or the dowagers have prevailed to
abate one jot or tittle of her programme : how
then should a mere December night suffice to
counteract the weather she ordains? Frost
may do its worst ; it shall not freeze one of
her smiles. If man is master of the elements
at all, how much more woman !

Rain, at least, does not dare to fall : ' Well,'
says Mrs. Lupton, looking disparagingly at the
weather, ' at least it has the decency to be dry.'
She has, moreover, a glance of patronage for the

moon, as who should say, ' If I had had the
making of you, your light should have been
brighter and warmer ; but as I must put up
with your chill pallor, try and do your best

The look of the house is enough to take the
edge off the frost for miles round ; it twinkles
like a storehouse of stars : all about and beyond
it there are lights and echoes : indoors it is a
serene temple, wherein, if frost be dreamed of
at all, it is only as a handy refrigerator for
exhausted air.

The great drawing-room is the auditorium,
the lesser one fortunately communicating with
the huge inner hall which is the playroom of
the actors. Thus the guests are shown to
their places directly from the vestibule, and are
made sensible at once of the contrast between
art and nature, which it is Mrs. Lupton's mission
to elucidate.

The room has had to be emptied of most
furniture but gilt chairs — all silken-cushioned
still Mrs. Lupton has contrived that it
should not seem stripped. The walls are
covered with pictures and art treasures : each

panel is a joy to the eyes from its adornments
native and adventitious. There is a profusion
of flowers, an abundance of light. Above and
beyond all, there is that indescribable sense of
luxury and calm which is only to be found to
perfection in a feminine menage. In such a
room, so soft, so steeped in comfort, so pervading
petted, as it were, one can only conceive
of shooting-boots as admitted for a monstrosity.
One says directly : If you found a bull-dog
here, it would be a caprice : the place is the
antithesis of a kennel. If you found a man
here — he would be a lover, not a husband.
Sampson must lay aside his locks and Mars
his spear — viilgb, you must have your hair cut
and put up your gun, before you are at home
in Mrs. Lupton's drawing-room. It is the
jewel-case of that gem of various facets, Mrs.
Lupton's self.

This Paris diamond contrives to flash upon
her guests before assuming her evening garniture.
She wears a dress which seems to man's
eye a marvel of intricacy and adjustment. It
is only the skilled vision of her own sex that

can qualify them to assert — ' Charlotte's gown,
elaborate as it looks, can be whipped off in a
second : five hooks underneath those bows —
and there you are ! ' a shibboleth which signifies
in this conjuncture that ' there ' would
Mrs. Lupton be found in the sea-green robe of
Pandora. It is a quick-change costume.

She is surrounded by the troop she barefacedly
designates as her * little lovers,' and
they form a pretty numerous bodyguard. The
most ill-natured of the dowagers cannot but
admit that the reception you get from subservient
swains is far more encouraging than
that of an united family. Old Lady Carmine
thinks, with an envious sigh, of her cross-grained
sons and daughters, who stand stiffly
about her, when she receives, and stare at her
guests as if they were their natural foes, without
putting themselves out otherwise than to
pass each other an audible remark of unpalatable
and unvarnished criticism. Mrs. Lupton's
bodyguards are all on duty: they find Lady
Carmine a seat ; they bring her a programme ;
they are like well-drilled servants whose reputation

is at stake, and they do not trust
each other enough — at this early stage in the
evening — even to whisper a comment upon
her flagrant and unhinged peruke. The three
young men who have some claim to being
called individually Mrs. Lupton's second selves
by reason of their doing for her what
musical, artistic, and literary product she
publishes — are adorned with stewards' badges,
which bear a classic device upon a knot of
oriental embroidery.

One of my Turkish chair-backs, wither bit
of silver trimming, from a gown Ethelinda had
the face to wear as Helen of Troy — the
Renaissance Helen or Helen of the middle age
has made them all new men,' says Mrs.
Lupton in confidence to Lord Mountravers.

But it is not to Lord Mountravers alone
that Mrs. Lupton makes her confidences ; she
has a word for the private ear of each fresh
comer. How she avoids a series of imbrogli
that is known only to herself ; but nothing
unpleasant ever seems to transpire from her
trenchant sarcasms. Perhaps it is because

they are either utterly harmless or too desperate
to be lightly repeated. Anyway she
has a knack of establishing little secret understandings
with every one ; which she accomplishes
to such an extent that to watch her
from her vantage-post near the door reviewing
the gradually assembled lines of spectators —
all in her confidence — is as good as a play.
By nine o'clock the room is full, and the
strains of the Netherfield band are audible
from an outside corridor. There is music
from London for the dancing, which is to
follow the performance, but the band is engaged
as a concession to the county. If no
one attends to the overture it plays, it serves,
at least, to mellow the conversation, which
falls into a ceaseless ripple of accompaniment.
Light, wakefulness, music, a crowd; of these
elements there is composed a rising tide on
which Mrs. Lupton feels she may safely start
her venture : a fair sea and a prosperous wind!
To most of the actors who are privileged to
step forward on to the slight stage erected,
and peep between the curtains at the assembled

company, the scene is no novel one ; dress-coats
and bare shoulders, white ties and
diamonds — the cows cVceil is familiar enough.
But to John Lyne it is new. The respect
shown him by all the Netherfield workmen
employed behind the scenes easily secures him
opportunity of observation, for he is ready
enough to get away from the crowd of chattering
strangers who are laughing in the great
hall. He has ranged his men for the chorus
and he surveys the scene.

The tableaux themselves are not matter for
wonder to John ; he knows too well how each
effect is produced. He understands trades:
the lighting is' not a surprise to him, the
gauze is not a mystery ; but the world, of
which he has his first glimpse to-night, that
surprises and mystified him beyond measure.
Take some bright girl out of that crowd ; anyone
of those freshly-dressed, evenly-breathing
young creatures sitting by their mothers, with
expectant eyes. Mrs. Lupton's tableaux vivants
will be a marvel to her ; but the social gathering
of which she and her sister are atoms — it

is in no sense iiiiiisual to lier sight ; it just
divides itself into groups of more known or
less known people. John's point of view is
different. His corner is the auditorium, the
scene before him is the drama.

This wonderful machine — an audience — of
how many factors and of how much change is
it the product ! Ages of gradual assimilation
on innumerable foreign causes have suddenly
set before this stranger's eyes the marvellous
engine at work : society with the fuel of
excitement which it languidly consumes and
wastes. The mood of all these people is the
same. Over their countless varieties of disposition
there is spread, at this instant, a film
of one texture — expectation. John watches
them with a thought in his heart. Of these
she is : this is her sphere. But he cannot
reconcile her to her compeers enough to make
his heart ache.

As is customary with him, his wonder shows
itself in quietness and reserve. Of all the busy
folk behind the scenes you would say he was
the most impassive ; only his eyes are vigilant,

and they occupy themselves with what goes on
before them, as it were with trifles, before the
coming of her for whom he waits. When the
sign is given for music he goes up to the
singers by the small organ in the hall as the
first group of actors files on to the stage.

In a bedroom on the first floor Waldine,
whose single-figure picture comes too soon to
admit of her seeing the ' brazen serpent '
tableau, is being touched into artificial life by
the skilled hands of Stephanie. Lady Renders,
half undressed already for her important
rble^ is standing over her in a state of entire
agitation, which contrasts curiously with the
girl's apparent coolness. But, as John, below,
is waiting, so Waldine, above, is listening,
with strained nerves, for the ' token of the
presence of one alone. Suddenly she gives a
little start. His voice has reached her, on
the familiar melody. He is there — 'Dal tuo
stella soglio, Signor, ti volga a noi!' — Was
ever prayer more fervent ?

'Are you ready, Val?' says Mrs. Lupton's
voice at the door : ' you come next, you know.

I wish you could see them : they're all iu such
a state of nerves except the serpent and that
dear Mr. Lyne. Even the serpent trembles a
little, but it makes him glitter. Listen ! I
know Ethelinda aren't. Her very ears are
tense for the applause that Venus will get ;
but you can listen ! That is John Lyne's
voice, the tenor. There is something that
appeals to one in that voix comme of a
different quality to the rest. If one had an
instant to analyse that in now it might
be an impression. I'm afraid I'm very
wicked.'

The girl does not answer : she sits silent
while Stephanie reddens her parted lips : she
listens. What is a potential impression to Mrs.
Lupton is to her the voice of her heart that
sings : she sees the solitude of the Willow-garth
; she hears, above the sweetness of the
song, the words, ' I want to be with you
alone,' which the same voice has said to her.
Oh ! words of speech and song, whither — once
uttered — do you go *? Are not the souls of
you the myriad stars that make the milky

way of light in the dark heaven of forgetfulness?


Mrs. Lupton has turned to Lady Grenvers.
I do not appeal to you by the Lord Chamberlain,
Ethelinda,' she says tragically, ' because
we are emancipated here ; but I conjure you
by the wife and daughters of my favourite
bishop — all of whom I put up to-night, for
my sins — don't be too classical ! Temper
justice with mercy and let those rosebud-sprays
suggest a sleeve.'

I don't see why, Charlotte,' says Lady
Grenvers piteously, 'Mr. Collington said today,
at that rehearsal we had, that Aphrodite
was a Greek goddess, and my arm is statuesque.
Then who was it said that nothing was indelicate
except the nape of one's neck ? '

Some woman who had an ugly neck, I
should think,' says Mrs. Lupton laughing.

Whoever it was, she's an authority, and
no one will see the nape of mine ; but there's
no authority for armlets.'

Yes there is ; there's the bishop's.'

What does the bishop know about Venus ? '

Oh ! she comes into his diocese. — Now,
Val, that applause is the forerunner of your
doom.' And Mrs. Lupton carries Waldine
away from the perplexed but persistent Aphrodite,
carries her downstairs, and through a
mob of painted mummers who are all laughing
and wrangling as if to make confusion worse
confounded. Pallid Israelites are ' o^ivinof
wrinkles ' to the family of Noah ; the jingling
serpent is hustled away to make room for a
toy dove. Pretty Mrs. North is whispering
biblical jokes into the flushed ears of Launcelot
Denham — jokes which have been compiled with
considerable pains and a total absence of
reverence ; a band of musicians, nth hushed
snatches of sound, is essaying the Mendelssohn
accompaniments to the Antigone picture. It
is a scene of indescribable bustle — a kind of
kaleidoscopic nightmare of shifting figures
and properties. Miss Denham and John Lyne
are on the stage already, and Waldine is for
the moment the solitary classic figure amid
the oriental herd.

The streaks of paint, upon her mouth and

beneath her eyes, rather heighten than disguise
her radiant loveliness. There is a murmur of
approval, almost of applause, as she passes
through the crowd. But beyond the acknowledgment
of an impartial smile, she has
neither time nor wish to notice it. Mrs.
Lupton notices it, and her heart swells with
pride as she makes Waldine over to her
master of the ceremonies, and watches her step
on to the platform.

On the platform lies John Lyne, the accessories
about him far more complete th on
the day of rehearsal. His eyes meet Waldine's,
as she greets Miss Denham, who supports her
as Ismene. Then the business of their scene
commences at once with the music.

Strange as it may seem, the sensations of
the rehearsal are not repeated in Waldine's
consciousness ; her-pose is exquisitely graceful,
her expression absolutely appropriate.
But to-night her mind is filled with thoughts
too real and tender to suffer her to feel affected
by the mimic passion of the drama. She
hears with critical pleasure the applause that

her appearance excites ; but she feels that it
is not the verdict for which she waits. What
do they matter, all these people ? Does she
please the eyes that watch her under the dark
lashes of Polynices — eyes which can give her
courage to meet all others than themselves ?

When this tableau, which has to be repeated,
is over, she remains in the green-room
during the performance of the next, ' the
Dove's return to the Ark But John Lyne has
disappeared. He has gone to dress himself
again in his plain morning clothes.

For John Lyne has decided not to accept
Mrs. Lupton's invitation to supper. Uncertain
of his welcome, he has wisely thought better
to hazard no awkwardness that might occur.
He has made up his mind to see the tableaux
through, and then to leave before his absence
is observed, and to walk home.

*The Dove's return to the Ark,' — what
Waldine sees of it — is mainly noteworthy for
the amount of giggling it induces. No doubt
from the front the tableau is most edifying
and attractive ; but from Waldine's point of

view it is only wearisome and absurd. The
perpetual laugh wliicli the appellations Mrs.
Noah, Mrs. Shem, Mrs. Ham, Mrs. Japheth
never fail to cause, seems to her the acme of
fatuity. During the picture Beethoven's
Invocation to Hope ' is sung, which has the
effect of soothing her indignation to some
extent while she listens. She leans back on
a low seat just where the staircase descends
into the hall, and half aloud she says with a
tired sigh —

What a pack of fools we are ! ' It is the
utterance of aroused reality.

We are,' says Mrs. Lupton suavely — she is
gliding down in her Pandora dress looking
very pretty and very mysterious : — ' I took a
fancy to you from the first, Val, but I think
I love you now. They are fools : I *' answer
fools according to their folly" — that is, I try to
be a fool ; but my internal revolt at this
entertainment of my own planning convinces
me of wisdom. But you are not a fool, and
to you I can speak out the heart of the best
half of me.'

VOL. I. 17

What do you really like V says Waldine.

I like passion says Mrs. Lupton. ' I like
things violent and sincere : I like people to
have opinions and then to have the courage of
their opinions. I am a living protest against
all formality. Do you know that often I am
glad to hear of crimes ? People so seldom
assert themselves truly in good things — there
is always so much gauze about what is good —
that I take my moral pabulum in infamy.
Do you ever read books *? '

^ Sometimes — seldom — never says Yal,
amused and critical of self.

Exactly, never. That is, you read novels.
My dear, novels are all gauze and paint.
My tableaux vivants are not the least like
history. I wish I could explain to you ;
really I'm a good explanation, got up like this
as Pandora. Poor Pandora ! if she had been
wise she would have let Hope go and caught
firm hold of any one of the evils !'

Waldine smiled. ' Do you mean that it is
better to run risks than to be inactive V

I mean that and more : if there is a thing

before you to do, do it. Don't fritter yourself
away in debate. Murder your grandmother ;
don't spend a wasted lifetime in trying to makeup
to her. "You will get a rope round your
neck and you will go to hell V — soit ! At all
events you get something and you go somewhere.
You make a move. Why should you
think that you do better grudgingly to watch
and wear away a life you hate, and drift
into the same futurity by and by ? I often
think that the people who do things and die,
will flame out their punishment and go on
purified, but the inactive smoulder forever.'


Perhaps so.'

Burn, but don't smoulder,' says Mrs.
Lupton, getting quite serious, as her wont is,
at the most unexpected moments. 'Even a
little dancing flame like me makes some sort
of light and warmth about it. As for you,
you beautiful sculptor's dream, you're bound
to have a future.'

I wonder what it will be V

Don't wonder ; take the thing that comes

to your hand. I suppose what comes to you
first must be love.'

I suppose so.'

*" Suppose so!" was there ever such listlessness
in life ? You must come and stay
with me in London (though I always find the
country is the place for adventure) — between
us we will make a blaze. Meanwhile ? Ah !
meanwhile, I fear, there is nothing. — The idea
of Pandora and Antigone discussing what todo
with a nineteenth-century existence.'

To do good is better than to do harm
says Val absently; and makes a question of
the statement.

Mrs. Lupton reserves her opinion : — ' I am
told so,' she answers with caution ; ' I must
needs accept the statement. As an ultimate
truth it is incontrovertible of course. But I
can't let any one judge for me what is good
and what is bad. I have put very little of my
creed into form. To be alive and awake is
good, largely speaking ; to be dead and asleep
and idle — all that is bad. It is not what one
is for. There are separate laws and limits too.

Some fool told me all fungi were poison. I
ate one this afternoon ; I live and thrive.
Now, what if I had really wanted food? —
Imagine one's self on the verge of a passion —
should one wait and wonder ? No. Take the
plunge. If there is not infinite sea beyond it,
well ! there is firm dry land ! In either ease,
will you regret the dull, safe, pebbly shore ? '

*You would not have one do bad things
sooner than good ? '

No. Do all the good you can reach out
to do — all you know how to get at. But it is
very limited ; I find it so. I pass my life
finding the non-poisonous fungi — taking the
plunges and discovering the dry land — a little
refreshed from my bath ! Hardly should I be
sorry to find myself launched for ever. . . .
Space ! that is what one wants ; meanwhile
facts — facts only I I dream the infinite
dream, I read the Newgate Calendar.'

When one looks at life, how roomy it
seems ! '

Then you are in the right mood : to see
your empty day is the step before filling it.

That conviction came to me once in illness.
Other people are " convinced of sin " ; I was
convinced of inanity. I lay still and looked
at the immense and vacant dawn. So many
hours, so many minutes, so many seconds
whereof one is master — every second, minute,
hour capable of the pulsation of one's whole
self. Then I looked at routine — how it eats
one's day ! Habits, meals, formalities — unless
one protests one becomes a slave. And what
do they all mean ? something less than vanity
fatuity. So I made up my mind to be free,
to have varied days, a full life — to lay by
conventionalities and research, to take the
thing that comes to me and to be thankful.
"Good 'evil?" My dear, these things sort
themselves in the most unexpected way ; one
dares to make only wide rules. What is false
is wrong, what is natural is right.'

You are letting loose all the evils on me.
Pandora,' says Waldine with a sigh.

Touch them and they turn to good ; one
has a moral power over wrongs if one will
exert it ; remember I give you Hope. For

myself I keep nothing : I set Hope free : I
drift. As to my pursuits, they are not very
real : what is real is the impulse towards
them ; sometimes I feel convinced that only
impulses are real. What we call realisation is
false as my tableaux. My poor tableaux !
how far we have strayed away from them. —
Ah ! Mr. Denham, has " the Dove " returned
to "the Ark"? Val, we have missed the whole
picture. I shall never forgive you.'

I will go and see yours from the front,
says Waldine gravely. *

Mrs. Lupton's 'Pandora' is a very considerable
success. It has a cleverly-managed
background painted by the indefatigable Mr.
Collington, representing some of the evils
winging their way from the box, among them
a small illumined figure, the light from which
falls straight on Mrs. Lupton's hair. ' Mrs.
Lupton's hair,' by the way, is a crimped wig
which she has donned as a surprise to the
assembly, and which gives her somewhat the
aspect of the famous figure in Rossetti's picture.
The lucidity of the scene is heightened

by the curious music played meanwhile — some
fragments of Berlioz having been welded together
by Mrs. Lupton's 'musical self,' the
whole of it passing with the crowd for hers.
There is nothing less discriminating than a
gathering of the county.

But the interest of the evening culminates
in the contrasted pictures which represent
Charity.' As Mrs. Lupton comes down from
the stage steps, with the Pandora wig in her
hand and her little cropped head sleek and
alert above the sea-green robe, she is confronted
by the apparition of Lady Grenvers,
'ready,' as. she phrases it, 'for Venus.' Lady
Grenvers looks divinely lovely, in a costume
which resolves itself into roses slung together
upon gauze of the same tints as the prismatic
waves which the stage-carpenters are making
ready for her environment. For the moment
she is shrouded in a priceless plush cloak,
lined with pale pink satin, which covers her
from admiring eyes ; but the host of her
adorers who surround her obtain suggestions
of her beauty from one bare arm

which waves a fan incessantly before her.
Walling, in her severe Greek robe, is in
attendance, with her violin in hand. And
just as her ladyship's exquisitely-painted and
superlatively vain face is focusing all attention,
a group of shepherds is making their
way on to the platform for the Scriptural
tableau, and John Lyne's choir ordering itself
in preparation for the carol.

It strikes Mrs. Lupton as a very odd scene ;
she almost manages to get an ' Impression '
out of it. The travelling kings, the simple
shepherds, the homely band of singers eager
on their task, cutting so poor a figure beside
the beauty of one idle woman. 'Aphrodite
Ephemeris,' she murmurs.

They say genius is always nervous,' says
Lady Grenvers artlessly, — ' / am so nervous.'

You mustn't write a note this time, Ethel-inca,'
says Mrs. Lupton, patting her as if she
were a kitten : — * I'm dying to see you. We
shall all go to the front, every one of us except
poor Yal, who must play the cavatina here.
It will be a grand effect, Cecil — sunrise ; just

your lovely picture with the waves all sorts of
colours — then the curtains to open again and
Ethelinda among the roses and the foam.'

Poor little me, Launce says her ladyship,
appealing to Mr. Denham, who gazes at her
with infatuated eyes: — *I wonder if Mars
could swim.'

When the orientalis come trooping off
the stage, and the carol — which is sung from
half way up the stairs to sound more celestial —
is done, so great is the charm of Lady Renders'
most mysterious and fascinating dress,
and of the character she portrays, that all
but the choir (who go upon their way to be
regaled in the housekeeper's room) petition
Mrs. Lupton to find them a standpoint whence
they can view the picture. There is a space
between the stage and the curtains, and there
she packs them away at the wings, as it were,
of her theatre. Only Val, therefore, remains
in the great hall with her violin, the pianist
who accompanies her being in a recess beneath
the staircase. The girl stands forward a little
to be heard by the audience in front, and at a

given signal plays the first magical bars. She
knows that, at the same signal, her ladyship,
in all her unveiled loveliness, dawns upon the
spellbound gaze of the excited assembly. She
is the priestess of that revelation.

At that moment John Lyne, in his everyday
clothes, comes down the staircase — having
despatched his choir by a back way — wishing
to bid Mrs. Lupton his respectful good-night.

HEART TO HEART

She does not hear him or see him : her thought
is with him, though she knows it not, but her
mind is intent upon the glorious air she plays.
She stands in the great hall, a solitary white -
robed figure, her fair cheek resting on her
violin, her fair right arm curved to the bow :
she plays with her full strength, thrusting the
noble phrases out upon the silence — methodist
of the birth of Love.

He waits upon the stair, the velvet pile of
the thick carpet has given back no echo of his
footsteps, and it is a habit of his nature to
stand still. He looks and listens ; the passion
of the strain is borne into his heart. He is
entranced by her gestures of surpassing grace.

her music of surpassing beauty. There is no
life for him existent now, there is no future.
From her, for the sake of her dream, from
him, for her sake, the tide of things recedes,
the fashion of the world passes. They are a
strange token of the mystery which Lady
Grenvers is portraying, and it is strange to
think of the link between their live selves and
her mimic picture. The pulse of Waldine's
heart is the inspiration of her fervid hand, the
music from her hand the inspiration of the
scene. If John were to attract her attention
suddenly, if he were in any way to break the
spell that binds her, that interruption would
be communicated to a roomful of listening
critics.

It is not until a crescendo in the music
causes her to raise her face a little from the
violin that her eyes, slightly upturned, meet
his looking down upon her from the stairway.
It is a dangerous instant, but her nerves are so
tense that they support it firmly. A shade
more vigour, a shade more passion, by these
alone could any listener guess that the player's

mind was moved. But there is one bar of
Kaff^s cavatina sacred henceforward, to her.

Not only does the music not hinder her ;
it makes a wave on which she can launch a
little cockleshell of speech : * You are not
gone?' she says quickly and softly across the
sound.

No, I am here ; but I was going at once.'

'Why?'

For all sorts of reasons.'

The energy required by the next bar of the
cavatina excuses speech for a second. After
a rapid introspective glance, she speaks again :
What are they ? '

Although he is not plapng, he too speaks
with soft haste, ' Trifles.'

^ As, for instance ? '

That my father may be sitting up for me.
It is not late.'

That I am not dressed like the other men.'

It does not matter,' — a slight impatience
withal in the long broad strokes of the bow.'

That I should not be missed.'

No answer — only that additional crescendo

which is excuse enough for silence : she does
not look at him, but his eyes hold her. It is
his turn for questions now.

Do you wish me to stay V

No — only for a moment The qualifying
clause follows as if without her will ; and the
music rises to drown it : the accompaniment
swells louder and louder. The colours are being
changed in the lights thrown on the tableau.
Venus is rising from the parted waves.

I should like to see the last picture.*

'Why not?'

I thought it best to go : I will do what
you decide.

Stay the stroke of the bow, at the bar,
is so loud that it drowns the impulse in the
word ; but even to John Lyne it has a reckless
tone. Waldine's colour heightens and it seems
as if she played her speech to silence — golden
silence !

And she speaks no more, for at that moment
a thunder of applause from clapping hands
reaches their ears, and her music lapses into
a careless calm, for Love is born !

'Heavenly!' cries Miss Denham, rushing
from her vantage-point of observation at the
wings, — * Oh ! how you played. Dear Miss
de Stair, it gave the scene such dignity and
power !'

John Lyne turns to the left of the steps
which he has descended just as the rest of
the performers come off the stage, and Lady
Grenvers, trembling with excitement, is supported
into the hall by Mr. Collington.

'Brave Ethelinda,' says Mrs. Lupton,
emerging also, in a state of radiance combined
of satisfaction and sarcasm — ' have Ethelinda,
you best of Aphrodites, / do hope you have
not taken cold!'

Oh ! I feel just like Sarah Bernhardt,' says
Lady Grenvers, panting and disengaging herself
partially from the cloak in which Mr.
Collington is smothering her. — ' I was not the
least frightened en scene ; but now that it is allover,
my terror returns. Was I passable ?
Val, darling, I feel quite faint : I've a sort of
notion Stephanie always carries brandy in
one of my dressing-case bottles ; run upstairs

and see — if not she must get some ; tell her to
say it's for you. — Oh ! Charlotte, was I really
your dream f Poor, poor little Venus ! just
one " defenceless head," as the hymn says,
among all those horrid gauze veils. I wonder
how much of me showed.'

Nearly all, I think,' says Mrs. Lupton in
laughing reassurance.

That's right, and now it's over. No ! I
can't do it again : absolutely no ! It's quite
(Dreadful of you to have cast me (don't you say
*^ cast " me ? like something awful in * one's
eye) for two tableaux running. And I must
be coffee quite differently for Faith. Thank
you, Val — has she got the eau de Cologne f
then I will run upstairs, and you shall come
too.'

You must look your best, Waldine,' says
Mrs. Lupton ; ^ you have to be an incarnation
of her ethereal ladyship in this next picture.'

I don't think Miss de Stair needs to alter
her expression much,' says Mr. CoUington
softly.

'I will have no flirting, Cecil. This is
VOL. I. 18

business : we three poor women support this
scene, and we decline to be robbed of our
mental balance. The Netherfield band plays
during the interval — ten minutes ; you may
come and help me drape if you like. It would
be shocking, I suppose, to tell a man to dress
one, but it sounds merely artistic to ask him
to " drape the figure." As for Waldine ' —

But Waldine is gone with her aunt, who is
determined not to lose one of the precious ten
minutes. She has not heard Mrs. Lupton's
speech. John Lyne has heard it and it has
sounded to him false and coarse. He finds
his way to the wings of the stage, and waits
for the last picture. The Netherfield band
plays its * battle horse' — the overture to Tanna
The Netherfield band is not at its
best in Wagner's music. But it serves to set
the conversation of the audience free : it is
made up of two themes — Lady Grenvers'
Aphrodite, which is seen, and Miss de Stair's
Love,' which is yet to be. And for Miss de
Stair's Love John Lyne waits.

In a quarter of an hour the curtains part

and the tableau is shown. It is a mediaeval
triptych, Lady Grenvers being the central
figure. She is dressed in white, with golden
tresses which descend to her feet : she is without
the customary cross — in deference to the
bishop ; but her beautiful arms are folded
crosswise upon her bosom. To the left is
Mrs. Lupton in a gown of peculiar green,
her attitude most unconventional and striking.
She is kneeling ; only the outline of her keen
face visible to the assembly, as, with one hand
above her eyebrows, she looks away to some
sea-line depicted on the canvass. In the right-hand
panel, quite close to John Lyne, is
Waldine de Stair. The background of sea
and sky, against which Mrs. Lupton is posed,
is replaced, in her case, by a bower of roses —
the roses of Lady Grenvers' Aphrodite tableau
collected into a mass. Among these roses she
sits, apparently sleeping, with the flame-coloured
robe about her. Her arms are thrown
back behind her head and her hands clasped.
Through the intervening gauze she looks to
John like a waxen image warming into summer

life. Something of Albert Moore, something
of Dante Rossetti, is in this triple picture,
the three panels of which are divided by heavy
bands of gilt. Across the sky are the words,
Spes — Fides — Amor,' in fiery letters. Only
Lady Grenvers is standing, between the kneeling
Mrs. Lupton and the recumbent Waldine ;
it is therefore presumable that she will be the
most observed. And yet John's eyes are not
the only ones which are riveted upon the
sleeping beauty. That fruit-like quality of
Waldine's charm gives a sense of freshness,
perfume, and repose to the picture. It is the
roses that have the acting look, not the actress ;
she is simply natural perfection — Eve.

The band is playing the last act of ^ Faust,'
and continues to play it when the triptych is
veiled. In a few moments the curtains part
again and the changed picture is revealed.
The three figures are grouped upon a background
of cloud. Lady Grenvers and Mrs.
Lupton stand at Waldine's feet, and the girl
is in the act of giving them a wreath and
crown. The illuminated words upon a scroll

above are now ' Spes — Fides — Capital.' The
picture represents an apotheosis of celestial
love : the music is still the closing scene of
Faust Lady Grenvers stands with an expression
of calm on her countenance, which is
really only the rapt consciousness of its beauty.
Mrs. Lupton, by an impromptu stroke of genius,
has hidden her face in her hands : but Waldine
—motionless though she is— suggests still,
force, movement, power. Her eyes are turned
upon John Lyne, where he stands at the wings :
they seem to be searching into his very soul.
During the few seconds in which the picture
is shown some fillet of her wavy hair gives
way, and, of a sudden, a long tress falls down
about her shoulder and her waist. It is the
only misadventure of the whole performance,
and it happens at a moment of suspense when
the effect is magical, as if a waxwork breathed.
The entire assembly bursts into a veritable
tumult of applause, and as the curtains join
John sees his lady's lips part in a radiant
smile. His own mouth repeats the smile, but
as the picture is shut away from sight a sense

of chill creeps over him. Who sees the last
of that laughter which is out of reach for
him ? . . .

It is Mr. Launcelot Deiiham who sees the
last of that laughter. He has exchanged his
oriental garb for the evening suit that becomes
him better ; and, faultless in white
waistcoat, gloves, and flower, he hands Miss
de Stair down from the perilous pillar on
which she has been fastened. As he stands
below her for an instant, while she hesitates
upon her pedestal, he marks the warmth of
her smile, he notices her quickened breathing :
a young hope lightens in his heart that with
this elation of hers his presence may perhaps
have something to do.

Oh ! ' he says to her in boyish frankness,
you do look so jolly.'

" Jolie" I hope you mean,' says Val reprovingly
; ' I know you like to speak to mein
French, Monsieur de Sargent.' She does
not take his hand ; she scarcely touches his
arm in her swift descent to the floor. Her
nerves are so strung up with pleasure that she

seems to tread on air. She is full of love and
joy as a flower with perfume and dew. But
the love is not love of Mr. Launcelot Denham,
and the joy is not joy because of him.

They are going to dance almost directly
he says ; ^ the audience will be sent into the
ballroom, and the theatre is to be made the
supper-room : you will dance with me, won't
you?'

I don't know : I cannot dance in this costume,
can I, Mrs. Lupton ? and if I change I
shall keep Aunt Linda so late.'

Oh ! never mind me,' says Lady Grenvers,
with her favourite martyr air — she has every
intention of dancing herself, and has a brand
new ball-gown upstairs — ' but really, Yal, you
can perfectly well keep on that sacque if
Stephanie arranges it a little.'

'Anyway I must wash my face,' says
Waldine laughing, ' I feel like a clown.'

Horrid,' says Lady Grenvers stupidly :
she has not the smallest wish to wash hers ;
on the contrary, she will make it still more
artificially beautiful before she reappears.

of chill creeps over him. Who sees the last
of that laughter which is out of reach for
him? . . .

It is Mr. Launcelot Deiiham who sees the
last of that laughter. He has exchanged his
oriental garb for the evening suit that becomes
him better ; and, faultless in white
waistcoat, gloves, and flower, he hands Miss
de Stair down from the perilous pillar on
which she has been fastened. As he stands
below her for an instant, while she hesitates
upon her pedestal, he marks the warmth of
her smile, he notices her quickened breathing :
a young hope lightens in his heart that with
this elation of hers his presence may perhaps
have something to do.

Oh ! ' he says to her in boyish frankness,
you do look so jolly.'

" Jolie" I hope you mean,' says Yal reprovingly
; ^ I know you like to speak to mein
French, Monsieur de Sargent.' She does
not take his hand; she scarcely touches his
arm in her swift descent to the floor. Her
nerves are so strung up with pleasure that she

seems to tread on air. She is full of love and
joy as a flower with perfume and dew. But
the love is not love of Mr. Launcelot Denham,
and the joy is not joy because of him.

They are going to dance almost directly,'
he says ; ' the audience will be sent into the
ballroom, and the theatre is to be made the
supper-room : you will dance with me, won't
you?'

I don't know : I cannot dance in this costume,
can I, Mrs. Lupton ? and if I change I
shall keep Aunt Linda so late.'

^ Oh ! never mind me,' says Lady Grenvers,
with her favourite martyr air — she has every
intention of dancing herself, and has a brand
new ball-gown upstairs — ^ but really, Yal, you
can perfectly well keep on that sacque if
Stephanie arranges it a little.'

'Anyway I must wash my face,' says
Waldine laughing, ' I feel like a clown.'

'Horrid,' says Lady Grenvers stupidly:
she has not the smallest wish to wash hers ;
on the contrary, she will make it still more
artificially beautiful before she reappears.

Melos, and indeed her milk-white throat and
cream - smooth arms have something of the
character of marble. But as far as dress can
aid her appearance, this robe of Mrs. Lupton's
choosing aids it. For some moments she
contemplates her beauty; if she thinks of it
at all it is without vanity, as recognising that
the daylight makes the colour of the dress
suit her better than she had thought it would
by day ; then ' this is very pleasant,' she says
to herself as she turns away. Ah ! Waldine,
what is pleasant ? Is it the gaiety of the
evening, or is it Love, which is all about you
to-night, like the flame-coloured dress — the
fiery robe of your soul ?

After a few seconds that restlessness to
which she is fast becoming accustomed takes
hold on her : 'It is impossible to wait for
Aunt Linda here,' she says aloud, ' impossible !'
She has reached the dressing-room through
Lady G-renvers' room — at present the innermost
shrine of the toilet ; but it has another
door which opens on to a corridor. As she
paces the room she incontinently flings open

this door, and finds that she is at the end of
the passage which gives upon a winding stair.
All the noise of voices that reaches her from
the distance echoes up the chief stairway to
the left, and she fancies that, should she
descend this little spiral flight, she can get
into the great hall again unnoticed somewhere
behind the organ : she has observed a curtain
there which, she knows, conceals the communication
between the front and back regions
of the house.

The spirit of the moment is upon* her
that spirit of adventure to which her
guarded life has hitherto always allowed her
to yield without mishap. Perhaps to-night
it is excited and intensified by her talk to
Mrs. Lupton. She passes lightly down the
staircase, and finds herself, as she surmised, on
the wrong side of the portiere which protects
the hall. She hesitates an instant before
raising the curtain ; she does not wish her
entrance to be observed, and the tide of the
assembly is evidently setting towards the
distant ballroom. Voices which sounded

quite loud and near almost directly become
remote and soft as the chatterers wend their
way to the dance. Neither footsteps nor
voices are obtrusively close now : this is her
opportunity — she raises her arm to push back
the hangings ; stay ! they stir and part ; between
their bullion fringes stands John Lyne.

There is no solitude like that of this corner
in a crowd. Every hand in Mrs. Lupton's
employ is busy with the transformation of
the theatre into a supper-room, every guest is
drifting with the dancing tide : these two are
quite alone — what do they want else ? such
old, old friends they seem, with faces daily
familiar to a friendship that is so like love.
The light is full upon her face as she glances
up into his, while he looms dark and tall into
the comparative twilight where she stands.
After one look upon her beauty, he drops the
curtains behind him. They are alone and they
are very young. Youth, loneliness, proximity :
is it a wonder that when they find words at all
they must speak plainly ?

This is the moment,' says John Lyne.

'Yes ; this is the moment.'

May I speak to you V

Oh yes ! if you will.'

They have not stirred : they are still a
yard apart : they do not approach each other
yet.

May I tell you that I love you V

Silence ; only a drooped white face, as if
some wave had struck it, salt and fresh.

Will you tell me that you love me ? '

She recovers herself a little, for that same
wave has nerved her, and her cheek resides
its blush. — 'Oh!' she says softly, 'that is
what I want to tell you.' And then, speech
aiding speech — ' I don't know that I want you
to love me : I don't know that I want your
love: I only know one thing' — her voice
grows softer still, her lovely head is raised :
she speaks as if she spoke in a dream : — ' I
love you better than my life,' she says. . . .

Something in her rigid aspect strikes into
John's faithful heart a terror that she will fall
to the ground before him. His own love
needs no expression, hardly could he express

it ; it is all himself. When one draws the
fullest breath of life one does not say ' I
breathe.' The place where they are standing
is hot and close, he knows every turning of
the house ; in a second, ere she can reassure
him or conquer the spasm of heart that makes
her almost senseless, his arm is about her and
he has borne her through a swinging door into a
passage where the garden glimmers at the end.

The cool air that revives her helps his
beating heart to speech : ' I love you,' he says,
^ and I love you alone. You are making me
mad with your words and your beauty. Ah !
Waldine, Waldine — forgive me — one love of
all my life, is this nothing or is it all V

It is all,' she says in a whisper ; ' there is
nothing else.'

There is nothing else : it is dark and they
have left the world behind them : they are
come to the end of it : there is nothing before
them but deep blue heaven and white snowdrift
under moon and stars : they have got away
from life and limits, they are face to face with
space and eternity.

Nothing else ? Something else' which waits
a sign.

Under the blue cold heaven a little breeze
is wandering : it wavers round the open door,
it steals in like a spirit with a message in its
wings. It brings — what is the sign ; who
knows ? perhaps a shiver, perhaps a sigh — a
word that is not speech but breath. .

Wait, Aunt Ethelinda ! Wait, Mrs. Lupton !
Wait, dancing hours ! Wait, happy night ! —
Up and away for your work is done, little
whispering winter wind, at whose first caress
they are fast locked in each other's arms !

THE END OF BOOK II.

ILLINOIS LIBRARY

61 URBANA^^HAIViPAUsfil

STACKS

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost book.

Thefts mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

FEB i 7 1998

When renewing by phone, write new due date below

previous due date.

L162

WILLOW - Garth

t^ good

BY

WILLIAM M. Harding

AUTHOR OF "EUGENIA AND 'CLIFFORD GRAY

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. IL

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

Pxiblisfjtrs in ordinary to peer Majesty tfjc ©uffn


CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

BOOK THE Third

CONTENTS

IV. Little 'Foxes
V. The World Well Lost
VI. Waldine Writes .
Vn. A Farewell
VIII. The Flashed Recall .
IX. Fulfilment .

172
185
202
220
223
224

VOL. II. 19

WALDINE WRITES

CuRZON Street, December Zrd.

John —

Mon ami John ! — I have something of
the greatest importance to tell you. I must
say it at once : it will not be kept back. And
it matters so much. Presently I will tell you
all about everything else and all about the
least of things, me ; but first I must write you
the all-important news. It is this, John : * I
love you, — I love you, — I love you !'

And now I've written it, there seems
nothing more to say; for what else can
matter, what else is worth telling, in comparison
of this 1

I think of you ! ' that seems to come next

best ; I think of you in your home. Already
I have seen something in London that has
reminded me of you. I have looked out of
the window : it rains, and the pavement is
black with wet, and on the dark gloss there is
a bright shine of lamplight. John, when Mrs.
Lupton and I drove past your little house
there was just that light upon its windows.
The sunset glare, reflected on the blackness of
the window-glass, shone like a flame on coal.
When I look at the murky pavement here, and
the lamplight flares upon it, I shall think of
your home always.

Ah ! my love, when shall I not think of it,
when not think of you ? Is there any other
subject of thought but this in all the world ?

You want to know about me : it seems
absurd, but I believe you do. John, what is
there that you want to know ? Invent it, I
will subscribe to it gladly ; but on my life I
can find nothing worth the telling. Have
you not invented me ? — I am so wholly
different to my old self that indeed I think
so I — well, then ! you can invent a story of my

days, and I — I will only say to you, — ' I love
you ! — it is true ! '

Your face follows me for ever : if I were dead
it would lead me from my grave. Have you not
lifted me up from darkness to light, Orpheus —
Orpheus — with your song of love ? While you
sing to me shall I ever cease to follow, ' as the
water follows the moon, silently, with fluid steps,
anywhere around the globe.' Sing on * Oh
singer, bashful and tender ! . . . I hear your call.'

Some of which is out of a book Mrs.
Lupton gave me to read in the train. Was
it not written of you ?

And now, for you are looking very impatient,
you face that draws my heart, I will try to
write you categorically what has befallen us.

Coming home from the tableaux, I attempted
to tell Aunt Linda something about you : John,
you cannot conceive how difficult it was todo
so. At first I think she fancied that I
was your messenger to her, for she only
said, '■ What a pity it is that I have been induced
to act ! ' But when I insisted on it that
you — how shall I say it \ — liked me, she was

very angry, and thought it * quite ridiculous.'
Then I said that I — ' liked ' — you, and she said
she did not wonder ; — that you were . . . no !
I will not tell you, for fear I should make you
vain ! Next she remembered that I had told
her you cared for me, and she left off praising
you and only said the affair was very odd
and very unfortunate, and that she must beg
of me not to distress her darling saint about
it. On this point she was so impressive that
I promised not to speak to his lordship till she
gave me leave : else certainly I should have
gone and waked him from his sleep to tell him.
What prevailed most with Aunt Linda
was her fatigue : by the time we reached
home she had, I really think, forgotten all I
had told her, and her ' good-night ' to me in
the hall was the farewell of a martyr at the
stake. ' It's over ! ' she said tragically, ' it's
done ; it will be in every paper tomorrow.
And now for rest.' For half an instant I
imagined she was speaking of us — (don't you
think those two wavy letters are the prettiest
in the whole alphabet ?) — I too thought ' It is

over ! it is done !' but I did not sleep — unless,
indeed, it is all a sleep and you the king of
dreams I . . .

In the morning Stephanie came to me with
two announcements. The first, that I was to
go to her ladyship before I went downstairs ;
the second, that his lordship was much less
well and you had driven over to Newton for
the doctor. I thought, at the moment, that
it was only a ruse to prevent our meeting ;
but I do not think so now. I think that
there is something almost divine in Aunt
Linda's foolishness — that it is just because she
does nothing and plans nothing that she
always gets her own way. She is like a
feather on the wind, but the wind blows fair
at the feather's will.

I went to her room at once : she was in bed,
with a hand-glass and a pile of notes by her
side. I think she looks at herself constantly,
while she writes them, in order to be quite
certain that she describes herself accurately in
each one of them. She was very serious about
Lord Grenvers — that sudden change to frost

had brought on agonies of neuralgia and he
could not bear to be spoken to. — John, if you
are ever ill I will talk to you till you are well or
dead, but I will not nurse you, and I will not let
any one else nurse you. This is 'par parentheses,
— About us (observe again the beauty of
the word !) she said no syllable. On the contrary,
she told me to go out for a walk. I
walked to our ash-tree, and somehow expected
to find it still golden. Its bareness made me
sad. You, the sight of whom would have caused
it to blossom like Aaron's rod, were away at
Newton. And for two hours I roamed the
woods in vain. It was icily cold and the day
was empty and dark. I came back to luncheon
so long ago, it seems, is it possible that it
was only yesterday ? — I was told that I must
lunch with her ladyship upstairs. To my
amazement, she was dressed and in the best of
spirits : I felt a wretch beside her, chilled and
lonely as I was. She jumped for joy when I
came into the room.

Oh ! here you are ! ' she said. ' Is not
Charlotte an angel ? Her tableaux have bored

her to such an extent that she's off to London
to-night for a fortnight's fun ; she sent to ask
me to come with her, but of course I can't
leave Grenvers, so — never say I'm not a good
aunt ! — I told her you would go instead, and
Stephanie is packing your things already

I said I did not want to go. She answered
that I must : she said his lordship cannot
bear the thought of any one being in the
house during these attacks, which often make
him cry aloud with pain. — ' I am such a
believer in Providence,' she profanely added,
that I recognise Charlotte's trip as providential.
And just think what would become of
us all if we flew in the face of Providence !'

She made such a clever little gesture of
flying, and looked so pretty, that I believe I
burst out laughing. A moment later I felt
inclined to cry, but she gave me no time.
We lunched in her boudoir — where you were
once — and all of a sudden, as if you were a
topic of every-day conversation, she touched
on you. She said, * As soon as ever my dear
saint is better, I shall speak to him about your

future and its advancement I wanted, now
I think of it, to say a thousand things, but I
could not. It seemed irreverent : I did not
even thank her. I cannot tell indeed if she
be thankworthy or not.

And all the rest of the afternoon I was in such
a whirl that I scarcely recollect what happened.
Mrs. Lupton arrived at half-past three, and was
with Aunt Linda while I got ready. AVe left
Netherfield by the 4.40 train, and were established
and at dinner here by a quarter-past nine.
John, you have never been to London, have
you ? I thought not ; it is such a dreary place.
It is entirely empty — empty as the grave —
because you are not here. It is quite cold
and quite dark, whereas at Whiteknyghts it is
sunshine and summer — sunshine and summer
for ever ; — until you come up to see me here,
and then Whiteknyghts will be cold and dark
and the sunshine and summer will be here,
. . because of yoii.

This house is charming : I never imagined
that a townhouse could be so pretty ; it is
warm as a nest ; even the staircase is as full

of ornaments as Aunt Linda's boudoir. And
there are Netherfield flowers in every room.
I feel as if I were an enchanted princess.
But I want to be free from my bondage : I
am tired out already of the fairy palace.

. . Ah ! my love, my love ! how is it
with you in the house with the sunlit windows
the house which I have never entered
and which you have never left ? Have you
any memory there of me, who love you so, to
bear you company? You have your books,
your songs, your pursuits. Do they leave
you any moment for the remembrance of me ?
In your full days is there dwelling-room for
my poor intrusive ghost ? Answer me ; for
indeed I have no other home than in your
heart. Do you know, in any way, the possession
of me that you have taken? Do you
know that I want to make all claims upon you,
to tell you everything, to have you wholly
mine ? That is a little bit of what I wish,
and the rest of it . ah ! the sweet rest ! —

'And the rest' I cannot tell you to-day,
because Mrs. Lupton is calling me. She is

great at organising things, and she has a
bachelor friend in town whom she has driven
in a hansom to see. He appears to have been
at home, and they have made a plan for
to-night into which I perforce enter — I who
should like to sit here all the evening and
think of you.

For I am happy, have no fear ! something
you said to me that night was wrong : ' You
will want riches, pleasures, friends.' John, I
am not like that. I want nothing but you.
After all, were you wrong ? will you not be
all in all to me, your joys my riches, your
tastes my pleasures, your thoughts my friends ?
. . Ah ! yes, at least let your thoughts
befriend me. — Sans adieu,

Waldine de Stair.

And the beginning and the end is this :

I love you.'

IN CURZON STREET

Waldine's letter, although as a recital inadequate,
tells sufficiently well what befell
her as a sequel to the little wind's suggestion,
Mrs. Lupton proving the deus ex machine of
that Providence which Lady Grenvers flattered
with her trust.

Her ladyship, for all her naivete, had
sufficient wit to see that she had thrown her
niece overmuch into the company of a man
who could not remain unmoved by her beauty :
unable at the moment to betake herself to her
husband's counsel, she had appealed to her
neighbour's, but, with an instinct against Mrs.
Lupton's sarcasm, she had not told that lady
even as much as she suspected of Waldine's

tocquade, whereas Mrs. Lupton imagined
that more was made of the affair than need
be. She was interested and amused, though
she was not in the least serious. But she had
taken a fancy to Yal, and she was good-natured
enough to hurry her departure to get the girl
out of Lord Grenvers' way during the period
of his pain. It was his pain which had most
weight with her. Moreover, she liked sudden
flights and impromptu plans. The flights had
a mysterious air, which gave her a reputation
for Bohemianism in the county. She made
them alone, sometimes, just for the sake of the
talk and stir that they caused. Curzon Street
was always ready and there was generally something
at the theatres ; it was good for the few
servants she left in London to be taken by
surprise — the larger staff* at Netherfield would
be occupied in setting the rooms to rights after
their disarrangement ; — Mr. CoUington and the
other ' second selves ' could do the honours to
her departing guests, whom also it was no small
joy to mystify ; and she could see one or two
newspaper men in London to describe her

classic and oriental pictures ' to them byword
of mouth, which might or might not add
colour to their reports.

In the meantime she said nothing to Waldine
about John Lyne. Mrs. Lupton was a
woman of her word, and she had promised
Lady Grenvers not to enter on the topic. In
her heart of hearts she was rather intrigues
and would incline to foster this fancy and not to
crush it ; she was not unaware of the fostering
effect of silence while she kept silence. Silence
was in her bond, but that the silence should
signify approval or disapproval had not been
stated.

Who is it,' she had said to Waldine in
the train, ' who says that love " keeps out the
cold better than a cloak, it serves for food and
raiment ? " Longfellow, I think. Yes. It is
not particularly well said, and if I were a
fashionable woman I should laugh at it ; but
I incline to think it is true' — a remark which,
made concerning Lord and Lady Grenvers,
had taken a different channel in the girl's
thought, and occupied her mind and heart fora

considerable part of the journey. She also
thought it true.

Something of that fruit-like quality, distinguished
in relation of her beauty, there was
in Waldine's soul, if one might so distinguish
it. She had a healthy soul, not a morbid or
starved soul ; but its very ripeness was its
danger. The touch that impressed it bruised
it. It was like a peach without a stone.
Mrs. Lupton had the soul of a walnut,
riddled and wrinkled with impressions which
only went towards its hardening and its
flavour ; while Lady Grenvers' soul (very deep
down indeed) was like the pip of a pear.
With Waldine as yet, perhaps always a little,
soul and body were indiscriminate and interchangeable.
Touch with her meant thought,
and utterance followed hard on impulse.
Hardly could she feel things mentally which
did not reach her through the body — contrariwise
when her mind was moved the body
flushed or shivered. Love had reached her
through the senses, not through the convictions
; but the senses influenced her thoughts

till they were mere strings of Love's lute.
The hours which immediately succeeded John
Lyne's first kiss — whether waking or sleeping
hours — were literally love-laden ; the animation
of her mind was suspended and her every
movement listless and relaxed. Body and
soul became twin servitors of sense.

And when she had, to some extent, recovered
tone, she found she was a different
woman. New sympathies were awakened in
her, not finer alone, but wider of scope than
the old ones, and they were all at present
under the dominion of the one absorbing
interest. The love of this girl became at
once not only a full-grown passion, but her
entire self. What was done with her she did
not greatly care. They might take her away
to London or elsewhere ; she had never been
hardly used, and she could not understand
disappointment or deprivation ; she had found
and appropriated a new life wholly hers ; she
had no misgivings. No doubt it was partly
youth that made her take things so easily and
so contentedly pursue the inexpedient. She

VOL. II. 20

was unconscious, to some degree, of the way
of the world ; she was sufficiently conscious of
it to take a pleasure in defying it — that was
all. To write expansively and glory in sending
the letter fully signed — this was the first
result of the new influences. Had she stopped
to analyse her mental condition, as at other
times she was fond of doing, she might have
made the discovery that she went near to
rejoicing at the separation which gave her an
opportunity of writing so fully and so decisively.
But at this extreme of sensation
she analysed nothing ; she only acted or was
inactive as her new self moved her. Mrs.
Lupton, who, to her own never-ending regret,
always had her emotions thoroughly in
hand however much she pretended to let
them go, could not have understood Waldine's
state had its manifestations been evident.
If she could have understood it she would
not have rested till she had tried to attain
to it and broken her heart at finding it
eternally elusive to such a nature as hers.
Thus, with the best or the worst of intentions,

she could never prove a thorough friend
to Val.

But at least she could amuse her. London
to Mrs. Lupton, at all events out of the season,
was not the treadmill of routine. It was a
Pandora's box, perhaps of evils, certainly of
pleasures, out of which she caught the flying
moments without saying ' stay ' to any one of
them. To have an immense fund of occupations
for choice, and then, often enough, to
choose none of them but something entirely
different, was Mrs. Lupton's notion of the
freedom of will in London or Paris. She
could not behave thus to the limited and
formal county engagements, with which her
Netherfield sojourn was starred.

Something for every half-hour of the day,'
she often said, ' I like to feel that, in the mornings
: I like to have my little '* scheme " that
proves to me that there is no moment from
morning to night when somebody does not particularly
wish to see me. And then I like for
some one to come in — perhaps a stranger, perhaps
an old friend (I think preferably a stranger)

with something that is scarcely a plan to
propose — a stroll in Kensington Gardens, a
visit to a studio — some one with just the
influence of the moment upon him' — (Mrs.
Lupton was great upon the influence of the
moment) — 'How gladly one throws over all
the scheme, lightens the ship of all the ballast
and then, vogue la galere ! ce que c'est que
cC^ti^efemme !'

'But suppose it is not "him?' an impertinent
friend would argue, with more
common sense than grammar — ' suppose it is
some tiresome bore from the country or some
exacting dressmaker, who puts out your day.
The sacrifice of your little " scheme " is not so
charming then, is it ?'

Oh, " suppose and suppose." . . . My dear,
one is a conscious actress, not a puppet. And
besides, even then, you have the satisfaction of
disappointing the people who expect you. That
is always delightful, — with the one drawback
that you don't see it. But it is at least pleasure
enough to give zest to your unpremeditated
hours. Then there is the deeper question.

which torments me for ever. Are not the bore
and the dressmaker a pleasure ? No : I dort
mean "mayn't they be more endurable than one
anticipated ? " I mean something more recondite
— something 'quite horridly blue," as poor
Ethelinda Grenvers says. I mean, Are not
'being bored'' and "being^tortured"pfea57i7^e5f
are not vexations and disappointments
pleasures ? And not only because of one's
sense of martyrdom, but just simply because
they call on one's nerves in an unexpected
way. Are not grief and pain pleasures ? — it
is just a system of nomenclature — would not
one far sooner lose one's palate for sweets and
one's taste for pretty things than lose great
griefs, great loves, great agonies out of one's
life ? The proof ? — the proof is this : the things
we seek, the things after which we greatly strive,
are they not more akin to loss and death than
to amusement? With all my fondness for bonbons
and theatres, I have got more pleasure out
of a passionate and unrequited love or a cold
midnight vigil by a sick friend — consciously
tasted more nervous satisfaction — than out of

the finest play ever written or the divinest
dishes ever seasoned — d propos of which these
chocolate are something new, bitter not sweet,
you will like them.'

Had Mrs Lupton held forth in this strain to
Waldine de Stair, the girl, full to the brim of a
joy which was mere delight, would have replied,
But you would not call giving pain a pleasure?
surely this pleasure is only a poor spurious sort
of pleasure maugre the pain it gives ? '

Whereto finally Mrs. Lupton would have
replied, 'My dear Yal, one talks lightly and
glibly about giving pain and giving pleasure
what does one know? What does one
predicate ? it is all a habit of speech. One can
only accept intentions. A man gives me a
dog for a plaything : I hate pet dogs, and this
one bites me. But if I could nurse the same
man through an illness I should experience
great pleasure. I may be odd in expressing
myself so frankly. If I were to say I would
rather have opportunities of doing good thana
kingdom, you would approve me, though you
might think me a prig. But when I say I had

far rather a friend of mine had a fever than
that he should give me a lap-dog, you look as
if I blasphemed. But it is all one : — I have
seen pious women rejoice over what they calla
reclaimed sheep, and I have seen them weep
over an unregenerate death-bed ; and I know
perfectly well that the death-bed has been the
more real pleasure. Small blame to them ; it
excites one more.'

And thus, after reducing all pleasure to excitement
and eliminating all tenderness from life,
Mrs. Lupton would plume herself on being the
one woman in London who had the courage of her
opinions. She was, moreover, at this juncture,
the one woman in London whose companionship
was likely to be poison to Waldine de Stair.

For companions they became, although
Waldine, partly from Mrs. Lupton 's effusiveness,
never had any inclination to make a
confidante of her with respect to John Lyne.
It was not fear of her hostess that prevented
her, so much as reverence for her own deep
feeling which she did not now confide to her
most intimate correspondent in Brussels.

Moreover the days were full. Although
every one they met expressed surprise at seeing
Mrs. Lupton, the number of surprised people
was so considerable that it was obvious they
were not quite unfashionable in their locale.
They breakfasted late, and from twelve to two
they drove hither and thither to shops and
picture-galleries — the latter being the usual
trysting-place for some one or other of Mrs.
Lup ton's artistic swains. To Waldine, with
her keen love of colour, it was an infant, after
an hour of tedious shopping, to sit quietly in
Whistler's brown and yellow gallery and listen
to the soft undercurrent of criticism, not unmixed
with scandal, upon which Mrs. Lupton
loved to set her fancies afloat. Then after
luncheon in Curzon Street or, with other birds
of passage, at hotels or great houses half shut
up, where some cosy nook had been brightened
for the hostess in her flying visit, they would
drive out again to studios or teas less formal
than the season's, where there was whatever
music might be available of the best. Then
there were dinners, not too late for the theatres

to which they never went alone ; and occasionally
evenings when they dined out or had friends
with them, generally all going on together to
some large party, artistic and musical, which
would bring them well into the following
morning.

A year before, the girl would have enjoyed
the varied monotony of this pleasant London
life with avidity; but now it seemed to her
not to be stirring, at all, or anything more than
faintly amusing. She had been so deeply
moved that for some weeks she would be able
to take part in the pageant of this existence
without its impressing or fatiguing her in the
least. And this listlessness gave her beauty a
strange charm in contrast to Mrs. Lupton's
brightness and insouciance of quite a different
order. Val's listlessness was not impertinence
like Mrs. Lupton's — it was merely a phase
of preoccupation. In the cold nervous weather
her clear warm pallor and shining serious eyes
were provokingly attractive. And she was
never sad enough to be dull. The wine of
life which those first kisses had poured into

her veins, intoxicated her still. She was seldom
at a loss for an answer, though she was very
often inattentive. If the thought of John
became too much for silence, she wrote to him.

One evening, when they had been dining at
the Bachelors' Club and were just crossing the
long landing before descending to their carriage,
they encountered Mr. Launcelot Denham :
one of the two young men who were their
hosts and who were going on with them to
the French plays, was a cousin of his, and it
was his familiar greeting on the stairs which
made Waldine turn those serious eyes of hers
in Mr. Denham's direction.

Oh Launce ! ' said Mrs. Lupton, who was
never surprised, 'are you a "bachelor"? Look,
I have put my hook into your cousin's nose :
you must come with us and protect him.'

Come where ? ' said the Hon. Launcelot,
stifling an unholy aspiration for Opera Bouche.

To the French plays. I'm sure you'll like
them, — they're very improper.'

But I shan't understand them, and I
haven't got a stall.'

I will explain them as far as my comprehension
serves, and you can draw on your
imagination for the rest. You can get a place
at the theatre and come and sit with us. If
you have your hansom you can take Lord
Lexford ; we had much rather be three in the
brougham than four, and you can have your
talk out there. Lex, dear, your room is really
better than your company on that small back
seat, — Helbert's legs are shorter.'

Mr. Denham, not yet wholly freed from that
heathenish hankering after comic songs and
dances, glanced at Waldine de Stair, while Mrs.
Lupton glibly arranged his transit.

Yes ! ' she said with a little smile, ^ come
with us. Monsieur de 1^ argent : you are so fond
of French, I remember.'

She was glad to see him : he was fresh
from Netherfield, and on the big light staircase
of the club he seemed to summon up a
country breeze — his bright hair, as he stood
before her with uncovered head, reminded her
of the autumn leaves at Whiteknyghts. She
felt to breathe the influences native to John

Lyne, beholding Launcelot Denham. ' Yes,
come with us she said, and, as if the persuasion
in her tone were not enough, she
smiled. Who can blame him that he read the
augury of her smile as kind ?

The French comedies proved rather dull,
but Mrs. Lupton's box was deep enough for
the party to converse unheard, and the Hon.
Launcelot ceased altogether to regret puns
and dances when his hostess bade him return
with them to Curzon Street for some supper
before he went back to his room in St. James'.
It was not often that Mrs. Lupton put herself
out so far as to offer supper even to her
'second selves,' but when she did it was of
the best, and a thing to be remembered.

It was during the evening only that she
bethought her of the invitation, but she managed
to scribble a line to her housekeeper, and
2fet it entrusted to a commissionaire. The
result was that when the brougham and hansom
reached Mayfair a charming little banquet
was prepared in the small front room where
she dined, out of the season. It was a luxurious

honbonniere of an apartment, fitted with plush
couches and hangings of a shade half copper
and half crimson — a kind of Indian red which
was equally becoming to her own pertness and
Waldine's beauty. There was a small round
table, lit by an elaborate hanging-lamp of
bronze and brass — from Mrs. Lupton's own
design (filtered out of Mr. Collington's pencil) —
the light from which, tempered by festoons of
brick dust silk, fell upon dishes of aspic and fruit
and the silver covers of hot soup and cutlets.
There were no flowers on the table, but a large
blue bowl of Christmas roses was, with a few
screens of peacocks' feathers, the only adornment
^of the broad chimney-piece, which, like
the rest of the furniture, was of white wood.

There was nothing vulgar in the aspect
of the little supper gleaming on the white
damask. Perfect of its kind, it was at the
same time absolutely unpretentious. It
looked like something to eat, not like something
to stare at or to smell. And the white
walls, the deep-toned hangings, the shaded
but untainted lights, as well as the delicate

fare, were admirable adjuncts to Mrs. Lupton's
prismatic toilette and Waldine's simple dress
of ivory silk. The two young lordlings —
Lexford and Helbert— felt themselves in favour,
while Denham was quite solemnised with
happiness. The sight of the piled-up mantles
on the sofa — Mrs. Lupton's furs and satisfied
velvet cloak, and Waldine's white wrappings
and long seal overcoat — filled the young
man's senses with a new strange pleasure. He
thought of Opera Bouffe without a sigh, he
thought of bachelor quarters and regretted
their discomfort. He was not of the order of
modern manhood which busies itself with the
decoration of its chambers.

'Your silence is quite tomh-y, Launce,'
said Mrs. Lupton as she unwound her fair
cropped head from its last lace scarf : — ' You
are a skeleton at my little feast — fleshy, but
still, to the philosophic eye, a skeleton.'

'Oh no r said the Hon. Launcelot rather
pointless, and the blank stupidity of his
answer told Mrs. Lupton something of what
was in his heart. She followed the direction

of his eyes, which rested upon Waldine's form
as she too put off the endless yards of lace
with which her cream - white throat was
swathed.

This is nicer than the theatre she said ina
soft full voice, as she came up to the fire.
The cold night had paled her face, but her
arms were like warm satin, from the protection
of the seal skin coat. They were so
beautiful and so expressive of her youth and
sex that Mr. Denham's face flushed as she
unloved them : he was very susceptible.

Do you never wear bracelets V he said.

Never,' said Waldine. * I hate trinkets, I
look at jewellers' shops and wonder who can
buy those cases full of rubbish in the windows.
If I had Mrs. Lupton's diamonds I might
wear them — 'pas autremenV

The Hon. Launcelot, who had in his breast-pocket
one of the said morocco cases, the
contents of which he had taken half the afternoon
to select at Street's for one of the
young ladies who nightly murdered her part
in the Opera Bouffe, was rather astonished at

this new departure. His notion had been
that all girls liked bangles and brooches.

You are so different to every one else,' he
said reflectively ; and though the remark was
ambiguous, the tone conveyed a compliment.

I am odd said Waldine, sitting down ina
chair of gilt carved wood with ornaments
and arms of the ruby plush : — ' Give me one
of those peacock screens : I don't want to be
ugly as well.'

She was so wholly careless of his feelings
that she did not in the least mind what opportunities
for pretty speeches she gave him, and
his feeling for her was too honest and too shy
for him to take full advantage of them. He
gave her the screen, with which she fanned
herself slowly. One little curl on her left
temple waved to and fro with the air it made :
he felt as if his senses came and went with
the sway of that little curl.

Make Lord Helbert come and give me his
opinion of my new mantelpiece in the hall,
Lex,' said Mrs. Lupton to Lord Lexford : — ' It
is not often one can secure the verdict of such

a judge before it is too late. And the thing
is only half done, so that if he suggests anything
I can introduce it.'

Tell me about Netherfield,' said Waldine,
when they were alone, still fanning herself
at the same pace, as she leaned back in her
chair.

*Lord Grenvers is awfully ill,' said Mr.
Denham sympathetically, stirring the bright
wood-fire with his foot, where he stood by the
hearth.

'That I know. He is like Mother Hubbard's
dog ! '

Her ladyship sees nobody except — but that
is scandal ! '

'What is scandal? my aunt is above all
scandal.'

Of course she is really : only I'm so jealous
because she won't see me, you know.'

"Whom does she see ?'

'Only that lucky fellow Lyne. The way
they spoil him is absurd.'

(No answer, and the pace of the waved
fan unchanged.) —

VOL. II. 21

'They treat him more like a son than a
bailiff: he is always with his lordship, and
she gives him tea in her boudoir. He's been
ill or something ' —

(The fan stops waving, but Val does not
speak : surely, where the want of the heart to
hear something is so intense, there can be no
need of questions.) —

'Got cold after Mrs. Lupton's tableaux,
walking home or some folly. And then pleurisy
but he's all right again now.'

(The fan begins waving afresh, more
slowly but in little nervous jerks.) —

Bad thing, pleurisy.'

'Is it?'

Father : carried off my poor mother —
awful loss to a chap that is, Miss de Stair.'

Waldine put down the fan. The expression
of her face was singularly wistful and gentle :
one would almost imagine tears behind the
long, dark lashes. Evidently, thought her devoted
swain, she is not quite indifferent to
what grieves or moves me.

He proceeded to improve the occasion.

Yes : I always feel that there's nothing to
make up for it at home now. There's only
one sort of thing that can console a fellow,
you know ' he hesitated.

'And that is?' said Waldine absently.

Supper said Mrs. Lupton, at this instant,
reappearing with Lords Lexford and Helbert.

AT WHITEKNYGHTS

Among the many surprises familiar to our
capricious England is that of an April day in
the latter half of December. Often after
three stern white frosts it breathes in dawn
over the land, half promise and half regret.
Do not forget me says past summer, looking
back ; ' I am coming,' says spring, looking
forward : it is like the kiss of both. Just
such a morning befell the country within a
week of Christmas, and became Whiteknyghts
bravely. It was as if nature stretched herself,
with thawed limbs, out of her winter sleep.
The breath of the day was like the breathing
of a warm creature over the slushy roads and
cold pools. The grass put off its white mantle

and showed in a great plain of wide untroubled
green where, every now and then, an elfin
shred of the sapless bracken looked like the
ghost of a robin. All sorts of unimagined
plants appeared in view amid relics of departed
autumn. Nature would turn to sleep
again under her whitening coverlet, the little
growing roots and the poor sodden relics
would disappear. This was just a moment of
youth in age, of maturity in innocence ; but
it was a moment irresistible in its charm.
The deed that suggested itself on such a
morning one would do, as it were under the
spell of a dream.

What suggested itself to John Lyne was to
superintend the ordering of part of a plantation,
which, being visible from his usual
sitting-room, was Lord Grenvers' peculiar
care. Fresh shrubs were being planted in
among too scattered trees, while crowded
undergrowth in other places was making way
for unguessed vistas of view. Landscape
gardening was not properly in John's province,
but he knew what Lord Grenvers

wished to see and what he wished to have
hidden, and his taste was as much to be
trusted as his discretion. Moreover there had
been a talk of sacrificing Miss de Stair s ash-tree,
which chanced to be parallel with a fine
oak from one point of observation, and this
ash-tree — which had become the most sacred
of the Whiteknyghts wood in his eyes — he
was resolved to spare. So there he was
among the labourers, on this fantastic winter
day which was as warm as summer, his brown
and white plaid coat thrown open over his
knitted waistcoat and his tan gaiters splashed
with earth and leaves. No companionship
and no costume could have brought out so
strikingly his conspicuous refinement of look.

This was, perhaps, intensified by the severe
illness through which he had passed, of which
Mr. Denham had made cursory mention to
Waldine at Mrs. Lupton's. John's difference
to his compeers was not one of aspect only, it
was unluckily one of constitution also, and on
the burning excitement of the tableaux and
their sequel his long walk homewards through

the icy night had induced a chill which had
attacked his hitherto uncovered lungs. For
some days he had been suffering from a cough,
which seemed to have left him wholly for the
first time to-day under the healing of the
balmy air. This morning he looked renewed
and refreshed, the better — not the worse — for
his illness. And it was pleasant to him to
inhale the rare soft breeze, just flavoured by
the smoke which rose thin and blue from a
smouldering heap of twigs and leaves where
the woodmen had made their fire. It is not
like labour, this easy outdoor work ; it is like
the native play of Adam's sons.

An exquisite laziness stole over John's limbs
at midday, when his subordinates were grouped
about their dinner — half it was the unwonted
weakness of returning health and half the
influences of the quiet day — a laziness careless
and buoyant. He turned from the still scene,
where axe and chopper were hushed for an
hour, and with a smile upon his lips strolled
in the direction of the beloved tree.

His eyes were cast down on the unveiled

land, which he was not, like most of his kind,
too stupid to observe. They rested happily
upon the ferns, the bits of dark brown brier
and the variegated ivy which he was glad to
see again after their white burial. These
grew at either side his way, but his immediate
footprints were on a track which was almost
worn into a path by now. It went — the least
bit out of his way home, be it confessed — to
Waldine's ash-tree, which with its twin stems
was more noticeable than before amid the
general leaflessness of the scene ; soon after,
joining a road which branched two ways — the
right-hand turn leading to John s home, the
left in the direction of Mrs. Lupton's forsaken
halls. Where the path joined the road there
was a stile, and when John Lyne reached this
stile it was just half-past twelve o'clock on
this December day. Netherfield church clock
was striking.

There was no hurry — John's dinner-hour
was one, but he was not tied to it because it
happened that both his parents were away.
They had not gone far, only down to Nether-field

to make their small preparations for the
Christmas season ; but, being both in years,
they would honour appreciative connections
in the town with their presence to dinner,
when the marketing was done, so as to get a
good rest and chat before John drove down to
fetch them at dusk. Thus he was obliged to
keep near home, having the key of the house
in his pocket, but free to choose his own
moment for the frugal meal that awaited him
there. And this moment was not now; the
stile — quite dry in the noonday sun — was too
tempting ; he climbed up and sat down, with
his pensive eyes still on the ash-tree and his
back to the road.

Presently he lit his pipe, and the touch of
his pocket-book to his hand, as he did so,
would have reminded him of Waldine if he
had ever forgotten her for a single instant.
He drew out her last letter and he read these
words from the close of it :

I am getting sorry that I told you not to
write : if I do not hear of you I shall begin to
think you are only a misty phantom of the

meadows : I shall cease to believe you real.
But that is not what I most fear. Indeed I
have no sort of fears that you are not true.
My fear is that I shall become unreal myself :
my fear is that I shall forget you. — In that case
what would become of me, what should I do T

He did not understand the cry of the heart
which spoke in those words. The effort
against evaporation under many-sided pressure
was an effort of which he had no experience.
For him to forget was impossible. He loved
deeply : he had striven against his love until
he had the certainty that it was an accepted
thing ; then he became one with it, the flame
of it the flame of his life. He was hers, she
was his. The first was easy, the second
difficult; but both were truths. 'Forget?'
he did not understand.

He sat and pondered, still as some woodland
creature in the crystal morning. With his russet
clothes, the rooks might have taken him for part
of the landscape, but for the little waft of smoke
from his pipe at steady intervals ; their sentinel
sat on a bough and watched him ; perhaps the

bird would have understood light love better.
To meet, to pair, to part. No; John would
never come to think that this was love.
Waldine's letters were marvels to him, sacred
marvels which were his dearest possession.
There was nothing that she said, in her fluent,
exuberant moods, which his heart did not echo
steadfastly ; he had got used to let her flute -
stops express the song of his heart, and the
piping which was her satisfaction taught his
love a tune ; but in this last movement of the
music he had no skill to join. *My fear is
that I shall become unreal myself.' Here was
perplexity indeed. What was the world doing %
he did not know.

So silent he was that a traveller might have
passed him by, and so absorbed in thought that
he did not hear a footstep which came softly
brushing through the hedgerow grass. Nearer
and nearer it came, light as the step of a girl who
nears her heart's desire. And when it stopped
close by him — suddenly and short — it was no
more than if the air drops, less than if a leaf
rustles.

Are you not real, Waldine che Stair ? ' he
said aloud in his grave and tender tone.

I am quite real, John.Lyne, and I am here,'
said an answering voice behind him.

It was she indeed ; her shadow almost fell
upon the letter in his hand. In a second he
had turned and faced her with that sort of
light in his whole look that mountains catch
at sunrise. She was standing on the grassy
edge of the road, half shy, half bold, an incarnation
of beauty and love. Her lips and eyes
were like jewels in the softness of her fair and
wind-fanned face.

Why don't you speak to me ?' she said at
last, laughing softly for joy.

For although he said no word to her as yet,
there was no doubt of his welcome. . . . How
kind and liberal was this winter day ! were
there ever any two hearts so utterly and unreservedly
and happily alone ?

The stile was still between them. ' Don't
come across to me,' she said in breathless gasps,
I want to see you there : it is too good to be
true ! Listen, John. I have come all this

way to find you : I must tell you at once before
I am afraid of you, while I still feel as if
it were only the king of dreams that I speak
to. I could not do without you any longer.
No one knows I am come. . . . Oh ! do not
look at me. . I am ashamed, I don't
know why' — and breaking off from speech,
she suddenly wheeled round and buried her
face in her fur muff.

John stood quite still : his heart beat in
his chest like a sledge hammer : it was with
difficulty that he found words, when he did
they came slowly and low : ' Oh,' he said,.
you are not dead ? you are my own sweet
love ? . . . and welcome.'

With his utterance a sort of trembling
seemed to shake her : in a second he had strode
across the stile, and his warm arms were round
her. But her courage was gone. She hid
her burning face upon his shoulder, and a
quick string of nervous speech escaped her
lips.

I cannot tell you what it was — Mrs. Lufton
went on a journey — I was alone : I had

driven with her to the station in a cab, it was
too early for the carriage. . I told the footman
something — I don't know what — because
I saw there was a train just starting — I took a
ticket — I got in — I walked from the station.'

Have you done right, have you run any
risks ? '

I did not like to come on to Netherfield,
I got out at Mrs. Lupton's station : no one
knew me. I walked . it did not seem
far . . . and then I saw you.'

Thank God. What if you had not seen
me?'

/ should have died — / shoidd have gone
on and seen my aunt

The instantaneous contradiction was so
artless that they both laughed — that double
ripple of laughter, deep with sweet, than which
there is no better music.

Do not laugh, John — listen ! think what
I have done. I have found you and I have
two hours. Have you two hours which you
will give me for mine ?'

*I have better than that: I have all my life.'

Soil ! but just now it is these two hours
that I want. John, have you a well-regulated
mind V

Not just now.'

^ No, but presently ; because I will tell you
a secret, " I am tired :" that sounds all right ;
but the rest sounds horrible, " I am hungry."
I thought when I had found you I should not
feel hungry, but I do. Is food possible V

'Listen to me now!' — He spoke as one
speaks to a child, but his voice quivered : —
'I am all alone at home to-day. Only two
hundred yards away from here there is a house
and a fire and food . . . and a welcome. But
you will go on to the Court.'

Do you think so ? Oh ! my king of
dreams, before you grow too dreadfully real,
let me tell you that a fireless barn with your
welcome and a crust of bread — only just now
I'm very particular about that crust of bread —
is better to me than all the Courts in Europe.
And no, John, no ! I am not going to be sent
on to my people. If you are alone like this,
it is Providence, and we " must not fly in the

face of" Aunt Ethelinda's favourite Providence.
For these two hours let us forget the world.'

With all my heart said John Lyne, ' your
world we will forget, but you are all my world.'

'Very well — that is understood. Now
listen to me,' — she pushed him from her a little,
and looked at him with her glowing eyes, —
Answer me quick and straight : do you love
me V

You only, you ever ; so help me God,'
said John.

I wanted to hear you say it : I am sure of
you now. Say " yes " three times.'

Yes — yes — yes.'

The first " yes " is this : you will never
breathe my coming. The second "yes" is
this : you are mine for these two hours. The
third " yes " is this : when 1 am gone you will
forget that I have been here — forget it wholly
and for ever.'

Why don't you command me things that
matter for always. Why so set on now f '

Because it is now that matters for always.
People are so full of long promises and great

hopes. I hate them both. I want and I claim
to-day — to-day and you.'

They are both yours, my darling. . . .'
Then silence, just because no word was

sweet enough for speech. . . .

After a moment — * Then, John,' she said,
I will tell you what I will do with my gifts.
I will use the one for the other : let me
help you in your daily life. Tell me things
to do.'

To-day is holiday : if you will please me
you will come and dine : home is close by.'

I am not tired. This moment I thought
I was, but now, '' my heart is full of rest." '

She did not look tired : she looked like some
radiant creation of sunbeams in the vigour and
freshness of her lovely youth. And the sunbeams
seemed spilt also over her shining furs.

Her broken sentences had told John all
he needed to know : more plainly the facts
were these : Mrs. Lupton had been for sometime
in treaty for a villa on the seacoast,
the purchase of which was just completed.
Unkind rumour — which she made a point of

VOL. II. 22

encouraging — affirmed that her frequent visits
to it were not made alone. On this particular
day she was due there to arrange some final
preliminaries as to its alteration and — to tell
for her, first, what she would not have concealed
she was going to install Mr. Collington thereto
superintend the decorations of the drawing-room.
There was no need to take Waldine.
If her trip shocked the girl, so much the better :
it would be a pity if she discovered that the
talk was wholly of " apple greens " and
French grays " — Mrs. Lupton would lose the
"prestige of her flirtations : she made a little
mystery of the journey to Yal.

'You shall come and see me ofi" at the
station, and meet me in the evening. I have
ordered the carriage at seven ;' she had said.
Amuse yourself well and lunch where you
will.'

As her train steamed out ol the station
Waldine had recognised the platform as that
of the Netherfield line. It was early, little
past nine o'clock, and she chanced to remember
the time-table. There was an express just

starting wliicli would bring her to Netherfield
in less than three hours. To tell the young
footman that she would not want him — that
she had to meet a friend with whom she
would spend the day — was the work of a
moment. In three minutes she had got her
ticket, and in a minute more had found an
untroubled solitude in a railway carriage.
The 3.15 train back would land her at the
station in town by half past six, so that, as
Mrs. Lupton's train was not timed to arrive
till 7.5, she could await her hostess in the
brougham. Waldine's impulsiveness and
innocence together compounded for her a
strange independence which was one of her
most dangerous and fascinating traits. The
glow of it kept her from any conscience-chills in
her extraordinary proceeding, while it quickened
her inventive faculties : she determined
to get out at the little station which Mrs.
Lupton used, where she would be taken for
one of that lady's many erratic visitors, who
came and went pretty much as they liked
during her own absence. At Netherfield

University OlF

AVhiteknyghts was all ; but county boundaries
are strongly marked, and at the next station,
only three miles off, Whiteknyghts was nothing.

The bright soft air of the exhilarating day
was like a tonic to the girl's nerves, and it
was not till she came close to John Lyne's
house that she felt her heart sink ; there then
commenced in her spirits a reaction which
would have overwhelmed her, and very likely
sent her on to her aunt with some excuse of
home-sickness, had she not come upon the
object of her quest and heard his spoken
words. To answer them aloud was irresistible,
and she found herself launched once
more upon the tide of passion whereon she
floated thus serenely.

They walked on down the lane, which was
so hedged with evergreen and fir that it wore
a summer aspect quite in harmony with the
day's ; and away to their right AValdine remarked
the thin blue smoke which rose from
the woodmen's noontide fire. There was
something strangely pleasant to the lovers in
this sign of life so near them and yet so

remote ; it was a sort of suggestion how fickle
was the tenure of these stolen moments, which
trebled their sweetness. But they were quite
secure ; not until much later in the day would
some market-woman pass up this road, and
probably the wheels of John's cart when he
went to fetch his parents would be the first
sound upon the sylvan silence. Two hours of
solitude, mutual and undisturbed, were to
be their portion.

My scheme is this,' said Waldine, as they
approached the little house, which, despite
all her plans, she had never visited : — ' We will
play at being old friends : suppose now, John,
that you have been at work all the morning, and
I have been at home preparing your dinner.'

Then we shall have to suppose you have
prepared a very poor one.'

Never mind that. 'better is a dinner
of herbs

" Where love is," ' added John, emphasising
the quotation by taking her hand —

" Than a stalled ox and hatred withal," '
she concluded briskly, withdrawing it.

He took his latchkey from his pocket, and
Waldine laughed at it because it was so
clumsy and old-fashioned — such a contrast to
the London latchkey which Mrs. Lupton aired
so daintily and was for ever leaving at home.
As they passed together up the garden-path,
she took it from him that she might unlock
the door herself.

Welcome home,' said John, as they stood
together on the threshold. There was a late
rose growing under the shelter of the porch ;
he had watched it for some days ; he stooped
and picked it now.

AT HOME

There is nothing mean in the configuration
of John Lyne's abode. It has a certain
old-fashioned simplicity which lets it hold its
own even in comparison with Mrs. Lupton's
gilded halls. Here all is Spartan, but the
severity is symmetrical and the effect of it
refined. Ugly things there are — the gauze protected
looking-glass, the antimacassar-shrouded
chairs, the beadwork mats — but they have a
trivial air ; they do not greatly offend because
they are palpably ephemeral — a touch would
sweep them away : what is permanent is the
fine old crust of the quaint house ; the sun
that lights it, the breeze that airs it, these
endure and recur — a quarter of an hour would

rid the rooms of all traces of a past hundred
years, another quarter of an hour would
reinstate them wholly. The simple, solid
house, where generations have been born,
have led their honest lives and died, it is
never without dignity ; in this case it is not
entirely without beauty. And Waldine has
of late been too spoiled to be critical ; the
mood of her journey is protest — reaction ; if
her lover lived in a cottage she would be
satisfied and glad. The character of the
house being, to a certain extent, the character
of its inmates, one is led to conjecture, not
amiss, that looking-glasses, antimacassars, and
beadwork mats have been presents — tributes
of respect to John Lyne's mother and grandmother
— when one sees the meal that is ready
for his return. It is plain, homely fare, but it
is set out with a neatness which makes it
appetising. There is cold meat and ham ;
there is some vegetable soup in a pot over
the fire, and there is cold plum-pudding, for
which Waldine has a schoolgirl's passion.
The butter and the bread are perfect, being

indeed the same that are supplied to White-knights
; and there is home-made wine in a
carved corner-cupboard underneath the clock,
which seems to tick out loudly, ' Look up, lookup,'
as if insisting that no moment of the
precious hours should be lost.

Her survey of the parlour has resulted in
Waldine's opening John's little piano which
occupies the place of honour there and has
attracted her attention ; but it is with the
larger room — half dining-hall, half kitchen —
that she is most enchanted. In the gay light,
which it is impossible to believe the same that
struggles through the murk of a London fog,
each old bit of furniture seems to laugh and
shine — the place to its farthest crevice seems
aware of the lovely and unwonted presence
for which it must put on its finest smile.
The seal-skin of the girl's Parisian coat is not
more glossy than the old oak settle upon
which she throws it, the satin lining of her
muff is dull beneath the brightness of the old
brass warming-pan above it. But her beauty
holds its own, it pales the sunlight and the

fire. She flits hither and thither like a foreign
bird ill a barn, and wherever she rests for a
moment, the eye recalls her grace. She is
perfume, laughter, music, warmth, delight —
love. John Lyne has hung up his cap in the
hall, and he stands — dazed with pleasure —
watching her explore his ancient home. He
forgets that it is himself whom she has come
to see ; he is unconscious of the possessive
charm of his own presence ; it seems to him
as if she were come to be a glory on each old
familiar thing, which shall be no more as it
was when her sojourn is over. But to be
indoors sets off his stature and his face, and
there is no discrepancy in his dress with the
apparatus of his simple home. Even his tan
boots are in keeping on the stone floor, and
there is nothing that the sunshine touches to
such beauty as his curly hair. The genius of
the place, it is he that really satisfies the girl's
^ heart with this unknown, unequalled thrill of
soft content. It is he that is the prize of her
seeking.

Half wilful and half shy, she does not look

at him now ; and he is so chivalrous, so
reverent, that he lets her take her own way,
neither by speech nor glance embarrassing her
or making her feel that there is any danger or
scandal in her scheme. He lends himself to
her charming will with his easy, loyal nature.
He neither helps nor hinders her actions ; his
attitude says plainly, 'AH that I have and all that
I am are yours.' The treatment of her chattels,
that is for her to decide, who is the lady of
his homestead and the mistress of his life.

Her decision is favourable to both. She is
bent upon beneficence — and luncheon ! She
throws two sheep-skin mats beneath the little
table where the board is partly spread ; she
signs to John to draw up two arm-chairs,
instead of the straight, high-backed pair which
are set for Mr. and Mrs. Lyne in their places
against the wall. In an instant she has given
a touch of luxury and ease to the little
banquet. And this, too, she will serve in her
own way. * We must garnish our soup,' she
says laughing, and flings open the corner
cupboard where Mrs. Lyne's sauces are ranged.

Chili vinegar ! Join, it is what his lordship
always takes in soup ; get it out. How
I wish I could cook ! But I can make a
salad — and she sets to work with some fresh
vegetables.

She has turned up her neat sleeves over
the rounded wrists ; and John Lyne marks, as
Launcelot Denham marked in London, the
beauty of her girlish arms. But he does not
contemplate them as Mr. Denham took leave
to do. Her beauty will recur to him when
this sunny day is done, haunting his senses
like a fever. The oval shape of her slim waist,
the firmness of her graceful shoulders to
which the plain gown clings so lovingly,
they will have due place in the recollected
image that will fill his dreams ; but not to
take her in his arms, not to tell her what is in
his heart — that is the effort now. When she
stoops close to him, and, raising up her head,
lets the fragrance of her hair reach him ; A\'hen
she touches him lightly in passing, when her
laughter fans towards him the pure warmth of
her breath — at every moment of contact, at all

proximity — there is built within his brain, ever
deeper and ever dearer, the face and figure of
his idol. His passion, restrained though he
keeps it, is like a cumulative poison which
makes gradual headway in his veins because
of her exceeding loveliness and charm. He
is glad with a great joy that is like the
revelation of bliss undreamed and unimagined
pleasure. He is in fairyland ; the caprice
of his fancy is realised beyond its utmost
conception.

To the caprice of her fancy there is no limit
but that of time and space ; she has no such •
bounded routine as has been his, to circumscribe
her horizon. His eight and twenty
years of sameness find no parallel in her nineteen,
so lightly lived amid various changes of
scene and company. To sit in twilight and
become suddenly possessed of the sun, that
would be a surprise ; but to find one's self an
inhabitant of the sun after a series of short
stays on planets at will, would be little more
than a halting-stage in a journey.

I am famished ! come and eat.'

They seat themselves and taste their mutual
meal. Waldine is honestly hungry, and though
she has but the appetite of a healthy bird, she
makes a feint at least of eating her luncheon.
John cannot eat. There is a sort of hurry in
his nature which will not let him feed it.
Unpractised nerves of sense are at their utmost
tension, the demands of usual fibres are
forgotten. She does not notice his abstinence.
Her delicate organisation recruits itself quickly ;
the soup and meat which she tastes, sitting at
rest in the warm bright room, strengthen her
to banish fatigue and shyness. She is at
home ; she feels as if she lived in that room
and ate at that table always. The strangeness
that abides is his, in his own house, not
hers.

To me this is the happy life,' she says,
with that perception of her pleasure while she
enjoys it which is so rare and which doubles
the value of existence. 'I don't know how
you live or what you do, but I feel as if I
knew it all. You will have to see after those
woodmen, ami John, and I shall prepare your

tea ; and then we shall play and sing all
through the winter evening, shutting out the
tiresome world with those good strong shutters ;
is not that so ? Ah no ! I shall be dining in
London and you will be walking through the
dark to Whiteknyghts. I think I am jealous
of some one who is at Whiteknyghts.'

'There was some one there that I love,'
says John, humouring her with a smile, ' but
she went away to London and forgot me.'

'For a time.' Her eyes look very long
and tender in the clear afternoon light ; she
sits facing it with the frank carelessness of
her beauty. ' No ; I am not jealous of that
girl, John, I think I am jealous of my aunt.'

They both laugh.

By the way, tell me what she says to
you.'

Never a word about you. When I came
back with the doctor for his lordship you were
gone with Mrs. Lupton. Each morning I
have met the postman ; but I supposed that
you could not do that in London, so I hesitated
before writing, and then you forbade me.'

I know ; I hate complications, and I don't
care for letters. I like to write them.'

Since then I have had a sort of fever, and
she has been very kind.'

You must not have fevers ; I hate illnesses ;
and you must not let her be kind. You are
well again now, are you not ? '

Never better — never half so well.'

But thinner. I did not see it in your
thicker coat at first. Ami John, do you know
that you are very good to look at.'

So that you are here to see me, I am glad.'

Eat and drink. I want to do you good.
I heard of your illness ; if I had been nice I
should have told you that it was the news
of it which brought me. But it was not. I
wanted to see you, to make sure that you
existed. And if I had found you ill, I should
have been angry. Sono facta cost

He smiles again, disbelieving her though
she is speaking the absolute truth.

' And now we will make plans. I do not
want to stay away any longer. No ; I am not
really jealous of her ladyship ; I do not care.

But I care to see you. I mean to return and
you are to do all that I choose.'

A shadow passes over his face as he listens.
May I speak first V he says decisively.

'If you mean, "may you speak to her
ladyship first," — no. Certainly not. If you
mean, " may you say something to me now,"
proceed.'

He had meant the former: she has incidentally
denied him his request, and it is difficult
for him to repeat it in view of her leave that
he shall say what he wills to her. He leans
across the table, looking very sombre and
earnest ; she gazes straight out of the window,
only her lips twitch a little and her colour
comes and goes.

'Waldine,' he says gravely, 'you mean
well by me, do you not ? '

*I don't know what you call well — I love
you.'

'That is enough. I will tell you what
love means to me. It means all.'

She makes a little comprehensive gesture
with her hands, part mocking and part nervous,
VOL. II. 23

He goes on steadily. ' That you should
love me in the sense I mean, is so immense
a thing that I want you to understand it.'

I do not want to understand it : (hest plus
fort que moi.'

There is a shortness in her answer which
tells him plainly that she has envisaged the
subject and put it by.

'Think of it in all its bearings,' he says,
after a pause, ' think what you give up.'

I give up nothing,' she says quickly, ' I
keep all I have and I take you.'

But is that possible ? '

" Is it possible ? " ami John, is it not the
case ? I am here with you : what do I lose? —
a dull luncheon in London. And yes ! I know
something of what you would say, and I ask
you, de grace, not to say it. I think it would
spoil my day. You tell me love means all to
you. I tell you it means all to me. Is not
that enough ? What does it matter if the two
alls " are not exactly the same ? ' — and John
cannot forbear a smile at her logic, while he
has not the heart to contradict her conclusion.

Therefore,' she proceeds with the air of
one who has disposed of a parenthesis, ' my
plan is this : we will win Lord Grenvers and
my aunt by gradual means. They are devoted
to you, and they are too unused to me to mind
greatly what I do. We will be nice to them,
ami John, and they will come round to our
point of view. Meanwhile I dream of a second
life all the time — a life together, yours and
mine — like the birds' life in the fields : this is
its commencement, there is nothing to hinder
its continuing.'

Still John is silent ; she is so plausible, so
sure, that he is half ashamed of the warnings
of his conscience.

Ah ! do not look at me so critically, one
would think I were proposing a crime' — she
too leans forward now, and speaks quickly
and below her breath. 'Ever since I have
been here this has been my dream — a life of
friendship with you which should be the song
of which my other life, with all its music,
should be nothing more than an accompaniment.
I think approval would spoil this a

little : I want to keep my happiness hidden
from all the world. Do you not understand ?
I want to wake in the morning and think that
a mile of woodland lane will bring me to you,
that a special hour in the day will be your
hour with me. I want contrast in my life :
almost I fancy Mrs. Lupton has taught me this
want. I should 'prefer to live tiresome days
at the Court and know that there would be a
moment of this home-feeling in each — greatly
prefer that to living simply here. Don't look
so sad, John. It is not that I do not like
you,' — she pauses, and the tears flood her
lovely eyes, — ' it is because I like you so well.
That is the fashion of my soul,' — in an instant
the tears have given place to a light smile, —
the dress I like best, John, the food I prefer,
1 do not want to wear and eat the same always.
I should go on liking them, do not be afraid ;
but the delight of expectation and of remembrance,
these would be gone.'

^ And your love would be less without
these.'

I do not say that : I do not know how

great it is or how much greater it may become.
But I want to foster it in my own way, and
you must spoil me so far. Has my plan no
charm for you ? '

Yes : it has charm.'

Great changes may occur : how do we
know what may happen ? The chances of the
world and life may bring us gradually nearer
without our making efforts. And an effort
might part us beyond our own recall — think
of that, John.'

Yes, I am afraid that is true.'

Well, then, it is wisest as well as best that
we should trust each other ? '

That little turn of her voice as she questions
him: — it is more than he can bear. He rises
abruptly and walks to the window. What is
he to do ? Is he to warn her of a danger of
which she never seems to dream ? Is it not
more manly, as her host, and more true, as her
lover, for him to accede to her simple plan —
putting his life in her hands, and see that no
harm befalls her in the scheme she proposes —
than to urge her to a final step at once of which

she might repent too late. With himself her
guardian, she can always find safety against him.
She leans back in her chair, radiant, contented,
happy. She watches him with a
luxurious sense of pleasure : she has no sort of
notion of the ferment in his brain. She waits
for him to speak without the slightest apprehension
; and though he does not look at her,
he is aware of that sunshiny calm in her heart
which her eyes express.

Waldine,' he says at last — for the taste of
her name is very sweet to his mouth — ' I am
older than you are.'

^ Ten years I think,' in the slow untroubled
voice with which a nymph might murmur
singing and swinging on a wave.

And what I ought to say to you is this :
'* Go from me altogether." '

But that you will not say,' she answers
in the same tone, with no trace of surprise.

But that I cannot say,' he repeats in a low,
hoarse voice — the trouble is all his, — sand
therefore I say this : do with me what you
will, there is nothing in my life but you. I

will be satisfied if I am something at least in
yours.'

Something, John ? are you not all ? ^

I think that you think so. Love, I have
no more doubt of you than I have of the light,
but I have a longing that all you have and are
should be the best. Realise what it is that
you hold out to me — all that my heart most
seeks — companionship, understanding, beauty.
And then by and by, if you blame me for
grasping at these, try at least to forgive me.'

'Your voice sounds sad, John, let me see
your face.'

He does not turn towards her yet. ' And
in return,' he goes on in the same low voice,
but firmly, with a vibration in his tone that
thrills her as she listens — * in return for my life
make me one promise. While you meet me,
while you accept my . . . friendship, you will
love but me. You say, and truly, there
come times of change. If change takes hold
of your heart, tell me, and I will put the world
between us and leave you free. I would bear
it if you told me honestly that your love had

died : I would bear it though it broke my heart.
But one thing I could not and I would not
bear — to share you with another. I come of
an old country stock, and we have all of us had
notions of honour which would seem strained
to you. I do not want you to enter into
them, but I want you to know them. Where
we are loved we are faithful to death ; where
we are deceived we kill. It was so once and
it will be so again. We kill or we die — at any
rate there is an end. That is the only stigma
on my family,' he adds, lifting his head more
erect as he names it : — ' I have heard it spoken
of with shame, but I am proud of it. . . . You
swill not deceive me.'

I adore you,' says the girl beneath her
breath.

Then he turns his head. The effort it has"
been to him to speak has flushed his face and
straightened his posture. His eyes glow and
his handsome mouth is set into a stern smile.
Waldine has not changed her attitude, but her
cheek has paled a little. She has the look of
one who listens to stirring music — her lips are

parted, her eyes dwell upon his face. She
is not afraid : she is in an ecstasy of love
and admiration : she has found something to
surpass her hopes. They remain for some
seconds without moving.

Then a tall clock in the corner strikes two
beats from its deep heart of oak.

A GOLDEN HOUR

Two o'clock.'

Ah ! we have not another hour ; but I
shall be able to drive you to the station ; we
can do it in twenty minutes

She rises without thanking him : details of
time and distance — those are for him to decide.

Meanwhile they have very nearly an hour
to spend together — how enjoy it best '?

She walks away from the table and contemplates
the room critically ; as she does so
she smiles at the history told by the little
luncheon-table.

Ami John, do you generally use all these
plates and dishes ? '

John shakes his head ruefully : deceptions

have never been in his line. He is at a
loss.

^Enjin, we must clear our own table, and
efface my record.'

This domestic concern makes their intercourse
easier. It seems to soften off the edge
of steepness from their conversation. Waldine's
plate and glass are washed by John's own
hands and set, by hers, in a particular corner
where his eye can rest upon them often. He
makes up the fire ; she opens the window.
The beauty of the day is at its height still.

Mild as May,' he says, as the soft air fans
him. He stands between the window and the
fireplace, and watches her throw out some
scraps of bread to the birds.

See, John, there is a robin, and sparrows,
and a blackbird in the distance.'

*And presently the rooks will come, only
they see you. Do you hear the thrush ?

" 'Twas the thrush sang in the woodland — hear

the story, hear the story ! —
And the lark sang 'give us glory,' and the dove

sang ' give us peace.' " '

Surely John's dinner-room has never echoed
any bird's song sweeter than her voice !

'Will you do me a favour?' he says in a
tone that does not anticipate refusal.

Yes.'

Come into the next room and sing to me.
There is my small piano there ; you opened it
but you did not play.'

I was not at home with you then as I
am now Yes, wee will sing something : what
shall it be?'

He opens the door into the passage and she
walks before him into the opposite room.

*When I come to live here I shall make
this room so pretty she says laughing.

It is a new thought for John — another
dream for his Arabian nights of enchantment.

What will you do ? ' he asks her.

I will have only the piano and a little
wicker table and two wicker chairs, with some
Turkish mats, upon those nice oak boards. And
then plants and flowers — oh ! endless flowers.'

But where are the flowers to come from in
December? we have no hot-houses here.'

Qu'importe f Mr. Denham shall bring the
flowers.'

John's face clouds : she feels that he is
grave and turns quickly towards him.

'No!' he says, 'Mr. Denham shall not bring
the flowers ; I will build you a conservatory and
fill it with hyacinths, and we can have lilies and
cyclamens too — our own flowers, not his.'

She listens to his voice which, whenever he
speaks fervently, seems to mesmerise her into
assent, — the spell of his manhood.

Very well,' she says dreamily, and sits
down to the piano.

She plays a 'prelude of Chopin — the sort of
music his little Broadsword has never echoed
before — and then she sings a setting of Vivian's
song from the ' Idylls of the King ' —

In love, if love be love, if love be ours,
Faith and faith can ne'er be equal powers,
Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all'

It is a very simple setting of the words, but
John's heart approves it. He is seated close to
the piano, almost facing her as she sings. . . ,
He loves her ' all in all.'

So you see that you must trust me altogether,'
she says, when she has finished.

It's done,' he answers her decisively: — ' Do
not think I have been pondering about it.
Kemember that it is your life which is complex,
mine is single and plain.'

" Single and plain," like an old maid,' she
says, evading the recurrence of his serious
mood. She leans forward on the keys with
her face resting on her hands, and looking full
into his eyes she laughs. ' John, is it not
strange that our life here does not seem to me
future but present — I had almost said past 1 I
cannot think of it with apprehension. I suppose
I ought to think gravely of its chances,
with a resolve, in event of fate spoiling it, to bean
old maid — if not "plain" " singled But I
don't. I feel to be on level ground, to be able
to look far back and far forward, and there are
no changes and no surprises.'

I think it is your nature,' says John
quietly ; ' you are like a bird ; you will sing ina
cage, if you are there, as well as in a grove.
Sing something else in this cage.'

Her fingers wander over the keys for an
instant : she picks out the cavatina of Raff,
then she stops abruptly. ' How strange it is
that you should be so fond of music !' she says.

Because I have to work ? ' he answers her ;
oh ! it is not unusual now. There is some
sort of musical instrument in almost every
farm-house, and generally it is the men who
play and sing more than their wives and
daughters.'

Which reminds me. Find something that
we shall sing together.'

He stands up and turns over a pile ot.
music on the piano ; as he does so he is very
near her. The piano is low, and his right
hand is almost before her ; she lays her fair
face caressingly upon his arm. He looks
down quickly. Something in her drooping
attitude and shamefaced silence touches him
to infinite tenderness. He restrains his first
impulse lest it should alarm her. She is so
at rest in her trust of him that a kiss would
disturb her. But her beauty is eloquent in its
stillness and seems to demand an answer.

AValdine,' he says, ' may all God's angels
guard you ; you are the joy of my life ! You
have made me so glad to-day, that for any
pain your love may ever bring me, I forgive
you now.'

Somehow that was what I wanted you to
say,' she replies presently, raising her head.
The tears stand again in her beautiful, burning
eyes.

Here are my songs,' says John gently,
but we have not many minutes now, and
your talk is sweeter than my singing.'

But I want to hear your voice. Oh ! here
are Mendelssohn's duets, John ; let us sing
this one ! '

They sing together : —

Oh ! wert thou in the could blast
On yonder lea, on yonder lea,
My plaids to the angry airt
I'd shelter thee. . . .'

It is wonderful how their voices blend, and

how their mood befits the strain.

The desert were a paradise

If thouVert there, if thou wert there. . . .'

they sing.

With something very like a sob she breaks
off suddenly. Her whole being seems melted
into song and love. His steadfast eyes that
watch her as she plays, his pure, true voice
that matches them, his bodily presence which
she has come so far to seek — they are the
light, the sound, the air of her magic world.
She sighs heavily and then gets up from the
piano, pushing her chair away backwards not
to touch him. There are things she could not
bear.

I cannot sing,' she says ; * go and get the
horse, I think it is time to go.'

The want of tenderness in her words does
not make them intended. A complimentary
phrase of departure would reveal less feeling
than this hr usque command. By the same
token he makes no answer : he only looks at
his watch and then goes out of the room.

She is quite still for a few moments, standing
by the window, as her wont is, with her
hands clasped behind her. The first thought
that rouses her is a momentary wonder whether
her famous ash tree is visible from this house ;
VOL. II. 24

but the wonder is too transitory for her to
care to satisfy it by observation. It just acts
in her brain the sort of part a dream is said
to act in sleep — it serves for gradual awakening.
Then she passes her hand over her eyes and
looks back into the room.

To think that he can live here ! ' she says
beneath her breath.

Going away, he has taken more than he
knew. He has, as it were, exposed the
commonness of his j^oor little drawing-room :
she sees it as it is. Sometimes a flood of sunshine
will make an ordinary object beautiful :
the sun goes in, and its ugliness appals one.
Now that the sunshine of her heart is gone,
this empty place of it looks hideous and
barren. In a sort of reaction from her trivial
surroundings, she glances down on a beautiful
gold pencil that hangs by her side ; her fingers
adjust it and its use occurs to her. There is a
blotting-book on the table in front of her : she
takes a scrap of paper from between its leaves,
and placing it against the window-pane she
writes these words : —

When you play music, close your eyes and
think of me. My home is in your heart.'

With an impulse to give something to him
in remembrance of this golden hour, she
unfastens the pencil-case and rolls it up in the
scrap of paper. Her desire is to leave some
trace behind her which shall be more beautiful
than the details of her lover's daily life ; the
impulse is not entirely unselfish. She walks
back to the piano and lays the little packet on
the keys, closing the case. With that curious
trust in circumstances which with her is half
instinct and half carelessness, she is sure that,
his hands will be the first to find it. Then
she quietly returns to the less decorated room
which pleases her so much better, and puts
on her hat and jacket without going to the
glass.

She has done with the scene of this episode.
That is her feeling. Thoroughly sincere as
she is in her love, she is without that intimate
affection for place and objects which characterises
her sex. The passion that has possessed
her is too concentrated, too large, to let her

trouble much about its accidents. This particular
act of life's drama is over : the stage
on which it has been played is nothing to her
but a platform that has served its turn. As
she slowly draws on her tan gloves she does
not even look about her. She has no wish
for a mental photograph of the house where
her seat is set.

Meanwhile John is mindful of her departure.
A few minutes have sufficed him to
harness the Denham mare and brush the
cushions of his little country cart. He makes
all haste, for he too must find her some token
of his devotion from among his few and
simple worldly goods.

When he comes downstairs from ransacking
his treasures he meets her in the hall.

'Will you take this?' he says, 'the words
are in what always seems to me your native
language.'

He has a quaint old oval case in his hand,
glass, with a gold rim. Long years ago it was
a gift to some forefather of his from the
woman to whose tragic fate he has made

allusion — the Avoman from whom he has
inherited his peculiar beauty. It contains a
tress of dark hair, on which rests a delicate
ivory tablet shaped into a heart ; on the
tablet, in fine black letters, like old-fashioned
penmanship, are the words, ' Ton amitie fait
monroe;' round it and above it a thread of
gold is twined into a true-lover's knot. Intrinsically
of no great value, it is the kind of
token which a sympathetic mind regards with
reverence. It has been the sign, it is still the
memorial, of the heart's desire. To some one,
at some time, it has seemed worth the world
beside.

She takes the present in her hand and
reads the posy in her clear foreign accents.
It is written wrong,' she says, ^ but it is very
pretty. Ami John, there is something I
want, of which this reminds me. I want a
bit of your hair. Do you think we could
undo this to hold it : the rim is slight ? '

He holds the locket, looking at it critically ;
it had never occurred to him that she would
want to tamper with it, but he does not

gainsay her wish. He takes his knife from
his pocket and begins to unfasten the soldered
edges. In a moment they give way ; the
fragile token has held its treasure for an
hundred years, but it yields to the first rough
touch of this utilitarian day.

Bring it in here,' she says, going back into
the room ; ' we have only a moment.'

Glass, rims, tablet, hair, gold thread — the
whole contents of the little gift, which seems
to have lost its charm in the undoing — lie on
the table before them.

Kneel down,' says the girl laughing, ' and
give me that knife. Ah ! John, it is the
knife I stabbed you with.'

She lets it drop quickly, and, falling, it
breaks one of the thin convex glasses of the
locket.

It is broken I fear,' says John in amazed
sorrow, picking up the pieces as he stoops ; it
seems to him, somehow, to be an irretrievable
loss, as indeed it is, to Time.

Ah ! what a pity ! But never mind. I
do not greatly care for ornaments. Mr.

Denham said just the other evening that it
was odd, when I told him I only liked
diamonds.'

And I shall never have any diamonds to
give you.'

You ! oh ! the gift you give me — that is
different. No, John, no : I do not want that
relic, put it all into your pocket together.
Are these your mother's scissors V

He kneels down before her with his dark head
bent. She has unloved her hands again, and
she passes them lightly over his curly hair till
she severs a thick lock of it which twines round
her fingers. She puts it down on the table
with the scissors and then bends over her
lover and hesitates for a moment.

Tu es hen a moi,' she says, rapidly as a
breath, and her lips touch his hair like flame.
It is not a kiss. He could not say whether it
was her cheek or her hand that touched him.
He reads the passion of her tone into a kind
of benediction, for he has not caught her
words. But he puts his arms round her as he
kneels, and his head leans against her waist.

The warmth and peculiar softness of the seals
coat she wears almost overpower his senses:
the moment feels eternal : when he stirs he
could fancy himself awaking from a long sleep
or a swoon, and his eyes are heavy and hot.

As for her, she will lose it never, that
feeling of support and possession which his
clasping arms and throbbing forehead press
beneath her beating, yielding heart. There
springs to life in her the maternal element of
loving : she pities him for his pain in losing
her; as she frees herself there is compassion
in her hands and her voice is sad.

Come,' she says kindly, as if she would
console him, ' I shall lose my train.'

He pockets the debris of the broken
trinket, saving only the gold thread which he
twists round the lock of hair before she places
it within her glove in the hollow of her hand.

'It is a clumsy keepsake,' he says shyly ;
you ought to have cut it better.'

Yes, I have spoilt your head : I hope
you are not like Samson : I should be sorry to
steal your strength.'

And am I to have nothing ? ' He glances
at her wind-ruffled hair with wistful eyes.

There is no time : I do not want my head
spoilt : that matters. I will send you a yard
of hair if you like ; but it means nothing tome
to give it you. I am not sentimental,
John, and you must not be. Why I wanted
this, was for a sign of your existence : I am
not going to cherish it that I know of. It is
a proof to me that you exist and that, existing,
you are mine.'

Never doubt that,' he answers with a
sigh : he does not question her will : his heart'
has no such need of tokens, but his sigh
reproves her : she glances off the subject.

If you want a sign of my existence,' she
says laughing, ' look in the glass, if the wound
in your wrist is healed. For I have not only
stabbed you, but I have taken your scalp.
John, I feel that I have behaved like a wild
Indian.'

Like Longfellow's Minnehaha ?' says John
with a smile, — 'the laughing water.'

They are standing upright now, facing each

other, and it seems to each of them that the
other's presence is all the world contains.
The mutual photograph upon their brains
must be a clear one, focused by such ardent
eyes. The afternoon is so quiet that they
hear the Denham mare pawing the flagstones
of the yard where John has tied her. She is
not used to waiting before she begins her
journeys.

She warns them of the flight of time : their
thoughts are in such unison that they do not
need exchange the warning. John reaches
down his hat and they go out.

It is already colder, and he does not stay
for a coat : is not the beating of his heart
enough to warm him to his feet and finger tips?
He has never taken any woman but his mother
in this little cart of his, which is a new purchase
of Lord Grenvers'. He has had no experience
in life like this drive with Waldine down his
favourite lanes, where there is not a single
passer-by to look at them askance. The sense
of doubled life, the satisfaction of the company
of this beloved and lovely woman, — it makes

all fresh as paradise was fresh to Adam after
the birth of Eve.

And Waldine's contentment is absolute ; the
swift motion, for their time is short, the light
noise of the wheels, the fanning air — above all,
the sense of moving towards a goal, which is
ever a joy to her — make all her senses keen
in the crystal day. Seated at his side, warm
in her close fine fur, she takes long looks up to
his face when his eyes are occupied with the
mare. She feels to know that face so well, to
love it so dearly. And is it not the most
beautiful thing in the world ? Her heart brims
over with possession and pride. The way the
cool air darkens and pales his cheek, the rare
closing of his lips to a soft encouraging whistle
which the Denham mare quite understands
without a touch from the whip — these things,
which are lessons to her, do not seem strange :
it vaguely occurs to her that when she drives
in London she will miss them.

Nor is he silent now : the familiar scenes
through which they pass are potent instigate to
speech. He tells her all his days: he explains

to her the country-side. She knows the road,
but she has driven it hitherto alone or talking
chiffons with Lady Green vers : it has been a sealed
record to her till now, of which he can unfold
the story. They only stop for one instant just
to catch full view of Whiteknyghts with its
great array of shining windows.

Yes, I see it,' says the girl smiling — ' big,
empty shrine of the " dear saint." — Ah ! mon
ami, if I were not here would you be there ? '

Of course,' says John, smiling too. He is
so happy that he can afford to make light of
his own constancy.

I wonder what her ladyship would say if
she met us. But, John, do you know, she
never sees any one : she always says to me,
^* Here is a carriage, Val, how am I looking ? "
and when the carriage has passed, she says,
Who was it ? How did 1 look ? " '

Then she may meet us and welcome,' says
John : he hums a little air and then adds,
breaking it off short, ^ Is that what she calls

you ?

'That is what I am mostly called ; " Waldine"

is strange and formal : no one has ever called
me that.'

May I ? ' says John : it is the first direct
request he has made her. 'The " lady of the
woodlands ? " I should like to call you that.'

Very well,' she says contentedly, ' I am
Waldine to you. Val to the rest of the world.'

And Miss de Stair to Mr. Denham ? '

If you will : but you call your horse the
Denham mare.'

Will you christen her another name ? '

You can call her Countess Val.'

He looks troubled. ' I always forget your
foreign dignity, ' he says : ' does it matter ? '

Nothing matters,' she answers, looking up
anxiously at his face, * except '

His eyes meet hers : it is a long straight
road : the Denham mare has settled down into
a steady trot which she will not break till they
near the station hill where John and his love
must part. He gathers the reins into his
right hand and puts his left arm, being human,
round her waist.

Oh ! that is safe,' he says in a low tone,

and then lie draws her towards him and his
lips stoop to hers. Lovers of old time, long
dead, does not your dust thrill at their meeting?
. . Was the road so short \ was the pace so
fleet ? they have reached the station turning,
and a shrill whistle sounds on the bright air,
almost in their ears.

Just in time ! ' says the girl, panting with
fresh haste as she descends: — 'No, John;
another yard and they will see you : I can run
these few steps more — Good-bye ! '

He leans over the cart, but she is on foot
already and she does not once look back. Where
is the good of looking at him when her eyes
are drowned with tears — most sudden tears —
of bliss ? Where is the good of looking at
him when his seal is set upon her mouth and
his image on her heart for ever ?

John Lyne drives down to Netherfield in
the afternoon, as it changes to chill. He goes
a long way round, he will not return to his
empty house. His face grows cold, his hands
numb, but his brain is dizzy and his pulses

throb. He has entered into the world of
unrest : he will know no more careless days
and no more dreamless nights. His life is set
henceforward to the tune of this girl's voice.
She has taken from him his strength and his
peace ; she has left him nothing but the sweetness
of her roseleaf lips on his.

She speeds through the gathering dusk,
sitting alone and motionless in the railway
carriage, feeling neither noise nor cold — spellbound,
silent, warm. All goes so well with
her. When she meets the carriage Mrs.
Lupton's train is still not due ; when she meets
Mrs. Lupton that lady is cross and tired, and
insists on bringing Mr. Collington home to dine.
His hotel is in Half Moon Street, and he can
go on there in the brougham to dress while
she slips on her tea-gown : they will have such
a cosy evening !

'Dear Yal, Tm afraid your time has been
dull, but I hope you had a pleasant luncheon.
You must tell me all about your day when
you've heard mine. See, Cecil, what a hostess
I am ! I ask her no questions, and then perhaps

she won't ask us any. . . .' Mrs. Lupton's tone
becomes suddenly lowered to the flirtation register.
When they arrive in Curzon Street she
has fifty notes to read ; there is also a letter
for Waldine with the AVhiteknyghts postmark,
from her devoted aunt. It is too long to read
at once, but the postscript attracts her eyes : —

'Poor John Lyne has been quite horridly
ill — pleurisy or something : he is all right
again, as far as he ever will be, but has lost
his looks — such a pity, for you know I had
the most idiotic penchant for his handsome
face : no one could sympathise with it now,
least of all you who hate invalids. Oh ! how
he would bore you ! health was his charm.
But who can be well in this arctic month ? I
am alive, but see nobody : my nose is like a
damson : is chinchilla really so much worn ?
ask Charlotte. . . . '

They are stupid and false,' says the girl to
herself passionately, 'they shall never know.'

And she locks up that day in her soul and
gives the key to memory.

CHAPTER VL

WALDINE WRITES

CuRzoN Street, Christmas Eve.

My own dear love ! — These many days you
have lain silent in my heart : I have had no
need of speech. To-night you wake and call,
me : I rise and answer.

Why to-night ? I do not know. I tell you
always I am not sentimental : I do not
believe that anything is happening to you
that should distress me on your account.
I do not think that you are ill or that
you want me. But there are times and
times in love. It has its moods like the sea
poor old simile that has done duty so
often ! — and to-night there is a full moon
tide of speech. . I take you out of my deep

VOL. n. 25

heart and I look at you : I love you : let us
take counsel together.

Confession first: mon amour, I have told
nothing to any one : I think you thought I should,
but it was impossible. Life is intricate : to throw
truth to people who don't know what truth is,
you might as well feed a serpent on flowers !
They cry out for something palpitating to
mangle, these cobras of gossip ; and you and
I will not be food for them. Do not look
solemn about it. Trust me, and all will be well.

All is well. John, I wonder whether
English girls often do what I have done — take
an independent journey to satisfy their . . .
caprice — curiosity — what was it ? and then
return to find that they have not been missed
and nothing is said. I feel I did a dreadful
thing, but it is not because I am found out ;
rather, I think, because I am so scot-free, and
my world rolls along so evenly again after the
kick I gave it. I have proved Mrs. Lupton's
maxim true : ' The big things of life remain
unknown.' But for all that they are not
unimportant.

What are you doing % I do not ask : I
know. You are asleep and you dream of me.
It is what I am doing that I want to tell you,
obedient to one of your last suggestions. You
were right to make it : it is good for me to
unfold myself to you. You are the peace and
the calm of my days : I feel myself nervous
and modern in face of your old-time simplicity
and strength. All about you and around you
now there is the immense quiet of the winter
night : leagues upon leagues of unbroken
silence which the town noises never reach.

John, I think of you in your little house as i4
were in a safe grave. It seems to me possible
happily possible — to turn my back upon
the town, to go far and to dig deep and to
find — you : and this ' return upon you ' is the
mainspring of my life. Here is my tendril
token of your hair before me on the table. I
think out all the way to you — the loud and
crowded terminus here, the long journey into
ever purer air, the small country station,
the hill, the road we went together, the lane
to your garden-gate, the pathway with the

roses at the end. I pass ^x^ that pathway : I
stand at the barred door. I do not knock,
I enter. It is all so still that I can think I
hear the snow fall. There is no light in the
passage now, no light in either room I know,
but I do not stumble : I go ghostlike up the
stair. Yes, you are safe at home, but you
are not safe from me. I come to you with
the burden of my life, with all its desires and
sighs. And at your door I knock. Oh ! my
love, do you sleep still ? Do you not hear my
tears upon your threshold ? must they fall
there ? . . .

Was it a thunderbolt ? was it a storm that
scared the vision ? Nothing, John, nothing
but the rumbling of some market-cart that
goes belated or beforehand up the street.
Here market-carts, and worse than market-carts,
are for ever scaring my visions. I feel
as if I had got into the heart of some great
beating machine, for which the fuel is the
lives of men. Sometimes when I look out of
my window I thank God for frost or rain.
At least they arc signs to me that there are

elements somewhere which bring gifts of
whiteness and wet. My window at White-knights
— I pant for it, I cannot stay longer
away. Every day it has some new surprise
for me ; some sober glory of winter colour,
some group of sheep or cattle that are at
home there and at ease. There is a farmer
pastures his cows in the park ; at eight in
the morning I see them bounding over the
grass. There is a gladness in the rustle of
their paces, crisp on the snow or thudding in
the thaw. It makes me happy to hear the
beasts begin their free and open day. A
whole long day, it must be so much to a cow
or a sheep ! Here too it may be much, but
it is a muchness of the wrong order — like a
day in the shambles for them.

John, ' my whole day,' was I to tell it you ?
Then it shall be to-day : that's easy. You
don't know what a London fog is ; I shall not
attempt to describe it. One feels as if one
were sitting under the shadow of some awful
and mysterious sorrow. One can imagine
one's self in hell. Sisyphus, Ixion, Tantalus —

in turn one is each and all. Mrs. Lufton hasa
special regime for fogs when she is in the
mood to avoid them. For there are days
when she is m the vein: then she goes out,
and heaven knows what befalls her ! To-day,
however, she was not willingly befogged, and
she fought the stars in their courses. Every
shutter was shut, every blind vas down ; we
played at its being evening. All the pretty
lamps were lit in the boudoir ; they would
amuse you, some of them, supported by
flamingoes, owls and peacocks — quite literally
ivory and apes and peacocks;' — we wore
dressing-gowns and discussed our neighbours.
"What we did ? we chose evening frocks,
availing ourselves of the various lights; mine
is yellow — an appalling colour by daylight,
like the yolk of an Q.gg. Faithful to her
appointment, a dressmaker appeared about
them, and things of so much moment are
not decided in an hour. Mr. Collington came
to luncheon of course and brought a couple of
young actors with him, who delighted in the
artificial glow and the real banquet. They

are getting up a little comedy with Mrs.
Lupton as the heroine, and they rehearsed it
in the afternoon : I stayed in the drawing-room
while they went to the empty music-room,
and before answering some notes I took
up a novel. The fog and the lamps together
had given me a headache, and I went to sleep
which is perhaps the reason why I cannot
sleep to-night, dear comrade of my vigil, and
perhaps it is not why ! I went to sleep and I
dreamed. — Of you ? Yes, first, and then that
Mr. Denham called — and behold ! it was nota
dream ! I awoke and rubbed my eyes ; he
was there in the flesh. What he said ? John,
you are tedious in your demands : I don't
remember. Yes I do. He gave me various
most interesting personal statistics, to which
I listened while I sat and wished that he were
you. He told me who his tailor was and
where he got his flowers ; and that he liked
the roses on my tea-gown, and that he liked
the set o/mj tea-gown, and that he liked mein
my tea-gown. Which was no trouble and
the reverse of unpleasant, but which did not,

if you will believe it, amuse me in the
least.

And then I told him what I thought of
him : I said I thought he was part of the
fuel ' for the machine of life in town and in
the country, to which he replied that he was
very inflammable; and what with the sleep
and the dream I felt so far away from him all
the while that I said, ' Really, do you know,
that's not at all bad for you,' without in the
least remembering that I was speaking to a
real man. At which he was good enough to
laugh not unkindly : — he is not unkind.

John, I am glad you are not rich and do
not wear button-hole bouquets. Mrs. Lupton
said the other day that she 'never got any
tonic out of a scent-bottle.' I am much of
her mind. It keeps one awake, it refreshes
even, but that is the most one can say to
praise it.

Perhaps, however, Mr. Denham is more
than a scent-bottle ; for — I had half forgotten
it — he became rather serious before our 
was interrupted. He referred again to the

demise of his mamma — which made me laugh,
the dear defunct being obviously resuscitated
only as the keystone to more vital relationship.
I suggested that Mrs. Lupton would be a
mother to him gladly if he would allow her.

'And you a sister, do you mean?' he said
imploringly.

I did not quite see how that followed, but
I admitted that the limit of my years would
allow of the relationship. And even then he
was not satisfied ; he said he did not want a
sister. ' Then,' I concluded brilliantly, ' I
shall have to be a mother to you myself
And upon that imaginative basis our friendship
rests for the present. — What ! my real love,
you are not laughing? you look puzzled but
not amused ? I hear you say, in that grave
voice of yours, that you do not want to be
Mr. Denham's stepfather. Very well, then,
very well : all that you wish is very well
to me. Yes ! best of all.

That's now; and which of us two, dear,
shall mind about the future ? That tiresome
future, it is buried deep enough this winter

while ; we shall not hear it start till spring.
Are you not satisfied ? Then come and see
for yourself. London is not so far.

I went to you once — did I not, or is it alla
dream ? — I cannot come again. Mrs. Lufton's
expeditions are ended for this winter ;
she took cold on that last journey, and is
always saying how fortunate I was to have
been safe at home. My conscience does not
sting me, for if ever I was ' safe at home ' it
was then ; with you, John, with you.

Persistent still ? I have said, ' Come and
see ! come and see that I do not forget you !'
but you want to know these little things, and
somehow, all the time, I want to tell you
them. Mr. Denham informs me that the filial
relationship demands a certain confidence ; I
reply that my time and my attention are at
his disposal on foggy days. He remarks that
he hopes it will be foggy all the winter ; I
rejoin that I have every fear his wish may be
fulfilled. There is then a long pause. Am I
sufficiently dramatic ? for you know the accents
of the dialogue. After the pause he said that

he congratulated — was it himself or me ?
that he had got so far. It seemed to me
that he had ' got ' not forward but backward
many weary years, as I found myself with so
full-grown a son, and I ventured that witticism
as well. To which he replied that anything
which neared us to each other seemed a step
forward to him. And, while I thought just
that same thought of you you may guess that
I was not sloan to retort to Ifiim that I found he
was ' quite forward enough ' already !

And it was almost directly after that repartee
that Mrs. Lupton came into the room,
triumphant from the completed rehearsal. . . .
As for us two, John, we are near enough !

How cold it is ! with fire and gas and
lamps I do not feel it here, but I know how
keen the frost is by all the little signs of
London winter — the way the flames burn, the
sounds one hears far off, the sleep, like a thick
cloak, that is upon one the instant one seeks
it. And you sleep sound, I know, nearer
Nature than I, in the home that will be mine
one day.

Oh ! love, love ! there is no rose left in
your garden j^t'ithway now ! but this room is
full of roses . . . and they are not all artificial
roses either, for my adopted son sent me a
bouquet this evening in which there are real
rosebuds almost sweet. We went to the first
night of a new burlesque ; when I returned I
found you waiting in my room and sent away
my maid. . . . Here you still are, but I have
failed to write you my day, failed in the expression
of all I would express, only will not
fail in the expression of my love ! I love you
more than you love me, more than you know
that I can love. You think of other things
than love, you think / think of other things
than those ; I think of one thing only, love,
I think of you ! No future planned ; believe
I want no future — that will come. No past
remembered, for I have no memory of the
past — it was not yours ! — But / am yours,

Waldine.

Come to me ! when you will, as you will,
only somehow come ! I want to prove you mine.

FROST

Proof ? what proof was needed ? Was he not
hers as wholly as the thorn-stem is the grafted
rose's ? He had no separate existence now,
no aim in life but just to be the standard o£
her pride. How best to serve her ? He received
the letter on the 26th of December ;
the letter said, ^ Come,' and he went next
morning.

It was difficult, but there is a providence
for lovers : Lord Grenvers had long been
wanting a locomotive couch, adapted specially
to his infirmities ; it had been an old suggestion
of his that John Lyne should pay his first
visit to London-town in quest of this, and at
the same time he could take an ornament to

Curzon Street, which was Lady Grenvers'
Christmas gift to Yal, and which thus need
not risk the laden post. It was all settled in
five minutes, and settled without sacrifice of
truth.

Lady Grenvers had said to John, ^ It is
'polar ; if I drive to Netherfield I die : you
must order me some New Year cards ; only
there is no choice as there is in London.'

I suppose the London shops are very gay
just now,' he said in tentative reply.

What a wistful voice V put in his lordship,
whose daily interview with John Lady Grenvers
had unceremoniously interrupted, ' I believe
you'd like to go and see them ! '

I should like to go to London,' said John
frankly,' with a sort of passive wonder.

And you shall,' cried her ladyship ; ' and
take Val her pendant : I shall never wear that
pearl pendant again, Grenvers ; it was one of
your first presents to me and is only fit for a
girl ! And Val has so few things. It will
still be in the family, and he can get your
chaise longue — order it, at least — and bring

me my New Year cards. Could you not go
tomorrow 1 I really want them.'

Yes, gladly said John, who felt his heart
bound at the possibilities afloat towards him
on the spell of the easy placid voice. And
gladly, when tomorrow came, he went. Another
time it would have seemed a great event
this going to London ; it seemed less than
nothing now, as a mile walk is ajjt to seem a
step in the direction of the beloved. There
were subjects to be considered ; but not in
relation to London, only in relation to one
feminine atom befogged therein whose eye
were poor John's lodestars. There was the
question of dress, there was the question of
times, there was the question of behaviour.
To look worthy of her, to reach her and to be
what she would have him be — this was the
triple problem which extinguished all wonder
as it annulled all distance.

Before Lady Grenvers sent the pearl pendant
across the park to John's home it had flashed
above her mental horizon that she might be
promoting a possible meeting between her

niece and him. But it only occurred to her
as the light for another lamp of self-approbation.
She wrote outside the packet, ' To be
left at 90 Curzon Street, Mrs. Lupton's ; you
need not ask for Mrs. Linton' and slept
soundly under the warm glow of her discretion.
He will have plenty else to do, she thought.

So John registered a mental vow that he
would not ' ask for Mrs. Lupton,' and snatched
his few hours' sleep with a conscience only at
all disturbed by the triple problem. And
when he woke ere daybreak it was solved.
He would just let things slide ; no forethought
thus far could have bettered fate's. He dressed
himself at dawn in his plain Sunday clothes ;
that they were not the clothes in vogue never
suggested itself to him, nor did he balance in
his mind whether they became him as well as
the costume of his daily wear. They were his
better clothes ; there was no choice. In his
breast-pocket was the box containing the
pendant, laid alongside of Waldine's letters,
and therefore safe with his life ; in an outer
pocket was a card on which his name was

written and his address, in case mishap befell
him. London was for him a sort of violent
engine, like the train. ' If I'm killed anywhere,
they shan't have to find her letter to know my
home.'

What he looked like ? Very like a gentleman,
only a touch more manly than most.
The boots were not very shapely and the hat
was wrong, but the walk was such as a prince
might have envied, and the head was as
handsome as a god's. His covert coat was
permissible in town as in the fields ; its earthy
tint became him very well : the general effect
was sombre.

Why, John,' said Mrs. Lyne, ' where's your
coloured scarf ? you don't look half smart for
London.'

Oh ! I'm not going a holiday, mother,' he
answered : — ' It's sober earnest this is, and lots
to think of.'

And much he did think in the train and
much in the streets, but it was not much of
London. It was one thought only — ' Waldine,
Waldine, I come!'

VOL. II. 26

After his four hours' journey, for the morning
train was slow, the day seemed younger in
the city streets than he had left it at Nether-field.
He had this day before him, for there
was a late train back ; and he found himself
in the neighbourhood of the shops for his
commissions.

It did not strike John to drive : he walked
gravely along the foggy thoroughfares ; visited
the place, somewhere in the Strand, for Lord
Grenvers' couch ; and made his way through
Soho into Regent Street ft^r her ladyship's cards.
There was an embarrassing choice. He looked
in window after window till perplexity as well
as dust was on his face.

Perhaps,' he said to himself at last, ' perhaps
she would. . . .'

It was half-past one o'clock ; he did not
feel hungry. He went down Conduit Street
and Breton Street. Berkeley Square ! they had
told him that was near his goal.

Afterwards John remembered best of all
his London wanderings the last time he asked
his way to 90 Curzon Street. It was just

opposite to Vanstone House, where the
statue stood dripping under leafless boughs in
shivering feminine contrast to a well-clad
policeman who was contemplating her with
unsympathetic contempt. Mrs. Lupton would
have delighted in the contrast between his
stalwart warmth and that modest chill of hers
which was so much more permanent. And
the group detached that lady's image in John's
mind.

Does Mrs. Lupton live about here V asked
John.

I beg your pardon, sir,' said th astonished
policeman ; and then after a second glance,
which somehow flushed John's temples, he
added, ' I suppose you're from the country ;
don't you know the address V

It was rather a blow to John Lyne, and he
was glad that the subsequent direction should
be plain even to a rustic intelligence, unaware
that of two easy routes his informant chose
the less direct — ' Back a bit and down Berkeley
Street ; past the bottom of 'Ay '111 ; then down
the little tunnel to the right, and there you are.'

It was very foggy, very cold, very still.
He skirted the dead wall and there was the
old-fashioned passage, looking like a vault with
its iron pillar and grimy steps.

Well,' said John to himself, ' it's not as
fine as the lodge at AVhiteknyghts. '

He swung himself down the stairs : the
clank of his footsteps, echoing along the
narrow walls, amused him : perhaps it was his
quickened walking that made this sudden heat
and glow about him ; his whole frame tingled
as he went. Perhaps. . . .

He stopped quite still ; he could not have
advanced a step.

Waldine ! '

She had entered the passage from the
Curzon Street end : indeed it was none other
than she, and, by a final miracle, she was
alone. Surely nothing could befall her between
Curzon Street and Dover Street, where
she was going to luncheon with some friends
arrived from abroad. Nothing did befall her,
but just this : to find the radiant moment of her
life upon the muddy way. So one finds Love.

She was looking exquisitely lovely ; even
her beauty could be heightened by contrast
with dark fur and the rich velvets of Mrs.
Lupton's choice. She had dressed herself with
unusual care, and in this dingy frame and
under this gray sky she was the very picture
of luxury and grace. She walked lightly and
demurely ; her femininity divined a man whom
she must pass — her air was the more reserved
her eyelids proudly drooped.

She came quite close to him : he spoke
aloud, ' Waldine.'

Pace from motion to stillness : lips from
red to white : heart from life to death. And
then with one soft word, with one short step,
lack to red lips and fuller life again.

No one came by : the world was going to
luncheon, and the world's underlings had
ceased purveying it. It was the siesta of
the little dark passage and this word its
midday dream. . . .

You see I have come,' he said at last,
smoothing her hair with his hand where his
lips had stirred it, for she seemed as if she

could not speak to him ; ' and it wasn't so
difficult either ; there were things to be done,
and luckily it fell to me to do them. . . .'

Never mind,' she answered, her senses
returning with the tints of her cheek, 'you
are here and we have met ; you were coming
to find me

I was coming to leave a case of trinkets
for you, from Lady Grenvers ; I was specially
told not to ask for Mrs. Lupton.'

And you would not have asked for her ;
would you have asked for me ? '

I don't know ; it seemed all bound to come
right somehow. AVill you have the trinkets \ '

No : — what do they matter ? you can leave
them by and by. John ! are you glad to seeme?'


Very glad ; but must you be always as
finely dressed as this in London ? '

She sighed. ' No, I suppose not; but I like
clothes, and I am going to such a luncheon
party — the De Lewes', — oh ! you don't know
and to meet royalty.'

Princes and princesses ? '

Not the whole Almanach De Gotha, John —
one English princess and some foreign potentates.
I knew the De Lewes well in Brussels ;
they are at Brown's hotel. The worst of
royalty is that one can't be late, and I don't
see my way to being ill at a moment's notice.'

^No/ said John directly, 'you must go.
What time will it be over % '

I can get away at three. Meet me here
then. What shall you do meanwhile ? '

Leave the parcel at Mrs. Lupton's. '

It will take ^nq minutes, and there is an
hour and a half before you. Perhaps I can
escape before three, but Mrs. Lupton thinks I
shall stay the whole afternoon.'

I will wait for you here ; come when you
can. But Waldine, answer me one question.
Do you care for all this — I mean this gaiety
and pleasure % You are so young, you are so
bright and rare.'

You speak of me as if I were a gem, only
then youth would not add to my value. John,
yes, I care for it all : don't let me undervalue
or underrate things. I care for clothes and

compliments. But I care more for you ; even
with that same me which these things occupy
I care more for you than for them. You are
the great excitement of my life, the thing that
is most at my heart is to tell you how entirely
I love you.'

Oh, Waldine, Waldine, do you speak the
truth ? '

Absolutely. Walk demurely now, as you
saw me walking : there is some one coming
and I feel I am not behaving well. \Yhy in
heaven s name haven't you got a high hat on f

Is it wrong — this hat ? I never thought
and my coat ? '

Looking down from the hat to the coat,
she had to meet the eyes, so that the coat was
never commented upon : she laughed lightly
under her breath and they let the stranger
pass them.

What shall we do this afternoon ? Have
you any sort of plan ? '

I am to get some New Year cards for
Lady Grenvers.'

The very thing : we will go to a shop I

know of together, and choose them ; I shall
buy a thick veil, and then we can go in a
hansom. It is very shocking, but it does not
strike me as wrong. Does it you 1 '

Don't do it another day with Mr. Denham.'

Not with my son ? John, what a look !
He will be at the luncheon : I wish I could
take you. But you would hate it and I should
hate you there ; if you looked at the princess
I should die of jealousy. Do get a high hat,
there are plenty of shops in Bond Street. It
will be something for you to do, and I am
sure it will suit you. What is the time ? '

Ten minutes to two.'

I must go.' — They were standing on the
steps near the pillar. — ' Wish me a pleasant
morning ! I shall be thinking of you all the
while.'

Think of me thus ! '

He had taken her softly in his arms before
she was aware ; * Waldine ! ' he said, ' my wife.'

It was a whisper, like a breath of June.
Ah I how he loved her : even her exactions
were contented now. — That tenderness of his

embrace, that lover's utter gift of self — they
must have left a gust of summer between the
dark walls, a shock of warmth in the cold
pillar, for the next fortunate passer-by. What
was it wandering in the air ? a soul exchanged
or lost ?

A hientdt', she said ; and then, for there
were footsteps, she was gone.

He watched her cross the road and walk
with supple easy motion up Hay Hill. Then
he went through the passage again without
seeing a yard of it : and luckily he could not
miss his way to Mrs. Lupton's house.

He had an hour before him : he went to
Bond Street and bought himself a hat.

I want a high hat, please,' he said, ' like
they are wearing now.'

It was the latest defect licensed : it made
him look very tall, and it was not quite easy
on his curly head. Moreover, it cost a great
deal of money ; that mattered more.

In effect he had left himself a margin of
thirty shillings for the day's expenses, of which
the hat took twenty-five. But ^n^ shillings

would suffice for his refreshment, and he had
not told his mother that he had thought of
bringing her a present from London. He put
on the new hat and pocketed the change : he
gave up that notion of a present for his
mother.

Where shall I send your other hat, sir ? '
He did not think of having it sent to the

station : he did not want to give an address :
Will you keep it for me till I call ? ' he said.

(So that perhaps John's hat is at the hatters
still !)

He had a travelling cap in his pocket, that
would do for the train. As for the new one,
he would slink in, at home, and hide it, or
throw it out of the carriage window before he
reached Netherfield : he knew it was an useless
purchase, but it was Waldine's wish that he
should have it — it seemed like the price of his
blissful hour with her.

Now for some dinner,' he said, as he left
the shop. He had a sovereign that Lady
Grenvers had sent him for the New Year
cards ; he must keep that intact : he had his

return ticket and he had five shillings : he was
hungry and would have no further expenses.

Stay ! the cab in which he was to drive
with Waldine by and by ?

He stood still outside the Grosvenor
restaurant and whistled softly.

Then he took his hand out of his pocket
and buttoned his coat.

He had breakfasted betimes and it was
long past his dinner-hour, but there was no
help for it, he could not afford to dine now.
If he could get some bread and cheese ?

But that is a difficulty in Bond Street.
There was a baker's : but by some odd chain
of inferences his high hat prevented his going
there. He had a feeling that it would look
unusual. On the whole, it was easier to be
hungry. ' By Jove,' he said, ' I would eat
my hat if I could.' He could hardly return,
however, to the shop that he had honoured
With his patronage and offer there the old hat
in exchange for a meal. He had put on an
instinct with his London chimney-pot and he
was obliged to obey it. Neither bright

public-house, discharging muddy workmen,
nor pastry-cooks, with supercilious Hebe,
satisfied the requirements of this instinct.
He took exercise instead of luncheon. It was
not so strengthening, but it was cheaper.

The shops bewildered him with their show
of jewels and silks ; but one would not have
guessed his wonderment. Like all country-bred
Englishmen, he had a shyness which
looked very like pride. It was the first time
that this shyness had absolutely gnawed his
vitals, but in the extreme form it shaped
itself into extreme reserve ; just because he
was hungry and shy, his air was consequential
in its nobleness and languor.

People looked at him too ; perhaps what
was attractive in his aspect was that it was
not yet levelled to the ordinary London tone.
Without being odd he had the impropriety of
being brilliantly handsome, and of having the
flesh-tints not effaced by lassitude or dirt.
The hour passed very quickly; his mind
photographed all sorts of pictures — carriages,
horses, corners, faces, but he was unaware of

most of them ; it was an automatic process.
It was only when he turned into Grafton
Street again and saw the Bond Street panorama
still before his eyes that he knew he had
observed intently, that he knew he should
remember. He was in Berkeley Street at ten
minutes to three : she might escape, she had
said, before the appointed hour. He waited a
quarter of an hour, half an hour, an hour —
patient as a dog. It rained. He sheltered
himself under the portico of the passage and
made skirmishes of observation. Presently
from his covert he saw Waldine in a hansom
with Mr. Denham : she fronted John as they
drove down Hay Hill : she was laughing — he
could see that ; her lips were like a scarlet
flower, her teeth like millet ; but he could not
see the way her eyes sought out his figure in
the dark. Despite his hunger and chill, he
felt a great access of angry jealousy inflame
him. He would not be the first to drive with
her that day then, despite her having characterised
the proceeding as very shocking ?
He had told her rightly what his simple

country-breeding meant, with its heritage of
single-hearted passion. He could renounce
her ; he-had hardly sought the boon she had
bestowed on him ; but he could not share her
with another. She would have to understand
that, once and for all.

He straitened himself u^d almost fiercely
and lit a cigar to calm his nerves ; the look in
his eyes as the match showed them was a look
of heavy care. How long he might have to
wait he did not know, but it never occurred
to him to go elsewhere. Her word was law.

A sudden rattle of wheels round the corner
of the square — her radiant face was before
him again ; she was alone in the hansom now ;
that flamelike vision burnt up all the smoke
of jealousy and wrath.

Stop,' she called out to the driver, ' stop !
there's my — brother! . . .'

And then she fell back laughing and
covered her burning face with her hands.

Oh John,' she said, ' how different you look
to Launcelot in London ! '

FIRE

John got into the hansom dexterously enough,
considering the difficulties of the vehicle, only
bruising the unaccustomed hat against the
drooping glass. As he settled himself beside
her it seemed to him that Waldine expanded
like some lovely tropical flower ; the sweetness
of her presence made his heart faint with
longing. Excitement, flattery and delicate
fare had all been to her a sort of prelude to
this feast of love. She was warm in every
limb ; her sapphire eyes and vivid lips flashed
smiles ; and this meeting long deferred was to
be the crown of her delight.

That John was jealous, hungry, cold — ill
with the weary and unusual day — never once

occurred to her mind. Was anger possible ?
were there such terrors as fatigue and chill '?
How should she know? she felt like a fairy
queen, commissioned to fling glory through
the town with her fairy prince beside her.

Shut the doors she said, still laughing, ' I
have told him where to go ! What I have
been through to come to you I your providence
almost failed us. . I was in such a
hurry to get away that they all wanted to
know my plans. Mr. Denham said he should
walk back with me ; then I said I was going
in a hansom, and he asked if he might com
too — " Give your brother a lift," he said, for the
cabman to hear him. — I was rxiaee : when we
got into Charles Street I suddenly remembered
that Mrs. Lupton would not like it. I insisted
on his getting out. I drove down
Queen Street and then up Chesterfield Street
I passed him again but he never saw me.
I told the cabman to go to Waterloo Place,
and to Waterloo Place he is going. I took
a hint from Mr. Denham, about whose relationship
to me I am getting horribly confused, and

VOL. II. 27

stopped him to pick up ''my other brother." —
Why don't you speak to me ? Do you mind
the lie?'

I don't mind anything now,' said John,
thawing a little in her sunshiny presence, and
taking her fluttering hand in his ; ' have you
been happy all this while away V

Am I late ? — it seemed endless. Oh ! yes,
I have not been bored : I have a lucky consciousness
moreover that I have not been dull.
I had always rather be bored than dull : one
can blame others if one is bored, but one
cannot forgive one's self if one is dull ! '

Dull, my star ! '

Behind a fog often enough, without you,'
said the girl gently, her eyes brimming with
tears. ' John, I must buy a veil : 1 have seen
three people I know already. Is it not extraordinary
that one cannot drive a moment
in Piccadilly without seeing three people one
knows — and nearly always just the three
people one would rather not see, aren't they V

John looked out of the hansom : there were
not three people that he knew in all London.

Where are we going ? ' lie said after a
moment.

Waldine's answer came from behind the
muff, with which she was shielding her face
from the eyes of a familiar friend.

To a shop where we can get cards and
veil and all — a sort of general village shop,
like the one at Netherfield Gate ! Do you
like driving through these streets ? I adore it.
Look at the lamps ; they have hardly been
put out for days ! We don't live by sunlight
here ! '

'Don't you?' said John rather foolishly,
contemplating what was mere sunlight to him.

You have not said three words she went
on quickly : ' say three words to me, you say
nothing. I must have you say three words to
spoil the sight of those three hideous people ! '

/ love you!

Silence ; then after a pause. ' I surrender,
John, I cannot talk to you : I can write to
you, and often when you are away from me I
can talk to your ghostly presence hour by
hour. But now that you are really here, you

are like a weight upoti my heart and I — I
think — on yours.'

You will have all life to talk to me in, I
trust,' said John.

I think I shall never utter : don't you see,
John, that for us two there is nothing but
love ? If you were any other man I know,
there would be a hundred safety valves of
speech : I could let off the steam. But now
. . you would not care to hear about the
princess' bonnet or the grand duke's appetite,
would you ? — and he did not eat prettily, par
"parentheses /'

John pushed back the offending hat ; she
had never even observed it. ' I care for
nothing here but you, Waldine,' he said : — ' I
came here to see you and I have seen you.
All that you tell me pleases me, because you
say it; but the only thing in London that
there is for me is yourself. Do you not
understand ? You have only to be with me
for me to be happy : it is not what you say
or do that moves me, it is you. Why are
you silent now V

Oh ! go on speaking to me ! Do you
know what your words are ? There is not a
fibre in my heart that they do not thrill : I
think it is your voice that I love.'

I hope that it is me that you love, my
darling, me and my love of you.'

^ It is not that latter, I know ; it has
nothing to do with it. I love you as one
loves fresh air and music, reckless if they have
returning love for one or not — never, I fancy,
thinking about that at all. It is your voice,
your hands, your kisses that I love, that make
the world for me.'

'If I were dumb and maimed and absent '

Oh don't talk like that ! horrible ! how
can I tell ? it would not be you. Absent, yes !
I can stand a certain absence . . . would you
love "hue if I were maimed and dumb ? '

Better, if better can be, but it can't : you
are myself for me, Waldine ! A man loves
himself: he talks about it little, but see the
pains he takes to get it happiness : does he
love himself less for such troubles as those ? —
no, but more. It seems to me dreadful, often,

that the only scope for my compassion towards
you is the risk of your love for me.'

I don't want your compassion : I have
made no sacrifices : I have added you to my
life.'

But you are going to make them ? . . .'

Of course ; but if do — or rather when I
do — they won't seem sacrifices. Don't you
see? when I go to you, I. shall go because I
love you just too well to do without you any
longer. Why did you put that tone into your
voice ? Do you think I would ever go back
from my word \ For one thing only in life I
have complete contempt — for its timidity. I
have no qualms, all things are for the best.
Love is the best of things ; there is no second
best.'

You will marry me and share my grooved
career ? '

I have said it ; I will say it as often as
you will hear me. You must trust me, John ;
believe me I was born respectable ! cowardice
is a question of breeding. You have my
word. Listen ! If I ceased to love you I

would marry you still if you wished it. If
you wished it I would even marry you if you
ceased to love me — that's harder, but one does
not give one's word for nothing, one gives
one's worth with it : I have thought out all
this. But I have only begun to love you,
John ; I shall take all my days to learn the
whole lesson ; and you — you have not ceased
to love me yet ? I love you far too well to
dream that you will cease to love me yet '

Not yet,' said John. Again the little
word, the great significance, the mutual thrill.

They were driving down Waterloo Place
now, and it was darker turning from the glare
of Piccadilly; the cold damp air blew fresh
vigour into Waldine's nerves, as if it were a
breath of the sea ; she felt her face cool above
the throbbing of her frame, like ice on fever ;
she stooped it against his shoulder.

Waldine,' he said, ' when shall it be, this
gift of our life to each other V

Oh ! when you will,' she answered ; ' how
can I decide ? we must do what is wisest, and
you are the best judge of that. It bothers me

to make plans, but I shall not quarrel with
yours

Let us think said John gently, ' where
we are . . . He set his mind to ponder.

We are at Howell and James,' she answered
quickly, with a sense of relief, ' and
we have half an hour's work before us ;
give the cabman eighteen pence ; we will be
economical and not keep him ; put on as
brotherly a look as you can, and follow me ! '
The audacity that was upon her was like
possession.

She bought a veil, for which John madly
longed to pay, but the price of which astonished
him greatly. She tied it closely over
her face and set about the selection of poor
Lady Grenvers' New Year emblems as blindfold
as fortune. The warmth and comfort
of the place was new life to John ; starved
and frozen as he was, he glowed and thawed ;
the look of perfect happiness on his flushed
face gave it an ideal — almost transparent —
beauty. Through her veil Waldine watched
him with intense pride. He seemed to her

like a god : the notion that he was straitened
for small change would have been incredible
had it presented itself to her mind ; but she
never thought of him as any way dependant.

Buy me this, John she said when the
parcel was completed, with the air of one who
confers a favour.

It was a little scented sachet of white satin
with a rose outside it — not a thing which she
liked even, not a thing that she needed or
on which she could fasten any association
with the day. He bought it with his last
half-crown.

They went out presently into the street ; it
was nearly five o'clock. The thickness of her
veil prevented her from feeling chilled ; to
John the keen air struck like rain, all saturated
as it was with fog. Strange, for he had never
used to be one to think of weather !

I must be home soon after ^n^', said
Waldine ; * there is a crowd of people coming,
and I have no sort of excuse. We will walk,
John. Oh ! it is not like Whiteknyghts
walking, is it ? '

She paced quickly, but it was not fast for
him ; they had turned southward and went
down the broad steps towards St. James' Park.
They made their way more slowly along the
skirting avenues and by Constitution Hill to
Grosvenor Place, for the Green Park was shut ;
the darkness, the sense of security, the nearness
to the beloved combined to Waldine's entire
elation.

That is where the Prince of Wales lives,'
she said ; * Mrs. Lupton means him to distinguish
me next season. Perhaps next
season we shall be settled in the country and
I shall have forgotten Marlborough House as
much as you will.'

We have such soft evenings at Netherfield,'
said John, ' in summer weather ! Ah, love,
last summer I did not know that the world
had anything like you — is not that strange %
There you were all the time growing up forme,
and there was I all the time waiting for
you ; longing often in the fields, those August
evenings, for some one different to the girls I
saw, to walk with me between the hedgerows

or in the cornfields. I used to wonder how I
should find the sweetheart I wanted ; she
seemed a dream. Till I saw you, and then the
dream faded suddenly out ; because you were
so much more ^w^ and fair than the face it held !
How soon you filled my heart — how full you
filled it ! '

Waldiue listened, listened ; his voice, with
its slight throat sound, deepened from fatigue
and vibrating with passion, lulled her into an
ecstasy of which their motion through the
winter air was like the pulse ; she felt as if
they throbbed together in the world without:
volition of their own or individual being.

It was very dark along the lonely road ;
only a few saunterers, who did not heed them,
saw that John had stolen his arm round the
girl's shoulder and that she was walking with
her head against his breast. Under the pressure
of this air, so charged with secrets, he
could tell her his at last. He spoke it as
proximity made it more clear to his own sense :
' I loved you from the first ; I shall love
you till I die. My eyes are blind when I do

not see you, my arms empty when they do
not hold you. For my heart you are life and
death, for my soul you are heaven.'

I cannot stay in London now without
you,' said Waldine after a pause ; ' you have
changed it all for me by this one visit. I did
not know it could contain such bliss. Ah !
John, what immense happiness time holds.
Driving sometimes with Mrs. Lupton I have
thought how charming town-life was with its
gaieties, its perpetual occupation ! I have passed
by Hyde Park corner and I have seen people
sauntering about and never suspected that the
saunterers might wholly despise the busy
drivers, never thought that I should soon
stroll here with my beloved.'

So this is Hyde Park corner,' said John
as they came out on the bewildering lights.

Yes ! and do you see the fog ? we have
hardly felt it — at least I, for you look strangled
and John, I said that every foggy day I was
at Mr. Denham's disposal to give him my
maternal counsel. Do you recollect ? I wrote
to you all about it. Very likely he is waiting

for me now — an idle son with a face full of
confessions.'

Let him wait.'

For ever and a day ! I promise you, now
and for always, that whenever I am with him
I will think of only you.'

That's a pretty promise ! will you keep it?'

With my life ! . . . Love, / must go ; it is
late and I have no excuse — and you must go —
j must think of it ! you have to catch your train ;
I know there is one about six, but we have
loitered here so long you have no time to
spare ; you must take a hansom.'

What are you going to do this evening
while I am hurrying away from you — so fast
so fast ? '

Only heaven and Mrs. Lupton know ; we
have to dine out, else I could avoid the rest.
And anyway it will be long past ten before
you are at home by that slow train ; I suppose
you must go. . . . It is like taking the life
out of my body. Write to me when you are
gone.'

She tied the veil across her face aofain — the

face which John had bared to kiss in the
dusky avenues — and they walked silently along
the south side of Piccadilly. The novelty
of being side by side had become suddenly
familiar : they felt as if they were about to
break off a long while of life together. They
threaded the streets • presently, and it was by
the little dark chapel in Curzon Street that at
last they parted. Many a parting, without
doubt, ere theirs had that little chapel shielded,
many a parting has it shielded since, but
seldom one, perhaps, where the usual mood
was so entirely reversed. Of these two beautiful
and youthful lovers here the girl had all
the enterprise and ardour of a boy, the man
had all the docile constancy of a woman.
Waldine was in the pause of a crowded life,
even physically fuller than John's. This
violent passion of love was the one peaceful
instant of her day ; she was going on from
strength to strength because of it. Well fed,
warm clad, the crimson of superb health staining
her soft lips, she was, as it were, just
wasting a breathing space of existence in

company of the idol she had chosen. As for
him, chilled, hungry, choked with unaccustomed
poison in the air — every nerve and fibre strained
in rapture of earnest, self-upbraiding love —
this was the central pang to which all his
hopes had rounded. When this good-bye was
done he had to get his endless journey over
as he best could, and to live by its remembrance
tortured with jealous pain till kindly fate
might bring him one chance more. And yet
the gift was his, for all that the search was hers.

Say one thing to me, love,' she said,
gazing into his dear, tired face with starlit,
dewy eyes ; ' one word that T may hold within
my heart for ever.'

Kemember,' he answered her, ' once more
remember this is all to me. Withhold everything
or withhold nothing now. I give you
this last chance. I am not cruel — I can
forgive. But choose ! Waldine, my queen, in
the sight of God above us, are you my wife
or not ? '

Yours only, yours ever,' she said in a sigh
that was the echo of his breath.

And then he kissed her ao^ain

to'

Ten minutes afterwards he was running,
as fast as one can run in London, through
drizzling wet to the station ; and Warlike,
her face only the fairer, her hair only the
sleeker, for the damp, was turning to Mr.
Denham's confidences, from among billowy
sofa-cushions, the inattentive shell of her ear,
in which the humming song of contented
passion was yet awake like music.

THE END OF BOOK III.

CONTEMPT

VOL. II. 28

JOHN LYNE's love-letter

Whiteknyghts Cot, New Year's Eve.

My dearest girl — That is the way that
Keats began his love-letters, and I suppose
Keats had a sort of notion of the right wa}\
That at least is what you are to me, that and
more.

At last I have your leave to write to you —
a leave I hardly dare to take. To bring you
myself, that is one thing, because you have
deigned to accept me, but to bring you my
thoughts, that sounds bold.

Yet surely this is the time and this the
place, if ever anywhere it can be true that I
should write to you as mine.

Waldine, this paper is not worthy of you,

this ink is not clear enough, this pen is not
fine enough. Only the hand that guides the
pen is jours enough ; nothing else enough, but
yours enough, my dear.

What shall I wish you for the coming year ?
in an hour or so it will be here, and everything
is so quiet and the air so still and keen that I
almost fancy I can hear its wings. Perhaps
they're the old year's wings, though, that I'm
so loth should leave us. Stay a bit, old
fellow, you have been the best of friends !
But he won't stay : he is going : and what of
his successor ? I think I'll wish that he may
bring you happiness ; nothing besides ' matters
much,' as you would say.

And you shall give me in return one of
your glancing, omnipotent wishes — for health,
I think : there is no need for you to wish me
happiness ; it is in your own gift.

It makes me half ashamed — only that
shame is not in love at all — to have to want
that you should wish me health. I have been
bad again with that same illness, and it's all
my own fault. I played the fool by hurrying

to the station after our walk together, and
got a sort of chill on the journey, after the
glow you put in me, I fancy. Anyway it was
indoors for me, and no more chances of sporting
the London hat — not even for New Year's
Day ! All the old trouble of cough and blood-streaks
again ; and it goes on still, though
lessened.

And his lordship is ill, and chafes for me to
go to him ; and they say her ladyship is almost
always in her rooms, for fear of draughts, —
and — well ! you see, in fact, we want you back
again to put our lives to music !

For me you are health and summer : I have
no comparisons for your presence ; but when I
shut my eyes and think of you it is as if a
lilac bush in spring were in my room, and on
every bough of it a bird were singing.

You have never seen this room ; it's very
simple. I wonder what you would do with it
if you had it to alter — that passes all my
guessing. It's my bedroom ; and it's got a
nice window with a red curtain, now pulled
back to show the moonlight : and what besides

? a table and an arm-chair — that's newly
added — and a bit of carpet, on which Sep —
that's short for September — Sep, my collie,
Flirt's successor, is asleep before a bright fire.

And here's me, a poor sick fellow that loves
you — that last quality seems to dignify me to
my self — in an old shooting-coat and with an
old pipe for all companion, which, by the way,
IVe let go out already thinking of you.

Me, Waldine, me, what am I ? Just your
slave ; but none the more merry for being such
a wholly useless slave just now. If I were a
poet, or a bit of a writer of any sort, I shouldn't
mind it so much. But this letter when it's
written will be the longest piece of writing
I've ever done, by a great deal, if I say half
that's in my heart to say.

Are you tired of it already % Oh ! I'm not
without qualms. How am I to interest you ?
I only know one subject of very great interest,
and that's a subject you ought to know a good
deal more about than I do, because, my love,
it is your own dear self. But the qualms are
in absence only ; when I am with you I have

none. It seems to me then that I can make
your life. My love is like a deep well : when
I get outside of myself to see it I am struck
by its small surface, but when you sound it I
get a hint of its capacity. All the same it is
you that fill the well. Till you filled it
with the water of love and the light of life it
was merely a hole in. my heart.

That was what ached for emptiness those
summer evenings. Sometimes I have stretched
myself along the grass, almost in physical pain
for what ? I did not know then ; it was
only an immense desire of something vague,
which something vague has shaped itself to
palpable you.

Now the fulness of the well, how to bear
it ? Now the answering arms, how to support
the embrace ? how to wait for it, how to claim
it ? Love, who knows all these things but
Love, whose moods they are ?

Those lonely summer evenings, how indefinite,
how hazy they were ! to-night how
changed the sky ! I wish you could have
seen the sunset. We have winter — arctic

winter — a black frost, not a breath of mist,
not a trace of fog from morning to morning,
absolute crystal clearness in which sun and
moon are plain to see and stars are intimate
lamps. One feels one could blow them
out, if the revelation did not hold one's breath.
I get up and go to the window — was it hours
ago that sunset flamed itself away in saffron
and purple and gold ? Hours or centuries was
it \ What has this deep heaven to do with
that burst of passion ? Oh Love ! the depth
of this dark canopy, the calm and silence of it
which are not death's calm or silence because
of the pulsing stars. Oh Love ! the glory of
the risen moon, which was so faint and pale in
the flooded sunset sky.

It will pass, this fiery insupportable hour
which shakes our senses till we hardly discern
life's full moon dawning for the flush of marriage
saffron all around. Our heaven will
darken, deepen, grow more mystical and
still.

And then the silver light. Waldine, I
have not much to give you : I bring you a

night of stars ! Let the crescent sail in it till
it reach the perfect round.

That's what it seems to me, the life I offer
you — a night of stars. Will it content you,
sweetest, best, and least considerate of self,
after the garish sky ?

Oh ! but the worst of it is this, you ought
to look for noontide, not for moonlight. My
heart misgives me that the sky so bright above
you now is really not sunset's but dawn's.

What if I shall have spoilt your day ?
What if my silver moon and quiet starry night
should find you cold, regretful ever of a vanished
morning \

Already you have spoken me my word of
comfort. You said you had no fears ; you
would own to no regrets. It was easier to
speak in simile — it seemed to shield my poorness
from myself — but that won't do. Let
me show you what it is that we have done.

We have plighted ourselves to each other
for life or death. We shall live always in the
same house, we shall lie for ever in the same
grave. If my station be low, if my grave be

far away, your station and your grave must
be with mine. Be certain that the great glory
that this holds for me holds no reverse for
you. I think we could not live here : that
you will not mind, but realise it once for all.
Our place would be anomalous. Will you
come with me abroad ? Whither you will ;
for me it need not be far, I have so few
acquaintances that I need avoid ; but what of
you % I do not want to weary you with
details, but what could I do in Europe ? I
am the merest Englishman. I think our home
must be American, or in Australia. I do see
somehow there a sphere for me with my
bounded knowledge, a possible wide, haj^py
life for you with your boundless courage and
love. Rustic life — almost wild.

Details I will not give you : if you realise
this, you will not want to be precise about the
where. I will find out all about that. Then
comes the when ? Life is not long : will you
not marry me soon, my love of loves ? My
people are old and well cared for : they have
plenty for their lives laid by : I have been

independent of them for some time past,
saving my means. And mine is yours. Yes,
I have the wings to take us, have you the will
to fly ? Lark, nightingale, dove, what bird
are you that you will make your nest with a
poor daw like me ?

Wife, does it vex you to think that we
must go so far ? Oh ! it is lucky you are young :
surely you are quite free ? London has no
links for you yet, the country-side no chains.
We will forge links and chains out there which
would make the desert home. Now is the
moment. Let us forestall time and death ! .

Come back, and let us speak about it in this
frost until we make the snow thaw with our
promise : we will talk it over all the spring,
and let us go from summer to summer and
find next December an Australian June.
You ought to go a sea voyage,' the doctor
said this morning ; ' you would shake off this
illness altogether so.' And saying it he turned
my heart over in my body with a bound.
Let me build the scheme ! Say you 'yes.' I
ask no more counsel. Come summer noon.

come winter night, no weariness, no chill shall

ever reach you. Through my brain first must

pass any shadow that shall fall upon your eyes,

through my breast force its way any pang

that shall stir your breath to sighing.

I am between you and the world henceforth.

You must peep at it over my shoulder. Mis

view of the world ? Oh love, my world is you !

Your faithful lover,

John.

Midnight. — There go the bells! my life
upon your faith.

God bless you, my darling.

WALDINES REPLY

CuRZON Street, January 2nd.

Yes ! ' you ask it : I say it. ' Yes ' with shut
eyes and fingers in my ears, ' yes ' vigilant
and listening. Why are you troubled ? why
do you make plans ? I have no troubles and
I make no plans. I take you, you take me :
all will be well.

And seriously, my own (my very own I
know for time and for eternity), I am not
wholly irresponsible. I have a sense of
honour : you seem to think I haven't ! In
other senses I am wanting, I have no sense of
distance. England, Italy, Australia — where
that latter is I am most uncertain ; but anyway
the three countries are under one sun, in

one air — better air or worse — and for me they
hold, or may hold, but one presence. I have
a sense of hurry though : don't hasten things !
I mean don't hasten great things : hasten
your coming or my going — our meetings and
our partings shall be how or where you will.
But why disturb a current of existence that
can be as calm as ours ? Do you want to
leave Whiteknyghts and your people and my
uncle ? why should you ? See my prudence :
it is obviously, — nay ! it is inevitably, right.

First of all you have to get well. It sounds
rather dreadful, but your illness is perfectly
intolerable to me. What's the use of chopping
words ? I who greatly desire to tell you
everything that befalls me, should I not tell
you first what I unjust have. I must have you
well again, John, well without more delay.
Don't think either that I grieve because this
illness is, as some would say, my fault.
Honestly, it is not that which grieves me. It
is this : the first thing that I ask of you is
health; devotion afterwards, but capacity before
all else. You must bury sickness with the

buried year: 'alms for oblivion,' John, you
must put weakness into ' Time's wallet.' You
will not disappoint me ?

And you must try and be practical — reasonable
first and practical next. Dearest, I have
a new cream satin dress. — (Oh ! there is something
of my aunt in me, and I never knew
it !) — It was not made for the backwoods.
By and by I will dress myself in serge or
print — nay, in sackcloth for your sake : but
with a new cream satin from Elise and with
you at my side — for what is that path across
the park when I am once at home ? — why
should I not enjoy the pride of both ?

How you have made me argue ! and it is
all such a trifle : you trust me, do you not ?
you are not jealous ? Well then do not be
impatient ! do not spoil tranquil ease by a
snatch at ecstasy with risk. Let us have
peace with honour ! '

These last words have made me lausfh.
They read as if I did not wish to be your
wife ! I have no wish in life but that : it ends
up all my plans. But it eiids them : the plans

beyond are yours. Do you not understand ?
Once given, I lose myself, and rightly. If I
could think for one instant that you doubted
me when I say solemnly that I love you, then
illogical as it sounds — I would marry you
tomorrow ! But you cannot doubt my love
for you any more than I doubt yours for me.
And I do not doubt that at all ; did not doubt
it before I had your letter, do not doubt it
now.

Your letter ! all this while I have not
praised it : I have no words of praise. Dear,
one who loved you less might praise it more
than I.

There I stop short — because — because I
do not want to be ambiguous. I will not
have you think I cannot praise it because I
am too much moved. The reason, the real
reason is that it does not wholly please me.
To think that I should be so difficult !

Once I said to you I was not absolutely
certain that I wished you to love me. Of one
thing I am quite certain : I do not want you
overmuch to express your love. I want you

in my life for many reasons, but the chief
reason is for repression of myself. Let me
be the fluent speaker — it is so easy. Be you
the limitless and throbbing silence. Close up
my chattering day, voiceless interpreter ! . . .
Oh me ! choosing all these fine terms, am I
still afraid of being truthful ? Is the real fact
merely that your way of speaking is not
what I would have it be ? Is your letter,
despite its devotion, or because of its devotion,
a sort of weariness ? I would to God I
knew. . . .

John, don't look hurt ! you would not
dream that I am careless of your love if you
could see me now. I have perused your letter
twenty times : I have no fault to find with it.
But, dear, it does not stir my depths as your
long silence stirred them. Mine be the blame
of this ! But you must know the case : then
you shall write or not write as you will. I
love you with my whole heart, I am not sure
that I love you with one lobe of my brain. I
would let my heart, set free, win the conversion
of my mind.

VOL. II. 29

Enough: my reasoning is all abroad. Only,
once more, don't try to utter fancies : I credit
you with the unutterable always. Just tell
me common facts, if needs be, dates and hours.
What you are to me, have you any notion?
I have no words to tell it you ; but, whatever
it is, it is my heart has made you this for me.
Yet what you did not make, you somehow
still might mar. Can you understand this %
It is simple.

I must try and frame it rationally to your
knowledge. A certain outside self of me is
more the slave of things usual than I thought.
I have speeches made to me all day by one
and the other, with which I do not want to
put your speech into comparison.

It would be like your coming up to London
without a high hat : I don't know why, but it
would : remember you were a shock to me
then ! I have not quite got over it yet !

Be my compass, my mainspring, my prince,
my life, my god ! But, for your own sake,
lift me up to you, do not come down — such a
descent it is ! — to me.

There ! I am ill to-night. Surely it must
be illness that makes a woman dispraise herself.
Shall I diagnose my illness for you as
you do for me that most vexatious one of
yours ? I have discussed it with Mrs. Lupton,
and she says it is ambition. For my part I
call it fatigue. She says I want an embassy,
I say I want rest.

Oh ! is the secret to be solved by double
life ? I wonder.

To be happy I desire power, but I desire a
slavery therewith : I have the longing to rule
a kingdom, but be ruled by you. Perhaps
sex is my trouble ; if I were a man I could
lead two lives ; and why not now ? Why try
to run a complex personality in a single
groove ?

Don't think I hesitate or balance any
choice whatever in my mind. I don't : I
have chosen you ; I have foregone success, so
called. And yet, so far as this success maybe
compatible with your possession of me, I
want you to let me taste it. Let me know
the worthlessness of the sphere that I resign

before I resign it in your favour. A concession
like this will be generous.

Very often it seems to me, Join, that I
love you as a man loves a woman. I adore
your beauty, I hold my breath before your
gentleness. I know no sweetness upon earth
like the sweetness of your kiss. But your
protection — do I want that ? Oh ! no a thousand
times ; it only makes me smile. You say
that you will shield me ; but then I have no
wish to be shielded —

. . .in me si move
Un anima selvaggia.'

You have not forgotten your Italian ? —
selvaggia,' yes ! that's it. I am Waldine,
to change the sense a little. I ask for choice,
to choose you always in the end, but to be
forced to decide. How else is there action in
life, how else is there worth in love ? Dear,
don't talk of protecting me — a gun can do as
much ; don't talk of providing for me — a fool
can do more ! Draw out my tears with your
tenderness, draw out my soul with your voice.
That is your province. As to the world and

the world's value, I need no help, no added
courage, to make me face the one or despise
the other.

A thousand pardons ! I ask your pardon
always, I know not why. But one thing in
me needs neither forgiveness nor concessions,
the truth I show you. Is not my truth a
merit ? Yet not mine, but yours. For yours
I am, to take or leave, yours for all claims and
all time. And shall I not be true ? ' Oh
yes ! ' you answer, and your tone, unheard,
thrills me although you are so far away : — ' Oh
yes ! it is surely best for both of us that you
should be true ! ' I will.

Was that a sigh of yours, my love, that
closed the whisper and seemed an answer to
my breath of relief ? — for confession is over :
I have nothing more that is hard to tell you,
all is said and done. I do not want to hear
you sigh like that, when I am alone with you,
like this, of evenings.

For indeed, indeed, you are here ! Wherever
I may be now — at home, abroad, in shops
or theatres — I hold you in my heart : you

are my talisman against another care. I
cannot think of any shame or any sorrow
that one instant of your embrace would
not blot out from me for ever. Strange
gift you give me, absolute intoxication of
sense ! — and then to attempt speech of it !
No, no, we shall express things sometime, but
not now.

You are ill, you say. How to amuse you ?
Mrs. Lupton or Lady Grenvers could amuse
you better than I. Love makes me sad, exacting,
cross : it is an enervating mist about me. . . .
Ah ! by the way, John, it is strange that the
only two women I should have seen intimately
since I came to England should guide me —
little dreaming it — more and more straight to
you. My aunt is incarnate vanity. Her
influence has been to set me against self. I
am wholly sickened of her care for her beauty
and her dress. She presents what she would
call mere rustic slavery, by contrast, in its
most attractive form. Her introspection (let
me frame it philosophically if I can) moves me
to expansion the more. Because of her prevailing

powder-puff, I pine for sun-tan and
freckles.

Mrs. Lupton's influence lias been more
dangerous than this incitement by opposites :
she has roused my daring. John, I do not
believe in all Mrs. Lupton's adventures, but I
have got to feel it is my mission to prove them
possible. I furnish the examples to her text
of life. It was her fault at first : it will be her
fault still until her fixncy fails her. She is not
more than a dreamer ; but I have lived her
dream. She often says to me, not I now
believe, from her own experience, ' We modern
women must keep life and love apart.' And
then I come straight to you and say to you,
We have fulfilled Mrs. Lupton's ideal in many
ways : let us fulfil it also in this.'

For a time ! For a time only. I ask you
but a breathing space. And, dear, how
charged with sweetness will be the air
we breathe the while ! My wish is this : —
for you are right that I cannot stay a great
while longer away. — Let me return and let
us live our daily life, glorifying ever what

moments of it you will, by meetings at your
pleasure.

While I am here I am amused — I confess
it ; there would be almost cause for you to be
jealous if you saw my surroundings. But
at Whiteknyghts ! you will not grudge me my
unharmed moments there. There is no one —
scarcely any one, is there ? — that will come as far
as Whiteknyghts to find me, of all my London
friends. I will test them at any rate. ' If they
should come?' — you say. Oh! but they won't.

I had a hundred things to say to you, but
they are too trifling. All that matters really
in what I have written is the news that I am
coming. Early, very early in this young year,
I am coming, to find the one real passion the
world holds for me.

Answer me in a word, you perfect lover !
Shall I not come ? shall it not all be as I will ?
I sail upon the clouds in expectation : do not
make me feel myself only ballooning by the
suggestion of any chain to earth however silken.
Raise your spirits to my level ! Meet me up
here in heaven ! . . .



A shiver brings me back to earth — a shiver
like an omen of evil. The fire is out. My
ecstasy seems to have passed. I am, — once
again, — your poor, perplexed

Waldine.

AN AFFIRMATION

Whiteknyghts Cot, January Hath.

Come then, my dearest, when you will, and
let us lead what life you choose together.
Half together, if not yet wholly ; but not
apart, as now, again.

My last qualm is against letting any words
bind you. For you would always speak the more
generous resolve. I will let only your action
bind you past recall. If you come to me now,
you come as my promised wife. Whether our
Averting day be in summer or winter does not
seem to me to matter. You know what you do.

But, once returned here, whether your home
be at this side of the world or at the other,
you are mine : there is to be no going back.

I was to give you facts. My father is ill.
He has had an accident : and my mother is
worn out with watching him. Think of me as
better, watching too. But it is only half my
sight that watches the old man's sleep ; and
the more wakeful half watches the road for
you.

My child, my mistress 1 it costs me something
to leave the paper blank. And yet I
know how poor my words must seem to you.
Look into my heart : I'll warrant you will not
be disappointed there.

John Lyne

LITTLE FOXES

I HAVE not,' said Mrs. Lupton, summing upas
was her wont, an article of her negative
creed for Waldine's behoof, ' any opinion at
all of my own sex.'

It was an interval in the busy London day,
that opportune moment preceding tea (and the
inevitable tea-side danglers) which she was fond
of improving before she launched into her airy
cynicism. It was a moment full of memories
for Val ; it was for just this hour she had
walked with John Lyne on Constitution Hill.

*Your mood is Delphic,' she answered
absently, ' and that gray velvet gown is
tomh-y, as Aunt Linda would say. Utter, my
oracle, and tell me why ?'

She sat herself at Mrs. Linton's feet ; she
experienced always now a longing for caresses.
She put her head on Mrs. Lupton's knee, Mrs.
Lupton stroked it with her small nervous
hand which felt the softness of the hair
without divining a throb of the brain.

Of you, my dear, I have a sort of notion,
but the most of us are quite elusive ; one
must mistrust us, because trust has no foundation.
Oh ! L don't mean that I have a bad
opinion of women. I mean just what I say —
I have none — we are such a menagerie.
Worldly women are like turkeys and tortoises.
If you don't strut and gobble, and fatten your
body and wrinkle your face, you must get a
shell and creep about beneath it. Ethelinda
has become a tortoise already ; her shell is
self, and how she polishes that shell ! I shall
be a turkey, Yal, I know it. I have shuddered
at Christmas fare like a cannibal, and I suppose
that's the reason. Oh ! the want of courage
that sends us all to the same farmyard or
floor. We who thought once to fly, in the
end we waddle or crawl.'

I suppose I shall finish as one or the
other,' said Val laughing, ' tortoise or turkey,
shall I crawl or gobble? — But I always
thought Aunt Linda was a butterfly.'

It is the butterfly, dear, that swells and
hardens into the tortoise ; I have watched it
often. For myself I have prayed to be neither
tortoise nor turkey, yet I often feel the
clutter in my throat and I know my doom.
But widowhood helps me,' she concluded with
a sigh : — 'Be a widow, Val ! It is difficult, but
I don't see why it should be impossible to
forecast it, if you choose your man.'

'Think of some other mode of emancipation,'
said Waldine slowly, repressing an odd
shiver : — ' I want an original life.'

A life,' Mrs. Lupton echoed ; ' we always
say "a life," as if it were a certain line of
tram or railway. Yet Chance is still standing
by us with hands full of varied hours :
the thing is to get a safe foothold within
reach of them. I have made my perch ; it is
not lofty, but it is easy; thence I select
samples of existence.'

Samples would not suffice me ; I am more
robust than you. I want to lose myself.'

^ Inartistic ; in fact coarse ! I am convinced
of the need for a safe critical standpoint.
There shall Chance toss you the
hours : play with them what game you will
and let them fall, but keep your foothold.
By the way, Waldine, you must marry soon.'

Indeed, ma'am, and why V

For a reason the reverse of the common ;
most women marry for protection, you must
marry to protect. Your husband must be perpetually
drawing out your masculine qualities,
and you will find the feminine virtues increase
with the demand.'

That's obscure ; but if I understand you,
I think you are right about me.'

What a grave tone ! . . . Mr. Denham ?
Ah ! you have precluded a confession ! I was
going to put some home-questions to Waldine :
and she would have responded . . . who can
prophesy how ? Likely enough, in Chinese
fashion, by more questions ! So that it's as
well you came. But answer, is the fog really

thick enough to warrant your being admitted
again to-day?'

It is black out of doors said Mr. Denham
sheepishly, ' I took for granted that it was fog.'

Waldine had not risen ; she was still gazing
steadily into the fire. He came across to
shake hands with Mrs. Lupton and then
stooped over her ; she took his hand, but it
was only to raise herself from the floor.
When she had done that, she walked away a
step or two, regardless of his having pressed
her fingers. She did not even say 'thank
you ' for his assistance.

Mr. Denham looked at her ; she wore a
simple gown of a sort of soft dark fleece ;
her head showed above it like a flower out of
brown mould. Her face had the sort of
vividness that pales paint. Coming in from
the cold air, she had flushed her cheeks with
rice-flour a little, and a few grains of it rested
upon the ivory and rose of her beauty like an
earthy stain. The texture and tint of her
skin were alike so lovely that the least
artificial touch disfigured them. She was

standing near a lamp, the light from which,
diffused through a white paper shade, was full
upon her hands as she tied and untied a long
brown ribbon knotted in a loose bow upon her
bosom. Her hands were like lilies.

Mr. Denham looked at her. She was to
him an enchantment, a mystery, a goddess.
Mrs. Lupton looked at Mr. Denham and
smiled ; he was not even a riddle to her.

You have no news,' she said in rather a
meaning voice.

No,' he answered, * you always know everything
first. I've nothing to tell you.'

His tone, which he made purposely impressive,
attracted Waldine's attention.

^ How comes it you remain in town ? ' she
asked him ; ' I thought you were devoted to
hunting.'

Oh ! I like London too,' he answered,
awkward and crimson ; ' I shall stay up sometime.'


'Shall you?' she said; 'I confess I don't
care for it any more. I would say so to no
hostess but Mrs. Lupton ; she permits whims :
VOL. II. 30

and if I don't like it under her auspices I
should like it less under my aunt's. I have a
caprice for isolation, my palate is cloyed with
pleasure.'

Yes, there is too much pleasure,' said the
Hon. Launcelot sadly, 'but I should have
thought you found Whiteknyghts dull.'

I adore dulness,' said Waldine — ' dulness,
cold, loneliness : I want the tonics of these.
I feel like a Skye terrier that has been kennelled
in a hothouse.'

But surely Whiteknyghts is like a hothouse
quite as much V

I suppose it is not perfect,' she answered
impatiently, ' but attending perfection — that's
a French phrase I fear — it pleases me well
enough.'

You like that part of the world ? '

Sufficiently well ' — she stopped short and
put one of her white hands to her head.
There had darted through her mind like a
swift pain the vision of that adorable wild
land about Whiteknyghts which was covert to
the only quest she sought.

You would not hate to make it your
home?' His tone was a little anxious now.

It is my home : you are like Magnate's
questions, only not so well worded. . . . Look
at Mrs. Lupton's visitors, they are more
amusing than I am. — Who is that V

It is Lady Trefusis ; is she not handsome %

Eugenia Trefusis ! the one woman Mrs.
Lupton loves. Let us sit down here and you
shall tell me about her.'

All the world knows : •' She is as good as
she is beautiful," et cetera. None the less I
believe she was once passionately in love with,
a brute called Jarvis. Mrs. Lupton knows
him too.'

That dreadful Captain Jarvis who rides in
the row with Mrs. North V

The same ; the man who married Miss
Buxton.'

I think I can understand the infatuation.'

You ?'

I. Don't look so horrified ; I do not
know him, and I have only seen her in the
distance. I may be wrong ; but I realise the

position. Captain Jarvis was the unknown
for Miss Brand ; she lead no landmarks. Had
she been less angelic she would have been
much harder to deceive. — Does she ever see
him now ? '

Never. She has set up the landmarks
with a vengeance since.'

That also I can understand. What a face
she has ! she makes Mrs. Lupton look like a
wicked doll. 1 suppose everybody in London
has a history.'

Everybody one knows, I should think.
Why that serious look? Do you want a
history ? '

I don't know what I want : I want to
stand bareheaded in the rain — that first.'

It's the heat of the room. — Miss de Stair,
will you let me tell you what it is you want ?
I am the sort of fellow that is very little good
at words, and one does not make speeches
nowadays, you see ; but I think what you
long for is to have your own way in everything,
and what I wish is that you would let
me help you to have it.'

I don't know that you are right, and I
don't see how you can help me

'Don't you?' he Laughed nervously, changing
colour a little, under her steady stare, but
man enough all the while not to flinch from his
position. — ' You might at least let me try. It
is like this. As things are, you have nothing
to gain by anything you may do. But if you
were — different, in different circumstances —
everything you did would matter, and not to
yourself alone.'

*We none of us live to ourselves alone,'
said Waldine with mock solemnity : — ' Have
you any notion how ridiculous you look
lecturing me ? Your face is quite red and the
collar of your coat is on end with excitement.
I never knew men's clothes were sympathetic —
wool to the sheep.'

You are not kind,' said the young man,
dum foundered at her rudeness : — ' But have
you any notion how beautiful you look when
you laugh ? yes, and when you frown too ? I
wish I had your photograph like that.'

Photographs are vulgar things. Mrs.

Lupton and I had a perfect holocaust yesterday
; we burnt you in effigy I can't tell you
how often ; it's a marvel that you have survived
it. You will have to present her with at least
a dozen new-ones to fill the empty frames.'

I have had some new ones taken ; may I
give you one ? if so Mrs. Lupton may have
the rest.'

I suppose you may ; but I shall not
frame it.'

You will not burn it ? '

No, I will take the greatest care of it : I
will put it away in a box, lock the box and
throw away the key.'

Well, as you will. What sort of copy shall
I send you ? they're wonderful fancy affairs,
my new photographs ; plain or embossed ? '

I should think the plain ones would bethe
most like you,' said Waldine carelessly :
and then they both laughed, like children, and
he could not press his suit.

But having silenced him, she returned,
womanlike, to the dangerous ground.

This repartee was but an interlude,' she

said, leaning back in lier chair ; * you were
teaching me my London. Lesson the first, to
disbelieve everything ; I cannot skip so soon
to lesson the last, to believe in you. Tell me ;
it does not trouble you that people have had
histories V

I should have very little sleep at nights if
it did.'

And you sleep well after the " fitful fever "
of your days ? '

Like a dog ; nobody's scrapes bore me ;
even my own don't keep me awake.'

Have you had " a history ? " '

He blushed. ' No — yes ! I suppose so,* a
hundred — nothing considerable.'

Novelettes at most, or shall we say paragraphs
? '

Oh ! I'm not worth discussion ; and 1
believe in fresh starts up to a certain age.'

For a woman also ? May I have novelettes
and paragraphs ? '

You are like nobody else. How am I to
tell you what I think about women ? They
must be very young to start quite fresh . . .

but what do you know ? And I — Miss de Stair,
the feminine world divides itself for me into
^* you," and " other women." '

That is a very pretty speech, I suppose ;
I am vain enough to take it so.'

It is meant to be. You see for sine you
can't do wrong. Even when you are hard on
me it seems all right. There is nothing I could
not forgive you, nothing I could not excuse
you. . . . Because I want you so. Oh ! won't
you let me tell you how much I want you ? '

His voice had become quite thick with
emotion ; its low, deep tone, because it did
not melt her in the least, froze Waldine's confidence
— she was half frightened, half amused.

Don't go on talking now,' she said, pushing
her chair aside a little : — ^ Open the door
for Lady Trefusis and bring me some toast.'

The wonder in her heart was answered !
She could envisage choice. From what worse
evil should one pray to be delivered ?

THE WORLD WELL LOST

And it was with the knowledge that she left
a lover, still undeclared, in London, that
Waldine de Stair returned to Whiteknyghts
soon afterwards. Returned to havoc, sorrow,
pain — to the undisguised seams of life. Returned
gladly : she was independent of them
all.

Her latter days in town had been days of
almost unmixed pleasure, but she had not
enjoyed them at the time. Her heart's blood
had absorbed the poison of London variety
and London insincerity without her knowledge,
but the poison left no immediate trace upon
her will. Because still superbly potent above
it was the desire of love.

She came back to the country like a freed
prisoner : her young step bounded up the
broad, still staircase, whispered, rather than
echoed, along the warmed corridors, was
music to Lord Grenvers, and to her ladyship
not seldom perplexity and fear.

Don't bounce into the room, darling she
said at last, when surprised in too flagrant
self contemplation with the familiar hand-glass :
Never houiice or steal. My way of entering
the room has been so much to my poor saint
for years. It's not that I don't want you
always, but my nerves are so sensitive. I
really should have thought your long visit to
Charlotte would have taught you . . . poor
Charlotte ! I never dared enter her room
without knocking, or even go round the corner
without a cough ; but she was younger then !
I suppose noir. . . . And that was different !
By the way, I have never seen a woman let her
complexion go as Charlotte has done — not that
it ever was much — still j^ea-souj:^, really jjea-
soup. My face is a disease to what it was —
yes ! Val, a disease — but it is human flesh.'

There are other things in the world beside
complexions,' said Waldine ; but her ladyship
did not attend ; she was mounted on her
favourite hobby of self and self's demands.

^ What was that tiresome game one used to
play?' she went on in a slow, sad voice,
absently taking up the hand-glass again.
" Animal, vegetable, or mineral," — that was it.
Some women look vegetable or mineral — now
I am animal still.'

You are ethereal,' said the girl laughing.
Lady Grenvers heard that ; her ears contained
some special valve for compliments, which was
always open. They entered in and dwelt
there.

You spoil me, Val,' she said, ' but everyone
has always spoiled me ! No, dear, I am
animal, — a poor worm of course, but not a
potato or a lump of lead ; you are animal too,
Val ; your complexion is almost too — too,
what is it 1 — violent. I hope you won't get
apoplectic by and by.'

I hope not,' said AValdine — ' yes. Aunt
Linda, I suppose I am. Animal ? Human ?

Well ! who would really care to be a stone ora
soul ? '

Horrid ! ' said her ladyship, putting a
period to the discussion with her usual
comment as soon as she was out of her
depth.

Were they stones or souls — Waldine
wondered — the people about her \ or were
they just half-people or were they dead ? She
went to the window and looked out from its
one unsullied square — a white world, with
black, snow-fraught sky above it ; somewhere
he was waiting for her now. Was it cold ?
was that the whimper of the wind across the
park ? she did not care.

I think I shall go out for a run,' she said
at last, her tentative tone anticipating a
rebuke. * " The snow lies white," but we maybe
quite snowed in tomorrow.'

Ah ! what a pretty song that was. / used
to sing it. " The snow lies white." ' Lady
Grenvers hummed it to herself over the hand-glass,
which reflected to her that the powder
lay white ' also.

Waldine waved her a kiss and left her.
She preferred the snow for choice.

There was a sort of fire alight in the girl's
senses. The icy airs crept round her in vain ;
the frost only dared the blood to her feet and
hands ; nothing chilled her. Nor was it only
love that warmed her through. She was in
supreme and ardent health ; her restful life of
luxury made her impervious to fatigue or
weather. She was more hardy than her lot
in society demanded ; she had a reserve of
energy and warmth. Why waste it here ?

She fastened some furs round her neck and
put on a velvet hat ; then she glided out of
the door and breathed the fresh wind, crystal
clear, across the waste land and the snow. It
was a fairy scene. To her, so newly steeped
in London fog and gaslight, the purity of this
rare atmosphere, the visible descent of gradual
night were boons that brought intensity of
feeling and succinctness of resolve. As she
stepped quickly over the iron fields, crunching
the drift like salt, her thoughts were travelling
wind-swift in her brain.

Is that the world ? ' she said aloud, ' for
which so many people dare and bear so much 1
I have heard Aunt Linda quite envied : there
has never been any scandal about her ; women
would give their lives to have her wealth, her
reputation, and her husband's love : and yet
the centre of her being, where does one find it ?
In that little ivory knob by which she holds
her powder-puff ! It is there.' — She laughed,
but not unkindly, and kicked the snow as if
it were the orris root and violet meal she
scorned.

' And Mrs. Lupton's world ! it is quite as
trivial really — her life is a twirling toy ; she
can stop it and no one will mind ; she can
change it and only rest people's attention. It
does not do. Does anything do on earth, I
wonder, that has no claims and brings no
suffering ? I had rather have my uncle's life
than hers.'

Her thought saddened as it traversed Lord
Grenvers' sphere ; she walked more slowly
and in silence ; after a moment she smiled.
She was thinking of Mr. Launcelot Denham.

Simply by contrast ! Illness connotes health
and suffering: strength. It was no treasonable
thought ; he meant to have the good things of
the world ; he meant to make a life. So far
very well. But he had made his world spin
and his life hano^ on her will and from her
finger. And for her, his world with every
other world, his life with every other life,
were so well lost for love.

Love, incarnate and her own, that was
waiting for her under the bare ash-tree boughs !
She had met John every day since her return ;
she had been building busily at that imaginary
dwelling-place wherein their twin souls were
some time to dwell. And here the tree was,
full in sight, and he had not failed her yet.

Her glance was too impassioned now, and
too possessive, to note that lie was changed.
Not less handsome, not less radiant,— taller he
looked indeed, — but he had lost flesh, and the
brightness of his eyes burned over hollower ^
cheeks ; the voice in which he greeted her was
deeper than of old, had husked its ringing
tone, more muffled day by day.

All ! ' he said, ' you have come at hist.
Kiss me once, twice ; Warlike, I have heavy
news.'

Do not tell it me yet ! Let me be a little
glad of your presence first.'

To be with him was an enchantment to
her, to be in his arms an ecstasy ; she launched
herself upon the tide of love like a boat on
summer waves. For him too her kiss was an
intoxication, an oblivion. . . . They made
June in winter.

What is your bad news ? ' she asked him
at length, smiling up into his face.

He sighed. ' Nothing hurts you that I
can tell you, does it ? ' he said with tender
care.

Nothing ; my only suffering is when I am
absent from you ; then it aches here like
hunger.' She put his strong bare hand upon
her heart. Its beating sent the colour to his
cheeks and lips — the beating of the heart that
made his joy.

Oh ! ' he said softly, ' do not make me too
happy to-day. Waldine, my father is dead.'

The words had little meaning for her ; she had
never known his father ; she had not allowed
herself to think ever about his parents except
as people that must die some day — unwelcome
figures that would yield the stage at last.

She pressed him closer in her arms, with a
sweet gravity of look that soothed him like
music. She took him away from life and, in
the new world that she made for him, she
asked him the very truth.

'It is soon,' she said — 'sudden rather.
John, are you very sad — very sorry ? Should
you not have minded this much more a yeas'
ago? Tell me "yes!'

('A year ago!' How could he remember
what he would have minded then ?)

'There is no blank you cannot fill forme
by one dear word,' he answered. 'But
each sad circumstance, each loss that comes tome,
will be a wound until you heal it.'

Tell me about his death,' said Waldine
quickly, with evasive eyes. She looked across
his shoulder, she saw the long cold stretch
toward his home : she sighed.

VOL. II. 31

It is good of you to look sad lie said, ' it
is good of you to sigh. No ! why should I
tell you ? He died this morning, without any
pain, from some brain injury he got in the
fall. He was an old man, sweetheart ; you
are right : I will not be sorry. But I am
troubled about my mother : can you guess
what the loss of him is to her V

I think so. If I thought I should be any
good, I would come with you to see her. —
Perhaps you wished it ? Yes ; — but not just
yet. I cannot act ; and I have no personal
affection for her. Your people were not dear
to me because of you, as they would have
been to some women. They were only people
who had a certain claim upon your love and
upon your time. I have resented them
always.'

You are so strange, Waldine ; sometimes
^ I think you are made of marble and sometimes
of fire.'

Common hard stone, call it, for the rest :
mere flame for you — you are not so wholly
wrong. Dearest, be rational ! I see precisely

how things stand. You have thought to
yourself: — "Why, here is her moment ! She
will come and throw herself upon my mother's
neck and be a daughter to her from henceforward."
But that is just what I could never
do. If I went with you now I should either
patronise her or alarm her. Let her consolation
be that you are still hers for a time. —
Ah ! not for long.'

'But by and by?' — said John, doubtful
though half convinced against his will.

By and by she will die too, ' said the girl
impatiently, ' she is not immortal. Oh ! love,
don't look so shocked : don't say I give you
more sorrow ! But can't you see that your
mother and I should not agree under one roof ?
Can't you see, John, that your isolation is the
one thing that makes you possible ? You
have kept yourself apart from the rest to some
good end, but you must be isolated wholly.
I shall give up my world for you, but you
must give up yours for me. And death ends
ties so gently and so well. Oh ! I believe in
death. See ! it is not a doom apart : we

must all die to make way for progress. Is
not that philosophy?'

It may be so : 'tis a new view of death
for me

'* There are no fields of amaranth on this
side the grave," ' she said, ' '' there is no name,
with whatsoever emphasis of passionate love
repeated, of which the echo is not faint at
last." That is Landor's : if I could speak such
honey, it is that I would have said. You
must lose me sometime, or. I must lose you :
or if we kill ourselves together the rest of the
world must lose us. Some day we must lose
each other ! It is written. Not to miss our
happiness while we have it in hand : that is
what matters. Beloved, I resist no longer.
The resolve your news brings me is that I will
marry you tomorrow if you will. I accept
your father s death, not for hindrance but for
spur. Anybody will look after your mother
till she dies!'

But, AValdine,' said John, in utter distraction
of mind, ' what is this that you say ?
Do you not realise how this great loss of hers

must bind me — us — to my mother? How
can I — we — leave her soon 1 how can we
leave her ever ? You are so — is it un-english
? it cannot be heartless. How shall
I teach you life V

You teach me life !' she cried. 'Poor John,
it is not life you have to teach me : it is love
love, as you read it, which indeed I half
approve. I think you love me well, I believe
you will love me for ever. But life ! leave
life to me. You asked me to emigrate : had
I gone with you and your father died afterwards,
as he must have done, we should not
have returned. I would not go : I wished
things to arrange themselves, links to fall off
and leave our freedom clear : now the first
link has fallen. Let us congratulate ourselves
that we did nothing to force it.'

What do you mean ? '

Is impatience then a sealed book to you ? ^
Can you not understand the longing to be
free goading one into striking off obstacles, v.
scattering them to right and left. On my life,
I think such a struggle would fill one's days

far better than laments and lassitude. You
look so struck with fear that I am possessed
with a desire to tell you all my worst. John, I
believe I have no heart except to live by : I
know but one sort of love. Don't you think
I would pitch Uncle Grenvers out of window
bath-chair and all — and put arsenic into
my aunt's lip-salve, sooner thar let them part
me from you?'

He smiled at her plain words. ' You area
tigress, my beauty,' he said with reflected
passion, as he strained her in his arms, the
wild blood wakened in him with her laughter.
But it was not the rose-leaf kiss of old :

Come with me now ! ' he murmured.

'Let me go,' she said, still laughing, ' remember
this is your afternoon for sackcloth and ashes,
though it may be also my hour for secret joy.
But I want no secrets from you. John, I
am glad of your father's death, and you must
get over it without my help. Look how dark
it is and feel how cold ! ' she put her cheek
against his hand.

Yes, it is cold,' lie answered, as he loosed

her : — ' Well, what are we to do ? Love, I amin
your hands : I stop the clock of my old
conscience here. At first I shall be a bad echo
to your leaps of time ; but teach me plain
what flights to take.'

I want no flights at present : here we
stand under our own twin tree — my tree : the
one bit of landed property which I possess !
We have youth, health, love — perfect trust.
And I have courage. . . . But it is an odd
sort of courage : it goes from me when you are
not by. There are times when I feel subject
to any moment's magnetism and capable of any
crime : other times there are when I become
an innocent and happy self. Have you no
experience of such changes ? '

I don't think much about them,' said
John humbly, ' I am too simple for you yet :
but I do think, Waldine, that half of your
complexity is youth. You play ball with life
and death because your nerves are not yet
sensible of weight. I shall make you so tame,
my darling, by and by.'

*That will be better than my worsening

you ! — Oh wc have talked into hours, and you
are going back to a sad home ! Have I no
compassion ? I ought to be so sorry. Love,
I want to see you again to-night : these stars
do not shine for nothing. And such a moon,
Endymion ! Ah ! she is in love with you, that
foolish moon, to shine upon your face like that.'
She took off his cap, and with her arms clasped
round his neck, she gazed at his beauty, her
whole soul, her whole being, aflame within her
turning eyes.

I will come,' said John, ' if you want to seeme
: I will walk up at nine o'clock this evening,
and stand by the window of your music-room
like last night ! like last night.'

Ah 1 then I am content : I could not say
good-bye. Love, what is that shadow moving
down the road ? '

It is a man on horseback coming from the
Court : it looks like Mr. Denham.'

Impossible : he is in London still. I told
you — did I not ? — that he is in love with
me ?'

I knew it. You did not tell me.'

What a tone ! So lie is best there, is he
not ? we do not want him here ? '

Oh Waldine, do not name him ! should I
ever name another girl to you ? Ah ! well, I
will be silent if you will keep your hand upon
my lips like that. Must you go, sweet, must
you go ? I feel you flutter like a bird within
my arms.'

Now or never. Whisper : you do not
mind about your father any more ? you love
me best ? No words : a whisper is too loud :
I hear it in your heart. — Itt — tell me once ! '

He bent his head over her cheek, his month
to her lovely ear, till her temples flamed at his
breath. . . . Who dares give his words ? He
only knows them who has in such a way, at
such an hour, let loose the floodgates of his
pent-up soul.

Heart of a woman, filled with that full tide,
what in your life is made of the passionate
river ? Only a draught to quench your instant
thirst : only refreshment for bright lips and
luring eyes that afterward shall smile and
shine upon other waters.

WALDINE WHITES

Whiteknyghts, Fehruanj th.

Elsie mine, long neglected : lost and found
again, as one loses and finds one's friends, in
the maze of memory, low shall I excuse myself
for your many letters not answered at all, your
many other letters answered by a hurried line ?
Best, I think, by telling you all my news in
this, such as it is to tell.

Kemember, dear, I am a rustic now. Do
not expect surprises : and keep yourself prepared
for a tone of sadness. I have done with
cities : I want to be a rustic all my life.

This afternoon I have built myself away
from the world : locked doors, closed curtains,
barred shutters : I am going to piece together

my existence for you, to pick up the threads
of my loom. And first you want the figures
of the scene.

You will have heard that my uncle is ill :
his plight is such that at the time you first
heard it probably he was better again : and
by the time you heard he was better he was
certainly worse. I caught Aunt Ethelinda the
other day discussing widow's weeds with him :
what a true disappointment she will feel that
he can never see if they become her ! He
makes all sorts of preparations for his death :
and sets his house in order as a good man
should. I am with him a great deal oftener
than I was at first. My love of the place,
which has grown into a passion, pleases him
more day by day. He understands that my
aunt will never care to live here without him.
I doubt if she knows the landmarks round the
first turn in the road or the look from any
point of view but her boudoir window : I
suppose, after the event she will travel and
become the cynosure of continental hotels. I
often wish that you could hear her ci^escendo,

with its gradual changes of tone. It commences
sadly :

'When my poor saint is gone she says,
'gone over to the majority," Val, as the
Greeks used to say — I am half a Greek myself
since those tableaux — Ah ! ivliat is to become
of poor Queen Venus ? Everything goes to a
cousin or something horrid I have never cared
to knoAv : the title is extinct and shoals of
females will divide the spoil, so fat and hideous
they can only marry into the learned professions
Chabot ! . . . He leaves me what he can, I
believe, but what is money to a widow ? My
one comfort is that I shall never be a dowager :
though with a name like mine — made for a
dowager — to evade being " Ethelinda, Lady
Grenvers," is after all not utterly consoling.' —
And then, with rather a more cheerful accent :
' When my poor saint is gone, dear Val, I
shall have to travel. Awful, of course, for
I am such a stay-at-home ; but I can't help
feeling that it will be my only chance. Where
shall I go % some dull place first, I suppose :
Venice. But what is the good of crape at

Venice ? It does not matter what one wears
there : I shall go about in a hat, and lace in the
evening. . . . Have you never been to Venice,
Val ? You shall come with me ! I imagine
it will be next autumn. At first we shall
have to be very quiet, but one may get quite
a rest and change there before — well ! it will
depend on circumstances whether one can go
out or not next season. What do you think ? '
And then she lapses into silence, while the
periods of sorrow are reckoned !

And yet, dear Elsie, when the time is come, I
know she will be inconsolable ; but in the meanwhile
she diverts herself with attention divided
between schemes of mourning and oi trousseaux,
for she has set her heart upon my marriage.

You have guessed to whom ? It is one of
those things that seem fated : ever since I
came here it has been obvious to the meanest
intelligence that sooner or later I must marry
Launcelot Denham. And the worst of it is
that it seems as obvious to him !

Realise my entourage ! an aunt whose folly
is more magnetic and decisive than another

woman's reason ; an uncle of superior gifts
who approves lier judgment in all things;
a lover — well ! one would not wish a fonder
or more earnest lover than the devoted Launce.
Why, the sequel of the story is not worth
writing ! It is a question of date. Give reins
to your conception of eligibility — yes ! and
you may give scope to your fancy too — the
real man would not disappoint you. On the
face of things it would be impossible to refuse
Mr. Denham. Oh ! whither will life lead me ?
I was born to be hanged.

Flippant you say. Remember flippancy
with me was always an excuse from tears. But
I don't want to discuss my failings with you ;
I want to give you statements ; then you shall
mount your tripod and deliver the prophetic roll.
You can predict of me with some experience.

I went to London with Mrs. Lupton ; Mr.
Denham was there. Hardly a day passed
but we met ; and wherever we might chance
to be, he made it plain that there was no
one there for him but me. Not unpleasant ;
there were no exactions ; I bade him farewell

a free woman, as I am to this day. I returned
to Whiteknyghts only glad to leave him in
town. He was to remain there some time
longer. But he did not do so. Listen.

You know — I do not want to write upon
this subject — that I have had a toquade for
'the bailiff' here. Do not misinterpret the cool
tone of this statement ; it is just in this way
that I try to formulate the position to myself.
Whether I have felt superficially or deeply,
whether I have been wise or foolish, these
points are incidental, they do not alter the
fact. I saw 'the bailiff' in London; up to
that meeting he had seemed to me a sort of
god ; since then he has seemed to me only a
rather inexperienced young man. But in my
personal regard — is that the term ? — for him
this made no sort of difference. When I came
back here I was honestly glad to see him
again — glad with my whole heart. If I could
entirely divorce him from surroundings I
should be glad to see him all the days of my
life. But his surroundings have fatigued me
of late. He has lost his father, and his mother

frets herself eastwards as fast as she can.
You, who know me, know how trivial and
commonplace these domestic affections and
afflictions seem to me. It is not so with John
Lyne ; he is absorbed in anxiety and grief.
Moreover he has suffered much in health ; he
has become what I used most to hate — ' an ill
man ;' but I do not hate him yet. One does not
hate, ever, the man that has first brought the
light into one's life. . . . And with his illness,
his anxiety, his grief, he somehow has increased
his demands ; he is not content to be my playfellow.
The situation is serious : what am I
to do ? Now that I write it in this brutal
way it has an ugly look. I must elucidate.

Elsie, attend to this ! One afternoon last
week I met ' the bailiff not by accident, and,
I suppose, gave him — let us figure it thus — a
presumptive right to be jealous. When we
parted I added — shall we call it an order ? —
to come up to Whiteknyghts in the evening.
There intervened an unfortunate moment, for
which the temerity of my town admirer is
responsible. Here's the account.

WALDINE WRITES 209

Returning home, I met Mr. Denham, leading
his horse ! John's eyes had been quicker
than mine ; he had spied him coming from
the Court, where he had been to inquire
for my uncle, who chanced to be better
that afternoon. He had said to me, * There
is Mr. Denham ! ' I had answered, as we
stood together there beneath our ash-tree,
that it was impossible : * He is in London
still,' I had told him, and I believed I
spoke the truth. Mr. Denham, riding from
the Court, had tried a short cut which the
snow disguised ; his horse had stumbled over
some pitfall of the waste land, and was badly
lamed. Recall that I was happy and at peace
with all the world ; recall that Mr. Denham
was glad of the accident which had so far
hindered his return as to let him have a chance
of seeing me. Understand that we were not
far from the Whiteknyghts stable and a very
long distance from Denham. You will conclude
that, almost of necessity, I asked him
back to the Court. For you would have done
so yourself, light-hearted.

VOL. II. 32

He was unafFectedly concerned, at first,
about his horse ; I had no danger signals.
We walked along side by side, and I was
thinking of 'the bailiff.' I forget, Elsie, when
I first perceived that Mr. Denham was talking
at all ! I do remember that he said I did not
look cold. And I laughed because, for some
unknown reason, I was feeling at that instant
much like a live torch. There is a warmth
which has not to do with weather.

He went with his horse to the stable ; I
betook myself to his lordship's room, and interested
him as far as I could in the Hon.
Launce's misadventure. Ill chanced that access
of zeal : — ' I should like to see him,' said
my uncle.

He had been denied admission before, because
it is a rule of the house : indeed he had
only left his card ; but now that he was with
us, my aunt descended to see him. She was
enraptured with her own appearance, and consequently
cordial — his visit happened to cheer
the invalid. In fine, his horse being installed,
the trap that was to have taken him back to

Denham was counter-ordered, and he remained
to dinner.

Hardly, Elsie, can you conceive the change
it made in our dull routine, this impromptu
invitation. Lord Grenvers was wheeled into
the dining-room, and her ladyship and I made
those fancy - dress toilettes one makes in
England when one says, ' We will not dress
this evening.' Mr. Denham put on an elaborate
array of my uncle's while his wet clothes
were dried. And whether it was from the
novelty of the costume or from the rarity of
the circumstances, he became interesting. Of
course we had many London topics in common,
he and I : no doubt it was because of that.
But I have left off trying to find out a reason
for anything. Facts — facts only !

We dine at a punctual eight, and the meal is
not a long one. At a quarter past nine his lordship
was taken back to his own rooms, suffering
slight premonitory symptoms of neuralgic pain.
My aunt, in her familiar rule of the ' Angel in
the House,' floated out by the side of his chair,
and waved a momentary ' dj tantdtJ

I will be back directly,' she said ; ' if you
will have no more wine, Waldine will take
you to her sanctum : let us have our coffee
there together.'

Elsie, when she had left the room, I felt a
wave of fear pass over me. In the warmth,
the daylight, the fragrance of fruit and flowers,
the sense of hen-etre in the charming room,
the complete immunity from interruption, was
there not every incentive to help this young
man, never over-reticent, to speak his mind ?

He fortified himself with another glass of
claret : not to be formal, I got up and stood
by the fire. ' Ah ! ' he said, ' it was almost
too good to be true that I should see you
sitting opposite to me like that at dinner.'

It was not the first time,' I replied, but
I felt the evasion was a poor one ; it gave him
too good a chance of saying that he hoped it
would not be the last — the sort of repartee to
which he is equal, and of which he availed
himself with empressement .

I know 1 you can stop your ears and shut
your eyes ; blind and deaf you could give our

brilliant dialogue almost word for word. He
was very anxious to be serious, I was quite
determined to be trivial. But when lie asked
point-blank to be let speak to me, half to gain
time and half from inadvertence I told him I
would permit his cigarette in my own sitting-room
: I hoped that my aunt, having consigned
her dear saint to his nurses and powdered
her lovely nose, might be there before us, in
order to arrange the lights for her complexion.
She was not there : she had sent a handmaiden
to shroud the lamps becomingly : the
room looked curiously warm and almost
oriental. I never have the curtains drawn
there, 'pour des raisons ; and the pink and
white candle shades told well against the black
background of window glass. Perhaps the
sight was cosy and pretty to envious eyes
without. But how should Mr. Denham think
of any such contingency ? Nor did I, at the
moment ; I was intent on evading a definite
demand. And this demand I have hitherto
evaded.

It was twenty-five minutes past nine : think

that any one who waited outside my window
since nine o'clock, had waited in the snow for
nearly half an hour ! And then think of
this : —

Mr. Denham had dined well : Mr. Denham
wanted to ask me to be his wife. I had
brought him to a place where there was even
less fear of interruption than in the diningroom,
and, as there, we were alone. Add that
Mr. Denham is not diplomatic, he is engagingly
sincere, and you will not be unprepared
for what occurred. He followed me
closely into the room : we had exhausted
conversation, and although we were not even
looking at each other, to an observer our
intimacy must have seemed assured. I stooped
to fasten the case of my violin, which was
lying on the floor, for fear my aunt's long
train should catch the lid, when she came
down. Mr. Denham seized the opportunity
to see what sort of figure he made in a large
looking-glass, which is over the fireplace.
When I glanced up at the same glass, as I
rose, I was greatly amused by his evident

pleasure at the way my uncle's lounging - suit
became him. I burst out laughing ; I had
quite forgotten I was close to my admirer in
the flesh ; I was only taken up by his image
in the glass. Did he read delight in my
mirth ? In a moment he had caught me in
his arms and I felt the breath of his lips upon
my hair. . . .

No, he did not kiss me. I would have
resisted that to the death. But the worst of
it was that my escape from his salute was not
due to any act of intrepidity on my part, but
simply to the noiseless entrance at this juncture
of Aunt Ethelinda. I did not even have
to move aside, my gallant swain caught the
scent of her approach and loosed me.

Elsie, from outside this is what it seemed : a
sudden embrace interrupted by an unwelcome
relative. And I knew for certain I could not
appeal to my aunt. I saw, from her completely
ignoring the proximity in which she found us,
that her one regret was that she had not delayed
her coming five minutes longer. Even as it was
she was delighted. As for Lancelot, what

had he to be ashamed of ? he wished to astonish
me, to take my bashful sense by storm. He
would have tried it again had the opportunity
occurred. I was not ashamed myself: he is
not trifling with me : he has said quite enough to
teach me that I may accept him at any moment
and in any manner : nor had I behaved ill : I
had been just civil to a man who does not displease
me. That was all. But for the burning
heart outside, in weariness and cold, was there
no shame in this ? Elsie, there was a man before
my window whose soul was ashamed of me.

I did not see him ; I had no chance of
explanation.

I know that he was there : had I not bade
him come ? He turned and went away.

Do you care for the sequel of that evening ?
Lord Grenvers was worse, and Aunt Linda
had come to make a courteous adieu to our
unexpected guest. In a quarter of an hour
he had left us, and she, really anxious for
once, had returned to my uncle.

What did I do ? I opened the window and
stepped out upon the terrace in the snow. 0]i !

once, for one last time, let me strip bare to you
my heart of hearts, and tell you what I did. So
soon the falling fleece would mar those careful
footsteps ! I traced them while I could ; I
followed towards the park. I came to a small
flight of steps where one goes down from the
gardens ; you can see a mile before you there ;
I strained my eyes, but he was out of sight.
I stooped and kissed the hand-rail where his
hand had rested, but it was cold already.
The stone of it said, ' iVo,' through my lips to
my life. . *. .

It is an old story now ! I will not be
moved by it again : I pitied myself for a
while. Now I know that it was all for the
best ; at least I hear you say so. But then I
pitied myself. I think that I was mad with
passion and shame. I had wanted so, that
night of all others, to tell him how I loved
him ! I felt one throb of fever. I drank the
snow from his footprints ! — But it is days
and days ago, and all is over.

I ought to have pitied him. He went
back to his lonely home and his dying mother

in the murk blackness of the night. Did he
feel the irrevocable as I did, or did he trust
me better than I trust myself? That icy
wind ! it seemed to lay Death's fingers on
my love. I have not seen him since. I have
suffered, I half forget how.

Elsie, I have written too much. I am not
well, and we are an anxious household. It is
as if a shadow brooded over us these winter
days. Under the wings of that shadow what
boon is brought me ? Is it life ? Is it love ?
I think it cannot be both.

I pull myself together to end my letter ;
the pen has outrun me. I meant to patch
you up my life and live under that same patchwork.
And so I will. I have not told you
all, but I have told you something that will
help you to understand me, whichever way
I act. My resolve is, believe me, to do what
is right. I began to write falsely ; let me say
truly, at least, now, that I am
Your true friend,

Waldine de Stair.

February Sth. — I have just heard that John

Lyne's mother died this evening. I have not
heard it from himself; but I think he will
tell me his wish ; they say that he is going'
away. But news comes shrouded here. Elsie,
my uncle cannot live till spring. The story of
my sojourn here is almost done.

A FAREWELL

This was John's letter at last : — .

February I2th.

Waldine, my Love —

I buried my mother to-day; if I seem to
have told you nothing you will the easier forgive
me by and by. Say, at least, 'He kept his
troubles from me.' Say that when I am gone.

If I can do so, let me tell you facts ; it is
what you bade me do.

The worst fact first : I saw you in the
arms of a man who — I suppose — would laugh
if I should call myself his rival. It is now
many days ago, but I see you still. I shall
see you so until I die.

Second fact, harder to write. I do not blame

you : I do not misunderstand. I have thought
it out. You knew that I was there : you would
have spared me this. You were not — are not
bad enough to dismiss me by these means.

But dismiss me you did. Third fact, which
hangs from these : I am going to leave England
at once. My only love, it is the only way. I
sail by the ship Valentine on St. Valentine's
Day — 'tis an omen. . I can't put words
together : you freeze the lava of speech, and
in my heart there is no heat against you. It
is right for you to marry Denham. There,
that is said. It was the hardest thrust of all,
that sword thrust of conviction.

Look how I trust your word ! I do not
leave you choice : I go before you can stay me.
I know that you would come, but to your lifelong
sorrow. You love me, do you not ? Ah
yes ! you love me, but I love you better than
you ever loved me. I will die without you
sooner than let you live for me. How should
it not come home to you at last what might
have been? When I am gone, forget me.
You will suffer a little, but you will know (so

soon ! ) that I was right. If 1 could doubt that
Denham loved you ! . . . But now I cannot.

And I am a dying man. If you did come
with me, it would only be for a few months, and
it would unmake all your life. Oh ! if I live or
die, forget me ; remember only that I loved you
well. So well, Waldine — so well — so well !

The words break my spirit. . . . You will
forget or will remember as you choose.

If you will do something for me, take care
of my parents' grave. I would to God — that
after death — the death I go to meet abroad
alone — I too might lie there. If you would
do me some great thing, contrive me this.

My queen, my child, I am gone ! tomorrow
night I sail. Almost I am glad to be
ridding you of such a burthen. Don't be
sorry : I do not need to say this is not want
of love. It is the one thing that a man who
loves you best can do that is best for you.

For me? . . . Darling, there is a star in
my' soul always : I kissed you first.

John Lyne.

THE FLASHED RECALL

And this Waldine's reply : —

'To John Lyne, Ses. Valentine,
Plymouth.

To-morrow | night | at | nine | the | Willow | Garth.'

No other word, she knew it was enough. The
telegram was sent from a post-office, some
miles distant, to which she had gone for
information on the routes abroad which could
not be obtained at Netherfield. And there was
no reply : it was a command, not a prayer, from
a hand which held the issues of life and death.
He could not reach Netherfield direct by
the cross journey, but he came to the terminus
at Newton, within five leagues, and walked
through the declining day.

[and last]

fulfilment

A MAN and woman face to face alone. St.
Valentine's Eve.

.Night in the Willow Garth : winter night
as soft as spring : over the old familiar meeting-place
the old familiar moon, no doubt, but
shrouded from their eyes.

Underfoot the bedded leaves : about and
around the waste of waters filled with melted
February snows. All dark, all still, all wrapped
in gloom like the grave's.

So often they had met here of late. Further
from John's home than from hers — out of all
human ken — its solitude seldom broken, the
strange place had lent them a trysting spot from

the very first. Waldine could have felt her way-through
the tangle blindfold. Beneath the
larches that enclosed the garth there was a little
stem of blood-red maple which had kept its
leaves all through the frosty weather : it had
been her beacon a thousand times, had saved
her from the perils of that marshy tract where
a false step had landed her so nearly.

And there was shelter for the lovers in the
thickset, wind-proof copse. There was the
old boathouse with the half sunk punt in it
which would never carry Lord Grenvers anymore,
in his favourite wild fowl shooting, but
which was for ever sacred from profane hands
as a record of his liking and his skill. It stood
on the very marge of the lake, and the waters
round it were reedy and deep. The wooden shed
was fallen in disrepair : the door swung loose
upon its hinges : one fold of it had dropped already,
and lay stretched across the wrecked boat.

Against the lintel of that door John Lyne

was standing. He leaned there overpowered

with fatigue — with hunger too, poor normal

need of life ! he had not tasted food that day.

A^OL. II. 33

An immense joy was upon him : to reach the
presence of his idol, that was his heart's desire.
But there had supervened on this a numbness
that was new.

He had waited for her a weary hour : now
at last she was here. His famished sight
could feast upon her beauty, his thirsty lips
on her fair face. Such a contrast as they
made! John, travel-worn and tired — a big,
gaunt figure in his mourning clothes ; Waldine
with rich furs draping her to her feet, yet not
wholly hiding her white evening dress. Her
cheeks were pale under the feathered shade
of her velvet hat, and by nearness to the
black lace twisted round her neck. But her
eyes were like bright lights in the gloom :
they were full of pride and power : one could
feel that they only veiled laughter, whereas for
John's set mouth the laughing days were done.
He held her in his arms once more: he felt the
seal-skin of her coat soft and warm against his
stiff hands, he felt her breath upon his chin,
her fingers on his neck. In his ears was the
music of her voice, so many days desired.

'What did you think of me?' she said,
speaking quickly and low — 'husband, ever
dearest love, had you not my word that I was
yours ? Oh ! to tell you all ! it has seemed
to me, these empty hours, as if the web of life
were closing round me, as if I soon should be
only a poor woven image of a woman in the
loom of the world. Now I have cut the
threads : I am alive once more I You want
me, do you not ? — you did not wish to escape
me. . . . How I must love you, how I must
know you love me, never to dream of that !
My strength, my master, I will go with you
to the end of the world.'

I wanted you,' said John, ' as one wants
heaven. I did all I could for the world's poor
best. But God is too good for us : the world's
poor best is vile.'

'Do not despise the world,' she said and
laughed ; ' we will make something of it between
us. I am so sanguine, John. I have
no fears. See ! we must learn reason : there
are plans to be made. Tell me all you have
done from the very beginning.'

I am gone,' said John, smiling in spite of
the deathly fatigue and illness that was upon
him, — so magnetic was her will : — ' the only
strangeness is that I am here. I have taken
my farewell of Netherfield : it seemed not hard,
with all that I have lost. And I had paved
the way ere now, in case we went together by
and by : Waldine, you are not afraid ? You
will come with me ? It is for life or death.'

Need you ask it ? But to-night the ship
must sail away without you. Never mind
your things ! Let them drift to America, we
shall find them there. Why have you taken
me at unawares ? I have no scheme of action
ready. Is poor Aunt Linda's providence to work
it all ? Dispose of me as you will, my hero ! '

Only a heavy sigh for answer.

John, you have no courage ! you are cold.'
She freed herself and looked him in the
face. — * What is it ? are you tired — or are
you ill ? ' There was a note of impatience in
her tone which did not escape him ; he knew
all her changes.

Aye, that's it he said softly at last with

a great sigh. ' It's the old grievance, beloved,
which you never cared to hear. But it is only
to-night I am so tired. The heaviness will
pass, the joy abide. Plans, Waldine ? yes,
but let me look at you first. My wife, how
beautiful you are ! how strong, how dainty !
Ah ! the regrets I ought to feel for that poor
London that is robbed of you for ever now ;
but I have none. . . . From the first, Waldine,
from the very first ! There is no face in all the
world but this face of yours for me. Oh ! for
life together ! — but not here — not here ! ' . . .
Dear, I have been thoughtless of you !
not for the first time. How often I must
have come here these last weeks to meet you,
pampered and warm, while you have been cold
and starved, in failing health ! John, I have
never thought of this at all till now. I will
make amends — amends ? Have I not power
enough for both. Ah ! this is not fatigue ; it
is a faintness that is on you — the journey, the
long day, the griefs that you have suffered.
And now the waiting and the happiness.
I have been blind and selfish always !

Let me begin anew. . . . Answer me ! John !
Oh ! God in heaven. . . . Here ! — your head
upon my heart. Love, answer ! Speak ! ' —

He had slowly sunk upon his knees, his
hands still clasped about her. She tore open
her jacket and pressed his head upon her
bosom with a desperate instinct, new born in
her mind, to give him back the warmth of which
her will had robbed him. Her brain was fire ;
the wild thoughts surged in it — unformed,
beyond control. She had no definite hope,
but just to save him and renew his strength.
With her lips to his eyes, her arms round his
body, she held him up in an embrace that was
like life. It could not leave him senseless.

Mine — mine ' — he said at last : and
then

They were on the brink of the lake ; he
had slipped a little on the reed-grown bank,
and she, now kneeling forwards to dip her
hand in the icy stream for his refreshment,
felt that it was only by her force that she
prevented his fall. One foot was caught
already in the sedge, and one hand, loosing

her, sought vaguely, weakly, for the boathouse
door. It was quite dark ; the sky
black, whence some star of help should be
born. There was not the light of a wildflower
on those banks that would grow forget-me-not
in spring.

To-morrow ' — he said, as the gloom closed
over his eyes, and tried to lift his lips to hers
for one last kiss that should slake more than
thirst.

And even with that word he had fallen
from the girl's grasp into deep water.

It seemed to her, for one sharp instant, as
of Death's, that her very soul had left her.
She gave a sort of moan that was never made
a cry ; and passionately, madly snatched his
left arm as the stream engulfed him. But
the faintness that had seized him left his
limbs quite irresponsive to her grasp. . . .

And then — what was it ? fate ? chance ?
will ? She let go his arm and buried her face
in her hands. She would not save him, but
she could not see him die.

The solution of Death ! It was the only

way. Her entire being would have revolted
from it as a scheme, but as a fact she accepted
it without a sigh. What was there she could
do ? She was not unconscious ; her strong
nerves never failed her; the water was not
hell enough to drown her had she made one
vigorous effort. She did not make it ; she
obeyed her lot, success. It was to be !

'Best so,' she said at last — it was long after —
and stayed upon dry land.

Not otherwise she could have killed him : she
was made of flame, not mud : she was no common
murderess. But thus, by .this calm death, she
let him perish. Was there any lot on earth
that could have soothed him half so well ?

The grim weeds held him fast , the place
was just his grave, no more. As at last, ashen
white, she rose to her feet, her hand stirred
the old punt a little, which his fall had pushed
aside; it settled back into its place again,
undisturbed for many years, over his loving
heart. Thus time withholds eternity.

There was no trace of him left : with him
had sunk the few poor things he had — his

watch, his money, his cigar-case ; had anything
been left it might have moved her to
some human outcry, to some vain trial of her
strength, some disclosure which must have
shamed her for ever. But there was nothing.
What he left her was an immaterial cross.
To take up her racked martyr-life for the sake
of the world's thorn crown. It sounds — or
should sound — hard ; but was it ? Who shall
answer? Perhaps it was the easiest way, as
well as best : the key to such a riddle is not
here. God holds it.

When she stood up she did not feel
remorse : her one sensation was of a great
difficulty evaded, an infinite freedom won.
The heart-break would come later ; her instinct
now was to escape the past. To stay
here, to behold this place again, that were
madness, — at least that way madness lay.

She did not tarry : the whole tragedy had
taken less than an hour. It was a clean
knife-cut across the thread of the winter's life.
The man that had taught her love lay dead in
the woodland like a wild thing shot or a

frozen bird. As for her. . . . She had knelt
on her dark furs ; there was no stain upon
her dress !

A spring of life seemed bounding in her
breast ; she shook herself clear of the low
undergrowth, stooped through the willows
and ran out of the wood. Something white
and ghostly stared at her forth of the dark.
It was the dog's grave.

On the white wood of which she knew the
words, 'Death loose.'

Before she had been many minutes in her
room, a light footfall sounded in the passage
and Lady Grenvers entered, in studied disarray.
Dear Val,' she said, ' I do neglect you so :
I have not been near you this evening. And
I can't go to bed without telling you something
most important. Launcelot Denham has
written to my poor saint about you. — " To be
your Valentine." — It is such an enchantment
to us both. You will not refuse him. The
prospect of the wedding is fresh life to me,

though I ought to be thinking of — but who
thinks of death for long, ever ? . . . Horrid ! —
I promised not to tell you, but I must.
You would know anyway — alas ! so soon —
Val, you know I never cared for the country
and Launce, though he is rich, has no
house. Grenvers is leaving you White-knights
by will ; on condition that — after
your marriage — you make this place your
home. Sleep upon that ! How fresh and
cool your cheek is ! — Dear — Good-night ! '

THE END.

G., C, &- Co.

Printed dy R. & R. Clank, Edinburgh.

^
