fV

X

%

,.„- - ji

/^^

G ENL/'I

«i»>>i<^K>»*»m»««».,.»»-(jlioftt*!. .flXK-V^r>.i'<>.-«j(;,

>!*/ ^'

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

82 S

V. \

A^jf^'

mat T. Y:

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

AUG 5

Jan 8
Wow 1 3

L161— O-1096

AN EPISODE.

BY

WILLIAM MONEY HARDINGE,

AUTHOR OF "CLIFFORD GRAY."

Glory to God— to God," he saith,
Knowledge by suffering entered,
And Life is perfected— in Death ! "

E. B. Browning.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE.

1883.
[A// rights reserved

Walt Whitman.

fO

Dedication

TO A ROOM IN HOUSE, Hands.

^ Sunday Morning,

Here, In this old dear room, I must needs

begin my book, for all sorts of reasons, easier

thought of than expressed, but hard to think

^- out too. For here much of learning, if not

much of incident, has happened to me ; till I

5 think there is no place in all the world quite

;. Jn so beautiful or quite so understanding or quite

^;^ so tender. In this room I have been very

^ near death, in this room I have known the

fullest moments of life: in this room I have felt

"^ closest to God and best loved my neighbours.

r Is not that much ? I think that it is all.

It Is a beautiful room, hung" with faint-coloured,
flower-painted silk, set, In large
panels, upon dark blue velvet. Its tables are
fair with old church lace, its furniture inlaid.
It has a wardrobe lacquered with quaint Scripture
scenes, each of which I could draw blindfold.
So far, so good.

And It has a square window which lets mein
the September day — it Is always September
here — and It frames me glades and lawns, and
the caravel court ordered for tennis, and a few
large trees of elm and fir, finely grouped to
point the landscape. And, beyond these, the
near river — winding seawards — with the house-boats
moored in it and a little yacht : and then
the Hard, and, beyond again, Southampton
water, calm and cool like a silver shield, and
further, woods, and to leftward, the distant
Island. And it lets me hear the half-hushed
song of morning birds and the happy voices of
the children. So far, so better.

And the room Is full of memories — a
chamber of live dreams : they breathe in
from the gardens as the soft wind stirs the
curtain ; within-doors they start and waken as
the sunlight travels towards the table where
I write. O dividing years ! you vanish ; and
it is as If a vision passed me by ; — the form
of one like whom none walks the earth, for
tenderness or beauty, now ; like whom they
walk In Heaven. . . . Ah me ! So far, so
best.

September 25, 188 1.

Book i\)t first.

LOVE, THE DREAM,

CHAP. PAGE

I. Descriptive volume i ^

II. Material 37

III. Spiritual 69

IV. Devilish 106

V. Sensuous 143

VI. Mutual 189

Book tfje .SccontJ.
LOVE, THE CROSS.

I. Prospect 233

II. Human . 283

cloak tfje Contr. — continued.

CHAP. PAGE

III. Mortal volume n 3

IV. Aspect *. 55

V. Retrospect 108

VI. Immortal 173

VIT. Womanly 240

VI II. Divine volume m 3

LOVE, THE CROWN.

PAGE

I. Faith 43

(Sir Edmund Trefusis— Winter.)

II. Hope 114

(Lieutenant A. J Jarvis— Spring.)

III. Charity 194

(Eugenia" Brand — Summer.)

LOVE, THE DREAM.

VOL. T.

"Aurora Leis[h.

CHAPTER I.

DESCRIPTIVE.

The Tomlinson had not been long established
at Ashbank, but the place Itself was
at least as good a patent of nobility as a
new coronet. A fine old house — Its centre
Elizabethan but flanked, In the style, really
more modern, which we call distinctively old
fashioned, with wings of large square rooms
built rather for comfort than for show — It
was set amid surroundings, than which there
are, perhaps, none choicer in the length and
breadth of England, on the broken coast
of Hampshire, just where a river widens to

the sea. Old world timber, old world lawns,
opportunities for all sport, good shooting,
good fishing, good river and sea faring, a
varied neighbourhood, and comparative accessibility
combined to render the place an ideal
one for the agent's advertisement, and to
commend It to the wealthy merchant, first,
as an Investment, and then, when his views
expanded to the lifted horizon of his fortune,
as a summer home. Mrs. Tomllnson's horizon
lifted too : she was popular in a negative
sort of fashion, and — at first, of course, with
a negative sort of people — her house was
filled.

But it was Ashbank that secured Mrs.
Tomllnson's popularity, not Mrs. Tomllnson's
popularity that filled Ashbank. She was
rather the sufficient housekeeper than the
hostess of her guests, and they could visit
her beautiful home without being inconvenienced
by relatives or children, for Mrs.

Tomlinson's relatives, though not, like Mr.
Tomlinson's, *' impossible' were of the order
termed " not quite presentable' and she was
childless. She and her husband were just
an old and very hospitable pair, who liked
to see young faces about them and to have
everything (specially the young faces) of the
best : a little given to display perhaps, a little
given to patronage, but. In the world's verdict,
kindness itself.

It was August, and they had but lately
returned to Ashbank. There had been a few
days sacrificed to such of the " unpresentable "
relatives as were good-natured enough to meet
the 'impossible;" but both were gone now,
after their week of luxurious change, and had
returned to their haunts, less grateful, Indeed,
than envious. For the moment the Tomlinson
were alone, husband and wife, and they
were not sorry. For there Is always a 
; and even with these most orderly

and commonplace of people, there were times
when they wanted to be quite free — to speak
to each other with something of the old
manner, to talk of the house and the guests,
as of a wonderful scene and pageant that was
hardly theirs, to air doubts about the Impressions
their new friends should receive. At
these times they retrenched their private expenditure
as if their income were a tenth of
what it had become, and were rather shy of
their too numerous servants.

So they sat together a good deal in Mrs.
Tomlinson's morning room — a sunny den upstairs,
some forty feet long, — whither every
kind of stray relic had drifted, and of which
Mrs. Tomlinson had felt rather ashamed when
her first great lady had expressed a wish to
be shown her 'own little holy of holies." It
was very large, and very bright, and very
luxurious, but it was not for the public eye.
It had a great many old photographs upon

its walls and old daguerreotypes upon its tables,
of middle-class looking ladies, in large crinolines
and lace collars, and middle-class looking
gentlemen, in ample coats, with books or
letters in their hands — both sexes managing
to convey a general impression that they were
either dead or shelved beyond recall — and it
had volumes lying about, with rather tell-tale
inscriptions on their fly-leaves. There was
that handy book, for instance, which Mrs.
Tomlinson read out of every day, and looked
into as a resource in every need — the book
that, in her graphic speech, she said she
'never could do without;" though, as Mrs.
Tomlinson had nothing in the world to doit
was doubtful whether she would be the
worse for losing it. Into this book, of course,
the great lady had forthwith dived, sifting its
treasure, for it was a work of 'general information,"
and Mrs. Tomlinson had never quite
got over the feeling that the great lady had

caught sight of that vague autograph upon
its page, which set forth how it had been
given — " To E. J, Tomlinson — that is to be —
upon her marriage, from her dear friend and
cousins Clara Lubbers in remembrance of so
many happy days together, on Clapham Common,
With every good wish, and hoping it may prove
nsefuir A slight involuntary sneer on the
great lady's face — which was a kind face after
all, though the blue blood in it was too blue
not to show cold and acid now and then — had
induced Mrs. Tomlinson to lock up this literary
mentor for a while ; but it had found its way
down from her miscellaneous shelves again,
and was before her on her special table
now.

But upon this eventful August afternoon,
though Mrs. Tomlinson was sitting at her
table, which was in the window, she was not
engrossed in the pages of ** Inquire Within,"
having latterly outgrown, perhaps, the advice

of her domestic encyclopaedia. She was talking
to her husband — with her back to him, but
that did not prevent her knowing that he was
really asleep. She could make him answer
her in alternated monosyllables ; these she
found sufficient, for the nonce, to carry on
the thread of her conversation, which was
always one-sided enough. And so she let
him answer automatically, and slumber on.

'* The Buxtons will be here first," she said,
"three of them?"

"Yes."

I should not be surprised if they brought
Anne with them."

'' No."

The Shortlands' train arrives later — a cross
journey."

"Yes."

There will be no difficulty about meeting
them, will there ? "

"No."

'the men can shift for themselves, Mr.
Vane and his friend at all events. There are
always plenty of flies at Walsingham."

'eyes."

*' Or — we must send the victoria for Sir
Edmund, you know : the wagonette is no good
to him." —

No."

" Then," (with the air of one who has
triumphed in argument) 'rit can meet them!'

"Yes."

If we want any more gentlemen " (Mrs.
Tomlinson always said " gentlemen "), " there
will be no difficulty in getting some of the
officers over from Portsmouth by-and-by."

"No."

What girls have we ? "

Mrs. Tomlinson was tired of automatic
answers, that was all. She knew perfectly
well — and Mr. Tomlinson did not know — what
girls she had asked, and where they were to

sleep, and where their maids were to be put ;
but the question had Its effect. It knocked
her recreant husband Into a moment's wakefulness.
He sat bolt upright and pulled a handkerchief
down from over his bald head, as If to
aid himself with light and air. " Dear me ! "
he said with some discomfort in his tone,
** why there's May Buxton — May Buxton there
is," he repeated, and his tone became more
comfortable as he did so; May Buxton was
a favourite of Mr. Tomlinson's. He ruminated.


'' Well ? " said his wife.

*' May Buxton, and perhaps her cousin
Anne. Didn't you " — (meekly), " didn't you
say the Buxtons might bring Anne?"

"Anne Jefferies," said Mrs. Tomlinson,
more briskly, as if to hurry him : '' Well ? "

** Oh, and that niece of Lady Shortlands.' "

*' Miss Brand," said Mrs. Tomlinson, and
she sniffed slightly.

Yes, what's her Christian name ? some big
name, rather a mouthful."

** Eugenia. She's very particular not to have
It sounded In the French manner," Mrs. Tomllnson
added, as if it were a deprivation to
her not to sound the *'g" softer — 'eugenia,"
and then she changed the sniff into a little
snort.

Mrs. Tomlinson very often snorted : it was
a habit, and sometimes it meant nothing. Butin
this case it had a certain significance, and
moreover, Mrs. Tomlinson had to take a paperknife
out of her mouth on purpose to give
vent to it, which made it mean much more.
What it meant was first, 'why in the world
was she christened Eugenia ? " and then, " Why
in the world should her wish be consulted in
its pronunciation ? " Had the name been
Emma, Mrs. Tomlinson might indeed have
snorted, but it would have been with a different
Intention. Her own name was Emma —

Emma Jane — and she disliked it sufficiently to
sign nothing but her initials and to permit the
''unpresentable'' to call her Emmeline. She
would have snorted in that case at the associations
of the name and the hardihood — not to
say boldness — of owning to it in its plain entirety.
Had the name been Eugenie, Mrs.
Tomlinson might still have snorted, but her
snort in that case would have conveyed a
slight contempt for such a foreign appellation,
and a regretful glance into modern history
with a dash of sympathy for the woes of the
ex-Empress of the French. Whence may be
reasoned that Mrs. Tomlinson was a politician
she was more than that, she was a partisan,
especially in foreign affairs, of which she liked
a bird's-eye view " — and that her snorts were
sometimes very comprehensive. But this identical
one meant thus much exactly —
*' Eugenia ! Why Eugenia } Pooh ! "
"I wonder who called her that?" said Mr.

Tomllnson, when he had exhausted the fruits
of a meditative pause.

Who called her what ? " asked his wife.
She knew what he meant, but she disliked
his sharing her own resentment ; moreover,
she had long ago made up her mind to bring
her husband, '' as far as in her lay," to a habit
of accurate speech.

'who called her Eugenia?" Mr. Tomllnson
was wide awake by now.

You mio:ht as well ask me dio called
her Brand. All you know about it Is that
she Is Lady Shortlands' niece, and her name
was Carruthers."

'' I suppose she was born Brand, my dear ? ''

^' Born blind V said Mrs. Tomllnson, who
was hard of hearing with her husband when
she chose, and smarted, at the moment, from
his lapse Into a yawn. " What nonsense you
do talk, Mr. Tomllnson! she's not a puppy."
Having, however, mastered the pedigree of

her imminent guest, as carefully as if she
had been a puppy, Mrs. Tomlinson could
not resist repeating it. '' The girl's mother
is Lady Shortlands' sister — own sister to Lady
Shortlands." — Mrs. Tomlinson could never
help accentuating a title. — '' And the Carruthers,
I suppose, are good enough ? "

'* Of course they are," replied her husband,
with a careless pomposity, which was all good
humour ; " but who was Brand ? "

'* There again you show your ignorance,
Mr. Tomlinson ; Brand was bluer than blue.
He was the younger son of that old miser,
Brand of Wadsworth, through whose land a
certain railway runs which has something todo
with your being the man you are." — Mrs.
Tomlinson always spoke of her husband's resources
as if she were responsible for them. —
** I believe there is no family in England so
proud of what they have to give — which in
the younger sons' cases is next to nothing

by the way — or so chary of giving it. The
eldest son married a Duke's daughter, as you
know — or rather, as you don't know — the
second son was to have married a Duke's
daughter too, and a Marquis' widow into
the bargain, Lady Uckleburgh ; instead of
that, he chose to marry Dorothea Carruthers
an invaHd and a saint. And she and her
father-in-law between them pulled him in
two ; I daresay this girl had a hand in it ;
he died of sheer worry, and girls are
worritlnor"

Here Mrs. Tomlinson stopped short in her
recital, conscious of a lapse into her older
phraseology, but her husband, who did not
notice the lapse, was amused, and encouraged
her gossip which was probably direct enough
from Lady Shortlands, who never spared her
own family.

'* Well, since his son's death old Brand has
never seen his daughter-in-law, though his

only grudge against her is that she is not
Lady Uckleburgh, nor set eyes upon Eugenia.
The heir is alive and has sons ; why should
he receive these women at Wadsworth ? He
would only have to pension them if he did,
and as it is, he need do nothing for them
whatever. They are as poor as rats, and if
it were not for Lady Shortlands, the girl
could never have gone out. She has made
up her mind, now that she is well rid of her
own daughters, that Eugenia must marry
well. * It is the wish of my heart, dear Mrs.
Tomlinson,' she said, ' that this girl should
punish her grandfather ; nothing will punish
him but a bond fide snub.' That's the real
reason why she means to take her about,
and she is going to try it on with us,"
Mrs. Tomlinson concluded, with a touch of
acerbity.

'aha! So it's for this that you have asked
Sir Edmund to meet them."

VOL. I. B

Well ; why not ? He must marry, and
Miss Brand is old enough to take care of
him, she's accustomed to an invalid mother."

But a husband is no an invalid
mother"

"It's quite as provoking anyway; do let
me speak. She will make him a very goodwife
: she is not young, you know, Mr. Tomlinson
— not a chicken."

How old is she ?"

Lady Shortlands says eight-and-twenty ;
put her down at thirty, and you won't be far
out. Her mother was a mere child when she
married Charlie Brand, and she looks everyday
of fifty now."

Mrs. Tomlinson had never seen Mrs. Brand
in her life. She had, indeed, caught Lady
Shortlands' jargon. Her husband always
listened to her with amazement, when she
discoursed so glibly about '* Charlie Brand "
and his compeers. Perhaps the first time



she had ever seen their names was in the
obituary of her daily paper.

"Is the girl good-looking?" he asked. He
was a pensive and a kindly old man, and he
felt interested in this poor waif, with her life
so cut out for her. Mrs. Tomlinson resented
the question ; there was only one answer that
she could give, but she modified it.

Yes, very ; but I tell you she is scarcely
a girl. Don't you recollect her, though, at
Chelmsford House, at the ball, a white creature,
like a very good blanc-mange ? You took her
for Mille. Malakoffski, the Polish beauty."

Was that woman Eugenia Brand } "

Yes ; and why not, Mr. Tomlinson, pray } "

She is coming here ? "

"Well?"

She will make everything about her
look mean and small. Don't you recollect at
Chelmsford House — fine as it is, and fine
as the company were — the only things that

seemed worthy to be In the same room with her
were the music and the waxHghts and the flowers ;
she put all her partners into shadow."

'* She's not a giantess, as one would think
from the ridiculous way in which you talk,
and even if she were, I think Ashbank would
hold her." Mrs. Tomllnson said this with the
air of one who would snort again, if provoked.

*' She will look well in the conservatories,
at any rate." Mr. Tomlinson was very proud
of his conservatories, and with good reason.

Mrs. Tomlinson did snort again ; her husband
was not only ridiculous, but far too
sentimental. '' I daresay you think you'll
look well in the conservatories with her," she
remarked with an uncalled-for sarcasm. *' No,
no, Mr. Tomlinson ; not at your time of life.
You will leave Miss Brand and the conservatories
for Sir Edmund if you please T The
note of the last three words would have better
become them had they been '* if you dai^e,''

Mr. Tomllnson was rather nettled, though
the tone was not unusual.

'' And are you really going to lend yourself
to this ? " he said. " Why the poor dear
chap is half a cripple, and that girl looks fit
to be the head of any house in England."

'* Half a grandmother ; fit to be the head
of a dummy ! He has sixty thousand a
year."

Mr. Tomlinson knew this statement to be
true, and, as his wife was evidently more thana
little ruffled, he dropped the subject.

But as he put the handkerchief back over his
bald head, and sat on in the still warmth of
the drowsy summer afternoon, listening to the
scrape of Mrs. Tomlinson's pen, engaged on
its superfluous memoranda, and the occasional
swish of her paper knife, he thought of
Eugenia Brand. He had only seen her
once ; he was not a quick-sighted man, and
he was certainly no sensualist, but Eugenia

Brand had impressed him as a most beautiful
and a most distinguished woman. He felt
that he scarcely liked her coming to Ashbank.
It was not for himself that he disliked it but
for her. He felt that she must resent it
somehow, although he knew that her invitation
had been literally asked for by her aunt.
Mr. Tomllnson was uncomfortable about it,
till, with a confidence bred of habit, he looked
at his wife's back. He always trusted any
social care to those broad shoulders, they
would carry It through somehow. That plain
head, so flat at the top, where the smooth
hair lay thin, that ugly arrangement of lace
about it — signs that she had no veneration, no
fear of Inequality — what was beauty to her ?
'' Eugenia Brand ? a fiddlestick ! " If one
can think a *' fiddlestick," that was just what
Mrs. Tomllnson was thinking.

It was not quite a propitious attitude of
mind for a hostess, but there was nothing

to be feared from that. Given the fact that
Mrs. Tomlinson once invited Eugenia, her
guest would have the best that she could
give her, so long as she chose to stay. Her
character was a more complex one than it
was apt to look at the first glance. Her husband
would have said that she was wonderful.
Lady Shortlands would have said — and did
say — that she was vulgar ; but her husband
did not know that she had the weakness of
jealousy, and Lady Shortlands did not crecllt
her with being clear-sighted. She was an
exacting confidant and an implacable foe. But
these qualities lay beneath the surface. Her
salient characteristic of late years was that
she was the lady of Ashbank. And to this
characteristic, at least during her Ashbank
sojourn, she was never false. While you
were with her at Ashbank — what Spenser
called an ** entered guest" — you were quite
safe — you were more than safe, you were in

clover. But you had to get there first, and
afterwards you had to go away ; and before
you were come and after you were gone, there
was no quarter given you. This was Mrs.
Tomlinson's reading of exclusiveness. It
meant not only shutting her doors as long
as she could against you, but shutting them
after you with a bang. She conceived that
she owed this duty to Ashbank, but it never
occurred to her that she owed any duty to
her husband. If she was the slave of the
mansion, she was at least its easy master's
master.

The afternoon wore on, real August afternoon
with its deep hush in it, and Mrs. Tomlinson
from her window might have seen the
basking glades and lawns, and caught the
tinkle of sweet distant sheep bells. The scene
that lay before her was none the less calm and
silent because it was full of light and faintly
suggested music. But her senses were quite

closed, she was intent on household cares.
'' Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday," she murmured
now and then, counting upon her
fingers, and then " stables, picnic, ball." Her
husband's sleep deepened, under this lullaby
spell. The handkerchief drooped forward
over his eyes, he slumbered on as an elderly
man does slumber, when he is replete with
luncheon and aware that his tranquil siesta is
guarded by a wakeful wife.

Mrs. Tomlinson rose at last, and proceeded
to make her tour through the rooms provided
for her guests, which were all on the
same floor with her own apartments, but
separated off by baize doors and a big
flowered portiere which had been one of the
glories of Ashbank for a century but which
she had occasionally thought of replacing by
a pair of plush curtains.

These were the principal rooms along the
corridor. To the right there was the blue

room for the Buxtons, with its adjacent ,
commanding land views only, and
next were two arose chambers — destined for
their daughter May and her cousin Miss Anne
Jefferies — beautiful sunny apartments communicating
with each other by double doors,
alike set out with arm-chairs and fresh chintz-covered
sofas, alike adorned with bright old
fashioned screens and well furnished writing-tables,
alike with big window - seats in the
bay-windows, and chintz-hung beds ; but in
the further room some servants were placing
a piano, as Mrs. Tomlinson passed through
it on her way.

Beyond, but separated by intervening
bath-rooms, was the side to be occupied by
Sir Edmund Trefusis and his valet, which
included a pleasant sitting - room, for Sir
Edmund was an invalid ; and beyond again,
close to the great staircase, a turning to the
right led into a wing: of rooms which Mrs.

Tomllnson did not require for the party she
was expecting. Opposite to the Buxtons'
quarters were the finer set destined for Lord
and Lady Shortlands, with windows facing
seawards, just now one blaze of Hght In their
south-western aspect; bed-room, dressing-room,
and boudoir. These were known as the Venetian
rooms, by reason of the rare old hangings
on their walls, sacked by the Tomlinson themselves
In some vandal raid upon the mouldering
palaces of Italy. Opposite Sir Edmund's
rooms, the great staircase wound down, stinting
the southern side of the main part of the
mansion, by Its vast oriel window, filled with
stained glass blazonry. This window divided
the staircase, which was a double one, and on
the small landing to leftward, close to Lady
Shortlands' boudoir but separated from It by
the turn of the wall and with Its own little door
opening directly on to the steps of the great
staircase, was the room set apart for Eugenia

Brand. Mrs. Tomlinson made her visit to
this chamber last of all, for the rooms to be
inhabited by Mr. Henry Vane and the other
men — a set of bachelors' apartments facing
it, but on the further side of the great staircase
in the western winof — did not merit her
personal attention. She was quite satisfied
with her survey of the Venetian rooms, the
blue rooms, the chintz rooms, and even of
Sir Edmund's daintily fitted Persian suite,
which he had occupied before. There were
sufficient flowers in all, and the writing-tables
were amply stocked; but with Miss Brand's
room Mrs. Tomlinson was not quite satisfied.
There was, we know, a certain contradiction
in her character. Because she was not predisposed
to like Eugenia, she would be the
more careful not to slight her ; but she had
no intention of protecting her from incidental
slights. Far from being beneath the other
rooms in point of decoration this room excelled

them in luxury and in richness of furniture
— the appointments of its writing-table
were more precious, the stands of flowers
more numerous. It had sometimes been used
as a morning-room, for its attractions were
enchanted by a superb view across the lawns,
and over the wooded glades beyond them to
the sea. But it had its drawbacks. It was
immediately above the smoking-room, and its
door opened directly opposite the bachelors'
bed-rooms. Eugenia therefore could not fail
to be disturbed if Sir Edmund or the others
should keep late hours. The side wall of
her room was so distinctly on the stairway
that it was covered with armoury and pictures.
Mrs. Tomlinson, arrived at the end of her
pilgrimage, sat down upon the sofa and
debated whether she should not have this
room altered to serve as Lady Shortlands'
boudoir (which she would seldom need by
day, and never in the evenings), and give

EUGENIA.

Miss Brand the adjacent room instead. This
change could easily be made in a few minutes.
But somehow Mrs. Tomlinson did not make
this change. Though it would have necessitated
little more than the shifting of the
small silk-hung bed from one room to the
next, unaccountably or not Mrs. Tomlinson
did not have the small silk-hung bed shifted.
And she justified her obstinacy to her conscience,
by saying to herself over and over
again that she was sure Lady Shortens
would prefer to go through the dressing-room
straight from her bed-room to her
boudoir. Those three rooms, as it was,
communicated ; whereas there was no door
of communication between those rooms and
this. Having decided this point to her own
inward satisfaction, Mrs. Tomlinson gave a
last glance to Eugenia's room, the expression
of her face being at the moment more defiant
than anxious.

It was called 'the tapestry room," and it
was a square chamber, by no means large,
and looking smaller than it was, because of
the dark hangings that had given it the
name, and because of the single square window
in the southern wall, partially darkened
by the near tendrils of rose, clematis and ivy.
Although there were some rare old Venice
mirrors on the wall, the general air of the
contents was rather that of a chapel's than a
bed - room's, the dressing - table was draped
like an altar with lace of a yellowish hue,
the counterpane had been a priest's vestment
centuries ago. But there was a low bookcase
in the dark corner, stored with richly bound
volumes that would hardly have been in
keeping in a chapel. The truth was that
the books were relegated to these shelves
before the room was made a bedroom, to
prevent their being taken up by accident in
one of the drawing-rooms downstairs. Their

rich morocco and gilding concealed the fine
frankness of Massinger and Fielding and of
some older French works, more curious, though
quite as explicit, if of a less classic literary
standard. Mrs. Tomlinson could, however,
not be expected to know the contents of the
French books, at all events, and on the arose
smooth writings-table, which was inlaid with
Italian marbles, were a velvet-covered Testament,
with a gold cross upon it, and an
exquisitely illuminated Thomas-a-Kempis. It
was one of Mrs. Tomlinson's rules, from a
decorative point of view, that there should
be at least two "good books" in every
guest-room.

No doubt it was a charming apartment.
As Mrs. Tomlinson looked round it from
her place of vantage on the wide soft sofa,
she felt with pride that " Miss Brand could
not have a better room given her — not if she
stayed in a palace." The tapestry hangings

were quite good company for a silent occupant,
their dim visions glancing out, in the
afternoon sunshine, in a very magical way.
They presented no scripture scenes, or groups
of laughing dames with baskets of heaped-up
fruit, but rough battle and spoil of stuffs and
armour, where bearded, bare-legged warriors
were wrangling, oddly out of place in this
flower - decked lady's chamber. Beautiful
things too had collected here, under that
spell of accidental fitness which things softest
obey. There was a silver replica of Michael
Angelo's '' Slave " for sole ornament upon the
velvet mantelpiece ; for Mrs. Tomlinson, or
her predecessors, had the taste not to obtrude
French clocks and ormolu against such a background,
though from the open window there
came in so sweet a seaside breath of honeysuckle
and roses as would have mellowed
even ormolu. Mrs. Tomlinson was one of

the many people who know more than they
VOL. I. , c

feel ; and although the charm of the room
meant nothing for her, she was aware that it
would suit Eugenia, and she took care there
should be nothing to undo its power.

She even went this length — incredible for
her — she opened a blotting book upon the
ebony writing-table before her, heavy with old
encrusted silver shields upon its sides, and
when she came upon some paper and envelopes
blazoned with some of her own new
dies in all sorts of fanciful and hideous distortions,
she removed them, taking the trouble
to eo back to her own rooms and brinor forth
from her store other writing material on which
the mere word *'Ashbank" was stamped in
quite plain silver letters. She did not think
it smart enough for general use.

One more glance round ! Yes ; it was all
perfect now, a room for a dreamer — were he
poet or painter — a room to think in, to invent
in ; only not quite a young lady's bedroom

with Its short old-fashioned mirrors in their
framing of ivory and silver and shadow.
*' Well ! she can use the long glasses in Lady
Shortlands' dressing-room." That was Mrs.
Tomlinson's last word to herself, which showed
that her conscience was not absolutely at rest.

Artistically she was right to leave things
as they were ; it would have been a pity
indeed to shut out that fair picture of the
August afternoon, which the window showed,
with an orthodox toilet table, or to hide the
brave sinews of the broidered warriors with
the conventional tall sheet of lady's looking-glass.
But though the reservation was artistic,
it was not affectionate or kind.

And just then Mrs. Tomlinson was summoned
to join her husband. He had finished
his nap, indeed her search for the writing-paper
had roused him. He had now been
for some minutes watching the carriaofc-drive,
from the window of his own den downstairs,

which commanded the front door at an angle.
He met his wife upon the stairs. He was
far more excited than she was.

'' It is the landau," he said, " for it is Tom,
not Denys, driving ; It must be the Buxtons."

Mrs. Tomllnson did not think It worth while
to reply. What did it matter who came first ?
She turned, with Mr. Tomllnson meekly following
her, straight into a mornings-room on the
ground floor, where she usually received her
guests. As she did so, she uttered, all to
herself, the least little ghost of a snort. The
spiritual warhorse in her soul neighed answer,
and the business of her autumn campaign was
launched at last.

CHAPTER II.

MATERIAL.

Mrs. Buxton was a small, faded woman, with
an irritating way of saying, 'how do you
do ? " as if the show of interest that she
manifested in your health was a concession, to
answer which would be a mere impertinence ;
and as she rarely said anything else to strangers,
except '' Thanks ! " the first Impression
that she made was never quite undone. You
would not have guessed, to look at her, that
her family were the most considerable commoners
in the county, and that it was from
her past beauty that her handsome daughter
inherited her pretty looks. For while Mr.
Buxton — master of the hounds, and slave of

routine — was just a vacuous magnate of rents
and acres, and had never been anything else
to boast of, Mrs. Buxton had been Miss
Dalrymple-Robarts, and the beauty of South
Hands. It was sad that nothing should be
left of that beauty but the little provoking
manner, which had perhaps been attractive
enough when self-consciousness had first dictated
It some five-and-twenty years ago. It
was want of energy, rather than illness, and
dulness, rather than trouble, which had painted
out all traces of Miss Dairy male-Robarts in
May Buxton's mother. But in May Buxton
herself she was well content to bloom anew,
so long as she retained that dignity of precedence
which quondam beauty still conferred
upon her.

May Buxton, who was the eldest of a large
tribe of youngsters, was an admirable sample
of the typical English girl. Her looks were
fresh and her manners charming; she was just

ready for any moulding that circumstances
might bring her ; of that easy adaptable type
that will become fat or lean, handsome or
careworn, as time and treatment will, but of
which it is always Impossible to predict that
you will be able to recognise It twelve years
hence. She was a brown-haired, hazel-eyed
girl, with a sweet mobile mouth, and a skin
of cream and roses ; as lovely as a flower,
and with a charm that might be evanescent
as a flower's perfume. *

Her cousin, Anne Jefferles, who hung behind
a little under Mr. Buxton's wing — not,
indeed, from shyness, but for better observation
of her aunt's reception — was In direct
contrast to May. She was, In fact, younger,
being not yet of age, while May Buxton was
already two-and-twenty, but she looked older,
and her face had quite a different expression,
which it would be hard to define — perhaps
as of her having first been altered by experience

of the world, and then of having acquired
strength to resist it. She was a dark, pale
girl, with nothing handsome in her face but
its gipsy eyebrows and Its firm lines from
ear to chin. But nobody took her looks into
account — she was Sir Samuel Jefferles' only
child, the greatest heiress in the county.

The two girls were rare friends. Bright,
honest May Buxton, elder though she was,
had not sufficient quickness of penetration yet,
to see that her clear-eyed cousin made good
use of her sometimes, and that the costly gifts
Anne gave her were never quite disinterested
tokens of goodwill. This very ingenuousness
of May's was her passport to Anne's affection.
In her decided, if impulsive, manner, she was
sincerely fond of May. Mrs. Buxton liked
Anne less than her daughter did, perhaps because
she had never forgiven her plainer sister
Anne's late mother — for marrying the great
Sir Samuel ; and the history of the few preceding

days will illustrate sufficiently the
mutual relations of the three.

Since her mother's death, Anne Jefferies'
home was a dull one, pompous and splendid
though its adjuncts were, and she had a great
wish to accompany her cousin on this visit
to Ashbank. She did not know Mrs. Tomlinson,
but she was aware that Mrs. Buxton had
been asked to bring her to Ashbank, though
it was from Mrs. Buxton's bosom friend
that she had heard it and not directly from
Mrs. Buxton — that lady, with a laudable
maternal instinct, wishing that her daughter's
charms should not be cast into the shade, under
Mrs. Tomlinson's roof, by the halo of Anne's
superior fortune. In fact, she did not mean to
take Anne. But as soon as Anne had heard for
certain that the date of the visit was fixed, she
wrote a little letter to her dearest May, proposing
to come over and stay with the Buxtons for
this very week, and to bring for May, when

she came, a facsimile of some neat gold tennis
ornaments of her own design, which she had
once worn and her cousin had admired. May's
girlish pleadings with her mother were, perhaps,
a little the warmer for the remembrance
how these pretty jewelled racquets had become
her, not but that her own welcome to Anne
was always hearty. Anyway, it ended In Mrs.
Buxton's asking Anne to accompany them to
Ashbank, and Anne was determined to find
her visit there cheaply purchased by the case
of shining trinkets, which were now in May's
travelling bag, and no doubt responsible for
her unusually radiant and animated looks.

The Buxtons and the Tomlinson were comparatively
near neighbours, and Intimate enough
not to need discuss the Innovations, and — so-called
— Improvements at Ashbank ; but Anne
was a stranger, and Mrs. Tomllnson was
anxious to enlist the approval of so important
a personage ; so, when some early tea was

served them, she devoted herself exclusively
to the sallow heiress and her uncle, leave
Mr. Tomllnson to laugh with good-humoured
May and make himself agreeable to her
mother. That latter task was uphill work ;
but certainly Miss Jefferles could be very
pleasant when she chose. She had more
insight into character than love of beauty, and
her conscience was broad enough to allow her
to praise some very hideous things, which, her
discrimination suggested, were of Mrs. Tomlinson's
own choice — a tiresome fountain that
was plashing outside the open windows, where
had formerly been only a statue, in the small,
trim garden closed in with cypress trees ; and
some 'chair-backs," embroidered in coloured
silks and edged with fancy lace, the worst,
because the most individual, outcome of Mrs.
Tomlinson's hands at present. The one art
for which Anne cared more than a straw, was
music, in which she was not only critical and

conscientious, but gifted. *' Music," she had
once said, ** is my only key to the passions
and to religion. I am sensitive and good when
I play." But the tennis ornaments showed that
she had also a certain facility in design.

Talk flagged a little in the summer warmth,
and indeed among these commonplace folk
there was not the material for conversation.
They were all people, each in his different
way, who would live more by the appetites
than by the intellect.

** What is your progra7n77ie to-day ? " Mrs.
Buxton said at last. Life was like a play
to her — a pageant, in which she did not
interest herself too much ; she had a sort of
American temperament, that likes to see things
happen constantly, it matters little what, provided
that they bring no pain. She liked
other people's parties.

"■ We expect Lord and Lady Shortlands
directly," said Mrs. Tomlinson, glancing at

the clock. ** I am afraid I must wait In for
them ; and Mr. Tomllnson wants to take
Lord Shortlands — with Mr. Buxton, of course
over his model cottages, or something ; so
I fear the expedition must be put off for an
hour or so. But, meanwhile, you and the girls
may like to see your rooms." Ashbank was
always Mrs. Tomllnson's resource.

Whom else have you ? " asked Anne,
rather shortly ; she hated seeing rooms, and
she was not educated to fall In with others'
plans, or to disguise her curiosity.

*' No one as yet ; unless Sir Edmund Refuses
is come. I fancy I heard the victoria,
but he always goes straight to his rooms ; he
is easily tired, as you know, and we make
no stranger of him." Mrs. TomHnson said
these last words in a higher tone, as with a
touch of proper pride ; it was something to
be able to say that she made no stranger
of Sir Edmund Trefusis. He was a man of

culture as well as wealth, and had his choice
among: all the best houses in the klno^dom.

'any other men ?"

Only Mr. Vane, to-night, I think, and a
friend he brings with him ; we generally look
to him for our lion, in the way of a painter ora
poet, in a small way, or some one who plays.
It is absurd asking them; one just takes the
one that isn't somewhere else, or that is new."
Mrs. Tomlinson spoke of all artistic people as
if they were orchids ; but as with her orchids,
she was careful, while she had the treatment of
them, that they should have proper soil and
nurture.

** I hope the little lion's roar will be musical
this time," said Anne laughing.

** Miss Brand looks musical," said Mr.
Tomlinson, too rashly venturing in his oar.

'who is Miss Brand?" asked Mr. Buxton,
with the air of one who rather resents a fresh
name. What was not "Hampshire" was to

him unknown. But before Mr. Tomlinson
had formulated his answer, beyond its first
statement that Miss Brand was Lady Short-lands'
niece, and while he was yet uncertain
what more Mrs. Tomlinson might let him say
unhindered, Sir Edmund Trefusis came Into
the room.

He was rather high-shouldered and delicate-looking
— he stooped a little forward, as he
walked — but he had a very rare and expressive
face. It was at once his advantage and ifs
misfortune to inspire more compassion at a
first glance, than he deserved : what with the
sedentary studious life he led, and the care
that had been taken of him, he looked more
of an invalid than he really was. In fact, it
was perhaps the extreme anxiety of his parents
that originated a state of invalidism for their
only son which his sorrow for their loss had
completed. He had never yet loved any
human creature so dearly as his mother, and

he had mourned her till between sorrow and
seclusion he was seriously ill.

Lady Jane Trefusis had been a woman of
singular talent and charm. She was devotedly
attached to her husband, an Iron-founder
of enormous possessions and with other
large sources of Income besides the foundry.
Socially his wife had been his sponsor. The
son was but a boy, when he succeeded to his
father's ten year old baronetcy, and he retained
a greater reverence for that father's memory
than he might have had. If he had grown upto
see how far Inferior he had been to Lady
Jane In all but the gift of riches. It had been
his mother's aim to foster his remembrance of
his father into a religion. From Sir John
Trefusis Indeed, he had Inherited two distinct
qualities, he was both industrious and affectionate,
though neither his affections nor his
industry had yet found their proper sphere.
From his mother and her training he had got

that special gift of winning sympathy — an
almost feminine persuasiveness and charm —
which distinguished him from his fellows.
Her death had saddened his whole life ; it
had driven him in upon himself, and in the
gravity of this reaction on his health, it was
feared that he might be contracting some muscular,
if not spinal, weakness. This, however,
was not yet such as need debar him from society,
and his slight limp was rather from the
nervous affection than from absolute disease.

Sir Edmund, like most spoiled children, was
apt to take unaccountable fancies, and in the
progress of some foreign tour, had taken a
decided fancy to the Tomlinson. There was
much that was noteworthy in them both, at their
best, and they studied his tastes if they did not
understand them. Moreover, they had no
daughter — a strong recommendation for their
intimacy to Sir Edmund after his experiences
in London. As it was next to impossible that

VOL. I. D

there could be, in his fortunes or his career,
anything to call out the pettiness of Mrs.
Tomlinson's spites, she liked Sir Edmund, and
she liked herself in his society. As for Mr.
Tomlinson, he liked every one, except a few
men who had borrowed money of him, but as
is often the case with men of large heart and
small discrimination, he liked many others
equally with Sir Edmund who were not worthy
to be ranked with him. He was apt to say of
Sir Edmund, that he would '' gladly see him
well married " (for his own subjection did not
prevent his idealising the bliss of wedded life),
and Mrs. Tomlinson beo^an to consider ** the
baronet" her matrimonial trump card. In
fact, Mrs. Tomlinson, in her heart of hearts,
thought Sir Edmund — whom, had that been
possible, she would have liked to marry herself
— "a deal too good for that Miss Brand;"
but, as we know. Lady Shortlands had overpersuaded
— not to say bribed — her into letting

them meet each other at Ashbank. Mr. Tomlinson
saw a woman's beauty sooner than a
man's virtue ; he was even less tolerant of a
man of Intellect than he would have been of a
mere bluff sportsman. He thought the whole
scheme was "unnatural."

Sir Edmund received a very hearty welcome,
and his pleasant simple manner commended
itself at once to the Buxtons. Anne Jefferles
looked at him with curious eyes : few men
took her honor to criticise. For him she had
more interest, with her captious, frank, inquisitive
gaze, than honest May Buxton had,
with her gentle glance at his thin hands, and
the sympathy that was too legibly written on
her bright young face. Sympathy, so easily
won, was not precious to Sir Edmund.

His journey had not been so long an one as
usual, for he had started, not from his Cornish
home, but from a lodge he had upon the Sussex
coast, not many miles east of Ashbank by sea.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITy OF ILLINOIS

Still It was a journey with two changes in
It, and he expressed himself as far too tired for
his host's expedition to the model cottages.

'' Let me stay with you, when they go," he
said, turning to Mrs. Buxton with his charming
smile, ** if you will not too much despise
Falstaff * little half-penny worth of bread to
so much sack ' ?"

'' They are not going just yet, I believe."
Mrs. Buxton answered rather feebly.

Mrs Buxton did not understand what Sir
Edmund said, nor what ' bread ' and ' sack ' had
to do with it ; but she liked his smile, and the
deference he paid her. May Buxton, who
knew her poets better than most English girls
of her calibre, was delighted with him and
with her own intelligence for recoo^nlsinof his
quotation. Anne Jefferles thought he was a
fool : not so much because he quoted poetry as
because he smiled at Mrs. Buxton. And as it
happened, Sir Edmund cared most what Anne

Jefferies thought ! As he looked at her, he
was perusing her pale face — pale from the
even current of her blood and not from sickliness.
He noted too with interest her extreme
carelessness as to any impression she might be
making — the carelessness of a very rich woman
with an assured position. In return, she
watched with something of contempt his listless
attitude, as he leaned back in an armchair,
and the half-shy, half-pleading look in
his brown eyes.

They were very different Ingredients In a
country house party : Anne might prove a
valuable friend to Sir Edmund, if she could
get to like him.

*you are the Miss Jefferies, of whose
playing I have heard so much," he said, as their
eyes met; "my friend Lord Torre will talk of
nothing else."

'* I do play," Anne answered rather curtly —
she disliked compliments, although she would

be grateful for Sir Edmund's praise if he
proved musical ; and then, as if afraid she had
been rough and not known how to use him, she
said, *' Are you fond of music ? " hating herself
for the inadequacy of the term, as she spoke it.
'eyes," Sir Edmund was "fond of music:"
and his face, as he said so, showed that in his
case the phrase had a meaning. He studied
music too. He had brought the score of
Tronchetti's new opera from Italy : it was in
his portmanteau : — Miss Jefferies might like to
see it }

I daresay Mrs. Tomlinson will let us make
some music together in the mornings," said
Anne, turning to her hostess with an air that
made the request a concession. (Sir Edmund
had a rather weak chin under his beard, Anne
thought, she must speak for him.)

Sir Edmund turned to May : he wanted to
enlist her too. "Oh, Anne plays beautifully,"
she cried impulsively, as she felt the question

he was o^oinor to ask her, '' I do nothings' —
Afterwards May Buxton said to Anne that Sir
Edmund's eyes had made her feel that she
must speak, and then as If she must say something
gentle — "something like 'poor,' you
know, Anne. " *' Something like ' rich ' you
mean, " Anne answered. Gentleness did not
appeal to her. But that was by-and-by. What
Anne thought just now was that she would like
to decipher the score of Tronchettl's opera.

Mrs. Buxton had not had time to yawn, before
Mr. Vane was announced: she was only
half sorry for that. She would have liked to
yawn In Mrs. Tomlinson's face very much,
during the first hour of her visit ; that would
have been quite In her old manner, but she
liked Mr. Vane better. He was her perpetual
boon, and she could yawn in Mrs.
Tomlinson's face tomorrow.

Mr. Vane was a gentleman — nobody quite
knew who ; and he had come from somewhere

nobody quite knew where. He described
himself as '* a loafer" or an 'idle fellow."
Loafer " is a wide term perhaps, but he was
not an "Idle fellow" certainly, and whatever
loafing " may be, he made society too much
his business to have many moments left to
'Moat" in. He had organised two clubs — In
town and on the river — the town club had
driven a ball, and the ball and the clubs between
them had brought him under everybody's
ken. After the success of the ball,
people began to ask each other where he came
from, and what he was, and would have gone
on asking until they had discovered that the
Lincolnshire parson, whose son he was, had
proved as Ill-conducted as he was poorly connected.
Happily, at this juncture, his sister
who had never even been to London, married
the local squire, and her newly acquired
position among the county families became
her brother's fresh guarantee, when his novelty

had worn off, and society, with its strange
caprice, began to redemand his passport. He
was 'lady Talbot's brother," and although
nobody had ever known Lady Talbot, nor
seen Talbot within the memory of man — and
indeed Talbot had been for thirty years a
mute cripple and half-imbecile — everybody
knew that he at least existed, and his place
was marked upon the county map. That
was enough : a poor sort of compensation to
devoted Lady Talbot, no doubt, for her monotonous
sick-nurse life, that she was her
brother's social shield and spear, but some
compensation it might have been, poor soul !
had she had the faintest inkling that such was
the case. There are queer see-saws in life ;
and Mr. Henry Vane, when he came down to
Lincolnshire, was regarded in the light of a
London idol, spoiled and splendid, who kindly
gave up a few days of his visiting tour to his
sister and her sick husband, the fact being that

his sister and her sick husband were what
assured him his visiting tour at all.

He was a man who took philosophically all
that life brought him — only that, with a wiseman's
reservation, he asked always *'a little
better and a little more," — and, by now, it was
quite the case that he conferred as much
distinction upon people like the Tomlinson,
by his coming, as they gave him comfort
during his stay. His place was an established
one. *' We cannot ^^/ on without Vane :" and
he always had the newest news and the last
jackanapes at his bidding.

This time he had brought down "a poet;"
partly because the said poet was the younger
son of a Scotch peer, and Vane knew that
Mrs. Tomlinson liked peers — if not English,
then Scotch — and their sons — if not elder
then younger ; and partly because he knew
that Miss Jefferies and Sir Edmund Trefusis
could ** manacle the music between them."

If they wanted a novelty he could always
write to the Royal Academy for a musician,
but a poet required more peculiar treatment.
And then Vane was fond of his young friend
James Chatteris — a slim brown-haired youth
with a large sensitive mouth and a small
nervous hand — and he had long promised
"Jem" the pleasure to be derived from a
visit to Ashbank, and Mrs. Tomlinson the
pleasure to be derived from knowing 'jem's"
people, whose solitary Scottish home neighboured
the moor her husband rented.

Miss Jefferies, indeed, was frank enough to bea
little disappointed at the poet, but his novelty
and his name secured him cordial welcome
from the rest. May Buxton had never meta
poet" and rather fancied he would speak
in verse — a fancy that his look did not dispel.

Vane's manner was a study : always slightly
in extremes but never servile or impertinent,
he varied it becomingly, as he addressed each

member of the group. He was genial to Mrs.
Tomllnson, and almost affectionate to her
husband, while he was sufficiently Intimate
with Sir Edmund and self-possessed towards
her distinguished self to make Mrs. Buxton
venerate his tact more than before. He set
'* Jem" at home with Anne Jefferies and May
Buxton, In just such nicely shaded patronage
as seemed to Imply that May had his true
liking, Anne his profound respect, and the
young poet his kind consideration, but that
at the same time he considered them all very
small people.

I Insisted upon bringing Jem on from
Weston Castle with me," he said. " I knew
you had his book."

Mrs. Tomllnson certainly had his book ;
she had got it at Mr. Vane's own suggestion,
but what she had done with It, where It was,
whether she had seen It, or whether she hadn't,
she could not, for the life of her, remember.

Sir Edmund came to her relief. '' Ah ! it
is in my room," he said kindly. " I glanced
at some delightful things in it, before I came
downstairs, while I was resting my prescribed
half hour."

Oh, yes ! one copy of it, I daresay,"
said Mrs. Tomlinson, fearing that he might
go on to remark that its pages were still
uncut. But he was too discreet to do so,
and was watching the young author with
some interest.

'' Are you a student of poetry as well as
of music ? " asked Anne ; she was still sitting
next to Sir Edmund.

*more," he answered; "I think it requires
a less special apprenticeship." Then, after a
pause, he added, *' I was going to quote
Shakespeare again — one of his sonnets ; but
I recollected that you did not like to hear me
quote Shakespeare."

Anne looked up, surprised ; her conscience

pricked her; she took refuge in a sort of
hauteur that was all shyness.

** Honestly," she said, " I have read very
little poetry ; and sometimes, when I hear
people making quotations, I mistake what
they say for exaggerated speech of their
own."

"■ I shall never forget Anne, one evening
at your 'Dilettanti' ball, Mr. Vane," put in
May, turning her graceful neck from Sir
Edmund to Vane, and then back again to
Sir Edmund ; — '' when she came out on to the
balcony, close to a window in which I was
sitting with mamma. She had been dancing
with Herbert Rondesleigh, and you know
what a man he is for quoting poetry. It
was a lovely starlit night, and as they
passed us, he said to her in his loud tone,
as If he had a perfect right to say it —
as, Indeed, he had, — 'Sit, Jessica!* You
should have seen Anne's face, in its gradual

change from utter bewilderment to sheer
contempt ! "

** We have often called her 'Jessica' since,"
said Mrs. Buxton, to fill up a pause ; the story
was but half appreciated.

*who is Jessica?" said Mr. Tomlinson,
willing to laugh, but puzzled.

** Jessica was the Jew's daughter," Sir
Edmund explained, in his innocent way ;
** Shylock's best treasure."

It was rather an unfortunate speech ; for
Sir Samuel Jefferies was of Hebrew extraction,
and the great fortune Anne was to inherit
had been said to have first sprung from
usury. Miss Jefferies did not think the better
of Sir Edmund for his explanation — for there
was an intelligence in his manner that made
one apt to fancy that he was satirical — and
May Buxton was so unused to regulate
the frank expression of her face that she
looked absolutely pained. Anne broke the

silence herself, by enlightening Mr. Tomlinson.


'' I know now," she said, in a high tone,
'^ that it is from that passage in the * Merchant'
about the *yoimg-eyed cherubim'"

'' What's that, eh?" said Mr. Buxton sharply ;
'' ' the ^;^^-eyed cherubim ? ' " And at this the
lauo^h was general.

"Talking of cherubim," said Mrs. Tomllnson,
who would have argued that a cherub was
an angel, and an angel a beautiful creature,
but who — argument apart — had a way of setting
her speech in rather vague concatenation,
** talking of cherubim, Mr. Vane, you know
that Lady Shortlands is going to bring Miss
Brand ? "

Vane looked up sharply, in the midst of a
second laugh that was rewarding Mrs. Tomlinson's
unconscious humours.

*'Ah!" he said; "she is really coming,
then ? I wonder how you will like her ; she

is not like others, and yet she is not eccentric."


*' They have been due this half hour," said
Mrs. Tomlinson, who was not disposed to
discuss Eugenia as a being of a different
order; 'rand it is only for Lord Shortlands
that Mr. Tomlinson is delaying his expedition
to the model cottages and farms. I am so
sorry that Mr. Buxton should have to wait
for him."

Mr. Buxton, who was punctual and loved a
grievance, looked as if he were sorry too.

'* Do you mind about model cottages ? " said
James Chatteris softly to May. He was a
good young fellow and very tender-hearted,
but he liked to affect the languid tone of a
man of the world ; he did not care for things
much, but it was more from inexperience than
from fatigue.

'* Oh, I do like them ! " she answered with
her sunny, candid glance, 'rand farms, and

VOL. I. E

everything," (which was about the truth) : ** I
often tell mother I had much sooner live in
one of the farms at home than at the house."

'' Did you know that Mrs. Brand and her
daughter live at a farm of Lord Shortlands'
down in Surrey?" said Mr. Vane; "he has
given it to them ; he likes to have them near
him, for his niece is one of the few people
he hears."

I suppose she bawls." said Mrs. Buxton ;
her suppositions were generally unpleasant ;
she was the kind of woman that one does
not envy her dreams.

*' And do they make farming pay them ? "
Mr. Buxton asked ; he prided himself on
being always practical.

Vane only laughed : '' I don't think you d
take Miss Brand for a 'neat-handed Phillips,'
would you, Mrs. Tomlinson ? "

*' I should not take her at all," said Mrs.
Tomlinson rudely ; she had a notion that a

*' neat-handed Phyllis " was another term for a
house-maid.

Sir Edmund listened, his attention arrested.
He cared much less about surroundings than
James Chatteris did, who was rather shocked at
hearing of the farmhouse home. Sir Edmund
sometimes wished he lived at a farm-house
himself; his great possessions were a burthen
to his conscience.

I should think she was a surprise to the
natives — " began Mr. Tomllnson. •

*' Nonsense," said his wife sharply and much
to Mr. Vane's amusement, annoyed with this
persistent recurrence to the praise of Eugenia,
and saying more than she meant in her determination
to put a stop to his " rhodomontade."
— *' She is tall, of course, and fine-grown,
but otherwise she Is a very ordinary-looking
girl."

. . What was it made Sir Edmund turn
again to Miss Jefferies, with that almost pettish

sigh ? Perhaps the mere words " tall and
fine-grown," which Mrs. Tomllnson's context
endowed with such significance. He had
been curious about Miss Brand, now he felt
shy of her. He seemed to feel his own
deficiency, from the very words meant to
suggest Eugenia's. " She is tall, of course."
He wondered what she was like, and why
Vane was so silent and had such a satirical
look in his eyes. Why did he not agree
with Mrs. Tomlinson, or contradict her ?
Vane always had an opinion.

Sir Edmund had not long to wait. Just as
Mrs. Buxton was giving her daughter that
first little tired glance, which was the prelude
to her yawn. Lord Shortlands was announced,
on the stroke of the half hour, and
he entered the room with Eugenia. For a
moment no one but Mrs. Tomlinson saw
Lord Shortlands ; they were all gazing at
the '' very ordinary-looking girl."

CHAPTER III.

SPIRITUAL.

Your first impression when you looked at
Eugenia Brand was that she was not a girl
but a woman, your next that you were nota
man but an ape. It was only when you
had mastered these involuntary shocks of
reverence and of humiliation, that you could
tax her appearance critically, and your subsequent
verdict was a thought embittered
by them both.

Women generally said of her first, when
they had found their tongues, that she was
"no longer young," and men that she was
*scold." As the world reckons, both these
opinions were well founded. She was eight-and

- twenty, and she was very self-centred.
What was noteworthy was that neither men
nor women troubled to say to each other
that she was handsome, after they had once
remarked her. There was no need to say so,
and the term was not adequate. She looked
as If she could not have been other than she
was — handsome, certainly, and with that air
of beautiful growth about her that made it
impossible for you to think of her as having
ever had her ugly moments. You were quite
sure that she had been a beautiful girl, a
beautiful child, a beautiful baby. You were
quite sure that her mother was a beautiful
woman, and her grandmother before her.
People might find to say of her that she was
silent, even that she was shy, never that she
was plain.

And yet she had not the looks that box
your ears, or that draw men, as by a burning
o^lass, across a room. She was tall, but her

abundant hair was only brown, not gold, (and
no one but her mother ever saw It in its
full beauty), her clear eyes were grey, not
blue, her lips were rather pale than red,
and her smile rare. Men like Vane, who
dared be very critical, would notice that her
teeth were perfect — of a transparent purity
that was like fine china — that the white of
her eyes and the blue of her veins were those
of a woman who had never known an hour's
ill-health or a day's unrest. She had qualities,
not ways, like a well-grown shrub more thana
conscious creature ; she was like lilac or
laurel, there was something about her ever
sweet and fragrant ; you could not make
allowances for her, and you did not think
that you could hurt her.

And yet any one who could have looked at
Eugenia without bias of either sex, had that
been possible, might have seen that, if occasion
were, she would feel greatly and suffer

much : all these fine nerves and splendid
senses might become chords intense with
passion. But she had arrived at her full
womanhood with no traces of struggle, for this
reason : what affected others mostly seemed to
her too trivial matter for disquiet ; under what
fevered them her pulse beat equably. Her
mother's poverty, her few dresses, the narrow
sphere of her pleasures — these were things
that gave her no moment's vexation : the
morning, for all this, was for her still the
morning, and the evening the prelude of sleep.
What she felt, you were fain to decide, would
not be intolerance or envy, what she suffered
would not be mortification or false shame ;
only a great grief would move her much, only
a great pain would hurt her. It takes a deep
plummet to sound great depths, one says, a
iiorhtninof bolt to blast the native rock. One
says this, but one is too apt to forget that a
common stone, once dropped into the well.

must sound it to the bottom, that a mimic
engine placed against the rock may blast it
to its core.

Meanwhile Eugenia Brand was tall, and she
had a face that it helped one to see, with the
brown hair turned over backwards from a forehead
like a child's, and deep grey eyes under a
child's lashes, and a most sweet mouth not
overshot at talking. And the expression on
her face was womanly and self - possessed.
Every man present noticed the way in which
her head was set upon her neck, no man perhaps
noticed more, but the women marked her
dress — a plain, grey, morning-dress, warm for
the time of year, with a broad leathern belt
about the waist — and her plain hat that sheltered
her but let her see. She wore leathern gloves,
and for all ornament a Runic cross of silver,
old and rare, that lay upon the plaited bosom
of her gown, and some useful things, also of
silver, that were attached to her belt. In her

belt too, were some of those little round marl-gold
that have a ring of darker colour round
their golden centres, and give a faint myrrh
smell. Eugenia had gathered them in her
garden at Shortlands, not for a sentimental
leave-taking, but from delight in the beauty
of their colours, as they pressed against her
grey skirt ; but as their perfume was not
sweet, she had put, with them, some leaves
of the lemon verbena, drooping a little
now after the long journey, and a sprig of
rosemary.

'' I am sorry you have no proper travelling
dress," Mrs. Brand had said with a sigh, but
Eugenia, as she kissed her mother, had literally
not found a thought to spare upon her wardrobe.


*this does very well, mother," she had
answered; "If Aunt Agatha is ashamed of me, mi
I shall be back with you the sooner." It
never even occurred to her what Mrs. Tomllnson

would think, or whether others would
be better dressed at Ashbank.

Lord Shortlands was a little way In front of
Eugenia ; he was rather gouty, and he was
very deaf, but he was in high good humour.
He knew that he should like the Ashbank
cooking, and change of air had already begun
to give him an appetite for it, which he would
not spoil by tea.

" But you will send some up to my poor
lady," he said, as he declined it for himself.
She is knocked all to pieces by the travelling,
and has gone straight to her room."

'miss Bifid is not tired," said Mr. Tomlinson,
with that embarrassing manner, which
some old gentlemen assume, that calls attention
to the person they affect (as If he would
have added '* Look at her ! / know about Miss
Brand, and the sort of stuff Miss Brand Is
made of; ") but he dropped that manner after
he had shaken hands with Eugenia, and stood

looking on In silence, while Mrs. Tomlinson
made her known to her circle, of whom, as
it happened, she as yet knew only Vane.

Eugenia did not particularly like Mr. Vane :
she could not help the feeling, when she met
him at great houses, that he had pushed and
striven to be there ; and pushing and striving
were alike against her instinct. Moreover,
though he much admired her, he did not
trouble to be at his best with her ; she had
still her way to make, and she might not make
it. Vane never committed himself to a friendship.
She was indifferent too to the Buxtons,
but she had a glance of interest for James
Chatteris, of whose book she had heard. Her
unformed opinion might perhaps have been
that he was much too young to have written
poems about Life and Love, but she did not
formulate opinions readily, and she was thirsty
after her drive in the sun. She sat down between
Mrs. Tomlinson and Vane and drank

her tea : Lord Shortlands was being shouted
to about the model farms and cottages, and, so
long as he heard, there was no need for her to
talk. Mrs. Buxton said afterwards to May
that Eugenia had 'made a display of herself,"
and ** expected to be admired : " — this was the
effect of her having happened to sit down
facing the windows. After a few moments
Mrs. Tomllnson made Anne Jefferies, who
was on her other side, known to Eugenia, and
then It was Sir Edmund's turn.

He had resumed his seat when Eugenia sat
down, and was turning over a book of photographs,
and awaiting his hostess' pleasure.
Now she Introduced him, and he got up out
of his chair again. It was a deep, low chair,
and as he was cramped by some Irons which
he wore for his lameness, he rose with difficulty.
Eugenia saw this, and having heard
of his ill-health from Lady Shortlands, who
was more explicit than reticent about people's

misfortunes, she imagined him to be really
deformed. From a wish to help him, she rose
quickly and put out her hand, with a kind
girlish gesture, whereas he had expected her
only to bow. There was no mistaking her
meaning, and a red flush spread itself over
his pale forehead as he rose too.

I beg your pardon," he said awkwardly ;
he was seldom awkward, and he did not
know what made him speak so. Eugenia did
not answer ; she felt that she had made a mistake
: then — to explain it, not to cover it —
she said gently :

I hope that you are better."

Her grave tones might have pitied either
his illness or his sorrow, till she added as she
got her courage back a little : "My aunt tells
me that you are not strong." She was still
speaking with that solicitude in her voice
which perfect health assumes towards unknown
weakness.

'* I am a cripple," he answered her quickly.
As they stood looking at each other, his eyes
were on a level with her lips, and he saw
them move as if she were going to speak, but
she said nothing ; the divinest pity does not
waste itself in words. Then she grave him
her tea-cup to put down.

The action was too slight to be called
significant : she gave it to him to fill up the
moment's pause, but, to Sir Edmund, she
seemed to mean, *' At least you can do something
for me." She satisfied his heart with a
sense of perfect rightness. He loved Eugenia.

But still, she hurt him ; as he sat down again,
after inquiring after Lady Shortlands' health,
he felt small and mean. '* She is as grand
as she is good," he thought.

** It was very kind of you to ask me with
my aunt," Eugenia said to Mrs. Tomlinson.
You are to have a dance, I hear ? "

It was quite an ordinary girl's question.

but she could not help that she asked It in a
way Mrs. Tomllnson disliked, as If it were
an effort for her to put herself down to her
hostess' level.

** How are you off for men In this neighbourhood
— odd men, I mean ? " put In Mrs.
Buxton ; her question sounded commonplace
enough, and was asked in serious earnest.

"• Oh ! we poet over officers from Portsmouth,
when we want dancing men," said Mrs. Tomllnson.
Mrs. Buxton looked pensive, she knew
that there were officers and officers.

I forget the regiments — are they presentable
? " she asked.

Oh, quite ! — for that sort of thing — the
White Highlanders ; not Intellectual or musical,
but a very pleasant set, and they are
always delighted to come."

I hope they are as delighted to go ! " said
Eugenia to Anne, laughing, for Mrs. Tomllnson
had Included her In an arch glance

towards Anne and May, and the notion that
she was expected to derive pleasure from this
military contingent struck her as absurd.

That reminds me," Mrs. Tomlinson added,
lapsing into the inconsequence of her favourite
phrase, "that I am going to send Webb over
with a note, to ask some of them for tennis
tomorrow ; we shall want active players. I
suppose " — to Mrs. Buxton — " I ought to write
to the Colonel, though Captain M'olyneux,
Lord George's son, is really our friend ; I
think he may be away on leave ; they are
rather a mixed set, you see."

'' Tell the Colonel to pick out the best
connected ones ! " suggested Anne.

'' You might add a limit to the size of
their checks;" said Eugenia, who began to
be amused at Mrs. Tomlinson, and who was
not without a sense of humour, '' At Lady
Dora Struts's the other day, you had to look
at two together to arrive at the pattern of

VOL. I. F

their clothes — no one man's back was broad
enough to hold it — and oh ! Mrs. Tomlinson,
do put a postscript about their conversation."

" Only to speak when they are spoken to,"
chimed in Sir Edmund, laughing also as he
took her tone. Eugenia's silence might be
formidable, but she was not serious. He
quite recovered his composure, though her
gaiety put the last touch to James Chatteris'
subjection, and as for May Buxton, who was
watching her, and who '' never could say
clever things — Anne could," May Buxton
adored her already.

In truth Eugenia looked adorable enough.
With one of her peculiar gestures, half proud
and half simple, she had taken off her hat,
which somehow slipped off easier than other
people's hats, and had laid it, with her leathern
gloves, in her lap. Her brown hair, a little
ruffled from the journey, spared a few soft
fine locks which were lying loose, but close.

about her forehead. The mass of it, which
was brushed back, was gathered into a thick
knot behind, the colour of leaves in autumn.
The group round her began to be aware that
there was a fine presence among them ; even
Mrs. Tomlinson felt it, and the feeling did not
make her like Eugenia the more. She let the
two girls talk to her, and crossed the room to
despatch her note by Webb, and to send some
tea to Lady Shortlands.

It was the signal for a general move. Lord
Shortlands expressed himself ready, and started,
with his host and the all-important Mr. Buxton,
to see the farms and cottages, which had
been built upon some new principle, sanatory,
but most distasteful to the tenants. Mr. Vane
and his protege accompanied them on their
way, though it was doubtful whether either of
them *' minded much about the model cottages."
Then Mrs. Buxton gave her girls a sign, and
of a sudden Eugenia found herself left by the

tea-table with Sir Edmund, Mrs. Tomllnson
installed, like Cerberus, at her writing-table
a few yards away. She had triple vigilance
though she had but one head. She was in the
habit of saying it was "as good as anybody
else's three," — a statement, unfortunately, not
open to proof.

Sir Edmund felt at home with Eugenia by
this time, though he had recurring sensations
of shyness as the circle broke up. Her beauty
was of the sort that seems to make itself a
right to whatever place it occupies, and even
after these few moments in her company. Sir
Edmund was wondering how he could ever
have thought Mrs. Tomlinson's morning-room
complete without her.

Eugenia herself was of that unexclted nature
that does not find proximity to a man sufficient
cause for flutter. She had finished her tea,
and was refreshed, but she still preferred
resting to conversation. She sat by the table

and drew her long gloves through her fingers
in an absent-minded fashion. She was not
thinking of anything in particular, but her
look was an incentive to Sir Edmund. To
a nervous, ardent nature like his, nothing Is
perhaps less tolerable than the air of inattention
on a face that looks as If it ml^ht be
interested. It Is the visible sign of a lost
moment. Here was Eugenia, all at his disposal,
and he made no claim upon her.

"You do not like soldiers?" he asked her
presently, not because he needed to hear her
answer, but because he wanted to make her
attend to him.

She did not trouble to say "yes" or "no"
she smiled gradually.

Because I said that?" she answered. " I
don't like large checks, and I don't like small
talk. I have generally found that officers are
fond of both ; they do very well when they
are silent and In uniform."

*' Oh ! you like them then ? "

They give me a satisfactory impression
of strength." — She paused, too quickly for her
arrest to escape his notice.

And so you don't like cripples ?" he said,
before she could correct her speech.

She did not attempt evasion. " I am very
sorry," she said softly, almost in a tone of
reverence, "do you have pain .'^ I cannot
imagine bad pain, but I am sure it gives
people a value. My mother suffers." He
looked at her, half with shrinking and half
with gratitude, he knew that it had cost her
something to say that. Her confidences were
not on the surface.

Eugenia had a way of sitting still that was
almost like movement — a way of silence that
was as adequate as articulate speech. Her
lips were just parted, and her eyes, though
they looked down, were not inactive. They
seemed only to be not looking at you, because

they were looking at your thoughts, which perhaps
lay on her knees, (Sir Edmund fancied), as
the Greeks said our future lay " on the gods'
knees." He felt that she was thinking about
him, although he could not meet her gaze.

Mrs. Tomlinson's pen scraped on in the
stillness : the pen's scraping and the fountain's
plashing filled the pause. Presently Mrs.
Tomlinson stopped writing, and the cessation
of the sound brought Eugenia to herself. She
rose and expressed her wish to join Lady
Shortlands upstairs.

*' Oh, surely there is no hurry for that,"
said Mrs. Tomlinson, who knew that Lady
Shortlands wished first to discuss the field
with her. " I am going up to her myself,
to see that she has all she wants, and you
and Sir Edmund must not be strangers. He

o

is at home here, and he must show you my
conservatories. If you step out of that window,
you will find yourself in the glass ranges

immediately, and you are fond of flowers I
can see, because you have some in your belt."
This with a glance, between compassion and
contempt, at Eugenia's drooping marigolds,
which possessed Sir Edmund with a fierce
desire to replace them from some flowers of
his own choice.

And so, between talking and fastening her
note for J ebb, Mrs. Tomlinson wandered out
of the room, before Eugenia could answer.
Both she and Sir Edmund had risen, and
were standing facings each other. It was
rather a difficult moment.

'' Shall we go ? " he said, and as she had
no valid reason for not going, they went.

Mrs. Tomlinson's "glass ranges," as she
called them, were the joy of her heart and
the envy of half the county. Eugenia, whose
life had been as simply ordered as a peasant's,
had never imagined anything in the
least like them for culture and display. At

Shortlands, there were but few gardeners,
and they drew their ancestral wages without
much care for botany. Here you went on
from one great stretch of lofty glass into another,
in an enchanted atmosphere of light
and sweetness. These special house-conservatories
were arranged with a path straight
through them, the flowers banking down from
a tall background of immemorial camellias on
either hand. Their dark and glossy leaves,
unrelieved at this season by any blossom,
set off all the better the glowing colours of
the salamander and the lesser plants before
them. The lowest of these were mere border
flowers, flush with the ground — for the pots
were sunk — while the highest only let you
catch a glimpse of this dark wall of leaves,
before light twining creepers hid the glass
above. And everywhere, about and overhead,
shone starry blooms, like butterflies in sunlight,
some naturally hanging from the roof, some

exquisitely grouped In baskets massed with
fern, where the frailest orchids exhaled an
almost overmastering scent. Fountains added
motion and sound to the fairy scene, and
made each live blossom like a tropic bird
in song.

The tiled path was a narrow one, borders
of fern and maidenhair throwing their dainty
fronds across it, and Eugenia went first, her
brown hair still uncovered, her grey dressmaking
for Sir Edmund's eyes the patch of
soberness and life he needed, amid the sameness
of all this inanimate glow. She was
still holding her hat and gloves In her left
hand, with her right she touched from time
to time, the top of some taller plant or lesser
shrub as she passed it ; she seemed to make
a coolness through the olarlno: heat. She did
not once look behind her, because she dreaded
to see that her companion walked with pain,
but he had half forgotten the awkwardness

of his nervous gait — which indeed was not always
perceptible — in watching her lithe movements.
How much better she was than the
rest of the summer flowers, showing under
the crimson lamps of the creepers^passlon-
flower and hibiscus — like a young palm, he
thought, or a bit of Solomon's seal !

They did not speak for some minutes ; not
Indeed until Eugenia had reached the end of
the narrow path, when she, perforce, turned
in the direction which the range of glass
took to the left, round the corner of the
house. Then she said, but without looking
at Sir Edmund, '' I had no idea there could
be anything so beautiful."

'* The conservatories are perfect of their
kind," he answered, only half thinking of his
words, " but I confess I do not care for
them."

Oh, that is what I wanted to say," said
Eugenia, brightly ; 'but I feared lest I might

seem ungrateful. Now I know you think as
I do ; all this is not half so natural or good
as an open-air walk amid the bracken. It
is like a court-dress for everyday wear."

She shook the handle of the door at her
right, impatiently, as she spoke, but it was
locked. Sir Edmund had come close to herby
now, and they stood like two prisoners
in a palace of exhausted air, looking out into
the shady alleys of the garden.

*' One cannot breathe at first in this atmosphere,"
he said, " but one becomes acclimatised."


And Eugenia too began to feel the charm
of the place steal over her. Involuntarily she
half-sighed, as she stooped over the white
upturned face of a gardenia. Her eyes looked
limpid and more almond-shaped, she was
beginning to be mesmerised a little by the
scent-laden air and by Sir Edmund's earnest
glance.

*' I lead an out-door life," she said quietly,
making an effort to resist the spell.

'' Yes," Sir Edmund answered, '' that is
what you have done with your days, — spent
them ' amid the bracken.' "

'eat Shortlands, yes;" said Eugenia, with
a smile : " but you forget — I mean you do
not know — that I have spent many days
where there was no bracken ; — by the sea,"
she added half to herself, and for Sir Edmund
her voice had the deep sea's sounding
it.

Ah ! " he said, " by the sea ; as if I could
not have told it ! You have not only the fern-life
in you, but the life of wind and wave " —
he stopped abruptly, he had spoken fervidly,
foolishly perhaps ; he felt that he was hard
to answer.

Yes," said Eugenia, still quietly ; " there
is that also " — she was thinking of the effect
that natural things had on her, not of herself

— '* I lived most of my life at a little
village near Worthing, with my mother."

'' Tell me," said Sir Edmund in the same
quiet tone, so much easier to talk with — even
in paradoxes — than the tone of surprise.

'' There is not much to tell," answered
Eugenia, whose smile had not left her. *' I
suppose no one's life has been less eventful
than mine, since my father's death, — and I
remember little of the time before. We wandered
about. I was not twelve when he died."

What made you choose Worthing ? " asked
Sir Edmund.

'' We did not choose it," said Eugenia, " and
it was not Worthing. You see I am more
truthful than grammatical. You have heard
of old Corafiume ? "

Sir Edmund had heard of the atheistic
old astronomer, who was reputed to have
been the greatest rascal of his time, but he did
not say that he had heard that verdict.

"He had been my father's friend once."
said Eugenia simply ; *' When he died he left
his house, and what small means he had,
to a woman who had nursed him."

Sir Edmund started. The story had been
one of the scandals of his young manhood,
and, easily as he forgot scandals, this one
was half-historical and had lodged in his
memory.

She soon tired of the little house without
him," Eugenia went on — for she had not
observed his astonishment — 'but she had
some difficulty in getting a tenant, and she
let it to my mother just as it stood — library
and all — to rent at a nominal sum when
she went abroad. We lived there fourteen
years, paying her fifty pounds a year. We
should have been there now but for Lord
Shortlands' wish that we should be near
him. We live at Shortlands' farm now, as
you know."

You have been very unfair to yourself'
said Sir Edmund, with a motive in testing her
of which he was half ashamed. 'you said
you had lived there since you were twelve, and
now you say you lived there fourteen years —
Do you know that you are crediting yourself
with twenty-six summers ? "

And I am nearly twenty-eight," said
Eugenia, her smile becoming wider and more
charming, " it is my length of days and not
myself that I am wronging. Yes, indeed, we
lived at Wisdean fourteen years, and this is the
second autumn we shall have been at Shortlands.
I had time to read all the dry old books in
the poor Marchese's library, so if any one should
know about Italian history, it is I ! But, alas !
I know very little about anything : I have
gleaned something of geography I think, but I
have been to few places."

I am not five years older than you are,"
said Sir Edmund, with a dash of pride which

he could not restrain, " and I am a cripple, but
I have seen all the world."

*' I daresay;" said Eugenia — she was not
one to be moved by travel — " my consolation
must be that you have exhausted only this
planet, and that — thanks to the old observatory
at Wisdean — as regards Saturn and Jupiter,
not to speak of the moon, I am at least your
equal."

I am sure you know more of heaven
than I do ; " said Sir Edmund In his deep*
low-toned voice, but though he said It, he
did not feel that he was paying Eugenia
an empty compliment. She was not apt to
bridle.

^^ I always think of Wisdean as my home,"
she went on, quite at her ease with Sir Edmund
now. " I am sure you would have liked the
house, though It was so little, and so close to
the village road. Between Its windows and
the garden wall there grew a row of cypress-vol.

I. G

trees, with a Greek name — the * long-fruited

cypress;' they were called."

*' Cypresses makrokarpos ? "

*' That was it. The Marchese had planted

them to remind him of former days in his old

Campagna villa, and they were cut into all

manner of odd shapes, partly to please his

fancy, but more not to keep out the sun. When

you looked at the house from a distance and

the light shone on the windows, it made them

gleam like water through the dark green mass."

(How glad Sir Edmund was, that she had

said ** like water ; " another woman would have

said 'like diamonds," he thought). — " I did not

know my room at Shortlands for a long time.

I missed the shadows of the cypresses, which

used to nod and sway across the floor at Wis-dean

always ; but now I am accustomed to my

farm-house room, though it only looks across

the meadows."

And then Sir Edmund said, half to himself:

* Peace in her chamber wheresoever
// be a holy place :
The thought still brings my soul such grace
As morning meadows wear — ' "

** Yes," said Eugenia, '' ' as morning meadows
wear I know something of the 'grace they wear'
after two years at Shortlands. I love to see them
in the winter snow or in the summer dew"

'' Who could not have told it ? " said Sir
Edmund (he had been a little bit spoilt, and so
perhaps, despite his shyness, he was readier; of
speech than other men). '' You will think me
such a humbug, because I swear that I find
signs in you — your very self— of all those places
that you tell me of. But so it is. You have
lived among your cypresses by the sea, and you
have got the tree's straightness and strength,
and the sea's music and power ; and you have
walked 'amid the bracken,' like a fawn, and

looked out upon the meadows " ■

*like a cow !" said Eugenia, with an amused
look which recalled him to himself.

Yes ; like a cow,' he said, Insisting laughingly
upon the paradox, *' it doesn't sound so
nice as it is, but it Is very nice."

I know what you mean," she said, laughing
too, " and I think I like to be like a
cow."

'' But I was going to find beautifully traces
than these," he said. *' I was going to tell you
that you had the grey sea's colours in your eyes,
and the autumn bracken's In your hair, and the
grace of the morning meadows In your soul —
oh ! but I am sure there must have been pines
at Wisdean or at Shortlands."

'' There are more pines near here than at
Shortlands," said Eugenia. She began to be
tired of similes. Then she rubbed one of the
steamy panes in the glass door with her
leathern gloves and looked out. *' See that belt
of pines down there," she said. '* I think they
must go straight on to the sea."

'* I wish we could feet out," said Sir Edmund

looking through the pane too: he would not
break the mystery of this intimate happiness
by looking at Eugenia, as they stood there, with
but one wish between them, like two children :
*' we will go walks together, won't we ? "

"If you like," said Eugenia, as forgetful of
his lameness as he was himself. She spoke as
if she were thinking of something else, and so
she was. She was thinking of the pines going
straight to the sea, and wondering if they looked
at all like the King's Forest at Pisa, where she
remembered playing when she was quite a little
ofirl.

'' Do you know Italy as well as its history ? "
said Sir Edmund presently.

Then for the first time she thrilled with
pleasure.

Oh' she said, " you were thinking of the
King's Forest — Shelley's forest — and of how
one comes straight through the pines down to
the wonderful broad sea."

Yes," Sir Edmund said, and his voice
trembled a little. '' I was thinking your
thoughts." And then he looked at her.

She blushed and walked on further through
the flowers.

Even Mrs. Tomlinson's conservatories do
not go on for ever, and at last it came to pass
that Eugenia had to turn. The slight flush
that Sir Edmund's speech had roused was not
quite faded from her face as she fronted him.

To her relief she fronted at the same
time Mr. Vane and James Chatteris, whom a
glimpse of her face at the locked door had prevented
from accompanying Mr. Tomlinson's
*' model-cottage-investlgating party," as Vane
called it, beyond the garden. The door where
Eugenia and Sir Edmund had been standing
was locked from the outside, and the key was
in the lock. The two friends entered the conservatory
at its angle and freed the prisoned
pair, for they left the glass door open.

Mr. Vane looked older in the broad light, just as
Sir Edmund looked more ill, and Eugenia more
noble and fair. Standing there thus together,
under the articulating sun, they felt all to have
made a stride in Intimacy, though at the same
time to be more critical and more embarrassed.
Mr. Vane, for instance, was hardly likely to be
reassured with Eugenia, though her eyelashes
were longer than he had thought, by the conviction
that she could detect the dye upon his
whiskers. But embarrassment would have been
the wrong term for his feeling; what he felt was
that the sun was behaving in an Ill-judged
way.

We saw you beating your wings against
the door," he said, 'rand came to the rescue."

*' The air is delightful," said Sir Edmund,
*but the draught will spoil Mrs. Tomllnson's
orchids." Sir Edmund was often thoughtful
for others out of their presence.

Had you not better put on your hat. Miss

Brand ? " Mr. Vane went on, with some intention
in his tone.

And oh ! come out," added the young poet
with childish persuasion.

Eugenia quietly put on her hat, which, indeed,
she had forgotten ; but she returned
Mr. Vane no thanks for being so solicitous.
'' I will come out if you like," she said to
James Chatteris, and they walked from the
conservatory side by side, Sir Edmund following
with Mr. Vane.

Anne and May were at Anne's bay-window
above, in the room where the piano had been
placed.

** There goes that woman in her mushroom
hat," said Anne, " with three men trailing after
her already, two, at least, of whom she has never
set eyes on till to-day, to our certain knowledge."

** She looks like one of those draped statues
on your terrace at Broome, Anne," said May.

'' Does she ? " said Anne caustically, turning
away from the window as she spoke, with
a curious sigh ; *' She's rather thick in the
waist, I grant you."

'' What, don't you like her ? Don't you
think her lovely?" said May, astonished at
her cousin's trenchant comments.

*' Like her ? " repeated Anne ; " think her
lovely ? I'll tell you what it is, May. It's a
plan and a sel, and we're not going to enjoy
ourselves a bit. She's a riorht-down beautiful
woman, beautiful from the crown of her head
to the sole of her foot, and she's as good as
she is beautiful. And if you want to know
the truth, I don't mind telling you, and it's
this : Sir Edmund Trefusis is head over ears
in love with her by now, and Mrs. Tomlinson
and I — not to speak of your dear mamma —
we loathe her ! "

Which, like most of Anne's confidences, was
only partly true.

CHAPTER IV.

DEVILISH.

Mr. Vane always said of Lady Shortlands
that she was '' the wickedest woman between
the three seas." His meaning was as vague
as his geography ; he could no more have
told you any positive crimes of her commission
than he could have named the three seas
that bounded them. But the verdict that he
formulated thus, was — under one formula and
another — the current verdict, and passed for
true.

She had suffered a good deal of pain,
caused certainly by braving London fogs
for the sake of theatres, and overeating herself
for the sake of gluttony, but still honest

gout and bronchitis that had left her with a real
feeling of sympathy for other invalids. But
she balanced her compassion for the body by
an equal spite against the soul. Against the
spiritual part of man she waged incessant
war. She might have been a fallen angel,
judging from her persistent denial and defiance
of good. Without ever having compromised
herself — for the world confessed her
to be a model wife and mother, viewed by the
world's own standard — there was no enormity
whispered of others that she did not relish,
and was not prepared to believe. 'not that
she wished any one 111," she would say ; but
her cravlnof for excltinof Incident was such
that she would have given a sister the last
little push downhill, for the sake of holding
up her hands at her fall.

It v^2ls half a pity that Lady Shortlands was
so truthful. She would have made a most
amusing Scheherazade, could one only have

disbelieved her. But she would never proceed
without data, and If her righteous anger or her
Christian pity were wasted on your news, you
were no better than a false informant. " You
may rely upon me for the truth," was her favourite
self-recommendation, and as there are more
than enough seams in the social cloak for an
old woman to spend her life in unpicking,
Lady Shortlands always had her little legitimate
handful of unravelled threads to show
you, and her series of peep holes to exhibit,
through the slits of her own making. And
through these peep holes, may be, indeed, you
always saw 'the truth," but then you always
looked at the mud, and if you always look at
the mud you will very seldom and very faintly
see so much as the reflection of the stars, so
that at last you will get to disbelieve in stars
and think small beer of astronomers.

Lady Shortlands was very fond of Mr. Vane,
though she was not deceived about him, and

she meant to dine down at Ashbank, if it were
only for the sake of his gossip ; but previously
she had to interview Mrs. Tomlinson to see
what was on the cards, and to publish her
own opinion about her niece Eugenia ; for
Lady Shortlands was particularly exacting
where her own flesh and blood were concerned,
and particularly confidential about their
shortcomings.

She had established herself in the Venetian
sitting-room, she was lying on a sofa
with her back to the window, looking like
a battered Emperor-butterfly, with all the
bloom off its wings, and upbraiding her
maid and her absent niece, with what breath
she had left.

** Object ! " she was saying ; *' why, the creature
won't be fit to be seen, if she meanders
and philanders about those cucumber frames,
with the dust of the road in her hair and the
railway smuts smudged on her nose."

It is difficult to say ''smuts smudged" when
one is lying on one's back ; and the phonetic
exercise had just set Lady Shortlands sneezing,
when Mrs. Tomlinson knocked at the
door, followed by her own maid, with some
tea upon a tray.

*' Dearest Lady Shortlands !" said the hostess
with effusion, '' I am so glad to see you looking
at home already."

*' Yes, thank you, Mrs. Tomlinson. I'm
comfortable enough, and your rooms are
charming ; only you must remember, I've the
responsibility of bear leader now, and I'm
anxious about my bear. She's a fine creature
and tame ; but she's very stupid ; and
Parity — who aren't tell me a lie for her
life — says she's gone off on her tricks without
even staying to powder her nose."

'you mean your niece, Eugenia?" said
Mrs. Tomlinson, rather stunned at this tirade,
but glad of the opportunity for inserting

Eugenia's name ; she had no intention of
calling her '' Miss Brand."

*'0f course I do; what, I ask you, is my
motive, Mrs. Tomlinson, in coming here ? "
(Lady Shortlands was not careful to disguise
her schemes, and she was annoyed with Mrs.
Tomlinson already). " I mean to marry the
woman to your rich dwarf. I bring her all
the way here; I'm dead beat; I push her
into the room with Milord, and tell her to
look sharp and bring me up some tea. What
is the point of that ? I can trust your servants
for the tea; and if I can't — for I never
believe in new servants — what do I care for
tea ? I want to get her up here, for Parity
to give her a good brushing and shaking down
before she's seen. No such thing ! Off she
goes with the first man she claps eyes on —
the dwarf of course — and, Parity says, without
a hat on ; Parity knows, and she's made out
the ironmonger already"

*' Sir Edmund Trefusis is not an ironmonger,
dear Lady Shortlands," said Mrs. Tomlinson,
In a tone meant to be mildly deprecating,
though her voice shook with answer — not that
she was sorry that Lady Shortlands should
find fault with Euorenla.

*' Profounder then, man in irons, whatever
he Is. I'm sure I'd sooner it was gold than
iron ; however there's something In quantity.
You know what Lady Gainsborough said
when she aimed at the horse-breeder, and
her daughter ran off with the groom, ' It
isn't the stable I mind, but I wanted a great
deal more of it,' and I hear your Sir Edmund's
iron Is as good as other people's gold "

"Sir Edmund Trefusis has sixty thousand
a year," said Mrs. Tomlinson, slowly, and with
something of her husband's manner, which
she unconsciously assumed when making any
statement about money.

*' Now, has he, Mrs. Tomlinson ? " interrupted

Lady Shortlands, " and are you sure ?
because, you know very well, rumour counts
for nothing with me. I must have it in black
and white ; I don't say that I should stop the
marriage for the difference between sixteen
and sixty, in thousands, any more than Lady
Elspeth did for her girl in years, but I like
to know the truth."

*' Mr. Tomlinson says sixty thousand," said
his wife with authority.

*well," assented her ladyship, in a tone
more mollified than grateful, 'tomlinson ought
to know ! "

Mrs. Tomlinson glanced round to see that
Parity and her own maid had left the room.
It galled her that they should hear her husband
spoken of as if he were a steward, but,
when she saw that they were gone, she summoned
up a smile, and said as amicably as
she could, that she 'thought he did."

And now," Lady Shortlands went on,
VOL. I. n

having got the information she wanted, ** sit
near me, my dear, and tell me all about the
people ! The girl's beyond our reach, and
there's no help for it now. She never looks
bad out of doors, that's one comfort. If she's
made a slatternly first appearance, Parity can
freshen her up, and if she's tired herself out,
I think my tongue can sting her into life.
There are certain things that I say, which
Eugenia does not like. Odd that ? isn't
it?"

Mrs. Tomlinson could not express surprise
at this announcement, so she affected not to
notice it. " The Buxtons are here," she said,
** with May ; and Anne JefTeries has come
with them. "

'' She's ugly, isn't she ? " said Lady Short-lands.
" Her father's skin ; 'can the leopard,'
&c. ? Who was it said of money, '71011 oletf
I always say it does — through the pores."

This witticism was thrown away on Mrs.

Tomlinson, who knew no Latin ; and she
made as if she would have gone on with
her Hst.

'' Oh, you needn't tell me' said Lady
Shortlands ; "77/ tell you. The Buxtons
and ourselves — Eugenia, Anne, and May, Sir
Edmund Être-what's his name ? — Vane and a
mountebank. You see I know them already.
Now, my dear, you want more men : there
isn't a haporth of manhood among them.
Milord can't hear a word from any one
but Eugenia — why you asked him I don't
know I — ; Buxton's a fool, and Vane's a daily
paper. Sir Edmund and the mountebank don't
count. The one's a cripple (poor creature !)
and I hope booked, and the other's a monkey,
I suppose — who is he } "

*' Mr. James Chatteris," said Mrs. Tomlinson,
feeling that the name needed no warrant.

*'A monkey:" repeated Lady Shortlands,
to her hostess' chagrin ; *you must have men,

what I call fibre, or your girls will be bored,
and your party dull."

*' We have the White Highlanders at Portsmouth,"
said Mrs. Tomllnson, naming that
popular regiment. She half anticipated a
crushing retort, but Lady Shortlands was
tolerant :

*' Very well ; ask them over and say you
can sleep some of them ; you can easily send
them back if they won't do, and it will take
a deal of sinew to balance the Buxtons."

*' I did not know you knew the Buxtons,"
said Mrs. Tomllnson, unwisely.

*not know them ?" said Lady Shortlands,
shutting her eyes with a sigh. *' I know
everybody, for my sins, and a great many
nobodies too. You ask Mrs. Buxton whether
I know her or not. You might remind her
that I caught her out opening my letters with
hot water, thirty years ago, at Hepsworth ;
but you needn't, if you think it would hurt her

fine feelings," she added with that short laugh
which invariably followed her recital of a
scandal, like the clock-work squeak of a mechanical
toy, as It runs down.

Did she really ? " said Mrs. Tomlinson,
not displeased. To a new landowner, such
information about '' her county " is precious.


'''Did she really'?''' repeated Lady Short-lands,
opening her eyes again very wide indeed.
" Yes, Mrs. Tomlinson, she really did ;
when I say people have done things, you
may be pretty certain that they have done them.
I daresay she does it still. You find out if
she asks for some hot water — * Very hot, to
melt some cement : ' she used to say — about
half an hour before the post goes ; then look
for your postbag, and when you hear that
she's ordered it to be brought to her room
that she may put her letters into it herself,
ask me again if she really does!'

Mrs. Tomllnson shivered. There was something
so enormous and so graphic in Lady
Shortlands' strictures, that they gave her quite
a chill.

She reads everything and she does nothing,"
concluded her ladyship, '' and that sort
of woman is a perfect sink of iniquity. As to
Anne Jefferies, I could tell you something about
her, Mrs. Tomlinson, that would make your
mouth water ; but I won't, because she'll very
likely marry my old friend Torre, and I'm not
one to throw mud at a possible peeress. Now,
look here, there's nothing of that sort about
Eugenia ; she is fond of music, 7io^ of music-masters;
" (Lady Shortlands said this slowly),
she is not like other girls. You don't think
her handsome, I daresay, because she doesn't
know what paint is, and doesn't dip her face
into the meal-tub or her hair into the ,
but handsome she is ; and if an
eligible baronet — with, say, sixty thousand a

year — wants the genuine woman, there she is
minus a heart, as far as I can tell — and
she shan't say * no,' for a twist In his leg ora
turn In his temper. Now, you manage this
for me, like the dear creature that you are,
and don't forget to bring Tomllnson to
Shortlands at Christmas, and meet the Durhamss
! "

'' Has Eugenia never cared for any one ? "
said Mrs. Tomllnson, too wily to express her
delight at the contingent invitation that might
put her on terms of intimacy with a Duchess,
though she could not dlsorulse a certain listen
in her eye.

" She's improving," thought Lady Short-lands
: " she'd have jumped at that, six months
ago:" but she only said, " Never ! It's an odd
thing, but I'm sure of It. When the caring
does come, it will come with a rush, and over
she'll go. It's the way with us Carruthers." —
Lady Shortlands was quite still for an instant.

and then she went on : — " I want to get her
married first, or she'll fall in love with some
wicked old astronomer, like Corafiume ; she's
educated and cut out for a martyr, and I mean
to baulk her of that vocation at least. If she
must make a sacrifice of herself, let her do so to
your dwarf!" And Lady Shortlands squeaked
again, while Mrs. Tomlinson gave symptoms of
her characteristic snort.

** A pretty sacrifice, I think," she said
angrily.

My niece ? " said Lady Shortlands, delighted
to have put her hostess into a temper
which she did not dare to show : *' A very
pretty sacrifice ; tell me, my dear Emma,
what will you wear at the wedding ?"

'brown:" said Mrs. Tomlinson, appeased.
Though she disliked her Christian name, it was
sweet to hear it from Lady Shortlands' lips.
*' Do you know Mr. Buxton well?" she asked,
changing the subject.

Mr. Buxton," said Lady Shortlands, closing
her eyes again as if to look into her
memory, '* proposed to me three times. So I
ought to know him well, but I don't suppose
I do, for I should never have given him
credit, after so much persistency, for yielding
to Miss Dalrymple-Robarts. Either he
was a greater fool than he seemed, or else
my reiterated refusal turned his brain. They
have scores of children, I suppose ; I hope
you have only asked the one, sisters whisper
so in corners and are the scourge of a
party."

'only May," said Mrs. Tomlinson, "she is
my husbands favourite."

Oh! I can see her; bread and butter, blush
and smile, * yes ' and * no ' — or rather always
yes ! ' She will do for the captains, all of
them desirable young men riding upon horses ; " —
Lady Shortlands knew parts of her Bible well.
" I appropriate Vane, and I daresay Anne

Jefferles will teach the monkey something; Is
it musical ? "

*'No, It's a poet, — Mr. Chatteris Is," said
Mrs. Tomllnson vaguely.

'james Chatteris a poet ?" said Lady Short-lands.
" What a mistake of Vane's to brings
him here — poor boy ! I must kiss him, if he's
presentable, for his mother's sake. What a
martyr she was to gambols, and how my Friars'
balsam cured them ; poor soul, I wonder If she
has them now ? "

'' I wish you would give me something for
Mr. Tomllnson's knee," said Mrs. Tomllnson,
immolating her absent husband, in her joy at
getting Lady Shortlands mounted on her pet
hobby of medicine ; " he has suffered terribly
from the season's dinners."

*' I wi// give you something," said Lady
Shortlands, sitting bolt upright for the first
time, and drawing some small tablets from her
pocket. '* Tomlinson's knee ! where's a spare

place for It ? Here, just look at my memoranda
from the journey ! A woman in the carriage
with us let out that she was Marian Doncaster's
governess. I've put down, ' Write to Lady
Marian I shall have that woman sent away,
people shouldn't talk of their employers' concerns.
She said nothing of consequence, but
she might have said a great deal, and I shall
not tell Marian that she didn't ! Then what's
this — ' 79 Hans Place! Oh ! that was on a
travelling baof ; I must find out who's — * Chet-
wynd, what Chetwynd?^ That was a man
sat opposite to me, and read a letter dated
from ' Brooks's.' I didn't know the man,
and I know every Chetwynd under the sun.
The letter began, * My dear Chetwynd/ He
must have been an impostor. Here's a place,
liniment — knee — Tomlinson' — that means I
must have Parity make a liniment for Mr.
Tomlinson's knee, — underline knee, that means
that I must see It." — Mrs. Tomlinson looked

shocked — 'nonsense, my dear, I must see
Tomllnson's knee."

Some one laughed In the room. She had
come in without noise.

It Is I, Aunt Aorta," said Euo^enla. *' I
have had such a lovely walk ; but may 1 come
In ? I don't want to trespass upon Mr. Tomllnson's
knee," she added with an amused look
at Mrs. Tomllnson.

('* She Is an odious girl," thought that lady,
** she speaks to me as If I were a child")

'good!" said old Lady Shortlands, squeaking
again; 'trespass timon Tomlinson's kneel
I daresay Tomllnson wouldn't mind it If you
did. Yes, come In ; where have you been '^. "

"In the conservatories and In the garden :
the air is delicious after travelling."

Who was with you ? "

Sir Edmund Trefusis, and Mr. Henry
Vane, and young Mr. Chatteris, the poet''

(" She hasn't fallen in love with him," thought
her ladyship, '* else she'd either have put his
name last — for effect, — or In the middle, — that
I shouldn't notice It ! ")

*' How do you like Sir Edmund ? " said Mrs.
Tomlinson, with the arch glance which Eugenia
had resented already.

** I am very sorry for him," she answered ;
*' he seems so lame."

''He has sixty thousand a year," put in Lady
Shortlands. ♦

*' Has he ? " said Eugenia in an absent manner.
— *' Affectation," thought Mrs. Tomlinson,
until she went on quietly, " I wonder what It
is like to have so much moneys at one's command,
and at the same time to be always ill
and see the poorer people well, about one.
Life must become so full of Irony."

** Full of iron - foundry," squeaked Lady
Shortlands impatiently ; and then she pulled
herself up short as she remembered that It was

to Eugenia, and not to Mrs. Tomllnson, that she
was talking ; " Think of the opportunities for
o-ood that such an income brings ! "

To hear Lady Shortlands' counsel upon
opportunities for good ' was like hearing the
devil quote Scripture. —

'rit is kind of you to think of that, Aunt
Agatha," said Eugenia, trying to repress her
instinct that the speech was insincere. As she
could not repress It, however, she said no more
upon the subject. '' What beautiful things
you have at Ashbank, Mrs. Tomlinson ! "

'' Oh, nothing much," said Mrs. Tomllnson,
fingering an exquisite Cellini cup, upon the
writing-table, as if it were a trifle of no moment
; " A few pretty little things."

Eugenia reached out her hand for the cup, —
she had seated herself on a footstool by Lady
Shortlands' sofa. Mrs. Tomlinson handed it
to her carelessly, but she took it with reverent
hands.

** That is most beautiful," she said, looking
at it with Intense pleasure.

** Have you seen your room ? " said Mrs.
Tomllnson, perceiving that it was herself and
not the cup that she had depreciated — and she
could have melted down the o^old with the
heat of her own indignation — " I think you
will like it."

'ram I not to sleep there ?" said Eugenia,
turning towards the dressing-room.

** No, in the room beyond this ; It is — ah !
warmer'' (a doubtful recommendation in
August) "You will be close to Lady Short-lands
without disturbing her," she added.

*' I shall be happy anywhere," said Eugenia
with her smile, proud and yet gracious.

Lady Shortlands marked the effect of her
voice on Mrs. Tomllnson, who seemed collapsing
more and more into the position of housekeeper
to Ashbank; and her heart, withered
as it was, swelled at Eugenia's bearing. She

liked, too, the unconscious change of tone with
which her niece addressed herself, the tone of
one who speaks to an equal and with no shade
of patronage.

*' Mr. Chatteris has been finding out that he
is my cousin. Aunt Agatha," she said.

'' So he is ! " said Lady Shortlands, Interested
at once. '' At least your poor
father was a sort of cousin of his mother's.
They say the world is small. I don't know
that, but everybody seems related to one
somehow."

Mrs. Tomlinson said nothing ; but she had
an uncomfortable feeling that neither the Lubbers
nor the Tomlinson were likely to prove
related to Eugenia Brand.

" Yes," Lady Shortlands went on, " Lady
Cheney was a Brand, and she was Jem's
grandmother — Grandmother I might say," she
added with her squeak. Her ladyship liked
any pun, however poor, if she had made it herself.

If It were made by another, she only liked
it If It was Irreligious or Indecent.

Mrs. Tomllnson smiled. " I hope you will
like Anne and May ; " she said to Eugenia.

I have no doubt of it ; " said Eugenia. — She
had not paid much attention to either, and that
was why she spoke without enthusiasm, but
Mrs. Tomllnson set her down as cold and
jealous. — '' And I am quite sure I shall like
Sir Edmund."

Lady Shortlands squeaked again, and Mrs.
Tomllnson suppressed a snort.

*'0h, yes," she said, " I am certain of that !
We dine soon after eight, so I shall leave you
with your aunt till then. If you are inclined
to come downstairs you know your way, and
this is Liberty Hall. I hope dearest Lady
Shortlands will dine down too. Your room,
Miss Brand," — she had meant to say ** Eugenia''
but she did not — " is the last door on the left
as you go towards the staircase."

VOL. I. I

** Thank you very much," said Eugenia,
gracefully rising, as Mrs. Tomlinson rose, and
going with her towards the corridor. '' I shall
write my few lines to mamma here, if Aunt
Agatha will let me."

Mrs. Tomlinson drifted off, with her inconsequent
gait, and Eugenia walked back to the
writing-table, Lady Shortlands watching her
the while under half-closed eyelids as she
gasped for breath.

** Put me some brandy in that tea," she said
presently. " The old cat has clawed me to
pieces."

Eugenia got some brandy from her aunt's
travelling-bag and poured it into the tea. Then
she sat down at the writing-table ; but all the
time she was silent.

There are some few people in the world
whom to watch doing things is perfect rest.
Eugenia was one of these people. There was
no hurry or fatigue in what she did. To see

her write a letter was just to see a beautiful
creature duly exercising certain mental and
bodily faculties with use as refreshing as food.
As Lady Shortlands watched her, the faintness
passed. " Give her my love' she said presently,
" and tell her my pun." Then, querulously,
after a pause, — '' Are you never tired,
Eugenia ? "

Not with sitting still in the train," Eugenia
answered : '' I was cramped, but my walk has
freshened me."

She folded up her letter as she spoke.

This was Eugenia's letter : —

^' My own dear mother —

You have just finished your tea, and I
** know perfectly well what you are doing. You
'' are sitting down to write me a real, long letter !
*' That is good, for I feel that more than half of
me is with you ; the other half has little news
as yet. Ashbank is beautiful, but there are
'* many ugly things in it ; so many antimacassars.

•' Mr. and Mrs. Buxton are here, with a
daughter, who is pretty : they have also
*' brought a niece, Miss Jefferies. Then there
'* are Sir Edmund Trefusis, and H. Vane. The
'' former Is almost a cripple ; the latter you
'' know. Also a Mr. James Chatteris, whose
*' poems you will find In my bedroom, he is
*' very clever and he is my cousin !

Mr. and Mrs. Tomlinson seem kind.

*taunt Agatha Is on the sofa, in a pretty
sitting-room she Is to have, where I am writing.
She looks very tired ; but I am glad to
see she is not pale. Lord Shortlands bore
*' the journey very well, and has gone out ; I
*' have been out too. There is a belt of
pines here which you can see from the house-conservatories,
which are very large. It
ores straight down to the sea, and reminds
me so much of the King's Forest at Pisa : you
will recollect those pines. I did so wish for
you when I noticed this. Sir Edmund said

the view reminded him of the same place,
'* just as I was thinking how Hke it was. That
was nice of him, was it not .^ And it proves
the resemblance, for he has travelled a great
deal. It made me think of Wisdean too, and
*' the dear Marchese's trees — but he could not
*' know that.

After all, I left behind the little jewel-case
you lent me. I put it in my left-hand drawer
to be safe, and then forgot all about it ! You
will find it there, but you need not forward it.
It does not matter in the least: I am sure
** there are plenty of trinkets here without mine
or yours, and I can easily get flowers.

Good-bye, dearest mother, kiss the pony
'* for me, if you can get as far as the stable, and
don't let Kafoozelum forget how to say grace
for her milk. Your loving daughter —

'' Eugenia Brand."
*' Aunt Agatha sends you her love and bids

*' me tell you a pun she made. She called Mr.
*' James Chatteris' grandmother his Brand-mother.
(She was a Miss Brand)"

That was Eugenia's letter ; neither very
wise nor very witty ; but faithful, as a letter
seldom is. Mrs. Brand would certainly not
stop to question of its wisdom or its wit; it
was " Eugenia's letter ; " and if Mrs. Buxton did
practise on the post-bag, as Lady Shortlands
averred, she could get no scandal out of it.

** And now, Eugenia," said Lady Shortlands
when the letter was put aside, *ras Milord is
out of the way, and we can talk without your
having to shout it all to him, I want to speak
to you."

*eyes, Aunt Agatha," said Eugenia; she
shut the blottlnor-book and leaned forward
over the writing-table, fronting the light.

"You are eight-and-twenty, sounds!'

Quite an old woman ! "

"Quite a woman at all events, and I hope
not a fool. Now I want you to listen and not
to interrupt me : you know I have no breath
to waste. You are no longer young, and you
have no fortune ; but I have made up my
mind that you shall have your chance. It is
not so much for your sake as for my poor dear
sister's, that I want you to marry well."

Eugenia looked down at her hands, and her
lip curled a little ; 'ris that why you have
brought me here ? " she said.

Partly — and partly because I am not
strong, and want your company. I am not
likely to find a single die de reconnaissance here.
But I do not disguise that I wish you to place
yourself well. Now, Eugenia, I don't know
who may come here or who may not;" — this
was a lie and Euo^enia knew it — 'but I want
you to bear the idea of marriage in mind (that
sacrament seems to have slipped your notice
hitherto) and not to neglect an eligible opportunity

(really eligible, mind, don't jump at
straws) of providing for yotcr mother'' — (" I
think I had her there," she added to herself,
snapping her eyes and looking at Eugenia's
troubled face. " Now for a scene ! ").

But no scene came. Eugenia was silent
for a few seconds, and then she said, " I see ;
do you think marriage is a sacrament. Aunt
Agatha?"

Now what in the world could be more
provoking than this? —

I'm sure I don't know," said Lady Short-lands,
entirely nonplussed, as people are apt
to be when an incidental clause in their
advice is combated, instead of the main
issue; 'wiser heads than mine or yours have
thought so."

' A sacrament,' " said Eugenia, half seriously
and half in banter, as she clasped her beautiful
hands round the Cellini cup, '' ' is an outward
and visible sign ' "

* Of an inward and spiritual grace,' " said
Lady Shortlands briskly, snapping - to her
eyes again, and glancing deep into the
various stores of her memory. " Put down
that chalice — cup, I mean, and don't preach
to me ; I know all about it."

Eugenia dropped the quotation, but she
said what she meant to say. " I don't see
how one can make a rzo/i^ marriage, because
one is old and poor."

** I never said you could," said Lady
Shortlands, *but I think you may as well
try : — what I say to you is simple enough ;
I say * don't be rude.' Your manner to
men is unpleasant, you hurt their self-respect,
and some day you will hurt your
own."

"I am sorry if I am rude," said Eugenia,
with a slight consciousness that she had hurt
Sir Edmund's pride. " I have not had much
to do with men who require gentleness, and

I am afraid that I am rough. I must try to
mend my ways."

She said this owing to the direction her
thoughts had taken, of which her speech was
always a truthful reflex. She did not mean
to yield ; but Lady Shortlands snapped her
eyes again, and jumped for joy upon her
sofa. ** The creature absolutely takes my
drift," she said to herself, '* she's not such a
oroose as I thought."

And with that she determined to say no
more, but dismissed Eugenia to her room.

Now Eugenia's sense of beauty was even
keener than Mrs. Tomlinson had surmised,
and when she entered her chamber, its
storied walls all golden in the late afternoon
glow, she experienced a feeling of delight
which would have amply repaid a hostess
who had been actuated by any wish to please
her guest. Although she had truly said that
she was not tired, the quiet and the warmth

inclined her to repose. She sat down in an
old-fashioned chair by the window, which had
a seat that sloped backwards, and enjoyed
the prospect before her, Indoors and out.
She was in a disturbed state of mind, unusual
for her, caused partly by her having suddenly
been thrown among strangers, and partly by
her aunt's hard speeches. She could not
have told you quite what her thoughts were ;
but presently they formulated themselves into
the words, *' I should like to be Independent,"
a wish which Lady Shortlands, had she heard
it, would have taken as a good omen for the
sacrament she had ordained. She looked at
the lavish wealth of beauty round her, and
thought, without a grain of envy, of Mrs.
Tomllnson's power; 'rit is well to be rich!"
She sat for some minutes without stirring,
but presently, as she rose to survey the room,
she beheld on the wall opposite the window
a most curious and magnetic picture, which

Struck her, on the instant, as the glory of the
whole. The picture was raised, upon an old
receding frame of brass, and ivory, and silver, —
a miracle of workmanship — and it represented
a woman darkly dressed, stooping forward a
little from against a sunset scene. Behind
her you could see stretch beyond stretch of
pleasaunce and still water, vivid in tone, and
yet, Eugenia thought, quite unpicturesque in
its crowding, as it were the background of a
Diirer etching, coloured by Holman Hunt,
crimson and purple and green. There was
something in the woman's pose so noble,
something so natural and winning in her
figure and the attentive way she stood, that
Eugenia felt she must advance and examine
the subject nearer. As she did so, the sloping
imaore made her a sort of sudden bow and
disappeared, leaving the crowded landscape a
still wider field ! It had been her own reflection,
the strong sunset light behind her

making the grey of her gown and the tints
of her face darker, in one of the old Venice
mirrors hung upon the warrior tapestry, and
leaning forward from the wall.

The momentary vision and its sudden loss
gave Eugenia an odd sense of loneliness,
which she tried vainly to dispel by an examination
of the tapestry. It was more
comely than edifying, and she turned again
to the window.

When she looked out, she saw Anne Jefferfes
and May Buxton, in pretty tennis dresses, standing
grouped with Mr. Vane and James Chat-terms,
in the gravel court, where they were going
to play, to avoid the heavy dews upon the lawn.

Lady Shortlands looked out on to the same
prospect, short afterwards, from her bedroom,
three windows off, and to her satisfaction she
beheld Eugenia, *' with her face clean and
her hair tidy," crossing the grass towards the

tennis grounds, quite unaware that the basket-seat
which two footmen were bringing out
to set upon the terrace, was one specially
designed for the comfort of Sir Edmund
Trefusis.

Pariitt," said her ladyship to her maid,
who entered the room just then, to help her
dress for dinner, 'you needn't give me that
tonic before I go down to-night ; I feel quite
set up without it! Pour it, with those other
things, into a bottle you will find upon that
table near the window, labelled ' The Liniment
for Mr. Tomlinson's knee — Poison — with
care' And much good may it do him ! "

CHAPTER V.

SENSUOUS.

There were some people called Jarvis, who
lived at Clifton, with whom the worthies of
this story could never have had anything todo,
seeing that they were quite outside the
boundary line which society draws, however
vaguely, and never made an effort to pass it
but by one proxy.

Mr. Vane might indeed have recognised the
Jarvis' existence, had he been some days with
them in a desert, because their appearance connoted
good living, and he would have trusted
them to direct him to an oasis ; but he would
have heard their name mentioned over andover
again, in a civilised land, and not have

given any sign of consciousness. They were
substantial " Villa " people, with a three-stall
stable close to their Villa, and a loud seven
o'clock dinner-bell which rang from a mock
tower and was more audible on the near road
than in the drawing-room. But for the carriage
and the horses and the loud dinner-bell, you
miorht have lived unaware of Mr. and Mrs.

o

Jarvis, though you would have seen their
names, on local charity lists, before such good
round sums as made you wonder that you
never heard of them. They were so very like
so very many other people ! They were not
very vulgar, nor very rich ; they were prosperous
folk, and in their own set popular. But
then it was a planetary set that revolved on its
own axis, and its satellites were insignificant.
The people who belonged to it were always
'eat home" and always "quite well," so that
one could not glean interest, even from ups
and downs of their whereabouts or their health.

For crown of their prosperity, Mr. and Mrs.
Jarvis had one son, baptismal recorded as
"Arthur John" though not a scion of the earlier
princes of England. He was called Arthur
because, straight upon her confinement, Mrs.
Jarvis brought to the birth her sole moment
of romance, and insisted with tears — ''of
weakness," the doctor said — upon ''a name
out of a novel," for her crimson hopeful.
The Waverley Novels were the only ones to
hand, good Mr. Jarvis having bought them
with the decorations of the house. Some of
them were real books and some were only
backs fastened on to the library door. Mr.
Jarvis did not know which were books and
which were backs ; the presence of the backs
had accounted for his purchase of the
books. 'anne of Geierstein" was, however,
it transpired, a bond fide book and not a
back. Mr. Jarvis raked out ^' Anne of
Geierstein," and sent it up to his wife's room,

VOL. I. K

with strict injunctions that she was not to
read it.

She did not read it, but it served its turn ;
she opened it, and lighted on the name of
"Arthur." Mr. Jarvis thought it an absurd
name, but he humoured her so far as to let it
stand before his own plain work-a-day name
of John; and thus the only child that was
their portion became "Arthur John," and like
the other Jarvis impediments, he prospered.

But, prosper though he did, Arthur John,
as might be surmised from the parts whereof
he was compounded, was not more brilliant
than most other people's sons. He was a
perfectly healthy and a perfectly stupid boy,
whose stomach could stand cigars before his
brain could digest Latin. Whether from difficulty
of choice between two royal names so
eligible, or from shame at the spasm of
romance implied in "Arthur" while there was
a prior parental claim to "John," he was

always called by a nickname — '' Buck," to wit;
suggested by his partiality to some American
buckwheat cakes, which were sent annually to
his mother from emigrated relatives in Ohio,
during the years of his hungry boyhood.

Perhaps he would have grown up a nicer
young man if he had occasionally been bullied
and flogged. As it was, though he was packed
off to school directly he had kicked his governess,
he grew up a bit of a bully himself; and,
had he cared to put his creed into words, it
would, perhaps, have been found to be this,
that you can have all you want in the world,
provided you make up your mind to get it, and
shout for it until you do : which is no doubt
true, provided it is only rocking-horses and
toffee that you go on wanting, in divers forms,
all your life long.

Arthur John Jarvis — alias Buck — was sent to
Harrow, and thence, after unpropitious experiences
of a vulgar sort, to a crammer s ; for he

had expressed a very decided predilection fora
red coat, and his youthful misdemeanours
were not such as need disqualify him for a
military career, though they might have been
considered to his disadvantage had he selected
the Church as the profession he wished to
adorn. Good fortune and the single-heartiness
of his parents, who would have made
every effort to get him the moon had he wanted
it ( — but he did not want it, and would not have
known what to do with it if he had got it — )
made his career easy ; and when he first honoured
Portsmouth with his lordly presence, he
was a lieutenant in the regiment of which
Mrs. Tomlinson had spoken, by its usual and
historic title, as the '' White Highlanders."

In person, Mr. Buck Jarvis was very like a
private in the footpads, being noticeably free
from any distinguishing refinement of appearance
or manner. Though you could not perhaps
have made certain that he was a gentleman,

there was no doubt whatever of his being
a soldier. That was what admitted him at all.
As a civilian he would have been impossible,
but even as it was, he looked more like a
soldier-servant than an officer.

He was not quite six feet high, though, by
brushing his thick curly hair a little upwards,
he managed to attain the air of this ideal standard.
His mother called the said hair auburn,
and his face was florid too. It was rather a
handsome face of the common soldierly type,
unchanging in complexion and aspect under all
circumstances and in all weather. No doubt
his figure, though he had some work to keep
it down, was magnificent, but it was incapable
of grace or of the slightest dramatic expression.
If he put himself into any conscious
attitude, beyond standing or sitting, he looked
at once like a vulgar caricature. His ample
frame would not be " cabined," whether his
"ample spirit " would, or no. There was something

about his lips and hands — the way he
breathed and the way he spread himself — that
made you feel he was a young man who required
room. He seemed to exhaust the air
in which he moved ; a winter arbour that he
had sat in was well-aired, and the Ice cracked
as he passed over It. He did not say much,
but what he said he said loudly, as If he meant
it, and, as It was generally a demand for something
good, he mostly did mean It. The veins
showed in his hands, and his clothes accentuated
his muscles — he always wore regulation
boots. When he was off duty, what he liked
best was shooting rabbits.

No one In the regiment ever called him anything
but Buck, but when he spoke of himself
in the third person, as he sometimes did,
it was by the more affectionate pet-name of
** Buckley."

Men seldom found anything to say about
him ; and when they did, their praise or blame

was for the most part negative — for instance,
that he was *' not a bad sort of chap," and that
he would '' not set the Thames on fire " —
what he was and what he wottld do, it would
have required discrimination to tell. For purposes
of his own amusement, he was lavish
of his father's money ; and he was not the
least bit of a bore, for so long as he got what he
wanted, you might get ^\i2X you wanted for all
that he cared. Girls talked about him a brood
deal, and though they professed to laugh at
him, they liked to be with him. No '' really
nice woman," as Mrs. Tomllnson would have
said, " had ever troubled her head about him,"
but the middle-class maidens at Clifton thought
him 'jolly," and the housemaids at his father's
villa, who always put new ribbons in their
caps when Mr. Arthur was expected home,
considered him a very fine young man indeed.
He always tipped them, and after
meeting him upon the stairs they had been

known to spend whole afternoons in quarrelling
for the possession of his buttonhole flower
of the previous evening, the vanquished one
even refusing the solace of tea — a proof that
his favours had been fairly distributed.

Of such flesh and blood was Mr. Arthur John
Jarvis at four-and-twenty, of whom perhaps
too much has been said already, to the exclusion
of describing other officers of his regiment,
but, in a word, it is upon the red head
of Mr. Buck Jarvis that the halo centres !

One is too apt to confound cause with circumstance
; it is often not because a man is
this or the other that he gets the greater
boons of life, but just because he happens to
be there when the greater boons are going-begging.
The lot falls upon him. Now
and then it makes him worthier, but for the
most part it leaves him pretty much where
he was. The greatest gift seems small if one
have not wrought for it.

Now Mr. Jarvis, being always "fit" for tennis
and much inclined for the o^ood thlno^s of this
life, was one of the readiest of his regiment
to accept that invitation of Mrs. Tomlinson's
which J ebb conveyed to Portsmouth, while
Eugenia was writing to her mother on the afternoon
of her arrival at Ashbank. He at once
proposed to drive over two friends of his, Captain
Boville and Lieutenant Crossley, In his new
cart ; and he and Crossley went next morning
and bought more scarves and ties than they
would be likely to need for a month's sojourn.
The scarves were not selected by the canons
of sestheticism, they were bright and fresh ;
Buck called them " rather class." Captain
Boville, who was twelve years older and impecunious,
bought no scarves and called Buck
a fool to his face, though he accepted his lift.
The three men had leave to sleep if asked,
and brought their dressing-bags with them,
and Crossley, who was musical, took two songs,

'ein the gloaming" and the " Midshlpmlte,"
which Novelle made a feint of accompanying
and Buck whistled, though he was apt to
swear, with adjectives, that they were " rot."

The party at Ashbank had coalesced and
amalgamated surprisingly during the twenty-four
hours that elapsed before the advent
of the military contingent. Lord Shortlands
had not only approved of the model cottages
but made the delightful discovery that he
could hear what Anne Jefferies said to him.
Lady Shortlands had kissed Mrs. Buxton
(averring it was true that *she was so changed
she should never have known her") and
patted May upon the head, for she was in
hiofh good humour after her talk with Eugenia.
Mr. Buxton, some of whose suggestions had
been put under consideration by Mr. Tomlinson's
surveyor, thought Tomlinson vicariously
*'a very good fellow." Vane and Anne were
the better friends for having beaten May Buxton

and James Chatteris at their tennis, and
Mrs. Tomllnson, assured that her party would
be a success, spoke with more command than
usual to her footmen.

And Sir Edmund Trefusis — and Eugenia ?

They had sat side by side and watched the
tennis, taking up the thread of their talk unlike
strangers, hindered only — if it were not
encouraged — by Mrs. Tomlinson's wandering
visits to their terrace, (for both she and
Mrs. Buxton were '* too much afraid of Lie
falling dew," to sit with them) — and what
little each had said had approved itself to
the other's taste. Such conversation is hard
to register, it is so slight as to escape the
most scrutinies memory, but much is built
upon it : and it is well if one feel, the following
day, that there is none of it which one
would wish unsaid.

Eugenia certainly wished no word of Sir
Edmund's unsaid, at present ; the manner,

rather than the matter, of his speech, had
pleased her, and she had said so very little
herself that there was nothing to need repentance.
Eugenia liked watching tennis, although
she was herself an exceptional player, and
she liked sitting out in the warm sunset
low. She began to feel at home at Ash-bank,
making, as she soon did, a sort of circle
of calm around her ; the place had sufficient
charm in its immemorial beauty to let you
forget that it was not its own hostess.

As for Sir Edmund, he continued to wonder
that he had ever thought Mrs. Tomlinson's
parties complete before. He longed, in his
sweet-natured random way, to buy Ashbank
and give it to Eugenia that he might be able
to thank her for his enjoyment there. Sir
Edmund had '' the grace to give thanks," and
his position in life was anomalous. For with
this exceptionally grateful heart, it was always
his lot to be receiving thanks, instead of giving

them ; and thus, as it was out of his power
to be grateful to others for what are accounted
the chief gifts of the world, he was almost
unduly susceptible to the value of small ones.

In this case, he was disposed to be thankful
that a beautiful woman like Eugenia should
listen to him kindly.

And Eugenia had a gracious way with her
that did not dispel this view. She was as
free from all mean self-seeking as Sir Edmund
himself, and it was really a favour on her
part to sit there with him in the garden quiet.
Even Lady Shortlands, whose trenchant way
of putting things always doubled their incisiveness,
could not have allowed to her own self
that Eugenia was '' making up to him." Still
she was pleased, as we know, to have seen
them together ; and at dinner, later on, she
liked to notice that Sir Edmund stooped
forwards sometimes over the round table to
look at Eugenia, who was unfortunately placed

on the same side with him. May Buxton
and James Chatteris intervened, while Anne
and Mr. Vane were opposite. Mr. Vane was
on Lady Shorthand' right hand, and she took
him into her confidence a little — it being her
principle to confide her schemes to people
who were likely to find them out, that she
might be beforehand in imposing secresy.

The following day was of a still riper
summer beauty : the sky was cloudless, and
there was so little stir in the air that Mrs.
Tomlinson had a raised plateau of her garden,
on which stood several cedars, furnished with
sofas, chairs, and writing-tables, the journals
and materials on which were not even rustled
by the breeze. Cedars were a distinctive
beauty of Ashbank, and Sir Edmund had
christened the sunburnt lawn which they enclosed
and overspread, '' the cedar drawing-room."
Its turf was more dry and springy
than any carpet, and, being strewn with the



fine needles of the firs, It made the atmosphere
rarely fragrant and exhilarating. The whole
party were assembled here for tea — after a
morning of varied exploration — when the military
contingent was let in upon them, Captain
Boville being the bearer of a note from his
Colonel to accept for the rest of the officers
Mrs. Tomlinson's invitation to her dance the
following evening.

Lieutenants Crossley and Jarvis, albeit no
cowards, were a trifle shy. They felt indeed
shyer than they had meant to feel, just as
perhaps under those noble trees the group
looked more distinguished than It really was.
The company had been for some time listening
to music — for Anne Jefferies had brought a
kind of either — and the expression on the faces
of an audience, as the old French painters
well knew, is always elevated if sometimes
fatigued. Mr. and Mrs. Buxton were asleep,
the one corporeally and the other mentally,

SO that their faces wore a staid repose. Sir
Edmund's happy features were quite calm,
and Eugenia's Heat brown hair, In the same
gent of sunshine which was transfiguring Lady
Shortlands' postiche, looked gravely virginal
and classic. At this eventful hour, she wore
nothing more decorative than a plain white
dress, simpler than May Buxton's was and
of the same thin material — but '' with a difference."
All the ladles but Anne, who was still
playing, were busied with some handiwork
or other, and Eugenia had been doing patchwork.
It lay on the ground, In front of her,
and made a bright foreground, for she had
let it fall while she listened to the music which
brought her childish memories of far-off lands.

She sat with her hands idly clasped in her
lap.

Anne was a very thorough musician, and
besides the Rhine melodies and such Italian
cant popular as form the stock-in-trade of

all either players, she had given some adaptations
of her own, of a French gavotte and
an old English love-song, and now — at Mrs.
Tomlinson's request for something a 'bit
more stirring" — of the German '* Yacht am
Rhein ! " Whether it was the wide range of
these fragments that made Eugenia's fancy-drift,
or whether she was mesmerised by Sir
Edmund's gaze, she could not have told you,
but, according to her wont, she was looking
at him in her imagination, with her eyes cast
down, as if his face were before her on her
lap, and thinking to herself (what she would of
course have disowned, had you taxed her with
it) that she wished Sir Edmund were her
brother. There was a sympathy between
them ; she was feeling his delight in this
exquisitely-paced, old, foreign dance-music,
his deep thrill in this pathetic, royalist love-song
; but could he share the fibrous beat of
her own heart in this national air ? — a common

VOL. I. L

air enough, Eugenia knew, and sounding commoner
than ever, with the either's twang in
it — for all Anne's clever playing — but still
a stirring tune ; yes ! the more so for the
tripping and the sentiment before it — vigorous
manly — brave . . .

Then she looked up, and saw Buck, standing
near her underneath the cedar boughs !

Something like this had been Eugenia's
thought, could one rightly uplift her maiden
veil of calm, and watch the pulse beneath
it beating time to the various music. '' All
these surroundings are very beautiful," — here
the gavotte was playing, — "these cedars and
this pleasaunce ; and to sit still in these long
shadows is good; — and his companionship, what
does it mean for me ? It is part of a scheme
which I have every right to make, which is
not against my duty and hardly against my
inclination ; a scheme that this most amiable
man and I should belong to each other, and



all my days be filled with gavottes and pleas-ounces
and cedars and good company. Is
not that well ? " Then came the royalist love-song,
with its pathos, and the cry of a tender
heart caught up in its bars for ever ; and it
said to Eugenia, '' Oh, do you love this man ?
without cedars and good company and dancing
days ? Love him for himself and you ?
Love him for all time ? Love him with
love?" And so she fell to wondering if .she
could love Sir Edmund, and if that was why
she wished he were her brother — or was it
that she might be at home in his pleasaunce
and his good company — and perhaps another
with her ? The wonder made her restless
— motionless though she stayed. She did
not know that she might not get to love him ;
(that was how she put it to herself;) neither
Wisdean nor Shortlands had furnished her
with this experience. One home had taught
her the sound of the sea, and the other the

peace of the meadows ; might it not be for
Ashbank to bring her this better gift of love ?
What was wanting? what did it mean — that
love was a new thing, that love was all ? And
then came the twang of the fierce German
war-song, that had no national spell for her,
and surely nothing to say of love, but that
just clenched her heart with its masterful
chords and made it beat, till she felt her
colour change . . . and then she looked up
looked up and saw Buck, standing underneath
the cedar boughs, and could not indeed
have said if she liked or loathed him, could
but have said that there was some one there,
but in that instant knew that it was only asa
brother, or as a friend — that emptier word
that she could love Sir Edmund Trefusis.

You may dazzle yourself with soft lamplight
and call it day, until, when at morn you lookout
upon the hills, you are only blinded and
cannot say, ^'The sun is up;" but the sun is

In the heavens though you wot not of it, and
he shines for you, and at least you have the
heart to say no longer, '' This lamp of mine
is the true light of day!"

It was only an instant, and yet It had told
her all.

Anne Jefferies ceased playing, with a
thrum across the strings ; and she was naturally
the centre of the three officers' notice
for the moment. Mrs. Tomlinson, who had
been thinking out a menu, came to her senses
with symptoms of a snort, and introduced
them to her, after presenting them to Lady
Shortlands and Mrs. Buxton. Boville, as we
have seen, was musical, and had not improbably
recognised the air she had been playing,
for he alluded to It as " that martial
strain." Crossley and Buck stuck by each
other at a respectful distance, made their
bows together, and turned towards one
another again with some identical word about

the beauty of the cedars. They furnished
nothing more to the general scene than two
good suits of clothes — with men in them —
four well-planted feet and two red ears.
Buck shifted his chin, more than Crossley
did, over the stiff collar which would have
galled a less seasoned throat — he was never
perfectly still— and looked, with the self-consciousness
of an underbred man, as if he had
been brought there to box or fight ; — much as
the professional wrestler looks among the
better actors on the stage, in the first act of
'' As you like it."

Miss May Buxton adored " the service ; "
she thought the two young fellows might be
rather nice," but thought so indiscriminately,
and she left off thinking even thus much, when
she got a good view of their Captain. The long
moustaches and the eyeglass turned the scale.

They are fine cattle ! " said Lady Short-lands
aloud to Mrs. Buxton, as if they had

been talklnor of farm stock. She had a sand
froid that let her say such things of men before
their faces, and, to do her justice, they seldom
perceived that she was speaking of them.

Mrs. Buxton underwent 'her smile," which
very often saved her a foolish utterance. She
did not in the least know what Lady Short-lands
meant, and her ladyship felt that she
had cast her rhetorical pearls before swine.
'' Pick up your patchwork, Eugenia ; " she
went on impatiently, in the same loud voice,
and it drew the three new pairs of eyes towards
the group of which her niece was the centre.

(" Rum old cat," thought Buck and Crossley
together ; like similarly prepared plates they
took similar impressions.)

Sir Edmund and Eugenia stooped for the
patchwork at the same moment, and it was
just as she did so, that Buck's eyes first fell
upon her face. It occurred to him — he could
never be said to think — that an awkward

woman must have knocked her head against
Sir Edmund's.

Eugenia, that's a gassy name," was the
conviction, produced by Lady Shortlands'
utterance, in Buck and Crossley.

'' You care as Httle for your needlework as
Omphale did," said Sir Edmund.

'who the deuce is Omphale?" wondered
Buck: — Crossley happened to know: — he stared.
Something in his france made Euo^enla brace
herself, and she began talking faster than her
wont. " I have more reverence for it than
skill'' she said. " I should have been a poor
worker at such tapestries as adorn my bedroom
here ; just think. Sir Edmund," —

(" Oh, the lame beggar's a caned, is he ? "
thought Buck, and he hated him for it).

"Just think of it — wonderful people, with
shields and helmets and battle-axes, and such
remorseless cruel faces — noble too — and all this
just women's needlework."

Well, here are model men for you, at
any rate ! " put in Mr. Tomllnson, with his
aggressive air of proprietorship in his guests
the same air which he had used to Eugenia
on her arrival ; — it was his reading of hospitality,
and he touched the two young soldiers
as he spoke : '' I am sure our friends here,
Mr. Crossley and Mr. Jarvis, would be proud
to sit for you. Miss Brand, as long as you
liked to work them. Our armoury would
furnish the helmets and shields, and I think
I can answer for the sinews," he had hold
of Buck's arm as he spoke.

Crossley blushed a little, but Buck, to whom
this sort of coarse praise was not unfamiliar,
laughed and spread himself

Eugenia swept them with her eyes, just
acknowledging the introduction which Mr.
Tomlinson's mention of their names implied.
Inwardly she blamed herself for speaking of
the tapestries, nor could she have said how

she had come to do so— and to Sir Edmund !
As for Sir Edmund, he was looking at her
in a puzzled way that could not help her,
and yet it was to him, and not to her aunt,
that she turned in her embarrassment.

'' Modern uniforms are nothing like that
fine armour," she said ; " think of the opportunities
for cross-stitch in a coat of mail, while
a red coat would be the simplest groundwork.
Is not the armour at Ashbank beautiful, Sir
Edmund ?"

''Ah ! no more chance for the ironmongers
now ! " cried old Lady Shortlands— with her
squeak, and a touch of sarcasm, to which
only Mrs. Tomlinson and Eugenia had the
clue and which Mrs. Tomlinson was too
preoccupied to observe — " beat their spears
into pruning-hooks, ploughshares — what is it,
Vane ? "

Sir Edmund, who, sensitive though he might
be, was not snob enough to be perpetually conscious

of the source of his father's wealth, set
Lady Shortlands right in her quotation, without
seeing that he fledged an arrow which was
aimed against himself. Eugenia was indignant
at her aunt ; and, with her healthy instinct to
get away from whatever was repugnant to her,
she rose and crossed the grass to Anne.

(''She did that," said Mrs. Buxton to herself,
with an air of conviction, 'entirely for
show")

Captain Boville was bending over the
either. He had already experienced the first
half of the impression that Eugenia made
he felt that she was a woman, not a
girl; and Captain Boville preferred girls,
because they admired his moustaches more —
now he began to experience the second half,
and to feel that, despite his moustaches, he
was less of a man than a monkey.

Crossley and Jarvis were perhaps not so
impressionable ; the latter, at all events, would

have been hard to shake out of the conviction
of his manhood: "That's an uncommon
fine girl," he said to Crossley, under his
breath. They were standing apart from Anne
and their senior officer.

She looks like a princess," said Crossley.

'' Princess be blowed ! " said Buck, who often
thought Crossley an ass ; " I'd sooner talk to
her than break my leg ; " but, as he said so,
another shifting of his chin brought his eyes
back to May, who had attracted his roving
glance already. At the same moment, Mrs.
Tomlinson presented Crossley and himself to
her, with an unfortunate misplacement of their
names, and thus created a further diversion.

''My name is Crossley," said the owner
of that patronymic, — " rather crossly'' Vane
remarked to Lady Shortlands ; but she did
not laugh at the pun, because she had meant
to make it herself, in which event she would
have laughed heartily.

"Oh!" said May with her pretty smile,
and that faint, roseleaf flush which anything,
or nothing, called to her soft cheeks, " then
you are Mr. Jarvis?"

Buck nodded. "Yes," he said, "I'm Mr.
Jarvis!"

It was not much to say, but he said it ina
way that deepened the flush. An ill-bred
man can put a world of offence into his "how
do you do ? " — an intimacy that is almost an
insult into his merest "good-bye." When
Buck said, "Yes, I'm Mr. Jarvis," the effect
of his utterance of the words was much the
same as if another man had added, " And
what do you think of that, my dear ? "

May had not experience enough to construe
this tone, which would have made a
barmaid titter, but it set her upon her guard.
That is my cousin whose playing you were
admiring," she said, turning again from Buck's
blue stare to Crossley's gentler, browner gaze ;

"you could hardly have made out what she
was playing, and it is lucky, for a German
war-song is not up to her usual form." May
always became rather slangy when she was
nervous.

'' There are some rousing good tunes
among 'em ; " said Buck, as if deciding the
point in question, with the authority of one
after whose decision the world might wae as
it could — the lesser niceties of criticism beings
to meaner intelligence.

And then Crossley and May Buxton fell
to telling each other what they thought about
German war-songs (it was pleasant that their
tastes agreed), and they discovered that they
had both heard a selection of them at the
Crystal Palace, when they were quite children,
and Crossley said he wished he could recollect
the date, for the war-songs were given
several times during the period of the Franco-prussian
war; and May said she thought she

could find it, for she had kept a diminutive
diary about that time, when she had been a
very busy Httle girl. And then Crossley said
he hoped they had heard them on the same
day, and then he became involved, and May
blushed and began to think he was " quite
nice," but to wish that Mr. Jarvis had looked
piqued, and had not wheeled round in that
odious way, as if nothing that she said could
matter, and as if the choice of war-songs
were a question entirely beneath his notice ;
there being a species of crass ignorance
which is almost as impressive as the indifference
of an expert, had May Buxton only
known it.

Meanwhile Eugenia had been asking Anne

<-> o

to sing, Captain Boville having found his
courage to join in the request. Anne was
noway loth to comply, having one of those
small voices, perfectly cultivated and perfectly
controlled, which require no humouring, and

are as suited to a lawn as to a music-room.
But she revenged herself upon her audience
for that German war-song, by singing something
weird, in a minor key, and with words
in an unknown tongue.

*' That is the best of all the Swedish melodies,"
said Sir Edmund, when she ended it,
and, in contrast to the stupid thanks of the
others, Eugenia thought his knowledge delightful.


'rit is beautiful;" she said, as she had said
of the Cellini cup; that much she knew,
although she did not know the song; her
instincts were ahead of her culture.

'eyes, it is beautiful;" said Sir Edmund,
who appreciated Eugenia's conviction as well
as the music, and who had pushed his long
chair nearer to Anne, with a peculiar movement
that was half confidential and half
tutorial — " it is beautiful, but it was thrown
away. Look at the face of that man who is

leaning against the boughs of the cedar to
your left ; did you ever see anything — passez-moi
le mot — so indisputably Philistine ? Had
you but caught a glimpse of him, during your
song, he would have paralysed its refrain."

** I never see any one when I am singing''
said Anne.

'' I know, and this time it was well for
you ! He thinks there is somebody looking at
him, but he does not know that it is I. Be
merciful, Miss Jefferies, you don't happen to
sing ' Wilkins and his Dinah,' do you ? "

Anne laughed : Sir Edmund's comment had
been quite in her own vein. '* No, I don't,"
she said, "there's a song called * He's got 'em
on ; ' — I wish I knew it, for it would be really
appropriate. I go as far as ' Christy Minstrels
' though, sometimes. Do you know
Old folks at home,' Miss Brand ? — that is
beautiful ' too, by the way."

Then, without further prelude, she sang the

VOL I. M

sweet old-fashioned melody. Eugenia still
stood listening, her eyes filling with the picture.
The whole circle was very silent.

Anne sang on, not too slowly, but in the
only half pathetic, and half careless, style that
best suits the meaning of the simple song :

One little hut among de bushes
One dat I love ;
Still sadly to my memory rushes,
No matter where I rove " —

(" I like that ' rushes, ' " said Sir Edmund
softly to Eugenia.)

'* Christy's ! by George," said Buck, surprised
Into unmusical speech, as Anne played a few
last chords, which sounded very ringing in the
entranced stillness. He had heard the song
murdered by some girls, at Clifton or elsewhere,
whom he had found to his liking, and
had himself joined in an unison chorus, with
great effect he flattered himself — at least his
voice had been heard. *' Have you been to

those new minstrels, Miss Brand, and do you
know * Mary's gone with a coon ' ? It's an
almighty good song."

No," said Eugenia kindly, *' I don't know
it; they sing very well, I have heard."

Sir Edmund looked up astonished. He
had half expected her to petrify the bold
lieutenant with a scornful glance, or freeze the
words upon his lips by silence. Eugenia was
the last person present to be tolerant of such
a speech, nor could she have explained why
she answered the infelicitous remark — blurted
out, as it was, at the wrong time and in the
wrong context, with such gentleness and pity.
She was not used to be tactful, and was both
surprised and ashamed in her own heart that
she had troubled to smooth off the rough
edges of Buck's blunder.

Mr. Buck himself was, naturally, conscious
of neither surprise nor shame. ** ' Mary's gone
with a C007Z ' / " he said loudly, illustrating the

crescendo of the song in a somewhat tuneless
way. "That's the style of thing, you know ;
and then they've got a chap that fights with a
bantam — haven't they, Crossley ? "

This speech was an unusually long one for
Lieutenant Jarvis, and he was glad to shift its
weight on to his comrade's shoulders, should it
entail cross-questioning. He was not given to
racontes^ and would not have troubled to say
thus much, had he not felt that he was on
safe ground and likely to distinguish himself.
** Hang it all!" he was saying in his heart,
with an involuntary wish that he felt more
at home in the company about him than he
really did, " let 'em see they've got a chap
among 'em that knows something about it ; "
and in this happy frame of mind he leaned
against the cedar boughs again. He was
blessedly unaware that Anne Jefferies was
laughing at something Captain Boville said
to her about him ; — for Captain Boville had

just brains enough to see when another man
made a fool of himself — and that Mrs. Buxton
was whispering to Vane her most fatal verdict
that he was '* vulgar." Eugenia was, however,
aware of both the laugh and the whisper, and
pursued that unaccountable Instinct which had
impelled her to the luckless warrior's rescue.
As she looked at him she felt her temples
throb and her heart beat quicker. '* You like
songs ? " she said.

"Yes, Miss Brand," said Buck, *' I like a
good song with a chorus, — I know a song or
two, by Jove — but I don't care much about
music, you know."

"No;" said Eugenia — weakly she felt, but
she did not find anything else to say. She
resented 'you know," she resented this young
man altogether. That was the feeling that
Buck brought her, resentment — so much more
dangerous than dislike. It was strange that
she did not wish him to make himself despised,

but her resentment was not the judicial
glow that springs from calm contempt. It was
full of passion. She could sooner have struck
him on the mouth than not have listened.

Because at this moment of the summer day
in this place of cedars, Eugenia was making
a discovery, some such an one as a person
might make who had always lived at low
tide — could one imagine the case — when the
tide rose. It is hard to put it into words, for
it is only half described as an 'awakening."
At Buck's first look, we know that she had
felt to brace herself, forced to move, to speak,
to make some self-display, as a noble horse will
arch its neck at its stupid master's glance.
Then followed the reaction of reason — an
involuntary sense of having abased herself
that one shy word from Buck would have dispelled.
But, with the wisdom of the fool, he
spoke no word : he only went on staring at her
and thought her figure and her manner *' fine."

He was thinking about women in general,
she was thinking of no man but him, and,
heaven save the mark ! — they were talking
about music.

** Now then," said Lady Shortlands, who
began to be fidgety, the moment she saw
Eugenia parted from Sir Edmund, 'organise
something, Mrs. Tomlinson ; bless the woman!
No ! I don't mean make a plan. Nobody
wants to start off and see your dairies (which
you never go near, I'll warrant, unless you've
got a houseful), just stir them up a bit — not
the milk-pans but the mi\k-soJ>s — eh, Vane !
and make them mix. Society, Tomlinson,"
she added, turning her shaky old head to her
inefficient host, " is like a pudding ; you must
keep it together, but you mustn't let it settle."

*' And distribute the plums and the sugar,
as equally as you can, throughout," added
Vane, who liked Lady Shortlands' homely
metaphors.

*' Yes," concluded her ladyship ; *' or else it
will taste of the suet ! "

(Mrs. Tomlinson might not know much
about society, but, thanks to her handy manual,
she knew something about puddings, and
elsewhere would have said so with pride.
She knew too what Vane meant by " plums "
and *' sugar," and she guessed what Lady
Shortlands meant by 'suet." Afterwards she
said so to her husband :

'' By ' suet,' Mr. Tomlinson," she said,
'the old harridan meant you and me — you
and me, and perhaps Mr. Jarvis. You maybe
blind and deaf and he may be a poltroon
; I am not blind and deaf (though
I may be ^suet,') and I am not a poltroon
; and if she does chop me up, she'll
find it pretty hard to digest me, and so
I tell you" (but here Mrs. Tomlinson
found — for this happened later — that
far from putting any weight into this awful

threat, her husband had already fallen
asleep).

And so It came about that, at Lady Short-lands'
own suggestion, Anne and May started
to put on their tennis skirts, while Eugenia,
who had no tennis skirt, went with them to
pin up her dress. Mr. Vane and his host,
between them, took '' the army," as Lady
Shortlands dubbed the new arrivals, to don
their flannels, and Richard Crossley and
Arthur Jarvis felt that their moment was
come.

One parting glance at the sunburnt lawn,
before the business of the afternoon commenced
; the young people giving their elders
messages for home letters to be written by
post-time, the elders looking for their tea,
which was just being brought out to them,
upon trays of gleaming silver. There were
old Lady Shortlands, on her wicker-sofa gay
with cushions, and Mrs. Tomlinson in her

high arm-chair, with a beaded footstool, and
Mrs. Buxton with her parasol up, despite the
cedar shade.

And there were Lord Shortlands, pretending
that he heard what Mr. Buxton was saying
about southron and shorthorns, and
Sir Edmund, idling with a journal and watching
them all patiently, as he would watch the
tennis by-and-by.

And then, descending from the turfed plateau,
getting out of the sweet cedar shade
into the open sunshine, was the group for
whom' afternoon still meant, not leisure, but
time for work and play. Captain Novelle and
Lieutenant Crossley, sticking close together
by Anne and pretty May, as they followed
Mr. Tomlinson and Vane — rather ashamed,
to say truth, of their friend Jarvis' efforts
at musical criticism, and looking as if they
did not want to belong to him, despite their
similarity of garb.

And Eugenia — our dear Eugenia — still standing
in the shadow with the young poet James
Chatteris, not cousin only, but sworn knight
long ere this ; and full in front of her — right
in the glow — masterful Buck, in his big suit
of dittos and his regulation boots, waiting to
walk towards the house with her, for no other
reason than that she was the handsomest
woman there, while he was well convinced
he was the finest man. "• By George," he
thought, " if she can dance like she can walk,
she won't be a bad find for yours truly ! "

'* Give mother my best love," said Eugenia
to her aunt, as she stept down ; " I will send
Parity with your tonic." She still felt rather
to be Lady Shortlands nurse than her charge,
and she still felt that she could not be
silent.

And then she set foot in the sunlight, side-beside
with Buck, for a mere game of play ;
and for Eugenia, not again would the cedar

shadows lengthen and the grass smell sweet
of the needles of the pine, or the afternoon
only wax into a peaceful cool, as just that
day, any more, quite the same way — forever
!

CHAPTER VI.

MUTUAL.

There were several tennis-courts at Ashbank,
turfed or gravelled, of nearly all which the
cedar-plateau commanded a view. The eight
players put In such appearances as ten minutes
dressing-time and their Individual tastes or
wardrobes provided. Anne Jefferles and Buck
at two extreme poles of thought on most
matters, as they were likely to prove — were
the only ones equipped with elaborate care,
though In Anne's case the costume was one
due to the foresight of her dressmaker and her
maid, and not, as in Buck's, to active personal
vanity. She looked distinguished enough, her
dark head showing to advantage over the neat.

though fanciful, dress which became her slight
figure well. Buck, too, was the handsomer for
his change to white knickerbockers and a jersey.
He never looked so well as In uniform, the
putting on of It seemed to exhibit his reserve
fund of strength, and this tennis dress gave
him something of the strapped look that uniform
did, while it conferred on him additional
grace by the easy display It afforded of his
throat and limbs. He wore a striped sash
round his waist and a striped cap upon his
curly head.

Vane and Chatteris had tennis suits too,
but they were less dressed — or rather, less
undressed — than Buck was ; and his fellow-officers
were In ordinary boating flannels.
May's frock was altered in aspect by a pretty
embroidered apron with a pocket for the balls ;
but Eugenia had only gathered up the skirts of
her white gown a little, and tied them firmly
back, with a wide old-fashioned scarf which

served an apron's purpose, into such a knot as
Atalanta might have used.

Boville and Anne played Crossley and
May upon the gravelled court, while Eugenia
and Vane faced Buck and Chatteris on the
grass. Buck wanted to be on Eugenia's side,
but, little as he thought of Chatteris' physique,
he remembered that a man comrade, however
great a duffer, is more amenable to your calls
to " play up " than a lady, and may even be
stimulated by oaths.

For any one with a keen delight in the beauty
of living people — and to this Sir Edmund was
almost morbidly susceptible — there could hardly
have been chosen better types of man and
woman than Arthur Jarvis and Eugenia Brand.
Vane and Chatteris looked, respectively, lanky
and mean beside them, while the other qtiartette
were mere imitative marionettes in comparison
with their free movement. To Sir Edmund,
who was far too unselfish to grudge her a pastime

in which he could not share, it was like
hearing music to watch Eugenia play. Her
whole being seemed significant of activity.
May skipped and giggled, while Anne was not
completely attentive, though she surprised you
sometimes ; but Eugenia, healthy and single-hearted
as she was, devoted all her mind, for
the moment, as well as all her energies, to the
game ; whereas Buck, who was always self-conscious
though he was never sensitive, felt overmuch
that the eyes of the world were upon him
and was poorly seconded by Chatteris. He
was disposed to quarrel with the poet, not
knowing him to be '* an Honourable," when after
a most brilliant match, his side was beaten at
last by Chatteris's failure to take a clever service
of Vane's. Indeed, he said something
under his breath, contemptuous and not too
delicately phrased, which made his young
companion colour to the roots of his hair ; and,
after he had said it, he turned sulky, went up to

the net, and began tightening the ropes instead
of listening to Chatteris' excuses. Vane, who
never lost his temper, and whose humour was
rendered additionally placid by his victory,
watched him with some amusement. He had
heard Jarvis say two or three things already,
when he was standing in the inner court during
service, which made him think him
rather " an outsider," and a burst of temper
would not have astonished him. But Eugenia,
still under the same strange spell of peacemaking
which had moved her from the first,
walked also up to the net, racquet in hand, and
with a lovely flush upon her cheeks in which
triumph had no share : —

'* How well you play ! " she said to Buck.
She did not add his name, and he took a slight
advantage of the intimacy in her tone and did
not assume civility.

I ought to," he answered roughly, '' but
that muff's no good at all 1 If he wasn't worse

VOL. L N

than any girl, we should have licked you
easy."

It was an ungraceful speech, for he could
not know but what the poet was Eugenia's
brother, or at least her closest ally. As he made
It, he jerked his racquet in the direction where
Chatteris was standing, leaving his ex-partner
no doubt that he was the subject of his comment.
Poor Jem looked reproachfully towards
Eugenia, as he humbly collected the balls and
threw them across to Vane.

Eugenia was at a loss what answer to make.
She was afraid of hurting Chatteris, if she
proposed to take him on her side — with which
odds against her she would moreover be sure
to lose — and she could not fairly join forces
with such a Titan as Buck, against the poet
and Vane, even to flatter the lieutenant by a
victory.

'' Let us take a turn," she said at last : *the
air is so very still — hark ! there is surely

thunder — and it is warm," she added, though
in Buck's own vocabulary, Hke himself, she
had '' not turned a hair."

Vane and Chatteris, who were in less
good training, were hot and rather blown :
they stayed to put on their jackets, and perhaps
to exchange remarks upon Buck's want
of breeding ; and thus it fell out that Eugenia
paced the lawn alone with her companion,
Sir Edmund still watching their movements,
with more pleasure than apprehension, from
the cedar plateau.

Buck lifted his striped cap, and pushed up
his hair with his rough hand, after which he
smacked his thigh with it : then he was himself
again. His big chest heaved evenly,
while Eugenia's breathing was but little quickened
by the exercise that had added a vivid
charm to her beauty.

"That chap can't play, you know," he said
confidentially. He had no idea of conversation,

but he felt that he had an opportunity
for compliment, which he must not lose: 'Met
you and me play those two fellows, and we'll
teach 'em a thing or two ! " He looked at her
as he spoke, expecting perhaps that she would
laugh or smile. Eugenia did not look at him,
(though she saw his face before her quite
clearly) and she neither laughed nor smiled ;
only her voice as she answered was singularly
gentle.

I have played a great deal, this summer : "
she said, " my London season was a very
short one: I live in the country."

'' It's the make that does it, more than the
practice," said Buck, still looking at her figure.
The remark might have been offensive, and
in that case none would have resented it more
than Eugenia, but it was made with such a
plain brutality and carelessness that she was
neither flattered nor offended. — "If I were
tending the sick," she thought to herself, finding

an excuse, against her wont, for his want
of polish, '' I should not be annoyed, if the
doctor spoke to me as to a professional nurse ;
and, if I play these games, I must submit to
be spoken to as an athlete." So she said, not
without a touch of amusement at her own
answer —

*' Yes : I am long in the legs and arms."
Buck opened his grey eyes and stared in
impertinent reproof. '' Oh ! long in the reach,
we call it ! " he said, with a laugh that was less
endurable, and that froze Eugenia's smile at
her own plain speaking. She . felt she had
been funny for nothing ; and took rhetorical
refuge out of her companion's reach, as a bird
might hop to a higher bough.

'' A tyro's terms for things sound always like
mistakes," she said; with a note of dignity in her
voice, which had its effect on Buck, though he
did not understand what she said. He supplied
the deficiency in his understanding by a yawn

and said "yes;" and though Eugenia did not,
like May Buxton, mistake his ignorance for
contempt, she kindly descended to his level
again — perhaps because she could not help
herself— and made some criticism on the fashion
of his racquet. As she did so, she looked at
his hands — clumsy veined hands, unlike a
gentleman's, with short flushed nails round
which the skin ridged a little — and she experienced
a feeling almost like repulsion. He
took hold of her racquet, to compare its weight
and network with his own's, and, though he did
not even touch her fingers, she felt as if his
hand had grasped her heart. Such a sensation
defies analysis : it is nothing, and yet it
is all oneself: like the influence of weather.
In this case it was the symbol of his entire
mastery over her nerves, and, when she took
the racquet from him again, she knew exactly
where his hard fingers had pressed the handle.
Her own hand closed upon the place, almost

Without her will. Eugenia was unused to such
acuteness of perception ; it troubled her — perhaps
it was the thunder in the air that made
her feel so deadly faint. She took off her hat,
but when she found that the action attracted
Buck's gaze to her beautiful hair, she put it
on again. She was restless — she could not
breathe freely — she wanted to get away.

Buck divined nothing of her restlessness ;
he admired her greatly, and liked to walk
along the lawns beside her ; he thought Crossley
would have been awkward in his place,
and he was quite sure he was not awkward
himself. He expanded his chest, put his
racquet under his arm and his hands into
his pockets and whistled a little. *' Rather nice
grounds ! " he said possessively. (He had never
been in any gardens like them in his life, but
he did not say that.)

** Yes," Eugenia answered thoughtfully :
'* that is a fine cypress alley, with its cool

shadows : though indeed this sultriness is not
sun-heat, but storm. I wish Mr. Vane and
my cousin would join us."

*' Is that muff your cousin?" said Buck
blushing.

Eugenia smiled; *eyes; and he is a great
poet," she said with gentle reproach, 'you
see you should not have abused him tome."


She expected him to apologise, but he did
not ; he only looked hot and sullen : '' I never
thought much of poets," he said, " and, cousin
or no cousin, he's no business to play tennis
here."

Just as they turned into the cypress alley,
after glancing round to see that Vane and
Chatteris had started to follow them, Mrs.
Tomlinson summoned those two gentlemen
to the cedar plateau, to explain the other set,
which was not yet over, — adding that "she felt
rain in the air, and believed a drop had

fallen upon her nose." It was some minutes
before Eugenia perceived that Vane and Chat-terms
were not following them, and when she
did so, it occurred to her that she ought not
to feel embarrassed. She was not at her ease,
but was the more determined to try and appear
so, surprised at her own disquiet. Mr.
Buck began to be quite at his ease, and felt
himself distinguished by her favour ; the cypress
alley led to a fountain which he expressed
a wish to visit, but when they reached it,
the first fountain proved to be only the sentinel
of a fine cluster, and he had led Eugenia
some considerable distance from the tennis
courts, when a few heavy drops warned her
of the thunder shower, to which she had attributed
her faintness.

''By George," said Buck, "it's going
to pelt : you don't mind a little rain, do
you ? "

'' No," said Eugenia : she never took cold ;

but to her own amazement, she found herself
looking at him, and hoping that he would not
get harm from the rain.

It was nothing at first, and they stood by
the fountain watching the big drops fall into
the plashing water, till, all of a sudden, a perfect
sheet of rain descended on them from the
bursting storm-cloud. To do Eugenia justice,
her immediate thought was of Lady Short-lands'
safety, but she recollected that there
was a red-brick orangery, close behind the
cedars — which indeed completed their shelter —
where the party on the lawn could take refuge
in a moment. What refuge was there for herself
and Buck ?

Her shoulders were wet already, and the
drops that rained from her companion's cap
seemed to hiss upon the bare muscles of his
neck and arms, as he stood before her ; exposing
himself, more than he need have done,
to the deluge, out of bravado.

** You will get very wet," she said.

Buck laughed. *' Oh ! a wetting's good forme,"
he said; — '' cools my ardour ; I wish I'd
got a coat for you, but I'm afraid I mustn't
offer to take off my jersey." However, as
the rain showed no signs of abating, he suggested,
in a minute or two, that they should
try to get back to a little Doric temple in
the cypress alley, which was used as a gardener's
storehouse.

They retraced their steps to it, but found
it locked ; still there was shelter underneath
its coping, just between the columns ; — only
a ledge of shelter, though, for the rain drove
towards it. Eugenia stood upon the steps
between two of the pillars, which were deep.
Buck planted himself in front of her, still in
the rain, and feeling the hardier for this little
circumstance of weather. He was about as
likely to suffer from cold or wet as a strong
young tree : but Eugenia, who had no fears

for herself, continued unaccountably to feel
solicitude for him.

Go between those next pillars," she said,
with a smile ; it seemed absurd to place this
young demigod in a niche, even while she
proposed it.

'' No, I shan't ! " said Buck manfully ; ** you'd
get wet ; " and he spread himself in front of her,
putting a strong arm on either pillar, the rain
driving hard upon his back and shoulders.

** I don't mind the rain," said Eugenia — with
some contrariety, she was aware, after having
taken shelter in this precipitate way. Buck's
eyes were close to her face, and level with it —
for he stood on the step beneath her — and he
could see her colour slowly heighten ; then she
grew pale and shivered. Girls' colour usually
did heighten when Mr. Buck had been talking
to them a few minutes ; he was disposed
to take that as his due, a sort of crimson, put
out at his royal coming, but the pallor — this

healthy Hly-pallor of Eugenia's was a new symptom.
*' I don't want you to get wet," he said,
leaning rather closer.

Eugenia was fluttered — she felt nervously
that she must do something, she could not
stand idle under his glance. So beautiful a
woman was intuitively aware that to let a
man's eyes rest upon her face, without the
screen of speech, is often more intimate than
talking. Moreover, she was really anxious for
him ; he was so hot and so wet — his 'thin
jersey steamed and smelt of rain. After an
instant's hesitation, she untied the knot behind
her, into which her skirts were gathered, and
loosened the wide scarf of brocade which she
had taken to metamorphose her costume for
playing. '* Put this round your shoulders," she
said to Buck.

Buck laughed outright, but he took the
scarf; and, a moment later, Eugenia wished
he had not done so, for he was disposed to

regard it as the vehicle for a rather pronounced
bit of flirtation.

'won't the rain spoil it.'^" he said as he
helped her to detach it.

'rit does not matter if it does, — it is mine ; "
said Eugenia coolly.

I don't know how to get it on ; there's
some dodge," he said ; " you must put it round
me."

May Buxton would have told him to " doit
himself," his familiars would have tittered
and said, " Get along with you ! " Eugenia
did not quite know what to say, but it occurred
to her that it was nothing to make a
piece of work about, after all ; the thing she
had to do was to ward off the rain, which
drove against his back. So she quickly threw
it over him, spread out to its full width, and
knotted it loosely in front, flinging the ends
back over his shoulder. It did not make
him in the least ridiculous, but blended with

his tennis-sash, as if it had been part of a
fancy dress. It had silk fringes, and he stood
drawing them through his square fingers and
looking at Eugenia. That he should have
something of hers round him made an extraordinary
link between them ; and this was
one of those breathless days when every pulse
is quickened, until, to a sensuous organisation,
life becomes as keen as pain. Buck's
whole frame was thrilled. It flashed upon
him, while Eugenia, with her eyelids down,
was fastening the scarf about his body that
this was something like a new experience,
and that he had never been with anybody
who was '' worthy to be put in the same
street with " Eugenia Brand. But the flash
was a dull one. Had Sir Edmund Trefusis
been in his place, he would her felt her gesture
like a benediction and have taken it with reverence
; but, naturally. Buck's view of the
episode was a different one to Sir Edmund's.

His curiosity was roused, and he wanted to
push his satisfaction further — "to see what she
would stand." When he was a boy, although
his interest in grammar and the hemispheres
was small, he never rested till he had broken
a plaything, or found out if his dolls were
all wax ; and so, now, he felt the promptings
of a vague desire to find out if this care for
his well-being had anything to do with that
roseleaf flush and lily pallor which had alternated
on Eugenia's cheek.

There was a moment's pause, while he pondered,
for his processes were slow. Then she
became possessed of an over-mastering wish to
get free, into whatever tempest of rain, but she
was still afraid of the sound of her own voice ;
she clasped her hands upon her racquet, and
peered out from her prison.

'what's the matter?" he asked: why
should she be restless, now that he was
protected ?



** I think the rain Is ceasing," she said, for
his bulk kept It from her ; she was astonished
at the effort It cost her to say even so common
a sentence.

''Oh! is its said Buck laughing; 'that's
because I'm so thick through; can't you hear
It ? " He knew she could see little but his
own big self, his two hands bounded her
scope ; but he did not know that, by calling
her sense of hearing Into play, he gave her a
moment's relief from the tension of her nerVes.

She tried to listen and so found her voice :
Have you ever read Chopin's life 1 " she
said.

No," said Buck, as careless as he was
ignorant who Chopin was.

I remember," said Eugenia, conscious of
that hop to the higher bough again, " a passage
about his composing one of the presides,
while he was with Georges Sand ; who, on
returning from a lengthened absence, found

VOL. I. o

that he had been setting the rain upon the
roof to music, in his anxiety about her."

"About who said Buck, who liked the
sentiment, in his present mood.

** About hers' said Eugenia ; she had not
sounded the depths of Mr. Jarvis' unlearned-ness.


Phew!" said Buck, with a knowing whistle ;
^^ and what did Master George say when he
fotind out there was a lady in the case ? "

For an instant Euo-enla could not even
understand him, then the reaction shook her
with uncontrollable laughter. *' Georges Sand
was the lady," she said, not daring to look
at him, for fear of his sinking Into the ground
with shame at his own blunder ; but he
was too prosperous and too conceited for
shame.

"Was she ? " he said, "what sporting names
some women have ! upon my soul I thought
you said George somebody."

Evidently an explanation was of no use
here. Eugenia held her peace.

You've got rather a rum name," he said
presently, " Eugenie, isn't it ?" — he pronounced
it in the French way, but with a strong British
accent of which he was happily unaware.

Eugenia winced. ''No," she said, 'rit is
not Eugenie, it is Eugenia — a Greek name
not a French one — and it is a good name ; it
means 'nobility,' does it not?" (she thought
all men knew Greek).

"Oh!" said Buck, " by Jove ! that's you allover
then ; but ivJiat do they call you for short? "

The question would have been clear enough
to almost any girl but Eugenia. But she had
never had brother or sister, her father had
not been given to caresses, and her mother
seldom said her name. She had no pet-name ;
she did not understand. "What do who call
me for short ? " she said.

"Why, your 'sisters and your cousins and

your aunts,' " said Buck ; but Eugenia had lived
out of earshot of Gilbert's witticisms, and he
inwardly dubbed her as rather dull.

** My mother has always called me Eugenia,"
she said, "and so do the Shortlands." Her
manner and Lord Shortlands' dignity, together,
stopped him from answering as he might have
answered May.

''I am always called by a nickname," he
said, with a sense of apology.

'rare you?" said Eugenia. It was odd
that the moment he began to talk about himself
she heard her heart beat again, and felt
this overmastering impulse to get free : "What
is your name ? — Jarvis, isn't it ?" Buck thought
it was the first time he had ever heard his
name sound sweet ; for she said it with diffidence
; she felt the strangeness of the situation,
standing between his arms as closely as
if she were dancing with him ; and asking him
deliberately, his name.

'' My name is Mr. Arthur John Jarvis," he
answered — the *' Mr." jarring on Eugenia's
finer instinct of speech — 'but everybody calls
me Buck."

''Do they.^" she said absently, as if it did
not matter, (nor did it). " Why ? "

Oh ! I don't know ; because I used to
eat American cakes, or something."

"How do you sz£'n your name ? " said
Eugenia : she felt the topic was a safe one,
and she was amused a little, despite this curious
heart-beating.

"Buck Jarvis," he said, "unless it's a bill,
and then I put A. J."

"Oh!" said Eugenia, still absently; 'rand
then you put A. JT She did not care ; and
yet she felt that all her mind was concentrated
upon this unbeautiful name. It seemed written
up in front of her, and the rain repeated it.

The rain ? it was decreasing certainly ; the
evening sky was brightening.

'* I think we can get back to the cedars
now," she said, but at the same moment she
ceased to wish to go. Buck too desired to
prolong the tete-tete.

'what do you want to get back to those
fiddle-headed old Tomlinson for ? " he asked.

"What Is 'fiddle-headed?" said Eugenia,
through her reproachful smile.

"Oh, /f/^^yr^ fiddle-headed, don't you know;
chalk and all that."

I never heard the term before : It doesn't
mean ' musical-looking,' does It '^. "

God bless you, no ! " said Buck with a
loud laugh — he often said " God bless you,"
and meant nothing by It when he said It ; but
Eugenia remembered that he had said It, afterwards
— so long afterwards ! — " I didn't use
to like the word either," he went on, making
an anecdotal effort to balance her story of
Chopin ; ** I remember licking a chap at
school because he opened my photo-album.

where I was fool enough to keep my old
people's photos then, and he said what a
fiddle-headed lot they were."

Eugenia kept a photograph of her mother
in an olive-wood frame upon her dressing-table,
wherever she might be. She wondered
whether Mr. Arthur John Jarvis and his frank
school-friend would call it 'fiddle-headed,"
and if they did, what she should do ? ** I am
glad you licked him," she said.

'why, of course I licked him," said Buck
spreading himself again a little, "but I took
out the photos all the same."

"You love your father and your mother
very dearly," said Eugenia in a kind, low
voice ; she did not quite know on how sacred
ground she might be treading.

"Oh, so-so!" said Buck, "it wasn't that
so much. It was because, when I looked at
the photos in the other chaps' books, I thought
mine were a fiddle-headed lot — "

"Oh!" said Eucrenla. There was a note
of pained entreaty in her voice, but it missed
him and he went on ;

'' They're stick-in-the-77itid, you know, Miss
Brand — that's what they are. I don't think
much of them ; but, by the Lord, they think an
awful deal of me ! "

'* Let us go now," said Eugenia. Although
she saw he had no sense of shame to speak
like this, and therefore forgave him, she felt
ashamed. She fancied that she saw '' Buck
Jarvis' people " — saw them wrongly no doubt,
for Eugenia's freshly - awakened heart was
judging, and too impulsively. But she saw
that he was not bred from the order to which
she belonged herself; and she imagined poor
and humble parents, quite wrapped up in the
welfare of their soldier son. She conjectured
how this chance word of his, to a stranger,
would hurt them, could they have heard it.
She saw in her mind a grey-headed father —

an unsuccessful man — a mother, dowdy, old-fashioned,
*' fiddle-headed," with a long grave
face. Perhaps they sat at home and talked
of him in some quiet orchard, perhaps they
prayed for him. . . . She was wrong! Mr.
and Mrs. Jarvis, "fiddle-headed" though they
might be, were neither old-fashioned nor sensitive.
They would have laughed, had they
heard the way Buck spoke of them, though
they would have actively resented the epithet
as cheek, and Mrs. Jarvis would have boxed his
ears. No! had Eugenia known the world better
she could have told that this young lord of the
creation was not sprung from a sensitive stock.
But then our dear Eugenia did not know the
world. She knew the book of the sea and the
book of the meadows, as Sir Edmund had seen,
and some written books beside. But she had no
guide for an estimate of '* Buck Jarvis' people."
'' Let us go now ! " she said. His speeches
were busy contradictions of his strong personal

influence : she wanted to hear no more of
them. And he, a little surprised at her poor
appreciation of his humour and general efforts
at conversation, let her out of her niche, with
something very like a sigh, and walked by her
side ; the sky gradually widening over them,
and the relieved air, with the mutual elasticity
of their step, seeming to Eugenia to free hera
little from the intolerable oppression that
was upon her.

They went back along the cypress-alley.
Its aspect was transfigured now; the sombre
trees shone with big jewel-drops of rain, the
baked paths glistened, and water-runnels lay
on either side of the raised walk against the
vivid green of the refreshed turf. The young
lieutenant was the fresher too for his rain
bath ; his crisp hair was earlier, though the
fringes of Eugenia's scarf hung straight and
draggled at his side. He took them in his
hands and wrung them out.

As they turned the corner where the alley-gave
upon the lawns, the scene that met their
eyes was very different to that they had so
lately left, and the anomaly was greater because
it had worn its trimmer air under the
storm-clouded sky, and kept its confusion for
the return of the placid golden light.

Eugenia paused amazed. *' Look," she said,
'* how altered it all is ! "

''By George!" said Buck ; he did not notice a
great difference. The people had taken shelter
from the rain, that was all he saw ; a little
more or less confusion did not strike him as
anything out of the way.

But confusion there was ; the wicker tables
had been hastily stripped of newspapers and
letters, the rugs rolled up, the light chairs
and couches dismantled of their rich stuffs,
and turned topsy-turvy upon the lawn for the
rain to drain off them ; on the courts, the
racquets had been hastily thrown into their

cases, the nets loosened and the balls collected
; an earthquake could not have produced
a more complete bouleversement, but
the sun was shining over all !

It did not definitely occur to Eugenia
that, in this sunlit overturn, she was contemplating
a type of her own life ; but she
felt in sympathy with the scene — as well
she might. Under a moral heaven, calm as
yet, but with infinite possibilities of tempest,
her life had lain as trimly ordered as that cedar
garden with its games. Hurriedly the storm
had gathered, hurriedly the landmarks of her
lawns had been left and overthrown, her pastimes
spoiled, the crowd of pleasant thoughts
that were her guests flying with fluttering
skirts to other harbours. But the torrent
had fallen now, the windows of the sky
were opened, and over all the desolation and
disturbance gleamed the golden light 'that
never was on land or sea," and altered all.

They two stood still at the end of the
cypress-alley before crossing the wet grass,
where a Diana and Endymion faced each other,
in marble, at its corners. The change that was
about them brought them at least the recognition
of their prolonged absence together. Perhaps
at the moment, Eugenia wanted to say
some helpful word to this young man, and Buck
to make some tender speech to this beautiful
woman. But just then, his keen sight, trained
to long marking in his rifle-practice, detected
faces pressed against the glass-doors of the
orangery opposite, and the waving of a handkerchief
with a bright border. Immediately
afterwards the door was opened, and there was
the whole group, mocking the sad plight of the
truants, and laughing at the draggled scarf — all,
that Is, but two of them. Sir Edmund was
anxious for Eugenia's safety, and Lady Short-lands
was rather wet — not having been able to
run fast to shelter — and extremely angry. She

prescribed them both some horrible posset of her
own concoction at once, and threatened Eugenia
with bed; 'rand as for you, Mr. Jones," she
said, focussing the offending Buck with her
eyeglass — Lady Shortlands often found it too
much trouble to remember your name correctly,
and expended much time, people said, upon
finding an alias that would annoy you — " as
for you, you look as if you had been playing at
poses plastiques. For God's sake, go and put
some clothes on, before you come into the
presence of decent people! My niece is a
wild woman of the woods, I know ; but even
she seems to have done her very best for you,
by giving up her own garments. Here, give me
that scarf before you go — your poor mother's
best scarf, Eugenia ! Parity must see what she
can do for it. Upon my word ! young man,"
she concluded, not without some admiration in
her tone, as Buck clumsily untied the scarf, and
giving it to her, stood in his soaked jersey and

his pride of muscle; *you might stand for a
statue ; who was the man who swam the
Hellespont ? "

'' Hero," said Mrs. Tomlinson, feeling rather
proud of herself; had she been uncertain she
would not have ventured to put in her word,
but she was quite sure it was *' Heron' and
that he had swum across the Hellespont, ''to
Leant!'

'* ' Hero ' ! what Hero ? why, bless me if
the woman doesn't think that Hero was
the man ! Yes, thank you, Mrs. Tomlinson,
Leander. Vane, where's Vane ? you really
must tell that to Milord. Now Mr. Jones,
I'm old-fashioned ; do, do go and put your
clothes on."

Buck laughed outright. Anne would laugh
afterwards, though she looked demure now,
but Sir Edmund was pained ; as for Eugenia,
she was smoothing her wet dress, and her face
was turned away — she exhibited only a sweep

of brown hair charged with raindrops, and that
showed no blushes. When she fronted the
group again, she was quite collected, and her
tone was cool, though higher than before. But
she did not look at Buck as she addressed him.
'thank you very much," she said, "for keeping
the rain off me ; Aunt Agatha, surely you
had better come back now to the house, perhaps
your feet are wet."

Anne Jefferles and Vane were much occupied
with this scene, In which their elders took a
more languid Interest. Lord Shortlands was
trying hard to gather what had occurred, from
a critical survey of the wet couple, whom he
vaguely imagined to have fallen into a fountain,
and whom he pronounced to be 'every dry
considering!' He said so tentatively.

I am 'dry,' " said Buck in a savage undertone,
to Crossley ; " damned dry, and I wish
the old buffer would dry up himself, and let me
go and get a B. and S."

May Buxton and James Chatteris sympathised
about Eugenia :

*'So very awkward for her," said pretty
May, as she connected the particulars, ''to be
boxed up like that, with the monster, for half
an hour ! "

"Yes," said the poet, puzzled at the change
he knew not what — in Eugenia's aspect : '* it
was like an eclipse of the moon."

May did not understand him, but Anne —
who overheard him — did, and laughed. '* With
the shadow of some very earthy earth, to hide
her ! " she said to Vane.

'' I am glad it was not you, May," murmured
Mrs. Buxton. " Miss Brand of course is older
and — " Somehow May did not re-echo the
wish. She had found herself looking at Buck
once or twice, while she spoke of Eugenia ;
and each time she was aware that he answered
her look. He was not such a thorough
'officer" as Captain Boville, but he was very

VOL. L p

manly and tall — May thought him tall — and
then he was the hero of the moment, at
least Lady Shortlands had said so.

Let us get back to the house now," interrupted
Mr. Buxton, fuming at the delay, for
it was fine now, and he wanted "another talk
with Tomlinson about those farms."

His remark roused them all to the remembrance
that they were several minutes' wet
walk from the house, and Vane volunteered,
with Chatteris, to get some footmen to bring
one of the tasselled chaises-reporters from the
terrace, for Lady Shortlands' locomotion.

As they left the orangery Chatteris glanced
back and thought how pretty the scene was, the
sun slanting down through the glass, with renewed
brilliancy, upon the variegated foliage of the
creepers, and touching the golden fruits within
their glossy leaves. Amid all the tumbled
furniture and bustling people, Eugenia was to
him as bright as one of these golden fruits, and

as sweet as one of their white blossoms on the
warmed air. He felt that he should make a
sonnet about her before his visit was over.
And he did.

When the procession was accomplished, and
they had borne Lady Shortlands back to the
house, Eugenia went with her to her rooms,
but did not trust herself to speak. She felt
she was unreasonably wroth, and was aware
that there had been a time (which lasted as a
matter of fact until an hour before) when *she
would have been the first to speak ironically of
her escapade. It would have had no meaning
till now. She sent for Parity therefore, to
minister to her aunt's manifold needs, and
then she went to her own room to change her
gown. But she never took much thought
about her dressing, and when she entered the
chapel-like chamber, all calm and burnished in
the copious light, she sat down first at the altar
table and let the freshened south-west air from

the open window play about her head. She
was quite still for some minutes, though her
heart beat hard ; then she rose suddenly, her
lips parted, *'Oh! this pain," she said — ''Oh!
this pain, — what Is it ? "

There was no answer but the drip of the rain
from the ivy and the honeysuckles and the roses
at her window, and the call of a sheltered bird
to its mate — sheltered safe from the weather.

She rose with a step weary for her, and
walked to the window, like one overmastered
by an impression, almost as if she had seen a
spirit. As she stopped, she rested her left
hand upon a table, on which lay an old, silver-framed
mirror. Mechanically and against her
wont, she took It up, and, standing In the flood
of light, looked down at her reflected face. " Is
that /f " she thought. She did not smile, but
she trembled ; at last she put down the glass
and made no sign ; she seemed to have been
weighing her beauty in a scale, for some one



else's sake, and to be doubtful still about her
verdict. The look upon her features was one of
fear ; a great awe had fallen upon her. Then,
of a sudden, in that quiet room — henceforth
indeed a chapel, consecrated utterly— she sank
upon her knees down — lower — lower in an
agony of prayer —

** Oh ! my God ! bless him, guard him, love
him — not me but him — not me but him — Oh
my God ! my God ! "

It was not for Sir Edmund that she prayed.

THE END OF BOOK THE FIRST.

LOVE, THE CROSS.

Matthew Arnold.

PROSPECT.

'' There was a lady loved a swine;

' Honey ^^ said she,
Pity hog, wilt thou be mine ? ' —

Hunc,^ said he I " —

Anne Jefferies was singing the next morning
at the piano in her bedroom — not practising, for
she seldom did anything methodically, but
skimming some loose music, which was scattered
through a Canterbury at her side. She
was sitting in the sunshine, her dark face intent,
at the moment, upon a little book of
children's songs — a drifted relic of babyhood —
which the Tomlinson had bought among the
odds and ends at Ashbank, for these rooms
had been the nurseries.

All of a sudden she called out to May, who
was still dressing In the adjoining room, as
sunny and as chintz as her own : ** May," she
said, 'come here, and tell me what this song
reminds you of! "

May came in, with her hair about her face,
looking very pretty, — " Isn't It a heavenly morning,
Anne?" she said, *' I thought our rooms
were north, but they seem east enough to get
all the early sun — which song ? " And then
Anne sang the verse again.

'what a horrid song!" said May, "it is
nonsense, isn't It ? "

No, it isn't ; " said Anne, " it is particularly
good sense ; and it reminds me of Eugenia
Brand and the monster, mother Shortlands
calls 'Mr. Jones'"

"What very strange ideas you do have,
Anne — have you got any hairpins ? "

What very strange things one sees — or
doesn't see if one is as dense as you are — "

returned Anne, pointing to the dressing-table.
Here you have them — I don't mean the hairpins
— Mr. Jones, or Jarvis, or whatever his
eligible name may be, is ' the swine,' and Eugenia
Brand is 'the lady.' "

'' I don't see why you should call him a
swine,' " said pretty May, as she put back her
hair, not caring to trouble the head beneath it
with Anne's similes, "but I grant you that
Eugenia is a Made.' I think, Anne, she is the
most glorious creature I have ever seen ; took
at her skin."

*you talk of her as if she were a rabbit,"
said Anne. '' She loves him ! Aha ! " (this ina
most melodramatic tone).

** Have you taken leave of your senses ? "
said May.

** No," said Anne, 'they are here," (tapping
her forehead), " seven of them, at least ; it is
your glorious Eugenia that has ' taken leave '
of hers. But there ! it's no use telling you

what I mean. Cut off to Celeste, and don't
attempt even to do your own hair."

*' Lunatic ! " said May, but the hint that she
was spoiling her curls sent her back to her
own room.

Anne went on playing. '' It would be a
pity," she said to herself not ill-naturedly, '' for
she's a thousand-fold too good for him. If May
won't do it, I must ; but I rather think she will."

Whence it may be perceived that the attraction
of Eugenia to Mr. Arthur John Jarvis had
not escaped Anne's vigilance, while, owing to
something of the same attraction, differently
answered, Miss May's blue eyes were a little
blinded ; and in fact, the stalwart lieutenant,
whom Mrs. Buxton had thought rather vulgar,
and whom Mrs. Tomlinson had wished she
could have replaced by 'her friend Captain
Molyneux — Lord George's son — who was on
leave," bade fair to become somewhat of an
apple of discord. (At the present moment he

was thinking so himself, as he lit his after-breakfast
cigar downstairs ; '' Yours truly Is In
luck ! " he would have said.)

As Anne sat playing, she reviewed the events
of the previous evening. Sir Edmund had taken
her In to dinner, Eugenia falling to Captain
Boville, who seemed to make but little way with
her, while Buck and Chatteris, In the momentary
plethora of men, faced Crossley and Vane lower
down the table where Mr. Tomlinson was immutably
flanked by Lady Shortlands and Mrs.
Buxton. Miss Jefferles, seated as she was
between Lord Shortlands and Sir Edmund,
had ample opportunity, owing to the deafness
of the one and the abstractedness of the other,
for watching Miss Brand, who was placed between
Mr. Buxton and Boville and was thus In
the full range of admiring glances from both
Sir Edmund and Mr. Jarvis, who were sitting
together on Anne's side of the table. And,
whether from being a little bored by Lord

Shortlands' deafness, or a little annoyed at Sir
Edmund's pre-occupation, Anne had criticised
Miss Brand with more than her usual care.

The special sign that she had noticed, had
belonged to the same order as the symptoms
that surprised Eugenia, in her own self. It
was when Buck had inadvertently fallen into
conversation with his " Honourable " neighbour
Chatteris, and plunged into some literary or
musical error, so glaring as to be past all hope
of concealment or repair. She noticed then,
that, in her deep distress, Eugenia had made
efforts to engage Chatteris' attention, not hearing
a word, meanwhile, that Captain Boville
said to her, so that the worthy warrior had
to take refuge in his impotent moustaches,
wondering if it were she or he that was stupid.
Nor would Eugenia answer Sir Edmund's
amused glance ; she had studiously avoided
meeting his gaze till dinner was over ; and in
the evening, though she had not talked to

Buck, she had also kept away from Sir
Edmund. In fact, though Anne had found
the dinner dull, she had not found it uninstructive,
and knew, by now, far better how things
stood with the hearts concerned — the depths of
two, at least, of which, she could not fathom
than their owners did. In her blunt way
she was sorry for Sir Edmund, indignant with
the hero, and determined to assist Miss Brand's
simplicity with her own superior skill.

Being an active-minded young lady, and particularly
heart-whole herself at this moment of
time. Miss Jefferies did not despise a task of this
kind, and she was pondering it over now, as
she had pondered it on the preceding evening.
Desultory music always assisted the workings
of her mind. During the dinner, a wonderful
foreign band had played, in the conservatories
leading from the dining-room, some of the
dance music for the following evening, and it
had been perhaps the unconscious agent of her

thoughts ; and now, before she went down to
breakfast, her own fingers accompanied her, as
we have seen, while she thought out her project.

It was fortunate for ' the lady,' " concluded
Anne aloud, as May came dressed into her
room to ask her " if she were going downstairs
to-day or tomorrow ? " — " To-morrow
certainly," she replied, in a parenthesis, *' but
very likely to-day too," — 'fortunate for 'the
lady ' that the pampered ' swine ' could say
nothing but that monosyllable, else he would
have committed himself as certainly as Mr.
Jones did last night."

I wish you would not call him, Mr. Jones,
what did he do ? "

'jones is quite good enough for him, my
dear, — ' Do ? ' Oh ! nothing of any consequence
; only confused ' Robert le diable' with a
horse of the name, or something like that."

"Well, and what did it matter ?" said May,
"any one can see he knows nothing about music."

' Whafs Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba ? ' "

said Anne, pensive ; — rather to May's surprise
she did not answer tardy — '' Yes, that
is really the right point of view, but if you
were to ask Miss Brand, you would find out
that she thinks that it matters a great deal,
and that it matters too that any one should
laugh at him ; and that he is, in point of
fact, her 'sacred Lama.' But never you
mind that ! I mean to blaspheme against the
sacred Lama all the same, and we'll see what
comes of it : the first result of my audacious
blasphemy is a gigantic appetite."

And so the two girls went downstairs, to
find the great hall swept already — and partially
garnished — for the dance to take place in the
evening ; — the gathering masses of flower and
fern looking very radiant in the stream of
sunlight upon the polished floor. It was a
beautiful hall, this central one at Ashbank,
from one side of which the great staircase

VOL. I. Q

slanted up to its division beneath the blazoned
window ; and its beauty never showed to such
advantage as when it was, what Mrs. Tomlinson
called, 'stripped." The 'stripping" process
rid It of the rubbish its present owners
had imported there, — Japanese satin screens,
plush-covered tables and ormolu stands and
frames — while it exposed to view the fine old
tapestries, the armour and the carven seats.
Nothlnof was left in it now more breakable
than ebony or ivory or steel, and the daily
furniture looked very valueless and trivial,
pushed away into alcoves, while in process
of being shelved and arranged in the other
rooms. A mass of Chinese lanterns in a corner
looked also like rubbish, compared with three
great silver candelabra, black with age, that
had been brought from some Moorish cathedral
and were the glory of the hall in its intact
days. The lanterns, however, were not yet
hung, and would perhaps flaunt prettily in

the evening, when the mood of the guests
was one of artificial Hght and evening dress.

But certainly the flowers would not show
then to as complete advantage as now.
Such tables as were not already removed,
were literally hidden with a ruthless harvest
of August roses : festoons of them were being
strung across alcoves, and the vast fireplace
was turned into a bower — trees full of blossom
being bodily set there — while the ledges
of the panelling were banked with tuberose
and gardenia ; and hanging baskets shaped
like Roman lamps — in which the case was all
of stephanotis bloom, and the inner frame of a
sort of exotic honeysuckle — were being fastened
up the stairways and along the balustrade.

When the two girls came down into this
carnival of flowers — the warm sunlight filling
their nostrils with sweet moist scents of earth
and moss — Anne sniffed approval, and May
danced along the smooth and fragrant floor.

dispelling such loose stalks and scattered rose
leaves as were not yet swept up, with the swirl
of her little shoes. She was unable to contain
herself for joy.

Crossing the hall they came upon Mrs.
Tomlinson, standing amid a dozen gardeners,
and holding up the rich skirts of her light silk
dress — for Mrs. Tomlinson was never dressed
appropriately. She looked bilious and depressed,
and was very helpless, but she
patted May's cheek affectionately with her
disengaged hand. Everybody patted May's
cheek, much as everybody touches or smells
a sweet and hardy flower.

'get out of this mess, dears," she said, in a
heart-broken voice, " and go into the breakfast
room ; you are sure to find some one there,
though, to be sure, I breakfasted an hour
ago, and Miss Brand kept me company."

*' How lovely it will all look!" said May,
enraptured still.

*' Do you think it will'' said Mrs. Tomlinson
with a sigh, as if it were a funeral that she
was planning. 'well! well! I think I've got
more flowers than Lady Sophia had ; and if
not — we're here to-day and gone tomorrow ! "

Oh ! you're not going to send us away tomorrow
! " said Anne, pretending to take her
literally, and she could not repress her smile,
for which Mrs. Tomlinson liked her none the
better. She had not yet quite 'taken that
Miss Jefferies' measure." So she trailed* off
along the hall, on the pretext of giving some
order to her head-gardener, dragging a lot of
boughs and twigs after her, and oversetting
a small rose-tree with her train.

"Oh! the roses!" said a clear, full-toned
voice behind her, as fresh as a bird's song at
morning ; and Anne turned and saw Eugenia
coming in from the conservatory, her hands full
of starry crimson blossoms — passion-flower and
poinsettia — followed closely by James Chatteris

with a load of bracken and bulrushes and moss.
She wore a cotton dress like a housemaid's,
but she did not look like a housemaid.

"At it again ! " said Anne to May, as they
passed into the breakfast-room, after bidding
her " good morning ; " but they looked in vain
for either Sir Edmund or "the monster," to
dissever from Eugenia's company.

Sir Edmund was, indeed, reported to be less
well, and, any way, it was not usual for him to
have yet left his rooms ; he was the only one
who had suffered anything from the tropic
weather, and he had telegraphed to London
for his doctor, the previous afternoon, "less
perhaps," suggested Anne, "from apprehension
about his present ailment, than because he
meant to dance with Miss Brand ; and thought
it well to have a doctor handy. In case of breaking
anything more reparable than his heart."

As for Buck, he "couldn't stand a mess;"
and was off, after a superb breakfast, to pass

the morning with his fellow-officers in smoking-room
and stable.

Eugenia was not sorry ; she loved to handle
flowers, and could now do so with her old undisturbed
conscience, and she would have to
divide her pleasant toil by dutiful incursions on
her aunt at her toilette, as well as by these
expeditions into the garden, with her newfound
cousin, after some special flower or
another. She looked forward to a very happy
morning. ♦

The gardeners were delighted at her useful
interference and considerate taste, while, as for
James Chatteris, he was in the seventh heaven
by her side, in the radiant day. Only Mrs.
Tomlinson was disposed to think *' her style a
little sober''

*' Charming, my dear Miss Brand!" she said
of the red flowers, 'just the shade we wanted;"
(she would have said so, had Eugenia brought
the cancellaria from the garden borders) '' but

what are you going to do with those common
ferns ? "

"Oh! don't you Hke them?" said Eugenia
disappointed, " look at the colours ; — and then
the bulrushes, we took such pains to get them —
so tall and strong ; — we thought of putting them
round those scented fountains ; " she had too
much kindness of heart to say, she thought the
greenery would conceal the fountains.

'' You were at Lady Sophia's ball last season,
were you not, Miss Brand?" said Mrs.Tomlinson
earnestly, as if (from the funereal point of view)
she were recalling the last wash of the deceased.

'eyes, I was," said Eugenia — "I thought it
hideous."

'well, now," said Mrs. Tomlinson, disregarding
the comment in her anxiety, "had she
ferns like these — common ferns ? "

"Oh, no!" said Eugenia laughing, "only
hot-house flowers and forced things."

"Then," said Mrs. Tomlinson, with noble

resolution and a touch of proper pride, "/
will have only hot-house flowers. Lady Sophia
will be here to-night, and I cannot give her a
loop-hole," (Mrs. Tomlinson s metaphors always
confused her speech more than they enlightened
it), *' I cannot give her a loop-hole to say
that I stinted hot-house flowers ; bracken will
never do'' she concluded, looking at Eugenia
with a glassy resolution in her eyes.

Eugenia did not answer her directly ; she
turned to James Chatteris instead. '' I am so
sorry you had the trouble of getting these forme,"
she said, though she could not but be
aware that her thanks repaid him; 'rand the
bulrushes too ; I am still sorrier that we cut
them; Mrs. Tomlinson is quite right; they deserve
the beauty of the river." — Which was
not at all what Mrs. Tomlinson had meant.

James Chatteris did not care what was done
with the bracken or the bulrushes, now that he
had exhausted the pleasure of cutting them

under Eugenia's eyes, and he said so very
prettily, " The tints of the fern are lovely," he
added timidly, '' Could you not put one little
frond of it among the flowers in your dress
to-night, for cousinship ? — it is very Scottish,"
he finished with his shy smile.

'' Wait, and see what I will do for cousinship
! " said Eugenia, delighted with a thought
that struck her ; and, giving the poinsettias to
the gardeners, she took the bracken from Chat-terms'
hands. " I will put it in my own room,"
she added, glancing with pity at a mass of
beautiful stems, thrown down amid the refuse,
I cannot bear it to be trampled on, like these."

She turned to go up the broad stairway,
with her load of green and gold, just as the
three officers crossed the hall from beneath
it, on their way from the smoking-room to
the front door. They stood still and looked
at her with admiration, as well they might.
Buck was last of the three, and least susceptible

to the charm of the picture. He saw
at once that it was Eugenia, and he thought
he would '' fetch " her.

**AhemI" he said loudly, In a tone that
made Mrs. Tomlinson start.

** Good gracious me! Mr. Jarvis, how you
made me jump ! " she said : it was just the
sort of joke Mrs. Tomlinson understood.
** Boys will be boys," she would say.

Eugenia did not 'jump ; " — she was past that
stage of feeling when Buck's presence could
surprise her— but she flushed hotly beneath
her shady hat, behind the swaying bracken,
which she held before her. *' Good-morning! "
she said, acknowledging the officers' greeting
rather coldly, but when she met Buck's eyes,
her own grew dewy, and she smiled. You
would have said that Boville and Crossley had
given her offence, not Jarvis : and so indeed
they had ; their offence was that they were
there : such is the divine unreasoning of love.

Buck certainly was a fine fellow enough in the
summer weather ; he had another new suit on,
which happened by a wonderful chance to become
him, and his robust look made the flowers
appear trifling, much as they do to farmers in
the cornfield hedgerows. His friends moreover
set him off, for though their private verdict
would have been that he was a crude specimen
of them, the fact remained that he was, to
adopt a French expression, 'more Buck Jarvis
than they were." They put some rosebuds in
their buttonholes, but Buck — not from any distaste
for roses, but because it would be a bore,
and his buttonholes were new — stuck a clove-carnation
into his mouth instead, and began
chewing the stalk of it as he looked up
at Eugenia. He was rather disposed to
plume himself on his unchallenged impertinence.


"Morning!" he said, ** you're going it;
are you coming out for a stroll ? "

*' Not yet," said Eugenia, stroking some of
the sun-scented bracken with her white hands.

'' Going to wait for another shower ? " he said,
in a lower tone, coming right up under the balustrade,
and looking hard at her with his grey
eyes, as he showed his square white teeth ina
smile. It was his notion of flirting; and he
flattered himself he was '' making the running."

Eugenia did not answer ; she had no notions
of flirting, and what May Buxton would have
called ** cheek " was something new to "her,
something not yet in her experience. His
ways were really rather vulgar ways and meant
little ; to Eugenia they seemed impassioned
and meant everything. She stood on the stairway
above him, in her light dress — one foot on
a higher step than the other — and the bracken
cast its shadows over her, from knee to chin.
You might have sculptured her for Proserpine
or Ruth. She did not answer, but she looked
down at his face, and her beauty gave the look

a significance in itself, that a plainer woman
would have had to put into words.

'ewe weren't so badly off there, were we ? "
he said presently, for he saw that Crossley's
eye was upon him and was determined to seem
intimate with Eugenia, though her silence did
not reassure him. He chuckled nervously.

No," she said at last, " I hope you did not
catch a cold ? " and then, looking at his giant
strength, she was amused at the question she
had asked him, and she laughed.

No I didn't," he answered, quite at his ease
again, '' I didn't feel the rain at all, you know."

'didn't you?" said Eugenia, without the
least notion that he was blundering over a
compliment, "you must be a most impervious
person." There was a caress in her voice
which she could not keep out of it, and it
surprised herself.

Oh ! am I ? " said Buck, putting his arms
upon the balustrade. " No ! but, I mean, we

were so — snug — between those pillars — weren't
we ? "

Had a thunderbolt fallen at her feet, Eugenia
could not have been more paralytically at a
loss for a suitable reply. "Oh," she began,
with unmitigated surprise and uncontrollable
amusement shining in her frank eyes. *' Oh,
snug I " — and then, finding no sort of answer
she could even try to make, she fairly burst out
laughing.

When Eugenia laughed, which was seldom,
and never so thoroughly as when the laugh
was against herself, you could not help laughing
too. Mrs. Tomlinson shook her belated
head and laughed with her, against her own
will, and then waggled off with something
of the unexpressed comment about her walk,
Young people will be young people." And
Crossley and Boville grinned, though they
would have been mightily surprised at Miss
Brand, If they had heard the joke, and even

the gardeners smiled (In their sleeves), and just
then Anne and May came out of the deserted
breakfast-room, and as they exchanged greetings
with Chatteris, the laughter was so Infectious
that they caught It too. And the best of
it was that none of them had a notion that the
joke was just a piece of Insolence, which Eugenia
should have been the first to resent, and of
which Buck was a little bit ashamed already.

He hastened to change the subject ; and the
way In which he did so was an instance of
his fine consideration for his hostess. " Now,
then!" he shouted, as soon as Mrs. Tomlinson
s trailing skirts were out of sight, and while
she was still perilously within earshot — '' when
the cat's away . . . ! " and, taking a pile of loose
lovely rose-blossoms from a table where they
were ranged in order for decoration, he pelted
them, one after another, as fast as he could
fling them, In his heavy-handed way, at Boville
and Crossley.

"Very humorous;" said Anne trenchantly,
as the great red and white blossoms shed
their leaves over the young men's coats in
the skirmish ; for the two officers were nota
whit behindhand in returning at least the
leafless centres. — '' If I were Mrs. Tomlinson,
Mr. Jarvis, I should make you pay for those
roses, at so much a dozen, as you'd have to
for sticks at Aunt Sally."

I'd have a — shy at the — old Aunt Sally —
herself, if she — did ! " he guffawed spasmodically,
ducking to dodge a stalk, and seizing another
handful.

It was altogether not an exhibition of taste ;
and the head-gardener, who chanced to be at
hand, looked grave ; though the younger ones
stared with their mouths wide open at such
bold fun. To see Buck use their roses so,
made them foolishly ashamed of themselves
for being gardeners.

'' Now sir ! " said the chief functionary

VOL. I. R

Sternly, in a tone he would certainly not
have used to Sir Edmund, '' if you gentlemen
wants to bally-rag, you'd better just
take yourselves off into them playgrounds of
your's."

Crossley and Boville laughed, and Crossley
cried: 'you've got it now, old man!" for
in truth. Buck was much more crestfallen
than he had been at Anne's rebuke. With
a weak attempt at rebellion, he made as if he
would shy the last rosebud at the grave gardener's
head ; but as that personage was far
too well accustomed to the control of romps,
to duck, he thought better of that, and flung it,
with much gesture, to alight amid Eugenia's
bracken. His notion of "sport" would have
been that she should toss it back to him, his
notion of flirting that she should "stick it
in her hat." But, Eugenia being Eugenia
and the rosebud being a rosebud, she did
neither : she laid it carefully among the

fern-leaves, where it fell. There were no more
roses left upon the table, so perforce the
game was over, and she went upstairs, just
finding some sufficient answer to excuse her
from tennis for a while. Her aunt furnished
her with a valid pretext for engagement.

But, as she deposited the bracken in her
room, before going to Lady Shortlands, she
disengaged the rosebud from its fronds and
stood holding it in her hand for a moment.
It was a common rosebud after all, and
Eugenia had passed leisure days enough in
the country and with old-fashioned people,
to know the language of flowers : " Cabbage-rose,"
she said to herself softly, 'ambassador
of Love."

It was crushed and bruised ; — the leaves
half pressed from the stem — she did not kiss
it with her lips, but her eyes kissed it ; she
did not even put it into water ; she saw that
it was killed. Eugenia was not one to do

girlish or jerky things. But she laid it reverently
down, upon the old lace cover of
her dressing-table, and her hands lingered on
it as she did so ; it seemed as if there were
a spirit in the flower ; she looked at it and
sighed. If Buck had seen her look at it and
sigh, he might have wondered, he could not
have understood.

"He would have used then all the worse, had
they been birds instead of flowers," she said ;
but she did not hate him. " He does not
know," she said; ''he does not know — Ambassador
of Love." Often, perhaps, our life is
changed for us, by some no greater thing ; and
to Eugenia — in her present altered mood — the
rosebud, however roughly sent, was a mysterious
emblem. There is something to be said
for her. In old Florentine days, as we see
them on canvas, and in our own later painters'
imaging of them, this rose-pelting is accounted
beautiful. We do not call it "bally-raging,"

when we see It pictured there ; and surely
the play of It, with Its interchange of glance
and laughter, suits the roses better far than
being ranged In cornice, out of reach and
smell, as we range them In ball-rooms now.
To be tender-hearted over flowers is, after all,
the outcome only, of our 'apathetic fallacy;"
Buck was as careful of them as the Florentines
; but then Eugenia had been educated
up to the '' pathetic fallacy." As regards
birds, she had not only declined to enter
the enclosure at Buckingham (as many may,
to spare their nerves), but even to make the
acquaintance of a handsome and successful
shot, who had asked leave to be presented
to her there one Saturday. But she did not
hate Buck, and she made allowances for
him.

What a morning It was ! soft airs seemed to
be blowing all over the house, wherever the
sunlight fell — and where did it not fall ? And

yet, though there was cool after the storm,
there was no breath of wind stirring. It was
only open doors and windows and hurrying
feet that fanned the stillness ; every flight of
stairs and every corridor ran over with preparation
and life.

Eugenia went into her aunt's apartments.
There, too, preparation was going on, though
vitality was at a low ebb. Lady Shortlands
was being 'done up for the day."

Come in," she said sharply, as Eugenia
knocked at the panel. ** Come in, and put the
curtain down over the door, or the draught will
blow my wig off." The old lady never spared
herself, if she was invariably hard on others ;
but she rather tempered her self-depreciation.
Her niece knew, as all the world did, that she
wore false hair, but she did not know of the
rouge and the cosmetics, increasing day by
day, which were Parity's secret care.

Eugenia went in, the meridian glory of her

beauty shining like light in the closely shut-up
room smelling of drugs and perfumes.

'well," said Lady Shortlands looking up
at her with a grudging admiration, 'rand how
may you please to find yourself to-day ? "
There was a note of battle in her voice ;
something was evidently amiss, and Eugenia
forbore a literal answer. Then the charge
came at once. " Do you remember why I
brought you here ? " said the old lady, always
inflammable enough, and working herself* up
into a great rage, " do you think it was to
moon about in the rain with a man in a bathing-dress,
leaving me to catch my death of cold —
not that it matters, of course, what happens tome,
so long as you're amused ? Oh ! you won't
answer me before Parity, won't you ? Well,
miss, I can just tell you, for your peace of
mind, Parity knows my views already " — this
was an untruth, told party to annoy Eugenia,
and partly to conciliate Parity, who was really

quite in the dark as to the origin of " Miladi's
tantrums " — '' and Parity agrees with me. And
now, Parity, stick me on my best wig, and
leave us : I want Miss Brand to write some
notes for me."

But, when Parity was gone, it turned out that
Lady Shortlands — who loved to bamboozle her
maid — had no notes to be written. She wanted
to appeal to Eugenia about Sir Edmund Trefusis.
Ah ! if it had only been the previous morning. —

Now," she said, with her usual frankness,
you generally look extremely well at a ball,
Eugenia, and I confess I feel that I shall soon
get bored here — one always does at this sort of
house, there's no real company — I want you to
settle it to-night. You know what I mean ;
the occasion will be a good one, and we can
make short work of this visit."

Eugenia was too much distressed to answer
at once : after a minute, she said, '' Sir Edmund
Trefusis is not well, he is hardly likely to

appear at the ball. He sent yesterday to
London for his own doctor." To Eugenia,
sending for the doctor implied that there was
immediate danger, and she had felt surprise that
Mrs. Tomlinson, who was accustomed to Sir Edmund's
chronic ill-health, had not seemed more
put out about it. Lady Shortlands, however,
shared Mrs. Tomlinson s view of his '' fancies."

*pooh!" she said, "he's nervous, that's
what's the matter with him : he's worrying himself
and he will worry himself until it's over. * /
want it settled too. I'm not well, and, I tell
you, I must get away. If he can't come downstairs
you must go up and sit with him and the
doctor, and manage it so."

"How can you say such things?" said
Eugenia, who could not believe her aunt
in earnest, and indeed the old lady was half
laughing through her anger : "If he proposed
to me to-night, Aunt Agatha, I could
not accept him."

Lady Shortlands put down her hand-glass
and absolutely glared at her niece.

Why the deuce not ? " she said. — One of
Lady Shortlands' first rules in conversation was
that there was but one vocabulary, whether for
men or women.

Eugenia did not answer : words never scared
her.

Now, look here," her aunt went on, '' Sir
Edmund Tre - thin gummy tight is poetical.
You don't understand poetry, but I do" — the
reproach and the assertion were alike strange
as from Lady Shortlands to Eugenia. — 'remember
Romeo and Juliet and all the rest of
them. Vote. have a cold nature : you cannot
realise falling in love at sight ; /ze does.
Take my word for it, Sir Edmund is the
man for your money, or rather — for remember,
you haven't got any money — you're the woman
for his."

Lady Shortlands leaned back after this tirade.

prepared for open rebellion on Eugenia's part,
but oddly enough, as she thought, Eugenia
still said nothing. She stood looking out of
the window : across the lawns she could see the
statues of Diana and Endymion at the end of
the cypress alley. Her aunt's words sounded
strangely In her ears — '*a cold nature — you don't
understand poetry — you cannot realise love
at sight." She was thinking of the cabbage-rosebud
In her room, ** Ambassador of Love : "
Its scent was In her nostrils yet. She could
not argue.

** I begin to Imagine," said Lady Shortlands
gravely, changing her tone, as she traced the
coronet and Initials on her Ivory brushes with
a shaky be-ringed old hand, *' that you are
wanting, Eugenia Brand, — wanting — daft." —

Eugenia laughed : she thought perhaps she
was.

'' Is there any just cause or Impediment —
barring the Irons, which I believe to be removable

— why you should not let Sir Edmund love
you ? None. And is there any need for you to
trouble your poor silly head about loving him ?
None. — You don't dislike him, do you ? "

"Oh no! indeed," said Eugenia, indignant
with herself. "He has been so kind, so
thoughtful ; I have found his company delightful."


I am sure you have. You were a fool to
play off that young savage against him — and I
think, lost ground. Men like Sir Edmund are
particular " —

(Eugenia was not listening ; she was thinking
with contrition — " dislike him ? " had she been
rude — unkind ? — and he was ill.)

'' Well, make amends ! you can't have
everything. Why, my dear," the old lady
went on in a gentler voice, looking at Eugenia's
perplexed face, "the same blood runs in your
veins that runs in mine. Did I think I loved
my old Lord ? Not I ! And if it didn't heat

me so to talk, I could tell you a long tale
against myself, which — as it is — you must make
your mother tell you some day. ' Somebody
else ? ' of course I loved somebody else ; and I
thought at the time that there was nobody else
like that somebody else, in the world. And
would you believe it, Eugenia, I woke up
Shortlands last night, to try and help me remember
what that somebody else's name was ?
not that rd forgotten him, but my memory has
played me curious tricks of late. — 'Shortlands,'
1 said, ' what was the name of that young buck,
as you used to call him, that I loved when I
married you ? ' Why, what's 'the matter,
Eugenia, you tired ? "

Eugenia had sat down suddenly, at a certain
idle little word ; that was all.

Tell me about it. Aunt Agatha," she said
with her first show of interest.

*' I can't," said the old lady, after a pause,
and with a stifled sigh. ** I suppose I was

more of a fool than most people. And that's
why I asked you If there were any 'just cause or
impediment Eugenia ; for even after all these
years of marriage — happy marriage, as things
go, and successful life — I don't think I should
urge you, if I thought you had ever cared for
somebody else, like that."

Does it never change ? " said Eugenia, ina
low sweet voice.

'* Never," said Lady Shortlands, almost in
the same tone. '' One may not remember
always, dii it is always there. I've forgotten
his name, I tell you, but that makes no odds :
if he could come into this room now — he can't:
he's dead, poor darling — though I'm past
sixty, I should blush through my — " (she
was going to say 'rouge," but she stopped
herself in time, and substituted) — " wrinkles.
However, you, thank God, have nothing of
that kind to think of; so look your best at
the ball, and don't let things slide. And now

I've talked myself purple, so get along, and
send me that wretched woman, Parity, again.
It's twelve o'clock, and she's got her work cut
out for her if she's to make me fit to go downstairs
to luncheon."

How was it that, despite her aunt's first
harshness, Eugenia went up to her before
she left the room, and, for the first time in
her whole life, kissed her tenderly, of her
own free will ? Let those guess who do not
know ; for surely those who do, will never
be quite able to put it into words. It touched
her deeply to find that this worldly old woman
had gone through that same phase of passion
which was overwhelming all her senses. She
would almost have confided in her aunt ; but
what was there yet, that she could affirm or
claim ? What was she to Arthur Jarvis ? Nothing
: although it seemed that every fibre of
her heart and brain now wove itself about him.
She must wait.

She went down the broad staircase, like a
woman in a dream. As she passed Sir Edmund's
apartments, she saw that his doors
were open ; and in the luxurious Persian
sitting-room, a tall, dark-bearded man was
seated at a table, writing busily. As she descended
into the hall, she heard the sound
of a piano from the music-room. It was
Anne's crisp touch; and Eugenia, in her perplexity,
was more disposed to listen to the
playing than to go out of doors. She turned
in the direction of the room whence the sound
issued, taking her hat off, as she did so, with
her habitual gesture.

She found herself in a small ante-chamber
that communicated with the larger room,
but was separated from it by silken curtains.
In this small room Sir Edmund was perdu
under a vast oriel window, 'listening abstractedly
to the music. Eugenia was surprised to
see that he was looking quite as well as on

the preceding day ; but, as she did not like to
tell him that she had been apprehensive, she
said only : " Good morning."

** I am eavesdropping, you see," he said,
*' and I have made a discovery — such a discovery
in a country house, like finding wildflowers
in the sea! — Miss Jefferies is a musician.
We know that she can sing and play
oh, yes ! but she is more than an artist — she
is a musician, ' with a capital M.' She is
nothing if not a Musician'"

Eugenia smiled and signalled to him to
speak lower, that she might listen.

** She thinks to music' Sir Edmund went on,
** is not that rare ? Will you sit down here, by
me, and let me tell you what she thinks about ?
She is thinking about you''

Eugenia shook her head and lifted her eyebrows,
with a gentle incredulity.

You are distraite, this morning," he said,
and you do not care ; but yes ! she is think-vol.

I. s

ing about you. Oh ! I know it Is Bach ; but
listen, and learn what all that interweaving
means to her. She is not playing from notes,
but from memory ; she stops now and then, but
it is not forgetfulness that makes her stop, it is
interest. She is absorbed, but, at this moment,
it is not with the music, or she would do it
more artistic justice. The thread of its noble
strain is but the symbol of the noble life
of which she thinks. Hark ! how it goes
on, finding Its way amid the puzzled —
making light in the dark places. I know she
is thinking of you."

Eugenia listened, but her face looked grave.
She was sitting by Sir Edmund, on the window-seat,
beneath the stained glass panes, and he
took her hat out of her hands.

You are like the monk, In the Ingoldsby
legends," he said, *' that carried his head about
with him."

*' Hats, with me," said Euc^enla, 'rare a concession

to Fashion ; and you see how little
pleased Fashion must be with my taste''

Sir Edmund looked at the hat : " It is very
ugly," he said, "but I like it: I like the

clothes of people that I And so, you

are very poor ? "

' Are you honest, are you fair .^ ' " said
Eugenia, quoting. She was amused at the
impertinence of a question which somehow
was not impertinent. " Yes, I am poor."

And you are very ' honest ' and you are
very * fair,' I know," said Sir Edmund.

EuQ^enla looked vexed : she had not meant
him to take her so. Since the first moment of
their meeting, she had found herself alone with
Sir Edmund more than once, and she liked
talking to him. But now she thought him hard
to answer. This last speech fortunately did not
need reply, and she maintained her golden
silence. He saw that she was embarrassed,
and, with a sudden change of manner, he asked :

*' Is Lady Shortlands better this morning ? "

"Better?" said Eugenia, whose embarrassment
was changed to surprise ; *' she is much
as usual. I have only this moment left her."

'' She is ill," said Sir Edmund quickly, after
a pause : '' I do not think she will live long,
and I think she is aware of it."

What do you mean. Sir Edmund ? "

I have observed ; " he answered gravely,
'* I am very observant ; there are moments
when she does not know where she is, when
her existence flickers."

Eugenia recalled what her aunt had said to
her about her memory. '' She has not been
well for some time past," she said slowly,
*' she has had rheumatism, — gout, she calls it,
and she is weak."

'' It is more than that," he said. " Yesterday
afternoon, I was alarmed — I hope, idly.
I was comlne across the room after dinner to
speak to you, but you seemed to avoid me." —

Eugenia turned her face aside, to hide its
mantling flush : she knew that she had done
so, and she remembered the reason.

I do not know Lady Shortlands well," he
went on, " and she may be habituated to these
attacks ; but it is good to be on guard — on our
guard," he added, looking at Eugenia, and conscious
of the sweetness that he tasted, in linking
her name with his, but she was too preoccupied
to notice this.

'' Did you say anything to my uncle about
it ? " she asked.

'' Nothing; it would distress him ; it does not
distress you in the least!'

No," said Eugenia, glad to have an opportunity
of confessing to him an insensibility that
she resented in herself. " I wish it did ! I
envy you your quick sympathy ; I suppose I
am selfish ; few things disquiet me. I don't
understand pain ( — I have told you this already,
and I wonder that you do not hate me — ) ; I

think there are natures for which illness micrht
be repose."

** Bit not death ; " said Sir Edmund, in a yet
graver tone than he had used.

Eugenia was much moved : " You do not
think" — she said, turning pale, and then she
paused.

Keep counsel ! " he answered her gently ;
'' after luncheon, we shall know better if my
fears are founded. I have sent for my own
doctor, in whom I have the greatest faith. He
is a young man, and it will not seem strange
that he should like to stay for the dance, if there
be any real cause for anxiety. Mrs. Tomlinson,
of course, will ask him to remain. I have
begged him to observe Lady Shortlands without
seeming to do so. He is here already."

"Oh!" said Eugenia suddenly, laying her
hand upon his arm, and thrilling him unconsciously
with the magic of her touch, 'sis t/iat
why you have sent for him ? I am so glad. I

had been so afraid it was because you were ill
yourself!"

It was a charming utterance, had he dared to
take it literally; but he saw, too clearly, that it
seemed to mean more than Eugenia had intended
; he knew that, had she cared intensely,
she could not have spoken with so much freedom.
Still she did care. And he felt proud
and happy.

'' I wish it had been only that," he said ;
'' but I am better."

And it was from anxiety about my aunt ?"
said Eugenia, 'how kind and thoughtful you
are ! I don't think ever any one was half so
good" —

'' It was from anxiety" — he answered her,
with a deep meaning in his tone — "for
you." . . .

Suddenly Anne's music ceased with a bang,
and her clear voice rang oddly after its intricacies.


I thought that you were never coming back !"
she said impatiently to May, who had just
joined her, and then she went on softly playing
the nursery rhyme with one finger, but neither
Euo^enia nor Sir Edmund recognised it.

'' Oh ! one of mamma's lectures on deportment,"
said May's fresh tones in answer,
and to try on my stockings for to-night."

Perhaps I had better listen no more, I am
shy of stockings said Sir Edmund, with a
smile ; but there were no reciprocal confidences
about dress. Anne never knew anything about
her clothes, till her maid had fastened them
upon her ; and she took still less interest, if
possible, in other people's.

Anyway they could not help hearing the
rest, for May came up so close to the silk curtain
that it rustled against the arch between the
rooms, at the end of the window-seat where Sir
Edmund and Eugenia sat. She had advanced
to the piano and was standing behind her cousin.

What have you been playing ? " she asked.
Bach ? I want you to come out now."

Anne's fingers were still busy with the teasing
nursery rhyme. She was making it into a
little /u^z^e now. "There was a lady" — sang
the treble : " was a lady" — echoed the bass.

Oh, Anne ! that eternal tune ! you don't
mean to say that you are still thinking of
Eugenia Brand?"

Sir Edmund and Eugenia started ; the question
was such a sudden and distinct verification
of what he had said to her that they were both
amazed.

Hush," she said to him ; " now for my
punishment ! ' Listeners never hear any good
of themselves.' "

*' Well, at that moment," said Anne, rising
and shutting the piano, " I confess I was thinking
more of that pig, ' Mr. Jones'"

Sir Edmund's interpretation was thoroughly
spoiled, as far as he could tell.

*' I was wrongs indeed," he said, lauehinof,
for it did not occur to him who '* Mr. Jones "
was.

But Eugenia knew ; and she knew also that
Sir Edmund's surmise had been right.

CHAPTER II.

HUMAN.

pRETTV as the old hall had looked In Its sunny
morning disarray, when all the beauty and the
freshness of the flowers were discernible, its
effect was still prettier at nine o'clock In Ie
evening when the decorations were complete,
the swept floor shining and the many lanterns,
as well as the old silver lamps and candelabra,
adding brilliancy to the scene.

Out of doors, the night was of a wonderful
deep blue, studded with " patient stars ; "
indoors, you were dazzled with a light more
bright than day's, which made you blink as
you passed into its glow, from beneath the
heavily brocaded pointer es. The short strip

of vestibule which you first entered, with the
morning rooms on either side of It reserved
for hats and cloaks, was crowded with statuary
and scented fountains, but when you had
stooped under the last lifted curtain, the great
hall was before you, black-floored, and gleaming,
In its emptiness, like a frozen lake In
winter.

Not that there was any chance of mistaking
the season ; for roses were massed against the
tapestry panels and round the pictures, were
banked along the galleries, festooned beneath
the alcoves, and wreathed about the suits of
armour, with a lavishness to make the Lady
Sophia of Mrs. Tomllnson's envy confess
herself royally outdone.

But, despite flowers and lights, the ensemble
was sombre at first ; the big organ and the
Moorish lamps held their own against the
wreaths and muslin ; and the old portraits of
worthies, that had known neither Tomlinson

nor Chinese lanterns, seemed to frown down
upon the hall possessively still. By and bye,
the organ would be hidden from sight by the
red and gold of the regimental band — which
was mustering In the gallery before It with
much whispered approval of the scene, settling
of stands for music and furtive essays of
sound — and the pictured faces would cease
to be observed, behind the steam and din ;
but when nine o'clock struck, there was nobody
to dispute their rights, except Mr. Buxton
and his host, who were standing at the foot
of the staircase, looking — according to your
mood — like two mutes or two butlers, eschewing
the polished boards and measuring out
the length of the hall with complacent and
admiring eyes.

Not that Mr. Buxton, In his Insular self-restraint,
would ever have dreamed of expressing
that he thought It fine. When the
ball was over, he would find fault with something,

and if his censure were but slight Mrs.
TomHnson would know that her ball had
been perfect in the estimation of others. Mr.
Buxton was as critical as he was punctual.

'shorthand is ageing — " he said, in his
heavy magisterial tone ; well aware that Mr.
Tomlinson, having only known Lord Short-lands
within the last year, was quite unqualified
to give an opinion.

Yes," said kind Mr. Tomlinson, nervously ;
"yes — hem — I'm sorry for that — sorry for
that — " Mr. Tomlinson was much more at
his ease with young people than with Mr.
Buxton, except when model cottages and
farms were the matters under consideration.

** Well ! " argued Mr. Buxton, with a grand
air, as if he were putting into shape the probabilities
of modern politics, in his own town-hall
— (he was as prosy an old person as was
ever returned for a county ; but, lacking
courage to speak at St. Stephens, he said

his say In South Hampshire). — 'well! what
have we ? We have the Dunfarrell constitution,
It Is true, but then we have port wine
port wine unlimited, and — at Shortlands —
bad."

"Dear me!" said Mr. Tomllnson considerably
Impressed, 'have we? bads

Bad ; " said Mr. Buxton ; '' don t you think
so?"

Now Mr. Tomllnson had never been to
Shortlands ; and, as we know, It was a contingent
Invitation thither, for Christmas, that
had lured Mrs. Tomllnson to lend Lady Short-lands
her aid, in furthering her views for
Eugenia's future : but this invitation she had
not yet mentioned to her husband, so that,
at Mr. Buxton's abrupt question, he was
rather nonplussed — "good easy man" — and
began to be surprised at his own hospitality
to people who had not yet invited him.

But his wife, as usual, came to his aid, Mrs.

Tomllnson — en peignoir — appearing round the
corner of the stairway and answering for him :
*' Fie, Mr. Buxton ! " she said, " you are taking
advantage of his Lordship's deafness, and you
forget how sharp her ears are. Notlmig is
bad at Shortlands, and we are so looking forward
to our Christmas there ; the Durhams
will be there the whole week — astonishing for
them to Christmas out. Mr. Tomlinson, just
go round and look at the buffets and say if
you don't think so many gardenias may possibly
spoil appetite."

The obedient husband glided off in surprised
delight, and left Mrs. Tomlinson decidedly
mistress of the field.

Nor could the visit be further discussed,
for Lord Shortlands was coming downstairs
already, and joined Mr. Buxton in his survey
at this moment.

*well, well!" he said, for he was the most
good-natured of old gentlemen, and too ready

to praise, to mind not hearing other folks'
opinions, '' This is pretty : " — Lord Short-lands
said '' booty : " — '' shows what money
can do, eh Buxton ? " — Lord Shortlands forgot
sometimes, that others were not as deaf as he
was, and thought aloud ; — '' money, and taste,
Mrs. Tomlinson — and taste of course. No, one
would need to ask who's the taste was, who
looked at your dress, eh ? " — Mrs. Tomlinson
was at present in her dressing-gown. — '* Well !
'pon my soul— 'pon my soul, I'm glad my poor
lady's coming down to your party : " — Lord
Shortlands said "party." — 'she was very
unwell after dinner — hates a scrambled dinner,
at odd hours, puts her out terribly — " this was
a thought : — *' not so young as we were, eh ? " —
this was a speech proper; — "but still delighted
with it all — de-lighted ! * Go to bed like a
sensible woman,' I said to her : not she ! likes
to see how it's all done, you know, look at
the natives, pick 'em to pieces ; sie sees

VOL. I. T

faults where nobody else does," — these were
thoughts — "see the booty frocks," — this was a
speech proper, again, in compliment to Mrs.
Tomlinson's dressing-gown : — " see the niece
land her big fish, eh ? " — this was another
thought, — " help play the ironmonger — lives
for that ! see that done — die happy ! Ah !
Mrs. Tomllnson," — ending with a speech proper
— " no daughters, no nieces ! . . No," he
added to his obtuse old self, but by this time
fortunately he had crossed the hall to admire
some flowers, and Mrs. Tomllnson was wandering
upstairs, with an instinct to avoid seeing
his Involuntary ^/w^^^/^i- upon the polished
floor, '' no daughters, no nieces, no father, no
mother, nobody: and can't, for the life of us,
make out where the Lubbers came from — 'the
jub-jub birds' my lady calls them — ^jujubes
eh ? jtijitbes — not bad for me ! — Why, Buxton,
this will cost a thousand pounds ! "

Mr. Buxton nodded his head violently, but

did not attempt to answer. Conversation
with Lord Shortlands had been voted impossible
except through the media of Eugenia
Brand and Anne Jefferies, both of whom he
contrived to hear. But he did not mind
about it ; if you heard what he said, so much
the better, — you gave him starting points, —
but if you did not, he talked about what he
fancied you liked. Sometimes he was right
and sometimes he was wrong. He had been
known to light upon your pet aversion, and
there were sundry good stories afloat about
his want of judgment. For instance, when seton,
once, to talk to the portly and prosperous
composer of a famous cantata, he had persisted
in taking. him for a farmer and beginning
each fresh clause of his talk with the
prefixes ** Cattle, eh .^ " and 'apropos of fat
cattle ; " which had not commended him to
the musician.

In society, a frank deafness like this, when

accompanied by loquacity, acts like a necessitous
looking-glass : — you cannot help seeing
the sort of figure you make : — and it was
noticeable that people liked or disliked Lord
Shortlands, according as their manner and
appearance were the true index to their
tastes. Mr. Buxton, for Instance, liked Lord
Shortlands, because his own appearance connoted
more intelligence than he really had.
He was a man of what is called a ' fine presence,'
and when he had uttered a platitude he
looked as If he had formulated a philosophy,
Lord Shortlands, who felt he would have to
talk up to the philosopher, would avoid him
then — but when he was silent, he merely had
the air of beinor wealthier and wiser than he
was, and then Lord Shortlands would approach
him, with a deferential reference to
politics or the value of land. Both his lordship
and Mr. Buxton were shallow men, but
the shallowness of the former deceived no one :

it was constantly gauged by Lady Shortlands.
Any false claim to depth would have been
futile from him ; whereas Mrs. Buxton, partly
from incapability and partly from a wish to
save trouble, had a sort of belief in her husband's
judgment, and persuaded him to his
own depth.

Presently these two rather tiresome people
were joined by James Chatteris, who did not
smoke with the officers and his patron Vane, and
required no after-dinner rest like Sir Edmund
Refuses. He had been wanderings through
the reception-rooms, and out at the back of
the house, on to a terrace lit with countless
lanterns and overlooking the illuminated shore.
He was amazed at the magnitude of Mrs.
Tomlinson's preparations, being himself of an
austere Scotch stock, that asked its neighbours
to dance at Christmas - time without
more decoration than evergreens ; — pushing
aside the old-fashioned furniture and letting

first one and then another sit down to the

piano. He did not realise that all this pomp

was simply emulous, but he was wondering

why, amid so much light and beauty, he did

not feel brighter. Perhaps he wanted the

music to begin, perhaps he wanted Eugenia.

As he passed through the library he had

actually reached down a book, and read

several pages of grave poetry ; and then he

had turned over In his mind some lines fora

projected sonnet of his own ; for James

Chatteris mostly read poetry before he wrote

any. It was to be about Eugenia, of course,

and it was to end :

As these gay lanterns to a midnight sfar^

He was quite sure of that — quite sure that

she would look and shine like a star, among

the guests — yes ! that was it —

. the guests that are
As these gay tanter?is to that 7uid?iight star

He admired the contrasted pronouns, and

was tasting them in his mouth, like wine,
when he stumbled up against Lord Short-lands
and Mr. Buxton. It occurred to him,
with one of those jerks of common-sense,
which often beset composition, that they
were neither of them in the least like " gay
lanterns ; " and the creation of the sonnet was
hindered. These pauses before a festivity,
which are really only pauses for some half-dozen
people, often curiously influence these
half-dozen people's moods. To Chatteris it
seemed as if all were over, instead of just about
to begin, as if the hour were a solemn one
and the place sacred. A church-bell would
not have jarred upon his feelings. He forgot
that most of the guests were, long ago,
upon their way — for country neighbours are
punctual people — that, upstairs, the maids*
hands were busy with their mistresses' 'Mast
touches," that, downstairs, cooks and scullions,
footmen and grooms were leaping in the heat,

like salamanders, and that even In this *' vasty
hall " the stillness was only the breathing space
before a shout.

And so he looked sad and rather pale, poor
boy, and he was not reassured by hearing the
officers as they came along a corridor from
the smoking-room, laugh heartily at a joke
of Vane's of which he was the butt, and
which surmised that he had run off, after
dinner, to get Lady Shortlands' maid to " put
a peacock's feather in his button-hole." They
did not perceive him, and went bounding up
a back staircase, to change their gay smoking
for their dress-coats again. The lull
had no significance for them.

Next, Anne came down ; quite careless that
she was the only lady yet upon the scene, and,
glad to find some one besides Lord Shortlands
and Mr. Buxton — whom she hated and always
spoke of as her " aunt's husband " — she was
unusually civil to Chatteris.

** Don't ask me to dance' she said, '' or I
shall have to go upstairs again ! I didn't comedown
early for that, but my aunt has gone
into May's room to give her a ' Mother's last
word' — it's a ^rap^ not a /r^^/ — so I slipped out
of my room, before she came to an ' Aunt's
advice ' which is also of the series . . . Yes : it
is a pretty gown I suppose. I mostly choose
red — generally this particular red — like a
pomegranate flower : I always think I am too
old for white. Oh ! don't deny it : I have felt
too old for white, ever since my lamentable
failures, as a baby, to keep my long frocks
crumpled." —

'' Don't you feel exactly as if you were going
to a funeral?" said Chatteris, who sometimes
impressed people wide his paradoxes, but oftener
aired them in ungenial atmosphere.

*' No, I don't ; " said Anne, who despised
them : "I don't go to funerals in red : I feel
as if I were going to a ball, or rather as if a

ball were coming to me. Don't be angry ! I
know what you mean — it's Indigestion, from
dining an hour too early. Let's go up to the
gallery and see what the band is going to
play. I know the conductor and he always
does just as I tell him. We will have ' Chantilly
' twice ; " — and she proceeded to take up
one of Mrs. Tomlinson's elaborately-blazoned
and superfluous programmes, and to bend her
sleek head over it, with a view to its entire
regeneration.

'' Do you know," said Chatteris timidly,
'what Miss Buxton is going to wear?" He
was approaching a subject of importance to
the embryo sonnet, and was disposed to
plume himself upon his tact.

"Miss Brand, you mean," said Anne with
her little laugh, which was sweet despite its
sharpness, '' don't circumlocution — or whatever
the verb may be — with vie. No : I do not
know what that wise virgin will wear — probably

an old petticoat of her mother's, or one
of her aunt's tro7isseatt-dr^ss&s turned inside
out, — but I know that you will think it divine
(that's indigestion, too) and that nobody else
in the room will know what she has got on.
Y021 wouldn't, only you mean to sit up all
night and put it into verse. Now take my advice
; if you want to study dress with a view
to poetry, turn your attention to Lady Short-lands
: she's a creation in herself, only she's
taken sixty years instead of six days. Come
alone — and let us interview the bandmaster !
Oh, no such luck ; here they come ! "

Yes ! there was the first arrival : before Mrs.
Tomlinson had 'got her dress over her head,"
and while Buck had his hot face still underwater.
The inevitable lady from a great
distance, who 'thought she had better allow
plenty of time ; " rather tired already, with
two daughters and a stranger niece (to whom
the daughters looked appropriate over the

beauties of Ashbank, while she giggled and
shrugged her shoulders, in return, as if she
were acclimatised to dancing in much finer
houses) and with a long-nosed boy, for all male
kind, who, after dozing in the footman's place
upon the box, looked scared and white, and
was not set at his ease by Lord Shortlands
garter.

And then, on the inevitable first arrival,
followed the inevitable mistake ; Mrs. Buxton
(miss Dalrymple-Robarts that was' as we
know) coming down stairs to be taken for Mrs.
Tomlinson, who was as yet an unfamiliar
figure in the county.

Mrs. Buxton looked very well still at a ball :
across the room you would almost have taken
her for her daughter — that is until you saw her
daughter. May wore a white frock all dotted
with blush rosebuds and she looked as pretty
and as wholesome as a blush rosebud herself.
Lord Shortlands and the long-nosed boy —

whose surname was Gregg-Smith, and whose
cross was that his acquaintance always dropped
the 'Gregg' — were equally enchanted with her
aspect, In juvenile and senile wise.

Then, just as the announcements were being
made thick and fast and Mr. Tomlinson was
beginning to be at his wits' end, Mrs. Tomlinson
was hustled out of her room by her two
body-maids and pushed downstairs. The skill
of her domestic tyrants had been sorely tried,
in fastening a monster poppy over the " thin
place in her parting " to bear the weight of half
a dozen priceless emerald and diamond flies
and beetles, which clustered over It in Arcadian
simplicity. She looked anxious ; and the
poppyful of jewelled field-bugs waggled in
sympathy, as she rustled apologetically down.

Crikey ! " said the long-nosed boy to the
niece, " look at her diamonds ! "

She was immediately followed by Sir Edmund
and his friend Dr. Burroughes, who

seemed to view the gathering not wholly from
a scientific standpoint, but with a touch of
young-man's Interest.

More announcements ! and then, first tremors
of sound among the fiddles, for a stringed band
had grouped Itself in an alcove to supplement
the brass band of the regiment which now
hid the organ; and then — 'cannon to right
of them, cannon to left of them " — just as the
three home officers came downstairs in their
broad white waistcoats and with Mrs. Tomlinson's
gardenias showing like immaculate favours
on their big chests, the Colonel and the
rest of their contingent arrived on their own
coach from Portsmouth.

Then, never was such a tramp of entrance
and flutter of introduction, or such an echo
of shrill arid noisy talking — "Ah! my dear,"
and '' By Jove, old man ! " — or such a congregating
of shy girls — looking all pretty — and
crowding of black-coated men — looking all alike

in the dazzle, never was such a dividing of
the sheep from the goats or such a tattooing
of the band over all, — broken only by the
butler's stentorian shout — heard, seen, foretold,
or imagined at Ashbank since the days of its
founding ; in the midst of all which, Eugenia
came quietly down the great staircase, with old
Lady Shortlands leaning heavily upon her arm.
It was not Eugenia's fault that she made
her appearance so late : she had been dressed
an hour ago ; her gown was not new and she
had soon put it on : it was of some soft gauze
that was neither grey nor green, with a satin
body of the same neutral colour that fitted her
as the sheath fits the flower. And on the
shoulder, and low down upon the left side of the
skirt, she had fastened some well-chosen fronds
of the careen and golden bracken. She wore no
flowers that one could see, but she had not
left the cabbage rosebud in her room. This
simplicity was not studied : we know that she

forgot her box of trinkets at Shortlands Farm,
and she did not wear flowers, only because she
wanted to please Chatteris by having nothing
but his ferns to adorn her. She had even
allowed some slight change in the dressing of
her hair — which by exhibiting its luxuriance
with a wider sweep, surprisingly accentuated
her beauty — and this was an unwonted concession
for her. The clever Parity had been
her coiffeuse, and the style made Eugenia hold
her head rather higher than usual, being, to
say the truth, a little constrained with it so.
Although her dress was not of the newest
mode. It was cut low and left her arms and
shoulders bare — arms and shoulders beyond
the power of any fashion to better, — and, with
their rare whiteness against her water-coloured
dress, with her beautiful brown leaves and her
more beautiful brown hair and the most beautiful
soul that looked out of her eyes, she was
as fair a woman to behold as earth can show.

Lady Shortlands was used to her beauty —
"She strips well," she had said to Parity, in
her rough way; *' Indeed the creature is so well
made, that it is a pity she should have to wear
clothes at all ! " — but Sir Edmund felt himself
to tremble, as he gazed at her. It mattered
so much to him how she looked, although he
knew she must look ' best ' always. He was
like a man who is the first to perceive a rainbow.
As she shone forth, after that pelting
shower of nonsense and name-calling, he knew
that he alone, as yet, saw truly this crystalline
prism of celestial promise : Sir Edmund
was quite satisfied with Eugenia's appearance.
Chatteris— chiefly for the sonnet's sake— had
hoped that she would be in dazzling white.
Stars' were not green or grey. But he was contented
when It occurred to him that he miorht
represent her as a star reflected in dull water.

'' Who is that young lady ? " Dr. Burroughes

asked him, at the moment ; for he noticed the
VOL. I. u

impression that her entrance made on his friend
Sir Edmund. He had been at the other end
of the table to Euo^enia at dinner, and she had
not taken luncheon, occupied as she was.

She is my cousin," said Chatteris, with
pride, — " Miss Brand : — and she is Lady
Shortlands' niece, but I am not related to
Lady Shorthand''

Dr. Burroughes smiled. Lady Shortlands
did not indeed look like one whom a poet
would wish to have taken for his mother : '' She
is an incarnation of the world and the devil,"
Vane whispered to Anne Jefferies : indeed it's
only the absence of the flesh that saves her;
if she weren't so thin, we should all have renounced
her formally in our catechism."

Whether it was in contrast to Eugenia, or
whether it was that Parity at last had overdone
her pains, it was certain that Lady Shortlands*
aspect was not prepossessing. She looked
half as old again as she was — you would have

taken her for ninety, — and, while she professed
herself in capital spirits, she moved in such a
haphazard fashion that you would have said
she was walking in her sleep.

'' I feel like an owl," she said, honestly, to
Mrs. Tomlinson, 'but I was determined to
come down and enjoy myself : good Lord !
how I used to love a ball ! " —

She was evidently excited and weak, for her
old eyes filled with foolish tears, and she
trembled, as she leaned upon her jewelled
stick, Eugenia standing by.

*' I cared fifteen times as much as this
creature does," she said, *but I never go out
now."

'' My dearest Lady Shortlands," said Mrs.
Tomlinson, delighted at the compliment implied
in her ladyship's appearance downstairs, — and
delighted also to see that the Tomlinson
diamonds made her ladyship's old parure look
as yellow as topaz, — *' you are as fresh as one of

your own daisies." — (Yes, indeed : Lady Short-lands'
wig was decked with field-daisies !)

Something in her hostess' tone, or in
Eugenia's involuntary movement, made Lady
Shortlands aware that her flowers were inappropriate,
and she retorted with a comment
on Mrs. Tomlinson's monster poppy, which
Eugenia managed should somehow pass unheard.
It might have marred the harmony
of this interchange of civilities.

But Lady Shortlands had not taken the
trouble of coming downstairs for a passage of
arms with Mrs. Tomlinson. "Where's Sir
Edmund Thingummy ? " she asked impatiently,
rejecting Mr. Tomlinson's escort, '' I want him
to find me a place. Oh ! here you are. Now,
set me down somewhere. Eugenia, go and find
Vane ! Tell him that he must come and tell me
all the people's names and all their enormities.
This county is a perfect hot-bed. Here Tomlinson,
you take her! — knee better I hope? — I

want to speak to Sir Edmund. You need not
hurry Vane, Eugenia ; he seems well enough
engaged with Miss Jefferies, and I have scarcely
had Sir Edmund to myself at all. No ! don't
dance : I don't wish you to dance at present."

Sir Edmund sat down attentively by Lady
Shortlands, as the dance began. She had no
sooner secured him there quite to herself, in
uninterrupted possession, than she turned her
drawn old face, under its daisies, to his, and
looked hard into his kind brown eyes.

Sir Edmund Trefusis," she said slowly,
clasping her withered hands upon her stick, and
forgetting his name no longer; " I am going to
say some very strange things to you, and I
have no excuse for saying them at all, but that
I am a spoilt woman with but one foible still
ungratified."

The flippancy of her worldly manner had
quite left her, for the moment. Sir Edmund
did not doubt that what she had to say was

worldly — nor was he at a loss to guess its drift,
■ — but he was impressed by her demeanour,
and had determined, since his talk with Dr.
Burroughes, to meet her, as far as he could.
I shall esteem myself honoured," he answered
gravely, '' by any confidence you may repose
in me."

*' What I have to say," Lady Shortlands
went on, as she acknowledged his attention
by a courteous bend of the head, " can be said
in a few words : I have done a good deal of
mischief in my day, and I have had more luck
than I perhaps deserve. I daresay you know
my daughters : you know at any rate that
one of them is the Duchess of Durham and
the other Lady Cornwall. Now, as to the
Duchess . . . ."

To Sir Edmund's horror and distress, Lady
Shortlands had quite lost the thread of the
explanation she had so incisively begun, and
her eyes looked troubled : .'* What was it I

was going to say to you ? " she asked, staring
at him in a helpless way, and flushing deeply.

Sir Edmund bent his eyes downwards ; by
now he knew quite well what Lady Short-lands
wanted to say to him, and he knew that
she had only drifted into mentioning the
Duchess. " You were going to tell me your
wish ; " he said, with more perception than
accuracy.

** That was it : " — a look of intelligence,
almost of cunning, came back suddenly, to
her face, but at the same time it was evident
that she had forgotten Sir Edmund's presence :
" I want her to marry him," she said. *' Her
grandfather has behaved ill to my sister — we
Carruthers do not forget a slight : — Eugenia
must punish him : I want her to marry this
ironmonger, this cripple ; he has sixty thousand
a year r

Poor Sir Edmund ! Great as was the pain
these words inflicted on his sensitive heart,

it was as nothing to the keenness of his
hope that Lady Shortlands might never realise
that she had said these words to him. It
was clear that either her sight or her memory
was troubled in some desperate way. Perhaps
she mistook him for Vane, perhaps she was
not conscious that she spoke aloud. He made
up his mind to bear with her, as he could.
'' You wish your niece to marry soon ? " he
said, trying to keep her thoughts in the same
channel.

In a couple of years," she answered, indirectly,
recovering herself again and seeming
unaware that she had wandered, " Eugenia
Brand will be thirty. She ought to have
been settled in life long ere this ; both my
girls were. My sister has nothing. She
married for love, and she has been punished
for being a fool. I did not marry for love —
I did well. Yes ; I did well, but I gave
myself pain — I loved some one else. I wish

Eugenia to be married before she loves anyone
else. When we do love — we Carruthers
we love with our whole being, it is like a
madness. Eugenia is a true Carruthers, like
her mother rather than like me ; but I was a
true Carruthers a hundred years ago. Life
changed me : I trusted that it would, when I
took up my lot" — she paused and tapped her
fingers on her stick — '' I wish to get Eugenia
safely settled. It has tarried with her, but,
when it comes to her, it will be all her life.
If she marries. Sir Edmund, she will love her
husband. She is an honest woman ; — she is
more, she is a good woman ; — and no other
man will exist for her."

Lady Shortlands paused, perplexed again :
she was trying to remember what she had
said to Sir Edmund, and what not; and the
effort was dreadful to see. She repeated, as if
looking for a clue: *' If she does marry you,
no other man will exist for her." Then, taking

up the thread of what the words seemed to
suggest, she went on with the complete consciousness
that it was to Sir Edmund she was
talking: ''I see you are afraid she does not
love you yet ? "

It was a difficult question to answer, but Sir
Edmund had foregathered what was coming,
and, after all, it was the dear wish of his
heart which she was approaching thus. Who
shall blame him that he took the hand Lady
Shortlands had stretched out to him, in her
excitement, and whispered ? —

What I say is, how can she love me ever f
I am insignificant, but just for this world's
goods — and these she holds of small account
I think — and I am ill."

'take heart!" said the old lady, — her face
radiant under the impression that she had
achieved all this — " I may assure you, dear
Sir Edmund, that my niece is not indifferent
to you : ' I think him delightful ' she said tome

this morning. I questioned her, and you
know you may trust me for the truth of what
she answered, If not for the actual words —
and dear friend, I wish it ; it Is my great wish
now. . Be assured that you shall have my
good word," she concluded, as If giving him
a formal dismissal after receiving his proposal
for Eugenia's hand.

** You are very good," said Sir Edmund,
impelled to speak now, lest she should ever
recall what she had said, and how she had
elicited his speech. '' You are very good,
dear Lady Shortlands : you have Induced,
me to confide to you the chief desire of my
life. If there be any beauty or virtue in the
world. Miss Brand is beautiful and virtuous ;
if there be any true love in the world, it is
here in my heart."

For all that she had wounded him, against
her will, Sir Edmund felt that he could speak
more freely to Lady Shortlands, as a tottering

wreck, than he could do when she was fenced
about with her wonted artifice ; but the simple
earnestness with which he now addressed
her had the unexpected effect of recalling
her to entire command over her faculties, for
the moment.

'' Softly, softly — fair and softly ! " she said
with an arch smile more pitiful to behold
than her previous genuine emotion, '' I do
not think that I must listen yet, to this.
Remember you have hardly seen my niece,
remember too how many claims she has !
Be patient, my good friend — I have surely
said as much as you could hope, when I said
What did I say ? He has sixt — no ! not
that. You have my good word with her, and
I will not defer speaking to her beyond tomorrow.
Can I say more than that at present
? I think not. Indeed it is in great
part for your mother's sake that I say thus
much. I knew Lady Jane slightly. See,

Eugenia has brought me Vane — a charlatan
but so amusing — not a word to-night, I beg,
not a word ! Ah ! Vane, you will give me
your arm, I want to get out of this whirl.
So many ^ bare-backed steeds ' — yes ! I always
say a roomful of women In evening dress is
like a pork-butcher's shop — why does that
man look at me ? Your doctor, Sir Edmund ?
Ah, well ! many doctors have told me they
cannot believe I am past sixty — past sixty ?
. . . he has sixty — . . . . No! . . . Your arm,
Mr. Vane. Watching this waltz has made me
quite giddy — Eugenia, where is my pocket 1
that woman has forgotten my salts — go upstairs
for them, child, and bring them to mein
the library : Sir Edmund will wait for you
here."

Lady Shortlands wandered along the corridor,
leaning heavily upon Vane's arm ; while
Sir Edmund and Eugenia stood for a moment,
face to face, in a pause which to them was

none the less silence because of the noisy-music.
Then Eugenia turned and went upstairs
for Lady Shortlands' scent-bottle, Sir
Edmund standing still in the hall.

The grand staircase at Ashbank, magnificent
as its effect was, had a disadvantage for use
when the hall was filled with guests ; because
by keeping you entirely in their view it made
you most conspicuous, if you went up or down.
Had this occurred to Eugenia, she would
have gone along the corridor, with her aunt,
and up a back stairway ; but, from her utter
want of all self-consciousness, it did not occur
to her, and as her room, we know, was straight
upon the grand staircase, she had never used
any other and was hardly acquainted with
the windings of the big house. Sir Edmund
watched her, as she went up, and his kind
face was so troubled that she could not resist
giving him a grateful glance, which added
a fresh beauty to her features. Buck Jarvis,

panting from the waltz, in the hall, where he
was taking his first spell of rest with a Hampshire
hoyden great across country — whose
face and whose dimpled elbows were about
equally expressive — caught sight of her, at
that moment, and became inattentive to his
partner's charms.

He had seen Eugenia, now and again, in
the course of the afternoon, but only for a
moment at a time, and her manner had provoked
him. He had determined that the
evening should make good the ground he
seemed to have lost during the day. Once or
twice indeed Eugenia had positively shunned
him and a less thick-skinned man mio^ht
have dreaded that he had given her offence,
but Lieutenant Arthur John Jarvis could
not conceive that he was disagreeable to any
woman, and he was not so far afield as might
have been expected when he concluded that
her keeping away from him did not mean

aversion. He did not feel displeased that
she had done so. But this was the first
moment in which he felt that he wished herat
least to keep away from others also. He
realised with a sudden spin — for all this hero's
knowledge came to him in shocks, which
forced an entrance to a brain that never
reasoned — that he was actively jealous over
Eugenia, that — while he had not the least
intention of letting her know it — he was maddened
that she should smile like that when
her eyes were not meeting his. He wanted
her, with that possessive want which craves
every look. If this selfish passion of youth
be any way akin to being In love, let us give
him the benefit of wide terms, and say that
when he saw her going upstairs and smiling
down upon Sir Edmund, as he waited for her
below, he began to be aware that he was in
love with her himself

He fidgeted and bit his thick short moustache,

his senses were sharpened and he
even heard what was being said behind him
by some fellow-officers — he was usually as
obtuse as a wall.

That's the girl for me ! " said one ; " about
as good as they make 'em, eh ? Who is
she?"

** Don't know," was the reply. '' Nobody
here seems able to introduce a fellow to her ;
looks like bespoken property."

"Well! she's not the sort that's left on 'the
shelf — who's ? "

'' Sir Edmund Trefusis — chap on the stairs
lucky devil ! "

** Is that Trefusis ? What, the man with the
house in Grosvenor Square ? "

*' That's him, my boy, you didn't expect
him to carry his house on his back like a
snail, did you ? "

'' I thought Sir Edmund was a cripple."

"Well, he don't dance: he hasn't got a

VOL. I. X

hump, you know : money-bags a little too
heavy perhaps, that's about the size of it.
By George, I wish / was crippled in that
way."

** They look the cream of the lot here, anyway.
Safe to be settled."

Buck was indignant : he shifted his place, ashe
stood, and fidgeted more and more, until
his dimpled partner thought that he was
thirsting for the dance. '* I am quite rested
now," she said, but Buck literally did not
hear her ; and on looking up at him — for she
was about five feet high — she found she was
speaking to his blank ribbed shoulder, and
she had to wait at least a minute before he
put his arm round her waist again, with scant
ceremony, and piloted her off without a
word.

What a chopping sea it was when you were
fairly launched ! quick-sighted as Buck was,
it took him all his wits to steer ; for he was

not a graceful dancer, though he was so
sound and strong. Swimmers and sailors,
floaters and floundered, on they all went.
Lady Sophia and the fat Colonel, Crossley
and May, Chatteris and a raw young female
a Scotch cousin. Distant-mannered ladles
in long dresses, free and easy ladies in short
ones — slim men with one shirt-stud, broad
men with three — llo^ht hair and dark hair —
dyed head and bald head — red face and
pale face — couples pausing, couples starting —
fresh arrivals and scudding wall-flowers, and
through all the swirl and storm of it, ' the
dimples' must be anchored safe in harbour.

When the haven was reached at last, and
he bent his curly head to catch his partner's
breathless comment — for she had been very
happy on his broad shoulder — he found that
they were at the bottom of the great staircase,
and that Eugenia was waiting to pass
them, with Sir Edmund. How crumpled

and virginal she looked against poor blowsy
dimples,' how white and cool her marble arm
lay on Sir Edmund's sleeve ! *' Let us take
this to Aunt Agatha at once' she was saying,
and Buck did not know that she only spoke
at all from nervousness, because she knew that
he was near. Her voice sounded fresh and
high.

"And you will keep those lancers for me,"
said Sir Edmund, '' or do you want to dance
them with a harlequin ?"

'' I had rather dance them with you than
with any one ; " she answered sincerely : she
was afraid he was alluding again to his lameness.
Just as she was speaking, the music
stopped with a bang, so that Buck heard
distinctly what she said, and he could not
know that It would have been impossible for
her to have said those words to him. He had
soon handed the unfortunate ' dimples ' over
to her mother, who chanced to be sitting in

the protection of the balusters, and then —
settling his chin over his stiff collar with
something very like an oath, he walked up to
Sir Edmund and Eugenia.

"Aren't you going to dance?" he said at
once, ignoring Sir Edmund's presence.

** Oh yes," she answered, not daring to look
at him, and with a feeling that the blood had
stopped about her heart. Then she held out
to him a card that some one had given her ;
it was empty. •

Pleasure of the next waltz with you ? " he
said, in a manner meant to be fine, but in effect
rather common.

I will be back directly," she said, but she
did not stop. She left him the card while she
went on with Sir Edmund to her aunt ; but
when she eave it to him his hand touched
hers for an instant, and when she laid it on
Sir Edmund's arm again, he noticed that she
trembled.

*' Do not be alarmed about Lady Short-lands,"
he said, attributing her agitation to
concern : '* Burroughes says that what she
mzis^ have Is quiet, and she will get that best
in the library with Vane. But he says also
that he is sure her state Is critical, that there
must be some brain-congestion, and he dreads
lest any excitement should produce a sort of
apoplectic seizure, which might result in paralysis
: that Is what we have to fear. Has she
ever suffered in that way ? "

I believe she has had occasional violent
headaches," said Eugenia : '' I recollect her
having one last year, and she may have had
them frequently before we came to Short-lands."


She was attending to Sir Edmund with an
effort. She found herself longing to ask him,
"what it was like to be in love ?" She was
aware that her aunt s health ought to be her
first consideration, but she could not help it

that It was not ; and she brought herself back
to the subject with a wrench.

Nor did there seem, at the moment, to be
any real grounds for alarm. They found
Lady Shortlands comfortably seated in the
ante-room of the library, which was less disarranged
than the other rooms, having been
left for the use of letter-writers who had
occupied it till the stroke of the dressing-bell.
Vane was there too, In rapt attendance upon
her, listening to some story of old times
which she could hardly tell for laughing, and
which she was obliged to stop short altogether
when Eugenia joined them.

I can't tell you the rest of It before the
creature," she said ; *' Eugenia, you lose a great
deal of wit by being an old maid ! "

Her manner had been consistently gentler
to her niece, since their interview of the morning,
but although she spoke kindly, her language
made Sir Edmund feel embarrassed ; and, as it

was evident that Lady Shortlands wanted nothing
more than to see them together, he said,
'' Let us go into the Library, if your waltz does
not commence this instant — they are playing a
polka now. It will be such a relief to escape
those Chinese lanterns."

They turned into the vast silent room, which
was separated from Lady Shortlands' audience-chamber
by an oriental curtain. It was lit only
by its own lamps and wore a studious look.

They were quite alone, the sound of the
polka reaching them from afar off, mellowed
by the distance and the heavy curtains that
hung over the doors. Nor did Eugenia feel
in the least that she was at a ball herself. It
seemed to her as if she were assisting at a
school-treat or a children's party. Although
she had been made a little anxious by that
anxiety of Sir Edmund's, on her aunt's behalf,
which as yet she could hardly be said to share,
she was otherwise in her usual mood. She had

changed her gown and passed through a crowd
of dancers, that was all. Her breathing was
still slow and even, and not a fern upon her
dress was disarranged. She had got over the
first moment of seeing Buck, which she had
dreaded, and she was calm and impassive asa
statue.

Not so Sir Edmund. He never went out
to dances, and all this noise and movement
was, In Itself, something unusual and exciting
for him. He had, moreover, just endured. the
painful scene with Lady Shortlands of which
we know, after the day-long strain of his fears
for her safety. To crown it all, he was under
the impression that the evening was to be a
crisis in his life ; and he was In the presence
of the woman whom he loved.

It was little wonder therefore that Sir
Edmund was at his worst. His ordinary
susceptibilities were greatly increased and
he was deeply agitated. The two were at

quite opposite poles of feeling — extreme cool
and extreme heat.

I want to speak to you," he said, at last.

*' I hope," Eugenia replied, noticing his distress,
" that you will not trouble yourself too
much, about Aunt Agatha. You will upset
your own health."

It is not about Lady Shortlands that I
wish to speak " — he said.

Eugenia waited to hear, but he did not goon
directly with his sentence.

Who gave you those ferns ? '' he began
again rather impetuously.

Eugenia looked at him ; she was not used
to such questions, but there was a gravity in
his expression that prevented her anger.

^' James Chatteris," she answered, in the
tone that one might use to a feverish child.

'' He is in love with you, too, I suppose," he
said, but his impatience dropped from him.

Had Eugenia been like other women she

would perhaps have asked Sir Edmund what
he meant by the adverb. But she was too
honest to do so and therefore she said
nothing. She only sat still, hoping that he
was not going to tell her that he loved her.

He went on. ** They are very beautiful,
which you know — and you are very beautiful,
which I suppose you know also ; every one
who sees you tells you so. . . . Tell me if
any one has ever told you so before?" He
scarcely knew what he said, but her self-possession
hurt him.

No one," said Eugenia, slowly rather than
coldly : she was pondering but not perplexed.

*' If I could indeed be sure of that," he
said. . . . *' then I might dare "

Eugenia moved away from him a little, ashe
bent closer : all the while it was herself,
and not Sir Edmund that she blamed.

How is it," she wondered, '' that I do not
feel more moved by what moves him so

deeply ? " Indeed he seemed to have lost
the power of speech and to be trying difficultly
to articulate words which would not
come to his lips.

Not knowing quite what she should do,
she did what ought best to have helped him
to speak ; she took up a book from a table at
her elbow, and turned its leaves abstractedly.
It was not even an English book, and, had It
not been already familiar to her, she would
not have gleaned the slightest sense from Its
contents by looking into it so ; but It was an
odd volume of Moliere, and she had chanced
upon the fifth act of the '* Femmes savantes."
She had been used to recite some tirades from
the comedy with her governess, abroad. It
could not be said that she was reading, but
the words before her eyes started to life in
her memory.

"Ah! yes. Don't look at me," said Sir
Edmund, " I want to speak but your

eyes have looked pity on me, from the first
moment. Look at your book — but listen."

He paused for an instant. Eugenia did not
look at him, she looked at her book, and she
read :

Si Von aimaif, Monsieur, par choix et par sages se
Vous auriez tout mon ca^ur, et toute via tendresse:
Mais on voit que H amour se go uv erne autrement,
^^ Laissez moi^je vous price, d- mon aveuglemeTit."

It was exactly what she wanted to say to
Sir Edmund : there was her answer written
out before her, in super-excellent French verse.
She had only to wait until he had spoken and
then push the book towards him, and show
him the passage. He would surely understand.
Even the music was hushed now —
his moment was come !

Just then the curtain was pushed roughly
back, and Eugenia shut-to the book, with
a surprised gesture, as Mr. Arthur John Jarvis
swung into the room.

'' This Is our waltz," he said rudely, still
quite ignoring Sir Edmund's presence. '' I
have been looking for you everywhere."

He stood holding back the curtain, as he
spoke. Eugenia murmured a word of apology,
half to him and half to Sir Edmund.

But Sir Edmund's chance was gone : she
was fain to leave the room with her partner.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY KAI.I.ANTYNE. HANSON AND CO.
EDINBURGH AND LONDON.

r

V

^-<^

i .'

•-^\

Euo

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS

82.2.
V.2

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

AUG 5 198)

JAN 1 8 m
NOV 1 3

I L161— 0-1096

AN EPISODE.

BY

WILLIAM MONEY HARDINGE,

AUTHOR OF "CLIFFORD GRAY."

Glory to God— to God," he saith,
Knowledge by suffering entered,
And Life is perfected— in Death ! "

E. B. Browning.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON:
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLAGE.

1883.

[A// rights reserved. ^

Walt Whitman.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

Book tee conti.
LOVE, THE CROSS.— continued.

CHAP. PAGE

III. Mortal 3

IV. Aspect 55

V. Retrospect io

VI. Immortal 173

VII. Womanly 240

LOVE, THE CROSS.
{Contimied.^

VOL. 11. A

How thick the bursts come crowding

through the leaves !
Again, thou hearest ?
Eternal passion
Eternal pain."

Matthew Arnold.

CHAPTER III.

MORTAL.

It was a waltz of Waldteufel's that the band
was playing now — '* Chantilly " — with a solemn
refrain like a hymn, passionate yet self-restrained
as only dance music — music that hasa
*' 7nust " in it — can be. It was some weeks too
since Eugenia had danced and she had In nowise
fatigued herself during the day. The
slight anxiety that was upon her seemed nothing
serious or grounded when she reasoned
about it to herself, and chance had just postponed
for her a declaration which she rather
dreaded. So that perhaps she had never been

in a more perfectly shaded mood for a dancing
partner, be he who he might, and this dance
she was dancing with the man she loved.

The statement that already, well within a
century of hours, our glorious Eugenia was in
love with this young fellow '' of the baser sortis
not the less likely because it is surprising,
nor indeed, in most cases, is anything more
probable than improbability. Ere she is
floating round the room in his embrace, let
us try and review the causes of her ecstasy.

When we do love — we Carruthers " — Lady
Shortlands had said, ** we love with our whole
behoof : it is like a madness . . . Eugenia is
a true Carruthers ; " and the conclusion from
these premises must seem to be, that there
would be no reason in Eugenia's love. Todo
Lady Shortlands justice, she would never
have Insisted on her interview with Sir Edmund
had she been aware that "the curse
had come upon " her niece already.

What had happened may be best explained
by metaphor upon this wise. Eugenia's heart
was like a temple, full of blessing and prayers ;
with noble impulses that spent themselves in
noble ways — an army of acolytes — but with an
unlit altar that stood before a shrine still veiled.
On this altar the fuel had long lain cold, waiting
for a spark to kindle it : and Eugenia dreamed
that the fire must fall from heaven.

And, to be just, it is always from heaven that
this kindling falls. Love is the awakening in
our hearts of that self-consuming flame which
is our breath of the divine : but the shrine before
which we burn — whether it be pure or vile
the idol's feet round which the clear flame
licks in sacrifice — whether they be gold or clay
that is partly our own wilfulness, be it allowed,
and partly fate's.

No doubt it had been poor Sir Edmund
whose words — and his manner far more than
his words — had first unlocked to Eugenia's

consciousness this inner chamber of the heart.
No doubt it was self-questioning on his behalf,
prompted by Lady Shortlands' probe,
that had made her feel the presence of this
sacred altar, and this most sacred sacrifice of
self upon the altar. But Eugenia was a woman,
not a slave, she would be a priestess, not a
Maenad, and her soul, surprised, looked for the
shrine to be unveiled, " waiting in the midst of
the temple." We know how she had pondered,
during the searching strains of Anne's various
music, and what it had asked her, when she
first felt lit within her this flame, that always
burns our best, while the veil was still drawn
before the idol : '' Is it he that should come ? "
she had questioned reverently, and almost with
the voice of faith, "or do we look for another."
But she had learned that Sir Edmund was
not indeed the master of the holy place, feeling
perhaps — if the phrase be not a strain upon
the metaphor — that the flame had died before

him as round marble, when she would fain
have set his image in the shrine.

Then of a sudden, when she was so thrilled
with music, that it was as if the procession-march
were sounding in her heart — only a German
war-song, maybe, but translated to her
listening soul by every fibre strained like
temple harp-strings — , when the flame was
fanned to such a glow that she could see
by it, the veil was rent and her eyes had
filled the shrine. She had looked up and
seen Buck, standing by her, beneath-the
cedars — manly, masterful, passionate, real.
The flames had felt a metal they could heat,
responsive if not golden, the molten image
was in the sanctuary once and for ever — for
the worship and the passion is in the flame
upon the altar and the fuel that feeds it, not
in the shrine it lights or the idol it glorifies —
and had she spoken with the voice of her
heart, Eugenia must have said, '' Mine eyes

have seen the king in his beauty." Passion
deified and Love transfigured him, though he
was only the leaden likeness of a man, with less
of the true god's gold in him than any of his
neighbours.

But the metaphor sounds over-strained — it
is the metaphor of religion not of love. What
shall we say ? Sir Edmund's words had acted
like Puck's love-philtre upon Titania : —

What thou seest ivhen thou dost 7vakcy
Do it for thy true love take ! "

That is nearer : But then Eugenia was not an
unsubstantial fairy, but a woman.

Perhaps, to drop metaphor, and to try illustration
by the more rational means of comparison,
it may be said that Eugenia, whose
nature had in it much of the honesty and
singleheartedness that marks the women of
Shakespeare — something of Imogen, something
of Portia — loved Buck as Rosalind first

loved Orlando when he stood before her In
his wrestling strength, and she — true woman
as she was — would fain have stayed the wrestling.


How soon this love of Rosalind's leaped into
life and upon what slight warrant !

The Hi tie strength that I have I would it were with you.'''
she says, even before Orlando has proved his
valiance, and afterwards, with such confession
and such a rooted love as must say some plain
word — not from forwardness but just to leave
no question of allegiance : —

Sir, you have wrestled well, and overthrown
More than your enemies I "

One falls to wondering if It would in the least
have mattered, had Orlando been beaten in
that wrestling — would Rosalind have loved
him less ? I think not ; he was not much of a
man, remember, this Orlando. He was kindly
to his servant and he "spoiled the trees"

with his verses : but that was in another
country and another age. Now-a-days he
would have idled at his club and tipped the
waiter. He has no one immortal utterance
like his Rosalind's own sigh :

These burs are in tny heart I "

or other utterances tenderer, wherein the heart
so magically speaks that time seems to standstill
when we see them in cold print before us.
If his Rosalind had died, he would have pinned
a sonnet over her grave ; he would never have
swooned at sight of her blood, else he could not
have sent that kerchief dyed with his own, even
to his *• counterfeit mistress."

Eugenia was like Rosalind — kind Rosalind,
forgive us ! — only the present is not all like
the past, nor Ashbank quite Ardennes. One
afternoon she had spoiled a scarf, for the sake
of a young man in flannels — and been scolded
for it. If she had been a stage heroine, she

would have taken off her necklace instead,
after the tennis-match — that is to say, the
wrestling — and, though her uncle would have
banished her, no one in her audience would
have blamed her for doing it. Yes : Rosalind's
love held much of the same service, that
Eugenia gave.

That word '' service T Surely after all, for
woman as for man, the truest love of all is the
love that loves with service, be there prize or
no. To rise up straight before the master,
that is love. And the service, in its use, and
the opportunities of the service, with these
Time may perhaps have something to do, but
the true love's birth is the work of a morning,
of an hour, of a moment, of a glance. Under
the cedars, of a summer's afternoon, it was not,
and it is I

To say that Mr. Arthur John Jarvis had any
notion how Eugenia's heart had leaped to life
before him, would be — to give him as fine a

simile as may be — to credit the sun with the
knowledge of his warmth and light upon the
bosom of the fertile land ; or — for an opposite
and truer image — to imagine that the central
fires know anything about the beauty they beget,
in forest, lawn and vale. He had not had
Eugenia's preparation, and he had not Eugenia's
spiritual sense, for any preparation that was
his to work upon. He had eaten and drunk a
great deal, and got some new clothes, and bade
goodbye to some barmaid, at Portsmouth :
and he had driven his friends over to Ashbank,
"as fit as fleas," in his own parlance, to eat
and drink a great deal more, and to air the
new clothes, and to make love to anything
pretty and accessible, of a better class than
barmaid, that came in their way. Eugenia's
beauty was of a sort that would have been
more likely to awe than to attract him, had it
not reached his intelligence — from something
of that charged magnetism which such a passion

as hers must convey — that her heart was
heavy with tender care for him, that he could
hurt or please her with his lightest word, that
as the world negatively puts it — she was
*not indifferent to his society."

To most men, this consciousness of a good
woman's whole solicitude would have been,
in itself, a responsibility; but in this case, it
told for Mr. Arthur Jarvis that he should
be made of a coarser fibre than the common.
The knowledge only rendered him more
masterful. He wanted to test his 9wn
power, and meanwhile to share his prize
with none. There was only one disqualification
on his part, of which he was aware, in
respect of Eugenia, and this he irritably
expressed in the terms *that he wasn't a
Lord or a Sir" (with adjectives), but his social
inferiority made him, not the less — but the
more — exacting and insolent in his demands.

His mental attitude, during the dance, might

be put thus, in phraseology also all his own,
(and with adjectives) " I'll show these swells."
He was braced to exhibit his strength ; prepared
to relax into enjoyment of his triumph,
by and bye, if he should be alone with Eugenia ;
for tenderness was a commonplace to a man
of Buck's habits — but, for the moment, bent on
flaunting it in the eye of the world : while she,
feeling though she did, in her heart of hearts,
that she wanted only, with him, the quiet of
their fountain-side and the blessing of that
starry night, was in her turn determined to
seem at ease, and held her noble head erect
and high.

Hitherto, the waltz had meant little or
nothing to Eugenia. There had been men
with whom she disliked to dance, because
she disliked the men, others whose step had
pleased her. She could not afford enough
ball-dresses for romping, and she had not
been out one half as much as many girls

some years her juniors. When she did go,
the homage that her beauty invariably attracted
had rather bored her than otherwise.
To her healthful and untroubled senses, it had
perhaps never occurred that the waltz was an
embrace, prolonged in luxurious motion, and
that the hand and the breath of a partner were
the hand and the breath of a potential lover.
But to-night, in this new phase of feeling
that flooded all her life like light, the sudden
thought that her beloved's arm must be about
her, and her hand in his, that her heart must
beat so near to his that his eyes could mark
its trouble, was like the revelation to her of a
danger which she hardly dared to run. Were
it not for this pride that stayed her, she would
have refused to dance at the last moment ;
and indeed, as she took his arm, she felt that
she could trust herself to no further movement,
without his guidance.

They passed along the corridor, quickly and

without speaking ; with each step the elasticity
of Buck's walk became more electric, and as
they came into the lit hall, just as the hymn-like
notes of the refrain were swelling on the
air, he passed his right arm round her waist
and took her hand, drawing breath as he did
so.

If it be possible to faint away and still keep
colour and motion, Eugenia was in such a
trance, during those first bars, while Buck and
she adapted their steps to each other. But as
they danced, her long and lovely slide taking
its limit from his — and after all, if you are
sound in wind and limb, you may get to dance
as well in Clifton as in Canada — the glow of
the exercise and the warmth of his grasp
revived her into an enjoyment which awakened
every nerve. There was not a turn In the
dance, not a chord In the music, that did not
seem to bring them closer together, to acquaint
them with each other more and more. She

felt, as he did — "with a difference" — that the
eyes of the room were upon her: she would
not droops upon his shoulder, closely as he drew
her to him ; and her resistance added a charm
to her movement and a vigour to his hold.
Her thought was *'if it might go on for ever!
if it need never end " — she dreaded stopping,
she would have to speak ; while his was just
about as much as this : *' We can dance like one
o'clock, and we'll show 'em how to step it."

** Unbearable of him ? " Oh yes ! but then
he was unbearable ; so " unbearable " that she
full heart which leaned on his, went nigh to
breaking from the mere oppression of his presence.
The only thing more " unbearable "
than this, would be the parting from him.

They danced on, as the floor filled — for

the guests had come in, fast and furious,

during those brief spaces of Eugenia's absence

from the scene — not stopping their motion

but retrenching or relaxing it, as the space
VOL. n. B

was less or more, two sanguine beings, facing
fatigue as they might face the world and all
its odds together, a beautiful pair not conscious
of their beauty, not conscious of themselves,
conscious only of each other. Each lived, for
those minutes, only in the other's life.

At last, as the circling brought her a slight
giddiness, and she could not but feel that her
resistance would relax into too complete abandonment,
Eugenia began, in her trance, to
see sudden visions ; each whirl showed her a
fresh picture — the temple-steps in the summer
rain, the cedar garden in the August sun, the
stretch of meadow fields at Shortlands, the sea-line
of Sussex, the King's Forest at Pisa ; — and
this young soldier in them all, and this delight.
This was what she had missed ! . . . She bowed
her head as the music increased in power, and
the tune became like a great thanksgiving of
choral joy, then it changed and hurried —
Bang ! Bang ! Bang !

^9

*stop," she said, not breathlessly but as one
speaks in sleep, while, as Buck swung her from
the slackening circle, she felt for one instant
that the embrace was an embrace indeed,
and then — then the waltz drew breath, and
they leaned against the stairway for support.

Buck was more 'blown" than Eugenia:
and he did not speak at first, lest she should
notice it : but he looked at her, and showed
his square white teeth in a jolly smile ; and
she looked back at him, unwitting of the
radiant longing in her glance — looked at him,
he could not fail to feel, with indescribable
affection, her eyes resting even on the slight
glisten of the heat-drops on his sunburnt
temples, by his thick curly hair.

"You are hot," she said, 'you have been
dancing before — don't tire yourself." — It was
with the same feeling towards care of him,
which had prompted her to keep him from
the rain in the garden.

"Not I ! " said Buck, In the same tone with
which he had answered there ; he did not
think of //^r in return : nor was there need,
she could hardly have said that if she was
tired or warm, she felt disembodied. Was it
over indeed ?

Not yet: after the pauses and the crashing
chords, a last magical burst warned them that
the end was approaching now. Without a
word he stole his arm about her waist again,
and drew her towards him — no resistance now.
Then one more course along the room, a few
more hastening — slackening — whirls ; a blare
of brass, a sense of shock, like an awakening,
which was only silence ; and they were streaming
out with the crowd, through the drawing-rooms,
on to the terraces which overlooked a
fairy scene of the enchanted garden-sward.

The bonds were broken : they were out of
sight : what would he say ? what would he
do ? He gave a sort of gulp — a laugh —

caught his breath hard, and said, "At least
that beggar Trefusis couldn't have swung you
round like that ! '*

In the dewy night — so wonderful, with its
clear vault of astonished blue, against which
the lanterns shone, like glow-worms, from the
trees ; only changed, now and then, to sullen
nearness of dark space, as the rockets and
fireworks shot up at intervals from the shore
and quenched the stars — Eugenia felt, despite
the tenderness that overmastered all her
thoughts, as if, for once in her life, she cotild
speak to him clearly, unless the tears should
stop her. They had been so near together,
their very breath of life had seemed but one,
could she not now say something of her say,
though it would take eternity to say it all ?

I wish," she said, as they prepared to pace
the paths all checked with shadowy light, " that
you would not say things like that ; I wish you
would not even think them ! "

His look was not so much surprised as
dogged : people had found fault with him, before,
for want of feeling — but never in this
tender way, as if his hardness bruised them.

'* Well," he said ■ — and though she should
have hated what he answered, the roughness
of his boyish voice was very winning : — '' I call
it a rotten thing, that a shuffler like that should
make up to yo7i, and everybody push it on."

'there are few people like Sir Edmund ;"
said Eugenia conscientiously.

"And thank my God for that," said Buck.

Eugenia lifted up her lovely eyes towards the
infinite spaces of the night, and her heart too
thanked God ; — not indeed because there were
so few Sir Edmund, rather because there
was only one Buck. That worthy gazed his
fill upon her upturned face, and, as she lowered
her head, she caught his glance and smiled.
A mother might have smiled some such a
smile, on her admiring son.

But not quite such a smile ; for its beauty
made him press her arm against his side as no
son would have pressed his mother s arm, and
his voice was hoarser as, still looking full into
her face, he said, " Let's go into some quiet
place ; away from all these people," — he had
first well assured himself that every one had
seen him with Miss Brand, in their tour of
the lamp-lit terrace. — '* Let's go back to that
summer-house," he said.

The 'summer-house" was Mrs. Tomlinson's
little Greek temple, where they had sheltered
from the rain. 'shall we?" said Eugenia;
yes, if we can find our way."

They were each aware of a different pride
in linking themselves by that one pronoun :
their wish at all events, was one — to be away
from all the world beside.

At the end of the terrace was a flight of
steps, leading, through shrubberies, to the
near end of that cypress alley, which they had

reached before from the cedar lawn. The
gardens, on this side, were less brilliantly
illuminated, for the household offices lay In
this direction, and a big tent — unsightly but
convenient — was set up here as a supper-room
for the two bands ; some women-servants were
lingering round it, as they passed. It was the
wrong side of the scene, but still the summer
sky was over all and it was all alike an
enchanted garden. While they were standing
on the steps, Eugenia's grey-green dress dissolved
her Into the shadow of a statue, but
Buck's dark clothes made him the more blackly
visible against It; and, seeing him, some others of
the White Highlanders ran out from the shadow
of the trees, where they were evidently romping
after their manner — engaged, as a matter
of fact, in pelting each other with the small oil-lamps
which hung in strings from the boughs.

'' Hallo, Buck, you sawney ! " they called
out.

Hold your noise," said Buck rudely, rather
fearful what they might say next.

"Hallo!" (a rather sheepish ** hallo" this
time). *' We thought you were alone."

'' I'm not alone then," he replied with a
grand air '' — see you before you go." And
he marched down the steps with Eugenia,
who could not have explained why she did
not send him after them at once. As it was,
she said nothing.

At the bottom of the steps, they found themselves
alone. Looking back, they could "Seethe
other guests upon the terraces, moving like
flies on a white window-sill. Here below, their
surroundings looked larger and more real : but
the laurels seemed asleep, and a veil of gossamer
was laid in dew across the flower-beds,
pale beneath moon and stars. The marble
temple glimmered, like a ghost, beyond.

They went down to it ; and to their surprise,
they found that it was open and had shared

the transformation of the terraces. It had
been cleared of gardeners' implements, though
the earthy smell still clung to it a little. Its
doors were set wide open, some rugs and easy-chairs
had been placed within it, hiding the
stone floor ; it was lit with rose-glazed lamps,
and in its centre, a perfume-fountain was tinkling
and trickling into an old Greek vase,
banked by a mass of flowers.

The walls were thick, like the walls of a
vault ; and as they entered, as if under a spell
of silence, the doors closed-to behind them, —
Buck having kicked away some Turkish mat
that kept them open, only half by accident.
They were heavy doors, and swung together
with a clang, the pillars echoing the sound.
High up, near the roof, there were oblong
spaces fitted with glass, which did duty for
windows, and through these, the deep blue
of the sky was visible, spangled with stars.
The pane of one was pushed aside ; and the

warm air blew in, with a light whisper, and
stirred the fountain and the flowers. All else
was still. It was like some little chamber in
an Arabian Night's story.

To Eugenia it seemed as if she had bodily-entered
that inner temple of the heart, which
she had lately grown to know. She sat down,
in utter content, surrendering herself to the
impression of fatality that was upon her. '' Let
come what may ! " she thought.

Buck was restless : he was a boy after all,
despite his passions, and was astonished into
exclamations that made her feel he was more
at his ease with her than he had been.

By George ! " he said, " rather gassy, these
flowers, you know. And the scent, eau de
cologne ; by gad ! they're going it ; give me
your pocket handkerchief ! "

She did so : he dipped it clumsily into the
fountain and then wrung it out and gave it
her. It was not east de cologne, but some

much Stronger essence in which he had
steeped it — '* chypre " or '' stephanotis'*

Horrible ! " said Eugenia, when she had
smelt it, *' I cannot endure scents."

Buck looked mortified, as she gave him her
handkerchief again to air.

*' E. B.," he said with a laugh ; " it's got both
our initials on — * Eugenia ' — * Buck : ' — rather
nice, eh ? " Then he took her fan which had
been lying with her handkerchief upon her lap,
and began to fan her, spreading the handkerchief
on the Greek vase to dry, and leaning against it.

As she too leaned forward, to meet the current
of the air he fanned, his quick eyes looking
down upon her beauty, saw the leaves of a poor
tumbled cabbage-rosebud in the lace trimming
of her dress, near the left shoulder.

I don't think much of your flowers," he
said in an altered voice, laughing no longer.

** I have no flowers on, you mean," said
Eugenia smiling—she had forgotten in the

presence of the giver, that she had placed
his rosebud near her heart — '' but this bracken
is beautiful," she added, feeling herself bolder,
** although you may not think so."

''Oh! I know that," said Buck, "the ferns
ain't bad : tasty and all the rest of it. I'm upto
that. I know when a thing's tasty, as well
as any other chap — though I'm not lame, — but
I mean the rosebud you've got there."

She followed his hand, with her eyes ; and
saw the releases showing in her tucker. She
turned hot and then cold, she was confused
into a stupid silence.

** I suppose you let him give it you," he said,
*' that looks as if you understood each other
pretty well ; " — and then, beside himself with
anger, he shut the fan with a snap, and threw
it on her lap again. '' I think," he said brutally,
** that, when you let a chap give you a rotten
flower —-just the sort of thing a seedy, sneaking
chap like that would do, instead of saying

something open — you ought, at least, to fire
up a bit, when you hear another chap — that
is a chap — abuse him ; and not lead the other
chap on till he's almost out of his mind, and
thinking all the time that perhaps you didn't
hate the sight of him, when I suppose you do.
It's just like a woman," he went on, forgetting
himself altogether, " and a damned flirt into the
bargain ! "

Eugenia started as if he had stung her ; and
the walls went round before her ; but there was
a smile waiting under her pride.

Oh ! hush : " she said, putting her hand
gently to the releases, '* Sir Edmund did
not give me this flower." She hesitated, and
then, with a burning flush of shame, the smile
came like a glory. '' You threw it me, yourself"
she said, 'this morning''

She tried to look at him, but she could not ;
she tried to hide her face but her hands were
powerless ; she tried to get up out of the low

chair into which she had sunk, but her limbs refused
their office ; and he was bending over her,
as one bends over a rose, to draw its heart
out with one's breath : he had found her
secret ; her secret ? was it not his ? Whatever
depth of feeling, whatever fervour of young
blood was in him, her words had stirred ; his
full lips grew dry, his ears and temples red,
his trembling hand sought hers — "• Do you
care for me ? " he said, in a rough low tone :
'' do you love me ?"

Now that the moment was come, that he too
had plunged into the lava-tide which was steeping
all her senses — that they were both in the
same wave — she felt, to her own amazement,
that she could speak in resolute clear words,
though her voice sounded like another's voice :

*' Oh ! I think so," she said gently, " I think
I love you."

He bent down before her on his knees, he
would not have her rise : he clasped his strong

young arms about her, and drew her forward,
and with his lips he kissed her shoulder on the
place where the releases lay. As he kissed
her, her cheek was on his brow, she felt his
thick cropped hair brushing her lips, her head
drooped upon his : *' My love," she said in her
own voice at last, but with a break in it, ''my
love ! "

Her tone made him ashamed, he did not
want her to speak ; he raised his head quickly,
and tightening his grasp of her, he laid his
mouth to hers. If it could speak no spoken
language but his own — and scarcely that — it
spoke love's silent language eloquently well.

Perhaps with the exception of her mother's
pure 'good night," and Lady Shortlands'
occasional butterfly touch, no kiss had rested
on Eugenia's lips, since she was full grown,
and had done with her girl-friends' admiring
and affectionate salutes. No man had ever
kissed her; and she was one of those rare

women to whom a kiss is the consecration, if
not of a man's whole self, at least of all that it
is theirs to give. In that first kiss, she gave her
lover all herself; and his mouth had sufficient
fervour to make her believe that there was
nothing of himself he did not give, for he had
not kissed only his mother — and he had no
sisters.

To describe what Eugenia went through
would be to no purpose : most students of
her record are doubtless far too well acclimatised
to such experiences to be able to
understand it. She felt that her whole life
was in the kiss : body and soul beat there.
And Buck was living in that moment too ;
but then Buck could give himself over andover
again, if he was generous, he was also
abundant. She could count the pulse in his
lips, which beat in great slow throbs to lose
itself in a flutter of coursing blood, and so

tremble back to calm. Her own lips were
VOL. n. c

growing dry and clung to his, but her eyes
were blind with tears : '' Oh," she said, 'love,
is it well that I should love you ? is it the
best?"

'' Best," he said with a sort of sob, a little
shifting his position, to be more at his ease, and
laying his curly head upon her shoulder, which
his rough cheek bruised almost to pain, "what
could be better than this ? Kiss me — kiss me
again ! " Once more she laid her lips to his.
** You are cold," he said impatiently, but her
eyes answered him. " Say something " — he
whispered at last, '' say you love me ! say you
don't let other fellows do this ?"

To Eugenia, in her single-hearted faith, the
question seemed as if it could not be asked in
earnest ; she was happy with a happiness to
which she had a better right than Juliet. *' No
man has ever kissed me," she said gently, a rose-leaf
flush staining her flower-soft cheeks anew.

By George," he said, feeling at last his

mastery, over her sense, to be complete ;
*' you've come to the right chap for it now'

Her blush changed itself a little, and she
shrank from him : but all the while she felt,
with her divine woman's instinct, What did
his words matter ? was he not hers ? was not
his imperfect speech her falling, now, as well
as his ?

'' Dear love," she said again, and then "poor
love!"

She did not know why she said " poor love,"
or why her eyes were wet ; she did not yet
know how full her love was of self-sacrifice
and pity. As for Buck, so long as his head
lay upon her shoulder, he did not much care
what she said ; his critical taste in speech was
not sharpened by this passionate joy ; his
senses were all molten into one — delight. . . .

Then of a sudden, as breath and words
failed them, like the voice of a bird against
their whispers — pure and true — a clear voice

broke the still and sultry air, singing, outside

the little temple in the balmy night, some

passionate French verse in a pleading minor

key. The lines were short and swift, and there

was a nonchalant ring in the Spanish music.

It was Anne Jefferies voice, and she sang — her

fine accent cutting the air, like the cool drip of

rain : —

Lair est embaiime^

La nuit est serene,

Apaise ma peine !

Viens ! O bien-aime,

Best Heure {f amour . . . test Vkeurer . . ,

"Best Inhere clamour : c'est Inhere ! " The
words spoke for Eugenia in their music, there
seemed to her nothing strange in their sound :
but naturally, as they spoke in French, they
were not intelligible to Mr. Arthur Jarvis.

'' Who the devil is it ? " he muttered,
'' there's some one outside."

He got up quickly and faced her in the rosy
light : she stood too, for her hand seemed one

with his, and they gazed at each other. His
short hair was rough, his face was blowed and
red — he looked almost as if he had been crying
his white necktie was rumpled and pushed
round his collar, his heart was beating
violently — its thuds marked the time of Anne's
swift singing — he looked rather a beast, more
drunk than sober.

But Eugenia looked like Pygmalion's statue,
turned to woman. Her lips were parted, and
the blood was coming back to them, where his
had pressed it away ; her eyes were soft and
lustrous, there was a new light of loveliness
about her face.

That is what a kiss can do — intensify one's
nature. It had brought out the satyr In the
man and the ano^el in the woman ; it had made
him restless, fierce with swollen and fiery
veins ; it had made her ready if need were, to
face death, like a martyr, for his sake.

They stood fronting each other, for some

seconds, and listened to the piquante voice, as
it stole in through the open pane from outside.
Yes : it was Anne Jefferies singing, as
she stood between the pillars that had sheltered
Eugenia from the shower ; but, when she
ceased, it was Dick Crossley's barytone that
said; "Charming!" and a slow smile stole
over Buck's features as he recognised it. —

''He's an artful dog!" he said, "but I pity
his taste." And he let his eyes wander over
Eugenia's beauty.

Oh yes ! " said Anne, mimicking Crossley's
voice, " ' Charming! ' that's all you know about
it ; you don't know what it Is, nor what it means,
or else you'd be angry with me for so much
as frddonnant the air, without its delicious
accompaniment. But Assent's something
quite out of your depths — and right over your
head. You know you don't really care for it
two straws."

Oh 1 yes, I assure you I do ; " said Crossley,

in a deprecating way, a little put out at her
extreme frankness. {" He doesn't like that,
you know" — Buck explained to Eugenia, in a
confidential whisper).

*' Very well then, you do ? " said Anne
carelessly, ** * Parlous d' autre chose ! ' Looks
pretty, doesn't it, this temple ? see ! there's a
light Inside."

*' Oh, yes ! Boville proposed that It should
be furnished as a flirtation corner."

'* We will go into the sanctum sane tor uin^
Mr. Crossley, and I will give you a lesson
Oh no! not In flirtation, you're too young
for that — but In singing ! "

('* By George!" said Buck, 'that was a
nasty one for him ! ")

'* The door is shut," said Crossley.

** Push It, stupid ! " returned Anne, '* they
can't have locked themselves In, you know,
whoever It Is that's there — you're as alarmed
as if it were ' Ninny's tomb.' "

"Open the door, it is Miss Jefferies," said
Eugenia simply to Buck.

He hesitated, half in disappointment and
half in anger ; and then sulkily pulled back the
heavy door. There, sure enough, were Anne
Jefferies and Crossley upon the step.

When she saw Buck, Anne gave a little
whistle.

*' Good gracious ! " she said, '* Why it was
'Ninny's tomb'" at which sally, Crossley
went off into a roar of laughter. Then she
looked at Eugenia, and the transformation
in her aspect did not escape Anne's falcon
eyes. — She saw, at once, that there had been
some understanding between the two, and she
had formed a sufficient estimate of Eugenia's
nature, to feel sure that, whatever it was, it
was serious as far as she, at least, was concerned.


*' Hallo ! " said Crossley.

"Hal/^!" said Buck. Having been listening,

he was naturally the less surprised, and he
managed to put a vulgar inflection into his
echo, which shifted the larger half of the oddness
in the meeting, upon Crossley and Anne
Jefferies. Under this master stroke Eugenia
too recovered herself a little.

Did you dance that waltz ? " she said to
Anne.

''No I didn't," said Anne, '' I was absorbed
in watching you and Mr. Jarvis — the poetry
of motion! — but I danced the next, and the
next; and then persuaded this shy son of
Mars to air his temporary Venus out of doors.
Poor Mr. Crossley, I have been upsetting
his theories on so many subjects — music for
one I — and we broke in here, with the honest
intention of going through our solfeggi — * baying
the moon ' — I would have ' roared him
gently as any sucking dove. ' . . . Oh ! you
don't know how I've studied Shakespeare,
since I've heard Sir Edmund quote. I think

he's such a clever man — Shakespeare I mean,
of course," . . . she rattled on.

Eugenia felt that It was kind of Anne to
cover the awkwardness of the pause ; but, for
her part, she had no feeling of shame : she
was only sorry that her interview with Buck
had been disturbed. The whole world was
welcome to know of her happiness, from the
first moment of its birth — except perhaps Sir
Edmund. . . . She had not thought of poor
Sir Edmund ! It seemed hard that Anne
should just have chanced upon his name.
Euorenla felt that she would not like him to
hear of this from Anne ; she would like to tell
him all about it, in some gentle way, herself.
She had never given him a moment's right to
hope that her happiness would be otherwise
built.

Buck managed to turn the laugh entirely
against Crossley, when once Anne Jefferies
had brought his musical pursuits to the fore.

He always thought that music and its study-were
ridiculous — one of his favourite jokes
was to give' a 'view halloa" when Crossley
was practising his exercises, after his small
lights, in barracks.

Wish you joy of your lesson, old man ! "
he said, pushing by Crossley, *' We are going
down to the shore."

Anne could not restrain herself from making
a little moue over his impertinence and Eugenia's
infatuation.

Are you really going down to the short '^, "
she asked.

If he wishes it," said Eugenia, with a
whole world of sweet surrender in her tone.

iVnne turned impatiently away.

Our turn for this chamber of horrors, now,
Mr. Crossley," she said sharply, handing
Eugenia her scent-drenched handkerchief, and
rearranging the flowers a little, where Buck's
coat-tails had crushed them, " Good-bye, Miss

Brand ! I mean to put this young gentleman
through his paces."

Eugenia smiled : she was as one that walks
in sleep. She drifted out of the temple leaning
upon Buck's arm, and they passed dreamily
onwards, down the cypress-alley towards the
plateau of cedars ; beyond which, far down,
they knew, lay the Hard and the shining
sea.

Anne was so Indignant that she banged
the door to, after them, and having really
made up her mind to speak to Crossley
about his good voice and his bad singing, she
set to work to vent her spleen upon him.
Perhaps she gave him a stricter lesson than
she would have done, had she not been put
out of temper by Eugenia's 'folly," but he
was a well-meaning young fellow and felt the
force of her authority upon music, which, like
a clever woman, she managed to soften to
his vanity. The one good resultant from

Eugenia's first kiss was perhaps Crossley's
better singing.

But Eugenia and her lover wandered out
again into the wonderful night — and such a
night for sweethearts, with such a breath of
sleeping flowers and such a glory from the
waking moon — wandered out, closely linked
together, in their strength and their beauty
and their love. And to both, the world was
fair, and to one it was all new ; and to both
the hour was happy, and to one it was heaven.
They wandered on, and they did not speak,
only his arm was round her now, and his hot
cheek against her forehead ; and from the hall,
high up, the bursts of measured music, as they
changed or ceased, were all that warned them
of the flight of time. Down a winding dingle
they strolled on together ; which led them to
the shore at last. The walk was bordered
with shrubs and flowers, and overarched with
honeysuckle and woodbine and vine. There

were ** roses, roses all the way : " the air was
charged with their delicious perfume. Amid
the roses and beneath the roses, the lovers
followed the gleaming path, till they reached
a little rough terrace, projecting slantwise, like
a breakwater, into the sea — the lowest terrace
of all — against which the waves lapped silently,
without break and without recall, for the tide
was high.

Here at last they were alone, for the few full-moon
moments of their life.

For oh ! there comes in all lives, some one
hour up to which the rest have led — some high-tide
beyond which all is really ebb. When it
is ours, we do not always know it; the flow
has been so gradual that we have not looked
back or forward ; but we know it when it is
past. This was Eugenia's hour :

It was the hour for angels I There stood hers.''^
A very tangible and mortal angel, that

young lieutenant of the White Highlanders. —
No room could have held her joy, half so well
as this open vault of the sky, no surroundings
else could ever have been half so eloquent as
the leaves and tendrils of the ivy and the
blossoming vines, and the sighing waves
against the wall where she leaned with her
first lover.

And in Buck's young soldier life — for
his adventures had been rather in the grove
than in the camp — there had been many tides,
but none like this. He had never yet been
really loved ; and this was his own first
moment of pure affection. In this love that
was lavished upon him, was the ideal mother's
love which he had never recognised, the ideal
sisters love which he had never known, the
ideal wife's love which was as yet a mystery.
And in return, this triple love drew forth from
him something between the loves of son and
brother and husband — his first fruits of devotion,

trust and possession — the perfect lover's love.
It was only a reflection and it would pass away :

'"'■ More frail tJia?i the shadows oil glasses^^^
but at that moment his heart held it, and it was
his to give.

I think I must have loved you from the
very first moment ; " Eugenia said at last :
for everything is different, since you are
come. You have been all my life since
then, and I have had no thought you have
not filled."

Darling," — he said, as he pressed closer
against her, and wondered how it was that
he had never seen how beautiful she was.
His words were few, but his eyes and his
voice spoke for him.

"- Poor love," she said again, putting her
white arms round his neck, and twisting her
soft fingers in his hair — his head was hot
and daubed with brilliance, — She looked
at her fingers and smiled ; a love, as great

as hers, transfigures even what Is mean and
coarse.

*' Arthur," she said presently, '' I think you
will be Arthur to me always. King Arthur, and
not Buck — but I shall love you by all names,"
she said, and the rare smile came again.

'' I shall always call you Jifiny I " he whispered
with a kiss.

Alas ! Eugenia, had it come to this, that you
could hear your beautiful name thus garbled
and not shudder ? Even so. " For what," she
would have reasoned, '' could it matter, so long
as he called her his 1 " And just now, she did
not reason : but as the lapping waves spread
out their whole full flood beneath the moon,
so her heart's deep waters widened under the
moon-cold brilliance of his love. It was night
with Eugenia's reason.

High-tide, full-moon, and night ! —

At that moment, they heard a quick footstep,
crunching the gravel of the steep path ;

VOL. n. D

not the step of an aimless wanderer, but rather
of a busy seeker careful to make his coming
heard. It was Crossley, in good-natured quest
of them, for it was midnight, and supper was
served.

Sir Edmund Trefusis is to take you to
supper, Miss Brand," he said, "and he is
waiting : Lady Shortlands has sat down already,
and your places are kept near her."

There was a tinge of laughing sarcasm in his
pleasant tone, which seemed to say *' You are
in for it, and you had better come at once " —

Buck looked at Eugenia. " Do you want
any supper ? " he said : he rather feared that
she would say she did not. Because he did ;
love gave him an appetite.

You do ; " said Eugenia, *' and besides, I
must not disobey my aunt" she stopped as
she remembered what obedience to her aunt
implied.

'' Oh ! mustn't you, though ? " said Buck,

we two are going in to supper together ; and
if we see any lame beggar lurking about the
hall, I'll break every bone in his miserable
corpse that's not broken beforehand."

What could Eugenia do but assent to such
mastery as this, at its first command ?

So they walked, without hurry, up to the
house together, Crossley following behind, in a
state of wonder, bordering on awe, at Eugenia's
infatuation, — (" Was it possible that Buck Jarvis
was such a very swagger man after all ?") —
Eugenia still in her trance of delight, and Buck
in all his glory.

The lighted house seemed changed, when
they entered it again, in the momentary silence
and desertion of the dancing-hall, for Mrs.
Tomlinson's supper was a very dinner in its
formality and order, and her guests had been
collected as for a solemn rite. Outside they
heard the shrill laugh of the kitchen-maids
mixed with the deeper voices of men, in and

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

about the tent where the bands were supping.
One girl indeed passed them, crossing the
terrace on a soldier's arm, and made Eugenia
feel, with a thrill, what likeness there was, all
the world over, in this new happy madness.

They entered by the drawing-room windows,
and crossed the empty hall, which nearly gave
on the great dining-room, where the feast was
spread. The guests did not exceed two hundred,
and the resources of Ashbank where almost
inexhaustible for a " sit-down supper."

There were two doors to the room, one at
either end. Crossley left his truants, and entered
through the lower door, near to which,
at the further end of the longest table, sat the
maiden who awaited his companionship ; but
at Crossley's bidding, Eugenia — after a furtive
glance, in vain, for Sir Edmund's listless figure
in the alcove — passed through the upper door
with her companion. She had just time to see
Sir Edmund, seated at a side table with Anne

Jefferies, and to be as struck with the intelligence
and kindness of his look as he was with
the extraordinary beauty of her radiant pallor
as she came in from the night air ; then she
was aware that, at the most distinguished table,
two places were left vacant, exactly facing
Lady Shortlands and her host.

Eugenia hesitated : it was a difficult moment
; but Buck — upon the spur of it — was
determined to make it a decisive moment too ;
and, with Eugenia still upon his arm, he
marched straight up to the two empty seats-^
one of which was really destined for her, but
neither indeed for him !

What with the dazzle of the room, and the
noise of the talking, and the rush of the serving,
Eugenia never rightly knew what happened
next ; but Sir Edmund knew. He saw her
come in with Buck and, after an instant's hesitation,
take her place opposite to Lady Short-lands.
Then he experienced that curious

sensation which a sympathetic person sometimes
feels — that some one else in the room was
undergoing a critical — even an agonised — state
of mind. He held his breath, and the next
thing of which he was sensible was the quick
rising of Dr. Burroughes from his place, a few
seats from Anne Jefferies, and his hurrying to
the table where Lady Shortlands sat, with an
urgent call for space and air.

Then the crowd made way : and he saw the
old lady — her rouge glaring, like a clown's,
upon the drawn and awful whiteness of her
heard face — fall to one side on Mr. Tomlinson's
shoulder : her glassy eyeballs riveted
upon her niece, and her set lips vainly striving
after some inarticulate word of rage.

Lady Shortlands has — fainted ; " said Anne,
trying to combat her own ghastly impression.

'' It is not fainting," said Sir Edmund, in
his prescience, " it Is death."

CHAPTER IV.

ASPECT,

When Sir Edmund Trefusis had said of Lady
Shortlands' terrible collapse that it was death,
he was not literally right, but he was not actually
wrong: for some minutes it did indeed seem
as if life had wholly forsaken her, and the
wretched painted husk of her body worm
know the bitter kernel of her soul no more.
But, owing perhaps as much to her natural
vitality as to Dr. Burroughes' promptly-taken
means for her recovery, she fought her way
back to consciousness at last, when she had
been carried up to her own rooms. So that
nothing tragic was made of the circumstance,
when the first moment of alarm was past ;
the explanation which had occurred to Anne

Jefferies was accepted, the servants replied to
all enquiries that 'her ladyship had fainted,"
and the festivities were at an end for no one,
except old Lord Shortlands, who was half
beside himself with senile care, and Eugenia
who at once took up the burden of nursing
her aunt. Lady Shortlands was a stranger
to most of the company, and it was easy for
Mrs. Tomlinson, who cared too little, for anything,
to be violently moved — unless by an
earthquake or the snub of a Duchess — to
dispel whatever anxiety the horror of the
sight had occasioned ; for it was Lord Short-lands'
special request, as soon as ever Dr.
Burroughes decided that the immediate danger
was passed, that there should be no alteration
made in the hour when the carriages were
ordered.

When Parity had pulled the old lady
to pieces and got her into bed, and Dr.
Burroughes had pronounced upon her malady,

which — thanks to Sir Edmund's prevision — there
was no need for him to diagnose, Eugenia
took her seat at her aunt's bedside, with no
more part or lot in the ball than if it had never
been.

As she sat there, opposite to Dr. Burroughes,
she could hear Parity's monotone voice as she
enlisted the sympathies of Sir Edmund's valet
who as an expert in muscular rheumatism
considered himself entitled to an opinion upon
apoplectic paralysis — in the dressing-room ;
while Sir Edmund himself remained wkh
Lord Shortlands in the boudoir, so full of
trivial evidences of its late occupant — her
scent-bottles and drugs, her hand-mirrors and
tattling journals.

The quiet apartments, over which hovered
such an awful shadow, presented a wonderful
contrast to the supper room in its triumph of
decoration, ringing with two hundred merry
voices, and the rattle of glass and plate.

Nothing here was altered ; and the two
watchers by the bedside had only one drawn,
voiceless face to contemplate.

When Sir Edmund had first detailed to him
Lady Shortlands' symptoms, Dr. Burroughes
had been amply prepared for the occurrence
of such a seizure as had overtaken her ; but
his own judgment of her state, when he had
seen her at luncheon, had reassured him considerably.
And in the evening, despite her
vacancy and wandering thoughts, Lady Short-lands
had been in good trim. She had endured
the fatigue of dressing, and she had
got away from the whirl and tumult of the
dancing-hall, to be at least as quiet in the
library, with Mr. Vane, as she would have
been on one of her customary evenings at
home. For that night, he had thought, there
need be nothing to fear; for the supper-room,
despite its brilliancy and noise, held nothing
likely to disquiet or excite one so used to

such a scene as Lady Shortlands. Something,
therefore — he was fain to conclude — must
have brought her a shock to cause this pressure
on the brain — what was it ? What
possible reason had there been for anger or
alarm ? He had himself seen none, though
he had watched his patient carefully. — She
had eaten little and drunk nothing ; nor could
he find a cause why from a state of calm, she
should be suddenly convulsed with passion.

Dr. Burroughes pondered what link there
might be between cause and effect : and
meanwhile he looked at Eugenia. What
was it ?

Eugenia knew what it was : she was quite
aware that it was the sight of herself, entering
the supper-room with Arthur Jarvis, after their
long delay — and then only in obedience to a
messenger — which had stricken Lady Short-lands
with this sudden shock. Her conversation
of the morning with her aunt left her no

doubt that the aspect of the pair, and its
significance, had not escaped her. Whether
it had called up bygone memories or not,
Lady Shortlands had not been blind to what
had fallen upon them ; and Eugenia felt that
she alone was to blame for this accident — this
. . further or more definite conclusions she
did not dare to hazard, for she knew that she
must maintain her coolness, and that it ought
to be difficult for her to do so, that she ought
not yet to be able to think things over and
consider consequences. But, all the same, she
could. Her own coldness amazed and grieved
her. It seemed almost criminal.

If, before this new-found passion had possessed
her life. Lady Shortlands had been
taken ill, Eugenia would have been troubled
and anxious : now, to her disgust, she was
neither : this second occurrence had brought
back her senses to their balance, and, as she
took her place opposite to Dr. Burroughes,

she found herself pinching her own round
white arm to make certain that she was not a
creature of stone or a woman in a dream.

Naturally there was no trace of fatigue upon
Eugenia. Never had she been to a ball for
less physical exercise, and had she gone to
her own room now, she would not any way
have slept for hours. She had to-night appropriated
a second self in all its added
strength. There was a double vigour in her
heart, a stronger pulse along her veins.

Dr. Burroughes looked at her in admiration.
He was rather tired himself from his journey
and the change to soft sea-air and dissipation
both alike unusual in his London-bounded
and methodic life. And he had seen
Eugenia active and helpful in the preparations
for the dance, he had watched her supple
movement in the waltz, he had noticed her
indifference to draughts and sudden change of
temperature — he did not know this double

Strength, this bounding heart that stayed her —
and he marvelled. She sat facing him in her
simple grey-green dress, on which the bracken
drooped a little, her white arms lying in her
lap — idle but capable — her breathing calm
beneath the living alabaster of her throat.
She was like a carven image of Silence.

Had nothing happened to Lady Shortlands,
had the ball ended just as balls are wont to
end and the guests dispersed as usual, she
would not have been so calm : in her own
room, and unfatigued, she would have had
leisure to give way before the whelming tide
of this new consciousness. But now, just at
its height, it was brought face to face with
a fresh tide that checked it. Between the
magnetism of the opposite surprises, her heart
beat evenly : she had no moment left her in
which to give way ; the time of her surrender
to emotions was not yet come.

She was perfectly still, and Dr. Burroughes

could not help thinking that she wore the
aspect of a person at a funeral, who is neither
glad nor sorry and only very reverent of mien,
willing neither to discourage nor dispel the
grief of others. Eugenia was unconscious
alike of his survey and his thoughts : she was
not absent, but she was numbed ; and her
attitude did not change. She leaned slightly
forward, towards Lady Shortlands, whose
vacant eyes kept wandering over her ; but her
own fair eyes were still less seeing than her
aunt's, though they were wide open and attentive.
Her exquisite eyebrows were a little
raised, her lips were parted, and even her
teeth were not fast shut. An ugly woman
would have worn this look with double ugliness,
but it doubled Eugenia's beauty. Her
soul, which was always acting as a screen for
her features when she was conscious of people
watching her, was far away in the cypress-grove
or on the seaweeds shore : — only her breathing

body sat opposite the doctor, in its careless
loveliness, and defied him.

Not that she was slow, or stupid : presently,
to test her, he softly made as if he wished a
curtain pulled aside to let the lamplight fall, fora
moment, on Lady Shortlands' face. She had
obeyed him almost before his sign was made ;
and an instant afterwards, perceiving that the
flare troubled the patient, she had replaced it.
So that he was convinced she was intelligent
and would make a good nurse, but still he
longed to shake her — to rouse her, by some
means, to a glimpse of fear or care. He dared
not do so on the ground of Lady Shortlands'
danger, as he was not yet certain how far her
faculties were in abeyance ; and so — imagining
Eugenia, from her superb unconcern, to be a
selfish person, — he tried to do so on her own
behalf.

'excuse me," he said, 'but you will take
cold, sitting still in your ball-dress."

She glanced at her own shoulders : " I
will ask Parity for a shawl, when she comes
back," she said : and then — after a pause, as
if she had forgotten — " thank you."

She had answered readily and sensibly, without
a fraction of change in her demeanour.
Most women, Dr. Burroughes felt, would have
said too much. They would have said they
'* really did not feel cold," (as if it mattered,) and
have shrieked their white shoulders higher, in
mock hardihood ; or else they would have made
his suggestion an excuse to go and change their:
dress and don a ''peignoir^' or a ^' tea-gowns'
or some other nondescript, selected for his fins
subjugation. Eugenia's answer pleased him,
and he was sure that, if he had given her a
blanket to put over her shoulders, she would
have wrapped it round her, with no questions
and no airs, and without even casting a glance
at her reflection in the glass.

But her tone moved him. It was not

VOL. II. E

wholly sad, but just pre-occupied. An attentive
nurse in an hospital might have answered
him so, by a patient's bedside, when she had
some more dangerous case on hand, in her
own family at home, which she had been
forced to leave at his behest. Nor was it
otherwise indeed. The truth was, that, without
her knowing it, there was a balance
being weighed in Eugenia's heart between
this practically dead old woman and her
living love. Here was a piece of timeworn
age, given straight into her hands
to soothe and smooth, making demands on
all her patience and on all her skill : but
at the self same moment, she found thrust
upon her another care, the passion of a young
and wilful human heart, that made demands
upon her body and her soul. Which was the
heavier responsibility ? Kindness and human
charity spoke for the old woman's tending, but
the unquenchable voice of the heart for the

young man's love : " Oh, If this should part
us — if this should part us ! " —

Meanwhile, she felt only indignant that her
aunt's illness did not move her as it should
have done. " I am a wretch," she found herself
thinking, over and over again, as her mind
returned to the scene before her, after lone
journeyings in the immediate past ; " what
can be done to me to make me feel alive ? "

The light was on a table near her, and shone
full upon her face, as Dr. Burroughes watched
her ; she puzzled him and yet he could not
think that she was heartless. When you had
done looking at Eugenia's formal beauty, you
discovered that the chief charm in her face
was its natural expression of her two strongest
traits ; Its declaration that she was most trustworthy
and most loveable. And, to-night, her
initiation into Love's first secret had increased
these traits. No : she was not heartless.

They sat on in silence ; the image of another

man was so completely filling Eugenia's thoughts
and her mental vision, that she never once
glanced at Dr. Burroughes, though he found his
own gaze resting upon her, much more often and
much more contentedly than upon his patient.

After some minutes, Parity came, in ostentatious
hush, and put her face, which was awake
with curiosity, close to Eugenia's ear.

One of the gentlemen wishes to speak to
you outside, upon the lobby. Miss Brand," she
said.

Eugenia looked at Dr. Burroughes ; he
motioned to her that she might go.

It Is Sir Edmund Refuses," she thought,
not without some relief that he could not now
speak to her of marriage, at any rate. But
Sir Edmund was with Lord Shortlands in
the boudoir ; and Parity, who was nothing
If not intrigante and who had a half-sovereign
in her hand, led her straight into the corridor,
by the bedroom door.

As she passed out, she became aware
of the presence of her lover, by a whiff
of cigar smoke and brandy. Buck was
standing a few paces from her, looking
extremely sheepish and very sleepy; with
his bedroom candlestick in his hand, throwing
its light upon his rough square chin.
He held the candle to her face, as Parity
left them, and looked at her possessively;
then he put his arm round her and kissed
her, without a word. It was impossible
to tell the sense of comfort that his presence
brought her : but as she looked at him
her heart grew troubled. Eugenia was not
used to seeing young men after a hard night's
dancing and a heavy supper, ' with a B. and S.
and a cigar, in the smoking-room, to top up.'
She thought his eyes were glazed, and his face
flushed ; she feared he was anxious and tired.

'* Dear," she said, " how nice of you to come
and say * good-night ' to me ; — or rather * good-morning,'

" she added, with a divine tenderness
in her tone.

How's the old girl ? " said Buck, going
direct to the point.

*' Dr. Burroughes says that we must wait
and watch ; " said Eugenia, with the old reproachful
smile, *' he seems to know all about
her."

And you're going to sit up all night with
him and Trefusis, eh ? turn and turn about, I
suppose," he said resentfully.

'' Parity is there," said Eugenia.

'well," said Buck in a low voice, with
something of jealousy, in his manner, and
something of appropriation, laying his hand
upon her shoulder; "get a coat or a jacket, at
all events."

Eugenia shrank a little, for his touch was
something quite unknown to her : '' I will fetch
one," she said as she disengaged herself from
his embrace.

No : stop a bit," said Buck.

He kicked off his pumps, with a moment's
self-congratulation on his embroidered socks,
put down the candle and was off along the
velvet carpet of the corridor, in silent and lightfooted
haste.

While he was gone, Eugenia stooped and
put his shoes ready for him again.

He came back, in a minute ; bringing in
his hand a gaudy satin smoking-jacket — an
acquisition of three days before — which he
had worn for but one hour himself, just long
enough to give it a faint suggestion of smoke.
It was worked in his regimental colours,
and with a smart monogram, devised by
his hosier's daughter to suit his own loud

o

taste.

Eugenia could not resist the pleasure of
pleasing him, and she let him put it round her
her white satin-smooth arms gliding into
the loose satin-lined sleeves without touching

them. He wrapped the big fronts across her
chest, and there she stood in his own coat —
his very own, with his name and his colours
upon her — the vulgar silks in charming contrast
to her proud distinguished head. It was only
vanity that had made him get it — it registered
her as his property, — but she did not know
that.

Eugenia could not flirt ; but the warmth of
his hands, and the quilted jacket, made her
blush, and her eyes, as she looked at him, were
irresistibly lovely. He took her in his arms
and fairly hugged her, with a boy's passionate
admiration.

'now go and sleep," she said, — 'asleep
well ! dear love, you look hot and tired."

"Oh! I'm all right," he said, "I sleep
like a top wherever I am : now, look here
Jinny, if you want anything, you know my
door—"

Eugenia drew herself up a little, but he went

on : — " It's the one just off the big staircase, on
the far side, opposite to that room upon the
landing."

That is my room," said Eugenia.

** Is it?" said Buck, his grey eyes looking
blue with love and pleasure : '' Well, I shall
stay up : — don't be afraid. — I'll leave my
door a bit open, and if there's any difficulty
in holding the old woman down, and you
want a lively chap to sit on her head, or do
any trifle of that sort, in the way of sick-nursing,
I'm your man. You'll only have
to come softly to the top of the stairs, and
say ' Buckle ! '"

" And you will hear me ? " said Eugenia :
the whispered way in which he said his own
pet name affected her strangely.

"Well, if I don't at first," he said, ruefully,
"for I sleep deuced heavy after a ball, —
there's my big sponge in the bath by the door,
and I shall wake jolly soon if you heave that :

only if you do, I advise you to get sharp out
of the room, or else you'll hear a tidy swear,
and get it back at your head ! "

Hush !" she said, for his voice, though low,
was thick and loud ; '' I shall not need you,
dear." She pushed him gently from her, but
her touch attracted him the more.

Come to the end of the passage ! " he said
in a still lower voice, his pleading tone more
sweet than music to her infatuated ears. She
walked with him to the top of the great staircase,
her gauze dress making no rustle as she
went.

How dark it was in the vast hall and on the
stairs ! The lamps were out : only the faint
streaks of the dawning light left a little colour
in the painted window, and touched the suits
of armour into steel and silver. All was
ghostly and calm and still. On the further
side of the gallery, they could see the white
door of Buck's room, the first in the bachelors'

wing. To their left, were the three steps leading
to Eugenia's chamber.

*' Is that your door ? " said Buck.

'' Yes," said Eugenia.

He put his arm through hers, while his keen
eyes searched her face : then she felt that she
was trembling. She had not feared to see
death, but she feared love.

"Go, now," she said quickly; 'ego to your
little room, my love, and leave me," and then,
the caress in her voice overmastering the fear,
O Arthur !" she said; '*do you love me ? fs
it possible — is it true ^ "

'' ' Possible ? — true ? ' " he answered, taking
her in his arms one more good time, and racking
his not over-well stored brain for some brave
oath of love — sun, moon and stars, which were
good enough for Romeo, being outworn and
stale for such a bran-new lover as Buck — '* if
I don't love you, Jinny, Fm a Dutchman ! "

And so, with that most incontrovertible affirmation

on his lips, and with one last long-drawn
kiss that must have made the spirits of
dead knights come back into their armour with
longing, they said '* Good-night" — and parted.

Eugenia stood and watched the man she
loved, as he stole down the stairs, and up the
further flight, and along the gallery to his
room : the summer nights are never wholly
dark, and the corridor was straight, she needed
no light for her return. Then it occurred to
her that she would go to her own room and
take off the smoking-jacket, she dared not risk
its meeting Lady Shortlands' waking eyes.

But when she got into her own room, she
could not take it off her, it was too real a sign
of his beloved existence. She felt for her long
dark travelling cloak, plain like all her wardrobe,
and put it on, over the gaudy jacket,
which it quite concealed. And in the newfound
weakness of her love, she felt as if his
arms were round her still.

She stood for a few seconds motionless, the
while her heart sent up some half-formed
prayer ; and then she heard a step along
the corridor, which, by its slight irregularity
of pace, she guessed to be Sir Edmund's.

He was limping towards his own apartments,
Lord Shortlands having noticed his
fatigue and — like the kind unselfish gentleman

o o

he was — ordering him off at once to bed :
"because" (with a sigh) 'good people are
so scarce," — Lady Shortlands' illness setting
her in that category at once.

Eugenia's impulse was to hasten back and
prevent Lord Shortlands' entering the sickroom,
which might disturb the patient. She
waited till the footsteps ceased, and then she
left her room. But she came upon Sir
Edmund in the corridor; for he was standing
at the corner, before turning towards his
own door, noting the light upon the armour
and looking up at the great window near her

room ; and, had her attention only been at
liberty to peruse his face, she might have seen
that he was thinking of her.

*'Ah!" he said, when he saw her coming,
who but you ? your step, and your gay satin
dressing-gown ! " and he pointed to her dark
dust-cloak, and smiled.

Eugenia, with the satin coat about her, felt
rather guilty. She had a friendly longing to
take Sir Edmund into her confidence, to open
her cloak and show him Buck's bright colours
beneath it: but she could not. In the wan
light his face looked pale and tired, the more so
doubtless after Buck's florid glow. Sir Edmund
had not eaten supper or drank brandies with the
rest : he had been faithful and anxious from the
first — from the very first — as Eugenia gratefully
remembered. Now, at last, he felt that he
was getting his reward in this twilit moment
of her company. She dared not break his
peace.

'' It is like you, to have gone and made yourself
useful ; " he said.

I have not even changed my dress," said
Eugenia, with something between pain and
annoyance in her tone — conscious, as she was,
that her late embraces with the son of Mars
could not be said to have any special 'utility."
Then she stooped down, and began unpicking
the bracken leaves from the bottom of her
flounce, in a nervous manner, unlike her own.
The threads gave way with an impatient ravelling
sound.

The ferns looked faded things enough, when
they were disentangled: Sir Edmund held out
his hand, and took them from her :

'' Your jewels ! " he said, smiling, " but what
a reckless person to set about sick-nursing in
her ball dress ! "

*' One of my dresses is as good — or as bad —
as another," said Eugenia ; " indeed this now
is quite the worst I have, and it does not

crumple or rustle. It will do very well, until
I can be spared in the morning."

Are you going to sit up all night ? "

*' I am going to pretend to : I daresay I
shall sleep in my arm-chair."

'* I have only seen you in simple dresses,"
said Sir Edmund, " and now you are in sackcloth
; and yet you seem to me always more
daintily and finely dressed than other people.
You would become royal robes so well, that
you suggest them : I could never be accurate,
In describing what you had worn. The imagination,
seeing you in — waterproof.'^ — drapes
you in brocade ! "

'' I am never likely to wear brocade," said
Eugenia, with a glad sense of content : she
was thinking of Buck, and wondering, deep
down In her foolish heart, how much was a
lieutenant's pay. It was all that they would
have to live on, she conjectured.

''No," said Sir Edmund, with an acquiescent

sigh, though he seemed to get paler ; '' fine
clothes would be no inducement to you . . .
no attraction — "

He came a little closer. '' I mus tell him,"
thought Eugenia.

Just at that moment, a certain door, on
the further side of the house, was opened
quickly, and Buck — whose habits were not
adapted to country-house life, — flung out a
pair of thick boots that he wanted early in
the morning. He flung them out, whistling,
and then banged the door, careless whether he
disturbed any one or not. But, directly afterwards,
he opened the door again, and set it
ajar — Eugenia knew why.

*' Good-night," whispered Sir Edmund :
'good wakefulness,' as I must not wish you
good sleep! If we stand here talking any
longer, we shall get some artless soldier's regulation
boots at our heads, for disturbing his
repose. He seems determined to leave his

VOL. II. F

repose liable to disturbance, whoever he maybe!"


Lord Shortlands is alone," said Eugenia,
blushing beneath the smoking-coat, and feeling
as if her arms and shoulders were aglow : " I
must go back to him."

He is putting on his dressing-gown," Sir
Edmund answered, " he does not want you
just yet ; and Parity says your aunt is in a
quiet doze. Burroughes is there. It is a sort
of fit, or stroke, as you know : she must be
watched and have perfect rest." And then, —
for it was idle to stand talking within earshot
of Buck's open door — he ceased his monitions.

"Chatteris has been making a sonnet," he
whispered last of all, as he stood holding the
hand that she had given him — more than half
reluctant to let him go while all was yet unexplained
— " he says, in it, that you looked
like a star, at the ball, and all the rest of us
like Chinese lanterns ! I did not know how

true the image was, till I see you now, a morning
star under this cloudy cloak. * Sweet Vespers
Phosphor, double star'" — he quoted.

"The ball!" she said, dreamily. '' Does it
not seem so long ago — ages ago ? " — But her
voice was not sad, it seemed full of a new and
mystic music, to Sir Edmund as he turned
and left her.

As if the spell of her own voice had bound
her, she did not move for some moments.
She leaned upon the balcony, which was hung
with soft Persian stuffs, and gazed down into
the deserted hall, her eyes accustoming themselves
to darkness till at last they could distinguish
objects by the light reflected from the
polished flooring. As she looked, and gradually
made out the clusters and banks of flowers
standing now all shyly huddled together and
waiting for the morning with a phantasmal air,
she felt a great desire to go down among them
and take one or two strewn white blossoms fora

keepsake. Her life had been so healthful and
so orderly that she had never before experienced
that peculiar excitement and wakefulness
which comes with the small hours.

She was charmed at last into giving way to
her fancy. She glided down the broad staircase,
so thickly velvet that it gave back no
echo to her footfall, and wandered hither and
thither in the changed scene : unconsciously
perhaps she traced the line in which she had
waltzed with Buck. She made a curious
picture, had there been any one to see her,
as she moved about in her noiseless dress,
visionary and yet so living, the faint blazon-dyed
light from the window falling on her
hair, and the vivid colours of Buck's smoking-jacket
glancing, now and then, from beneath
her dusky wrapper.

The floor was littered with the wreckag^e
from the ball, scraps of lace, ribbon, and
leaves. It was just in its few hours' lull, for,

long ere any of the house party were down,
the llghtfooted — and, with such spoils, maybe
llghtfingered — household would have stripped
it of its gleanings. Eugenia did not rob the
housemaids of a single bit of rent-off flounce or
feather, but as she turned and glanced, with a
slight shudder, down the dark corridor, along
which — in its brighter aspect — they had borne
Lady Shortlands from the supper-table, she
saw a little locket lying open at her feet,
which she recognised as having been always
pendent from a bracelet that her aunt had
worn as long as she could remember. It was a
locket of no special beauty, but connected, she
had heard her own mother say, with a memory
of youth. Eugenia picked it up, and within it
she saw dimly, in the growing light, the face of
Lady Shortlands' first lover.

A young boyish face: in the dress — ugly
because so nearly modern — of some five and
thirty years past, with the shaved upper lip and

the stiff stock and collar of the time, but with
suck a look of '' I love you " in the handsome
eyes, as not even the finnikin of the miniature
painter could quite put out. On the opposite
side was a lock of hair — curly as vine-tendrils
fancifully and unnaturally twisted, with a
thread of gold, into something between a
true lover's knot and a shamrock. She had
worn it for five and thirty years. That she
had lost it, seemed indeed a sign that she had
done with life !

Eugenia smiled : she would have wondered,
before she came to Ashbank ; now she did not
wonder. What if this affection of the withered,
dying, old worldling upstairs was strong with
the strength of thirty — or of fifty years ; the
same immortal love had leaped to birth in
her own heart, full grown, in fewer than
fifty hours.

She held the locket, and she pondered
breathless over it, in the difficult dawn ; nota

god's picture, not a prince's, not a poet's ;
just a young Irishman's ! but cherished as a
poet, honoured as a prince, revered and
worshipped as a god. " Thirty — fifty — an
hundred years," said Eugenia musing, *rit is
for ever — It Is for ever — I know."

She shut the locket, glad to have It In her
own keeping, and she took two gardenias from
the cornice of flowers that ran, breast high,
around the hall. They seemed to hold
embalmed the atmosphere which she had
breathed, with her lover, in the waltz. Then
she went upstairs ; but though she meant to
go straight back to her uncle and the doctor,
it was written that Eugenia had not done with
half her folly yet. When she got to the
division of the staircase, there, to the right,
were Buck's boots, full In view, (for he had
swung aside the portiere that shut off the
white doors of the rooms in the bachelors'
wing ;) and there — beyond the boots, where

they stood as sentries, one straight up and one
half toppled over — was Buck's wide-open door.

Eugenia went up the right-hand stairway :
at the head of it she stood still. She could
hear her heart beating so loudly that, had
any one come behind her, she would have
never known it; but nobody did come. It is
well for us, that, in these paroxysms of divine
insanity, no eye sees us but God's.

Eugenia went to the boots, and she put
them straight there side by side — the boots
that had carried him up hill and down dale, in
his brisk morning walk, that had carried him
as he swaggered about the courtyards and
the stables, that would carry him again tomorrow.
— Little would he think whose hands
had touched them ! Then she lifted her eyes
to the blank space that the open door was
leaving. The spirit of the moment was upon
her, and without reasoning, without even
staying to marvel at herself as she marvelled

afterwards, she stood within the doorway and
looked in : she did not cross the threshold with
her feet, but yet her soul learned every corner
of the room.

It was a little room,, considering that it was
'Ashbank' — for this bachelors' wins: had been
built on by the Tomlinson, and was a perfect
pigeon-cote of bedrooms : — but, little as it was,
the air struck cold upon her feverish heat.
The window was just opposite the door, and
it was open, so that there was a draught right
through the room ; the beloved was not as susceptible
to colds as to passions ; he could sleep
through a drinking-song, or in a current of
air, without disturbance or mishap. No blind
was down : by some freak of its bay-window
the room faced east, and the dawn was breaking
now.

After one second, in which she saw nothing,
Eugenia glanced round the room, with an air not
so much of strangeness as of reverence, like one

that looks about some sacred place. There was
his bath, with the big sponge in it, with which
she was to wake him, if need were : it gleamed,
at her feet, white and fresh. There was a
chintz-hung sofa, upon which his dress coat
had been tossed down ; beyond it, nearer to
the window, was the curtailed iron bedstead
in which he should have been sleeping. But
he had sat up, in case of her summons, and
had fallen asleep at the window. He was
seated in a chair that pushed back the dimity-curtain
: one brown, veined hand was thrown
upon the sill, and it looked strangely dark on
the contrasting white : his face was turned
towards her, his close-cropped chestnut curls
looking darker, also, against the shutter where
he leaned. He was sleeping, despite the discomfort
of his position, as only perfect health
and perfect youth can sleep. And in the room
there was that counted silence that only comes
where a man sleeps thus, that is stiller than

empty silence. He did not even seem to
breathe, he was as calm as death. His noisy,
common-place young soul was away somewhere,
in what happy hunting-grounds we
wot not, or at rest ; it would come back with,
what he had called, a 'tidy swear," perhaps,
at any rate with an impatient or a selfish
thought ; but now in this dreamless enchantment
of fearless and utter sleep that was
upon him, he lay as one dead. A Venetian
artist, of long ago, might have painted his
head, with its strong tones of colour under
the warm flushed skin, as the head of a
young knight sleeping his last sleep at some
post of watching ; its lines were beautiful and
manly, its aspect grave.

Eugenia stood far off him, with a great
solemnity about her, an awful yearning over
him that was like religion. If he could, but
once, have met that angel gaze of hers and
have understood its meaning, all his life must

have been changed within him : but he would
never know. She stood, leaning forward towards
him, as a mother leans over her babe,
with parted lips ; '' asleep," she thought, '' my
own!" She dared not stir, she had no wish
even to approach him, the chain of his deep
slumber riveted her so, that the thought
of his waking was a terror to her: and yet
it seemed as if her heart would break
with agony, if she did not assure herself the
vision was true. She moved forward one
step, at last, until with outstretched hand she
touched the brass knob of the door : the
whole length of the room was still between
them. The cold touch of the handle reassured
her, but at the same moment brought her to
full consciousness of where she was. She
drew back, stealing one last long look at his
dear face — dearer, now, by the miracle of love,
than all the world beside. '' Love," she said
softly to herself, and then 'god." She

thought out no connection between the two
words, — they were, to her, only two sides of
the same immortal presence — but she folded
her hands as in prayer.

Whether her presence troubled his sleep,
or whether the chill of dawn was bringing him
a dream of her, he shifted his head against
the shutter, and raised his hand. Then the
hand dropped again, and he was still as death.
But Eugenia trembled at the risk she had run
of waking him and vanished, like a breathless
shadow, from the room. •

In the passage she paused again : the silence
held her like a charm : the day was up, it must
have been almost morning, for every object
was distinct in light. There were pale waking
rims, like gossamers, upon the armour, everything
seemed to rise up and stare at her wide-eyed.
Only he, who should have leaped up at
the dawn, was sinking deeper and deeper into
sleep, with the growth of day. Yes ! it was

indeed as if he were dead. A new and unaccountable
terror seized upon Eugenia, that
terror for the beloved's safety and well-being,
which — all unreasoning though it be — is comparable
to no regret, to no grief else : her head
swam, her eyes filled with tears, she hurried
down the stairs like a ghost. Across the flower-decked
landing, up her own little stairway, and
so to her room again ; where, ere she yet drew
breath, she shut-to the door.

*' Oh God ! " she said, kneeling down at the
open window, through which there stirred that
same small chill that fanned her lover's temples
as he slept — for this woman's life had been,
from childhood at her mother's knee, one of
such simple, constant prayer, that she went to
God as she mio^ht indeed have sone to a
father : — '' Oh God ! spare him, do not let him
be dead: destroy me, take the world away from
me, turn my meat and drink to dust and ashes,
but leave me just his life, for he is all thy lovely

world, and all in all to me ! " — and so at last
grew calm. Some such a passion, and some
such a self-devoting prayer, breathes in the
'' good-night, beloved," of every tender and
true-hearted woman.

And then, smitten, on a sudden, with a pang
of self-reproach for this agony of entreaty over
a mere good-sleeper's most probable waking,
she at last bethought her of her aunt. For
no anxiety and no suffering on Buck's behalf
could ever now seem to her to be unselfish —
rather, they were the most selfish feelings that
she could cherish, anxiety and suffering for
what was most herself, her happiness incarnate,
the very mainspring of her life.

She rose, and tried in vain to shake off the
thought of him, that filled her ; it was time she
went to Lord Shortlands. 'eat least I know
that he is safe, and that he sleeps," she said,
aloud, as if to comfort her own self, — not of
Lord Shortlands — nor could even the death

of her aunt have seemed to her sufficient cause
to rob her lover of one moment's rest.

And yet, Eugenia, it was such a common
thing that you had seen — just a young man
asleep ! Thank God, the nightly world — aye,
and the daily world ! — is full of them. In barrack
or in fishing-cottage, anywhere and everywhere
— among labourers or thieves — you might
have seen the same wonderful trance, and the
mystery of its remoteness might never have
dawned upon you. Only you were taking
your first lessons of observation from the great
master of romance ; and the nature of the man
who was your world — as, to an astronomer,
the nature of the midnight heavens, when he
first feels that he Is o^rowinor conversant with
the stars in their courses — was full to you of
portents and of marvels, which It would take a
lifetime of increasing love to get familiar with,
and which time could never at all explain or at
all undo.

That the safety of a creature's sleep, who
gives nobody else one moment's concern — a
sleep which not the most affectionate of comrades
would hesitate to disturb with a bootjack
or a sponge — should matter most, matter
beyond another's life or death, is just one
of those miracles which, to the uninitiated,
appear as signs of a mere midsummer madness.
But thus it was with Eugenia, and to
her Buck's sleep was paramount to Lady
Shortlands' waking, — a consummation to be
question of a keener care, and worth -a
costlier solicitude.

Lord Shortlands was pacing up and down,
between the dressing-room and the boudoir, to
which he was limited ; and, although his mind
was away in the past, he was much in need of
the solace of Eugenia's presence. And it was
well for her that he did need her, or else she
might have fallen into a retrospect that would
have lasted until noon. He asked her no

VOL. II. G

questions : he saw that her appearance was
changed, and he knew, from Lady Shortlands'
toilette — which was a lengthen business than
Eugenia's — that, '* to change your dress is a
matter of time and trouble : " but he was
thankful for her company ; and her voice, as
she questioned him in her considerate matter-of-fact
manner, was very pleasant to his deaf
ears.

"What are we going to do?" she asked
him.

''Ah but — " he said, "what can we do
without her? My lady is a woman of ten
thousand, and this attack seems likely to lay
her terribly by." — Evidently he would face no
worse climax than a long illness, even in imagination.
— "We must get back to Shortlands,
not to-day perhaps, but tomorrow. There is
no need for haste ; Mrs. Tomlinson is kindness
itself, and I should be sorry to break up the
party here, till all are rested from last night's

fatigue," Beneath this pressure of anxiety,
Lord Shortlands spoke like a man of half his
years, and his senile drawl had quite left him :
perhaps it had been part of a valetudinarianism
which Lady Shortlands' taste for doctoring had
not discouraged.

** Very well ! " said Eugenia : she could
question the wisdom of no reprieve that would
bring her another day with her lover. She
might have only a glimpse of him, but at least,
the same roof would shelter them both. Lord
Shortlands stopped in his walk and looked "at
her as she stood by a table on which a
moderator lamp was burning. She was staring
straight into the lamp, and unaware that
his eyes were traversing her face.

She would wish you to go to bed, my
dear," said the old man, kindly : *' you will be
tired."

** Oh ! I don't mind," said Eugenia. She
wished that she did mind : she could have

pricked herself for her insensibility : she looked
from the lamp to Lord Shortlands' wrinkled
face, on which the light defined every crows-foot
and shadow of age.

Have you seen Dr. Burroughes again ? "
she asked.

"Yes," he answered, *' Trefusis' foresight is
wonderful, I never knew a man behave with
more consideration. A good fellow — a very
good fellow. I am glad it should be /le that
is of service. Sie has a great regard for
Trefusis — a great regard. And you, my dear,
you like him, I think ? "

*eyes indeed," said Eugenia, much too full
of Buck to fancy she was in any way committing
herself; " I like him very well indeed,
I have never known any one kinder than Sir
Edmund."

A moment afterwards she blushed : she was
thinking how little kindness counted for, in
comparison with love.

Lord Shortlands was still watching her face,
and he saw the blush.

Ah ! capital — capital ! " he said ; ''I am
glad you should not be blind to his merits;
that's the term, eh ? ' blind to his merits.' " It
was good for Lord Shortlands to have even
a moment's distraction from his troubles, and
Eugenia had not the heart to stop him as he
went on : " Now compare him with the other
young men here — a different nature. Those
smart officers now — what are their names i^ —
not that It matters. — * Slapdash ' and ' Scatterbrain,'
she called them, when she saw them
coming from the stables In the morning."

Eugenia smiled slowly: her memory was
away In the morning too — the morning and
the evening that had made her first day of love.

*' Yes," she said, "Sir Edmund is different."
And then she felt that the light was on her
face, and moved away, leaving Lord Short-lands
very well content.

She passed through the rooms again — new
so differently ordered for sickness by Parity's
deft hands, with the help of sleepless menials
whom Mrs. Tomlinson had placed, with all
Ashbank's resources, at her command : — and
there, in the last chamber, was her aunt's
rigid figure looking shrunken and small and
awful, as it lay in the same posture on the bed.
Could this body have held such a pulse of life
as Buck's, such a pulse of love as her own, for
sixty years ?

Dr. Burroughes was bending over his patient
and Parity was holding a candle which she
shaded with one hand. She looked deeply
interested and very self - conscious. She
affected not to perceive Eugenia's entrance,
but Eugenia knew that her mind was busy
with surmises about Mr. Jarvis' visit. She
disliked the thought that this tirewoman
should be the only trustee of her precious
secret, and she felt that her hastily snatched

cloak could not deceive Parity as to her
dress.

Dr. Burroughes looked up, and smiled. He
was not versed, like Parity, in the fashions ; and
to him the change in her appearance quite accounted
for her absence. He motioned Parity
to put down the light, as Eugenia entered, and
came across the room to meet her. " I wish
to bleed her ladyship," he said in a whisper,
*' the circulation needs a measure of that sort,
to relieve the congestion. I do not think that
she is paralysed : it is a state of apoplexy. If
the pressure of the blood vessels were removed,
I think she would be conscious. Could I conceive
a likely cause for it, I should say this
was a fit, into which some shock had plunged
her, under circumstances of excitement and ill-health.
— There is, of course, the disposition
to paralysis, which Sir Edmund noticed." —
He paused.

Eugenia did not look at him ; she stood with

her cloak folded round her, and she was glad
to find that at last she suffered a keen pang of
self-reproach : " I daresay you are right : " she
said, but she made no suggestion.

*' There are not likely to be leeches here," he
went on, " and I must lose no time ; or this
continued congestion may result in another
seizure. I shall open a vein in her arm. Her
constitution is good I think ? "

'eyes," said Eugenia, " I have never known
her suffer but from ordinary ailments."

'' Shall you stay in the room, or not ? " he
asked her diffidently.

Oh yes," said Eugenia, *' if you wish it."
She was not given to " nerves." —

Pray think ! " said Dr. Burroughes, as he
took out his lancet, '' can you assign any cause
for such a shock as I surmise ? "

For the first time in her life Eugenia hesitated
to speak quite the truth. She was sure that,
in concealing what, she felt, accounted for this

seizure, she was not preventing any means
being taken for her aunt's recovery — there
was that to be said for her — but her first
thought was that this secret of hers had to do
with her lover's happiness : therefore she had
no right to disclose it. Much as she longed
to say to the kind Doctor, " I fear that I amin
a sense, to blame," she dared not — for his
sake, who had become her world.

'' No ; " she said at last, with a sigh, *' I
cannot : but I do not doubt that your opinion
is correct, and I will help you in whatever way
I can."

As she said this, both Dr. Burroughes and
Parity were watching her with interest. They
were aware in diverse ways that she was
undergoing some mental reminiscence, and
resolution ; but they could not tell what a
sting was in it, or what a balm. Eugenia's
mind was in a retrospect. Sometimes, when
sitting late at night and, on a sudden, hearing

midnight struck, one finds the several tolls
bring back an instantaneous vision of the
several hours which they register ; and so it
seemed to Eugenia, while she spoke those
few words, that they let her see, in swift procession,
the time gone by. The vision nerved
her and decided her. She had cast in her lot
with another : that was her own business, and
had to do with her own life : but what patience
and care could avail for her aunt, that she would
do to the utmost of her power. Mechanically,
she put back her cloak, and began turning up
her loose sleeves, to be less hampered and
more useful. She had forgotten what the
sleeves were, only her instinct was to be free
of them, and to Dr. Burroughes they had no
significance — he saw that ladies' dressing-gowns
were often brilliantly lined — but it was small
wonder that Parity, who knew every detail
of Eugenia's not too well-stocked wardrobe,
should stand aghast, and even utter a slight

exclamation of surprise, as she caught sight
of the crimson satin and the soldierly gold
braiding and embroidery, upon the cuffs of
Mr. Arthur Jarvis' smoking-jacket.

CHAPTER V.

RETROSPECT.

By the time that it was actually morning, Lady
Shortlands was conscious and appeared in a
fair way to regain both speech and movement.
She had opened her eyes and fixed them upon
her niece, with that unerring gaze of a person
specially an aged person — who is very ill ; a
gaze in which experience and prescience were
strangely mingled. The bleeding had relieved
her brain, and her faculties — always vivacious
did not long remain torpid. It was evident
that she was scheming and had formed a wish.
The persistent way in which she regarded
Eugenia surprised Dr. Burroughes, for it was
not a dependent or a frightened way. He
had expected that Lady Shortlands, being a

selfish woman, would come back to her senses
with many outbursts of complaint and much
ado. Instead of this, she behaved like one
who has been momentarily hindered, and is
determined to make up for lost time before
attending to the effects of the drawback. He
saw that there was something troubling her,
which outweighed the trouble of her own illness,
and that it had to do with Eugenia.

Nor could Eugenia feel other than embarrassed,
when she saw her aunt's eyes rest, as
the sage Parity's eyes had rested, upon those
glimpses of the satin sleeve, which her first
essay at sick nursing rendered it impossible
for her to hide consistently. Lady Shortlands
reasoned from the satin sleeve to Eugenia's
heightened colour, which robbed her of all traces
of fatigue ; until Eugenia, in her nervousness,
found herself desperately hoping that her aunt
might not recover her speech at once, from fear
of what her first remark might be.

But Lady Shortlands was too sensible and
too serious for a blunder : she lay still and
pondered. As the blood-letting gradually restored
her, she felt herself returning to a consciousness
that flowed at first only to ebb, but
that at last settled into more than her normal
calm. Her first impression was of Eugenia's
presence, and then she connected Eugenia with
her last waking thought : she remembered
Eugenia's arm on Arthur Jarvis' sleeve, the
supper, the ball. . . . With her eyes still fixed
upon her niece, she noted her change of dress,
and fell to thinking out what must have happened
— and, still more, what might have happened
— in the interval. So on to plans and
projects : and all this in a perfect silence, quite
as awful as the silence of her seizure.

When she was again mistress of her speech,
she used it first, however — like the thorough
gentlewoman that she was — in thanking Dr.
Burroughs for his unremitting care.

I am a very troublesome old woman ; " she
said, in a voice which she managed to control
though it was changed and weak, "and I am
obliged" — Lady Shortlands said ''obleeged"
"to you, sir, for your attention."

Dr. Burroughes bowed, and told her, in reply,
that he was amply repaid by her addressing
him again. His courteous answer pleased her,
but she asked no questions ; tacitly, she left
her physical well-being in his hands : she had
still to speak to Eugenia, who stood patiently
awaiting her reproof. But her utterance was
an unexpected one. " I desire you," she said
slowly, '* to go to your room, and to sleep for
some hours ; remember that your face is your
fortune."

At another time Eugenia might have combated
such criticism, and resented such advice :
to-day she did not dare to do so. She was
glad to be set free without an exposure, and
her very face, she felt, was now no longer her

own. It belonged to another — to one whose
possessive glance would call the flush to it
again by noon. She withdrew at once, leaving
Parity with Dr. Burroughes, while she went to
communicate to Lord Shortlands that her aunt
was " quite herself again ; " for his deafness
had prevented his knowing how completely her
speech had been paralysed during the night.

Lord Shortlands was anxious to get to her
without delay, and presently he obtained Dr.
Burroughes' leave to go into the bedroom fora
few minutes, the doctor himself joining
Eugenia in the sitting-room, where they were,
thus, alone together for a little while.

You were very useful," he said, '* it was
not your will, but your nature that I doubted :
there are people who cannot bear the sight of
blood."

*' Oh ! I am not like that," she answered,
with a feeling of relief that he had left off
trying to assign a cause to Lady Shortlands'

attack, and determined to keep him from tracing
it, as long as she could: "your treatment
seems to have done her good : it was wonderful
to see the return of her faculties."

** Yes," said Dr. Burroughes ; " for a time,
at least, the congestion is relieved ; but the
measure was a strong one with an old person.
I was anxious not to try it upon Lady Short-lands
until there was every need. People
of that age, even with her recuperative power,
make blood but slowly."

'' Doctors don't bleed people now, much,
do they ? " asked Eugenia vaguely ; with the
rather brutal show of interest that a perfectly
strong person may evince in such a subject.


*' No," he said, " not as they used to do :
and for that very reason. We wish to preserve
the patient's strength as far as possible." —

'' I see," she answered, still vaguely, only
conscious of the wish to put off a catechism

VOL II. H

and make conversation : " What would happen
to me if I were to be bled ?"

As you are now ? " he asked her with a
smile. — There is a charm in a beautiful
woman's sympathy with your profession, be
it what it may, to which he was not insensible.


'eyes" — in a tone of merely assumed interest.


But Dr. Burroughes loved his profession. —
"As you are now," he said, 'ein perfect health,
it would make you weak and ill : you have no
fever in your veins. Any considerable bleeding
would leave you a different creature — perhaps
bring on a serious indisposition."

"And yet it seemed to do her so much
good " —

That was because of the fever, the congestion
: her temperature was abnormally high."

I see," she said again. She just heard
what he said, but it was immaterial.

By this time Dr. Burroughes wished to return
to his patient, to see that her husband's
visit was not disturbing her unduly. And
Eugenia was glad to make an excuse to get
at once to her own room.

And there — strange as It may seem — because
the calm of loving is, after all, greater
and deeper than all the disquiet of the world
else, she had no sooner taken off her dress
than she fell Into as dreamless and profound a
sleep as her lover was enjoying in his white
room, now flooded with the radiant morning
light. It came upon her like a wave, it "lapped
her round."

Dr. Burroughes was content to leave Lord
and Lady Shortlands together, under Pariitt's
watchful eye. He occupied the Interval by a
bath, and, while he was refreshing himself, he
pondered over other things beside his patient's
case. He pondered over what she had said
to Eugenia, " your face is your fortune : " — he

had not looked upon Miss Brand as a dependent.
— " Well," his meditations concluded,
'rit Is a very fine fortune, in this instance;"
and then his brisk thoughts galloped off again
to his friend Sir Edmund Trefusis. He
wished Sir Edmund would marry. Dr. Burroughes
enjoyed the Ashbank bathroom, and
settled his friend in life with Eugenia Brand :
he thought her worthy of Sir Edmund. . . ,

Meanwhile there was no excitlnor sentiment
in the old people's interview. Lord Short-lands
had waited by the bedside until his
wife opened her eyes again ; for she had closed
them when Euo^enla left the room. When she
saw him there, his presence did not seem

unfamiliar.

"Well, my dearest Agatha," said the old

man, at last, " how are we now ? "

He spoke as one might speak to a sick

child — he, who had lived in terror of the lash

of his lady's tongue, when he could hear it.

*' I am well now," said Lady Shortlands in
her usual tone, *' but I shall not be well long :
we must get back to Shortlands tomorrow."
Her fingers tapped the quilt impatiently.

*' Very good," said his lordship, for Dr.
Burroughs had told him that he must contra-diet
no wish of hers, however impossible or
irrational it sounded.

I have done what I came for," she said —
much as, in choicer words, St. Simeon did —
'* Sir Edmund is in love with the creature."

'' And * the creature,' " said Lord Shortlands,
glad to have so palatable a piece of news to
impart, '' tells me she never knew anybody
like Sir Edmund."

Lady Shortlands was silent for a minute,
and seemed to be thinking deeply : then she
yawned : *' She is quite right," she said, '* she
never did. That is my wish, Shortlands,"
she added, turning towards him with peremptory,
expressive eyes.

*' Certainly, my dear," said his lordship
meekly, with the air of one awaiting further
orders : '' you are always thinking of others,
always unselfish." —

Lady Shortlands' answer was made in a
tone which she knew, from long experience,
he could not hear : *' I am thinking of the
creature's snub to her grandfather ; " she said,
'* we Carruthers never forget : and you are
an old fool."

Certainly, certainly," said Lord Shortlands
again, assenting to what he thought she murmured
: for his own part, he generally said the
same thing twice over.

I wish to see the Jew," said his wife presently
: she never attempted to correct him,
and Indeed he was generally punished enough,
by his " crooked answers."

The zu/io ? my dearest Agatha."

"Not the 'who' — they^z^^; I wish to see
Anne Jefferles."

Lord Shortlands was puzzled : he did not
know what might be his lady's notion of the
hour. Anne Jefferles was no doubt sleeping
the sleep of the just.

She read his thoughts, '' I should like to
see her at ten o'clock. Eugenia will be sound
asleep by then, Burroughes at his breakfast,
and Parity an idiot : I wish to see her
alone."

'' She is a clever, sensible girl," said his
lordship.

Never you mind about that," — she replied.
I wish to see her : and mind, I do no wish
to see the Tomlinson : if I am going out of
the world, I wish to go from a milieu of gentle
people." She said the last words lower, for she
never could habituate her husband to such
speeches, much as Vane might like them ;
but his deafness suffered her to have the
pleasure of hearing herself say them.

*' Mrs. Tomlinson has placed all Ashbank

at our disposal," he said, uncertain as to the
purport of her muttering.

'' Ah ! " said Lady Shortlands, drily, 'this will
be the maklnof of Ashbank : no doubt she expects
my daughters to come here ; but I think,"
she added in her veiled tone, 'that the fact of
my immediate removal will spoil the paragraphs
: " — and she chuckled a little. "Now
don't forget to send me the infant Samuel."

Lord Shortlands chuckled too, for he heard
that speech : her ladyship allowed him to hear
It, because it was not Illnatured, and he thought
that it was what amused her ; he took it fora
good sign.

The house became very sunny : it was still
as a tomb, but it was saturated with the gradual
light : all the rooms began to smell sweet of
flowers, as the sun woke their scents to life.
Lady Shortlands lay upon her cool frilled
pillows, with her kind old lord sitting at her
bedside, and thought that, after all, it was not

SO bad to be ill. Although she felt too weak
to move herself, her fevered frame was calm :
her surcharged veins ran with a temperate
tide ; her brain was busy, and her sight was
clear. She lay and schemed, and her scheming
soothed her soul.

Presently Lord Shortlands nodded, as the
sunlight made him drowsy after his night's
waking. Her schemes were interrupted, and
she packed him off to bed. Parity resumed
her watch : then Parity, too, began to doze a
little. But still Lady Shortlands did not sleep,
though life looked small to her, and the hour
was full of dreams. With her husband's presence,
she dismissed her anxiety about Eugenia
for a while : her plan was made, it only waited
sympathetic furtherance. She let her memory
wander back, for comfort, to scenes of five and
thirty years before. No doubt, at this untimely
hour of the early summer day, every other soul
at Ashbank — what with the fatigue incidental

to the ball and the weariness of anxious watching
— was " fallen on sleep." Strange ! — that
only this one old woman, most world-worn
soul of all, should be waking, and that her
waking thought should be busied with no elinor
creature, but just with the remembrance of one
long-dead young man. She and he had danced
together In Dublin, and from dancing they had
got to loving ; and, when that seal was set on
their attachment, they were parted — quite expediently
parted — and time that had used her
so well till now, that had brought her fortune
and children and a Ducal son-in-law, had taken
him a great while since, as one of small account,
and turned him into dust. The daisies of many
and many a year had grown out of his grave ;
she did not even know where he was burled.
But she had loved him. His was an image
that had been enshrined, he filled her heart
for ever. Over all this sleeping household he
was the one dominant vision, this one waking

brain was his throne still and no man's else.
He held his sway. She saw nothing but him
as the day grew ; it was his loving hand that
seemed to be binding up her wounded arm :
he had been the boon of her life, he was to bethe
comfort of her death.

She pressed her wrist against the quilt, to
feel the bracelet with his portrait on her arm.
The bracelet was there, but the portrait was
gone. Her restlessness returned ten-fold ; the
blood leaped into her forehead, and her arm
stung her. *

Then she became aware that the morning
silence was broken by various faint creaking
heard from far, and her quick ears detected the
movement of housemaids as they set the hall
in order with light sweepings and the tapping
of brushes against the stairs and boards. They
would find her secret : — not that they would
have been much the wiser if they had found it.

She felt feverish and roused Parity :

^' Woman," she said, " wake up I you snore,
and you look absurd : what did you do with
my trinkets ? "

Parity bestirred - herself, chagrined at her
ladyship's comments upon her nursing and
her looks: she had told Sir Edmund's valet
that she was " such a wakeful one : that she
never closed an eye but in her bed, and there
slept as light as a feather." She went to the
dressing-table, arranging her cap at the mirror
as she did so, and, with some proper pride, produced
her lady's jewels put together on a crystal
tray, but Lady Shortlands' eye at once perceived
that the locket from this special bracelet, which
was never taken off, was not among them.

And then she saw it, lying on a little table
by the bed. It had been placed there : It
could not have dropped from her arm, on to
that table; and the truth struck her, that
Eugenia must have laid it there at her side :
for Parity did not even see it.

*' Could the creature really have come to that
pitch of understanding ? " thought the old lady,
rather with alarm than remorse ; she made Par-fit
secure the locket to the bracelet more firmly,
with a reprimand for carelessness which it did
her good to make ; and then her fancy turned
again to Eugenia's future.

As soon as more decided stirrings, in the
corridor outside, warned them that other of
the guests were awake, Parity put Lady
Shortlands into some semblance of order,
though her complexion was not as disarranged
as it would have been after a night's sleep,
and, on the stroke of ten. Dr. Burroughes
brought Miss Jefferies into the room, before
he went to his breakfast, and roused his
patient to welcome her.

Anne was a very reassuring apparition to
an invalid. Some years ago her mother had
succumbed to a long and very tedious illness,
so she had been for months experienced ina

sick-room. Lady Shortlands' eyes rested
upon her with satisfaction and a confidence
that was not misplaced. Anne was neatly
dressed in a soft white gown that did not
rustle and was plainly made, though its fit
was so perfect that it brought back Parity
to comparative vivacity. Her sleek dark hair
looked all the glossier for this simple dress,
and her slim fingers were cool and light as
she laid them upon Lady Shortlands' hand.
'' I am here," she said, with a presentiment
that she was summoned to be the recipient of
anxious confidence, '* Dr. Burroughes says I
may corne, and, if I can do anything to please
you, pray let me do it."

Despite her youth, Anne's knowledge of
the world was pretty nearly on a par with
Lady Shortlands own. She had one of those
original minds — born middle-aged — with which
an only daughter sometimes, as it were, resumes
the mental qualities of both her parents.

Anne was her own brother ; she inherited her
father's shrewdness, and her mother's patience.

'* Thank you ; " said Lady Shortlands, as
she might have answered a lawyer, and she
said no more : her trusting Anne, she felt,
was, in itself, sufficient compliment. Miss
Jefferies took upon herself to sign that Parity
should leave the room ; then she seated herself
at the bedside.

'' I wish you were my niece," said her ladyship,
drawing a deep breath, "you are not a
fool."

Anne smiled cynically, " I've got the better
of that," she said, " what do you want me todo
? " She spoke with the air of one who
waives an explanation as unnecessary. She
knew well enough that it was of Eugenia
that Lady Shortlands wished to speak.

"I want you," said her ladyship, "to look
after the creature : I believe she is going to
be an idiot."

Anne recollected what she had seen at midnight
in the marble temple, and to herself she
thought the future tense misplaced.

'' I brought her here to marry Sir Edmund
Tre-what's-his-name," said Lady Shortlands
testily.

** And not to become * Mrs. Jones'" said
Anne, 'she is certainly too good for that."

'' Do you like Eugenia ? " asked Lady Short-lands
— something in Anne's tone struck her as
curious.

"I like her," said Anne, *ras an ugly girl
likes a beautiful woman. Perhaps that's the
same as hating her — I don't know : but, if
it is, I want to hate her fairly, not at a disadvantage.
I should like her to be Lady
Trefusis when Tm Lady Torre : you see, unfortunately,
as things are, it isn't worth my while
to like or dislike people : — Lm too rich ! But
that would strike the balance. There'd be no
spice in hating ' Mrs. Jones ' — if I do hate her."

'you really are going to marry Lord
Torre ? " said Lady Shortlands : '' I had
thought of him as a second string to Eugenia's
bow, if Sir Edmund failed." — At
which they both laughed.

He's much better suited with me'' said
Anne. '' Yes, I suppose I shall marry him,
some day, but at present I like going to his
parties : * oil passer-je mes soirees .^ ' "

'* Well then," said Lady Shortlands, straightening
herself in her anxiety. "If you're
practically an engaged woman, you can do
what you like !"

'' That's about it ; " said Anne, '' but I
didn't wait to be ' an engaged woman ' for
that ! "

Then why don't yotc encourage Jones ? " —
Anne made a face of disgust, which changed
to amusement, without a trace of pique, as
Lady Shortlands meditatively added, — '' It is
a pity that you are not prettier."

VOL. II. I

It ts a pity ; " she said, " however I daresay
'Jones' would forgive me that, for the sake
of my fortune, if I took him in hand ; but I
couldn't ! could anybody marry him ? "

Lady Shortlands echoed her laugh : " Oh !
marriage : " she said, '' that is serious. — But
I don't know whether he would be withdrawn
from the creature, unless it were question of
that."

** Not certainly by my unaided charms ! " said
Anne, and then she stopped : she hardly liked
to say what had occurred to her quick instinct.

"But May!" cried Lady Shortlands, sitting
bolt upright in bed.

She might get to like him really," said
Anne, *' that would never do — I don't know
though : she's no fool."

No ; " said Lady Shortlands, relapsing,
*' the woman Buxton would come and knife
me in my bed — I beg your pardon, I forgot
she was your aunt."

Oh ! don't mind me ! " said Anne. " But
you see * the creature ' would never give him upto
May : — why should she ? May has no money
either : — she might to me!'

But you might manage it between you ; "
said Lady Shortlands craftily. " After all, ita
mere pastime ; and you're always together,
so it couldn't come to be a bore : if May
were to drag him about, and the creature
were to think it was you .^ " . . .

Anne smiled : she saw Lady Shortlands' drift
plainly enough. The prospect was legitimate
for neither she nor her ladyship had any
notion that Eugenia considered herself " engaged,"
— and Anne liked a plan. "■ It's a real
kindness to Miss Brand," she thought; for
such a love as Eugenia's was for Buck, surpassed
her comprehension altogether : it was
like the lily in the old Italian song, which grew
so tall in a night that you could sit beneath
its shade in the morning.

The two women — one old and sick, the other
young and active — sat and worked out their plot
together in that glowing sunlit hour. They
thought that they were working for the best, ^
but the scheme they made was one to blight
Eugenia's very life. It meant neither more
nor less than the complete prevention of love
passages between Lieutenant Jarvis and Miss
Brand. It was really May, whose sprightliness
and charm were to catch the young soldiers
fancy, but Eugenia was not to know that.
What she was to imagine — and what she did
imagine — time will show. For it is not more
edifying to describe than it should be interesting
to read, how a morning could be marred
over a plan like this. . . .

'' It zs only a fancy, I suppose," Lady Short-lands
concluded ; for the remembrance of her
own young lover, whose image had haunted
her so in the small hours, was present with
her still.

How can it be anything else ? " said Anne,
in her convincing, rational way. She was a
person whose inclinations were not swift, although
her instincts were. The one flirtation
that had touched her heart at all, in her girlhood's
days — for somehow Anne seemed more
than a girl, since her mother s death — had been
pursued with her music-master. It had taken
years of intimacy to produce, and but one
breath of sarcasm to dispel. It was this
ephemeral incident of which Lady Shortlands
had made so much capital to Mrs. Tomlinson.
But Anne did not know of that conversation,
or she might not have been so ready to abet
her ladyship in her scheme.

The plot depended, to no small extent, on
pretty May; and, when Dr. Burroughes had
finished his breakfast, and, finding his patient
much exhausted, had prescribed her complete
rest, over which he would himself keep guard,
Anne crossed the passage to the two chintz-bedrooms

and passed through her own to
May's.

This young damsel was still in bed, for
she had danced with all her might, so long
as the dancing lasted ; and, beside a great
amount of admiration from the White Highlanders,
had earned profound repose. Which
repose Anne ruthlessly disturbed, as she entered
the room, the brisker for her interview
with Lady Shortlands : she took a little run
and perched herself upon the bed.

Well ! " she said, '' wake up, May, it's more
than half-past ten ! "

Don't tease ; " said May : and then, — awaking
thoroughly, — "how is Lady Shortlands .'^ "
Anne had roused her, when she went to
Lady Shortlands' room, and made her promise
to get up, but she had fallen asleep again, with
her bright hair tumbled over the pillows. —

'mother Shortlands is not dead by any
means," said Anne trenchantly : "she is sitting

Up in bed, painted like a mummy, and slating
us all round."

What have we done ? " said May yawning,
with a happy sense of immunity from criticism.

'' Well, in my case, I am to blame, for not
being prettier : though her ladyship agrees
with me that Torre has forgiven me that, for
the sake of my fortune."

'' Nasty old polecat ! " said May — '' I don't
mean Lord Torre, Anne, and I think you
are pretty."

*' This child is quite of your opinion ; " said
Anne, with the same sang-froid in which she
had endorsed Lady Shortlands' verdict on her
looks : "between you and me, Lm a woman in
ten thousand — Oh! I don't mind your telling
Torre — a woman of a peculiar style of beauty.
However, I let her say her say ! Well ! that
was 'one for me.' Next, she is very angry
with your dear Eugenia, for not bringing Sir
Edmund to the point last night."

'soh! I saw that," said May, 'rand I believe
it gave her that horrid fit to see Miss Brand
come in to supper with . . . with Mr. Jarvis."
May hesitated before she said Buck's name,
and pressed her face into the pillows with
another yawn. Anne could only see her ear
but it was blushing.

'' Oh," she said, mimicking her cousin,
* with Mr. Jarvis ' . . . Well miss, then we
come to another offender ! Lady Shortlands is
very angry with you''

'* I thought you said Miss Brand was the
offender," — said May, looking up from her
pillows.

*' Oh, we're all offenders," said Anne tentatively,
" specially Jarvis ! "

There was no doubt about May's blushing
now, and "ah!" thought Anne, 'there's more
in this than meets the eye ! " . So she went
on : "The 'polecat' as you politely call /ler, is
very angry with you for flirting with Mr. Jarvis

or 'Jones ' as she calls him — there's a perfect
cross-fire of epithets in this monkey-house."

*'0h!" . . . said May rather frightened;
'but Anne," she added innocently, "that
was after she had her fit''

"What was 'after she had her fit'" asked
Anne demurely : no one would have guessed
from her tone that she was in the dark on any
subject. It was her usual tone of conscious
banter.

"Pll tell you;" said May, "we had danced
together once, certainly, before she was
taken ill : but I don't think she could have
noticed that ; I believe she was in the library
with Vane — I suppose they went there to tell
each other horrid stories:— and, after that, he
disappeared with Miss Brand."

"Who did?— Vane?"

Mr. Jarvis, stupid : Oh ! Anne he admires
her so much ! . . . Then, it was when she
was carried off, in that sickening way, and

o

Miss Brand had to go too, that he came and
asked me to dance, and afterwards to go into
the garden." —

"Oh! was it afterwards'' said Anne, ''I
remember : Oh ! you naughty ! and out you
went Hke an arrow from the bow ! "

"Well, but, Anne, I do really think he's
nice : he spoke of Miss Brand with such admiration
— I believe he's spooney on her." —

Anne gave a little scream and put her
fingers in her ears.

'' Idiot ! " said May, laughing, and giving hera
soft kick, " he is very impulsive — ardent you
know."

"Did you find him 'ardent you know'"
said Anne in the same bantering tone : " that
sort of red-headed man is, I believe, violent in
his likes and dislikes."

Oh ! it is more than that ! " said May with
a sigh, " at least I think it might be."

"Well," said Anne confidentially, "she's a

great flirt, and that's about the truth of it —
engaged to Sir Edmund, as she ought to be
by now, if she isn't."

''Oh! I'm sure she isntl' said May, and
she sighed again.

'' I caught her, myself," Anne went on,
"mooning about that Httle damp hole of a
temple, with your precious Jones ; — for I
really had looked on him as your booty
before"—

Had you ? " said May, plucking at the
counterpane with her pretty pink sings.
Then at last she looked straight at her cousin.
She had never kept a secret from Anne Jeff
: — few people had, for if she wished to
discover one she found it out — " I do like him,
Anne," she said, '' at least I could like him,
but how could he ever take to me after Miss
Brand } "—

'* Well ! as far as she goes," said Anne,
enchanted with the unforeseen likelihood of

success to Lady Shortlands' scheme, '' he must
be as free as air ; for she's safe to be pledged
to Sir Edmund in time : if she isn't, old Mother
Shortlands will explode again and go off like
a rocket."

'' But what if Mr. Jarvis is in love with
her ? "

Mr. Jarvis doesn't know what that small
word means, May : not but what you seem to
be doing your level best to teach him."

'* Oh ! Anne, you are so dreadful ! " —

'* I am ; " said Anne, '' you describe me to
a nicety. Cut along. Miss Innocence, and
tell me more: he praised Miss Brand to you,
and what did you say to that ? Did not your
bleeding heart cry ' hold, enough ? ' "

May laughed. '' Oh, I said, ' yes, of course,'
she was *very charming,' and all that sort of
thing."

'' With some nasty little proviso to your
praise, I suppose 1 "

I said she was rather old ; " May confessed,
laughing outright.

** And then what did he say ? "

'' Oh ! he said he ' Heed them Hke that.' "

'' Constant swain ! " said Anne, joining in
May's laughter, '* I don't think that Tve ever
heard a lover's speech much funnier than that.
You goose, if she were the ' lady of his heart,'
do you think he'd say he ' liked them old 1 ' "

** You don't think that he is in love with
her, then," said May, " he told me that he
was."

'' Raison de plus'' said Anne. 'perhaps
he thinks so, but you had better wean him
from this morbid attachment, as indeed, you
seem in a fair way to do. But go on. May !
describe these ' passages : ' my spinster soul
is thrilled." —

What nonsense, Anne, I'm sure you know
more about it than I do : we danced ; and
then we went upon the terrace, and looked

at the lanterns : and he said he was ' very
anxious about Lady Shortlands,' and I said
Why ? because I thought she was so odious ? '
and then he laughed, and said — in that dear
rough way of his, Anne, which I suppose
makes you call him a 'pig,' — that he 'wished
she was Diis auntie,' and that he ' meant to
have a try to make her so, — and a very sporting
auntie she'd be : ' and it was after that, we
came to talking of Miss Brand."

** Upon my word, you seem to have led upto
her name, between you, in a very graceful
and delicate manner ; " said Anne, with her
most satirical smile ; " pray did this pleasant-spoken
champion make any comments upon
me: he couldn't have said, as my pupil Mr.
Crossley said of Miss Brand, that I was a
gallows good shaped 'un' but he might at
least have called me a 'sporting auntie' "

'' He didn't though," said May, with a
delighted laugh, '' but he did say that of



course you were ' the one for a chap to go in
for who wanted to better himself,' because
you had * such ripping lots of tin.' "

'' Let him ' go in for me,' that's all ! " said
Anne, with a sniff of contempt, " and what
may have been your reply to that ? I suppose,
with maiden modesty, you drew a pleasing
contrast between your own unadorned beauty,
and my gilded pomp ! "

** You certainly are very coarse," said May,
'' we didn't talk about myself at all, except
just at the last. He was talking ^0 me, not 4^/
me ; and so nicely, — as if I were his own self."

'' That was a compliment indeed ! " said
Anne. " What do you mean by 'just at the
last ? ' " she added, with merciless exactitude,
for she knew enough of the frequency and the
shallowness of May's fancies, to have no fear
of paining her.

'' How you do catechise me, Anne ! Just
at the last, he said, in a rather nice way, that

he had never had a sister, and so it was quite a
new thing for him to have the sympathy of —
Oh ! Anne, how you do bother ; don't glare at
me so ! — of a ' nice, soft, shy Httle puss like
me,' if you 7mis^ have it ! "

'' Dear young man ! " said Anne with an
indignant laugh: *eyes, May, I 'must have
it' — so prettily put, wasn't it? Whereat, of
course, you simpered."

'' ' Whereat of course,' " said May, with the
relieved manner of one whose confidence is
wholly told ; '' Mr. Crossley appeared upon
the scene, and said he had been looking forme
everywhere."

'Vogue la gallery cried Anne; 'rand off
you went, to go through much the same small
pantomime with my gallant officer. All's fish
that comes to your net. May — 'je may
connais / ' "

** Coarse again," said May, 'rand so polyglot
! Perhaps Mr. Crossley is the nicer of

the two : but there's something rather I-don't-
know-what, about Mr. Jarvis : he's so outspoken."


** He appears to be," said Anne with a sneer,
'rand then he said * goodnight,' to return to our
mutton — pork I mean — once more ? "

"He said — what did he say ? " — May
pondered for a moment — (" Don't invent," said
Anne). — "He said that he'd 'put a Soda and
B. on board,' because he might be wanted to
help nurse Lady Shortlands."

Quite one of the family, in fact ; " said
Anne, — amused as she thought what Lady
Shortlands' indignation would be, when she
heard of Buck as her likely consoler in sickness
; — "and that was all '^. "

That was all he said to me — every word : —
but he said something else to Mr. Crossley : —
I heard it though — how oddly men talk to
each other, Anne, don't they ? "

"I don't know," said Anne; "I'm not one

VOL. II. K

of that inferior sex, you see — what did he say
that was so odd? It's his vocabulary that I
like so much. I'm delighted with it ! "

He said to Crossley," said May laughing
— *let me think of it exactly — yes! — that if
he was ' caught on the light fantastic, when old
tabby handed in her cheques, he should sweat
lor It!

Ardent, artless, refined young man I " said
Anne, jumping off the bed in her enthusiasm.
'' His prediction. May, was quite prophetic —
whether * old tabby hands in her cheques ' or
not, he s/ia// 'sweat for it.' He shall enjoy a
perfect Turkish bath, and I — moi qui vous
park — will do him the honour of assisting at
his moral ablutions, in the very hottest room."

*' Anne ! have you taken leave of your
senses ?"

I have," said Anne ; " ' farewell — a long
farewell — to all my ' — senses I And now getup
at once, and make yourself as pretty as

you can ; for you shall have him to yourself
all the morning — that's to say if I can spare
him ; for this young * gentle person ' (as Lady
Shortlands would — or rather as she wouldn't —
call him) so delights me, that I shall try and
make what impression I can on him, with my
own gilded pomp, before the day is out."

'you, Anne?"

"Me, May!"

Why don't you ' set your cap * at Mr.
Crossley ? "

''My cap V said Anne, stroking her sleek
hair ; " Fen afraid he might see it, if I did :
there's a joke for you, which would have sent
old tabby ' into convulsions if she'd made it
herself, but which she'd receive ' mute as the
fish,' if I told it her. Come, my angel ! we
will divide the spoil ! we will take them both :
we will play lawn-tennis ; we will go out in a
boat and ore bulrushes for Miss Brand —

o

perhaps the willow would be more appropriate

we Will make a little square party and
pervade Ashbank. They shall run for us,
and row for us, and carry our baskets and
our wraps : the ' soft little puss ' — for ' cat,'
my dear, you are, though I cannot bring
myself to call you 'shy' — and the 'ripping
lots of tin,' shall both depend upon their
manly strength to-day : to use his own inimitable
parlance — so far, far more expressive
than my 'polyglot' — Mr. Jones and his fidus
Achates shall ' sweat for it ! ' "

What with her indignation and the ferment
of her scheme, Anne Jefferies was in her
highest spirits already : and the contagion of
Anne's glee, with the probability of spice in
the way of flirtation, was quite enough to
make May forget the fatigues of the ball.

Meanwhile, how fared it with Eugenia ? —
for long ago, Arthur Jarvis was up and away
on a bathing expedition, to a cove more than a

mile from the house, with Boville and Crossley
and Vane.

When Parity went into Eugenia's room,
she found her wide awake, but quite forgetful
that her waking hours were not at her own
disposal. Truth to tell, she had opened her
beautiful eyes but a few minutes before ; and
they were so full of the idealised image of her
beloved that the hard realities of pain and care
had not yet dawned upon their vision.

She greeted Parity with a radiant smile, as
one sometimes finds oneself greeting a mere
acquaintance with the cordial welcome that
should be kept for a friend, when one is
listening to sweet music.

'well, Miss Brand," said Parity, drily,— for
she was worn out with her nominal watchings,
and on her way to, what she called 'get her
hair down and get to bed," — 'you look as if
your dreams had been pleasant enough."

'*■ I have not dreamed," said Eugenia, taking

a letter from her mother which Parity brought

o

her : but she did not open it. She Heed to
see it, for it was a tangible sion that she was
not dreaming now, but she did not want to
read yet. She lay back upon her pillows, with
the same lovely smile, lulled in an enchantment
of content and rest. She glanced round
the room — how beautiful it was ; how sweet
the fragrant air through the open window,
and the sun full on the window already . . .
it must be late ! Then her eyes rested upon
Parity's unkempt head, and the sight brought
her back to her senses with a shock.

'how is milady?" she said at once, with
some self-reproach in her tone.

"Sharp as a needle!" said Parity, " she's
been calling me names all the morning :

slut ' was a mild one : and she said I looked
absurd ' — that I should live to be called an

absurd slut ! ' — and I daresay she said so to
Miss Jefferies."

*sto Miss Jefferies?"

"Oh! yes, Miss Brand: Milady's been
giving Miss Jefferies a turn of her tongue too,
but she couldn't call her a ' slut ' at all events,
a better fitting, cachemire I never saw ; tight
as a glove, and a flow like water." —

"• I had better go to her at once," said
Eugenia, preparing to rise.

''No, Miss, she's sound asleep, and the
doctor is there : he says the danger's past for
the present, — not but what milady's had a
squeak for it, as they say. She's been at
Death's door," concluded the tirewoman, — not
without some satisfaction, in feeling that she,
perhaps, had helped to win poor Lady Short-lands
back again to life, — " she's been at
Death's door, and she's as good as knocked :
but — begging your pardon, Miss Brand, if I
seem profane — he was not prepared for her
tongue or her temper, at present."

With which bold flight of allegoric metaphor,

Parity cut short her visit to Eugenia ; leaving
her free to rise and take her bath in her
sunny chapel-bedroom.

Eugenia was not sorry to find that Buck's
smart jacket — which, with new-found foolishness,
she had placed over her before she slept
had fallen down, over weighted with its gilt,
upon the further side of the little silk-hung
bed, and thus escaped the vigilance of Parity's
gaze. Perhaps Parity had been looking for it,
as she prowled about the room and gathered
up the wreck of Eugenia's grey-green gown
and its bracken trimmings.

People who have admiration and to spare
for Elaine's musings over Launcelot's shield,
might still have smiled, perhaps, at our dear
Eugenia gazing at her young soldier's smoke
: but her beauty was beyond Elaine's,
and her love was much the same love, after all ;
the one romance of a devoted life. Before
she dressed herself, she folded up the jacket,

and she kissed it on the left side, over a
badge that was embroidered there and had
rested upon his heart, and hers. One wishes
one had skill to paint her face under the
ripple of her light-brown hair, as she stooped
to bless it so.

When she had put on the plain dress in
which she had first appeared at Ashbank, she
went downstairs to breakfast, looking both
younger and more beautiful than before, with
the rose-leaf blush, upon her sweet and noble
face, that was called up by her remembrance
of the past night's hour, on that same stairway.
She cast one glance up to the open door of
Buck's room, where the housemaids were now
busy. It seemed to Eugenia, because, with
the morning light, the state of her mind had
cleared a little, that her angel visit to that
threshold of Buck's door had been a very
heinous and a very maidenly action. But
she was naturally one upon whom convention

had but a slight hold : the distinction of "right
and wronor" was familiar to her, but that of
*' prudent and imprudent," strange. She and
her lover were now one : that was her view of
what, to many girls and to most men, would
have been only a pronounced flirtation. Their
marriage might be a question of time, but
meanwhile and always, since that first kiss
was given, they belonged to each other. By
the waking dream of a single day and night,
she was constituted and consecrated for ever,
in her heart of hearts, his guardian, his friend,
his wife. For Eugenia was the very antithesis
of those many women who, after, what Anne
Jefferles had called, 'passages," of an evening,
can greet a man almost as a stranger, on the
following morning. The love of such women
is just an inverted mayflower; its petals are
close folded all day long, and, though it
nightly may unfold to a few hours of dance-music
and champagne, it is sound asleep again

by the following morning. But Eugenia's love
was like the blossom of some oforeeous aloe.
It opened out its petals in such beauty that a
world might gaze on it and wonder : it knew
neither shrinking nor shame : it bloomed once
and for ever : it was the completion and the
end of her being. Day might come or night,
pleasure or pain ; once blossomed, it would not
wax nor wane until it died — and here ceased the
parallel, for it was immortal. It was at once
her peril and her prize, her glory and her grief.

But, for all this, the feeling was upon her —
and it brought the blush to her cheek — that she
would die, sooner than that any of her companions
should know the futile passion of
solicitude to which she had given way, in
those still hours of the early morning. She
need, we know, have had no fear : like all
the great and secret things of most lives' love,
it went down to its grave in her deep heart.

To a poet or a philosopher, there would have

been something almost tragic, in the recognition
of the start this passion had made
in Eugenia's Hfe. She was so thoroughly —
and in the fullest, as the strictest, sense — a
single-hearted woman. The gift once given,
the bent of her whole nature followed the lead
of love. And her expectation had been to
take up the thread of her delight, just where
sleep had let it fall.

So that it was with a sort of grieved surprise
that, on coming downstairs, she found Arthur
Jarvis nowhere, in hall or library or breakfast
room, and at last heard casually from James
Chatteris, of the bathing-party, which had started
at nine o'clock and which he had been far too
sound asleep to join. The poet had, indeed,
not breakfasted when Eugenia came down.
He looked tired, for he was unaccustomed to
late hours and was sympathetic enough to
have been greatly troubled by the untoward
circumstance of Lady Shortlands' seizure, of

which he was disposed to talk with bated
breath as they seated themselves at the table
together. Eugenia's hopeful tone and radiant
air puzzled him much.

I thought you would be all half-dead," he
said chagrined, '' and Ashbank like the sleeping
beauty's palace ; and I come down to find that
other men are up and out, and that Miss
Jefferies and Miss Buxton have already breakfasted
— whether here or in their rooms deponent
sayeth not — while you, even you, *your ain
sel,' on whom the cross has fallen, are not 'one
penny the worse.' "

"There is no danger," said Eugenia, "and
if there were, what could we do ? Let us eat
our breakfast."

There was nothing strange in her words : —
they might have been suggested either by
despondency or heartlessness — but in her voice
there was an extraordinary ring which the
young poet's ear detected, though he could not

understand it. For it had a buoyant sound,
almost as if she must " break forth in singing."

To prevent himself looking at her, he applied
his attention with true Scotch zest to his rolls
and the wonderful Ashbank viands — always
ready, and yet always just fit for eating. He
gave Eugenia some fish and she began her
breakfast with more than her usual zest ; she
thought she was hungry ; but then, of a
sudden, she found that she could not eat— she
felt as if she must be up and off, doing something
else. Every fibre of her body seemed to
be feasting full on the renewed excitement of
her heart and brain. She was quite well, and
she had an appetite, but it did not require food.

She put down her knife and fork after a
minute or two, and said rather absently,
*' What time did they go ? "

Oh ! very soon after supper. They would
not stay, although Mrs. Tomlinson and Sir
Edmund reassured them."

What do you mean ? " she asked in amazement,
** they are not gone ? "

Chatteris was at a loss. He had interpreted
her question as having reference to the many
guests at the ball, from which she had been so
abruptly torn.

I mean the men who went to bathe ; " she
said impatiently.

'' How can I tell you that, my cousin } These
men of muscle seem to despise sleep. I think,"
he added with a touch of satire, "that they are
always half asleep, and so they don't need rest ;
or do you think, perhaps, that they sleep twice
as sound as other folk 1 "

Eugenia thought of Buck '' sitting up," as he
had called it, in that deep dreamless slumber in
which she had beheld him — that most complete
and excellent oblivion of all the world, that
looked as if an hour of it would divorce one
from fatigue, like death.

*'0h! they sleep soundly," she said lightly,

*' I slept soundly too : did not you ? Or
did you sit up and make a poem ? Sir
Edmund told me last night that you were
making a poem — about me ! May I not hear
it?"

James Chatteris thought her tone was
changed indeed : yesterday she would have
been more diffident, if not more gentle, afraid
of self-assertion and trespass. Now, if only
he had known it, she was conscious in her
heart of such a trespass upon love's preserves,
as made mere forms like this seem
slight indeed.

** Oh ! yes," he said, stammering with shyness,
'when it is done, you shall have it, if you
care about it."

"Thanks very much ;" said Eugenia, aware
that she had spoken roughly, but far too preoccupied
to alter her tone ; it was easier to let
the subject drop. And then again she tried
to eat, but she could not : she was another

woman from that Eugenia whose breakfast
hour, at Shortlands farm, was wont to be so
placid and so healthy.

At last a period was put to her blunders
by the entrance of Anne and May, equipped
for tennis ; and Eugenia was not conscious of
the searching observation in Anne's gaze.
'swell," thought that young lady, "she looks
something for 'Mr. Jones' to be proud of, at
all events."

Although Eugenia was so much older than
Anne, her rare grace and her untroubled beauty
gave her sometimes an aspect of almost childish
simplicity. Her eyes had that infantile candour
which many women — but few mothers — retain
till they are old, whilst Anne's dark eyes had
never looked other than now : they had peered
out from her lace cradle into the baby world,
with much this piercing Israelitish gaze in which
they sought Eugenia's lovely face.

'' I am glad to find Lady Shortlands so much

VOL. II. L

herself again," said Anne, *' you will be quite
surprised when you return to her."

— " Return to her ? " of course : Eugenia
recognised the inevitable at once. How was
it that it had not occurred to her, that her day
must be spent in her aunt's room ?)

*' I wish I could take your place with her,"
said pretty May, in her gentle cooing voice,
"you are such a much better tennis-player
than I am."

— " Tennis-player? " of course, again. They
were going to play : well ! at least she would
be able to see them from her aunt's window —
would he play with them ? would they take
him away f)

The first sensation of the madness of
jealousy — the unreasoning and sudden jealousy
of unreasoning and sudden love — is
perhaps, of all sensations, the one that most
thoroughly surprises us in ourselves. A short
time ago, we had despised it with all that there

was generous in our nature ; now we can make
no resistance, only endure it.

Eugenia stood up and leaned against a sideboard
placed near the window, which was
open on to the terrace — there might be comfort
in the air ! As she stood so, her heart told
her, almost before her ears, that the young
men — no ! that one young man had returned
from his bathe and was striding across the
hall behind her. She vaguely heard Anne
Jefferies suggesting to her that she should
"make a good breakfast and try to keep up,"
a piece of advice which had a ridiculous
sound in its present context, — and then a noisy
party entered the room, by a door close to
where she was standing. She drew in her
breath and turned, the searching light still
full upon her face, and saw Buck there — the
same light full on his.

Ah ! that first safe meeting with the beloved,
which undoes all the doubts, which proves the

dream was true and all the fancied perils vain :
when other people matter so little because he is
come. Sleep overcast, and waking, and yet no
change ! —

In his manhood and his freshness — and his
silence — Arthur Jarvis looked worthy to be
so desired. His splendid health had quite
put away from him that hot and tumbled look,
which had come over him after the ball ; his
bath had brought the sanguine hues again to
his sunburnt face and his square finger-tips.
As for Boville and Crossley and Vane, who
perhaps looked well enough too, had Eugenia
had eyes left to view them with, she saw them
no more, than — at that one moment — Buck saw
Anne and May. But he was, as always, less
completely at his ease than Eugenia, the more
so now that he was stolidly awake to the
significance of their proceedings of the previous
night, and British sensible that she might
think him " a bit of a fool."

** Why have you burst in upon our maiden
meal Hke this, you bears ? " said Anne ; '' we
thought, and hoped, you had been thrown your
buns three hours aeo."

"Buns are not enough;" said Vane, — "not
even Bath buns, which, you'd say, ours were, —
we want to batten on boars' heads at least —
a propos of boars, where's Tomlinson ? "

Buck laughed : he saw that pun, which was
an unusually poor one for Vane ; his laugh
made Eugenia aware how intently, and to the
exclusion of all other perceptions, she had been
contemplating him : it was as if a clock should
suddenly strike when the clockmaker was watching
its works. Her own ! whom she had last
seen sleeping as if he were dead ; with his
commonplace young soul alive in him again
now, and looking, commonplaces and very
hungrily, out of his dear grey eyes.

** By George," he said in a voice for her
ear alone, as he came so close to her that he

touched her dress : '' I'm as hungry as a hound :
make me some breakfast, Jinny, will you?"
and he planted himself down at the table and
squared his elbows, turning his close-cropped
bullet head towards her, with the wet hair in
curls and points for her inspection.

Eugenia sat down again beside him : Anne
and May sat down too. Boville and Crossley
and Vane joined in chaffing Chatteris for his
laziness ; but Eugenia and Buck took no part
in the chaffing.

"Sugar?" she said, as she gave him his
tea.

"Rather, and the tea very strong — and
cream." — With such a look at her face !

It was all just as common as the ground
and just as unknown and as sweet as
heaven.

Although Euo^enia could not eat. Buck could
with added zest: — and she was satisfied with
watching him. This creature, that she had

appropriated, seemed to her so wonderful and
strange.

Buck enjoyed his breakfast, he ate all manner
of good things, fish and eggs and foie
gras, and crunched his toast the while, like a
young ogre. He was never so splendidly
happy as when he knew that somebody was
anxious for his comfort before that of all
others — especially if he were eating what he
liked at the moment.

There are none of your name-sake cakes,
for you," said Eugenia.

'* Never mind that," said Buck, with magnanimous
allowance, '' I put away plenty of
them when I was a kid."

. . '' To think," Eugenia thought, 'that
he had ever been a little child ! " . . .

Buck's friend Crossley — who, as we know,
had glimpses of decent feeling — had once asked
Buck — to whom such glimpses were unknown
what was his great idea of happiness ; and

Buck had answered, without hesitation, on
the principles of his own fundamental philosophy,
that it was ** to have some woman
about him always, who liked him awfully" —
premising of course, such accessories as luxury,
wealth and leisure, without which he could
form no mental image of his lordly self.

His mother had spoiled him; vulgar girls
had '' gone green about him," and not been
too '* proud or fine," to show him "what a
chap they thought him : " and now that this
love of Eugenia's had come to him, he was
disposed to treat it in much the same way
as their fancy, to put its rainbow cloud about
him for warmth as if it were a frieze greatcoat.
He liked Eugenia to give him his
breakfast, with the same liking with which he
liked '^ Miss Mary " at the " Rose and Thorn"
to light his cigar : and he liked that she should
do so in the presence of others.

What with his happiness, and the way he

*' loitered," as Anne told him, he outate the
appetite and outstayed the patience of all the
rest ; and so found himself at last — without
premeditation — alone in Eugenia's company ;
for she made no feint of stirring till he had
finished. Her place was by his side.

"Well," he said, throwing off reserve, as
Anne and May stepped out upon the terrace,
while the other men went to put on their
tennis-flannels, 'how's the old girl — eh?" —

Eugenia was acclimatised to this mode of
speaking of her aunt, by now ; and . she
answered that Lady Shortlands was better,
just as if he had inquired for her in the most
delicate and tactful way. *' But," she added,
** I shall have to be with her all day long."

*' No, damn it, will you though ? " said
Buck taking her hand. Now that they were
alone, he saw no reason why he should be
either choice in his language, or circumspect in
his actions : and he unbuttoned his blue waistcoat

and stretched his magnificent legs, with
an outrageous air of being quite at his ease.

All the day long ; " said Eugenia again, looking
at his hot face, aglow with exercise and friction
and breakfast : while she could see him
beside her, even his prospective absence seemed
an unreal thing — she spoke with no regret.

'' And you don't care a blow, I'll be
sworn : " he said, mistaking her tone.

Eugenia did not answer in words, but she
lifted his hand to her lips, as it lay upon her
own, and kissed it softly. He was well
pleased.

Come out with me upon the terrace, while
I have a weed," he said persuasively : but at
that moment, Anne looked in at the window,
(having previously remarked to May, that she
would do " the rose looking in at the window,"
for which role she was admirably suited '), and
Lord Shortlands came in at the door — fortunately
two seconds later.

'• Come out Mr. Jarvis ! " said Anne in her
trenchant but not unattractive way, twining
her hand in the creepers; "Come out, for
nobody's sake but your own — like Mr. Pickwick,
that must have most weight with
you — come out ! I'm sure you ought to have
some shaking-up at once, after that breakfast
of yours — you must try to amalgamate those
various viands or they'll get the better of you,
to a certainty. Go and classics yourself : weare
waiting and shall only allow you a quarter
of an hour to change." —

*' She is asking for you now, dearest niece,"
said Lord Shortlands to Eugenia, " if you
have finished your breakfast, will you go to
her at once ? "

Just at this idle moment, just by these common
needs, the lovers were parted : with nothing
yet said of all the speech that would have filled
a lifetime, with nothing yet known but the
nearness and the hand-pressure that are such

small symbols and yet can so completely consecrate
a life.

*' All right," said Buck to Anne. He rose
and joined her " straight away : " he had a
mighty horror of Lord Shortlands.

'^ I will come with you," said Eugenia to her
uncle, with one wistful look after her lover, ashe
strode out of the window. Did she feel, at
all, in that instant that he was taken away
from her for ever, that whom the night had
joined, the day, while yet so young, was to put
asunder ?

CHAPTER VL

IMMORTAL.

Eugenia had much need of patience in her
day's nursing. The morning had grown hot
and bright, and it brought clearer before Lady
Shortlands' eyes the havoc that illness was
making in her life. She had always been a
woman of enormous correspondence. An early
riser at home, she had, for years past, kept her
mornings at her own disposal and devoted
them to reading and answering letters. *' Lady
Shortlands' news," and " Lady Shortlands' epigrams
'^ were the best salt of many a breakfast
table. Her postbag of this morning happened
to be one of more than usual interest, and the
subject of her own seizure formed a topic on
which she was anxious to dictate sundry witticisms

which had occurred to her during her
sleepless hours, for the edification of her
daughters and their circles.

Eugenia had, of course, to be her amanuensis,
and much that she was bidden to despatch
was of a kind the most distasteful to
herself: for instance, there was Lady Short-lands'
postscript to her own letter to her
mother, which, while it would seem to Mrs.
Brand to be written in jest, held — for Eugenia's
ears, — some very unpalatable earnest.

Dearest sister," was what Lady Shortlands
dictated, to Mrs. Brand, when Eugenia had
read her the literal account of the past night's
terrors, which she was sending ; " I have had
a fit ! a vulgar, horrible, abominable, ungentle
fit ! and I have been bled for it, just as a
drunken woman might be by the parish doctor.
Whatever remained in my veins of the milk
of human kindness, which still flows through
yours (and makes your life so colourless) has,

I suppose, been drained away : for I'm as cross
as a crusader ! And conceive the cause of my
fit — I really thought I had more presence of

mind. — It was nothing in the world but a

shock to my cEstheticism at seeing Eugenia

march into supper, like a daughter of the regiment,

with a scarlet-pated lout of a soldier-laddie,
when I was expecting to see her Hoping

decently to her place with my own specially
selected cripple. Whether the soldier's redhead
disagreed (the house-poet, here, would
'say 'jarred') with my lobster-salad, to which
of course Shortlands attributes the fit entirely,
(so like a man, isn't it ? to be insensible to
these feminine fine feelings of ours — so coarse
and so indelicate !) — but which, I assure you, I
only looked at ; or whether the said soldier —
whom I only looked at too — is the devil (of
^ whom I never could endure the thought, because
I believe in him so devoutly), I leave
'you to determine, for you are an adept in

health and divhilty — I mean ill-health and the
other thing. I think perhaps he is the devil :
there seems to be a sort of bewitchment about
'him, which Eugenia feels. If so, I'm safe at
present, despite my flurry, for the woman to his
liking is "

Lady Shortlands paused : Eugenia held her
pen suspended in the air, until she heard what
was coming : she would not write of her lover's
love for her so roughly. — After a moment, Lady
Shortlands went on, with renewed zest — "the
'woman to his liking, is, evidently, Miss Anne
Jefferies I

I am coming back to Shortlands tomorrow,
in case of his fancy changing and
my catching sight of him again. I feel that
I deserve my vulgar ailment, for coming near
these horrible people at all. Oh ! my own bedroom
: with the miniatures upon its screens

and that Q^ood scent of the old lace and the

old days in it. There is nothing like it here :

the whole place smells of chintz and glazing.

All the same the housekeeper does her best forme
according to her lights — very magnificent
lights — gas-lights — duplex-lights ■ — electric

lights — sharers — not a bit like the modest wax
candle-lights we were brought up by. Parity
is ' my only joy as some poet said of ' Phyllis : '
'I can't say that she's ^ coy,' as 'Phyllis' was,
but she's very funny . I let her go to sleep
and then wake her up . I don't sleep . . .
'I . . ."

Lady Shortlands' voice ceased. As if the
mention of Parity's sleep had lulled her, she
had fallen asleep herself.

But Eugenia did not wake her. Before she
commenced the latter paragraph, her attention
had died suddenly : she still wrote automatically
on, her hand transcribing what her ears
received, but she did not know what she was
writing. Her consciousness was closed, when
she had written those most unexpected words,

VOL. IL iM

'miss Anne Jefferies;" — words which revealed
to her a possibility that froze her heart.
Up to that moment, certainly, she had written
with some distaste : it seemed like blasphemy,
to register the beloved's auburn curls as his
"scarlet-pate," to call him a 'Most of a soldier-laddie:"
but she felt that she was bound to
white what Lady Shortlands told her, by the
claim of her helplessness — if indeed she had
been, at all, the cause of it — and she felt
too that she could trust her mother with
her own sister's sarcasm undiluted — that a
word from herself would be sufficient antidote.
She relied also on her belief in Buck :
"when mother sees him," she thought, 'rand
knows how well I love him, we shall see
what Aunt Agatha's strictures weigh ! " So
that, to Lady Shortlands' discontent, she
had even smiled in writing down her
words.

Lady Shortlands indeed, had not originally

meant to end her sentence with Anne Jefferies'
name ; she was going to tell tales of Eugenia,
wishing to make "the creature" write a kind
of confession of her own behaviour, while she
watched the effect. But perhaps the devil,
who figured so much in her letter, stepped
to her bed's head and prompted her, or perhaps
she determined that it would be better
to ignore Eugenia's folly altogether. At all
events, she furthered her scheme with Anne,
by deliberately substituting the heiress' name ;
and so satisfied was she with the immediate
effect of that name on her amanuensis, that
she gradually dropped, as we have seen, into
the quiet and refreshing sleep, falsely assumed
to be the portion of the just.

For as Eugenia wrote Anne Jefferies' name,
her warm fair face had seemed to freeze and
darken, as if the living heart that animated
all its beauty had been plunged In Ice ; and
when her pen ceased with Lady Shortlands'

dictation, she still clasped it, as she sat like a
marble woman at the table.

And so sitting, listening on for Lady Short-lands'
voice, there came to her a noise of light-blown
laughter from the tennis-courts, at no
great distance from the partly open window.
She could detect the differences in its tone.
There were a louder and a lighter voice, that
were alike triumphant: Arthur Jarvis and his
partner May had won the first set.

At last Eugenia rose, and moved softly to
the window ; with that impulse to probe her
wound for which there always seem such
chances bestowed on a lover. She pulled the
blind aside, and looked down upon the lawns,
chequered in the sunshine with their lovely
borders of shadow. The long, green centre-lawn,
where no shadows were, and where the
net was stretched and the white lines were
drawn, was vacant now. The victors and
the vanquished were resting on the shadowed

turf, and formed a very pleasing group as they
reclined there in their thirsty ease.

Their occupation at the moment was not
heroic, though it was perhaps Homeric. They
were crowded together, watching Vane intently,
as he made them a wonderful American
drink — a species of lemon-squash — which they
were going to enjoy through straws ; there
was no tinge of sentiment in their proximity.
Pretty May was resting on a garden-seat,
with Dick Crossley, in attendance, balancing
her racquet, as Buck had balanced Eugenia's :
Captain Boville, who had been reading the
papers, was seated beside her, and James
Chatteris was stretched on the grass at her
feet. Buck and Anne — the active members of
the party — were squeezing lemons for Vane,
who was busy with bright glasses and ice and
liquids in gleaming bottles, upon the marble
which some old sculpture-fragments lent him
for a table, in his improvised restaurant.

Eugenia scarcely saw the rest of them : but
she saw Buck and Anne together; and she
saw that Anne was occupied with Buck himself,
much more than with the lemon-squeezing.
She could not have said how it was that
she saw this, but she did see it unerringly;
the fact was there, but Eugenia mistook the
motive. And as for Buck he looked to
Eugenia's eyes, a man to be desired and
obeyed. He was conspicuous in his flannels,
and his colouring was vivid enough for distance.
A hundred yards away from him, you
could see that he was gloriously well and
radiantly happy, and no doubt in his supreme
health and happiness lay the secret of his
young mastery over Eugenia. She gazed at
him with an earnestness that left her no scope
even for honouring: to be with him, and the first
sensation to which she awoke was a stupid and
unreasoning disquietude, born from her overvaluing
a trivial thing. Could any one be with

him and not love him ? and then, What was
it Lady Shortlands had dictated ? Anne's contempt
for him, her nonchalance her charm,
were not these persuasions of the most attractive
kind ? . . . And if Anne should love
him, how much she could do for him, what a
position she could give him, what luxuries,
what wealth ! — Eugenia had nothing in her
hands to offer him but her heart and her beauty.
She turned and looked back, down the lone
room. Lady Shortlands lay with her eyes
shut : but if she were asleep, her sleep was of
the lightest ; for she yawned sometimes, and
shifted her position. Eugenia dared not leave
her. The room looked dark and peaceful and
lonely, with its beautiful appointments and
that one, small, old woman lying on the rich
bed, for central figure, making her pact with
death in such a solemn silence. No: Eugenia
must stay with her aunt. With the noiselessness
of dread, she drew a chair to the window,

and sat down to watch again, the light first
blinding her eyes afresh as she did so.

Buck was not one to be honor without
romping, wherever he was ; and presently, byway
of being funny, he spurted some lemon-juice
into the patient Crossley's eye. Whence
ensued symptoms of a free fight, in which
Anne seemed disposed to take an interest ;
Anne, who had no brothers or sisters and
held all such amusement in abhorrence ! (But
then Anne had detected Eugenia's head at the
window, as she peered round the white blind.)
Siding with Crossley, to that gentleman's delighted
surprise, she dexterously possessed herself
of the sugar-tongs, and took a lump of sparkling
ice from the glass bowl, which she slipped
down Lieutenant Jarvis' neck, just as he bent
backwards to parry his adversary's lemon.

The action was so entirely out of Anne's usual
manner, so precisely what she would have condemned
as '' larky" In another woman, that

Eugenia held her breath with amazement. It
spoke for Anne's dignity as a rule, that her
partisanship struck Eugenia as seriously unjust
and unfair, instead of merely as ridiculous.
She would have been still more amazed could
she have, heard the dialogue that ensued, of
which she could distinguish little more than
the shouts of, "Well put. Miss JefferiesI" and
*' Oh, Anne ! " mingling with Buck's balked
and crestfallen laughter.

You'd better look out," he shouted, with
shy but savage glee, ''or by Jove! I'll spoil
that sporting new jacket of yours, which you
think so 'down-the-road.'"

I should like to see you touch me ! " said
Anne contemptuously, clasping her slim hands
behind her back, while Crossley snapped a
lemon-pip from his fingers, which caught his
gallant foe upon the cheek.

Should you, though ? " said Buck. The
retort and the lemon-pip together emboldened

and provoked him, and he made a dash at her
which she could have eluded easily, but she
actually let him touch the sash of her dress,
and then looked up at him and smiled in his
face.

You dare no further ! " she said.

Don't I ? — you don't know me ! " said
Buck, whose head was close to hers : *' Why
rd kiss you for a fiver / "

Anne's instinct was to drench him summarily
into silence, with his share of the lemon-squash,
and then tell Captain Boville to kick him, butin
a flash — as she turned — she caught the expression
of Eugenia's face, and felt that the
moment was come for which she had been
scheming, and was at no price to be lost.
She absolutely put her fingers on Buck's
shoulder, wet with the melting ice, and faced
him round towards May ; her words undid
the caress of her action, but then Eugenia did
not hear her words.

*' Here is a young warrior' she said, " whose
ardour I have tried, in vain, to quench. He
has a piece of ice down his back, the size of a
half-crown, as you can witness one and all, and
he has narrowly escaped a lemon-pip in his
right eye ! The deluded pip took his head fora
lemon and lodged here instead " : — with that,
she flicked his curls — a stage flick, for she
would not have touched them for the world : —
"this, by the way: the fact remains that his
ardour is not quenched, but that he makes mea
magnanimous offer of truce. He says he
will ' kiss me for a Jlver.' As I should particularly
like him to try, because of what he
would get if he did, I am going" — here she
twitched off Buck's striped cap — " to send round
the hat for him, in the assurance that Miss
Mary Agnes Buxton, Captain Boville, Mr.
Richard Crossley, Mr. Henry Vane and Mr.
James Chatteris will contribute the small sum
of one pound sterling apiece, for reserved seats

to see the entertainment. — Applause ! where's
the applause, Mr. Crossley ? "

The applause duly followed, and, meanwhile,
she concluded, for Buck's ear alone, in a tone
which seemed to scorch him : "If they won't,
I shall send in the footmen to ask Lady Short-lands
and Miss Braid to contribute ; and I
fear, if we depend upon Miss Brand's resources,
that — much as she would appreciate the performance
— it will be likely to fall through."

Under this torrent of words and allusions —
which left him unaware how much was known,
and which he was quite powerless to answer or
to stem — Buck became crimson and awkward.
Captain Boville's face taught him more than
Anne's phrases, and there were shafts that
pierced even to his intelligence. He saw
that Miss Jefferies was sarcastic, and he knew
that he had said an odious say ; but yet she
did not behave as he had fancied she would
have done if she were angry, and, to complete

his puzzled, she kept her hand upon his
shoulder all the time she mocked him. And
May too was astonished at Anne's tirade, and
only half liked her manner. She knew the
attraction of that impertinence for men, and,
like Eugenia — with her lesser love — she felt
that Buck was being rather hardly used.

*' Oh Anne ! Pax ! " she said. *' Is that good
Latin, Mr. Vane ? My schoolboy brothers
always call out ' Pax' when they have had
enough of quarrelling. I don't know," she
added to Crossley, for she did not dare speak to
Buck, "whether you real soldiers are not too
proud to do so : so I will do it for you. Pax,
Anne ! we are all so thirsty ; Mr. Chatteris
is eating grass, and you have been wasting
the ice ! "

"Well, Ganymede," said Anne to Vane, "is
the cup ready ? "

You must have none," said Vane, "it is a
loving-cup."

May clapped her hands : she would punish
Anne ! '' The combatants must drink out of
it together, first : " she said, " it will be as good
to see as the kiss, and it will save our pockets
\}i\^ fiver : if they won't, they shall have none,
and we shall insist upon the forfeit."

Thus, after some persuasion — for she had
not bargained for this — and amid great
laughter, Anne Jefferies and Buck Jarvis
put their lips to the big vessel in which
Vane's cup was brewed ; and drank as deep
a draught as Tristan and Iseult, though not
of love, and so their truce was sealed.

How did all this rough play — this intimate
nearness of the beloved to another — look to
our poor Eugenia '^

Lady Shortlands dozed on : and she had leisure
left to watch it all, until tears stopped her
sight — tears not so much of jealousy as of despair.
Eugenia had never been used to spending
bright summer days, a prisoner, indoors.

She was fitted for the sunllorht and the lawns :

o

her heart had been away with that group
under the pleasant shade, but as it cast itself
among them, it struck on pain. Had May
behaved to Buck as Anne was doing, Eugenia
would have felt nothing but an angry jealousy.
May Buxton, one of many daughters, was
little better dowered than herself, and far less
capable. To May, as Lady Shortlands had
divined, she never would have given up her
lover without an effort — and it needed but an
effort to retain him — but what if Anne had
set her heart upon him, Anne with her brilliant
wits and her great fortune ? As Eugenia
watched this sport, increasing sorrow to her
soul, a pain, almost beyond bearing, succeeded
gradually to her momentary dread. He
seemed so happy, so occupied, so thoroughly
at his ease ; he yielded with such self-surrender
to Anne's touch ; her hand was on
his shoulder, where Eugenia's rounded arms

had lain, her lips were at the brim of the same
cup with his, and he let himself be appropriated
without resistance. Something of the
truth of his adaptability entered like iron into
her heart. Yes : he would enjoy life to the
full as much with Anne, as with herself If
Anne loved him . if Anne loved him.

A tremor came upon Eugenia's limbs, as she
sat there at the window. She tried to face the
thought again ; — '' If Anne loved him." Well !
could anything, in the whole world, be better for
him than the love of this clever girl, whose
power could bring him all he liked ? '* Oh ! if
it should be for the best," she thought, '* God,
help me to bear it ! help me to bear it." Her
tears fell fast like rain : from a very hell of
jealous passion, she passed into a purgatory of
reasoning, only to deserve the joyless heaven of
self-denial. " It is better it should be at once,"
she said aloud, *' before he has learned to love
me much : " — of herself she never thought :

whatever she should suffer, It would be for
him.

While Lady Shortlands made her pact with
death for a little more life, Eugenia was making
her pact with life for a little more love —
if it should not spoil the happiness of the
beloved. She loved him, at that moment,
deeper far than in his presence, but she comprehended
him better. Her mind was awake;
she tried to argue down her heart. "Why," —
she said to herself, — "why should it be so hard
for me to let him go ? What Is the nature of
the link between us ? It is only a passions —
The colour came into her cheeks aealn : she
dried her sudden tears, indignant with herself,
and sat on blankly staring at the window-blind
which she had dropped over the pane, and seeing
nothing ; for voluntarily she shut out the
sight of his treason. — "What has he done tome
? " she went on, " that he should possess me
so ? It is not as if I were seventeen. At

VOL. II. N

EUGENIA.

seventeen one is let dream these dreams, one
is let love, with one's whole life. I never
dreamed them then, I never cared : and is this
my dream, come too late ? Is it the really
because it thrills in every nerve of my frame ?
or is it only a young girl's sick fancy that has
lost its way, and come astray into a woman's
heart ? " She felt her very temples glow, with
their first flush of shame — shame for the purest
thought that ever befell life, that he should be
so dear, that she should be so loving. She
clasped her hands and pressed them tight together
till she hurt herself. They were not
hot or cold : there was no bodily fever, yet,
that had taken hold upon her royal health :
with a weaker woman this might have been illness,
— "nerves," — with Eugenia it was passion
and conviction. She was quite well, only —
'' I am a fool," she said aloud, in a hard voice,
unlike her own ; '' a fool."

Lady Shortlands opened her eyes. *' Why

are you gone so far away ? " she asked in a
querulous tone. In her faintness, and to her
dimmed sight, the room seemed endless : it
opened out into a long vista, at the end of
which was a blurred Eugenia.

'' I thought you were asleep, Aunt Agatha,"
she said, coming back to the bedside. There
was no caress in her voice and no confidence,
she was not accustomed to the capricious
humours of sick people, for Mrs. Brand was
patient and silent.

Lady Shortlands resented this dry solace.
"So I was," she said, 'until you woke me
up muttering. Sitting there half a mile off,
like a ghoul, and gibbering like an idiot, is
enough to wake any one up. What was it you
said ? "

Nothing," Eugenia answered stupidly ; nor
had she any notion that she had spoken her
thought aloud.

"Most people say that;" said Lady Short-lands

with a musing irony : " only some people
take more words to say it in than others."

At last Eugenia felt some secret spring of
bitterness within herself that welled towards her
aunt's causticity : she too had begun to think
that words meant nothing. But the moment
did not last. She could not help it that
her nature was trustful and sweet. She
sighed.

'' Yes : shall I read to you, Aunt Agatha ? "
she asked presently.

If you like, and if you can'' said the old
lady, who had been watching her, "anything is
better than gibbering like a ghoul."

*' There are no books here," said Eugenia
looking round ; " but there are plenty in my
room : I w411 go and get one as soon as my
uncle comes in."

The two women remained silent, trying to
read each other's hearts, the echo of the voices
from without reaching them faintly now and

then, through the open window : It sounded as
if the girls were talking alone, the bass and
tenor voices were gone out of the glee.

Lord Shortlands soon came back ; he could
not keep away for long at a time, and he
slept a great deal, by naps, so that he required
no regular rest : when he appeared,
Eugenia went at once to her room, to find a
book to read aloud to her aunt.

As she entered her chapel-chamber, she
started suddenly, as if she had seen a ghost ;
on the table there was a white scrap of paper
lying, which she hardly dared unfold : it was
roughly sealed, with a great deal of wax and a
very broad thumb that had impressed its grain
upon the seal ; and it was directed to ** Miss
Brand" in pencil. She felt a sting of conscience
: he had been writing her a letter, while
she had been making up her mind, so calmly,
to give him up. She sat down, and reverently,
as if she were discovering a miracle, she untwisted

the scrap of paper, which had been
torn out of a pocket-book, and read :

My dear Jinny — Can't you get leave for

the picnic ? Mrs. T. says we can picnic as
old Lady S. is all right now, and we shall be

best out of the way. I am to drive Miss J. ina

buggy : but I will put her off if you can come,
though she is very keen : ' nuts on yours truly.'

I've been with her all morning, and I should

think she'd got her cuffs pretty full by now. I
shall give this to the housemaid. Mind you
come if you can — bar rot : its my last whole

day. Do you know what these stars are
meant for ? Guess : I'll tell you some day.

Think of me, if you can't come,

Yours up-hill and down-dale,
^'^ '' '' ' Buck."

PS. " I shall give this to the housemaid,"
' the housemaid ' was evidently very much in

Lieutenant Jarvis' thoughts, for he said this
twice over. — " Tm not much of a scribe, but I'll

write you another when we get back ; but I'm
not going to make any more paper stars. I'll
come somehow. The tennis was rot. How's

yourself .f^"

This epistle took Eugenia several minutes
to read, although her eyes and her beating
heart vied with each other to tell her its meaning
speedily. There were some words that
she could scarcely read, (for the writing was
not of the best,) some that she did not understand,
even when she had read them over andover
; for she had not yet mastered her lover's
language. *' The picnic ; " — she gathered, from
that word, that Mrs. Tomlinson had planned
an expedition for her party in the afternoon, to
leave the invalid's surroundings more completely
undisturbed. It was thoughtful of
Mrs. Tomlinson, and naturally he was going

to it : at least naturally he was asked to go toit
and, perhaps, as there was driving, he could
not be spared. But then, that sentence about
Anne. Well ! she had seen It with her own
eyes, she was glad that he was truthful. 
did not understand the far-fetched slangy,
"has got her cuffs full by now," and she did
not like the " housemaid " or the *' stars." But
she did like " think of me," and she pressed
the signature of his pet name to her lips.

Considering that there was no one word of
real appreciative love In the whole letter —
that it might have been written by a schoolboy
to a cake-shop girl, or by a groom to a
scullery-maid — it was astonishing that Eugenia
should find so much comfort in it as she did :
but then, her invention read the meaning into
the words, and perhaps the secret of the letter s
power was, that, throughout it. Buck had never
troubled, In the least, what she would think
of it. Put Into short-hand prose, it meant no

more than this : *' You see the sort of fellow
I am : I am not going to stop at home for
you, and if you don't want me, I can amuse
myself with somebody else — Miss Jefferson
perhaps the housemaid ; — but I'm yours,
while I'm here, if you like me, and, if not,
you can let me alone." That was what an
outsider would have made of the letter, just
an impertinence — neither more nor less — but
then an outsider would not have been reading
with Eugenia's reverent eyes, or interpreting
with Eugenia's loving heart.

Her first impulse was to answer the note
at once ; she took from her portfolio a sheet
of the paper which had " Ashbank " stamped
on it in silver, and she tore off the decorated
side which she knew he would prefer. Upon
this she wrote, in her clear, characteristic hand,
*' I cannot come, but I do think of you. Earthen
it occurred to her that she had no means

of sending him the note that were not volo-ar
means, distasteful to her honest heart.

Eugenia rose from the wrltincr-table, and
went, as her wont was, to the window. The
same instinct sent her, physically, to fresh
air which sent her, spiritually, to God. She
stood there with Buck's crumpled scrawl in
her hand, and gazed down at the writing,
which magnetically brought her something of
the masterfulness of the man. It was unlike
any other writing she had ever seen, and she
could not know that it was only a little worse
than the generality of soldiers' "fists." No:
she could not answer it. Mechanically she
stooped to the small dark bookcase, in the
corner by the window, for she dared not stay,
and took an armful of the neat morocco-bound
or yellow-papered volumes, without looking at
them. She thrust Buck's note between the
pages of one of them, and destroyed her
own ; then, after one more wistful glance from

the window, she turned to leave the room.
How lovely the lawns were lying in the
full heat of summer noon, how sweet the
blossoms of the creepers were, how glossy the
ivy leaves, how silver-blue the distant sea !
Now, again, it was high tide, and the Hard
was flooded to the terrace steps. She glanced
to her right, along the downs and uplands with
their woods and growth of harvest, and whispered
to herself:

Ah ! woiild 1 were in those green fields at play,
Not pent on shipboard, this delicious day ! " •

Delicious day," indeed : it was only marred
by some one whistling, from the smoking-room
beneath, in shrill decided tone, '* We'll never
come back no more." She did not know that
it was Buck, standing with his broad back to
the open window, and his legs stretched out,
and his arms down upon the table, yawning
over a comic paper. He never even expected

a message from Eugenia, he knew she could
not join the picnic.

When she came out of her room, with the
books under her arm, she met Sir Edmund
Trefusis who was walking to and fro in the
corridor. She had no wish to see him, for his
own sake, but when he joined her she felt that
an opportunity was offered, to undeceive him,
at last, and to send Buck an answer to his
note at the same time.

With the nervous feeling that she was going
to deal a severe home-thrust to Sir Edmund's
pride, she said to him quickly " Are you going
to this picnic? "

He shook his head. " Not I," he answered,
'' I do nothing but read and lounge, till after
luncheon ; you have no time for lounging, but
I see you are going to read too."

'eyes," she said absently, "I am going to
read aloud to my aunt."

What are you going to read to her ? "

Eugenia had not thought of that ; she looked
at the back of one of the books and read the
name off It : '' ' Tom Jones,' " she said.

Sir Edmund started and stared : then, understanding
Eugenia's want of enlightenment, he
quietly possessed himself of the volumes ; and
was going to give back only two of them to her
innocent keeping. But Buck's note happened to
be in the pages of one of those he had taken,
and she insisted on their being all returned to
her : " I must have those books," she said.

But will you promise not to read them ? "
said Sir Edmund.

*' Oh yes ! " she answered carelessly, '' If
you tell me not to." She did not think of the
weight of her words ; she added what she was
really anxious about, in an abrupt manner.
*sir Edmund," she said, 'will you go downstairs
and give Mr. Jarvis a message for me ? "

Her hurry might have meant anger quite as
much as love. Sir Edmund bowed and waited.

Tell him," she said, still more hurriedly,
'* that I shall not go to the picnic : he had
better drive Miss Jefferies."

Sir Edmund felt in his heart a warmth of
surprise and pleasure, quite the reverse of
what Euor-enia had intended him to feel. It
cost her an effort to frame any message to her
lover, for another's lips ; but she forced herself
to send one because she wished Sir Edmund
to perceive the terms of intimacy on which she
stood with Buck. The presumption that he
was to drive her, had she gone to the picnic,
would, she thought, convey the truth at once
to Sir Edmund's sensitive nature. But a
sensitive nature is unfortunately liable to receive
other impressions besides those intended
for it, and Sir Edmund gathered, from
the ambiguous abruptness of her tone, that
Jarvis had given her offence, by sending her
perhaps an uncalled-for invitation to drive with
him, and that she wanted a champion. Her



words might have been dictated by either
intimacy or anger, but Sir Edmund's reading
of them was authorised by the fact of her
sending the message through him, for he was,
to some extent, recognised at Ashbank as her
suitor, and also by her commending Buck to
Anne, who certainly — Sir Edmund thought
would not be likely to encourage his
impertinence. He did not know that, in
the latter half of her sentence, Eugenia had
been consulting Buck's future, to her own
sorrow.

*' I had better go and tell him at once," he
said, 'for the carriages are here already."

Eugenia could not understand his tone ; she
had half expected him to resent her message.
She was, herself, so preoccupied with its real
significance, that she could not comprehend its
bearing another aspect : but, although he controlled
the elation that he felt at being her
courier, it was evident that he was not deeply

wounded, as she had feared — for truth's sake
and her Arthur's— that he needs must be.

He was returning her the armful of books,
when Anne and May came out of their rooms
In full driving toilette: Anne thought he had
been eettinof them for Eugenia from the
library, and the action augured well. She
was looking her very best and, as this supposition
suggested itself to her, she became perfectly
radiant.

When Eugenia had exchanged a few words
with the two girls, she hastened back to her
aunt's rooms, without speaking further to Sir
Edmund. She meant this also for coolness,
but to Anne, and perhaps to Sir Edmund too,
it looked like the familiarity that ignores a
formal greeting. There was a perfect web of
small misunderstandings weaving itself among
them.

Sir Edmund went downstairs into the hall,
now crowded again with its Japanese screens

and ormolu, and presenting a very animated
appearance although loud talking and loud
laughter were alike hushed for fear of any
echo reaching Lady Shortlands' room. Buck's
jokes, indeed, could seldom be said out loud,
and he and the rest of his fellows were
clustered together, enjoying something whispered
among themselves, with bursts of muffled
laughter. Mr. Buck looked bigger and handsomer
than ever — not to say " hosier " which
would have been his own term — in another
light suit and a fresh cotton tie ; and Sir Edmund
felt the contrast between them, as he
limped across to the group.

"Is Trefusis comings" said Buck aloud,
'' he don't look much of a whip ; " and he drew
on some bright dogskin gloves, as he said it,
with as defiant an air as if he where eine to
box in them.

Sir Edmund noticed the insolence of his

manner and responded by an intellectual blow.
VOL. n. o

'* Mr. Jarvis," he said, '' I have a message
for you, from Miss Brand."

"The deuce you have ;" said Buck ; although
he flushed crimson, he was determined to seem
unconcerned. He would not budge, but looked
Sir Edmund straight in the face.

Boville and Crossley, however, politely moved
away, though Buck knew them well enough to
be sure that they kept within earshot.

Miss Brand bids me tell you," said Sir
Edmund, as his breath quickened with anger,
and his heightened tone gave Eugenia's literal
words a different rino- to that her heart had
put in them, '' that she will not go to the
picnic, and that you had better drive Miss
Jefferies."

There was no doubt, in view of his own note,
that the message came from Eugenia. Boville
and Crossley tittered, and Buck heard them ;
they gathered from Sir Edmund's tone just
what he had gathered himself from Euo^enia's

words, that this was meant to be, as Crossley put
it, " a facer for Buck." He was at first a little
awed by the hauteur of Sir Edmund's voice ;
he never could quite get the better of his
respect for that '' sixty thousand a year " for
which he hated him ; but when he heard his
friends titter he at once became absolutely and
brutally furious.

"■ I shall drive just who I damned please : "
he said, with ungrammatical rudeness, and as,
to judge by what he muttered next, he had
not exhausted his expletives by that sample.
Sir Edmund turned upon his heel and walked
away.

In a very nasty temper — for the message,
Boville said, had 'got a rise out of him," —
Buck strode up to May Buxton, where the
two girls stood talking to Mrs. Tomlinson who
had drifted down into the hall to start her
party.

It was rather an unusual start for a picnic :

Vane was already suggesting *' old shoes and
rice." Chatteris and Captain Boville were
eine to ride with Mr. Buxton, but the other
men had planned to drive a pair of slight
American trotting-traps, in each of which
would be a lady. Mrs. Buxton thought it
was 'Were odd" but the heat made her
too languid to resist the scheme, and, as she
was o-oinof herself in a barouche with Vane

o o

and there were so many outriders, she 'supposed
it would be all right." She meant
May to go with Dick Crossley, to whom she
had taken a fancy, on finding out that she
had been at school with his mother — so that,
as she vaguely explained, ^' she was a sort
of aunt of his," — and Anne was a match for
Buck, and was moreover quite beyond Mrs.
Buxton's control at all times. But this arrangement,
owing to Buck's paroxysm of
temper, was not quite the one put into force.
"May I have the pleasure of driving you,

Miss Buxton?" he said, in a blunt manner
that contrasted strangely with his formal
words. He absolutely ignored Anne, who
never forgave him ; and May — who, in her
turn, had not yet forgiven Anne her 'unfair"
treatment of him with the ice, and who had
quite exhausted Crossley's companionship
during the morning, — accepted his escort at
once.

'thank you, Mr. Jarvis;" she said, with
a pretty little mock curtsey, which had its
effect in restoring Buck's good-humour : " Now,
Anne, you can give Mr. Crossley another
sinorinor lesson."

Thus, if only Lady Shortlands' bedroom had
faced north instead of south, so that Eugenia
could have witnessed the start, she would
have seen her beloved driving May Buxton,
of whom scarcely her vanity and certainly not
her intelligence could be jealous, instead of
Anne whom she both admired and feared.

But the change could have brought her no
satisfaction, had she known how well all
parties were pleased with this arrangement,
and how much more sympathetic May Buxton
was to prove to her Lieutenant.

They were off at last — for Mrs. Buxton could
not rescind her permission to May to drive
because one of the young men happened to
be her escort instead of another, though Mr.
Arthur John Jarvis' mother had not been
Mrs. Buxton's schoolfellow, — the trotting-traps
and the glistening barouche shining in the full
noonday sun, and glinting along the smooth
drive, between the shrubs and flower-borders :
and Sir Edmund and Mrs. Tomllnson, (whose
looks were rather '' bothered " and " ")
were left alone In the great hall, with Its
soft-piled rugs and its quiet. They were as
silent and as grave as if they had despatched
a funeral instead of a picnic party.

Tm afraid," said Mrs. Tomlinson shamefacedly,

'rit's very dull indeed for you, Sir
Edmund." She could not shift him off, onto
** Ashbank's resources," because he knew
them already far better than she did herself.


He smiled. '' If I can be of the slightest

o

service to — to Lady Shortlands," he said, hesitating
a little before the name, "believe me,
I am only too well pleased to stay. I trust
you think of me no longer as a three days'
guest, I think I may venture to say that I
feel at home at Ashbank." ^

Mrs. Tomlinson bridled a little : she was
glad that her new butler and other not unimportant
functionaries of her overstocked
household should hear this speech of her
friend's, while they were still noiselessly busy
in the outer hall and corridors, arranalnor ruo^s.
Straps, gloves and whips.

'' Of course," she answered, in a loud and
hospitable tone : 'you are quite one of ourselves."

— Which was not exactly what Sir
Edmund had meant.

What was that message you were giving
Mr. Jones ? " she went on — Mrs. Tomlinson
was fully persuaded by now that Arthur
Jarvis' name was really " Jones."

Only that Miss Brand would not go to
the picnic : I fancy he had sent her a sort
of invitation to drive with him in his buggy."

'indeed? Well, yotc were quite the right
person to be entrusted with that message."

This was Mrs. Tomlinson's tactful manner
of, what she called, 'feeling where the land
lay," — a garbled metaphor, which she managed
to make very expressive.

Sir Edmund, abnormally sensitive as he
was, recognised the pleasure to be got out of
such a comment, though he did not like it.
He thought it was irreverent. "Miss Brand
has done me a great honour : " he said softly.

He was alluding to her having made him

her messenger, and the meaning which he
could not but attach to the distinction ; but
Mrs. TomHnson imagined that he meant much
more, and she was determined not to seem behindhand
in discrimination.

Oh ! " she said, archly, wagging her head,
*'a little bird has told me that her predicament
for you," — (Mrs. Tomlinson perhaps meant
'predilections") — 'ris 2l. fait accompli: I think
myself that the honour is for you to confer'*

It was a very snobbish and a very vulgar
speech, and Sir Edmund hated it: but all the
same it comforted his heart, and he was predisposed
to be grateful to Mrs. Tomlinson, regarding
her as a potent ally.

I hope," he said timidly, " that I shall have
your good word with Lady Shortlands ? "

Mrs. Tomlinson bowed. " You shall, indeed,"
she said, 'rand with the Duchess ! "

The Duchess of Durham had nothing in
the world to do with the disposal of her

cousin's fair hand, as Sir Edmund knew perfectly
well : she was simply that irresistible
gilt vane, which Mrs. Tomlinson could not
forbear to flourish, now and then, upon the
steeples of her speech. As this special steeple
might be consolidated into a church spire, Sir
Edmund accepted even the Duchess at the top
of it ; but he had an absurd momentary glimpse
of a wedding, in his mind's eye, '' the Duchess,"
talking to " the Bishop' and Mrs. Tomlinson
herself presiding, in a sort of emasculated
surplice.

"And now, dear Sir Edmund," said Mrs.
Tomlinson, — feeling, perhaps, with the true
instinct of the orator, that anything after 'the
Duchess" might prove an anticlimax, — "you
know my morning duties : and you must add
to them, to-day, my poor friend's illness and
the anxiety and grief which that entails : all
Ashbank is at your disposal," — she could not
resist \i^x formula, as she glanced with pardonable

pride across the hall, to the music room
with its precious instruments and folios, and
the library, on the central tables of which, lay
every journal and magazine in the kingdom —
and I shall do my best — my very best," she
concluded, as she drifted vaguely off with her
lace dangling from her head, ''to procure you
an interview with Eugenia." {" Yes," she
thought to herself, ''' Eugenia' if you please.
Sir Edmund, and not 'Miss Brand' and not
Lady Trefusis.' ")

Sir Edmund remained in the hall, his kindly
smile still lighting up his kindly face. It was
all so transparent that he could not be annoyed
at it. — '* My poor friend's illness," — how Lady
Shortlands would have resented that utterance!
Sir Edmund knew that, should he ever succeed
in making Euo^enia his wife, it would p^o
hard with Mrs. Tomlinson if she did not look
upon herself as both Eugenia's mother-in-law
and his ! But, beneath the glamour of that

hope, he resented nothing for himself, — not
even Buck's rudeness, though he dished the
thought that so ill-mannered and foul-mouthed
a lout should ever have danced with Eugenia.
Sir Edmund made allowances even for Buck !
His conduct had, no doubt, sprung from a passion
of jealousy, the poor fellow fancied himself
head over ears in love with " the beautiful Miss
Brand," and his wrath was but another token
of Sir Edmund's universal recognition as her
favourite.

But there succeeded the question, which he
was not conceited enough to answer in the
affirmative : Could he boast that he was indeed
her favourite ? Was it possible that she
should feel drawn towards him ? Why not
handsome Boville ? Why not clever Vane ?

Among the abominations which Mrs. Tomlinson
had introduced into the Ashbank hall
was a vast panel of looking-glass, near to the
outer door — on the further side of the portiere

which was now drawn aside, — a panel, of
which her lady guests would almost invariably
avail themselves for self-inspection, as they
came in or went out, while they shrugged their
shoulders over their hostess' want of taste.
When Sir Edmund, in his musings, sat down
on one of the carved Ivory chairs ranged against
the tapestry hangings, he was opposite this
mirror at an angle; and, just as his thoughts
inclined to self-depreciation, he saw, reflected
in it, a splendid woven warrior overhead, of
colossal size and ruddy countenance, whom the
sunlight detached weirdly from the broidered
scene. Traversing, with admiration, this reflected
figure, his eyes alighted on his own
image, seated beneath It in the shadow, pale
and wan. He was looking fatigued and weak ;
the iron that he wore made his attitude one
of stiffness and constraint. Naturally, after so
much anxiety and such a restless night, he
appeared more 111 than usual, and he could

certainly not have espied himself under less
favourable circumstances than beneath this
pictured warrior, and with the vision of that
merry group of sunburnt officers still in his
memory.

'' I must get rest," he thought suddenly, " I
must be well before I speak to her. It Is this
aching In my wretched limbs that makes me
tired. What woman, in her prime of beauty,
would look to-day, with any sort of love, on
such a thing as I am — a white-faced, unkempt
cripple ? I must not see her this morning.
There is time, and she has enough of illness
now ; the thought of an invalid husband would
be more than she could bear — she likes
strength."

An Involuntary sob rose in his throat as he
forced himself to postpone the interview with
Eugenia upon which Mrs. Tomllnson had set
her heart. *' What ; could he not trust the eyes
of her clear soul?" he asked himself; but his

reason answered, *you need have no fear of
her generosity ; it is not that : but you should
make no appeal to her pity. You should
come to her with sufficient fortitude to bear a
rebuff. An assent that compassion urges, can
bring no blessing : be persuaded, get out of
the way and rest. Meet her, as far as you
are able, like a strong man — for your sake
and her own." The result of this generous
cogitation was that Sir Edmund Trefusis went
to his own apartments to rest, just while Mrs.
Tomlinson, who was prompter in her movements
than he had imagined, was scheming
to throw Eugenia in his way for a decisive
interview.

Eugenia was herself only too anxious for
such an opportunity ; she was not a woman
who wore her heart upon her sleeve, and it
would be difficult for her to tell Sir Edmund
what was in that heart, without a conversation
in assured quiet : she wanted the interview

therefore, although she hardly thought It
possible, after sending her message to Buck
by his agency, that he should need it to learn
that her affections were set elsewhere and
her first love out of his reach once and forever.
Circumstances seemed to favour Mrs.
Tomlinson's scheme, for when, by Dr. Burroughes'
permission, she made her way to the
door of Lady Shortlands' room, she found
that she was actually to be admitted, and that
the old lady, although weak and excited, was
in the greatest good-humour. It was not so
much the Doctor or the Ashbank consomm^ that
had animated her ladyship afresh, as her
amusement at the books which Eugenia had
brought with her from her room ; she was
as charmed as Sir Edmund had been distressed,
at the sight of them.

"I must see that Tompkins woman," — Lady
Shortlands had devised this pleasing title for
her hostess, since her seizure — "■ if she ventures



near me. The Idea of putting 'Tom Jones'
and those French adventures into the apartment
of a chaste vestal like Eugenia. It
is too delightful." She did " Mrs. Tokens "
the justice to suppose the literature accidental,
but of all the books that Eugenia had brought.
Lady Shortlands — who was "very particular
what people read," (and knew them all by
heart !) — found only one permissible for reading
out loud. It was ''La peau ti lion,' and
her ladyship, who was conversant with every
French novel under the sun — and as a general
rule, the further tender the sun they were, the
more she enjoyed them, — was glad that Eugenia
should read some of it, though she did not
herself care two straws for the story. That
passage for instance in which Tonayrion's
swagger is unmasked, and again Servia's
reflections on Estella's infatuation, — '' tant de
beauty d' esprit et de grace, deviendra-tail la
confute de ce fa?ifaron f " — these seemed to

VOL. II. p

Lady Shortlands very applicable to Eugenia's
"nonsense." She was delighted with '' ce fan-front''
it expressed "Mr. Jones" capitally,
she thought, — and very likely it did, only
Eugenia did not listen to what she was reading,
and was holding the only profession
'' ce fanfaron' had ever made her — Buck's
little note — between her fingers, all the while,
and holding her own senses wrapped in it !

Mrs. Tomlinson's first whispered greeting
to Lady Shortlands set Eugenia free ; and she
advised her, in a significant tone, " to make good
use of her freedom by going out of doors at
once, for an airing," imagining that she would
meet Sir Edmund in the hall and that the
desired proposal could there be made, without
further postponement. For Mrs. Tomlinson
had the true spoilt woman's instinct of wishing
to see a matter settled, when once she had put
her hand to it, even if it where the very thing
she had set her face against, an hour before.

Eugenia listlessly put on her shady hat,
when Parity brought it to her in the corridor,
Parity, sleek and vigilant, refreshed by
well-earned sleep. She did not much care
what was done with her : she had thrown a
great stake, what were trivial gains ? She
went down the grand staircase, neither know-nor
nor carnot that she was meant to meet
Sir Edmund at the bottom of it.

Nor did she ! for as we know, he had
avoided her approach, and was now resting
in the quiet of his darkened sItting-rocJm,
busy with a thought that was already half a
dream.

The hall and corridors seemed all "asleep
or dead" to Eugenia, but the " LubIn " that
was ** away " was not poor Sir Edmund !
She was very glad to get out of them, at
last, under the fresh smile of the sky that
was so familiar to her in its every aspect,
and with a certain frank sweet breeze for

company that came fragrant over fields washed
by the heavy showers which had fallen In the
Intervals of tropic heat. Who will wonder
that her first steps led her to the little white
temple which had become so dear to her, for
the beloved's sake ? As she approached it,
she pressed his letter firmiter between her
clasped hands : she half expected to find the
place illuminated In some strange way, but
when she reached It, she found it emptied
of light. True, there was no wet pebble
about Its sheltered pathway, that, as it cast
its afternoon shadow, did not seem to shine
in that wonderful glow with which her memory
endued the scene. But the temple, where It
stood in the cypress alley, shaded from the
sun, had a tomb-like aspect. There was no
trace of the beloved's presence : the flowers
were removed, the door was locked ; she had
lost even the little breeze, in her descent to
the hollow, and the silence was a presage

which was more than she could bear. For, all
this while, it had been dawning on Eugenia's
understanding that her love mio^ht not be what
was best — the very best — for Buck. That it
had not been what was best for her, she
never thought ; but, as her heart grew heavy
at the tokens of his absence and the signs
of his forgotten presence, she began dimly to
comprehend that there should be a sort of
martyrdom before her.

She had obtained a glimpse of his adaptability
— though it was only from a window —
had perceived that it was pretty much as
well for him, in his own estimate, to be
with one woman as another, provided that
he was made much of; — a view of life so
different to Eugenia's, to whom " all men
beside" him were "but shadows," that it
negatived and overturned her beliefs, and
prevented her being able to predicate of him
what he would do. His was a sort of amorous

untruth, which is worse than a deception in
words.

Eugenia was far too generous to reproach
him for having gone away in that 'jocund
company : " she thought that it was well for
him to be with Anne ; she fancied him being
fascinated by that brilliant smile and enthralled
by that contemptuous touch which,
to her own bewildered gaze, had seemed to
hold so much in it of appropriate love. It
was hard that she should be left alone, when
he had " nothing to remember her by," she
thought ; she recollected that she had never
said even such pleasant things to him as to
others, she was conscious that she had never
made him laugh, that he could make no comparison
of her wit with Anne's. Ere that
drive was over, Anne would have stored his
mind with a hundred anecdotes, would have
flattered and amused him.

(And so she might have done had she

been with him : but all the while he was " as
merry as a grig," in the smart trotting-trap
with pretty May, and nothing but a big cigar
for chaperon /)

Poor Eugenia, she felt how useless washer
dowry — consisting of her beauty and her
love ! Of the one she made nothing — though,
in her presence, it was everything to Buck,
and filled his eyes like light ; — and the other
seemed likely to be rather a burthen than a
joy. Already it had taken all the glory out
of her day ! That was because it was . no
idle fancy, but the love "with such deep
roots in earth " as true love must have ;
always anxiously desiring the best for the
beloved, at whatever sacrifice of self. In this
first passion of Eugenia's, she had laid hold
not on any fragile blossom of inclination, but
on the real and rough-barked tree. It was
less like to furnish her with a rose-garland
for her wearing, than with a crown of thorns

but, for all that, it was the "only wear"
for her. There is no choice in love.

She walked on, musing, and she turned
aside into the trellised walk, which had been
stripped of all its lanterns now by the many
gardening hands, but which only the season
could strip of its verdure, and nothing of
the orleans that rested on each leaf for her.
Slowly she made her way down it towards
the sea.

The walk was sweet with roses ; and the
wires that crossed it were starred with great
clematis blooms, violet and red, that hung in
the mid-air, like dragon-flies stayed on the
wing. Then there were tendrils of the vine
and every sort of creeper making little lovely
lines and twirls against the deep blue of the
August sky ; and under these, right along
the path-side, was a close border of the taller
lemon-verbena sheltered by hardy geraniums
crouching asj-ainst an old wall somehow connected

with the breakwater, low down, to
which the path wandered. The atmosphere
was full of warm soft scents : the air was so
still, and the sky so clear, that it was as if
Eugenia had been shut into some enchanted
crystal, which contained the earth and sea.
She took off her hat and roamed along. A
week ago she would have run, singing blithely
as she ran for sheer delight : now she was
silent ; like a girl-queen, she felt the weight
of the responsibilities her kingdom brought
her. She could '' live light in the spring,"
no more. She was a woman with a woman's
burthen of love.

She was fully conscious of all the beauty
that was about her. And more than once
she stooped to lift a snail out of the path
and put him into safe hiding, admiring, as
she did so, the prismatic light on his wet
shell. The cloud was not upon her eyes butin
her heart, and there she felt a tempest

pent which lowered over all this glad and
joyful scene. She longed, as she had never
longed before, for her mother's arms ; — for
some soul who would understand this bitter
boon that had become her portion, for some
lap in which to hide her head and weep.

And then, just as the longing seemed to
overmaster her, and her footsteps faltered,
she came by some shadowy dew-scented turn
in the glade through which the path wandered,
to the rough stone ledge of wall, where she
had stood with Buck in the midnight : and
beyond it — Oh ! not abotit it any longer —
lay the sea.

** The sea," she thought, "that has so many
secrets ! " She stood, as in a dream, looking
down into its shallowing waves as they were
lapsing towards the ebb, as if she would tell
them her secret too. They seemed to her,
as they had seemed before, in other wise, a
symbol of her love, as spending their force

by little, lower and lower down the shore,
they *' let the dry land appear."

Eugenia stayed for some time on the terrace,
gazing out on the blue waters. There she
thought It out," with that daylight ability for
reasoning which comes to one, in open air,
sometimes, and when the object of the heart's
desire Is far away. It Is easy to see clearly
in loneliness and light. There she made up
her mind that there were better possibilities
in store for Buck than that he should be hers.

Not that it so much as occurred to her that
any other man could fill his place with her.
There was no man else that existed for Eugenia
now. No : she was there for his taking,
if he wanted her, and she would do her best
for him. But what a little best it was ! She
must give him to understand that he was not
pledged, and that she had no money. Eugenia
undervalued her connection with Lady
Shortlands and *' the Duchess," which meant

SO much for a man like Buck. She thought
of what he had told her of his people, not to
despise them but to form an estimate of their
position. But she failed. She had always
lived with people whose position was above
their fortune, who had great taxes on their
possessions, and great pride : she had no
comprehension or experience of bourgeois comfort,
of the luxury that spends more on the
dinner of every day than on any property
or intellectual pursuit. She was as ignorant
of the life of money-spending — of what good
old Mr. Jarvis called "the margin" — in Arthur
Jarvis' Clifton home, as he would have been,
at Shortlands, of the management of the estate;
and she thought that a lieutenant in a marching
regiment must needs be poor. She could
see that he was not one to make sacrifices :
but how could she blame him for that ? He
was " the god of her idolatry," — and Anne's,
Therefore, if need were, and if he had a better

chance in life — which she felt was before him
under her eyes — she must make up her mind
to give him up. What was it to give up ?
Only his presence ; for her memory would
hold his image for ever. But this surrender,
all the while she planned it for herself, seemed
hardly possible. How could she get her heart
out of his keeping '^. How could she undo
what his kiss had done '^. Ah ! if it was to
be, the daylight reasoning pleaded, she must
leave how it was to be, to God !

Again Eugenia lifted her fair face .and
looked across the sea — all misty now to her
dim eyes, and blurred. Again, and in a closer
image, the deep blue waters seemed a symbol
of her love. Her Arthur's life was like the
land, she thought, with its fertility, stability,
and strength. There were the uplands and
lawns of his days, to be crowned with firs
and flowers — and there was the mud and the
heartiness too, but she did not think of that ! —

over the shores of his Hfe, where they touched

on space, her love had lapped like the sea.

'there has been a high tide," she thought,

with a smile at the following out of her own

fancies, " it must go down again now. But

has not the sea done something, at least, for

the land, when she withdraws, and leaves the

beach so bright, the stones so strong of salt,

the sand so smooth and pure ? " And Keats'

most musical and lovely lines were in her

ears :

Tie moving waters at their prestige task
Of pure ablution round earths human shores"

Earth's human shores." ." I must love
him," she thought, '' like that ; as the sea loves
the land, leaving him free for labour or for
harvest," but now and then returning and never
failing in her ''priestlike task," bringing the
fresh airs on her bosom and the waters on
her tides, for his delight.

So far her fancy helped her, so far she took

heart ; but as she watched the fast-receding
waves, ^' The sea withdraws," she thought,
'* the sea withdraws. She must hide the boons
of the land, and its kisses, in her heart — and
they are little boons and lazy kisses : — the sea
must leave the land, she leaves him — she leaves
him," — her overwrought mind could not endure
the strain : she could not bear it calmly. She
laid her head upon the old stone wall where
she had leaned with her beloved, in that long
kiss that had sealed her his, beneath the moon
and stars, and wept as if her very heart would
break.

In her hour of spiritual pain, she vanquished:
but her victory, indeed, was to be more hard
to win. It was to bring her to the gates of
death.

CHAPTER VII.

WOMANLY.

There was to be no further meeting with
Buck, for Eugenia, that day. When the picnic
party returned, tired with pleasure, it was late
in the afternoon, and she was on duty again
reading aloud to Lady Shortlands, whom the
bleeding — which had given her at first so
much relief — seemed to have enfeebled greatly
when once the fever of her fit was gone. She
lay, like an old woman of any sort, bundled
away in a heap, with all the wit and sarcasm
drained out of her, her brain dormant, her
restless active mind asleep, in an intermittent
doze, which only left her when Eugenia's voice
stopped now and then, as the long fierce hours

of the summer day burned down to dusk. Dr.
Burroughes had no further dread of apoplexy
now : but she was very weak, and, with that
desperate dinging to the real and true —
whether it be of a kind that amuses us in
health, or not — which comes upon us at such
times of mortal sickness, she could not even
lie still without Eugenia watching her. She
took a sudden mistrust of Parity, who was
glad enough to get to sleep again, for she was
to watch through the small hours of the niorht
when Lord Shortlands insisted that his " beautiful
niece must have her beauty-sleep."

Not that Eugenia's splendid health was
tired or that she looked wan. Despite the
excitement of her companion thoughts, her
walk had been refreshing : even that burst of
weeping — unlike any in which she had indulged
since her father's death — had made
for her relief. The dew of tears had brightened
her sweet eyes and flushed the fairness of her

VOL. IL Q

face. She was not sleepy — at least she fancied
she was not — her nerves were in a state of
irritation and fever with which her shortened
night had much to do, but she did not know
what this restlessness meant, and was still
indignant with herself for being so wakeful
and so well. She looked at Lady Shortlands'
inert form : " Oh ! if I could be dead of sleep,
and careless of all but the shading of the light,
like you," she thought ; ''if I could cast this
passion out of me ! I wish I could have an illness,
and get over it so ; but that is not likely
to happen to me, I shall have to go on. And
if Anne loves him, I must let him go !"

As she watched her aunt, so changed, so
drowsy, something possessed her vigorous
soul ; a strange longing, at first, only, but
o-atherinsf force to become a strange intent.
It was unfortunate that she should have these
hours of unbroken leisure in this dark sickroom,
wherein to contemplate her own position



: her mind brooded over it, but with no
consideration of self. The one tinge of selfishness
that she allowed herself was the desire
to suffer bodily pain, to be physically wounded,
and not to have to endure all the anguish that
might be in store for her, with a sound mind
in a sound body. To give him up and go
about among the other guests, — that was the
one course that she did not dare to face.

Now that she was shut away from Buck,
she could regard her love for him as an aberration,
a madness. She could not understand
it. Had any one told her, a week before, that
she would pay an unwilling visit to Ashbank,
and there fall head over ears in love with a
man — in a suit of dittos of the most abominable
pattern— younger than herself, stupid, hardhearted,
ill-bred too — as the term is used —
she would have been too indignant even for
laughter. She would not have comprehended
having no data whereby to comprehend —

such a possibility : and yet all this had happened.
With chances before her and admiration
around her, this beautiful woman
discovered, of a sudden, that she was
bound to such a man as that, by the rough
galling chain of self-sacrificing love — the worse
because so purely personal — which was like
to prove her slavery and her joy. Eugenia
set about considering how best to break her
bonds.

If Anne loves him," she said again, *' I
must let him go. But perhaps Anne will not
love him." . . . She had no illusions about
Buck's worth. Had her love been one of
illusion, had he appeared to her first as a
demigod or a hero — instead of a mere man
that satisfied a void in her heart — her gradual
discoveries of his real common nature might
have helped her out of her trouble. But she
had never felt such an illusion. She had seen
him, one of three men, looking like them,

dressed like them, with no claims to pretension
and yet pretentious, and she had set her
heart upon him. As if she had drunk some
philtre, or had the juice of '' 
" cast into her eyes, this young man had
become the husband of her choice. Had they
been princess and peasant, given the chances,
the result would have been much the same.
It was just "the heart's desire" that is so
common, so sure, so sweet ; that the women
of old time died for, and the women of to-day
deny. We do not think it strange to ]hear
a Greek heroine complain of being stricken
to the death by Love's arrows and their
wounding ; of just so vital a wound, and just
so tragically, was Eugenia smitten ; but the
Greek heroine would have '' recognised the
god " — would have bewailed herself and succumbed
; — while Eugenia, with the modern
instinct of science, determined that she would
cauterise the wound instead, though the means

should make Love's arrows glance aside from
her for ever afterwards. . . .

But Eugenia did not underrate the potency
and selfishness of Buck's passion. If she had
to quench it, she must find some way that would
turn his love to coldness. All the while that
she " thought upon her fate," Lady Short lands
lay sleeping, drained of life and its pulses. She
was as good as dead, it seemed to Eugenia :
she was indifferent to all : she would hardly
have opened her eyes for a flash of lightning
or have turned upon her side for an earthquake.
She wished no longer to be read
aloud to, and the books, of such hap-hazard
choosing, lay unheeded by her pillows. They
were not such as Eugenia cared to read herself,
nor — had she cared ever so much — would
she have read them, after her promise to Sir
Edmund. . . .

Sir Edmund ? He had been thinking of
her ; for presently Lord Shortlands brought

to her, at his request, the prettily bound
volume of James Chatteris' poems which Mrs.
Tomlinson had mislaid. Lord Shortlands had
been much interested by the discovery of
Chatteris' cousinship to his wife's niece ; and
the young man's work — as is often the case
now-a-days — derived its value to his reader,
from the accident of his birth.

Eugenia, we know, had seen the little book
before. Vane had sent it to her, and it was in
her room at Shortlands Farm : had it been
new to her she mic^ht not have troubled to
read it, but now she turned its pages slowly,
cutting them here and there, for there was a
sharp Spanish knife of Sir Edmund's between
the leaves. The book had mostly to do with
love, and, as Eugenia was an expert now, she
was curious to recall how the fierce passion
showed itself to Chatteris' young and untried
heart. The poems were poor enough : the
sentiment of the lines was warm, but the brain

that had engendered them was not on fire.

o

The words were not beaten out like sparks
from an anvil, they were strung together like
shining beads, with a due regard for commas
and colons. The young poet, like most young
poets, said more than he knew. Had he felt
but the half of what he claimed to be feeling,
his heart-beats must have stopped his pen : but
as it was, it travelled glibly over "desires"
and "fires" — "eternal sorrows" and "barren
morrows " — with as little tremor in its guidance,
as when it wrote of " roses " — and of course
there was a very great deal, in the little book,
about " roses ! " To Eugenia, none of the
words she read seemed to signify their own
meanings, in the context where they were.
She turned on to the latter pages of the
volume, and there she chanced upon some
imitations — of all kinds of things, French
''rondels',' ''triolets'' and " vilanelles!' old
Scotch and English ballads and so forth —

which before, loving greatly the real things, she
had voted too tiresome to read. But now she
found the puzzle of attending to them suit
her mood, and, at the end, one of the ballad
imitations caught her notice, and when she
read it, seemed to have more living force in
it than the rest. This was partly, perhaps,
because of her own sympathy with its contents,
and partly, certainly, because It was an echo of
some stronger and more manly voice, though
weak and vague itself. With our funny
modern mixing of the "rococo" and-the
"severely simple," it was headed: 'ran Antick
Ballad of Constance. For a Scotch sone."
There was a great deal of it — verse after
verse — but these lines Eugenia read to herself
half-aloud, and they are a sufficient sample of
its worth :

Gin ye ifd a napkin round my been
To blind me fra the day,
Pd gi-feet till 1 wash' d your napkin clean
But Pd no pu' it wa'.

Gin ye bois my hands with gyves tight

For every mon to scoffs
My sighs should sheen their silver bright

But rd lid! pluck them off.

Gin ye strake your dagger into me,
Aid that for nae mons guide —

rd dee, an ye wad hae me dee,
But I^d drip nae drap d fluid.

Nae drap d fluid fra me should part

To tell ydd murthered ?ne,
But rd hide your dagger in my hair,

As I turned me round' to dee.

There's nae weird thing that ye mote do,

Nae dour thing, I'd confess ;
For there's nothing could be done d you

Wad mak me hoe you less.

An' ifs saud your hands the while ye live,

Was left for marking for ?
There's nae guide gift that God could give

Wad mak' me hoe you snore.

Bekass to me, ye are all above.

Like the sky is above the sea ;
Bekass ye are my ain true love,

And 1 doe warship thee I "

When Eugenia had read the last two lines,
she let the book fall on her lap and clasped her

hands upon it, the hot tears quickening in her
eyes, as she repeated, with an unconscious
dwelling upon the tenderer pronoun into
which the young poet had lapsed,

■** Bekass ye are my atfi true love.
And I doe warship they . . .

She read no more; blind to the page before
her, she let her sight follow the makings of
her thought: if James Chatteris had made no
other verses, he would nevertheless not have
written, and not have pestered his publisher
in vain. •

Still Lady Shortlands lay sleeping, drained of
life and its pulses.

She did not even hear Eugenia's murmuring,
she did not even rouse herself to call the little
song '' great rubbish," as no doubt she would
have done had her veins not run with so quiet
and calm a tide. It was a very enviable state,
Eugenia thought. .

Presently Dr. Burroughes came in, and took

his patient's temperature. There was no fever,
the *' springs of her being" were low : it was
only nourishment she wanted now, and nourishment
of all sorts abounded in the Ashbank
larders. When he had satisfied himself about
Lady Shortlands' case — if the perception of
her increasing weakness could be called satisfaction
— he let his looks rest upon Eugenia's
beauty. The excitement within her had prevented
the long hours of captivity, in this
darkened room, from telling upon her ; she
had none of that leaden languor which bespeaks
a vigil. Her face was radiantly lovely
in the softened light, almost as if there were a
lamp behind it ; and her eyes shone like stars.
He could not resist drawing her aside into the
sitting-room, ostensibly to speak to her without
disturbing his patient, really to see her better.

When he had given her some directions
about keeping up Lady Shortlands' strength,
she detained him, rather to his surprise ; still

with the air of one who has something further
of importance to ask. She stood before him
in the doorway, drawing the sharp Spanish
knife through her fingers.

"This bleeding has much weakened my
aunt ?" she began, in a tentative tone ; but Dr.
Burroughes could not feel that she Alas anxious,
it was rather as if she wished for an affirmation
that she spoke, — not to be contradicted.

*' Oh yes ! " he said lightly ; '* to say the
truth, she has felt it more than I had hoped
she would, but the great thing was to get. rid
of that congestion ; with a woman of her quick
temperament it is the fever we have most to
fear. Her constitution is so strong that I
have every confidence she will recover from
this weakness soon ; and in the meantime it
will do her worlds of good, — worlds of good,
believe me ! "

Eugenia still looked at him, with those questioning,
starlike eyes, her face aflame. He

reassured her with a touch of humour in his
answer.

She will be all the nicer for it too," he said,
smiling : *' there is a deal of satire and passion
in full-blessedness ; and she will come back to
life just twice as kind and gentle."

"That is so, is it?" said Eugenia dreamily.
She did not seem amused, any more than she
had seemed anxious. He was at a loss how
to reply to her thoughts, but he went on
cheerily :

*' Of course it ' is so.' Why, \i you were in a
fit or fury of any sort, and I were to bleed
you, you would sleep like a top, and come to
yourself again as mild as a lamb."

That is so, is it ? " said Eugenia once
more : she did not smile, although she bent
her head, and Dr. Burroughes began to fear
that she resented his homely illustrations and
thought' his manner familiar ; but no ! ** Thank
you," she said quite gravely. She did not stir.

*' I will take another look at her," he said,
to break the silence — and passed into the sickroom
again.

It was drawing towards evening now; and
the light was full on those south-western windows
; it fell upon Eugenia's graceful figure, as
she stood upright in her soft grey dress, with
her hands clasped over the paper-knife. She
was just going to follow Dn Burroughes, when
there came a light step at the door, and Anne
Jefferles entered, with a noiseless rustle like a
hush, and with her finger on her lips.

I thought I would come in this way," she
said, ** I am privileged, you know ; and I wanted
to inquire for her before I even took off my
wraps."

Anne was looking almost pretty, as Eugenia
noticed with a pang. Her dress was always
perfect, and her looks were not of the sort that
suffer from a day without a mirror. She did
not *' disarrange' as prettier women sometimes

do. Her face was bright and cool, and her
hair neat ; while a priceless oriental shawl, of
some rare fabric, twisted round her shoulders,
became her trim figure well.

You would have enjoyed the drive, you
beautiful Atalanta!" she said softly. Her
brisk voice was pleasant to hear, retaining,
even while lowered almost to a whisper, the
same timbre that her singing had.

** What have you done to your hand ? " said
Eugenia : she felt she could not speak affectionately
to Anne, — not so much for anything
that Anne had done, as for all that Anne was.

'' Sprained It ; " said Anne with a little laugh
that proved the sprain to be but trifling, and
she exhibited the wrist of her left hand, bound
firmly up in a stiff cotton tie — " No, Dr.
Burroughes " (as he re-entered the room), *' not
another case for you ! I will confess here * in
camera — 'in caned obscures I may say."

She laughed again, as she pronounced her



Latin in a delicate Italian way : her laugh
was as soft as her speech, it seemed to make
a slight warmth about her in the gatherings
without startling the silence. " See
here," she said, untwisting the tie, " I have
spoiled the Egyptians, as my ancestors did
before me ! "

Her fingers were nimble enough, despite
the sprain she boasted.

'why this is a man's morning-cravat!"
said Dr. Burroughes, 'one of those newfashioned,
spotted ones which I always envy
my sex the courage of wearing. Have you
hung a fresh victim to your wrist, ' taking him
by the throat,' on the analogy of scalping ? "

Don't be so pert ! " said Anne with a movement
of her bird-like head, that might, or might
not, have concealed a blush, but in this case
did not, although Eugenia, standing in the
shadow, thought it did. " I am going to tell

you all about it," she added coming up to
VOL. n. R

Atalanta" confidentially: "our gallant officers'
stiff bows teased me — and teased them too,
though they were too proud to own it. Whenever
they shifted their position, up went their
hands to their throats : " — as she spoke she
made a little movement that recalled one man's
gesture forcibly to Eugenia. — "This particular
blue and white one was specially obnoxious tome,
under a certain square chin that you wot
of, tying-on a certain curly chestnut head, above
a certain very pattern suit. Well, as I was
getting down from the buggy, I twisted my
wrist a little — not fatally, you know, — indeed
my joints are remarkably supple — but ' here's
my opportunity!' I thought. It was Mr.
Jones' fault that I was sprained, and Mr.
Jones' tie would I have ! — I think I must
like Mr. Jones very much, or perhaps his tie
was the most aggressive. He tried a compromise
: ' Wouldn't his handkerchief do ? '
No : it was too soft and reeked of musk or

chypre I' Mr. Jones — poor dear — didn't like
that hit about the chypre ; the rest of them
began to chaff him, and he thought he had
better not refuse me further : ultimately he
gave in, and bound up my finger with his
cravat, in the sweetest way imaginable. I
shall take that young gentleman in hand — if
he won't wear blue cravats ; he looks so nice
without them ! — and I assure you his self-sacrifice
has won my heart."

Eugenia did not speak : she saw the scene,
and the vision seemed to stifle her. Anti
pitied her a little, but had no compunction for
her folly : she included her involuntary sigh
in her own narrative : '' Well," she said, " Mr.
Jones has got his reward: for his bereft
shamefacedness appealed to me, and he has
been so very nice — too nice, he was : — and
borne being laughed at so very nicely— /^^
nicely ; — so May and I tore the border off my
pretty pocket-handkerchief— just come from

the Rue de la Paix — and made him a fresh
cravat. It is quite chic I assure you : oriental,
like my shawl, worked in gold threads and
silk : he is peacocks about in it, this moment,
marked for the day with my initials which
we arranged for the centre of the bow : we
managed it so cleverly. — But look," she ended,
producing from her pocket the fine cambric
centre of a cobweb handkerchief, from which
the monogram and wide bright border had
been recklessly torn, " you see I am the
loser, for this scrap of stuff will never mend
my finery ! "

She unwound the blue and white tie from
her wrist, while she was speaking, and flung
it carelessly upon the table, — just a mere strip
of spotted cotton, folded to the breadth of an
inch and a half. It had served its turn — and
more !

Dr. Burroughes was amused at Anne's recital,
but Eugenia could not speak ; she looked

at the common thing, wished up, on the table,
and it seemed to turn into a serpent to sting
her to the heart. Her ready fancy pictured
all the drama. There was Anne before her,
telling her the details with her sweet incisive
voice — there was the turquoise blue of Buck's
tie for sign of what had happened.

Turquoise," Eugenia thought to herself,
remembering the meanings of precious stones,
*' ' Turquoise — Success in life ! ' Oh yes ! God
grant it him . . . God grant it him ! " She
could not have spoken without tears, and she
was too proud to show her pain.

You are tired," said Anne gently : she
had not meant to wound, but only to prevent :
"pray let me watch by Lady Shortlands' side
a bit, and you dine down: I'll do without
my dear Mr. Jones for two whole hours, if
you like."

Then Eugenia rallied : she would not be
tempted ; she would keep away from her darling

; she would let him have this chance in
life, if he cared for It — and who would not ?

^' No, thank you, dear," she answered with
a quiet tenderness in her tone, unusual for
her, " this Is the place for me." For one instant
she longed to open her heart to Anne ;
but she could not find words, in Dr. Burroughes'
presence : and just then Anne and he went
into the sick-room together, to steal a glance
at Lady Shortlands where she lay sleeping in
her drowsy calm.

Eugenia did not o^o with them : she still
stood at the table, on which Anne had thrown
down Buck's little turquoise tie : she did not
move her attitude, but, as they left the room,
her fingers fiercely caught the senseless cotton
strip, and twined it and twirled it, as if she
were in mortal pain. She felt indeed an
agony within herself, as if her heart had
turned over in her body. Then, with the
fingers of both hands still twisted in the

ends, she laid the smooth cool band across
her lips and eyes, straightening it out so.
The thing seemed, all at once, to have become
so dear to her, that she prayed an incoherent
prayer that Anne might forget it,
might never come back, only might leave
her always this that he had worn.

The paroxysm passed ; her hands had
changed from fire to ice, but it seemed as if
her brain would burst unless she wept. Then
she unwound the scarf from her fingers and
laid it gently back upon the table, ruthlessly
pressing down her burning tears as Anne came
back.

" Is it a bee ? " said that young lady, "oris
it a wasp — I am not entomological — which
survives the loss of its sting ? I am sorry if
the comparison should sound uncivil, but I
really fear it is a wasp to which I must liken
your poor aunt. Yes ; it is the wasp that
grows another sting — so I've been told —

and we must hope that she will too. For
I shan't love her half as well till she gets
back the use of her tongue, which is, I
suppose, as near the sting of a wasp as
. . I won't say more. If you really won't
let me stay, Miss Brand — only you must
let me say 'Eugenia' whether I stay or
not — I must hurry away to dress for dinner.
It is long past the half hour."

Eugenia hoped that she would not notice
the little cotton tie ; but Anne was not one
to do things by halves, she meant to show
Miss Brand what an easy conquest her lieutenant
was. " Oh, my trophy ! " she exclaimed,
and she gathered it up with her gloves and her
parasol : " Celestina, my maid, is very superstitious
; I shall tell her that the spirits of the
glen, where we picnic, have been conjuring
with my handkerchief."

When she was gone, Eugenia took up once
more the Spanish paper-knife she had been

holding, and passed it slowly through her
fingers with her former gesture.

'what is that you are playing with ? " asked
Dr. Burroughes, rather with a view to looking
at her exquisite hands and admiring the grace
of their movement, than with any real interest
in the knife. Then Eugenia looked at it too,
for the first time.

It was not, properly speaking, a paper-cutter
; but a pointed knife, with a quaint
handle of horn and pearl, like the daggers
which Spanish or Italian peasants sometimes
wear. It had not the Ashbank stamp of
value upon it. Sir Edmund had picked it
up in some village, on his travels, and left
it in the volume of poems. Eugenia had
taken it unconsciously, to cut the leaves ; she
had not observed its fashion.

'that is a dangerous toy," said Dr. Burroughes,
"it might do you a mischief."

Would it cut me ? " said Eugenia absently.

I don't know about cutting,' he answered
with professional accuracy, " but its point is
as sharp as a needle. It might give you a
nasty wound."

Then he followed the rest, to dress for
dinner ; and Eugenia, being left alone, slid the
knife into the pocket of her grey gown. Then
she returned to watch her aunt.

Still Lady Short lands lay sleeping, drained of
life and its pulses.

The next hour was a very long one for
Eugenia. She could detect the indications
of the dinner-hour, by the opening and shutting
of doors and the frou-frou of dresses —
for no gongs or bells were sounded to-day.
Presently there followed the ring of high light
voices against deep ones, as the couples
crossed the hall ; afterwards silence, when
the great doors of the dining-room were
folded-to. Then Parity came to her, to tell
her that her dinner was prepared in Lady

Shortlands' sitting-room, and that Miss Buxton
had been asking leave to share it with her.

Now Eugenia, as we know, had no idea
that whatever jealousy she need feel, should
be born of May's young charm. Her thought
was all of Anne — Anne whom Buck might
learn to love, whom it would be good for
him to marry ; and to whom — if she had known
the truth — he had scarcely spoken all the
afternoon, except during that short scene
of the cotton tie, after he had hurt her wrist
in helping her down from Crossley's trap !
Whether May Buxton were with him or not,
which really mattered for his peace of mind,
did not seem to Eugenia to matter in the
least ; and she would not have been pained
at all, by knowing that May's place was next
to him at dinner. She sent a message
with her love, in reply, that she would sooner
dine alone ; adding to Parity that she would
have some soup and chicken brought to her

in the bedroom where she was, for she had
no appetite.

She ate her little meal alone, by her aunt's
bedside, and just when she had finished it
Parity returned and told her, in a rather sour
tone, that '' one of the under-housemaids
wished to speak a word to her."

Somewhat surprised, she rose and went
into the corridor where stood a pretty young
girl, trembling from head to foot, and crimson
with excitement — just one of those lovely
village maidens that strike one in their own
sphere as possessed of delicate beauty, but
that look coarse and hard when transplanted
from their fit surroundings. She was like a
sturdy, red japonica-blossom, against Eugenia's
lily beauty. The girl and Eugenia were, alike,
singularly impressed by each other's appearance :
the one with a quick instinct of reverence, akin
to awe ; the other with a pang of envy that
was nearly dread. Eugenia guessed at once

whose roving eyes had lighted on this radiant
face. She gazed almost with anger at the
ripe lips — so sweet and red : she felt, she
knew not how, that the kisses she loved
were upon them.

'* Oh — please — miss," — said the little
housemaid, *sit's a note! I swore I'd give
it you myself, upon your tray, and I got the
tray from the footman ; but Mrs. Starfish "
(probably a garbled version of Pariitt's
patronymic) — "she took it from me into the
bedroom, and I caught it away — the note,
miss — for I didn't know what to do — and
here it is ; " (taking a crumpled letter from the
bosom of her print dress), " and please, miss,
I've told Mrs. Starfish it was about your
room that I wanted to speak, — not that she
believes it, miss ; I saw it in her eye ! and I
never could tell a lie right, though I promised
the gentleman I'd tell a hundred if I need."

Give me the note," said Eugenia, " you

need not be untruthful to any one." She felt
a sort of happy pride in owning that Buck
was hers. But was it well to own it ?

-Oh! but Mr. Buck"

-'Mr.'— who?"

- Mr. Buck, miss, my lady, I mean," stammered
the girl confused, for she knew the
gallant officer only by his pet-name, " Mr,
Buck said I wasn't to let it out to any one,
upon my soul ' my lady : but just to say to
you, my lady, ' that Mr. Buck had sent you
the letter ' . or else ." and then she
became so confused, that, m simple pity for
her case, Eugenia let her hasten away down
a back stairway. After all it must be as
Buck wished. If she were to give him upto
Anne, it would be better that nothing
had been known of their love.

'' Thank you ; there need be no change
in my room," she said to Parity, with white
lips, as she got back to the door : and even

Parity was satisfied. Miss Brand had never
told a lie.

Eugenia came and sat down again at her
aunt's bedside.

Still Lady Shortlands lay sleeping drained
of life and its pulses.

For some seconds, Eugenia was astonished
at the mastery her feelings had gained over her
senses. This rush of blood : was it anger, was
it shame ? she did not know ; but the beating
of her heart seemed to suffocate her, and her
hands shook. She remembered, as one often
remembers a trivial circumstance at a crisis
of feeling, how she had been to some French
play in London with her aunt, during the
season, and how the heroine had exclaimed :
Ah ! fdtouffe ! " at any climax of indignation
or love. It had seemed to her an absurd
exclamation then, as she sat listening, while
her heart beat evenly under a fire of admiring
opera-glasses. Now she understood what the

mimic sufferer had expressed, taught by this
coursing through her veins which made breathing:
a labour, and strangled her,

'what a wretch I am," she thought to
herself, " what a brute ! "

Then she tore the letter open, and she
read as follows : —

'' Dear Jinny, — I'll thank you not to send

me messages by that d d hound Trefusis.

I never go shares with any chap, mind that !
We've had a very jolly day, and I've enjoyed
'myself very much. Miss Jefferies was very
'civil: she's a sportswoman. It seems to me
'that you hanker after that fellow, and let
him dangle after you more than you need.
Now look here ! you can take your choice.

If you can come out for a stroll to-night, put
a light in your window at eleven, and I'm you?^
man /" (The last words were underlined, and
meant to be as tender as he had thought the

previous ones would be imperative.) — " But, if
you can't, be down to breakfast at nine sharp

tomorrow, that I may have a sight of you

before I go. Leave up. Seems a deuce of

a while since last night. Don't forget. Yours
*till death, A. J. J."

She read it through, with parted lips : all
the while she knew that she was like some
thirsty creature, gasping at a mirage in the
desert. There was not a word of real affection
in the letter. *' He would be just* as
happy with Anne Jefferies as with me," she
thought : even that little sentence, '* yours
till death " was carelessly scribbled, as if it
were — as indeed it was — a very customary
signature.

"■ No : I am nothing to him that another
woman could not be — that one of those servants
could not be," she said out loud, as she
crushed the rustling letter in her trembling

VOL. II. s

hands. Then she looked up, drawn as if
by a magnet, and met Lady Shortlands' opened
eyes.

Lady Shortlands was wide awake, and, with

one hand beneath her wrinkled face, was regarding

her niece intently, with the strangely

limpid glance of a sick person after heavy

sleep. Her eyes, which had been filmed a

moment before, were shining now like precious

stones. She seemed to be reading Eugenia's

whole soul, and in truth, the girl's attitude

expressed her mental struggle. For, quite

unconscious of her aunt's awakening, she had

been sitting with her face towards her, that

her back might be turned to Parity if she

should re-enter the room. Her chair was

drawn almost within the bed-curtains, and,

though her eyelids had been drooped, her

beautiful features and her clasped hands were

full of supplication and impassioned sorrow.

She had, as it were, taken refuge in Lady

Shortlands' nullity, than which, as it happened,
nothing could have been more vlo^ilant.

For Lady Shortlands had been looking at
her niece for some moments, before her gaze
attracted Eugenia's eyes to hers ; and she had
seen quite well that something was amiss,
although she could not perceive the letter,
which was in Eugenia's lap, on a lower
level than the bedclothes, and which — with a
deception new to her — Eugenia managed to
crumple up into the palm of her soft hand.
Then she roused herself to speak.

You are awake, Aunt Agatha ? " she said,
forcing a smile, 'how you have slept! and
you are better now ? "

'' I am well," said the old lady slowly : " the
fever has left me : I am quite well." She
spoke deliberately, as if she mastered her
words with trouble, but she did master them,
and seemed disposed to say more : '' I want
you to make me a promise, Eugenia ; " she said.

*' What is it ? " said Eugenia : she had
caught her aunt's tone, and spoke slowly
too.

**A true Carruthers!" murmured Lady
Shortlands, with a chuckle, "so like me at
your age, that answer — so like me now ! I
think you are like me, Eugenia."

Eugenia did not hazard a guess : she did
not know into what likeness the world might
not change her, if it should deal as hardly with
her always as it had dealt to-day.

*' What is it ? " she said again. She knew
precisely what her aunt's exaction would be :
but she felt that the sooner it was put into
shape, the better : whether she refused it or
no. The night before, she would have refused
it point-blank : now she was not so certain
but that it might be best for him she loved
if she complied.

But she was not prepared for Lady Short-lands'
circumlocution. '' I want you," she said,

'' to make me no promises in event of my
living — because I don't want to see you break
them ! If I live, and I assure you I have
every intention of doing so, I can take you
for another campaign in a better house than
this, where I should not have a fit — this illness
is just wholly due to mauvais ton. It is
only in event of my death that I want you
to promise me that you will marry Sir Edmund
Trefusis."

"You are not going to die," said Eugenia
stupidly : '* you are going to get well."

*' I know I am going to get well," said Lady
Shortlands impatiently, plucking at the rich
silk counterpane, "don't irritate me so! I
shall get well soon, if you don't thwart me or
bring in any more lobsters to supper without
salad : but I must have your promise or I shall
not sleep. Just in case I don't get better, let
me feel that you are well provided for, and will
really snub your grandfather."

But you don't feel that you will die, do
you ? " said Eugenia innocently.

'' ' Die ! ' " cried Lady Shortlands, the tears
starting to her eyes, "You unfeeling minx,
how dare you use such words to me ! Didn't
I tell you I was going home tomorrow ? Now
for that unkindness, Eugenia, you 77i2is^ promise
me : you don't know how you hurt people's
feelings, talking like that : I really cannot have
you hurt Sir Edmund's."

*sir Edmund has not asked me," said Eugenia
— weakly, for she knew that it was not
his fault he had not done so long ago. She
expected anger, but Lady Shortlands did not
seem angry ; she smiled persuasively :

I know ; " she said, '' and very likely he
won't ; but this is just an old woman's fancy,
which you must gratify. Limit it as much as
you like. Say if I . ' die as you call it (ita
horrid word) — if I ' don't get better,' before I
can be moved ; and if he should wish it, and

ask you, a year afterwards — there : will that
do ? Promise me," she added with a livid
change stealing over her face, which was
horrible to see ; " promise me, Eugenia, or I
swear I shall have another fit. Oh ! don't tell
me you " .

''I promise that said Eugenia quickly —
after all what did the disposal of her life
matter ? and this was so unlikely ! She would
have promised to be queen of England, to
reside in the moon, anything — rather than
have again the dreadful consciousness that she
had brought her aunt, as Parity had said, to
the very gates of death.

That will do : " said Lady Shortlands, in a
firmer, clearer tone — rather as if she had herself
been satisfying some whim of Eugenia —
(" she would never have promised me even so
much," she thought to herself, '' had there
been any real understanding between her and
Jones "). — '' That will do 1 it was only a fad of

mine to test you. You are a good girl, Eugenia,
and a very fair nurse : I shall get well
under your care : you are not like those silly
chits — Anne Jefferies, for instance, zuith her
ridicttloiLs fancy for Toties ! Send me Parity at
once," she added quickly, as one that would
not trust herself to say more, *' I want her to
arrange my pillows."

Glad to escape and think over what she had
done, but most to ponder that last utterance of
her aunt's, which pierced her like a sword, Eugenia
walked into the dressing-room, and bade
Parity go to her ladyship at once ; while she
betook herself to her own room, with Buck's
letter still in her hand.

*' Milady is better, Parity," she said; but
when Parity went into the sick-room, she did
not find her so. Lady Shortlands was lying
back upon her pillow, panting, with an odd
rattle in her throat ; entirely exhausted by the
effort she had made.

"Brandy! — beef-tea!" — she said, In a
hoarse voice, " give it me quick, or I shall die ! "
She drank eagerly, but after a few teaspoonfuls,
she paused, " Do I look an object ? " she asked.

*' You don't look right," said the tirewoman
coldly, tugging at her head-gear. There was
not much question of civility between mistress
and maid, when they were alone together, after
so many years of mutual dependence.

*' Make me look right," said Lady Shortlands
drowsily: "you can do it just as well, while
I'm asleep." And suddenly she closed "her
eyes and slept.

Parity shook her head gravely ; but she
fastened the door and lit two candles ; one
of these she placed on a little table, by the
bedside, the other she held in her hand.
When she had unlocked a dressing-box, and
taken out her materials, she deliberately
climbed up on to the bed, perching herself
thereon, in a goblin way which would have been

grotesque, had it been less distressing. So
perched, she slowly painted Lady Shortlands
face into the hues of health it should have
worn.

Could Eugenia have seen her at her dreadful
task, she might have fancied she beheld some
ghoul at work upon a corpse ; but there was nothing
strange to Parity in her toil : she prided
herself, not a little, on her skill. She rubbed
the red upon the flaccid lips, she softened
down the rotige on the drawn cheeks, she drew
the arch of the once beautiful eyebrows amid
the wrinkles, she whitened over the furrowed
forehead and the creased neck and chin, and
finally arranged the false hair under the lace
nightcap, with a deftness and precision that
was almost automatic. Then she jumped
lightly off the bed, put up her paint-box, and
adjusted the wax-lights like a woman of a perfectly
clear conscience. She did not need to
criticise her work. She had done it, or something

like it, morning and evening now, for
over twenty years ; and never yet, perhaps,
under such favourable circumstances of position
and repose.

When the toilette was over, and Lady Short-lands
was ready for her husband's visit, she
began to be more wakeful again. Perhaps the
reflection of her renewed image in the hand-glass
which Parity brought her, made her feel
as well as she looked, and certainly she looked
very handsome. She expressed a wish to see
Anne Jefferies, as well as Dr. Burroughes ; and
after inquiring of her tirewoman the time, and
learning that it was nearly ten o'clock, she sent
her to Eugenia's room, with the message that
she was " to go at once to bed and get a goodnight's
rest before her journey back, next day,
to Shortlands."

No words can express the sense of relief this
message brought to Eugenia ; it set her absolutely
free for the whole night, for no one

would disturb her earned repose. But there
was a danger in this freedom of which Lady
Shortlands little knew. Eugenia had no power
to sleep at will : she was the prey to a passion
of longing and mistrust, her nerves were overstrung
and she was wholly cast upon her own
resources, while crumpled in her hand lay
the beloved's invitation into the shadowy
garden. . . .

When Parity was ozone, she locked the door
of her chamber, and drew across it the heavy
tapestry poj^tiere, which matched the hangings
and made the doorway only like a panel of
the room. There was a warrior wrought
upon it, with his shield and spear, who now
stood over her for sentinel. Next she put
out the light and opened her square window
wide, letting In the calm of the night. And
then she drew the sloping chair up to the
window, and sat down to wait. She leaned
her lovely head against the silken curtains,

till her lips almost touched the climbing rose
outside, and the tendrils of the ivy twisted
with the tendrils of her hair. The stars
were up and the moon, and yet the night
was dark, — the trees and creepers made a
rustling shadow round the house, — but as
Eugenia's eyes got used to it, the lawns
defined themselves, and the paths glimmered
out. The whole scene, its colours faded,
looked like a clear etching as it lay before
her. She loosened her grey dress at the
throat, and sank deeper into the luxurious
cushions ; only the moon could gaze upon
her beauty, she was out of reach of lover's
eyes. There blew in a breath towards her
from the open window, that was laden with
the scent of flowers and the strong sweet
freshness of the sea : but it brought her no
balm. Her soul was sick with longing, her
strength so spellbound she could scarcely
lift her hand. Her mind was full of vague,

voluptuous images, but one resolve was
master over them all. Into that moonlight,
where, by and by, those beloved arms would
await her — so easily within reach, so fervently
desired— she would not go forth. She would
pursue this love no further; she would let
her lover go. " If he does care," she thought,
"it will be all the same by and by." Sofar
as she was concerned, time had nothing
to do with it. It was for ever. But what
this decision cost her, there are few can
realise. She had given Buck all her heart.
And I do worship thee," she said to herself
over and over, beneath her breath, as Chat-terms'
little song still lingered in her memory.
Now she must take this gift away ; it was nota
good oft to olive ; it was a burthen. The
shame of the thing made her cower in her
dark corner, but she did not relent. She felt,
with a pain to which mere physical suffering
were keen delight, that she and her young

lover were not for each other. She had felt
it, had she only known, at the very moment
of his embrace. There had been some recognition
of it, as well as yearning pity over him,
in her 'poor love!" and she had ''thouo^ht it
out" during the day, everything helping her
to this necessitous conclusion. '* Anne's fancy
for Jones " — that shaft of Lady Shortlands'
had struck her, last and deepest. Was It then
so patent to all the world ? Anne loved him.

The only power that could have stayed
Eugenia's sacrifice of herself, would have
been the conviction that she would give
her darling Irremediable pain. But this
flattering unction " she could not *' lay to her
soul." There was a tone in this second letter
of his, that proved him ready to renounce
her, If she did not care ; a tone that told
her, somehow — she knew not by what subtle
touch — that he would soon forget. But of
another life for herself, she never thought :

her promise to Lady Shortlands had faded
utterly out of her mind. From herself and
her beloved the whole fabric of the world
seemed to shrink away, leaving them together
— not for ecstasy's sake, but for farewell's.


'' We must go our different ways," she said to
herself, *rit is impossible. He can do better."

Her course of action was resolved on soon,
and proved that she had no intention of
sparing herself pain. She would remain at
her window. It was wide open and he would
never guess that she was there, in the darkness
; he might, or might not, fancy that she
was with her aunt, he would only know that
she could not, or she would not, come.

And if he should go out on to the lawn
before her, she would see him once more, and
be quite sure — for that one time — that it was
of her he was thinking.

But how dare cease to love him? How

drain from her veins this new fierce poison
that was saturated into the channels of her
life ? These were conclusions she could not
so easily attain. She had a fixed impression
that she must suffer something terrible, — *' cutoff
her right hand " or "pluck out her eyes ; " —
for how is one to die if one be not killed ?
Nothing can kill one but death. Her life had
closed round his; now, for his sake — that
Anne might love him — she must tear herself
adrift, before he learned the depth of her
devotion.

As she thought of the isolation that she
planned, she turned cold and shivered in the
darkness ; an awful sense of suffering and
loneliness oppressed her. She got out Buck's
smoking-jacket, and wrapped it round her —
its tints blending curiously with the silken
fringes of the curtains. Then she sat down
again and listened, as the longed-for hour
drew near. The clouds travelled fast, the

VOL. IL T

moon travelled slowly — "His love," she
thought, *rand mine! " — how bare and desolate
the pale moon looked, as the gauzy veils
shimmered away. Still the night wore on ;
it was hard upon eleven o'clock.

For some time she had heard a confused
murmuring downstairs ; and now the window
of the smoking-room beneath was opened —
roughly, not with care as one should open
it who came forth secretly — and she could
detect the fumes of cigar-smoke wafted upon
the sweet cool air.

What a night ! " said someone, with a sigh,
stepping out upon the grass and thence onto
the gleaming gravel round the lawn. It
was not Buck, It was Vane ; but other footfalls
came crunching the path after his ; the
last footfall was heavier than the rest, and
a soft rich whistle accompanied it. Eugenia
drew closer within the friendly shade of her
curtains, and hiding her head in the dewy

leaves, peered through the creepers, down.
The moment was come : she knew that her
beloved was beneath her window.

*why can't you whistle in, tune?" said
Crossley.

'' Damn tune ! " Buck answered savagely ;
he had glanced up already at Eugenia's
darkened casement, and it had not bettered
his mood.

''Oh! you Goth!" said Vane impatiently.
"Jem Chatteris ought to be here. He's the
only chap of us all that can understand a night
like this. It's a pity the lad don't smoke."

Buck walked forward a few paces, on to the
wet lawn : he did not like reproof, even of his
whistling. He looked very big and very
strong, Eugenia thought, as she made out his
dark figure moulded in the lines of his dress
suit. She wondered what he was thinking of,
as he stood there, with his hands in his
pockets, and puffed away at his cheroot.

Thinking of her, without doubt : for he
pulled out his watch ; which reassured him,
for it showed that the clocks had not yet
struck eleven. He was standing with his
back to Eugenia, but she could see that he
was putting the watch back slowly into his
waistcoat-pocket : she could follow the curve
of his arm, could mark his broad square
shoulders and the slight ruffle of his curly
hair, as the wind kissed it. She thought that
there must be some beautiful vision in his
soul, that he must be learning the lesson of
the night, while she leaned out further and
further into the roses and the dew.

*what mean devils this moon makes us
feel ! " said Vane, selecting Crossley for his
confidant. His words echoed the very sense
that Eugenia's fancy was putting into poor
Buck's vacantest imaginings : '' Upon my
life," he went on, " a night like this makes
one half-inclined never to go back to London—

to become a hermit, or at any rate a different
sort of fellow altogether'*

Eugenia began to repent herself of mistrusting
Mr. Henry Vane. Dick Crossley too
was sympathetic, and answered something in a
lower tone, which Eugenia felt she would have
liked, had she heard it : it sounded as if it
were half humorous and half reverent, like a
boy's prayer. She hoped that Buck had heard
it, — for how was she to know that the lower tone
was only used that the remark might escape
his comment ? But Buck's ears were on tie
alert for other sounds, and he did hear Crossley's
speech.

"• Damned rot ! " he said, coarsely, wheeling
round and striking his heel Into the daisies.
Then he stretched himself, with a loud yawn,
and sang out, with sound lungs but tuneless :
A starry night for a ramble ! " after which,
he too proceeded to take the adaptable Crossley
into his confidence. " I say," he said, in a

very knowing voice, 'there's a little girl here,
Dick — she's about ninth housemaid, I should
think, by the lot of 'em — who's as neat as " . . .

Eugenia bowed her head among the roses,
partly, no doubt, from a double instinct of self-preservation
— to prevent herself hearing him,
and to prevent his seeing her — but more, from
a petulant shame on his behalf, which wrung
her heart, but for which she soon reproached
herself again. — *' What right had she," she
reasoned, ''to expect him to be other than he
was ? If one chose to set one's faith upon a
star, who was to blame because it only twinkled,
and let fall no moon-rays ? " She was indignant
at her own passion. Hitherto, Indeed,
she had scarcely sounded its depths or guessed
how it reacted on her nerves : now, as she
bent her head upon her arms, she felt something
cold and wet between her lips.

She touched it with her hand : it was a sprig
of ivy, drenched wlth^dew, which, in the anguish

that her love and his inadequacy had caused
her, as she listened, her white teeth had closed
upon, and bitten from Its stem. The taste of
It was sharp and acrid In her mouth already.

It was the first sloan that made Eugenia conscious
of the physical strain with which her
passion mastered her. She held her breath
with fear. Not to cry out like some wild
creature, not to leap down Into the garden — the
denying herself actions which she could never
have imagined she would feel the force to do —
took all her self-possession for a time. To see
her lover thus, among his fellows, to watch the
careless and hap-hazard way in which his days
and nights were passed, made Eugenia long to
Interfere — to snatch him away, as one might
dream a guardian angel would long sometimes,
beyond restraint, to snatch a soul away, out of
the whirl and web of this benumbing and
ensnaring world.

Buck was not doing anything tragic or

wrong — except so far as to do nothing is
always both wrong and tragic — he was 'passing:
time " according to the less than Mow worm
licht that was within him : but so much had
Eugenia set, as it were, at stake upon him,
that she could have killed him with her own
hands, for his own sake, in default of striking
him to fuller consciousness of life. *^ Let me
seal this treasure-box which I have found," one
feels sometimes, *' if indeed it be empty ! "

As the young men passed down the garden-walk
towards the terrace, sauntering and
smoking — still before her window, but ever
tightening her heart-strings by increasing distance
— she hid her burning face in her cold
hands, and slid down upon her knees by the
window, praying desperately — anyhow — with
texts rather than prayers, one text that haunted
her beyond the rest : '' I pray — not that Thou
would'st take him out of the world — but that
Thou would'st keep him from the evil;" and

with the dizzy beating of her heart, she would
perhaps have presently become unconscious,
had she not been hurt, at last, by the painful
pressure of the polished boards against her
knees.

When she looked up, eleven o'clock was
striking from tower and distant spire ; and, at
once, she saw the biggest of the dark figures —
distant from her now by the lawn's breadth —
turn quickly towards the house again.

Evidently conversation languished ; and
Indeed the men had only come out of doors,
as they were finishing their cigars, to see what
the weather promised for the morrow, for the
officers had to be off betimes in the mornlnof.
Vane acted as their host, for neither Mr. Tomlinson
nor Mr. Buxton affected the smoklncr-
room.

None of them were much in the way of
lounging, out of Piccadilly. When they went
to London, Buck and Crossley would, in their

own phrase, *' have their hair cut, and walk
down Bond Street, just to give the girls a
treat," but a walk In moonlit gardens — that was
not '' their usual form ! " and soon Captain
Boville's voice was audible from the smoke
window, calling them In. *' Come
In and have a B. and S., or let's eo to the
billiard-room," he said, " but shut the window ;
it blows confounded cold into this heat."

Vane crossed the lawn at once, not only
because he had been the offender In opening
the window, but because he thought that
Boville might prove more endurable company
than Buck. Crossley hesitated.

Get along in, with your rotten poetry," said
Buck, " Vm as snuffy as a lord already, and I
want some air ; but I don't want any more
poetry, and I don't want any more sermons."
And so Crossley, who wished to supplant Buck,
a little, in Boville's favour, — being somewhat
of a respecter of persons, regimental If not religious

— and who had quite enough of Buck's
adjectival conversation at Portsmouth, went
in after Vane and shut the window. Then
Eugenia felt that she and her beloved were
alone together with the night.

Left to himself, Buck ceased to pretend
lounging. He looked alertly round, and then
he too recrossed the lawn, noiseless and swift
as a panther, till he stood directly underneath
Eugenia's casement. He could hardly believe
his eyes, when he saw, finally and for all, that
there was indeed no light in it ; and he rubbed
them roughly as if he feared they played him
false.

As for Eugenia, silent though she was, and
hidden behind curtains and screen of creepers,
she could scarce persuade herself that he was
not aware of her presence ; her heart seemed to
be crying out to him so loudly, and the wings
of her soul to be so closely folded about him.

Buck pushed his hands through his hair,

and swore a little under his breath, as his
wont was when perplexed. Perhaps he saw
more clearly into the turbid pool of his
thoughts, when he had skimmed it of this
crust of its habitual expression 1 No doubt
the moonshine made a sort of light, reflected
in the mirror opposite the window, for it was
evident that he was not going to take the
apparent darkness of Eugenia's chamber for
certain, without what he would have called
*'a try for it." The devil In him was roused
and he would run all hazards. He strode
across the path, coming right up under the wall
of the house, still noiseless with excitement,
but with all the littleness of his well-drilled
limbs in play. He was close beneath the
window now, too near for Eugenia to dare
steal the slightest glimpse of him ; but she
feared he was going to do — something — she
knew not what— something violent ! she felt
as if he would pull down the wall, and reveal

her cowering: there. Then for one instant he
was absolutely still. Eugenia shrank further
back into a side recess by the window, where
a writing-table fortunately projected a little
way forward Into the room. She had only
time for one momentary spasm of terror, which
seemed to turn her from flame to stone, when,
with a slight Indrawn whistle and an oath, he
vaulted lightly up ; and, resting his foot upon
the rose-tree, bruising the scented blossoms to
the ground in a white shower of leaves, he
laid his strong veined hand upon her windowsill.
He raised himself up by it, and leaned
forward on his broad shoulder, till first his chestnut
head appeared, and then she felt his breath
upon her arm. He looked into the room, —
quite dark and yet lit here and there by the
orleans: of its mirrors in the moon — then, with
wonderful strength and lightness, he gathered
his mighty self together, and with a bound,
swung himself bodily In at the window.

EUGENIA.

He Stood before her in her own room.

They were quite close together : she so
conscious of him, he so unwitting of her
presence. There was not a hand's breadth
between them : she could have touched his
coat, as he stood leaning against the shutter ;
and the folds of the long curtains, from which
he stooped to disentangle himself, were merged
with the folds of her dress. He literally laid
hold of her skirt with his hands.

Once landed in the room, he seemed puzzled
what to do next. It was empty, he thought,
that was evident ; and he had better get out
of it before any one came in ; but should he
go out at the door or back again into the
garden by way of the rose-boughs ? He
would have a look round first, at all events.
He would hear any one's approach, and he liked
the sense of adventure which was upon him.

It was fortunate that Eugenia's fear was
too stony, even to let her tremble, for the

room was still. Her recognition of her
position was so sudden and so complete, it
so entirely bound her nerves, that she could
not have spoken had she wished to. And
in truth it was well that she should risk no
explanation. Locked in there, at that midnight
hour, so utterly and undisturbed alone ;
the mutual understanding between those two
passionate hearts would have brooked no words
of parting. Eugenia knew this by some sort of
instinct, for she could not be said to think.

Buck crossed the room in a couple of strides,
glanced at himself in the moonlit glass, and
pulled up his collar. The action would have
been ridiculous had it not been so dreadful.
His insouciance in face of the torture of the
woman who loved him, was tragical. Then
he looked for the door, feeling his way along
by the writing-table in the centre of the room,
and the sofa beyond it ; but the poitiers was
drawn, and, as the wall was hung all round

EUGENIA.

with tapestries, he could not form a notion
of its whereabouts. This was lucky, for the
locked door would perhaps have made him
stay, and, at all events, have assured him that
he was safe from disturbance till Eugenia
came. But as it was, he began to fear that
the room communicated, as it might easily
have done, with Lady Shortlands apartments,
and he could not tell but what his lifting a
curtain might bring him In view of a room
where watchers were : for he had seen that
the windows nearest to Eugenia's were faintly
lit by Parity's vigilant taper, as she gazed, ina
state of rapt self-content over her handiwork,
upon her sleeping mistress.

At last he made up his provident mind to
return by the garden ; but on his way to the
window, as he groped along, he came upon
Eugenia's sloping-seated chair.

Even a wild and passionate nature, under
the influence, more often of a common longing

than of a spiritual need, has moments — rare
indeed were such, with Buck ! — of a tenderness
which Is divine. Some tenderness Hke
this, bred of the night, of love, of the heyday
of youth, stirred in Buck's blood, as he laid
his hot hand on the coolness of the silken
cushions which seemed to tell him of her
presence. He sat down heavily and sighed.
His heart was sore within him ; he was hurt,
he was angry, he was sorry, he could have
wept. The sting of tears was starting to his
eyes, and for one instant he sobbed aloud. But
no tears fell, and the sob was strangled In his
throat ; he put his arms upon the cushions and
hid his glowing face between them. — " My
darling," he said hoarsely, " my darling! "

All this Eugenia saw clearly from her
hiding-place, all this was turning her again
from stone to fire. He was quite close to her,
within her reach. She put out her hand. . . .

But the moment did not last. Buck sat
VOL. n. u

Up again, he felt he was a fool : he bit his
nails to the quick, he drew in his breath, he
stared down into the quiet garden : '' God ! "
he said between his set white teeth. Then
he bit his nails fiercely again. Eugenia
clasped her hands together, in the folds of her
grey gown, *' God ! " she echoed — with a difference.
Her heart stopped beating with the
fervour of her prayer, she bowed her head.

He got up : he did not trouble to so much as
smooth the rumpled chair-cover. He was not
one to count consequences that might light on
others. A thing once done was done, with him.
He stood there again, full in her view, with the
moonlight upon him. The tenderness had
passed away — the roughness and the wrath of
his disappointed spirit asserted themselves stormily,
again. He came back to the window, he
looked out upon the beauty of the sleeping lawns:
but it did not turn his resentful heart. He
spoke to himself half aloud : he blamed her. . . .

What he said need not be here recorded.
It was not much, it was not new. It was
a trenchant vulgar comment on her having
failed him ; and he believed himself alone,
lofnorant as Eugenia was of the meanings of
his words, which she but half caught, the
sense that she had trifled with his passions,
that she had deserved this insult, struck into
her heart like a knife. For an instant she
could neither hear nor see. She was dazed
and blind. When the mist cleared from her
eyes, only his sunburnt hand was visible above
the sill. She could see his nails, his veins ;
his stiff cuff had scratched his wrist, there
was a bruise, and above the bruise she saw
a little cross, tattooed upon his arm. Then,
he was gone.

He never looked behind him, he had ' wasted
time enough upon her.' He swung himself
down with a parting kick to the rose-boughs,
but without one other word. He did not come

in sight again, he flung open the latch and let
himself into the now empty smoking-room, by
the window. He banged the window to, he
poured himself out a tumbler full of brandy,
and, when he had drunk it, he threw himself
upon the chill morocco sofa. It was well that
nobody came near him then.

By some strange influence, like clairvoyance
Eugenia knew exactly what he cid, and she
knew too, without reasoning, that he would
not come out again, that she need have no
more to fear. The worst was past. The
instant that he was securely gone, ere yet
he had given way to his paroxysm of temper
in the room that was almost beneath hers, she
trailed her body from its hiding-place, and,
following his very footsteps, though unconsciously,
she flung herself into the chair. '* My
boy," she said, '' my love — my love — my love ! "

Then she lay as still as death. Long afterwards,
she recollected how the breeze had

Stolen in to fan her, how the sleepy birds had
called to each other, once and again, in the
near branches. But of breeze or bird she
knew nothlnof in that hour.

And in this dread inertness, this awful waking
trance that was worse than any swoon, her
reason woke. The words that he had used of
her, started to life and faced her like a spell.
What he had said, indeed, he did not mean.
His language was always rough when he was
with men ; and, when he was alone, he expressed
himself in still less guarded terms,
without putting much significance into them.
But the mere sound of his angry phrases had
struck Eugenia with a deadly wound : they
turned the pure unfailing current of her passion,
into a brackish tide of shame. " Am I so
false ? " she said aloud, " am I so mean ? " and
she hid her face in her hands.

Suddenly she felt she could endure herself
no longer, she must get rid of this oppression.

this darkness, this watch uig moon. She stood
upright in the same place where her lover had
been standing. She had no pity for herself:
her lot was cast. She had loved wrongly, and
loved in vain : practically, as far as the life of
the heart went, she must die.

She went up to the window ; she dared not shut
it, for she felt she could not breathe if she did, but
she drew the silken folds of the curtains across
it, and over them let fall the heavier tapestry
drawings. She shut out the moonlight and the
stars and the roses ; all spoke of him. Then she
struck a light, which made the broidered warriors
gleam strangely down at her, and the old chapel-furniture
and lace start to a live reproach. She
lit the wax-candles on the dressing-table ; she
wished to see what horrible change had befallen
her; was her hair white, were her jaws fanged ?
was she withered and scorched to flame and
ashes ? She thought rather to see some fleshless
devil or incarnate Qrhost, than her own image.

What did she see ?

This anguish of the heart, with all its pain,
does not affect the face with change, like
terror or illness. It is all part of an element of
joy : it is only the other side of the passionate
thrill which makes for beauty. There looked
back upon Eugenia, out of the ivory frame of
the glass, a face so radiantly lovely that she
could scarcely deem it hers. Wet eyes that
beamed, like stars, behind the starting tears
which shone on their long lashes ; lips rosy with
the coursing blood ; brows and cheeks, fair with
the fairness of the dusk and of the dewy night,
flushed like blush-releases under the disarray
of tumbled hair. She had the vivid
satin jacket, still about her shoulders ; it
gleamed, brilliant and soft, against the sombre
back-ground of the tapestry; but her grey
dress was unfastened, and her heart-beats stirred
the fervent alabaster of her breast to life.
She was like some glorious picture of Titian's,

a Venus or a Magdalen. All unawares, until
the mirror gave it back, she smiled a glad
triumphant smile. Her sweet lips parted like
a child's, her eyelids drooped : ** It must be a
good thing that makes one thus ! " she thought.
Then she sank backwards into a chair, still
looking at her face, still thinking, not of herself
but of Buck, as its creator and master.
'* Will he be content to give me up for
Anne ? " . . . she thought. '' I can do nothing
for him : she can do so much ! . . . God
helping me, he shall be hers."

She shivered : as she did so, something fell
out of her pocket on to the floor, not with a
noise but with a subtle gleam, that made her
heed it half against her will. She picked it up.
It was Sir Edmund's Spanish knife, which she
had found between the leaves of Chatteris'
poems. Like a wave, there swept over her
consciousness a swirling host of recollections :
her aunt's passion of wrath . its remedy ;

her strange surcease of pain . her dreamless
sleep. . . . Then followed odd quick echoes
from the past — her own talk with Dr. Burroughes
the meaning of the questions she had asked
him — the careless accuracy of his answers.

She drew the blade of the knife through her
beautiful hands ; she felt the point of it against
her wrist — she paused.

How still the night was, yet how far-off sleep !
Could people sleep ? and had she ever slept ?

If, at any cost of pain, she could get back
her freedom and her sleep ?

If she could drain this fever from her
veins ? . . .

She looked at herself again. To what end
was all this lavish wealth of loveliness ? must
it not bring her either weariness or shame,
when the thought of its being for any husband
but one, struck her so sick with dread ? and
his, she must not be. He was for Anne.

But if, by one stroke, she could blast it all,

make herself undesired and calm and free —
lose passion and gain peace ?

Illness had no significance for her : she had
never felt it : it was to lie quite still as her
aunt was lying — nothing more.

Nor could she even think of herself as lying
still : she would be weak and sleepy : that was
all. She was so strong. Death was so far away.

Yes : she would drain the crimson tide from
her cheeks and lips, the tell-tale throb from
her bosom, the tingling from her limbs.

She bared her arm. Sir Edmund would have
had it moulded in ivory or marble. Buck would
have covered it with fervent boyish kisses.

Then her courage stood still, for just one
breathing space ; but it never failed her.

She looked hard at her face in the glass,
with resolution and contempt : she said, to her
reflected image, the words which she had heard
Buck use, until her indignation mastered and
possessed her, like the uncoiling of some

venomous snake : she loathed the poison of
this passion in her blood.

'* Come out of me ! " she said, and with a
quick, brave stroke, she struck the Spanish knife
into her veins, just at the spot where she had
marked the doctor's lancet go, when Lady Short-lands'
withered arm had lain upon the bed.

Then she sat still and waited, suppressing
an indignant cry. Her whole frame revolted
at the torture, but the blood which gave such
pangs of anguish and appeal refused to flow.
She felt as if she had pricked her arm Into
flames : there was a scratch, a spurt of blood,
but no tide followed.

Then she remembered that her aunt had
been lying down.

Like a clock-work woman, she made her
dreadful preparations, with a neatness which
would have disgraced no hospital. She had
no feeble feminine instincts to save herself
from pain. She would have gone through

worse than this. She would have cut off her
right hand, had she imagined that the secret
of her self-rebuke lay there ; but it was in her
heart, not in her hand.

She lay down : she put her head upon the
silken cushion which had held his trouble,
and where her own fair brows had rested in
her thoughts of him : and she let the blood flow,
pulsing forth with the beating of her heart, until,
at last, a deadly chill broke out upon her :
she shivered from head to foot with a shiver
that she could not stop.

*' It is enough," she said, but then again she
waited : for the thought of him — the sudden
presentation of his image to her sight — had
stayed the shivering with a burning blush.
Lips and cheeks glowed again.

At last she felt a gradual numbness stealing
over her : it had seemed impossible that she
could be colder than she was, but this was
altogether different ;— not now the intermittent

trembling of a shiver, but a marble cold, like
death's.

Listlessly, she raised her right arm, which
had dealt the blow, and laid her hand upon her
heart : its beat was weak and slow, hardly a pulse
was discernible : she pictured him with all her
might, tried to remember how she had seen him
before her, in his sleep and in his tears, so dear
and so beloved. But the image was blurred, the
heart-beat did not quicken, 'now," she thought,
I must be dead indeed." Think of him as she
might — with love, with shame — her pulse gave
only hesitating throbs, her heart made no
sign. " What does it all matter ? " her languor
seemed to say, *' let be : what is life or death ? "

Her head felt as if it were sinking deeper
deeper — into the pillows. The darkness
gathered round her in great waves. Was this
the Sussex sea ? . . . a storm ? . . . a dream ?
She was overcome with sleep. . . , Was it
death ? . . .

The thought roused her flickering senses :
with an immense effort, she rallied, dragged her
limbs from off the bed, and bound her arm, as
she had seen the doctor do. Shuddering from
head to foot, she slowly managed to undress
herself; her hair was loose already, else her
numbed, nerveless fingers would not have
had the strength to unbind it— the nails on
them were blue. The labour of loosening her
garments seemed to have overtasked her
powers ; as she looked again at the bed, it
appeared far away from her. With a wan,
pitiful smile, she wondered if she should ever
get back to it.

And yet this rallying, that she had forced upon
herself, banished her drowsiness. Stretching
out her hand for support she touched the
bookcase : she drew a volume from the shelf and
opened it. It was an old copy of Shakespeare.

At first she could not read the words she
had lighted on ; her sight was dim, she began

to fear that she was moving in her sleep, that
it was all a futile dream.

Once aofain she leaned forward, and looked
for her reflection in the old Venetian mirror.
She saw no woman, but a ghost indeed. As
she crouched over the book in her white bed-gown,
its linen was not whiter than her face.
What was come to her beauty ? She was pale
as the sheeted dead.

This was no dream, she was awake, wide-eyed.
What had she done ?

Forcing her gaze, she glanced down at the
page once more ; why was it all of passion ?
Was this, she had foregone, the one thing that
gave zest to life ? Why no peace ? no rest ?
no praise of loveless days ?

After a while, she made out the words, though
they came and went before her :

" Men have died indeed, — and
luorms have eaten them . . . l?t/t not for love I "

She let the volume fall. ' Death ?' — 'Worms ? '

on that, but now, so warm and lovely flesh ! —
was she to be the first that died for love ?

Panic-stricken with swift terror, she dragged
her trembling limbs across the floor and got back
to the bed, smitten — at the book's suggestion —
with that over-mastering fear which physical
weakness brings. A terror of the bodily horror
of death took hold upon her. '' Give me back
my life ! " she cried, '' Give me back my life ! "

Still kneeling on the ground, she flung her
arms across the low bedstead, and prayed with
a passion of tears. . . .

Buck mastered his temper ; it went out, as
the brandy made him sleepy ; his restlessness
passed off and left him only cross ; he made
up his lordly mind to go to bed. He walked
heavily upstairs ; he " did not care a curse "
whom he disturbed, he *had as good a right
to go upstairs to bed, as any one of the whole
damned crew." That was his frame of mind.
He was more than a little muddled.

When he came to the division in the
staircase, he hesitated ; then he went to
the left, up the few steps leading to Eugenia's
door.

He stopped the low indrawn whistle that
was the usual accompaniment of his locomotion
; he rubbed his eyes ; he looked round,
there was nobody in sight.

He cursed the clocks for ticking . he
stood still. Perhaps he had been hard upon
her. How did he know she was not waiting
for him now, with her light shining forth into
the sleeping garden ? But it was too much
trouble to go out again and see.

He relented : he pulled himself together,
jumped up the few stairs, and shook the
handle of the white door, to make sure that
the room was empty.

It was locked, and yet there was no
response !

His face grew puzzled : with his nails he

VOL. II. X

beat a soft tattoo upon the door-panel.
(Eugenia heard it).

He tried to look in at the keyhole : but
the portiere darkened it.

(Eugenia knew the moment when he
stooped — the moment when his breath was
on the door. Her heart did not beat faster:
she was past moving now : she prayed).

At last he made up his mind that she
had gone to bed tired, and he swore at her
again for a heartless flirt. But he was tired
too : he had spoiled one night's rest, for her,
he would not spoil another.

Sleep was heavy upon his eyes : what had
seemed to him of so much importance, an
hour before, did not matter now, in comparison
with repose. If she could have come out
and stood before him, he would have yawned
in her face and wanted to get away.

His mood was changed: he stretched himself:
he gave the panels a last push, hoping

It might wake her, but he did not care enough
to wait and see. He swung himself downstairs
again, and then upstairs to his room, and
when he had got into it, he banged the door.
He hustled off his clothes, and tumbled himself
into bed, without so much as lighting a candle.
He was fast asleep, by the time his curly head
had touched the pillow. He laid aside his
passion and his temper with his coat and his
watch : the watch was worth something, but
the passion was not worth a thought. He
did not deserve one moment's care, one girls
good-will. He was the merest of mere men,
"lower," past all reckoning, than any "angel'*
but "crowned with glory and worship". . .
For still Eugenia knelt on. The wax-lights,
lit upon her carven table, the lace on which
had once really decked an altar, burned ever,
austere and straight, and gave the room, more
than before, its aspect of a chapel. They
burned low, they burned out, and at last

dawn brought her sleep — a sleep like death,
born not of rest but of exhaustion. Still, in
her sleep, her soul was praying for him still.

So is it, always, in the vigils of this distracted
world, where the heart wakes in
vain. Oh ! perhaps thus, against our will,
our treasure is laid up in Heaven !

And the poor labour day by day ; night after
night the untended sick lie tossing on their
pillows. Hireling curates pray for them, hireling
nurses watch them. But the agony of
passion and the climax of appeal, — unasked,
unsought — these are for the comfortable fool
that sleeps, without a dream, between his soft
cool sheets, the drunken youngster, in his pride
of life, that no love touches and no prayer can
profit. God, out of Heaven, help us ! Why
should these things be ?

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE, HANSON AND CO.
EDINBURGH AND LONDON.

i\

■J-

OF THL

University

OF ILLINOIS

v.2>

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

Au 5 198G
JAN 1 8 la**

NOV 1 3 1S3!

L161— O1096

AN EPISODE.

BY

WILLIAM MONEY HARDINGE,

AUTHOR OF "CLIFFORD GRAY."

Glory to God — to God," he saith,
Knowledge by suffering entered,
And Life is perfected— in Death ! "

E. B, Browning.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE.

1883.

[All rights reserved. '\

Walt Whitman.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME III.

-0-

got tire ^eronir.

LOVE, THE CROSS.— continued.

CHAP. PAGE

VIII, Divine 3

•

got tlje %W^.

LOVE, THE CROWN.

I. Faith . 43

(Sir Edmund Trefusis — Winter.)

II. Hope 114

(Lieutenant A. J. Jarvis — Spring.)

III. Charity 194

(Eugenia Brand — Summer.)

LOVE, THE CROSS.

{Co7iti7iued)

VOL. III.

Matthew Arnold.

CHAPTER VIII.

DIVINE.

The morning spread itself, in gradual glow,
over the lovely land and sea. Stealing out
of a rift of silver in the lifted clouds, the
gathering day flooded the dewy meadows and
the opening flowers until it bathed the world
in light. There was no noise of morning
about the great house, at Ashbank ; only just
now and then, the twitter of a bird — the sentinel
warning to the fuller woodland carol.
The kennels and the farms were far away.
The place was steeped in stillness and in heat,
as the scene was steeped in dawn. The day

bade fair to be the crown of August In Its
beauty. Rain, storm, and darkness, were become
like fictions of another clime. And
sickness and sorrow and shame, how could
one still believe In them ? Only, through a
chink in Lady Shortens curtained window,
Parity's " new-lit taper glimmered thin ; " and
Eugenia's casement was still open ; the breeze
had moved the silken folds aside a little, under
the heavier tapestries, so that — near eight
o'clock — refracted sun-rays touched her hair
to warmth, as she still leaned. In her heavy
drowse, across the bed. In her hair was still
the same wealth of brown, the matchless brown
of autumn leaves, still the same hint of gold ;
but It was all of her that was not changed.

When she awoke, she rose unquestioning;
her weakness answered what she wished to
know. Her face was altered, and her chill
frame shrunken ; her lips were grey, her rose-leaf
cheeks collapsed. She turned the looking-glass

over, she did not wish to see her ghastly
pallor. She bound her hair up simply ; she
bathed her eyes, which failed her more than
once ; she put on her plainest dress and assured
the bandage round her wounded arm. She
was ready to go downstairs, long before nine
o'clock. Nor did she need to look at her
watch, to be certain that her hour was come.
She had set herself a thing to do; she meant
to prove truth illusion, veritable beauty a lie ;
and, when the moment had arrived, her courage
woke.

A poet, looking at her, in her deathly strangeness,
might have thought of Phaedra or Antigone
; there was some tragic shadow from the
lot of each, about her ; a sigh of passion and a
sign of duty. A priest might have thought
of the Mother of Sorrows, and of that ** other
Mary ; " there was a touch of shame upon her
now, as well as agony. The poet would have
loved her, and the priest would have revered

her. In her the poet would have found a
heroine, the priest a saint ; either, an ideal
realised at last.

But how was she like to seem to the ardent
longing of a hot-blooded young lieutenant in a
marching regiment, whose eyes had always
roved to perfect health and youth — who liked
a girl to *' stand up well, and come down fit to
breakfast " — and who saw no beauty in a
picture or a statue, unless the picture were a
French one, off a plum-box, or the statue
tinted ?

Old and wan, Eugenia, old and wan !

And she said so to herself ;— " cold and old'*
she said, "old and cold," — with a dreary smile
at the rhythmic echo of her thought ; but as she
smiled she did not flush. She turned sick and
faint instead ; she shuddered and she felt that
she was ill. For the first time in all her life
she dreaded to leave her room.

But presently she stole downstairs.

Although the clocks had not yet struck the
hour, the great hall wore its wonted aspect,
and in the breakfast room, to which she made
her way at once, the noiseless servants had
set the officers' morning meal, for they were to
leave betimes. The silver kettle was steaming,
with its small lamp lit beneath it ; and the other
lamps, under the various hot dishes, made a
slight simmering sound and brought out a
warm smell of fish and meats and omelettes,
appetising enough, as a rule, but overpowering
to Eugenia's senses now.

With scarcely a glance around her, she
passed through the room, which chanced to be
empty, and out of the window on to the terrace,
where she sank down upon a garden-seat.
She wished to avoid the many footmen who
were busy to and fro, and her instinct led her
as usual to the air, but, this time, the air did
not revive her. She felt numb and gradually
sank into a sort of stupor. The panorama

before her eyes, of earth and sea and sky,
became merged into a dream.

In a few minutes, two soft voices reached
her — anne's and May's — for her ordeal was to
be a harder one than she had dared Imagine.
She .had never given any one but Buck a
thoughts she had not doubted but that she
should meet her boy alone ; she had made no
account of the other men's presence — men
never seemed to matter to Eugenia— but these
girls' looks, their little empty sympathies, their
possible laughter, their certain fluency of life
so intolerable to the stagnation of a living
death like hers — could she nerve herself to
these ? should she not escape ?

But if she did, she would never know the
truth ; she wanted to have an understanding
with her lover, to tell him that she had meant
nothing, to show him that she was old and poor
to . . . she did not quite know what . in
fine, to see him I At least for a while, she

would sit still upon her seat outside the window
and see what happened, Indeed what
with her long fasting^for on the previous
day she had scarcely eaten, — and the self-murder
she had undergone, she lacked the
strength to move, had she felt the will.

She had not long to wait before she was
reminded of her bent, and her course made
plain. Leaning back, with her head close
to the window-frame, her ears grown morbidly
acute, she heard without the wish to listen. ""

'this is very indecent of us," said Anne
in her clear, cool tone, — 'every indecent oi yotc^
May, I mean. It is eminently decent of me
to play the 'early worm' and give you the
countenance of so chaste a spinster, as ' next
friend.' But what ' the deuce,' as our dear
old mother Shortlands would say, could have
made you make him such a promise as this ? "

Anne Italicised her words unusually ; her
mien was peculiarly alert.

*soh nonsense, Anne!" said pretty May,
I can't think what's come to you lately, you
are so snap-up, and you do put things so
coarsely."

**rm in love;" said Anne grimly, "go on,
never mind me ! "

I really do believe you are," said May, 'sat
any rate you jumped at coming down, though
I told you I could cross the hall by accident,
just before they left."

Poor little stray lamb ! " said Anne in the
same grim tone, "but I wouldn't let the
naughty wolves devour it ; so here I am ;
Red-riding-hood's good grandmother!"

You like to come down quite as much as I
do," said May pettishly ; "after all there's nota
grain of harm in it ; and to-day will be dull
enough, in all conscience, with that old cat
so ill — I really think she had her nasty fit on
purpose, to break up the party. Besides you
know, men, like that, always like to be seen off."

'fussy creatures!" said Anne, "I think I
like to see them off, I am so glad when they

are gone, you know."

** Oh ! are you ? " said May : but she said no
more, in response to this maidenly sentiment,
most likely because she could not feign assent
to it. She hummed a little tune, but only fora
moment.

"F sharp, please," said Anne, suddenly,
pouncing upon the little tune, without remorse,
and slaying it untimely.

May ignored the interruption, and did not
correct her intonation, but she left off humming
and spoke again. Her diffident soft voice was
as sweet as singing.

** I should have liked them to have been
down, first," she said nervously, *' but we can t
go back, because of Celestina. Just think of
Mr. Jarvis' face when he sees you!" — In
sober truth it was Mr. Arthur John Jarvis
that Miss May Buxton wished to see, although

it was to the kindlier Crossley, that she had
made the somewhat *' missis " promise to
be down to an early breakfast, and *' see him
off;" but she was anxious that Anne's broad
shoulders should bear half the burden of the
escapade. She knew that Buck was rather
shy of Anne, after the merciless way in which
she had chaffed him ; but her words were the
idlest of idle babble ; it was a strange irony of
fate that made them the means which decided
Eugenia not to falter. *' FJe loves Anne already,"
she thought, 'rand Anne is not one to
trifle, or to flirt, with a man like that." To
Eugenia, as she knew him, in his mastery,
Buck was fire, not to be played with lightly.
From Anne's point of view he was more like
coal ; she thought he required a good deal of
illumination, before you got any glow out of him;
Perhaps it was not worth while to answer
her cousin directly : but presently she said,
** I wish I had not left his tie up-stairs."

'' Pity you didn't put it round your neck,"
said May, '' he needs encouragement." .

'' I might at least have tied it on for him
again," said Anne sentimentally — the false and
thetrueare hard to distinguish through a window,
and May did not laugh : she was too well accustomed
to 'anne's nonsense." — •'* I wish" . . .

But what Anne wished did not transpire,
for she went on at once in bantering reprimand
to May, who had not been attending to her
but was getting more and more nervous ;
'* Your haste and your distress, my sweetest
lamb, are hardly cornme-il-fauL Here we
stand, open-mouthed, as if we were waiting
for their crumbs. Come, let us give our
swains a chance, at least, of thinking that it
is hunger and not love, which weans us from
our couches, thus betimes ! " . .

May accepted the suggestion, though she
laughed at it, as she mostly did laugh at Anne's
common-sense, although she always let it rule

her; and, from the Hating up of silver covers
and the chink of cups and teaspoons, Eugenia
gathered that the two girls made a feint of
breakfasting. Then she heard Crossley's pleasant
voice bidding them a rather shy and self-conscious
*' good - morning ; " for he was not
sure whether he ought to seem surprised,
before Anne, or not ; she was not likely to
betray that she was in the secret.

Where are your fellow-travellers ? " Anne
called to him, as he entered the room, speaking
with her mouth full, in ostentatious gluttony.

** Boville is coming later," he said, "only
Buck and I are going so early."

Anne knew this well, or she would not have
come downstairs — he paused and laughed.

** It isn't Boville you meant — not him you
want to see ? " he said cheerily, and not quite
accurately, if patient grammar is to be observed
in a young man's talk. Anne ignored the
cheek, but took exception to the English.

** No, it isn't hwty as you elegantly put it,"
she retorted, ''he talks grammatically, so
he need not come to early school, or do
his lessons before breakfast. Where is Mr.
Jones ? "

She spoke sharply, with an odd ring in her
voice. To Eugenia's ear there was a meaning
in her tone, which might be love. It was not
love ; it was a little pique and self-reproof
that she had laid herself open to being chaffed
about Buck — whom she loathed. That was
all ; but the sound of it was certainly ambiguous,
and Crossley's laugh seemed to interpret
it in Eugenia's sense.

** He's gone into the smoking-room to try
and find a stud he dropped last night," he said,
** he outstayed us all there : his lordship's
temper wasn't quite up to the mark ; I heard
him come to bed at any hour."

Even as he said it, Eugenia felt her weak
limbs straighten and her dull heart bound ; she

Stood upright, and held her breath. Arthur
John Jarvis had come out of the smoking-room
window on to the terrace where she sat, and
was walking with his strong lithe step towards
the breakfast-room.

The bird may be maimed, but, on the brink
of the nest, it will flutter in to its home to die;
the wave maybe spent, but it will struggle
forward to the shore to break. Once, and
for one last time, the day was darkened for
Eugenia in her lover's arms.

He had come up close to her, hurrying
forward when he saw her; her knees bent
under her without her will, she had but to
droop her head a little, and it lay upon his
shoulder ; his hands were clasped behind her,
she was folded into his embrace. What did
it all matter, the suffering and the self-denial,
and the sorrow, was it not all as if it had not
been, when she lifted up her pure eyes to, the
light again and her lips were sealed with his ?

It was nothing to Buck ; the first of many
morning kisses, he surmised, from something
that was all his own. How should he know ?
And he was pleased that she had been awaiting
him ; her dutifulness quite undid his anger.
But to Eugenia it was all the world. Her
one sole kiss of love, her last surrender and her
first farewell.

Her longing was, to hide her face upon his
breast again, and tell him all ; tell him that
Anne loved him, and that her own love "vas
just an idle dream. But this would not have
quenched his fancy, and there was a shorter, if
a harder way.

She looked up at him, with the summer
morning light full on her features, pale and
shrunken, and stained with weeping; and she
felt that all was over. His eyes were traversing
her face, and in those selfish eyes she read
her doom. She would forget her resolve no
^^ longer : she would make '* a good end."

VOL. III. B

She let him hold her from him, at arm's
length, and met his gaze, unflinching, though
the landscape reeled around her. Then she
felt his grasp relax and stiffen. He was
moved — astonished — awed. Was this the
blush-rose face that he had honored to see,
this white visage with great violet stains,
beneath the filming eyes, upon the blood-drained
flawless cheek ? His manner changed;
for the first time he spoke to her with gentleness,
almost with reverence, and then she
knew, Indeed, that her aspect had stricken
at the fibres and the root of his sapling love.

** Are you . . . not well ? " he said, with a
sort of shy kindness, which was yet cold.

She did not hesitate : *' Quite well," she said
in a whisper ; she did not need to say more,
for he was not minding her ; he was minding
only the loss of her beauty and her youth.

'* I'm afraid you've been sitting up, " he said,
as a boy might have spoken to his mother.

*' I have just heard that Lady Shortlands Is
worse."

His tone was oddly considerate and grave ;
they stood apart now, and he did not look at
her. To Eugenia, In her death-like weakness,
her boy's unchangeablllty seemed stranger
than her own transformation. His speech
was altered like her face ; but his own features
were as changeless as her love. He was fresh,
sanguine, splendid — full of bounding life.

*' I don't know," said Eugenia wearily, '' I
have not seen her ; I have not been sitting
up. I slept " — she added slowly — '' and I am
rested now."

She would not have this pity of his : she would
destroy her last chance of his sympathy, thus.

Rested ? " with that dreadful pallor on her
grey lips whence the momentary glow was
ebbing, those hollow and lack - lustre eyes,
those Icy hands ? His looks, more frank at
any time than kind, showed all his disappointment

now with brutal truth. The matter was
a serious one for him ; and he began to think,
How had he pledged himself? When he remembered
that there was no bond at present,
he took heart, and wished to see if he
could not "warm her up a bit." He caught
her hands and pressed them in his own ; he
put his arm round her waist ; but her strength
was gone, she grew only paler and fainter.
Half with a morbid longing and half to keep
his lips away from her, she put up her white
lingers, as he held her, and drew them over
his eyebrows, his eyes, his mouth, his chin,
his throat, as if she were drawing his face on
space, before her.

It was like a moment of mesmerism, he
smiled beneath the softness of her touch, and
his blue eyes kindled : he questioned her,

*why didn't you come out last night?"
he said, and in his voice there was a trace of
the old loving tone.

Eugenia paused. 'rit was late," she answered
after a moment, 'rand I was tired."

Buck did not like the answer, chiefly because
he was fool enough to believe it. He thought
that she was rude, and that he would be rude
too.

"You look awfully seedy," he said at last.

"Do I?" said Eugenia, turning her face
from the light : if any one had spoken thus
to her, under circumstances of ordinary fatigue,
how she would have braced herself up, and
how the colour would have renewed her cheeks
and lips ! — not now.

Yes — I shouldn't have known you. You're
not like my girl," he said, in a whisper.

Then Eugenia mustered up courage, and
told the worst lie she need ever tell :

All that . . . is . . . nonsense ! " . . . she said
feebly, as she disengaged herself from his arm.
What he thought of her, she did not care: she let
him think the worst : she would let him think

her a flirt — wicked too, if he would — but she
would not let him be bound.

Now, had Miss Brand said those words the
day before, Mr. Arthur Jarvis would have contradicted
her in a manner that should have left
her no breath in her body to gainsay his
answer ; even now, a spasm of longing seized
upon her that he would make some protest.
But he did not : he began to be not altogether
sorry that she spoke lightly. He could regard
her in a different way.

In the smoking room, the previous night, the
conversation had contrasted Eugenia's fortune
with Anne Jefferies'. It had been estimated
as a certainty that Miss Brand would become
Lady Trefusis, and Buck had felt a sort of
fierce pride in "begging leave to differ:" but,
now that he had slept upon his passion, and
saw the ravages in Eugenia's beauty, he was
far less disposed to plume himself upon her
preference. His thoughts began to wander.

She took up the thread of her pitiful Httle
plot, the stronger at heart for his silence.

** So you are going away ? " she said. Her
voice had lost its sweetness ; she was not
used to controlling illness, and the strings of
her harmonious utterance were out of gear
with pain.

*eyes," he answered, half roughly and half
huskily, 'rand don't you think it's time?
You've jolly well made a fool of me since
I've been heres

Eugenia was not fevered in her weakness :
she found herself cool-headed, able to reason
with herself: "What would Anne say to
that ? " she thought, and then she made up
Anne's probable answer, as if she were inventing
a sentence in a charade, and said it :

'' Perhaps I found you ready made ! " she
answered, with transparent badinage: — and,
after all that had passed between them, this
seemed the summit of her sorrow, by-and-bye.

when she came to think of it ; that she had
called her lover's speeches nonsense ; and her
lover, to his face, a fool.

At this moment of Eugenia's suffering and
just in time to stop her starting tears, two
things happened : common enough occurrences
of interruption and cessation.

The first was this.

Crossley, going to a table, laden with cold
meats, to cut himself some pie, observed Buck
through the open window of the breakfast-room.
He had so far shifted his position that
he stood nearly at right angles to this window,
and hid Eugenia from sight ; so that Crossley
fancied him alone.

Hullo ! here, we are all at breakfast,
Buck," he said, 'what are you loafing about
for, outside ? "

''Oh! tell him that Anne" . . . began May,
in her clear childish voice and with a rippling
laugh.

Tell him nothing of the kind ! " interrupted
Anne, but there was merriment as well as
anger In her liquid tones.

Yes," Crossley went on, cheerily, *' Here's
Miss Jefferles says she can't eat any breakfast
unless " .

Eugenia could not listen : she had meant
to meet her lover at the breakfast-table, tolet
his eyes contrast, in silence, her own pallor
and ill looks, with his remembrance of May's
beauty and Anne's neatness ; not guessing that
the two girls would be down to that early
breakfast. But she could not — and she need
not — face them : her strength was all gone out of
her, and the deed was done. He had seen the
change in her aspect, he had heard her ashen
lips deny him, and she, despite the warmth of
his embrace, had felt a cold, like death's, steal
over her. Let him o^o! What worse thlno^
could be left in store for her now than this she
had passed through ? But under the strain of

her high-pitched sufferings, out there upon the
terrace in these moments of parting, the echoes
from the breakfast-room sounded common and
unattractive : it seemed to her that Buck must
feel revolt at them, must regret this unique
devotion from which they were calling him
away.

Not he ! His lips parted, with a sort of
grin, and his eyes glistened; he was hungry
and he felt that, '' that dog Crossley was having
a rousing good time, while he was out
of it."

Are you coming in to breakfast ?" he said.
There was no reason why she should not becoming,
but in his heart of hearts he rather
wished that she would not go in with him.
It would look so " engaged," and no one
knew that she was down, as yet. — Ah ! what
was come of his past pride in her ?

She hesitated : she dared not plead illness,
and he knew she had not breakfasted.

Then he drew in his breath, and whistled.
By George ! " he said, '' do you know I met
old Lord Shortlands looking everywhere for
you ? You are wanted upstairs."

This was true : but so loner as she had
charmed him, or ministered in the very least
to his pleasure, he would never have told her,
and Lord Shortlands might have searched all
Ashbank in vain. Now that he was embarrassed
and rebuffed, that he found her sickly
and cold, he recollected the circumstance. •

And it was fortunate that he decided for
Eugenia : the weakness she had brought upon
herself was creeping over all her limbs, and
gaining ground so fast that she could make
no decisions of her own.

'' Oh ! . . . then . . . goodbye," she said :
her voice, from the pained way in which she
forced it, sounded odd and distant : it added
the final touch to his disappointment and displeasure.
And that was her last word.

'' Goodbye," he said : his temples flushed
again, partly with awkwardness, partly with
anger : he made as if he would say something
further : and then he stopped ; and he said
nothing else, but just, once more :

'goodbye: . . . goodbye, Miss Brand ! " —
and he was gone.

They did not touch each other : they did
not even shake hands and part as mere acquaintances,
they parted almost in disgust.

But when he had passed through the window,
into the breakfast room, where a shout of
laughter greeted his tardy advent, Eugenia
felt as if she had been wrenched from a rock
and violently flung. She crept into the smoke
and sank into a deep low seat behind
the window, looking like a carven image
of Despair. She sat so for some minutes ; and
then the odour of stale smoke made her headache,
and, leaning forwards, she pressed her
forehead on to her clasped hands. As she

did so, her eyes caught sight of something
white which was lying underneath another
chair : she picked it up.

It was Buck's Httle bone collar stud engraved,
at the top, with his initials — " A. J. J."

She clenched it into the palms of her hands
and locked them together aorain. It seemed to
form a centre for her agony like some electric
spring. She sat perfectly still. . . .

"Why, Mr. Buck," said laughing May,
'you're blushing!"

That was the first thing that happened: a
young man's summons to breakfast.

The other thing was this: — a much more
common occurrence, for it happens every instant
of the day, but we regard it differently
and with less zest —

An old woman died, upstairs.
• Lady Shortlands had roused herself, in
the early morning, and given Parity sundry
orders about the journey. Dr. Burroughes had

been to see her, and had told Lord Shortlands
that she must not be contradicted ; that she
must be quietly humoured till his return.
Thereupon he had ordered a dog-cart and
driven off, at a gallop, to the nearest town, to
goad the local chemist into activity himself. —
But Parity did not know that : all she knew
was that she must not obey the natural bent
of her mind, and combat her ladyship's behests.


So, when Lady Shortlands said to Parity
in a feeble whisper ; '' I am quite well enough
to go, and I am going. You must do me up
tidily for the journey," Parity shelved her
duties of contradiction — as a lady's maid, — and
assented — as became a nurse.

"Yes, miladi," she said, 'i'm sure you will
be able to go ! "

And as it proved her ladyship did go . . .
but not to Shortlands. . . .

She dozed off again, and Parity set to work

with her materials ; she arranged the hair, she
painted the lips, she rouged the cheeks. She
made her ladyship quite young again : Lady
Shortlands slept soundly on, the whole time,
her features rigid.

Two or three times, when her back was
turned, Parity fancied that she snored — once
that she shivered, — but ■ she never woke.

When the chef-louvre was accomplished, —
and Parity, with the artist's consciousness of
merit, felt that she had never done it better, —
she went into the dressing-room, to pack up
her cosmetiqties without clatter of paper and
glass. She was absent for some minutes.
Then it occurred to her that she had painted
her ladyship by candle-light — the blinds being
down — and that the manner of the work was
effective enough for a sick-room. *' But
supposing," she thought, "we should really
go back to Shortlands, will she stand the
glare of day ? I must really have a look at

her by sunlight." So she event back into the
bedroom, and pulled up the blinds, and drew
back the curtains, letting in the white light
of the summer morning. It fell full upon
the painted face, regal and fair upon its
pillows, but with a strange unusual look upon
the fine features, which made the paint stand
off them like a mask. It was a look of contempt,
which seemed to say to the rouge —
*what have you to do with me?" and to
the whitening, '* I am whiter far than you ! "

Tirewoman though she was, Parity's organisation
required a heart, and she possessed one,
though it seldom troubled her. But now it
stopped beating for a moment, and she gasped.
Then she crept back to the bedside on tip-toe,
and gazed, with staring eyes and parted lips,
on that fair semblance of an English baroness
before her.

It was nothing more.

She might have painted and powdered it

till doomsday : she might have made it
ludicrous or beautiful : she might have hewn
and hacked it, but it would have given no
sloan. It was less sensitive than a wax work
model, more worthless and more corruptible.
It was only a thing, not a person any longer,
it could neither praise her for care, nor blame
her for insult.

Lady Short lands was stone dead I
It was horrible, but Parity's first thought
was one of having done wrote herself. It
formulated itself into the futile expression
What will her ladyship say ? " For an instant,
it seemed to her that Lady Shortlands would
awake, indignant at this slight. Parity had
far more terror of her, dead, than she had felt,
alive. In the most tragic moments of our
lives, there comes upon us — fortunately for
the balance of our minds — the necessity, asa
rule, for some quite trivial action, some duty,
forced, inevitable, which serves to break the

VOL. III. c

spell. Parity might perhaps have died of this
dreadful terror had she not been stung to
consciousness, by the conviction that she must
undo her work. She felt a sense of shame,
as if she had been trying to galvanise a dead
body.

This '* making-up " had been a secret of
some twenty years between herself and her
lady — so far at least as his old lordship was
concerned : she was bound by all that there
was honourable in her venal nature, to keep
the secret still. Why hesitate ?

With white swift' fingers, in scared haste, she
rubbed the red from Lady Shortlands' cheeks
and lips, dreading each instant more, as it
brought her to the bluish pallor and the
yellowish tints of death, beneath the paint.

Then she paused ; in that silent struggle, the
old lady's features had not altered, but the
contrast of surface from the cosnietiqiLes softness
to the coarseness and the wrinkles of



the lonof-hldden skin, with this awful chancre
upon it, this hue of pale dead age, was terrible.
A moment of tenderness came upon Parity,
it was her heroic moment. And it was also
her artistic opportunity.

She went and got out her materials again,
and with a judicious mixture of their white
and yellow, she painted Lady Shortlands face
into the face of a decent corpse, duly whitewashed
her cheeks and neck, and adding
to the darkness of the pencilled brows and
lashes.

Outside the sun shone and the birds sanof.

Below, Eugenia said good-bye to love that
made life life indeed, the breakfast party ate
with hearty appetite and capped each other's
jokes.

Upstairs Parity worked on, quickly, deftly,
at her mysterious task. Sacrilege though It
looked, It was not irreverently done.

When it was finished, she stooped down

respectfully, and kissed her mistress : " I

wonder where you are," she said beneath her

breath, *sand if you see me now." Then she

put the paints Into her pocket, and when she
had shaded the light as she best knew how,

she went to fetch his lordship. Perhaps she
had never shown a truer sense of duty.

Buck's trotting-trap was at the door ; and
he was off, with Crossley, for the long drive
to Portsmouth, amid the merry fire of the
girls' good-byes. Eugenia heard the noise
of light farewells, across the hall. There was
even a hint of common chaff about '' a broken
heart."

Almost immediately afterwards, she could
hear Anne parleying, in a low tone, with Par-fit.
She felt they might be seeking her ; and
how powerless she was to be of service ! She
must get away into the garden, to the little
temple, once again, whence she would see,
through the laurels, the trap pass on its way,

» when it had skirted the immediate enclosures.
She rose and crept out of the window, swaying
from side to side \vith weakness, as she went,
yet walking straightly as one walks in sleep.

In her search to find her, and break it to her
gently that all was over with Lady Shortlands'
busy life, Anne came at last Into the smoking-room,
just as Eugenia left it. She called her,
but Eugenia did not hear, her senses were
getting benumbed. Then something in her
tottering gait made Anne stand still, and water
her. She did not guess the truth. She fancied
that Euo^enia must have heard her news already,
and that she need not go to her : but
she had not heard it. She had only heard,
with her soul's hearing, the worse tidings that
her boy was gone away, deceived, and that love
was past.

Anne stood at the window, in sudden unaccountable
amaze, and motioned Parity back.
Parity was not unwilling that Anne should

bear the brunt of any fresh surprise. She
had fed full enough of terror before she came
downstairs.

Eugenia walked on slowly : she steadied
herself, now and then, with an effort ; the soft
wind swayed her grey robes as she went.
She took the path that led along the cypress
alley to the little white Doric temple, that
she knew so well.

There it stood before her, bright and light
against the glossy leaves.

*' Let me die there," she thought, " if I must
die." She wandered on towards it. Then
Anne followed her, still with an instinct that
Eugenia knew her tidings, still motioning
Parity back : she feared that she was overcome
with sorrow, she hoped that she might
comfort her.

But when Eugenia reached the marble steps,
Anne saw her lift her hands as if in agony or
prayer. She stood upright for one last instant.

beautiful as a Greek statue, against the pillars ;
her lovely head was bowed upon her breast,
her lovely hair unbound.

Then without any word or sign more, she
fell down on the steps, collapsed into a swoon,
and not less lost to sight and sense, than the
old dead woman that lay upon the couch upstairs
in the mock splendours of her painted
rest.

And still the sun shone, burning brighter
on in the blue heavens, towards the royal
August noon. The men were at their work
in the fields ; the happy cattle grazing : the
trees waved as the sweet breeze whispered
through their boughs ; and the birds sang —
only of life and love — only of life and love —
no word of loss or death.

Buck took the reins from Crossley's hands,
when he had lit his bier cio^ar and buttoned his
red dogskin gloves. He touched his famous
pony with the whip, clicked in his mouth, and

drove upon his way clown the ringing dusty
road, light of heart, and whistling, as he went,
with his little indrawn whistle, to Portsmouth
town. " He was well out of that," he thought,
'' plenty of people would be glad enough to
see him there."

THE END OF BOOK THE SECOND.

LOVE, THE CROWN.

FAITH.SIR EDMUND Refuses.— (WINTER).

It was December ; — hard upon Christmas, —
four months after Mrs. Tomllnson's oratherinof at
Ashbank had met with its tragical ending ; and
Sir Edmund was at home, at Trefusis, keeping
no company but his own. *

Not that he preferred solitude ; he was an
idle man ; at least, beside the thought and care
that his estates and vast responsibilities entailed
— which left him hardly an untroubled
day — he had no fixed pursuit : and, as his mind
vas active and his health still uncertain, he
was wont to seek companionship and to be
less at home than other men. But, just now,
he was feelings a distaste for his kind, and he
had given way to his disinclination, and been.

for some weeks already, a recluse. And an
enviable recluse too, a stranger would have
said, looking at the wide, warm rooms, the
perfect service, the great conservatories at
Trefusis House. Ashbank was beautiful, — at
a first glimpse, very beautiful ; — but to Trefusis
it was merely what a big museum is to a
cabinet, or a circulating library to a student's
shelves. The difference was just this ; at
Ashbank there were many beautiful things,
but at Trefusis there was nothing that was
not beautiful.

During Lady Jane's long widowhood, it had
been her favourite home, with her son, during
the winter months ; the mildness of the Cornish
air suiting the delicacy of his constitution,
which had been her chief solicitude. Sir Edmund's
mind had been formed more here than
elsewhere ; his boyish toys and lesson-books
were here, his recollection used these rooms
for the states of his childish drama.

It was not a great house : though Sir Edmund's
father had bought it with a large
estate, the mansion was old-fashioned ; he had
always meant to pull it down and build a palace
suited to his wealth. But he was prevented
by discovering — first — that Trefusis was
far to ask a large party, that the palace he
projected would never be filled, and that, in
the entire contentment of his life, with wife
and child, he never wished that it should be ;
and — then — (while the plans were still under discussion
for a house that should be elastic in
accommodation, and yet never desolate) that
he was stricken with mortal disease, and must
set his thoughts in order for the house not
made with hands. At his death, the plans were
laid aside until such time as Sir Edmund
might choose to take them up. Lady Jane
contented herself with beautifying the old-fashioned
home, endeared by fond associations ;
and the way in which she did so is worth recording,

because characteristic, and almost
symbolical, of the method she adopted In Sir
Edmund's education.

She did not crowd It with a host of things,
heaped pele-male over and upon the ugly rubbish
that had mustered through a hundred
years and more ; she weeded it first ; she went
carefully through every room, with an artist
whose taste she could trust, and she marked
out, with his aid, whatever furniture was common
or vulgar. There was not much of it, for
the house had been originally furnished at that
best period which of late years we have made
our standard, and been so busy copying. But
this purgation of Lady Jane's took place before
our Imitative period had set in, and what she
cast out she could not at once replace, to her
liking, from modern workshops. So when she
had removed all quite superfluous ugliness, she
waited, as a quiet lady of unbounded wealth
can afford to wait, with her lists before her,

letting the necessary pieces of doomed furniture
stand awhile, like trees marked out for
felling ; and then, when she either saw or
heard of any beautiful or precious thing that
would fitly occupy the place of one of these,
she bought it and set it in the nook that was
ready for it. And she cast out the doomed
thing, root and branch, and had it broken up
if it was futile, as well as ugly ; but, if it was of
use, she gave it to some grateful tenant, for
whom beauty could perhaps do little, but comfort
much.

And at about the time when this purgation
was completed, probably the purification of
Lady Jane's soul was completed too, and she
was elect for heaven. At any rate she died.
So that, this winter, when Sir Edmund returned
to Trefusis, with crates full of beautiful
possessions which he had found in his
travels, he discovered that the whole place
was so perfected to his taste, from his mother's

touch, that he did not need even to have his
own treasures unpacked.

Think what this luxury of beauty really is !
how rare — coupled, at least, with appreciation —
in the richest houses ! Think that, at Refuses,
you might be certain that there was not
so much as an ugly vase or frame ; that, lifting
up a bit of rare embroidery, you would assuredly
come, not upon a common table, under
it, but upon something fine and real ; that there
were not even painted wood tables in the
servants' rooms, or 'grains" pretending to be
other than they were ; and that abominations
of draped deal were unknown to the guest-chambers
or lobbies.

All this sincerity, this earnest choice and
seeking for what is intrinsically right and
beautiful, must have its weight and worth.
And Lady Jane Trefusis was no mere 
: she was thorough in her creed
of selection. She weeded her household with

as much rectitude as her furniture, her Library
as carefully as her pictures. In fine, the place
was just as nearly perfect as any English
home can be, and Lady Jane had been just
as nearly perfect as any English woman ever
was. But she had cherished a dream of some
more perfect woman to succeed her, In some
still more perfected home. Sir Edmund had
not only cherished the dream but he had beheld
the vision — and the vision was Eugenia.

For there was no doubt about it that Refuses
was lonely. It was throughout so carefully
appointed, so remote from what was mean,
and so complete, that It was not till you had
left it that you felt the influence of the charm
in all Its potency. It sufficed you less, in
itself, than It spoiled you for other places.
While you were at Trefusis you missed something,
missed the " roof and crown of things "
no doubt, the more that there was nothlnc^^
left for you to wish away. You felt that, after

VOL. III. D

EUGENIA.

all, Lady Jane had died too soon : she had
obeyed her own creed of the survival of the
fittest, but she had given place before the
fitter woman had been found. It was a pity
that she could not have chosen her own successor.


But when you left Trefusis, and went upon
your way to stay at another house, — It was then
that you wished yourself back in it ; then that
although you had never accused yourself of
sestheticism before — you turned positively sick
at the muddled and ugliness of the work-a-day
world. Here, there was no muddled
and no ugliness, but perfection doubled the
loneliness of the place. Its beauty seemed
instinct with a voice that cried to Sir Edmund's
heart to find one who should take his
mother's empty place. Everything that stood at
his service seemed, to his fine senses, to be
saying : " I have noble uses. Here the perfect
human life may be led. Here can nothing

enter which is common or unclean. Be noble
here, live nobly ! " and his visions were pure,
but his heart was heavy. He waited, as the
inanimate things around him seemed to wait,
for some soft touch of an awakening soul, to
make the place once more his home.

Sir Edmund was reading a letter, despite
the perfection about him, which looked mean
and vulgar enough. He would destroy it by-and-bye
: its blazonry and pinky tints were an
eyesore in the midst of so much beauty, though
they amused him not a little. The letter was
from Mrs. Tomlinson, who could not deny
herself so far, in practice, as to use that plain
white silver-stamped stationery which, she had
felt, became Eugenia.

Whether it was because he was amused, or
because he was going to burn the hideous
letter-paper, Sir Edmund held this mark of
"Ashbank's" continued countenance towards
him, in his hand, as he sat by his fireside 



fore the silver dogs, with his feet upon the real
old Moorish tiles. He had already perused it
more than once, and perhaps the secret of his
harking back to it will be best discovered in
the letter's contents.

It ran thus: — and "ran" by the way, is a
correct expression for its style ; it did not
stop for breath, or commas ; it " ran " trippingly,
if not quite orthographlcally, on ; and it was
written in a "running hand," which, if it ever
stayed its onward course at all, stayed it only
for dashes.

Impossible, dear friend ; no ! but impossible''

Mrs. Tomlinson wrote, '^ that we can

spare you — that Ashbank can spare you — from

our Christmas party. Do make an effort and
come to us : your rooms are always ready,

and that last visit was not what I wished —
(In this dark but unfeeling term, Mrs. Tomlinson
alluded to poor Lady Shortlands demise).
— " I want to correct that impression,

and we plan to give some little parties and

to have some pleasant company. The Durhamss,
of Course, we could not ask : had they

been in spirits for society, we should have been

with their — (Mrs. Tomlinson had improved
the occasion of Lady Shortlands' death, at Ash-bank,
for commencing an acquaintance with
the duchess). — '' But the Pastures come tous

quite a family, and Harry Vane is bringing

the new American humorist, who will
^ make us all laugh, while Lady Mountjoy
^ thinks she can catch Etherege, who is, as
you know, quite another Darwin — Sir Edmund
smiled to himself at the idea of Etherege
and Vane and the "new American humorist"
at once. " It will be like the punishment for
parricides," he thought, with a faint memory
of his childhood's classics, *the cat, and the
ape, and the serpent, all tied up In a sack together.
As I am not a parricide, it won't
suit me." — " Then for beauty, we have Miss

Mountjoy : " — (" A passdc flirt," was Sir Edmund's
mental comment upon Miss Mount-joy's
name:) — 'rand dear little Mrs. Veneer." —
(Sir Edmund's verdict upon 'dear little Mrs.
Veneer" was still less flattering.) — "Eugenia
Brand, I fear, will not leave home." — (How
strange her name appeared, just after 'dear
little Mrs. Veneer s ! ") — " not even to viet
yotil She and her sheet mother are with his
poor dear lordship, and, of course, still in
mourning. I did so wish to be the medium
of another meeting between — / won't say wJio ;
but, If your friend Lord Torre gives his charming
musical reunion In town next season, you
must get him to let me bring Eugenia." — (By
this master-stroke, Mrs. Tomllnson would
secure Lord Torre's acquaintance, as well as
Sir Edmund's happiness.) — ''Z^^^rgirl — she will
want a chaperon, and she is stic/i a pet of mine I
Meanwhile I have a great deal to tell you
about her, but, as usual, no time for writing.

what with Mr. T.'s 'perpetual requirements
and the cares of Ashbank. You may — or may

not — know how serious, and altogether odd,
her illness was. She had a sort of brain-fever
— conscience, I suppose, for she neglected her
poor darling aunt : but who could wonder ?
Ah ! Sir Edmund, I'm afraid we must blame
^ you for that neglect — and her weakness was

incredible. I thought she was going to be
ill — and said so to Mr. T. It Is very difficult

to deceive me, and I never saw any one so

•

changed. I wish you had seen her, but you
and the Buxtons were all gone before I had
'turned round! I believe she had fainted:
she looked a perfect wreck, when Anne
'Jefferies brought her In from the garden.
How she got back to Shortlands, as she

did, I don't know. And with the Body !
Forgive me If I said all this before — I never
remember to whom I wrote the details, and

to whom I did not— and yet I thought Eugenia

'Strong! Too tender-hearted ! However, they
tell me she has quite recovered now, and was
never in better looks. Her hair has been cut

short in front, but she does not curl it, so you
need have no apprehensions on that score." —
(''What score?" Sir Edmund wondered.)
" They say that she seems saddened — from
the shock, no doubt — and is very busy with a
Convalescent Home for sick children ! Mrs.

Buxton writes that Miss Jefferies has heard
from her. By the way, for all Mrs. Buxton's

laughing at them, they have had those young
officers there a o^reat deal. I am told that
Mr. Jarvis — I always thought till the other day
that his name was Jones — would be really nota

bad match for May, as far as money goes.

Of course he has no blood, and you will remember

that we thought him znilmr. The

notion of its being Anne is absurd — besides
I hear Lord Torre's name mentioned in that
'quarter, — but Mrs. Buxton, with those little

daughters shooting up so fast, cannot afford topick

and choose for May. It really seems all

like a dream — dreadful ! but, thank God, so

soon over ! Here I am, giving you all my

gossip, as if I had no single thing to do, when

really I have half a hundred. But I have

much besides to say, and advice to give, which

I can only give you in person, so that, dear
friend, you must make up your mind to come

to Ashbank at once. How I have run on!
But you must not miss your chance. Make
hay while the sun shines — dXlJIesh is grass ! "

Mr. Tomlinson joins me in kindest regards

— I think I may say * love ? ' I assure you

that you need not be anxious about Eugenia.

The doctor says she will entirely recover her

splendid health : and her complexion, I am
told, is fairer than ever. She is 2. fine creature.
'- How are yotcr poor limbs ? Some one told
me you were trying to do without the irons.
Don't be rash ! You know I feel like a mother

to you, and I should like to see you look and
walk like others men. You are one in ten
thousand. Good-bye, or, as the French say,
a dieittoi ! — Affectionately your friend,

E. J. TOMLINSON."

Sir Edmund let the letter fall forward on
his knee. The fire was burning brightly,
and, from the warmth and perfume of the
room, one would never have guessed that it
was winter, and that the snow lay thick outside.
One window opened into a conservatory
bright with flowers, the other — by which the
outer air came In — was of glass, painted in
sober tones. There was a radiance, a glow
throughout the whole luxurious chamber which
had nothing in its atmosphere to suggest
December twilight.

And yet Sir Edmund drew closer to the
fire, and shivered as if with cold. It was
bitter weather, despite the warmth and colour,

and he was all alone. Mrs. Tomlinson's
letter dealt him a wound which the knowledge
of her unwillingness did not avail to heal,
although it made him forgive her, on the
instant. '' She is a fine creature . . . how
are your poor limbs ? . . . I should like to
see you look and walk like other men." He
covered the passage with his hand, as if he
would shut out from sight the contrast it
suggested : a sense of weariness and pain stole
over him, he turned himself to face his mother's
easy-chair. It held no comfort now : and yet
his tender fancy filled it, as it was filling all the
resting-places of his life, in all his thoughts,
with that one vision of Eugenia.

Sir Edmund sat and pondered long and
deeply : not about going to Ashbank — he had
decided against that already. He had made
plans for Christmas largess and New Year
festivities to his tenants at Trefusis, and he
had pledged himself to stay and see them

carried out. What he pondered was his
relation to Eugenia ; how it was possible to
amend or better this. What could he do for
her?

He had written to Lord Shortlands, soon
after the sad occurrence in August, and had
received from the old gentleman a long and
somewhat rambling answer, which, with all
the selfish detail incidental to an aged person's
account of a private sorrow, had made but
the merest mention of Euo^enia as behoof *' still
obliged to keep her room." And Sir Edmund
had not liked to write to her direct, as yet,
for more reasons than one. Although he
never dreamed of her love for Arthur Jarvis,
it was evident to his sensitive heart that her
feelings towards himself were not what his
own were for her, that the very chances of
her drifting into a strong friendship with him
made more unlikely the unlikelihood of love.
Although she had once relied on his conveying

her injunction, in what seemed a critical mood,
she had never given him a moment's cause
to imagine that he was necessary to her happiness.
But after all, what had he seen of her ?
It was his fault if she, being heart-whole still,
did not learn to love him at last.

A far more forcible reason for his keeping
silence was the awkward consciousness that
Lady Shortlands had wished Eugenia to become
his wife. What she had said to her
niece about him he did not know, but he
abhorred the thought that, in appearing on
the scene again as her suitor, he would
come backed by favoritism and authority,
which must have some weight with Eugenia,
at least while the days of mourning for her
aunt should last. That Lady Shortlands had
pledged Eugenia to accepting him, under
certain improbable conditions which her
sudden death had made likely. Sir Edmund
had no notion ; but he could not imagine

that she was wholly unaware of her aunt's
wish which had evidently formed the motive
for bringing: her to Ashbank.

Beside these reasons, there was the more
potent one of his own health. Not that
it was failing ; on the contrary, he felt much
better and more master of his faculties than
he had been for years ; even his lameness bade
fair to yield before any powerful impulse, it
was more of a habit, now, than a disease.
Being so far better, should he not wait for an
increase of strength, and try his luck, with a
more favourable aspect, in the spring ?

All the same, Mrs. Tomlinson's letter, with
its mixture of advice and aphorism, suggested
action as expedient. Why should he not
write to Eugenia himself ? , Here was this
long winter afternoon, likely to be quite undisturbed,
for occasion, and all this thought
and longing in his heart, for material, to
prompt him. Why should he not sit down

and see what he could make of it, to her ? He
was a fluent writer, and he often felt that he
did himself more justice in a letter than he
could in speech. He would entreat her not
to answer him for a time. He need say very
little about himself. Not that he felt she was
likely to refuse his homage roughly — he relied
upon her sympathy for his health and for
his pride ; — only he feared lest she should be too
kind — there being a sort of thanks that cuts us
deeper than ingratitude.

What should be his excuse ? The Christmas
season ? No. All times are alike in love,
and to make a virtue of thinking upon the
beloved at a particular time, is to suggest that
one's constant thought is capable of increase.

He rose, and paced the room ; there were
no mirrors in it to reflect his deficient action ashe
walked, and he gradually dropped it and
assumed a manlier air, as he made up his mind
to write just what should occur to his pen.

He need not send the letter If It did not please
him.

The room In which he was sitting opened
into another, and this other again into the hall.
Both rooms were equally luxurious and warm
with artificial heating, but the hall was colder,
and it seemed to him to brace his nerves ashe
passed through it. There was a sky-light,
and the roof was white with the falling snow
which made a chill strange gleam about the
stairways and the walls. Sir Edmund's eyes
looked lovingly at the beautiful things in the
rooms and the hall, as he passed through
them. They were familiar to him and yet
always fresh ; nothing wanted rearrangement,
everything was at its best. He turned
out of the hall, Into a little sanctum where
he had used to shut himself in, when he
heard carriages driving up to the door, from
his life-long distaste for visitors. Lady
Jane had always called It " Edmund's room."

He shut himself up there, now again, and
he looked round.

This room was very different to the rest of
the house.

There Is a sort of beauty, like a spirit, which
Is born of association and comes best to dwell
upon things of slight intrinsic value ; just as we
perceive the beauty of expression in its highest
power upon an ordinary face. And Lady Jane
had not cast out things which this spirit dignified.
Old texts and toys, trifles which thought
or prayer had consecrated, these were not
broken or put away : they were placed reverently
in " Edmund's room," and the delicate
needlework which covered the furniture, in
the panels of Its carved oak, was the work
of Lady Jane's own fingers. This room looked
into the conservatory too, and was of small
proportions, like the room of an university
student. There were Sir Edmund's favourite
college reading-desk, indeed, his writing-table,

VOL. III. E

and his chair ; on the walls were some shields
with mottoes — also relics of Oxford — and a portrait
of his mother. But the college relics were
not what most attracted Sir Edmund now ; he
looked at the still less considerable waifs and
strays of childhood, with a yearning in his heart
that was like pain. Whose should they be ?

The question that he asked himself, like this,
touched him more nearly than the wider need
that there should be an heir to Trefusis and
the "■ sixty thousand a year," which Mrs. Tomlinson
had accurately estimated. Sir Edmund
had been brought up by his saintly mother to
be generous and patient and prayerful. Amid
the common things which had weathered purgation,
was his first '^ poor box,' upon which
that mother's hand had illuminated some words
from the Apocrypha, too seldom heard in church
on Sundays : '' Give alms of thy goods, and
never turn thy face away from any poor man ;
and then the face of the Lord shall not be

turned away from thee." Sir Edmund read
the text upon the box, for the ten-thousandth
time, as he sat down before his writings-table.
He remembered the Literal sense with which
he had endowed it, in his easiest years, — " the
face of the Lord." — It was so much better to
earn a gHmpse of that vision, than to be approved
by the salaried officers of a charity
organisation. He smiled and wondered to
himself if he should ever have a son to instruct
in this old-fashioned creed. And thea
he fell to thinking that such a text was likely
enough to be Eugenia's guide, as far as her
small means allowed : he saw her face before
him with those tears in her lovely eyes which
he felt the reading of it would bring, — he
could not have quite told why, — perhaps only
because she had a feeling for the poetic beauty
of words, perhaps because she loved the poor
and knew her prayer-book well.

The text served Sir Edmund in brood stead.

It recalled to his memory that passage In Mrs.
Tomlinson's letter about Eugenia's Convalescent
Home ; It suggested to him a motive for subject
of his writlnor-.

But what Sir Edmund wrote, this time, expressed
but little that was In his heart, although
he lingered over It an hour and more. He
had written much, In times of Ill-health and
enforced seclusion, and his pen was generally
glib, but to-day he made long pauses between
short sentences, and felt there was much
reading between the lines required to make his
sense Intelligible.

This was all that he said :

*'My dear Miss Brand," (for that much of
appropriation he could not deny himself : — she
had at least allowed and counted on his friendship
: — but he slurred the "my" Into the "dear"
until It looked "almost like the flourish of
some people's capital D," he thought — only
that Sir Edmund did not Indulge In flourishes),

** I have heard this morning from Mrs. Tomlinson,
of your renewed health. I hope it has

not been presumption on my part to have felt

for you in your illness as deeply as I confess
^ to have done. In illness, you will recollect,
I have the right to sympathise. That I should

assure you of such sympathy, is — I believe —

unnecessary. I have at least dared to imagine
such assurance as unnecessary as the
assurance of my sorrow for your loss." —

Sir Edmund sighed and shrugged hjs
shoulders as he re-read that sentence; what
a piece of work it was 1 How unlike the usual
facility of his simple English. Why was it
so difficult to write ? And why was it that it
seemed as if — should she speak but one word
of encouragement — the ice would thaw, and he
could tell her all his inmost thoughts ? He
went on, after a long pause.

'' But, you see, there are people who give

and people who take. You have the nature on

'which claims are made. In writing to you
to-day, I feel that I am but as one of the many
'who make them. I will try to consider my
'claim insignificant, but, that you should grant
it, will be much to me. I am a man of no
merit " — the desire to speak of himself to
Eugenia became more and more irresistible.
'' I have always been better treated than I
have deserved to be. I am merely the ill-made

peg upon which all sorts of good things
'have been hung. If the peg were not bent
it would not hold so many favours. My wish
is, to turn some of these good things to the

service of those you account worthy. It Is
your feeling for the claims of the many that
may allow my claim. I have heard of your
'work among the poor at Shortlands. Am I
too far away to join in It this Christmas-tide P'
This is only a suggestion that I am at your
disposal. No distance would seem long to me,.
— you know that I am not too ill to travel —

no labour tedious ; to be associated in your
aims would double all my life."

He stopped, for he felt that his intense wish
to see her had escaped him in those last words.
He feared he might have said too much. He
wheeled his chair round, and stirred the fire
impatiently ; the flames flared up through the
gathering darkness, and shone upon his earnest,
wistfd face. They lit the old carved mantelpiece,
on which, just where their glow showed
brightest, Lady Jane had set two words as a
sort of motto : 'aimer: Savoir — *' Love and
Knowledge," she had used to say to her boy
with a smile, " Know Love, — Love Knowledge.'
— And Sir Edmund felt that, at last, he
had begun to prize the mottoes rightly.

He wheeled his chair to the table again.
His instinct was to conceal, not to erase, his
wish : he finished the letter in hasty, studied
coldness : " This note needs no answer but
the prospectus of your Convalescent Home.

'Will you give a message from me to Lord

Shortlands ? You will adapt one to his great
need better than I should : and so I do not
'put it into words. He has given me a hope

that some day I may ask the favour of being

presented to Mrs. Brand. — And will you believe
me to be, very truly yours, '

Edmund Refuse."

He pushed the letter from him on the ,
as he signed his name by the fright.
He leaned his head upon his hands and stared
at his own signature. Would his request] have
any weight ? Was not this excuse of his a
cowardly one ? There was a scroll in front of
him inscribed with the test of life, for thi little
sitting-room was decorated with Latin inscriptions:
'' Non est vivere sed valeix vita!' Would
he prevail ?

Inadequate ! " was his unspoken comment :
he felt ashamed of his own recommendation.

''If I could only have pleaded my self I' he
thought, '* instead of my wretched money ! "
Still he was conscious that, in this case, his
possessions were his best guarantee — and
this without fancying for one moment that
Eugenia cared for his possessions. Self-seeking
was the last thing in the world she could
be taxed with. But his wealth gave him a real
right to offer help to any charitable project,
without its seeming a favour, or a piece of self-denial.
'' She has nothings," he said to himself
with an immense pride — not in his riches but in
her poverty — " Mrs. Tomlinson makes out that
she has not a hundred a year, for her clothes
and her charities." — As a matter of fact, Mrs.
Tomlinson would have been outside the mark
if she had halved that sum, but the notion of a
grown woman's allowance being under fifty
pounds a year, would have been even less
appreciable to Sir Edmund than to his informant.
— And then he was so glad that she

had nothing • It threw such a sweet llorht of
possible uses upon his own wealth! No; she
could not resent his offer of help, but dare he
send her a letter at all ? Was she not sufficiently
aware of the state of his feelings towards
her, to read the longings he had longed, as well
as the words he had written ?

Well, what if she were ? " . . . And at this
moment one of his own — perfectly selected —
footmen decided the question for him ; for it
was post-time, and he came to ask his master
if he had any letters. Then Sir Edmund,
being detected in the act of staring at the one
he had just completed, sealed it without another
france and ea-ve it him.

But still he let his fancy drift away, imaging
a fair future for Eugenia and himself, in London
and at Trefusis. It was not vulgar or showy ;
adjuncts of splendour counted in it for very
little, — Sir Edmund gave no thought to horses
or parties, — but it was noble, useful, earnest,

laro;e-hearted and full-handed. And through
the pageant of it all, as he saw her moving
in her pure and peerless beauty, he saw his
own more humble figure at her side, her guide,
her helper, her husband.

And then, with a quick sigh, he came back
to the realisation of his own loneliness. But
the dream had not been idle, it had done him
more good than a friend's visit, and as much
as most priests' sermons. '' Was there nothing,"
he debated in his mind, '* that he could
do for others, feeling that he was working for
her generous sake and in the way that she
would have him work ? " His own tenantry
for "poor" they could hardly be called —
had all their needs supplied : — never had any
landlord such well-regarded and grateful dependents
— but there were others.

Sir Edmund rose and searched a paper-rack
in which lay some of the contents of the day's
postbag ; circulars, petitions, journals. He

spent a little while in glancing through them.
He was In the mood In which he might have
responded to some confiding widow's appeal,
or dubious orphan's claim ; but, as It happened,
neither met his ease. He was thrown back
Upon the journals. One of them was the
*' Illustrated London News."

As he turned over the leaves, he caught a
glimpse of the list of 'wills and bequests," and
lit on the account of the contents of Lady
Shortlands' will. She had not had much to
leave — the Carruthers where poor — but what
she had, she had left to neither of her well-placed
daughters, but to her 'only niece, Eugenia
Brand." It was but a few thousands — a tithe
of Sir Edmund's annual Income, — but it was
equivalent to the whole of Mrs. Brand's small
fortune, and. In doubling the resources of the
mother and daughter, left the daughter wholly
independent.

This then accounted for the funds with

which she had commenced her Convalescent
Home. Sir Edmund experienced an Involuntary
pang of disappointment, whereas his
mind should have been set at rest by this
discovery. In his humility and with his
modest estimate of self, he thought, *' I can
have no claim now," — not that he had felt
an instant's doubt of Eugenia's honesty and
truthfulness. But, had he known her better
than he did, he would have recognised that
this small fortune was no obstacle to his
pretensions : on the contrary, it lifted aside
the bar which his great wealth would always
have seemed to her pride. She was provided
for, and her wants were few ; If love came to
her. It must make Itself welcome, now or ever,
for love's sake alone. Moreover this inheritance
made for Sir Edmund, In a way he little
knew : it was another tie upon Eugenia's will.
She never could regard a free gift of Lady
Shortlands' as a godsend for Lieutenant Jar vis ;

and so she had at once applied a portion of
the Income from it to her cottage home for
sick children — that gentle, hidden channel for
kind endeavour and the self-sacrifice of everyday,
in which Sir Edmund had wished to participate.
But what he felt was, now that the
news of this small windfall had become public
property, might not his offer of assistance seem
Impertinent ? He had Imagined that Eugenia's
Home" was dependent on contributions, but
now that she had a little Income of her own,
every penny of which she could apply to it if
she chose, she would perhaps prefer to stand
alone. Sir Edmund was ashamed of his own
eagerness to be of service. His first Impulse
was to Q:et his letter back.

He ran the bell, but his demand for the
post-bag came too late. It had been already
sent down to the near town, whence the letters
were despatched at six o'clock. The matter
was not important : he had communicated

with Eugenia, that was what signified. His
faith in her was strong enough to let him
trust that she would know he must have
written in ignorance of the terms of Lady
Shortlands' will.

All the same, the awkwardness of having
put himself forward without sufficient warrant,
haunted him, and made him restless. He
would get rid of the matter by putting away
Mrs. Tomlinson's letter ; he did not destroy
it because it contained a mention of his lady's
name. Both the letter and the " Illustrated
London News," he locked into a drawer in
his writing-table, a little drawer, the key of
which was upon his watch-chain.

In the drawer there were some other keys
which had been locked in there for greater
security. They were labelled, with small
parchment labels, and wore an important and
secretive air. He took them out. One of
them was the key of a chest, in which many

of Lady Jane's jewels — those, in fact, which
she had most worn — had been put away at the
time of her death.

Sir Edmund sighed heavily : then a thought
struck him and he looked at his watch. There
were clocks in the room, and others outside
had been striking, in the hall — clocks of beautiful
tone, that did not tease you but gently
warned you of the ceaseless flight of time : — but
it is indisputable that, however many and however
orchestral clocks may be, if a man wants
to assure himself of the time he always looks
at his own watch. This conviction occurred
to Sir Edmund at the moment, and made him
smile at the little notice he took of his many
fine things.

But I hope it is not that I want to see my
own time of day," he thought, as he remembered
an ex-acquaintance at Oxford — a college
don, with a great vocation for setting things
to rights in his own Settle world — whom he had

once caught tampering with a sun-dial in an
old quadrangle, *'to put it right by his own
watch ! "

It was not six yet ; two hours before he need
change his coat for his solitary dinner — for Sir
Edmund dined as late as possible, to avoid a
long evening — just those two hours which are
happiest of all the day, in winter-time if not in
summer too, when one is among those one
loves. Not six yet! He would have plenty
of time for one of those duties which he had
so long put off, his visit to the strong-room
where this chest was kept of which he had just
found the key ; it contained much that he was
anxious to look over. He sent for his house-steward,
but he went to the strong-room
alone.

To tell the truth, he was going to make a
choice among those favourite jewels of his
mother's — a choice which might be futile, and
of which, at any rate, he would prefer that no

VOL. III. F

one but himself should be aware — it was something
to do !

It is a trite saying that riches bring their
troubles with them, but the saddest thing of
all they bring, is, perhaps, an overmastering
loneliness, enlightened by any absolute necessity
to busy itself with work. Generally Sir
Edmund could read ; but this afternoon he
was far too restless for any purely sedentary
occupation.

The house-steward brought his master the
keys, and the servants lit him to the strong-room
; then they left him to what might have
been, for most men, a gloating hour ; but he
had less in his nature of the miser's temper
than any man alive. There was no hurry ;
time was plenty with him, and the room was
warmed, like the rest of the house, with hot-water
pipes, the heat from which ascended
through open gratings. He unlocked the
chest, and sat himself down before it sadly.

Then he opened one of the jewel-cases, at
random.

How beautiful they were, the flashing gems,
which had been selected with what pride and
judgment ! They snatched at the light of Sir
Edmund's candle, as it fell on them, and starred
it back again in refracted rays, although they
held it all the while in their liquid glistening ;
they seemed to illuminate the twilight of the
dark iron-bound chamber, as if blades of grass,
besprent with dew, had sprung there. The"
stones were very fine, and, where a modern
setting had been needed, had been reset with
taste and care. Among them were some,
however, that had other merit beside their
intrinsic value, from rarity or historical association,
for Sir Edmund's father had been a
judicious patron, and had always chosen " what
was best." Presently, his cheek flushing a
little, as he did so. Sir Edmund opened the
case of a ring. It had been his mother's engagement

minor, and his father had obtained it,
by a connoisseur s aid, through some means
which left no doubt as to its authenticity.

In the case was a small plate of thin gold
on which the history of the ring was graven.
It had belonged to the ill-fated Mary of Scotland.
Like all the things we see that have been
hers, it seemed to have some special halo of
charm around it, some irresistibly attractive
light that 'was not for an age, but for all
time." It was a plainly rounded circlet of
pure gold, supporting one large sapphire,
smooth-surfaced, save for some few scratches,
but uncut, by nature shaped almost exactly like
a heart. Round the sapphire was a narrow
band of small diamonds, and, above it, a low
diamond crown. The effect of the whole ring
was rough, and almost sombre ; a modern
jeweller would have called it barbaric, and
have made you a much more brilliant and
delicate affair to this design. He would have

shaped and cut the sapphire, he would have
made the crown a miracle of accurate and
dainty workmanship ; and the ring would have
pricked your fingers at both ends and had need
of care in the wearing. This ring was clumsy,
perhaps ; but it was made to be worn, and to
last. The heart-shaped sapphire was firmly
bedded In its jewelled border, the little crown
above it was somehow beautiful, — flat, not
peaked, and lengthened out the full width of
the stone. The woman who wore the minor
might turn It round on her finger, so that the
jewel was Inside her hand ; she might clench
her fingers over it, In love or sorrow or pain ;
it would not bend, or gall her. There was
something royal about it still, after all these
crowding years ; and the stone was rare — a
wonderful, great sapphire with hues of purple,
and even, as It were, a greenish crescent afloat
in its inflamed blue — a stone worth a king's
ransom.

Sir Edmund put it on ; it was not over-small,
for a woman's ring, and it fitted his left-hand
little finger. It called up many memories
; he recollected how that It had been
almost his first Introduction to anything like
interest in history, — the tangible link with what
was Illustrious and dead, with years of marvel
and of light gone by, — as it shone upon his
mother's delicate hand. She, who had so
many rings, had worn but few ; her marriage
circlet, and this, and one In which a piece of
untrimmed lapis, was engraved with the motto,
'' Sono mar The wedding-ring was a sign
that she belonged to her husband, but this
common ring, which was upon Sir Edmund's-
watch-chain now, " is," she had used to say, '' my
assurance that there is still something of myself
that Is free." The sapphire ring, Sir Edmund
thought, must never grace a hand unworthy
to succeed to the mission of hers —
a mission of generosity and gentleness. And

then his heart began to beat faster, as he
thought of a hand he knew that was Indeed
worthy, a hand Hke sun-warmed marble — the
marble of an eternal statue, with its fine firm
grain — not white from constant covering, yet
with no hint of red ; a capable hand. And the
touch of that dear hand, as he remembered it,
how it had thrilled him ; how he had felt, at
once, the heart that guided it to be noble and
pure and good !

Sir Edmund had much faith, though he had
but little hope. He slid the ring into his
pocket, and put the larger cases away. But,
as he glanced at some of the other things — for
Lady Jane's jewels had been as numerous as
they were rare — he selected from among them
a narrow plain gold bracelet, fine as a bangle,
with a cross, upon it, dexterously made to lie
on the flesh of the arm — a beautiful bracelet,
but simple in design, and of little value — and
an anchor In square diamonds of exquisite

lustre and immense size, which would be worth
at least a thousand pounds. Si-r Edmund's
recognition of the beauty of things, of their
real poetic meaning, was only equalled by
his high contempt for their money worth.
And, without considering the subject, he was
sure that Eugenia felt as he did. He knew
that if the plain gold bracelet should chance
to fit her arm, and the symbol on it not displease
her as an ornament, it would be quite
as precious in her estimation as the diamond
anchor, which indeed, being of commonplace
modern workmanship, he rightly judged she
would not care for much. The ring — that was
a different matter. There was a spirit upon
that — a light from other days and a shadow
of beloved memories.

As he put the things away, Sir Edmund's
vision of Eugenia, in all the splendour of these
costly gems, made him linger and fall into
a reverie. At least he had something to give

her that Lady Shortlands' legacy could never
buy. Meanwhile he put the candle inside
the wooden chest, to see what else it held —
some papers, stored away for safety, some
parchment deeds, some letters, some wooden
boxes, lined with wool and flannel, in which
were coins and unset stones. The chest was
a very ancient one, of black oak : he had
forgotten it, or perhaps he had never seen it
before. It arrested his attention, now, quite
as much as the jewels had done.

In the further corner of it was a sealed
packet. He took it out: it contained his
father's letters to his mother, docketed " To
be destroyed unread, except by my dear boy
Edmund, whom they most concern Still
hesitating a little. Sir Edmund broke the seal,
and perused a few of the letters : somehow
they left him cold. They were not love-letters
; his father's love-letters had belonged
to a prior period, and had, perhaps, been of

a different order; but those Lady Jane had
not left In being — even for her son's eyes.
These were letters which had been written
during short times of enforced absence or
important business, and had mostly to do with
the boy's health and education. They were
kind and even anxious ; but withal, formal.
They did not come up to Sir Edmund's ideal
of what his father had been, from his mother s
description. The letters gave a truer picture,
no doubt ; for the father whose memory Sir
Edmund had been educated to revere, was
a creation of his mother's, not consciously
devised, but sprung from recollection and
regret, as the type of love and duty. Sir
Edmund mused over his perusal, half disappointed,
half absorbed, as he leaned over into
the old carved chest in which he had placed
the liorht. He was still as a miser or a monk

o

might be, amid their gems or manuscripts,
in his involuntary work of undoing. And

he started, when his house-steward came at
last and knocked at the door.

There seemed to Sir Edmund, in his wonted
straightforwardness, to be something mean in
his reading these letters, when he was thus
discovered, although he had every right todo
so. The full reading of them would have
destroyed an illusion which he had grown upto
believe in : he felt as if he were caught
furtively chipping a statue to find veins in
the marble. Instead of responding to the
knock, he rose, walked to the door and opened
it. The steward was In the passage.

*' I beg your pardon, Sir Edmund," he said ;
'* but there is a messenger come over from the
town, post-haste, to see you, and I fear he brings
bad news."

Sir Edmund came outside the door, and closed
it behind him, without looking back. The
current of his thoughts turned to Eugenia.
What sort of messenger ? " he said.

''He is Messrs. Writ's head-clerk, Sir Edmund."


A lawyer could, at least, have nothing to do
with Eugenia, as far as Sir Edmund was concerned,
at present. *' It is business, I suppose,"
he said wearily.

He made as if he would go back into the
strong-room and close the chest, but the door
had slammed-to behind him ; and it did not matter
: the letters were safe enough where they
were — of the jewels he never thought again.

The door is shut, Sir Edmund," said the
steward ; 'rit has a spring-lock, and fastens
itself. Have you the key with you, or have
you left it inside the room ? "

Oh, it is in my pocket," said Sir Edmund,
feeling a key through the cloth of his coat : it
was not worth while to unlock the door, as it
had shut itself, for the steward added that the
messenger was in a hurry to return : " I will
come back here presently," he said; "meanwhile,

please order this gentleman something
to eat, if he will not stay for dinner, and see to
his horse : he has had a long ride. Where
have you put him ? "

The house-steward led Sir Edmund alone
the corridors to that same, warm, perfume
room, where we first found him reading Mrs.
Tomlinson s letter. Somehow its comfortable
look was altogether gone, when he re-entered
it. Not that it was untidy, or that the fire was
low. Lady Jane's selected household minded
its business better than to allow of such
neglect. On the contrary, the tiles in the
grate shone brighter than ever, sending the
flames dancing back reflected from their glossy
surface ; and lamps, shaded with white paper,
had been set upon the principal tables. What
destroyed so completely the look of ease and
comfort — of luxurious leisure — was the presence
of the man of business, who had come to Sir
Edmund from his Cornish solicitors.

The man of business was splashed with snow
and mud, but he was careless of that ; he had
not even removed the heavy riding-cape from
the shoulders of his coat. He was wet through:
but he was standing bolt upright, pale as deathlike
a man who has come upon a grave and
grievous errand. He felt bound, with that uncomfortable
sense of responsibility which subordinates
often allow themselves, to catch cold
as a matter of duty and without a murmur.

Sir Edmund feared the man must be in some
great pain or trouble : he never thought that
anxiety for anything impersonal could so distress
a lawyer: 'won't you take off your
coat?" he said, in his pleasant, considerate way.

The man of business did not answer the
question directly : it seemed to him (in view
of tidings which he had put that coat on to
impart) to savour of an awful flippancy. He
became dramatic, and looked earnestly at Sir
Edmund : " May I ask, Sir Edmund, if you are

in your usual health ? " he said in a serious
monotone.

Sir Edmund smiled : " Thank you," he said,
I am much better than usual ; indeed, I vary
so that I begin to think my illness must be
mainly nervous**

Nervous?' — on the nerves, Sir Edmund
? " the man hesitated. *' I mean," he
said ; *' are you able to stand a shock ? "

Sir Edmund smiled again, sadly this time.
*' Alas ! " he said ; '* I can imagine no news
you could bring me, that I could not bear to
hear." He felt a moment's self-pity at his
own loneliness and immunity from keen personal
interests.

Well, then," said the man of business, drawing
himself up as if to fire an invisible shot,
and quite unable to restrain his conviction of
power, as the bearer of tidings of such terrible
import, ** I have to announce to you, the
bad news we have just received, Sir Edmund,

that Gold and Groats have stopped payment I "
He paused.

'' Have they? " said Sir Edmund, bewildered.
*' I am very sorry — pray sit down ! " He knew
as little what the man of business meant, as the
man of business knew of Lady Jane's creed of
selection.

The man of business was so astonished at
Sir Edmund's reception of his invisible shot,
that he at once did precisely what he had been
told to do — took off his coat and sat down — thus
giving Sir Edmund at once the better of the
entire interview.

'' Is it possible you do not know what this
may mean to you ?" he said.

What ? " said Sir Edmund, not aghast in
the least, but this time with no smile ; he was
not one to trifle over a matter of real importance
: he set to work to give the man his best
attention, because the man was kind enough,
or dutiful enough, to be anxious — evidently

anxious — on his behalf. " Does it mean that I
am poor ? " he asked.

'' As near as I can give a name to it, Sir
Edmund," said the man — with a shake of the
head and a lapse into solecism, meant to be
Impressive, but very tiresome to Sir Edmund's
educated ears, — "that Gold and Groats have
stopped payment, spells just one little word of
four letters for you, and that one word is

Still Sir Edmund was not duly impressed :•
he sat still, kept a discreet silence and looked
Interested, because the man's manner seemed
to demand from him as much as that. But he
discovered that he breathed quite placidly, and
that his mind, instead of being paralysed, was
actively at work in criticising the absurd turn
of the man's speech, when he said that six such
prosy words as those 'spelt ruin." He wanted
very much to get into the right frame of mind,
but he could not. " Come, with me, Into the

VOL. III. G

library," he said, *you shall have some refreshment
there, unless you will stay and share my
dinner with me. Then you can tell me all
about this sad failure of Gold and Groats." '

He spoke, the man of business thought, as
if he were sorry for Gold and Groats. He
marvelled to himself: " Is this don't-harshness
put-on or real ? I must impress him,
somehow, with the full significance of what
I have to say."

And at last, when he threw off metaphor
and stuck to business statements, the man of
business managed to be impressive and
effectual.

But he was impressive at great length, and
effectual with phrases that have no charm from
a literary standpoint. He does not deserve
exact quotation. The substance of his news
was briefly this.

Sir Edmund's father had been, as we know
already, an iron-founder of the first position

and of enormous wealth. But Lady Short-lands
had called Sir Edmund the " ironmonger"
with far less accuracy than humour,
for he had not been bequeathed an active
participation in the works — his father having
rightly judged, from his health and his tastes,
that he was unfitted for such constant anxiety
as business demanded ; and preferring gradually
to dissever the baronetcy from the profoundly.
He had realised a vast fortune for
his only son, and, as an investment for the
greater part of it, had started a bank, in which
his own name did not appear. This bank had
been the chief source of Sir Edmund's income,
although he had not interested himself in its
workings And it had now failed, rendering
his other sources of Wealth to their full extent
liable — for It was only the real property that
was strictly entailed. But there was no doubt
that this liability might be modified, or even
evaded, if the affair were taken in time. Certain

shares in the iron-foundry Sir Edmund still possessed,
so that he was not without what, to a
man whose education had been different, would
have seemed a large fortune, but, by comparison,
would seem to him the fraction which
stood for poverty ; for his estates were almost
wholly unproductive.

It was impossible for him to form any estimate,
at first, what this disaster would mean for
him, if he determined — as he did at once determine
— to attempt no evasion of his liability.
Money had always seemed to Sir Edmund a
necessity of so little import that it was small
wonder that he should be cool. But the lawyer,
who knew the differences involved by each
additional hundred a year, in a limited income
this hundred standing for rent, this for stables,
and this for pleasuring — was literally aghast at
the aspect of a client who stood to lose some
forty or fifty thousand a year, at one blow,
and, in the face of a misfortune so colossal,

yet retained his appetite, and pressed him to
stay for dinner.

Had Sir Edmund been able to comprehend
his loss, as well as the man of business did, he
would hardly have been so cool : as it was, his
ease of manner was in no sense feigned ; and
the first real feelings of which he was conscious
was a recurrence of the discomfort he had before
felt, at having sent that letter to Eugenia.
In view of that letter and this news reaching
her, as they would in all probability, on .the
same morning, might it not seem as if he were
eliciting her sympathy on a false pretext of
offering his ? Besides he felt, in his generous
nature, that he was less worthy of her countenance
than he had been : six months ago this loss,
with all its shifting of responsibilities implied,
would almost have loosened a burthen from
Sir Edmund's shoulders. But now it was all
different : now — and not for his own sake — he
would have liked that there should be no limit

to his wealth. For himself, Indeed, there was
still, practically, no limit to it, because he had
no wants. He was of that liberal nature which
is as content that great power and great possessions
should belong to another as to itself*
provided that the owner be worthy of the heritage.
Had he, indeed, been guided by pure
selfishness, he would perhaps have owned that
he would rather the possessions and the powers
were another's than his own. But with that
ring in his pocket, although it had no actual
warrant but his faith to be there, all things were
changed for him.

He became slowly absorbed in thought,
while the man of business ate his food with
a relish. The viands were not contemptible,
and there is no better condiment than the
sense of one's own importance. The lawyer
appraised his meal while he enjoyed it ; it
was served upon such solid silver, it implied
such lavish housekeeping : why did not the

crowd things of the world fall to those who
could appreciate them better ? But, as we
have observed, it was not carelessness or coldness
that made Sir Edmund mind the news so
little, but just a want of experience to teach
him what change meant in all this perfection
that surrounded him. Poverty ? loss ? these
were mere terms in the aggregate of human
sorrow, for Sir Edmund. When he heard of
them, his instinct was to put his hand into his
pocket and "give alms of his goods." But
that he should be expected to feel them,
seemed strange ! He would have recognised
them better than he could from all the lawyer's
statistics, had his servants brought in common
crockery dishes instead of silver, or sent him
word that there was no more wine. If he could
have seen something reft away from his surroundings
he might have understood loss
better.

And such a shock was to come ere long.

The lawyer finished his solitary meal. Sir
Edmund's dinner was timed for half an hour
later : not so much because he liked loner hours
before dinner, as because after dinner he most
missed society. And the man of business
could not wait ; he had to be back before nine,
in the town that was half a dozen miles away.
He had come upon his errand from good-nature
— though it was that doubtful broods
which makes a man breathe himself
by running a mile out of his way, sooner than
not be the first to bring you bad news. Sir
Edmund had rejected his advice of evasion,
point blank ; he was determined to face his
liabilities, and let things take their chance.
The man of business had made no arrangements
to stay, and his horse was rested and
fed.

The night, though cold, was bright ; no snow
was falling. There was an exhilarating touch
In the outside air, as you met it. Sir Edmund,

as he accompanied the lawyer to the door, did
not look like a man on whom a crushing blow
had fallen.

'' I shall drive over to your office, tomorrow
morning," he said briskly, after cordially thanking
the lawyer for coming. He was at least
wise enough to see that he had much to learn
about his affairs and had best set to work on
them without delay. The man of business
began to have abetter opinion of Sir Edmund's
capacities, though he could not bring himself
to forgive him for not pleading an excuse he
had suggested, within the elastic limits of the
law, which might have immeasurably lessened
his loss. He rode away, his horse's hoofs ringing
loud In the covered portico, and then with
a muffled thud, where the snow lay thick upon
the wide park drive. After a minute or two,
he glanced back at Trefusis House. There
lay the mansion, snug and bravely lit, with
such a hospitable air. There stood Its owner,

leaning against the lintel of the great door,
under the illuminated portico, in his listless
attitude. And, over his head, what a steam
and smoke was going up, from that lesser
block of chimneys, at the further side of the
house! "Cooking his dinner, no doubt,"
thought the man of business, with an envy
that was tempered by repletion, " but who
would have thought that the flues of the
kitchen ran there?" He pondered on the
architecture of Trefusis, and the windings of
its flues, as he pulled up his warm riding-cape
about his ears, and rode home in the
clear starlit weather.

During that same minute or two, the master
of the mansion felt the outer air sorrow chill :
although there was no wind abroad, the temperature
was very low ; — there is no warmth in
starlight : — but, as he came in, the house struck
more than warm.

"Too much heat on," he thought to himself

as he got well into the current of milder air,
which was arranged to pervade the hall, and
closed the inner doors of the porch behind him.
I live in so exotic an atmosphere : no wonder
I want bracing."

What should he do ? Anything was better
than thinking of the meaning of the lawyer's
news, as it might affect Eugenia. That was
the thought he dreaded, and it was inclined to
recur. He would go back to the strong-room,
to the oak chest, and the deeds, and the
letters, — which he feared would disappoint him
more and more — and the boxes, and cases of
precious things ; why ! what a fortune there
was there, in heirlooms ; " Margaret " — he said
to himself, with a smile, — " never asked Faust's
income ; she only cared about the jewels in
the casket with the mirror." He could give
Eugenia jewels finer than Margaret's, and he
would be able to afford her a mirror ; but then,
on the other hand, it was equally true that

Eugenia was not like Margaret. . . . Could
she love as Margaret had loved ?

Sir Edmund hummed to himself a bit of
the garden scene in Faust, as he strolled aloof
the corridors; . . . '' dierneller . . . Yes, certainly
there was too much hot air in the house : he
would speak to the groom-of-the-chambers
about it. It was curious that he had never
noticed it before. Then, of a sudden, he
stopped short in his slow stroll. It was far
more curious that he should notice it now,
for he remembered that it was not by hot
air, but by hot water, that the house was
warmed — Lady Jane had preferred hot water,
as the less unhealthy. There should be no
such smell from the pipes as this.

It must be from the wood fires somewhere
about the house.

But in what rooms ? The truest-rooms were
not occupied, his own were on a private staircase,
the kitchen and the servants' sleeping

quarters were shut-off far away. He opened
a baize door, which admitted to the passage
leading to those domestic regions. There
was no smoke, nor any savour of it there.
But as he came back into the main corridor,
he found the smell increased. It was the
smell of heating iron rather than of wood.
It could come only from the pipes.

Before he had time to ring, his house-steward
joined him : '* Had you finished in the strong-room.
Sir Edmund ? " he asked him, rather
reassured as to the lawyer's errand by Sir
Edmund's demeanour.

'* I am going back there now," he replied :
'by-the-bye, Curves, don't you notice a smell
of smoke —-or of hot iron ? "

Curves raised his eyebrows : of course he
noticed smoke, and had been on the alert to
find out about it ; but it was not his business
to say so. '* Indeed, Sir Edmund," he said,
we have all noticed it for the last hour : we

supposed you had been burning papers in the
strong-room."

*' There is no fire there, is there ? " said Sir
Edmund, half forgetting, after all that had
transpired, if he had not been burning things :
those letters ?

No, Sir Edmund, but there is an open grate,
and a chimney — and you had lights . . . and " .

'' Come at once with me ! " said Sir Edmund,
A thought had struck him which took the
limp out of his gait, and nerved him into
strength. He walked quickly, with his steward,
to the door of the strong-room ; he fumbled
in his pocket for the key.

There was but one key in his coat pocket —
the key of the old writing-table in his little
sitting-room. He had mistaken this for the
strong-room key, when he had felt for it so
hastily — upon the lawyer's arrival — as the door
slammed after him — it/ie door ivJiich closed ivith
a spring.

The key of the strong-room tuas in the strong-room,
lying on the floor by the chest.

Sir Edmund saw it plainly in his memory ;
and, at the same instant, by the same glance
upon that mental photograph, he saw the
candle left aslant within the oaken chest.

No doubt they were getting nearer and
nearer to the smell of burnings metal. Although
no smoke burst forth on them, — but the
hot air crept out only from crevices and keyhole,
— it seemed by a common . impulse that
Sir Edmund and his house-steward laid their
palms upon the Iron door.

It was hot — so hot that it scorched their
fingers !

They desisted and looked into each other's
faces.

Then, as they listened. Sir Edmund's quicker
sense first caught a dull, soft roar like the
roar of a furnace, muffled by the thickness of
the door.

There was no longer any possibility of their
doubting what had occurred.

They were locked out of the strong-room
themselves, while, within, the precious things
that it contained were all molten into one
blaze of flame. The draught through the
ventilators, by which the warmth of the hot-water
pipes was meant to ascend and be
carried off up the chimney, had fanned the
fire to fury, when once the candle had caught
the letters; and the letters had set light to
the parchments and the wooden chest.

Trefusis lay calm and peaceful under the
cloudless winter night, while the most priceless
of its contents — shut, as it were. Into a
retort — were scorched and burned to powder
under the liquid metal; until all beauty and
all treasure were gone out of them, and the
inside of the strong-room, could Sir Edmund
only have seen it, looked at last likejone[of
those seethlno^ caldrons, in his father's Iron-countries,

which had first sufficed to fill it
with Its jewels.

The same day had robbed him, at once,
alike of income and possessions ; but it had
also nerved him to a vigour he had not felt for
years. And when the moment came to join
his forces with the men whom the house-steward
had summoned to the rescue, Sir
Edmund loosed the irons from his limbs, with
a new-found instinct of activity, and discovered
that he could exert himself more freely, when
unhindered by their clasp. He had bought
strength at the price of wealth, and the boon
was worth the cost. Moreover he had saved
the father of his dreams.

VOL. III. H

CHAPTER II.

HOPE— LIEUTENANT ARTHUR JOHN JARVIS.—
spring).

All that winter, and until the following spring
was far advanced, Mr. Arthur John Jarvis —
alias Buck — had been with his regiment at
Portsmouth. " It wasn't a bad sort of shop,"
he would have told you, 'for a chap with the
ready'' The life of a garrison town, monotonous
as it looks to an outsider, just " suited
his style of beauty," and — thanks to his Ash-bank
visit and the skill with which he had
turned his introductions to account — he had
many invitations from county-people, who
had been at Mrs. Tomllnson's ball, and who
had noticed him, owing, mainly, to his own
self-assertion. With his fine figure and his

loud ways, he was always a conspicuous person
at any ball or gathering where the breadth of
shoulders Is of more Importance than the depth
of brains — which was one reason why his tailor
took pains with him — and Ashbank had been
just the right house to exhibit his advantages.
It was a house where the grades of society
were not marked In hard lines. At Short-lands,
Mr. Arthur Jarvis would have been one
remove above the butler, in position, and several
removes below the butler, in importance ;• but
at Ashbank, what with his own splash and
dash, and with Eugenia's ill-starred preference
to back him, he had felt himself rather " the
cock of the walk." Moreover, though he could
not talk, he could dance : and, after all, to
be lacking in conversation militates but little
against a young fellow. In country society. He
gives the agricultural intellect its opportunity.
Every now and then, too, he got his chance
even In after-dinner talk ; for he was pretty

well Up in the pursuits of country life, although

no squire ; and had his hand in for sport,

although in no sense a sportsman. He liked

** to kill things," though he knew nothing about

their rearing.

Add to these qualifications the one we know

that in a rouorh and tumble sort of fashion
< >

he was an adept at love-making, — and it will
be seen that he was, after all, as good an
acquisition as need be, to a country-house
party of ignorant and healthy people. He was
no trouble as a guest, required no better accommodation
than a footman, and was 'game"
for driving or for tennis-playing all day long.
When he was not wanted on such active
service, he could always smoke or lounge,
without making any claims upon society. If
his heart was the least bit touched, he enjoyed
himself just so much the better. " Not a bad
sort of fellow," people would say, and, maybe, not
dangerous to hear of, and yet somehow, he was

apt to prove dangerous now and again, without
giving himself any trouble about it either. And
the cause lay, perhaps. In his supreme quality
of selfishness, which seemed to have a magnetic
power, as great and quite remorseless selfishness
sometimes has. It was a selfishness
more negative than positive ; that is, it did not
mean so much that he went out of his way to
get things for himself, as that he would stir no
finger to get anything for another : and the
odd result of it was, that nobody ever, expected
anything from him, while everybody
got into the way of doing what they could
for him ! Girls had been known to fetch him
his racquet, and when he was driving with
another man, it was noticeable that he held
the reins. That was not due to the other
man's preference ; It was because Mr. Buck
Jarvis liked driving.

In the long run, one's experience of life
shows that a nature like this Is more to be

feared — because it can less be combated —
than an ardent, active nature which makes
efforts. The nature that strikes out tracks
of action can be met with cross-roads, the
nature that makes sword - thrusts can be
counterfeited. But Buck's nature was, in its
very passivity, elusive. Nervous mothers
were sometimes afraid of Vane, because —
while he was thoroughly insincere — he laid
himself out to charm. He would be attentive
and punctual. And for that very reason they
need not have feared him. This mode of
living suited his social book : it held probabilities
if not certainties : you always knew whereto
find him : you were sure of him : but, if you
had any tact at all, you always knew when and
where to spoil his move. And if he saw that
you wished to do so, he would generally save
you the trouble. Because, in all that he did,
he had a plan of action and an end in view.
Why make enemies ?

Not SO Buck I Careless and irresponsible to
a degree that people who made appointments
with him found quite maddening — a degree
which, had he not been bound, to some extent,
by the routine of his soldier-life, to regular days
and hours, would have ended by alienating
him from any acquaintance but with pot-house
loafers — he was yet always spoiling schemes
and always evading traps, by his happy but
brutal knack of forgetting people's wishes
and breaking out afresh in any new direction
that promised a fair prospect to his roving
glance. A mother who feared him for her
daughter had the awkward satisfaction of seeing
him compromise her niece next day.

To a young exacting heart — the heart of a
school-girl for instance — a nature like this, if it
have once proved attractive, is more dangerous
than any other. It demands not only self-surrender,
but care. The lono^ine to feet an
influence over it — a hold upon its slippery surface

— becomes stronger and stronger as the
conviction of its utter irresponsibility increases.
A finer nature supplements this desire with a
pity for the irresponsibility which provokes it
when the man Is as passionate In his selfishness
as Buck, and the woman as tender-hearted
and as single-minded as Euorenla. It was this
pity which had stolen Into her caress, when
she had said, 'poor love." Being translated,
It had meant, " How you miss the truth of
things ! How you wander from the light !
Dear as you are, and god-like in your power
to cause me pain, how much more to be compassionate
you are, yourself, because you
cannot hold another as dreadfully and deeply
dear, because you cannot feel this blessed pain
you cause, which is more to me than all the
world beside."

Yes ! that was what Buck did not know —
what in all life would be a secret to him, for
you cannot train a weed to perfume — the

recklessness of pain. His heart was sanguine
and his senses keen : the world was
full of roses. Touch and taste and handle,
for to-day is.

Not that even so much Introspection as this
had ever strayed Buck's way from the realms of
thought. What gives to a young life, like his,
its tragic aspect, when you set yourself to study
it, is that — as far as one can say so at all, of a
sentient animal — it never thinks. The door is
much more thoughtful, for it is not able to
waste its time in chattering, and is not fool
enough to smoke and drink Itself into more
than normal stupidity.

Buck had two aims — not that (again) he
ever troubled to formulate them, or was conscious
that they were aims : they were, with
him, the merest Instincts — to be jolly by day,
and tired by night. He could imagine nothing
worse than dulness or sleeplessness, and, knowing
neither, he never troubled even to imagine

these. He had been just ''so fortunate"
always. He was not quite an idiot, and so
had, in each case, managed to pass his examinations.
Here might have lain a trouble.
Had he been plucked, it might have '' hipped "
him. As it was, an examination had always
meant a *' big drink " afterwards, and then a
sort of oblivion, which — thanks to his strength
and his youth — had never even left him a
headache.

In all seriousness, one sometimes wonders
how a nature like this appears to God (amid
the varieties of His creation), whom we credit
with looking upon so much of suffering. In
considering it, we fall to fearing lest there be
not some awful moment in store for it, — some
dreadful sorrow, some tremendous fall — which
is to compensate for all this bootless ease in
the archives of the soul. We wonder ; we retrace
its course uneasily. Is it possible we
can have missed some crushing blow ; some

rocks which make the waterfall so buoyant ?
No ; Buck's life had been this. Spoilt as a
baby, spoilt as a child ; laden with kisses and
toys, bounding with health. A little out-growing
toys and kisses, inclining towards school.
No sorrow at parting from home : and no
sooner at school than findlnor a little kingdom
to be ruled by superior pocket-money and
superior strength. Later on, he had got into
scrapes, but he had always been proud of his
scrapes. They were manly for his age^and
very expensive. If his tutors had stood aghast
at him, because of them, his fellows had envied
him his pluck. Nothing he had ever done
had caused him an hour's heartache, though
the consequences had often made him swear.
Then followed an interval for another complete
spoiling, at home ; with first glimpses of a
man's power over girls' hearts — light conquests
lightly forgotten ; then the crammer's, alternate
as little work as need be with as much

sensuous jollity as could be, for a year or so.
Then the army; a sojourn in India; — the departure
made exciting by gifts and the satisfaction
of causing regrets without feeling them :
perfect health in a sultry climate which
seemed only to expand his nature and its
fibres, while it made others feverish and faint.
Coarse pleasures without stint, violent sports
without fatigue, a sea-voyage and a homecoming
that might have turned the head of
any only son in England. And now Portsmouth,
where he had it all his own way, with
intervals of leave which could be filled with
different pastimes : — thus, to Ashbank — Ash-bank
where a fancied passion had brought
him his first glimpse of love, and a fancied
slight had brought him his first grief; but
the grief had wrung another heart, far more
than his !

Well ! the question occurs : For what is all
this happy training? Life? No: it is life.

D

Death ? hardly. Nothing, perhaps, except
sport and fatherhood — making and marring.
He is sound and healthy, he fills his uniform
bravely. He would not shrink from active
service, but the chances are against his having
to spoil his beauty so. What is to be done
with such a hero ?

And the answer, strangely and unaccountably
enough, comes direct from most women's
hearts : Love him ! give him the best ; not
only of the best, but all your best. Count
nothing too good for him, nothing enough for
him ; make your days devotion to his needs
and your nights a prayer. If he but ride forth
hunting, weary for his return ; if he go upon
a journey, sit and fear lest accident befall him ;
if he be but sleeping quietly upon his pillow,
kneel and wrest his safety from your God. If
he smile upon you, be happy and blossom as
the rose ; if his face be turned away from you,
droop and fade as a leaf. And then when you

have set your whole Hfe to this caring, if your
love seem Hkely to interfere with some better
chance for his prosperity, hide it away ; and if
it have become your being, drain it out of you,
drop by drop, and perish sooner than let him
imagine what you have suffered for his sake.
But when all this is done, there is still something:
more to do besides, without which it is
no sacrifice. Consult his happiness ; labour
for It ; rest not till you have set him high
above you, and taught him to forget you —
and above all things, yourself forget him never.
Remember him in your down-sitting and your
uprising ; when you open your eyes, let the
sun be darkened by his presence ; when you
close them let the night be made restless with
his image. Let the recollection of your loving
him, and the knowledge of your losing
him, make your bed hard and your wine sour
and your bread bitter and your life a lie I
And great shall be your reward — we tell you —

but what, or where, It is difficult to say ! If he
is afflicted, you may not visit him ; if he is sick,
you may not nurse him. Your heart must be
always empty — his vacant home. Perhaps
Plato in his blunter moods would have solved
the riddle, by letting you be the mother of his
son — of one, at least, of his children ; — but nowadays
you may not even hope to be the godmother
of his baby! He will think of you
once or twice ; and talk of you, oftener than
he thinks of you, of course without regret,
most likely with amusement. He will light
his pipe, metaphorically with your memory,
tangibly with your letters. Two things you
may look forward to — the one possible, the
other vague as a dream — to be his friend
when he is a very old man, to be his lover
when he is an immortally young angel. And
if you set your face heavenwards, will you meet
him there ? . . .

But the jest dies upon one's lips. Oh ! good

and faithful-hearted ; self-sacrificing and true !
Have you not found this last faint hope, and
less than this, enough ? Do you not bravely
say your farewells every day, and — what is
far more hard than going forth to your labours
sit at home with your poor needlework,
comforted only by some shadow of a faith
without foundation, that somehow, some day,
somewhere, it shall be the better with his soul,
for having known your love ? Great is your
reward, we echo reverently as with a blessing,
your reward in Heaven !

To hark back from generalities to this particular.
That was the sort of love that Buck
inspired, the love with which unworthiness
has so much more to do than desert ; the love
that offers victim was what he gave, not
the love that brings a boon. And love brought
him very little disquietude in return : if he had
known of all it was, it might have bored him,
but he neither knew nor cared. He was well

dressed, and amply fed, and he had plenty
of money in his pockets for the delectation
of his senses. To be loved was not a new
thing ; he had maiden aunts who yearned over
him, and young cousins who loved him, from
afar, and nightly looked at his big photograph
in uniform : it had all a tinge of the true love
in it : but the first heart that loved him wholly
him and none other — had been that full heart
of Eugenia's.

And she first had piqued his enterprise,
because he felt a little awkward in her
presence. He knew that she " was a cut
above his own level," and the knowledge
nerved him to put forth all his power. Moreover,
she was beautiful : though, when she
had fronted him on that eventful morning,
grown suddenly old and faded — her drawn
face like ashes, in its blood-drained, vigil-haunted
pallor — he had felt with a moment's
shock that It was well he was not bound.

VOL. III. I

Still she was beautiful, he knew, and this reaction
did not last. The day before, he had
been flirting with Anne and pretty May, and
he had scarcely given a thought to Eugenia,
until the evening, when the tempest gathered
in his disappointed heart; and afterwards, his
intercourse with Anne and pretty May had
gone on smoothly, though that golden chain
which bound him to Eugenia had, once for all,
been so rudely snapped. He had been more
dazed than pained. There was plenty of
pocket-money still, and plenty of brandies and
soda. He could buy his cheap joys, and still
his surface qualms. But yet ! . . . there had
been something real about her love, which
passing fancies and passing pleasures only
helped him to realise.

It resolved itself pretty much into this : he
did not miss Eugenia — he never troubled to
think whether she were ill or well, sad or
happy, here or there — but wherever and whatever

she was, he accounted her his own. He
had not seen her since her illness : if she was
changed, she was no more to his liking ; but if
she was still, as he had thought her, '' the finest
girl upon God's earth," then let no one dream
to possess her but himself! Meanwhile, why
be excited about it ? Time's wheel went round.

Anne had been reticent about Eugenia ; but
not so pretty May. She had started a girlish
cult of Miss Brand's beauty, and, having often
met Mr. Jarvis during the winter season, she
had managed to spoil the effect of Anne's
reticence, by informing him that she had heard
Eugenia was handsomer than ever, and was to
go out in London, after Easter, the following
summer.

Buck made up his mind to take his leave
then, and to wrest invitations from *' some
fellow," by hook or by crook, so as to renew
the charm : further than this resolve, he made
no sort of effort, and he beo^an to wish that

pretty May would not talk to him of Miss
Brand so often. When the news reached him
at mess, one January night, of the change in
Sir Edmund's fortunes, he was glad for a
moment — " because he did not like Trefusis

or any d d cripple " — and then he was half

sorry, because he had cherished the notion of
** cutting Trefusis out," with Miss Brand, and
now there would be much less credit in doing
so. Any woman, he felt, would choose himself
against Sir Edmund, when incomes were
equalised; "and a bart. wouldn't count with
the Shortlands lot," he added to himself, ashe
ruminated over Sir Edmund's position.
The question was, how soon he should choose
to bind his royal person to Eugenia ? His
father wished him to marry — for Mr. Jarvis
was old, and had a larger fortune than his son
surmised — but he had no intention of stinting
the days of his bachelor freedom. There was
Eugenia for his taklno^ — the woman of his

choice, if she had really got back her looks.
He 'wasn't going to put it in black and
white," till he had seen her ; having no wish,
as he elegantly expressed himself, ''to buy
a pig in a poke." To an educated person it
may seem extraordinary that he never wrote
a single line to Eugenia, either of sympathy
for her sorrow, or of solicitude for her long
illness: it often occurred to him to write "a
line," — which should commit him to nothing; —
but there were many excuses with which he
furnished himself, to get off a duty which was
at all times most distasteful. He liked signing
cheques, and indeed prided himself not a little
upon his autograph, with its stiff flourish at
the end, from the turn of the "s," back to the
capital "J;" but the only thing he disliked
worse than reading letters, was to have to
answer them : at all times he preferred a telegram,
which at least did away with the formalities
of envelopes, stamps, and folding, and he

rightly judged — though, had he wanted anything
desperately, he would probably have
"wired" without compunction, — that, under
present circumstances, he could not telegraph
to Eugenia. And so he let her bide.

But her place in the sanguine clock-work of
his heart was not yet filled. Once, indeed, it
had struck him, when Anne was gracious, and
had moreover rather put a period to his praise
of Eugenia, that it would be a fine thing for
him to marry the only daughter of Sir Samuel
Jefferies, and 'show the old governor a thing
or two in the way of splash." But the
suggestion passed. He had common-sense
enough to see that Anne was not serious ; her
^ changes of mood were puzzling, and she
seemed bent upon humiliating him in public ;
so he kept out of her way, with an affectation
of disdain which prevented her having many
chances of making him look small. He had
an instinct against broader natures, which is

shared by many of the lower animals. He
was like a king among savages, who refuses
intercourse with more advanced peoples.

It was already towards the close of April —
Buck's own month. He was, as his Clifton
cousins were apt to tell him, in affectionate but
witless chaff, "an April fool;" and his mother
still made his birthday a festival. He had
managed, at her instigation, to get a week's
leave to go home, despite spring drills, and
he began to wonder whether out of that week
he could not manage to spare a day which
should afford him a glimpse of Eugenia ; so
that he might at least plan to meet her later
on, when the season was in actual fling, at
the house of the Tomlinson or other mutual
friends. But his wondering ended as usual in
nothing more than a smoke and a stroll. He
had many plans for his home-week, so many,
indeed, that when he looked at his tablets he
saw to his surprise that he had left himself

only the Sunday — upon which, luckily for
him, his birthday chanced to fall — to spend at
Clifton. He had promised to go, with some
friends, to local races in Sussex, which would
occupy some two or three days, and there
would be a couple of dances at a neighbouring
watering-place, where pretty May Buxton
would be staying with people he knew
for the same races. He would meet her at
the races probably, and at the dances for
certain : and it did not occur to him to give
up a single day of them, either for his mother
or Eugenia, although he had seen pretty May
so much more frequently of late.

Evidently his week's arrangements wanted a
clearer head than his own to settle, and later
on, the same day, when he had perused his.
tablets, he walked into Landlord to talk them
over with some shrewd female friends of his,
whose yellow hair veiled calculating brains
which would not have disgraced the stock-exchange

; but whose sphere of money-making
was unfortunately limited by their sex (and other
drawbacks) to the bars of three several restaurants
that he frequented. These ladies decided
for him that he should not give up the Sussex
races ; fortified in this programme, one by the
prospect of a likely jaunt, the others by the
chance of a share in prospective winnings, for
Mr. Buck was free-handed as well as free-mannered,
and certainly would '' put a bit on "
for them. After the races he was to "gp on
up " to London, as the best place to spend
his gains or forget his losses, as the event
might determine ; running down to Clifton
for Sunday to recoup himself for town extravagances,
less problematic than the race-course
losses, by the paternal birthday cheque. The
scheme arranged itself quite capitally, but It
was noticeable that these hours left him no
spare day on which to plan a visit to Short-lands
Farm. Two of them did not know of

Eugenia's existence, but the third did, and
thought her " artful." Buck always confided,
more or less, in barmaid ; and he was quite
disposed to follow their advice in spending his
leave. It was a deal too much trouble to think
for himself. Spring was spring, all the world
over — not that he thought of that ; — good
wine was good wine, whether In London or
at Clifton, or by the sea — which he did think of
and women much of a muchness anywhere.
Happy time of fervent youth, and happy
nature to which things look so much alike
that there is little need of choice ! Happy
stupidity that does not yet see — and that, in
some eyes, never sees — the same miserable
likeness underlying the same patent attractions
: that sees only, at races, the sunny breeze-swept
down, the gaily jacketed riders, the
flaunted mirth — sees never the same sordid
aims, the same poor jealousies, the same
hidden sadness, underlying all the merriment,

and the same grim jaws of death that wait for
all.

Buck had a ''rouslns: Stood time" at the
seaside, and a time with no sort of harm In it
either. He was put up by hospitable friends,
who demanded nothlno- of him but that he
should not bore himself or them, who gave him
the best of everything, In return for little more
than his good-humoured presence on their
coach and at their table.

This pageant of a young man's life — show
delightful an aspect It wears to quiet womenfolk
who sit at home : how recklessly it passes,
and how soon it is forgotten ! Here was Mr.
Buck Jarvis Installed in splendour, feU'd and
spoilt for a couple of idle April days by the
most genial people in the town, all because he
had happened to be at school with their pet
son, who had warranted him to be '' not a bad
kind of a chap " and no more. He was at once
admitted to their circle ; attractive people were

asked to meet him, yellow roses were got for
his button-hole, champagne and plovers' eggs
for his luncheon. Just all the good things that he
could think of were provided him, and he was not
expected even to say " thank you." His hostess
was assured that he had liked his visit, because
he did not hesitate to say he " would try and
manage it," when she asked him to come again.
Beyond that admission he never dreamed of
making a return for so much hospitality. He
had been always treated like a prince all
through his life, though he was withal about
as arrant a young scapegrace as had ever
discredited humanity.

Mr. Buck flirted pretty evenly with a young
married lady (whose husband was in India),
and two charming sisters who were of the
party. He thought the married lady " gassy "
and the sisters "sporting." He got along well
enough with all three of them, but they were
not deceived in him — not for a moment : — they

made him of just as much account as a footstool,
and their estimate of his sensibility was
about a correct one. Not one of them prized
him at all as Eugenia had prized him. That
appropriate prizing which says, '' I value you
nay, more, I love you — because I choose to
deem you thus " — (Oh ! the great city built
upon the shadowy cliff) — comes to a man only
once in his life, lest the world should topple
over from inequality. For what, compared to
such a love as that, is the faith which moves
mountains ? Vaguely, and with but very slight
regret, Buck felt the truth of this, ever since he
had parted from Eugenia. The pretty dolls of
fashion, who passed for women, and whom he
most affected, looked at him as if they where
saying : " You inflammable young soldier, pray
notice my eyelashes ! I will flatter you until
you do, by leaning, in the dance, upon your
stalwart arm, because I think that people will
observe me more, if I walk down the parade

with your fine figure at my side, when the band
plays tomorrow morning." No one looked at
him as Eugenia had looked, whose eyes had
meant : *' If I am beautiful, it is for you ! Yes!
let us get away from all the world, if only there
is anything, my love of loves, that my heart
can be to yours." To tell the truth, the other
look was the easier to answer. It exacted so
little — a walk, a dance, and the link was snapt
in twain. Nobody cared, and nobody kept the
fragments. But Eugenia's was a look you cannot
get away from : it was the glimpse you
catch — only once I think — of your good angel,
peering down into your life, with patient eyes.

Now and then Buck did think of Eugenia :
not with any effort of will, — her photograph upon
your mental tablets was apt to haunt you.
There was one moment, at the races, when her
image was presented to his sight. It was that
moment when— perhaps because the afternoon
is waning, perhaps because the day has gone

apace and the chief race is run — there comes a
time of quiet, almost of sadness, into the scene,
which ladies can fill up by putting on their
cloaks, and servants by getting the horses
ready and re-packing the hampers, but which
is rather void for men. Buck had been successful
in racing as well as in flirtation : he had
backed his host's horse, out of carelessness
rather than courtesy, and it had won ; he had
even drawn the winner in the sweepstakes,
which his party had subscribed — for the luck
always favoured him — and meant to spend the
money royally in flowers for the next night's
ball. He and his old school-friend had been
making up a telegram to a 'little florist" of
their acquaintance in Sloane Street, about
bouquets and 'button-holes ; " for his old
school-friend had a deal more thought for
other people than he had — especially for the
** little florist:" — it must be confessed that
Mr. Buck, for his part, would have pocketed

his " sweepstakes " and thought no more about
it) : and, what with this mental effort, after so
much champagne and in such 'blue, unclouded
weather," and what with having no grievance
of any sort to grumble at, and nothing in the
world to do, our martial hero tilted his billycock
forward, as he sat behind his hostess, atop
of the coach, yawned, from repletion more
than from fatigue — without the slightest rudeness
intended — and half closed his lazy blue
eyes. The breeze fanned him, and the sun
was hot upon his head.

It was only for an instant that he was left
to himself ; but in that instant — and only half
asleep — he dreamed. What a dream in the
midst of that surrounding dust and noise and
laughter ! Eugenia's face : pale, not with suffering,
but only with the flooded moonlight
now ; her clear eyes wistful and entreating,
so irresistible in their sweet purity — and beyond,
the sea ! Yes ; he was once more upon

the wave-washed terrace, at Ashbank, when
the tide was high. — "Was he dreaming indeed?"
Such a thing had not happened to him since
he could remember. — " Indigestion." He
turned round, with something so Hke an oath
that it made his handsome hostess start, where
she sat on the box-seat before him ; the gent
of beads and feathers on her Parisian bonnet
brought him to himself again. It could not
be called waking-up, for his eyes had scarcely-closed
; but his soul was back in the glare and
the clamour. He could heed the Nigger
Minstrels round the coach, singing with appropriate
gesture :

The girl went 'Pst,
'rand the girl 'we?it ^ Pst
'never inind your mother Bob, but come alo?ig tvith nne ! "

and he felt that he was quite at home in it all !

'' New song, by Jove ! " Then, as he leaned

over to listen, another face came alongside,

very dragged and worn under the shrouding
VOL. III. K

mask of black paint ; another voice began
singing another *' comic song" — save the mark !
but in such husky and consumptive tones that
they made the burthen sound a sad one :

'' Dear old pals!''—

It sang, to a common, plaintive little tune :

'' Dear old pals!''—

'' Give him something and send him away ! "
said the handsome hostess, putting her daintily
gloved hands to her ears, *' he's so out of tune,
Mr. Jarvis ; — what a good thing you don't know
what ' out of tune ' means ! "

The poor tuneless wretch would be in paradise,
perhaps, before next races. —

*' Don't I, by George?" said Buck, 'Til
teach the beggar what it means. Here ! — you ! "
he called out, with fine Irony, to the miserable
minstrel (as he threw a sixpence into the tambourine
of the grinning, drunken buffoon, who
had bawled the newer song), *' here's something

to mend your whining ! " And as the broken-down
fellow, with a 'thank you kindly, my
lord ! " reached up his tattered cap, he dropped
into it, with a great flourish and after pretext
of a dive into his chinking waistcoat-pocket,
a bit of the empty shell of a plover s egg from
a plate beside him.

The wretched man turned coughing away ;
he was used to such '* fine ironies " as this ;
a race-course is not the place to seek consideration
for illness ; it did not hurt him much,
though it would have broken Eugenia's heart.

''Oh, Mr. Jarvis!" said one of the pretty
sisters behind him, as the crowd jeered. No
one cursed him, unless it were an archon-el.

o

(—"Oh, Mr. Jarvis ! "shall not you and
your kind be some day meted out the hottest
fires of hell for crimes like this ? — )

That was all the effect that Eugenia's apparition
had upon Buck at the Sussex races:
it made him vent a moment's ill-bred savagery

Upon a dying worm — such savagery as passes
well enough for wit, with an English crowd.
And then he was his lordly self again, and
more than his lordly self; for at that instant
of departure — the horses being off and the
grooms running to the coach-side — he caught
sight of his friend the Portsmouth barmaid,
in a flashy trap, just leaving the course ; and
though he did not look at her, in her tawdry
pride, he knew she saw him in his glory ! The
pretty married woman next him — the one
whose 'husband was in India" — fancied it
*' must be the champagne " that made Mr.
Jarvis so attentive, at that moment, and so
unnecessarily anxious about the disposition
of a rug over her knees, while she told him
of a party she was going to on the next
Thursday night.

And so they drove home in the cool of the
evening, startling the quiet roads with the
echoes of their horn, and smirching, with their

swirl of dust, the wayside primroses and
daisies.

One marvels sometimes how the meaning
of each day reads to a man like Buck ; the
meaning of the mornings In its brightness, of
the twilight in its calm, of the evening In Its
splendour, and the night in its radiant peace.
Mostly, perhaps, it means, time for a lounge
or a drill, time for a smoke, time for my dinner,
time for my spree. But the true meaning of
life underlies it all the while, and sometimes
it may reach him. Who can tell ?

The pretty sisters sat quite quiet, and enjoyed
the coolness of the drive, in an Innocent
contented way: they were lovely as well as lively
and loveable too — at peace with all the world.
The married woman wrapped her embroidered
-cloak about her and feared the dust for her
feathered bonnet : though she had leisure to
feel a little sentimental too — thinking, perhaps,
of the husband in India! The pleasant 

whistled a bit of the comic song
and thought over the jolly day ; he was handsome
and light-hearted and content. Buck
only thought about the next day's pleasuring,
in his insatiate mind. This day was over ; and
being dead and done he spurned It. What
was the good of thinking of it any more? It
was as much a thing of the past as an empty
bottle, or as the yellow rose which he flung
down, out of his button-hole, into the road, as
the coach drove up to his host's door.

The ladies went upstairs ; the men parted
company, some of them even went upstairs
with the ladies — they were a large party, for
there had been a brake as well as the coach
possibly not to disdain a feint of tea.

There was an hour still before dinner. But
Buck was not going to waste so much as half-an-hour
of his leave, more than he need, in restor
dressing.

"Come for a stroll, Als," he said to his

friend; and the obedient *half," — rather loth,
for he would fain have gone in and brushed
himself a bit — came for a stroll. *half" had
a charming nature : he need never have considered
any one's convenience or pleasure but
his own, and yet he was always considerate :
but now he was a little tired. Not so Buck :
he was never tired, and he never seemed to
get dusty, he was so "fit" that the wind that
battered others only seemed to freshen him,
as water does a retriever's curly coat.

They crossed the road, and walked along an
esplanade by the side of the sea : many guests
would have said to their host's son that they
had found the day a pleasant one ; but such a
comment was not in Buck's vein ; he wanted
something, and he came at once to the point,
almost before '' Als" had handed the florist's
telegram to one of his footmen. "" Look here,
Als," he said ; '' have you still got those rooms
of yours, in town ? "

Yes," said Als, after a moment's hesitation
: he saw what request was coming, and
he had some knowledge of Buck's boon-companions
: still, what Buck wanted, it was inevitable
that he should ore.

The favour was demanded without more
delay.

"I'd like to go there, the day after tomorrow,"
said Buck coolly, 'just for a couple of nights,
don't you know, if you'll let me."

All right, old man ; but you know the
people at King George's Mansions are awfully
particular ; there's no end of toffs there, I can
tell you."

*' Oh ! don't be afraid of me," said Buck,
expanding his chest; "I want a swell shakedown
; it isn't for that. Fact is, this Mrs.
Price of yours — devilish game little sportswoman,
Als, my boy ! — she tells me Torre's
got a party, at his rooms there, Thursday
night."

swell," said Als bluntly; 'you don't know
Lord Torre, do you ? "

No, I don't," said Buck with a laugh, 'else
I shouldn't want your rooms : but I'd like to
see somebody who'll perhaps be there— not
Mrs. Price, old man — don't be nervous! I'm
not going to poach on a pal's preserves : — and
as I'm not ' axed ' to the party I'd next best be
about on the same staircase, don't you see ? "

"Whew!" said Als, with a whistle; "sort
of a kind of a Romeo, by George ! think oi^you
taking all this grind about any one."

"Oh ! yes, I've got It hot," said Buck carelessly
: he was not going to be chaffed : " Let's
go and get a drink before dinner," he said,
changing the subject : "if your old corpse of
a butler has trot such a elinor as a drink about
him."

And that was all the effort he had to make
to see Eugenia, when he had heard by accident,
from Mrs. Price, that Lord Torre's musical-party

was given "for Lord Shortlands' niece,
Miss Brand, the beauty, after her eight months'
seclusion since Lady Shortlands death."

Buck had taken advantage of this information,
to Impress little Mrs. Price considerably
by his knowledge of the details of her ladyship's
demise and the whole domestic tragedy.
He spoke as if he had some link with the
Shortlands set . . . '' it could not possibly be —
Oh ! no ; that would be quite too ridiculous
altogether." Pretty Mrs. Price did not even
trouble to think what she was hard upon thinking
; — and what would have been, had she dared
think it In its fulness, so far within the limits of
the truth.

And thus it happened that, after greatly
enjoying the ball at the Assembly Rooms the
following night, and dancing— just without one
glimpse of memory — to the same haunting
waltz which had supplied the music, at Ash-bank,
for his first embrace of Eugenia, — that

waltz which, when she heard a bar of it by
chance, made her heart stop beating In her
body; — Mr. Arthur John Jarvis went up to
town amid light good-byes, and was, indeed,
but very lightly missed.

He established himself in his friend Alas
rooms, on the ground floor of King George's
Mansions, a huge block of luxurious chambers,
more palatial than home-like ; the finest suite
of which — on the first floor — was occupied by
that dilettante bachelor, Lord Torre, and. comprised
the most famous music-room in all
London. It was here that he crave his renowned
'' music " half-a-dozen times during
the season ; and one of his parties had been
arranged for that very evening. It had been
planned expressly to please his old friend Lord
Shortlands, with whom he had been staying ;
and for the chief behoof of one to whom parties
mattered less than ever now but who had not
lost her passionate love for music — Lord Short-lands'

'' beautiful niece' Eugenia Brand. But
the party was given thus early, at Anne Jefferies
suggestion : for she happened to be in town,
and nothing that Lord Torre could devise was
complete without her presence.

This gathering was Buck Jarvis' opportunity,
and we know that he was not one to let his
opportunities elude him. His sanguine nature
was so full of hope, so buoyant, that it brought
perforce Its own assurance of success. He had
not communicated with Eugenia, he had been at
no pains to arrange a meeting ; and yet he never
doubted for an instant but that he would see her
and she would see him. And, fortune favouring
Mr. Jarvis, though not quite in her old manner,
they did see one another. Perhaps that was
all for which he had stipulated with fortune !

He was not honos making himself at home
in his new quarters — he was glad they were
such fine ones, as he had vague visions of renewing
the temple scene at Ashbank, in their

less disturbed sanctity — and it is not necessary
to relate how he spent his evening. Of course
he dined at the 'drag" with a couple of old
chums, and of course they went on, after dinner,
to the Gaiety Theatre. Equally of course,
and without meaning to do so, he found that
he had asked them back to his rooms — he did
not say whose rooms they were — to finish the
evening : counting — with reason, as the event
proved — upon Alas liqtieitr cases being kept unlocked
and his cigars being in prime condition.
With some lemons and some soda-water besides,
these choice companions could afford to
pass an hour without dulness, and they forgot
to grumble at Buck's bringing them so far out of
the way of St. James' Street, for King George's
Mansions were South-West. At first they could
not keep their temper at his being dissatisfied
with wasting time at the club. He was usually
reckless where he spent his evenings.

Buck's motive for going back to his ** diggings

" was, that Lord Torre's party began about
eleven ; but by the time that he and his friends
three in a hansom — reached King George's
Mansions, the music, which was punctual, had
begun a full half-hour, so that Eugenia had
arrived already ; for she was staying, with her
uncle, at Sir Samuel Jefferies' town-house, and
Anne was never one to be late for music.

'hullo, by Jove, you're going it!" cried
Buck's friends, as they drove up before the
awning, and found the red cloth carpet on the
pavement and steps : " Have you got H.R.H.
here by any chance to-night, Mr. Snooks?"
(" Perhaps he'd like just to run down and speak
to me; — I can't put myself out to go upstairs:" —
added one, who ranked as a wit.) The dignified
hall-porter did not, however, condescend to
notice the young soldiers' chaff, and they betook
themselves, without further comment, to the
ground-floor rooms, of which Mr. Buck was
the temporary master. Now that he had

brought them with him, Buck wished them
"at the bottom of the deep blue briny," but
there were coffee-rooms and smoking-rooms to
be seen at King George's Mansions, and he
ended by standing them " a grill all round."

Who in London that is ' of London ' at all,
does not recall Lord Torre's parties ? The
mere mention of them seems to bring before
the senses the essence of all that is most refined
and most distinguished in society. There was
no element of charm that they lacked unless it
were a hostess ; and what a boon that lack was,
to each beauty In her turn, as she was made
the bright particular star of '' music " given in
her honour ! Lord Torre's parties were not like
other people's: they were at once much homelier
and much finer. You felt yourself consulted,
but honoured at the same time. You did not
go to price a mass of flowers or criticise a
multitude of dresses; the flowers were comparatively
few, and generally of one kind. That

Ashbank ball would have seemed mere Vandal
orgy to Lord Torre : he never disturbed his
art-treasures for a gardener's mock bank of
earth and moss and overcrowded roses. And
for dresses ? Well ; Lord Torre's intimates —
and they were most of them leaders of fashion —
put on their simpler gowns to go to him, because
they felt at home; but — because there was
no crush — they always wore their best lace.
There was room to wander to and fro at ease,
and the selection of the guests was rigid — rigid
as the restraint upon their numbers. Oh, yes !
you have seen " dowdies " there, and " frumps,"
people who '' looked as if they had come out
of the ark," but then you may be sure that they
were people who would have been worth preservation
in the ark, even in the days of the
flood ; — people that the world could not spare,
of whom it would have been hard to find so
much as the prescribed couple. It was your
ignorance that did not let you recognise, in

these carelessly habited women, the great
authoress, the unrivalled musician, the ambassador's
wife — herself a cosmopolitan centre.
But, of course, you did recognise them ; for the
ignorant were not admitted to Lord Torre's
parties.

Not that they were learned assemblies, or
had any political significance whatever : they
were no more serious than they were dull.
They might be accused of froth rather than
of body, but then the froth was the froth of
the best champagne. No doubt there was a
deal of nonsense talked, but then it was such
clever nonsense. It was much more foolish
not to understand it, than to laugh at it as
folly. And, if nobody ever divulged a state
secret at Lord Torre's parties, nobody ever
told you a trite story. But on the nights
when '' music " was marked specially upon the
cards, conversation was a secondary element.
When there was music it was always of the

VOL. III. L

best, and what is most worthy a private hearing.
It was not that the singers were more
famous artistes than those whom the big city-people
can engage, if they choose to pay for
them : often they were not as celebrated or
as fine. It was all different. The women
who charmed Lord Torre's guests into such
rapt attentive silence, could no more *' shake
upon E in alt," than they could stand upon
their heads ; or if they could, they kept that
vocal gymnastic 'under a bushel." To sing
a vulgar bravura air would have seemed a
positive indecency at King George's Mansions,
like breaking out into a wild war-cry, or a
savage dance. If you wanted to hear violent
music, you could go to the opera on a Verdi
night. But somehow, after going to several
of Lord Torre's parties, you ceased to care
so much for Verdi nights at the opera.

A little man like the Bartering Faun would
sit down to the piano, and sing to his own

accompaniment, until you ceased to be surprised
at the tears which stood in his eyes,
because you could not see them for the dimness
of your own. He had made the lovely
things he sang, himself; every note in them was
a sensation out of his own harmonious being.
A woman — who was beautiful too — would sing
an Italian canzonet, as if it were life and love,
not a singing-master, that had taught her. It
seemed to flow from her lips, as though it
were her own wistful and triumphant thought :
it never occurred to you that she had studied
for years, till one day — staying with her in
some country-house — you heard her at her
morning practice, and found there was no
interval and no intricacy too subtle for that
voice's wondrous training. A man with an
ugly face would stand up and say a ballad
or a fable : — it was as if he had something
he wished to tell you — and you never troubled
to think that he was an actor, till you were told

he was the star of a great French company.
A German, with a head Hke the angel Gabriel
in a picture, would play a little romance
or some notes to support the voice, and it
would dawn on you that you had never heard
the 'cello speak before — speak, sing, and weep,
at once. This stranger — it was such a small
thing that he played — was he an amateur ?
And then you learnt with reverence that he
was a great genius who had just arrived to
electrify England, as he had electrified all
Europe. Yozc had heard him first : he had
sat quite near you, and played to you as If
he were a friend of yours, played you a little
piece, looking at you the while — daring to
look at you, because you were one of Lord
Torre's bidden guests, and so must needs bean
appreciative listener : — the man and his
music were bound up in the volume of your
soul's most precious records for ever. He
had given his message to you.

That was the sort of thing which Lord
Torre's "music" was.

Then, the week after, Mrs. Somebody (or
Nobody) would bid you to her 'concert," in
Belgrade Square, and, to your delight, you
would see the name of your idol among the
artists engaged. And you would seat yourself
with 'all London," to hear him, and lo ! he
could do nothing — everything, because he was
an executant, but yet nothing, nothing! You
could have found it in your heart to say he
was pretentious, he went through his share
in the programme like a man whose will is
spell-bound. And, when you caught his eye
and he recognised you as having been at Lord
Torre's — for people who had met there were
apt to recognise each other — he would smile
.and shrug his shoulders, even if he did not
know you well enough to come and grumble
at your side. " What could he do," his gestures
asked, " in a turmoil and a mob like this — •

sandwiches between the bawling of a brazen-throated
prima dogma, and a tenor with lungs
(and sentiment) like iron ? "

Not that Lord Torre's music was "little."
In the great room of King George's Mansions
to the attractions of which he had lent one
of the new-fashioned organs, beneath which
there was room for a stringed band — he would
have music now and then, on Sunday evenings
when the operatic artists were free, which
would have sounded fine in a cathedral; nor
was anything that he ever had puerile or weak.
But when he asked some sixty people to sit,
for a couple of hours, in his exquisitely furnished
rooms, he no more gave them organ-music
and opera-singers, than he gave them
turtle soup and stuffed turkey for supper.

On this particular night there was to be lovely
chamber - singing and lovely stringed music,
with recitation that was short but not slight,
to rouse feelings which micrht be transient but.

were never false ; and then champagne-cup
and strawberries to refresh guests yet un-fatigued
; and, for supper, if you wanted anything
heavier than Hght soup or fairy cutlets,
you must set about it when you had got home.
Lord Torre's rooms were not "Evans's," and
when a cheeky young Oxonian cousin had
said something to him about "the feed," he
had beo^Q^ed him to o^o downstairs and order
himself whatever he wanted, in the coffee-room
below ; adding that he was " under the
impression that all his other friends had dined."
He did not ask that young Oxonian again to
hear music, but, being very good-natured as
well as cousinly, he passed him on an invitation
to an Anglo-American banquet at a
monster hotel.

Lord Torre had been as much struck by
Eugenia's beauty as a certain other experienced
critic of women had been, whom we
wot of, at this moment, on the floor below.

He had appreciated, too, the graces of her
intellect — uncultivated but mature, — and was
determined to give her of his very best
for her entertainment to-niorht. Lord Short



lands brought her, and Anne Jefferles accompanied
them — proud that they were her father's
guests, during their short stay in London.

Anne was very much at home at Lord
Torre's parties ; though the world had begun
to tire a little of telling you she 'would one
day be Lady Torre." The match was, from
all points of view, so desirable and so simple,
that the contracting parties did not hurry
themselves to take decisive steps. They
understood each other tacitly. Anne liked
Lord Torre's bachelor ways ; she was not
sure that she would care as much about helping
him to give his parties ; it was pleasant to
be his petted guest. Anne loved surprises.
She gave musical entertainments, on a magnificent
scale, twice in the season, at Sir

Sanders great house in Portman Square;
and in return, she liked to enjoy herself
without responsibility at Lord Torre's smaller
gatherings.

The large rooms, which you approached
from a narrow passage, leading off the main
stairway, and which were thus out of the
^' va et vient' of the great house, were still
cool and quiet, as Miss Jefiferles led her party
into them. There was a delicious sense of
something to come in the lilac-scented hush,
the music-stands all ready by the open grand
piano, the chairs grouped out of draughts from
the open windows which let in the balmy air
through the heavy silken curtains, for the night
was mild as June. Such furniture as was left
in the chief room had an attentive air, and
looked ready to lend itself to you, for your
comfort, while you listened.

Eugenia found a corner where she could
hear the music well ; and where, because she

could herself not see the whole of the rooms,
she fancied that she would be least observed.
But she was wrong : her corner, in which a
silver lamp was hanging, was one that framed
her beauty to complete advantage ; and, being
in sight of a door, it made her a conspicuous
vision to all who entered.

Let us share their privilege — for most of them
availed themselves of it — and look earnestly
at her again, after all these months.

May Buxton had told Arthur Jarvis, as we
know, that she was '' lovelier than ever," and
perhaps May Buxton was right. She looked
younger : that was the first change you noticed
; and her manner was less distant —
which you discovered afterwards to your great
happiness. Her look of renewed youth was
perhaps due to the fashion of her hair, which
had been cut over her forehead to hide a
temporary scar caused by her fall on the
stone steps of the little Ashbank temple. She

had been used to wear her hair turned back,
for it was luxuriant and her brow was low. In
those days, one could only oruess its tendril
grace, when some stray lock escaped its fastenings.
But now that it was cut, it lay upon
her forehead in soft curling clusters like a
child's. Her manner had been altered, partly
by suffering, but rather, no doubt, by that
feeling for others which she had learned by
loving, with full heart, just such a man as
other women love. It seemed as if, front the
serene and snow-capped heights of beauty, she
were trying to stoop down, half-tenderly, half-sadly,
and to say, " Do not mistake me ; for indeed
I am not other than you are ! "

Her dress was white, but had no sheen
upon it : and she wore no ornaments but
some creamy roses. In her simple grace,
she formed a strong contrast to Anne Jefferies,
who wore a grand toilette of black satin, which
radiated divers colours from rainbow-gleaming;

beads, In oriental patterns. Her dress was
half-high, for Anne never wore low dresses,
but Eugenia's showed her shoulders and her
arms.

Sir Edmund Trefusis was In the further
room : he was a London intimate of Lord
Torre's, as well as a Cornish neighbour. How
his heart swelled as he saw Eugenia enter! It
was to him as If one should set a tall lily in a
parterre of gaily coloured flowers. He thought
of Chatteris' sonnet about the star.

Chatteris was there too, but no one else who
had been of the Ashbank party the previous
autumn. There never should have been others
of them near her than these — this Eugenia of
ours. Then all would have been well ! Society
and education have surely hidden deep enough
that vulgar seed of love. She should never

o

have known of It, till it had blossomed with a
gradual growth — crown of her wedded life,
when she was mated with a noble husband.

This was the atmosphere for her : these were
the fit surroundings to which she had been
born and bred : she graced her sofa duly with
her queen-like air : she seemed to breathe in
music, as she sat there lapped in ease. Why-had
she ever known that common lover's kiss
of common passion — with its boons and hardships
— upon that rough stone terrace, when
the tide was high ? She was not consciously
thinking of him now, indeed — near though he
was to her — but she never forgot him ; it would
seem never strange to her that he should enter
the room where she was, strange though it
might seem to others. A breath of evenings
the perfume of a flower, and even
unlike things — that sound, for instance, of
far-off wheels, in London, which symbolises,
but with such poor mimicry, the sea's deep
music — these were enough, and in a moment
her 'faint spirit" would be away, in that past
summer, which was never past, and that past

embrace when her soul had leaped to life at the
touch of her lover's lips.

Now she sat, beautiful among beautiful
people and beautiful things, and listened to
the cadence of beautiful music. Below-stairs,
the beloved rested his curly head upon his hot
brown hands and muddled himself with smoke
and brandy, while he wished his friends at the
deuce. It seemed impossible that there could
be a meeting between these two : but it was
written in the book of Fate that their eyes, at
least, should meet, if they were never to have
speech of each other again : and Fate's book
was not to be falsified.

Eugenia did not know of all the admiration
she inspired during Tost's singing and de
Sora's; but Sir Edmund watched the effect
her beauty made ; his place was almost at right
nobles to her corner, so that he could see both
herself and the glances turned towards her.
Pride, and mistrust of self, made him diffident

of approaching her till an opportunity should
be afforded him, either by the general move to
supper or by the departure of some of the
guests. Eugenia was unaware of his presence,
indeed she saw nobody. There were but two
or three people in the room whom she knew,
and she did not expect to see others, so she
did not look for them. Although she had none
of the airs and graces of a professional-beauty,
her experience had taught her that she could
not let her glances rove without attracting
attention : she remained still in her place,
Eugenia could sit still — the patient cynosure
of every eye. Poet, artist, waning beauty,
jaded worldling — they were all of them weaving
some romance about her, as she sat listening to
the music, with that look of light upon her
lovely face. Anne saw this, as well as Sir
Edmund, and crossed the room to her at last,
for she began to fancy that so much observation
must give her a feeling of shyness — being

herself a young lady of considerable penetration
whom you could not take at unawares by
so much as a glance, and not being able to
realise how perfectly unconscious of it all
Eugenia was.

Lancilotto is going to play !" said Anne.

'who is Lancilotto?" asked Eugenia : she
spoke neither dreamily nor affectedly, but in a
tone of pleasure and of interest, as if she were
content — as she was.

*' Oh ! this boy of ten, who has been sitting
near you," said Anne hurriedly — for the critics
were assembling round the piano, and she
did not want to lose a place among them,
"where she could see his hands." — " Benedict
has brought him : you give him a viotif —
don't you know ? — and then he improvises
vilely I expect, but few of them can
tell that. What are they going to give him '^
There's the Dowager Durham waddling
up to the piano : how in the world can

she give him a theme ? No Duchess knows
any music but hymns and waltzes."

And, in effect, it was the opening of a waltz,
which her decrepit Grace was fingering out
upon the keys, with poor exactitude until
Anne joined her. The Duchess' fingers
stammered, partly from age and partly from
being overladen with rings. " No," she said,
and then, trying again, '* No I thais not it ! "
Quite wonderful, dear Duchess," said a
toady whom she had brought with her; but
the Duchess left off her attempts as Anne
approached the piano.

Here's that Jew-girl," she said sotto voce.—
Anne was not a Jewess : (and she was not deaf, so
she heard her). — " Here ! — you — Miss Jefferies,
give the boy that waltz they played last night
at Marlborough House."

Anne poised her wrist, at once so graceful
and so firm, above the notes, without sitting
down : but she hesitated before executing the

VOL. III. M

Duchess' command. The waltz her Grace
meant was quite insulted for the groundwork
of an Improvisation : she felt that it
would put her out of her senses to hear that
common theme dragged through every variety
of change and chance, and she saw that Land-motto's
eyes looked troubled. 'waltz?" she
said coolly : *' Oh yes, that would do nicely,
Duchess: — you mean this one," — and with no
thought of Eugenia's reminiscences, she gave
the boy the first bars of '' Chantilly," a fine,
bold group of notes for his treatment, whether
in fugue or variation or dance-measure.

The Duchess did not '' mean this one," and
she 'scored up one" against Anne Jefferson
the tablets of her memory which were
crowded already with debts of petty vengeance ;
but she could not play the waltz which she glad
meant, Intelligibly, and thought she might just
as well have the credit of one which Anne,
who knew so much more about music, had declared

was suitable. So she nodded her head
with feigned approval, and sat down.

So like you, Duchess," said the toady, " to
pitch upon jttst the right tune ! " It had been
one more of those daring, little social manoeuvres
in which Anne excelled, which were
successful but which did not tend to make
her popular.

Lancilotto ran his childish fingers over the
keys, and an absent look came upon his small,
resolute, Italian face. People left off talking —
because they were at Lord Torre's — but to
most of them it did not matter, in the least,
what his theme was : they only wanted to hear
what he could do with it. But it mattered to
Eugenia that it should be '' Chantilly." She
could not have shifted her position or uttered
a word until the spell was broken. She sat
quite still, her nerves of hearing alert. How
would the meaning of this thing strike the
boy's genius, this mere phrase that had been

part of the tune to which her Hfe's most throbbing
pulse was set ?

She listened.

Delicately and fantastically he played with
It at first : he let it grow up out of the bass
clef, to prominence, through a fragile network
of soft treble notes ; and then, when once it
had made Itself felt, he wove it in among them,
till it gathered them into an old-fashioned
sonata measure. And, thence, it twisted and
dissevered and remove them, into a sort of
clamorous fugue.

(All the while Eugenia's thoughts were following
its growth ; and, with it, her lover's
image seemed to grow up in her memory.)

But there came a change : the boy was nota
charlatan, but, with the quick instinct of an
artist, he was aware of his audience all the
time : he knew that, brilliant and distinguished
as his hearers were, but few of them were
adepts at classical music. He paused for a

moment, striking one note slowly again and
again, like a bell, and then he led his theme
into a march. Such a show of colour in the
chords, and such a martial stirring in the
pace !

(That full-grown image stood before Eugenia,
just as her lover had first met her sight during
Anne Jefferies' German war-song in the cedar
garden.)

Then Lancilotto^s father stooped and said a
word to him : it was a snobbish intimation that
the Duchess wished for a waltz-movement.
The boy was impatient: his march had pleased
him, with its change from the time of the
fugue : he was tired of the perpetual demand
for a dance-measure which had been exacted
wherever he played and whatever was his
theme — and this theme had been a waltz to
begin with — but he dared not disobey : and, as
the motif w2l^ an excerpt from Waldteufel, it
was, on the face of it, suited to no other form

SO well. He changed the key with a few
drowsy chords, and passed on to some adagio
minor bars, sounding strangely muffled after
the crash and daylight of the march. Then,
without any further prelude, he burst into the
waltz movement.

Such a waltz as it was ! Half full of petulance
and half of pain : the original phrase
singing, or crying, out of the grasp of such
elaboration as made the listeners hold their
breath for wonder. " Let me alone!" the simple
bars of music seemed to say, " I am only a poor
little tune for lovers to dance to of evenings."
*'No! no!" was the passionate composer's
answer ; " You are a troublous and a haunting
thing, and I will drag you up the hills and
down the by-ways of my fancy. You are
giving me no rest, and you shall have no rest
yourself. You shall suffer through all this
minor, till the life Is nearly dead in you ; and
then you shall be tortured forth of It again,.

and made to riot through all this major, lending
your poor presence to Its wanton mirth :
and, at last, yours shall be the victory. Indeed,
over your pursuers ; but when It is won, you
shall have had your day. It shall be yours
to hush the wail and silence down the revel,
but you shall die — die crushed into a lullaby
that is not sleep or peace or dreamless death,
but only utter weariness, because the heart
can bear no more : — no more, but this wild
burst of final tears ! — Do you call this a
waltz ? " — the boy's eyes said to her, as with
firm-closed grave lips, and Icy fingers pressing
still that last, weird, questioning ai^peggio, he
turned and looked upon Eugenia's death-pale
face : — " I call it all the praise, and mystery,
of remembered life, and love ! "

There was a moment's silence, more Intense
for the music's cessation : the Duchess' request
had been so fully gratified, the waltz had,
from its primitive and elementary beginnings.

grown Into such perplexity as would not have
put Liszt to shame.

And in that moment, Sir Edmund crossed
the room, and stood before Eugenia.

His loving gaze had noticed some soul-stirring
claim which the music made upon her.
He saw that she had utterly lost consciousness
of where she was.

You are tired ! " he said, and he offered
her his arm, which she took without recognition
or remonstrance : '' The music Is over
now, let me get you some refreshment."

She rose and stood near a window : '' I
only want air," she said, softly. She was not
faint, but she was overpowered by the music
and her memories.

Sir Edmund drew aside the curtain, and
she stepped between it and the window, which
was deep. No one noticed them. The rest
of the company were congratulating Lancelot.


The window was to the front of the great
block of buildings : it was wide open, and
Eugenia looked down Into the lamp-lit street,
which was very bright just before the house.
As Sir Edmund's eyes perused her face, he
saw that there were tears upon her lashes,
for which he could not quite account ; she was
not subject to sensibility, although her feelings
were deep. " They played that waltz
at Ashbank," she said, presently : and then
Sir Edmund thought : How beautiful and^tender
was her nature ! — for he imagined that it was
of poor Lady Shortlands that she was thinking.
Alas ! the soon-forgotten dead !

She did not look at him, as she spoke, but
evidently she had no distaste to his presence
and the moment of quiet was balm to his
heart. Eugenia had, indeed, forgotten that
he was with her. She saw him, without seeing
him ; just as, without hearing or heeding them,
she heard the company drift in to supper.

There had been royalty present, and royalty
had led the way ; even the beautiful Miss
Brand was forgotten in its glow. Only Anne
saw her with Sir Edmund, and wisely left
them to themselves. Under the influence of
that music, she fancied, they might *' piece their
lives together," and moreover, she was busy
writing something on her tablets to remind
Lancilotto of an engagement she had made
for him already. With her passion for playing
and her habit of giving presents, to instigate
her, she was bestowing the pretty tablets
on the young artiste, as well as the engagement
— greatly to his delight.

Eugenia stood for some few minutes in the
window with Sir Edmund, and the silence
between them might have become awkward,
as she recovered herself, had it not been fora
clatter and a noise in the street below. A
hansom had been called up to the door, and —
regardless of observation — three young fellows

were bidding each other a drunken sort of
** good-night " before it, and chaffing the cabman.
Eugenia's pensive eyes were gazing at
the little scene, with precisely as much interest
as she had been bestowing on the glaring gaslights
below the window before its occurrence :
but Sir Edmund felt a nervous wish to feet
her back into the room : he did not know what
she might hear if she stayed where she was
standing ; for the night was still, and such of
the young officers' chaff as was audible was
racy rather than refined, and rang the worse
after the echoes of that significant music.

He held the silken curtain still within his
hand, and was about to lift it when he stopped ;
his gesture stayed by that intense look upon
Eugenia's face. Something half-human and half-divine
had crept into its expression of astonishment.
Her spirit was awake again, in its full,
rapturous strength. She had recognised her
daring in the group below. Sir Edmund

wondered ; but, with that strange knack that
things have of explaining each other in this
intricate life, a honor that some one was singing
softly, at the deserted piano, behind them, would
have explained it all had he but listened :

Bella hand mesiizia di quell ^ora^
Tutti serenity di paradise,
// cavaliers die sospiro ognora
M^apparve, e a lungs ci guardanwio ifi vis :
Fic varia alloa la preghiera mia,

'■ Ave Maria I "

II cavaliers" — in this case, none other than
Mr. Buck Jarvis — was standing, bareheaded,
upon the pavement, looking very flushed and
tumbled : he was evidently parting with his
comrades not quite upon the best of terms ;
their chaff had, at last, exceeded the limits
which even his good-nature could stand :

He's devilish anxious to Q-et rid of us tonight,"
said one.

*^ Oh ! he's going to the caterwauling upstairs,
to meet his girl ! " said the other.

By George," said the first, '' It's the Israelitish
woman — the little captive maid, eh ? cheer
up, old chappie, she isn't gone yet ; there's Sir
Samuel's carriage."

** Better put your head under water a bit,
old man " —

'^ Go to blazes I " shouted Buck savagely,
making a dash at the doors of the hansom.

Then the cabman apparently thought that
the adieux had been sufficiently prolonged, or
perhaps he wished to save the young officer
a reprimand from the near policeman. He
had heard enough, at any rate, and he backed
his horse preparatory to turning, knocking
Buck's cigar out of his hand as he did so.
Mr. Buck stepped aside to get out of the
way of the wheel, with an oath as he just
escaped it, for he had been standing in
what Anne Jefferies would have thought the
fittest place for him — namely the gutter. Ashe
did so, by some odd chance (as we say !) he

lifted his uncovered head, and glanced up to
the window.

And there he saw Eugenia standing, with
the street-lamps lighting up her face, like footlights.
He felt for one swift instant as if he
had beheld his guardian angel. But then,
beyond her, within the curtain also where she
stood apparently removed from all the rest,
was the leaning figure of Sir Edmund Trefusis,
against the painted shutter.

Sobered all of a sudden, Mr. Buck was fool
enough, or sage enough, to do what he thought
best. He pretended not to see the very woman
he had come to town to meet. He stuck
his hands Into his pockets, and stood whistling
his little indrawn whistle and looking at nothing,
like a spoilt child, while the hansom
drove away with Its laughing freight.

Then, after a few seconds of very vilely
acted nonchalance, he turned away, and strolled
up the red-carpeted steps, between the pots

of flowers, with a swagger that did not in the
least deceive the crowd, which royalty had
collected, into imagining him to be one of
Lord Torre's guests.

And, after that, he did what was, no doubt,
the best thing he could do ; only it would have
been far better if he had done it a good hour
before. He stalked back to " Als s " rooms,
went in, and kicked-to the door — the bruise
is on the panel still. And when, even with
dousing his head in cold water, after his
frank friend's advice, he failed to remember
quite what his language had been, he gave up
speculating on the subject as ''a d — d bad
job," and went to bed. He had always found
that sleep set things to rights for him. Eugenia
was in town, at all events, and he would
find out her address from Miss Jefferies tomorrow
!

(But then Eugenia was going back to Short-lands
in the morning, and if he called upon

Miss Jefferles or not, she never heard; and if
he gave a message for her to Miss Jefferles^
the message was never given her; 'rand no
great harm either," thought Anne, as she sofar
obeyed Lady Shortlands' last injunctions.)

Eugenia left Lord Torre's party almost
immediately afterwards. She was tired with
the bustle of London, and the music had
upset her nerves a little. That was what
Sir Edmund told Miss Jefferles, when he
asked her to defer going no longer. And
she did not like to ask him what had transpired,
though she was so anxious to hear it
all from Eugenia that she was willing to forego
her supper and her goodbye to her host, who
was occupied with the princess at the moment.

But when they were in the carriage, Eugenia
told her nothing. Anne hoped it was Lord
Shortlands presence which sealed her lips.
She proposed to go with her, to her room, and
talk over Lancilotto." But Eugenia said just

what Sir Edmund had said for her, ('' so that
at all events," thought Anne, "there is sonne
understanding between them") for she felt that
she could not bear the company of the girl
who, all his boon companions knew, would be
Buck Jarvis' wife.

She mistrusted Anne ! They were all at
cross-purposes : starting hap-hazard, though
tending — who can tell ? — to the best : for as is
usual in this world, wherein we see so darkly
and wherein we stumble so over blocks ai our
own setting, these vague cross-purposes were
bound to prove decisive. Only the word had
gone forth — Fate's word which, for the longing
of two hearts, she would not undo. Never
speech again between these lovers : sight, maybe,
once more, and sorrow — but henceforth
silence for ever.

VOL. III. N

CHAPTER III.

CHARITY— EUGENIA BRAND.— summer),

It was full summer now. August had just
begun : the cycle of Eugenia's year was almost
completed, and she was back with her mother,
for good, at Shortlands farm. The spring had
not been an eventful one for her ; her days did
not travel at the pace of Mr. Arthur Jarvis'.
And her life of the heart stood still, for all time,
at the first hour it had struck. Still, the year
went on for her, as for others, and was using
her well, as it had used all our old friends, since
poor Lady Shortlands' only half-lamented death.
The Tomlinson were talking of commencing
their autumn campaign at Ashbank, and were
looking out some personage, as its particular

Star, who could, " humanly speaking," as Mrs.
Tomllnson put it, "be relied upon not to die
in the house."

The Buxtons were beginning to debate
whether Mr. Crossley or Mr. Jarvis were the
more eligible of May's admirers — for she had
two sisters coming out. They were not indisposed
to decide in Mr. Jarvis' favour, but
he would not encourage their decision by a
proposal in form ; and lately the White Highlanders
had been transferred from Portsmouth
to Dover. Vane was afloat, as usual, on the
social sea whereon he sailed his boat as
bravely as if it were his native element, and
which never made him sick for all its tossing.
Sir Samuel and Miss Jefferies were still in
town. Though they had already made a short
visit to the Buxtons, to discuss a list of guests,
they would prolong their stay in Portman
Square until the opera-season was over.
Sir Edmund had returned to Trefusis. He

had written once to Eugenia, since his loss of
fortune, explaining how much less service he
could brine to her charitable schemes than he
had hoped, and sending a proportionate subscription
to the Home of which she had forwarded
him her simple prospectus. It was a
delicate way of alluding to his liabilities. That
he had still a larger income than most of her
acquaintance he did not think worth while to
say, and Eugenia did not take into consideration.
She read between the lines of the letter
clearly, and, after some thought, she decided to
leave It unanswered. She must wait and see
what the beloved did with his life : it was only
of his welfare that she thought.

She would have preferred, perhaps, that
Lord Shortlands had not asked Sir Edmund
on a visit, as soon as the season ended. But
it was not her business. She and her mother
were not at the Castle but the farm ; — custom,
and the smaller size of her own more habitable

apartments, having inclined Mrs. Brand to
refuse her brother-in-law's proposal that she
should take up her quarters entirely at the
great house. He could constantly have either
the Duchess or his other married daughter to
stay with him, and he was much away. Mrs.
Brand preferred the retirement and independence
of the little house within a quarter
of a mile from the castle, which Eugenia too
loved and which seemed to her more home
than ever, since that long illness which had
confined her for the winter months and many
weeks of the early spring to its limits. It was
moreover close to her Convalescent Home, and
although she had soon recovered her beauty,
it took her much looser to recover strength.

Every place where Eugenia and her mother
lived got soon this homelike look. They were
not gad-abouts any more than they were collectors
: what they wanted in their daily life
they had about them, but not repeated over

and over ao^ain, as thlni2:s are In houses where
there are many occupants of diverse tastes. In
the pretty drawing-room there was only one
table for work and one for writing materials : for
Mrs. Brand was almost completely confined to
the sofa, and her work-basket and portfolio
where all that she required, beside her books.
Both the work-table and the writing-table,
therefore, were Eugenia's, and, as she was
neither a fancy-sempstress nor an effusive correspondent.
It is not surprising that both were
orderly, and that the flowers upon each commanded
more attention than the silks or pens.
That touch which her own hands had given to
the arrangement of the flowers, they had given
to all the quiet decoration of the room. There
was no trace of formal asceticism — which, from
meaning 'feeling," first, has come to mean the
extinction of individual feeling — but there was
a spirit of beauty, you would say when you
went Into it, which must dwell here, consecrating

all the trifles, dignifying all the inexpensive-ness,
and making the fragile mother's narrowed
life so joyous and so bright.

It was such a room as Buck — poor boy ! — had
never seen ; just as unlike a Clifton villa or a
Crompton lodging, as is possible ; a room without
ormolu or velvet or gilding, without sham
brass or mock Japanese ornaments, without
even photograph - frames upon the tables
though with one tall screen near Mrs. Brand's
sofa, on which family miniatures were hanging.
They all represented beautiful and noble faces,
but Mrs. Brand thought often, as she watched
her daughter, that there was not one as noble
or as beautiful as Eugenia's.

The drawing-room was long and low, and
the beam had been left in the celllnof, when the
original farm-house had been reconstructed for
its gentle tenants. The back windows opened
into an old-fashioned conservatory which was
Eugenia's special care, but other windows, at

the front and side, gave upon a long lawn and
some few beds and borders of flowers about
the house, before the small ring-fence separated
this " garden enclosed " from those far-stretching
level lands which lay so green and peaceful
in the distance. There, were harvest
lands and pastures : there, the crops flourished
and the cattle throve : there, for miles on miles
of green, you might trace no other feature than
the pollard willows, with their shadows marine
out the intersection ditches ; or the darker
green of the reeds which diapered the meadows
where pools lay ; or the tall poplars which stood
sentinel about the red-brick outhouses and the
farm-buildings. It was all Shortlands as far as
eye could see; all the fields had but one master:
they "had rest," like scripture lands; and for
crown and blossom of their peace, Eugenia dwelt
among them. And sunset showed the hills.

Over Shortlands Castle and Shortlands farm,
over the meadows and the rivers, that sweet

presence of Eugenia's seemed to have a power
akin to that It had over the natural Hfe of man
power for cain and blessing. Her character,
through all her earlier years, had so been saturated
with quiet, had so absorbed sunshine,
that it had gained magnetic properties of
oflvino^ them to those about her. To her own
mother, who had nights and days of nervous
pain, no touch could ever seem like hers ; to
the poor children whom she nursed at her
cottage Home, she brought surcease of offering,
by her daily visit, and a renewed gladness
good as health.

She was with her little convalescents when
Sir Edmund Trefusis paid his first call on Mrs.
Brand, in Lord Shortlands' company, the day
that followed that of his arrival at the Castle.
Lord Shortlands, for whom it was always difficult
to hear his sister-In-Iaw's low voice, was in the
habit of bringing his own budget of news with
him, and of retailing it, If he found her alone,

pretty much without break till Eugenia returned
from her Home or the gardens ; when it became
his turn and his delight to listen. To-day, beside
his guest, he had brought with him a letter
from Anne Jefferies, who often wrote to him,
conceiving, as she would say to her father,
that she was, *' caustic enough In her strictures
upon poor humanity, to have a chance of
filling up the void made by Lady Shortlands*
eternal silence."

When Lord Shortlands had introduced Sir
Edmund, he waited for Eugenia's advent to
make the conversation general, and read
Anne's letter aloud to Mrs. Brand ; while Sir
Edmund had time to look about him and
oft his sense acclimatised to the small house
he had so honored to know.

Sir Edmund felt at home with Mrs. Brand
at once ; the naturally refining Influences of
sickness and secluded life had quite destroyed
in her any traces of sisterhood to Lady Short-lands

; not but what Sir Edmund could see,
in the quick flicker of appreciative attention
which showed itself upon her pale features,
something which might once have been poor
Lady Shortlands' special charm, before mistrust
of all the world — and self-contempt perhaps
— had hardened it.

The sofa upon which Eugenia's mother lay,
was so placed that it commanded a side glimpse
of the beauty of the conservatory, without
setting its occupant in the draught from the
open window. Mrs. Brand could see and
smell the flowers, but she could not see the
passage through them from glass door to window.
Lord Shortlands, seated at the head of
the sofa and occupied with his reading of
Anne's letter, could see still less ; but Sir
Edmund — at the foot of the sofa, and less
interested in the recital — had his eyes upon
the narrow paved walk between the tall lilies
and the climbing heliotrope and underneath

the hanging lamps of the passion-flower and
clematis. He looked at the plants for some
minutes with intense pleasure ; common plants
as they were, and simply ordered, there was
something In their arranorenient and In the
voice of his heart, as he looked at them, which
told him of Euo-enla.

o

Presently the letter, which he had little
heeded at first, touched on the Ashbank party
of the previous autumn; and the fact that Mrs.
Brand put down her knitting and gazed intently
at Lord Shortlands' wrinkled face, which
saddened as he read, made Sir Edmund look
away from the window and listen. In his readiness
to sympathise. Anne wrote about her
visit to the Buxtons — a 'preliminary skirmish''
she called It — " and It was rather dreadful ; we

were all given over to the army ; a different

regiment from the one at Ashbank last year,

but the same regiment — This Innocent joke
was not at all In Anne's own manner ; it was

a concession to Lady Shortlands' memory, and
she had written it, not with a smile, but with as
near an approach as she ever indulged In to
a sigh. Lord Shortlands stayed to give it
the smile which Anne had not bestowed. *' So
like my poor dear lady, that," he said ; and
then he went on reading : — '' But Mother Tomlinson
will have to submit to the old Adam
*as well as the new, for Mrs. Buxton will

insist upon her asking that young bully ' Mr.

J ones,' as dear Lady Shortlands used K) call

him, for May's special behoof She Is going
*to marry him, If he will only make up his
*mind to ask her. And that is merely a

question of form — and time : for my aunt

has determined upon the match, and is the
*more consolable for his very large hands,

because of his very large Income. And indeed,
though he isn't an ideal husband, I

don't know that they won't be very well

mated. She has some sense of humour,

a good notion of duty and absolutely no sensitiveness
or apprehension whatever. You

might as well try to bruise an india-rubber
*ball. As for him, I should think he found
*one girl as good as another. The way he
'lets himself be cared for and the little heed
*he takes whether he is loved or not, are of
*a piece with his impertinence — his colossal
*and sublime impertinence''

„ Sir Edmund and Mrs. Brand laughed, together,
at Anne's vigorous epithets; Lord
Shortlands glanced down the letter, and
omitted a passage, In which Anne confessed
that she had fancied Mr. Jarvis once thought
he could make Miss Brand care for him ; 'but

you must not quote me," she added, and
Lord Shortlands, like the chivalrous old
gentleman he was, respected the confidence
to which he attached such small value'' Little

May Is very funny about him," he read from
the close of the letter, *' I believe she has

really cared for the fellow all along ; for she

used to be furious when I reviled him, in my
'artless way, at Ashbank. In her heart of

hearts she adores him now, but all the same
*she gives him just about the treatment that

he is really worth ; she avoids him and snubs
'him and affects to despise him mightily.
*When we are alone she rhapsodies to her

confidential cousin — that's me ! She is staying

with us now, and, as you like * my nonsense,'

I must really give you the burthen of
'the strain that goes on while I write this
letter — '' Fancy that after all, I shall be ' Mrs.
'' Jarvis'— *Mrs. Arthur Jarvis—' Mrs. Arthur

"Johnjarvis,'— 'Mrs. Arthur John Buck-Jarvis,'
" I wish it might be that, it sounds so much
" nicer, so much more like him, poor dear,

" stupid, old fellow that I love so well — but any

way and always 'Mrs. Arthur J aris'" — meanwhile

/ hope that he is really free " —

There was a little noise — scarcely a rustle,

scarcely a footstep — among the plants beyond
the open window. Lord Shortlands did not
hear it ; he had raised his voice, as he read on,
and he was deaf. Mrs. Brand did not notice
it — she was well used to it : for it was nothing
but the sweet accustomed sound of Eugenia's
coming, as she passed between the border-flowers.


Sir Edmund heard it, and he looked along
the paved passage : there, between the lilies
and the heliotrope, in the afternoon sunshine,
he saw Eugenia.

He would have risen, but the motion of her
hand arrested him almost before she was aware
that he had seen her. It was as if she were
commanding silence. Impressionable as he
was, Sir Edmund took at once the momentary
meaning of her creature, although still unaware
of its real significance. To Sir Edmund she
simply meant, " Sit still, for I will not disturb
the reading of this letter." But in her heart,



Eugenia cried : " I am standing on the brink
of the world ; make no sign ! Let me see the
depth of this sheer gulf of eternal nothingness
which lies before me, lest I topple forward into
ruin."

Eugenia was hearing words read which took
the colour out of her whole life, and left it
bleached and shrunken : she waved Sir Edmund
into silence. What did it matter what
he thought her motive ? But to him — '' so many
fathom deep in love," — her attitude was neither
more nor less decisive than any other which
she might assume. It expressed her wish,
and he obeyed it : but, while he did so, he was
ready to credit himself with putting so much
meaning into it.

He did not cease to look at her, and to note —

and little wonder he should note It then ! — how

much more earnestness her silence held, than

other women's speech. The folds of her plain

muslin dress, with some old-fashioned, faded
VOL. III. o

pattern on it of violets and their leaves (it
seemed to Sir Edmund to preserve their scent
as well) the band of figured ribbon round her
garden hat (a hat of a past date, which would
have misbecome a plainer woman but which
was beautified itself by Eugenia's beauty)
common things as they were, looked to have
caught attention from the vigour of her attitude.
But the true attention burned in her
eyes, which the wide hat-brim did not yet betray.
Sir Edmund did not trouble to conjecture
what look was in her eyes, any more thana
man who feels the stream of sunlight upon
him and about him in a room, troubles to conjecture
if the skies look blue or grey. He was
in the light of her radiant presence ; that was
enough. He could wait for speech to come in
her good time. All that he was conscious of
was a passionate want of her approach : he felt
a sort of longing that he might lay his head on
the shoulder of her muslin dress and speak no

word, but only feel her presence nearer — nearer
like a warm wave or cloud. His senses died
within him as he looked at her, and his eyes
filled with happy tears. He could have found
it in his heart to be thankful for the moment's
suspense : this vision which it held for him was
so much more intimate than any formal friendly
speech could prove.

Lord Shortlands read on : — " It is so difficult

for girls, like us, to know what a man's life has
been : it would be too horrible to discover

that he is bound in any way. My hope — indeed

my firm belief — Is that the vague hints
which he has, now and then, let fall — only tome,
I think — have no foundation but in his
own fancy. With me his secrets are safe.
How I should like a talk with you about It
'all ! ! I cannot talk of it to my father." . . .

Lord Shortlands broke off, for the letter
trenched on confidence again : there was sincere
friendship between himself and Anne. Not

that it signified what he read to his sister-in-law
and Sir Edmund Trefusis. But it was time
that Mrs. Brand's little parlour-maid (one of
Eugenia's recovered convalescents) brought in
the tea ; and with the extra caution of a deaf
man, aware of his own deafness, he looked round
to see that she was not in the room already.
As he looked round he saw Eugenia.

His glance galvanised her into self-respect,
though she was far too honest, and her feeling
far too real, to make it possible that she
could quite recover her habitual ease of manner,
as she came forward through the window
to his side. Both Mrs. Brand and Lord Short-lands
attributed her changed demeanour to Sir
Edmund's presence.

''Ah! here she is!" said the old lord, with
gentle pride. And Eugenia still stood with
her hand upon his shoulder, as she greeted
Sir Edmund : but afterwards she turned to
her mother. Towards her uncle she felt, welling

up within her heart, an irrational resentment,
because of the words he had just read :
what right had he to Anne Jefferles' confidences
about her lover ? Towards Sir Edmund, her
feeling was one of shame and shyness. Into
what aspect might not that letter cast her, in
his eyes, after the understanding she had tried
to convey to him, at Ashbank ? But with her
own mother, she could at least be natural.

She took off her hat and sat down at the
foot of the sofa, fronting the light as ifsual ;
and it seemed to concentrate itself in her grey
eyes, as she listened to Lord Shortlands'
details of excuse about Sir Edmund's visit.
She heard what he said about his dulness
being enlivened by his guest's companionship ;
but she attached no meaning to his words.
She knew that it was not for his own sake
that he had invited Sir Edmund to Shortlands,
but she did not care. Why should she care ?
She was like a person waking from a long

delirium, astonished beyond measure at the
keen interest which others take in trivial
things which seem of such small moment in
the scales of life and death. It occurred to
her, with a strange directness, that Sir Edmund
had been sent for to marry her, and set her
lover free. It seemed odd that anybody
should wish to marry her, but that was of
infinitesimal importance. What mattered was
that the beloved should marry Anne. With
love's most wonderful inconsequence and self-denial,
she felt that she could "compass sea
and earth," for that. Why should she repine,
so long as he had '* made a good end," and
done what it was best — what she had most
wished him — to do ?

There was no fever in her veins now. Her
love had passed out of her heart into her
brain. Her hand was cool and her pulse even.
Only this hurry of the world's tide struck her
as immaterial and feeble. She was like a leaf

carried down a river, sentient enough to wonder
why the river should make such ado to swirl
itself into the sea. Evidently the river must
tend seaward : perhaps the sea would right it
all at last. . . .

Sir Edmund, as he watched her face, was
struck by the mingled attention and listlessness
of its expression ; but he was overjoyed to
gather, from its delicate hues, that she was
quite restored to health ; and presently he said
so, with that mixed intimacy and timidity
which makes a mere inquiry sound sometimes
like a subtle compliment.

^' Yes," said Eugenia gravely, " I am quite
well again, now." And then she went on : ''I
have to thank you very much for a letter you
wrote me at the end of the year." —

Lord Shortlands was still talking to Mrs.
Brand, as she said this, and, as Sir Edmund
bent forward a little, she was enabled
to talk to him without their hearing what she

said. It came to her, out of the desolation
of her heart, to add : " I was only half sorry
for your losses. I cannot understand loss of
money making one sad ; money does not mean
happiness, does it ? " . . . She wondered : had
she not done her best for Buck, on the ground
that it was most likely to mean his happiness ?
. . Her tone was sweet; there was a question
in her voice, which made Sir Edmund's pulse
beat fuller. The occasion helped him, and
her bewildered air allowed him.

Oh ! no : " he said in a low voice. " I was
not unhappy. But if a man be unworthy,
wealth seems sometimes to entitle him to
hopes which he must needs forego if he is
poor : " — (Eugenia was silent : Buck's poverty
had not prevented his attainments ! ) '* hopes
for the supreme happiness of life," — he added,
hardly above a whisper.

Oh, no ! it doesn't ; " said Eugenia, simply
and sadly: — ** Think," her heart added, "of

the love which has come all about and around
your darling : wealth has not bought that :
only the potent charm of youth and passion,"
but Sir Edmund could not hear the voice
of her heart, and he began to feel the dawn
of a rainbow hope. She went on speaking,
after a minute, stroking her hat, and looking
at it, as she did so, with her old habitual
grace: ** Wealth may be an element of happiness,
perhaps, — to some, more than to you or
to me : — but oh ! the great gifts are not bouofht,'*
she said : — '' I do not mean to say " (with a
smile) "that they are not paid for: but I am
sure there is no bargain . . . and somehow,
I think the great things are the liberal gifts
of God." — Her voice had sunk like his : she
ended speaking, almost beneath her breath.

Then the desire for them is like prayer,"
Sir Edmund said. But she did not hear him,
and he. saw, by the distant look in her lovely
eyes, that she had been thinking aloud.

Presently she spoke again, as If reasoning
with herself: 'ewe can give such little gifts,
by comparison ; but our gifts bring their own
reward; perhaps our little gift may seem to
be God's great gift, to another, by-and-bye.
It is a great thing to be able to be generous :
I don't think we are grateful for these opportunities."
— Then, recalling his presence, she
roused herself and added more lightly, and
with that charming touch of brightness in
her tone which was her nearest approach to
coquetry, " Now you — how Impossible It was
for any one to be generous to you, before
you were poor!" The words were only said
to fill a pause : but they gave Sir Edmund
a chance to try and set the seal upon his
happy fate. At least the moment was not
one to lose.

Do you remember our first meeting ? "
he said gently ; " and how you took me over
Mrs. Tomlinson's conservatories ? Even then

you were able to give me something, when
I could have bought Ashbank as a gift to you,
if you had wished it. Now that I am poor,
will you not give me the pleasure you gave
me then ? Think of the worth in the boon
now, if we may measure gifts by opportunity :
and, here, it is all yours."

** I should like to show you my flowers ; '*
said Eugenia : ** they are not Ashbank flowers
but they are flowers. There are * orders,*
even of angels."

And so, when she had spoken a word to
her mother, for whom Lord Shortlands had
brought an armful of news letters, she went
out through the greenhouse into the garden,
alone with Sir Edmund. Why not ? had not
her uncle brought him there on purpose ? The
old see to the end of things more clearly than
the young.

The air was very sweet : it was full summer
afternoon, but Eugenia's own favourite flower-garden

lay partly sheltered in the shade of
limes, and she did not need her hat. She
still held it in her hand as they walked down
the beautifully - ordered paths, or along the
strips of lawn. Sir Edmund was in that
state of happy enchantment in which to have
walked down a London street with Eugenia
would have seemed to him delightful ; nothing
could have crowned his peace of mind more
entirely than this lovely garden. It breathed
a perfume which was, to his nostrils, the
essence of all sweet scents of August: every
flower tried, to his poetic sense, to smell its
sweetest for its queen, as she passed beside
It with her devoted lover. She led him
along them all, till they came to an old sundial,
in the middle of a square of many-coloured
beds — a sun-dial which Mrs. Brand
had called '' Euo^enia's clock." From this
point of vantage he could see the whole
beauty of the flowers, bounded by an orchard

on one side and the red wall of Lord Short-lands'
fruit-garden upon the other.

Eugenia leaned against the sun-dial ; and
her eyes, too proud for tears, looked lovingly
for the comfort of the inanimate verdure : Sir
Edmund stood by her side and his eyes looked
for the comfort of her france ! Not to e^ze too
earnestly upon her face, he read the old carved
motto round the dial's level edo^e: '' Horns non
numero nisi serena!' He thought how true a
tale it told, of this beloved lady's life of rest
and calm.

And all the while, as her cold fingers followed
out the tracing of the motto, like a blind
woman's, she was thinking to herself : " It is over
now; my heart is put away; what profit is thereto
me of my life ? " The blow, long as she had
looked for it — long as she had hoped for it — •
had hurt her enough to make her sure that there
was no change in her love. There was but
one straight inference which she could gather

from what she heard of Anne's letter : Anne
was going to marry Buck, — Anne, to whom
she had felt from the first that it would be
her duty to surrender him. Yes ; she had
wished the best for him : she had wished
success and happiness. No doubt her prayer
was granted, only now, instead of a pulse in
her veins, there seemed a void ; her heart was
not hot but it was empty.

In this intense pain of quiet irreparable
bereavement, she was able to observe Sir
Edmund actually with a keener sense than
she would have enjoyed had she been quite
untroubled.

"May I say to you," she asked — not afraid
of wounding him, because of her own suffering,
" how much stronger you appear ? You walk
so well."

Sir Edmund flushed a little : it was true that,
since the fire at Trefusis, he had found himself
able to dispense with his irons : some nerve

had righted itself, and, but for a slight languor
in his gait, which was little more than the
languor of his leisure and his temperament,
he walked as other men. He flushed, not from
disappointment at her recollecting his lameness,
but because he felt guilty — fearing lest Eugenia
might fancy that he had proposed walking on
purpose that he might exhibit this newly recovered
energy ; whereas he had really become
accustomed to it already, and forgotten his old
state of helplessness. One gets used, so soon,
to health.

But her voice and her solicitude were like a
caress to him, and he told her all. There by
the sun dial — '' which only counted the calm
hours," — Sir Edmund had an hour for the sundial's
special counting. And even for Eugenia
past feeling strongly though she was — it held
a kind of balm. What If the meridian low
could no more return for her than for the day,
what if henceforth it would be *' always afternoon

? " It was still sweet, In her own garden-plot,
with the sunshine overhead and the green
boughs around, that any gentle noble spirit
like Sir Edmund's should confide in her.

He said to her more than she had heard
about his loss of fortune (which, from conscientious
motives, he let her think more serious
than it was) and about its leading to his comparative
recovery to health. Gradually, and
almost at unawares, he drew the conversation
to herself, and told her. In his generous fashion,
all that she had been to him, since first they
met. He did not take her by surprise and
yet somehow it dawned within her soul, Hke
the grey daylight of a winter morning, that
here Indeed would be an opportunity for giving,
such as she had told him of! Here she might
be of use — now that he was poor and loved her
still — as well as faithful to that promise by
which poor Lady Shortlands had bound her
without a thought of loss that might befall Sir

Edmund. She smiled sadly, as it occurred to
her how soon Lady Shortlands would have
cancelled that promise when she heard of his
chanted fortunes ! But what most influenced
her was, not the sense of opportunity and not
the worthless promise to her aunt, but the conviction
that she should take some decisive step
to prevent Buck the shadow of remorse in the
splendid marriage he was making. She would
rather take the blame of all that might be said,
than let it fall on him. Those words that she
had heard from Anne's letter, with the garbled
intelligence she could put into them, seemed
burnt into her brain : ''I love so well, . . . /
hope that he is really free. . , , It would be
^ too horrible to discover that he is boicnd in
'any way, . . . With me his secrets are safe
These words decided her: Eugenia was not
one to set her face towards the north and then
turn back because the wind was keen.

And so Sir Edmund understood from her

VOL. III. p

at last, that in his poverty she would listen to
him, if she could at all make his life the wider
or the happier ; and — because she felt nerved
into strength to do her duty by him — she said
no word about what Buck had been to her ; not
for her own sake, and hardly for Sir Edmund's.

And then, with some slight shyness, but also
in the joy of an assured and thankful trust
which put fresh vigour into all his limbs and
fresh resonance into his tones, he took the
sapphire ring from off his watch-chain and asked
Eugenia if she would not wear it for his sake ?
And to Eugenia it seemed scarcely strange that
he had brought it : it was her word that made her
his, and not the ring : and he would have kissed
her lovely lips, but something stopped him,
and he remembered what her strict conventual
life had been, and kissed her hands instead.

It fell about, despite such frets and heartache,
much as other engagements come to
pass, where all has gone quite smoothly from

the first — where there has been but Httle
passion, and no thought of obstacles.

It is a very tame ending : but it is just
as it happened. When Eugenia turned back
to the house with Sir Edmund, she was en-eased
to be his wife ; — as Lord Shortlands had
intended that she should be, when he asked
him as his guest, as Mrs. Tomlinson had
determined at Ashbank, nearly a year before.
The plans which have been made for us are
mostly too dogged for us to escape them ; it
is the beating of our wings which is all our own,
it is in passionate and impotent revolt that
we expend our wilfulness.

Meanwhile good old Lord Shortlands, who
in this instance had not miscalculated, at all,
the prescience of his age, was speaking for
Sir Edmund's suit to Mrs. Brand, with a
fervour that renewed his hearing and made
him thirty years his own junior. Lord
Shortlands knew the whole truth about Sir

Edmund's loss of fortune — if her ladyship had
left him no other legacy, she had left him
accuracy,' at least ! — and he knew that he was
still a rich man, that it was only a vast superfluity
that had been taken from him ; and that
even that much was by his straining a point of
honour as to his father's liabilities.

** If he has lost forty thousand a year, which
is improbable," said the old lord, reducing the
question to figures, as Lady Shortlands would
have been sure to do; ''he has twenty thousand
a year still, I suppose, and that will suffice
for our dear Eugenia's needs."

Mrs. Brand smiled. Anything out of hundreds
was beyond her computation or her care.
But she insisted that Eugenia's choice should
be absolutely unblessed. There were some
misgivings in her loving heart. Her daughter
had kept her own counsel, but the mother had
guessed, long since, that somehow she had
passed through another fire than anxiety. Had

the secret been her own, Eugenia would have
consulted her mother ; but she felt that Buck's
secret — a secret too which miorht mean trouble
for him — was one which she had no right to
divulge. And her mother could trust her : she
knew that it was her advice which Eugenia
would first seek, if anything should come 'into
her life which it was beyond her own experience
to decide. It was probable that she was
only concealing some vague sorrow, some disappointment
which it could but be grievous to
her mother to share. Still Mrs. Brand would
promise Lord Shortlands nothing.

But her heart was glad, when she saw Eugenia
coming back through the flowers, closely
followed by Sir Edmund, and beheld a radiance
upon his face which she could not mistake ;
though Eugenia had put on her hat, and her
features were again in shadow.

When they were come back into the room,
Eugenia kissed her mother; and then Mrs.

Brand was sure that her choice was made.
The one keen desire of her Hfe had been to
have established her daughter's happiness before
she died, for she knew that her own life
would not be long protracted. She had
yearned so fervently for this, that she had
never dared let her mind dwell upon it for
fear of Influencing her daughter overmuch.
But, though she had kept silence to Eugenia,
it had been her morning and her evening
prayer. Mrs. Brand was thankful and happy.

As for Lord Shortlands, when Sir Edmund
came straight up to him and shook him warmly
by the hand, before he Interrupted Eugenia's
embrace of her mother, he was quite beside
himself with excitement and joy ; and the
tears stood In his kind old eyes, as he said
*' God bless you ! " to his friend.

At that instant, nothing more was said. Sir
Edmund had obtained Eugenia's promise but
he was still a stranger to Mrs. Brand, save

for Lord Shortlands' praise. He felt that
there was much she must expect him to say to
her before she could welcome him as a son.

But in his heart of hearts he knew Euofenla's
truth : he was quite sure that now — come loss,
come trial, come sorrow, come death — she
would stand by her word till he should prove
himself unworthy. To be worthy of her love
would be the aim of all his life.

And then, at that first moment, trial came.

Eugenia was giving Sir Edmund his tea,
when, to relieve the tension of his joy, Lord
Shortlands referred again to Anne Jefferies
letter. And nothing could have been more
natural, in view of these immediate circumstances,
than that he should look back to just
those lines of it which dealt with marriage.
Any shadow of compunction which he might
have felt, in speaking to Eugenia of Arthur
Jarvis, was, once and for all, removed.

'* And these are wedding-days indeed ! " he

said, ** have you heard that pretty Miss May,
whom we all liked so last year, is going to be
married ?"

"May Buxton?" said Eugenia,— '' No— I
had not heard it."

At first the announcement seemed to her
to have no meaning : her thoughts were all
engaged upon that other marriage, to which
she dreaded that her uncle might next allude.
And yet, why should her heart already beat so
loudly in her breast ? And why, when she had
given Sir Edmund his cup and taken Mrs.
Brand's from her, should she so unaccountably
sit down, as with an instinct of self-preservation,
the colour drained out of her face, and
her eyes fixed upon Lord Shortlands lips ?

*eyes, yes! she is going to marry that
young Lieutenant Jones, — ' Slapdash,' as my
poor darling used to call him," — he said, looking
for his spectacles, as he did so, and unobservant
of Eugenia's face : — '* Anne Jefferies tells me

the news, in a letter I was reading to your
mother before you came in. It is really nota
bad look-out ! He could not, of course, expect
to marry into a better family than the
Buxtons, with their Dalrymple and Robarts
connection. And they are quite satisfied about
his prospects. He has a large allowance now,
and will have a very considerable fortune.
And beside this, it is quite a love mar-all

in vain ! all in vain ! all in vain ! —

rage !

So Eugenia Brand was married to Sir
Edmund Trefusis : and the wedding made
three people very happy — namely, Mrs Brand
and Lord Shortlands and Sir Edmund himself;
and several people happy with a mitigated
joy — the Tomlinson, for instance, who
were rather afraid of Eugenia; and Vane, who
felt he had not quite consulted her enough ;
and Chatteris, who fancied he had been in

love with her ; and Anne, who was sorry for
her, she hardly knew why. May Buxton
wrote her a most affectionate letter, but she
made no mention of her own marriage, for the
very good reason that " there is many a slip
'twixt the cup and the lip," and her own
marriage was not yet decided ! The letter
contained, however, a full account of Anne's
trousseau, for her imminent wedding with Lord
Torre who had proved a more impatient
bridegroom than he had seemed in April ; and
it begged eagerly for details about Eugenia's
"frocks' which Eugenia did not trouble to
supply. She was to be a great lady by-and-bye,
but at present only Sir Edmund's
wife. She was married from Shortlands
Castle, and her trousseau had been her uncle's
gift. The event took place in the early autumn
and, while Trefusis was made ready for their
winter home, they went abroad. Sir Edmund
had not yet repaired the ravages of the fire

consistently with Lady Jane's scheme of decoration,
for he had taken advantage of the incident
to have some of the additions which his
father had planned made to the mansion.
There would be room, not only for all his
old collection of precious things, but for the
many less expensive possessions which he
hoped to choose in Eugenia's company.

And the wedding brought Eugenia, mainly,
a great sense of responsibility. She had undertaken
Sir Edmund's life and the rounding of
her own to serve it ; and nothing in the world
should make her false to this, and nothing
make her fail. Only the meadow-lands about
her own home know what she endured on the
evening of her engagement. She had done
with violent courses, she made no efforts
further at self-torture : she had given trouble
enough. But then she lay, face downwards,
in the dewy grass, and suffered as she had
not suffered before. All the waves and all

the storms of love and sorrow seemed to have
passed over her now.

But the wedding made one person absolutely
furious — almost beside himself with passion,
and almost blind with selfish ras^e. And that
person was Lieutenant Arthur John Jarvis.

Anne had overstated but little, and anticipated
hardly at all, when she had written to
Lord Shortlands that he was engaged to marry
May. Both Mrs. Buxton and Anne meant
May to marry him, now that he had proved
so much more eligible than they had at first
imagined him to be ; and the fulfilment of their
scheme was only a question of time. He
might be relied on as sufficiently susceptible
to yield before their combined forces whenever
they chose to bring their manoeuvre to a crisis,
and Mrs. Buxton was already " making the best
of the engagement," to her Intimate neighbours.

Perhaps he never would have been allowed

to marry Eugenia ; he was not a husband
for her, after either Mrs. Brand's heart or
Lord Shortlands'. But in that case he would
at least have had her die an old maid. The
notion of her calmly taking a suitable position
in her own rank — just as if he had never
existed, just as if she had never stooped to
his kisses — was galling to him beyond all
bearing. His was a nature that determines
a thing to be worth having when there is immediate
risk of losing it.

He was abroad, on leave, when her engagement
was announced, and it was too reasonable
an one to create much sensation ; he was abroad
still when she was married. During the interval,
she had not been able to prevent her
constant heart from hoping against hope that
he might take some action or write some
letter, — far better though she knew that it
would be, that he should not. But, from the
time that he left England to the time of his

return, he never once looked at any newspaper
except the '' Field," which he had sent him
weekly. He climbed Swiss mountains and
he muddled himself with German beer; and
the Swiss mountains and the German beer,
alike, sent him to sleep. He forgot Eugenia
Brand and he forgot May Buxton, (though he
was three parts engaged to her), as if they had
never existed ; he never thought of anybody
in the world except himself When, in the
course of his few weeks' holiday, he went to
any town, he arranged beforehand to meet
there others as empty-headed as himself and
his travelling companion, and they all had
their hair cut and were weighed and perhaps
took a turn at some game and went to some
theatre or card, and certainly said " By George,
old chap ! " and " by Jove, old man ! " a great
many times ; and then they parted. What
were politics or social news to them ? They
cared as little for civilisation as for astronomy.

But at the end of September Buck's leave
was almost over, and It came to its close about
the same time as Eugenia's honeymoon, for
both she and Sir Edmund were anxious to
establish themselves at Trefusis and o^et Mrs.
Brand to join them there before the winter
frosts beofan : her health was causing them
anxiety, and Sir Edmund had already begun to
find her manner towards him reawaken much
of that old feeling of filial affection which he
had thought to have burled with Lady Jane.

It happened that, before returning to his
regiment, Mr. Buck paid a visit to his friend
Crossley who dwelt with his father on the
further border of Devonshire, not more than
eighteen miles from Trefusis as the crow flies.
After three days' shooting, he and Crossley
could arrange to return to Dover together.
It was there that, at dinner, an hour or two
after his arrival, Crossley told him of Eugenia's
marriage.

The two companions had not much regard
for each others feelings. It would never
have occurred to either of them that any news
might require breaking gently to the other ;
and Crossley, though he knew Buck's habits
pretty well, had not yet sounded the violence
of his passions, or the unrestralnedness of his
temper. Moreover he could not know that the
intelligence he conveyed to his friend was quite
new to him or that his truant thoughts had at
all drifted towards Eugenia on his return to
E norland. He believed Buck to be enraged
to May, and, with a chum's prescience, he was
only antedating matters a very little : but the
moment was an unfortunate one, for not only
had Buck bragged about Eugenia's preference
but he was besides under the influence of a
momentary tiff with May. But the horoscope of
his life agreed, all the same, with Anne Jefferies'
forecast of his happiness. It was written that
Miss Buxton was to have her heart's desire.

Mr. Richard Crossley had neither mother
nor sisters, but we know that he was not
as destitute of feeling as Buck was : perhaps
he had, to some extent, been forced to supply
the place of a daughter, as well as of a son, to
his father. Still, it was a masculine manage.
His father was a country squire of the rougher
sort ; a great deal of wine was drunk at his
table, and it was of the very best. Young
Crossley had the run of the cellar, and was
hospitably determined that his friend's visit
should be, at all events, as pleasant as good
tipple could make it. Buck, whom a welcome
always rather excited, had already drunk quite
as much as was good for him before the old
squire left the young men to their cigars,
while he recruited himself with a nap in the
library after his long day's shooting — by way
no doubt, of a hors d^ceuvre for his surfeit of
sleep during the night, for he would go to
bed as soon as he awoke.

VOL. III. Q

Buck regarded Crossley as his most intimate
*opal ; " — that is, he was in the habit of confiding
in him whenever he could make the slightest
use of his advice or his services ; — and, under
the combined influences of friendship and liquor,
he soon made him acquainted with the heads of
his foreign experience and a bird's-eye view
of his pleasure campaign for the immediate
future. Old Mr. Jarvis, of Clifton, had expressed
himself as anxious that his son should
marry without delay — less because he regarded
the said son as a paragon of virtues which it
was desirable to reproduce, than because even
his imperturbability had been ruffled by some
of Buck's bachelor misdemeanours. Mr. Buck
himself was not averse to the prospect, conceiving
that he could arrange — as indeed he
could, with May — so that his wife should be
of little hindrance to his liberty, while she
might be of great advantage to his position.
No woman need have a bad time with him

who would be content with less than a monopoly
of his affections. Both his father's views
and his own were laid before Crossley for his
opinion, and, for the time, Buck was disposed
to disparage his engagement to May, though it
was as good as settled. — " And so, whether the
name's to be Buxton or Brand," he concluded
with ineffable impertinence, " is for you to
advise me, old chap ; either of 'em might do
worse ! "

Dick Crossley had no sort of discrimination
though he had a fair share of worldly knowledge
which had not softened his sympathies.
He looked his excited comrade between the
eyes, and took his cigar out of his mouth.
Then he said, coolly and without a moment's
consideration, that he 'thought if his advice
were to be taken, the name had better be
Buxton — as he had always imagined it would
be; — for he didn't think Miss Brand was the
sort for bigamy."

*' Bigamy be damned, and you ! " said Buck
coarsely ; " What do you mean by that ? " But,
to his own surprise, the hand with which he
had removed his cigar from his Hps was
trembling past control, and the sweat broke
out upon his low tanned forehead.

'* Why, she's been Lady Trefusis these three
weeks," said Crossley ; marvelling still at his
companion's ignorance too much to regard the
expression upon his face. Whereat what Buck
remarked had, like former utterances of his,
far better not be quoted. The young men
were alone, be It remembered, and did not
use to consider each other's ears, when they
saw fit to put their speeches into nervous
English. He began with calling Crossley a
liar ; but when he was convinced of the truth
which he was by the consciousness that
Crossley would not dare to trifle with him —
he threw the worst, and most unlikely. Imputations
on Sir Edmund. After that he abused

Eugenia with more Incoherency than justice,
and then began to ask some questions which
Crossley, having waited for them patiently,
answered with the cold shortness of contempt
and disgust. He had never thought that
Eugenia was In any way pledged to Jarvis.

From his succinct statement Buck learnt that
It was on this very night of his arrival that
Sir Edmund and his wife were expected to
come home to Trefusis.

*' Like their impudence — isn't it ? — birth, if
you behave yourself, I'll take you over to
call some day," Crossley added, with a laugh
which did not tend to smooth Buck's ruffled
spirits ! But he did not laugh long : for when
Buck had obtained this information, he fell
back upon upbraiding his friend with such
vigorous epithets and such total disregard of
his prejudices or his hospitality, that that
gentleman, after politely remarking that he
'' had better hold his tongue or he'd be sorry

for it afterwards," and advising him to 'get
along and put his head under the pump,
as he was beastly drunk," pushed him out
of the window into the garden, without
more ado, and went to join his father in the
library.

Poor well-beloved Buck ! For the first time
in his life he had nobody to sympathise with
him — to sympathise, in his case, meaning
generally, to feel more deeply for his woes
than he felt himself — nobody even to be sorry
that he had made a fool of himself and lost his
temper with his host's son. And, only such a
few hours off, Eugenia travelled towards him
in the dark, to whom his slightest pain, his
lightest loss, his smallest grief, were matter for
more sorrow and pity than all the ills of all the
world beside! He was wholly in the wrong,
he had not the shadow of right upon his side.

He picked himself up, and pulled himself together
: then he strolled forward into the garden.

It was a common country garden with a
laurel shrubbery near the house ; — a garden
which said plainly : " There are no women folk
in this home ; never a flower is sought for, or
expected here, all the year round." There he
sat down on a seat among the dewy shrubs,
with his head throbbing and his heart hot within
him. He was sore with rage and spite, as a
spoilt child is who finds out the value of his
pet plaything only when he has lost it. The
moon shone down upon his curly head, and the
air kept silence about him ; but, with an impatient
gesture, he kicked away from his perceptions
any sense he might have had of their
comfort and balm.

He was not one to sit long in a despairing
attitude. His brain was on fire with excitement
and wine, and his day's shooting had
been no fatigue for him — habituated as he had
become to Alpine climbing. If there was
nobody he could knock down, he must, at

least, do something. " I'll go to Trefusis, and
shame her to her face," he said.

But then he became aware, with rueful anger,
that he was not fit to meet her. She had a
fine house, and a lot of servants who might
refuse him admission. Not only had he no plea
for entrance, but he had no power to contradict
Crossley's statement that he was over-excited
with wine. It was such a common occurrence
that he was not ashamed of it. And what the
devil should he say to her if he did meet her ?
He was not good at explanations or recriminations,
and would be none the better at them for
his thickened utterance.

He lifted his flushed face and looked up to
the September moon that tipped the laurels v/ith
silver edges, round about him, and at the landscape
swathed in veils of tender mist ; and the
mist was in his eyes too. His quarrel could be
hardly with her. Had she not loved him? Yes!
a thousand times, yes ! He had never doubted

it for a single instant. It was indubitable as
the stars.

'' But that lame hound Trefusis," he said between
his teeth, as his young features became
absolutely distorted with passion and he ground
his heel into the gravel walk before him, " I'd
like to go and shoot him like a rabbit, and " —
with an oath — '* I will."

After that outburst he was silent and held his
breath for a minute. The words, which he had
scarcely intended, decided him : it was as*if he
had a command to obey.

He took out his watch : it was half-past ten
o'clock : he would say good-night to the old
squire, put Dick Crossley off the scent, and
start for Trefusis on foot.

He had hardly the brain to make a plan, the
wine that he had drunk was as if it boiled
within his temples ; only it was brought home
to him that she was near, that to-day or tomorrow
she should be in his presence and see

what it was to have played with his love as
she had done. He never meant real harm,
even while he threatened it ; he was only very
stupid and very sore and — to say the real
truth — very drunk. But that is just the condition
of mind and body that breeds a crime of
violence, and Buck's nature was about as controllable
and as considerate as a tio-^r's with a
knife in its flesh. He hesitated no longer.
Crossley would think he was a fool : — that was
what nerved him, for he knew no oruidinof
spirits but self-consciousness and selfishness.

He got up and strode Into the library, where
the old squire had been awakened from his
nap and was desultorily planning an expedition
for the morrow to some distant coverts while
he said good-night to his son.

Dick, despite his annoyance and his kind-heartedness,
could not forbear a sarcastic smile
as Buck came into the room. His shirt was
ruffled and the shoulders of his neat dress-coat

had got wet and greened against the bark of a
tree. His face was purple and his brie eyes
rimmed with red ; his hips were dry and his
chestnut curls all tumbled; while an Intoxicated
laurel leaf was stlcklno^ In his collar.
Crossley was a little sorry for him, though he
said to himself that It "served him jolly well
right." He knew exactly how to retain Buck's
friendship, and made up his mind to wait for
the rough apology which would certainly come
with the morning. He knew nothing about his
pal's 'horoscope,'or Anne's determination, but he
knew that the Buxtons admitted May's engagement,
which was quite as much to the point.

Evidently Mr. Buck had no intention of
apologising now. He took no sort of notice of
his friend, but addressed himself to the old
squire, who was only half-awake and whose
perceptions, at the best of times, were not
sensitive.

Good-night, sir," he said, without preface.

"Are you going to bed ?" the squire asked
him, as he lit Buck's candle from his own.

Yes, straight," said Buck promptly; a lie was
nothing to him, although, to do him justice, he
generally told the truth — It saved him the
pains of invention. " How far is it from here to
Trefusis ? " he asked, with an assumption of
swagger ; " I know Sir Edmund, and I might go
over there tomorrow : perhaps he'd put me up
for a night before I go. I'd like to shoot there."

He did not say that he would like to shoot
Sir Edmund himself — or that he had every
intention of doing so, as far as his muddled
brain could be said to hold an intention ! But
there was something vindictive and bloodthirsty
In his tone.

Dick Crossley stared. " I thought," he said,
"you were going to favour us, for the rest of
your leave."

Buck did not deign a response, of any sort,
to this ironical hospitality.

To Trefusis ? " said the sleepy squire, with
a yawn, " why, my boy, it's near twenty miles, —
eighteen to the first lodge-gates (for the main
entrance is the west side), along that road we
drove to-day to covert. But, you know. Sir
Edmund only comes back to-night or tomorrow
morning. He's honeymooning ! "

** * Plenty of moon and damned little honey'"
quoted Buck, who appeared to be but lightly
concerned, but whose scheme assumed phantom
proportions all the same. •

Then the squire went off to bed: he was
not too sleepy to feel a little hurt at his son's
friend wanting to be put up at Trefusis. He
did not know how sealed a book the volume
of consideration was to Mr. Arthur Jarvis.

"You're off to roost deuced early," said
Crossley coldly, when the two young men were
left alone. *' Is there anything you want ? "

No, thank you," said Buck in his sullen
tone, as he helped himself to some brandy.

His 'thank you" sounded a good deal more
like 'curse you!" — And then, without a sign
of contrition for his rudeness to his friend, he
gulped down his brandy, took his candle, said
a gruff ^'good-night" — which evidently meant
offer to come upstairs with me to-night, if
you dare ! " — and left him to his meditations.

Poor Dick Crossley ! He had expected
some fun out of Buck's visit, though he
had not invited him. That Buck should
have asked himself, made his conduct all the
worse.

Mr. Buck did not go "straight to bed." He
was possessed with a fierce longing to be near
Eugenia. He did not count distance, he did
not consider consequences. As for May, she
was as if she had not been — for the moment : —
so transported was he with passion.

He leaped lightly up the broad wooden
staircase, banged into his room, and got a
loaded pistol out of its case upon his dressing-table.

— He was one of those youngsters to
whom firearms seem a necessity of luggage. —
He pushed it into the breast of his dress-waistcoat,
stole noiselessly downstairs again
and was about to cross the hall for his greatcoat
and hat, when he heard his friend turn
the handle of the library door. He slipped
into the dining-room, where Crossley had
forgotten to rino^ the bell for the servants ashe
left the room in his answer. The windows
were still open. *

He stood still, and listened; Crossley was
in the hall now, giving the butler some orders
for the morrow's luncheon-basket, and they
were coming towards the dining room. Ito

o

would never do for him to be discovered
there: quick as thought, he hurried out into
the garden, by way of the window, and found
himself in the laurel shrubbery just as Crossley
and his butler entered by the door together.
The butler rang the bell for a footman, and

it was evident that he meant to close the
shutters and clear the table. Buck could not
wait ; — what were a coat and hat to him ? He
turned upon his heel — with an impatient (and
unsuitable) sentence, — swung himself over a
slight fence, and soon reached the quiet highroad.


He had not changed his clothes: he would
have been a ridiculous object in his dress
suit and his pumps, had there been anybody
to see him, but for the fine manly lines of
his tireless young figure, as he strode along.
He walked on, without taking his bearings
but just with the unerring instinct of some
fierce wild animal, for miles and miles.

The night was sweet and the air was full
of balm : the falling leaves breathed pungent
and refreshing in the dew. There was not a
whisper in the hedgerows, not a cloud in the
sky. But though the moon was shining, the
way looked dark and lonesome.

The more he walked the less fathomed he
felt ; but, though he freed himself a little from
his muddled, every mile of the long midnight
tramp brought him fresh stirrings of the
blood, fresh burning of the brain.

Still he walked on ; he drove direct ahead
like a carrier-pigeon ; he took no count of time,
and yet he shortened his way across country
more than once.

Now and then he asked his way of a tramp
or a gipsy, who looked at him in wonder but
dared not ask him questions or even beg
of him, in return, because of the keen menace
of his look, the steely purpose in his eyes —
perhaps still more because of the butt end of
the pistol, showing in his waistcoat : '* A
rough customer," they thought him.

Now and then he pushed his hair back from
his forehead and slapped his thigh, in the old
ungraceful manner, as if he were encouraorinof
and applauding his own enterprise.

VOL. Ill, R

Now and then he gave himself the tonic of
a *tidy swear."

But he walked on like fate : his pace never
altered.

He passed through sleeping villages, he
skirted a quiet town. He heard Its bells
chime out the first hour of a new day.

Without allowing It to himself, he began
almost to enjoy his walk ; and it did him good.
If it was quite a new experience and unlike
others which he was apt to court, it was a
healthy one and Innocent in all except Its
devilish aim.

When the town was well left behind him,
he ventured to emerge again from the field-paths
on to the white high-road ; and just
ahead he saw something that loomed across
it and above it, spanning it from hedge to
hedge. When he got up to this, he found it
to be a triumphal arch of evergreen and laurels,
which smelt damp of wood and earth and

moss. Upon It he could read, In paper roses
which looked very ghostly in the moonlight,
the word *' Welcome ! "

There he stood, the emissary of death,
faced by the greeting that was meant to
gladden the eyes of the very man he had
it in his heart to slay. Without realising all
the Irony of this, he loathed the word, and
scattered down some of the decorations with
his arm.

A mile or so further on, he came upon another
: — "Welcome to the bride and bridegroom;"
— and then another and another, erected
doubtless by the tenants of the various farm
homesteads that he passed. At last he reached
one finer than the rest, a joint effort of Sir
Edmund's labourers. It bore the legend, in
real flowers, on its ground of green : " God
bless and prosper thee and thine ! "

Buck did not echo that " God prosper thee ! "
but something in the knowledge that Eugenia

was included in the blessing made him forbear
to curse. Only he was so sick at heart and so
sorry for his own sorrow ! Against this last
arch he remembered afterwards — lonsf afterwards
— that he had leaned, in his fatigue and
heaviness, and cooled his forehead among
the dahlias and the ivy : he never knew that
he had left upon its lintels a boyish tear.

As he peered out, through the arch, into
the night, he saw that, straight in front of him,
great gates were standing open ; and, beyond
them, a lodge and the trim sward on either side
the road, which was an avenue of holm oaks,
warned him that he had reached his enemy's
portals.

Although it was three o'clock in the morning,
there was still a light in the lodge window,
and he was, at last, sober enough to know
that he could not present himself in view,
without some comment — or, at least, suspicion —
attaching to his wayworn plight. So he crept

round to the side of the lodge and glanced

o o

in at the window, which was set wide open
so that any noise of wheels approaching might
strike upon the deaf lodge-keeper's ears at
once. His shoes were thin, he had walked
them into holes long ere now ; they made no
sound upon the lawn of the little garden.

In the lodge-parlour he could see an old
man and an old woman, sitting opposite to
each other by a low fire, brewing something
hot — which, Buck thought after his 'tramp,
smelt very good ; for its steam, being spirituous,
was not unfamiliar to his nostrils — and
trying to keep sleep away by desultory talk.
The whole small chamber — half sitting-room,
half parlour — wore a holiday air, and there
were two lamps lighted.

From what he could hear, Buck gathered
that Sir Edmund and his bride were not yet
arrived. They had been driving through
Devonshire for some days. Sir Edmund wishing

that Eugenia might become acquainted
with the beauty of the country round. He
had sent word, however, that they would
certainly be home by the following day,
which was his own birthday ; and the old
lodge-people knew well enough that their
master would make an effort to keep his
word, although the rest of the tenantry had
given up all hope of his arrival when midnight
came.

It's his birthday morning', sure enough,"
Buck heard the woman say ; " and a nice
newfangled hour to be setting' up, as would
grudge it for any but Sir Edmund. But
there ! you and Til see her ladyship yet,
afore the ruck of 'em, if mebbe ye'll keep
awake. There ain't no fear o' my sleeping',
Lord love ye, for ye do twice so when ye
drop off, let alone snore ! "

Buck's pulses recovered their full beat, ashe
listened; his heart bounded like a sledgehammer.

In Its passionate depths he gave
blasphemous thanks to God, that he should beat
Euofenla's threshold before her. She should
know that she could not begin her life without
him ; she should see him first, and she should
see the vengeance he should deal her for her
broken vows !

He clenched his hand upon the iron gate ashe
stepped out on to the road again. He would
retrace his path a little, he thought ; it would
not do for him to be within earshot of the
lodge.

He crept along under the hedge, till he got
back to the further side of the arch which bore
the floral blessing. There he was safe from
sight, even if they had heard him from the
lodge.

But they had not heard him.

What should he do next? His plan was to
wait by the arch, and either stop Sir Edmund s
horses, as he drove in, or jump up behind the

carriage and descend as Eugenia alighted at
the hall door. Both courses were dramatic,
and he was content to leave the choice between
them to chance and mood.

But, when he had stood for some minutes,
sheltered by the evergreens, and gazed his fill of
scorn on the rough country decorations — which,
sooth to say, did not distract him long, — he
noticed that there was a gap In the hedge on
the opposite side of the road, where a few feet
of gravel led to a five-barred gate. He would
lie down there between the hedgerows and
await them. There was room for him to establish
himself clear of the damp grass, and out of
the way of wheels.

Directly the calmness of assurance began to
satisfy his anxious mind, there stole over his
frame an irresistible need for rest. If only he
had crop a clear ! — to be so dead tired, and to
have no smoke, that was hard ! But without a
smoke he could not sleep, and, as he did not

wish to sleep, It was so far well. He might lie
down without fearing to lose consciousness.
The morning was yet to come, and he would
have to make his way back, after the meeting
after he had shot Sir Edmund !

'' Shot him ?" he said to himself, with a sort
of wonder in his smile as he looked at his own
rueful plight, " A pretty sort of a scatter I look,
to shoot him." . . . He seemed half amazed
that he should have thought of it. — '' Shot
him ! " . he said aorain.

And after that, he was not aware of much.
He looked at his watch, which contained a curl
of May Buxton's hair. Then he laid himself
down and made his big silk handkerchief into
a pillow for his head, upon a stone. He took
the pistol out of his pocket and held it downwards
In his hand, for he was always wakeful
enough to have regard to his own safety. So !
now he could watch for them unseen : he did
not feel cold.

And that was all ! His grasp relaxed at
once — in an instant he was fast asleep.

Fast asleep in a dormouse lethargy! Fast
asleep, like a worn-out truant, at Eugenia's gate,
after doing for her all that he had ever done
for any one — stretching his limbs a little and
exercising his strength.

All in vain ! All in vain !

Sir Edmund's honeymoon had been a very
happy one : Eugenia was prepared to reverence
him, and — determined as she was on self-devotion
— she could hardly fail at last to love him
tenderly. His nature was all open to her admiration
and her care. His weakness was the
complement of her health, his hesitation washer
opportunity. He was scarcely aware that
there was even so much as the shadow of a
cloud between them.

But there was : Eugenia never could forget

.her lover, and she never could forgive herself.

No doubt it was not until after her marriage

that she realised the sort of love she had
suffered for Buck. He was the husband of
her heart. And she had mistrusted him,
and foolishly tried for his further happiness,
and sent him, after all, to no better fate. He
was to marry May, whose portion was not
greater than her own had become since Lady
Shortlands' death; but she was generous enough
to feel a glad assurance that May would make
him a more loving wife than Anne. And how
nobly he had behaved ! He had gone* away
until her marriage was over, and he had never
reproached her by word or sign. That the
reproach should have been hers, she never
thought : it would not have been like Eugenia

o o

to think of that. . It was all over ! . . . Time
would bring her fresh duties and fresh cares,
and perhaps, by-and-bye, even that special need
in her heart might be filled — half loverhood
and half maternity.

But once she would have liked to see him,

once to tell him — no ! not to tell him how she
loved him, but only that she wished him well !

One duty Eugenia had set herself, and, until
it was accomplished, she knew that she should
never have been quite honest with her husband.
She must disclose, sooner or later, what she had
gone through at Ashbank. At first, she used
to think that she would tell him at Trefusis,
when they were safe established in their home,
before her mother joined them ; and then she
would sigh, and speak to Sir Edmund with
more than her customary deference. It was
not because she felt it would be hard to tell
him, that she sighed, but because she felt that
the recital would bring him pain.

To-night, when they drove through the town
of Trefusis, and, coming to Sir Edmund's side
of it, became aware of the triumphal arches
along the road, she was haunted by a desire to
get it over before they reached home. If he
had not been so tired, she would have liked to

put her hand in his and tell him then, that she
had not given her heart with it, but it was not
news likely to make a husband's home-coming
completely happy. She wished irrationally
that some impossible thing would happen, to
make him aware of it without her telling him.
She would have liked the gates to close upon
them with no secret that they did not share ;
but, in this first hour of his birthday morning,
she could not bring herself to make him a
present of so much gratuitous sorrow. ' Still,
there was that nobility in Eugenia's nature
— that transcendent frankness — which
demanded as much, for her own satisfaction.
What should she do .^^ It was mainly of Sir
Edmund that she was thinklnor now.

She was never tired herself, and she sat upright
in the closed carriage — her face almost
against the pane — looking out into the night, as
it wore on towards the chill which precedes
dawn.

Sir Edmund lay back upon the luxurious
cushions and gazed at her fine profile, trying
to fathom her thoughts, for she spoke but little.
His mind was full of his wife and her homecoming
; he seemed to fancy he could feel his
mother's benediction In the peace around him.

And, as the starlit landscape became more
and more familiar and he could people it with
its occupants, he told Eugenia of his tenantry,
now and again, when they passed a farm or
cottage ; but the light thrown by the carriage-lamps
did not show her much except the road,
and he put off his account of the various landmarks
till another day. Although the night
was clear, a mist lay over the meadows, beyond
the hedgerows. As they neared Trefusis, Sir
Edmund roused himself. Mist or no mist,
there would be something here which he
would not wish to pass b}^

'' Should you mind the window down ? " he
said.

I should like it of all things, " said Eugenia
with a smile — how fresh her voice was on the
still, clear air ! — '* Do you want to see anything
? "

Yes, indeed ! Old Brooks's arch. I heard
he was going to superintend one close to these
gates himself; and he would like us to have observed
its motto. It would please him if you had
noticed that, when we walk down to the lodge
in the morning, more than anything else could
do. His wife was my first nurse, and both of
them are like old friends to me. They have
been here so constantly and so long, that I
often think Trefusis is more theirs than mine.
But I, and they, and all, are yours now," he
added with infinite pride.

Shall we get out of the carriage ? " said Eugenia,
feeling with a keen delight the mildness
of the buoyant air, as she put down the window.
Something out of herself impelled her to
pull the check-string as she spoke ; and the

coachman, who had been driving at a slow pace
up a steep incline of the smooth road, meaning"
to put his tired horses to their best when he
had driven through the gates, pulled up at
once, as If divining her intent. They stopped
almost noiselessly, just before they came to the
last triumphal arch.

Hardly waiting for Sir Edmund's answer,
Eugenia stepped out of the carriage ; her
heart beat violently, her frame trembled with
emotion ; she knew not why. Was it the
home-coming that she felt like this ? Was it
something In the air ?

The lamp-rays made two discs of light upon
the road, Illuminating dark patches of ditch
and sward, which showed strangely out of the
surroundings blackness. In one of these enchanted
crystals, almost at Eugenia's feet, a
young man lay sleeping.

The coachman was himself in front of the
little turn of the road into the field, and the

footman had got down upon the further side.
Sir Edmund motioned to him to stay where
he was : he did not want the lodge-people
disturbed just yet. He closed the carriage-door
himself, quite softly, and followed Eugenia.


What a balmy night It was ; what a message
It was bringing !

*' ' God prosper you, Sir Edmund ; God prosper
you, my lady ! ' " said the old coachman
bending from the box — he was proud to be the
first to utter old Brooks's motto.

Eugenia heard the words, respectfully and
gravely spoken. But she did not see the arch ;
she saw nothing but the form of her beloved,
with his young face turned upwards to the
paling stars. Oh ! heart, be still ! —

She could not speak : long ere she had drawn
breath, she had known that it was he and none
other.

Standing as they were, almost behind the

VOL. III. s

EUGENIA.

carriage, Sir Edmund gently drew his arm
about her, to kiss her and welcome her home.

Insensibly she yielded to his touch, she
leaned against him for support, as one might
lean against one's dearest friend.

Her silence struck him cold ; he looked
before him.

There was a dark heap upon the ground in
the disc of light ; no doubt it had alarmed
her. He looked more earnestly — a man
** drunk perhaps," Sir Edmund thought, " from
wishing us, too heartily, our ' welcome home ! ' "
He sighed.

'' What is it, love ? " he said ; *' that poor
fellow ? I will send Brooks to see to him.
Ah! there is much for us to do together
here!"

Still Eugenia was silent. He advanced a
pace; ** Why see!" he said, **' surely it is a
gentleman asleep ; and it looks almost like
Miss Buxton's admirer, that young — " . . .

He paused. Eugenia stood quite still. She
knew him ; she was sure ; there was no need
for her to o-q to him.

*' My love," she thought, of May Buxton's
lover — as once before, as ever since — " my
love ! my love ! my love ! "

Something in her manner moved every
fibre of Sir Edmund's being. He loved her
well enough to be subject to the magnetism
of her lightest thought — and this thought was
not a light one. It was heavy as death.

He covered his face with his hands.

Eugenia turned and looked at him ; his
attitude went straight to her heart, like a
prayer.

As she turned, she caught the flash of something
lying by Buck's side, and then a weight
seemed lifted from her senses ; her eyes were
opened and she saw him as he was.

She read his murderous scheme, and her
love was turned to shame and — for she did not

overvalue his intent — to pity, which is deeper
death for love than shame.

She took Sir Edmund's hands from before
his face, and kissed him.

*' My husband," she said softly, though she
was white to the lips with terror.

Sir Edmund looked at her, and smiled. He
would have advanced to the young man's side,
but Eugenia caught him back.

*' No, no ! " she cried. She felt, then, that his
safety was worth more to her than her own :
she motioned him away. What if Buck should
wake and kill him, before her eyes ?
"Get me your coat," she said.
He went to the carriage, and took out his
fur-lined overcoat : then he directed the coachman
to go on to the great gate, whence he
could dimly see old Brooks and his wife
advancing, with their lanterns.

'tell Brooks," he said, *'to send at once to
the stables and order out the doofcart and a

groom, to be at this gentleman's disposal
presently." —

Meanwhile Eugenia glided forward, and
stood by Buck's side as he slept.

Who shall tell her thoughts in that supreme
moment ? Like an angel of God, she knew
all that had been in his heart. She watched
his heavy sleep ; she saw his wine-flushed face ;
she read his deadly errand in the veined hand
closed upon the weapon, and all the weariness
of that long tramp in his tumbled wayworn
air ; and she knew that now indeed it
was all over, that in his rough way he might
have longed for her but that he never could
have loved her. Was this love, to plot the
marring of the loved one's life before her very
gates ?

No : she would never look upon his face again.
O God," she sighed, '' make him grow worthier
of the happy life in store for him ! " Her insight
was so clear that she read his future.

But this last secret of his, in which she had
held no share, she would keep that for ever.
She bent over him, and loosened his grasp
from the pistol. It was not for herself that
she had feared, but for Sir Edmund. She
took up the pistol, and then, as she heard Sir
Edmund's footfall behind her, she dropped It
into the ditch at her side. It fell with a dull
thud, deep Into the tangle and the slush.

He came, bringing his own coat, without a
word. He did not even trouble to tell her that
he had orlven orders for Buck's comfort to the
men. She took the coat from his hands and
spread It over her lover ; It was like some last
office for the dead.

Beneath the warmth of It his limbs relaxed
a little. He did not wake, but he opened his
eyes and smiled.

And with that smile, which had been all her
world, her strength failed her : It was as if the
heart within her swooned : she turned to her

husband once again, as he was setting a fur cap
upon the ground beside the coat.

Edmund," she said ; " are you safe,
Edmund ? Oh ! take me away, take me
away ; I loved him — I loved him so ! "

** My wife," he answered, with a passionate
kiss.

Her secret had become his — all of It that
need ever be : — was this the void In her heart ?
It should go hard with him, indeed. If he did
not fill it.

The lodge-people were anxious ; they met
the empty carriage at the gate, but they
were not to be restrained : they came forward
with their lanterns — old wife and old husband
together :

'' God prosper you. Sir Edmund," they cried
out. " God prosper you, my lady ! "

Young husband and young wife, they passed
through the arch on foot together, with reverent
mien. They left Buck's poor boy-love outside

their life, as they went home together, hand in
hand — never cloud between them henceforth,
never sorrow : but the best life of all on this
side Paradise!

But he slept on : the carriage-wheels did not
suffice to wake him from his dreamless sleep.
And, just a little after, some blackbird in the
hedgerow roused him with its shrill, morning
song. Then he sat upright, under the soft
warmth of the coat which Euo^enia's hands had
spread around him, and felt quickly for the
pistol at his side. It was not there ; but why
had he wanted it ? what did it matter ? No
doubt it had slipped from him, as he slept,
into that deep ditch at the wayside, and the
herbage and the meadow flowers had buried it
in the stream. Well ! what of that ? And
where was he ? he had forgotten ! Only not
in any room that he remembered, for what
was it he saw ?

As he sat up and rubbed his blue eyes, he
beheld before him a streak of silver, llftlnor —
lifting — in the lighted east, until it was as if the
heavens opened and let out the day. And all
about him there was calm and silence — silence
but for the blackbird's sono, because the nio-ht
was past and the new morning come !

He did not rouse himself, he did not think :
only he felt at peace with all the peaceful
world. His heart forgave all things. In his
flushed boyish face there was a child's wonder
awake, but he let the wonder die unanswered.
He passed his hands over the coat, but he
asked no questions. There was a drowsiness
upon him which would have accepted greater
miracles, and which would make no marvel
even of Sir Edmund's dogcart when it came.
His drunken slumber had gone from him, but
his eyes were heavy with real sleep — sleep
which would no doubt bring him a dream of
pretty May! He watched the vision of the

dawn, he drank the morning air. His perfect
health was freshened, his perfect strength at
ease. And then he closed his eyes again once
more, over no scene of vengeance, but only over
that calm landscape In its half-veiled beauty. He
stretched himself with a little shiver, his curly
head drooped back upon his arm — he sighed
and smiled. And then he fell asleep again, —
deeper and deeper as the morning grew —
sleeping in the green earth's lap, like a child
indeed in its mother's arms, until the autumn
day was high.

THE END.

Printed BY BAI LAN7YNE, HANSON AND CO.
EDINBURGH AND LONDON

I
