OF THE
U N Diversity
Of Ill Noise

H£6s
vel

With & SON'S

ION LIBRARY,

RAND, LONDON,

?Railway BOOKSTALLS. H

received from Subscribers in SETS only.
Arms.

Heir BOOKS FROM A Cot/NY RY BOOKSTALL

• 6 Month! ia Months.

me - - £0 12 -J to

For*T»REE „ - , - -. 1 3 O - 2 2 O

For FCttJR
For. Sixes
TWBfcVB

M

>»

1 8 O
1 IS O
8 O O -6

£'

■

e

■

M

VOL. I.

/

NEW AND POPULAR NOVELS

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES.

THRO' LOVE AND AVAR. By Violet Fane, author of

Sophy ; or, The Adventures of a Savage,' &c. 3 vols.

THE BEAUTY OF THE WORLD. By A. J. Duffield,

author of ' Needless Misery,' &c. 3 vols.

FAIR KATHERINE. By Harley Dale. 3 vols.
A FAIRE Dalzell. By Esse Stuart. 3 vols.
DOROTHY DRAKE. By Frederick H. Moore. 2 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, treat MARLBOROUGH STREET

BY

JOHN BERWICK Haywood

Author OF

"LADY FLA VIA," "Lord Lyons WIFE," "THE TENTH EAEL/'

&C. &C.

IN THREE VOLUMES,
VOL. I.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

V, I

c^

SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART.

>i

CHAPTER I.

TINY FOOTSTEPS.

A steep grey wall of limestone, polished
like marble in some parts by the wash of
the waves ; a smooth pavement of sea-sand

*, forming the floor of the irregular horseshoe
of the bay; to the north a jutting rocky

x headland, weed-draped and wild: to the
south a covered cliff, scooped into fantastic

x grottoes by the impact of many thousand
tides ; in front a dark blue line, where the

VOL. I. B

summer sea seemed to lie asleep, heaving
softly, while the white-winged gulls skimmed
and shrieked over its slowly rippling
surface — such was the scene.

It was a pretty spot enough. The Norsemen
who had drawn up their pirate galleys
there of old had called the place Odin's
Horseshoe. It lay convenient for the purpose
of their forays, since there was a
gentle slope at one point, leading to a cleft
in the towering cliff-wall, up which abroad
path, almost a road, gave easy access to
the fertile country inland.

Just above high-water mark, among
husre boulders that had rolled in a landslip
of forgotten ages from above, seated
on a fragment of rock, reading, was a
young woman, neatly attired, and whose
vocation in life might have been guessed,
even had not an empty child's-carriage

stood beside her, and a child's form been
discernible at some little distance, playing
among the loose sand-heaps and waterworn
stones, and shallow pools haunted
by tiny crabs and star-fish and glistening
jelly-fish left behind by the ebb-tide, that
lay between her and the black, projecting
promontory that stretched grimly out
to seaward.

The novel which the girl was reading —
one of those gaudily-bound two-shilling
works of fiction that one sees on railway
bookstalls — was to all appearance a deeply
interesting one, since she seldom found
time to throw a cursory glance at her
charge, now straying and playing afar off
among the pools and the rocks, encrusted
with limpets and weed — red, green, orange,
purple ; while, as regarded the signs of the
weather, she was utterly blind and heed

2

less. The day was fine : it was hot, still,
summer weather. And yet the climate of
our island is proverbially fickle, and on
that Yorkshire coast, as on the soldier
and natter coasts of Lincoln and Norfolk,
the German Ocean has a trick of running
in like a racehorse at fullest speed when
wind and tide serve. But probably the
nursemaid — an attendant, evidently, in
some wealthy household, as might be
guessed from her dress, from that of the
fair young child now straying on tiny feet
ever further and further away from the
dry, loose sand, and the prosaic board that
gave notice as to the illicit removal of
sand and shingle from the foreshore without
the consent of the Admiralty, indicated
— knew no more of the sea than
could be learnt from Brighton beach or
the pier at Heme Bay. Yet the wind had

freshened. There was a darkling line to
seaward that, to experienced eyes, boded
mischief. The blue of the summer sky
was cloaked by a huge semi-transparent
veil of thready vapour, like a giant .
Even in the very foam-bells
as they went racing past, even in the
low menace of the rising surf, even in
the shriller cry and more petulantly flapping
wings of the restless sea-birds, there
was warning.

But sometimes such warnings are thrown
away. The wind gained strength ; so did
the tide. The cloud-bank crept stealthily
on. Hoarser and louder grew the noise
of the waves when some low reef of blackened
rocks barred their progress. Yes,
the great sea was coming in with swifter,
longer strides than were common. The
wind freshened in unison with the rush

of the tide. Neptune and aeolus were,
for once, of a mind. Little of this recked
the girl who sat there alone too much
absorbed by the sorrows of an imaginary
heroine, by the struggles of a fictitious
hero, to heed the anger of the coming
storm. Higher and higher, like a wrath :
ful snake upreared, rose the foamy crest
of each pellucid wave. Louder grew the
moan of the breeze, hoarser the sullen
splash of the breakers. Yet she read on
complacently.

Fast, fast the tide was coming in : not
inch by inch, foot by foot, as on our steep
and shingly southern shores of England,
but with racing speed, sending its skirmishers
before it, in the shape of tongues
of white water that darted insidiously
into hollows, and quickened muddy sloughs,
and turned runlets into tidal streams, and

at last advancing as a low, blue wall topped
with frothy foam, and hissing as it
came. The nursemaid, intent on her novel,
was quite unaware of the danger at hand.
It was not, strictly speaking, a danger to
her. She was in no bodily peril. On
such a day as this, the tide might very
probably reach as far as high-water mark ;
but beyond that mark, calculated on a
long series of averages, the flood was not
likely to reach, and above it was the sloping
under-clifF and the broad, safe road
down which the perambulator had been
impelled so easily. A pretty toy-carriage
this, with its crimson-silk cushions and
silvered axles — a costly little bit of the
coach-builder's work. No, the handmaiden,
only let her stay where she was, incurred
no risk, however the strong sea might rise
and the wild wind blow. But the child ?

Further, and further yet, the tiny figure
had strayed away from the side of the
careless attendant, hidden now and again
by some cairn of weed-crusted rocks, or
by some post of sturdy, blackened wood,
from the broken top of which the green
sea-grass hung, long and dank, like the
hair of a mermaid. It was a case to exemplify
the old homely proverb which
teaches us that out of sight is too often
out of mind. The wind rose, and so did
the sea. Gull and gannet swooped and
screamed over the foamy expanse of incoming
water. Far off, on lonely rocks
that rose like watch-towers above the wave
perched the black cormorant, scanning the
rushing waters, and intent on prey. Still
unobserved, unnoticed, the richly-dressed
child strayed on, nearer, ever nearer, to
the tumultuous sea. The distance rapidly

lessened. The tide came on, swift and
strong, like an attacking army flushed
with success.

At last — at last the girl who had been
reading so long upon the solitary shore
lifted her head, and let the book she had
been holding drop upon her knee. What
had scared her was a sound, terrible and
sudden almost as the trumpet-call of an
avenging angel. The noise came from the
right hand, where the cliffs of the irregular
horseshoe which formed the bay approached
most closely to the sea. Those
who have heard the tide break into St.
Guthlac's Cave seldom forget the hoarse,
hollow roar with which, through fissure
and cranny high above, the tortured air
is forced out of the grotto by the rush of
hurrying water. The waves had reached
it now, and hence the clamour and confused

medley of sound, as if of human
voices crying aloud in dire extremity of
terror or of pain. Already the surges
were leaping up the lower courses of the
rock-wall, bursting into cleft and cavern,
tossing feathery spray high into the air,
and swirling round in miniature whirlpools,
where eddying currents encountered
one another at the foot of the beetling
precipice. It grew darker; rain fell in
dashing sheets, and the breeze was almost
a gale, the cloud wrack rolling on overhead,
the angry sea below.

For an instant or two the girl stared
stupidly at the sudden turmoil of sea and
storm, but then a thought occurred to her
that stung her to the quick, and in a moment
she was on her feet.

The child! the child !' she cried, aloud,
and never had her voice sounded harsh

and strange in her own ears as it now did.
Breathlessly, almost incredulously, she
looked around her, shading her eyes with
her outspread hand because of the fierce
rain that lashed her face, but she could see
nothing of her charge. The little figure
had wholly disappeared. In vain she
peered to left and right. Nothing was
visible but rock and post and sandbank, to
the right the cliff bastion, honeycombed
by caves, and already assailed by the sea,
and to northward the rugged, rocky point
that ran out to seaward. Yes, there was
one indication. From where she stood
she could see the print of tiny feet distinctly
visible in the moist, smooth sand,
and which certainly led towards the jutting
headland, heavily tapestried with dark
wrack-weed.

'The child! the child!' she exclaimed

again, with white lips, as she darted forward.
The footprints guided her to a
broad and shallow pool, bordered by lime
stones, and where the sea-anemone
and the soldier crab and spider
crab dwelt in comfort onions: the clefts of
rock. Beyond there was a belt of small
pebbles that bore no mark, but not faraway
the traces were again dimly visible,
half effaced by the water that had oozed
through the low-lying sand. Hurrying
forward in breathless haste, as if to meet
the fast-advancing sea. she reached the
place where yet the footmarks could be
seen, and with haggard eyes gazed around.
But she could see nothing, nothing — nothing
but the white waves rolling in, leaping
hungrily around, as if intent on prey,
and the tumbled rocks and weed-masses of
the black headland, and the bare stretch of

sand so soon to be devoured by the sea.
The child ! where, where was the child ?

The girl was not brave beyond the
average of her sex and class, but now her
nerves were strung to unusual tension,
and she pressed on where many a stouthearted
man would have quailed. Behind
lay safety ; in front was the terrible sea.
On she went. Blacker and blacker grew
the sky, louder the shriek of the storm-wind,
hoarser the clamour of the wild
waves. On she went, like some soldier in
face of a battery hailing grape and shell.
Courage, after all, is only a question of
nerve. Some of us fmht with sheer o;ood-
humoured indifference to danger, others ina
sort of hysterical paroxysm of fright and
rage, and others, again, because they fear
the stern sergeant, the angry captain,
shame and punishment, more than hostile

shot. So it was with this handmaiden.
She did not dare to go back without her
little charge — did not dare to say that,
through her negligence, the great sea had
the child in its grip ; and then, too, she
bitterly reproached herself for the carelessness
that had brought her nursling into
such sore peril ; so on she pressed, regardless
that every step she took carried her
further and further from the firm ground
and the safe, easy cliff-path, nearer and
nearer to the gaping jaws of death. On
she went.

The sand, intersected by watercourses
where land-springs trickled from the hills,
by mounds of broken rock, by pools and
hollows, sloped upwards towards the rocky
promontory that stretched out to sea, so
that the girl found herself traversing a
succession of short banks, broken here and

there by heaps of dissected stones, over
some of which the waves broke already.
Often she paused and looked around,
shading her eyes with her outspread hand,
for it was hard to see through spray and
rain and the gathering blackness of the
bursting storm ; but she could see nothing.
Twice or thrice she called aloud. Strangely
did her own voice sound in her bewildered
ear as she raised it amidst the roar
of the breakers and the scream of the wind.
But nothing could be heard or seen of the
lost one.

There were the tiny footsteps ever and
anon as a guide, straying, wandering,
devious, but always trending towards the
bleak, storm-swept headland that jutted
forth to sea. There, in front, was the
promontory, like a great black wall, shutting
out all view of the coast towards the

north — hard to be climbed by a bold and
strong man ; inaccessible, no doubt, to a
woman or a child — and over the seaward
end of this rampart the waves broke, sending
up columns of sparkling spray. A
giant now could not have rounded the
point. But there had been a tongue of
dry sand long ago visible beyond the black
stones, and even the tottering steps of
heedless infancy might then have achieved
what now was beyond the compass of
earthly strength and daring.

The footsteps lured the child's negligent
attendant on, nearer and yet nearer to
the perilous point over which broke the
billows, exulting in their might. Scrambling
over the slippery stones of the reefs
that barred her way, wading recklessly
through the deepening pools, and presently
regaining the firm sand — wet, weary, breathless

— she pushed on, all unaware of the
mortal risk she ran, unconscious even that
the path between her and security was
all but blocked, and that all her speed
might probably be unavailing to secure
her a safe retreat to the dry land behind
her. But though the water often reached
her feet, and the roar of the surges grew
momentarily more menacing, she followed
the small footprints that led towards the.
headland, now washed by the furious sea,
and almost hidden at times by the sheets
and columns of glittering spray that broke
so high above the rocky wall.
• Too late ! too late now ! The time was
past for safety or retreat. The swiftest
runner that ever won a wreath in the
Olympian Games could not now have
escaped on flying feet from the triumphant
sea. The tide came in like a racehorse,
vol. i. c

and all access to the firm dry land was cutoff
by the swooping flood.

All unconscious of the imminence of the
danger, of the doom that awaited her, the
seeker pressed on. There was something
touching in the girl's utter abnegation of
self, or selfish fear, as, with the splashing
water bathing her feet, and the shrill cry
of the wild sea-mews ringing in her ears,
she tracked the little footprints of her lost
charge. Her hat had fallen off ; her loosened
hair streamed unheeded. She was
knee-deep soon in the rush of frothy, bubbling
whiteness, and struggled hard to make
her way towards where, on a dry patch
of high-lying sand-slope, the little footmarks
might yet be seen.

In came the tide like a mill-race. The
water deepened rapidly, and the girl reeled,
threw up her arms, and made a despairing

effort to scramble up the sandbank.
A great wave came rolling in, white-crested,
tall, curling over as it reached her in
its resistless strength, and she was torn
away from her foothold, and washed, helpless
as a dead leaf upon a river's current,
into the foamy reflux of the billow. The
eddy set strongly in, once the black rocks
of the jutting headland had been reached,
to southward, and, amidst the swirl and
ripple and tossing wavelets of the eddy,
she floated away — floated away even as
human institutions, creeds, and empires
drift ever and always before the all-destroying
stream of Time. No doubt she
cried aloud, but the harsh, complaining
shriek of the hovering sea-gull, the howl
of the gale, and the roar of the waves
drowned her feeble voice as she was swept

away amidst the breakers.

c2

CHAPTER II.

LITTLE Donc

Northward ho ! Hurrah ! Drink about r
.mates ! Here's luck !' bawled out a rough
voice, as a rough man half rose to his
sea-booted feet, and flourished aloft a tin
pannikin that presumably contained some
liquor more potent than those of which
Good Templar approve. 'And here's to
the captain, with three times three, and a
cheer over !'

Hark to Lincolnshire Bill !' echoed half-a-dozen
more. ' Captain Obadiah Judson
and his luck !'

And up went six, or more than six,
mugs and tin pannikins to the lips of their
respective owners ; but there was no cheering,
perhaps because, in deeper and more
ringing tones, a powerful voice struck
in—

Drink my health, lads and lasses, if ye
think fit, only be sober and sparing in your
cups, since we have a long march before
us, and work on the morrow. But drink
not to luck, if you love me, as coupled
with my name. How often am I to tell
you that luck, as you ignorantly call it, is
of another world, not this ? — that it is lent
as a loan, not given as a gift ? — and that,
if rashly boasted of or thankfully taken,
it is as the fairy gold we've most of us
heard tell of when we were bairns in the
ingle-nook, and, like fairy gold, will turn
to dust and withered ivy-leaves on our

hands ? Wherefore let none of this company
of ours make brag or vaunt of good
fortune as linked with the name of Obadiah
Judson.'

The speaker — a man of unusual, almost
gigantic, height, but gaunt and lean — was
standing erect beside the smoky crackling
lire of thorns and wreck-wood, and thus
formed the central figure of as strange a
group as ever, allowing for the difference
of time and climate, Salvator Rosa drew.
There were sixteen or seventeen of them
in all, men and women, scattered in attitudes
more or less picturesque among a
cluster of dry sand-hills, overgrown with
reeds, rushes, and couch-grass, just above
high-water mark, and a little to the northward
of a headland of black, broken,
weel-draped rocks that thrust itself boldly
forward into the sea, quite intercepting

any prospect of the shore that lay beyond
a queer company of persons, composed
as it was of men, women, and lads, in
nearly equal numbers. Weather-beaten as
they were, and so roughly and unconventionally
attired, on account of the wild
weather to which they were constantly exposed,
and of the hazardous and toilsome
nature of their trade, that it was hard to
ascertain at a glance the age and sex of
the wearer, they gathered around a sputtering
fire of sea-borne wood and shrubs
hastily cut for fuel, over which, by a rusty
chain, on a tripod of long sticks, swung a
huge black gipsy kettle, watched by a
dark-haired woman on her knees, around
whose sleek head a yellow handkerchief
was twisted turban-wise.

And yet these strange people were not
gipsies, nor smugglers, while even the least

experienced observer could scarcely have
fallen into the error of confounding them
with the ordinary tramps, of whom we
have but too many in our English commonwealth.
Every one of them had a sort of
sturdy independence of bearing, such as
befits those who follow an honourable and
lawful calling, and none the less if it be a
perilous one. At the same time there was
not in their eyes the patient, bovine look
with which we are so familiar in those of
the rustic who mends a declare, drives a
cart, and takes his turn at plough. In some
parts of England such a set of wayfarers
would have been a living puzzle, liable to
the gravest suspicions ; but from Tweed to
Humber, and from Humber to the Wash,
and so far down as Lowestoft, coastguards-men
and police knew them for nothing worse
than Obadiah Jedson's gang of jet-hunters.

The industry of jet-hunting is, as its
name implies, very precarious. England
has almost a monopoly in the world's
markets of the genuine jet, that fossil
which was broken off untold centuries
ago from pine forests that once stood
where now the North Sea rolls between
our own coasts and' those of Denmark. We
have very little of that other fossil product
of those ancient groves long submerged
which is costlier than jet. Most of the
amber is picked up among Danish dunes
and in North German estuaries ; but the
jet is found on our own foresees, and it
is found irregularly as to time and season
and place, some famous digging having
become utterly sterile, while others, long
reputed to be barren or exhausted, furnish
valuable yields. 'The sand is alive!' is a
not infrequent phrase on the lips of the

jet-seeker, and to him, with his intimate
knowledge of the coast-line, it really does
seem as if the beach on which he picks up
his livelihood were a living thing. He is
cognisant of its changes where a mere
landsman would see no change : how cliffs
crumble, how the sea encroaches here, and
there falls back, how quicksands ' travel, 7
and the set of currents alters, and a storm
may make a difference of a hundred pounds
to the jet-hunters, and produce who knows
what of profit for the dealers of Whitby
and Scarborough.

It is not wholesome, in all respects, that
life of the hunter after jet, for it has a
gambling element in it, as has that of the
gold-digger or the washer of diamonds. It
is very possible to work for a season and
go empty-handed away. It is very usual
to labour for six weeks or two months with

little or no success, and then in some few
days to make as much as would provide
subsistence for the rest of the year, were
the jet-hunter quite free from debts of
some sort : which is rare. , Some of the
lads who toil with these companies are
sent by their fathers — thrifty yeomen of
the Yorkshire dales — with just doled-out
coins enough to buy bread and cheese till
hast ' shall call them back to help on the
farm ; while some of the older workers
exist on small advances from jewellers in
the towns until a lucky find shall give
them months of rest and plenty.

No gang on the Yorkshire coast was quite
so famous or so prosperous as that which
hailed Obadiah Jedson as its captain ; and,
indeed, its prosperity was largely due to
his extraordinary skill, or, as was generally
averred, to his remarkable good fortune.

He's putting by — more and more in
Bank — year after year,' was whispered
respectfully from one to another among
the members of his company, to whom the
idea of a jet-hunter's saving money was
something as unprecedented as the same
phenomenon would have appeared amongst
the reckless buccaneers of Kyd's and
Blackbeard's time. It was seldom that
these adventurers, when successful, thought
of a provision for the future, or, indeed, of
anything beyond the discharge of pressing-debts
and a few months or weeks of hard-earned
idleness. Theirs was not an easy
trade. They had to face all weathers
without flinching, and the rather that
storms, with the abrupt alterations which
a tempest produces, gave them their best
chance. They were constantly wet, and
often hungry. To be bowed and racked

by rheumatic pains was a common end to
their career. Occasionally an imprudent
member of the tribe was overtaken by the
rising tide, and, more frequently, the
shifting quicksands of the coast took toll
of their numbers. But there was a strange
sort of fascination in the life, for all that —
perhaps due to the hold which the possible
prizes that might be gained were able to
take of the imagination of these rude
beings, to whom such hauls as were sometimes
made appeared of dazzling value.

Why, whatever now !' — ' How came it
here, mates ?' — l And all alone, too !' — ' Just
as if it dropped frae the moon !'

The object of these comments was a tiny,
a very tiny boy, richly dressed, who stood
at the edge of the natural circle, or hollow,
within which the jet-hunters held their
wild bivouac, and gazed with great, solemn

eyes at the strange group below. Seldom,
perhaps, has there been seen a more beautiful
child than this, as he stood wonderingly,
with his dark brown hair falling in
heavy curls, and with such a face as is
more often seen on a painter's canvas than
in real life. Young and solitary as he
was, he showed no sign of fear, but continued
to gaze gravely at the strangely-attired
beings gathered around the smoky
fire of wreck-wood.

It's just a fairy elf!' muttered a Northumbrian,
who had not shaken off the
Border superstitions of his infancy.

More like one of the angels out of
heaven !' indignantly rejoined the woman
with the yellow turban knotted round her
sleek, dark hair, and who had in her hand

/ 7

the long iron ladle with which she had
been distributing the contents of the

steaming cauldron. ' Saw ever ony one a
fairer bit of a bairn thing ? and what brings
the pretty darling here alone, so near the
cruel sea, and a storm coming on too ?'

For at this moment the shrieking of
the wind and the first dash of the rain,
mingling with the hoarse roar of the
billows, gave token of the approaching

tempest.

Peace, all !' said the captain of the gang,
as he rose from his seat, and, stalking
slowly to the highest part of the ridge
which shut in the sand-hills from the sea,
shaded his keen eyes with his broad hand,
and, tossing back his mane of coal-black
hair, took a long survey of the sands, and
of a narrow and difficult path that led in
zigzag fashion up the cliff, and which
appeared, at first sight, better fitted for
the tread of the wild goat or the hill-fox

•

than either of men or of beasts of burden.
No signs of human presence could be
detected anywhere. To seaward not a
sail ; on the cliff-top no form. Along the
narrow and arduous path that led upwards,
nothing was to be seen save the rank
grass that waved wildly as the wind increased
from a breeze to a gale. Over the
extremity of the jutting headland of black,
broken rocks, weed-draped and piled up
steeply as a rugged rampart erected by the
mighty hands of Titans, the sea was already
breaking in sheets and showers of spray,
while rapidly the tide ran in, and louder
grew the shriek of the gale.

Nothing could be more utterly, piteously
alone than the child seemed to be — alone
beneath the lowering skv — alone in that
desolate place, so near the hungry sea that
was rushing in, driven by the storm-wind.

Yet he showed no sign of fear, as so many
children of his age do when left alone.
High above him stood the towering form of
the captain of jet-hunters, looking down,
with unusual softness in his .dark eyes, at
the little intruder on his bivouac. Unusually
soft, too, was Obadiah Jedson's deep
voice as he stretched out one of his huge
bony hands, and said, gently,

'Young master — my dear — will you come
with me — away out of the rain ?'

The child looked up doubtfully, and fora
moment seemed about to cry. But
Obadiah, gaunt and wild to look upon, had
yet one of those faces that children instinctively
confide in, so that after a brief pause
the boy clasped his tiny white fingers
around the lean brown one which the captain
held out, and permitted himself to be
led, unresisting, to the neighbourhood of

VOL. I. D

the fire, where all the members of the band
gathered around him in a ring.

1 Belongs to gentlefolks if ever a bairn
did f — ' More like a little lord, wi' his fine
clothes, and those fearless eyes of his, like
a lion's !'

'How came he here, though, on the sands,
by himself?' was a very general question;
and the query was one which it was easier
to ask than to answer. Clearly, no relative,
no friend, no servant was in sight, either
on shore or cliff-crest, whose presence could
account for that of the solitary child. It
really was as though the tiny creature — he
could not have been more than four years
old — had dropped from the sky T upon that
bleak and desolate beach. How came he
here ? To whom did he belong ? One or
two of the women, by Obadiah's directions,
had propped some frowsy scraps of tarpaulin

on poles, so as to afford the boy — delicately-nurtured,
no doubt — some shelter from the
driving rain, as the storm increased. But
the boy seemed to care little for the
rain, but preferred to stand at Obadiah's
side, holding the captain's bony forefinger
in the grasp of his small hand, and with
dauntless eyes surveyed the quaint figures
around him. It was manifest that the little
intruder had taken a childish fancy to this
rough, grim giant of the sea-beach.

Conjecture being 'exhausted, it was
thought best to question the child himself.

'What is your name, little master?' asked
the tall captain, a curious sort of respect,
as for the superior station of his small guest,
mingling with the natural gentleness of his
tone when speaking to a child.

Don,' answered the boy readily, but with
a grave sort of wonder, as if it were 



prising that a man of Obadiah Jedson's
stature should be ignorant of so rudimentary
a fact.

The captain looked down at the little
head that seemed so far beneath him, and
was puzzled.

Do they call you nothing but Don, my
dear?' he inquired, softly and patiently —
1 no other name, I mean, as all of us have
two names — some more,' he explained.

The child shook his beautiful head, on
which the brown curls glistened silken.

Always Don,' he made answer.

'But is it a Christian name, or else a
surname?' asked the woman with the yellow
kerchief twisted round her sleek head.
The question was too much for the tiny
creature's limited experience.

'Sometimes Master Don,' he answered,
half-petulantly, and with an infantine

frown. ' Nurse says that ; papa never. I
want to go home.'

.And then he began to sob, and it was
necessary to soothe and comfort him. In
the meantime, there he was, and nobody,
not even the captain — by common consent
the shrewdest of the party — could guess
how he came there, or what steps ought to
be taken. That the boy was of gentle
blood and nurture none could doubt.
Even the exceeding delicacy of his complexion
and the beauty of his little white
hands told of the care that had been taken
to shield him from hardship, while, on the
other side, his frank, bold eyes indicated
an open and courageous nature. He was
handsomely, and somewhat fancifully,
dressed. There were silver buttons on his
tunic of green velvet, and the black belt
around his waist was fastened by a massive

clasp of solid silver. The jaunty little cap
was of velvet, too, and all his clothes were
new and good. But it was impossible, no
matter how artfully, or with what patient
kindness the questions were put, to elicit
from him anything that would throw a
light on who he was or whence he came.
The one thing clear in the boy's mind was
his own identity. He was 'Don,' certainly
Don,' and knew no other name. Papa
was papa, home was home, and nurse was
nurse. He seemed, with the short memory
of early childhood, even to have forgotten
how he came into the jet-hunters' camp,
and when questioned as to the path that
he had followed, pointed vaguely towards
the sea, now rolling in, wave after wave.
Then he seemed to be tired, and hungry
perhaps ; and Kezia, the woman with the
yellow handkerchief tied turban-wise

around her head, and who seemed to be
one of the kindest of the company, drew
him underneath the rough screen of tarpaulin,
and brought on a platter some of
the steaming food from the gipsy cauldron,
and, with some trouble, coaxed him to eat ;
after which he grew drowsy, and lay on
the rush-covered side of the sand-hill,
asleep, while a council was held to deliberate
about his fate.

Many and wild were the guesses that
were hazarded as to the manner in which
this little waif of the Yorkshire sea-beach
had come to be in the neighbourhood of
the bivouac. Shipwreck was more than
once suggested ; but this was laughed to

scorn.

'The boy hadn't a wet thread upon him,'
said one of the most experienced of the
gang ; ' and how should one even of their

dandy pleasure craft get wrecked on a fine
morning without the coastguard sighting
the job? Or how should such a lamb as
that young thing come living to the land
while strong men perished ? No, no ;
there's been guilty here.'

Guilty !' echoed the women, horrified,
but with a pleasant sort of horror. i What
sort of guilty, when it's about a lad bairn
like this, Master Saunders ?'

Master Saunders, who was esteemed
among the hunters of jet as an oracle second
only to the captain, nodded his head as
solemnly as the late Lord Thurlow, in ermine
and fall-bottomed wig, might have done.

1 There's cheatery o' more sorts than one,'
was his mysterious verdict ; 'and it's not
the first time babies have got smothered in
Towers o' London ; nor yet young innocents
that stood between somebody and broad

lands and gold guineas been put out o' the
sway like this, comrades.'

After this oracular remark, the sleeping
child was eyed, especially by the women,
with even more of wondering interest and
of respectful curiosity than before. But
still, no progress was made towards solving
the knotty point of his immediate disposal.
All this time, Obadiah the captain kept
silent, as if taking counsel of his pipe, while
the thin blue wreaths of tobacco-smoke
ascended spirally amidst the driving rain
and hurrying blast. For the rough weather
few or none of that rough band seemed to
care. They were above high-water mark,
and out of reach of the sea ; and as for a
summer storm, who of that seasoned company
flinched from a mere wet jacket ? At
last Obadiah Jedson knocked out the ashes
of his pipe, rose to his feet, and stretched

out his lengthy arm, with much the air and
bearing of some grim, preaching corporal
of Cromwell's scarlet-coated cuirassiers.

Lads and lasses,' began the captain,
many's the time and oft that it has been
borne in upon me to chide the speaker of
idle words concerning the thing that ye, in
your simplicity, call luck ; and mainly when,
in your goodwill towards your old leader,
you linked it with mention of me — of me !
as if a poor, miserable, blinded worm, that
is less than the least, had power to heal or
to hurt, or could insure good seasons and a
well-stocked cupboard. But one thing I
do know : that when what you call luck,
and what the Romans of old time knew by
the grander name of the Diva Fortuna,
knocks at the door, it bodes ill for those
who linger to lift the latch and fling open
the house to the guest. AYe will take this

child with us ; he shall eat of our bread,
and drink of our cup; and so, with Heaven's
help, shall neVer the meal of meat nor the
horn of ale fail us. Here is this young
innocent, saved from the dread sea as a
strayed lamb in winter-time from snow-wreaths
and biting winds on some bleak
and barren daleside ; and, while Obadiah
Jedson has a crust or a roof-tree, the boy
shall be welcome to both. Here's my niece
Kezia, that's a widow, as you know, and has
had bairns of her own, and knows the ways
of children, to care for the lost little one
when these hands are busy with pick and
shovel; and in the long winter evenings
I can teach him a bit of the book-craft that
helps a lad far on the up-hill road of life.
So now, mates, get ready, and northward
ho !'

They set forth on their northward

march, climbing, in Indian file, the steep
and difficult path which ascended the
cliff, with the sureness of foot which
practice affords, and none the less confidently
that most of them where laden
with burdens more or less heavy. Obadiah,
their captain, as was his wont, brought
up the rear, needfully carrying the boy
in his huge arms, half sheltered from
the rain by the loose jacket of coarse
blue Guernsey cloth that the jet-hunter
wore. Little Don was still slumbering.
Once he had awakened from his sleep,
but seeing Obadiah looking smilingly
down upon him, he had yielded again
to lassitude, and was soon trustfully unconscious
whither his new and strange
protector was bearing him along the
.storm-lashed shore.

CHAPTER III.

THE SOLDIERS' SLOUGH.

'It sounds like " Help I" Dame Kezia,'
exclaimed the young man, whose quick
ears had first caught the distant sound,
and who now thrust aside his books, and
started to his feet. ' Something must
have happened down dale.'

'Let a be! let a be!' grumbled the
woman to whom he spoke, looking up
from some household task in a remote
corner, and turning a wholesome, wrinkled
face towards the first speaker. 'Ale in r

wit out, my deary. It is hay-harvest time
now, and so many rambling lads about,
besides the Irish that come from beyond
the sea, and '

But at this juncture a shadow darkened
the door, and into the house-place of the
lonely dwelling — one of those houses plainly
built of dry stone, of which we see so
many in the north of England, and in the
southern counties few or none — burst a
panting runner.

Captain !' cried out the breathless messenger
of ill. 'Captain — why — Mr. Don
where ver's Captain Jedson and the rest ?'

'Not back yet from Whitby way,' answered
the woman who was called Kezia,
peering at the new-comer. 'My uncle,
Captain Obadiah, sent us word by noon,
in a letter, by John Anderson, the Hull
carrier. There's none here but me and

my nursling, our Don, and won't be till
tomorrow.'

The young man who had been the first
to hear the distant cry, and the first to
speak, now came forward from where he
had been seated beside the long, rough
table, littered with books and manuscripts.

'Anything wrong, Joe?' he asked.

Joe, who was a lathy lad, splashed with
mire and hot with speed, let his jaw drop
with an expression of the most profound
dismay.

'None here but thee, Mr. Don!' he
said, mournfully; 'then it's all up wi'
them, poor souls ! — all the seven. I got
free, but they are trapped, like so many
mice, to smother and drown ; for who is
to draw them out of the Soldiers' Slough,
dragged as they are, Mr. Don ? and all
along of Rufus Crouch being so venturesome.

Not that I'd # blame him now, poor
chap !'

1 It was an ill day when the prospect,
that red-haired Rufus Crouch, ever came
in among us jet-seekers !' was Kezia's comment.
'He'd better have stuck to Australia
and his gold-digging than '

1 Hush, dame !' said the young man who
had been addressed as Mr. Don, and who was
singularly handsome. He was perhaps a
couple of years older than the bringer of
the news — say, twenty years of age — with
dark brown hair that curled naturally
round his handsome head, with bold, bright
eyes, and a face that in a woman would
have been called beautiful. His figure,
lithe, strong, and as well-proportioned as
that of a Grecian statue, matched well
with his fair, fearless face. He was simply
clad, but the red shirt and the coarse blue

sailor's garb became him well. It was n
uncommon among that manly race of
dwellers by the \ to find comely and
well-grown lads, but it was admitted that
from the Tweed to the H umber, and so
southwards to the Wash, Don — or ' Mr.
Don,' as he was habitually called — was
not as other lads, even the best and the
bravest ; that he was like a young prince,
and that none could vie with him for
daring or for grace. 'Hush, dame!' said
Don, gently. • Let Joe Nixon tell his
tale.'

Joe Nixon's tale was soon told. He
had been one of a party detached from
the main band of jet-hunters, and influenced,
if not actually commanded, by
Rufus Crouch, the ex Australian gold-digger.
They had lit upon-signs.' in
the shape of fragments of buried jet, late-vol.

I. E

ly uncovered by the effects of a strong
north-wester and a troubled sea, which
had made Rufus, always over-sanguine,
feel confident that a rich booty was to
be won before tide-rise between the Gannet
Rocks and the Soldiers' Slough ; so
they had all ventured out, with pick and
shovel, and had actually found some jet,
but had been driven by the incoming
sea from the Gannet Rocks, and, finally,
had become ' dragged ' in the dangerous
quicksand that lay but an arrow-flight
away, Joe Nixon alone having the power
of escape, and having run as fast as lungs
and limbs would allow, to summon help
for the unfortunates left behind. But
this was one of those cases in which it
is easier to call for aid than to bring
timely rescue.

'Soldiers' Slouch: that means a 

drawn high, but no coffin nor
Christian rites,' remarked Dame Kezia,
with a shudder. ' If Uncle Bad had
been here '

I wish he were,' interrupted Don. ' But
we must do our best, though the chance
is a bad one. That terrible quicksand
would swallow a regiment after turn of
tide. It earned its ill name long ago.'

'Deed it did !' croaked Kezia : ' when
a whole piquet of dragoons, helping the
mounted gaiters to chase the fair-trade
folk— smugglers, they called them — got
'gulfed there, horse and man, sword and
carbine ; and there they lie yet, and will
lie, till the Judgment. They weren't the
first, bless ye, that came to their death
in the Soldiers' Slough, and they won't
be the last, though they gave name to
the place. Joe, were Anne Shaw and

e 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OIF Dunois

young Tom Brown among the poor creatures
yonder?'

Yes, they were,' curtly responded Joe ;
and then piteously added, 'Mr. Don, can't
ye bear a hand to save the mates, though
'tis hard, and you and I alone ?'

'We'll try,' answered the young man,
cheerily, as he snatched his cap and caught
up a long iron-tipped fen-pole that stood
propped against a rafter. ' Come along,
Joe !'

'Don't be hazardous, Don, my dove!'
exclaimed the woman, in some alarm.
It's well to be brave, but there's no use
being over-stubborn when things go ill.
What should I say to the captain if '

You dear old Kezia !' rejoined the
young man, laughingly. 'Would you
make a milksop and a landsman of me of
a sudden ? No, no ; a jet-hunter must

never call in vain with a mate at hand.
I'll come back, never fear me, but not
alone. At present there is no time to be
lost.' And he sallied forth, with Joe at
his heels.

I should break my heart,' sobbed the
woman, as she threw herself into a chair,
and pressed the apron to her eyes — ' yes,
I should, if aught of harm befell my
nursling — the bonny bairn ; and for Rufus
Crouch and his conceit, though jet-hunters
should be true to jet-hunters in the hour
of ill, and so I thought myself before the
rheumatics made half a cripple of Kezia
Gray.'

The dale into which Don and his followers
emerged was one of the stoniest and
narrowest of those valleys which cleave
the coast of a portion of North Yorkshire.
There was a brook, of course, that trickled

or raced, according to the rainfall, towards
the sea. There were sides, more or less
precipitous, and above was a table-land
which in common parlance was styled the
Wold ; but within the dale itself opened
out unexpectedly to the explorer fertile
dells and lateral valleys, where farmhouses
of grey stone stood among apple-trees,
and where there were meadows in
the deep grass of which the fat kine
browsed peaceably. Just then haymaking
was in full progress, and in a large "held
on Farmer Thorpe's land, some quarter of
a mile away, many workers of both sexes
were gathered. Most of these knew the
young man who had been called Don.
They stood, leaning on their rakes and
forks, staringly, when Don burst into the
midst of them, with Joe Nixon at his
heels.

1 Lads,' exclaimed the young man, eagerly,
' I want strong arms and true hearts to
go along with me on an errand of mercy.
Seven poor creatures, jet-seekers like myself,
are in mortal peril hard by, dragged
in the Soldiers' Slough — the terror of our
shore. Joe here has got free, and brought
the news. Bear a hand, Beckdale lads —
help us, Yorkshiremen, whose homes are
further away — help us too, Irish boys,
who have come across St. George's Channel
to earn honest bread by working side
by side with us in England here. Come,
then, and come quickly. Captain Jedson
is away at Whitby. There's not a jet-hunter
here save Joe and me. Yet help
must be given to the poor souls perishing
yonder in that cruel quicksand, even if we
two have to go alone. For the credit of
Yorkshire, for the honour of Beckdale, I

hope, lads, you'll not refuse me, when the
lives of Christian men and women hang
trembling by a thread.'

Then arose a turmoil of mingled voices
in dispute. Farmer Thorpe himself, a
notorious curmudgeon, anxious to save
his fine crop of hay, as the saying is, without
a shower, and quite callous to sentiment,
was very much opposed to any
wholesale desertion of their work on the
part of his hired men. Such a breach of
contract, he declared, should be punished,
not only by pay withheld, but by magisterially
inflicted pains and penalties. And
there were some few of the elder haymakers
who more cared for their own ease
than for the safety of those in peril.
Luckily, however, a more generous spirit
animated the bulk of those present. Forks
and rakes were flung aside, and a general

move was made towards the beach, the
impulsive Irish vying with the native
dalesmen in enthusiasm, and loudly declaring
that ' Don the jewel ' was a boy
out of a thousand, and that none but
heathen hounds would refuse to follow so
spirited a leader.

On their way shorewards, Don called a
halt in front of another farm, silent and
deserted now, since the hay had been
stacked.

Mr. Fletcher,' he said to the stooping,
sturdy old yeoman who stood on his worn
doorstep, i you have a lot of boards about
there beside your barn, and two old rick-cloths
; these, if you would grant us the
loan of them in saving the lives of those
dragged in the Soldiers' Slough, would be
worth much to us. I will be responsible
for the value of any we may lose.'

j

• And how if you lose yourself, lad, and
don't come back with the things or the
brass ?' hesitatingly demanded the senior.

In that case, it is to Obadiah, your
neighbour, and our captain, that you must
look for payment,' replied Don, cheerily.
May we have them, old friend ?'

Ay, ay!' grumbled the farmer; ' but
have a care, have a care, my bairn.
There'll be moist eyes in more houses than
one if ye come not back.'

And, without farther remonstrance, he
saw planks and rick-cloths seized upon
and borne away backwards. The lower
end of the dale once reached, and the
sand-hills crossed, there could be seen the
black, serrated line of half-sunken Gannet
Rocks, around which the wavelets rippled.
The tide was coming in, but there was nota
breath of wind, and the sea was like a

mill-pond. Some arrow-shot or so away
was a brown shining something, that
looked like an ugly patch on the pure
whiteness of the spreading sands, and towards
the outer edge of which, nearest to
the Gannet Rocks, appeared certain dark
specks — human beings, clearly, and in sore
need, for the Soldiers' Slough had them in
its dread clutch, and they were already
too deeply involved in the meshes of that
fatal net to be able to extricate themselves
by any exertions of their own.

On, on !' cried Don, bounding forward ;
and at a run his followers cleared the
stretch of flat beach which intervened between
them and a low sand-bank, seamed
with jagged rocks, at the landward edge
of the famous quicksand.

There they are, all, as yet !' exclaimed
Joe Nixon. 'That's Rufus, nighest to the

■)

Gannets, with one hand on the blackstone,
and those two nearer are Annie
Shaw and old Peterson. But we've no
time to lose, Mr. Don, for see how the
Slouch is alive ; and that means mischief,
as you know.'

And indeed the hideous surface of the
slimy quicksand seemed to heave and
slowly quiver, as if some sleeping monster
were breathing and stirring restlessly beneath.


Help ! for pity's sake, help !' called out
a shrill girlish voice, as Annie Shaw, her
face white and pinched with fear, turned
towards the rescuers.

The grey-haired man beside her, clinging
to a pole now deeply buried in the
sand, was the next to speak.

For any sake, be quick !' he said. ' We
can feel it draw us away — draw us away, as

if we were being sucked into the jaws of
the grave. And it's worse, I fear, with
some of those poor chaps nearer to the
sea, for they're waist-deep in it, and more.'

The crowd hesitated and murmured,
waiting for guidance. Then Don gave
orders promptly and cheerfully, and by
his directions the boards were laid down
one beyond the other, so as to form a sort
of floating bridge, and over this trembling
pathway he himself cautiously advanced,
followed at some little distance by Joe
Nixon, a coil of rope in his hand.

To save Annie Shaw and grey-haired
Mark Peterson was a work comparatively
easy, because they were so near, and not
very deeply engulfed at present. But this
task performed, the two first foundlings of
the lost flock being brought to land, Don
braced himself for the far more arduous

duty that remained. There were yet five
fellow-creatures — five comrades — to he
brought in, while the tide was rising, and
the heaving and shaking of the quicksand,
as if the hidden monster beneath were
stirring in his lair, grew momentarily
more perceptible. This was indeed a service
of danger ; every plank had to be
launched and lashed to the other planks,
while alone; this tremulous and shifting
causeway the adventurers crept on hands
and knees, constantly in contact with the
seething slime below. Don, like some gallant
officer who heads a forlorn hope, led
the way, Joe Nixon following his young-leader.
Then came, but at some distance,
two volunteers, self-chosen from among
the haymakers : one English, the other
Irish — bold young fellows both, but
neither would have cared to face danger

in such a shape but for Don's presence and
example. The rest of the crowd remained
at the edge of the firm land, now reinforced
by sundry fishermen, who had
taken the alarm, and had hurried down
with cordage and spare spars, to be useful
in case of need.

'Have a care, Mr. Don!' — 'Take heed!'
were cries that were frequently uttered by
those on the beach, to many of whom the
young chief of the expedition seemed overbold.
Don, however, his iron-tipped fen-pole
in his hand, continued to advance,
swiftly but cautiously. It was no trifling
task. The trembling planks, often submerged,
afforded but an insecure causeway
that at every instant seemed in danger of
being swallowed up in the tenacious mud
and wet marl of the slough. The quicksand
heaved and swelled, as if resentful

of the effort that was being made to rob
it of its prey, and time — precious moments
— had to be lost in bringing forward
and launching fresh pieces of wood. The
narrow gangway often seemed on the point
of being sucked down into the unknown
depths below, but the youthful leader
of the party never quailed or hesitated for
an instant, but pressed on, testing the
quick-sand with his fen-pole as he proceeded.
Often it seemed as if the enterprise
was an impossible one, and that a
little more perseverance would merely
serve to add a grisly legend to the many
which made the Soldiers' Slough a name of
terror to the dwellers on the coast.

1 Don has got the first of them by the
hand — a woman, that is. How she clings
to him, poor thing ! Ellen — Ellen Watson,
that's her name, of Thirst, sister to Ralph

Watson, that's away with the jet-hunters
: very respectably brought up — both,'
chimed in a well-informed bystander.

Well done, Mr. Don ! and well done,
Joe and Dick, and Larry from Ireland ! '
was the general verdict as Ellen Watson,
the first of the five in peril, was pushed,
dragged, helped, and hustled along the
shaking pathway of reeling planks safe to
shore. Then a second victim — a lad this
time — was snatched from the tenacious
grip of the cruel quicksand. Next it was
a married man, with children at home,
and whose wife stood weeping on the
beach, who was helped to struggle out of
the fatal clasp of the quagmire, and to
regain dry land. Then another stripling
was saved ; and with this last act of salvage
it seemed as if the 2;ood work must
end, for already a thin white line of

VOL. I. f

streaky tide-foam had reached the broad
shoulders of Rufus Crouch, as he held on
with desperate tenacity to the black rock,
encrusted with mussel-shells and cockles
and sea-weed.

It can't be done !' bawled out. using his
outspread hands as a speaking-trumpet, a
patriarch of the beach. 'Take an old
sailor's advice, Mr. Don, and get back to
shore as quick as you can

Not alone, neighbour Threpham, not
alone !' answered Don, cheerily, but in a
voice that rang like a trumpet call ; and,
as he spoke, for a moment he turned his
noble young face, flushed with excitement,
towards the crowd. They set up a cheer ;
they could not help it. There was not a
man there who did not feel proud of their
champion — of the bold, beautiful boy who
was forcing his way on, in the teeth of

danger, to save a man by no means loved
or lovable.

The deed was done. It was ' touch and
go,' as the veteran lieutenant of the coastguard,
who had hastened down with his
men, to be of use if possible, declared
loudly to all who would listen. Had not
Don been not merely brave, strong, and
ready-witted, but one of those born leaders
of men whom others follow with instinctive
docility, the thing could never have been
achieved; for Joe Nixon and Dick the
dalesman, and Irish Larry ran imminent
risk from both tide and quicksand in the
arduous task of drachms; Rufus Crouch —
to whose rashness the whole calamity was
due — from the embrace of the Soldiers'
Slough. And once, when Rufus had been
reached, and his great hand was grasped

by that well-nerved one of Don's, it seemed

f2

doubtful whether the rescuer would not
be drawn down to perish with the unlucky
jet-seeker. But the deed was done, and
the fifth sufferer dragged forth from the
jaws of the devouring monster of the seashore.


Hurrah for Mr. Don — our Don !
Hurrah, lads !' roared out the old fishing-skipper,
Threpham, who was regarded as
an oracle of the beach, and who was too
large-natured to resent, as some oracles
do, the non-fulfilment of his predicament
of evil. ' Heart of a lion, ay, and strength
of a lion too, young as he is ; to have
brought seven of the poor things to shore
this clay against all odds ! Tis not often
that the Soldiers' Slough has been cheated
that way.'

4 Hurrah for him !' was the universal cry,
as Don, last of all, touched the firm land.

Joe, and Dick, and Larry, as minor, but
approved, heroes, were already receiving
their meed of praise, and hand-shaking,
and patting on the back ; but an odd sort
of respect seemed to hedge in Don from
such familiarities, for only three of those
present ventured to take his hand, and of
these one was the red-faced lieutenant of
the coastguard, and the other Skipper
Threpham, that grey-haired Nestor of the
shore. But the third was the wife of the
man whom Don had saved, and she took
his strong young hand, only to press it to
her lips.

My blessing, and the blessing of my
little ones, that but for you would be
fatherless, be with you always, Mr. Don,' she
said, sobbing. ' How shall we ever thank
you enough, sir — I, and my man, and Annie,
and Mark, and the lads, and Rufus Crouch?'

Rufus, dripping wet, but sturdily planted
on his two large feet, did not look
particularly grateful. He was a broad-built
man of low stature, left-banded, and.
as it were, left-footed too, so awkward and
crab-like were his movements. His hair
was red, and red too was his bushy beard,
which flowed over his breast ; his eyes
were small, shifty, and fierce, and his face
had been burned to bronze-colour by the
hot sun of Australia.

Mates must help mates, dame ; and
Christians, Christians,' lightly returned
the young man who had been called Don.
Come, lads, let us give the farmer back
his planks, and the blue-jackets their ropes,
with thanks for the use of them, and there
will be an end of it.'

Nobody could be less willing than Don
to receive public thanks, or the noisy

expression of the popular approval.
After what had occurred, the excitement
was too great to allow of most
of the assemblage returning to their
regular work in Mr. Thorpe's hatfield or
elsewhere. The public-houses were crammed,
unfortunately, and much ale was
quaffed in honour of Don's gallantry, and
of the signal victory that had been achieved
over the man-devouring quicksand.
But Don himself was permitted to slip
away from the clamorous throng of his
admirers, to regain his abode, to say a
word or two to old Kezia, to change his
clothes, and then to resume his studies as
if nothing remarkable had occurred to
interrupt them. It was not the first time,
young as he was, that his courage and
adroitness had availed to preserve the
lives of others. And he made light of

what lie had done, as it is the practice of
the brave to do, as if his prowess of that
day had been a mere ordinary act of neighbourly
kindness.

CHAPTER IV.

AT Woodbury PARSONAGE.

Glad to see you, Don. I am more than
glad, my young friend, not only to hear
your praises on all men's lips, but to see
my favourite pupil safe and sound after
the risk of yesterday.'

It was not often that the Rector of
Wood burn made a speech so complimentary,
or, indeed, indulged in speech-making
at all. He was a kind man, as well as a
learned one — a specimen of those old-fashioned
clergy who knew Horace at least
as well as the Fathers, and to whom

culture perhaps signified more than zeal.
As such, and having leisure enough, he
had good-naturedly undertaken to assist
young Don, the adopted child of his
eccentric neighbour, old Obadiah Jedson.
in his studies, and the young man was
always welcome to Woodburn Parsonage
whenever the roving nature of a jet-hunter's
calling permitted him to pass an
hour or two in the clergyman's well-stocked
library. On this particular morning both
Mr. and Mrs. Langton, with their orphaned
charge, Miss Mowbray, were evidently
waiting in the garden — a most unusual
occurrence — for Don's arrival, since the
open carriage, with its pair of pretty white
ponies, stood ready before the ivied porch.
Indeed, Mr. Don, we are proud of you ;
and from all I hear we have reason to be
proud,' said kindly, motherly Mrs. Langton,

with her beaming smile, while Miss
Mowbray, who was perhaps a year younger
than himself, and very pretty, timidly held
out her little gloved hand to the young
visitor, and said, hesitatingly, but with
tears in her bright eyes,

We thought of you — so much — yesterday,
and of your great courage, and the
lives you saved from that terrible danger.'

Gently, and almost with reverence, Don
took the little hand for a moment in his,
while his handsome face flushed crimson.

You are too kind to me,' he said, with
manly modesty. ' Any one of the fishers,
any one of the dalesmen, would have done
his best, I am sure, in such a case.'

Then some other words were said, and
Mrs. Langton and her young charge
stepped into the carriage, and were borne
away at the briskest trot of the white ponies,

and, nodding a kind farewell to Don,
vanished from his sight. There stood the
young man, with his books under his arm,
listening, or seeming to listen, to his friend
and patron, the incumbent of the parish,
but in truth quite unconscious of the drift
of the latter's discourse. It was the first
time that Violet Mowbray's tiny hand had
touched his ; it was the first time that he
had seen those lovely eyes of hers dimmed
by tears, and those tears called forth by
his peril, by his daring, by the lives that
he had saved from the jaws of death. Don
may be excused if he was for the moment
an inattentive listener to the Reverend
Samuel Lang ton.

And now a word or two as to Woodburn
Parsonage and its inmates. Truly, the
rector's lines had fallen in pleasant places.
His parsonage — it was always called a parsonage

— was a roomy old house, long and
low, with the trimmest of lawns, the prettiest
of gardens, and the reddest of peach-walls,
nestling in a wooded cleft and sheltered by
protecting hills, flowers all around it, and
the bright sea in front. The prospect was
quite unlike the bleak one of that stony
Beckdale which was shut off by a shoulder
of hill, and composed a portion of the parish.
Mr. Langton was fairly well-to-do in the
world. He was fortunate in his wife and
in his healthy, comely children. He had
not too much, with the help of a curate, todo,
and was tolerably well paid for doing
it; while his easy temper and natural kindliness
of disposition had kept him on good
terms with his neighbours, both with the
few who went to church and the many who
went to chapel. Yet Mr. Langton was not
content.

The fact was that Mr. Langton had
throughout his young days cherished, not
unreasonably, the idea of becoming something
more than Mr. Langton. He had
started in life with sundry advantages,
bearing, as the younger son of a famous
scholar and canon, a known name, and being
himself one of those rare white swans of
the school-room who are industrious as well
as clever. For it is a sad truth, but yet a
truth, that the best brains seldom come to
maturity, seldom produce good marketable
results, in those, earlier years by which
parents and guardians are so apt to judge.
The school prodigy commonly dies of water
on the brain, or breaks down under the
friction of the world. The pupils regarded
as dullards — such as Scott or Gray — wait
for manhood to write their names indelibly
in the Book of Honour which records the

lives of the great. But the Reverend
Samuel Langton had thought and toiled,
and led a blameless life, and earned the
approbation of good authorities and personages
highly placed, and had justifiably
dreamed of lofty preferment as almost
within his grasp. He had taken high
honours at the University, was the winner
of all sorts of prizes, and had been second
master at one of those great public schools
that are as national institutions here in
England, and where the honest labourer is
often deemed worthy of the reward of a
mitre.

In Mr. Langton's case a feeble body, frail
lungs, and a lack of robustness spoiled all
the fair prospects of his laborious youth.
He had never the deep-toned voice, the
imposing address, that make up the chief
requisites of a popular preacher. And

presently he became unfit to carry on his
school work. His pupils — youths of noble
families in many cases, generous English
lads in nearly all — who loved him well for
his unfailing gentleness of temper and untiring
deftness in the difficult art of teaching,
were sorry to part with him, and so
was his titular chief, the head master, and
the authorities of the school. They were
loth to part with him. They had hoped
much from him, who taught so well, who
could, without being an athlete, make the
boys look up to him, and who would be
sure to do credit to the promotion that was
certain to come. But nobody could do
anything for a man whose weak pulmonary
organs could not, during our winter, breathe
the English air — for a man whom his doctors
sent to Nice, or to Cannes, or to
fashionable Moritz, in the barbarous Swiss

desert of the Upper Engadine, or to Algiers,

in a sudden, imperative way. He fell in

love, too, and he married, and so lost his

college fellowship and his prospect of a

college living, and had to quit the great

school, and was out of the race of life. It

was very lucky for poor Mr. Langton that

a man of rank and influence gave him the

vacant living of Woodburn-cum-Beckdale,

with its steady annual income. Everybody

thought that the ex-schoolmaster would

die there, since trips to Nice and Algiers

are out of the reach of your ordinary

parochial clergyman with a growing family.

But, somehow, Mr. Langton had lived, as

people do live, in spite of social predictions

and proscriptions, had profited, perhaps,

by the absence of worry and excitement,

and was rather better in health than on

the day on which he had taken leave

VOL. L O

of his affectionate young pupil-friends.

But the Reverend Samuel Langton was
not exactly a happy man. He felt that he
was too good for his present position in
some respects, not good enough, possibly,
in others. A tender-hearted, estimable
minister of religion, he could not win the
hearts and convince the brains of grown
men and women as he had done in the case
of his boys, eager and receptive, when he
taught and they hearkened. He was
reckoned a good man, but a poor preacher.
He was liked, but not reverenced.

What is a clergyman to do who finds
himself the incumbent ofalar^e, strao-crlmo-
thinly-populated parish, and who has a
curate to help him ; a proud, sturdy set of
parishioners, with hardly any real poor,
any pauperised class, among them : and
who is quite incapable, as a Boanerges

might have been, of preaching the strayed
lambs of his ecclesiastical flock back to
church? He may drop into a mere organiser
of flower-shows, cricket-matches, or lawn-tennis
tournaments. He may give lectures,
or ride such hobbies as a big microscope ora
big telescope, or drill the clod poles of his
parish into chorus-singers. He may become
a confirmed non-resident, and be always
dating his letters from London, Paris, or
elsewhere. Or he may take to literature,
or bee-keeping, or archaeology and the
rubbing of brasses, and rifling of barrows
on commons where many a heathen hero
deemed his burial-mound safe for ever.
Mr. Langton had tried to take to literature.
But there are two sides to that bargain,
and literature would not take to Mr.
Langton. The renowned periodicals to
which he sent his contributions, with little

g2

hope of pecuniary reward, but glad if his
name should remind old rivals, friends,
and pupils that he yet lived and thought,
respectfully declined them. He saw his
inferiors, intellectually speaking, promoted
to deaneries and bishoprics. There he
dwelt, on the quiet Yorkshire coast, and
was glad to have so bright a boy to teach
as bold, beautiful Don was.

And now for the brief history of Violet
Mowbray. The girl was an orphan, as has
been said. Her father, Major Mowbray,
had died in India, and within a few months
his wife, quite young, had followed him to
the crave. Violet — who, like most delicate,
and indeed European, children, had
been sent early to Europe to escape the
sultry heats and rainy seasons of the
Madras Presidency — had been left fatherless
and motherless at an early age. She

was eighteen now, and within a month or
two of her nineteenth birthday, and of the
small income — it was but four hundred a
year — that she had become heiress to so
sadly soon. A considerable part had been
allowed to accumulate, at compound
interest ; so that, as her guardian was
wont to declare, the girl was, for a young
lady, almost rich.

Violet's guardian was, in his way, a
character — a fine example of the old-world
second or third-rate sort of British
merchant, of whom there were so many in
the last century, and are so few in this.
Mr. Marsh lived — actually lived, and gloried
in living — over his place of business in
Dagger Court, City, where he inhabited a
set of grand old rooms, with carved woodwork
and painted ceilings. He was himself
a gruff, upright, sour-spoken old

bachelor, just the sort of man who ought
to have worn a brown coat, and a scratch
wig, and square-toed shoes, and deserved
to be born when Cowper was a schoolboy
and Mr. John Gilpin a living citizen.
Why Major Mowbray selected him as
executor of his will and trustee of his
daughter's fortune is uncertain. The
Mowbray were what are called well-connected
people, and there were Lord Georges
and Lord Fredericks under whose care the
orphan might have been placed. However,
the quaint, gruff Ephraim Marsh proved
himself well worthy of his trust. He could
not take the little girl home to his own
queer eighteenth century dwelling, where
he was waited on by an austere couple of
servitors, a certain Mr. and Mrs. Juniper,
butler and housekeeper, of whom he was
secretly afraid, and who had been in his

father's service before they passed, as of
risdit, into his. But he sent her to a good
school, and presently contrived to find a
temporary home for her under the roof of
his niece, Mrs. Langton.

It would never have done for so fair a
flower as Violet Mowbray to have been
transplanted from school to such an
abiding-place as Dagger Court, E.C., and
to have no female companionship but that
of severe old Sarah Juniper, never known
to smile or to pocket a sixpence not strictly
belonging to her. As for Mr. Marsh
himself, he was one of those who seem to
atone for sterling excellence by a disagreeable
manner and a forbidding look. He
belonged to an angling club, and in
summer spent his holiday afternoons in
capturing gudgeon, hooking roach, and
Collins; at the steam-launches that in

carelessness or malice half capsized his
peaceful punt with their wash and splash,
somewhere about Thames Dittonn. He belonged
to a chess club, and in winter
passed his evenings in tough, slow contests
with veteran opponents. It was only on
Sundays that he dined in Dagger Court.
His beautiful, dainty young ward would
have pined and died in an atmosphere so
uncongenial. Luckily for her, Mr. Marsh
had remembered his niece, the wife of the
Yorkshire clergyman, and luckily, too,
there was room for her in the comfortable
parsonage, while the two hundred a year
that she brought along with her — half
her income — was serviceable in eking
out the ways and means of the rector's
family.

It has been said that Violet was very,
very pretty. So she was ; but there are

styles, as well as degrees, of prettiness.
She was not tall. She had a most delicate
complexion, in which the colour came and
went, almost too sensitively ; a white, oval
forehead, sunny hair, and large grey eyes,
fringed by dark lashes, so long and full as
to touch the peach-like cheek when those
beautiful eyes were downcast. There had
been doubts at first, as often happens with
children Indian-born, as to whether she
would survive to womanhood ; but she
had gained health and strength during the
years she had spent at Woodburn, and was
well and active now.

That Don should have admired her, seeing
her often, as he necessarily did — since
he was a frequent and welcome guest at.
the parsonage, where Mr. Langton esteemed
the young jet-seeker as the best and
quickest pupil that he had ever helped

along the rugged road to learning — is
perhaps not wonderful.

See him — Don — now, as he slowly walks
away, his books under his arm, down the
winding road that leads to the shore, the
lesson of the day over. He is thinking-much
less of Mr. Langton and his kindness
— although it is in his nature to be
grateful — than of the witchery of those
grey eyes that belong to Violet Mowbray,
of the touch of that little hand, the very
sense of contact with which had sent the
blood coursing and thrilling through his
veins. These young people had often
met, but very slight had been the actual

1 Jo

intercourse between them. The inequality
of their condition forbade all familiarity,
Don, though a bright, gallant lad, beloved
by all, was a mere jet-hunter— a foundling
a nobody. Miss Mowbray, though not

rich, was a lady born, able to count kin,
had her inclinations been genealogical,
with more than one noble family, and between
her and the waif of the sea-shore
there seemed to exist a social gulf, impassable.
Youth is proverbially hopeful
; but even in Don's eyes the difference
of rank seemed one too great to be surmounted.


'I have loved her since I knew what
love meant :' such were his muttered
words, as he descended the winding road ;
'but I know that she is far out of my
reach as are the stars that shine down
upon me. What am I ? Only a jet-seeker :
only the adopted son of a kindly, eccentric
old man. Perhaps, if the mystery that
hangs over my birth were but cleared up
but no ! I must be patient, and hide
my heart's dearest wishes, even from her,

under a cold bearing. It would be base
indeed to presume on Mr. Langton's simple
kindness.'

CHAPTER V.

GOLDEN TIDINGS.

Amongst the many grand houses — or i palatial
mansions,' as the fashionable house-agents
in their ornate catalogues love to
style them — which have the advantage of
overlooking Hyde Park, that of Sir Robert
Shirley was by no means the least
splendid or spacious. There are baronets
and baronets, no doubt. This was a long-descended
wearer of such hereditary
honours as accrue to the Red Hand of
Ulster. Shirley is an ancient name,

and those who bore it had always been
estate gentlemen of high degree. It was
Sir Harry who, after fighting on the
Royalist side at Naseby and Worcester,
cut down his oaks, melted down his Tudor
plate, and sent five thousand gold broad
pieces to His Sacred Majesty at his out-elbows
court of Bruges, or Breda. The
merry monarch, after the Restoration, had
never found it convenient to repay the
advance ; but he had rewarded his loyal
subject by affably winning some more of
his money at greek, or overboard, or
basset, in Whitehall Palace, and bv
creating him a baronet. The two last
owners of Shirley Park had, like their
successor, borne the name of Sir Robert
more often than not clipped into c Bob ' by
their intimates on the race-course and in
the hunting-field. The present baronet

bore the nickname of ' Robert the
Third.'

Sir Robert Shirley was in what was
officially known as his study. Now, even
as baronets vary, so do studies, especially
in a London house, from the cramped little
den, choked with books and littered with
papers, to the stately library, with its long
tables and well-stocked shelves and array
of lamps, and probably space and accom -
notation for busy secretaries and erudite
custodians. But Sir Robert's study could
be classed in neither of these two categories.
In the first place, it was not
furnished as befits a study. One cannot
study without books, nor can a man
commit his thoughts to paper without
the concomitant aids of pen and ink ;
whereas, in the Shirley town library there
were no books — at least, none worth

mentioning. As works of reference, there
were the Stud Book, the Racing Calendar,
and a few volumes, bound in crimson,
of a sporting magazine. There was a red
velvet divan, well-cushioned, and also
lounging-chairs of red velvet, and little
tables on which lay cigar-boxes and sporting
periodicals, and consoles on which stood
plaint little statuettes in alabaster or marble,
and bronze horses from Milan, with
Turkish pipes and jewelled arms of oriental
make, and all the costly toys with
which the rich surround themselves. There
were pictures upon the walls, small cabinet
paintings gorgeously framed, and which,
if authentic, were very valuable.

Sir Robert was alone. A handsome
man enough, so far as form and features
went, with no reference to expression ;
tall, slender, and of goodly presence. He

was neither old or young — thirty-three,
perhaps, or some two or three years older
with a pale, resolute face, that was
almost waxen in its pallor, hair as black
as the raven's wing, very dark eyes, and
very white teeth. But perhaps the most
prominent feature, if it may be so called,
of the baronet's face was the long black
moustache, carefully trimmed and trained,
gummed and pointed, and the arrangement
of which often caused the lord of
Shirley to be mistaken by strangers for a
foreigner. His was indeed a countenance
rather Italian than English, eminently
aristocratic withal, but one that would well
have suited with the character and the
deeds of some subtle contemporary of
Borgia and Machiavelli — one of those
white-handed patricians who plotted, and
lied, and stabbed, and poisoned smilingly.
vol. I. h

It was a fact that nobody ever had
really loved, nobody had ever really liked,
Sir Robert Shirley. An unpopular boy
at Eton, an unpopular officer in the
Lancer regiment to which he had formerly
belonged, he was now disliked in his club,
or clubs, and tolerated only because the
outer crust of his worldly respectability,
if chipped, had never sustained serious
damage. If the old school-fellows and
ex-brother-officers of the master of Shirley
had been cross-examined as to the
grounds of their antipathy to one who
apparently had much to recommend him,
they would probably have been puzzled
to allege anything positive. ' A sly, close
fellow — still waters that run deep, for no
good,' might have been the verdict both of
Etonians and cavalry subalterns. It was
the same in the bigger world of London.

Few of those who habitually met Sir
Robert knew precisely why he was little
liked, and less trusted by them. It may
have been that he was supremely selfish,
cynical in manner, and careless of the
goodwill of others ; certainly it was not
that he had ever done anything which
should exclude him from the society of
gentlemen, so far as was known. There
had been flying rumours, disparaging
tattle, to the effect that Shirley was more
hawk than pigeon, that he had won cash
and acceptances from drunken lads at
uncanny hours in the morning, had run
his race-horses or scratched their names
with a single-minded idea of profit that
displeased the august magnates of the
Jockey Club ; and that the gilded youths
who frequented his society were certain
sooner or later to be the poorer for his

H2

censorship. But then, so many ill-natured
things are often said concerning a sporting
gentleman with narrowed means and a
mortgaged estate.

Sir Robert Shirley could not afford to
live at Shirley Park, the majestic old
manor at which Queen Bess herself had
in her time been a guest. But he had
a hunting-box hard by Market marlborough,
and a tiny villa near Newmarket,
and he kept up the London mansion pretty
well. Wages may have been in arrear
sometimes, and bills unpaid, but there
were liveried servitors, and carriages and
horses, and bachelor dinner-parties for all
that, while ever and anon there would
set in a halcyon period, a sort of financial
flood-tide, when ready money would
abound, and even long-suffering London
tradesmen derive benefit from the temporary

prosperity of their titled customer.

1 A person. Sir Robert, wishes very
much, if you please, to see you for a
minute. From abroad, I believe,' said the
discreet butler, who had entered quietly,
as a butler should do. 'The man is very
pertinacious, and won't go away.'

'Tell him to write, then,' returned the
baronet, arching his eyebrows, as he looked
up from behind the newspaper in his hand ;
or call the police. One can't afford in
London to be open to all comers, Inns,
as you ought to know.'

Inns the butler coughed apologetically
under his employer's rebuke. It cannot
be reckoned among the faults of town-bred
servants, especially in grand houses,
that they are over-ready to usher in
unknown applicants.

I should not have thought of such a

thing, Sir Robert,' lie said, mildly, ' only
that the party insisted that his name was
well known — name of Crouch, please, Sir
Robert, and '

I do remember such a name. Show
him in,' said the baronet, with a frown.

The visitor was promptly inducted into
the room. A broad, short man, roughly
dressed, in spite of the heat of the weather,
in a coarse pea-coat, such as North Sea
pilots wear, and with heavy boots besmeared
by what was certainly not the
mud of London streets — a man with a
shaggy red beard that fell upon his breast,
with a head of unkempt red hair, and
with little restless eyes, like those of a
wild boar at bay. Not a nice-looking,
frank-spoken, honest-faced sort of man, by
any means. A smooth exterior, a polished
manner can be dispensed with where there

is sterling metal beneath the rugged surface
; but this man was . almost ostentatiously
repulsive of aspect. His was a mien
easy to associate with the shafts and ,
the tents and bivouac fires, of
a gold-diggers' ' rush ' under the Austral
sky. Easier still, perhaps, to link him
with a vision of fallen gum-trees, a
barricade of logs across the dusty
road, and the gleaming gun-barrels and
ragged felt hats of bush-rangers, rising
from their ambush to plunder the caravan

■

of successful gold-seekers — not a pleasant-looking
man.

Sir Robert Shirley, leaning against the
corner of the massive, marble chimney-piece,
his sporting newspaper still in his
hand, might have posed for an ideal portrait
of aristocratic disdain as he lounged
thus, in a graceful but unstudied attitude,

104 SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART.

his sleepy, dark eyes but half unclosed, ashe
languidly turned his handsome whiteface
towards the importunate visitor.

You — wished to speak to me — Mr. '

he said, slowly.

Crouch, Rufus Crouch,' coolly returned
the new-comer, as, uninvited, he selected
an easy-chair, and seated himself. 'No
new name to you, Sir R., now, is it?
But we may as well make ourselves comfortable
before we begin our chat, mayn't
we ?' And, as he spoke, he threw himself
back in the softly-padded chair, and
set down his battered hat among the gewgaws
on the pretty little table within
reach. ' We were pals once : thick as
thieves, as the saying is, hey, Sir R. ?'

The face of Sir Robert Shirley, as,
with haughty surprise, he looked down
upon this extraordinary visitor, would

have made the fortune of the painter
who should have succeeded in transferring
it to the canvas. The sleepy eyes
were now open, and there was fire in
their regard, while the pencilled brows
contracted frowningly, and the well-cut
lips tightened beneath the shade of the
black moustache. So might Caesar Borgia
have looked at a vulgar tool of his who
presumed to be insolent. But in our
prosaic nineteenth century, and in this
England of ours, neither the poisoned
wine-cup nor the daggers of eager satellites
lurking within call are immediately
available to get rid of inconvenient, intruders.
Wherefore the master of Shirley,
with considerable self-control, assumed
a smiling aspect, and, after a
moment's hesitation, sat down almost opposite
to Rufus Crouch, who, from the

vantage-ground of his easy-chair, and perhaps
divining the drift of his thoughts,
eyed him with malicious eyes.

'Well, Crouch, back again, I see. Why,
I thought you fairly settled, under another
name perhaps, in Australia,' said the
baronet, assuming a tone of genuine good-nature,
and playing his part very well.

c 'Ain't all of us, Sir R.,' replied the
man, provokingly, 'that have the luck
to be baronets, or to have the dirty acres
entailed upon us, is it now, Sir R. ? I
know, and you know, how one chap may
get hanged for peeping over the hedge,
and another may steal the horse without
a question asked ; hey, Sir R. ?'

The words were offensive, and the manner
in which they were uttered was more
offensive still. Sir Robert Shirley was
a proud man, apt to resent a liberty on

the part of his social inferiors ; but he
merely laughed now.

'Always the same sour sort of chap,
Rufus, eh?' he said, half-play fully ; 'a
crab-apple, as we said in the west country
as when you carried my second gun
in the battues at Shirley. How did
Australia use you •?'

'Much as Australia —-and England, too,
for that matter — uses them that haven't
been born with a silver spoon in their
mouths, Sir R.,' rejoined the fellow, with
great asperity. ' If I got gold, I spent
gold ; and a dog's life, as a digger, I had
of it, working, ay, working as navvies
never did in a railway cutting ; starve
to-day, feast tomorrow. Not but what
I learned a thing or two as to the lie
of the gold and prospecting.'

And here the man looked thoughtful,

and there was a dash of vanity in his tone.

Yes,' he added, after a pause ; ' yes, the
stuff's nigh everywhere — even here in
England, only you trample over it, and
are blind to it. But the days are done
now for your independent digger t'other
side of the world. No more suggesting ;
no more cradle-rocking. Nothing but big
companies, machinery, wages, and quartz-crushing,
while the beef and the dampers
are as dear as ever, and the rum and the
brandy as murderous. It's a master's
country now, not a poor man's, is .'


And the bush ?' asked the baronet,
lightly.

What do you mean by the bush ?'
growled Rufus, scowling at him as fiercely
as a tiger-cat about to spring.

Nothing, nothing ; don't lose your

temper,' rejoined Sir Robert, equably.
And now, Crouch, what can I do for
you ? Any recommendations, any interest
that I can exert on your behalf, if, as I
conjecture, you are in quest of employment
here at home, I would willingly concede
for the sake of old days, and on
account of your father, who was bailiff
and right-hand man at Shirley, as I can
well remember, in my father's time. One
thing I warn you of — ready money is as
scarce with me as leaves on a birch at
Christmas, so that I can be of little use in

that way ; but '

'You may spare your trouble and your
smooth words, Sir R.,' said Rufus, very
gruffly, but earnestly. ' I could be a quill-driver
again, as I was before, I daresay,
without asking you to make or meddle.
But just now it is Fortune herself, though

you may not think it to look at me, that
knocks at your door, for, Sir Robert
Shirley, Baronet, I come here as the
messenger of golden tidings.'

CHAPTER VI.

THE TRUST-DEED.

Sir Robert Shirley, reluctantly seated
opposite to his plebeian visitor, himself
well-dressed, fastidious, and eyeing the
intruder with haughty surprise and disgust
but thinly veiled, presented a striking-contrast
to the ruffian with whom he conversed.
That Sir Robert was not a goodman
might easily be guessed. But there
was something of grace and elegance to
environ him ? something thoroughbred
about him, villain as he might very

possibly be. Whereas Rufus Crouch, on
this occasion of set purpose, showing the
more salient points of his unamiable
character, appeared a scoundrel, unredeemed
by one touch of gentleness or trait of
excellence. Each of these two men, so
widely divided by rank and worldly circumstances,
had known a great deal about
the other; Rufus's reminiscences being, of
course, the more ample, since it is better
worth the while of a land-bailiff's son to
drink in gossip as to the heir to his
master's title and estates, than for the
future baronet to remember idle tattle as
to the shrewd son of a useful subordinate.
Probably each thought that he had taken
the measure of the other, and probably
both were wrong. The baronet was the
first to speak.

Golden tidings, Mr. Crouch, 1 said Sir

Robert mildly, 'would of themselves ensure
a welcome anywhere. I am not — as I may
tell cousin confidence — a wealthy man, and
such intelligence would be doubly dear tome.
You know that my grandfather left

•

the estates in a bothered condition, and my
poor father, and I myself, I daresay, have
added to the burdens rather than lightened
them, I fear. Well, Rufus, let me hear
your good news. In what Australian gold-mine,
now languishing for lack of capital,
ought I to take shares, with the certainty
of three hundred per cent, annual profits ?
or what buried treasure, in some stony
gully beneath the constellation of the
Southern Cross, can be had for the expenditure
of a few cool hundreds ? and '

'Now, Sir R.,' broke in Rufus, impatiently,
and slapping the table beside him with his
heavy hand, after a fashion that made the

vol. I. I

o

114 SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART.

dainty objects it supported leap or quiver,
I didn't come here to be made game of,
nor yet mocked. I know your bun term
way of old. No ; I'm no tout for a joint-stock
concern in a bad way, nor am I one
of the drivellers who maunder about horse-loads
of the yellow dust and flakes, stowed
away in far-off places of the bush, as some
do. To my thinking, the old country is the
richest. I never saw a rush or a placer to
equal some of the snug, quiet ways of
money-making of which there are so many

in England, and '

He seemed to pause for breath, and Sir
Robert blandly remarked, ' I quite agree
with you, Crouch. Colonial enterprise
opens out, no doubt, fresh held for the
adventurous, but the home market is perhaps
the safest. You learned a good deal,
I am sure, while you occupied the honourable,

if humble, position of confidential
clerk to the late Mr. Bowman — Lawyer
Bowman, as we generally called him in
Somersetshire — before your worthy employer
had the sad loss of-memory and
physical strength which succeeded to the

paralytic stroke, and before you '

Cut away with his cash-box,' interjected
Rufus, glaring at his entertainer ; ' that's
about what your civil chat comes to, Sir
R. Shirley, Baronet. Yes, I bolted. And
not only did I carry with me the ready
coin and notes — little enough, I promise
you, and which melted like snow in the
sun — that the miserly old hunks kept by
him, but every valuable paper that his big-iron
safe contained, some of them dating
from before the time that I first was indentured
to him as his articled clerk. I made
a clean sweep. Settlements, wills, mortgage

i 2

deeds — all were fish that came to my net
just before my start for Topsyturvy land.
I landed in Australia with precious little
money, but with a heavy heap of parchments,
I can tell you, Sir R.'

1 Let me hope, for your sake, that the
parchments proved precious too,' said Sir
Robert affably, but arching his eyebrows
once more. ' Of the morality of the transaction
that preceded your — departure from
your native land, I prefer to say nothing.
It was irregular, of course. It might
have caused inconvenience to yourself, on
account of the inveterate prejudices of the
public at large, and of the peculiar view of
judges, magistrates, and other legal functionaries
with respect to the erratic freaks of
genius. I give no opinion ; it is no concern
of mine. I am not the Public Prosecutor,
nor can I be numbered among the

law officers of the Crown, and therefore

Ay; and, Sir R., those that live in glasshouses
can't afford to fling stones,' coarsely
retorted Rufus. ' We don't care to set our
neighbour's rick on fire, for fear of our own
kindling up, do we, Sir R. ?'

Sir Robert Shirley's pale face may
have become a shade the paler, and he
winced a very little, as a daintily-groomed
horse winces under a stinging stroke of the
whip. Bat he managed to smile as he made
answer,

You were always a philosopher,
Crouch, in your cynical way. Most men
have their foibles, I am afraid, and few of
us, in the Palace of Truth, would come off
scatheless and unrebuked. What I regret
is that you should deem it necessary to
assume a hostile tone towards one who has
always wished you well. It is not as if our

interests were at variance ; I don't say that
in the least.'

No bones broke and no offence taken,
Sir R. Shirley, Baronet,' grumbled out
Rus us, as his restless eyes scanned the white,
handsome face of his former acquaintance,
'so long as you recollect the job we both
had a hand in.'

1 1 should prefer to say, the service you
once rendered me,' chimed in Sir Robert,
with genial cordiality.

'The job of which I have the proofs,'
went on the inexorable Rufus. ' I don't
want to be always throwing it in your
teeth, Sir R. ; only, when one's got a pistol
handy, one has got a pistol. Suppose that
business brought to light, and sifted in a
court of justice, and reported in the papers,
and so forth, how tongues would wag at the
Pall Mall Clubs, wouldn't they, Sir R. ? It

would be, "Who'd have thought it?" from
some, and " I always knew he'd been up to
games of some such sort," from those that
prided themselves on being knowing ones,
and a sad disgrace it would be too, wouldn't
it, Sir R. ? A rough chap like myself
wouldn't suffer half so much in oakum-picking,
or on the crank, or quarrying
stone at Portland or Princeton, as a white-fitted
gentleman like yourself, Sir R., used
to the best of everything.'

1 Confound you! don't try me too much,'
broke out the baronet, passionately, as a
faint tinge of angry crimson rose to his
brow, and his dark eyes glanced, perhaps
mechanically, towards a bijou cabinet, behind
the locked doors of which, as he well
knew, a loaded revolver lay for purposes of
self-defence. But in a moment more he
laughed with apparent frankness. 'All this

time you have forgotten to explain to me,
Crouch, the nature of your golden tidings,'
said the baronet, with no sign of ill-temper.
' I could only gather that they
are in some way connected with the documents
which you — conveyed, we will call
it — to Australia with you. And, if so, I
am at a loss to conjecture in what manner
their contents could possibly affect me.
Old Mr. Bowman had ceased to be my
father's country solicitor full two years
before your hasty journey to the Antipodes,
and I am pretty sure that the Shirley
deed-boxes, with their musty freight of
mortgage deeds and leases in counterpart,
had long before your departure been
transferred to lurking-places in another
office.'

'Now, Sir R.,' said the ex-gold-digger,
grimly, 'you must take me for a new

chum, indeed, as we say in Australia, if
you think I would have burdened myself
with such rubbish as that. No, no ; I had
other fish to fry. Far off in the bush,
when others slept, I've sat up, many's the
night, in my tent, poring by the flickering
light of a stump of candle over the papers
and parchments I had with me. Most of
them were useless, only fit to be cut into
tailors' measures, but some were better
worth, and one in particular. You ain't
married, Sir R. ?' abruptly, and as if a
sudden thought had struck him, demanded
the man, and there was something of dismay
in his tone.

I thank you for the kind consideration
which, I am sure, prompts your inquiry,'
rejoined Sir Robert, gravely. 'No, I have
not the happiness to be married.'

1 That's right !' emphatically exclaimed

the returned adventurer, with another
sounding slap of his heavy hand on the
unoffending table. ' For in that case, Sir
R., I should have had to go further afield
in search of a partner, and that would
have been a pity, wouldn't it, since you
and I understand each other, don't we?
Well, Sir R., since you are single still,
you're my man, if you please. And you

i

ought to be much obliged to me, too, for
it is one word for me and two for yourself:
what with the fine fortune, and what with
the charming young wife.'

It was a genuine look of surprise which
came into Sir Robert Shirley's face, and
for a moment he seemed in doubt as to
whether he were not conversing with a
lunatic. He shrugged up his shoulders,
as a Frenchman would have done.

'Excuse my astonishment, Crouch,' he
said, incredulously ; i I never contemplated
you until this instant in the somewhat
novel character of a match-maker. Hitherto
I have kept clear of the rose-bowers and
raptures of matrimony ; why, I hardly
know. Perhaps I was fastidious in my
choice. Perhaps there would have been a
hitch as to settlements, for Shirley, as you
are perhaps aware, my friend, is dipped
beyond redemption in the black quagmire
of debt.'

I can got you out of debt, Sir R.,
indeed I can,' said the rough visitor,
earnestly. c I can set you free from duns,
and make your life easy to you — for your
life, at least.'

I should be satisfied with that. Your
power to aid, friend Crouch, does not, I

opine, reach beyond the grave,' said Sir
Robert, languidly. 'What I want you todo
is to come to the point.'

c I'm coming to it, Sir R., was the man's
sullen answer. ' Now, you must know, I
get my bread as a jet-hunter on the Yorkshire
coast, Whitby way. A nice business
it is ! Why, only last week I was all but
drowned, buried alive, along with others
of the gang, in a quicksand. I'd not have
been here to-day, Sir R., but for a young
jackanapes.'

You were very much obliged to the
jackanapes, no doubt,' said the baronet,
showing his white teeth.

I hate the curly-haired, dandy chap,
with his gentleman airs, as I hate poison !'
growled Rufus ; 'but that's neither here
nor there. I only spoke to say what a
calling it is for a man who has seen better

days. Well, Sir R., our captain, as we
jet-hunters call him, has a house in Beck-clare,
parish of Woodburn, near Dane-borough,
and that part of the coast, being
rich in jet, and as well-known to old
Obadiah as his farmyard is to any farmer,
has come to be in a sense our headquarters.
Now-^-you see I am open with
you, Sir R. — in Wooclburn parish, ay, and
in Woodburn Parsonage, lives the young
lady whom I should like to see as Lady
Shirley.'

Indeed ! may I ask her name ?' demanded
Sir Robert.

Her name, Sir R.,' returned the man,,
grudgingly, but with emphasis, ' is Violet
Violet by name, I should say, and by
nature, for she is a timid, pretty young
lady, nineteen years of age, and knows nothing
of the world's ways, and just as little

of the fact that she's a great heiress.'
Upon my word,' said the baronet,
coolly, l you have traced a very charming
portrait of rural loveliness and simplicity.
What is the name of this wood-nymph ?
Nereid, rather, as a dweller on the solitary
sea-coast — and what the amount of
the fortune which she has unconsciously
the power to bestow ?'

The fortune,' replied Rufus, slowly, and
fixing his small keen eyes upon the white
impassive face of his aristocratic host, c was
at the first seventy thousand pounds. It
must be a goodish bit more by this, rolling
up as it has been for years. Think,
Sir R., what such a heap of ready cash
would be to you.'

There came a flash into Sir Robert's
sleepy dark eyes, and his whole countenance
seemed to brighten.

Sure of the sum-total, Crouch ?' he
asked, eagerly.

The fellow nodded.

Now for her surname, then T inquired
the baronet — 'though if she were Snooks
or Snio-o's I could condone it, double-gilded

OO ' t"

as it would be by such a dower — if only
there's no mistake as to the money.'

'No, Sir R.,' interrupted the ,
arum v. 'And there's just as little
mistake as to the young lady that owns it.
Miss Violet Mowbray is her name, and
from all I hear the Mowbray are as good
as even the Shirley, so far as pedigree
goes. This young girl is an orphan. Her
father was an officer that died in India.
Her mother died there too. She has a
small income, and her guardian, a tough
old City bachelor, arranged for her to reside
with his own niece, our parson's wife,

Mrs. Langton. She has grown up in that
quiet nook, and knows no more of the
thumping sum she is entitled to than
I do whether it will freeze or thaw next
Christmas.'

4 How do you know of it, Rufus ?' asked
the baronet. ' Some will, eh, that formed
part of your spoil on leaving your former
employers ?'

Not a will,' answered Crouch, with a
wink. ' Wills may be revoked and codicils
added ; but this is a snugger sort of thing.
This is a trust-deed. But that is about all
I have to tell gratis, Sir R. Shirley,
Baronet.'

And, indeed, nothing more by the most
skilful diplomacy could be extracted from
Rufus. He certainly had not brought the
valuable document with him, nor would
he give any further information as to its

contents until a bargain had been struck,
and his own recompense or share agreed
to. Nor would he, on that occasion, name
his price — that was a matter for future
consideration. What he desired to know
was whether Sir Robert would ' come into
it ' heart and soul, and take immediate
steps to bring the scheme to a successful
conclusion. Sir Robert was ready enough
to lend his aid, but he demurred to
taking what he called ' a leap in the
dark.'

1 1 don't ask you to marry, Sir R.,' said
the former confidential clerk of Lawyer
Bowman, at last, ' without better security
than my bare word that the bride's little
hand is weighted with much gold. But
then, suppose she shouldn't fancy you ?
Or suppose something should happen?
We all know the proverb about the cup

VOL. I. K

and the lip. My interest and yours,
though, go in the same groove. And what
I advise is, come down to Yorkshire and
judge for yourself.'

Perhaps it would be better so,' returned
the baronet, slowly ; ' though to leave
London in the full season is a sacrifice, of
course. When first you spoke of Dane-borough,
Woodburn, and so forth, I recollected
a dreary old place of my father's in
those parts that I haven't seen since I was
a boy, and never thought to see again —
Helston, they call it. The house has been
shut up for years, but it belongs to me
after all, and it lies, I remember, just
about the upper end of Beckdale, and four
miles from the sea. I miffht 20 down
there, if this prize of yours be really worth
the winning.'

You never did a wiser thing in your

life, Sir R., rely on it, than following up
the golden clue that I have put into your
hands,' said Rufus Crouch, picking up his
hat and rising from his seat. ' So goodbye
for the present, Sir R. Shirley, Baronet.
Our next talk, with your leave, had better
be in Yorkshire. No need to write to me.
News flies fast in a country-side, and when
you come to Helston I'm certain to hear
of it. Meanwhile, your humble servant.'

And, with no more formal leave-taking,
the ill-assorted confederates parted.

k2

CHAPTER VII.

THE JET-HUNTERS.

Strike work !' shouted a powerful voice.
Gold is better than silver, and light than
dark, and Gospel truth than vain imaginings.
Down with shovel and bar and pick ;
down with spade and basket, lads and
lasses, and give thanks, old and young,
for the plenteous harvest of this day. Fora
harvest it is, full measure and heaped
up, and ready to be garnered, that lies
ready to your hand.'

It was Obadiah Jedson who spoke, and

a picturesque figure did the aged captain
of jet-hunters present, as he suddenly
appeared standing on a flat-topped rock,
the highest of a rugged reef of storm-beaten
stones, at the foot of which some
fifteen members of his company were busy
at their usual toil on the sea-beach. Years
had not bowed the gigantic fi 2*ur<j of
Obadiah Jedson. and the long. thin, grey
locks that streamed from under his broad-brimmed
hat only served to add to the
impressiveness of his aspect. There he
stood, in his coarse, working garb, towering
aloft, and bearing himself with a
dignity that was perhaps not wholly unstudied.
Beside him stood Don. It was
a bright June morning, and the hour so
early a one that the glorious summer
sunrise was not as yet an accomplished
fact, and the golden rays vet flecked and

SIR HUBERT SHIRLEY, BART.

kissed with tremulous light the dancing
azure of the sea. Inland the green corn
waved in billowy masses before the gentle
breeze, and the lark soared high above the
rising downs, straining its little throat as
it poured forth its world-old carol of hope
and joy. There were streaks of lilac and
rose-pink that clung to hazy cloud-threads
in the dappled sky. The jet-seekers, some
straggling, others collected in a group,
with upturned faces, looked towards their
captain, as if waiting to hear more.

Time had confirmed, instead of lessened
the influence of Captain Jedson over
those who co-operated with him in his
strange industry. The average muster-roll
of the jet hunters' company may have
been shorter than of old, but that was
because new openings and fresh careers
allured away the recruits who would once

have thrown in their lot with the explorers
of the sea-shore. Jet, like other commodities,
fluctuates in its market price on
account of the caprices of fashion. Sometimes,
in the years which had followed that
memorable day on which the foundling of
gentle birth, who was still known as Don,
and Don alone, had been met with on the
lone sea-beach, the value of jet had sunk
so low that few except Captain Obadiah's
company, sorely shrunken in numbers
went on pursuing so unprofitable a trade.
Then there came, perhaps from abroad, a
sudden and imperative demand that far
exceeded all possible sources of supply.
Jet was wanted for everything, from a
shoe-buckle to a rosary-bead. The dresses
of Parisian great ladies were incomplete
unless trimmed with sprays and festoons
cf jet, while brooches, crosses, fans, and



bracelets had to be manufactured in hot
haste, as fast as English dealers could
export the raw material. These, of course,
were palmy days for the veterans of the
coast.

It was not merely because Obadiah
Jedson knew his trade, nor was it only
because he was an upright man, as to
whose integrity even Rufus Crouch, one
of the newest, and certainly the most
cantankerous of the company, would not
have dared to cavil, that the gaunt old
chieftain was reverenced. There had
grown up a legend, which was more or
less implicitly believed in by those who
followed him, to the effect that Captain
Obadiah's long good fortune was due to
supernatural aid. It was not merely that
he had never been driven, like others, to
abandon his career under the sharp pinch

of poverty, and was reputed to have actually
saved money ; but then, his escapes
from mortal peril had been so frequent,
and his prudence had availed to save so
many times the lives of those under his
orders, that the captain was less honoured
for the prizes he had won than for the
dangers he had eluded. It is a hard
business, that of the jet-hunter.

Perhaps one reason for Obadiah's remarkable
personal influence over others
was that, often and weightily as he spoke,
he was a reticent man, who would brook
neither jest nor questioning. That he
had once been a teacher in a school, and,
subsequently, an engineer in a great
silver-mine in South America, was known.
He was, therefore, superior in education
and experience to those whom he led,
but not so superior as to be cut off by

a gulf of taste rather than knowledge
from the untutored beings around him.
That he was a religious man, as well as
an honest one, none could doubt. He
would sit for hours under the lee of a
rock, turning the pages of the little Bible
that was his constant companion, and
sometimes he said a word or two in
public that made more impression on the
hearers than most sermons did, but he
never preached, as some north country
laymen with deep religious convictions
are wont to do.

What is it, captain ?' asked one of the
elder men, after a pause. ' Aught of good
luck would be welcome here, for not a
poor half-crown's worth '

4 Peace, Hiram Young !' interrupted the
captain, with some sternness, as he lifted
his bony hand. ' If there be a heathen

word in our English speech, a word I
hate, it is that word " luck," which comes
ever so readily to your lips, mates. If
there be a word to bring with it confusion
to the boastful user .thereof, it is-that
pagan name for a pagan fancy. What
is written is written, ay, with pens of
flame and ink imperishable, and on a
scroll that shall last while time shall endure.
And what is written is the tiling
that shall be, the thing that had been
settled before the foundations of the world
were laid. Enough. Lads and lasses,,
ye remember my dream — the dream that
on Thursday last I told you of?'

'We do'— 'We do'— 'Yes, captain !'
—eyes, Obadiah'— 'Well we mind it!'
Such were the eager replies.

It is very probable that few or none
of the hearers, save Don, fully comprehended

the drift of their leader's discourse
; yet they were impressed by it,
just as a peasant woman abroad, who
cannot understand the Latin of the De
Profundity, trembles with reverential awe
as she listens to the thunder of the deep-toned
chant. But all remembered their
captain's dream, and all felt a thrill of
superstitious hope, the rather that Obadiah,
like Cromwell, rarely spoke with
confidence unless there was something of
solid certainty to underlie his words.

'A black tree, was it not, of which I
told you?' demanded Obadiah, looking
around him frowningly, as if to challenge
a sceptic, ' Ay, black as the Black Rood
of Jeddart, beyond Tweed, or as the swart
timbers of the Maiden of Halifax, that
grim engine of earthly punishment, beneath
the gleaming sword-blade of which

many an outlawed head has Mien in our
forefathers' time. Yes, a black tree. But
fowls roosted in its branches, and bees
hummed pleasantly among the flowers,
that encircled its trunk, and corn and
wine and oil were stacked in plenty at
its foot. The black tree was the type of
abundance. And lo ! the dream is fulfilled.
Last night, two miles from herein
Dutchman's Bay, there was a landslip,,
which has laid bare black traces that a
boy's inexperienced eye might read as
pointing to a mine — a jet-pocket, where
lies a buried tree not seen by mortal eye
since England was a kingdom. The dream
has come true. Quick to gather in the
fruits of it.'

Hurrah !' The cheering broke out
irrepressibly, the shrill voices of the women
and girls blending with the deeper

shout of the men. And then tools and
baskets were picked up in a hurry, and
there was a prompt movement in the
direction of Dutchman's Bay, which lay
somewhat to the south of the lower extremity
of Beckdale, just as the Soldiers'
Slouch was at a short distance towards
the north. But Obadiah was no mere
dreamer of dreams, no mere herald of
good tidings ; he was a consummate captain,
who understood organisation and
the value of discipline.

No hurry, there ! no rushing, comrades
!' he calls out, in a voice which
all present had learned to obey. 'The
traces yon turn clifford, and the cliff
at Dutchman's Bay, as ye ought to know,
is crumbly and bad to work. It's not
that ye may dig your own graves that
I called you. Six of you-six that are

young and strong — go with Don, hereto
fetch the wooden props that are ranged
in the outhouse of my little place up
dale ; they will be enough for the present.
But, unless my old eyes play me false, or
fifty years have not taught me my trade,
there'll he many a tough young ash-tree
to buy and to cut before we get at the
heart of the black jet-tree that lies under
ten thousand tons of sand-cliff. Say nothing,
if ye meet with idlers on your
way. The more sharers, the less to share !'
Dutchman's Bay — so called, probably,
on account of some eighteenth or seventeenth
century tradition of foreign smugglers
— was a long, narrow gulf, with
beetling cliffs, in the soft sandstone of
which many sea-fowl made their nests and
reared their young. During the night a
landslip on an extensive scale had taken

place, as Obadiah's practised eye had
quickly perceived, for the beach was
strewn with heaps and mounds of rubbish,
while here and there glinted in the sun a
fragment of some thin g black and shining
like bottle-glass, at sight of which a fresh
cheer was set up. Seldom indeed did the
opening up of a new vein of the precious
fossil promise so well. There was a
general rush, and many chips and some
lumps of the freshly-exposed jet were
picked up, while there was a babble of
voices.

It's wonderful !' — ' It's Obadiah's dream,
indeed!' — 'We'll all be rich, rich as Jews !'
' I wouldn't take fifty gold sovereigns
for my share, I know !' — ' What a go this
is !' — ' Nobody like our captain T

Such were some of the exclamations of
the sanguine and admiring. Obadiah

himself was mute. He was a more experienced
jet-seeker and a more educated man
than any there, and he had seen from the
first that the lie of the tree, some buried
pine of untold ages ago, was towards the
cliff. The fragments that peeped from the
rubbish heaps or sparkled on the beach
were but broken bits of the fossil conifer,
laid to rest in some remote geological
epoch beneath the sand and marl of the
shifting coast-line. He looked on, then,
indulgently as the younger members of
his band scrambled excitedly for black
flakes and nodules amidst the debris of
the landslip, and waited to commence
serious operations until Don and the party
of volunteers under his orders should
arrive with the ashen props, without
which it would be suicidal rashness to
attack the main fortress of the cliff-wall.

VOL. I. L

Presently Don and his party arrived,
laden with the short, tough pillars of
tenacious wood which Obadiah Jedson's
prudence had provided, and the assault on
Nature's fortress was commenced with a
will. Gradually the rumour spread to
cottage, and farmstead, and fisher's hut
along the sea-shore that the jet-hunters
had hit upon an extraordinary mine, or
technically, ' pocket,' of the valuable
material for which they passed their lives
in searching, and that such a yield was
forthcoming as, in the memory of man,
the Yorkshire sea-coast had never known.
By-and-by, exaggerated rumours were
current as to the success of the explorers.
They had gleaned five hundred pounds'
worth, it was reported, before dinner-time,
the early dinner-hour of country-bred
toilers. They were picking up jet in

lumps like those of Newcastle coal, and at
a rate that would cheapen the value of it
in Whitby and Scarborough for twenty
years to come. They had been offered by
a DaneborouP'h tradesman a thousand
pounds for their venture, and they had
refused it — all of which was eminently
fictitious.

The higher the social rank, the more
slowly does gossip permeate towards the
possessors of it. Every hind or fisherman
in or near Beckdale had heard of the exceedingly
good fortune of Obadiah Jedson's
roving company hours before the news was
conveyed to Woodburn Parsonage. And
it was late in the afternoon when the rector
himself, his wife, his children, and his
beautiful ward, Violet Mowbray, appeared
on the hard, firm sea-sand of the upper
end of Dutchman's Bay, where a crowd

l2

had collected, and where two coast-guardsmen
were, by their lieutenant's orders,
present to enforce order. But though the
honest fellows strolled to and fro, their
cutlasses clanking at their sides there was
really no occasion for their attendance.
Nothing could be more orderly than the
behaviour of the crowd. Yorkshire dalesmen
and blue-jackets of any part of the
coast have an instinctive, if rude, sense of
justice and of the rights of property. The
jet-hunters had begun their hunt alone,
and alone they had, by the unwritten law
of the beach, the right to finish it, unvexed
by the claim of any interloper. At the
first any stray adventurer might have
struck in, but now an uninvited intruder
would have found popular opinion, and
perhaps lynch law, strongly against him.
Still more striking was the scene bv

torchlight that evening, the red smoky
glare of the flambeaux contrasting with
the pale silvery nicker of the June moonlight,
as the jet-hunters pushed their
galleries deeper and deeper into the cliff-front.
Still a mob of idlers hung about
the spot, like flies round a jar of honey.
But there was nothing envious, nothing unworthy,
in the feelings of the lookers-on ;
so far as could be judged from their talk.
It was the jet-hunters' luck, of course — a
rare stroke of luck ; but then it was universally
admitted that old Captain Jed-son
and his company deserved their luck,
and had, in fact, done much, by untiring
research, to earn the opportunity by which
they were profiting. One thing there was
from which the spectators appeared to
derive much satisfaction : Rufus Crouch
was not one of the busy band of jet-winners

now engaged in driving their burrows, like
so many rabbits in human shape, deep into
the cliff. Rufus Crouch was absent. It
must be presumed that the return Australian
gold-digger had not conciliated the
good opinion of the neighbourhood, so
hearty was the chuckling and so sincere
the delight of the crowd, as the probable
disappointment of the travelled jet-hunter
was the subject of discussion.

'Not a penny of it for old Rufus!' —
Won't Crouch be mad when he hears of
it? — a bumptious chap like that, who even
argues against Captain Obadiah himself.'
' He's up in London.' — ' Ha ! ha ! ha !'

In the course of the evening Mr. Langton,
this time alone, came down to the
beach, and had an opportunity of seeing
and speaking with the old captain of the
jet-seekers.

We hope to make a good business of
this, sir,' said Obacliah, in a low voice,
'though not a tithe, at best, of what
chattering tongues proclaim. But what I
should do without Don I cannot think. I
am getting in years, and stiff, and cannot
be everywhere, and that brave boy is like
another self to lead the way. But for
him, and but for me, these poor silly
creatures, in their hurry, would neglect
prop and lintel, and get a score of tons of
sand down on their wretched heads as the
reward of their thoughtlessness. But Don
is worth a thousand.'

Late into the night the torches burned,
and the work went on, until at last the
wearied jet-hunters desisted from their
task, and fell asleep around their fires of
wreck wood.

CHAPTER VIII.

SIR ROBERT INTRODUCES HIMSELF.

Some ten days, or twelve, had elapsed
since Rufus Crouch, ex-gold-digger and
present jet-hunter, called so unexpectedly
at the Shirley mansion in Hyde Park.
The morning was a bright and sunny one,
with but a few lazy clouds of fleecy whiteness
sailing across the blue sky, as the
Rector of Woodburn, with his family,
returning after a week-day service from
the church hard by, saw, slowly riding out
of the parsonage garden, a gentleman,

followed by a mounted groom. Visitors
in that thinly-peopled district were rare
and usually well-known, so that this well-dressed
stranger, on his black horse, attracted
some notice. Mr. Langton stepped
forward and bowed. The stranger lifted
his hat with a pleasant smile, and instantly
dismounted and threw the reins to his
groom.

Mr. Langton ?' he said, inquiringly.
1 Allow me to be my own introducer. My
name is Shirley — Sir Robert Shirley — a
neighbour of yours, since I have just
arrived at Helston, and I have taken the
liberty of coming across to call at the
rectory, emboldened by the fact, Mr. Langton,
of my father's old friendship with
yourself. I have so often heard him speak
of you, and always cordially and with expressions
of high esteem, so that I trust

you will pardon my lack of ceremony
The baronet made his introductory
speech very well, with just the proper
amount of feeling expressed in his well-modulated
voice.

c Most happy to make your acquaintance,.
Sir Robert,' exclaimed Mr. Langton,
genuine pleasure in his eyes and tone ashe
stretched out his hand in greeting.
'Yes, I knew your father, the late Sir
Robert, and was under no trifling obligations
to him, as you are perhaps aware.
It was he who, when my health broke
down, presented me to the living of Wood-burn
here, of which you, of course, are the
patron, as he was. Allow me to introduce
you to my wife, Mrs. Langton, as the son
of a very old and kind friend, who will
always be welcome under my poor roof.'
So Sir Robert was made known to Mrs.

Langton and to pretty Violet Mowbray,
and to the olive branches of the Langton
family now at home — two girls and a boy,
in the hobby dyhoy stage of life. And Sir
Robert smiled and bowed, .and spoke very
nicely and not too much, and acted his
self-imposed part with consummate care and
skill. He had, he felt, been relieved from
one great danger at the first. When he
commenced his seemingly unstudied address
he had been unaware as to how much, or
how little, the parson of Woodburn had
known concerning his former relations with
his father. It must be confessed that when
the baronet alluded to laudatory expressions
on his papa's part concerning the Reverend
Samuel Langton, he was drawing boldly on
his imagination. The one salient fact of
which he was sure was the presentation to
the living, and that the giving of it had

been a gift indeed, and no matter of barter.
Sir Robert himself had sold the advowson
privately, and could no more appoint a
future Rector of Woodburn than he could
a Dean of Westminster. But he had no
objection to Mr. Langton believing that
so much of ecclesiastical patronage yet was
his, and he was glad that the clergyman
evidently knew nothing of the coldness, the
quarrels, the estrangement that had existed
between his father and himself during the
latter years of his father's life. Sir Robert
had not been a pattern son, but he congratulated
himself that Mr. Langton was
unaware of this.

Then followed a hearty invitation to
luncheon at the parsonage. ' You must
break bread with us,' the rector insisted,
genially ; and Mrs. Langton was able to
second her husband's proposition, not only

graciously, but with few of those qualms
and doubts which are apt to beset a prudent
housewife when a guest of superior rank
and wealth is suddenly bidden to share the
family meal. But they kept a better-supplied
table at Wooclburn than is invariably
to be found in clerical homes, and
hence, when Sir Robert, after a faint show
of reluctance, allowed himself to be persuaded,
his acceptance did not fill his
hostess with dismay. The groom and horses,
therefore, were sent down to the village
inn, while the baronet, becoming at each
instant more and more at home with his
kindly entertainers, walked on with them
towards the house.

I was almost sinful enough, Mr. Langton,
to covet this charming place of yours,'
said Sir Robert, 'when first I caught sight
of it. These pretty flower-beds and the

.smooth lawn and the smooth paths make
me ashamed of the tangled wilderness that
they call a garden up at Helston. I hope,
if Mrs. Langton will <nve me the benefit of
her kind advice, to get the grounds there
laid into better order soon, but for the
moment everything wears the aspect of
neglect. I hope to be a good deal in
Yorkshire, now.'

Mrs. Langton was a kind, homely woman,
simple — nay, more simple than her husband,
whose book-lore was not armour-proof
against the wiles of a worldling such as the
master of Shirley. She was pleased to
have her flowers praised, and lingered to
point out the merits of this or that favourite
rose-tree and such-and-such a bank of
azaleas, and had no idea that the astute
town-bred man was only anxious to enlist
her as a partisan. Violet Mowbray said

never a word. She looked shy, more timid
even than was usual with her; nor did Sir
Robert's eyes dwell upon her beautiful
young face. There were two things against
which he was especially on his guard. The
first of these was to avoid the character of
a London dandy and fine gentleman, such
personages being in rustic neighbourhoods
reputed cynical, selfish, and, worst of all,
satirical. Secondly, the baronet wished to
give no inkling that Miss Mowbray's
attractions had been the magnet that had
drawn him to the humble Parsonage of
Woodburn. Wherefore he scarcely turned
his glance towards her at all, seeming to
regard her, as he did gawky Maud and
Julia and their stripling brother John, asa
mere adjunct to the more important
elders of the household.

'You seldom visit London, I believe, Mr.

Langton?' asked Sir Robert, when they
were all seated at table.

'Very seldom indeed; I may more truthfully
say, never,' replied the rector, as a
momentary expression of pain passed across
his face at the recollection of hopes long
since frustrated, and honours, which once
seemed almost within his grasp, relinquished.
'Nor do I keep up an active correspondence
with such of my former, friends as are still
in the busy world. My letters would only
bore them, and theirs could hardly be of
profound interest to me. They are in the
arena yet, while I have long ago renounced
my chance of a crown, whether of palm or
laurel. No, Sir Robert, I am a country
clergyman, and my cares are bounded by
the narrow limits of my parish.'

Again the visitor felt a thrill of gratification.
There are still parsons as parson-like

and as secluded from metropolitan
tittle-tattle as was Goldsmith's ' Vicar of
Wakefield.' And there are others who are
proud of the clubs they belong to, the frequency
of their trips to town, and on being
well posted up in metropolitan gossip.
Now, Sir Robert's name was one that,
without being actually infamous, was, at
any rate, not in the very best odour.
Nothing had been proved against him ;
certainly not. But then, that social verdict
of ' Not Proven ' is a darkling shadow that
dogs a man's steps, and is not to be shaken
off. The baronet was very glad to find
that his hospitable acquaintance had never
heard of his dubious reputation among the
denizens of Pall Mall.

In the meantime, the ripening of the new
acquaintance into friendship, or, at any
rate, into that vague stage of liking which

VOL I M

precedes friendship, went swimmingly on.
Sir Robert was, what very few fashionable
men of our day are, a conversationalist, a
talker who knew how to practise a lost art,
and to relieve the monotony of ordinary
intercourse by providing a higher species
of intellectual entertainment than the mere
interchange of short statements as to facts.
There never were, at any one time, since
the days when the wits tapped their gold
snuff-boxes in Wills's Coffee-house, many
talkers of the male sex, but their words
were usually worth the trouble of listening
to, and they had a strange power of riveting
their audience. The lord of Shirley was
not merely fluent and graphic in his discourse,
but skilled in his choice of topics.
He had travelled and had read, and had
the knack of using his literary stores so
as to eke out his personal reminiscences

cleverly enough, but without a dash of
pedantry. The rector was pleased with a
guest who had the grace to say so little of
the London from which he was himself
practically excluded, and so much of
Damascus, Sicily, Florence, Egypt, the
Engadine. It was not Mr. Langton's fault
that he had not had time to make acquaintance
with Sharper, and Abana, and the
Lake of the Meadows, of the glorious city
that Haled and his half-clad Moslems
conquered, or with the Golden Shell of
orange-lowered Palermo, or with solemn
Egypt. Florence, and Milan, and Venice,
and Switzerland he had seen, but he knew
them better from books than by actual
experience. And then Sir Robert talked
about all these places in so well-bred a way,
with such deference towards Mr. Langton's

well-known scholarship, and put forward

M 2

his own opinions as to Saracenic architecture,
Greeks. Turks, and Arabs, in so modest and
tentative a fashion, that his clerical entertainer
never dreamed that he was being
drawn out,' as the phrase is, and tempted
to ride his own hobbies as he listed.

Mrs. Langton also was much predisposed
in the favour of her titled visitor. She had
suffered much, as country-folks do suffer
much, under the infliction of the company
of those who have little to sav for themselves,
and whose little is so stale by dint
of frequent repetition. The neighbouring
clergy, the two or three gentlemen of independent
means who lived within hail,
the doctor of the union, and the officer of
the coastguard, were all excellent persons,
but quite the reverse of amusing. Sir
\ Robert was a bird of much brighter
plumage than any that harboured near

Woodburn, and, once that he found himself
accepted at his own valuation, he did his
very best that his singing should please the
ears and tickle the imagination of his
auditors. Then he talked of Helston, and
of his own design to live there, to render
the neglected old place trim and orderly,
and to cultivate neighbourly relations with
those who had formerly been known to
himself or his father.

Yorkshire visiting, I believe, Mrs.
Langton,' he said/cheerily, 'was once limited
only by the number of miles to which our
forefathers' carriage-horses could be induced
to drag the clumsy old coaches in which
our grandmothers were content to jolt
along ; and, if we live in less heroic times,
at any rate I hope to see something of
friends within a moderate compass.'

And then he said something as to a

notion that had struck him as to the feasibility
of a garden party or gipsy picnic in
the Helston grounds, which, if ill kept, were
rocky and romantic. 'I should like to try
it,' he said, ' if only I could get any ladies
to accept the awkward hospitality' of a
blundering bachelor like myself. I thought
so directly I saw the place.'

Luncheon was over. The fernery, the
tiny hot-house, the exquisite peeps at the
sea which, through overhanging ivy-tangles
and festoons of noisette roses, the different
windows afforded, had been one and all
exhibited and admired. Even the albums
of photographs and rare sea weed on the
drawing-room tables had been surveyed.
John Langton's toy ship, a model schooner,,
four feet long, of the construction and
rigging of which the boy was very proud,

though frank enough to own how much
assistance he had received from ' Mr. Don
was next shown. 'I should never have
got her so taut and smart by myself,' said
the youngster ; ' but then, Don is such a
fine fellow !'

'And who is Mr. Don? A Spanish sailor,
I presume, or possibly a Neapolitan, since
they use the Spanish title there ?' asked Sir
Robert, trying not to yawn.

Mr. Langton took it upon himself to
answer. ' It is difficult, ' he said, with a
smile, ' to say what Mr. Don is, and what
he is not. I never had a pupil to match
him. He is the handsomest lad from hereto
Sunderland, and about the boldest. He
is only a jet-hunter, living by a precarious
industry peculiar to our sea-coast, but out
of a crowd you would at once select him

as a gentleman, though whence he came or
what was the rank of his parents, no one
knows. A fine fellow, Don !'

I am sure of it,' returned Sir Robert,
with every appearance of interest. Then
the baronet's groom and horses came round
to the door, and there was a hearty leave-taking,
with pledges of future friendship,
and the visitor rode ois gracefully towards
his lonely home at Helston. More than
once during the ride Sir Robert showed
his white teeth with a triumphant air.

'A good beginning,' he muttered. 'I
saw the girl's eves glisten more than once

O J O

as I spoke of the East and of sunny Italy.
If I can touch her youthful fancy and it is
all right about the money, why, then !' —
and he rode on.

CHAPTER IX.

IN THE SQUARE CHAMBER.

In Dutchman's Bay, the work which had
been begun some four or five daj^s before
went steadily on, thanks to the authority
which Obadiah Jedson was able to exercise
over the members of his band. There was
no necessity, as in some branches of industry,
to stimulate laggards by reproaches
or threats. The real difficulty was to insure
that the labour should not be pressed
on without regard to the safety of those
who performed it. As it was, men, women,

and boys worked feverishly, almost fiercely,
overtasking their strength when allowed,
and reluctantly giving rip the turn of
duty to a less weary comrade. The
imaginations of the jet-seekers were all
aflame, so promising were the signs, and
so hopeful appeared to be the enterprise in
which they were engaged. ' This should
be more than a pocket — this be a mine,
sure !' was a not infrequent remark among
them as they snatched their hasty meals.
Now, a ' pocket,' or deposit of jet, is what
the seeker expects, unless singularly unlucky
or raw to the trade, to hit upon in
the course of each summer campaign.
But a mine of the black fossil is now so
rare, so much more seldom found than in
the earlier years of the eighteenth century,
that it may be truly said to exist only in
tradition.

No ; there are in England, the natural
home cf jet, no available jet-mines, nothing
to match with the amber-mines of
Pomerania and other North German provinces
; precious properties, that are by
no means open to all comers, but which
form the best farms on the estate of some
needy, haughty Count or Free Herr of
Prussia, who has to provide the portion of
the young baronesses or countesses, his
daughters, and the army allowances of the
young counts or barons, his sons, out of
the yellow yield of his carefully husbanded
amber-diggings amid the sand-hills of the
sea-shore. But, if there are now in England
no actual mines of jet, there are legends
of such mines hon£ ago, and of fortunate
jet-hunters who became burgesses and
aldermen of their towns, and married
mayors' daughters, and lived and died and

were buried onions the worshipful of the
snug old unreformed civic corporations, all
on account of the heaps of glistening jet
which their shades had won. In such
stories there was nothing heroic, nothing
sublime, but much that suggested promotion,
comfort, gratified vanity, and social
success. And here was, possibly, that El
Dorado of the jet-seekers, a real mine of
the precious black stuff, just about to be
brought to light for the emolument of the
finders.

How they worked, these roving explorers
of the seashore ! Nothing, with some
natures, so braces up the nerves for toil as
the notion that the labour, extravagantly
hard for the moment though it be, is to do
away for ever with the hated necessity of
earning daily bread. This it is that makes
the diamond-seekers of Kimberley and

Dutoit's Pan, under the hot sun of South
Africa, work as never men worked before,
save under pressure of the slave-driver's
cruel lash, outworks even the miners of
golden California and auriferous Australia,
because each hopes to be the Sinbad who
shall win the great prizes in the Valley of
Diamonds, and so go home a capitalist, and
work no more. In Dutchman's Bay, on
a small scale, the same spirit was rife.

The grim, gaunt captain had need of all
the prestige that clung to him, to keep his
band from proceedings that would have
been little short of sheer suicide. But for
him the cliff would already have been
pierced by half-a-score of tunnels — narrow,
low, and unpeopled as to the crumbling
roofs — mere graves, into which the eager
diners of them would have crowded recklessly,
careless as to whether the accidental

removal of a stone might not have
brought down the crushing weight of tons
of sand to fill the cavity and bury its
occupants. As it was, old Obadiah Jedson,
aided by Don, had contrived to restrict the
excavation to three parallel galleries of
reasonable height, and the roofs of which
were made comparatively secure by ashen
props, and, at intervals, by stout wooden
lintels spanning the passages. There was
also a square chamber, or central hall, towards
which the galleries converged, and
which was of use as helping to keep up a
supply of air, communicating as it. did by
a comparatively short corridor with the
adit, or outer entrance of the mine.

Rufus Crouch had returned to Wood-burn,
and had readily been received as a
partner in the enterprise, as had also six
or seven other absent jet-hunters, who

had come hurrying back from the north
at the first tidings of the good fortune of
their comrades. And, after some demur,
sundry volunteers, who were not regular or
occasional members of the jet-seekers' company,
had been permitted to become
sharers in the work in hand and in the
ultimate profits. Full-grown men of good
character, and whose hardened muscles
might be counted on to endure the strain,
were alone accepted by Captain Jedson, who
was inexorable in rejecting the offers of the
eager-eyed striplings and girls who had
hastened to the mouth of the mine. ' No,
no,' the old man would say kindly, but ina
tone that brooked no remonstrance ;
i this is a job for the strong to win through.
Bows and lasses are best out of it.' And,
indeed, the younger and feebler of the jet-seekers
were often seen to crawl, gasping,

and with white faces and haggard eyes, out
into the free air, utterly overcome by the
heat, the vitiated atmosphere, and the toil
in a contracted space, where to stand upright
was impossible.

In the evening of the fifth day since the
commencement of the mining operations,
the rector and his family strolled along the
beach to the Dutchman's Bay, accompanied
by Sir Robert Shirley. The accomplished
baronet had by this time succeeded in establishing
something like intimacy between
himself and the inmates of Woodburn
Parsonage. Mr. Langton had been prompt
in returning the visit of the son of his
former patron, and Sir Robert had willingly
accepted his invitation to partake of
tea and strawberries on that balmy summer's
evening which witnessed the expedition
to the jet-mine.

I closet feel in the least alarmed,' the
baronet had said laughingly, as they rambled
along the shore towards Dutchman's
Bay, in answer to Mrs. Langton's mention
of the excessive heat of the cave. c It is
difficult to believe that anything can more
accurately reproduce the Black Hole of
Calcutta than some London drawing-rooms
in the height of the season ; and as for a
possible avalanche of earth and stones —
well, the very suddenness of such a catastrophe
would leave no time for fear. And
I really am much interested in these remarkable
parishioners of yours, Mr. Langton.
I know nothing about jet, except
that I have seen brooches and shirt-studs
of it in jewellers' windows, so that the
whole thing is delightfully new to me.'

I can scarcely claim the jet-hunters'
company as members of my flock,' an-vol.

I. N

swerved Mr. Langton. i Their captain, old
Obadiah Jedson, with whom I have the
privilege of being acquainted, and who
has a house at the lower end of Beckdale,
is indeed a sort of parishioner of mine, although
he goes to church and chapel quite
impartially, and holds, as I fancy, wild and
mystical ideas on matters of religion. Yes,
Obadiah is a very worthy man ; nor do I
know any harm, but rather good, of those
who compose his gang. His young
lieutenant, Don — whose name, Sir Robert,
I think I have mentioned to you before —
is an especial favourite with me and withall
of us. I wonder, if you see him tonight,
how he will impress you.'

Favourably I feel convinced,' smoothly
returned Sir Robert. ' I never did see a
village genius myself, but I can imagine
that this swan of yours is a genuine cygnet,

and no bird of meaner plumage. But we
have arrived, I conclude, for yonder is the
hole in the cliff, with rubbish-mounds all
around it, and people swarming near like
ants about an ant-hill. Very, ant-like, too,
are these basket-bearers whom I see coming
out, each with his load. And what is
that which twinkles and glows through the
darkness, like a red star?'

It was Violet Mowbray to whom the
question was addressed, and she made
answer shyly.

'It's a torch, I think, which is kept
always burning in the square chamber,
as they call it, of the mine. We saw it
yesterday.'

At the very mouth of the mine the party
of visitors encountered a miner coming out,
who shaded his eyes with his broad hand,
and peered out into the twilight. A red

2

bearded man this, brawny of limb and
awkward of gait, and whose hairy face was
dark with heat and toil. 'Where are
those ash plants ? Not come, eh ? The
lazy hound that sold them promised to
cart them here before sundown ; and if I

were captain ' Here his restless eyes

lit on Sir Robert Shirley's impassive face,
and, with a growl like that of a bear disturbed
in his lair, he made a half-sheepish,
half-sullen attempt at a salute, and .
Nothing the baronet's attitude
or demeanour would have told that he had
ever seen Rufus Crouch before.

The square chamber once reached, Sir
Robert was compelled to admit that even
the atmosphere of the most crowded
London assembly was less trying than that
of this, the central hall, without which the
narrow passages could not have been tenable

for more than a few minutes at a
time. Here, by the gleam of the blazing
torches, they were shown the jet that had
been already won — how few and poor did
the few han df uls of black lumps and chips,
lying at the bottom of a small box of
common deal, appear in comparison with
the almost frantic toil that was going on !
Obadiah Nelson, his lofty head almost
touching the irregular roof of the cavern,
and grimly picturesque of garb and mien,
received his visitors with solemn politeness
as he stood there, torch in hand.

You are right, sir,' he said, in answer to
Mr. Langton ; 'it is as hot even here as I have
ever known it in Brazil. But this is cool,
to the galleries. Yet they bear it with
wonderful courage and endurance, our
mates, and never leave their labour, as you
see, till they are absolutely compelled to

breathe the purer air.' And at this
moment, from the middle passage, there
emerged the figure of a young miner,
feebly dragging himself along on hands
and knees, and who sank fainting on the
floor the instant that the more spacious
chamber was reached.

It's young Joe Nixon !' exclaimed old
Captain Obadiah, as he strode across the
vaulted chamber, and lifted the tall stripling
in his mighty arms, as a grown man might
lift a child. ' Poor Joe ! he's about the last
of our young ones to stand the murdering
heat of the galleries. First the boys broke
down, then the girls, smothered with the
foul air. . Joe alone held out. It's crown
and seasoned men, not lathy lads, should
face yonder heavy heat and killing air.'

Poor fellow !' — ' Poor boy !' exclaimed
Mrs. Langton and Violet Mowbray anxiously,

as they saw the tall young jet-seeker,
with his death-like pallor, and dim half-open
eyes, laid upon the floor, and propped
against the wall, while Obadiah, kneeling
beside him, supported his heavy head.
The rector, too, looked anxious, while Sir
Robert Shirley contemplated the unfortunate
digger as he might have done a big-fish
just drawn to land. There was a
bottle at hand, and a gulp or two of the
cordial it contained enabled Joe to stammer
out, ' I'm right, thank ye, captain ;
I feel better now. But Irish Larry is
pretty nigh gone, and Mr. Don and old
Master Peterson are getting him along.'
And, a minute later, the grey-haired
veteran, Mark Peterson, appeared, staggering
under his share of the weight of his
helpless burden. Very ghastly, inert, and
unconscious did the stalwart young Irishman

seem as he was thus borne forth, utterly
overcome by the vitiated air of the mine.

4 Dr. Cooling is outside,' said somebody ;
i better let the doctor look to the poor chap
at once.' And strong arms were not lacking
to relieve those of his present bearers,
and to carry forth the insensible form of
Irish Larry to the free air of heaven and
the presence of the doctor.

c This is my young friend Don — Mr. Don
they style him, usually,' explained the
rector, coming forward — 'of whom, Sir
Robert, you have heard me speak. This
gentleman, Don, is Sir Robert Shirley, a
neighbour of ours now.' Don, flushed and
breathless, took off the sailor's cap that
rested on his silken curls, and somehow
Sir Robert Shirley felt himself constrained
to lift his own hat with as much of grave
politeness as if he had just been introduced

on the Pall Mall pavement to a
social equal.

c How came the cub to be a gentleman ?'
muttered the worldly baronet, behind his
dark moustache. A strange contrast, as
seen by the ruddy light of the glaring
torch, those two presented : the hackneyed
man of the world, with his darkling eyes
and pallid face, handsome, specious, sneering
when it was not to his advantage to
keep up a character for good nature — and
that noble youth, so full of fire and energy
frankness, who now confronted him.
There was not a tinge of awkwardness in
Don's bearing, and yet nothing could be
more simple or more modest than his air
as he turned to acknowledge the greeting
of Mrs. Langton and her ward, and the
more hearty recognition of the young folks
from the parsonage.

I have heard a great deal of you, Mr.
Don, since I have been in these parts
smilingly remarked the baronet.

1 More, I fear, than I merit, Sir Robert,
if your information comes from my kind

■

friend Mr. Langton here,' answered the
young man ; and there was something in
the ring of his deep rich voice that made
the master of Shirley feel, for the second
time, as if he were face to face with his
equal. Sir Robert, as usual, was fashionably
attired, while Don wore the red serge
shirt and coarse clothes of a jet-hunter,
yet, somehow, the London dandy forgot
that the handsome lad before him was not
as carefully dressed as himself. Not much
more was said, and, indeed, the heat would
of itself have been reason enough for curtailing
the visitors' stay in the square
chamber of the mine. After a good-natured

word or. two from the rector and
his wife, they went ; but long afterwards
the torches continued to blaze, and the
work went on, relays of fresh toilers replacing
those who reeled away exhausted,
until at last, deep in the night, there was
an end of labour, and the smouldering
bivouac fire of wreck-wood burned itself
out to the last ember, and all was darkness
and sleep.

CHAPTER X.

AT THORSDALE PARK.

'- But, Algernon '

I will have it so ; or else I shall have to
obey the commonest rules of prudence : to
think exclusively of my own health, and
to act accordingly. Of course you can
forward my wishes, or thwart them, as you
please. I have not lived so long in the
world without being keenly alive to the
amount — the sickening amount — of heartless
selfishness that prevails. I have no
right, of course, also, to expect to find

an exception in your ladyship's case.

But '

c Algernon, dear Algernon '

'But I have the right, and shall enforce
it, to demand consideration not merely for
the wishes, but for the welfare, of an ailing
and suffering — perhaps dying — husband.
I had made arrangements for a
protracted stay at Davos or at St. Moritz,
unless you choose to exert yourself, as
duty dictates. My health has brought me
to Yorkshire, as, before long, it may probably
take me to the Upper Engadine or
elsewhere — I hear good reports of the
Rocky Mountains, and of wonderful cures
effected among log-cabins high up in
Colorado — but, if I consent to stay here, I
must protest against being moped to
death.'

This last speech, emphatically enunciated

from amidst the downy pillows and
wadded wraps of his gouty chair by the
Right Honourable the Earl of Thorsdale,
did strike his perturbed countess as being
supremely unjust and vexatiously provoking.
Lady Thorsdale, however, could not

afford to be provoked. Her lord was in
very truth a lord to her. He was a

masterful invalid — a malachi imaginaire,

some said — but at any rate he believed in

himself, and in the ailments of which he

complained so querulously.

Lord Thorsdale was in many respects a

remarkable man. He was among clever

men a great noble, and among great nobles

a clever man. Once he had sat in the

House of Commons, and it was his custom

to deplore that he had come to his earldom

so early as to cut himself off from the power

and popularity that accrue only to statesmen

who have won their spurs in the
stormy arena of the lower branch of the
Legislature. As a peer, he had found no
scope for his fretful activity. He had
made speeches which the contemptuous
newspapers only deigned to report in a
compressed form. He had moved resolutions
which came to nothing, and resisted
compromises which had to be carried into
effect. When his party came into power,
his party did nothing for him that he
considered adequate to his merits. He
had been Lord President of the Managers,
and he had been Chancellor of the Green
Wax. But the eye of the nation does not
rest continuously on the doings of these
exalted but not prominent officials, and
Lord Thorsdale had thrown over his
administrative functions in disgust. Then
he had quarrelled with his party, and had

written pamphlets and magazine articles
that were skimmed over because the writer
was an earl, but which amused more than
they annoyed.

Then Lord Thorsdale tried to be a celebrity
as a racing-yacht owner, famous for
the challenge cups he won, and an entertainer
renowned among the few London
dispensers of bachelor hospitality. But
his temper was too irritable, and his
insight into the minds and motives of
others too intuitive and too feminine to
permit him to attain eminence in any of
these paths to Fame's temple. His
matches yielded only average results, his
yacht was seldom too far astern of a winner,
and the men who hunted with his
hounds were as manageable as most men.
Yet the earl quarrelled with the boat-builder
and his yacht's crew, discarded the

skipper, and left off inviting the friends
who accepted his expensive hospitality.
Then he married, then he travelled, then
he became scientific, eclectic, almost revolutionary,
and ended by becoming a vehement
valetudinarian.

Lord Thorsdale rode his present hobby
very hard. His wife, Constance, had been
a daughter of the late Sir Robert Shirley,
and was a sister of the reigning Sir Robert.
She had a hard time of it. She was handsome
— most of the Shirley had been handsome
— and frivolous, and had still some
pretensions to take rank as a professional
beauty in London drawing-rooms. Nor
was she unfit to hold her own, had she
but had an ordinary husband to deal with.
But she was quite incompetent to resist
the energetic will of her earl, who carried
all before him by dint of a fluent discourse,

vol. i. o

a resolute selfishness, and the magician's
wand that ready money supplies. Only
last June he had hurried his wife off to
the Engadine for two months' residence
among the snow-showers, cow-sheds, and
general discomforts of that enchanting
region, leaving little Lord Thirst and little
Lady Flora at home. The year before
he had chosen to waft the entire family
in his steam-yacht the Hecla, first to Iceland,
and later to the glacial coast of
Greenland itself: and what the countess
had endured from midges, the glare of the
Arctic summer sun, solitude, and the
terror of the Arctic icebergs and ice-floes,
even her lady correspondents only partially
knew. Now, at the end of June, this impetuous
earl had abruptly rushed down to
Thorsdale, declaring that no place was
worse than London for his tormenting

gout ; and, once in Yorkshire, had proclaimed
that it was designed to kill him by
mental depression and physical isolation,
because the big, lonely mansion did not
swarm with visitors.

But if you loll leave London so early,
you can't — in deed you can't — bring London
along with you,' pleaded the countess, half
crying as she spoke.

I don't know that!' snapped the earl
from among his cushions. 'There are
people to be had always who are sick of
the worry and racket of that precious
season which to you seems like Mecca to
the Moslem. And there are people, and
sometimes the pleasantness, who are only
too glad not to live at their own expense.
But I do not care to argue. In my state
of health I must consider myself, shamefully
neglected as I am. Either this place

oi



must be enlivened — and you used to like-that
sort of thins; — or else the sooner I
send for Schists the courier, and pack up
for the Engadine, the better.'

But, dear Algernon, you know Sir
Joseph said — ' began her ladyship, attempting;
to turn the flank of her overbearing
opponent. But the earl interrupted
her.

Don't, I beg of you, quote old Double-fee
and his utterances. I have no doubt
that Sir Joseph said — anything that an
oily-tongued old humbug, who began by
feeling King George's pulse, I believe, and
has netted more guineas than would pave
Regent Street, found it expedient to say.
I think I made a mistake about Yorkshire.
Thorsdale used to agree with me,
but now I am almost as ill as in Belgrade
Square. Perhaps I had better get Sharp

to write for Schultz the courier at once.'
Now, if the countess did hate and dread
one human being more than another, it
was Schultz the courier. To summon that
Teutonic sprite of travel, the idea of whom
was inseparably mixed up with wearisome
journeys, crowded hotels, and the cramped
accommodation of mountain health-resorts,
was almost too terrible. So Lady Thorns
promised to do her best to gratify her
earl, and to surround him in Yorkshire
with the society from which he had fled
when he abandoned London. Something,
no doubt, must be done.

But, although it was clear that something
must be done, Lady Thorsdale, when
she retreated to the feminine stronghold of
her own special morning-room — 'My Lady's
Blue-room ' it was called by the starched
housekeeper and prize housemaids at

Thorsdale — was puzzled. She was, as
most women of the world are, a deft and
untiring correspondent, a sort of constant
letter-writer, and she instinctively seated
herself before her bijou writing-table, with
its load of elegant stationery. Then she
began to think. It was high season in
mighty, roaring London, and it is, or was,
high treason against Her Imperious
Majesty Queen Fashion to be absent from
the mass of metropolitan worshippers who
crowd around the central shine. But
then, these are restless days, and people,
even of bluest blood and of fortune
stupendous, do such odd things — even
running out of town for weeks and fortnights,
and making society irregular and
uncertain. And then, so very many other
people, with or without the blue blood,
but unquestionably without the st stupendous

fortune, found it desperately difficult
to make both ends meet at the end of the
year. She got out a little book, carefully
tabulated, and began to look over the
names that it contained, There were neat
compartments in each page, wherein, as in
the black-book of some foreign prefect of
police, were set down briefly the antecedents
of the persons mentioned. Some of
the countess's friends would have felt uncomfortable
or indignant had they been
able to peep over her shoulder, as she read
the annotations in their particular case.

4 Ah, well ! I think I can manage it,' said
Lady Thorsdale to herself; and then she
began to write. Her pen flew fast across
the perfumed and coroneted paper. Her
ready invention and her practised skill
stood her in good stead, and so did her
retentive memory, though, to be sure, she

refreshed the latter by sundry consultations
of the little ledger before her. ' "I hear
your darling George " — Gertrude — what is
the brat's name? — "has grown even
handsomer than when I saw her at
Cowes."

'show proud you must have been at the
success of your son, that clever Mr.
Edward, in the final examination !" Yes,
the insupportable young wretch is Edward,
though I read it Edmund at the first.'

These, and similar soliloquies, as she
addressed her ' Dear Floras ' and ' Dearest
Mrs. Somebodies,' may be thought to indicate
that the countess was slightly insincere.
So she was, to some extent, but
not more hollow in her pretences of affectionate
interest than are many other
women of the world — her world. She
chose her hunting-grounds well, selecting

needy people, eccentric people, people
who had, as she well knew, sustained some
social defeat, and would be glad of a
decent excuse for hiding their discomfiture
by a decorous retreat ; and, lastly, people
who had not this year ventured on the
expense of a London pilgrimage at all, but
were vegetating in the country, or in some
half-empty watering-place. And to each
and all she was clever enough to offer some
attraction. She was expecting, so she said,
very brilliant guests, and very diverting
guests, and guests whose rank was exalted,
all of whose names she mentioned,
but with such artless art that she did not
stand committed to any assertion that
could not easily be explained away. And
she generally contrived to insinuate that
the distinguished persons who were coming
were ' dying to know ' the probably less

distinguished persons whom she was now
desirous of sweeping into her net, and of
tempting to Thorsclale Park. Altogether,
it must be owned that she baited her
mouse-trap very well.

Presently, when the pretty, perfumed
notes lay strewed in heaps upon the ivory
table, the countess conceived a bright
idea. She had heard, through the tattle
of servants — for there was little of fraternal
intercourse kept up between herself
and the baronet — that Sir Robert Shirley
was at Helston, hard by, and that he
seemed disposed to stay there. Now, Lady
Thorsdale was not on very intimate terms
with her brother. There had been some
unpleasantness in their father's lifetime
about the marriage-portion of the countess
expectant. Robert's signature was required
for the raising of the necessary

sum, and Robert would sis nothing
being handsomely paid for it.
And then his dubious repute, and the
queer things that were whispered concerning
him and his associates, had caused a
coldness to exist between the present
master of Shirley and his sister ennobled.
Now, however, she bethought her of her
brother, of his tact, of his social resources,
and of what she had seen him do when
he chose to make himself agreeable. So
she penned him the sweetest of little
sisterly notes, congratulating herself on
having him as a neighbour, warmly inviting
him to Thorsdale, and entreating him
to be charitable enough to do his best to
brighten up the old house, and aid to
enliven poor dear Algernon in the blues.
And she signed herself his ' ever affection
ate sister, Constance Thorsdale,' and

sent off the letter by a mounted groom.

Sir Robert Shirk', when he read his
sister's charming little epistle, smiled as
Mephistopheles or Talleyrand might have
done.

Bonny wants something !' he remarked ;
'so do I. This will help me with the
Woodburn Parsonage people better than
she dreams of.'

CHAPTER XL

A LONELY RIDE

It was a pity, too !' said the rector,
genuine sympathy in his voice. ' A pity,
Don, my poor fellow ! All your work, all
your peril, for nothing ! I never arraign
the Fates, but it does seem to me as if, in
your case, destiny had been a little over-hard
with you jet-hunters.'

'That, dear Mr. Langton,' replied Don,
cheerfully, ' is too classical, too pagan a
standpoint, as my foster-father, Captain
Jedson, would say, from which to regard

our late mishap. I, for one, find no fault
with fickle fortune because our grand jet-mine
at Dutchman's Bay has collapsed.
Brittle, friable sandstone will break up,
and props give way, and a gradual landslip
demolish what a sudden landslip first
suggested. Anyhow, we have come out of
it, if not much enriched, at any rate without
serious accident to life or limb.'

'And that, Mr. Don, is chiefly due to
your courage, and your unselfish readiness
to face any risk and undertake any
labour for your comrades' sake,' interposed
Mrs. Langton, warmly. 'But for you,
there would have been fresh-duo; graves in
Woodburn churchyard, and widows and
orphans weeping for the loss of the breadwinner.
I hear that Captain Obadiah
Jedson gives the whole praise to you, and
old Lieutenant Fireplace, of the coastguard,

says you are the sort of stuff of
which Nelson's officers were made ; and
that from him, who fought, as you know,
at Navarino, and despises modern men and
ways, is no light compliment.'

Yes, Mr. Don, we heard of what you
did, and trembled for you, I am sure,
before you had . got clear of that underground
place, with the two poor fellows
who were trapped there when the roof
gave way,' exclaimed Violet Mowbray,
with a sort of shy enthusiasm that brought
tears to her eyes, and caused the mantling
blood to rise to her soft cheek. ' And we
were all so glad to hear that no harm came
of it.'

'Harm seldom comes, Miss Mowbray, I
believe, from merely doing one's duty,'
answered Don, gravely. He was always
serious, and almost bashful in manner,

when he spoke to Violet, although his-heart
throbbed wildly as his ear drank in
the welcome words of praise that fell from
her lips. 4 At any rate,' he added, ' there
is an end of jet-hunting for the moment;
so, Mr. Langton, I have ventured up herewith
my books, to crave a lesson, if you
can kindly spare me the time for one, and
are at leisure.'

Of leisure, Don, my boy, I have only
too much,' replied the clergyman, genially ;
and it is a pleasure to me to resume my
old task of tuition with a pupil whom not
even hero-worship can spoil. So, if you
like, we will adjourn to my study.'

It is strange by what invisible links our
fortunes are bound to those of another. At
first sight, it might have appeared as if no
proceedings on the part of Sir Robert
Shirley, of Shirley Park, could conceivably

influence the future weal or woe of so
comparatively humble a person as Obacliah's
adopted son, and the rector's favourite
pupil. So, at all events, it would have
seemed to the baronet himself, as, on his
black horse, but unattended by a groom,
he rode slowly along, deep in thought,
while, amidst the well-stored book-shelves
at Woodburn Parsonage, Don and Mr.
Langton were busy with the lore of a
bygone day. Sir Robert, it has been
mentioned, was absorbed in thought, as,
with slackened reins and downcast eyes,
he rode on, so that when a carriage, coming
along at a brisk pace between the high
banks that lined the road, suddenly overtook
him, he did not hear or heed the
sound of wheels, and was only apprised of
their approach when his horse violently
started and swerved, in a manner that
vol. i. v

would have unseated many a careless
rider. Sir Robert, however, was too practised
a horseman to be easily discomposed,
so that he merely gathered up his loosened
reins, and, recognising the occupants of the
barouche, took off his hat with a smile of
amiable insincerity.

So glad !' he said, riding close up to the
open carriage, the liveried driver of which
had now pulled up his horses at a word from
his noble mistress. The equipage, indeed,
was that of the Countess of Thorsdale, and
beside her ladyship lounged, wrapped in
plaids and shawls, the listens form of the
earl himself. ' I did not hear your wheels,
Constance, until you overtook me,' explained
the baronet ; i our Yorkshire roads are
solitary here-abouts. Well, Thorsdale, this
fine day has tempted you out early, I

sec.'

'The more fool I!' peevishly retorted
Sir Robert's noble brother-in-law. 'This
treacherous climate is worse, absolutely
worse, than that of the Riviera itself, with
its dust and its marrow-piercing mistral. I
feel there is rain coining on — humidity in
the atmosphere — and it racks my gout and
unstrings my nerves. What my health
requires is an equable temperature. I have
told Sharpe, my secretary, to write for
details as to two places, one in the Carpathians,
the other in the Rocky Mountains,
of which I have heard good accounts.'

The countess made haste to express her
wifely hopes that her ailing lord might yet
be reconciled to Yorkshire and England,
and to paint a rose-coloured picture of the
forthcoming gaieties at Thorsdale Park.

You, Robert, have hitherto been a sad
truant,' she said, playfully shaking a gloved

p2

forefinger at her brother. ' We have been
here a week in our exile, and have seen
you but once at Thorsdale. I must insist
now that you come home with us, and stay
to luncheon.'

I'm sure it would be a charity on your
part,' chimed in his lordship, more graciously
than usual.

Lord Thorsdale's very graciousness was
somewhat graceless, as that of a profoundly
selfish man is apt to be. He did not care
a straw for Sir Robert Shirley, and despised
his character, but he would have been glad,
in his self-seeking way, to have the man
over to Thorsdale to amuse him ; and he
hardly cared that in expressing a desire
for his brother-in-law's company he was
proclaiming his indifference for the society
of his wife.

So you see, my dear Robert, that you

Lave fallen into our hands, and that we
will take no denial,' said the countess, with
her prettiest manner, and with her falsest
smile.

Awfully kind of both of you ; but, unfortunately,
I have an appointment with a
friend,' rejoined Sir Robert, almost drily.
Before long, depend upon it, I shall lookup
at Thorsdale, and so often that you
will vote me a bore. But to-day my time
is not my own.' There was a brief leave-taking,
and the carriage rolled off.

1 How very odd Robert was to-day !' exclaimed
the countess, feminine vexation at
being baulked of a wish predominating over
her habitual desire to make, ostensibly,
the best of her brother. 'And where
could he be ^oin^ to in this desolate
region ? He really did seem as if he were
ashamed of himself

■

You are always talking nonsense, my clear,
and making mountains out of molehills P
growled the earl, as he shifted uneasily
among his downy cushions. Meanwhile,
Sir Robert, turning his head to ascertain
by ocular evidence that the barouche, with
its liveried servants and high-stepping
srevs, was out of sis;ht, wheeled his own
horse, rode back for a short distance, and
then struck into a cart-track that branched
off from the macadamised road, and led
into the wild and lonely moorland.

Let me see,' he murmured, pulling out of
the breast-pocket of his coat a scratch-map,
roughly pencilled, such as hunting men
often carry. 'Yes, this mus-t be the way;
and presently some shepherd will be at hand
to direct me.'

A ride, even on a fine day, into the

bleak North Yorkshire moorland is not

over-tempting to a London Sybarite, such
as was Sir Robert Shirley. Not even in
Scotland are the wastes more bare, the
bogs more treacherous, the tall heather
ranker, or the bridle-paths more stony.
The district into which the baronet had
now plunged was one of those stern and
savage fells where break-neck ravines alter
ate With rugged stretches of red-brown
table-land, watered here and there by tiny
runlets of trickling water, and seamed by
emerald green patches of alluring turf, the
shallowest of which is a quagmire, in which
a horse would sink to saddle-flaps. Sir
Robert, when a boy, may have crossed
such moors in pursuit of grouse or hares,
but it is one thing to trudge hopefully forward
on the untiring feet of youth, and
under the guidance of a veteran gamekeeper,
and another to pick out the difficult

path for one's self by the aid of a
hastily scrawled scratch-map, and such
scraps of information as could be elicited
from herd-lads and from the white-coated
shepherds whose flocks were passed at rare
intervals among the fellows, or where a
stretch of pasture-land lay like an oasis in
the desert. The friend with whom, as the
veracious baronet had informed his titled
sister, he had an appointment certainly
did live in a dreary and inaccessible part
of the country, and it was not for a considerable
time that Sir Robert could congratulate
himself on drawing near to his
destination.

Robinson Crusoe's house, ye mean,
master. Yes, yes — red-headed jet-hunter
chap — we calls him Robinson !' bawled a
lad behind a loose stone wall, as he leaned
upon his spade.

1 You call him Robinson, my boy, I
suppose, because he lives all alone ?' suggested
the baronet, reining in his horse.

Yes ; and a main queer customer he is,
from foreign parts,' replied the boy. ' Anyhow,
yon he lives, down in hollow there.
You're sure to hear the barking of ibis
dogs, once they nose ye !'

For a moment the baronet lingered.
The stony hill-sides looked singularly
barren and grim ; the hollow between precipitous
banks, towards which the lad had
pointed with a grimy finger, anything
but a cheerful resort. Nor was what he
heard respecting the recluse for whom he
was inquiring of a remarkably reassuring
nature. But the boy, uninquisitive as becomes
a rustic, had returned to his digging
amongst the potato-beds, and was whistling
shrilly as he delved, so that Sir Robert was

ashamed to question him further. He.
therefore, rode on. The bridle-track which
led down into the darkling hollow was a
steep one, while here and there a bank of
yellow-flowered bloom, or some great stone
that had slipped down from the hillside,
seemed to bar the path. Above, the hawks
wheeled, soaring, and now and again there
was a rustling amidst the tall bracken
fern, as if a startled hare had brushed by.
but of human habitation there was for sometime
no sign. A wilder or more desolate
spot than that secluded hollow could not
readily be found, and Sir Robert, as he
carefully descended the steep and rugged
path, began to doubt whether his latest informant
had not wilfully deceived him,
when at last the deep, hoarse barking of a
dog reached his ears. Almost instantly
the warning note was taken up by

another canine voice, and yet another, as

though Cerberus, with his triple head

and savage bay, were aroused to guard the

shadowy frontiers of Pluto's sable realm.

Guided partly by the fierce barking of the

dogs, Sir Robert pressed on, and came insight

of a mean hovel, compared with
which the wigwam of a Pawnee or the

kraal of a Zulu are types of symmetrical
architecture. Low, long, and irregularly
built, this hideous structure was roofed
with boards, bushes, and turf, and the
walls consisted chiefly of unhewn boulders
of stone, between which the interstices
were coarsely plastered, here with clay,
there with mud ; while the glassless windows
were extremely small, and the
apology for a chimney, of ill-executed
brick-work, rose but some eighteen inches
above the rough roof, overgrown with

moss and house-leek. There had been
some attempt at enclosing and laying-out
a garden, but the idea had been apparently
given up, for the fence was broken and the
wicket-gate ajar, so that the few disconsolate
vegetables which occupied the neglected
beds were at the mercy of stray
cattle or of the moorland hares.

Chained to the walls of the hut, and
sheltered either by a fragment of shattered
wood-work or by some mat or morsel of
frowsy tarpaulin, propped by a rickety
pole, were no less than four lean, fierce
dogs, all barking furiously in chorus, and
striving to get free, as if to tear the
intruder on their domain. A wreath or
two of blue wood-smoke rising above the
low chimney seemed to give token that the
proprietor of this delectable villa residence
was to be found at home. For awhile Sir

Robert hesitated, but then, rallying his
courage, he rode nearer to the hut, and,
dismounting, passed his horse's bridle over
the blackened stump of a sturdy old
willow-tree that stood hard by. As he
approached the door, the two dogs that
were tethered nearest sprang savagely
towards him, straining their chains, and
half choking themselves in the effort to
reach him with their glistening fangs.
With the butt end of his riding whip he
knocked at the door.

CHAPTER XII.

IN THE HUT.

No immediate answer came to the knocking
at the crazy door, itself as remarkable
a specimen of amateur carpenter, green-painted
planks alternating with blue, as
could readily be found within the compass
of broad Britain. The only immediate effect
of the tapping with the butt end of the
baronet's gold-mounted whip was to add a
stimulus to the savage barking of the four
excited dogs, the two nearest of which,
dancing on their hind-legs as they tugged

at collar and chain, gnashed their teeth in

impotent fury. But after a time the

heavy footfall of a man was heard from

inside the barrier, and a rough, deep voice

exclaimed,

Jet-hunter's park, # my chap ?'

Sir Robert, perplexed and impatient,

returned no verbal answer, but tapped

again with his whip.

If you haven't shot the hark, then, I

don't care to listen to your patter, so sheer

off if you value a whole skin, my man —

tramp, yokel, or pedlar, whatever you befor

if you bother me more I'll loose the

dogs upon ye. If they leave flesh on your

bones, you're luckier than most.'

'Why, Crouch!' exclaimed the bewildered
baronet.

Apparently the ferocious inmate of the

Pass-word.

hovel recognized the voice of his visitor,
for the grating sound of rusty bolts was
heard, and then the rasping of the reluctant
hinges, as the ill-made door was
partially opened, and the uncouth figure
of Rufus Crouch, with his shaggy red
beard and scowling face, appeared in the
doorway.

So it's you, is it, Sir R. Shirley,
Baronet?' gruffly demanded the hermit
of this singular hermitage, eyeing his guest

with a sullen stare.

And a queer reception, to say the least
of it, I have met with,' replied Sir Robert,
trying to laugh and to look unconcerned.
1 Do you set your dogs upon everybody
who comes your way, I wonder ?'

1 They'd soon have the life out of a
Christian, they would,' responded Crouch,
licking his lips the while, as if he had himself

been one of the savage mastiffs that
snarled and bayed around. fc Nothing, to
make a dog really a tearer, like keeping
him always on the chain, with short
commons, except when horseflesh is cheap,
and then spice him well with that. But
you didn't come here, Sir R., to have a
chat about my dogs, did you?'

1 Why, no,' answered the baronet.
What I did want was a few minutes'
conversation on business. I had trouble
enough to find you. Your present place
of residence lies hidden from the world,
friend Rufus, like the abodes of those old
anchorites who '

I don't know anything about anchorites,
nor yet anchor-smiths,' rudely responded
Rufus, whose bulky form still blocked up
the doorway, and who did not seem to be
entirely sober. ' A man lives where a man

VOL. i. Q

can get to live. In this rotten old country,
it seems even a scrap of the worst soil
ever a £oat starved on belongs to somebody
or other. I've got a landlord, it
seems. I chose the spot partly because I
thought it was a No-man's land that might
be had for the taking, and partly because
it reminded me of Eaglehawk Rush, a
digging out in Gippsland there. Lord
Thorsdale's bailiff wanted me to pay rent,
or else clear out — called me a trespasser
and a poaching vagabond — and the thing
ended in a fight, and he swore he'd have
the law of me. But Master Bailiff, it
seems, was a bruiser, and vain of his reputation
in these parts, and he was that
much ashamed of the broken head and
black eyes I gave him, that he never
made his complaint to the magistrates in

Petty Sessions, never set the police on me,
nor even earwigged the land-steward, but
just let me be, after his licking. And
now, what brings you to my poor place,
Sir R. ?'

The fellow, in his boastfulness, had
actually talked himself into something like
a good temper, and when Sir Robert, who
was quick to note and profit by the change
in his mood, cheerily made answer,

'Only to have a talk, old companion,
about the business which brought you to
visit me in London, and myself to Yorkshire
'

Rufus in his turn rejoined,

All right and tight — hold your noise,
you brutes ! leave off that noise, I say !'
And there was something of menace in his
voice that made the fierce ban-doss without

Q2

cower and shrink, as their hoarse bark
sank into a muttering growl. 'Walk in,
Sir R., you are free of the hut

As he spoke, Rufus withdrew his burl
form a little, so as to permit the newcomer
to pass in. With some slight hesitation
the baronet stepped across that
ill-omened threshold. Then Rufus Crouch,
first firing off a volley of oaths at the
dons, who had re-commenced their barking
as they observed the stranger s advance,
re-closed the door and bolted it. The
grating of the rusty bolts sounded anything
but agreeable in the baronet's ears.
However, he was now within the ogre's
castle, and had to make the best of it. He
glanced about him, and, by the dim light
that filtered through the small windows,
he beheld such a scene of squalid confusion
as hitherto he had never dreamed

of. A hut need not be an untidy or even
comfortless abode. Sailors and soldiers
have often to live in huts, and find that
orderly habits and a little ingenuity make
their narrow dwellings fairly endurable.
Robinson Crusoe's habitation on his desolate
island has been the envy and admiration
of adventurous-minded schoolboys
from Defoe's days to our own. But here
was no order, here was no neatness. All
sorts of objects — kegs, boxes, jars, tools,
clothes — were littered about. A tin can
of petroleum stood beside a basket of
potatoes, and in the curling wood-smoke
of the smouldering fire dangled by hook
and chain a side of bacon, while from the
rough rafters swung onions, salted herrings,
and cabbages in unsavoury proximity.
There were shelves and there were lockers,
but the latter were half open, and the

230 SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART.

former were lumbered with incongruous
articles. Above the rude fireplace bung a
gun and an axe. The rugged and broken
table bore, amongst other things, a loaf of
bread, a knife and fork, a greasy plate,
some scraps of pork, a huge stoneware
bottle, and a glass, still half full of spirits
and water. In a darkling corner of the
den was to be distinguished a sort of bed,
with straw mattress and patchwork quilt.
The fastidious lord of Shirley could scarcely
repress a shudder at what he saw.

'Nice little crib — tidy little box, eh,
Sir R. ?' asked the ruffianly master of the
hovel, jealously eyeing his visitor, as if to
note the signs of disgust that his more
refined associate found it so hard to
repress. 'Not quite up to the mark of
your swell house in Hyde Park, though,
and not good enough for a watcher or a

pig-feeder on your Shirley property. Yet
it's what IVe come to. No one knows
what he may come to, Sir R. Shirley,
Baronet — does he now? Who can tell
what might happen to yourself? The
cells at Millbank and Portland are trim
and kept well white-washed, to be sure,
and the beds are of good cocoa-nut fibre,
and the gruel, and the soup, and the
bread, and the eight ounces of meat free
from bone — but you look quite pale,
Sir R. Not ill, I hope ?'

There was a malignity in the man's
manner that was intentionally offensive.
Sir Robert, ghastly pale, and conscious of
his pallor, answered by a hollow laugh, ashe
tapped his polished boots with the lash
of his riding whip.

1 1 do wish, Crouch, that your vivid
imagination expended itself upon pleasant



themes,' he said ; ' and, after all, why
not? Here I am in Yorkshire, after a
fashion by your invitation, and, as I
hoped, for our mutual benefit. I have
ridden over here to-day to '

c No groom with you, eh, Sir R. ?' asked
Crouch, sharply.

c Certainly not,' replied the baronet, with
commendable steadiness. ' I should not
wish our interview, old friend, to be commented
upon by the prating tongues of
servants. Let us talk things over, then,
and try to arrive at a comfortable conclusions


I'm your man, Sir R.,' rejoined Crouch,
as he pushed an empty barrel, set on end,
towards his visitor. ( Pray be seated. As
for me, this turf-creel, as I know, will ^cnr
my weight. We don't go in for luxuries

here. But we may as well sit down, I
suppose.'

The two confederates, so ill-matched in
all respects save that of unscrupulousness,
sat down accordingly, confronting one

/

another. The dogs without kept up a
subdued chorus of growling. Sir Robert
Shirley was the first to speak.

'Rufus, old friend,' he said, softly, 'I
have not known you so long without perceiving
that something has vexed you. I
suspect it is the failure of your jet-hunting
affair at Dutchman's Bay.'

Would you, Sir R., I'd like to know,'
demanded Crouch, very austerely, 'have
liked to have had seven days' such work as
never your white hands did in your life,
and then, because the beast of a cliff caved
in, to be cheated of your gains, and hear a

whipper-snapper of a boy like that young
Don, that all the dunces here combine to
worship, praised and flattered because he
saved a life or two at the end of the job?'

Some lives, I am sure, are not worth
the saving, 1 answered the baronet, cordially.


I suppose you mean mine, Sir E., r
resentfully retorted the ruffian opposite.
4 Because the young beggar — gentleman
foundling, or whatever he is — that Mr.
Don they go on about — dragged me out of
the Soldiers' Slough : and I wish he were
at the bottom of the quicksand, for a conceited
slip as he is.'

There was something so hideous about
the savagery of the wretch, something so
cynical in his coarse ingratitude, that Sir
Robert, who was a gentlemanly scoundrel,
felt inclined to arise in disgust, and dissolve

the unholy partnership into which he had
somehow drifted. But then he was in
Crouch's power, doubly so just then, for
the Australian gold-digger was by far the
stronger man of the two, and the bolder.
The baronet was unarmed ; and Rufus had
evidently been drinking, and had his sullen
temper inflamed, and his shrewd brains disturbed
by the liquor he had swallowed.
Clearly, as the hyena could not be shut
up or shot, the best plan was to conciliate
the hyena.

1 I, for one, think that Mr. Don an overrated
young fellow,' said the baronet, with
feigned sincerity.

So do I ! So do I !' shouted Crouch,
vehemently, as he seized the big stoneware
bottle and poured some of the fiery Hollands
it contained into his half-emptied
glass, and drained it at a draught. l Confusion

to Don ! If I could cut that young
cock's proud crest, I 'd die happy. And
now, Sir., I'd like to know how you speed
in your wooing. Is little Miss Violet
willing yet to be my lady?'

Have I anything to get beyond a pretty
face by what you are pleased to designate
as my wooing, Rufus ?' replied the baronet,
with admirable patience. ' I can't afford,
as you know, to marry a portionless wife,
and I should like to have a peep at that
trust deed before I positively commit myself
by a proposal, even were I sure of its
acceptance.'

Now, Sir R., do you take me for a
green hand or a gone gone ? I'd be thankful
to know,' retorted Crouch, with a sort of
savage jocularity. ' Do you really think
I keep a sort of Doctors' Commons registry,
where wills can be inspected by the

public at large for the small fee of one
shilling? I know what I have got to sell,
and what you have got to buy, and the
value of it. Heiresses, especially when
they are pretty and young, with seventy
thousand pounds, don't often go
a-begging, I somewhat think. Set your
mind at rest, Sir R., as to there being a
real trust, a real sum, and heavy back
dividends which represent a pretty penny.
Ah ! you may look about you. The
document } r ou are thinking of is not in
yonder locker, nor on that shelf, nor yet in
the chest in the corner. I didn't keep
company with American hunters without
learning what a cache means, or how to
stow away what is best kept from prying
eyes. But the question is, Sir R., whether
you please the girl's fancy, or believe you
do, enough to count on a " Yes" if you asked

for it. You're an old hand, and should
have wheedling ways at command. And
you are a man of title. Would little Miss
Violet take you, if you pressed your suit ?
Because, if she wouldn't, it's labour lost. 1
couldn't marry her, a rough, ill-favoured
chap like me,' added the digger, resentfully
; 'but you are one of the smooth sort.'

I cannot tell,' replied Sir Robert, with
apparent frankness. ' These young, inexperienced
girls know so little about their
own hearts that an outsider may well beat
fault. As a friendly acquaintance, if
not as a friend, I believe Miss Mowbray
does regard me. I have been able to interest
her often with conversation or anecdotes
about other lands and people unlike
those with whom she has been brought, in
contact. And as my sister, Lady Thorns
is going to assemble a lot of fine company

— or what does duty for such — at the
Park, my plan was to introduce the Lang-tons
and their beautiful ward, and in the
stir and excitement of a life new to Violet

to '

1 Pop the question, eh, Sir R. ?' interrupted
Rufus. ' Ay, and see, too, that no girlish
whim prevents its being answered in
the affirmative. Mind also that you don't
try the dangerous game of playing fast and
loose with me. I'm almost sick, I tell you,
of this worn-out old country. As for jet-hunting,
the Chinese curs that shift the
refuse of our gold-heaps make a better
living than we clo. I dream every night of
the cabbage-palms, and the blue gum-trees,
and the cradle-rocking, and the claims
marked out along the quartz reef. Nothing
keeps me here except that seventy
thousand pounds, and the heavy sum of

dividends unclaimed. You must go in and
win, Sir R. Better marry than go to gaol,
and that's just the choice you've got before
you. They wouldn't hurt me, bless you !
I'm Queen's Evidence. But you, Sir R.,
would be made an example of, and if you
didn't die in prison — I've known gentleman
forgers and such-like pine and die so
a nice time you'd have of it when your
term of penal servitude was over, and you
were in town again, not daring to go

O " Coup

the steps of your club, and Why,

Sir R., you look as white as a turnip —
you'll faint, I think. Try this.'

As Crouch spoke, he rose, snatched a wineglass
from the cumbered shelf near him,
tilled it to the brim with fiery liquor from
the stoneware bottle, and handed it to the
baronet, who accepted it with some hesitation,
but swallowed its contents. ' I

think I'll go now,' said Sir Robert, rising
from his seat. Nor did Rufus, who was
probably satisfied with the terror his
threats had inspired, care to detain his
guest. He also rose from the turf-creel on
which he had hitherto been seated, unbolted
the clumsily constructed door, and
silenced by a volley of curses and a well-aimed
stone or two the frenzied barking
with which the clogs saluted the stranger.
Make your hay while the sun shines, if
you're wise, Sir R.,' said the fellow, as he
watched the baronet unhitch the bridle of
his horse from the willow-stump, and
mount, and even then there was a ring of
menace in his tone.

I shan't forget your counsel, Rufus,' replied
the baronet, mildly. ' Now, good-bye,'
and he rode off. Rufus Crouch, shading his
restless eyes with his broad hand, watched

vol. I. R

i

the figure of the retreating horseman till it
was lost to sight, and then, with a chuckling
laugh, as if of triumph, retired to his
den.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE GUESTS ARRIVE.

Company at Thorsdale Park flowed in —
perhaps, at first, it might be more accurate
to say that it trickled in, so few were the
earliest arrivals, but afterwards the supply
became, numerically speaking, about equal
to the demand. After all, the hospitality
of an earl and a countess so rich and so
well-considered is pretty sure to be accepted
by a considerable number of persons.
Lady Piminy had come, and had brought
her three pretty daughters, giving up herr

2

lodgings in Half-Moon Street, somewhat
to the dismay of those disappointed
damsels, who felt as though their prospects
in life had been ruthlessly blighted by the
curtailment of their trip to glorious London.
But Lady Pinning had sons as well
as marriageable daughters, and it was on
behalf of dear, stalwart, stupid Edward
and of florid Augustus, down in Warwickshire,
that she had made haste to comply
with the summons of her far-away cousin
and potential patron, the Earl of Thorns
These two healthy young men were
the despair of crammers, and could be
coached and hustled through no sort of
open examination ; but there are yet such
things as direct appointments in some
branches of Britannia's service, and Lord
Thorsclale's solicitations, if he could only
be induced to solicit, might effect more

than could be done by the persistent
begging of poor Sir Nym, on whom Ministers
had looked coldly ever since he had
lost his seat for Freeman ton.

There were others besides Lady Piminy
who probably had some ends of their own
to serve in accepting the invitation to
Thorsdale. It was said of Lord David
Toclhunter that he and Lady David would
go anywhere for free quarters, and lived
for full nine months of every year at the
expense of their various hosts. It was not
Lord David's fault, of course, if his meagre
income were quickly gobbled up, and if
his brother, the Duke of Pentland — who,
for a duke, was anything but rich — had
positively refused to increase it by a single
sixpence. Then there were several other
cadets and distant relatives of families in
the great world, and sundry personages

by far better endowed with worldly goods,
but who were related to nobody in particular,
and who came because in their own
neighbourhoods they would derive consequence
from having been the guests of
an earl. And there were bachelors, whom
some motive of caprice, of gratitude, or of
self-seeking had induced to swell the
muster-roll at Thorsdale Park.

It is one thing, of course, to collect an
array of visitors in a country-house, and
another thing to be successful in pleasing
and amusing them, so as to keep the whole
careful of birds, so to speak, in song and
in feather. Young men, in especial, are
difficult to content, and they have an awkward
knack of being called away on urgent
private affairs, if allowed to mope through
the dulness of an unoccupied day. And
without young men there can be no liveliness,

no flirtation, no by-play of matchmaking
— nothing to lend real interest to
the country life. Lady Thorsdale had an
additional difficulty to contend with in the
fact that the real object of her undertaking
was to divert her exacting lord from
over-much brooding over his own health,
and the best . method of restoring it. At
any moment, as she was well aware, the
wind of travel might set in with resistless
strength, either towards the Engadine or
that yet more dreaded bourne of the Rocky
Mountains, and Schultz the courier might
be telegraphed for, and the noble valetudinarian
be preparing for his dreary
pilgrimage to the distant shrine of the
eminently uncomfortable Hygeia that only
dwells in desert places.

The countess, stimulated by her natural
fear of Denver, Davos, St. Moritz, and

similar places of exile, did her best ; and
it is wonderful how much a woman of the
world can, under these circumstances,
accomplish. Even in the country, even in
Yorkshire, there are all sorts of things to
be done when money and position go hand
in hand. There were military displays.
Lady Thorsdale remembered that her earl
was major of the yeomanry, and colonel —
honorary colonel — of the coast volunteers.
Wherefore the farmers were cajoled into
donning their glittering helmets and trim
blue uniforms, and assembling in well-mounted
squadrons for six days' drill and
parade, a subsidy from Thorsdale Park
taking the place of the usual Government
allowance. Also the volunteers drummed
and marched and saluted, and went
through a sham fight, and burned powder,
and blazed at targets, and played at encamping,

and were regaled with feasts and
flattery, and smartly criticised by various
ex-officers of the regular profession staying
at Thorsdale, and who felt the martial
instinct revive in them at the sight of
warlike gear and glancing arms. The earl
was actually induced to mount his horse
and exhibit himself in uniform, and for
the moment seemed a sound man, though
a couple of hours afterwards he w as wrapped
in flannels in an easy-chair in his own
apartments, groaning and descanting on
the virulence of his gout and the intensity
of the symptoms. Nobody, not even experienced
old Sir Joseph Doublefee, up in
London, certainly not Doctor Thompson
of Daneborough, or Mr. Smiles, M.R.C.S.,
who monopolised the local practice of
Woodburn and the parts adjacent, could
be quite certain as to whether Lord Thorns



dale had the gout at all, or whether, like
many another vehement invalid, he was
simply the self-tormenting victim of a
vivid imagination, and a nervous system
disordered by constant dwelling on imaginary
ills.

Lady Thorsdale did her best. And,
indeed, much as foreigners deplore and
disdain the dulness of England, no other
country can furnish so many recreations
of one kind or another. There were
flower-shows that were really pretty.
There was an archery meeting, and there
was a lawn-tennis tournament, that were
almost prettier, the fair girls outshining
the brilliance of the summer flowers.
There was a picnic at the ruined abbey of
Stonecross. Another at the ruined castle
of Thrapford was projected. Then there
was the Daneborough regatta, and the

yacht-race at Scoresbyby, and the Stapleton
and Barbara athletic sports, to all of which
a contingent of carriages went from
Thorsclale.

There were garden-parties almost every
week. Dinner-parties were frequent ;
concert singers of renown appeared, like
highly-paid human nightingales, to warble
in those evenings which might otherwise
have appeared tedious ; tents were
pitched, and cricket played on Thorsdale
Moor by enthusiastic local elevens, while
the gamekeepers brought in the most
roseate reports as to the broods of young
grouse, and the prospects of the superb
shooting to be expected in August over
the wilder portions of Lord Thorsdale's
great estates.

In all these efforts to please her guests,
and, through them, to soothe the fickle

J

temper and pacify the irritable nerves of
her self-tormented husband, Lady Thorns
had two allies. The first of these was
the earl's secretary, Mr. Sharpe, a clever
man, whose best praise was that he knew the
length of his noble employer's foot even
better than his wife could do, and never
gave offence. Mr. Sharpe, who perhaps
did not wish, personally, to be exiled
to Colorado or the Engadine, and who
knew that Lord Thorsdale never £rut fired
the cheques he drew, proved himself a first-rate
purveyor of everything, from job-horses
to hothouse flowers, and Covent
Garden pine-apples.

Without Mr. Sharpe's assistance, there
were times when even the countess would
have been at fault. She wanted more
servants, more carriages, more saddle-horses,
more everything, and the secretary

provided these so smoothly, so unostentatiously,
and with so little of friction or of
delay, that the establishment at Thorsdale
was strengthened almost without anyone,
except the supernumeraries and their paymaster,
being the wiser for it. He corresponded
with the stewards of the athletic
meetings and with the regatta committees,
and got the earl to give a cup to one and
a vase to the other : established good relations
with the reporters and editors of the
county newspapers ; impressed Avander-
iii£ singers and roving; bands into the
service.

Bat Mr. Sharpe, though an invaluable
auxiliary, was one of those useful functionaries
whose work is performed in the
background, and who, like some great
generals, are unfit for service in the field.
Astute as he was, he was not what ladies

call presentable, being a lame little man,
who coughed when addressed by a social
superior, and had never been on speaking
terms with the letter H. Whereas Sir
Robert Shirley, of whom his now reconciled
sister habitually spoke as ' dear Robert,'
was emphatically of the showy order. He
was very often indeed at Thorsdale — so
often that a room had been allotted to him,
and he slept there or in his own house
at Helston as he listed, coming and groin£
as he pleased. But he had thrown himself
heart and soul into the task of enlivening
the old mansion, and had more than
answered the expectations of its noble
master and mistress.

Both the earl and the countess were
pleased with Sir Robert. Never had the
latter known him to be so good-natured,
and apparently disinterested, before. He

kept the discordant elements of which the
company was composed in almost chronic
good-humour. It was due to him that
there seemed to be some reasonable prospect
of the tableaux, for which Mr. Moss
of London could only provide the accessories,
coming off at last. He set the right
people at the right moment to play duets
on the piano, so as to promote conversation
or screen the whispering talk of lovers.
He found out everyone's foible, trotted out
old Sir Bothering Pipeclay on the hobby
of his Indian campaigns, devised a special
tableau to show off the Piminy girls, who
were handsome, but mute and unimaginative,
and divided the honours of the
billiard-room with Captain Crasher.

Sir Robert, it has been mentioned, was a
man of sundry accomplishments. He was
a skilled musician and had a fine voice,

but he knew his social value too well to
permit himself to be classed as a mere
amateur performer. Once or twice he
allowed himself to be persuaded to sing,
just as, for a few moments, he let his
supple fingers draw forth melody from the
ivory keys of the piano. That he was
adroit with the cue, the fencing-foil, the
gun, and the pistol was soon patent to all,
while there was a quiet dexterity in his
way of handling cards which proved him
to have had much experience in the
manipulation of the painted paste-board.
Charley Fitzgerald admitted that Shirley
could ride, and Sir Harker listened with
respect to his brother-baronet's opinion
about horses.

The sporting men who had been asked
down to Thorsdale were not in the first
flight of sporting men, and they all of

them more or less deferred to one who had
in his day been a turf celebrity, with racehorses
of his own, and winning colours to
flash past the judge's chair, and none of
them accurately knew the origin or the
justice of the evil reputation that now
clung to the master of Shirley. Besides,
such rumours surely could not be true, or
Sir Robert would not have been countenanced
by such exalted relatives as the
Earl and Countess of Thorsdale. Wherefore
the white-handed confederate ofRufus
Crouch came to be accepted as an oracle bv
the motley society now collected at Thorns
Park.

There are men, as there are women,
whose guiding star is vanity, and who think
no trouble too great, no sacrifice of ease
and comfort too much, to achieve notoriety,
and to strut the boards of even the tiniest

vol. i. s

stage. Sir Robert Shirley was of another
stamp of character. He found himself
regarded as a lion of the true breed, and
his roaring, as it were, hearkened to with
admiring belief. But he would not have
cared to roar merely to be rewarded by
the good opinion, the ephemeral good
opinion, of the incongruous set of visitors
whom his sister, for a purpose, had gathered
together at Thorsdale, and whom he,
also for a purpose, condescended to conciliate.
He had a more solid goal to reach
than empty applause.

Day and night there danced before the
eyes of the needy baronet, like a glittering
prize that lured him on, the vision of
Violet Mowbray's fortune, that severity
thousand pounds — the amount of which
was doubtless swollen to still more tempting
proportions by the aggregate of

dividends unclaimed. So large a sum
seemed to the embarrassed master of
Shirley what the fabled El Dorado did to
the early Spanish conquerors of the New
World as. hopeless and starving, scorched
by the sun of Peru and chilled by the
bitter blasts from the Andes, they struggled
on towards the land of boundless wealth.
Real ready money, real hard cash, would,
Sir Robert felt assured, prove in his hands
an enchanter's wand, by the aid of which
he could effect wonders.

But two things perplexed him. In the
first place, the behaviour of Rufus Crouch
was very puzzling. He had to take the
fellow's word for the very existence of
this great sum, of which Miss Mowbray
was the unsuspecting heiress. And Crouch
had hitherto declined to name the price
which he expected for his services. Also

s2

Sir Robert, though he flattered himself, as
such men do, that he knew women well,
was not by any means certain that he had
pleased Violet sufficiently to warrant his
proposing himself as her husband with the
quasi-certainty that the proposal would be
accepted. These thoughts combined to
occasion many an uneasy moment to the
wily master of Shirley.

CHAPTER XIV.

PROMOTION.

4 Good-morning, Mr. Bartlett.'
Good-morning, Mr. Langton.'
Not intellectual or highly original remarks
were these, no doubt, and yet the
utterers of them were intelligent Englishmen
enough, and each was a fair type of
the class to which he belonged. What
the Rector of Woodburn was we know,
but Mr. Bartlett was of a different and
more robust genus. He was land-agent to
Lord Thorsdale, and a rich peer's model

•>

land-agent ought, it seems, to combine
two characters : he should be a bit of a
lawyer and a bit of an agriculturist.
Mr. Bartlett, whose father had filled the
post before him, did combine the two
characters. He was a solicitor — nominally,
at least, since his only client ' was the
Right Honourable Algernon, Earl of
Thorsdale. And he was an authority on
farming, though he only rented a poor
sixty acres of land, and was proud when
he won a medal for a prize pig at the
County Show, or obtained honourable
mention of his wife's fancy poultry or his
wife's Jersey cows. But, if he had not a
practical acquaintance with farming, he
had at least a practical knowledge of
farmers, knew which tenant was exhausting
the land, and which doing his duty

honestly by the acres he held, and had a
shrewd insight into the motives and conduct
of those with whom he did business.

Such a man as Lord Thorsdale, or, for
that matter, as any great landowner, has
need of his Mr. Bartlett, and the net
amount of his rent-roll depends very much
on the sense and integrity of his land-steward.
The earl, who grumbled at most
people, knew Mr. Bartlett's value. He
was expensive, but he was efficient. He
lived near Daneborough, but there was an
old steward's house touching the park
where he had his land-office, and where he
had rooms in which, when requisite, he
could dine and sleep. Those were his real
head-quarters. There he managed the
bailiffs, gave interviews to the tenantry,
and transacted the multifarious business

that appertains to the ownership of land.
Just then Mr. Bartlett, as he encountered
the rector, was in sore tribulation.

1 1 have lost my best clerk, ' he said.
Young Carder, who was one out of fifty,
has gone off suddenly to be a partner with
his father and his uncle out in Ohio, in
some rock-oil business, and I am left with
old Screedle, who is good at accounts, but
can't ride, and gets blinder every day, and
a raw lad at whom the farmers, and still
more their wives, laugh when I send him
on a message. You can't manage a big
estate without smart underlings to help
you ; nor can I be everywhere. A general
wants his gallopers, and I am helpless
without my aides-de-camp, and harvest
coming on too. Yesterday I drove forty
miles ; and I shan't sleep at home even
tomorrow night. What I want is a

"bright, brisk young fellow, who can ride a
horse and drive a gig, and keep his books
square, and speak up when he visits the
most whimsical and proudest set of tenants
that ever demanded a new barn or took
offence at the idea of an alteration in their
boundaries. And where am I to find him,
I wonder, Mr. Langton ?'

I think I know,' replied the rector,
after a moment's meditation, ' precisely the
candidate that would suit you. Only the
worst of it is,' he added, after a pause,
that I was mistaken in calling him a
candidate, and that I am by no means
sure that the lad — all that I could wish
my own son to be — would desert his
present ill-paid occupation, to which custom
has probably endeared him, for the
no doubt better-remunerated employment
of which you speak. I have no hesitation

J

in recommending him, not in the least ;
but I am far from certain that, if you
deemed him suitable for the post you
have to fill, he would be willing to accept
it.'

Carder's salary was a hundred and
fifty pounds a year,' rejoined the land-agent,
promptly, ' to be raised, had he
remained with us six months more, to a
hundred and eighty. Screedle has two-fifty.
And, if Screedle's eyes go on getting
worse, the second clerk may hope to step
into his shoes before we see a brace of
Christmases. But then the second clerk
ousrht to be worth his salt.'

I think you will find my young friend
and favourite pupil worth his salt,' returned
the rector, smiling. ' You have
heard his name, probably. It is young-don
— Mr. Don, as they call him hereabouts

— the jet-hunter, old Captain Obacliah's
foster-son.'

'Ay, ay!' muttered Mr. Bartlett, doubtfully,
as he rattled his watch-chain. ' Yes,
yes — I have heard of him— the gentleman
jet-hunter — a brave lad, I am sure, and a
good one, Mr. Langton, or you would not
speak as you do. That young Don ! No,
I never saw him, but I always fancied him
a vain, nighty sort of youngster, lording
it over the fisher-folk because they take
him for something grander than they are
bold enough, but conceited and wilful.'

You have been much misinformed, Mr.
Bartlett,' said the rector, seriously. ' Don
our Don — is the soul of modesty, as
your true knight should be, with a kind
word for all, and no one thinks so little of
the risks he has run or the lives he has
saved as does the noble boy himself. That

he is a gentleman born all believe, but he
never presumes on the supposed superiority
of his birth, and is to this hour the
same frank, true-hearted boy that I have
always found him. If you want an assistant
up at Thorsdale, and Don suits you,
all I could do, Mr. Bartlett, would be to
congratulate both employer and employed.'


The earl's land-agent stroked his long,
smooth-shaven chin. He was a shrewd,
hard-headed man of business, and he took
a hard-headed, and possibly hard-hearted,
view of his fellow-creatures and of things
in general. As a plain, sensible person,
he was sceptical with regard to prodigies
and people of genius. He, like others on
that coast, had heard of Don and his
daring, and his gentle bearing and good

brains, and was rather prejudiced against
him than otherwise, because he, being so
young, had earned so much of popularity
and local renown. But he was staggered
in his prejudice when he heard the parson
speak with such unwonted warmth in
praise of his young pupil. Mr. Langton,
he knew, but for feeble lungs and a weakly
frame, might have filled a bishop's
throne with credit, and have ranked as
more than an ordinary member of the
episcopate in debates in the House of
Lords. And Mr. Langton believed in his
village hero.

1 1 should like to have five minutes' talk
with the young man,' said Mr. Bartlett,
after a moment's reflection.

Nothing easier,' cheerily responded the
rector, ' since it is the time at which Don

usually comes to read with me ; and there
lie comes, with old Captain Jedson for
once by his side.'

And indeed at that instant Don's lithe
figure, accompanied by the gaunt, gigantic
form of old Obadiah, came in sight. Then
followed the usual greetings. The captain
of jet-hunters was known to Mr. Bartlett,
and indeed to almost every resident in
that part of the country, and had won the
respect that seldom fails to be gained by
those who respect themselves, and walk
with steadfast feet along the narrow path
of honest rectitude. That the man was a
mystic, and had wild, earnest religious
beliefs, Mr. Bartlett had heard, and could
fully credit. Obadiah's very aspect suggested
that he had been born a couple of
centuries too late, and should have worn
helmet and breast-plate of steel, and

doublet of red, and charged at Dunbar,
and stormed the breach at Drogheda,
and trampled down Royalist fugitives at
Worcester and Naseby, always with the
same serene conviction that to smite 
and Moab was to do a good day's
work in that harvest-field wherein he was
a diligent husbandman. As it so fell out,
Captain Jedson's battles had all been
peaceful ones against wave and quicksand,
and he who had in him the stout heart of
a soldier was known also to possess a
strange gentleness of temper and a rare
unselfishness.

I am glad to see you at last, Mr. Don
people talk of you so much,' said the
earl's right-hand man, when the preliminary
introduction had taken place.

I cannot tell, sir, why they should talk
of me,' replied Don, with his bright smile

and steadfast simplicity of manner; and
the land-steward eyed the young man, and
assured himself that the rector was right,
and Don a recruit worth enlistment.

He had never before then met with a
clever lad who was not pert as well as
clever, excepting Carder the regretted,
now rattling along; towards Ohio and the

O CD

paternal oil-wells. But Carder, though an
excellent and hard-working youth, would
have presented but a mean appearance if
set beside Don, with his dark, manly
beauty, and graceful, vigorous form.

Mr. Langton was the first to come to
the point.

My friend Mr. Bartlett here ' he
said, 'who is land-agent of Lord Thorns
estate, was just telling me of a
vacancy in the land-office. He has lost a
good clerk, and, although I should lose a

good pupil, I have ventured, Don, my boy,
to suggest that the appointment might suit
you, and that you might like the vacant
post.'

4 Dear Mr. Langton,' said Don, turning
his noble young face towards the clergyman,
'you are always kind — too kind — tome.
But I am afraid I should make an
indifferent sort of clerk, even if this gentleman
were willing to take me in that-capacity.
I like books, but all my life has
been spent in the free air and in exercise.
We jet-hunters would be out of place at a
desk.'

1 Ours isn't exactly desk-work,' replied
Mr. Bartlett, who began to see his way.
'Too many acres within my lord's ring-fence
for that ! Why, yesterday I drove
forty miles, as I was telling Mr. Langton
here. There are outlying portions of the

VOL. I. T

property that must be looked up every
now and then. I take it for granted,
Mr. Don, that you write a legible hand,
hind are up in the rules of arithmetic. Can
you ride?'

Yes, a little, sir,' answered Don,
modestly.

Like a centaur, rather,' put in the
rector. ' Who was it, my young friend,
who broke in Farmer Barton's chestnut
colt, a vicious brute, that broke two collar-bones
of my parishioners, and ignominiously
unseated Joe Graham, the Daneborough
horse-breaker ? I pitied poor Mr. Graham
the more because I never, personally,
could keep in the saddle of any animal less
patient than a Ramsgate or Scarborough
donkey. An arm-chair generally suits
the scholar best. But Don is a horseman.'


And if Mr. Don likes to come to us at
Thorsdale, with a salary of a hundred and
eighty pounds and a room, I shall be
glad to take him,' said the land-agent, cordially.
Don flushed crimson, and for a
moment there was a sparkle in his dark
eyes, but then he shook his head.

1 You are very kind, sir, and Mr. Langton
is more than kind,' he answered ; ' but
I am a jet-hunter, and must live and die
with those who cared for me when I was a
little child.'

Surely, a salary of a hundred and
eighty to begin, and if old Mr. Screedle
the head-clerk's eyes get worse, and he
is pensioned off by his lordship, the
prospect of promotion !' expostulated the
astonished manager of the Thorsdale property.


'Don, my boy, such a rise in life fort

2

you, in whose career I have always taken
an interest !' pleaded the clergyman. But
Don remained unconvinced, until his two
well-wishers found an unexpected ally in
grim old Obadiah, who suddenly outstretched
the gaunt length of his bony
arm. .

'Don, my foster-son, and my own
lad,' exclaimed the old captain of jet-hunters,
'to my voice you should hearken,
when it speaks, as it has ever done for your
good. But yesterday, thinking of you, my
bairn, I tried a fall of the holy pages, as
did wise men of old, and where did the
Book open ? — where, but with the story
of how Joseph rose to be steward unto
Pharaoh, far off in wondrous Egypt ! A
jet-hunter need not always be a jet-hunter.
You were always, my boy, too
good to stick to the beach. And it is

borne in upon me that this offer should be

closed with.'

It was agreed then that Don was to be

temporarily engaged in the land-office at
Thorsdale Park, in Mr. Carder's place, but
that he was still to be understood to form
one of the band of jet-hunters under
Obadiah Jedson's command.

CHAPTER XV.

VIOLET AND DON.

It was early, very early, according to conventional
notions, on a bright, breezy
morning in July, and the gold-green
leaves of the old oaks of Thorsdale were
glibly drinking in the welcome sunbeams,
and the rabbits capered and whisked
among the fern of the high, sloping banks,
and the dewy grass glittered as if every
tremulous blade were heavy with liquid
gems, when Violet Mowbray, a book in her

hand, left the house, and walked out into
the park.

To explain her presence there it is
necessary to say that the countess, at her
brother's wish, had been particularly
gracious to the inmates of the parsonage
at Woodburn, had called on the Langton,
had asked them over to the Park more
frequently than it suited the rector to
accept her profuse hospitality, and had
invited Miss Mowbray to spend a few days
at Thorsdale. There was nothing remarkable
in that. For an English girl to spend
a considerable part of her time in paying
visits is as usual as it would be unusual fora
French damsel to do so. And then it
came out that Violet was a remote cousin,
somehow, of Lord Thorsdale, thanks to the
ramifications of the noble families with
which both were connected, so that the

hospitality of Thorsdale Park could be, in
her case, more graciously and gracefully
given and taken than if Mr. Langton's
ward had belonged to the same
class as did Mr. and Mrs. Langton themselves.


Miss Mowbray was an early riser, and it
was to her a pleasure to be up and abroad
in the fresh glory of the midsummer
morning, at an hour when there were few
to be encountered save some stray woodcutter
or keeper on his way to a distant
plantation or spiny, and before the guests
in the great mansion were astir. Then, to
Violet's mind, the grand old place seemed
at its best, as the huge oaks rustled their
wealth of leaves, and the deer trooped in
antlered squadrons along the terraced
uplands of the far-stretching demesne, and
the pheasants showed their gorgeous plumage

on the dark skirts of the fir-wood that
was their home, and all things looked as
bright and beautiful and peaceful as if
there were no sin, no care, no death, no
sorrow, in this lower world of ours.

One solitary spot of peculiar prettiness
there was towards which Miss Mowbray
never failed to wend her way. It was
called locally the Black Pool, perhaps from
the depth and the pellucid darkness of the
water that filled the bottom of the hollow,
over which aged hawthorns, that had seen
more than one dynasty on our English
throne, bent their gnarled branches,
and exhibited, according to the season,
the milk-white blossoms of hope or the
ruby-red berries of maturity. A pretty
place, where the fern arched high and the
wild flowers nestling among the projecting
roots of the hoary hawthorn-trees



seemed brighter and of richer tints
than wild flowers elsewhere. There was
a deer-path down to the hollow, trodden
by the cloven, delicate hoofs of countless
generations of the horned, half-wild race
that dwelt within the park-pale — no
dappled fallow deer, but the tall stags and
hinds that Norman William protected bylaws
so cruel, and the safety of which had
cost many a life and many a sentence of
outlawry in the hard and selfish days of
mediaeval legislation.

From the Black Pool, or rather from the
rising ground which formed the rim on the
natural cup, hollowed out like a volcanic
crater, at the bottom of which the still
water lay, a fine view could be obtained
both of the park and the house. 'The
latter, which was usually styled the Hall,
had been rebuilt in Queen Anne's reign,

and was a great mass of crimson brick and
white stone, with the mullions windows-and
the portico and massive balustrades of
the period. But the architect who had
reared it had spared a portion of the
original structure, and two Norman towers
and a gateway, and the exquisite ruins of
a roofless chapel, overgrown with long
grass and bindweed and ivy, remained to
remind the gazer that there had existed
something before the red brick epoch.
There the old towers stood, grey and stern,
in their warlike majesty and strength, with
their narrow windows, through which the
arrows of the besieged had of yore been
wont to whistle, and the regular masonry
of cut stone and hard mortar, which, when
cannon were unknown, mocked the impotent
rage of foes without. And there
was the delicate tracery of the ruined

chapel of a later date, chancel and side
shrines, and the oriel window, ivy-draped
and mellowed by age.

Very few of the visitors at Thorsdale,
with the exception of Violet, cared for the
Black Pool, or for the view of the Hall and
the Norman ruins to be had from thence,
or, indeed, for anything more aesthetic than
present amusement or ultimate profit,
personal or vicarious. Lady Piminy had
been shown the place, and had turned away
with a shudder that was almost unaffected,
remarking that the deep dark pond looked
fit to drown oneself in. But Violet Mowbray
had felt the enchantment of the spot,
and she was fond of repairing there early on
a fine morning, and before the fashionable
company under the earl's roof were astir.

It has been mentioned that the deer
within Lord Thorsdale's immemorial park

were no plump, lazy, fallow deer, but of
the true old pre-historic breed that roamed
this island before Roman galley or British
coracle stemmed the narrow seas that cut
us off from Gaul. And the pool was a
favourite resort of the tall red deer.
Violet knew this well, and had more than
once looked with admiration at the line of
graceful creatures as they filed down from
the uplands to slake their thirst. But
what she did not know was that stags,
elegant and picturesque adjuncts to a
pleasaunce as they may be, are in summer
prone to fits of capricious ill-humour, and
resent intrusion on their haunts.

So when a fine solitary stag, with wide-branching
antlers, came slowly marching
down the deep and narrow path that led
to the Black Pool, waving his proud head
from side to side, she was so far from

anticipating any possible clanger that it
merely seemed to her as if another element
of beauty had been added to the prospect
before her. She had seated herself, book
in hand, on a mossy seat, formed by the
contorted roots of one of the venerable
hawthorn-trees that bordered the pool,
and watched the stag's approach without
the slightest suspicion that the creature
regarded her as an enemy, and her presence
as an affront.

On came the stag. That there was mischief
in his rolling eye, mischief in his tossing
head, an experienced park-keeper or verderer
could have read at a glance. Violet,
however, noted only the grace of each
successive attitude, until a low, fierce,
bellowing sound betrayed the hostile intentions
of the animal, which now began to
gore the turf with its many-tined horns,

and to snort, and foam, and pause in its
slow march to paw the ground impatiently
with its sharp-hoofed forefeet — all signs
of hostility which denoted that a charge
was to be expected.

Our ancestors had an almost superstitious
dread of the deadly results of a wound dealt
bv a hart's horn, which the rude surgeons of
a bygone age declared to be more difficult
to heal than the hurt from a wild boar's tusk.
It is unlikely that Violet Mowbray had ever
heard of traditions such as these, but she
began to grow alarmed as the stag, red-eyed,
foaming, and tossing into the air
grass and leaves at every stroke of its horn,
drew nearer, repeating its menacing bellow.
The girl had risen from her seat and let
fall her book, but she was too frightened to
fly, and besides, how could her speed
avail her against that of so agile an enemy.

Fascinated, like a bird that mutters close
to the glaring eyes of a snake, she stood
still. A man's quick tread, a man's cheering
voice — yes, that meant rescue. A
film seemed to come before Violet's eyes,
and she sank fainting on the bank, and

< J 7

only recovered her consciousness to find
Don supporting her.

You are not hurt, Miss Mowbray ?
No. Then all is well. There is not, I
assure you, the least danger now,' said Don,
earnestly, but softly. l Yonder, towards
the hills, you can just catch a glimpse of
your late enemy.' And indeed far off
might be seen the now distant form of the
defeated stag sullenly trotting along to rejoin
the herd.

Violet never quite knew the circumstances
of her rescue. Don, as was his habit,
made light of his own prowess.

It was very easy,' he said, smiling, ' with
this stout stick for a conjuring wand in my
hand, to exorcise the troublesome apparition.
But stags are often ill-tempered, as I
am told ; and it might be more prudent,
Miss Mowbray, to avoid lonely places in
the park, unless you are escorted. As it
is, it was fortunate that I happened to be
near.'

A kind Providence sent you to my help,
I think,' said Violet, simply. ' I was very
frightened, and gave myself up for lost.
But when I heard your voice, Mr. Don,
then I felt that I was safe ; and so — I was
very foolish.' And she tried to smile,
while tears swam in her beautiful eyes. ' I
thankyou souci,' she added, afterapause,
and then she put out her little hand to her
deliverer. Don took it, and for a moment
could hardly resist the wild impulse that

vol. I. u

prompted him to press it to his lips. He
released it, however, and cheerfully replied,


1 You owe me no thanks, Miss Mowbray,
for the little I was lucky enough to effect.
Anyone else would have done as much.
I happened to be crossing the park on my
way to look after some woodmen who are
engaged in felling trees — for I am in the
earl's employment for a time, you may
perhaps remember.'

Yes, I recollect — I knew that,' said
Violet, glancing shyly at Don. He was
differently dressed from his wont, wearing,
in fact, what might be called the attire of
one occupying a much higher station in
life than a mere toiler on the sea-shore.
But Don had looked as thoroughly a
gentleman in his rough jet-hunter's garb
as in his present habiliments. He explained

to Violet that the old steward's house,
in which a room, or rather rooms, had
been assigned to him, was close to the
park, and had a side gate by which its
occupants could enter the enclosure at anytime
on an errand of duty.

I am bound now. at Mr. Bartlett's wish,
for the High Beeches, three miles off,' he
said; 'but I shall be happy, Miss Violet, if
you are now sufficiently recovered to walk,
to see you safely as far, at least, as the
ornamental grounds, where no deer are to
be met with.'

Violet was trembling yet, but she
looked at her watch, and saw that, under
penalty of being late for breakfast, and
thus attracting notice unwelcome to a
timid girl among strangers, it behoved her
to return to the Hall. Her first steps were

weak and unsteady. Don offered her the

u2

support of his strong arm, and side by side
they traversed the winding path that led
past bosky dell and fern-crested bank,
under leafy elms and beneath spreading
beeches, towards the house. They were
not silent, but nothing was said as to the
recent adventure. Something was said of
Woodburn Parsonage, but more of Thorns
its grand trees, its stretching lawns,
and of the Norman towers and the ruined
chapel.

I am never tired of looking at them —
when I have time, for I must not eat the
bread of idleness,' observed Don. ' To me
they are as so much history turned into
stone ; and since I have seen them I feel
for the first time as if I understood
Froissart — and " Ivanhoe," ' he added, with
a laugh. ' I hope you don't think it
absurd in me to say so, Miss Mowbray ?'

Presently they drew so near to the
ornamental grounds, full of rare shrubs
and flowers of lower growth than the
indigenous giants of the park, that Don
deemed it best to leave Violet to pursue
the rest of the short walk by herself, lest
her presence should be noticed and commented
on. They parted then, Don
striking into a path that led towards the
distant uplands, while Violet threaded her
way amidst the flower-beds and clumps of
gay-leafed shrubs, and entered the Hall,
reaching her chamber just in time to
escape observation, to make some alteration
in her toilet, and descend the stairs
and join the company gathering for breakfast.
No one questioned her, and she
said nothing as to her recent peril or concerning
her rescuer. That would, indeed,
have been difficult for one so retiring as

herself, seeing that letters were being
read, newspapers consulted, and fragmentary
gossip selected from their contents retailed
aloud for the benefit of all who chose
to listen.

c Jack Havant is to marry Miss Million.
Xo mistake about it now.'

Don't believe a word of it. He's been
dangling after her these three years, and
old Million, who is a domestic autocrat,
insists that no suitor without a coronet
need apply.'

'Yes, but that's it. Didn't I tell you
old Lord Gosport was dead, that Jack's
father, the colonel, steps into the earldom,
and Jack himself is Lord Havant now, so
he's eligible for the heiress ?'

Here's the last story about the mandeville
House set !'

In the midst of this Babel of tongues,

silent little Violet found her mind faraway

from the chatter and confusion

around her.

Strange,' she thought, ' that each time

I meet with this young man — this Mr.

Don — my memory dwells Upon every word

he said, and treasures up every look he
gave. I wonder why it is so?'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD BLENHEIM HOUSE.

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or Ill Noise

H26s

^H & SON'S

)N LIBRARY,

JD, LONDON,

^

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
7KIS art UsueA <o ^iiTT^^IiiJ^rAoi^^ «» 5*W only.

TERMS.

,ar.U.««D.M Obtaining Ther BOOK. From * f^jW BOO«T«.L^

For THREE „ " " \ \ | ©-^-S lo O?

For FOUR • I 1 . i IB O - 8 '8-: O

sacs

VOL. n.

BY

JOHN BERWICK Haywood

AUTHOR OF

"LADY Flavian," "LORD LYNN"S WIFE," "THE TENTH Earl,

&C., &C.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BARI

CHAPTER I.

IN THE ROSE GARDEN.

I HOPED, I almost trusted, that I should
hind you here.'

There was not much in the words,
perhaps, although they were rather more
earnest than the ordinary utterances of
polite society ; but they derived weight
from the meaning tone in which they
were spoken, and which, when addressed
to Violet Mowbray by Sir Robert Shirley,

VOL. II. B

had the effect of making the listener uncomfortable.
There was no reason why
the baronet, who had just ridden over
from Helston, should have been surprised
at meeting Miss Mowbray in the rose-garden,
that was one of the boasts of
Thorsdale, and where six or seven other
guests were strolling among the bright
flowers ; nor did there appear to be any
cogent reason for his having hoped to find
her there. But Sir Robert had of late
affected to speak to Mrs. Langton's beautiful
young charge as though there had
been some kind of understanding; between
him and her. It was not so much what
he said as how he said it which at times
perplexed and almost alarmed Violet.

The roses are looking very pretty today.'
said Miss Mowbray, vexed at the
inane nature of her own remark.

There were the noble flowers in all their
glory and splendour, a blaze of blended
colours, bright as living jewels in the
sunlight, and Violet was ashamed to think
how poor and trite appeared to herself her
words of praise.

are they?' indolently rejoined Sir
Robert ; and again there was that odious
implied something in his accent, and she
knew that he was looking at her, not at
the roses; but she did not choose to allow
her eyes to meet his.

There are young ladies who bask, so to
speak, in the sunshine of a compliment,
even if the payer of it be distasteful to
themselves, but Violet was of another
order. She did not dislike Sir Robert
Shirley, and, more certainly still, she did
not regard him with any of that liking
which may afterwards be transmuted into

B 2

a warmer sentiment. When fxPst, at
Woodburn Parsonage, lie had become
acquainted with this accomplished man of
the world, she had been pleased by what
appeared an agreeable break in the monotony
of a somewhat tame and colourless
existence. Miss Mowbray had listened
With interest to the travelled baronet's
descriptions of far-off isles and cities and
famous mountain ranges, of those Alps
and Apennines, that purple Mediterranean,,
the Holy Land, Greece, Egypt — places
that she only knew through the medium
of books. And perhaps Sir Robert may
have mistaken the attention with which
Violet hearkened to his conversation for
somewhat of a preference for himself, and
presumed upon it, since, without any
formal declaration of love, he was always
posing in the character of. a suitor who

-does not avow his attachment, because
there is already a tacit understanding
between himself and the object of his
choice.

The baronet, with all his astuteness and
all his experience, did not read Violet's
nature aright. He saw in her simply a
country-bred girl of a modest and retiring
disposition, who might be dazzled by the
adventitious brilliancy of an admirer like
himself, but whose repugnance — if she had
any — to becoming Lady Shirley would be
perfectly sure to succumb to a patient and
persistent courtship. Such a girl, he
argued, would be very much influenced by
the opinions of those under whose care she
was, and on this account Sir Robert had
taken much pains to stand well in the
estimation of the Langton, husband and
\vife. He had, to use his own phrase,

drawn out ' the worthy rector to dilate
upon his favourite topics and to air his
cherished theories, confident that by playing
the part of a sympathetic listener he
should best earn the good word and the
good-will of the reverend rector. He
had entered into Mrs. Langton's pursuits,
too, actually taking the trouble to send
to London for recent works on botany and
floriculture, that he might read up the
subjects, and take rank as a kindred spirit
with the simple-minded lady. He had
humoured the very children, praised and
patted the fat white ponies, sipped the tea,
and taken a deep interest in the aquarium.
The shrewd baronet felt confident that he
should find Mr. and Mrs. Langton his wellwishers
when once the subject of matrimony
should be mooted.

Sir Robert, however, like many another

mercenary wooer, was reluctant to commit
himself by a downright proposal. How if
he should offer himself, how if the girl
should accept him, either willingly or
yielding to the advice of her judicious
friends, and then it should turn out that
there was some unexpected hitch, something
wrong about that seventy thousand
pounds — that golden magnet which had
attracted the wily lord of Shirley to
Violet's side? He could not quite trust
Crouch. The man was malignant as well
as headstrong. It might be that something
would yet come betwixt the curd and
the lip, and the baronet's splendid hopes
be doomed to disappointment. For the
few poor annual hundreds to which Violet
was undoubtedly entitled he cared, very
naturally, nothing. It would be ruin,
simple ruin, for a man in Sir Robert's

position to marry a penniless girl; and
Violet's tiny income was not sufficient to
put her outside the category of penniless
girls. What was the use of such an income
guarded by settlements, no doubt, so
that the petty principal should not be
touched — to a needy gentleman of high
degree, such as was Sir Robert Shirley of
Shirley? What a drop — what a ridiculous
drop — would it be in the ocean of his
debts ! And such a marriage would add
the last straw to the load under which his
patient tradesmen and enduring money-lenders
groaned. He would have thrown
away his chance. Hitherto he had been
reckoned as a marrying man, or rather, a
marriageable man, whose rank, pedigree,
and qualifications would provide him with
ample resources one day, did he but play
his cards properly, and marry a rich wife.

But how if he married a poor wife ? What
would Shylock — Baron Shylock, if you
please — say to such an alliance ? What
would Simon Longtick, of Bond Street,
army tailor and discounter of bills to the
nobility and gentry, say to it ? Beeswing
and Loader the wine merchants, Rattler
the coachman, and many more, would
consider their titled customer as a counterfeit
coin that had lost its value, and act

accordingly.

What Sir Robert wished was to touch

Violet's heart, or if not her heart — for he
was somewhat sceptical as to the sentimental
uses of that organ — then her fancy,
and to have her safe and secured : ' booked,'
as he himself called it, to him. He
wished her to be in love with him until
such time as, after ascertaining with
business-like precision the accuracy of the

Australian gold-digger's statements as
to her pecuniary expectations, he felt
justified in declaring himself to be in
love with her. As it was, he preferred
to hint, and to look, and to insinuate what
he had not the manhood and the honesty
to say.

No course which the baronet could well
have followed could have been more disagreeable,
and at the same time more
embarrassing, for Violet Mowbray. She
had not had the hardening; training; which
enables the well-seasoned girls of society
to vary their moods, like a barometer,
according to the pretensions of a suitor,
from ' stormy ' to ' set fair,' nor had she
ever had occasion to frown. So she was
obliged to let Sir Robert talk, and to
have an uncomfortable suspicion that he
regarded herself as a shy, shallow-brained

little thing, while it was quite out of her
power to induce him to transfer his homage
to somebody else. And then, too — so
little is a good girl capable of fathoming
the nature of a bad man — there were times
when Violet doubted as to whether she
Alas not ungrateful in regarding Sir
Robert's advances as she did. Whether
Sir Robert would much have relished the
idea that he was tolerated as a kind,
fatherly gentleman, is uncertain ; but withall
his good looks, and deft horsemanship,
and goodly presence, Violet was apt to
consider him in some such capacity — just
as in Eastern countries the youthful
beauty who peers through the latticed
window of the zenana to see the procession
go by, with prancing steeds and guards
and gholaums, cymbals clashing and
trumpets sounding, never thinks of the

middle-aged pasha as a possible spouse,
until the day when the bargain is struck,
and the wedding presents ordered, and
everything got ready for the marriage
feast.

'As I rode up here to-day,' said the
baronet, in an altered tone, ' I could have
found it in my heart to wish that I had
been in Yorkshire all my life. We men of
the world are often envied because of the
bustle and stir and glitter of a life spent
in courts and cities ; but I think people
are wrong. I know that since I have seen
Woodburn, and the quiet contented
happiness of those who dwell there, I
have wished more than once that I were
one of them, and no mere sojourner in the
land. I feel as though, in front of the
sunny sea and amidst those rustling
woods, real peace might be found — if I

were but in orders, now, and if Mr. Langton
would but have accepted me as a curate at
Woodburn.'

Violet, for once, could not help laughing.

'You cannot be serious, Sir Robert?'
she said. Perhaps the idea just conjured
up of the worldly baronet going
through the daily grind of parochial duty,
the schools, the visiting, the Dorcas Seeing
Society, as well as officiating in the village
church, was too much for her gravity. Sir
Robert bit his lip angrily. He had ventured
on his little bit of sentiment, and it
had not only fallen flat, but had provoked
mirth. The girl was not, then, so complete
a simpleton as he had chosen to consider
her. But it was not his cue to be offended;
so he replied, with well-assumed good-humour,


Yes, Miss Mowbray, you are quite right



and I was quite wrong. I should make a
sorry figure as a curate, and deserve your
ridicule. We never know ourselves. I
may feel desire for a quiet life of peaceful
usefulness, and be absurd, quite unintentionally,
for wishing to become a humble
worker in the world's vineyard.'

There was somewhat of sadness in the
speaker's tone, and Violet, whose sympathies
were quick and tender, was about to
say a gentle word or two, when sudden help
appeared. It arrived in the person of Lord
David Todhunter, tall, portly, jovial, his
amber tinted whiskers dashed with grey,
and his white waistcoat o'leamins; in the
sun. He was not alone. He came at the
head of a party of the younger visitors,
amongst whom Charley Fitzgerald and the
Piminy girls were conspicuous.

^ I say, Shirley,' began the blithe, but

impecunious, brother of his solemn Grace
of Pentland, ' since you are Grand Vizier
here, and Lady Thorsdale leaves every things
to you, do tell us whether the Saturday
picnic is to be at Bolton Crag or Bottomley
Briars. Of course we all know the
crag is the most picturesque, and so forth,
but then it's awfully bleak up there if the
wind spins up from the wolds, and five
miles' further driving along a very ill-kept
road. Now, Bottomley Briars is snug,
with a cosy inn, where we can all take
shelter if it rains. But then it's damp
along the river there, and the earl is afraid
of his gout. A very ticklish thing, that
gout.'

I never had the gout. It would be a
new sensation. Don't you think so. Miss
Piminy?' demanded the hussar.

You always are too absurd, Mr. Fitzgerald

responded the handsome, outwitted,
eldest daughter of anxious Lady
Piminy.

And I want to hear what Sir Robert
decides about the picnic,' chimed in her
younger sister.

What Sir Robert, who had too much tact
to look annoyed, decided as to the relative
merits of the rival sites for that fresco
festivity, matters little. At any rate, for
the moment there was an end of his courtship.
Babble, chatter, and banter prevailed,
and Violet was enabled to leave the rose-garden
without further vexation from the
importunity of her suitor.

CHAPTER 11.

AN UNWELCOME VISITOR.

Eurus Crouch, clad in a coarse white slop
suit, like a dock labourer or navvy, and
puffing forth smoke from the short and
blackened pipe that was his almost inseparable
companion, came striding up the
long and narrow valley that led from the
sea-coast to that hollow in which his unenviable
dwelling stood. He walked more
swiftly, and more strongly too, than could
have been conjectured of a man of his
build. And indeed it is a mistake to .
II.

pose that a cross-built, ungainly figure,
like that of Rufus, is necessarily unfit for
speed, whether at a walk or a run. Your
flashing Mercury, your clean-limbed, perfectly
proportioned athlete of course leads
the van, but there is many a shambling
fellow, such as the gold-digger was, who
could press hard on his heels in a long
race. Rufus Crouch was very strong ;
you could tell that, in spite of his crab-like
gait, by the rapidity with which he
mounted every steep little bit of the hilly
road, and by the fact that he never paused
to take breath. He, like Sir Robert Shirley,
was not in his first youth, but he bore
his years and the hardships he had gone
through even better than the well-preserved
baronet endured the flight of
time.

Very sullen and very dark was the knitted

brow of the ex-gold-digger and actual
jet-hunter. Rufus Crouch as a child had
been the terror of his little play-fellows —
a surly, disputatious boy, Who wanted
always to win at games, to snatch toys, to
have the lion's share at treats and bun-feasts.
In adolescence and in manhood he
had been much the same, more cautious,
but not less grasping than of old, always
fierce, selfish, greedy, beneath the Southern
Cross of Australia as beneath the Polestar
of England — always a ' bad chum '
among the rude adventurers of the gold-fields,
as he had been thought reckless
and ill-conditioned among his fellow-parishioners
at home.

He had not improved in temper during
the months he had spent in Yorkshire asa
member of the jet-hunters' band. He
was shrewd and bold and strong, and he

c 2

lead won for himself a sort of position
among them, but nobody liked him, nor
did he care to be liked. It suited his
savage humour to live alone in the hut he
had raised on land that was none of his,
and without a neighbour save the hill-fox
and the hawk.

Rufus reached his solitary dwelling.
The wind, as usual, set in from the seaward,
and the dogs, scenting the approach
of a human being, set up their hoarse
clamour that grcAV louder as the distance
lessened. But presently the fierce barking
changed into a whimpering cry as the
chained hounds recognised their master.
That amiable person, however, made it his
first duty to walk round to the kennels of
his four-footed sentinels, and kick them all
sharply with his nailed boots for their
breach of discipline.

I'll teach you, you brutes !' lie growled
out, as a bear endowed with, human speech
might have done ; and then he laughed
Within his red shaggy beard to see how
the ferocious mastiffs cowered and crouched
beneath the threatening eye and lifted
hand. Then the ex-gold-digger pulled out
a key from his baggy pocket, and unlocked
the clumsy door of the hovel in which he
dwelt. He went in, shutting the door
behind him. It was a hot July evening.
In that hollow amidst the uplands the sea-breeze
was not able to cool, through the
narrow glassless apertures that were called
windows, the low-roofed hut.

A nice, comfortable sort of crib, this !'
grumbled Rufus, looking about him sourly
; 'a nice sort of lodging, rather ! A
regular tent and a rainless sky, such as
I've been used to, would do better for an

overland like myself. I've got coin
enough, even if Sir R. wouldn't cash up —
as he must, if I tackle him properly — to
take me back to Eaglehawk Rush, or the
Buck] and, or Omaha, or even the nev
reefs, Queensland or Tasmania way. But
then how a man must work, with beef and
flour and tea and pickles at such a price —
just like a horse for his hay and oats. And
then, my friend here ' — he clutched his big
stoneware spirit-bottle as he spoke, and,
groping for a dingy glass, filled himself a
bumper, and tossed it off — ' does double
the mischief there that it does in this foggy
old country climate. 1 feel that, and I
can't do without the comfort of it. I
should be a madman to go back poorer
than I came, when I left the hospital at
Melbourne, and they gave me back m}*
clothes and the rest of my swag, and the

surgeon complimented me on my constitution,
and bade me go back to England,
work hard, put on the muzzle where drink
was concerned, and live to the age of a
hundred. Here I am ; and what's the good
of it ?' querulously demanded Mr. Crouch,
looking to right and left at his squalid
furniture and the grimy gloom of the
interior of his dwelling; and then, as if
disappointed of an answer, consoled himself
by tossing oiF in rapid succession two
more glasses of the fiery liquor which the
stoneware bottle contained. He felt
amidst the miscellaneous litter that strewed
his rough table until he found the
match-box, and then, striking a light, he
kindled the great petroleum lamp that
stood conspicuously in the centre of the
board. The bright gleam flashed upon
the pannikins and cooking utensils of tin,

lit up the darksome corners of the hut,
and irradiated the ruddy beard and broad
untimely face of the grisly master of this
unpromising abode.

Robinson Crusoe they call me, the
fools !' he growled, mockingly. ' Squire
Crouch, I reckon, will be the word the
day they see me in a carriage of my own,
and with smarter clothes than a farmer's
Sunday best.' This soliloquy seemed to
suggest to the fierce recluse a new train of
thought. He dragged over towards the
end of the table the great glaring lamp,
and next took from a locker near him a
wooden box of small size, Which he unlocked
with the help of a tiny key attached to
his silver watch-chain. Seating himself on
the empty barrel that did duty for a chair,
he produced from his pockets several
pieces of coarse brown paper, carefully

folded, each of which contained a sample
of sand, some glistening white, others of a
darker hue. Then taking; from the box a
small bottle labelled ' Quicksilver,' he
poured a few of the shining globules into
the hollow of his hand, tilted them into
one of the papers that held the sand, tossed
the whole into a small bottle half full of
water, and shook the bottle vigorously for
some minutes. Then he emptied it into a
shallow pan, and through a lens keenly
inspected its contents. Apparently the
result was in part satisfactory, for, with a
fresh oTowl, he took out of the box an end
of wax-candle, which he lighted, a shallow
spoon, which looked as if it were of tin,
but was of that infusible metal called
platinum, and a blow-pipe of brass, with
an ivory mouth-piece and a platinum
nozzle, fit to bear the fierce flame that

wears away commoner metals so rapidly.
With the point of a penknife, also taken
from the box, he laid the little grey lumps
of amalgamated sand and quicksilver in
the hollow of the spoon, and then, lifting
the blow-pipe to his mouth, sent a stream
of continuous flame against each little
grey lump) of moist sandy matter. For
some minutes the process went on, and
the ex-gold-digger, who must have possessed
a technical knowledge that few of
his fellows can lay claim to, paused, laid
aside his blow-pipe, and through his
magnifying-glass took a survey of the
results.

^ Specks, mere specks,' he said, resentfully,
as he contemplated the tiny golden
spangle, faintly glimmering amidst the
dull grains of unaltered sand. * Not a living

to be made out of a cheerful of it. No,
no ; it won't do here.'

Risus Crouch was neat-handed, however,
in putting away the blow-pipe, and
shallow platinum spoon, and the other
objects which he had taken from the box,
and in re-locking and stowing away the
box itself. Then he stood scowling, with
his brawny arms folded across his broad
chest.

'England is the place for gold,' muttered
the ruffian, after a few minutes of
meditation ; ' but then, you must have a
full pocket to pull upon. Here, after all,
will prove to lie a bigger nugget than ever
Bendigo gold-fields or Hunger Rush produced
when they were at their best.'

As he spoke he walked up to a corner of
the hut where sundry tools were stacked.

selected a crowbar, small, sharp-pointed,
and made of as good steel as ever Sheffield
sent forth, and, armed with this instrument,
and carrying the great petroleum
lamp, he approached the now fireless
hearth, on which there lav, cold
and dead, the ashes of his fire of peat and
wood.

As he did so, the watchful dogs without
set up their hoarse and frantic baying.
Their ferocious master, striding to the
glassless casement nearest to him, silenced
them by a volley of curses and threats,
and then, as the cowed animals slunk
back to their lairs, resumed the occupation
which their clamour had interrupted.


Using: the strong; steel crowbar with
considerable skill, Rufus Crouch managed
to lift the heavy hearthstone and to sway

it to one side, giving to view beneath a
cavity artfully contrived to serve as a
place of deposit for articles too precious
to be left in some cupboard or unprotected
receptacle in a house so tenantless.
The hole only held two objects : the one a
common jar of baked clay, with a lid, such
as in Holland is used for the storage of
tobacco, the other a large tin box, fastened
by a padlock.

Rufus lifted the lid of the Dutch tobacco-jar,
and threw a casual glance at the money
gold, silver, and copper coins mixed together
— that lay below. Then he replaced
the cover, and unlocking the padlock with
a key which, like that other which he first
employed, was attached to his silver watch-chain,
he drew forth a number of papers
and parchments, most of which were documents
inscribed in that legal copper-plate

which SO impresses the uninitiated with the
majesty of law. From these, after some
search, he separated a particular deed, and
seating himself on some rude substitute fora
chair, and planting the large lamp at a
corner of the upland table, began, for
the hundredth time, with greedy eyes to
study its contents.

Not a doubt about it,' he muttered —
all that sum of seventy thousand pounds.
Consolidated Three per Cents., with all
unclaimed back dividends therefrom accruing,
belongs as certainly to Violet, only

daughter '

Here the lonely student's interested
commentary on the legal document in his
clutch was interrupted by a whining cry
from the dogs without, a tap at the door,
the lifting of the latch, and it was Obadiah

Jedson's towering figure that now darkened
the doorway.

Here, Rufus, man I' said the deep,
resonant voice of the captain of the jet-hunters
; ' you must be deaf or busy. I

»

knocked before, and I gave the word before
I came in. However, all's well ; only time
is short.'

What's up, captain ?' confusedly demanded
the occupant of the hut, as he
huddled together the law papers that lay
before him on the untidy table, and looked
askance at the new-comer. ' I was asleep,
I think, and didn't hear you, and the bar
wasn't on the door; and those accursed
brutes outside,' he added, with unjust
anger against his four-footed guards,
didn't bark, and be hanged to them for a
set of mangy curs, not worth their meat !'

All this time the ex-^old-di^2;cr was very
busily collecting his law papers, and thrusting
them, with all possible efforts to screen
them from observation, into the tin box
whence they came, and which still remained
in the cavity beneath the raised hearthstone.
' I was reading — a thing I don't
often do,' said Crouch, with a constrained
laugh : ' poring over a lot of old letters,
and they sent me to sleep as I sat. What's
stirring, Captain Jedson ?'

We ought to be ?' answered old Obadiah,
frowningly, as his strongly-marked features
and long grey locks came within the radius
of the lamp-light. ' In digging the foundations
for the new pier at Daneborough,
jet traces have been found — very good
ones, since nine pounds' weight were picked
up by mere children in a couple of
hours. I have seen the stuff and the

place, and how the bearings lie, and I have
been round to summon the lads and
women to muster at Daneborouoii old
pier at five tomorrow morn. In your
turn, Rufus mate, I have come to you. I
look to you as my lieutenant, in Don's
place. And that is why I am here.'

'Don's turned gentleman, ain't he?'
sneeringly asked the confederate of Sir
Robert Shirley. 'A pleasant trade for
him than jet-seeking, I guess, and a
safer.'

'Don dragged you, body and bones, out

of what would else have been your grave

in the Soldiers' Slough, comrade Rufiis,'

retorted old Obadiah, with such dignified

sternness of rebuke that the ruffian quailed

before the severe regard of the gaunt

captain of jet-hunters; 'and, as for taking

a new trade, it is held by all of us along
VOL. ir. p

this coast that my foster-son is a gentleman
born. But I did not come here to talk of
our Don, who will be back with us one
day, but of the work of the morrow, mate.
I have others to call, who live far away.
Can I count on you. Crouch, to make
one ?'

^ You see, captain, that Dutchman's Bay
job did sicken a chap,' grumbled Crouch,
irresolutely, and always with his eyes
wandering to the gaping space beneath the
raised hearthstone.

No man in a free country is forced to
follow a calling against his will,' rejoined
Obadiah, in his deep, rich voice. ' Not a
stroke have you done, Rufus, since that
time. It has been slack tide, I won't
deny, with most of us since then ; but
this is a ncAv harvest to reap, and I,
as captain, must know on whom to rely.

Are you a jet-linter still, and one of our
company ?'

say, ay, captain,' was the sulky
response.

Then tomorrow at five o'clock I shall
look to see you, comrade, at Daneborough
old pier, where all are to meet. And
now I must not tarry, for I have far to
walk yet. You'll be there?'

Yes,' sullenly replied Rufus ; • yes, I'll
be there — never fear me ; I'll be there.'

And so they parted.

D 2

CHAPTER III.

THROUGH THE MIST.

Don't give that horse to my daughter, I
beg you, Mr. Burt.'

Such had been the words of anxious
Lady Piminy.

Certainly not, my lady,' had been the
respectful answer of the eminently respectable
stud-groom; but, when it came to
sorting the steeds for the riding-party
from Thorsdale Park, Mr. Burt was
puzzled.

There were plenty of sound horses, only

hit for a male rider. There were three or
-four lame horses, which, if only right all
round, could have carried a lady. As it
was, the supply of side-saddle nags was
not quite equal to the demand.

The white — Lily, I mean — for Miss
Piminy. Young Mrs. Scoresbyby can have
the chestnut from London — it fidgets ; but
she has been often out with the hounds,
I'm told, so it won't matter. Lady Paget,
the black mare; Miss Martin, the roan
<;ob ; Miss Leader, the cream-coloured
pony ; and for Miss Mowbray, the mettled
grey.'

'I don't know about putting Miss Mowbray
on the mettled grey, Mr. Burt,' demurred
the thoughtful head-groom, who
may have expected, in the fulness of time,
himself to blossom into the stud-groom
variety of the species.

It must be so,' returned his chief,
chewing a straw ; ' Lady Piminy won't
have him for her young lady. Miss
Martin couldn't sit him, nor yet Miss
Leader, while Lady Paget and Mrs. Scoresbyby
choose their own mounts for themselves.
Yes, we must give the mettled
grey to Miss Mowbray from the parsonage.
He's not really vicious.'

Of course not, Mr. Burt, not 
vicious, only a little awkward and
difficult to ride,' demurely assented his
prudent subordinate.

There are some speeches, as there are
some political documents, in which it is
permissible — if such a phrase may be employed
— to read between the lines. And
when an earl's trusted stud-groom makes
the qualified assertion that such and such
an animal is not so flagrantly vicious as

O 1

to make it absolutely unsafe to place a fair
rider on his back, and an earl's trustworthy
head-groom expresses a guarded
deference for the opinion of his superior
officer, the steed in question is pretty sure
to be what ordinary mortals, uninterested
in taking a rose-coloured view of the
situation, would unhesitatingly designate

as vicious.

A word here as to the superior class of

stable-servants in great households. They

are not, considering the temptations that

lie in their path, sinners beyond the

average. They very often have the credit

of their employer's establishment much at

heart; 'do justice,' to quote their own

words, to the valuable equine property

committed to their charge, and are too

zealous to deserve the reproach of being

mere time-servers. But, then — alas that

there should be a 'but' — some of them
are prone, like Hotspur's noble correspondent,
to love their own barn better than
their master's house — or, in other words,
to prefer a little present profit to the
ultimate advantage of their employer. It
has, in hunting shires, passed into a
proverb that the rich men, Plutus and
Midas, and the Marquis of Carabus and
Sir Bullion, own the lame horses.

How odd it is ! and how curious a
reversal it seems of the usual conditions
of life, where the magic wand of gold
smoothes away difficulties just as the pick
and spade level hillocks and fill up
hollows, that a wealthy man like, we will
say. Sir Bullion, who has discreetly
bought his seat in Parliament with the
money his father and grandsire made,
should be worse mounted at a pinch than

are gentlemen who do not pay a tithe of
his enormous income-tax ; or, for that
matter, Farmer Bullfinch, who honestly
takes his share of the sport, and is seldom
absent at a finish? Yet Sir Bullion's
stables, and, for the matter of that, those
of Midas Blunt, Esq., from Wretched
Friars, E.G., who sells the worst port wine
and gives the best dinners in London, and
of the most noble the Marquis of Carabus
himself, are crowded with cripples. ' Not
fit to go !' is the apologetic phrase so constantly
poured into the ears of rich horse-owners
that they ought to wonder why
Jack Fortescue, once of the Blues, and
plain, shrewd Mr. Tidmarsh, get so much
amusement at so insignificant a cost. Yet
the fact remains.

Can't ride Bolus, my lord !' — ' Indeed,
Sir Bullion, Tomnoddy's feet arc too



tender yet to stand a bickering with the
hounds.' — ' If I were your grace, I
wouldn't really have out Royal Regent
this week. That back sinew,' &c.

The truth is that the chief grooms in
such establishments have too many fingers
in the pie, too selfish an interest in the
purchase of horses to make their handling
of them a matter of such moment as it
might otherwise be. Sir Bullion and the
marquis buy and sell very much according
to the advice of Mr. Strapper, the .
And that circumstance is remarkably
well-known to many of those ingenious
dealers who can do almost anything
with a fairly-bred and tolerable-looking
quadruped of the genus Eques. Long-rest,
great care, and vigilant grooming
can accomplish marvels in palming off
four-footed invalids as sound horses, and a

'X

lavish tip to Mr. Strapper does the rest.
The astute stud-groom, once he has
pocketed the crumpled bank-notes that,
accompanied by a knowing wink, are
thrust into his ready hand, takes an indulgent
view of the whole transaction,
and gives abundant proof of his possession
of that tolerant charity which thinks no
evil.

Many a na^r we think ruined,' thus

,/ CD /

soliloquises Mr. Strapper, ' turns out
really good after a bit of care.'

And the care, amounting to excessive
caution, is seldom lacking when we compare
the amount of service done with the
formidable muster-roll of horses that are
there to do it.

But Mr. Burt, stud-groom at Thorsdale
Park, had a conscience of his own, a little
dulled, it may be, but not entirely callous,.

and that inward monitor pricked him
somewhat as he went about the place in
the course of his habitual routine. How
well he remembered the purchase of the
mettled grey ! He could recollect the very
words with which Mr. Mottram, the horse-dealer
— Mottram, senior partner in the
house of Mottram and Macspivin — had
overruled his scruples.

'A little hot, perhaps, Mr. Burt, as you
^Sij — but then, for a young horse, rising
six, and with his work before him, that's
not much of a fault. In the stable a lamb,
and will be as quiet as a lamb on the road,
too, after a few months. What he wants
is something to do.'

And Mr. Mottram had put into the
stud-groom's hand something that chinked,
and something too that rustled, as the
promises of the old lady of Threadneedle

Street are apt to rustle, and Mr. Burt had
been able to reconcile it to his conscience
to recommend the grey horse as ^ good
and safe,' not to the earl, his noble master,
but to Mr. Sharpe, the earl's secretary,
who, for his part, knew no more of horses
than he did of elephants, but . was willing
to accept the assurance of an approved
expert.

And now Miss Mowbray, from Wood-burn
Parsonage, was to be the rider of the
mettled grey, and the girl was not more
used to riding, or perhaps more brave,
than the majority of her sex. And Mr.
Burt, the stud-groom, hoped that no harm
would come of it, and wished, perhaps
that he were himself a little less anxious
to conciliate talkative lady guests such as
Mrs. Scoresbyby, and even that he had never
fingered Mr. Mottram's money ; but there

J

was no help for it. Lady Piminy had
spoken, and Miss Mowbray was to ride the
mettled grey.

The riding-party set out from the great
house gaily enough. The day was fine,
though a little ominous haze hung about
the horizon to windward, like those sable
cloud-banks that in tropical latitudes portend
the coming hurricane. Up the road
leading towards the high moors, the
trampling squadron went, the merry notes
of blithe talk and the silvery sound of
girlish laughter floating: on the summer
wind. There were the six young ladies,
two married and four unmarried, and with
them a masculine escort of sufficient
strength, without including the grooms,
who brought up the rear. There was
Lord David Todhunter, who rode another
man's horse, as he relished another man's

dinners and claret, most heartily, and who
really seemed to earn his eleemosynary
quarters by the genial fashion in which he
enjoyed their comforts. There were Sir
Robert Shirley, and the other baronet. Sir
Marker ; and young Charley Fitzgerald ;
and Mr. Tracker the African explorer, who
had been tattooed and qualified by a nose-ring
in the course of his travels in savage
lands ; and Mr. Smart, M.P. for some
metropolitan borough — a sort of Parliamentary
free lance, always bent on earning
renown by making himself disagreeable
to both factions, and of whom it was
said that at the impending General Election
he would be kept out of the House,
if the united strength of Government
and Opposition could avail to exclude
him.

The start was a satisfactory one. Nota

horse, when brought round to the grand
entrance to be mounted — always a trying:
ordeal to a steed of spirit, and wherefore
our prosaic ancestors had stone mounting-blocks
set at their doors to testify to their
superior wisdom — but behaved well. Not
an animal showed a sign of temper, saye
only the hot little chestnut, one of the '''
new mounts from London, that was to
laye the honour of carrying young Mrs.
Scoresbybybyby. Mrs. Scoresbybybyby was pretty, or at
least prettyish — in the third flight, so far
as good looks went, of fashionable London
married ladies. But she was cherish as
well as prettyish, and men were glad to
talk with her, because she amused them,
and so spared them the trouble of racking
their brains for something to say, while as
to her riding: there was no mistake. She
had earned a reputation with the buck-hounds

last year, and meant to make
sleepy Colonel Scoresbyby take her to Melton
or Market Marlborough to win fresh
laurels in the season to come. Lady Paget,
too, was a first-rate horsewoman. The
Miss Piminy who rode, like her sister who
sang and her sister who danced, was
merely an animated doll on a quiet
horse. Miss Martin and Miss Leader
thought themselves heroines on their respective
mounts, the cob and the pony.
Violet Mowbray, who had had little
practice, sat the mettled grey gracefully
enough.

One riding-party, as a rule, is very like
another. The horses are more or less
fretful or quiescent, and so are the riders.
Some young beauty bites her red lip
and tugs at her curb-rein until her sensitive
horse is in a lather of froth and heat,

VOL. II. E

because the right man has not ridden upto

accompany her. The right man himself

is frowning, or looking ineffably bored,

because he has been intercepted by some

tiresome talkative girls, or more likely

some elderly damsels, who demand at his

■{.
hands the small services that no one can

refuse — ' If you ivonld^ Captain Blank, just
let out a link of the curb-chain ;' or ' Might
I ask you to tell the groom that my niece's
saddle is slipping round to the right ?
Thank you ; so kind !'

But at last people generally contrive,
as on foot, to select their company for
themselves. So it was with the party from
Thorsdale. Of course Sir Robert Shirley
was often beside Violet, but not exclusively
so, for Mrs. Scoresbyby was exacting, and
at times noisily satirical, and he did not

as yet choose to exhibit himself in the
character of a declared lover.

Presently, Without warning, except to
the practised eye of some gamekeeper or
shepherd, had such been there, a mist
swooped down from the lofty moors, rolling,
in its sombre majesty, like a tumbling
sea over the purple heather, the gold-blossomed
gorse, and the paler yellow of the
broom-banks, hiding the bare rocks, the
peat mosses, the scattered farm-houses, the
fields, every sign and landmark, as if a
sudden deluge had blotted them from
the map of the county. In Yorkshire,
as in Scotland, such mists do fall, with
an abruptness that is almost theatrical.
Battles have been lost under such conditions,
which might have been won had

light lasted.

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

^ AVhat are we to do now ?' demanded
Mrs. Scoresbyby, loudly.

Oh, rattle along ! it's all right. We
shall manage it capitally, in spite of the
fog; shan't we. Miss Mowbray?' cheerily
responded Charley Fitzgerald. *We are
on the York Road, aren't Ave, Topham ?'

Right as a trivet !' replied Sir Harker.
Better keep together, though, for these
moorland mists are no joke.' So they rode
on, but as they rounded the next angle of
the road, it so happened that a gipsy tent
was pitched there, a cart standing, a horse
tethered, a swarm of swarthy urchins
buzzing about, and, worst of all, a bright
crackling fire burning. Violet Mowbray's
mettlesome grey could not bear the sight,
but snorting, and mad with fear, it swerved,
reared, and, taking the bit between its
teeth, dashed off along the road, and

vanished in the mist. The thing happened
so quickly that everyone was taken by
surprise.

Bolted with her ! I do hope she can
keep her seat till he's had enough of it,
the brute !' exclaimed kind little Charley
Fitzgerald, of the hussars, while Lord David
Todhunter, who was far in the rear,
bawled out inquiries as to what had
occurred. Sir Robert, whose wits were
quicker, had been also in the rear. He
spurred forward now.

What's this ?' he cried. ' She will be
killed. Fitzgerald, it's your fault.'

• How could I prevent the beast from
bolting?' pleaded the cavalry subaltern.
Let us gallop on before worse comes of it.'
And they rode, helter-skelter, into the
blinding mist, clattering along the hard
road, until at last Sir Harker, who knew

the country better than the rest, bawled
out,

Stop, stop ! Shirley — Lady Paget !
we've passed the cross-roads, and I'm sure
we're going wrong. I thought I heard a
horse faintly to the left. Do pull up, and
listen !'

They all reined up. When silence was
re-established, the hoof-strokes of a horse,
going at a furious gallop, could be distinctly'
heard to the left.

That's it. I thought so. The brute
has wheeled into the Thrapmore Road,
and is heading back towards his own
stable. If the poor girl only keeps her
seat — but we ought to ride '

And off they went, even Miss Martin
and Miss Leader ceasing to groan at the
unwonted exertion, on account of Violet's
peril. Sir Harker, who knew the country,

led the way. But neck and neck with
him rode Sir Robert Shirley, better
mounted, and ready to dash forward, and
by rescuing Miss Mowbray from danger to
establish a claim to her gratitude that
might forward his mercenary courtship.


What a chance !' he muttered, between
his white teeth, as he flew swiftly on.
'What a stroke of luck!-— I say, Top-ham,
are you sure we're on the right
road ?'

Don't you hear the rattle of the hoofs ?'
gruffly retorted Sir Harker, who was a
good-natured young fellow in the main.
All I hope is, she won't meet a cart ora
carriage, and that the beast will stick to
the road.'

On they sped. It is no light matter,
the pursuit of a runaway horse, when the

life of one whom we have loved or liked
is at stake. Violet Mowbray had won
the good-will of almost everybody at
Thorsdale, and even hard little Mrs.
Scoresbyby, who was fighting her own upward
battle so sedulously that she had
seldom time to care for the pains and
cares of others, was for once sympathetic.
The sound of the terrified horse's hoofs
came to their ears like the roll of distant
thunder. They hurried on in a long
straggling file, Sir Robert and the Yorkshire
baronet leading, Mrs. Scoresbyby and
Charley Fitzgerald and Lady Paget next,
Lord David bringing up the rear, with the
slow-riding damsels under his fatherly
care. But the pace was a fast one.
Every quadruped there was doing its best.
Far off the thunder of the hoofs could
be heard, as the runaway horse dashed

on, unseen, through the dense, floating
mist.

Thorsdale's near, anyhow !' exclaimed
Sir Harker, as he recognised some familiar
objects. Sir Robert spurred on. Presently
these two, followed by the rest, but at
a long interval, reached the great courtyard,
with the block of stabling beyond
it. The great yard was brightly lighted
now with lanterns and candles hastily
brought out. The central point of
attraction was a grey horse, specked and
wreathed with foam, in a lather of heat,
snorting wildly, with distended nostrils,
his bridle floating loose, his saddle
empty. It was the mettled grey. But
Avhere was his rider ? None of the
grooms, helpers, indoor servants who had
come hurrying out could answer that
question.

Where was Violet Mowbray ?

The grey horse had dashed in, foaming,,
red-eyed, wild With terror, but riderless.
Where was the fair girl that he had borne
when he started? That was a question
easier to ask than to answer. There were
gentlemen, guests who had not been of
the riding-party, mixed with the servants,
and presently the rest of the
riding-party came in. Where was Violet
? Sir Robert Shirley frowned his
blackest frown and bit his lip savagely.
He had thought of a romantic incident, the
easy rescue of an unsuspecting heiress — he
knew that his good black was speedier
than Sir Harker's brown nag — and here
had he been uselessly employed in hunting
down a runaway horse without a
rider. Meanwhile there Alas eager and
excited talk. The earl must be spoken to.

The alarm bell should be rung, rewards
offered, the villagers aroused, and with
torches and lanterns a search-parts
sent off, through the mist and across the
moors, to find Aaolet Mowbray, dead or
alive.



CHAPTER IV.

DON IS COMPELLED TO SPEAK.

The mist on the high moors, like all such
mists, hovered above the ground like a
grey winding-sheet, leaving a foot or two
^f clear air, and rendering it quite possible
for a pedestrian, by stooping or kneeling at
intervals, to see his way for a few yards,
and to ascertain that he had not wandered
from the beaten track. Few, however, are
those, not moorland-born and bred, Who
are fit to cross with safety any considerable
waste, such as the Yorkshire wolds.

or the more formidable deserts of savage
Dartmoor, when once the fog-drift has
set in. Don, who had been an apt pupil
of the keepers and herdsmen, from whom
he had learned a portion of their open-air
lore, must have been one of these exceptional
persons, since he held to the beaten
path across the moor on his way back from
some solitary farm, whither he had been
despatched on an errand in the course of
duty, and reached the cross-roads without
blunder or mishap.

What was that lying on the grass by
the roadside, quite still? A woman's
form, surely ; and, as surely, lying therein
the awful quiet of death ! Yes, it was
a lady in a riding-habit, her bright, silken
hair loosened, and streaming over her
shoulder as she thus lay. That she was
young and fair to look upon, Don could

see ; but it was not until lie came a step
or two nearer, and could recognise the
pale, upturned face, that the full horror of
the discovery rushed upon him. His own
heart ceased to beat. He started back
aghast. Violet — Violet Mowbray — cold,
dead, for ever gone, in the early bloom of
her youthful promise, from the world and
from him. The ridings-habit, the loosened
hair, the marks of hoofs indented in the
turf, explained the nature of the accident
but too well. With a great sob he rushed
forward, and, kneeling on the grass, lifted
the lifeless form in his strong arms.

My darling ! my darling !' he cried out,
wildly; 'my Violet, my hope, my all !'

There was no response. The fair, helpless
young head lay passive on Don's
shoulder. He clasped the insensible form
to his heart and kissed the pale cheek.

Oh, my love, my love !' exclaimed the
young man, passionately ; ' are you gone
from me, my dearest ? I have worshipped
you for years, always hoping — against
hope — one day to be worthy of you, and
now death has robbed me of the thing I
loved the best on earth — my Violet, my
angel !'

And again he kissed her, while his tears
fell fast upon her pallid face. What Alas
that? Surely a sigh. Violet's lips were
parted, her eyes opened feebly, and she
moved, as if trying to rise. Half incredulous,
in mingled joy and confusion, Don
drew back.

Can it be ?' he asked.

Yes — I — I remember now how it happened,'
said Violet, in a weak voice.

^ Forgive me — pray, forgive me,' pleaded
Don, flushing crimson, and tingling in

every pulse with shame and anger against
himself, ' since I thought I had — lost you.
Forget my folly, and forgive !'

'There is nothing to forgive, dear friend
nothing !' said Violet, in her sweet, low
voice, and she put out her little hand to
him.

Don clasped it in his own and held it
fast.

I ought not to have spoken,' said Don,
contritely, as he aided Miss Mowbray to
rise ; ' but can it be, dear Violet, that you
are unhurt ? You have been riding — not,
of course, alone ? Where are your
friends ? How could they leave you here ?
and by what strange coincidence could it
be my fortune, out of all the world, to
hind you here in this solitary spot, and in
such a mist as this, which hides the very
fence that borders the opposite side of the

road? But you are safe. Oh! tell me
again, Miss Violet, that you are unharmed.
And lean on me, for you are weak and
trembling, as I see.'

Poor Violet had little to tell. There
had been a large riding-party from the
Park — most things at Thorsdale were
done on a great scale — and she had ridden
a grey horse that had taken fright, had
run away into the blinding mist, had
crossed, so she thought, a stretch of moorland,
as the hoofs made no noise for
awhile, had struck into the hard road,
swerved so as to flings her from her saddle
with stunning force, and that was all she
knew. She had been thrown, and had
been senseless, and had lain on the turf
beside the road in a swoon, until — until
Don found her. As for the horse, it had
vanished. And that was all. She said no

VOL. ir. F

more, but there was a reticence in her
manner, a shy looking earthwards of those
beautiful great eyes of hers, and an avoidance
of Don's gaze, which forced upon the
young man the conviction that the girl
had a perfect memory of how he had
clasped her in his arms and kissed her,
believing her, as he did, to be dead. And
then some chivalrous instinct in his heart
awakened, and he felt that he must tell
his tale and plead his cause under all
disadvantages of worldly position. Because
he had gone so far, he was, as it
were, bound to go further. He owed it to
himself, he owed it to the girl he loved,
to tell her how and why he dared to love
her. It did not become him, he felt, to
take refuge behind the aegis of a maiden's
natural timidity and unwillingness to interrogate

him. He had said so much that
he must say more.

I ought not to have spoken said Don.
half penitently, but half proudly too ; ' I
know that I ought not. For the sake of
much kindness from kind Mr. Langton
and his wife, it would have been treacherous
in me, as well as presumptuous,
to breathe a word of love to the young
lady who dwelt beneath his roof. I have
put a padlock on my lips hitherto, and
have schooled my very eyes not to
betray me. But this has been too much
for my resolve and my reserve. My
secret, kept for months and years, has
been wrung from me at last. The excitement
of that miserable moment scattered
all my prudence, all my wise
determinations, to the winds. It is true,

F 2

Violet — I may call you by that dear
name ? — that I thought you dead, and
that with the loss of you all the joy
and brightness of my own young life
were gone — gone for ever. So the
passionate cry broke from my heart, and
so I dared to kiss your cheek, and to
clasp you to my breast, and to tell you
how I loved — but I was all unaware
that your ears, dearest, could drink in
my wild words. I must, as I am an
honest man, repeat them now. Yes, I,
the poor jet-hunter, the nameless, kinless
foundling of the sea-beach, have dared
to love the highly-connected Miss Mowbray,
and at last to tell her so. Now,
if you choose to banish me for my presumption,
I can but bow my head and
go.'

She seemed stronger by this time, and

had let go her hold on his arm, and he
stood a little way off, looking intently
in her face with his dark, eager eyes —
surely as noble and true a lover as ever
wooed an earthly damsel in this world
of oars. Violet Mowbray glanced at him
timidly.

You have not — have not offended me,
Mr. Don — indeed !' she said.

He sprang forward, hope, wonder, love
flashing from his bright eyes, and again
he took her hand.

Violet — Miss Mowbray,' said Don,
quickly, 'can it be that I have heard
aright ? Can it be that you do not chide
me for the presumption, the '

'There was no presumption,' almost
whispered Violet. 'You saved my life,
but before that day the recollection of
you, the image of you, as the truest

gentleman, the best and bravest I have
ever known, had grown to be — I may own
it now — very dear to me.'

And then Don took her in his arms and
kissed her, and for a few delicious moments
the two young things felt as supremely
happy as if they had suddenly been spirited
away into some enchanted island of
their own, where disparities of rank, harsh
guardians, and conventional prejudices
could find no entrance, and where Love
reigned supreme.

I used to think, Don, when I read of
deeds of chivalry,' murmured Violet, ' that
had I lived in those old days you should
have been my knight, faithful ever and
true. And so you would have been, if
then, as now, you had chosen poor little
me.'

'I would have died for you then, my

darling, as I would die for you now answered
Don, simply ; and few chevaliers
that ever put on helmet and mail could
have been more loyal to a pledge than
Obadiah Jedson's foster-son to his. But
it became necessary soon to think of
sublunary matters. Miss Mowbray, happily,
was unhurt ; but by this time, no
doubt, the tidings of her accident, or at
any rate of her runaway steed and his fair
rider having been lost to sight in the dense
mist, must have reached Thorsdale, and
given ground for no unreasonable alarms.
There would, so Don conjectured, be a
search instituted for the missing member
of the riding-party, but in the meantime it
was imperative to make the best of their
way to the Park, and allay the natural
apprehension of Violet's hosts and their
friends. They set forth, therefore, Don

insisting that Miss Mowbray — his Violet,
as he was never weary of calling her —
should lean on his arm as she walked beside
him. The distance was not very great,
so the young man assured her, and it
would be better to reach Thorsdale before
the neighbourhood should be aroused to
scour lane and road in quest of the lost
guest.

As Don and Violet walked together towards
Thorsdale, they talked and thought
with the delightful egotism, if so it maybe
called, of newly-plighted lovers — of
themselves, or rather, of each other. Of
actual plans or projects for the future,
little or nothing was said. Was not the
future all rose-colour, since each of those
two was loving and beloved? It was
enough for Don that Violet should have
cared for him, jet-hunter though he had

been. It was enough for Violet that Don
was all lier own. It would have spoiled
that fairy-tale, their new-found happiness,
to be too precise as to what would be the
next step. Mr. and Mrs. Langton were
forgotten, and we may be sure that not a
thought was wasted upon Miss Mowbray's
guardian, honest, rigid Ephraim Marsh, of
Dagger Court, E.G. The present was in
itself all-sufficient.

Presently, as Thorsdale itself was approached,
the mist seemed to grow thinner,
and the tall trees and high deer-failings of
the Park loomed more and more distinctly
through the shifting sea of vapour. And
at last the courtyard of the mansion was
reached, that lighted yard where horses
Avere being saddled and carriages got ready
by the glare of links and lanterns, and
where already a number of outdoor servants



and hangers-on had assembled, and
were waiting for orders.

Mr. Tracker, the African traveller, was
there conspicuous, somewhat boastfully
declaring that he could ' trace a spoor,'
whether of brute or being, with any man,
black or white, from Capetown to Zanzibar
and insisting that the exploring-party
should be placed under his orders. And
there was Sir Robert Shirley, frowning
and silent, standing beside his black horse,
the bridle of which a helper held, and in
his wily brain bewailing the probable overthrow
of his cherished schemes. Several
of the gentlemen there, however, were
most unselfishly anxious to scour the
country, at any cost of fatigue to themselves,
so as to bring aid to the presumed
victim of the recent accident. That the
grey horse had, after unseating his ridei\

doubled back by another road, thus throwing
out his pursuers, and headed for Thorns
Park and his own stable, Alas pretty
clearly divined by this time, but there was
nothing to indicate the route which in his
headlong career he had traversed.

Violet's arrival under Don's charge occasioned
a great relief to many minds, and
put an end to the wild conjectures which
were current as to her fate.

A strange sight it was as the crowd, the
lights, and the clamour all converged towards
where the young girl stood, pale
and lovely, with dishevelled hair, leaning
on the arm of the young man, handsome
and graceful enough to have been a prince
of romance, but whom many knew to bethe
new clerk in Lord Thorsdale's land-office,
and some few among the underlings
knew to be Don the jet-hunter. A fair



young couple they looked as for a moment
they stood there side by side. Sir Robert
Shirley's brow darkened as he saw by
whom it was that Violet was escorted.
He stepped forward, but, before he had
time to speak, the joyful news had spread
from lip to lip, and kindly, rubicund Lord
David Todhunter came hurrying up, with
almost the air of a guardian.

^ My dear young lady, welcome back !'
he exclaimed. ^ Bless my soul ! what a
marvellous escape ! and what a fright you
have given us ! So this gentleman found
you ? I am sure we are much obliged to
him. And you are not hurt? That's
nice. Please to take my arm and come
this way, for the countess is very anxious
SiTid distressed ; and no wonder.'

So Violet was hurried into the house,
with short space for leave-taking ; and

Don, having given as brief an account ashe
could of the circumstances of his meeting
with Miss Mowbray, withdrew himself
as early as possible from the noise and
comments of the crowd.

CHAPTER V.

THE LETTER.

^ SiE Robert's room to be wedded up,' said
the chief housemaid, who came from the
East-riding, and spoke not exactly broad
Yorkshire, but rather the narrow vernacular
of that famous county. The room
which was assigned at Thorsdale Park to
Sir Robert Shirley was just then vacant.
The countess would, with sisterly regard,
especially when visitors had to be amused
and kept in good-humour, have preferred
that her elder brother should be always

beneath her roof, but often the baronet
chose to dine and sleep at his own house,
Helston, sometimes even to absent himself
for a couple of days at a time from the
gaieties of Thorsdale. Now he was expected
back, and, of course, the chamber
which had been allotted to him, ,and which
overlooked a corner of the rose-garden,
had to be got ready for his reception.
Who has not seen the feminine bustle and
stir when a visitor, loved or respected, Alas
on the point of arrival ? — the incessant
bustling, flutter, rustling, and stir, as fresh
preparations are made, the furniture pushed
hither and thither, the curtains draped
more gracefully, the pretty knick-knacks,
the fresh flowers, re-adjusted, and the
finishing touches put, for the twentieth
time perhaps, to the adornment of the
chamber.

The Countess of Thorsdale was too great
a lady to occupy herself personally with
such matters as the inspection of an expected
visitor's room ; but, then, she put
great faith in the taste of her clever
foreign maid. Mademoiselle Glitka. When
the English servants had done their wc^,
mademoiselle — as they all called her with
unwilling respect — was summoned, and
she alone remained in the room after the
other servants had departed, putting the
draperies into more elegant folds, making
a new disposition of the flowers that filled
the vases, and looking around her, lynx-eyed,
for the signs of neglect.

She was herself worthy of notice, this
Mademoiselle Glitka. Young she was,
though probably she looked three or four
years older than an English girl of her age
would have done. Handsome she was,

tliougli of a swarthy pallor of complexion,
and with a thin face and well-cut mobile
features. She had raven-black hair, very
thick and long, and wound tightly round
her small, well-poised head. Her figure
was slight and active. But her eyes were
her great attraction — eyes that spoke, eyes
that flashed, dark, expressive, and at times
terrible. Thanks to those eyes, and to
her glib tongue, and to her vehement
manner, which swept others before it as a
whirlwind does the straws and dead leaves,
the Hungarian lady's-maid, Mademoiselle
Glitka, was more feared in the Thorsdale
establishment than was the countess herself.
She stood, as was known, hio^h in
Lady Thorsdale's favour, and had been
clever enough to make herself all but indispensable,
not only to the countess, but
to the invalid earl.

VOL. II. G

Lord Thorsdale still often dreamed of
the Engadine, but he would as soon have
thought of going there without Schists
the courier as without his wife's invaluable
maid. Glitka always understood at a word.
Glitka saw the situation when others
required lengthy explanations. Glitka
would have made a better courier than
even polyglot and wayworn Schists himself,
had but her age and sex permitted
her to assume such a post. The Thorsdale
servants deferred to the delegated authority
which 'mademoiselle' — they always
called her mademoiselle, and never by her
name — exercised over them. Her very
promptitude of speech took away the
slower breath of her insular listeners. Nobody
liked her. But the head coachman,
who was a wag, sometimes said, with

bated breath, that mademoiselle was ' all
there.*

Just then Mademoiselle Glitka was in
Sir Robert Shirley's room — not the worst
by any means of the many bed-rooms at
Thorsdale Park — and was alone. She had
ascertained, by the simple process of peeping
through the keyhole, that the subordinate
domestics were not prying. Perhaps
Miss Glitka, on the outer side of
doors, had peeped more than once through
keyhole, and knew something of the
things to be learned by such espionage.
At any rate, having satisfied herself that
she was not herself the subject of scrutiny,
she made haste to institute a special search
everywhere.

Sir Robert Shirley, as was not unnatural
with a gentleman who, for the moment,

g2



has virtually two homes, had left some-clothes
behind him. Mademoiselle's pliant
fingers explored every pocket as deftly as
those of a member of the Paris detective
police could possibly have done. But she
found nothing : only a photograph of Mrs.
Scoresbyby — a pink, scented, three-cornered
note from Lady Paget, asking ' Dear Sir
Robert ' Whether Tomahawk was really
sure to win the St. Leger before she put
her money on at the long odds. Then, at
last, in a drawer she found a letter of another
sort. Here it is : —

Dear Sir R. Shirley, Baronet,

I am getting so sick of this
worn-oufc old country that unless you soon
force on the trump-card I have put into
your hand I shall have to play mine, and
blow the whole concern sky-high. Mind

there's no mistake about what I have to
sell. The seventy thousand pounds go as

surely to Miss V , and, if she marries

without settlements, to her husband, asher
name is Violet Mowbray. You, Sir R.,
are not the man I take you for if you cannot
get a " Yes " out of a country-bred
young thing like that. I need hardly say,
don't spoil your own game and mine by
hinting to our innocent what a fortune
goes with her at the altar. You are quite
fit to hold your tongue when there's money
to be lost by speaking. But remember
that I'm weary of waiting, and shall have,
if you shilly-shally, to clap the other screw
on ; and remember, too, that there must bea
fair share of the swag, as wee say in
Australia — where I wish I was again — for
your old pal,

'Rufus Crouch.'

Glitka's eyes glowed, darkened, glittered,
as she perused this epistle. She spoke
English, perhaps, better than she read it,
but she had good brains and a vivid
imagination, and could fill up the gaps
with some approximation to the truth.
First she folded the letter and thrust it
into her pocket. Then, resisting the momentary
impulse, she snatched it out
again, and taking up the writing materials
that lay on a side-table near, she made a
rapid, but accurate, copy of the contents
of the epistle. The letter itself she put
back with scrupulous care into the drawer
in which she had found it.

I have him now !' she hissed out, between
her shut teeth ; ' I have him, hard
and fast ! He is in Glitka's hands,
now !'

And, to judge by the tightening of her

lithe, dark fingers, it might have been
dangerous to be delivered over to the handling
of tiger-footed, bright-eyed Glitka.

He is expected at noon,' she said, presently,
and slipped away.

About noon, Sir Robert Shirley drove
up to Thorsdale Park, and went at once
to his room. Scarcely had he reached it
before there came a light tap at the
door, and Mademoiselle Glitka gliding
in and, shutting the door, stood before
him.

I have to speak to you. Milord
Sir Robert,' said the girl, looking Sir
Robert Shirley very steadily in the
face.

Indeed, have you ? From my sister,
perhaps?' asked the baronet, irresolutely
but with some annoyance.

No, but from myself,' answered Glitka^



opening lier eyes as a she-panther might
have opened hers ere she showed her
white fangs and sprang on her prey.
^ You are a lord, it seems. I am millinery
humble servant, to obey her bell, to
study her caprice. And you are a seigneur.
Yet, traitor, craven, dissembler, is not this
Ymcr ' — and she showed him on her finger a
golden hoop set with small blue stones —
^ the betrothal-ring you put on my finger
at Arad ? and are you not my promised
husband, if there be faith in old customs or
the troth-plight of man T

Upon my word, Glitka,' answered the
baronet, in deprecatory tones, ' I hoped
you had forgotten or learned to take a
more reasonable view of anything that was
said in far-off Hungary between you and
me. How could I be expected to understand
your ancient customs, and to be

bound by what seems binding to you ?
We liked each other, I daresay, but I
was a mere traveller, a mere bird of passage,
and '

And you thought that you could win
the heart of the Hungarian girl, and cast it
aside like a faded flower?' she flashed out ;
^ and you knew so little of a Magyar as to
]believe the thing was safe. Safe !' she repeated,
with a sibilant sound like a hiss of
a snake. ' No ; we of the true race do not
brook deceit. I would sooner die than
let you wed another than Glitka Eber-
ganyi.'

Glitka, be reasonable !' expostulated
Sir Robert. ' I admired you, of course,
and do still, and there was an exchange of
rings and the like, but indeed, my good
girl, there was never a serious possibility
of a marriage between you and me. Such

a thinoj would have been a simple deathblow
to a gentleman in my position. I
was then a captain, now I am a baronet
with an estate, but scarcely any rents :
that much you know. I cannot afford to
marry. Certainly, Glitka, even when first
I saw you, the belle of the village, at your
good old grandfather's great farm-house
near Arad, I must have felt that I could
not wreck my prospects, seriously, by
marrying you.'

Yet I am as noble as yourself!' fiercely
retorted Glitka. ' We are all noble — excepta
few Slavs, like the glazier and the smith
in our village ; first as free Magyars,
then as being ennobled by the Empress
hundreds of years ago. The Empress-queen
gave the rank of baron to every free
peasant who killed a Turkish invader. My
ancestors have killed many Turks. Your

own eyes have seen the scimitars and
matchlocks of old foes — infidels, turbaned
dogs — hanging on the oaken walls of my
grandfather's house. And I can remember
seeing my grandsire show you, the
English stranger, with honest pride, the
grand parchment with the gold and colour
and the great seal, of the paper from Imperial
Vienna that made his grandsire a
baron. My father, too, had the rank of
baron. I, too, am Baroness Glitka, servant
as I am, and mademoiselle as they call me.
We peasant nobles, Polish or Magyar, know
our value, and will not be dogs to lick a
master's feet !'

Glitka,' answered the baronet, in despair,
soil, with your impassioned nature and
your reliance on old usages, scarcely can
do justice to a used-up, out-at-elbows
gentleman like myself. I am in debt, poor

and worried. There are times when to
put a pistol to my head and blow my brains
out appears the only natural result of my
position. I only wish you would keep
quiet, and leave me to battle with my
creditors as best I may.'

A woman is seldom cruel to a man who
bows his head, and owns himself in the
struggle of life defeated and hopeless.
Glitka's eyes lost some of their menace,
and her voice was softer as she said,

Yes, for you too, it seems, life is not a
bed of roses. Poor milord ! poor Robert !'

But in a moment after the tigress-soul
in her flamed forth.

Hear you, Sir Robert,' said her ladyship's
confidential maid, with bitter emphasis
; ' a woman who has loved, seldom
hurts the man who has left her, unless he
makes the pain more than she can bear.

So shall it be now. I came over to
England, and became a servant, more that
I might meet you than for any other
cause. The old home is broken up. My
uncle's farm — it was his when the grandfather
died — has passed into the hands
of the Hebrew money-lender who had
lent the money on mortgage, and Glitka
and her brothers earn their bread as they
may. But, little as you deem my words
to be true, I have a hold on you, proud
Sir Robert, that you can no more shake
oiF than a strayed lamb can get free from
the wolf of the woods or the snake of
the fens. Marry Miss Violet Mowbray,
even for her thousands, and see what
comes of it !'

She curtsied, and left him.

CHAPTER VL

THE PICNIC.

The picnic, on a grand scale — for things
were liberally done at Thorsdale — duly
took place, and it was favoured by the
weather, an integral factor in the success
of such festivities, and one which not
even crowned heads can command. The
picnic was at Bottomley Briars. Bolton
Crag, the rival site, had its partisans to
the last, and it was certainly by far the
more picturesque spot of the two ; but,
axis generally happens, the choice of those

with whom lay the ultimate decision was
for the snugger locality. Some of the
young ladies, and some of the young men,
r?tved about Bolton Crag, which was the
most elevated piece of ground in the vast
Thorsdale estate, and where there was
some really picturesque scenery, such as
is so common in Wales, and Devon, and
Cumberland, and so rare in the east of
England. For a moment it had seemed
as if the romantic party would carry the
day, so contagious is enthusiasm of any
sort. But the old ladies were, very sensibly,
afraid of rheumatism, and a whisper,
adroitly conveyed to the earl, settled the
point. The al fresco entertainment was
to be in the valley, not amidst the rocks
and ancient heathen barrow-tumuli of the
purple hills.

Bottomley Briars, it may be mentioned,

was, for a wonder, outside the wide-stretching
a ririfr-fence of Lord Thorsdale's «^reat
estate. The place for the picnic was on
Sir Harker Topham's land, not on that
of his noble neighbour. But Sir Harker
was only a nominal land-owner, as his
tenant, the landlady of the pretty little
inn, the 'Topham Arms,' in a meadow
near which hostelry the open-air banquet
was to be held, very well knew. Mrs.
Crummer paid her rent for farm and inn,
not to Sir Harker or his agent, but to
the solicitors of the mortgagees, Messrs.
Abrams, Moss, and Lesson, of Crutched
Friars, London. And poor young Sir
Harker, whose replenished pockets made
him as glad to accept somebody else's
hospitality as was Lord David Todhunter
himself, made no pretensions to play, on
his own freehold, the part of host, but

came as meekly to fulfil the duties of a
guest as did Captain Crasher, as to whom
no one knew anything — even who his
father had been, whence he derived his
income, or in what service he had risen
high enough to earn the military title that
he bore.

It was a fine picnic. Those entertainments
vary so much that, at their mention,
very different ideas are conjured up.
Some of them are improvised, are cheaply
and unostentatiously carried out, and are
often the very pleasantness of the species.
Others are of almost Persian — to quote
Horace — cumbrous magnificence of preparation,
and may prove costly failures, after
all. But one feature there is in common
between the picnic elaborate and the picnic
simple, and that is that, thanks to
the long drive and the pure air, and the

VOL. II. H

unaccustomed surroundings of the meal,
the banqueters are always hungry, like
so many emigrants at sea. A mere packet
of humble sandwiches may seem then
superior to the most artistic mayonnaise
of lobster or chicken, and a pigeon-pie
a luxury compared with which ortolans,
and plovers' eggs, and Isle of Wight
prawns, and potted grouse, and chevreuil
from the Continent fade into insignificance.
Plenty to eat, the absence of rain,
and the presence of merry young people
will generally carry such a festival to
a satisfactory conclusion ; and, if minor
inconveniences crop up, they are usually
remembered afterwards with amused indulgence.


A picnic given by Lord Thorsdale, and
planned by his wife, was sure to be on a
large and lavish scale.

Spend, and spare not !' constituted the
pith of the countess's directions to Mr.
Sharpe, the secretary, and of what she
said to her brother, Sir Robert. To no
apter hands could she have entrusted the
sceptre of delegated authority. Sir Robert
Shirley was very glad to propitiate some
of his London tradesmen by sending them
handsome orders in the earl's name, while
Mr. Sharpe 'proved himself, as usual, an
excellent commissary-general. Everything
that was scarce, and dear, and dainty,
edible and potable, was conjured down
from the metropolitan market, and fresh
assistant cooks and confectioners were sent
for, just as were the Co vent Garden fruit,
and salads, and the ice. There would be
good music as well as good viands, since
a fine band, under the guidance of a renowned
band-master, had been engaged,

hand

would be stationed in ambush, as it
were, in an impromptu orchestra at the
corner of a leafy grove.

The weather, as has been said, was fine.
There had been a shower on the previous
morning, but only heavy enough to refresh
the greenery of the somewhat parched
grass, and to add a new sheen to the
soft tints of the leaves of the wych-elms,
and now the sky was all but cloudless,
and the turf dry and elastic to the tread.
There was a little dust, perhaps, as the
Ions: train of carried-es strao-o-led alone:
the winding road; but nothing; can be
perfect, and the light, summer toilets of
the ladies were not much the worse for
the sprinkling. It was not an entertainment
confined to those who were visitors
beneath the earl's roof at Thorsdale ; invitations
had been freely distributed, and

sundry neighbours of greater or less
degree, and among them the party from
the parsonage at AVoodburn, had responded
to the appeal.

The earl himself had condescended to
be present. It Twas not often that the
imperious master of so much wealth graced
by his actual presence the special festivities
that were planned and executed for
the sole, if not ostensible, purpose of keeping
him in good humour, and preserving
his devoted countess from the exile of
the Engadine. Only some three times a
week did the earl dine at his own sumptuous
table. At breakfast, as at luncheon,
he was never seen. But he often spent
an hour or two in the evening: amonor
his priests, listening to music, or talking
to some one whom, for that occasion, he
had credited with the faculty of understanding'

him, and of sympathising with
the laments of a valetudinarian who
believed himself to have been ill-treated
by the world at large. But it was very
seldom that he would be a spectator of
any amateur performance, and this, since
the yeomanry review, was the first open-air
gathering at which the Right Honourable
Algernon, Earl of Thorsdale, had
deigned to appear. He came in his carriage,
then, propped by his cushions, and
surrounded by the many appliances which
his nervous fancy suggested as necessary
for his broken health ; while it was partly
on her lord's account that Lady Thorns
had chosen to bring her confidential
maid. Mademoiselle Glitka, out to Bottomley
Briars. Servants are taken to picnics,
of course, commonly enough, to the
great ease and comfort of employers, who

would otherwise be bewildered amidst unpacked
hampers and piles of plates : buta
lady's-maid is seldom numbered among
the attendants at such a merry-making.

What can it matter,' Captain Crasher
had cynically remarked, shrugging his
shoulders, as he chalked the tip of his
cue in the billiard-room of Thorsdale the
night before, ' where we go, or whether
we see a prospect, or have to stare at a
cow in a field ? Period pies and truffled
turkey, the iced drinks well made
and the salad well mixed, constitute a
picnic, my boy, if I know anything of
such matters, and all the rest is mere
sentimental rubbish.'

And Sir Harker Topham, to whom this
social sage had addressed his discourse,
did not say nay, for there is nothing
which a young man dreads so much as

seeming ridiculous in the eyes of his
seniors ; and Captain Crasher was a practical
materialist of all clubmen the one
most certain to take a hard and prosaic,
not to say common-place, view of whatsoever
subject was under discussion. The
Briars was, after all, an exceedingly snug
place for a picnic, and, in its way, almost
pretty. There was a grove of wych-elms,
bordered by thickets of hazel and ash.
The river was covered with the broad
leaves and great blossoms of the water-lily;
there were banks fringed with willows,
and an islet beloved of swans. The
meadow in which the meal was to be
eaten was dry and sheltered, golden with
buttercups and silvered with daisies ; and
then there was the tidy little inn — with
its old-fashioned, holly-hedged garden, full
of old-fashioned, sweet-scented flowers,

siich as Lady Thorsdale's highly-scientific
Scotch gardener would never have tolerated
at the Park, and its quaint, clean
rooms, smelling of lavender — over which
the Worthy Mrs. Crummer presided, and
which was a favourite resort of artists and
anglers.

In long array the carriages swept down
the winding road, and the guests gathered
in force, while the attentive servants, and
those auxiliaries eno-ao^ed for the nonce,
who could scarcely be called servants, but
rather experts in their different lines, made
haste with their preparations. Of course,
among the thickets gipsy-fires were lighted.
They added to the picturesqueness of the
scene, and were supposed to be necessary
for the cooking of the fish and the boiling
of the vegetables, and the making of the
tea and coffee. But it is probable that the



salmon was really boiled and the potatoes-really
steamed in Mrs. Crummer's commodious
kitchen hard by, since that obliging
hostess had placed her whole establishment
at the disposal of the party from Thorns
Then the open-air feast took place,
the popping of the corks, the clatter of
knives and forks, and the clink of glasses
blending not unpleasantly with the melodious
strains from the band. Louder and
louder swelled the music, and in the intervals
between the tunes the laughter and
noise of conversation was in itself enough
to prove the thing a success.

I never,' Lady Piminy afterwards said
in confidence to a sympathetic friend,
enjoyed a picnic before. As a rule, I
hate them. It is always too hot or else
too damp for the girls' dresses and complexions.
And you get wasps in your

soap and gnats in your wine-glass, and, if
the moon gets behind the clouds, are as
likely as not to have a carriage accident on
your way home. But this one was really
nice, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.'

Perhaps the chief reason for Lady
Piminy's enjoyment of the festival at
Bottomley Briars was that she had, by the
exercise of a little feminine diplomacy, got
herself next to the earl, and profited by
his unwonted good temper to extract from
him a promise that he would write to some
very great officials in London, and ' see
what could be done ' for her muscular, but
dull-witted, darling boys in Warwickshire.
And with a mother's prescience she already
saw those stalwart dunces promoted to a
comfortable share of the Government
loaves and fishes. As for the younger
members of the party, they, of course,

J

were cheerful enough, since they had for
the most part been long enough together
in a country house to have become intimate,
and it could hardly be that they
should fail to catch the holiday spirit of
the fleeting hour. Presently, too, the
dinner over, and the wearied musicians
having hushed their instruments for the
sake of rest and refreshment, there eras a
general move, at least among the junior
guests.

Captain Crasher, Lord David Todhunter,
and a few veterans preferred to keep their
seats in proximity to the fresh supplies of
cunningly compounded claret-cup ; while
the earl, who was more talkative than
usual, poured into Lady Piminy's patient
ears an account of his sufferings and his
wrongs, physical and political, and darklj'-
hinted that he should one day, after recovering

his health by a sojourn in the
Rocky Mountains, revenge himself upon
the ' party ' that had neglected him, by
publishing his memoirs.

Meanwhile, light-coloured dresses fluttered
gaily, like so many tropical butterflies,
among the willow-trees that bordered the
bank of the sluggish stream, and the pleasant
sounds of girlish laughter and of young
voices floated on the breeze. Mrs. Crummer s
garden also was invaded, and the strange
old flowers that it contained were admired
or quizzed, according to the mood of the
explorers. Anything, even those York and
Lancaster roses of blended red and white,
those stocks, and wall-flowers, and carnations,
and picotees, did for a subject
of talk, wonder, and amusement, and lent
itself somehow to the flirtation without
which an expedition such as this

would appear flat and savourless indeed.

Violet Mowbray never knew afterwards
low it came about that she found herself
alone, as it were, with Sir Robert Shirley in
the garden of the inn. She had been
standing in front of a bed of the sweet,
queer old roses, not very far from a hedge
of clipped holly, cut by the shears of some
long-dead gardener into the quaint fantastic
shapes that the horticulturists of the two
last centuries doted upon, but since that
time grown out of all likeness to the peacocks
and elephants of the original design.
Two of the Piminy girls and three of the
young men had been near, but they had
moved off, and their voices could be heard
in the distance. There was no one to be
seen, except Sir Robert himself.

I have been watching' Ions; for this

opportunity, Miss Mowbray,' he said,
gravely. ' I have something to say to you
that must be said.'

CHAPTER Iii.

THE PROPOSAL.

something to say to me, Sir Robert?'
Violet Mowbray falteringly replied; of
course she knew of what he meant to
speak.

Of course she divined his intention. A
woman's intuition is rarely at fault, except
when, as sometimes happens, it perceives
non-existent facts, and looks a little too far
into the proverbial mile-stone. Violet,
however, guessed correctly in supposing
that the baronet was about to make a
declaration of his feelings towards herself

which must occasion her annoyance, and
might cause her pain. She had read in
his looks for weeks past, and had heard in
the tones of his voice, enough to convince
her that he had chosen to single her out
as the future Lady Shirley.

Violet's nature was too simple, sweety
and pure for her to derive even the slightest
satisfaction from the compliment which a
proposal of marriage implies. There are
young ladies who take a horrid delight in
reckoning up the hearts they have broken ^
the admirers they have lured on and
snubbed, the offers they have rejected,
precisely as a Pawnee or Sioux brave points
proudly to the human hair that fringes his
deer-skin moccasins, aud tells shuddering
travellers how and where he took the scalps
that adorn his holiday attire. But Violet
was of another mould.

VOL. ir, I

Yes, I must speak,' resumed Sir Robert
'and without vanity, Miss Mowbray, I
think I may say that you can scarcely be
spite unprepared for the disclosure I have
to make. You must have seen, you cannot
have failed to observe, how very dear you
have become to me : how, as if drawn by
a power which I cannot but obey, I
instinctively seek your company: how
attentive I am to the lightest word that
falls from those fair lips : how eager to
anticipate your wishes, how anxious to
conciliate your good opinion. Have I been
quite unsuccessful in doing this ? I hope
not. Fervently I hope not. Do you not
like me a little bit, as a friend ?' he added,
trying to take her hand.

But Violet vdthdrcw her hand. She
trembled — not, as she trusted, perceptibly
but her voice was steady as she replied.

'As a friend, Sir Eobert, you have, I am
sure, always been regarded by everyone at
Woodburn, by Mr. and Mrs. Langton and
the children, and — all of us, ever since we
first saw you.'

The baronet did not, perhaps, much care
for being set down as ami de la maison
at the parsonage, and vv^as possibly nettled
that Miss Movv^bray should hide herself,
as it were, behind the regis of the
Langton family. A slight shadow darkened
his white forehead, and he bit his

1*
np.

'You dear little hypocrite!' he exclaimed,
energetically, ' do you think I mix you up
in my thoughts with excellent Mr. Langton
and his charming household? If I have
been a frequent visitor at Woodburn, have
you' not guessed what was the magnet that
drew me there? If I neglect my own place,

i2

Helston, and am almost as much at Thorns
as if I were a permanent resident under
its roof, can you not see — does not yoiir
heart tell you — why I come? It is for your
sake, dear violet — let me call you so — that
I linger in Yorkshire at all ; and it is because
I know that all the future happiness
of my life hangs on your answer, that I
have watched and waited for the opportunity
of craving it to-day.'

He was silent, andYiolet, looking down
said nothing. She was quite inexperienced,
but her natural tact told her that it did not
behove her to speak until she had heard
more. Not that she doubted for a moment
as to the nature of her reply. Had not her
troth been plighted — had not her mind
been filled with Don's dear image — still Sir
Robert Shirley would have sped but ill in
his wooing. Simple country-bred girl as-she

mio'ht be, Violet could soiiieliow tell
the true gold from the tinsel.

Don was of the true gold. He was of
quite another metal from that base but
bright one of which the showy master of
Shirley was compounded. Both these men
were fair to look upon, graceful, soft-voiced,
and of a goodly presence. But Don was
royally beautiful, brave, and loyal of heart,
whereas the baronet's specious exterior did
but cover a heart hopelessly perverted, vile,
and selfish ) and something of this was

«

visible even to those innocent eyes of Violet
Mowbray.

Sir Robert mistook the meaning; of the
girl's silence. He went on.

'Dear, dearest Violet,' he said, in accents
of well-counterfeited tenderness, as he bent
over her, so as to see her downcast face, and
tried for the second time to take her hand.

'let me plead my cause before the fairest
judge in all Europe. I have been thought'
here his voice trembled a little — 'a proud
man, but I feel humbled now, when I know
how entirely all joy and hope in the life
that lies before me must depend upon your
kindness or your cruelty. That I love you
I have said already How I love you,
Violet darling, words are too v/eak to tell ;
but perhaps a life's devotion would be the
best proofs of my sincerity. Be my wife,
dear. Make me happy ; and let me Welcome
in the old halls of Shirley — a finer place
than Thorsdale, as I often think, and certainly
a prettier — the sweetest, noblest
young bride that ever a husband yet
brought to reign there !'

It was all mere acting. Even the
trembling of the man's voice was a clever
stage trick. As the baronet talked of welcoming

this youtlifLil bridle to the grand old
halls of Shirley, he Avell knew in his inmost
soul that the use he designed to make of
Violets seventy thousand pounds was not
to set up expensive housekeeping in the
mansion of his ancestors. But he wished
to leave no stone unturned. She seemed
a good girl, timid and unselfish, but her
heart might contain a leaven of ambition,
after all. He had spoken to her before of
Shirley, and, of set purpose, of his great
Elizabethan house, the park, the lake, the
magnificent timber — such as grows in
western countries to a bulk and height
unknown in Yorkshire — the fallow-deer,
the swans, the pomp, pride, and circumstance
of the home that he would have
brought to the auctioneer's hammer had it
not been guarded by a strict entail. He
had artfully insinuated to her, too, how fine

a thing it was to be Lady Shirley: how the
chief families of the shire were loroud to
count kin with his: how easily his grandfather
could have been a lord instead of a
baronet, had he chosen to accept the offers
of two successive premiers.

Do not say me nay,' urged Sir Robert ;
and this time he succeeded in capturing:
Violet's hand. But Violet, with new-found
courage, drew her hand back from his
grasp.

It cannot be as you wish, Sir Robert,'
she said, very gently, but very firmly. The
man of the world bit his lip.

Dear, timid little creature !' he was
beginning, when, to his surprise, Violet
lifted her beautiful eyes, and met the gaze
of his stedfastly enough.

Pray, pray, let this cease,' she said.
^ You are very kind, I am sure, but it is

quite out of the question that I should
listen to you. What you have asked of me
I can never grant. It cannot be.'

'You mean, Miss Mowbray, that you
cannot do me so hi2:h an honour as to
consent to be my wife?' demanded the
baronet, with a sort of haughty surprise.

I cannot agree to be your wife, Sir
Robert ; ]3ut I had no wish to give you
pain, or to annoy you, by the manner of
my refusal,' returned Violet, gently, and
looking aside.

And / say,' passionately retorted the
master of Shirley, ' that I will not, as the
saying is, take "No" for an answer: that I
will not desist from my suit until you
accept me : that I will not allow my hopes
and my life to be wrecked by the caprice
of a girl too young to have heard as yet
the voice of her own heart ! I tell you,



Violet Mowbray, that I have set ni" very
soul and my clearest wishes on making you
tiny wife, and I will never draw back until
I win from you the consent that you are so
cov to arrant !'

You might spare me this,' answered
Violet, ^ since, believe me. Sir Robert, my
reply will never be different from that
which I have made to you to-day. It will
be better to consider the matter as one
which need not ag-ain be mentioned
between us.'

Is it possible,' asked the baronet, in a
changed voice that quivered with anger,
that I am forestalled ? Do you reject me,
Violet, on the ground, forsooth, of pre-engaged
affections?'

She flushed india-nant crimson, and
turned away, but she did not tell hiiii, asa
girl who knew the world better might

have clone, that lie had no right to ask her
any such question. Her very silence confirmed
his suspicions.

^ And Who may the fortunate swain be,
I wonder?' he broke out, furiously. 'Some
beggarly curate, I suppose ; or perhaps a
dapper clerk in the Daneborough bank.
If so, let him look to it. I am one of
those whom it is safer to have for a friend
than for an enemy!' He absolutely hissed
out the last words, with an emphasis that
was really terrible, much as a serpent
might have done that, by enchantment,
had been endowed for a time with human
shape. Xovv^ he was playing his true part ;
now all the spite of a character that was
bitterly resentful, and yet mean and cowardly,
betrayed itself, and Violet looked
round at him with alarm, not for herself,
but for him she loved. The baronet saw

her start and grow pale. This seemed to
him a sign of weakness, and he made haste
to say, 'Dearest Violet, only hear me —
only give me time. Think over what I

have said to you, and '

Leave me, pray, leave me !' exclaimed
the girl, in real distress, when, at that moment,
she caught sight of a group of Lady
Thorsdale's guests, just then entering the
shady garden of the inn, and amongst
them she recognised the rector and Mrs.
Langton. Without saying a word more —
without lingering to hear a word more —
Violet hurried off to meet her friends,
under whose protection she felt that she
was safe from farther persecution, while
Sir Robert, turning sharply on his heel,
and pulling down his hat over his brows,
strode off in an opposite direction, and
abruptly entered the ' Topham Arms ' by

the side door, festooned with old-fashioned
creepers, that was nearest to him.

We have been looking for you everywhere,
Violet dear,' said motherly Mrs.
Langton. Violet hardly knew what she
answered, so glad was she to be rid for
the time being of the importunity of her
baleful admirer. Neither of the actors in
this little scene had beheld a pair of dark
glittering eyes that had watched them
from a convenient nook in the tall and
straggling holly-hedge, and which, when
both were o-one, o^ave to view for a moment
the keen Hung-arian face of Mademoiselle
Glitka.

^ Good !' said the foreign maid, in a low
menacing whisper — ' good ! He shall
reckon to me for that !' And she stretched
forth her hand as if its pliant brown
fino-hers had an unseen dasfofcr in their

nervous grasp. But a few minutes later,
^vhen she was adjusting the shawl round
Lady Thorsdale's shoulders, and arranging
the pillows and wraps for the earl's comfort
in the carriage on the homeward
route, all trace of emotion had vanished,
and the girl was merely the high-trained
domestic, solely intent upon promoting
the well-being of her noble employers.

All things must come to an end, and
the picnic at Bottomley Briars was no exception
to this rule. One by one the carriages
came up to receive their living
freight ; the band played a sort of parting
serenade ; and those neighbours who had
been amongst the invited, and who were
now homeward-bound, expressed to the
countess, with more or less grace as of sincerity,
how excessive had been their enjoyment
of the festivity.

It was a very jolly time of it !' Lord
David Todhunter said, truly enough, as
the long; line of carriages returning to
Thorsdale reached the lofty moorland road,
whence their occupants could catch a
glimpse of the broad moon rising above the
eastern sea. But Violet was very silent,
and so, for other reasons, was Sir Robert
Shirley.

CHAPTER VIII.

MR. Marsh Receives A LETTER.

Halloa, there, hoy ! Look alive there —
mates ! Up she goes !' And the gigantic
crane, and the strong iron chain, and the
huge hook l)egan to do their work again,
as the great bales were hurried up, by
steam-power well directed, to the loftiest loft
of a many-storeyed buckling, one of those
giant warehouses of which Londoners —
City of Londoners — are excessively proud,
and which excite astonishment and dismay
amongst Gallic visitors of commercial .


There was bustle — unusual bustle — in
the crowded and cumbered yard, always
a busy spot, above Avhicli towered the
many-storeyed building, and over the
gates of which were inscribed the words,
Crump, Marsh, and Caxton, Importers
followed by the (apparently unnecessary)
announcement — ' No admittance except
on business.' Certainly a pleasure-seeker
or a sauntering idler must have had a
strange perversity of taste if he sought to
pass through those massive gates, and to
plunge into the midst of that labyrinth of
bales, barrels, vans, wheelbarrows, and
active toilers. As well might a butterfly
intrude her feathery wings and dainty
grace into a hive of bees. Waggons were
being unladen, and their contents stowed
away, either in cellarage that yawned like
the gaping depths of Avernus, or in

VOL. IT. K



elevated halls that could only be reached
from within bv a succession of ladder-like
staircases of wrought iron, and from without
by the action of the monstrous steam-crane
that worked in the midst of the
human labourers, as some tamed Titan
might have done, poising and carrying
off weights that seemed portentous,
and delivering its heavy burdens with
mechanical gentleness at the open doors
above.

A great firm, or, at any rate, a firm in
an extensive way of business, was that
old-established one which was still known
by the name of Crump, Marsh, and Caxton.
Strictly speaking, though a Crump
had founded the firm forty years before,
there was now no Crump in the flesh.
Crump meant an invalid brother and his
devoted sister, whose name was Waddilove,

who wintered in Algiers, and summered at
Cadenabbia, on Lake Como, and whose
connection with the house was that of
sleeping partners alone. As there was no
Crump, so there vv^as no Caxton, beyond
the fact that a deaf old lady, With a wig,
a poodle, a companion, a carriage, and an
ear-trumpet, resided at Cheltenham, and
was a sleeping partner in the concern, too,
in right of her deceased husband. Very
often in these venerable, or quasi-venerable,
London firms such is the case ; and the
profits may go to, and the responsibilities
be shared by, half a score of
persons who could not stand the mildest
cross-examination as to the details
of the business which they conduct by
proxy.

But if there was not a Crump, and if
there was not a Caxton, at any rate there

k2

was a bond fide Mr. Marsh, and this surviving
partner was very real and tangible.
He it was who practically carried on the
honoured old concern, and, knowing the
value of the master's eye, was often in
that very unattractive and dingy place,
which was the hive wherein the golden
honey was made. He was there on this
particular occasion, when the bustle and
stir were, as has been said, something remarkable,
as fresh consignments had to
be stowed away in appropriate storage.

Messrs. Crump, Marsh, and Caxton were
disasters, a dry work that requires explanation.
Unquestionably they did not
sell salt, dry or wet, nor were they dealers
in red herrings or salted provisions of any
sort, as their technical designation in the
Post Office Directory might seem to imply.
AVhat they did sell was the raw

material of dyes — costly cochineal from
Mexico, logwood, dragon's-blood, and all
the queer things that grow or are grown,
are extracted or manufactured, in faraway
countries, and which minister to the
making of dyes. ISTow-a-days so much
comes out of o;as-tar that the old resources,
the time-honoured products of remote
lands, signify less than they once did.
Mexican cochineal, which once cost a
guinea an ounce, yields perhaps a matchless
scarlet, but can be approached closely
enough by a cheap competitor of less
romantic origin. Ultramarine l)lue was
once at a heart-breaking price, precious
beryls having to be pounded up with steel
pestle and mortar to produce the rare
turquoise tint ; but now as good a shade
can be got for a twentieth of the former
cost. French madder was the finest crop

in the ricci lands along the Southern
Rhone, but alizarine does just as well to
give a full red colour to Woollen, if not to
cotton, fabrics. But there are some textures,
some uses, some fancies that require
the old juices, the old extracts of root,
and berry, and branch, and leaf, and insect
of far-off tropical climes ; and so it came
about that Crump, Marsh, and Caxton
had still plenty to do and plenty to
sell.

Ml*. Marsh, then, moved about the encumbered
yard, giving orders personally
now and then, but not as a rule interfering;
in the general management of the
place. Sometimes a clerk, with a pen
behind his ear and a roll of papers in his
hand, came rushing out of a glazed slice
of building' that was called a counting
— but which might pardonably have

been mistaken by visitors for a lean-to
hot-house, wherein young vines and melon
plants might be brought to precocious
maturity — and solicited instructions as to
^ that German consignment of rouo^h blue,'
or ' the Turkey red from Max and Moli-
neri's, of Smyrna.' And more often the
burly foreman, a grizzled soldierly man,
who had probably served the Queen before
he passed into the pacific employ of the
resulting firm, would come up to give
his gruffly deferential opinion as to ' that
lot of Campeachy wood,' or the condition
of ' the last batch of Calcutta indigo.'

But no doubt the work went on the
better, and the giants in corduroy suits,
who were styled heavy porters, and the
paler and slighter-built assistants in slop
suits, who were known as extra hands,
were all the brisker for the knowledge

that their employer's eye was upon
them.

Mr. Marsh himself was a spare, bony
man, with white whiskers and bushy eyebrows,
high-shouldered, and a little above
the middle height. He had crisp grey
hair, cut short, and very carefully brushed
up from the sides of his pink head, so as
to form a kind of crest, and which caused
him, especially when in moments of surprise
he elevated his prominent eyebrows,
to bear a curious resemblance to an
astonished cockatoo. In dress, and in
person, he was a model of neatness — trim,
clean, formal, and precise. The skill with
which he tied his severely starched neckcloth,
and the admirable smoothness of his
well-shaven chin, matched well with the
perfect fit of his frock-coat and the polish
of his square-toed boots. He was an old-fashioned

man, and the bent of his mind
would have prompted him, but for the
fear of ridicule, to be more old-fashioned
still. He would well have liked to have
emulated those flat-capped citizens of
London whose brown jerkins or grey
doublets, shining boots, and sober seriousness
of apparel rebuked the flowing lovelocks,
and plumed hats, and jewelled
swords, and gold-laced coats of gay
colours worn by the flaunting gallants of
the Court.

Something has been said in a previous
chapter concerning Mr. Marsh and his
tastes and habits. The guardian of Violet
Mowbray, it has been mentioned, was a
chess-player during the long winter evenings,
and in the pleasant summer-time a
sedulous angler, whose punt was often to
be found moored amongst the sedgy and

willow-bordered its of the Thames, and
who washed unrelenting; war against ffiid-
gen and barbel, roach and perch, in many
a reach of the winding: river, from Teddin^:-
ton to Mario w or Pangbourn. These are
not expensive hobbies. A thrifty man can
well afford to follow in the footsteps of
Izaak Walton, so that he does not aspire
to be fashionable, and rent Scottish rivers,
and pay for the monopoly of Norwegian
fiords, and thus purchase every pound of
salmon that he brings to bank or to boat
at a net price of fabulous amount. Humble
Thames angling certainly never ruined
any amateur of the gentle art, and the
same may be said of chess-playing, quietest
and most sedate of amusements.

Mr. Marsh, in the City, was reckoned asa
warm man, and respected accordingly.
What was his exact proportional share of

the profits of the firm, no one, of course,
except perhaps the income-tax officials,
could tell. But he could scarcely have
spent the half of his income, so frugal was
his mode of life and so simple were his
tastes.

'A letter, sir,' said one of the messengers,
coming up to his employer with a note in
his hand, which the passing postman had
just delivered at the counting-house
door.

Heyday !' exclaimed Mr. Marsh, arching
his eyebrows, and taking the proffered
epistle between his finger and thumb.
What's this ?'

Xow, Messrs. Crump, Marsh, and C ax-ton
received, as was but natural, very
many letters. The firm's waste-paper
basket had need to be a arise one, so extensive
was their correspondence, foreign

and British. They had a German clerk
in their employment, and a Greek clerk,
and a Spanish clerk, all of whom were
valued as interpreters, as well as scribes
and specialists, and who had their hands
pretty full, so manifold were the dealings
of the house with alien customers and
purveyors. There must have been something
unusual in the aspect of this particular
letter to have dieted a start and an
exclamation of surprise from so experienced
a man of business as Mr. Ephraim
Marsh. And there was something unusual
in the appearance of the letter. It was
not addressed to the firm at large, as were
hundreds and thousands of others, penned
by business correspondents, who Avec perfectly
well aware that it was with Mr.
Marsh alone that they were dealing, but
who stuck to the old fiction of a real

Crump, a real Caxton, and began ^ Gentlemen,'
as punctiliously as tliougli the
deceased partners had been immortal.
This pink envelope, highly scented, Alas
directed, in an unmistakeably female hand,
to

Ephraim Marshy Esquire

Creek Lane,

City of London,

Creek Lane, "within civic limits, is not a
large, although a bustling and wealthy
locality. Four great warehouses, some
stabling for van-horses, a brewery, six
quaint gloomy little dwellings, kept standing
only till a sufficient offer is made for
the valuable ground they occupy, and a
public-house, monopolise the whole of it.
And the name of Ephraim Marsh, as sole
surviving partner and manager of the

great clrysalting firm, was as well known
there — nay, better than in Dagger Court,
where he dwelt. Creek Lane, as its appellation
implies, abuts upon the river, and
one of the wharves that line its bank is
known as Crump's Wharf to this hour, in
memory of the founder of the business. Mr.
Marsh, then, was in the habit of receiving
and perusing, on behalf of self and partners,
many letters, but seldom one that resembled
this. He opened it with visible
reluctance, glanced at its contents, and
exclaimed, 'Heyday!' again, and more
emphatically than before. To all appearance
he was not satisfied with this cursory
inspection of the missive that had been
thrust into his hand, for he made haste to
enter a compartment of the glazed 
sacred to himself, and, pulling
out his gold-rimmed spectacles, proceeded

in a leisurely Away to read the epistle that
had caused him, it seemed, more emotion
than its exterior would have warranted.
The manager of such a firm as that old
one of the famous disasters has often to
receive bad news. Banks break, correspondents
fail, bad debts have to be ' written
oiF,' or compromises effected, and such
are generally losses to be borne with
stoical placidity,

Mr. Marsh's eyesight, by daylight, was
pretty good for a man of his years'. He
seldom missed the occasion of hooking a
roach at Thames Dittonn when his fine
quill float was suddenly sucked down by
a rapid bite. Also, he could generally
verify column after column of figures
without the adventitious aid of magnifying
lenses, until the gas began to flare.
But on this occasion he had resort to his

spectacles, and read the pink letter, which
was not a long one, two or three times
over, with manifest annoyance, but with
minutest care. As he did so, he seemed to
become excited — a thing that was rare
with him — and a flush mounted to his
cheek. Heedfully he put away the letter
and its envelope in an inner pocket of
his coat, and then replaced his spectacles
in their morocco case. Ashen he emerged
from his own glazed den in the glazed slice
of building' — that looked so much as if it
had been intended for horticultural purposes
that the clerks, with their stools and
desks, and huge ink-stands, and green-backed
ledgers, seemed out of place in it,
Mr. Marsh was a changed man.

Another time, Gregg, another time !' he
said, hurriedly, to the foreman, who came
to report the damaged condition of certain

Honduras chips.' Mr. Marsh's brougham
stood waiting in the lane without, the
coachman, like a doctor's coachman, on
the alert.

Home, James ; and drive fast, will you ?'^
said the merchant, shortly. And the carriage
dashed off quickly in the direction of
Dagger Court, E.G.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER IX.

AT DAGGER COURT

Dagger Court, E.C, is a place which has
received scanty notice on the part of
topographical historians of the ancient
and famous City of London, and which
yet merits some regard. Old it is, but
perhaps not so very old. It is certainly
not coeval with the Temple, or with
Cheap, or the Guildhall. Very likely,
when the early Plantagenet kings reigned
over us Englishmen, the site of Dagger
Court Alas garden ground, or more probably

a patch of waste land, whereon the

ragamuffins of the period set their curs to

light, or played at hustle-cap and chuck-farthing;.

The court takes its name,

clearly, from those municipal armorial

bearings which date from the day when

Lord "Mayor Walworth used his sharp steel

poniard so effectually in despatching the

Kentish rebel Wat Tyler, already unhorsed

and stunned by a stroke of King Richard

11. 's royal mace. It consists of eight

houses, of which two are very small and

six large and roomy, though low,

like giants cut short. It survived the

Great Fire, and Sir Christopher Wren had

not the trouble of laying down Dagger

Court on the lines of the old buildings,

as was the case in more important

localities.

The houses in Dagger Court are all old,

lone

or Uvo possibly dating from a period
before that when we had Tutors to reign
over us, and the latest interloper being
a tenement of Queen Anne's time. All
are solidly built, good seasoned oaken
timbers mingling with such brickwork as
now moves the regretful envy of conscientious
contractors. And two or three
of the larger houses are very handsome,
with their carved oaken staircases, broad
as in Italy, and on the massive balustrades
of which flowers, fruit, and leaves, garland
after garland, bunch after bunch, were
carved by skilled artists of long ago, and
with their ceilings blushing with gorgeous
mythology.

The rooms which Mr. Marsh inhabited
a first-floor set of apartments — were
approached by such a staircase as has been
described, and up which, according to the

old saying, a coach and six might have
been driven, so broad and easy were the
shallow steps in blackened oak, while
the banisters were heavy with grapes
and apples and rose clusters, carved by
forgotten chisels of those who must have
loved their handiwork long; micro in the dim
past.

Mr. Marsh's apartments, once reached,
presented in themselves and their contents
an a o'o^ravatino' contrast, the meanness and
triteness of the modern furniture jarring
with the splendour of the antique fixtures.
Here, too, there was rich carving on the
panelled walls and elaborate cornices,
pinked with gold, while above glowed the
bright colours of the painted ceiling, undimmed
by time, and scarcely the worse
for London smoke, fog, and even that gas
which is the deadliest foe to all pictures.

Noble rooms they were, and had once perhaps
been the home of one of those merchant
princes whose memory lends a sort
of halo to civic history — men vvdio may
have swept a shop, like Osborne, or, like
his brother-mayor, Whittington the Magnificent,
boasted of gentle blood and the
hereditary rank of armiger but who, at any
rate, were brothers fit to vie with the
patrician traders of Genoa and Venice.
There was some old stained glass, too,
in the expensive panes of which Flemish
artists had depicted Biblical subjects in
strict accordance with Low Country
garb and surroundings, and which would
have been worth its weight in o-old to
many a collector of such brittle relics of
the past.

But the well-vrorn old Kidderminster
carpet, the furniture — made after the

tasteless fashion of the early years of
the Victorian reign — and the modern russ
and framed prints and looking-glasses,
blemished the general effect.

Such as the place Alas, it was Mr.
Marsh's home, and he was. fond of it,
having, so to speak, a cat-like attachment
to the old rooms. He had, indeed, been
born in Da2:2:er Court, and had been
known, in moments of after-dinner confidence,
to boast of himself as a Londoner
jnir sang a cockney of the cockneys, and
a living; illustration of the fact that the
City was both a healthy and an attractive
place of residence. His was an instance
of that singular local, and almost parochial,
patriotism, of which we see much
more in foreign countries than in England,
and which caused him to prefer the mouldy
little church and indifferent preacher in

an adjacent lane to more renowned places
of worship, and a dark-braved tavern
which Falstaff and the Wild Prince may
occasionally have patronised, to the sumptuous
club-houses of the west. There
were even those who confidently affirmed
that one reason for Mr. Marsh's confirmed
celibacy was the fear that, as a married
man. he would be forced to abandon an
abode that custom had endeared to him,
but which might not find favour in
feminine eyes of this generation.

Just now, Mr. Marsh was very ill at
ease. As soon as he reached the icy,
low drawing-room. with its ceiling: emblazoned
with mythology, like an aftertaste
of the Renaissance, he drew forth his
gold-rimmed spectacles once more, and
again, with the severest scrutiny, inspected
the pink letter that had reached

liii at his place of business. The letter
ran thus : —

Sir,

I do not knoAV whether you
hire aware that your ward, Miss Violet
Mowbray, is the lawful possessor of
seventy thousand pounds sterling, of
which she is deprived by fraud. Also I
have to tell you that an unprincipled
man, who knows of this circumstance, is
trying to win her to become his wife, to
possess himself of the money.

As this is a great wealth, and a very
important communication, I think your
sense of justice will point out to you the
necessity for immediate investigation of
the fact, before it shall be too late.
I remain, sir, obediently yours,

'A True Friend.'

The thing is only an anonymous
letter !' contemptuously remarked Mr.
Marsh, pursing up his lips and knitting
his brows ; ' and yet '

Ephraim Marsh had not lived so many
years in the world without having formed
a pretty strong opinion concerning anonymous
letters and the writers of them.
He felt the scorn, natural to an honest
man, which the whole tribe of concealed
correspondents merit. He knew that the
Well Wishers,' and 'True Friends,' and
Lovers of Justice,' Avere either impelled
by motives of private hate or Giivy, or
Avere prompted by that sheer love of
mischief-making which is most often

a

found amongst idle people.

But he knew, too, that some truth, if
not the whole truth, is often to be elicited

from these ill-famecl epistles, and that the
nameless backbiter has now and then
supplied the first links in a chain of
evidence later on to be welded into
coherent shape by force of law. There
is no smoke without fire. The writer of
an anonymous accusation may be actuated
by motives very base, yet some good
grains of golden corn may be thrashed
out of the tares that he or she has tried to
sow in the enemy's wheat-field.

Mr. Marsh ruffled up his crisp grey
hair at the sides until he looked more like
an alarmed cockatoo than ever, and frowned
at the letter, and eyed it as if he
suspected the use of invisible ink, and
wished to read between the lines, or as
though he had before him one of those
artfully-worded epistles in which words

are mere symbols, and the whole letter an
elaborate system of signalling. But
though Nihilists and Anarchists abroad,
and perhaps also Fenians in Ireland, have
recourse to these painful methods of
communicating with their fellow-conspirators,
not even a Rosier lucian of the
Middle Ages would have tried such arts
upon an unilluminated correspondent.
No ; clearly there was no hidden meaning
in the letter. The letter itself, sufficiently
disturbing when addressed to the
punctilious guardian of such a ward as
Miss Mowbray, was one of those puzzling
epistles as to the authorship of which
even experts, as we see in the reports of
famous cases in the Central Criminal
Court, may differ. A woman had written
it. The penmanship, though cramped,
was clear and careful. The expressions

used were those which would su2forest

GO

themselves to a person of limited education,
such as a shop-girl or a servant.
The spelling was correct and the grammar
not involved, which last advantage was
perhaps due to the shortness of the sentences.
But the style was awkward and
stiff, as that of a foreigner mio-ht be.

^ I wonder if a foreigner did write it ?'
rapped out Mr. Marsh.

But he quickly reflected that no alien
amongst us, no German clerk or waiter,
no French lano;uao:e master or teacher of
music, no Swiss shopkeeper or Italian
confectioner, could possibly have known,,
or cared, about a great sum of money to
which Violet was entitled. And at the
mention of such a sum vao^ue recollections-recurred
to Mr. Marsh's memory, such
as caused him to tap his forehead, and

purse up his lips, and frown until his face
was all wrinkles.

It may have been — ' muttered Mr.
Marsh, ' of course it may have been. Old
General Yorke, it was thought, would
have made his niece his heiress — and
Violet was her only child; yet I have
seen his will, with no mention of the
name of Mowbray in it, and bequeathing
what he had to leave to more distant
kinsfolk. He was reputed rich, but report
plays strange tricks with the sum total of
the savings of these old Indian generals.
His will was duly proved. But there may
have been a codicil ; or there may have
been a trust-deed.'

Again Mr. Marsh looked frowningly at
the pink paper, and again he shook his
head. He was a conscientious man. His
guardianship of Violet Mowbray was one

r^

of his most sacred duties in his eyes.
There must have been some reason, of
sentiment or of gratitude, for his acceptance
of such a position : some reason, too,
for his ever having been asked to undertake
a task so seemingly uncongenial. He
looked at his watch, and then compared
it with the great, bronze, loud ticking
clock on the enormous chimney-piece of
carved marble. Then he rang the belL
The oddest little man-servant — a year or
two older than his master, to judge by
the puckers and lines in his withered,
sharp-chinned face, tightly buttoned up
in a pantry suit of Oxford grey — came
presently into the room in answer to the
ring.

'Juniper,' said Mr. Marsh, in a tone
of assumed indifference, ' I shall not sleep
here to-night. I am going out of town ;

and I want you to pack my portmanteau,
since I have just time to catch the 1.40
express.'

I say, Mr. Ephraim, you're a-going it
no offence, sir, but you be,' said the
servitor. 'Today and Wednesday, sir,
you was at Thames Dittonn, at the gudgeons.
Now 'tis Friday, and off you
go again ; barbel, I suppose, and Hampton
Wick. All play and no work, Mr.
Ephraim, meant a ragged shirt in my
time, anyhow !'

Rubbish, Juniper !' retorted Mr. Marsh.
^ Crump, Marsh, and Caxton wouldn't
break, I tell you, if I did take a second
holiday in the week. But this is an
errand of business.'

every likely, sir,' responded Juniper;
M3ut your good father, my old master,
used to sav, sir, '' House runs mad where

people gad ;" and what was true then is
true now, I suppose.'

Hold your tongue, you croaker, and
help me to get ready !' answered his employer,
half roughly; and then added,
as he passed into his bed-room, ' Tell
Your wife I shan't dine at home.'

Til tell Sarah Matilda, sir,' ruefully
replied the serving-man ; nor had Mr.
Marsh proceeded far with the packing
of his portmanteau before there came a
discreet tap-tapping of hard knuckles at
his bed-room door, and in answer to his
Come in,' a very tall, middle-aged woman,
of bony figure and austere countenance,
stalked in as stiffly as the ghost in ' Hamlet.'

Sorry, sir, I am sure,' said this apparition,
sto hear you are leaving your home
attain at such short notice. It's not that
I forget my place. And 1 do hope that

VOL. II. M

no shortcomings of respect or of attention
on part of self, or part of Samuel, have
rendered you so discomfortable as to make
}^ou fly to other scenes.'

'Not at all, not at all, Mrs. Juniper!'
exclaimed Mr. Marsh, as he hurriedly
stowed away shirts and razors, dress boots
and black suit too-ether, and bes-an to
tug at the well-worn straps. ' I am called
down to Yorkshire on business, that is
all, and have not a moment to lose. So,
Juniper, the hat-box, and now call a cab
a hansom, of course.'

You know best, sir,' sorrowfully, but
reproachfully, responded the housekeeper.
^ Cod's head and shoulders, the oyster
sauce and lamb chops, so much thrown
away, aren't they ?'

'Eat them, pray, eat them, Mrs. Juniper
— that is, if you and Juniper like fish

and lamb,' replied the master ; and ina
minute more lie was in this cab, bound
for the terminus.

M 2

CHAPTER X.

A SURPRISE.

^ We are sorry to lose you, dear Miss
Mowbray,' the countess had said, with
her Sweetest smile and in her most dulcet
accents, when her young guest left Thorns
to return to Woodburn Parsonage.
^ One comfort is, that we shall be near

•

neighbours still, and I hope you Anil not
forget how glad Lord Thorsdale and myself
will always be to see you among us

again.

Lady Thorsdale was tolerably sincere

in her polite expression of regret. She
was sorry to lose Violet, for a pretty face,
even if the owner of it be a timid and
somewhat silent girl, does count for something
in a country-house. Of course Lady
Pas'et or lively Mrs. Scores signified
more than a dozen of quiet young ladies
in the way of keeping the men in good
humour and the house full, but still the
countess would have preferred to keep
Violet as an inmate of her hospitable
mansion so long as her valetudinarian lord
required to be amused by a miscellaneous
company.

Miss Mowbray's visit at Thorsdale Park,
however, had been already prolonged beyond
the usual duration of such visits,
and had at last to come to a close. She
had no especial friends at Thorsdale. Perhaps
of all who were there she had liked

burly Lord David Todhunter — Who was
really kind when the kindness did not
occasion any call upon his chronically
empty pockets — the best. Lord David,
who had no daughters of his own, was
a fatherly sort of man in his bluff, jovial
way, and it really did seem as if he had
seen that Sir Robert Shirley's attentions
where not to Violet's taste, and as if, with
apparent artlessness, he now and then interposed
his jolly personality and hearty
conversation, much to the baronet's annoyance,
betvv^een him and the object of
his interested suit.

Much to Violet's relief. Sir Robert had
not been present at Thorsdale on the occasion
of her departure. Don she had
not seen since the memorable day of their
betrothal. There where, indeed, few opportunities
of meetings between a 3'oung lady

guest beneath the eats roof and a subordinate
of Mr. Bartlett, the earl's land-agent,
but none the less did the remembrance
of Don's proud, handsome face, and the
recollection of the rich tones of his musical
voice, haunt the high-born orphan in her
hours of solitude. She had not been neglected
at Thorsdale. Charley Fitzgerald,
of the hussars, who was a fourth son,
and whose luckless position as a so-called
detrimental was held to cut him off from
married life, nevertheless had a warm, if
shallow, heart, and had shown signs of
a wish to abandon his frivolous ways and
to attach himself to Violet. But he had
received no encouragement in that quarter,
and had consoled himself by dangling after
the handsomest of the three well-looking,
stupid Piminy girls. And Mr. Tracker,
the African traveller, had gone so far as

to tell her how contentedly he could
ascend the head-waters of the Congo, or
plod through Elephant Swamp, or sail
over the inland sea of Lake Nyanza, with
her by his side. But Violet had no wish
to become Mrs. Tracker, so the chance
of sharing such joys of tropical travel was
lost to her.

The carriage from Thorsdale Park, with
its coroneted panels and high-stepping
greys, which had brought Miss Mowbray
back to the parsonage on the conclusion
of her visit, had but just driven off, when
another and humbler vehicle drew up at
the garden-gate, and Don, springing from
the dog-cart that he drove, gave the horse
in charge to the weeding-boy who was
within call, and briskly ascended the well-known
road, with some books under his
arm.

Is Mr. Langton at home ?' asked the
young man of the housemaid, who came,
all smiles, to open the door.

All the Woodburn household knew Don,
and liked him, and rejoiced over his promotion.


Sure, yes, Mr. Don,' answered the handmaiden
; ' only, please wait a minute, and
I'll tell him you are here.'

The rector was in the conservatory
when Don's visit was announced. So was >
Mrs. Langton. So was Violet, newly returned
from her sojourn with those whom
the good clergyman's wife persisted in
calling her grand friends. ' I am very
glad to come home !' Violet had said,
simply. Mrs. Langton had just received
some new orchids of hitherto unknown
shape and colour — gaudy vegetable butterflies
they looked like, and all too dainty

for a work-a-day world like ours — and
Mrs. Langton was so busily fearful lest
these delicate exotics should not adapt
themselves to their new place of residence,
that she had scarcely eyes or ears for
anything else ; while the rector, newspaper
in hand, chatted cheerfully to Violet
concerning the great house and the
fashionable company which she had so
lately left.

Show him in, show him in,' said the
rector, genially, when Don's name was
mentioned ; ' my young friend is no
stranger here. We are always glad to
see him.'

Don came in, bright and frank as ever.
He could scarcely repress a start and an
exclamation of surprise as he caught sight
of Violet, whom he believed to be still
at Thorsdale Park, of this own Violet —

she had given him the right to call her
so — and whom he was yet bound to treat
as a mere acquaintance of social position
much higher than his own. But it did
seem as though Don had gained a step,
or a good many steps, of the social ladder,
in becomiiio' a clerk in the land-office of
Lord Thorsdaie. A jet-hunter is a mere
beach-comber, to use the current expression
of those South-sea Isles, where ambergris,
coral, pearl-oysters, and those
beches-de-mer, or sea-slugs, that Chinese
epicures set such store by, are to be
picked up. But a clerk may be of an}^
degree, and remunerated by any amount
of salary. Even peers of England will
condescend sometimes to be clerks and
precis-writers in the Foreign Office, and
aristocratic wielders of the pen, and sitters
at the desk, of dignified clerkdom, are

numerous. Perhaps it was on this account
that Mrs. Langton unhesitatingly
shook hands with Don now, and therefore
made it easier for Violet to put her
little hand into his.

I have brought back the books, Mr.
Langton, which you were kind enough
to lend me,' said Don, after a few words
had been exchanged. ' I had a long drive
to take on the outskirts of the earl's property,
and it brought me so near to
Woodburn itself, that I chose the opportunity
of bringing the books with me.
I have some time for study still, although
we lead an active life yonder.

'An active life always docs leave time,'
answered the rector, with a smile, 'for
reading. Julius Caesar bustled about a
good deal, yet his librarians and his
secretaries had no sinecure. What a devourer

of books, too, was the First
Napoleon, and on the very battle-field '

A clan o^- clan o-ino; of the door-bell, violently
pulled, and the rat-tat of the rusty
door-knocker, long disused, interrupted Mr.
Langton's disquisition upon Napoleon the
Grand's abnormal love of reading;, even in
the midst of all the cruel realities and hard
struggles of European war.

'Who can it be ?' asked Mr. Langton, in
surprise, not because of the vehemence
with which the bell was rung, but on account
of the fact that the obsolete knocker
was so suddenly impressed into the service
of notifying an arrival. ' None of the
neighbours, I am sure, would think of
knocking in the country here. And I
think I hear the stamping of a horse's
feet, too, on the gravel. Some fly
from the railway station at Carted

or Daneborougli, perhaps ; but who '

^Mr. Marsh!' announced the flurried
housemaid, and in, with almost alarming
suddenness, bolted the bachelor uncle of
the clergyman's Avise, his umbrella in his
hand, and a bundle of railway rugs hanging;
from his left arm.

Uncle — Uncle Marsh — so very glad to
see you !' exclaimed Mrs. Langton, coming
forward with both hands outstretched to
o^reet the new-comer. Mr. Marsh did not
take either of the offered hands, at least
for the moment, because he was embarrassed
by his rugs and umbrella.

'Very glad, Charlotte, I'm sure — How
d'ye do, Langton ? — Not forgotten me,
Miss Violet? Bless me! how you've
o-rown, and how the time does run. Xow,
if I could And a corner to put down these
things — thank you — so now wee can shake

hands.' And the hand-shaking ceremony
was duly performed.

^ I've run down from London,' continued
Mr. Marsh, rubbing his fat unloved hands
together, 'just to spend a day or two With
you here, Langton, in your Yorkshire
home — if you can put me up. Niece Charlotte,
without inconvenience to yourselves
and to renew my acquaintance with my
ward. Miss Violet here. I am not,' went
on the merchant, ' much of a visitor, nor,
I am afraid, a very amusing inmate of a
house ; but, such as T am, here I am, if
you will have me.'

'We are only too delighted, my dear
sir !' said the rector, with his best smile of
welcome, while Mrs. Langton first murmured
some words expressive of hospitality,
and then turned over in her mind
the question as to whether the ' best

room ' or guest-chamber of the parsonage
was or was not quite ready for its new
and unexpected occupant. She was quite
sure, however, that Uncle Marsh must be
starved. Country housewives of the 
stamp, such as Mrs. Lang ton, are
apt to regard a traveller as a being who
must by the very nature of things reach
their dwellings in a famished condition.
But Mr. Marsh denied that he was faint or
hungry. He had had a sandwich at the
junction, so he said, and could very well
await the regular hour of the family dinner.
Nothing special need be prepared
for him. ^

All this time he was staring at Don
who had been for the time being forgotten
both bv the rector and his wife,
and who had taken the opportunity of
exchanging a few words, in a low voice,

with Miss Mowbray. Very innocent, commonplace
words they were, such as the
merest acquaintance might have spoken.
Violet had told Don how she had but just
terminated her visit at Thorsdale, and the
young man had mentioned his first surprise
at seeing her at Woodburn.

Mr. Marsh was a little too far from the
two young people to allow anything of
what either said to reach his ears. All
he knew was that a very handsome young
man was talking to a lovely girl, and that
the lovely girl in question was his ward,
and the unconscious cause of his sudden
journey to Yorkshire. The excellent
Ephraim, in his capacity of guardian,
fidgeted and looked uneasy. Following
the direction of Mr. Marsh's eyes,
the rector saw on whom his gaze was
fixed, and immediately proceeded to in-vol.

II. N

produce ' Mr. Don, his young friend.'
The merchant made a stiff bow. The
name of Don told him nothing as to the
condition or antecedents of the young
man, and nothing as to his being an eligible
acquaintance for Violet. Mr. Marsh
was not, in the every-day concerns of life,
a suspicious man. But a tendency to
suspicion Alas latent in his character, and
it had been, very excusably, stimulated
into unwonted activity by the anonymous
letter which had caused him so much disquiet.
He bowed stiffly, then, and in a
manner that was anything but friendly,
in return to Don's graceful inclination
of the head, and an awkward silence
ensued.

Then Mrs. Langton slipped away to
busy herself in household cares for the
benefit of the freshly-arrived visitor,

and Don about the same time took his
leave.

'Who is that young gentleman ?' asked
the merchant, abruptly, when Violet, some
minutes later, had quitted the conservatory,
and he and his clerical host were left
alone.

I scarcely know,' answered the rector,
smiling, ' whether the verdict of the world
would accord to Don, my young friend
and pet pupil, the rank of gentleman.
And yet hereabouts you Avould not find
n living' soul, from the village crones to
o^rufF Lieutenant Simcox who commands
the coastguard, who does not hold as a
-canon of faith that Don is of gentle birth.
And yet, a few weeks ago, the lad was a
jet-hunter.'

A what ?' asked Mr. Marsh, in a tone
of amazed disgust. Of course the mere

2

client was acquainted with such a substance
as jet, but of its natural history
he knew nothing, while the idea of the
hunter of such an article suo:o:ested nothing;
nitre dignified than the mudlarks
of the Thames.

A fine set of fellows, some of them, are
our Yorkshire jet-seekers of the coast,'
explained the rector ; ' bold men, and, for
that matter, courageous boys and women,
who earn a tolerable livelihood by much
toil and some peril. It is a romantic
industry, with its certain risks and its-possible
prizes, the like of which hardly
exists in the prosaic England of to-day.
It was by this very band of jet-hunters,
then as now under the command of a remarkable
man, old Captain Obadiah Jed-son,
that Don was found, years ago, a
richly-dressed and beautiful child, lost or

deserted on the sea-beach. Among them
he grew up, a young hero, ever foremost
where there was a life to be saved, or a
danger to be confronted. I found it a
pleasure, being, as you remember, an old
schoolmaster, to teach a boy who outstripped
the best and brightest of my former
pupils. Don has lately become a
clerk in our grand neighbour Lord Thorns
land-office. And Mr. Bartlett, my
lord's land-agent, told me two days since,
when I met with him at Daneborough,
that he found his new clerk worth a dozen
of his predecessor — a good young fellow,
too, as I believe.'

Mr. Marsh pursed up his lips again
.sourly.

Ah, well !' he remarked, ' you know

best, I daresay, Langton, about this

protege of yours. As for me, it will do me

good to let me ramble about as I likCy
while I stay here, in my own independent
way, as becomes a crusty old bachelor
uncle like myself. I suppose I can find a
fly, when I want one, at the neat little
village inn I noticed down below.'

CHAPTER XL

SUPERINTENDENT Swain.

^ Can you tell me, sir, whereabouts is the
police station ?' Mr. Marsh it was who
propounded this startling interrogation,
and its subject was a burly elderly man,
of farmer-like appearance, with a high-collared
brown coat, and amply display of
shirt-collar, solemnly walking arm-in-arm
with a large-boned woman, some years
younger than himself, draped in her shawl
of state.

Have ye been robbed of aught ?' demanded

the Yorkshire crane, with real
curiosity. ^ My man's deaf, and doesn't
heed ye.'

'No, madam,' retorted the London
merchant, tartly ; ' I have not been
robbed.'

I thought it was a case for the Assizes,'
answered the farmer's wife, with manifest
disappointment — 'but,' she added, 'yonder
blue-coat will point ye out which way to
go.' And, as she spoke, her thread-gloved
finger indicated the portion of the mouldy
pavement whereon a elected policeman,
in his blue uniform, and with the arms of
the town of Daneborough conspicuously
displayed on his stiff coat-collar, was
marching noisily, as a terror to evil-doers.
From this constable Mr. Marsh easily
learned the whereabouts of the police-station,
of which he eras in quest.

It be up yon lane, and then, to the
right, turn, and keep on till ye get to the
circus, or what used to be the circus, and
then turn sharp to the left, till ye see
Salem Chapel, and beyond it the
station.'

The station, when reached, proved to
be a mean-looking brick structure, damp
and dingy withal. They do manage
matters better abroad — best, perhaps, in
France, bat well in Germany too— as to
the accommodation of those useful functionaries,
the police. Perhaps centralisation
has something to do with it. Local
assemblies, managing local funds, keep a
tighter hold on the public purse-strings
than there would be if the Right Honourable
somebody in Downing Street could
draw unlimited bills at sight upon
Britannia at large. Anyhow, the guardians

of order at Daneborough were squeezed,
officially, into very narrow lodgings.
Their quarters Avere small in space, and
not over-well ventilated — a stale smell as
of yesterday's fried beefsteak, and of the
mutton broth or singed sleeps-head of the
day before yesterday, clinging heavily to
the premises.

'No detective, sir, just now,' grudgingly
admitted the grizzled sergeant whom Mr.
Marsh found in the outer room of the
station — a cheerful apartment, the panelled
walls of which were decorated with
handbills in fat type, the respective headings
of which — ' Absconded,' ' Sheep-stealing,'
' Burglary,' and '£50 Reward for
such information as may lead to the
apprehension of the person, or persons,
who,' &c. — told their own tale.

'No detective, now;' and really the

policeman spoke in the tone of a conscientious
showman who reluctantly confesses
that his hyena died the week before hasty
and that the Nubian lion which figures so
conspicuously, with horrent mane and
glaring eyes, on the painted canvas above
his booth, is a mere studied ef^gy of a
lion, having breathed its lamented last,
under suspicion of poison administered by
a rival-keeper of a wild-beast show, at
Stamford or at Warrington Fair — ' but
you can see Superintendent Swain.
Those gents of the Town Council did
promise us another,' added the sergeant,
meaning another detective, not another
superintendent — 'and we ought to have one,
too, for the forgeries and fine jobs. Like
to see Mr. Swann, sir?'

Certainly,' replied the dry Salter.

Superintendent Swann, who probably



liacl overheard most of the preceding
colloquy through the chinks and crevices
of the warped and ill-fitting door, was
discovered,' according to old stao^e directions,
seated at a tumble-down table,
and with a blunt quill pen in his great
hand, and several bundles of official documents
on the ink-stained table before him.
A very big Yorkshirenian was the superintendent,
and one who looked ludicrously
large by contrast with the cramped little
den which he had for an office. Even his
huge helmet, as it lay on a rush-bottomed
chair, seemed portentous, and, as he half
rose to greet the visitor, the superintendent's
fat neck and red ears were distressingly
prominent above the strangling collar
of his braided dark-blue frock.

'Wished to see me, sir, as I understand?'
said Superintendent Swann, waving his

fleshy hand towards that one of the two
spare rush-bottomed chairs on which the
weighty helmet did not repose.

'Not exactly,' Mr. Marsh began, with
some embarrassment. ' The truth is, I
have a duty to discharge, and what I wished
was to engage, with the permission of
his superiors, the services of a detective,
to be properly remunerated, of course, for
his trouble. Here is my card — it bears my
London address, as you see. I am just
now on a visit to my nephew, or rather
my niece's husband, at Woodburn — Mr.
Langton, the rector, whose name you
probably know.'

Superintendent Swann made a military
salute at mention of Mr. Langton's name.
The rector was not himself in the county
commission of peace, nor assuredly was he
a borough magistrate, but he had friends

among: these srreat ones of the earth, and
had occasionally been seen at Sessions to
occupy a seat upon the bench.

Permission is always given,' said the
chief policeman, blandly, ' for private
inquiries, for proper objects, and by parties
of known respectability. For the moment,
we have no detective, I am sorry to say.
But I was myself a member of the London
Detective Force, and came here direct
from Scotland Yard to be promoted — I
have a cousin in the council, Alderman
Swann, in High Street — to my present
post. My time is largely poached upon,'
added the superintendent, throwing a
resentful glance at the bundles of documents
on the rickety table, ' by frivolous
complaints, and, by matters of routine that
must be plodded through ; but I am yet at
leisure to undertake any investigation with

which I may be entrusted, and which will
not interfere with the regular discharge of
my duty.'

Mr. Marsh, rubbing up his grey hair at
the sides of his pink head, cockatoo wise,
and looking eminently uncomfortable,
hesitated for a moment. - Of police
matters, it so happened, he had been so
lucky as to have no experience. He had,
like so many of us, read of detectives in
stories and in newspapers, but he had
never seen one in thee flesh. There was
Superintendent Swann in the flesh,
certainly, and of most substantial personality,
but the superintendent, with his fat
face, and round dull eyes, by no means
answered to Mr. Marsh's ideal of one of
those human sleuth-hounds who scent out
concealed crimes, and follow every twist
and double of a flying criminal. Still,

there he was. And we cannot always pick
and choose our instruments. It must be
Swann, or nothing.

Mr. Marsh, then, rallying; all his confidence
in the great name of Scotland
Yard, and in the halo of romance that
surrounds the profession of a Government
detective, resolved to put his trust in
Superintendent Swann. He, therefore,
briefly mentioned his own position, as
guardian to the daughter of the late Major
Mowbray, residing atwood burn Parsonage,
and went on to speak of the anonymous
letter which he had received, and which
was the cause of his sudden journey to
Yorkshire.

Allow me to see the letter, sir?' said
the chief of the Daneborough police, interrogatively'.


No request could have been more

reasonable. Mr. Marsh produced from an
inner pocket the pink letter which had
occasioned him so much mental perturbation,
and handed it to the policeman.
Superintendent Swann put his fat forefinger
upon the letter, read it rapidly
over, then more slowly, and then, applying
the fat forefinger to one of his eyebrows,
rubbed it thoughtfully for awhile.

Any idea, sir, of your own as to
identity of the writer?' asked the ex-detective,
after a pause. The London
merchant had no such suggestion to make.
And you don't know of any sum —
seventy thousand pounds — whew ! — likely
to have come, from any quarter, to the
young lady in question ?' was the next
query.

'I can scarcely say,' answered Mr.
Marsh, hesitatingly. ^ Both the Major and

VOL. II.

>

Mrs. Mowbray had wealthy relatives, the
latter particularly. Her uncle, General
Yorke, who left her nothing by his will,
and was on bad terms With her husband
the general was a petulant, overbearing
old domestic despot — may very possibly
have bequeathed, or left in trust, a part
of his considerable fortune for the benefit
of his niece's only child. The letter, as
you perceive, speaks of fraud.'

'So it does,' returned the superintendent,
and with his blunt pen he made a
note or two in a thick pocket-book bound
in faded leather. ' Any suspicion, sir, in
your opinion, attaching to the other parties
who took money under this old gentleman's
will ?'

No,' answered Mr. Marsh, positively.
'I have thought the matter over, and am
convinced that there is no ground for any

such suspicion. The general's heirs were
distant kinsfolk — a quiet widow and her
daughters, residing in Wales, a Bengal
civilian, and two stay-at-home ladies who
lived at Bath, none of them capable, in
any sense of the word, of such wrongdoing
as that which is implied in the accusation
which this letter, this anonymous
letter, conveys.'

I suppose not, sir,' rejoined the superintendent,
regretfully, for it was his trade
to be suspicious j 'and yet the job has an
ugly look. A Yeoman wrote this, of
course ?'

And again he laid his corpulent finger
on the pink paper.

'A woman did write it, no doubt,' agreed
Mr. Marsh, ' but for what motive '

Oh, the old story !' interrupted the big
Yorkshireman, confidently. ' Jealousy,

o2

always jealousy. We may be quite sure
of that. " A True Friend," she signs herself:
" A True Enemy," would have been
more to the mark. They are like that.
Last month we got back a plate-basket
fall of silver, just because a young woman
got jealous, and peached upon the gang,
and got 'em five years — she did. They are
like that.'

Mr. Marsh again ruffled his unoffending
hair, and pursed up his lips.

• The letter, as you see,' he said, ' bears
the post-mark of Daneborough.'

It does,' answered the superintendent,
glancing at the envelope ; ^ but as for the
thing itself, who wrote it, remains for the
present a mystery. I hardly believe this
spruce pink paper was ever bought in our
town ; but if you'll leave the letter with
me, sir, I will go round to the stationery

shops, and, without showing a line of the
writing, discover if any of the same
quality remains in stock or has lately been
purchased. If we could but find out that
it had, we might trace the writer. A,
queer hand, too — disguised, I should
say.'

To me,' ventured Mr. Marsh, ' who
am accustomed to correspondence from
abroad, it appears like the penmanship of
a foreigner used to speak, but not to write,
the English language.'

Superintendent Swann negatived this
idea with an emphatic shake of his head.

Not a foreigner in Daneboroagh, sir,' he
said, ' except the French vice-consul and
a French music-master, with the German
waiter at the Imperial Hotel, and a blackman
that tells fortunes. It's a disguised
Land, or my name is not Robert Swann.

But we may get a clue to the business, I'm
thinking, through finding out who it is-who
is making up to ^ the young lady for
the sake of money. There, sir, you perhaps
know more than me.'

A look of pain crossed Mr. Marsh's face
as a remembrance of Don, handsome and
young, rose up before him. He somewhat
constrainedly replied that he had not as
yet been long enough at Woodburn to
have been able to keep an eye on his ward
and her supposed admirer, but should certainly
do so, and would call in the course
of a day or two to consult the superintendent
again. Then he put something
which chinked golden in the policeman's-
ready palm, and went on his way.

CHAPTER XII.

BAFFLED.

Left alone, Superintendent Swann, after a
brief pause opened his large hand, and contemplated
with evident satisfaction the four
golden sovereigns Which lay in the fleshy
palm. Then he swept the yellow coins
into his pocket, and, propping up his head
with one massive arm, was for a time
absorbed in deep thought.

A four-pounder, is he?' soliloquised the
chief of the Daneborough police presently,
with reference to the absent Mr. Marsh.

Well and creditable of him, too, for the
public do behave shabby to the Force as
well as the authorities. Four sons makeup
a tidy fee to begin. What would
he give if I were to do the trick for him,
I wonder ?'

Apparently the contemplation of Mr.
Marsh's prospective bounty opened out a
large field of thought, for five minutes or
more went by before the superintendent
opened the door that led into the outer
station, to call out, ' Who's there ?'

Sergeant Hamilton, sir, and one constable,'
was the prompt response.

'Barnum, is it?' asked the commanding
officer.

'No, sir; Burns. Barnum's in Dean
Street, looking after the pawnbroker's shop
burglarious entry,' exclaimed the sergeant,
who acted as spokesman.

Send for Barnum ; I want him,' curtly
rejoined the head of the Daneborough
guardians of law and order ; and in less
than a quarter-of-an-hour Constable Barnum
was in the inner office, and had respectfully
touched the peak of his felt
helmet, by way of salute to his superior
officer.

'You may sit down,' said the superintendent,
and the subordinate policeman
accordingly seated himself with humility
on the edge of one of the rickety rush-bottomed
chairs.

Not a prepossessing man to look at was
Constable Barnum. He was a lean little
man, Who seemed the slighter by contrast
with the burly Yorkshiremen who where
his comrades, and he had a brown, hairy
face, and restless, rat-like eyes of a shifty
colour, that seemed brown in one light and

black in another. That he had been a
thief was known ; that he was by birth an
American was suspected. But, oddly
enough, though the man never tried to
conceal the fact of his old illicit occupation,
he always stoutly affirmed himself to
be a native of Lancashire. He had been
for five years in the police, and had made
himself useful. To Superintendent Swann
he was very useful. The big chief of the
Daneborough police was by far too pompous
and too self-sufficient to acknowledge
the services of his right-hand man, or even
that he had a right-hand man, but it
was a fact that he acted very much as
Constable Barnum, in his deferential way,
advised.

I have sent for you, Barnum,' said the
superintendent, condescendingly, ' to talk
to you over a new job — no sworn information,

but a mere private inquiry matter

which I have not time, with all the
borough business on my shoulders, to devote
sufficient attention.'

^No doubt, Mr. Superintendent, no
doubt,' said the little man, cringingly ; and
then he waited to hear more.

Nor was his expectation deceived, for
Superintendent Swann soon gave him a
tolerably correct summary of Mr. Marsh's
statements, and laid before him the pink
perfumed letter, which had been the occasion
of the London merchant's hurried
journey to Yorkshire. As the head policeman
told his tale, the shifty, rat-like eye
of Constable Barnum darkened and brightened
alternately, changing colour as swiftly
as the chameleon of the poets. And
when the letter was put into his hands, he
peered at it as an Assyrian scholar investigates

some lettered slab from Nineveh or
Babylon, rich in the cuneiform records of
the long-buried past. Holding the paper
up between his eyes and the light, he
sought to glean such intelligence as the
water-mark or the texture might furnish
him ; then surveyed keenly the envelope,
with its post-marks, and then meekly
folded his thin brown hands, and waited.

What do you say to that, Barnum ?' the
chief deigned to ask.

I should call it, sir, as your practised
mind, I feel sure, has already done, a tough
job,' modestly responded the rat-eyed
policeman.

But I thought, my man,' said the
superintendent, loftily, ' that perhaps you,
with your antecedents and so forth, might
be able to suggest something about the
missing money — seven-ty thousand pounds

and the authorship of the letter
Well, you see, sir,' returned the policeman,
rubbing his hands together in an
apologetic manner, ^ I never quite forgot —
how should I ? — that I was once on the
other side of the hedge, and I humbly
hope I am all the more likely to be of use
in my present capacity, because I was, as
one may say, on the cross, whereas now
I'm on the square. And that does give
one an inkling where housebreaking, or
faking-clas, or pepper-pot robberies, or
thimbles are up. But this, sir, as you
are the first to perceive, is different.'

'Yes,' returned the superintendent,
frowningly ; ' amateurs are the plague of
the Force, and very difficult to deal with !'
And Mr. Swann really did seem to
smart under a sense of injustice in that
crimes are not invariably committed by

regular professionals, who follow traditional
rates, and can be dealt with secundum
autem by the equally professional
police.

'The gentleman,' observed Constable
Barnum, coughing meekly behind his thin
broAvn hand, 'seems to have considered
the handwriting, Which, as you at once
saw, sir, was that of a woman, to be that of
a foreigner too. If that is really your
opinion, sir '

I have a shrewd guess that way,' boastfully
interrupted his commanding officer ;
but then, Barnum, we've got so few of
'em here. There's the French vice-consul,
but he can't have anything to do with it ;
and there's that new waiter at the Imperial,
but he hasn't been six months out of
Germany; and then there's Monster
Petit, in Flounce Lane, teaches music'

Ye — yes, sir,' assented the policeman ;
'' but then foreign skippers and foreign
sailors of the fishing-fleet do come ashore,
and hang about the French consul's office ;
and, as for Monsieur Petit, he has a discontented
look about him, and might,
music-master as' he is, know something, or
have some fancy in his head, as I am confident
you reflected, sir, before I spoke.
The vice-consul is a civil gentleman, and,
as you are aware, sir, would render assistance
if in his power.'

Just Avhat I was saying,' chimed in
Superintendent Swann, pompously. ' After
all, Monster Petit is only a music-master,
and there's no certificate to character in
teaching the schools to strum. Anyhow,
Barnum, I shall wish you to come along
with me, while I conduct the preliminary
inquiries as I think best in this very important

and delicate business. A young
lady concerned, and a mercenary villain,
and a case of fraud ; and, dear me ! seventy
thousand pounds !'

And the superintendent absolutely
seemed to derive satisfaction from mouthing
out the imposing sum-total of the
occult fortune of which Mr. Marsh's ward
was presumably deprived. Then, followed
by his slinking acolyte, the large-limbed
chief of the Daneborough police sallied
out into the town to commence his investigations.
The first steps taken were of a
simple character. But neither Mr. Bennett,
of the Royal Marine Circulating
Library, nor the Misses Tiffin, dio kept
the opposition establishment for the diffusion
of literature, nor any of the four proprietors
of stationers' shops, would own to
having sold the pink paper whereon the

anonymous letter addressed to Mvo Marsh
had been penned ; nor did they by any
means agree as to its origin.

• Berkshire-wove !' pronounced Mr. Bennett,
the librarian.

Some of their foreign trash, German
belike !' grumbled patriotic Mr. Stock, the
stationer.

Valley, the chemist, who sold stationery
too, declared the paper to be London-made.


'■ Not English ; Angouleme, I should
say !' authoritatively pronounced another
expert. At all events, no Daneborough
dealer in writing materials had ever sold
paper similar to this.

I'll go straight to Flounce Lane,' irritably
remarked the superintendent ; and
to Flounce Lane he went, followed by his
blue shadow in the helmet.

VOL. IL P



Monsieur Petit's little fiddle was heard
wailing out some disconsolate air in a
minor key before the superintendent
knocked at his tiny green door, a brass
plate on which bore the inscription :
Monsieur Achille Petit, French Professor
of Music'

Monsieur Petit, who was short and
plump, and had an anxious face, opened
the door himself, muttering some excuse
about ' sat girl, ze maid, always outside',
He had his fiddle tucked under his arm,
but he wore carpet slippers and a faded
dressing-gown, and looked poor and a
trifle cross. Perhaps the professor's grievance
was merely that he had not schools
enough to teach to strum — to quote Mr.
Swann's words — and found it hard to live.
But he was furious, as some foreigners in
England are, when the chief of the police

began to exhibit the envelope of the letter,
and to ask questions.

Is this a land of liberty ?' shrieked the
little Frenchman. ' Is this John Bull,
your rosbif Englishman, so vaunted, in
his castle, that you come, vous autres to
interrogate me — me ? If I am rogue,
arrest me on a warrant. If I am honest
man, let me be, or I write to your Times
newspaper, and I pillory you before the
world civilized !' And he went into his
house, and slammed the door.

Superintendent Swann and his follower
looked somewhat blankly in one another's
faces. Neither of them knew by experience
how very much more sensitive to
official interference a foreigner in England
is apt to be than is a natural-born subject
of Her Majesty. But while Constable
Barnum felt quite sure that Monsieur

V 2

J

Pe tit's very irritability proved him to be
innocent of all knowledge of the letter and

o

its contents, his superior officer considered
the little Frenchman's wordy outburst asa
very suspicious symptom indeed.

Obstructing the police,' growled out
the superintendent, 'is a serious affair.'
And he looked, and perhaps felt, as if he
would have liked to have tested the Gallic
music-master's theory that a house is a
castle by bursting in the frail door, and
conducting the master of the tenement to
durance vile in the lock-up of the Guildhall.
But he was too prudent to let anger
get the upper hand of discretion, so, again
shaking his large head in a minatory manner,
he trudged off, with his follower at his
heels, to the French vice-consulate. Hereunder
the shadow of the tricolour, he
found the vice-consul in the act of signing

the papers of a weather-beaten fishing
skipper, with curly black locks, a furred
sea-cap, and round gold rings in his
ears.

I am quite at your disposal, Monsieur
le Surintendant,' said the polite official,
after a brief explanation, and the exhibition
of the pink envelope ; 'but I fear
that I can render no help. The handwriting
is quite unknown to me. With
you, I think that it is not insular — not
English. But I cannot bring it to mind
that ever did I see the similarity of it
before.'

Do you happen to know, Mr. Consul,
the hand of a countryman of yours here,
.Monster Petit, of Flounce Lane ?' asked
the superintendent.

Indeed, no !' answered the vice-consul,
with a frank laugh, ' that poor professor !

Nos I never saw any of his writing.
Sometimes he waylays me in my walks, or
on the pier-head does accost me as I
saunter by the sea, to speak French, as he
says, and to hear it after the fashion of
that Paris from which we both are exiles.
And I willingly consent, in complaisance
to a compatriot, to this little tribute levied
upon the time of one who, after all, is the
representative of his country.'

Know anything of him, sir ?' meaningly
inquired Superintendent Swann.

'Non, non !' replied the French official.
^ A good sort of man, I daresay, but somewhat
querulous and soured, because of the
precarious nature of the livelihood he
picks up here at your sea-port of Dane-borough.
If we could persuade a few
scores more of your Yorkshire young.

ladies and jewies gens to study the musical
art, then, I doubt not. Monsieur Petit
would cease to complain, and be as mild
as new milk, as you call it, you other
English. Is there anything further for
your service, Monsieur le Surintendant ?
since I am about to lock up the office, and
intermit my duties for the day.'

Superintendent Swann could but thank
the consul, and take his leave as graciously
as he could in his then state of disappointment.


You were speaking of the post-offices
sir?' suggested Constable Barnum.

The post-office next, of course,' authoritatively
echoed his superior officer.

The post-mistress of Daneborough, a
most respectable middle-aged lady, in a
creased silk gown, and with a loud-ticking

SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART.

gold watch fastened conspicuously to her
waist, came from an inner room on hearing
who it was that desired to speak with
her. She had a respect for Superintendent
Swann, not merely as a functionary, but as
own cousin to Alderman Swann, draper
and grocer, in the High Street, and who
was confidently expected to be mayor-elect
at the November renewal of the
municipal officers. But Mrs. Carman did
not know, neither did any of the young
ladies in her office, any handwriting which
tallied with that of the envelope of the
anonymous letter.

From information received,' observed
the superintendent, sticking to the traditional
formula, ' I believe the letter to be
in the handwriting of a foreigner ; French,
most likely.'

The female clerks looked at one another.

How very odd !' said one.

There may be nothing in it,' said
another.

And then it came out that Monsieur
Petit, the music-master, after purchasing

stamp for foreign postage, had dropped
a letter into the box some 
previously. It took some persuasion
to induce Mrs. Carman, with the fear of
St. Martin's-le-Grand before her eyes, to
allow the superintendent to peep at, but
not to touch, the letter in question, addressed
to Monsieur A. Petit, pere, 107,
Rue St. Denis, Paris. But, alas ! the
handwriting, even to the jaundiced eyes
of the chief of the Daneborough police,
was utterly unlike the specimen in his
hand.

Crestfallen and sullen, he went out.

'Never mind, sir, we can't land a big

wish like that always just at first, as you
know so well,' murmured, in consolatory
accents, his useful follower.

CHAPTER Xii

violet's guardian speaks.

At the cross-roads between Woodburn
and Daneborougli there stands a guide-post,
pointing, with triple finger, towards
three several goals, and planted, as such
indicators often are, on a rising mound of
greensward. There at or about the hour
of three on a sultry afternoon in early
August, a low open carriage, drawn by a
pair of pretty white ponies, stood drawn
up. The carriage, as every rustic of those
parts well knows, came from Woodburn

Parsonage, and the slight girlish figure
that was its sole occupant was that of
Violet Mowbray. The girl was sitting
apparently in a deep reverie, unconscious
almost of the present, when suddenly she
heard the words,

Violet, my sweet one ! — you alone,
here?' and turned, with a start and a
blush, to see Don standing beside her.

I was thinking of you, dear,' she
said, as she put out her little hand to
him. ' I am very, very often thinking of
you.'

And then, as though ashamed of her
innocent confession, Violet proceeded to
explain how she came to be in Mrs. Langton's
pony-carriage at the cross-roads, and
alone.

James, the groom-lad, came out With
me as usual,' she said, ' but I have sent

him a quarter-of-a-mile or so along the
Deeping Road, to Mr. Warburton's house.
He is the bearer of a tiny note to a friend
of mine, and a favourite with Mrs. Langton
— Grace Warburton, whom I think you
must have seen at the parsonage — to ask
if I shall call for her on my way back,
after the drive, to spend tliQ afternoon at
Woodburn, and dine. Grace is the dearest
little thing, but she takes ages, absolute
ages, to compose anything like a
letter, so I had resigned myself to waiting
patiently where I was for at least ten
minutes more.'

ten priceless minutes for me, my
heart's darling !' answered Don, bending
down to look into Violet's eyes ; ' so few,
so very few are the opportunities that I
now have of speaking to you.'

Scarcely had the words been uttered

before another voice, loud, gruff, and
peremptory, exclaimed,

Heyday ! Upon my word ! I am afraid
I am interrupting you. The fact is, Mr.
ah — Don — you are just the very person
whom I wanted to see. It was necessary
to put a stop) to this sort of thing, and I
am not sorry to have a chance of doing so
once for all.'

The speaker, who, as may easily be conjectured,
was no other than Mr. Marsh,
had drawn near unperceived, but his presence
on the scene was due to mere accident.
He had sallied forth, intent upon
securing what he was pleased to style a
constitutional, and, striking into a by-lane,
had found himself unexpectedly landed in
the Deeping Road, in sight of the stationary
carriage, with its long-tailed, white
ponies. The spectacle of Don and Violet

together had proved too much for his
equanimity, and there he stood, knitting
his brows and snorting irritably, while he
made vicious digs with the ferrule of his
umbrella at a tuft of unoffending daisies
within reach. Don reddened.

I am not sure that I quite comprehend
your meaning, sir,' he said, quietly.

I shall try to make my meaning sufficiently
clear before I am done,' wrathfully
burst out Mr. Marsh, severely punishing
the daisies with his umbrella. ' I am this
young lady's guardian, as you have probably
been informed, and it is my duty, and,
I may add, my privilege, to protect her
against the wiles of the unscrupulous.'

Dear Mr. Marsh — dear guard !' pleaded
Violet, with an imploring look, which
was thrown away upon the London merchant
in his then state of unwonted

excitement. Violet could remember that
when she was much younger the term of
affectionate familiarity of which she had
made use had been very potent with
Ephraim Marsh, who really was, what we
often see, a soft-hearted man with a rugged
exterior, and a mulish obstinacy when
thwarted or vexed. Don, on his part,
looked with wondering eyes on the rich
dry salter. He could see that Mr. Marsh
vas very angry, but for his very life he
could not divine the reason for so much
wrath. The words which he had heard
were evidently meant to be offensive, but
they had overshot their mark by reason of
their very vehemence. He made no answer
then, but waited to hear more.

You are not angry with me, dear Mr.
Marsh,' said Violet, who was herself perplexed,
' at least, I li02)e not, because '

Not angry with you my dear young
lady,' interrupted Mr. Marsh, with marked
emphasis. 'You are simple and young,,
and of a confiding nature — too confiding ;
and it is for those who should love and
protect your youth to interpose between
you and the base designs of a wretched
adventurer.'

Do you mean me, sir?' demanded Down,
with a sudden flash of indignation in his
great dark eyes, such as might have glowed
in those of a lion aroused by some
wanton insult. ' If so '

He did not complete the sentence, but
stood, flushed and angry, but doing his
best to preserve an aspect of composure.
Very, very rarely had Don been subjected
to an affront — never, certainly, to one so
outrageous as this ; but after a moment of
reflection he felt assured that Mr. Marsh

VOL. II. Q

was honest in his prejudice against himself,
no matter how unjust his thoughts
and words might be.

Mr. Marsh himself had thoroughly lost
his self-command. He was not reckoned
in Creek Lane, E.G., a harsh master. In
Dagger Court he was regarded as a very
mild master. Occasionally he was rough
of tongue, in his place of business, at least;
and there had been times when he had
sent some offender before the Lord Mayor,
to be remanded, and tried at the Central
Criminal Court, and sentenced to something
exceedingly unpleasant, for a definite
number of months or years, as a punishment
for poaching on the petty cash, or
the systematic purloining of costly parcels
on their way to or from the rail or the
ship. These were Mr. Marsh's draconian
deeds. He was not ashamed of them — as

why should a virtuous citizen have been ?
but each appearance as a prosecutor,
whether in the Guildhall Police Court or
at the Old Bailey, had caused him a pang.
And then, if people knew that he had
sometimes pushed such matters to the
bitter end, few but himself were aware
how lenient he had been to sobbing apprentices
and down-looking carmen, and how
often he had tempered, perhaps over-tempered,
justice with mercy. But he had
quite lost his temper, and was in a towering
rage now.

You may swagger, young man, as
young men will, and you may look resentful,'
cried out the effective partner in the
great firm of Crump, Marsh, and Caxton,
but none the less shall I do my duty by
my ward. Her poor dear parents — dead
long ago — left her to my care; and, 



ever comes, sir, I'll not be found sleeping
at my post. I have had warnings. I have
been told what underground plots were
going on. That is why I am in Yorkshire
now. The fact is, Mr. Don, that you have
scented out this great fortune of Miss
Mowbray's, and that such is the goal of
your mercenary ambition.'

'But — there is no such thing!' said bewildered
Violet.

There is, my dear young thing. Yo u
know nothing about it ; but he does —
miserable, gasping fortune-hunter that he
is !' blurted out Mr. Marsh, looking at Don
as though he would like to annihilate him
with a glance. ' I never mince matters
Mr. Don, and so I have told you just what
I think of you, and of the disinterested
character of your attachment to Miss
Mowbray.'

don, my love, be calm!' said Violet,
with sudden terror. But Don, tliougli he
grew white to the very lips, and trembled
he who had never flinched in the face
of death and danger — gave no sign of
anger.

Mr. Marsh,' he said, 'you are cruelly
unjust; but I am fairer to you than you
are to me, and I believe you to be the
victim of a delusion, or the dupe of
calumny. That I love Miss Mowbray you
have forced me to own, earlier than I had
meant to do so. I know that it is presumptuous
in me, a jet-hunter some weeks
ago, to lift my eyes to one so far removed
from the humble station I have had to fill.
I am quite sure of that ; and also that until
I have raised myself in the world I shall
never claim my promised bride. But I

am sure, too, that Miss Mowbray's small
income '

You call it a small income — seventy
thousand pounds — ninety, perhaps, by this
time !' rapped out the drysalter.

Violet laid her little gloved hand upon
his arm.

Guard, dear old friend,' she pleaded,
there is nothing of the sort. My poor
little four hundred a year cannot '

I tell you, child, you are a rich heiress
broke out Mr. Marsh, flinging prudence to
the winds ; ' and your precious so-called
admirer, yonder, knows of it — by what insidious
means, I am not yet in a position to
establish — and therefore he has profited,
by Mr, Langton's partiality, to approach
you with his mercenary addresses.'

Guard, you do him wrong. Even if
this hateful money does belong to me,

Don never knew of it, never cared for
it !' exclaimed Violet, with tears in her
eyes.

Don changed colour rapidly. When
he spoke, it was in a hoarse and broken
voice.

^ You are the bringer of ill news, Mr.
Marsh,' he said. ' Nothing that you could
have done, no assertion of your authority,
could so well have served to put a barrier
between your ward and myself as this
revelation. I love your ward very dearly,
sir, but it is with unselfish love. Miss
Violet is dearer to me than my life ; but,
unless I were myself rich and famous, I
should not venture to claim as my wife a
great heiress.'

Don, my darling, what matters miserable
money between us two? Poor or
rich, I shall always care for you alone, and

for no one else; and it is cruel — cruel
sobbed Violet.

'The truest kindness is to be cruel,
when it is right said Mr. Marsh, austerely,
but somewhat in error as to the application
of his ward's last words.

But Don stood erect, and pale, and
calm, looking so noble and patient under
suffering that even the prejudiced dry-salter's
heart smote him as he marked the
gallant bearing of the young man.

My Violet,' said Don, with a strange,
sorrowful tenderness in his voice, ' I must
bow my head to this stroke which has
been dealt us, and bid you adieu, for a
time at least. It seems as if my dearest
hopes were rudely snatched from me. I
have lately received promotion, and have
the prospect of more. I am no longer the
mere jet-hunter. In two years' time — in

o

three perhaps — I might — but that is over
now. Not even for the sake of you, clear,
darling Violet, can I endure such an imputation
as this. Honour must be obeyed,
even before love. No, Mr. Marsh, I am
no fortune-hunter ; I will not wait for you
to banish me from the side of her I love ;
but, if this property be really hers, I must

0*0

Don — my own, I will refuse this odious
money ; I will give it up, and, whether
you leave me or not, I will never, never
care for — never marry — anyone but you,'
protested Violet, almost oblivious of Mr.
Marsh's presence.

My darling !' cried the young man, passionately,
' I shall never forget you, never
cease to love you, until my dying day.
Eut T must leave you now.'

By this time the white ponies had grown

fretful, and fidgeted so much against the
bit that Violet could hardly hold them.
This of itself would have mattered little,
but at this instant unconscious James
the youthful groom, came running, breathless,
in his boots, along the Deeping Road.

Very sorry, miss, to have been so long,'
said James the breathless, ' but all the
family were out, seeing the hay got in, and
I had to wait. And, please, Miss Grace
Warburton is away at York for a few days,
the old gentleman told me. And I left the
note. Quiet, Lily! quiet, nags!' And he
grasped the bridles of the white ponies.

There was an end, for the time, of private
talk. Don took Violet's hand in his, and
pressed it, and in a low voice murmured,
not good-bye, but ' farewell,' which to our
English ears has conventionally a sadder
sound. Then he turned, and, springing

over a stile that stood near, was lost to
sight amidst the hazel boughs. Mr. Marsh
wheeled abruptly round, and, grumbling to
himself, trudged away ; while Violet Mowbray,
relinquishing the afternoon drive she
no longer cared to take, turned the ponies'
heads homewards, and slowly and sadly
drove back to Woodburn Parsonage.

CHAPTER Xii.

TWO LETTERS.

The land-office at Thorsdale Park was not
only spacious enough for the transaction
of business, but sufficiently large to have
accommodated, in case of need, the whole
staff of those who were entrusted with the
practical charge of the earl's great Yorkshire
property. Ancient retainers and hangers-on
of the Thorsdale family yet preferred
calling it the ' Old Steward's House,' to
using the new-fangled name of the ' Land-office.'
It had been, in truth, a steward's

residence, built in perhaps the second of
the Georgian reigns, and under the eye of
an intendant who probably was careful for
the comfort of himself and his olive-branches.
Worm-eaten as were its timbers,
and mellowed its bricks, it was yet warm,
snug, and spacious to an extent that would
have moved the envy of Mr. Superintendent
Swann, squeezed into his narrow official
premises at Daneborough. Mr. Bartlett,
the manager, had rooms there, which he
could, and did, occupy at pleasure. There
was, besides the clerks' room and the
manager's office, a parlour that the clerks
shared in common. Don had a bed-room,
and so had Tom Scott, the raw junior; and
there would have been one for Mr. Screedle,
the feeble senior, had he not preferred the
farm-house lodo;ino;s that he had dwelt in
for five-and thirty years. An old woman

find her grandchild, in patterns, furnished
the kitchen contingent ; while there were
horses, gigs, and dog-carts, always at the
service of the land-agent or of his subordinates.
For a great estate is like a kingdom
on a small scale, and exacts much locomotion
on the part of those to whom is
deputed the management of it.

The clerks' room was a queer, but not
-comfortless apartment, long and low, with
massive beams, each thick enough for a
Roman battering-ram of the pre-gunpowder
days, spanning the blackened ceiling. The
windows were broad and low, with deep
recesses, and those quaint old window-seats
under the lids of which books could be
stored as a solace for rainy days, and
wherein such standard works as ' Pamela,'
the ' Pilgrim's Progress,' and ' Robinson

Crusoe perhaps heirlooms handed over
from one steward to another, yet lurked.
There were modern desks and tables, but
there was an oaken buffet gorgeously carved,
and a clock, older than the house itself as
its dial-plate averred, since it had been
constructed in 1683, by Simon Levett,
astrologer of His Sacred Majesty Charles
Ii,' at Westminster. But this clock,
although preserved in its huge brass-mounted
case as a dignified memorial of
the past, had not ticked within living
memory.

Mr. Screedle, with a green shade over
his weak eyes, was at his desk, blinking
adding up columns of figures, and, perhaps,
meditating on the probable amount of the
retiring pension, which his growing infirmities
must soon compel him to sue for, on

the ground of long service. And Tom Scott
the raw j union, in whom there was no guile
indeed, but who belonged to that unfortunate
category of boys who are born blunderers,
was at his desk, too, wretched
because he had made some capital error in
the books that had been given over to him
to post up, and he was not arithmetician
enough to discover and rectify the blunder.
Poor Tom Scott ! Mr. Bartlett had chidden
him but yesterday, as ' not worth his salt ;'
and, as likely as not, the manager would
be over at Thorsdale again on the morrow,
and would expect to find the task-work of
his subalterns complete. Don, who was an
excellent accountant, and good-natured
withal, might yet set the problem at rest
and save his office companion a scolding ;
but somehow, Tom, glancing at Don's face,
grave and stern and sad, as he sat with his

pen in his band, did not like to disturb bim
just then with a petition for aid in ibis
dilemma.

Although Don bad a pen in bis band, be
was not, just then, plying it in the earl's-service.
No better clerk — no clerk, indeed,,
so good — bad earned bis salary in the land-office,
during the viziersbip of Mr. Bartlett,
or that of bis father. There bad been young
clerks wbo could cibber well and conduct
a correspondence neatly, and there bad
been others wbo scoured the braes like the
galloping hero of some Scottish ballad.
But, as a rule, the lads that could write
could not ride, and the lads that were
untiring in the saddle made provoking
mistakes in their accounts. But Don was
a model. Through mist and rain, over
boggy moorland or along an ill-kept bridle-path,
be made bis way, swiftly and smoothly,

VOL. II. R

as commonly happens when horse and
horseman are in tune, so to speak, with one
another. In lone farms, where the solitary
household had contracted manners morose
and rugged, Don's frank, bright mien and
address won all hearts, and ' Bless ye, my
bonny bairn — a born gentle, if ever there
was one !' was the verdict at house-doors
where strangers were seldom well received
or approved of And in the office, Screedle
himself, who had learned to look on Don as
his probable successor, owned that the new
recruit had mastered with incredible quickness
every detail of the routine.

Don was engaged just then in writing a
letter. Here it is : —

Dear, dearest Violet, '^

*This is the Burst letter I
have ever written to you, and, sad to say,

I fear it must also be the last. I shall
never cease to love you, sweet one, but
I have had a rude reminder of the high
barrier which stands between us two.
There it is, like some cruel wall that
-shuts in a prisoner. In the hast joy of
my love — of our love, dear Violet — I forgot,
almost, the inequality of our condition
; I forgot that you were the young
lady, and I the jet-hunter — or, if I remembered
it, it was but in the hope that
I might one day be deemed worthy of
you. But, now that your guardian tells
me you are a great heiress, I feel the
news to be a death-blow to my hopes,
unless indeed a fortune, in some strange
and unexpected manner, should come tome.
It is as though you had been suddenly
lifted up, on golden wings, out of
my reach.

b2

that you do not believe in the mistaken
accusation which Mr. Marsh has
made against me, I am, my love, quite
sure — as sure as I am of my own honour
and my own faith. But others may believe
it ] though few, I trust, of those
Who have known me would credit me
with baseness such as that. It is needful
that I should be careful to keep my
good name — that is all I have — from
being sullied by malicious tongues. If I
were certain that I had really lost you
Violet, my darling, I think the blow
would break my heart. As it is, the
thought of you must nerve me to do all
I can to win a higher station in life —
not from mere ambition, but because in
winning it I may win that dearest prize,
yourself I do not think I shall long
remain at Thorsdale, or indeed in England,

but my plans cannot yet be settled. In
any case, I love you, dear, with every
fibre of my heart. Never, come weal or
woe, my Violet, cease to believe in the
faith and fondness of

^ Don— YOUR Don.'

Don was not much of a letter-writer —
he had indeed, fond as he was of books,
led a life of action — nor had he often had
occasion to conduct a correspondence of
any sort. Two or three young fellows,
sons of dalesmen — who belonged to that
class of poor and proud yeomanry who
are so plentiful in Yorkshire and Northumberland,
and who had been jet-hunters
for awhile — had gone off to seek their
fortunes in one or other of the two
Americas, or beneath the starry skies of
Australia, and had begged Don to write

to them, always in the hope, they severally
said, that he would be again a comrade,
^oiit there.' But this was his first
letter to her he loved, and a sorrowful
one it was. He folded it, and placed it
in its envelope, already directed. Then

he rose.

I wanted to ask you, Mr. Don, to help
me out of this muddle, if you would be
so kind,' called out Tom Scott, who had
been watching his opportunity.

Don's own sorrows had not, as sometimes
happens in maturer age, produced
the effect of rendering him. callous to the
woes of other people. He came, smiling,,
to draw a chair up to where bewildered
Tom sat before his desk, asked where the
shoe pinched, and in a quarter-of-an-hour
had thrown light upon the darkling labyrinth

of young Mr. Scott's clisorclered
accounts.

It's all right, you see, now that the
confusion between the debt and the credit
is over, and the general expenses are got
clear from the capital account,' said Don,
as he laid aside the pen-write it out
clearly, and keep each item distinct, and
I think there will be no further difficulty
with Mr. Bartlett.'

And Don went out to post his letter.
There was a post-office in Thorsdale
village, newly set up, although at the
earl's residence they adhered to old usage
and the institution of the post-bag sent
over from Daneborough. It was but
three-quarters of a mile, across the Park,
from the Old Steward's House to the Hall,
but it was a mile and a half round by the

deer-palings and the stone-walled pleasaunce
to the village of Thorsdale. Commonly,
then, when a clerk in the earl's
land-office wrote a letter, he preferred to
cross the Park, and entrust it to the letter-hag
always hanging up behind one of the
marble columns in the entrance-hall of his
noble employer's mansion, to a longer
trudge that he might drop the stamped
and directed missive into the narrow slit
in the boarded window of the span-new
office at Thorsdale. But Don chose the
latter alternative. He walked round to
the village, and posted his letter, all unconscious
that, at that very moment,
Violet Mowbray's pen was now flying,
now lingering, over the paper as she wrote
to himself, and that the two love-letters
would cross one another, as the phrase is.

and simultaneously reach their recipients
on the next morning.

I have given Don's letter. Here is
Violet's : —

My darling — my poor, dear Don,

My own, tiny very own,
if you could tell how proud your Violet is
of you, and of your love, and that you
should have chosen Violet Mowbray —
picked out poor little me — from all the
Avorld, I think it might be some (comfort to
you at this present time. Believe me,
Don dear, that when I saw you bearing
with such noble patience every angry
word of an old man — who is good, too,
and I am sure meant to do his duty,
cruelly unjust as his speech was — my
heart bled for you. But you knew, did

you not, that your Violet was grieved for
your grief, and hurt by your pain?
Dearest, under what unfortunate impression
Mr. Marsh, my guardian, was acting
when he addressed you as he did, I do not
know, and cannot learn. He will tell me
nothing, except that he had his reasons for
what he said. I am sure that he will one
day learn to do you justice. As for that
miserable money, I hate the very mention
of it. If it really is mine, Don, my love,.
I will renounce it if I can ; and if they will
let me do that — I am but a girl, and know
nothing of the law — why not let it be used
to help you to become great and famous
as you deserve to be, and to rise in
life?

^ My guardian has spoken to Mr.
Langton, and to Mrs. Langton, his niece,,
concerning you, and they have both said

some words to me. They were both of
them good and kind, my darling, and are
your friends yet, and certain, though they
do not speak out, that Mr. Marsh, worthy
man, is the victim of some extraordinary
delusion. But my guardian has an
authority which will last till I am twenty-one,
and which he threatens to exert
unless his wishes are attended to. He
talks of taking me away from Yorkshire,
and shutting me up in Dagger Court, in
the City. He does not mean to be unkind
he says, but it is his duty to act thus, if —
if you and I are to be thrown together.
Those are his words, dear, not mine. And
Mr. Langton has reasoned with him, but
to no purpose, and so, he bids me say, it
will be wiser for you not to come to Avoids
for the present.

But I love you, Don, my dear, dear

boy. You are all the world to poor little
Violet. And remember, if we are parted
now, it is not for ever. If it were, I could
not endure it, however much submission
may become a girl's nature. But it is not
so, you know. At twenty-one, my darling,
I shall be free, and then Ave can be
happy : and if there really is this hateful
fortune, why, it shall be for my husband
to choose whether we will have it or not.
But what I fear, Don, is lest you should
form some rash resolve — something; that
would make me unhappy, and take you
from me — perhaps for ever, who knows?
because of scruples that you need not
feel; indeed, you need not, because, rich
or poor, Violet loves her Don — her own
dear chosen. Pray be patient, love ; pray
try to be patient, and to wait, as I will

do. I know that waiting; comes easier to
a girl than to a man ; but still, for my
sake, Don, try to bear this. And remember,
darling, that, come what will, your
poor little Vi will love no one, care for
no one, marry no one, except her Don,
whom she thinks of night and day.
So please be patient for the sake of your
own

^ Violet Mowbray.'

To say that Don pressed this letter to
his lips and to his heart, that he read it
and re-read it a hundred times, always
finding out in it some new well-spring of
tenderness and fond affection, is to repeat
the veriest common-place. But not the
less did he feel as if it behoved him to
leave England, and to seek out for himself

a more adventurous career than that of a
clerk in Lord Thorsdale's land-office, if he
were to feel himself worthy of Violet
Mowbray for his wife.

CHAPTER XV.

ON THE TRAIL.

Constable Barnum, on his round of daily
duty in the dull streets of sleepy Dane-borough,
with his sharp eyes intent on
tramps, beggars, and miscellaneous vagrants,
had yet time to busy his sharp
brains on what his superior officer Superintendent
Swann, in moments of confidential
intercourse, was wont to designate
as 'the anonymous letter job.' Nature
had gifted the humble constable with
better brains than had fallen to the lot

of his commander. Of course he was not
so Avell-connected as was Mr. Swann, who
was linked by the ties of close consanguinity
with the aldermanic purple, and
might soon justly boast of being cousin
to the Worshipful the Mayor. Xor had his
antecedents been so respectable.

Mention has been made in a previous-chapter
of the fact that Constable Barnum
had once been a member of the lio-ht-
fingered fraternity. He was, to use his
own expression, on the right side of the
hedge now, and he was aware that,
oddly enough, he owed a portion of the
respect which his pompous chief secretly
entertained for him, to the circumstance
of his having in his day picked
pockets and cracked cribs. 'Set a thief
to catch a thief is, in police affairs, a
time-honoured axiom, which has been

acted on in more countries than our
own.

The rat-eyed policeman, as he patrolled
the streets of the quiet Yorkshire seaport,
kept puzzling himself about the solution
of the riddle which had been professionally
propounded to him. Constable
Barnum was, as the saying is, on his
promotion. And his best way to promotion,
as he instinctively felt, would be
to hang on to the skirts of his corpulent
patron, and rise in virtue of the superintendent's
good wishes. He was, and he
knew himself to be, in point of brains
superior, but inferior as to muscle, to
the stalwart Yorkshiremen around him.
And town-councillors are prone to choose
a policeman as they would a cart-horse,
according to his thews and sinews. Barnum
was not strong, nor had he, as Super-vol.

II. s

intendant Swann had, an imposing appearance.
He felt that he must worm his
way upwards. Already he had been mentioned
in the Danehorough Vigilant and
the Danehorough Mercury as ' that zealous
and efficient officer,' acting as nidus Achates
to that bulky and belated Hector of
Troy, ' our admirable and energetic Superintendent
of Borough Police.' Before
long. Alderman Swann would be Mayor
of Danehorough, and, who knew ! Chabot
Barnum installed as sergeant detective
at the station, thence to be transferred
to Leeds, Birmingham, Liverpool, London
itself.

Constable Barnum, then, kept his restless,
slanting black eyes continually at
work, and his plotting brain too, for the
elucidation of the puzzle. He had seen
foreign handwritings, and he had heard,

at second hand, Mr. Marsh's opinion as
to the authorship of the pink and perfumed
letter. It seemed, then, an especially
fortunate circumstance when he spied,
at the corner of the High Street, a well-dressed
young woman, with dark, flashing
eyes, well-cut features, and a sallow complexion,
like gold-bronze — in short, undoubtedly
a foreigner. She had a letter
in her hand, and in a moment more she
had dropped it into the lion's mouth of
the Daneborough post-office, which stands,
or then stood, quite at the upper end
of High Street.

Constable Barnum's own rat-like eyes
sparkled. Places vary, and what in London
would signify nothing, might be of
portentous importance in a provincial
town like Daneborough of the drowsy
streets. The policeman affected to be

s2

enocaojed in buttoning; one of his stiff
white buckskin gloves — they like to see
their protectors gloved, as well as bracelet,
belted, and with helmet heads, in
quiet boroughs, such as the one I am
depicting — but he had acquired, perhaps
while on the wrong side of the legal hedge,,
the art of seeing without looking:, which
is commonly supposed to be a gift exclusively
feminine. That this girl wa
handsome, though probably less so than
she had been, that she was proud, and
fierce, and shrewd, and that, although
neatly and even handsomely dressed, she
was not a lady, he could easily discern.
She had some books in her left hand,,
three volumes, bound in green cloth, and
with a square of printed paper pasted
upon each, which Constable Barnum readily

guessed to be the address of some
circulating library.

The girl passed the policeman without
taking any more notice of him than if
he had. been a lamp-post, and he very
slowly and cautiously followed the girl,
much as a hunting-spider pursues an unwitting
fly along a window-ledge. The
object of Constable Barnum's pursuit tripped
daintily down the flag-stones, until
she disappeared within the doorway over
which stood, resplendent with gold-leaf
somewhat tarnished, the lion and the
unicorn, while above the shop-window
was inscribed, ' Bennett's Royal Library.'
Constable Barnum immediately began to
take a deep interest, first in the joints
of meat and dangling carcases of sheep
displayed by Bridger, the butcher, opposite,

and then in the printed announcements
that .filled the window of Mr. Flash-man,
auctioneer and appraiser, on his own
side of the street.

But none the less did he watch the
door of the ^ Royal Library' with as un-relaxing
a scrutiny as ever a weasel
bestowed upon a rabbit-hole.

Presently the girl came out. She
brought no books with her. She had,
however, in her gloved hand a slip of
paper, probably some memorandum or
list of commissions, after consulting which
she tripped daintily forward again, and
entered a Berlin-wool shop a few doors
lower down. After an instant's hesitation,
Constable Barnum entered the library.

I beg your pardon, ma'am,' he said,
deferentially, to Mrs. Bennett, behind the
counter, 'but might I ask you, on Superintendent

Swann's account, if that young
lady who just called in here with books
I see 'em, bound in green — is a stranger
and a foreigner ?'

Mrs. Bennett did not know the policeman,
and perhaps would have resented
his questioning; but she was mollified
by the name of his superior officer, connected
as that superior officer was with
the lofty ones of the earth. She was
herself a customer of her neighbour.
Alderman Swann, as he was of her. So
she made answer,

A foreigner she is, but not exactly a
stranger, here at least. Mademoiselle, as
they call her, has been here, a dozen
times or more, on errands from the countess.
She is her ladyship's new foreign
maid, not French, but something more
outlandish still, and a prime favourite,

SO the other Thorsdale servants say, with
my lady. No, I don't know her name.
Mademoiselle is what she's called. Books ?
yes, she chose a lot, and there they lie,
till the carriage comes round. She's gone
now, mademoiselle has, to a lot of other
shops, and she'll go back presently, in
the carriage, with the parcels for my lady
at Thorsdale.'

Taking a polite leave of Mrs. Bennett,
so soon as he was sure that no further
information was to be gleaned from her
garrulity. Constable Barnum walked, with
quick steps, up the street again, and
entered the post-office. The post-mistress
was at first disposed to demur to his
petition that he might be allowed to look
at the last letter which had been dropped
into the box. But again the well-known
name of Superintendent Swann produced

a talismanic effect, and the fact, too, of
a previous relaxation of official discipline
disposed the post-mistress to yield a reluctant
consent.

I hope it is not against the rules
muttered the post-mistress ; * I do hope so.'

Surely not, ma'am,' suggested the
tempter, 'so long as you don't let anything
go out of your own hands. A peep
at the outsides might be had, oughtn't
it, by any chance customer that dropped
in while one of these young ladies happened
to be sorting or stamping at the
table there. And in this case it vriYL
very much oblige my superior officer, and
further the ends of justice.'

The post-mistress gave way. Had she
not given pray before, she would have
been inexorable now : but, as it was, she
yielded so far as, with unwilling lingers,

to take out from the box some half-score
of the uppermost letters, and to hold
them up, one by one, asking, in a dr}%
perfunctory manner, ' Is it this ?' and then
again, ' Is this the one?'

At last between the post-mistress's finger
and thumb there did appear a letter, pink,
stamped in accordance with the regulations
of the Postal Union of Nations, and
directed to some person residing in the
town of Arad, in Hungary. There could
be no mistake about the identity of the
stationery, or of the foreign handwriting,
with the handwriting or the stationery of
the anonymous epistle received in Creek
Lane, E.G., by Violet's guardian.

'May I trouble you, ma'am, to hold
that pink letter up half a minute ? Thank
you,' said Constable Barnum ; ' yes, that

is quite sufficient for Mr. Superintendent
Swann, and in his name, ma'am. I beg to
express my sense of your kindness.'

Ten minutes later, in the small, inner
den of the cramped police-station of Dane-borough,
Superintendent Swann, looming,,
as usual, all too large for the narrow
apartment allotted to him, was listening
to the report of his zealous subordinate.
It was beautiful to see with what marked
respect the clever policeman, who had
been a thief, addressed his dull, superior
officer, who owed his present position to
the fact that he was born a Swann, and
that Swann had always been a name of
note in the municipal annals of that seaside

borough of Yorkshire.

There were those among: the strong

nr

solid members of the borough police, who

whispered that ' Yankee Barnum had
found the length of the governor's foot.'
It may — nay, it must have been so ; but
then it must be owned that Constable
Barnum was a very serviceable satellite
to that luminary, the chief of the Dane-borough
guardians of order.

I acted, sir, as I feel sure you would
have desired me to do ; and my only
regret was, since there was no time to be
lost, that you had not been there yourself,
sir, to manage the rest of it, as you know
so well how to do,' humbly remarked the
private constable.

^ You did the trick pretty well, Barnum
pretty well,' said Superintendent Swann,
condescendingly. ' But it is lucky I was
here, for somebody has set a light to
Farmer Moggs's ricks, within the limits of

the borough, and I was intending to walk
out and report whether malice or accident.
But I'll send the sergeant.'

He rose as he spoke, and, opening the
door which led into the outer office, gave
the necessary orders. Then he came
back.

You feel sure, my man, as to the
identity of the handwriting; ?' demanded
the chief, authoritatively.

'Smack calf-skin to it, Mr. Superintendent.'
replied the policeman, thereby intimating
his willingness to give legal
testimony with all the customary formalities.


It is very remarkable,' philosophically
observed Mr. Swann, ' how often the same
idea, or rather the bud of it, comes into
your head, Barnum, which is already full-chapter

XVI.

MADEMOISELLE GLITKA.

Ladies such as the Countess of Thursday
handsome rich, and almost young, have
many requirements. Their caprices are
manifold, their purses capacious ; hence
new whims are vehemently welcomed, and
almost idly forgotten. And English ladies
of rank like to have a foreign maid, just
as English lady's-maids are in high demand
among the aristocracy of Paris. Perhaps
we all of us see the merits, and are blind
to the faults, of the native of another
country.

Lady Thorsclale thought that in Glitka,
deft, lithe, bold, and quick to comprehend,
she had found perfection. Every now and
then she dispatched mademoiselle, as the
English servants called her, to execute a
string of commissions in Daneborough.
Glitka forgot nothing ; Glitka deemed nothing
impossible — matched unlikely shades,,
hunted out improbable fabrics from recondite
shelves, and, in short, was very adroit
as Iris to the Juno whom she served.

On this particular occasion Glitka's list
was a long; one, and the carriage 'svhich
had brought her from Thorsdale Park to
Daneborough, and which had been 'put
up ' at the ' King's Arms ' inn, and 
of pre-railway celebrity, had
some time to wait. But the fare at the
King's Arms ' is good, and the coachman,
though an under-coachman, found

VOL. II. T

CHAPTER XYL

MADEMOISELLE GLITKA.

Ladies such as the Countess of Thorsdale,
handsome, rich, and almost young, have
many requirements. Their caprices are
manifold, their purses capacious ; hence
new whims are vehemently welcomed, and
almost idly forgotten. And English ladies
of rank like to have a foreign maid, just
as English lady's-maids are in high demand
among the aristocracy of Paris. Perhaps
we all of us see the merits, and are blind
to the faults, of the native of another
country.

Lady Thorsdale thought that in GHtka,
deft, lithe, bold, and quick to comprehend,
she had found perfection. Every now and
then she dispatched mademoiselle, as the
English servants called her, to execute a
string of commissions in Daneborough.
Glitka forgot nothing ; Glitka deemed nothing
impossible — matched unlikely shades,
hunted out improbable fabrics from recondite
shelves, and, in short, was very adroit
as Iris to the Juno whom she served.

On this particular occasion Glitka's list
was a long one, and the carriage vs^hich
had brought her from Thorsdale Park to
Daneborough, and which had been 'put
up ' at the * King's Arms ' inn, and 
of prc-railway celebrity, had
some time to wait. But the fare at the
King's Arms ' is good, and the coachman,
though an under-coachman, found

VOL. II. T

in the stable-yard and the common room
admiring listeners. Coroneted buttons on
a livery coat do produce the effect, in a
certain stratum of society, which stars
and crosses and jewelled decorations bring
about elsewhere. The under-coachman
from Thorsdale Park was quite content
to wait.

Mademoiselle Glitka, gliding, tripping,
with her well-hitting boots, over the Dane-borough
pavement, entered shop after shop,
creating, generally, a little flutter among
the inmates of each emporium, partly due
to the importance of such a customer asher
noble mistress, partly also to the energetic
and impatient manner in which she
conducted her shopping. She did not
wait, as an English lady's-maid would have
done, to be supplied in accordance with
her demand, but, as indignant tradespeople

declared, ' drove people about, in
her foreign way, asking if it isn't here,
or isn't there, as if she knew more about
the shelves and drawers of folks' shops,
or what they'd got in stock, than the
folks knew themselves.'

Had mademoiselle been purchasing on
her own account, doubtless the favour of
her future custom would have been declined
by many a resentful purveyor of
feminine wares. But the Earl of Thorns
was a very great magnate in those
parts, and Glitka was merely the emissary
of the earl's countess, so that, in homely
parlance, to affront the confidential maid
of such a lady as Lady Thorsdale would
have been indeed to quarrel with one's
bread-and-butter.

Glitka, as she darted to and fro, like a
kingfisher on the wing above the reeds

2

beds and sedgy shallows of a river, never
noticed the two helmeted fissures that
watched her from the corner of Tontine
Street, which, as every native of Dane-borough!!
knows, crosses Hio;h Street at its
lower extremity, at right angles.

There is an awkwardness about it,
Barnum,' the superintendent condescended
to observe, much as a general on the
battle-field imparts his feelings to a trusty
stair-officer, 'because of her ladyship at
Thorsdale.'

Certainly, the name of a lord is yet
strangely , influential in England. The
old power that once attached to patrician
rank may have dwindled to a shadow, but
the prestige remains. And, after all, a
great landowner, deputy lieutenant of
the county, and with much house property
in Daneborough, was a potentate

not lightly to be angered. Yet Superintendent
Swann's palm hungered for
more of Mr. Marsh's money, and his
vanity longed to be titillated by newspaper
encomiums. And he had an idea
that he was hired on the side of truth,
and against the wrong-doers, which lent
him boldness.

'There she goes again!' presently ejaculated
the chief policeman, as, just when
he had made up his mind to accost the
foreign damsel, Glitka dived into a shop
where leads. and trimmings, and missel



lanes fripperies were sold.

Perhaps, sir, it would be better to
make sure of her now,' suggested Constable
Barnum, who feared lest the Thorsdale
carriage should suddenly appear upon the
scene.

If it did so, the opportunity would be

lost-but the carriage did not appear
and by-and-by, Glitka, with sundry small
parcels, emerged from the repository of
miscellaneous fripperies. Superintendent
Swann plucked up courage, and strode
forward.

Mademoiselle,' he said, and then came
to a dead stop.

Glitka did not start, but she halted,
turned her face towards the tall ,
and cast a snake-like glance
at him — a glance that showed repugnance,
but no alarm.

'You speak to me?' she asked, deliberately.


I beg your pardon, I am sure, mademoiselle,'
apologised the big superintendent
; ' but then, you see, we of the Force
are obliged sometimes, in the execution of
our duties, to ask a question or two.'

^ Have I broken your laws ?' the girl
asked, defiantly.

The superintendent coughed, awkwardly,
behind his white-gloved hand. The
question was, indeed, one hard to answer.
■ The police, and in especial our own police,
delight in Delphic utterances. They love
a bit of mystery. The law gives them a
certain — or rather, an uncertain — power
over evil-doers, but nobody seems quite to
know how far that power extends. Sir
William Blackstone — sturdy stem on
which so many a graft of legal erudition
has taken root — declared the bounds between
royal authority and the freedom of
the subject to have remained united.
So, in our own time, the stipendiary
magistrates and the writers of leading
articles in the principal London newspapers,
with some assistance from the

J

Home Office and the Supreme Court of
Justice, settle in rough-and-ready fashion
what the police may, and what they may
not, do. On the one hand, we have a
zealous execution, caring nothing for, and
knowing nothing of, the Great Charter,
the Bill of Rights, or any other palladium ;
on the other, a mass of public opinion
antagonistic, in a dull, vague way, to
being dragooned, coerced, or spied upon.

And then Superintendent Swann really
did not know whether the foreign lady's-maid
had broken the law, or had not
broken it. All that he positively knew, or
pertinently surmised, Alas that she had
written and sent an anonymous letter.
The penning of such letters is not a statutory
offence. Libels, and letters intended
to annoy, do indeed bring their authors to
punishment, when caught. But the mere

fact that a volunteer correspondent prefers
to remain shrouded in darkness is not as
yet in contravention of any Act of
Parliament.

I hope no offence,' said the chief of the
Daneborough police, with a meekness that
Alas unusual with him. 'The fact is, we
want information. And from what we
hove learned, mademoiselle, you are ina
position to tell us what we v/ant to

know.

'You stop me in your streets as if I
were some poor Signa — some miserable
gipsy from Wallachia, or the Banat —
whom anyone may question, and whose
passport is tattered with the thumbing of
gendarme and village beadle,' angrily exclaimed
the foreign <]^irL with all a
Hungarian's resentful scorn of that police
interference to which a German submits so

stolidly. ' AVhat is your information tome,
sir ? Or by what right do you molest
me ? I live at Thorsdale Park. Come
there, if you dare.'

And Glitka, disdainful and resolute, put
out her little hand, as if to brush away
the intruders, with a quick, imperious
gesture.

Superintendent Swain, with his mouth
open, and his big hands hanging helplessly
by his side, knew not what to say, but his
acolyte had quicker wits than he.

You see, miss,' said the rat-eyed policeman,
speaking with a marked deference,
and touching the peak of his helmet as he
spoke, ' this is no charge, no accusation,
bat a delicate matter, concerning a letter
which Mr. Marsh, who is our employer —
or rather that of my superior officer, Mr.
Superintendent Swann, of the borough

police, here — has got us to make inquiries
about. Mr. Marsh, I can assure you,
miss, has no hostile feeling towards the
writer of that letter ; but is now in Yorkshire,
anxious to see the lady who wrote
it, since he fancies she might be as anxious
as he is to prevent a marriage between a
certain mercenary party, and a certain
young lady who shall be nameless. And
Mr. Marsh has found, since he came down
from London, that the duty he had set
before him is not quite so easy as he had
hoped. But this, Mr. Superintendent
Swann could tell you better than myself


You mean,' said Glitka, in an altered
tone, while her dark eyes alternately dilated
and contracted, ' that the traitor
presses his suit, in spite of the guardian
you mean.'

Lie said no more, but stood hesitating.
She had said enough, however, for her
words were equivalent to a confession, sofar
as the authorship of the anonymous
letter was concerned. Even Superintendent
Swann's slow-working brain perceived
that. He longed to take her into custody
then and there. But it was necessary to
speak her fair, and so he said, as smoothly
as he could,

If you would do us the favour, mademoiselle,
to give US five minutes' conversation,
away from this public place, whereas
you see, we are attracting notice already,
it would be a very great obligation,
besides helping on to the object we both
have, mutually, in view.'

The superintendent may have been a
little involved in his grammar, and obscure
in his diction, but Glitka understood him

well enough. And there was no denying
the fact that, even in Daneborough, and
somnolent places of that stamp, there are
prying eyes, and tongues that wag whenever
pabulum for gossip can be found.
Already, a little dull curiosity had been
awakened by the unaccustomed spectacle
of two police-officers in full uniform, in
conversation with a dark and handsome
young person with flashing eyes, and
whom some of the starers knew to be Lady
Thorsdale's foreign maid.

But where am I to go?' asked the girl,
impatiently. ' Is your bureau — office, you
call it, or station, near to hand ?'

Why, not exactly so, mademoiselle,'
replied the perplexed superintendent, wishing;
with all his heart that the Dane-borough
municipality had provided himself
and his satellites with less narrow

lodgings. It would never do to give
audience there, in that tiny den at the
station, to a vehement foreigner of the fair
sex. To talk with Mr. Marsh had been
possible, if inconvenient, but he trembled
at the idea of mademoiselle's shrill voice
reverberating through those cramped
premises, and every policeman turned into
an unwilling eavesdropper.

In this emergency. Constable Barnum,
as often happened, came to the rescue of
his embarrassed chief.

'The Imperial Hotel, sir,' he said, in a
low voice, 4s very near, just round the
corner of Tontine Street, and very respectable,
as I daresay this lady knows. I
think, if you were to select a quiet
place '

Why, just so !' broke in the superintendent,

loudly and confidently. ' It has
come to my mind, mademoiselle, that we
couldn't do better than talk the affair over
in one of the private sitting-rooms at the
Imperial Hotel, which is what I call handy
to here, only one minute's walk, and
where Mr. and Mrs. Larding know me
well. So, if you'll Avalk in front of us,

that far '

Glitka, with a slight inclination of her
proud head, notified her assent to this
proposal. Then she walked on, with no
appearance of hurry or confusion, though
by this time heads were thrust forth from
shop-doors and first-floor windows. She
turned the corner of Tontine Street, and
came to a stop in front of the Imperial
Hotel, which had nothing imperial about
it, except that it was big, a great overbuilt

barrack of an inn, wliicli had ruined the
company that had constructed it, which
did little business, but needed much repair,
and about which, even nov, a savour of
bankruptcy clung. Superintendent Swann
went in, bustling, and, having preserved'
obtained the consent of the hotel-keeper or
his wife, respectfully invited mademoiselle
to enter.

Mademoiselle complied, but, once in a
damp little sitting-room, furnished in
Honduras mahogany and horsehair, she
turned on the superintendent like a wildcat
at bay. ,

Are you an enemy, or are you a
friend?' she asked, showing her white
teeth, feverishly.

I'd much prefer, mademoiselle, to be a
friend,' said the superintendent, doing his
best to be diplomatic. * What we both

desire, I am sure, is to protect a certain
young lady, and to prevent a certain designing
person from '

For her — for the girl I care nothing ! '
flashed out Glitka, scornfully. what
matters to me your Miss Violet, one of
your English dolls, pink and white, and
always as if moulded in the wax ? But
he — the false chevalier — the traitor — he
shall not marry her because she has
money. No, I will stab him before he
does !'

Superintendent Swann was too much
amazed at this fresh outburst to be ready
with his reply. But Constable Barnum
was up to the situation.

What my superior officer and myself
wish for, miss,' he said, glibly, ' is to make
things comfortable, and to put a stopper
on the plans of a certain gentleman that

VOL. II. U

wants a rich wife, while the guardian of
Miss Mowbray remains in Yorkshire. Now,
miss. Mr. Marsh is a business man. He
is wasting: his time here, and of course
cannot afford to loiter always at Wood-burn.
And he, and he alone, as Superintendent
Swann has impressed upon me,
over and over again, in that clear-sighted
way he has, has authority to put an end
to this gentleman's little game. Perhaps,
miss, if you and he — meaning Mr. Marsh
would have a chat over things, as my
superior officer has often suggested, and

agree to pull together '

You are right !' responded Glitka,
decisively — 'Yes, I will do it. Tell your
employer, your Mr. Marsh, that he has
only to write to me, and I will meet him,
and give him proofs, to enable him to act.
That I live at Thorsdale Park — that I am

maid to Milady the Countess, you know.
Give me a piece of paper — I have a pencil
and I will write my name.'

The piece of paper was brought. The
foreign maid, in a bold, free hand, wrote
down the words,

Mademoiselle Glitka EherganyV

Good-bye !' she said, shortly, and, with
a nod, went out. Superintendent Swann
stalked in contemplative fashion back to
the police-station, whilst his shrewd acolyte
returned to his dull beat amid the
tranquil streets.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, Blenheim House.

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

8:^3

H26s
V. 3

;h & SON'S

In LIBRARY,

i, LONDON,

say BOOKSTALLS.

'Vowels "ar'e'usl^d U, md ^^^Sl^^JiTs ^t'criifrt l» SETS Qnl,.

rOR Subscribers OBTAINING Ther BOOKS ;Roe A auntie «'OK.T«.L^

For THREE „ »' ' ' I 1 8 O - 2 lO

For FOUR >f »• * " 1 IB O - 3 8

For SIX „ " : : - 8 O O -8 8

For TWELVE „ » * * o ^

^

O

o

di

:5^

BY

JOHN Berwick Haywood

AUTHOR OF

LADY FLA VIA," "Lord LYNN^S WIFE," "THE TENTH Earl,
&C., &C.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART.

CHAPTER I.

A PROPOSAL IN FORM.

Sir Robert Shirley had one advantage
over some others of his compeers. Whatever
part he desired to play, he knew the
attire that would befit the occasion, and
could, at any rate, dress according to the
character. On the morning of the same
day that witnessed the interview between
Glitka Eberganyi and the two Danebor-
ouo;h officials, the master of Shirley drove

VOL. III. B

from his house at Helston to Woodburn
Parsonage. He drove his mail phaeton,
with the silver-mounted harness, and the
two splendid bright bays, with black
points, and faultless manes, and tempers
as free from fault, matched to a quarter of
an inch, and as perfect as carriage-horses
can be. The very servant behind him was
a model groom. As for the baronet himself,
he wore a frock-coat, exactly buttoned,
and his gloves, and his boots, and his hat
were just what gloves, and boots, and a
hat ought to be.

'Master be going a-courting !' was the
verdict of the servants' hall.

'Not he,' sardonically rejoined the testy
under-butler, who repined at his exile from
London. ' If he'd been bent on spooning,
he'd'^have had a flower in his button-hole,
wouldn't he ? You girls cotton to a chap

with a rosebud stack in his coat. But Sir
Robert has got none, and, besides, he looks
as serious as if he were o-oino; to be
hanged, or, anyhow, judged. Most
likely he wants to coax a loan out of an
attorney.'

Sir Robert drove across to Woodburn,
and to the parsonage, the bright bays
keeping step admirably well, and their
owner pondering in his mind, as with his
whip he lightly touched their silken manes,
on what they would fetch at an auction or
how much he could get for them in dealing
with a friend.

He reined up the high-stepping bays in
front of the ivy-covered parsonage, and,
sending in his card, accompanied the scrap
of pasteboard by a request that he might
see, not Mr. Langton, but Mr. Marsh
from London, if that gentleman would

B 2

kindly accord him ten minutes for a brief
conversation.

This message sent in. Sir Egbert sat
quite still and impassive, with the reins in
his well-gloved hand. He had often been
at the parsonage before, as we know, and
Alas no stranger there, but on this occasion
he did not choose to presume upon his
former acquaintance, and almost intimacy,
with Mr. and Mrs. Langton, but remained
without, in his carriage, waiting for a
reply. That the rector and his Avise were
surprised is not wonderful. In houses of
the calibre of Woodburn Parsonage, members
of the family sometimes permit themselves
the pardonable indiscretion of peep-ins;
from windows when hoofs and wheels
are heard without, and, no doubt, it was
known that Sir Robert Shirley was outside,
with his best horses, and dressed with

unusual care, and grave of aspect. Then,
too, he would not come in, but in ceremonious
style craved an interview with Mr.
Marsh.

At all events, the visit, sir, is to you,'
said the rector, genially. ' Perhaps you
would like to see hin in my study?'

No arrangement could have been better.
Mr. Marsh stepped into the clergyman's
cosy book-room, with its Avell-stored
shelves and littered tables, and into the
study Sir Robert Shirley was promptly
shown. The master of Shirley was urbane,
and almost deferential, in the tone which
he had chosen to adopt.

Mr. Marsh,' he said, blandly, as soon
as he had accepted the chair that was
offered to him, ' you will be surprised, I
fear, at my calling upon you without the
honour of an introduction ; nor is it probable

that I am known to you, even by
report. But I was informed that Miss
Mowbray's guardian, whose name is
familiar to me through my intercourse
with our kind friends at the parsonage
here, was on a visit to Mr. and Mrs. Langton.
And it is because you are Miss Mowbray's
guardian that I have ventured to
trouble you to-day.'

Mr. Marsh made a sort of bow, and
grunted assent, pricking up his ears the
while. He had not, as yet, divined the
nature of the baronet's possible business'
with him.

The fact is, sir,' said Sir Robert, with a
frank smile, ' that — though it costs me
something to make the avowal to a gentleman,
who, unfortunately, is a total stranger
to me — I am in love with Miss Violet
Mowbray, your beautiful young ward, and

I have considered that the most straightforward
course of proceeding was to go
direct to the guardian, who, in her case,
represents the authority of a parent, and
tell him so, leaving him to decide, as to the
eligibility of my proposals, as his sense of
duty and his knowledge of the world shall
dictate. I am aware,' ingenuously added
the master of Shirley, ' that the course I
have thought it right to adopt is an old-fashioned
one, and perhaps unusual in these
days ; but I hope, dear sir, that you will
forgive me if my honest wish to deal fairly
by Miss Mowbray has led me to deviate
from modern practice.'

Mr. Marsh nodded approval, and gave
his grey hair a rub upwards. He thought
the better of Sir Robert for his regard for
antique fashions, especially when it was a
question of a point so delicate as this.

The working partner in the firm of Crump,
Marsh, and Caxton, confirmed old bachelor
though he was, had yet a lofty idea of courtship
and matrimony, and had all his life
cherished the ancient theory that an osier
of marriage should be preceded by a formal
application to parents for permission to be a
suitor. This wholesome rule is a little out
of date in a hasty and irreverent age like
ours, but there seemed to be something
chivalrous, something Grandisonian, so to
speak, in the baronet's conduct. And then
he loss a baronet, and the name of Shirley
sounded well.

You have taken me somewhat by
surprise,' said Mr. Marsh, hesitatingly.
'Nothing, you see. Sir Robert, had prepared
me for this application, or for the
notion that you had formed a deep attachment

to my ward. Miss Mowbray is still
very young.'

She is, indeed,' rejoined the baronet,
earnestly, but almost humbly. ' Bat
Avould she not be happier, sir, with an
assured position, and under a husband's
care, than fatherless and motherless in
such a world as that which we see
around us? But perhaps you may consider
me as too old for Miss Mowbray ?
There is a disparity of age, as I am
aware.'

jSTo, no, by no means !' exclaimed Mr.
Marsh, as the image of Don in his youthful
beauty rose up before his mental vision ; ' I
think a husband should be older than his
wife. There would be no objection on
that score.'

And, I hope, not on any other,' chimed

in the baronet, fervently. ' There has
been a long friendship, Mr. Marsh, between
Mr. Langton, your nephew here, and
my late father, and I was glad to renew
the acquaintance some weeks ago, before
I knew that Miss Mowbray, whom I
have since learned to love, Alas an inmate
of the parsonage. I know, and am
glad to know, that Miss Mowbray has no
fortune.'

As Sir Robert said this, the London
merchant could not repress a chuckle,,
while he rubbed his hair vehemently in
an upward direction. The baronet fora
moment eyed him with surprise, and
then went on, as smoothly as before,

When I say no fortune, I merely speak
in the common acceptation of the term.
I am myself, as Mr. Langton is aware, a
large landowner, so that the three or four

hundred pounds a year, \yliicli, I believe.
belong to the young lady, can scarcely
present any temptation to me. Let it,
by all means, be strictly tied up, for her
separate use. Quite independently oi
that small income, I could make a handsome
settlement upon my wife, if only
I could hope to hail your ward as Lady
Shirley.'

Again Mr. Marsh chuckled at his own
thoughts, and that audibly, although he
blushed at his own apparent rudeness.
He had been drawing a comparison between
the disinterested character of this
titled and estate gentleman, and the
shameful conduct of him whom he was
in the habit of branding as that miserable
fortune-hunter, Don.

'I beg your pardon, I am sure,' said
Mr. Marsh, somewhat confusedly; 'but

your sentiments, Sir Robert, do you much
honour, and I esteem them at their worth,
I can assure you.'

Sir Robert flinched a little. He looked
in uneasy alarm at the dry Salter. Could
it be possible that Mr. Marsh's praise
was ironical — that Mr. Marsh, instead of
]being his dupe, was an astute observer,
who read the baronet's character aright,
and saw what lurked beneath the fair-deeming
mask? Xo, it was not possible.
Violet's guardian was neither an eccentric
humorist, nor a man of preternatural
sagacity and knowledge of the world. He
was sensible enough, perhaps, in his own
groove of business life, but he had no
Ithuriel spear to use as an unerring test
of perfidy. Wherefore Sir Robert felt at
ease ao-ain.

^ You have taken a load from my heart.

Mr. Marli,' said the baronet, quite as if
he meant it. ' With you on my side, I
shall feel almost confident of winnings the

o

fair prize I long for. Hitherto, I may
own to you, I have been doubtful as to
the view that you might entertain of
my pretensions.'

Your pretensions, Sir Robert, are well-founded,
I am sure,' Mr. Marsh responded,
graciously. ' I am, as you perhaps know,
a quiet City man, leading a life very
unfashionable, but I can quite realise the
truth that men of rank and fortune —
men like you. Sir Robert — are apt to look
for money, as well as pedigree, or instead
of pedigree, with their wives. And I can
appreciate your conduct, indeed I can, as
well as if my own experiences had been
as modern as your own. May I ask if

you have ever spoken, on this topic, I
mean, to my ward?'

'I have spoken,' answered the baronet,
with an ingenuous sort of embarrassment,
Vvdiich won him the immediate sympathy
of Mr. Marsh, himself a shy man, and
therefore alive to all the sufferings to
which bashful humanity is heir. ' I have
spoken, not in direct terms, but in language
which many young ladies would
have comprehended, if not approved. But
Miss Mowbray's timidity and candour, the
^eptrest of her charms in my eyes, seem
to hedge her in, like a crystal wall, alike
from compliment and from a half-avowal
of affection. And it was only in an
unguarded moment that I ventured to
express the admiration which I have never
ceased to feel. Had Miss Mowbray had
a father — but, as it is, I come to you,

sir, as her guardian, and you will send
nie from hence a happy and a hopeful
man, if I can only feel sure that you
consider favourably my suit.'

Certainly, I'll speak to Violet, and
that without delay,' said Mr. Marsh, encouragingly.
* That much, to further
your purpose, Sir Robert, I can do. Of
course the girl must choose for herself.
Girls always do, now-a-days. But advice,
if not authority, may still count for something
in shaping and moulding the decisions
of the fair sex. And, Sir Robert,
my best wishes are for your success.'

When Sir Robert Shirley had driven
oiF, his Avell-stepping bays and silver-mounted
harness producing quite a sensation
in the village street, Mr. Marsh
remained vacantly gazing out of the window
of the clergyman's study, but taking

no cognisance of the plants and flowers
without, of the smooth-shaven lawn, or
of the gravel tinted by fresh hoof-prints
and furrowed by recent wheels.

'That will do!' muttered Mr. Marsh,
with an air of satisfaction. * Yes, that
will do. Sir Robert Shirley would be
just the husband for that delicate, shrinking
little snowdrop of a girl I'll do
my best.'

CHAPTER II.

I WILL ONLY MARRY DON.'

Guardians, as compared with the parents
with whom they are associated in popular
phraseology, have a hard time of it. Of
course, if a guardian is content to bea
mere wooden figure-head, so to speak,
keeping strictly to the letter of his legal
duties, he may get through his term of
office with the minimum of trouble to
himself. He has but to refuse to act
in all matters directly or indirectly relating
to money, without the advice of

VOL. III. C

competent solicitors, with counsel's opinion
in all difficult cases, and he is as safe asa
sea-captain whose big ocean-going 
is formally delivered over to the
conduct of a steam-tug and the charge
of a Trinity-house pilot. But a custodian
of more flesh-and-blood character
will find his position no sinecure. Awkward
events will occur; unexpected contingencies
have to be faced. Miss Fanny
engages herself to some dear, delightful
scamp of a cavalry officer, who looks to her
inheritance to pay his gambling debts. Or
Young Hopeful will marry some rustic and
penniless damsel down in the shires, who is
an estimable young person, but hardly
adapted by manners or education to preside
over an aristocratic dinner-table. In
both such instances the poor guardian,
moved by no paternal instinct, and not

armed with the authority of a father, has
the probability of an ineffectual struggle
to confront, along with the certainty of
being considered as a meddling tyrant.

Mr. Marsh was not of the stuff of which
tyrants are made. He did think that modern
manners, modern habits of thought,
gave a latitude to the young which for
various reasons was to be regretted.
Especially as regarded the important business
of matrimony was this the case. But
he was aware, too, that to put back the
hands of Time's great clock was a task as
hopeless as to stem the tide, and that the
youthful generation of to-day could not be
managed in accordance with the maxims
of yesterday. But still he was very anxious
that Violet should not throw herself
away upon a designing intriguer ; and yet
he was exceedingly desirous that Violet

c2

should marry well. The designing intriguer,
according to Mr. Marsh's prejudiced
judgment, was Don. To marry
well, it now appeared in Violet's case,
would be to marry Sir Robert Shirley.
Under ordinary circumstances, and considering
Miss Mowbray's youth, there
would have seemed to a prudent old
bachelor like Ephraim Marsh no pressing
necessity for the speedy marriage of his
ward ; but when a wolf, such as he deemed
Don to be, prowls around the sheep-fold,
care enough can scarcely be taken of the
innocent lamb that is the object of his
quest. As Lady Shirley, Violet would be
safe.

Something of what was on his mind Mr.
Marsh did say when he went back to the
drawing-room, and found the rector deeply
immersed in his newspaper, and Mrs.

Langton evidently excited and inquisitive.
Marrying and giving in marriage are
topics, be sure, that interested women
above all other topics before the first
brick of Babylon was baked, and still the
subject keeps its freshness and its zest.

*Sir Robert had a great deal to
say to you, uncle,' the clergyman's wife
remarked.

Sir Robert had a good deal to say,' rejoined
the dry Salter, who was glad of the
opportunity of speaking ; ' and you have
been wondering, Charlotte, very likely, as
to what could have been the subject of
our late conversation, or why this gentleman
should have preferred to inquire fora
mere bird of passage and a stranger
like myself. The fact is, he called on
me simply in the capacity of Violet's
guardian.'

Dear me ! of Violet's guardian !' echoed
Mrs. Langton, with the pseudo-surprise
which even good women will sometimes
affect when they want to hear more, while
the rector laid his newspaper on his knee,
and said, smiling,

A proposal, eh ? in the good old form,
just as fortresses were once summoned tO'
surrender with blast of trumpets and
solemn embassy of. heralds in their blazoned
towards riding to the barbican gate.
Have I guessed rightly, sir ?'

'You have guessed right,' said Mr.
Marsh.

Who would have thought it ? Pooi>
dear Violet !' exclaimed Mrs. Langton.
There was something of commiseration in
her tone which irritated the nerves of the
London merchant.

'Upon my word, Niece Charlotte,' he

said, quite snappishly, 'one would think,
to hear you, that the girl was going to be
buried instead of married — that is, if she
likes the man. I never could understand
why you women persist in whimpering
at a wedding, as though it were an execution,
and why a bride, in all the finery
that it has taken months of thought and
weeks of trouble to concoct, should be

wept over, as if the noose There,

Charlotte, I didn't mean to be rough — it's
only my way. Yes, Sir Robert has asked
my consent to his offering his hand to my
ward ; and I was very greatly pleased by
the straightforwardness, courteous, and,
may say, chivalrous manner in which he
did ask it.'

A thorough gentleman, and, I am sure,
would make her happy,' pronounced Mrs.
Langton, whom the wily master of Shirley

had conciliated by a patient interest in her
Cape heaths, Singapore orchids, and
maidenhair ferns.

'I think well of Sir Robert,' said the
rector, more slowly, ' and it speaks well for
him, too, that he seeks a bride almost
dowerless, since, I feel assured, he knows
nothing of this supposed hidden wealth of
poor Violet's. Rumour could scarcely
have apprised him of such a thing, since
both my wife and myself have been careful
not to mention the matter.'

'Not a syllable have I breathed as to
Violet's money, if there is any,' said Mrs.
Langton, positively.

'And therefore,' struck in Mr. Marsh, ' I
found more to admire in the behaviour of
this man of rank and fashion, whose
nature, as far as I could perceive, had remained
unspoiled by the world. And I

have had some experience of reading men
like a book.'

Poor, worthy Mr. Marsh forgot the narrow
limits of his experience. He was a
fair judge of a carman, and knew whether
a clerk was worth his salary', 1)ut he had
not the fathom-line by which to gauge the
depths of fashionable and practised hypocrisy.
Neither had, for that matter, the
rector or his wife. There was a little
more talk, and then Mrs. Langton, who
was going upstairs to attire herself for
some errand of mercy in the parish,
promised to send Violet down to speak
with her guardian, without apprising the
dear girl of the subject of the coming
conversation : the rector went back to
his library, and Mr. Marsh paced, waiting,
to and fro.

The reflections of the effective partner

in the long-established firm of Crump
Marsh, and Caxton, as lie walked to and
fro, awaiting: the arrival of his ward, were
of a very mixed character. He was getting
a little tired of his sojourn in Yorkshire.
It seemed to him as though he had made
little or no progress in his search for Violet's
hidden fortune. Superintendent Swann
gave him no comfort. He was a tenacious,
not to say an obstinate man, this London
dry salter, and, having once accepted as an
article of faith the fact that Miss Mowbray
was entitled to a great sum of money, he
held fast to it. But he wanted to be back
in London — wanted, too, to be in a punt,
far up the silvery Thames. August is the
barbel-fisher's month, as it is that of his
aristocratic fellow-sportsman, the grouse-shooter.
And Mr. Marsh did long to lee
at Hatchet, or Goring, or in the deep water

below Marlow Bridge, feeling the first tug
at his heavily-leaded ledger-line of some
pristine monster, capable, when hooked, of
taking the punt in tow. But none the
less was he determined to do his duty by
the motherless girl.

Violet came into the drawing-room in
some surprise. Mrs. Langton had kept
her word, and had said nothing, but her
manner had betrayed that the approaching
interview was to be a momentous one.

My dear young lady,' said Mr. Marsh,
stopping in his walk so as to confront
Violet, ' I do hope that you will do me the
justice to believe one thing, that in all
that I may consider necessary to be said,
and in all that I may find expedient to be
done, I am guided simply and wholly by a
sincere desire to see you happy.'

You were always very, very kind, dear

guarcly,' said Violet, gently. She had
been used, years ago, when she was a
child, and less accustomed to her bereavement,
to see more of the worthy London
merchant than had lately been the case.
He had been the one to teach her, at a
teachable age, to address him as ' guard,'
precisely as the white-muslin heroines of
old times accosted their brown-coated and
square-toed guardians, in the bob-wigs
and flowered waistcoats. She esteemed
him, and was grateful to him, but not even
for the sake of old kindness could she
allow him to dictate to her where her
heart was concerned. And, that her heart
was no longer hers to give, we know.

I had an interview, Violet, my dear,'
said Mr. Marsh, clearing his throat and
putting on his most impressive manner,
^ with a gentleman who called here expressly

to see fine — an interview which
hackneyed man of the world as I am, has
made me think the better of human
nature.'

Perhaps Mr. Marsh was unduly boastful
when he announced himself as a man of
the world. What is it that really qualities
one of us for that dubious distinction ? It
is hard to say. I have known ladies who
believed the term to be applicable only to
those who are admitted to the penetralia
of London society, to members of choice
little gambling clubs, and so forth. But
one may dine with royalty, and rub
shoulders with the great of the earth, and
be elected to clubs where a duke has been
blackball, and yet remain the veriest
child. Perhaps a man of the world is
born, not made, like a poet or a great
general. He wants tact, and sense, and

some fine instinct that is neither, jet partakes
of both. There is no reason why a
dry salter should not be one of this gifted
brotherhood. But Mr. Marsh was in error
as to his own fitness to play so difficult a
part.

The better of human nature,' he repeated.


I am sure, sir, I am very glad of it,'
responded Violet, looking at him with
wondering eyes. She had not heard a word
as to Sir Robert's recent visit, and, her
window looking seawards, had not caught
a glimpse of the mail phaeton, and the
bright bays in their silver-mounted
trappings.

'The gentleman of whom I speak, my
dear,' said Mr. Marsh, ' is Sir Robert
Shirley.'

And then Violet, with a woman's instinct,

knew what was coming, and prepared herself
for a contest of will, but sorrowfully,
for she was reluctant to vex so stood a man
as her quaint guardian.

You have known Sir Robert Shirley
now, I believe,' Mr. Marsh began diplomatically,
' for some little time. He is
highly thought of by our good friends the
Langton, and I hope, at any rate, that you
do not dislike him.'

'No — no — certainly not dislike him,
guard,' faltered out the girl, on hearing
which answer Mr. Marsh assumed a smirk
of satisfaction.

And when a young lady does not dislike
a gentleman still young, very good-looking,
and eminently eligible in every point of
view,' resumed the merchant, ' we may
safely say that a warmer feeling than mere
liking may some day be hoped for. Violet,

my dear young friend, I was always an
outspoken man, and must come to the point
at once. Sir Robert Shirley — who is, as
you are aware, a baronet of one of the
earlier creations, and a man of property and
position — has been here to-clay to ask my
consent before making you a formal proposal
of marriage. There can be no doubt
as to the sincerity of his attachment to
yourself, and as little as to the disinterested
character of his suit. Your little income,
of course, he says, would be settled on
yourself, and he is able, as I gather, to
make a handsome provision for his wife in
the event of her becoming his widow. All
such arrangements you may safely leave
to a business man like myself But what
I admired was the unselfish and generous
nature of the man himself Indeed, Violet,
I should close my eyes, were anything to

happen to me, the more happily if I knew
that you were safe under the care of such
a husband as Sir Robert Shirley.'

Do not ask me to do it — I could not — ►
could not !' cried out Violet, like a
frightened child ; and then, seeing her
guardian's look of surprise, she said, more
calmly, ' You mean all that is good, dear
sir, and, as regards Sir Robert Shirley, I
thank him gratefully, I am sure, for the
honour he has done me, and which I am
sorry that 1 must refuse. But I cannot
marry him. I am pledged to Don, and I
do not like Sir Robert, with all his accomplishments
and all his good looks. He has
pleased you, it seems, guard, but me he
has not pleased, and I would never, never
say yes to him, even if I had been free —
which I am not.'

'You mean, you headstrong girl,' broke

VOL. III. D

out Mr. Marsh, angrily that you are caught
by a fair outside and a few specious words,
that you prefer a low-born adventurer to

a high-bred gentleman like ' •

'Hush! guard, dear guard!' piteously
interjected Violet, as the colour rose to her
face and the tears mantled in her eyes.
^ You are cruelly unjust to Don. He is no
adventurer. No one ever had a nobler
soul, or higher motives, than he. And as
for his birth '

'Why, the fellow had invented for him
even the name he bears, such as it is !'
broke out Mr. Marsh, in a rage. ' If I saw
you Lady Shirley, I should feel that your
future happiness was assured. But as for
yonder lad, you never can, nor shall you,
while I have a voice in the matter, throw
yourself away so absurdly.'

Do not be angry with me, sir !' sobbed

Violet. 'I may never marry at all — it will
most likely be so. But, if I am not to die
an old maid, I will only marry Don.'

And then she went away, weeping to
her room, while Mr. Marsh, wrathful and
disappointed, strode out into the hall,
snatched his hat, and started for his constitutional
v/alk, in no pleasant frame of
mind.

d2

CHAPTER III.

AT Nelson HALL.

Helston hamlet, which consists apparently
of a farm, a mill, and some four or five
straggling cottages half hidden by the
brushwood and boulders of a narrow glen,
is in no respect comparable with the respectable
village of Thorsdale. It had no postoffice,
no shop, no church, no chapel, and
as a general rule few facilities of any kind.
And although Helston Hall, a bowshot or
so away, stands boldly forth on a knoll of
greensward fringed with beech-trees, with

the swift trout-stream that runs clown the
dale swirling and broadening at the base of
the mound, the grey-stone manor-house,
with its steep, slated roof, is but a sorry
dwelling when contrasted with the stately
mansion which lords it over the hoary oaks
of Thorsdale Park. It had never been one
of the principal seats of the Shirley family,
to whom it had come as part of the heritage
of some forgotten ancestress ; and, save
when it was allotted as the residence of
some dowager, it had seldom been inhabited.
Sir Robert's London grooms growled at the
damp and draughty stabling for the
pampered horses, and at the deficient
accommodation for themselves.

But still Sir Robert Shirley showed no
sign of his being tired of Helston. He was,
to be sure, often a guest beneath the
grander roof of Thorsdale, but that was at

his sister's request ; nor, since Violet had
ceased to be a visitor there, had the baronet
been quite as compliant with the countess's
wish that he should make things pleasant'
for her motley crowd of visitors and her
valetudinarian husband.

^If Constance can't get her bear to
dance, it's no affair of mine to do the
piping,' had been Sir Robert's fraternal
soliloquy, more than once, in response to
affectionate reproaches, upon coroneted
paper, as to his truancy and his neglect.

^ In London, she'd drop me as she would
a cast-off glove or a faded ribbon,' sneeringly
remarked the worldly-wise baronet,,
and why should I consent to be a sort of
Master of the Revels for her benefit, unless
I can get a rich wife as payment for my
services ? The gold-mine is at Woodburn
now.'

The room in which Sir Robert habitually
sat, and undeniably the most cheerful
apartment in a somewhat dreary house, bore
the traditional appellation of ' My Lady's
Parlour.' It was an oak-panelled room,
with tall windows, facing south, and commanding
a pretty view of the trout-stream
and the willow-bordered mill-dam, and the
alder-fringed bank opposite, and of a clump
of noble beech-trees that dropped their tiny
nuts and yellowing leaves into the foaming
brook below. It was fairly furnished, in
red silk and antique tapestry, and had
probably always been a favourite room
with bygone dwellers in that lonely
mansion. There the baronet was sitting,
near an open window that overlooked the
prospect so lately described, but Sir Robert
cared little for trout-stream or beech-trees.
He had beside him a little table, and, as he

smoked his cigarette, he frowningly pored
over a mass of closely written calculations,
neatly folded, that lay upon the table.

Sir Robert Shirley, as he gazed steadfastly,
and at intervals with a quick contraction
of his dark eyebrows, at the
columns of figures and heedful annotations
before him, might have been mistaken
either for a learned mathematician or fora
student of abstruse lore.

*It's right, I believe it's right, or as near
as can be,' he muttered, and again glanced
at the calculations that lay before him,
for no man can be quite safe with a
martingale at rouge et noir. It's like selling
one's soul to the mischief, is tampering with
things of this sort. I should have been a
richer man, ah, by some thousands a year,
if I had never held a card at poker or
baccarat in Paris, and never backed the red

at Homburg, Baden, Monaco. But this
receipt does seem of sterling stuff. The
lean, half-starved Polish professor that sold
it to me, why did he not make a fortune of
it himself? Why not, indeed? Probably
for the same reason that he did not wear
cleaner linen, and exchange his shabby
coat for a new one — the lack of capital.
When I have Violet's money to pull

upon '

A message, Sir Robert, please, from
Thorsdale Park,' said the baronet's valet,
gliding in like a black shadow, and unconsciously
interrupting his master's meditations
as to the gambling triumphs at Monte
Carlo, for which Violet's fortune would
supply the sinews of war ; ' one of the
confidential servants brought it over, by
her ladyship's orders, only to be given to
yourself, sir. If you please '

Oh, yes, confound it !' grudgingly
answered the baronet.

A minute more, and Glitka was in the
room. Sir Robert Shirley's eyes sparkled
with an angry light, but he restrained
himself, and it was with an appearance of
cold composure that he said, when the door
was closed,

You have come across from Thorsdale
with a message from my sister, have you
not?'

'No, but with a message from myself!'
Glitka flashed out, as fiercely as if her
next utterance would be accompanied by
a dagger-stroke ; ' I am not here, Robert,
on an errand from miladi your sister.
What I said was a mere lie, such as is learnt
but too readily among servants, such as I
am now,' — she laughed bitterly here — ' to
insure my not being denied admittance.

Once, Glitka had no need of such a stratagem.
The handsome English cavalier did
not seek, then, to shun her society.' And
now there was a regretful tenderness in the
girl's tone which would not have been lost
upon ears less callous than those of the
egotistical master of Shirley. She had
dressed herself with great care for this
interview, wearing, as nearly as she could,
the colours that he had been wont to say,
in far-off Hungary, became her the best.
The silken ribbon at her throat was listened
by a brooch of yellow gold, the massive
setting of a stone curious in its blended
and varying hues, being what lapidaries
term a fire-opal, such as are found in the
Carpathians, and set by gipsy jewellers
beside the Danube or the Theirs. The
brooch had been one of the few presents
that Sir Robert had ever made her, and

she had put it on to-day, perhaps in the
vague hope that the sight of it might
awaken memories of the past.

If you want anything of me, what is
it you do want ?' querulously demanded
the baronet ; ' money is scarce with me
just now, but if '

I do not want your money, cavalier e/
interrupted Glitka, hotly ; ' I want my
husband, pledged and plighted to me in
my own distant land, where the betrothal
tie is held so sacred that, had I had a
brother left living, he would have hunted
you down, with knife or pistol, as he
would have done a wolf caught in the
homestead. As it is, Glitka Eberganyi
must redress her own wrongs. .^ Beware
how you trifle with me !' she added, with
sudden fury, as she saw the baronet's lip
curl with its familiar sneer ; ' we Magyars

have blood in our veins that runs warmly,
whether for love or hate.'

Upon my word, Glitka,' coolly rejoined
Sir Robert, ' you give yourself a great
deal of unnecessary trouble. It would be
better that you should hear reason, and
that this persecution of me should cease.
I never regarded our old love-passages
and romantic talk with such seriousness
as you did, and as for marrying you '

Why not? If you are noble, am I not
noble too ? Or is it only because I was
poor, and have left my native country,
and become a servant — I, in this frigid
England of yours — for your sake ?' she
exclaimed.

As for marrying you,' went on the
baronet, with unruffled composure, ' I
might, quite as prudently, have noosed a
cord at once for my own neck. I am not

ricci, my good girl. I have only the husk
did hollow outside of wealth. And I cannot
afford expensive luxuries, such as a
marriage for the sake of love would be.
The idea is absurd.'

Robert,' said the girl, stepping forward,
and laying her hand lightly upon his arm,
I know you are not happy, and I know
you are not rich. Why not renounce
your plots and wiles, and the struggle of
your life in England here ? Glitka would
make you a true wife, even now. What
remains of your fortune, gilded beggary
here, would go far in Hungary, where life
is cheap ; and, if you like it better, we
would cross the ocean, and in America
carve out a new career, better suited to
the courage and the energy that rust here
for lack of employment.'

^ Upon my word, my dear creature,'

scornfully replied the baronet, ' you draw
a very pretty picture of some Arcadia of
the Banat or the backwoods, where you
and I are to be a picturesque variation on
the stale theme of Corydon and Chloe.
But it won't do, and I desire that I maybe
spared farther annoyance. I have no
wish to complain to my sister, Lady Thorns

but '

^ Speak to miladi your sister if you
dare,' hissed out Glitka, her handsome face
almost disfigured by the rage that was
now uppermost ; ' I am no menial to be
chidden or dismissed with impunity. Say
a word to the countess, and take what
follows. Again, I forbid you to sell yourself
for gain — ah ! that treacherous face of
yours changes colour, does it ? — I forbid
you to wed Miss Violet Mowbray, yonder,
at the priest's house in Woodburn —

parsonage, you call it — even though she
be rich.'

But she is not rich, as it happens,'
quietly replied the baronet ; ^ nor have you
the least authority for coupling her name,
more than that of any other young lady,
with mine.'

^No other young lady,' responded
Glitka, stamping her foot passionately
upon the floor, ' has seventy thousand
pounds to bestow upon the dissembler
who woos her for his wife. Ha ! you
Evince again, and again, traitor, your false
lip trembles, in spite of all your practised
discipline of the world. Will you not be
warned ? It is not safe to mock Glitka, or
to break faith with her. No Eberganyi
ever deserted a friend, or forgave an
enemy. Yet, yet, Robert, there is time
for us to be happy, if you would be true

to old VOWS, and make poor Glitka your
wife, as you promised.'

There was a ring of truth in the girl's
voice, there was a noble frankness in her
bearing, that might have softened the
heart, and might have touched the conscience,
of a better man. ^ After all, the
girl was as good as gold. After all, she
had been true as steel to her engagement,
which, according to Hungarian, and indeed
German custom, is considered as
absolutely binding, like the marriage rite
itself. Glitka was fierce when she was
angered, but then he knew how tender
and true she could be, were her lover but
as honest and faithful as she vas, in her
simple, half-barbarous way. And she was
a Magyar girl of noble birth, according to
law and custom — though but a farmer's
daughter — and, as such, would have mar-vol.

III. 13

red an English duke without a notion
that King Cophetua was wedding, according
to the old minstrel's ballad, the Beggar
Maid. But Sir Robert was hard and
cold, and quite out of sympathy with
the wild nature of her who pleaded to
him.

I really must,' said the baronet, rising
and laying his hand upon the bell, ' put a
stop to this kind of thing. All is over
between you and me — I mean, if you
would have the sense to see it. You area
servant, I am a gentleman, and we
had better remember both circumstances.'
And, as he spoke, he rang the bell.

'Beware, again I say, or you shall rue
it!' cried Glitka, speaking as rapidly as
only a foreign woman can speak. ' I have
spared you, but I will spare you no more.
You have spurned me from your door,

you have scorned me, and, if shame and
sorrow and disgrace be your reward, you,
and you alone, are to blame. I have a
hold on you that you little guess. I '

A man-servant entered.

'Show Lady Thorsdale's messenger out !'
ordered the baronet. ' And let the lack
horse be saddled and brought round. I
am going to ride.'

Without another word or glance, Glitka
left him, and in less than an hour Sir
Robert Shirley, mounted on his fiery black
horse, had ridden off in the direction of
Woodburn Parsonage.

e2

LIBRARY

Universal OF liiNCMS

CHAPTER lY.

MR. Marsh D1SC0^T:RS HIS MISTAKE.

Mr. Marsh, with puckered lips and an air
of peculiar importance, rattled and jolted
off along the newly metalled road from
Woodburn to Daneborougli in a hired fly.
The dry salter had not dropped any hint
as to his errand, but Mrs. Langton, his
niece, and, for that matter, her learned
husband, felt pretty sure that it related to
the search for Violet's missing fortune.
And, as regarded that fortune, it may be
mentioned that, whereas the clergyman's

wife lent implicit belief to the legend of the
lost legacy, the clergyman himself was
sceptical.

Seventy thousand pounds,' he had said
more than once, ' make up a lump sum too
considerable to be dropped and not found.
The money, rely on it, legally or illegally,
has been spent long ago — that is, if it ever
existed.'

But Mr. Marsh [had received a communication
from Superintendent Swann, of
Daneborough, which made him eager to
keep an appointment which the chief of
the borough police had ventured to make
on behalf of his employer. In a flurried
condition of mind he set out for the
rendezvous.

In front of the Imperial Hotel,' muttered
Mr. Marsh to himself, as he rolled along
towards the sea-port town • ' in front of

the Imperial Hotel ! I suppose I shall
know the jade when I see her.'

The whole affair was something out of
tune with the quiet tenor of the merchant's
life, and as he sped along towards Dane-borough
he sighed at the remembrance of
the tranquil joys he had deserted, the
snug dinners, the whist, the chess-playing,
amidst a limited circle of old cronies, the
long days of peaceful angling amongst the
its and reed-beds of the Thames, undisturbed
by anything worse than some snorting
steam-launch as [it rushed by. But
he was quite firm as to doing his duty, ashe
understood it, towards Violet, his
ward.

Mr. Marsh did not on this occasion deem
it expedient to drive direct to the Imperial
Hotel. He bade the man who drove the
Woodburn fly to set him down at the

upper end of High Street, where there
stands a decent place of public entertainment,
bearing the now almost historic
appellation of the ' King's Arms.' Here the
dry Salter alighted

You will wait for me,' he said. ' I
shall be back in an hour or so.'

And then on foot he made his way
down the steep High Street, and turned
the corner into that broader and shorter
thoroughfare which bears the name of
Tontine Street. It had not a very prosperous
or bustling air, that artificial artery of
borough life, which had been called into
being by the tedious speculation that is
known as a ' Tontine.' Whoever might have
been the longest liver of the adventurous
subscribers, and so, as survivor, had
become owner of all, must have left disgusted
at seeing how mildewed were the

stuccoed fronts of the tall houses, how
dejected was the aspect of a few shops yet
unsheltered, and how gloomy and insolvent
Yeas the air of the big useless hotel
that was the principal ornament of the
street.

Mr. Marsh had not long to wait. His
eyes immediately lit upon a female form,
graceful enough, and well attired, that
was moving to and fro in front of the
Imperial Hotel, not slowly and wearily,
as is the wont of most of those who keep
such comfortless appointments, but ^Yith
quick, impatient steps, and something of
the air of a tigress treading the floor of
her cage.

'That's the foreign woman, for a hundred
!' exclaimed the merchant, at the
first glimpse of this active, restless figure ;
and when the figure turned so as to face

liii], and lie caught sight of a pale, dark
face, with very bright eyes and very black
hair, he was quite assured as to his having
guessed correctly.

'Mademoiselle Glitka?' he said, with an
awkward bow.

Glitka bent her haughty head as some
savage princess might have done.

'You are Mr. Marsh ?' she said. 'good ;
I have much to say to you. The innocent
must be protected, and the guilty
punished. Is it not so ?'

As she spoke, she looked fixedly in the
dry salter's face, and it almost seemed to
him as if her fiery eyes scorched him,
while her low, earnest voice rang in his
ear like the vengeful blast of a trumpet.
Never before had the worthy Ephraim
encountered concentrated passion such as
Glitka's air and expression implied. Even

Tier very calmness had in it something
terrible, like the stillness of the tropical
sea that precedes the outburst of the
tornado.

I think,' said Mr. Marsh, nervously
afraid of being observed, and conscious-that
already two or three of the passers-by
had turned their heads to look at him
and his strange companion. ' I think that
we should discuss the matters in question
more quietly and more comfortably indoors.
If you will follow me '

At Mr. Marsh's invitation, Glitka followed
him into the adjacent hotel.

'A private sitting-room, waiter,' said
the London merchant ; and soon he found
himself in one of the dismal little parlours
—that were but too many and tqo tenantless
— in the semi-bankrupt Imperial Hotel,
face to face with Lady Thorsdale's foreign

lady's-maid. Glitka was the first to speak.

Sir,' said the Hungarian girl, ' I believe
you to be a good and a just man.
Is it true that Sir Shirley — Robert the
Cavaliers — is to marry this ward of yours,
this Miss Violet?'

'I hope so — I trust he will; but why?'
began the dry salter, wonderingly ; but
Glitka cut him short.

Because I wanted to be sure — quite
sure,' she cried out, furiously, ' before I
set my foot upon his head, to crush it,
gilded snake that he is ! — ah, traitor,
traitor ! when will you learn that it is
wisest for a man to be true? — hear me,
sir ! You would give your ward, your
charge, to this baronet, because he is rich,
high in the world's regard, honourable,
good. Is it not so ? But, how if I tell
you — I that have loved, and nov hate —

that it is a fair outside, and all within
is false and evil ? How, if I say that this
titled suitor is not only ruined, not only
a spendthrift, but a knave that has broken
the law, a rogue that conspires with a
ruffian to cheat your Miss Mowbray of
the concealed fortune for which he seeks
her hand — a wretch destined to the chains
and the prison that await the forger and
the thief!'

Mr. Marsh positively gasped, as if the
volubility of this accusation had taken
his breath away. He glanced at the accuser.
She looked, with her flaming eyes
and resolute face, very much in earnest ;
but still he felt that he must not be
borne down by mere glibness of assertion.

'It is a good old principle of our
English law, mademoiselle,' he doggedly
made answer, 'that a man is to be considered

innocent until he has been proved
guilty. Now, all I have seen of Sir
Robert, and all I have heard of him,
except from yourself, is very much to
his credit. If you want me to change
my opinion, you must give me proofs.'

you shall have them,' said Glitka,
readily, and, as she spoke, she exhibited
a folded paper, which she held, half hidden,
in her gloved hand.

'Now, before I give you proofs, have
you anything that you would wish to ask
me?'

'You are — as, I believe, that you admitted
in conversation with Superintendent
Svrann,' said the London merchant,
the writer of the anonymous letter
which I received in tovfn. You are also
a bitter enemy of Sir Robert's ?'

Yes, because I loved him,' interrupted

the Hungarian girl, with her dark eyes
blazing out like those of a hurt wild
beast that turns on the hunter. ' I was
his promised bride — we were betrothed
and he threw me off — me, the Magyar
girl, and an Eberganyi, free and noble —
me, Y\^ho would be allowed entry at the
Kaiser's Court at Vienna, where your
mere rich are shut out. And I had no
brother left alive — Max and Yanos died
with their regiments in the war — so I
must punish instead of they, who would
have been, prompt to take up a sister's
quarrel. Yes, I hate the man ! Xow, hear
me.'

And in rapid, burning words. Lady
Thorsdale's maid related how she had,
in the room habitually occupied by Sir
Robert Shirley at Thorsdale Hall, discovered,
in a drawer, the compromising

letter, signed, ' Rufus Crouch,' which had
first caused her to send her own anonymous
communication to Mr. Marsh himself
in London. Then she told how, while
the fine company in the grand mansion
were at dinner, she had stolen upstairs,
and had possessed herself of the letter
in question, which the baronet, habitually
careless, had not missed.

Here it is !' she said, as she thrust it
into the dry salter's hand.

He read it, not without many an inward
twinge of mortification and annoyance,
but he was, above all things, a worthy
man, and his sense of right prevailed over
the slight to his vanity.

the base hypocrite!' he exclaimed;
*' the rascally dissembler ! Why, his scoundrel
of a confederate had apprised him
of the^exact amount of my ward's fortune

weeks before he came to make a boast
of his disinterested intentions to me !
May I keep this letter, mademoiselle?
You will be rewarded, I need not say,
for your help in unmasking an impostor.'

Reward me — give me money — your
sovereigns and your bank-notes, perhaps,'
retorted Glitka, with a hard, fierce laugh.
Yes, that would be well for one of your
English maids, but I have only one 
to seek ! Now, sir, listen. The
letter I have placed in your hands will,
I hope, prove the ruin of the designs of
him to whom it was sent. But I have
a new weapon wherewith to strike at that
hard, pitiless heart.'

And then, rapidly and volubly as before,
she narrated how she had chanced
to overhear in that portion of the shrubbery
at Thorsdale which bordered on the

park, through which there was a public
right-of-way, a conversation between Sir
Robert Shirley and an ill-looking ruffian,
whom she easily identified with the writer
of the threatening letter. She had no
hesitation in avowing that she played the
spy on her employer's brother whenever
her duties rendered it possible, prompted
by jealousy and resentment, and on this
occasion she had overheard, herself unperceived,
a portion of what was said.

'He, Crouch, menaced Sir Robert always.
He could, he said, send him to
the gyves and the prison, as he could
the commonest forger and the commonest
thief And the great, proud gentleman
spoke the ruffian fair, and gave gold, and
promised much. He had won over Mr.
Marsh, Miss Mowbray's guardian, so he
said, and should have his influence on

VOL. III. F

his side. And Crouch was to have his
share of the young lady's fortune ; I did
not hear how much, but they bargained.
Then gay voices were heard of company
coming, and Crouch slunk ois, and climbed
over the fence that led into the park.
That was on Tuesday.'

Do you know who this fellow Crouch
may be ?' asked bewildered Mr. Marsh.

'Yes. I learned from the servants,'
said Ghtka, ' that the man is one of the
jet-hunters, a gold-digger from Australia,
a man of ill-repute, who lives alone, like
a hermit, on the moors. Now I must
0^0, or miladi will miss me.'

And, with a quiet bow, she went. Mr.
Marsh drove back to Woodburn Parsonage
with very different feelings from those
which he had previously entertained towards
the titled suitor for Violet Mowbray's
hand.

CHAPTER Y.

SIR ROBERT IS BAFFLED.

'Mounted on his fine black horse, Sir
Robert Shirley, as he rode through the
straggling village street of Woodburn,
looked the very type of a gallant gentleman
and a bold rider. No one who saw
how calm was his pale, passionless face,
could possibly have divined the stormy
interview with Glitka through which he
had so lately passed, or have detected in
his air the nervousness that usually besets
a suitor who is about to make an offer

f2

of his hand. Yet such was the baronet's
purpose. Confidently he rode in at the
open gate of the parsonage garden, and,
flinging the bridle to the gardener's lad,
who ran up, touching his cap, to do the
office of a groom, he rang the bell and
was promptly admitted. Smiling Mrs.
Langton was alone in the drawings-room.

^My husband is somewhere about the
parish,' said the clergyman's wife, 'and
Mr. Marsh, too, is from home. Violet is
upstairs, with a young friend of hers. Miss
Grace Warburton.'

My visit to-day, if I may venture to
say so, is to Miss Mowbray,' replied the
baronet. ' I daresay, Mrs. Langton, you
are aware of the reason of my coming?'

Mrs. Langton's kindly face assumed anarch
expression.

Sir Robert,' she said, cheerfully, ' a

little bird has whispered to me how it is.
I am certain Violet will be glad, and I
am sure I shall congratulate her and you
with all my heart.'

As Mrs. Langton spoke she rang the
bell.

'Tell Miss Mowbray that, if her
friend can spare her, Sir Robert Shirley
has called expressly to see her.'

The maid who received the message was
as demure as a housemaid should be, but
even she had a sly twinkle in her pale
blue eye, for servants know much, and
guess more, and marrying and proposals
are the romance of the basement storey,
precisely as they give a stimulus to the
life of those who are waited upon instead
of serving. But the maid was very
serious, and indeed scared, as she came
back to say,

Miss Mowbray does not wish to receive
Sir Robert Shirley. Miss Mowbray requests
that he will not give himself the
trouble to wait.'

The words, uttered with white and
trembling lips, were still very distinctly
spoken. The baronet sprang to his feet,
and a little crimson reddened his pale
cheek.

Upon my word,' he said, sternly, ^ I am
not used to lano-uao-e such as this. If Miss
Violet Mowbray really sent me such a

message-the

dear child never meant to offend
you, Sir Robert,' bleated out Mrs.
Langton.

Sir Robert paid no attention to the
clergyman's wife.

Well ?' he said.

Those are the very words the young

lady told me to say,' was the dogged
answer of the housemaid, who, after all,
had only done her duty as a messenger,
and resented the fierce looks of the
visitor. And what she said was evidently
true.

Nettled by the insult, furious at the
thwarting of his projects, and still smarting
under the effect of Glitka's anger and
Glitka's threats, the baronet got himself
out of the drawing-room as best he might,
scarcely deigning a word of adieu to
startled Mrs. Langton, and rewarding the
services of the gardener's boy without
with a growl instead of a shilling, as he
mounted his horse. Then he set spurs to
the fiery animal he rode, and dashed ofi* at
speed, like the Wild Huntsman of German,
or the Wild Darrell of English story, rattling
through peaceful Woodburn with

swift-beating hoofs that struck fire from
the flint stones of the road. The gallant
horse obeyed the rein and the spur and
the furious voice of the rider, and sped
along the upland road like a thunderbolt.
At last Sir Robert, the fever of his blood
somewhat appeased, drew his rein as he
caught sight of a milestone that he knew
to be thin a couple of miles of Helston.
It would not do to ride up to his own hall-door
with his horse flecked with foam and
breathing hard, while the master had his
hat pulled down over his frowning brows,
and his whip tight-clenched in his unloved
right hand. The baronet knew that
servants' tattling talk must not be disregarded.
He had been refused an interview
nth Miss Mowbray, and he was disappointed
and wrathful, but he did not
wish the facts to be hawked about the

country, published at Thorsdale Park, and
retailed in Belgravian servants' halls. So
he pulled up, patted the neck of his powerful
black horse, snorting and indignant,
hut as generously amenable to human
caresses and pleasant words as a thoroughbred
horse almost always is, and composed
his own features into the customary look
of passionless calm.

Well met. Sir R.,' said a hoarse, deep
voice, at the sound of which the baronet
winced impatiently ; ' I was on my way to
Helston, to look you up, but perhaps out
on the high road we can chat more
conveniently.'

The baronet turned to confront Rufus
crouch. There was an unholy look of
ferocity in the fellow's bloodshot eyes,
which told of gin lately imbibed ; but, to
use the super-accurate phraseology of a

London policeman giving evidence at Bow
Street, if he had been drinking he was not
drunk. In his hand was a heavy blackthorn
stick, gnarled and fresh-cut.

What do you want with me, you fool?'
demanded the baronet.

Rufus glared at him.

'I want a precious lot. Sir R.,' responded
the ex-gold-digger, after a pause, during;
which it seemed as though he were
meditating whether or not to spring, like

some savage doo at the throat of his arisen
<D'

socratic accomplice. ' I want to be rid of
this currish life, and out of this rotten
country, and back in old Australia, but asa
master this time, mind ye ! not a man. I
could play boss, and be hanged to it, as
well as another, and pay my ten shillings
a day to a chap, and take my thirty shilling
or my brace of guineas out of his

labour, and so use him up and be done
with him. Even without the gold I could
do the trick there twice as fast as with
capital I could do it here, 'cause I'm not
mealy-mouthed, nor yet white-fisted, not I,
and have been a digger, and a dray-driver,
and stockman myself. But, to set up, I
require my share of the svv^ag.'

Of what swag, my talkative friend, do
you want your share ?' asked the baronet,
with much asperity.

Why, of the heiress's seventy thousand
pounds — what else?' gruffly rejoined
the ex-gold-digger ; ' and mind, Sir R.,
not one rap less than twenty-five thousand,
not twenty, will satisfy yours truly,
and '

'You dolt !' broke in Sir Robert, 'you
may keep your higgling back till the
market is open. That will-o'-the-wisp of

the big sum of ready-money, that lured me
down here, is as a very Jack-of-lantern
as ever led a silly swain into a quagmire.
Even if the ofirl has a risfht to this

money

True as death and taxes she has, Sir
R.,' protested Crouch, looking serious.

Even then we don't live in a country
where young ladies can be married against
their will,' retorted the baronet; 'your
heiress, I tell you, turns out to be of less
malleable stuff than we supposed, and her
money is as much out of my reach as if it
were fifty fathoms deep beneath the sea.
She insults me — won't see me — will have
none of me — even though I have duped
that old dotard of a dry salter, the guardian,
into bickering up my cause. I'm
sure there's some young lover.'

^ And I can give a shrewd guess, Sir R.,

as to who the young chap is interrupted
Crouch. ' I'll stake anything it's that
beggarly upstart, Don. I heard he
had been caught spooning and mooning
with Miss Violet. I heard he had
been forbid the house, down at the parson's.
He's what the girls call handsome,
and '

I knoY/ he is,' said Sir Robert, with an
action of conviction, and with a bitter
laugh, 'and I wish him— dead.'

'Now hark to me, Sir R.,' exclaimed
Crouch, craving near, and speaking earnestly,
but in a voice that he instinctively
lowered ; ' come in to my terms — the hives
thousand, out of the new Lady
Shirley's tin — and he, this be2:ixarly gentleman
foundling, shall be dead. Girls change
their minds, don't they, just as weathercocks
veer about when the wind shifts ?

and, once Don's out of the way, you can
make your running with the heiress. It's
that lad who stands in your light. Well :
I'll engage, for the sake of old grudges,
and for my share of the plunder, to put
him out of the way. D'ye hear ?'

T don't much like being mixed up in
that sort of thing,' said the baronet, hesitatingly
; ' I wish the youngster were well
out of my way, but '

But you do not care to swing for him,
as the phrase is, Sir R.,' put in the ruffian
at his side ; ' but take comfort ! there'll be
no rope for me, nor for you. I can do the
job quietly. Listen here. I'm a jet-hunter,
and if I go to him with a message
from old Obadiah the captain, telling him
there are mates in peril, and lives to save,
he'll come off at once, for all he's in Lord
Thorsdale's employment. . The gang work

near Daneboroiigh now. I'll trump up a
story about how some of the weaklings
have ventured out, and got dragged, or
tide-surrounded on a rock. My young
whisper will start off along with me, by
the cliff-path, and I'll be short of breath
and drop behind, yet follow close at his
heels along that narrow, winding path,
which overhangs the beach. Hordle Cliff is
a sheer six hundred feet high, and I know
a place Avhere there are rocks beneath,
edged like razors.'

'Well?' said the baronet, trying to
harden his heart, and repressing with
difficulty a shudder. He was not a goodman,
but the coarse villainy of his confederate
almost sickened him, and more so
because he remembered to have heard,
from the man's own lips, how Don had
saved his worthless life.

'One push, between the shoulders!'
chuckled Crouch, thrusting; out his o^reat
hands and counterfeiting the action so as
to suit the words, 'and over goes my
young lordling to the crabs and sand-eels
in the rock-pools below. Nobody' sees me
do it. Nobody dreams that I'd a reason
for doing it. '' Poor young chap !" says
every one. "he was always too venturesome."
And as for Miss Violet, while the
tear is in the eye, which is always a soft
time with women, my advice is, cut in, Sir
R,., and ™i.'

I'll leave the details, Rufus, to your
larger experience in such matters,' said
the baronet, still wavering. ' If it really
could be safely done, and effectually '

'Effectually I' jeered Crouch; 'six hundred
feet to fall, and on those black, sharpened
rocks, like a vslu^q of knife-blades.

and at low tide, too, as I'll take care, for
if the sea were in, a strong swimmer might
but I'll chose a time when there shall
be nothing softer than stone to drop upon.
Six hundred feet ! It makes you giddy to
look down that cliff. I'll do it. And I
must have my five-and-twenty thou.^
Sir R.'

You will have earned it. Crouch, if by
your agency I become the possessor of
Miss Mowbray's fortune,' said the baronet,
cautiously, and in a very low voice.

But,' said Rufus, roughly, as he glared
at his titled friend, ' you mind how you
break faith with me. Sir Robert Shirley,
Baronet, once I've risked scragging for
your sake. Try to cheat me out of sixpence
of my due, and keep me in this
miserable country for above three months
more, and see if you don't go to gaol as

VOL. III. G

a forger, and give the newspapers the fun
of printing leading articles about the disgrace
of a fellow like you, with a handle
to his name, and '

Sir Robert had an almost fiendish temper,
kept in check usually by habit and
self-discipline, but he had had much to
annoy him that day, and now the pent-up
volcano blazed up into flame.

You cur !' he exclaimed ; ^ you lowborn
hound ! You dare, dare you, to
threaten a gentleman !'

CHAPTER VI.

Sir Robert Shirley, it has been mentioned
more than once, was naturally inclined
to be violent in his moods. But
there are many men, and perhaps more
women, among us, who have early put
themselves under strong moral discipline
on this point, and who carry about with
them a bad temper as harmlessly as some
Fakeer in India leads with him a tame
tiger.

Throughout that day the baronet had

g2

had much to chafe him, and Crouches
threats and vulgar insolence had
at last fanned into flame the smouldering
embers of his wrath. Had he not known
the man from boyhood, perhaps his worldly
philosophy would have better enabled
him to endure the taunts and menaces of
his coarse confederate. But to be braved
and insulted by a born vassal of Shirley,
so to speak, by one who had eaten his
father's bread, was too much for Sir
Robert in his then state of irritation.
Had his very life depended on it, the
instinct of patrician anger would have
been too strong at that moment for his
prudence, and he avenged much disrespect
and many affronts by two sharp
cuts vrhich, with his gold-mounted riding-whip,
he dealt Rufus across the face.

The immediate effect upon Crouch of

the stinsfino: blows lie had received was
to make the ex-gold-digger and possible
bush-ranger stand as still as if he had
been some hideous effigy of a man carved
in stone. But then his native ferocity
awoke, and it was Vv^ith a yell like that
of a wild beast that the ruffian sprang
forward, clutched the bridle of Sir Robert's
gallant horse, and forced him back upon
his haunches. The terrified animal snorted
and reared arrow-straight, pawing the air
with his fore-feet, and falling back with
a crash upon his rider. Stunned by the
shock, and oppressed by the weight of the
fallen horse, the baronet lay helpless, only
stirring feebly in his weak efforts to rise.

'77/ pay you. Sir R. !' growled Crouch,
whirling up his club, and dealing a furious
stroke at Sir Robert's prostrate head.

The very violence of the blow in part

protected the destined victim, since the
heavy stick, dashing off his hat and
grazing his temple, struck into the soft
turf at the roadside.

'I'll pay you!' again — and this time
with the accompaniment of a volley of
savage curses — snarled Crouch ; and he
swung his cudgel aloft, and, grasping it
nth both his powerful hands, aimed a
second stroke, Which would probably have
proved fatal, at the bare head of the
fallen man, who now lay quite still, with
half-shut eyes, and a thin thread of blood
crossing his white forehead.

Hold there ! stop !' cried a ringing,
clear young voice, as the sound of hurrying
feet was heard ; and the would-be
murderer, club in hand, wheeled round,
to find himself face to face with the man
whom, of all men, he hated and feared

the most — the youth whose skill and
courage had saved him from the Soldiers'
Slough — Don !

At another time the ruffian would
probably have shrunk from a contest
with his former preserver; just then he
was desperate.

'Don't interfere with me, youngster, if
you care to keep a whole skin, and bones
unbroken !' said Crouch, brandishing his
cudgel.

Meanwhile the black horse, which had
been floundering, as fallen horses will, had
struggled to its feet, and stood, panting,
with streaming rein and distended nostrils,
a few yards off.

I am interfering, comrade,' replied
Don, resolutely, but with no sign of ill-temper,
' to save you from yourself That
cudgel of yours '

^ Try the heft of it !' answered Crouch,
savagely, as he lifted the club, and struck
at Don with all his force.

But Don, whose eyes were quick and
his movements agile, eluded the blow,
sprang forward, and had closed with the
gold-digger in a moment.

Now I've got you, my Jemmy Essay
fine gentleman !' muttered Rufus,
as the grapple began, for in all his many
meditations concerning Don he had always
felt assured that at close quarters he
was by far the stronger of the two.

He had wrestled often, in earlier days,
in that west-country where he was born,
and where ' Old Rufus has the hug of a
bear!' was a not infrequent remark on
the part of defeated opponents. The
man's blood was up. He was by nature
and habit a bully, and had much of self-confidence

and much of cowardly ferocity
to replace the real valour that never
animates a heart so base as his. Therefore
he began the struggle with the certainty
of victory.

I'll spoil his pretty face before I've
done with him !' muttered the wretch, ashe
put out his ungainly strength in a great
effort.

It was all to no purpose. Rufus found
himself in a grip such as, in his whole
life, he had never experienced, and felt as
though both breastbone and ribs must
give way, while he vainly gasped for
breath, and vainly, with lessening vigour,
tried his wrestling tricks. Don, young ashe
was, seemed to have muscles and
sinews of steel, and it was not long before
his bulky antagonist's fierce face grew
livid with pain and despair. Then —

Crouch never afterwards could realise how
the brawny man felt that he was
snatched up from the ground, like a tree
suddenly uprooted, and next he fell with
a crash upon the earth, Awhile sparks unnumbered
seemed to dance before his
confused eyes.

The first thing that he distinctly saw,
when at length he looked up, was the
figure of his conqueror, Don, standing-with
one foot upon the bludgeon that he
had Wrenched from Crouch's hand, while
he held the bridle of the frightened horse
patting its glossy neck the while, and
speaking to it soothingly.

But Don's voice was stern enough ashe
addressed the gold-digger, noah slowly
rising to his feet.

Your wisest plan, mate, is to take
yourself ofi", and, if you have any conscience

left, to be thankful that you have
been saved from a great crime, and the
hangman's noose as its penalty. I am
sorry to be harsh with a jet-hunter, but
I am more sorry to find that one of our
company could deserve it. Now go !'

The last words were so imperative'
spoken that Crouch mechanically obeyed,
and with crestfallen air and dogged mien
slunk off, feeling the while stealthily in
the baggy pockets of the short, loose coat
he wore, as if in search of knife or pistol.

But either the gold-digger was unarmed,
or, which is probable, he had been
too much covered to make use of such a
weapon, for at last he slunk off homewards,
like a baffled wild beast creeping
sullenly towards its lair.

Don, passing the bridle of the black
horse over a gate-post that stood near,

proceeded to assist Sir Robert Shirley,
who was now stirring uneasily as he lay,
trying to rise. The baronet staggered ashe
regained his feet, and would have
fallen but for Don's support.

'Are you much hurt?' asked the young
man, compassionately.

Don knew the baronet, and the baronet
him, after that odd fashion of semi-acquaintance
which, in a thinly-peopled
neighbourhood, sometimes prevails. And,
perhaps, neither of these two had much
cause to like the other, rivals as they were
for the hand of Violet Mowbray.

We have seen how far along the path
of guilt and treachery Sir Robert was
willing to go for the purpose of removing
an obstacle to his mercenary projects.
But Don was of a different mould : and
in the baronet, in his present condition,

he only saw a wounded fellow-creature,
to whom, as such, it was his nature to be
tender.

I am afraid you are badly hurt,' he
repeated, gently.

It's— it's all right !' muttered Sir
Robert, leaning heavily on his preserver.
Yes, it's all right. I was a trifle dizzy at
the first, but I'm quite right now.'

The baronet was not very brave, but he
was a public schoolboy — an Etonian — and
still felt what many an English boy of
less expensive education has felt : that it
behoved him to make light of pain and
danger. We English, had we been prone
to make the most of our hurts and our
hardships, could scarcely have filled so
large a place in the world's regard as we
do.

'• You must let me take care of you as-far

as your home,' said Don, as lie noticed
how weak and white Sir Robert Shirley
looked. ' Helston, as luck will have it, is
not very far from here. Do sou think, Sir
Robert, that you have strength enough to
mount your horse ? I could walk beside
you.'

The baronet shook his head.

'You're a good fellow,' he said, feebly,
and a gentleman, ]mr. Don, if ever I saw
one. It must have been Heaven's own
mercy that sent you just when '

He shuddered at the recollection. It
was his first experience of how savage violence
can, for the moment, bear down the
barriers that hem it in. And, too, he had
learnt a lesson. During his long and
dubious intercourse with his rascally ally
he had felt as if, the hollow truce being
broken and hostilities proclaimed, he was

fi match for the villain with whom he had
leagued himself. But the villain had
defeated him as easily as if he had been a
child. And it was due to Don — young
Don, the hated and despised foundling of
the sea-beach — that the haughty master of
Shirley was not lying now, with a smashed
skull, by the roadside.

^ I can't get on the horse. Never
mind me ; some cart will come by,'
said the baronet, in a thin, reedy
voice.

Perhaps, sir, you could walk if I held
you up. Helston Hall is within half-an-hour
from here,' suggested Don ; and. Sir
Robert murmuring a weak assent, the
young man struck into the lane hard by,
leading the black horse, and bearing upon
his strong arm the tottering form of his
rescued rival.

The black horse went quietly now, resting
its velvet muzzle at times on Don's
wrist, and whinnying low, as horses will at
a period of excitement, and when they find
a human being whom they can trust, and
whom they feel really to sympathise with
their natures. Sir Robert was a good
rider, but a bad horse-master. In his eyes
a horse was a horse — a mere animated
machine to carry him over the ground.
But all animals seemed to recognise a
friend in Don.

As he feebly walked towards Helston,
propped up by the strong arm of his rescuer,
that unquiet inward monitor which we call
conscience cost the baronet many a qualm.
There he was, leaning upon Don as he
would have done upon a brother. It was
Don's courage and Don's strength that had
saved him from the bludgeon of the burly

ruffian who had unhorsed him and beaten
him down. He owed his life to this gallant
young fellow — once a jet-hunter, and now
a clerk in the land-office of his sister's
noble husband. And yet, but a few
minutes before, he had been ' consenting
to the death ' — to use the Scriptural expression
— of the youth who had come so
boldly and so frankly to his help in the
hour of need. He had not been as explicit
as Crouch had with regard to the conspiracy.
He had not, as Crouch had,
gloated over the latter's fell intention to
push Don over the beetling path, to perish
on the jagged rocks below, nor had he
dilated on the formidable height of
Hordle Cliff, and the certainty of success
for the foul design. But none the
less had Sir Robert agreed to pay over a
large portion of Violet Mowbray's fortune,

VOL. III. H

should lie gain it through the putting out
of the way of Violet's lover.

There was not much conversation,
naturally, on the slow walk along the lane
that led to Helston Hall. Once the
baronet plucked up spirit enough to say
what he thought of the late aggressor.

'The brute — the coward — the savage! —
that Crouch, I mean, a son of my father's
bailiff, a dog who was always glad to come
sneaking up to me at Shirley, and carry
my second gun, or run my errands — the
beast !' ejaculated Sir Robert. ' But, if
there's law or justice in England, I'll '

He stopped short here confusedly. Perhaps
he had remembered that Crouch, too,
might have ugly revelations to make in a
court of justice.

The man, I believe,' said Don, tolerantly,
'is but partly responsible for his

actions. He is mad drunk sometimes.
He was so to-day, till the fall I gave him
sobered him. I hope this may serve as a
lesson to the fellow. But he is a bad sort
of man, and we jet-hunters will be well rid
of him. I suppose, Sir Robert, that he
did not attack you for the mere purpose of
robbery ?'

He — I — yes ; but I feel rather faint,
somehow,' murmured the baronet ; and he
said no more until he reached his own
stable-yard, with the grey old manor-house
towering aloft, and his serving-men came
hurrying to conduct the horse to his
stable, and to express their conventional
horror at the cut forehead and pallor and
feebleness of their master.

I may leave you now,' said Don, with
his bright smile.

If you please, I should like to shake

h2

hands with you,' said Sir Robert, hesitatingly
; and he hell Don's hand for a moment.
' You have saved my Hfe ; and, whatever
I may be, I shall not forget what I
owe you.'

CHAPTER VII.

WYVERN, EARL WYVERN.

There was a stir and a bustle at Thorsclale
Hall. A Triton was to come among the
minnows there. Changes, no doubt, there
had been anion o- the guests whom the
countess's efforts had secured when first
Lord Thorsdale chose to bury himself and
his wife, during the heyday of the London
season, in the seclusion of the country.
Some of the invited had business to attend
to, others had engagements to fulfil ; but
jovial Captain Crasher, and lively little

Mrs. Scoresbyby, with the sleepy colonel,
whose duty in life it was to be the husband
of a professional beauty, and Lady Paget
and her insignificant husband, Sir Augustus,
and Lord and Lady David Todhunter,
yet stuck to their comfortable quarters.
Charley Fitzgerald had, indeed, been called
away by the severity of an exacting colonel
and the rules of the Horse Guards, to do
regimental duty at Coventry, but half a
dozen young subalterns of the Guards or
the Light Cavalry were there in the place,
and several civilian dandies, who never
donned scarlet except for hunting purposes,
had joined the muster.

It was not the London season now. It
was August. There were grouse to be
shot, and, short of Scotland, few moors
promised more broods, or stronger on the
wang, than those on the well-preserved

territories of the wealthy Lord Thorns
The earl, personally, never fired a gun.
He had even a dislike to the rude bang-banging
of double barrels discharged, within
earshot, by other people. But his partridges
and his ground game cost him a
good deal. His pheasants, by the time
they reached his larder, or haled the
baskets that great landowners are expected
to send to their less fortunate friends,
were ruinously dear, and his grouse were
especially expensive. In a country so
thickly populated as ours, even in Yorkshire,
you must hire a man to sec that not
one, out of some ten or twelve men dwelling
near, bears off your grouse-eggs, or
nets or shoots your young brood ; and
then you must buy eggs and young birds
from the accommodating dealers, must
have drivers as well as keepers and

watchers, and task the skill of your
French cook to satisfy the hunger of the
gentlemen whom you have invited condescendingly
to slaughter your force
nature.

From a guest's point of view, the Thorns
shootings that year turned out exceedingly
well. It had been dry enough
for the young birds neither to be drowned
when they first stagger about after the
chirping parent hen, nor to sicken mysteriously,
while it had not been dry enough
to stint the supply of insect food. The
earl's watchers, the earl's keepers, perhaps
stirred to unusual efficiency by the proximity
of their noble master, had shot or
trapped the pole-cats and hill-foxes, driven
off the amateur poachers, and compromised
with or prosecuted to conviction the
professional poachers who were once regarded

as very interesting innocents by a
large section of the British public, but are
now viewed in their natural character of
slinking, furtive-eyed, unscrupulous purloin
hers. There were plenty of grouse, a
line head of hares — not yet, of course,
these last, legally assailable, any more than
the brown coveys of partridge creepers
nestling on the headlands ; the house Alas
roomy, the cook an artist, the entertainers
persons of rank. There could scarcely
at that time of year have been a lack of
guests.

The particular guest of guests who was
now expected at Thorsdale was in the
social scale a heavier fish, and one of more
gorgeous aspect, than had yet been netted.
As yet. Lord David Toclhunter, an unassuming,
jovial aristocrat, who was willing
to stay almost for ever, so long as the

fare was good and the style of living
liberal, had been the most imposing
member of the company. Lord David,
the brother of a marquis, and thus a lord
b}^ courtesies in fact, a silver-gilt
article that we agree to class as gold.
But AYyvern, Earl Wyvern — or more
correctly, as the Peerage puts it, the Right
Honourable Alfred Henry Talbot AYyvern,
Earl "Wyvern, Viscount Ludlow, Baron
Denton and Beresford — was what our
French neighbours describe as a personage,
quite as great a man, so far as wealth
and pedigree went, as Lord Thorsdale,
with whom he was somehow remotely
connected by ties of Indeed.

she's one of your awful diplomatic
swells — knovv-'s what Russia's really up to,
and understands the dodges of Germany
and France, as you dont understand, my

1)0Y, the odds von ought to take on the
Doncaster Leger,' Captain Crasher observed,
in confidential intercourse with one of
his admiring pupils as to sporting matters.
And indeed Lord Wyvern had held high
ambassadorial rank, and had iDeen charged
with extraordinary ambassadorial duties
abroad. It is not always, of course, that
the Foreign Office can find such a man as
Earl Wyvern, so rich, so high in station,
so able to undertake duties that, in these
halcyon times of ceaseless telegrams and
newspaper-accredited interviews, usually
fall to the lot of estimable public servants
of a different degree. The earl was a
childless widower. He was still of middle
age. He was clever enough, had he preferred
it, to have made a figure in our
home politics, and rich enough, had he so
pleased, to have been noted in London

society. As it was, much of his life had
been spent, officially or unofficially, on the
Continent.

Lord Wyvern arrived ; and Lord Thorns
his entertainer, actually paid him the
compliment of dining for three consecutive
days at table. Nothing could be more
erratic than the conduct of the noble
owner of Thorsdale Park. Sometimes for
days his guests saw nothing of him ; he
was reported as ill, and his countess
trembled as he consulted fresh physicians,
talked of the Rocky Mountains, and mentioned
the dreaded name of Schiller the
courier. Then, in quite the homely style
of a breakfast-table benevolent despot, the
earl would appear at the morning meal,
and skim the newspapers, and join in
general conversation as if he had been a
mere domestic magnate.

One secret of Lord Thorsclale's clarified
demeanour was that, for the first time, he
had a visitor Avhom he could respect. The
former partakers of his hospitality had not
stood high in his regard. Lady Piminy,
and, for that matter, Sir Nym, her
husband, and noisy Captain Crasher, and
Charley Fitzgerald and his compeers, and
the Pages, and the Scoresbys, had been of
light metal, one and all. dolly, kind Lord
David Todhunter and his meek wife were
simply aristocratic trencher-folk and
hangers-on. The Piminy girls were showy
merchandise, hawked about to tempt somebody
to marry them. Miss Martin was a
pert, smart young person, who acted a
souhrette so well that it seemed a pity she
should ever be divorced from the coquettish
cap and pocketed apron of a spruce
lady's-maid. The rest of the men, and the

rest of the women, had all in their turn
been weighed, and found wanting. But
Lord Wyvern was, as the learned and
highly-salaried Scotch gardener observed
to Mr. Bartlett, the land-potent, ' a bird of
another hackle.' The other earl, his host,
who had known him well in much earlier
days, took the pains to try to please and
satisfy this new guest, and seemed almost
nervously reluctant to appear in the
character of a mere whimsical valetudinarian.
Truth to tell, Lord Thorsdale was a
little afraid of Lord Wyvern, whom he felt
secretly to be of a tougher fibre than that
of which the indolent dilettante was himself
composed, and who had done real
work in the world, and done it, too, with
the grave, unselfish earnestness which
seemed the very key-note of his nature.
It had been Lord Wyvern's lot to hold,

at very critical mounts, posts of high
responsibility at foreign Courts, and no
envoy Iiacl ever discharged his difficult
duties better — as undisturbed hy the silly
or spiteful diatribes of ill-informed newspaper
critics on his forbearance, as he was
indifferent to the fulsome praises that
were heaped upon him when the fickle
weathercock of popular opinion had veered
round. Even his enemies — and a successful
diplomatist must have enemies — respected
him, and acknowledged the dignity
and self-control of a statesman who
put up with no affront, but whose sound
rule of conduct it had been never in the
name of his country to threaten unless he
were sure to be able to strike.

There was not a visitor at Thorsdale
Park who did not feel it, somehow or
other, a sort of distinction to be an inmate

of the house that sheltered so famous a
fellow-guest as Earl W3^vera, a man of
whose name the papers had rarely anything
but good to say, and who had kept
himself clear from the ready ridicule and
the belittling nicknames that must be
faced by those who win their laurels in
the home arena of English politics. Weare
mild, compared with our thoroughgoing
ancestors, as good haters, for the
most part, as even the dictionary doctor
could have wished them to be, and our
keenest caricaturists dip their etching-points
in new milk, as compared with the
savage pencil of hard-hitting Gilray. But
still, it is not possible to sit on the Treasury
bench, or to lead Her Majesty's
Opposition, without being morally tarred
and feathered, hooted, jeered, and supplied
with a fool's cap) that fits more or less ; for

every man lias a weak side to his nature,
and his foes are quick to find it.

There was that in Lord Wyvern's bearing,
and in the stern, calm look of his
handsome face, which seemed to forbid
raillery and to make disrespect impossible.
He was a man of middle age, tall in
figure, with dark hair dashed with grey,
and thoughtful eyes. His manners were
pleasing, somewhat formal and over-courteous,
perhaps, for our modern canons of
taste, but then it was pardoned in one
who had been on intimate terms with
kings and emperors, and royal and imperial
highnesses of both sexes, during the
best years of his life. Nor did the ex-ambassador
disdain to join, to some extent,
in the every-day amusements of those
amongst whom he suddenly found himself
cast.

VOL. III. T

'Will you join the grouse-shooters,
Wyvern, tomorrow ?' his brother-earl had
asked, when first the visitor arrived.

I have not fired a gun for years —
except a rifle at some battue in Austria —
so the grouse are quite safe from me,'
Lord Wyvern had smilingly replied ;
^ but, if there is to be an expedition, I
will accompany the lookers-on willingly
enough.'

That the newly-arrived earl rode exceedingly
well, even Captain Crasher and
Sir Harker Topham, who on such points
were hard to please, admitted, while he
presently gave proof that with the bile
as with the pistol, he was more
than a match for any there. But he
was not in the least vain of these or of
other minor accomplishments, and, indeed,
seemed to care very little for the trifles

that with most of his present associates
made up the real business of life. He
read a good deal, and wrote a good deal,
and preferred the conversation of such
few of the guests as were men of erudition.
That he was, and had been now
for many years, a childless widower, was
known.

A happy stroke, wouldn't it be, for
Lady Piminy, if one of those Piminy girls,'
said Captain Crasher, as he knocked the
ivory balls about, ' could become Countess
Wyvern Number Two.'

i2

CHAPTER VIII.

AT LAWYER STUKT-S.

^ This is an awkward business, my man —
an awkward and a disagreeable business,
I may say.'

The speaker was Mr. Sturt, one of the
principal solicitors in Daneborough, and
clerk to the magistrates — the county
magistrates, not te borough dispensers of
justice. He was in his office in Priory
Lane, a narrow, neat thoroughfare, that
conducts from High Street to a grass-grown
open space, surrounded by tenements,

where once the old priory stood
amidst its leafy gardens. Mr. Sturt —
better known among the humbler of his
fellow-townsmen as Lawyer Sturt — was a
dapper little man, with fair hair cropped
short, very white hands and wristbands,
and a dandified exterior, from his bright
boots to his carefully-trained whiskers.
He was about the last man in Daneborough
Avhom a stranger would have picked out
as a member of the legal profession — not
that the law cannot be embraced as a
calling without detriment to the cleanest
of hands and the most spotless of linen,
but that we most of us draw an ideal
portrait of a lawyer, which differs a good
deal from that of ^ Alexander Sturt,
gentleman.'

An awkward business for him, I hope !'
growled out the person addressed, with a

fierce malediction following on his worcls

^ You mustn't swear here, my friend !'
authoritatively rejoined the little lawyer,,
who had a proper horror of all oaths,
except such as are associated with the
witness-box.

^o offence, sir,' answered the red-bearded,
slouching fellow who stood, hat
in hand, beside the office table, and who
was indeed no other than Rufus Crouch ;
but a man can't pick his words, as I've
heard seafaring chaps say, in a gale of
wind. And it's far from being fair weather
.between Sir Robert Shirley, Baronet,
and me. Let him look out for squalls.
I'm not the sort to put up with a blow,
not I ; and he shall pay for it, dear
enough.'

^ You persist, then, in your accusation
against the gentleman whose name you

have just mentioned?' said Lawyer Sturt.
Very well. 1 have sent a message to Dr.
Leader. I have no doubt, if he is at
home, that he will oblige me by stepping
round. Xo other county magistrate could
be so promptly communicated with. You
can sit down, if you like, and wait for
him. I have papers to attend to.'

Crouch took the chair that was indicated
to him, while Mr. Sturt went on
with his Writing. In perhaps twenty
minutes more a boy clerk ushered in ' Dr.
Leader.'

I hoped you would be at home, sir.
It was kind of you to come so quickly,'
said Mr. Sturt, as he shook hands with
Dr. Leader, who was a large, elderly man,
with kind, wise eyes, and a head partly
bald.

The doctor had been a fashionable physician

for long years in some watering-place,
and had then unexpectedly inherited
the comfortable property of a distant
kinsman, consisting in land close to Dane-borough.
The doctor, there being a dearth
of working magistrates, had been put into
the Commission of the Peace, and was
supposed to make a very sensible, but also
a very merciful, member of the quorum.
His house was on the outskirts of the
town, and he had readily responded to
Lawyer Sturt's appeal. A short preliminary
explanation put the doctor-magistrate,
skilled in diagnosis, whether of disease
or crime, in possession of the principal
facts.

'This man insists,' said Lawyer Sturt,
'upon bringing a formal charge against
Sir Robert Shirley, of Helston, a landed

gentleman, a baronet, and brother to Lady
Tliorsdale.' And there was something
quite regretful in his tone, as he enumerated
the social advantages of the accused
person.

Ah, indeed !' said Dr. Leader, seating
himself in a leathern arm-chair, and surveying
from beneath his bushy grey eyebrows
the truculent countenance, shaggy
red beard, rolling, restless eyes, and ^ broad
form of the accuser.

'And,' added the clerk to the magistrates,
' he admits that it is private
resentment which has induced him to
come forward in this matter.'

Nothing more probable,' tolerantly
observed the doctor, who perhaps remembered
the proverb about thieves falling
out with good results. 'We had

better get in a. succinct form this statement
of the case, and reduce it to writing.
Then Ave shall see our way.'

'He gave me these. Sir R. did,' said
Crouch, savagely, as with a brown forefinger
he pointed to two bluish wheals
that scarred his ugly face, ' as if I'd been
a hound, to bear the whip. And, but
for a conceited young no-mansion who

came up, I'd ' But here Crouch

seemed to remember that even a garbled
account of the affray in Which he had
been worsted by Don would not tell in
his favour, and, pausing, he said, sullenly
I'm not here to jaw about a mere assault,
I've been a quill-driver myself, and ought
to knoAv something of this kind of thing.
I charge Sir Robert Shirley, Baronet, With
forgery to the tune of eight hundred
pounds sterling. He did it at a time

when he was on bad terms with his father,
the late Sir Robert, who was master to
my father, long farm-bailifF at Shirley
The forged cheque purported to be signed
by a nobleman who lived near us — at
Shirley, I mean — and I was the man who
presented it, and got the cash for it, at
the Threddleston and County Bank at
Threddleston. They knew the name of
Shirley there, and that of the nobleman
who drew the cheque, or was supposed
to have done so, even better — anyhow, I
touched the tin. Then there came to bea
coolness, and there were words between
me and Sir R. And that was how he
wrote me two letters, which I have by
me to this day, and which are proofs
that he wrote Lord Wyvern's name on
the cheque, and that he begged and prayed
me, his accomplice, not to split.'

'This sounds a cock-and-bull story, my
man,' remarked Lawyer Sturt. ' I doubt
any jury would believe your tale.'

'That depends, of course,' said Dr.
Leader, mildly, ' upon the amount of corroborative
evidence. The witness — if I
may call him so — talked of proofs. If
he has them to produce, they would certainly
strengthen his case.'

I've got them, sir ; never doubt me !'
responded Crouch, confidently. ' I can
lay my hand at an hour's notice on what
will send my fine gentleman to spoil his
white hands with oakum-picking and
quarryman's work.'

Lawyer Sturt bent forward, and in a
low voice said something to the doctor-magistrate
about 'frivolous complaints,'
insufficient grounds,' and so forth.

But Dr. Leader shook his head.

'There must be no such thinking England,
my good sir,' he said, ' as a denial of
justice. A charge must be heard, and not
frowned upon or disregarded. I need hardly
say how glad I should be to learn that Sir
Robert Shirley — whom I have not seen,
though I had a slight acquaintance with

the former Sir Robert, his father

Lord Wyvern happens, curiously enough,
to be in this neighbourhood, as you, Mr.
Sturt, may probably not be aware. I dined
at Lord Thorsdale's yesterday, and met him
there, a visitor in the house.'

Crouch's eyes sparkled.

My lord's up at Thorsdale, is he ?
Then, gents, I'm sure he'll bear me out
that he never signed the cheque for that
eight hundred. It's years ago, but that
sort of thing is easy to trace out. I saw
Sir Richard write the forged signature, in

the 'true Blue Hotel" at Threddleston,
after a quarrel with his father, which
caused him to leave Shirley Hall or be
turned out of it. He was short of money,
and Avould have sold his all for cash to pay
some play-debts, without doing' which he
mustn't face his London club again. Four
times he tried at Lord Wyvern's signature,
with a model before him, and four times he
made a mull of the quill work, lout at last
he hit it off, and bade me burn the rouo-h
copies in the fire — 'twas Christmas — and
I made believe to do it ; but I slipped
them into my pocket on the sly, and I
have got them still, along with the letters
Sir R. wrote me, acknowledges the
forgery.'

After this, there could be no doubt as
to the propriety of allowing Crouch's
sworn information to be taken down with

the customary formalities. Indeed, the
clerk to the magistrates had some hesitation
as to whether the informer should not be
detained in safe custody, since, from his
own account of the transaction, he had
been an accessory before the crime. But
Dr. Leader demurred to this proposal,
and Crouch, having; sho-ned his affidavit,
was allowed to go, promising to return
with his documentary evidence on the
morrow.

A very serious affair,' said Dr. Leader,
as he shook hands, at parting, with Lawyer
Sturt.

A sad thing for the countess up at
Thorsdale — her own brother !' ejaculated
sympathetically the clerk to the county
magistrates. It was plain enough that
both of them were convinced already of
Sir Robert's guilt.

Meanwhile, Crouch, after indulging fora
time in liquor and boastful talk — to both
of Which he was greatly addicted — at a
low public-house on the verge of the town,
where he was known, and where he found
in the tap-room obsequious listeners, who,
for the sake of a possible glass of beer,
hearkened with rapt attention to his
bragging anecdotes of Australian life, left
Daneborough, flushed with drink, and in a
state of high excitement. The fact that
he had actually begun to do an injury,
probably irreparable, to Sir Robert Shirley
was so pleasing to his unamiable nature
that it was not until he had threaded the
straggling length of Limekiln Lane, and
had begun to scale the steep path that
leads to Beacon Hill, and thence, byway
of Hordle Cliff, to Beckdale and
Woodburn, that he remembered the

possible consequences to himself of
his late denunciation of the detested
baronet.

'I shall be Queen's evidence, and so
come safe out of the forgery job,' he
muttered to himself ; 'but I can't keep it
dark that I was the bolting clerk of old
Lawyer Bowman. And, besides the papers
there was the cash-box.'

He knew enough of law to be aware
that the crown cannot hold an informer
harmless as to the penalty due to other
offences than the one for which he has
bought a pardon by a betrayal.

But if I am lagged,' said Crouch,
through his red beard, with a malignant
grin, ' I shall bear it better than Sir H.
win. I'd give a hundred guineas, I
would, to see him under the scissors of the
prison barber. And then there's the gaol

VOL. in. K

discipline, the floor-scrubbing, the polishing
up of every bit of metal, the diet, and the
warders, whose word is always taken
against that of a prisoner. Yes, Sir
Robert Shirley, Baronet, will have good
reason to repent the day when he laid his
Y/hip across my face — the face of a better
man than ever he was. Once, at Shirley,
he gave me a rough rap with his fist, and
I laughed, and pretended to take it as a
joke, but that was because he was the
old master's heir, and I was only the
bailiff's son. We recollect old grudges,
some of us ; and if it hadn't been for that

upstart Don '

And then — so illogical and inconsistent
are the trains of thought in an ill-regulated
mind — Rufus, by the time he had gained
the steep summit of Beacon Hill, whence
once tar-barrels and faggots in a blaze had

given notice that Spanish frigates were insight,

and Her Highness Elizabeth unsafe

on her throne, was regretting the safe,

snug plot for Don's destruction. It would

have been a pleasant, profitable task ; but

Sir Robert's petulance had spoiled all.

It was a pity. So. easy, Crouch thought,

to lure the destined victim, by the aid of

false message, to the perilous pati at the

edge of Hordle Chief, and then to send him,

with a sudden push, to be food for

fishes below. It was a bit of cruel

treachery, delicious to the ex-gold-digger's

envious mind. And, so thinking, he

quite regretted his estrangement from

Sir Robert Shirley and the breakdown

of the conspiracy, as he reached Hordle

Cliff.

Hordle Cliff, as Rufus had truly said
in his conversation with the baronet, is a

k2

formidable place — a mighty rampart
frowning down upon the sea. Six
hundred feet of rock — sea-birds wheeling
and shrieking below, sharp stony ridges,
alternating with pools, shingle-banks, and
stretches of yellow sand, or the beach
that the beetling path in places actually
overhung, honeycombed as the sand-stone
rock has gradually become by the sapping
touch of age and weather. ^

Crouch, excited by drink and the
tension of his nerves, walked recklessly
at the very. verge of the giddy height,
kicking over now and then a pebble or a
clod of earth, and then laughing, as an
ogre might have done, at the grim
visions that passed through his seething
brain.

At last Rufus reached the tempting
spot which he had lovingly described to

Sir Robert — the scene of the intended
murder. How he had gloated over the
details of the projected crime ! It would
never be done now — that dark deed —
never ! never ! Crouch was not one to risk
his neck gratis ; and yet

At the selected spot the ruffian turned,
with his face towards Daneborough, the
town he had just left, and by an effort of
the imagination saw before him, hurrvino^
along and unsuspecting, the hated form of
Don.

'Aha! my gentleman foundling!' he
snarled — ' One good push, and over you
go, never, never to come up again !'

And as he spoke he stamped his heavy
foot on the beetling cliff, and threw forward
his great hands in hideous imitation
of the purposed crime. But then the
crumbling path gave way beneath his unwary

feet, and with one wild yell of despairing
anguish, down, down went Rufus
himself to the jagged rocks below !

It was two days before the body was
found.

CHAPTER IX.

A BROKEN APPOINTMENT.

In August, as the almanac informs us, and
as some of us know by experience, the
sun still rises early, and the days are yet
long. The day that succeeded Crouch's
denunciation of Sir Robert Shirley at the
office of the clerk to the magistrates for
that riding of the county of York was a
very long day for Dr. Leader. It was
also a very uneasy day for Lawyer Sturt.
But there was a difference between the
feelings of the two. Lawyer Sturt ought

not, according to the fitness of things, to
have been a lawyer at all. He was a brisk
little man, who might have been a pushing
commercial traveller, or, possibly, promoter
of a newly-inflated city company,
for the doing of, say, anything, for next to
nothing, and with several hundred thousand
pounds of capital. But he had nota
lawyer-like intellect. To punish poor
rogues, to repress vagrancy, poaching,
window-breaking, and rick-firing, seemed
to him the Alpha and the Omega of the
duties of a rural magistracy. Of course,
he did not wish an aristocratic culprit to
go scot-free. Of course, he thought that
a baronet who had forged a lord's name
on a cheque ought to suffer for his misdeeds.
But he was annoyed that the
untoward affair should have come to light
within his own circuit; wishing, very

naturally, to make things pleasant for,
and to stand well with, the great ones of
the earth.

Dr. Leader's mental constitution was
more finely strung than that of Mr. Sturt.
He, too, was sorry that disgrace should
come, in a sidelong way, to the noble
name of Thorsdale. The earl had been
hospitable to him, and civil too, for Dr.
Leader was a man to be respected. But
not for a moment did he think of screening
the earl's brother-in-law from merited
punishment. The only question was,
whether there were real grounds to go
upon. Dr. Leader, judging by Crouch's
demeanour on the previous day, and by
the coherence of his tale, thought that
such grounds did exist. So, too, did Lawyer
Sturt. But then, minds are so differently
constituted as regards the reception

of evidence. Some resist it as a slate roof
resists the rain. You may prove, but
they, perversely, remain deaf and blind
and non-absorbent. Others swallow your
proofs, but reluctantly, and with an ill
grace, as a child takes nauseous physic.
So it was with Lawyer Sturt. But it was
far otherwise with the medical magistrate.
No justice of the peace in his division
of the great county of Yorkshire was
so gentle, so discriminating, it was said,
as Dr. Leader, the ex-physician ; but
none the less did he feel that right must
be done.

Rufus Crouch had fixed an hour for his
second visit, backed up with documentary
proofs, to Lawyer Sturt's office. At noon
he had promised to be there. Dr. Leader
came duly before the clock on the redbrick
front of Daneborou2:h Town-hall

doled out the sharp strokes of twelve.
But Crouch did not come at twelve. The
magistrate Awaited; the clerk waited. It
was ten minutes to one when they gave
up the idea that the Australian gold-digger
would be, if not exact, at least
approximately punctual to the appointment
which he had made.

About two o'clock, after luncheon time,
Dr. Leader returned. Two struck ; still no
sign of Crouch. And yet, but yesterday,
the man had seemed sb intent upon his
purpose, so bitterly in earnest, that both
magistrate and clerk felt sure that
Crouch's promise had been made in all
sincerity.

The fellow has been drinking, I daresay,
and has slept till late,' suggested Lawyer
Sturt.

But Dr. Leader shook his head.

The man drinks he said, ' as we could
both of us observe yesterday, but he is a
seasoned vessel, and even in his cups
would scarcely rest while his brain was on
tire with revengeful purpose. He has, too,
as my old habit of observation enabled
me to remark, a constitution of extraordinary
vigour, and it would take much to
stupefy him. There is something odd
about his non-appearance.'

Perhaps the rogue has changed his
mind?' hinted Lawyer Sturt, contemptuously.
He did not like those who spoke
evil of dignities, and would have smirked
delightedly at finding out the rough
accuser of so distinguished a gentleman
as the master of Shirley to be a mere
libeller.

I fear,' replied Dr. Leader, with his
quiet smile, ' the man's mind was made up

terribly made up — and was proof
against change. A rogue lie is, self-convicted,
but very positive, and very real.
I will sit here with you, if you please, Mr.
Sturt, for awhile, so as to be here if our
lagging witness should drop in.'

Three o'clock, four o'clock, and still no
Crouch. Lawyer Sturt was uneasy, and the
magistrate thoughtful.

We must give the fellow up,' said Mr.
Sturt, as the hands of the office-clock indicated
a quarter-to-five.

I think, with you, that the appointment
will not now be kept,' said Dr.
Leader, gravely ; ' but that the man meant
to keep it I am convinced. If he does
not give any sign of life, it will be our duty
to seek him out.'

You think so, doctor ?' returned Lawyer
Sturt, unwillingly.

I am certain of it,' answered the magistrate,
firmly. ' This case is by far too
important a one to be trifled with or
burked.'

And then Lawyer Sturt, adjusting his
blond whiskers, and remembering the
newspapers and their pungent comments
on the shortcomings of those who assist
Themis, with her sword and scales and
bandaged eyes, ruefully coincided with
the doctor.

At half-past five o'clock, Superintendent
Whistler, of the county constabulary, was
in Dr. Leader's cool dining-room, which
overlooked the lawn and the flowers and
the rook-haunted elms of the garden, to
receive the magistrate's orders. A tall,
lean man was the policeman-inches, and
in aspect very unlike his fleshy compeer,
Superintendent Swann of Daneborough.

He had been a dragoon, and held himself
upright, in military fashion, ready to obey
orders.

A bad lot, sir, that Crouch, from the
little I've seen and the much I've heard of
him,' said the superintendent, peering
grimly at the imaginary impersonation of
the man of whom he spoke. ' Jet-hunters,
generally, are a very decent
set. But this fellow is a disgrace to any
decent set. He lives all alone on the
moors as a trespasser, or a squatter, as
they call it, on Lord Thorsdale's land.
But, such as he is, I'll bring him to you,
sir, if I can find him.'

It is possible that the man may have
got himself into trouble in some tavern
brawl, which would account for his failure
to keep his appointment with Mr. Sturt
and myself,' said Dr. Leader, thoughtfully.

He seemed to me, from Avhat I saw of
him, to be both of a boastful and quarrelsome
disposition.'

That's a true bill, sir,' said the superintendent,
assenting. 'The chap has been in
the thick of more rows at fair and market
than any bad character of these parts.
It's as likely as not that he has been in
liquor, and fighting or doing damage to
property, and so got himself locked up for
disorderly conduct. I'll inquire about
him at the borough police-station before I
go up the hillside.'

Having said this, Superintendent Whistler
saluted and withdrew. Dr. Leader
remained behind, musing over the strange
revelation which Crouch had made, and on
its probable results.

An English magistrate differs very much
from a French one, in that his duties are

strictly, for the most part, judicial. He
sits to try cases, but he seldom occupies
himself in hunting up cases for trial. All
that restless activity which French procureurs
and substitutes and judges of
instruction display in ferreting out hidden
crime, is left in England to the police, and
that novel institution, the Public Prosecutor.
But none the less did the medical
magistrate feel that it was incumbent on
him to do his duty in this matter, even
although it might be uncongenial to his
nature and his habits.

The August day burned, itself out at
last with a red sunset, like the embers of
a dying fire ; and Dr. Leader, who was a
bachelor and dined late, had finished his
solitary meal, and was sitting alone and
thoughtfully sipping his claret, when the
police-officer returned.

VOL. III. L

I'm afraid, sir, I've not much that is
satisfactory to report,' said Superintendent
Whistler, with rather a crestfallen air,
since I have not succeeded in o;ettino^
speech of the party. A long walk it is,
and a wildish one, to the chap's lonely
little place among the high moors, where,
if a fog came on, there is always a chance
of floundering: into some bos: that it's not
so easy to get out of again. And the
house, or hut — for it's a shame to call the
tumble-down shanty a regular house — is
hard to find. Most of Crouch's neighbours
seem to be mortally afraid of " old
Robinson Crusoe," as they call him behind
his back, with his savage temper, and his
dogs, and his gun ; and when I got a boy
to guide me, he wouldn't come a step
further once we sighted the roof, for fear,
as he said, " old Crusoe " should raddle his

bones for bringing the bobbies upon him.
A nice name he's got in the country, that
Crouch.'

I gather, from what you tell me, superintendent,'
said the doctor, ' that you were
refused admittance, or that yon found the
bird had flown.'

'I found the hut, sir,' answered the
superintendent, 'fastened up more strongly
than you'd believe likely in such a
miserable place, for I pushed the door
hard, besides knocking and calling loud
enough to wake the dead. But I got no
sort of answer, nothing but the barking
and howling of the dogs — the fellow keeps
a lot of 'em, chained up outside — and they,
I reckon, poor brutes, were more hungry
than fierce, for they were as gaunt as greyhounds,
and whined when I Event away, as
if they had hoped I'd brought them food,

land

were nigh hemmed ' (starved) ' for
the want of victuals. I dropped in, on
my way back, for a second time at the
borough police-station, sir, in Marlborough
here ; but my brother-officer, Superintendent
Swann, could only tell me that
Crouch had not been run in for any
offence, and that no constable had set eyes
on him lately.'

You have had a long walk, and a fruitless
one, Mr. Whistler,' said the doctor,
considerately filling a large glass, which
the chief officer of county constabulary
emptied with great satisfaction ; ' and I
need not to-night trouble you any further
on this subject. The man's absence may,
after all, have been caused by some unexpected
circumstance, and he may have
honestly meant to keep tryst, and have
been prevented from doing so. I shall see

Mr. Sturt again about this matter, and
will send word round to the station when
I require the assistance of the police.'

'Good-night, then, sir; yours to command,'
said the superintendent, as he
stiffly made his martial salute, and retired.


Dr. Leader sat for some time in deep
thouo!:ht.

The man meant to come,' he said to
himself. ' Something: must have caused
him to change his purpose. I wonder if
his captain, that old Obadiah Jedson, the
jet-hunter, knows what it is. If Crouch
delays much longer, I must try to find
him through that channel.'

CHAPTER X.

^ I OWN I WAS WRONG.'

On the day on which the medical magistrate
waited in vain for the reappearance
of the accuser of Sir Robert Shirley, Don
called at the parsonage of Woodburn. He
had been a frequent visitor there, when he
wore his sailor's garb, or the red woollen
shirt and rough clothes of the jet-hunter,
and came to study under the auspices of
kind, learned Mr. Langton.

He was now in the usual attire of a
gentleman, but there was a sadness in his

brio'lit yoiino: face that only dated from
the day when his hopes of Violet for his
wife had been rudely dashed away.
Is Mr. Marsh at home T Don asked.
Servants know most things. The very
housemaid of whom Don asked the question
knew all about the engagement and
the guardian's harshness, and hated Mr.
Marsh for his cruelty in ' coming between
young loving hearts like theirs— she a
sweet young lady, and he so like a lord,'
as the housemaid had often remarked
to her fellow-servants over the social teacup.


Mr. Marsh, when he came into the
drawing-room of the parsonage, and found
Don standing there alone, was moved by a
generous impulse.

I have to beg your pardon, Mr. Don,'
he said, heartily ; ' and, as an honest man,

J feel it my duty to own that I have done
you, unwittingly, a great injustice. Every
injurious expression that I used in my
anger towards yourself applies, I find, to
another person, of whose very existence I
was ignorant. I withdraw and regret those
words, and — a hard thins for an Englishman
to do — I own I was wrong.'

Dear sir, you have said enough,'
answered Don, readily. ' I was certain
that you had mistaken my motives, but I
felt sure that you acted from a sense of
duty. I am glad to hear you speak as you
do now.'

'Then let us shake hands on the strength
of it,' said the London merchant, cordially;
and the elderly man and the young one did
shake hands frankly enough. Mr. Marsh
himself was quite in a glow of self-satisfaction.
He had owned himself to have

been in the wrong. He had apologised to
a nameless youngster — a mere jet-hunter
some weeks since — only a clerk now. He
had humbled himself before his junior — no
trifling' task to as stiff-necked a citizen as
any within the London postal district; and
he felt the more kindly towards Don
because he had acknowledged his former
injustice towards the gallant lad.

But, Mr. Don,' remarked the drysalter
presently, shaking his head, and assuming
his most serious aspect, ' though Ephraim
Marsh regards you as a line young fellow.
Miss Violet Mowbray's guardian must not
sanction any betrothal — any love-passages
between his ward and a young man whose
worldly position is so unequal to her own.
She is a high-born young lady, and I, plain
city man as I am, cannot forget that fact.
Her parents were proud people, in their

quiet way. Pedigree is not what it was ;
but when there are high connections, and
money too, Mr. Don '

I understand you, sir,' said Don, sadly
as the merchant hesitated ; ' but, believe
me, I did not need fresh proofs of the hopelessness
of my suit. I am here to-day to
ask your permission to my seeing Miss
Mowbray once more — only once — before I
leave England.'

'Leave England!' exclaimed Mr. Marsh.

Yes, sir,' Don explained. ' It is for
Miss Mowbray's — for Violet's — dear sake
that I have made up my mind to seek a
short cut to fortune. Mr. Bartlett, Lord
Thorsdale's land-agent, has kindly recommended
me to a brother of his, who is
manager of a teat estate and of some rich
silver-mines in Mexico. The property, a
very valuable one, is in a wild part of the

country, in Chiliualiua, and belongs to a
wealthy Mexican, who lives in Paris, and
spends his revenues there. An assistant-engineer
and, in fact, assistant-manager is
wanted. Mr. Bartlett's recommendation
makes me sure of the post, and in a fortnight
I am to sail.'

'My young friend,' said Mr. Marsh, very
seriously, 'do you know what Mexico is —
I have business relations with the country
and especially what Chihuahua and such
states, exposed to the inroads of the savages,
are ? Upon my Avoid, if yon value your
scalp, you should re-consider the matter.'

Don smiled with his usual fearless
modesty.

I have considered it, sir,' he said.
One cannot gather fruit from a high
tree without the risk of the climb. I,
too, have heard and read something as to-mexico.

Mr. Bartlett's brother makes no
mystery of the lawless condition of the
country. My predecessor, it seems, was
killed by Indians. send me a dare-devil,"
he writes, " but let him have cool brains
and common-sense, as well as courage, and
he may live to be a rich man among us,
and retire on his savings. There is not
only pay to be earned, but a percentage on
the profits of the mine." I should not have
mentioned the money, sir, nor would it
have tempted me, but for Miss Mowbray's
sake,' added Don, with a blush. He looked
so noble and so brave, standing there, that
the dry salter felt an actual pang of regret
that it should be necessary to separate such
a pair of lovers as Violet and Don.

Upon my word,' said Mr. Marsh, ' I am
sorry ! But never mind that now. Mr. Don,
if I consent to your request for a parting

interview with riiy ward, I must stipulate
for no pledges and promises, such as, with
a sensitive-minded girl like Miss Mowbray,
might fetter her for the future. There
must be no positive engagement to prevent
the young lady from forming future ties.'

There was a proud sadness in Don's voice
as he replied,

My own honour, sir, would forbid me
to be married, or even betrothed, to Miss
Mowbray, rich and well-connected, unless
I had won for myself the advantages of a
position in the world, and of a competence.
Should I succeed, I will come back to ask
for her love and her hand. Till then, I will
accept no plight from her. Of that, Mr.
Marsh, I can assure you.'

I will, on receipt of this assurance, goto
my ward, mention your wish for a meeting
with her, and arrange for it tomorrow,,

Mr. Don, if, as I doubt not, the young lady
be willing,' said the niercliant. ' Wait forme,
if you please. I shall soon be back.'

Five minutes after Mr. Marsh's departure
the door of the room was opened, and 'Lord
Wyvern ' was announced.

The eirrl entered. He had ridden over
from Thorsdale on one of his noble entertainer's
horses, and attended by a mounted
groom, to call upon the rector, whom he
had known and esteemed long ago in
London, in days v/hen the Reverend Samuel
Langton had looked forward to be something:
grander than a rector.

'You are a son, I suppose, of my old
friend, Mr. Langton?' said the ex-ambassador,
graciously, to Don.

I am not related to Mr. Langton, my
lord. I am merely waiting here on business,

if I may call it so,' answered the
young man, with a slight bow.

Lord Wyvern seemed to resume his
haughty coldness of demeanour. He seated
himself, and, without speaking again,
waited the arrival of the clergyman. But
from time to time he could not prevent
himself from glancing at Don, as the latter
stood, in an attitude of unstudied grace,
near a window that commanded a view of
the sea. Of what did this young man's
dark eyes, his features, and the very turn
of his proud head remind the earl ? Lord
Wyvern almost felt as though he had known
Don — or, at least, seen him before ; felt as
though the sight of the handsome, manly
youth awakened in him vague memories,
though of what he knew not. Waiting
there on business ! — an elastic phrase that

may mean anything. No ; there was
nothing in that to give an inkling of the
speaker's social position. A gentleman,
surely, as his carriage and his mien, and
the very accents of his clear rich voice

implied. And yet Earl Wy vern was not

an inquisitive personage, but he in vain
consulted his recollections to discover Avhere
or when he had seen such a face before.

'Lord Wyvern, I believe?' said Mr.
Marsh, coming hastily into the room. ' I
must apologise to your lordship for the
stupid blunder of the maid who showed
you in. Mr. Langton — my niece's husband
is in his library, I believe, and quite
unaware of your visit. If you will wait
one moment, my lord. And you, Mr. Don,
please to step this way.'

And the dry salter hurried Don out of
the room, and so into the hall.

'I have spoken to Miss Mowbray,' he
said. ' I have explained to her that you
are on the point of leaving England for a
distant country, and only wish to see her
alone this once, to bid her farewell. And
she will see you — poor girl ! — at eleven tomorrow,
if you will come. But, Mr. Don,
I must remind you again that I consider
your promise as absolute and binding, not
to entangle so young and tender a nature
as my ward's in the meshes of that fatal
thing — a hopeless engagement. I 
as a settled matter, may I not?'

'You may, sir,' said Don, sorrowfully,
but firmly. 'Not only will I not seek, but
I Vvdll not take, any promise from her whom
I love so dearly and so truly. I will leave
her free — quite free. And I thank you,
Mr. Marsh, for so much of confidence as
you are willing to put in me, and for your

VOL. III. M

granting me leave to see lier — it may befor
the last time on this side of the grave.'

Upon my word !' exclaimed the dry-salter,
as he wrung Don's hand, 'you are a
very fine young fellow, and I should have
been thankful for such a son, or for such a
son-in-law, for my own part. Take care of
yourself — don't be rash ; make a fortune,
and come back; but for the moment we
must be prudent. Bless me ! I am keeping
this grand lord waiting for my nephew by
marriage all this time, and I had nearly
forgotten him.'

Don took his leave and went, while Mr.
Marsh made haste to repair to the library,
where he apprised the rector of the coming
of the noble visitor, who remained alone in
the drawing-room of the parsonage. And
when Mr. Langton had hurried away to
greet his titled guest, the dry salter seated

himself beside the writing-table, and for
some moments reflected on his recent interviews
with Don and with his ward.

'Poor lad! poor lad!' he soliloquised,
sadly, and shaking his head, as if in
anticipation of coming evil. ' I v/ish him
luck, I'm sure. But these are not the
days of Richard Whittington. No, no !
And I have heard tales of the worse than
lawless land in which he is going to seek
his fortune — tales that make me augur
ill of a happy ending to this little romance.
It is a pity, too !' he added, in
conclusion, with another shake of the
head, ind then, as if the mention of
Mexico suggested the logwood, the indigo,
the dragon's blood, the cochineal, and
other materials for dyes which are shipped
at Vera Cruz, and Mazatlan, and Belize,
and other ports of these remote regions,

M 2

the London merchant took up a pen, and
speedily absorbed his whole faculties in
^1 letter of instructions to the steady foreman
whom he had left in Creek Lane,
E.G., to carry on as best he might the
old-established business of Crump, Marshy
and Caxton.

CHAPTER XL

FAREWELL TO VIOLET.

At the appointed hour on the day succeeding
to that on which Lord Wyvern
had paid his visit, Don rode into the
pretty garden of the parsonage. There
was work to be done, his interviews with
Violet over, on behalf of his present employer.
Many a mile of moorland had
the young assistant of Mr. Bartlett to
scour that day. He was going away : he
was going to Mexico, and to a disturbed
province, there to take his chance amidst

fierce Indian raiders, fevers, ill disciplined
soldiery, and Mexican banditti. But none
the less was he in earnest in fulfilling
the duties of his present post to the last.
A gallant rider was Don. The steed he
rode was a strong, wiry horse, such as
befitted the needs of the active subordinates
in Lord Thorsdale's land-agent's office,
of a dark bay colour — no beauty to look
at; but, with Don on his back, the animal
carried himself almost as proudly as did
Sir Robert's black courser. The young
man dismounted, and rang the bell, and,
leaving his bridle in the hands of the
weeding-boy, went in.

I will tell Miss Violet, sir,' said the
maid-servant, who ushered Don into a
little side-room, where the rector gave
occasional audiences to plumbers, carpenters,
and such other useful persons.

Then Don was, after a brief delay, inducted
into the drawing-room, where he
found Violet Mowbray, looking very pale
and pretty, and motherly Mrs. Langton
gathering up a heap of unfinished letters
and envelopes.

Glad to see you, Mr. Don ! No, never
mind me ; I intend to leave you two
young people to talk it out.'

Mrs. Langton trotted off, and Don and
Violet were left alone together. Violet
was the first to speak.

So you have made up your mind, Don
dear, to go away and leave me?'

Men have been leaving the women they
loved and the women that loved them
since the world began, by sea and land,
on errands of War or of peace, and still —
still has arisen the same plaintive cry,
^ You are Q-oino: to leave me !' It is sad.

a o

But it is in the nature of things that it
should be so. The stay-at-home sex must
wait, and hope, and wish, while men face
battle and storm, and traverse earth and
water. How many a girl said to her
lover — before Waterloo, for instance —
^ You will soon come back?' Those tears
are dry long ago.

I am going, Violet darling,' answered
Don, drawing nearer, 'that I may come
again all the sooner to claim her I love
as my wife, to win my sweet prize, and
be very happy ever after, as the dear
old story-books say. In England, Violet,
I should not have had a chance. I am
not, I hope, ungrateful. I have found
kind friends. Who has more cause to
be thankful than I have for kindness on
the paint of those who were not akin tome
— a nameless, lost child, picked up on

the sea-beach by good, half-tutored jet-seekers
? But in England, my own, I
could never rise as I hope to do — as I
shall try to do — quickly. I want to get
suddenly rich ,• then I must go where
fortunes are rapidly made.'

^ But, Don — Don,' answered Violet, looking
at him tearfully, with large eyes wistfully
fixed upon his face, 'suppose you
never come back to England — never come
back to me ? Girl as I am, I have read
something; of the wild country whither
you are bound. I know partly what lurking
dampers await you there. There is
.sickness; there is frequent civil war;
there are brigands ; there are Indians —
more terrible still. How, my love, my
love !' — she cried out these words v/ith a
pitiful accent of sobbing entreaty — ' if
you never come back to me?'

Don did his best to comfort her.

'The place,' he said, cheerfully, 'is not
as black as it is painted. Mr. Bartlett's
brother has been thriving there for years.
Chihuahua is a mountainous part of the
country, and therefore fairly healthy. It
will be a rough life, but I do not care
for that ; and I hope soon to come to an
understanding with my neighbours thereof
whatsoever colour their skins may be ;
and, I believe, we shall have a variety
of shades, from black or red to brown and
yellow. I must take my chance with the
rest. Do not be afraid for me.'

It is because you are so dauntless,
Don,' said Violet, looking up with fond
pride at the young man's noble face — 'it
is because all the world knows how brave
you are, and how you have risked your
3^oung life often for others on our Yorkshire

coast here, that I am afraid for you,
who fear nothing. There are cruel savages,
there is a treacherous climate ; there
are perils from earthquake, robbers, and
pestilence, where you are going ; and yet,
if you were not so fearless, my love, I
should be less anxious for you. Will you
not be careful, Don, for your little Violet's
sake ?'

She sobbed here. He took her hands in
his ; they were cold and trembling. He
pressed them to his lips.

Come, come !' he said, encouragingly.
We must not make out my future abode
a place from which no traveller returns.
Mexico is a country in which I am told,
even French shopkeepers and teachers of
accomplishments, who come straight from
Paris, and have no romantic ideas about
them, amass dollars and doubloons, and

come home ricci, to buy a village at Auteurs
or at Poissy. Mr. Bartlett, who has
been there nine years, reckons on coming
home in six more with a fortune. I do
not want,' added Don, modestly, ' to earn
so much, or to stay so long. But stay
I must until I can claim my Violet without
being thought a needy schemer.'

^ I will never, never marry anyone but
you, Don !' said the girl, sobbing. ' I am
yours, dear, as much as if you had put the
ring on this poor little finger of mine ; and,
till you come back, I shall think of you —
dream of you — night and day.'

'Violet love.' said Don, tenderly, but
firmly, ' there must be no engagement — no
binding troth-plight — between you and
me. That much I have promised to Mr.
Marsh, your guardian, toAvhose indulgence
I owe it that I am allowed to see you — to

be here alone with you — to-day. There
must be no pledge, dearest, to hamper you
in the future — nothing to make you think
that you are bound to Don, should Don
come to be half-forgotten.'

Cruel ! cruel !' was Violet's reproachful
answer, as she looked at him, all her soul
in her eyes. ' Do you, too, wish to be free
to change?'

I shall never love anyone, never marry
anyone, except Violet Mowbray, however
long I live !' answered Don, simply; 'but I
am merely a nameless young fellow going
across the ocean, as thousands of young
Englishmen have done, hoping to shear
the golden, fleece in some El Dorado or another.
Had I stayed, our separation must,
I fear, have been final. Even when your
guardian's authority over your actions
shall conic to an end, I — I — Don, the jet-hunter,

the foundling — could not bear to
have it said of me that I had sought an
heiress — for her money.'

How I hate that money ! hove I wish — '
said Miss Mowbray, almost angrily, and
looking; about her as if she saw an actual
and palpable barrier, erected in the form
of heaped-up gold, between her lover and
herself. 'Mr. Marsh is too prejudiced.'

I am afraid, love,' said Don, sadly,
■' that we should find, did we but hear the
gossip of others, that his prejudices are
largely shared by the world around his. It
is reckoned a shame for a man to marry
for the sake of gain ; and that blame should
have attached itself to me, even had your

guardian not felt it his duty to But,

Violet, my sweet, it is hard to say the
word. I must go, leaving you unfettered

untrammelled, by any sort of engagement
with such a one as Don.'

For Don to come and claim me, I would
Avait,' answered Violet, with a firmness
strange in one so mild, ' until my face was
wrinkled, and my hair was grey, and I was
quite — quite old. You may go out there,
Don, alone, but you will take my heart
with you to Mexico. So be sure you do
not stay too long beyond that weary waste
of waters, for Violet's sake.'

Then there followed that question as to
correspondence which has occupied and
perturbed many pairs of faithful lovers
torn apart.

Your letters, Don,' said Violet, shyly,
would be such a comfort to me. And I
would write very often, and that would bea
pleasure to me, too, in my loneliness, for

I should feel as if I vere talking: too



you, dear ; and that would be something,
though thousands of miles of sea and
deserts and sierras would lie between us.
You might not have time always, I daresay',
to read my letters — you will be so
busy — but I am sure you will be glad to
know that your girl that you love at home
in England was thinking of you, her darling,
far away.'

Don promised that he would write, and
write often, if Mr. Marsh's consent could be
obtained to such epistolary intercourse between
his ward and the self-expatriated exile.
He had, personally, doubts as to the guardian's
pliability in this respect, but he kept
such doubts to himself, just as he omitted to
mention the fact that his immediate predecessor
in the post he sought had been
speared and scalped but a few weeks ago

by roving Indian warriors of the Apache
tribe.

There was more of fond talk, the little,
sacred reminiscences, the lovers' prattle,
that all can remember, that seem so sweet
and precious, and which, if transferred to
prosaic print and paper, would lose all
their charm. And then came the bitter,
bitter moment of the actual parting, when
the sad words, ' Good-bye,' had to bespoken,
and the last look exchanged. Perhaps
never more on earth were those two
loving hearts, so young, so honest, and so
true, to beat near to one another. Violet's
cold hands were in Don's stronger ones.
She looked up at him, as if to take comfort
in his courage and his strength, looked
in his fair young face as though to treasure
up in her memory the recollection
of it.

VOL. II r. N

'My love! my own!' she murmured.
^ Make haste and come back — to me !'

Then Don caught her in his arms, and
kissed her pale soft cheek once and
again.

Good-bye,' he said, ' my love, good-bye
Violet dear !'

The girl was weeping now, weeping
piteously, as she clung to him. Gently he
disenofaired himself from the slender arms
that wreathed themselves round his neck,
kissed her again, and nth one deep sob
turned away, and hurried from the room
and from the house. He sprang into his
saddle, and, without a backward glance towards
the parsonage, rode rapidly away.

Don rode away. To love and to ride
away has been the lot of many a gallant
youth since those old days when ballad
gamesters commemorated the event in

their jingling lines as one of the commonest
in the world. Those were the old
stirring times of battle and to nrn ancient, of
pilgrimages that were more fraught with
risk and more beset by hardships than a
modern campaign, of adventure-seeking,
prompted by glory or by gain, as circumstances
might dictate, but seldom by any
motive more aesthetic.

And here a word as to our remote ancestors,
whose longer vanished era seems
to us through the dim haze of the past so
gorgeous and so graceful. There is a
marked difference, however, between our
conception of them as a whole, and their
own recorded utterances, whenever a
knight like Joinville, or a courtier like
Chaucer, proved able to handle the pen as
well as the sword. They did romantic
things, but they never seemed to know

n2

that they were romantic. Half the Crusaders
who ruined themselves, health and
purse alike, in the long struggle to take
and keep Jerusalem, went forth to hight
because crusading was the fashion, just as
Londoners now scale Alpine peaks or rush
to shoot big game in the Rocky Mountains.
The rebel of to-day expected his slice of
the forfeited lands of the opposite party,
when once he should have set upon the
throne a king; of his own choosing;.

Don was of a nobler mould than the
average of the knights and squires, pages
and men-at-arms, of whom we see the
picturesque shadows flit across the magic
mirror of imagination. He was bound, it
was true, for the El Dorado of the companions
of Columbus, but it was to do
honest work for which the world would be
better. Whereas the chivalrous gentlemen

whom Spain sent forth to the New
AVorlcI coukl dream of nothing better
than deep silver-mines fill of natives
working under the lash and worse tortures
still ; and, beneath the glaring sun,
plantations where spice and sugar and
tobacco were produced under similar
philanthropic conditions for the Cadiz
market. Don, at any rate, was not going
to rob and rifle Caciques for their gold,
nor to depopulate districts in the effort to
get at hidden treasure. His was to be a
fair stand-up struggle With wild nature
and ferocious foes. The danger was great,
but the toil was honourable.

As Don returned from his visit to the
parsonage, his heart swelled high within
him, sad as it was, and sad as it is always
to a young man, who loves as he loved, to
be banished from the dear one's side. But

for the fact that he must leave Violet Mowbray,
there was little in the mere circumstance
that he was about to quit his native
land to depress him. That ^ patriotism of
the church belfry,' that cat-like local
attachment which debars the Frenchman
from emigrating, and acts, more or less, on
the inhabitants of almost every Continental
country, is very slightly felt among us
roving English, seldom born without a
dash of the old Norse spirit to Chicken us
for the conquest of seas. It is not that
we love our country less than the sentimental
Gaul loves his. There are
Englishmen parching in the hot winds of
Upper India, or slaving beneath the
Austral sun, who have nightly dreams of
the daisies, and orchards, and honeysuckle
hedges of Hereford or Cheshire, that they
may never see again, and w]io speak

cheerily for years, of ' going home one of
these days.' It is always ' home,' with an
exile. It was ' home ' with the estranged
American colonist before the great Day of
Independence dawned. George Washington
never could get rid of the notion that
the England he had seen, and against
whose generals and grenadiers he had to
put his wits and muster his raw militia,
was in reality his home, though his interest
lay on the banks of the Potomac
instead of the Thames, and though
the accident of birth had made him a
Virginian.

There was not niche save his love for
Violet, and the charm of her society, on
the rare occasions of their meeting to
detain Don in Yorkshire or in England.
He had done with his old life, and was a
jet-hunter no more. Somehow, that had

been settled for him. When first he had
accepted the offers of the earl's land-agent,
and had become one of the salaried staff
who superintended the vast Thorsdale
property, he had felt that he should go
back to the sands and the rough companionship
and the drudgery of a jet-seeker's
life no more. He had talked faintly, at
first, of such a resumption of his early
habits ; but presently he recognised the
truth that, the start once made, his progress
must be an upward one. The jet-hunter's
career, after all, was not one
fitted for an educated man, any more than
is that of a gipsy. And Don was educated,
while his intellect was not clouded and
confused, as was that of his gaunt old captain,
by the mystic visions of a seer. His
present position at Thorsdale, though comfortable
and creditable. Alas not one which

would afford him any hope of speedily renewing
his suit for Violet's hand. But, in
the wild land whither he was hound, sudden
changes of fortune were not unusual.
He had read much — for his taste for reading
was, like that of most clever lads, omnivorous
— of Mexican mines, and knew of
recorded instances in which hazard or research,
oy a single stroke of the pick, had
multiplied ten-fold — nay, fifty fold — the
diet revenue of such a property. Mining,
undirected by science and technical skill,
is little better than a system of haphazard
gambling, or of plodding routine ; and
there is no department of human industry
in which intelligence produces better
fruits.

Don had his own ideas. He would learn
and listen, hear much and say little, but all
the time he would keep his eyes open for

amateur prospecting, and, unless an Apace
tomahawk should put an end to his exploring,
he hoped to be back at Violet's
side without any very tedious delay.

There were preparations to be made, of
course, but they were few, and would soon
be completed. It was necessary to bid
farewell to old friends and comrades, to
Obadiah Jedson, and Don's former nurse,
the good Keziah, above all, but Avhat remained
to be done was but trifling. We
do not prepare ourselves as our fathers
did in the days when an outfit for India
meant three camel-loads of cumbrous
trunks, and exacted huge outlay and
enormous trouble before sailing. Don's
baggage would be, as was natural, considering
the state of his finances, of a less
ponderous nature. An assistant engineer
in an out-lang province of Mexico seldom

needs to wear anything save the slop suit
and Garibaldi red shirt, the poncho that
protects lira from tropical rains or mountain
blasts, and the belt and sombrero that
complete his costume. He was going out
to work, and had occasion for little which
was not adapted to a rougher life, in some
respects, than even he, the foundling of
the sea-beach, had ever known.

At the land-office Don found himself an
object of envy and admiration to the
kindly, puzzle-witted youngster, whom he
was wont to pilot at times through the
mysteries of complicated arithmetic ; while
the superannuated old head-clerk contemplated
him as a lunatic who was about to
give up safety and a snug salary to take
his chance amidst yellow-fever, malignant
Mexicans, and remorseless savages. The
estate-absent himself was of a different

opinion. There were times, indeed, when
he felt as if he could never forgive himself
if, in compliance with his brother's request
for a recruit, he should prove to have sent
out Don to meet his death by the arrow of
the Indian or by the Savor of the pestilence
; but then he comforted himself by
the conviction that that brave, brio-ht
young fellow was just the lad to come
scatheless out of such an ordeal as that
which lay before him.

At any rate,' he muttered, as he drove
his gig back to Daneborough, 'it's done
now, and can't be undone. And I'm sure
it's for the best.'

CHAPTER XII.

Under THE HEARTHSTONE.

'We are striking work here, sir. We are
o-'oino- south ; but that matters little. As
for Rufus Crouch, we have not had him
among us these four clays past. And that,
doctor, is all I have to tell.'

Obadiah Jedson, as he said these words,
leaning on the long, sharp-pointed shovel
which jet-hunters use, looked sternly and
grandly picturesque, his grey locks streani-
andover his shoulders, and his tall, gaunt
height towering aloft.

It was a picturesque scene altogether.
There, in a corner of the beach, rock-sheltered,
were grouped the jet-hunters,
male and female, some with tools in their
hands, others with bundles and boxes and
cooking utensils, as if making ready for a
march ; while in the background stood
Superintendent Whistler, of the county
police, in command of what is technically
known as a ' half rank ' of four helmeted
constables. The medical magistrate was
at the head of the party.

This person Crouch,' Dr. Leader was
in the act of saying, when suddenly a
procession of seafaring men came winding-its
way along the beach skirting the cliff-wall,
and in the midst of the marching
column Alas visible a rude litter, composed
of a tarpaulin upheld by crossed
oars and boat-hooks, and upon which lay

a shapeless, motionless something, covered
up decorously with another fragment of
tarpaulin.

An accident, do you say ? Let me
see it,' said Dr. Leader, dropping the
magistrate and resuming his old functions
as a medical man, as the men advanced,
bearing their helpless burden.

The tarpaulin, when removed, gave to
view the marble-white face and pinched
features of a dead man. There was no
mistaking the shaggy red beard, the fell
of coarse hair, the broad, strongly-built
figure of Rufus Crouch.

There he lay, the strong man, whose
strength had rarely been used save for
purposes selfish or evil, the defaulting
clerk, the gold-digger, the ]rush-ranger
probably, of that far Austral clime which
he had never ceased to regret, the grim

hermit of the moorland waste. Rufiis
Crouch had never cared to earn a o^enth^
thought or a good word from his fellow-workers.
He had lived and died unloved.
Yet the jet-seekers clustered around, and
the women's shrill voices were uplifted
pityingly, and the men muttered, ' Poor
chap !' because the senseless form on
which they looked was that of a man,
and death and suffering are common to us
all.

Those who bore the corpse were not
fishermen ; nor were they sailors of the
Preventive Service, three or four of whom
were to be seen anion syst the followers in
their navy-blue, with brass-hilted cutlasses
clinking as they Walked, and burnished
telescopes tucked under their brawny
arms. The actual bearers, who had discovered
the body on the beach, and

seemed proud of their discovery, were
workmen who had been sent to' repair a
breakwater underneath Hordlc Cliff, and
who had found Crouch there, dead, and
with every appearance of having been
dead for a long time, among the sharp
rocks, with heaps of crumbled rubbish
near him, that had Mien with him when
the treacherous cliff-path had given way
beneath his careless feet, and hurled him
headlong down the giddy precipice.

Yes, he must have been dead for days
the tide had reached the place where he
lay, for here is the green slime of the
seaweed mingling with his hair and staining
his clothes,' said Dr. Leader, after a
brief inspection of the inanimate figure
before him. 'A coroner's inquest, of
course, will have to be held; but the
flints are so clear that the inquiry and

VOL. III. o

the verdict will be mere formalities. He
was on his way back from Daneboroiigh
towards Beckdale, Vv^hen the path gave
Away, and he fell. No human being could
have survived that fall.'

Then came the question as to the disposal
of the body. Inquests are often
held, and the remains of those on whom
they are to be held are often kept at
public-houses, to the great emolument of
the beer-sellers. But in this case all deferred
to the magistrate, and Dr. Leader
promptly decided that it would be better
to remove what had lately been Rufus
Crouch to his own miserable home, the
rather that he, in his magisterial capacity,
feet it his duty to institute a search for
the documents which the ex-o-old-dio-fyer
had pledged himself to produce at Lawyer
Sturt's office, in confirmation of the heavy

charge which he had so vehemently brought
against Sir Robert Shirley.

The crowd consented willingly enough
to the extra toil which the long upland
walk entailed. The bearers, in their white
Working-clothes, had constant offers made
to them on the part of the blue-jackets
who formed the bulk of the procession to
be relieved of their task ; but they declined
all proffers of assistance, and resolutely
plodded on, with their ghastly
]burden veiled by the decorous tarpaulin,
evidently full of importance, and determined
on no account to lose the dignity
which rightly belonged to them in their
double capacity of the first finders and
the consistent supporters of their helpless
load.

The straggling train of spectators, urged
on by curiosity, and swelled ever and anon



by volunteer recruits from farm or cottage,
wound slowly up the bleak bill-side. First
went a dozen or so of sturdy beach-men,
in their blue garb and tight-fitting jerseys
and sour-wester hats ; then trudged the
slop-clad workmen who were the central
figures of the pageant, carrying the littery
and next followed the rest of the sightseers,
the helmeted police and the magistrate
forming: the rear-stuart.

The report spread through the thinly-peopled
upland region as fast as ill new
proverbially does fly, that ' Old Robinson
Crusoe ' had been killed, and was being
brought back to the hut that he could
never leave again, save for the short journey
to the nearest churchyard ; and at
gaps in the hedge, or at the corners of
lanes, stood men and women, lads and
children, greedy for a peep at the curiosity

that was being borne along under
the screen of tarpaulin, and hungry for
details of the catastrophe.

At last the lonely hut was in view.
There it was in its stony ravine, shut in
by the barren hills, and standing ugly and
solitary — as uninviting a dwelling as any
within the compass of the four seas.
There was now no furious baying on the
part of the four-footed sentinels that
guarded the door. The starving dogs
could bark no more. Hunger had tamed
them, and as they lay exhausted, with
haggard eyes, even their complaining
howl had died away into a feeble whine
of supplication.

Poor brutes ! it goes to one's heart
somehow to see creatures hemming ' (starving)
'that way!' exclaimed several voices,
as half-a-dozen of the foremost bustled upto

imhitcli the chains or unbuckle the
collars of the gaunt animals.

Then, by Dr. Leader's orders, the door
was forced open. Slowly, and, as it were,
reluctantly, the creaking bolt of the large
lock gave way, and an entrance was effected,
SO that the bearers could come in. They
laid the body of Rufus Crouch reverently
enough — for there is a majesty in death
that for the time invests the meanest and
the most uncouth with a sort of sanctity
on the wretched pallet-bed.

The gaping throng without crowded
into the hut at the first, elbowing and
pushing, until standing-room was scarce ;
but at a hint from Dr. Leader, the superintendent
of police, and Obadiah Jedson,
whose moral influence was fully equal to
the authority of military Mr. Whistler

the interior of the miserable chilling was
cleared of inquisitive intruders.

'And now for our search said Dr.
Leader ; and the superintendent and the
more intelligent of his helmeted acolytes
did their best, but on no shelf, and in no
locker, chest, basket, barrel, or cupboard,
could the most vigilant scrutiny discern
anything answering to the papers which
Rufus had promised so confidently to produce
as proofs of the truth of his accusation
against the baronet. There were some
clothes, a few books, the stoneware jar of
gin half empty, tobacco, fuel, a sack of
potatoes, some chemicals, and certain
scraps of food, relics of Crouch's last
meal, which were tossed out to the famished
dogs ; but no documents of any
sort.

Under some flour in a nearly empty
meal-tub were found twenty-nine sovereigns,
all from the Mint of Australia,
two five-jDound notes, crumpled and dirty,
and folded tightly up, and a number of
silver and copper coins. This, probably,
was the dead man's only treasury, for no
other money was visible anywhere. Over
the cold fireplace hung from its hooks the
gun with which the rutfianly anchorite of
this strange retreat had often menaced
those who dared to pry into his habits.
There was a bowie-knife, and there was
a revolver, loaded, in a locked drawer.
There were even some spangles and grains
of gold-dust discovered in a folded piece
of paper ; and that was all.

I am very much afraid,' said the magistrate,
as the tedious work of searching
into all manner of receptacles, nooks, and

corners came to an end, ' that the man
had some other hiding-place away from
his hut, or that he had bestowed the
documents in safe keeping elsewhere. At
many rate, it seems as though we had our
trouble for nothing.'

Superintendent Whistler, removing his
helmet and wiping his heated brow, thought
so too.

But Obadiah tapped his forehead suddenly,
as if a new idea had occurred to
him.

'I remember,' he said, 'yes, I remember
how I once came here, and found the
hearth stone up, and Crouch sorely angered
and ill at ease because I found him
busy with something beneath it that he
did his best to hide. If I am not much
mistaken, Dr. Leader, you need but to
tear up yonder rough-hewn slab of mountain

limestone to find beneath it what you
seek.'

The hint was eagerly adopted. The
very workmen who had found Crouch's
body on the razor-edged rocks beloAv the
dizzy height of Hordle Cliff were ready, at
a Avoid, to use Crouch's own crow-bar and
shovel to force up the heavy hearth-stone,
and to lay bare what, but for the former
visit to the hut which the old captain of
jet-hunters had paid, and Obadiah's suddenly
awakened recollections, might never
have been seen again by mortal eye.
Amongst the crowd without, the excitement
grevr intense, and, although-the
police kept back those who tried to push
their way in at the open door, the unglazed
windows were darkened by peering
faces.

^ A miser, after all !' — 'A crockful of

golden guineas!' — 'Always thought he
must be rich — a close chap like old Robinson
Crusoe !'

Such were some of the comments of the
lovers of mystery outside the dead man's
dwelling. But when, with some difficulty,
the weighty stone had been lifted from its
place, and the cavity which it concealed
was exposed, no gold, to the great disappointment
of the spectators, was revealed,
but only a number of parchments and
papers, heedfully wrapped in oilskin to
keep them from injury by damp, and
of these Dr. Leader at once took possession.


Yes, yes,' said the magistrate, after
a cursory inspection of his prize, and addressing
himself as much to Obadiah as to
Superintendent Whistler, ' these are the
very papers, as far as I can see, which this

poor wretch promised, arid, no doubt, intended
to bring with him to Mr Start's
office on the morrow of the day on which
by pure accident, of course — he met his
death by a fall from the dangerous cliff.
And there seem to be other documents,
too, not less valuable to further the ends
of justice, which Crouch may or may not
have meant to use for a good purpose, but
which are brought to light now, thanks
chiefly to you. Captain Jedson.'

Then the door was made fast as well as
could be roughly effected, awaiting the
formal medical examination which precedes
a coroner's inquest, and followed b}^
the starving dogs, who willingly crawled
along at the heels of their rescuers and
future masters, encouraged by kind words
and caressing hands, the party wound its
way up the inhospitable ravine, and so

aloDf^ the bleak inoorlancl path, leaving
the hut with its ghastly occupant recumbent
on the pallet-bed, to silence
and solitude. The police, as before,,
brought up the rear. As the outskirts of
Daneborough were reached, Dr. Leader
slipped some money into the hands of the
workmen, who took it half-reluctantly,
as if payment dimmed the glory of their
voluntary task, and again thanked Obadiah
Jedson.

You have done a good deed, captain,'
said the magistrate. ' We were all
at fault, but for you.' And then they
parted.

CHAPTER XIII.

I WILL GO.

Earl Wyvern, for the second time, was a
visitor at Woodburn Parsonage. lie had
called to bid adieu to his friend of other
days, the rector. It was a bishop, and not
the mere incumbent of a sea-coast living
in Yorkshire, that the earl had once expected
to take by the hand. Frail lungs
and a weakly constitution had served as a
clog on the upward progress of Langton ;
but still, failure as he had been from a
worldly point of view, Lord Wyvern was

sorry for him : the more so, perhaps. l.)e-
cause of the private sorrows of his own
earlier life.

I leave Thorsdale to-morrows' the earl
had said. ' I have promised to stay a
week or so with a very old friend, Sir William
Herrick, of Herrick Hall, near Stratton,
some thirty miles to the southward,
and then, after a few days at Wyvern, I
shall probably go abroad again — I scarcely
know where.'

Mr. Langton — who knew that Wyvern
Castle was one of the grandest of English
castellated mansions, overlooking the
Severn, and surrounded by stately timber
and an ancient park — may, on his side,
have pitied the master of such a home,
who could not find contentment there,
but was going abroad, he knew" not
whither.

At that moment Dr. Leader was announced.
The medical magistrate was a
man Avhom all liked well, and the rector
and the earl, who had made his acquaintance
at Thorsdale Park, shook hands with
him cordially.

Dr. Leader looked around him. All the
inmates of the parsonage, including Mr.
Marsh, were present. Worthy Mrs. Langton
was there. So was Violet Mowbray,
looking very sweet, sad, and gentle. The
earl, who had known her mother in days
long past, was struck by the likeness
which she presented to Mrs. Mowbray.

My visit to-day,' said Dr. Leader, with
his grave kind smile, which had been welcome
beside many a sick-bed, ' is partly to
this young lady ' — and here he bowed to
Violet, who looked at him with astonished
eyes, while a faint tinge of colour rose to

her cheeks — ' on account of a remarkable
discovery which, in my capacity of magistrate,
I have been fortunate enough to
make. I am the bearer of unexpected
good news, since here is a deed' — and he
produced a thick folded parchment — ' by
virtue of which General Oliver Yorke,
years and years ago, made over to three
trustees the sum of seventy thousand
pounds Consols for the benefit of his
grand-niece, Violet Mowbray, whom I
take to be as clearly entitled to a beneficial
interest in this great sum and the
back dividends as you are, Mr. Langton,
to your parochial tithes.'

Then followed an animated conversation,
largely leavened with exclamations
of wonder, chiefly on the part of excellent
Mrs. Langton. The doctor briefly narrated
the salient features of the finding of the

VOL. HI. p

precious document, while Mr. Marsh, on
examination, vouched for the genuineness
of the signature of the old Indian general
long dead, and said what he knew as to
the status of the three highly respectable
trustees named in the deed.

This must have been stolen,' said the
dry Salter.

The medical magistrate had no doubt
of that. Papers and memoranda had been
found proving Rufus Crouch to have been
head clerk at a West-country solicitor's,
one Lawyer Bowman, whose name chanced
to be familiar to Lord Wyvern.

I knew him perfectly,' said the earl.
^ He acted for my father, as well as for
old Sir Robert Shirley, father of the present
baronet, and I have heard that before
he died, with very enfeebled faculties, and
almost complete loss of memory, a rascally

clerk had robbed him and absconded.
Probably the gentlemen named in the
trust-deed were quite unconscious that
the necessary formalities had ever been
completed, and that this large sum of
money stood in their names in the books
of the Bank of England. It was a singular
coincidence, too, that General Yorke,
whom T have dined with when I was
known as Lord Ludlow, and was myself
young, should not have survived the signing
of this deed by a month.'

Three weeks at most, if I remember
rightly,' said Mr. Marsh, who piqued himself
on the accuracy of his retentive
memory.

'At any rate,' rejoined the earl, 'we
may congratulate Miss Mowbray on her
good fortune.'

Violet could not repress a sob. The

money brought no comfort to her : it was
the golden bar to keep her and Don
apart.

'But,' said Dr. Leader, seriously, ' my
duty as a magistrate is not yet discharged.
I have another errand of a more painful
nature. I intended, my lord, to have
gone up to Thorsdale; but, finding your
lordship here, I must request the favour
of a few minutes' private conversation.'

Inducted by the wondering rector into
the comfortable dining-room of the parsonage,
Dr. Leader made haste to lay
before the earl the proofs of Sir Robert
Shirley's guilt. There was a copy of
Crouch's sworn deposition at Lawyer
Sturt's office. There were — found beneath
the hearthstone in the dead man's miserable
hut — Sir Robert's treasured letters,
penned at Shirley, to conciliate the goodwill

of his ofFended plebeian accomplice.
There were also the rough copies of the
forged cheque for five hundred pounds,
the imitation of Lord Wyvern's signature
having; in each instance been deemed too
faulty to pass muster at the Threddleston
and County Bank. Never was more convincing
documentary evidence brought
together.

I am sorry for this,' said the earl,
thoughtfully, as he passed his hand across
his brow.

So am I, Lord Wy vern,' returned the
medical magistrate ; ' and, indeed, it is a
pity. This wretched man, being highly
educated and of fair ability, will suffer
more when he comes to pay the penalty
of his offence than is the case with vulgar
criminals. The very shauie of his exposure
will double the weight of the severest

sentence that may be passed upon him.
But justice must be done.'

For a few moments the earl remained
silent.

I thank you, Dr. Leader,' he said at
last, ' for the delicacy and kind feeling
with which you have acted in this distressing
affair. If you will allow me, I
should like to have a few days to reflect.
I will write to you, certainly, but I should
prefer a short delay.'

To this reasonable request Dr. Leader
acceded, and with renewed expressions on
the part of Lord Wyvern of his sense of
obligation and the assurance of his sincere
thanks, they shook hands and parted
The magistrate left the house without
returning to the drawing-room.

'Your lordship will, perhaps, make my
excuses?' said Dr. Leader, who knew that

Mrs. Langton's curiosity must have been
very greatly excited by the mysterious
nature of his interview with her noble
visitor, and who was glad to make his
escape.

The earl went back, but there was
a cloud on his brow, and he seemed
strangely pre-occupied. He scarcely
heard or heeded good, motherly Mrs.
Langton's harmless babble concerning
Violet's wonderful good fortune or the
immensity of the golden windfall; and, as
soon as courtesy permitted, he took his
leave. When the carriage, which had
brought him from Thorsdale Park, was
clear of the parsonage grounds, the earl
gave the order, 'To Helston — to Sir
Robert Shirley's. I wish to call there on
my way back.'

Yes, my lord,' answered the well-trained

servant to whom he spoke, and presently
the grey old manor-house, with its steep
slated roof and the hills frowning down
upon it, was reached.

Sir Robert is rather poorly — has been,
my lord, since his fall,' said the footman
who came to the door, hurriedly shaking
himself into his livery-coat — and, indeed,
the fiction of an accident while riding had
been preferred to a true account of the
scuffle in which Don had preserved his
enemy from Crouch's bludgeon — ' but he'll
see you, my lord.'

Earl Wyvern, inducted into the presence
of the baronet, bent his head slightly, but
stretched out no hand to take the white
and jewelled one which the master of Shirley
held out to him. He declined, too,
to be seated.

I am here,' said the earl, ' to give you a

warning, Sir Robert. It may seem strange
to yon perhaps, that such a warning
should come to the forster from the man
whom he has robbed, and '

My lord, this language must be accounted
for !' interrupted the baronet,
as a patch of red mounted to his pallid
cheek.

The earl eyed him with haughty scorn.

I shall account for it,' he said, severely,
Before a proper tribunal, if necessary.
Let me tell you, before you attempt to cloak
your guilt by denial or bluster, that your
accomplice, the fellow Crouch, has denounced
you. Let me tell you, too, that
within the space of one short hour I have
had before my eyes the proofs — the absolute
proofs — that Captain Robert Shirley,
the son of my best and oldest friend,
wrote my fictitious signature to the forged

cheque for which, at the Threddleston
Bank, Crouch received five hundred
pounds. I have seen your letters to him
they are tantamount to a confession.
I have seen your first essays in the art of
forgery, which your knavish ally feigned
to destroy, but secreted, that he might
be able at his pleasure to use you as a
tool or to bring you to shame and punishment.'


This was terribly plain speaking. Sir
Robert, ghastly in his pallor, clutched
at the table near him for support, and
seemed as if about to faint. His white
lips moved, but he strove in vain to
speak.

'Mine, as I said before,' continued Lord
Wyvern, 4s an errand of mercy, not of
vengeance. I do not pretend. Sir Robert
Shirley, to pity you personally. But, as

you know, your good father vv^as an early
and a valued friend of mine, and for ibis
sake I am most unwilling to prosecute ibis
son. Were it possible, I would leave you
to your own conscience. But this cannot
be. The proofs against you are not in my
keeping — they are in the bands of a magistrate.'


Here Sir Robert started, changing colour.

And my request for delay has only put
off the evil hour of your arrest and trial,
at which I must, however reluctantly, bear
evidence as to the reality of the fraud
upon me. Take my advice, and fl}^ ! Leave
England, and that speedily, lest it should
be too late ; and in some distant country'
repent, if you can.'

I thank you from my heart — I will go,'
stammered out the baronet, feebly ; and
again he extended his hand.

Lord Wyvern did not take the offered
hand. He bowed stiffly and formally, and,
turning away, left the room without another
word ; while the stricken man, staggering
from the place where he had stood,
dropped into a chair, with haggard face
and trembling limbs. N

'I think your master is ill,' said Lord
Wyvern to the Shirley servant, who was
ready to open the hall-door for his exit.
And then, re-entering the carriage, he went
back to Thorsdale Park.

CHAPTER Xii.

WHAT OB AD [AH HEARD.

Thales Maple, which lies on the Yorkshire
coast, between Horseshoe Bay and
the seaport of Shrapton, is a decent little
village enough, and boasts of as tidy a
little inn as is consistent with the sparse-ness
of the local population. The 'Blue
Lion,' though it had no pretensions to take
higher rank than that of a roadside inn,
was neat and orderly, as a place of public
entertainment should be : and some of the
out-door servants of the neighbouring

landowner, Sir William Herrick, to whom
every stick and stone, every meadow and
potato-garden in the parish belonged in
fee-simple, were in the habit of patronising
the rural hostelry. Two of these. Sir William's
old coachman and Sir William's
vouno-est Scotch head-gardener, Vv^ere sitting
there in the snug parlour, with a
sanded floor, but partially carpeted, red-curtained,
and commodiously furnished, of
the 'Blue Lion,' which Alas devoted to the
accommodation of customers of the better
sort.

Customers of the better sort, at the
Blue Lion,' meant farmers and faring
skippers of fishing-smacks, captains
or mates of small vessels, Shrapton
townsfolk, and last, not least, the household
brigade of the landlord's landlord, the
servants from Herrick Hall. The category

included also old Captain Obadiah Jedson,
Avell known and respected from Loaves toft
to Shields, and whose company of jet-hunters
were just then encamped in Horseshoe
Bay, near the rugged reef of black
and weed-draped rocks ^vhich there juts
out, like a natural wall, into the sea.
It was the very place described in the
earliest of these pages, the very spot where
Don, as a child, had been found by the jet-seekers
under gaunt Captain Jedson's
command. And in a corner of the neat
parlour sat Obadiah himself, his long grey
hair flowing over his shoulders and his
eyes half shut, vvdiile in his bony right hand
he held a long clay pipe of the ' churchwarden
' variety — such a pipe as a Turk
would smoke, had cherry-wood chibouques
never come into fashion among the
'faithful;

Sir William's liead-coacliman was there,,
and so was the rich baronet's head-gardener.
For a coachman there is no
promotion possible. Higher than the box,
especially' if it be dignified by a hammer-cloth,
he cannot go. And, indeed, honest
George Stubbs, ' man and boy,' as he
phrased it, in the service of the Herrick
family for live an def or ty years, had no
wish save to die in his vocation. But
Andrew Meiklejohn, the gardener from
the Lothians, was an aspiring young man.
Step by step had he plodded his way up
the ladder of life, from a weeding-boy to
his present position. He had a tolerable
salary — say, two hundred pounds a year —
but Scotch gardeners, whose heads are
crammed with botanical Latin, expect
salaries very much higher than that.

Nobody save Mr. Meiklejohn himself

knew low many hours he snatched from
sleep, or how he toiled by the lio'ht of a
twinkling candle, to master that horticultural
lore which is, in its way, one of
the driest and least inviting of studies.
Personally, Andrew had no love for
flowers — 'A lot o' bit weeds!' he would
mutter between his teeth. But some rich
men pay a thousand or twelve hundred a
year to the learned functionaries who
preside over their acres of glass and their
roods of stove-pipes, and for the acquisition
of such an income as that the exceedingly
would have denied himself
all earthljT- pleasures. As it Alas, in the
intervals of duty and of the self-imposed
task of cramming manuals of recent
botany, he found time for a quiet chat and
pipe at the ' Blue Lion.*

We've got a new visitor up at the

VOL. III. Q

Hall,' said the coachman ; ^ Lord Wyvern.'
Will he be a Lord of Session, Mr.
Stubbs ?' asked the gardener from the
Lothians. 'A judge, I'm meaning,' he
added, seeing that the coachman was
unable to comprehend his drift. 'We
have them at Edinburgh.' \

'This is a real lord,' rejoined the coachman,
almost crossly. 'Why, man, it's
Earl Wyvern, one of the richest earls,
I've heard tell, in broad England. His
lordship's no stranger here, and he's an
old friend of Sir William's. He came here
first with his young bride — poor thing ! —
that died early in foreign parts. And the
next time he came to stay at the Hall he
was a widower, as grave to look at,
though not so stern-like, as now. Then
it was that the great misfortune happened
which our Sir William and his lady

felt SO iiiucli for, though, of course, it
was worse for his lordship. Haven't ye
heard the story, Mr. Meiklejohn ?' demanded
the coachman.

Mr. Meiklejohn had heard no story in
any way connected with Earl Wyvern,
and said so. He also expressed a polite
wish to hear whatever narrative misfht
(concern so aristocratic a visitor to Herrick
Hall.

'- His lordship, as I said before,' resumed
the coachman, ' came back again, a VN^dow-
er, to visit our master at the Hall. He
wasn't called Earl Wyvern then — he was
not, because, you see, his father, the old
earl, did not die for a matter of three
years after that, so my lord was called
Lord Ludlow. It's the second title in the
family. If his lordship had had a son
alive, or, more rightly, if his son hadn't

q2

come to a sad ending, he'd have been
Lord Ludlow this day. D'ye understand
me, Mr. Meiklejohn?'

Mr. Meiklejohn understood his companion's
meaning perfectly well, and said
so.

'Xow,' said the coachman, after again
tasting his beer, ^ his lordship's young
^\ife was dead abroad, but she had left
him one comfort, and that was his only
child, the .finest little fellow ever was
seen, I think. Born in Italy, or some
such outlandish place, I believe the boy
was, but, bless you ! he was the noblest
little chap ever I clapped eyes on, and,
baby as he was, had the airs and the
ways of a young king. I mind it well. It
was the very year I was made head-coachman,
when old Mr. Parsons, that
came before me, was took so bad with the

rheumatics that be couldn't climb to his
box. But it was a sad job about my
lord's little boy.'

The coachman here re-lighted his pipe,
and sucked at its sealing-wax-ended tube
for some moments in silence. The listening
Scot grew tantalised by the tale-teller's
undue delay.

Scarlet fever, perhaps, Mr. Stubbs ?'
he suggested, with a cough. ' We are all
poor, feckless things, specially the young.'

Not a bit of it !' returned the coachman,
testily. ' No, no, Mr. Meiklejohn,
it was a wetter death than that, Vvdiich
might fall to the lot of any brat in a
cottage. No ; as I said, there was this
little child, as beautiful as an angel, and
as proud as a king. I remember him,
as if it were yesterday, with his great
dark eyes, that were as bold as a lion's,

and all the silky curls about that pretty
head, and the gay clothes they pranked
him in. My lord was a cold-seeming
man — nor is a father like a mother — but
all agreed that my lord was wrapped upas
people call it, in the child. It was
afterwards, as I've heard, that he took so
greatly to politics.'

But how did this sad thing happen,
Mr. Stubbs?' very reasonably demanded
the Scottish gardener.

It happened this way, Mr. Meiklejohn,'
replied the coachman, returning to the
pith of his story. ' My lord brought
down with him, besides his valet, a nurse,
of course, for the child, a very respectable,
tidy young person, but a Londoner,
and over-young for such a situation.
This young person, the maid, used to go,

with the perambulator and the little child,
who may have been four, or something
near that age, here and there, but most
to the sands at Horseshoe Bay, and sit
down there and read, or look at the sea,
as girls like that will do. And one day,
when a sudden storm came on, she didn't
come back. When the child and the
nurse were missed, there was a search,
but it was all too late. The perambulator
was found empty above high-water mark,
and so was the open book the girl had
been reading. But that was all ; and
nothing more was known until, four days
after, the body of the young woman was
found, poor thing, in shoal water, six
miles off, tangled in the long weed on
Muddlesham Bank, and she was buried
in Shrapton Cemetery. But the child's

poor, beautiful little corpse was never
found — washed out to sea, no doubt,
and '

Here a sudden crash interrupted the
narrator, as Obadiah dropped his long
churchwarden ' pipe, and the fragile clay
was smashed to pieces on the sanded floor.

What's that, now ?' exclaimed Mr.
Meiklejohn.

'Nothing. The old cove in the corner
must have nodded off to sleep, I suppose,'
answered the coachman, glancing towards
the captain of jet-hunters, with whose
personal appearance he did not happen
to be acquainted.

But Obadiah sat quite still, and appeared
to be unaffected either by the story
he had just heard or by the demolition of
his pipe.

Somehow, the interruption seemed to

have broken the thread of the coachman's
ideas ; or it may possibly be that, having
reached the climax of his tale, he had
nothing more to tell. At any rate, he
finished his pipe in sulky silence. Nor,
after the space of some five minutes, did
Obadiah Jedson linger in the parlour of
the ' Blue Lion.' Quietly the captain of
jet-hunters rose from his seat in the corner,
and stalked out of the room, paying
his modest reckoning at the bar, and
passing out into the dusk of the coming
night.

A strange, dour-looking carle !' remarked
the gardener from the Lothians,
as the towering form of Obadiah passed
by; 'just, to my fancy, what one o'
cur old Covenanting saints must have
been — they who bled and suffered for the
Truth.'

That's Greek to me,' responded the
coachman.

Meanwhile, Obadiah Jedson's sift
strides, despite his age, bore him rapidly
to where, with fires gleaming in the
twilight, the bivouac of the jet-hunters
had been established in Horseshoe Bay.
Several voices were raised in greeting
or in questioning accents at the sight
of the jet-seekers' captain. But their
aged chief lingered not to hold conversation
with his followers.

'Hush ye!' he said, in the peremptory
tones that prevented further parley. 'I
am on an errand now that brooks no
tarrying.'

There was in Obadiah Jedson's rough
apology for a tent, made of a fragment
of tarpaulin supported by sticks, a little

old trunk, battered and dented in the
vicissitudes of many a journey. It contained,
besides some necessary raiment
the jet lately won by the company, and
also the clothes and ornaments which Don
had worn when first, near the jutting
black rocks on those very sands, the lost
child in his royal beauty had been discovered
by the adventurous rovers of the
sea-beach. Never in all those years had
old Obadiah chosen to separate himself
for a single day from those relics, and now
he felt assured he could use them to good
purpose. He made a bundle, with the
aid of a large red handkerchief, of the
clothes, the belt, and the other objects
that were the property of his foster-child,
and, bidding his band not to disturb
themselves should his return be

delayed, set off through the gathering
darkness along the upland road that led
to Herr ck Hall.

CHAPTER XV,

WITHIN THE CLASP.

'Wish to see this lordship !' exclaimed the
footman who, at Herrick Hall, answered
the door-bell, and who stood aghast at
the audacity of the proposition. The
footman was oily acting np to the ancient
tradition which makes it hard to see a
great man, or a rich man, face to face.
It is a tradition not wholly unreasonable.
If there were no barriers to fence us in
from unlicensed visitors, few of us would
survive the eternal annoyance which begging

letter writers, duns, maniacs, eccentric
projectors, and the pushing agents of
enterprising firms might inflict upon us.

The nobler the quarry, the more numerous
are the hawks ; and a rich earl can
hardly submit to be accosted, as a workman
may be, by the first person who may
happen — and a good many persons of both
sexes would happen — to wish to get something:
out of him.

'I do desire to see Earl Wyvern,' replied
Obadiah, who was the applicant for
admission. ' I am little used to trouble
the mighty of the earth to listen to my
words for my sake ; but I come on business,
to attend to which, unless I judge
wrongly, my lord the earl would gladly
rise, even from a king's feast. What I
have to say matters to his lordship:) far
more than it does to me.'

The footman wavered. Obadiah's gaunt
height, flaming e3^es, and dignity of bearing
overcame the impression which the
old red shirt, the battered hat, and the
coarse clothes had made on the servitor's
mind.

What name, please ?' he asked.

I am Obadiah Jedson — Captain Jed-son,
they call me,' answered the jet-hunter,
impressively. 'Tell the earl that
I can throw light upon what happened
here in Horseshoe Bay seventeen long-years
ago. Sir William Herrick, your
master, can hardly fail to have heard
of Captain Obadiah Jedson, the jet-seeker.'


The footman thereupon capitulated, and
went in to do Obadiah's errand. In a
few minutes — in fewer minutes than the
gaunt old chief of the jet-hunters' company

had reckoned on — the footman came
back.

Sir William did know of you, captain, "^
he said, more respectfully than he had
spoken before, 'and so did her ladyship.
Please step this way. My lord will see
you in the dining-room.' x

There were lamps and candles blazing
in the long, red-walled dining-room of
Herrick Hall, so that the portraits of Sir
William's ancestors in armour, or in silk,
or in the bag wig and laced coat of a
later period, blinked on the intruder from
within their heavily-gilded frames as if
they had been drowsily alive. Dinner
was lately over, but fruit and flowers yet
stood in their silver baskets on the white
cloth of the table, and the sideboard
groaned beneath the weight of the great
Tudor tankards and flagons, the shields,

the cups, and the vases of the Restoration
period, and the massive ugliness of the
Georgian epoch. Lord Wyvern quickly
came, somewhat of a frown upon his
brow.

'Mr. — or Captain — Jedson,' he said,
'you have evoked very painful recollections
— I trust not on frivolous grounds
by the message which you have
thought fit to send me. If you have
anything to tell worth the telling, I am
prepared to listen to you.'

'Lord earl,' replied Obadiah, confronting
the peer with a grave dignity that
challenged respect, ' I forget neither what
is due to a nobleman's rank nor to a
father's heart when I ask your lordship
to hearken to a rough man like me. I
am a jet-hunter — a captain of jet-hunters.
It seems to me but yesterday that our

VOL. III. R

camp was pitched, as it is to-day, in
Horseshoe Bay, hard by. It was seventeen
long years ago. It was summer
weather. It was the day of a sharp and
sudden storm, such as we who lead an
open-air life, always on the beach, are
not unused to, even in the fine season.'

'Well?' said the earl, as his lips quivered,
and the lines that furrowed his broad
white brow seemed to deepen, and he waited
to hear more.

My lord,' Obadiah resumed, ' I am not
one of those who believe in luck — heath en -
ly so called. But there is a guidance, if
we could see it aright. On that day of
sudden storm on the sands, close to the
leaping waves, on the inner side of the
black rocky headland that juts out into
the sea, and cuts off the bay from Shrapton
and the coast-line, we saw as if it had

dropped from the sky, the figure of a
child.'

Alive ?' asked Lord Wyvern, hoarsely.
When had his voice before that day been
so little under his control !

'Alive,' Obadiah hastened to sav, 'and
well, and fearless. A beautiful boy, Vvdth
silken curls and great dark eyes, richly
clad, dainty to look upon — like a little
prince torn from a palace, and set there on
the desolate sea-beach, almost within reach
of the furious sea. Quite alone he was.
How he came to be there we marvelled
then, for already the great white waves
were sending their columns of spray high
over the end of the rocky promontory, and
the strongest man could not have rounded
the point. But it has been borne in upon
me since that the child, unconscious of the
danger, may perhaps have gone round the

r2

headland on his little feet — straying very
close to death, with the tide coming in at
racehorse speed, helped by the gale, but
yet eluding the doom that was so near.
He must have been on our side of the
rocks some minutes before we sighted
him.' N

Of what age was the boy ?' asked the
earl, quickly. ' I conclude, by your presence
here, that you know the details of
my loss ?'

An hour or two ago, lord earl, I
knew not of your loss,' answered the jet-hunter.
' The overhearing of a chance
conversation — if there be such a thing as
chance, fer I hold that what is written,
that shall be — has brought home to me,
after all these years, that our foundling,
and my own foster-son, the little fellow
whom we adopted among us, was no other

than your son, my lord. At the time Ave
never dreamed of it. Our company was
on the move, and our march was northward.
We carried the boy with us. He
was too young to tell us his parents'
names. Ashen we asked him as to his
home, as to his own name, he could only
tell us that they .called him, " Don." More
closely questioned, he replied, crying as a
child will cry, "Little Don." Is such a
name strange to you, my lord ?'

The tears that started to Earl Wyvern's
haughty eyes, and the deep sob that shook
his frame, were answer enough.

'Is he — my boy — yet living?' asked the
earl; and it was with almost an imploring-gaze
that he fixed his eyes on Obadiah's
rugged face.

'He is — he is, my lord,' the jet-hunter
made haste to say. ' Roughly as we reared

him, and poor as we were, he grew upto
be as handsome and as noble a youth as
ever gladdened a father's eyes. He still
goes by the name of Don — Mr. Don, they
call him, for all believed him to be a
gentleman's child from the first — and a

o

braver lad, or a gentler, never won the
praise of high and low along the coast
here.'

'Don? — yes, it was a name the Italian
servants gave him at Naples, where they
called him Don Lionel — Lionel Arthur
Wyvern was his real name — and I, too,
called him nothing else,' said the earl,
thoughtfully. ' I saw a young man, and a
singularly handsome one, at Woodburn ^
Parsonage, who '

'Why, that must have been our Don —
pardon me for interrupting your lordship
since Mr. Langton taught him, and

liked him well, until that business came up
about Miss Mowbray.'

And in a few words Obadiah recounted
how Don had become a clerk in Lord
Thorsdale's land-office, how he won
Violet's love, but, at her guardian's
bidding, had been banished from the
house.

We may remedy that,' said the earl,
smiling. 'But I forgot. Have you preserved,
Captain Jedson, any of the clothes
which the child wore?'

I have carried them with me, under
lock and key, in all my wandering career,'
answered Obadiah, as he undid the
bundle, and laid it on the table before
him. ' Here, my lord, are the boy's
clothes. This fine green velvet tunic, as
you see, frayed and whitened now, but
with the silver buttons yet bright, for I

have burnished them at times; and here
are the rest of the things, cap, shoes, and
all, and the belt, with its big clasp of
silver : that is bright, too ; and a coral thing,
that hung by a thin gold chain.'

That,' said the earl, ' is a Neapolitan
charm against the Evil Eye — a mere toy ;
but the belt ! Did you not wonder at
what you found within the clasp ?'

Indeed, no. I doubt if I understand
you, my lord,' said Obadiah, wondering in
his turn.

I will see,' said the earl, ' if I have forgotten
;' and, after one or two attempts, he
pressed a spring, when instantly a silver
plate flew open, revealing within a cavity
that contained two tiny locks of hair and
certain graven letters.

Those are his mother's initials and
mine. That is his mother's hair and my

own. I doubt no more,' said Lord Wy vern.
• And now, Captain Jedson, how can I ever
repay the debt?'

Suddenly Obadiah struck his forehead,
exclaiming, ' Dolt ! dullard that I am !
My lord, I greatly fear that the good news
comes too late. They have driven our
Don half-desperate by separating him from
the girl he loves, and tomorrow, early
tomorrow, the brave boy starts to seek
his fortune beyond the seas — starts for
Mexico.'

Lord Wyvern turned pale. He had
quite lost his stoicism at the sight of the
clothes and trinkets that his only child,
so long mourned as dead, had worn ; but
the tears that dimmed his haughty eyes
had not been all of sorrow. But now it
seemed as though some new misfortune
were impending

How is this T he asked.

Then Obadiah related how Don, smarting
under the imputation of mercenary
motives, and despairing of being deemed a
fitting suitor for Violet unless he grew
rapidly rich, had induced Mr. Bartlett to
recommend him to his brother, who
managed some Mexican grandee's estate
and mines in Northern Mexico.

I have been in America myself, my
lord, both north and south,' concluded the
jet-hunter, bodin'gly, ' and what I fear for
the noble boy is his own courage. If he
hadn't had a lion's heart, there'd have been
widows in Yorkshire where there are happy
Vives, and orphans crying for bread, that
never knew what Don's strong arm had
done for them. But the lad is going where
disease and savao-es and cowardly stabbers
are as plenty as '

This must be stopped !' said Lord
Wyvern, interrupting in his turn. And
then Sir William Herrick was taken into
council, and after some time had been inevitably
lost in receiving the sincere congratulations
of his kindly entertainers, in
consulting railway time-tables, and in
settling on a plan of action, a mounted
messenger was dispatched to Shrapton, to
bespeak a special train to be in readiness
in the morning to set off at an hour
sufficiently early to render it possible to
intercept Don at an important junction, at
which he must necessarily stop during his
journey towards Southampton and the
steam-packet, West India bound, that was
to waft him across the Atlantic towards
Vera Cruz.

I will send my own servant — Simmons
is a very steady man,' said the earl. ' But

Captain Jedson, you will add very greatly
to the obligation under which you have
already laid me if you will accompany my
valet, and vouch to Don himself, who knows
you so well, for the truth of the tidings
which follow him. Tell the boy that he
has no need now to seek a fortune b}^
imperilling his young life among barbarous
foes, and in a semi-civilised country.
Wyvern Castle, and the estates and the
town house, and the earl's coronet in the
future, belong to him of right, as to me.
He is even now Lord Ludlow, and as such
I beg of you to cut short his projected self-exile,
and to bring him back to the arms
of his father.'



CHAPTER XVI.

'my lord!'

The Ry which was to convey Don and liis-
scanty luggage to the Daneborough Station
arrived very early at the Old Steward's
House at Thorsdale Park, and Don's young
fellow-clerk was still asleep as this office
companion started. Don's leave-takings
had been got over. He had seen Violet, ashe
believed to be probable, for the last
time. He had parted, before the jet-hunters'
band set out on their southward march,
With his foster-father, Obadiah Jedson

He had spoken hopefully to both of these ;
but, high of heart as he usually was, Don
felt as if these was little prospect of a rapid
rise in life, and a quick return to England
and his promised bride. His courage was
as dauntless as he had proved it to be
many a day by sea and land, but his spirits
were not as blithe as of old. Perhaps,
since he had been called a fortune-hunter
since, for the first time in his bright
young life, unworthy motives had been
imputed to him— a gloom seemed to have
settled upon the young man's joyous
nature.

As Don drove past Woodburn Parsonage,
nestling among its trees, and as he looked
up towards the windows of Violet's chamber,
half-hidden by flowering creepers, tears
sprang to his eyes. It was very early as
yet. All at the parsonage were probably

asleep. The gardener on the lawn was
whetting his scythe, but the house itself as
yet was hushed. Then came the rest of
the drive to Daneboroug-h ; then the waiting
at the station ; and then at last the
lumbering train jolted and snorted its way,
as if with sullen reluctance, along the iron
road.

It was a slow train by which Don vv^as to
travel. Intending: emigrants have seldom
much money to waste, and on such lines
as that from Daneborough expresses were,
like the proverbial visits of angels, few and
far between. This was a train ostentatiously,
almost irritably slow, stopping
everywhere, even beside damp brick platforms
that stood like red oases in a waste
of wet greenery, and where the oldest
porter on duty could not have remembered
three passengers arriving or departing at

any one time — and rumbling; sluggishly
along, like an unwieldy elephant, from each
of these centres of agricultural depression
to another. At last there was a town, and
there tickets were pierced or snipped ; and
then there was another town, where it was
needful to alight, wait, and change
carriages. And so, in a slow way, the first
portion of the journey was completed.

Don went through this tedious preliminary
to his pilgrimage like a man in a
dream. His thoughts were far away, sometimes
With Violet in her peaceful home
sometimes among the scenes of his late
occupations, and anon in the very different
land that awaited him beyond the sunny
sea and the palm-crested Antilles, the land
of deep dry cantons, so called, of serrated
ridges of porphyry and selenite, of blue
peaks, vulture-haunted, and of forests of

thorny scrub, through which a horse could
hardly force his way. That was the Land
of Promise. Don had his full share of the
youth's longing for adventure and contempt
for peril which has planted the English flag
everywhere; but now — he knew not why —
he felt a sensation of sadness, as though
failure and disappointment lay in wait for
him at the end of the long journey on
which he was bound.

Never mind,' he said to himself, with a
laugh ; ' at the sight of blue water my
spirits will rise again, I am sure.'

'Switcham Junction. Change!' said the
guard, going quickly along the line of
carriages.

Don, with the other passengers, got out
and waited.

Switcham is a great station, the nucleus
of a very iron spider's-web of rails, running
VOL. in. s

towards the cardinal points of the compass,
twisting, curving, and converging in the
most bewildering way. It is dull work
loitering on the boarded platform of such
a place.

There Don stood, looking dejectedly
about him. Suddenly there was a little
bustle on the platform.

See all clear there ! — special coming, as
telegraphed from the North !' bawled a
deputy-inspector, and there was a moment
of activity.

Switcham Junction being, as a reference
to memory or to a time-table will prove, a
spot whither unnumbered lines converge,
a collision is always to be feared, just as is
an earthquake in Peru. It is only by dint
of great care that such untoward events
are reduced to the moderate amount which
does not awaken the Olympian wrath of

leading newspapers, and depress the current
value of debentures. On this occasion, no
doubt, the necessary precautions had been
taken, With good results, for presently the
special train from the North, merely consisting
of a couple of carriages tacked to a
tender and an engine, came in with a
smoothly rushing sound.

Perhaps Don was the only passenger
among she loiterers on the extensive platform
of Switcham who paid no attention
at all to the advent of that costly luxury
which only the rich can afford : the special
train. The special train, then, so far as
Don was concerned, rolled unrewarded in.

'My lord!' said a strange voice, in a tone
of deferential eagerness, so close to Don's
ear that the young man could but start
and turn his head. What he saw before
him was a person in black, and with trim

s2

black whiskers, well dressed, but with the
subservient air which denoted the highly-trained
domestic.

I beg your lordship's pardon !' said the
man, raising his glossy hat.

Don stared at him in very natural surprise.


'This is some mistake,' he said, tolerantly.

'No mistake at all, asking your lordship's
pardon for the liberty,' said the stranger.
We have followed your lordship from the
North by special train, and 1 am speaking,
I hope, to Mr. Don ?' added the manservant
rapidly, and with some anxiety.

'My name is Don,' answered the young
man, dio scarcely knew hoar to treat this
importunate intruder on his privacy. The
man was respectable in appearance and
respectful in manner : could scarcely be
regarded either as a monomaniac or as the

perpetrator of a hoax. ' For whom do you
take me ?' lie demanded, sternly.

For Lord Ludlow, my lord. I am hereby
orders of your lordship's father, my lord,
and '

So far had the valet proceeded in his
speech, when a deeper voice struck in,

'Don, my dear boy, the man tells the
truth, strange, and passing strange, as it
may sound in those young ears of thine.'

And Don saw at his elbow the towering
form and striking face of the aged captain
of the jet-hunters.

You, too !' exclaimed Don, utterly
bewildered ; ' and you also wishful to persuade
me that I am not myself, but somebody
else ! Am I awake, or is all this a
dream ?'

'A sweet dream, a happy dream, as I
hope,' answered Obadiah, with the grim

chuckle which with him, on very rare
occasions, did duty for a laugh. ^ Come
with me, my child, while I try to make
clear to you what must now seem darkness
indeed.'

And, passing his gaunt arm through that
of Don, the old jet-hunter gently drew the
astonished young man away from the sj^ot,
where the discreet valet remained motionless.


^ My boy, my foster-child,' began Obadiah,
in a voice that was broken by emotion,
when first you came — a wee thing — to
break our bread, and warm your little
limbs beside our camp-fire, I knew from
the first that you belonged to gentle-folks.
You were like a tiny eaglet that had
dropped down from the eyrie aloft, and had
but the barred feathers and the dauntless
eyes to tell of what race you came. At

last the truth is known. Your father,
who grows impatient as he waits yonder
to press you to his heart, is a grand nobleman,
a noble earl, my lad.'

'His name?' Don asked, as his breath
went and came more quickly than usual.

His name is Earl Wyvern. You are
yourself, it seems, Don, a lord, and your
true name is Lionel Arthur, Lord Ludlow.
You are his lordship's only child and
natural heir,' replied Obadiah ; and then
went on, as rapidly and as lucidly as he
could, to explain how, being an unsuspected
listener to the talk of two of Sir
William Herrick's servants in the sanded
parlour of the ' Blue Lion ' — near which,
in Horseshoe Bay, the jet-hunters' bivouac
had been established — he had found for
the first time a clue to the mystery of
Don's parentage. He told how Lord Wyvern

had willingly given credence to his
tale, and had even himself, by touching
the secret spring of the massive silver clasp,
added an extra link to the chain of proofs
which all accepted as sufficient.

There was no question any longer of
Don's pursuing his solitary journey towards
the steamship that was to waft the
young adventurer to Mexico. Don — or
otherwise Lord Ludlow — had no need to
seek a fortune by way of qualifying himself
as an eligible suitor for Violet's hand.
His fortune was made already, since there
was many a fair demesne, besides that
which surrounded Wyvern Castle, that in
the fulness of time must, with the earl's
coronet, descend to Don.

The end of the colloquy was that, as
fast as the special train could hurry him
along, Don sped over the iron road to

Shrapton. As he sat alone in his compartment
of a first" class carriage — old
Obadiah. having insisted on journeying,
as before, in company with Lord Wyvern's
confidential servant, so as to leave his
foster-child to his own reflections — it
seemed almost to Don as though he were
the hero of a fairy-tale. The news appeared
too good to be true, the promotion
too sudden, the change in his
prospects as abrupt as would be an instantaneous
change from bleak winter to
brilliant summer.

Shrapton at last, and the sea. At the
station door one of Sir William Herrick's
carriages was in waiting. Obadiah declined
to accompany his former charge to
the Hall.

'I shall see you, though, tomorrow,'
said Don, wringing the old man's hand.

and then lie stepped into the carriage.
I shall tell the coachman to drive fast
my lord,' said the earl's valet, as he sprang
to his seat on the box, and the carriage
dashed off towards Herrick Hall.

N

CHAPTER XVII.

FATHER AND SON.

Sill AViLLTAM Herrick, who was the soul
of hospitality, had thoughtfully provided
that Don, on his arrival at the Hall, should
be ushered at once into the presence of his
father. In the library, a large room where
well-stored book-shelves alternated with the
branching antlers of stags slain long ago,
and With armour kept bright by the care
of sundry generations of servants, the earl
received the long-lost son whom he had so
long sorrowed for as dead. All Lord Wyvern's

pride, all the habitual coldness of
his manner, gave way at once, and he did
not even try to hide the unwonted tears
that dimmed his eyes, as, opening his
arms, he pressed the young man to his
breast.

'My boy!' he exclaimed, pushing Don
from him a little way, with a hand upon
each shoulder, so as to see him better,
^ you cannot tell what this meeting is tome
! To find again, as if the very grave
had, through Heaven's mercy, yielded him
up to me, the little child — all that my
Marian left me — and to find in him a
man grown, and a son of whom any father
would be proud indeed !'

Don, too, was more affected than he
had deemed possible. There was something
touching in the very change in the
bearing of one so haughty as the father

to whom he had been newly restored.
The earl's character had indeed, as has
been hinted, seemed to undergo a great
change at the period of his bereavements,
when first his dearly-loved young wife,
and next his only child, were snatched
from him. Now already he seemed to
unbend, and the genial kindliness of his
original nature appeared to force its way
through the frigid austerity which to
recent observers had seemed the keynote
of his disposition.

'You have the Wyvern features, my
boy !' said the earl presently, ' but your
eyes remind me of your mother, too.
When I saw you by chance at Wood-burn
Parsonage, your face haunted and
perplexed me. But how could I conjecture
that the tender child, lost beneath
the waves, as all believed, so long ago

was there before me, under Mr. Langton's
roof! To you, Don, I suspect, it all seems
like a dream.'

sit does, my lord,' replied Don, frankly;
^ and yet it is a dream that makes me
very happy. Had I been offered to choose
the father who should o-reet me as his son
I would gratefully have chosen it as it
has been willed.'

Next followed Don's introduction to
worthy Sir William, and to Lady Herrick,
and their only unmarried daughter. How
strangely sounded in his ears the new
name that must now be his — Lord Ludlow.
But his father, though he mentioned his
recovered son by his new and aristocratic
designation, and that proudly and with
glistening eyes, never once addressed his
heir save as ^ Don,' as he had done when the
tall, strong young man was but a beautiful

child. That congratulations were not
lacking may be readily supposed. Kindly
Sir William Herrick and his excellent wife
hospitably insisted on extending a pressing
invitation to ' Lord Ludlow ' to he
their guest during his father's stay, and
it was settled that the visit of both the
earl and his new-found son should be
protracted for some time, to afford leisure
for some necessary arrangements.

Don's first care was, with his father's
sanction, to write to Mr. Marsh, in his
capacity of Miss Mowbray's guardian, to
ask leave formally to renew, under his
new name and in his altered position, his
former proposals for Violet's hand. When
it came to signing this letter, the first
that he had written since his sudden and
extraordinary rise in life, Don felt a passing
awkwardness. Such feelings beset

many men when environed by unaccustomed
grandeur. A Court suit, a military
uniform, with the sword that belongs
to either garb, inflicts, when worn for the
first time, tortures on the diffident, to
which those whose nerves are strung to
a different tension are strangers. And soit
is sometimes with fine names. I have
seen a quiet country lady who unexpectedly
became a peeress as miserable as I
have seen a timid gentleman, starting for
Buckingham Palace and the presence of
royalty, with his spit of a Court-sword
persistently getting between his silk-stockings
ankles. Don was of another mould.
But even he paused for a moment before
he signed himself ' Don — Ludlow.'

The effect of this letter, and of one
from Earl Wyvern to his old acquaintance,
the Rev. Samuel Langton, at Wood-burn

Parsonage, may be readily conceive
There had been, under cover to the dry-salter,
in Don's letter, an open note to
Violet — such a note as the gallant lad
would have written had a successful stroke
in Mexico sent him back unexpectedly
early to her whom he loved — couched in
modest, loving, and manly words.

Between the sending of these letters
and the reception of the consequent replies,
Don learned from Captain Obadiah,
whose band yet lingered in Horseshoe
Bay, that a recently-arrived jet-hunter
had brought the news of the inquest
which had been held upon the body of
Rufus Crouch, with its matter-of-fact
verdict of 'Accidental death,' and of the
wretched man's burial in the nearest
parish churchyard, the few sovereigns
that had been found in his hut sufficing

VOL. III. T

to pay the expenses of his unmourned
funeral.

Mr. Marsh, dry salter and City merchant
as he was, had been more stirred during
his brief residence in Yorkshire by emotions
of one sort or another than ever
before in the many years of his life. He
made haste now to Avrite two letters. One
was to Don. How hard it was to Mr.
Marsh seriously to address the young jet-hunter
— the adventurer whom he had so
rouo;hlv driven from Violet's side — the
nameless, fortuneless waif of the sea-beach
as * My lord !' And yet he had to write
the words, ' My lord ' ; for was not Don,
the penniless jet-seeker, the poorly-salaried
clerk, heir to a great English noble, and
the bearer of a grand, historic name? But
Mr. Marsh took credit to himself, justly,

that Don's personal qualities had shone out,
even to his eyes, through the mists and
clouds in which poverty and adverse circumstances
enwrap but too many of us.
He had been sorry for his harshness — he
had owned the lad to be noble in heart
and conduct — even before the lad's nobility
of blood and name had been blazoned
forth to the world. So he jennet to
Don a letter that did credit to both.

To Earl Wyvern, Mr. Marsh addressed
a more formal epistle of congratulation
and of acceptance, so far as a guardian
can accept, the honour of Lord Ludlow's
offer of marriage to his ward. He mentioned,
too, that Violet's accession to a
fortune of seventy thousand pounds, with
deferred dividends amounting; to a laro;e
sum, was now, as recent inquiries had

t2

proved, fully assured, and that therefore
the young bride would bring this large
dower to her future husband.

There were two other letters dated from
the pleasant parsonage at Woodburn. One
of them was addressed to Earl Wy vern,
and was signed. 'Samuel Langton,' its
contents being warm felicitations, learned
quotations, and witty remarks — such a
letter as we seldom see now, for the rector
deserved to have lived, if not when the
Right Honourable Joseph Addison and
ingenious Sir Richard Steele lorded it at
the coffee-houses in vogue, at least as far
back as the time of Boswell, Chesterfield,
and the Leviathan of a Doctor. The other
letter was that from Violet to Lord Ludlow.
Outside the envelope, of course, he
was to be called by his grand new name
his new name that she was soon to

share ; but within the loving little letter
there was no allusion to his courtesy title.
He was Don — her clear, clear Don — Violet's
only love — Violet's only darling. She welcomed
him back as if he had ridden boldly
ofr to the battle-field, and come lack
unhurt. And she confessed to him all
her fears, which she had partly kept back
before, that she should lose him for ever
in that burning land beyond the seas,
and she poured out her innocent heart
to him simply, in the hour of her rejoicing
because her lover was given back to
her.

Earl Wyvern had given his consent
promptly. He could not easily have refused
anything to the son so newly restored
to him ; and he had seen Violet,
and regarded her as the sweet, good girl
she was. So arrangements were commenced

for the marriage that, some
months later, was to be.

Letters, however dear to lovers, are
but, after all, the pale reflection of loving
words and looks. Don — let us call
him so still — wrote fervently enough, and
Violet answered his letters in such pretty
words as deserved the immortality which
has been the lot of some exceptionally-preserved
love-letters that have handed
dovfn to us from a long-buried past the
old simple pathos that renews itself, ever
and always, for each successive generation,
like the rose's perfume and the lark's
song. But Don could not rest until he
had hurried off to Woodburn Parsonage
to see Violet again.

How changed were all the externals of
life since the day, so recent, when he
had left Thorsdale to seek his fortune in

Mexico — since that on which, with Mr.
Marsh's half-reluctant sanction, he had
bidden farewell to her on whom his heart
was set ! He was coming back now like
a young prince that had been recognised
as heir to his father's kingdom, and could
cast aside the mean apparel of early exile,
and shine forth like the sun flashing from
the midst of riven clouds. But Don hardly
thought of his altered circumstances :
thought of little, indeed, save of Violet
herself.

I am so glad — so glad !' Violet said
these words, and no more, as she stretched
out her two white little hands to meet
those eager ones that Don extended in
greeting ; and then she turned her sweet
face aside, and began to sob.

'Why should you cry, my love?' asked
the young man, impetuously, and with

a certain sense of disappointment, for to
lira it had seemed as if life now ouo;ht to
be all sunshine and joy.

But Violet did cry, though not for long,
and, it would have been difficult for her,
if arraigned before a Court of Love, as
in the Languedoc of the Troubadours, to
have given a coherent account of the
cause of her tears. Certainly it was not
because Don was restored to her. Certainly
it was not because the course of
true love, after a brief delay amidst rocks
and eddies, was henceforth to run smooth.
There must have been some other reason,
and perhaps Violet's own timid statement,
in answer to pressing questions, came nearest
to the truth.

Do you know, Don dear,' she said,
coyly, after a time, ' that, since you
have become so grand a personage, I

am almost more than half afraid of
you?'

I don't know how I can be strand, ora
person ao'e,' responded Don, almost indignantly.
'Surely, my own, I am the
same that I was — say — the day before yesterday.
And to be afraid of me !'

But I have been thinking, and I am
half afraid,' said Violet, in that half
playful, half serious way in which a girl
who loves alone can speak, and which hasa
charm of its own beyond the reach of
imitation — 'half afraid of you, dear, since
you are Lord Ludlow, and not Don anymore,
and will be an earl some day, and
so rich and lono;-descended, and mio;ht
choose — I daresay — among those who are
stir more beautiful and noble than '

With a kiss Don stopped the rosy lips
from saying more.

This is sheer treason, my darling,' he
said, as he passed his strong arm around
Violet's slender waist ; ^ Don I am, and
Don I shall ever be, it seems, to those
who love me or like me — most of all to
her who is all the world to me, as you
are, Violet dear. And what can a title
signify, or a fortune, except that they
help to bring us two together ? and whereout
of all the world, could I have found
a wife so sweet and dear as the one whose
heart is bound to mine ?'

Then the talk flowed on, as lovers
talk is apt to do, in other channels, and
Violet, ceasing to plead her own unworthiness
for the high position which she
must be one day called upon to fill, gave
herself up to the sweetness of the hour.
Her Don — her chosen, her youthful hero,
was restored to her, and that after a

separation so recent that the pang of
parting was fresh and new in her recollection.
And she could confess now,
with a strange sense of enjoyment — such
as the memory of past pain sometimes
brings with it, illogical but delicious —
how keen had been her apprehensions
lest Don should never come back — should,
indeed, be lost to her for ever.

I was so afraid for you, my darling,*
she murmured again and again ; ' so
afraid, because you are so brave. It
would have been worse for you,' she
added, with feminine force of reasoning,
than for another in your place.'

I was sad, but I did not see much to
be afraid of,' answered Don, with his
bright smile. ' When one has had to
struggle often with sea and storm and
quicksand, neither fever nor savage neighbours

appear so very terrible. And I
feel somehow like an impostor in coming
back safe and sound before I had had
time or chance to show the stuff I was
made of, and whether I could do as well
under novel circumstances as my friends'
partiality prompted them to predict forme.
I feel, too, as though things were
made too comfortable for me, and the
whole Avorld had entered into a conspiracy
to surround me, the waif of the
sea-beach, with luxury and honours, and,
I suppose, to spoil me.'

It would take a great deal to spoil
you, Don,' said Violet, half proudly, half
tearfully, as she laid her white hand
timidly on Don's dark curls.

You for one, love, seem determined to ^
do it,' replied Don, with a laugh ; and then
he kissed her again, and had only just

time to retire to a decorous distance before
worthy Mr. Marsh came bluiideririo; into
the room to shake the former object of his
aversion by the hand, and wish him joy in
his new character as Lord Ludlow.

And after the excellent dry Salter, came
the good clergyman and his wife, and the
conversation became general, turning always,
however, on the subject that filled
the minds of all at Woodburn Parsonage :
the wonderful revolution of fortune's
wheel that had suddenly bestowed on the
foundling of the sea-shore every advantage
of rank and wealth.

I must not stay,' said Don, after an
hour or two had been thus spent pleasantly
enough. ' I promised my father — how
strangely does the sound of my own voice
ring when I say the word ! — that I would
be back at Sir William's house Ion 2; before

dinner-time, and I must not be late. I
really think,' he added, with a laugh,
'that Lord AVyvern grudges everything
just now that takes me out of his sight,
and could hardly spare me to-day, even to
you.'

'And I don't wonder at it, Don, my
child,' answered the rector, .cheerily, as he
shook hands with his former pupil.' nor
do you, Violet, I daresay ?'

And Violet's blushing cheek and sunny
gaze gave a sufficient answer to the question.


So Don went back to Sir William Herr
ck's, but it was nth a full understanding
that his marriage with Mr. Marsh's ward
was soon to be.

CHAPTER XVITL

MARRIAGE-BELLS.

Lord Wy^^erx, in pursuance of his
promise, at length wrote to Dr. Leader, in
his character of the magistrate before
whom Rufus Crouch had made and affirmed
on oath his deposition concerning the
cheque forged, presented, and cashed at
Threddleston. The earl expressed his
readiness, if necessary, to be prosecutor in
the case, should it be considered that
adequate grounds existed for such a
course. Some delay ensued, and at last

Dr. Leader's answer came. The medical
magistrate, before acting, had taken counsel
of his brothers of the Bench ; and it
had been after mature deliberation, and in
company with another justice of the peace,
that he had called, with an escort of
police, at Helston. But Sir Robert's
steep-roofed manor-house Alas found in
charge of a couple of care-takers, and Sir
Robert himself was gone. That the
baronet had abruptly discharged his servants,
had packed up a few effects,
and had started, taking with him no
attendant but an old valet who had
been with him since the beginning; of
his military career, was ascertained. He
was reported-to have closed his London
house as summarily as he had put down
his establishment in Yorkshire, and to
have sailed for Demerara, where rumour

alleged him to possess a small estate, inherited
from his father. That, however, was
hearsay; and Dr. Leader expressed himself
as being glad to be freed from a disagreeable
duty which it would otherwise
have been necessary to fulfil.

The grim old captain of the jet-hunters,
to whom both the earl and Don felt that
they owed a deep debt of gratitude, refused
the liberal offers of money which Lord
Wyvern pressed upon him.

I lack for nothing, my lord,' he answered
; ' and, for the little I did, my foster-son
our Don — I call the young lord still — has
paid me for it time again by true service
and kindly feeling. Your lordship's friendly
words I am thankful for, but I need no
gold, save what I have earned in my wild
trade.'

But Don's knowledge of the old man's

VOL. III. u

peculiarities prevailed, and Obadiah accepted
the gift of a small farm which Earl
Wyvern had purchased for him in Beck-dale,
the place of his birth, and of some
such freehold as the veteran jet-hunter —
descendant of a race of yeoman that had
sunk into poverty — confessed himself t>
have been all his life ambitious to be the
possessor of. So the famous old company
of jet-seekers was broken up, most of its
numbers turning their attention to more
prosaic forms of bread winning.

Mr. Marsh experienced less difficulty
even than he had anticipated in securing
for his pretty ward's benefit that seventy
thousand pounds to which she was entitled
in virtue of the trust-deed signed by her
eccentric great-uncle, the late Major-general
Yorke, and which had been the
glittering bait that had tempted Sir

Eobert to his ruin, and his accomplice,
Crouch, to his death. The money Alas
there, of course, safe in Britannia's keeping,
and ready to be duly accounted for,
like the treasure in the Eastern* tale,
when the proper Oj^en Sesame ! should be
pronounced ; though, left to itself, it
would probably have gone, in the ripeness
or rottenness of time, to swell that heap
of unclaimed and uncared for money which
occasionally makes such a stir in the world
when its amount is suddenly revealed.
Meanwhile, Crouch's hut, unrepaired, and
liable to sportive damage from boys, fell
gradually to ruins — fit emblem of the
downfall of the plans of its savage proprietor.


Lord Thorsdale, who kept his motley
guests with him till he and they were
mutually tired of one another, and then

went to Coves, Vintner, and Torquay, passed
a miserable winter, and seemed on the
point of becoming really ill. But in early
spring the masterful valetudinarian carried
ois his complaining countess to Davos, and,,
Ashen the snows on the passes permitted it,
went up to St. Moritz itself, where his
shattered health derived real benefit, perhaps
as much from the triumph of having
his own way as from the bracing air of that
elevated mountain plateau. He came
down better in mind and body, and has
ever since then been quoted by the faculty,
when persuading a recalcitrant patient to
'try the Engadine,' as a burning and
shining beacon whereby to take example
in the way of regaining health. Glitka,
the baronet once gone, found her further
sojourn in England unendurable, and,
much regretted by her partial mistress,.

Lady Thorsdale, returned to her native
Hungary.

The efficient partner in the eminent
disasters' firm of Crump, Marsh, and
Caxton is still a bachelor, still a resident
in Dagger Court, and still as successful in
business as before. He plays chess in
winter and angles from a punt in summer
with his former assiduity, but at Christmas
he now makes a rule of accepting the
cordial invitation to Wyvern Castle, one
of the boasts of the Severn valley, which
denotes the just esteem and liking with
which the old-fashioned City merchant i&
regarded by those who dwell there.

There were doubts among some of the
sterner, or perhaps the more conscientious,
of the county magistrates as to the propriety
of allowing the prosecution of Sir
Robert Shirley to be nipped in the bud

because the erring baronet bad fled the
country. Demerara, as Admiral Banner-man
pointed out in emphatic language to
his weaker brethren in the Commission of
the Peace, is, after all, a British colony,
and, as such, it was quite possible, if the
Crown took up the case, to bring back the
fugitive, ' in irons, too, gentlemen, and
with a marine sentry at his cabin door,' to
receive condign punishment at home.
But, before serious steps were taken to
interest the Treasury in the matter. Sir
Robert's body-servant, in mourning garb,
arrived at Thorsdale to inform the countess
of her brother's death, of jungle fever,
shortly after his reaching the malarious
district where his plantation lay, in the
sickly season. Sir Robert, before he grew
delirious, had begun to write a letter
which proved his tardy repentance.

The wedding-bells rang gaily, and
flowers and lace and jewels sparkled and
rustled and bloomed their best, when, with
the fullest and freest consent of all concerned,
Violet and Don — Miss Mowbray and
Lord Ludlow, in newspaper parlance and in
drawing-room and club-room gossip, but
to each other Don and Violet eternally —
were married in the spring.

It was a grand wedding, as became a
bride and bridegroom so favoured by
nature, and a house such as that noble
one of Wyvern, and royalty in some of its
junior branches graced the nuptials of the
former foundling of the wild sea-beach.

There is not much more to tell, save
that Don and Violet, loving and beloved,
keep up a friendly intercourse with good
Mr. and Mrs. Langton at Woodburn, and
that they continue to live with Earl

Wyvern, whose heart was greatly softened
by the sudden joy that repaid him for
years of lonely suffering, and who cannot
bear again to be separated from the son of
whom he is so proudly fond. Obadiah,
though bent and feeble, yet survives ; and
frequently the future Earl and Countess of
Wyvern — let them be Don and Violet tous
still — talk with affection and gratitude
of the good old man, and marvel at the
talisman of hidden happiness for them
that lay within the Clasp.

THE END.

LONDON: Painted BY DUNCAN MACDONALD BLENHEIM Hock,

a

HURST & BLACKETT'S

STANDARD LIBRARY.

LONDON:

13, GREAT Marlborough Street, W

43-

s>

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY

Sir J. E. Millais, Sir J. Gilbert, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Pott, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 6s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Edition
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sxm Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound"— J/or«mgr Post.

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and barter." — Scotsman.

This story is very interesting. Tbe attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athemeuni.

Il— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The ' Realities of Eastern
TrikVel' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how mach he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day life"— ff^o&e.

IV.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

"'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant. We should no; soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place 'Nathalie ' high among
books of its class." — Athenaeum.

V.~A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OP "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think: they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate & higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Athenaeum.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and 13
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit." — Morning Pest.

VI.— ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

' Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed." — Morning
Post.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written." — Messenger.

Vni.— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented ic Papal domination."
Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Craik. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In 'A Life for a Life' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English." —
Athenaeum.

'" A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
deduced moral — most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core." — Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Athenaeum.

"From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining books not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — observer.

XL— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES,"

"We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will And it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Athenaeum.

XII.— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

"A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to foriri a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a navy
country, unlike England La some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book."
John Bull.

Xii— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"This last production of the author of 'The Crescent and the Cross' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

"Eliot Warburton's active ain productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven." — Illustrated News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS

OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.
"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
ot reality far exceeds the romance of &ciion."'— Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Norlaw' will fully sustain
tae author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

"'Tbe Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modern novels." — Observer.

XVI.— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unexaggerated,
and full of opportune instruction." — The Times.

"Mis. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject. The work
is engaging, because ve&V—Athengeum.

XVII.— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of Qotion.''— Morning Post.

one

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBEET, allen OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Mis
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Morning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between 'John Halifax ' and
'The Cantons.' " — Standard.
The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
This is in every sense a charming novel" — Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM ; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

"This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories." — John Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
Sawn." — Uluitrattd News.

XXI.— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAYANAGH.

"'Adfele' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

• Adele' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
John Bull.

"raddle' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It is a very clever
oovsL"— Z)a^7J/ news.

XXII.— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies' are truthful and vivid pictures of life often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful." — Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life" are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
n-^ok will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished a.uthoT."— Saturday Review.

XXIII.— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

Wo commend ' Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel. The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

A book to be read and re-read; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has. out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable book." — Athenaeum.

Xxi.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It is well worth the
study." — Athenaeum.
'* A work of great originality, merit, and power." — Standard.

Xxvi— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

"A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenaeum.

A charming tale, charmingly told." — Standard.

"AH lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Craik's charming
Bodies." — John Bull.

Xxvi— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

'Lost and Saved' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

■'This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches." — Daily News.

Xxviii— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

Authorised Copyright English Translation.

"The merits of 'Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius." — Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as
'Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquiSite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of an
and go we intend it." — The Times.

XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. Edward IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A good book on a most interesting theme"— Times.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life* ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— iSa^urctov Review.

Xxxi— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

"This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading"— A^/ienoeuTn.

•" St Slave's ' beloJiKR to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded. '"-Afbrninfir Post.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— Point.

XXXIII.— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own"— Ttm^i.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the \a,sV—Athen<eum.

A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read 'Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character lor
manly superiority to tears. "We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie'— Pall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former yrorks."—At?ienceum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement 'Agnes ' ia
a story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all Tea.ders."—Moming Post.

Xxxvi— A NOBLE LIFE.
BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN,

j>

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the effort— Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble hook"— Adorning Post.

"'A Noble Life' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a study of powerful and pathetic interest."
—Daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

"A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well." — Time
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon very interesting hooks'— Saturday Review.

XXXVIII.— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"robert Falconer' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
know. edge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN,

"the Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of doaaeatic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters ar
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole work
sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

XLI.— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

XLII.— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
authors remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags.' —jPoi«

•''A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the authors works"— Z>a% Telegraph.

Xlii— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare heduMtj."— Standard.

•'A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist." — Daily News.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read"— Standard.
"the Americans at Home' will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works." — Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD. .

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out"— JT/ie Echo.

XLVI.— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
• A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' 'times.

XLVII.— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.
"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its kind"— Saturday Review.

XLVIII.— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn." — Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator,

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour." — Athenaeum.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— TTja Fairies.
'There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athtnoeam.

LII.— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book." — Athenaeum.

LHI.-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret M&iUa,n±"— Times.

LIV.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

"Mr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will be
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet." — The Times.

'SAM SUCK, THE CLOCKMAKER;

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, pice bs.

NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"We enjoy our old friend's company with unabated relish. This work is a rattling
miscellany of sharp savings, stories and hard hits. It is full of fun and fancy-AUmneum.
■ Since Sam's first work he has written nothing so fresh, racy, and genuinely humorous ?>«

this Every line of it tells in tome way or other-instructively, satirically, jocosely, or
wittily Admiration of Sum's mature talents, and laughter at his droll yarns, constantly
alternate as with unhaltlng avidity we peruse the work. The Clockmaker proves himself
the fastest time-filter a-going"— W ^errer.

WISE SAWS AND MODERN INSTANCES.

"This delightful book will be the most popular, as beyond doubt it is the best, of all the
author's admirable works "Standard. . a ak i^«t ™iil

"The book before us will be read and laughed over. Its quant and racy dialect will
please some readers-its abundance of yarns will amuse others. There is something to
suit readers of every hnmo\xv."—Aihenoeum. „i„„mfl

"The humour of Sam Slick is inexhaustible. He is ever and everywhere a welcome
visitor • smiles greet his approach, and wit and wisdom hang upon his tongue We 
great iLt from the perusal of these 'Wise Saws,' which contain a
world of practical wisdom, and a treasury of the richest fun. —Morning Most.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

"By common consent this work is regarded as one of the raciest truest to I've, most
humorous, and most interesting works which have proceeded from the prolific pen of its
Sor We all know what shrewdness of observation, what VO^^^r oi gv^v^^^A^^^^vv^-
tien what natural resources of drollery, and what a happy method of hitting off the
broader characteristics of the life he reviews, belong to Judge Warburton We have all
Some quae here; but they are balanced by a serious '."-'-y P-Pp^^^f- ,Y^eJ'^^^^^^^^^
in the communication of information respecting certain phases of colonial experience
which impart to the work an element of sober utility. 'Sunday Times.

TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

"No man has done more than the facetious Judge Warburton, through the mouth of the
inimitable ' Sam,' to make the old parent country recognise and appreciate ^e /lueer
transatlantic progeny. His present collection of comic stones and laughable traits is a
budget of fun, full of rich specimens of American humour-globe. o„„erla-

Yankees portrayed in its raciest aspect, constitutes the contents of these superlatives
enteiSiSg sketches. The work embraces the most varied top.cs-polit.ca parties,
rSouf securities the flights of literature, and the absurdities of pretenders f. 
come ?n for their share of satire ; while we have specimens ot genuine American
exaggerations and graphic pictures of social and domestic life as it is. The work will
have a wide circulation"— /o/i« Bull.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

wUh ii accused Lmo^^^ of style, a vast number of tales, none more

rneiSnAhan another, and all of them graphically illustrative of tb^w.ys and manner!
of brother Jonathan. The anomalies of American law, the extraordinary adventures
Sent Hfe in the backwoods, and, above all, the Peculiarities of American society, are
variously powerfully, and, for the most part, amusingly exemplified. —John Bull.
^^"Inthip?cTur si^a^^ character, and the felicitous PO!;t^^^.^^Y„%«^ "^^^^^^

features no writer equals Judge Warburton, and the subjects embraced m ♦^e present
deus book call forth, in new and vigorous exercise, his V.^^^^^^^IVOZ^^^^^^^
Americans at Ho me ' will not be less popular than any of his previous works-post.

LONDON: Hurst AND Blackest, PUBLISHERS.

Tom HALIFAX, Gentleman

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS,

Each in One Volume, Illustrated and Uniformly Bound-price 5j.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households." — Examiner.

' The story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this niost beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and ti'ue pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better"— Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

"A book of sound counsel It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady
may thank the author for means o'" doing so." — Examiner.

•' These thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of ' John Halifax.' 'standard.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit" — Pott.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

"ewe are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, but
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In 'A Life for a Life' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and i-ead
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal The whole
book is replete with a graceful , tender delicacy ; and in addition to its other merits, it is
written in good careful English." — Athmoeum.

NOTHING NEW.

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax'
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

The reader will find these narratives fully calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author one of the first novelists of our day." — John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

"the Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
Rnd noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
*nd sweetness." — Athenaeum

*• ' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest The character
are masterpieces, Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— Pojfc

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

These Studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
teelintj, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
ior all things good and beautiful"— Po5f.

[continued on NiiXr i-AOS.j

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(continued J

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

"A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. "Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit olT a circle of varied characters, all true to nature
some true to the highest nature — and she has entangled them in a story which keeps us
in suspense till its knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyze the secret.
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake ' a novel without a fault." — The Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
that forms od** of the comforts of a well-appointed home." — Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive." — Athenian.
This work is written with the same truehearted earnestness as ' John halifax,' The
spirit of the whole book is excellent " — Examiner.
A charming tale charmingly told." — Standard,

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks o'i»
of a generous heart the purest truths of life." — Examiner.

"Fewmsn, and no women, will read a 'Noble Life ' without finding themselves the
better. " — Spectator.

A story of powerful and pathetic interest." — Daily News.

A BRAVE LADY.

•' A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit. ' — Examiner.

A most charming story." — Standard.

"ewe earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post.

HANNAH.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist." — Daily News.

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle ol reader The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

THE UNKIND WORD.

"The author of ' John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to
mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches iu
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a cnjwci of heroines as the type of
ail that is truly noble, pure, and womanly." — United Service Magazine.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

»• • Young Mrs. Jardine' is a pretty story, wri ten in pure English"— T/t* Time.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome. —Athenaeum.

'• A book that all should read. Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors
In elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and
dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural
>4nd clear." — Morning Post.

HuKsr AND Blackett, Publishers, i3, Great Marlborough Street.

MT^S. Oliphant.

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each ill One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

'madam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Mainland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed." — Morning
Post.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags"— Sw/ic/ay Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Observer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland"— rime*.

AGNES.

' Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. 'Agnes' is a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers"— i/orntnsr Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE,

"'A Rose in June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

PHffiBE, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— .<lcactemy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A pood book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving Life' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolations"— Saturday Review.

LONDON : Huss AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

GEORGE MAC DONALD, LLD.

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

''No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

"A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read 'Clarissa Harlowe'out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We saucy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty." — Daily News.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true poet" — Examiner,

ROBERT FALCONER.

'robert Falconer' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings'— ^^Aericewm.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mac
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and colour." — Saturday
Review.

"This noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr. Mac Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London New".

"■ Eobert Falconer ' ie the noblest work of fiction that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced
" — British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues iu ' Robert Falconer' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again ant
again." — Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— Ti'mei.

There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

"A clever novel. The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac Donald." — Morning Post.

"David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. Tie
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general real-chins are
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating." — Globe.

SIR Gibber

Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There ia not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long in our
memory." — Athenaeum.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description." — Graphic.

' Sir Gibbie ' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced
" — Scotsman.

"sir Gibbie' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it Is a grand work, to be
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over." — Morning Post.

LONDON :. HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE woman's kingdom.

CHRISTIAN S MISTAKE.

A NOBLE LIFE.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.

A BRAVE LADY.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

WORKS hy GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D,

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

WORKS hy MRS. Oliphant.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS

LASS
THE LAIRD OF Norland
ROSE IN JUNE.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSS-gray.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

WORKS hy the A Author of ' SAM SLICK'

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN
NATURE.

WISE saws and :modern

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

LONDON: HURST AND BLACKETT

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.
THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, akd the Events

WHICH LED TO THEM. By Charles Boyle, Barrister at-Law.
2 vols, demy 8vo. sos. (In the Press.)

THE PALACE AND THE HOSPITAL; or,

Chronicles op Greenwich. By the Rev. A. G. Estrange,

Author of ' The Visage of Palaces,' ' The Friendships of Mary
Russell Mitford,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. ils.
Under the title of 'The Palace and the Hospital,' Mr. Estrange has provided
for those who have a taste for topography, or rather for the historical and biographical
annals of a locality famous in history, two volumes which are rich in
romantic interest, and his pages abound in curious and interesting glimpses of
old manners." — Daili/ Neics.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With
Map of Route. 15s.
Contents :— Dombey : the Church— Jeanne d' Arc's Country and Home— Journey
to Vaucouleurs— Toul and Nancy— Through the Heart of France— Arrival at
Chiron— The Trial at Poitiers— The Loire— The Maid of Orleans— A Wonderful
Week. Jargeau and Patty— The Coronation at Rheims— The Abbey of St.
Denis— The King's Retreat. Campaign on the Upper Loire— The Royal Idol
Broken. The Forest of Fontainebleau— Compiegne— The Prisoner of Le
Croton — Journey to Rouen.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference
to Patrick Branwell Bronte. By Francis A. Lei land. 2
- vols. discontents

Early Circumstances of the Orontes— Mrs. Bronte— The Rev. Patrick
Bronte— The Girlhood of the Bronte Sisters — BranwelFs Boyhood— The
Literary Tastes of the Children-Youth— Art-aims of the Orontes— Charlotte
at Roe Head— Branwell Broate and his Sisters' Biographers— Branwell at
Bradford— Literary Influences and Aspirations— Early Poems— Poems on
Caroline ' — Events at the Parsonage — Branwell at Broughton-in-Farness —
Branwell at Sower Bridge. Charlotte's Exertions — Brauwell's Poetry, 1842
Charlotte and Emily in Brussels— Other Poems— A Misplaced Attachment—
'Branwell's Fall,' as set forth in Biographies of his Sisters— Branwell's Projected
Novel — ' Real Rest.' ' Panmaenmaur ' — The Sisters' Poems and Novels.
Branwell's Literary Occupations — Despondency. Branwell's Letters — Last
Interview with Mr. Grundy— Branwell Bronte and ' Wuthering Heights ' —
Branwell Bronte and 'The Tenant of Windfall Hall'— Branwell's Failings.
Publication of 'Jane Eyre '—Branwell's later Poetical Works— Fame at
Haworth — Death of Branwell — Branwell's Character in his Poetry.

THE RExiL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," " A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

Those who have read Mr. Jeaffreson's account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the true concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many"— Morning Post.

NEW WORKS— Continued.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"
"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

*'Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully
succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It i.s eminently suggestive and stimulating." — Scotsman.

'• This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit." — Morning Advertiser.

Mr. Greg's speculative works are always worth study, and this certainly not
the least of them. It is a powerful and instructive book for the doubter to read,
and the author has given us many discussions of great subtlety and depth." —
Spectator.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szdlczewski. 2 vols. 21s.

"This book contains a good deal of interesting matter. M. Niemojowski's description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia— tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Burials of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts." — Saturday Review.

"Major Szulczewski has done a service by translating from the Polish the interesting
account which Mr. Niemojowski has given of the dreary land in which
he spent so many years of exile. The book contains a number of very inter sting
Btori(:s.''—Athenieu7n.

Reminiscences OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By

Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab., Formerly Surgeon of the

Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"This is a book of interesting recollections of active military campaigning life.

It is told in a frank, simple, and unpretentious manner." — Illustrated London Neics.

"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What

makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative

anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation

of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories." — Saturday Review.

"There is much in these interesting reminiscences that will gratify while it
pains the reader book like this, which portrays the horrors and not merely
the showy side of war, has distinct usefulness. Dr. Munro recounts many incidents
with pardonable pride." — Fall Mall Gazette.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,.
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention"— Z)at7?/ Telegraph.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. sos.
These volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
v/ith the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Russia, Lithuania, and
Poland, during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be o£
permanent value to the students of history." — Morning Post.

NEW WOnK^—Co?it{7iued,

THE PICTORIAL PRESS : Its Origin and Progress.

By Mason Jackson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With 150

Illustrations. 16s.
Mr. Mason Jackson's learned and exhaustive work on the 'Pictorial Press,'
with its rare and curious illustrations, should be acquired and appreciatively consulted,
not only by those amateurs of the art, in the exercise, criticism, and bibliography
of which Mr. Jackson is so skilled a proficient, but by students of the
history of journalism." — G A. S. in Illustrated London Neics.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Jolly, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs'' &c. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With

Portrait. 21s.

"Peg Washington makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.

Molly has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life in

the middle of the eighteenth century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to us without

any of the dust and rust of times'— G. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

"Asa story this life of Peg Washington is excellent reading. The character of
the lively actress is fairly illustrated in those scenes in which she bears a part,
whether humorous, sentimental, pathetic, or tragic. Mr. Molly has filled up the
pages intervening between his sketches with anecdotes, and has succeeded in
presenting a picture of the stage world in the days of the second George which
could not easily be surpassed. Of Kitty Clive, of Garrick, of Macklin, of Foote the
witty, and of Johnson the ponderous, many lively stories are told"— Posse.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 Illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. los.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through its
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols. croAvn 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company." — Times.

-' These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —

1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,

by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of

the book will convince any reader of Bugeaud"s energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,

and his philanthropy and humanity He was, indeed, a general who

may serve as a pattern to all countries, and his name deserves to live long in the

memory of his countrymen. His sagacious, far-seeing opinions on military as

well as civil matters they will do well to ponder and take to heart"— Athenaeum.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,

Camp, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, Cab.,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy !" 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
"When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Ahoy!'
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success
Scarcely a page in hia volume but has its little anecdote and these stories have a,
real touch of humour in them.' 'globe.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," <fec. Demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

'' A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the country." — St. James's Gazette.

"Every lover of Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest of English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smith's 'Glimpses ' are lively and pleasant"' — Academy.

These ' Glimpses ' are presented to us in a very bright and sensible fashion
It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The chapter on the language and
character of the modern Greeks is well with reading for the sound judgment
and knowledge of the subject which it displays." — Pall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24s.

This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Bernstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of oar native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mao-farre,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. Hullah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. I vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"Madame de "Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject." — Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. I vol. small 4to. 5s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. I\Iaurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice ; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Craik's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance." — St. James's Gazette.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, Gs.

DON O'VJ^l^

A MODERN Englishman.

•'This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by
the gallant unconditionally of its author. ' Donovan " is a very excellent novel ;
but it is something more and better. It should do as much good as the best
sermon ever written or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity,
an unconscious poetry of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the
heart. One of the main excellencies of this novel is the delicacy of touch with
which the author shows her most delightful characters to be after all human
beings, and not angels before their time"— Standard.

' Donovan ' is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The
tone of the novel is excellent and very higher'— Daly News.

"Since Dickers' 'Little Dombey,' no more pathetic picture has been drawn
than this of Dot Warrant; it is infinitely touching"— J/orHj/zgr Post.

"donovan' is a good story of its kind. Donovan's character is developed
with patience, and the reader will find in him a good deal to like'' —Athm<Mum.

The author has an unusual capacity for seeing both sides of a question urrm
which her own mind ia entirely made up. There is a great deal of thought in ti.is
hook"— Spectator.

' Donovan' is distinguished by marked ability in the portraiture of exceptional
forms of character. The hero himself is a finished study"— (??o6e.

' Donovan ' is distinctly a novel with a high aim, successfully attained. The
character-drawing is vigorous and truthful"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.

-V^E Two

"This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good
many light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident"— ime*.

"'"We Two' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyell is a capable writer and a clear-headed \h\nkQv."—Atliensmm.

"We recommend all novel-readers to read this novel, with the care which such
a strong, uncommon, and thoughtful book demands and diQ%ev\es:'— Spectator.

"A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then
brightened by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better
than a novel." — Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, aud
the book is pervaded by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought"— Scotsman.

There are delightful touches of humour in this book ; there is true pathos, end
there is undoubted power. We can heartily commend it to our readers' perusal."
—Church Bells.

"A pathetic and o'ertrue picture of that which bigotry and persecution can produce.
The case is stated in this remarkable book with wonderful abihty."—
Christian World.

LONDON : HURST AND Blackett, PUBLISHERS.

IN ONE VOLUME GROWN 8vo, 6s.

IN THE alden Days.

Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are
really worth reading about. The central figure of her story is Algernon Sydney;
and this figure she invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears
with effect, but no liberties are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is
adapted with great felicity to them. His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is
with historical truth, gives it reality as well as dignity. Some of the scenes are
remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative, which almost makes
one hold one's breath as one rea-ds:" —Spectator.

•"In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly
glad to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a
thoroughly noble and wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers
heroically and two very nice heroines. The historical background is very carefully
indicated, but is never allowed to become more than background.' —
Guardian.

In this novel the narrative is interesting, the characters are all well-drawn,
the reproduction of antique manners and thoughts is frequently happy, and the
gradual maturing of the hero's mind is successfully described." — Athenaeum.

'•■ A clever and interesting story, which will be read with more than ordinary
interest by those who enjoy a good, stirring, highly coloured romance"— ^fi.
James's Gazette.

' In the Golden Days ' is a clever book. The author has acquitted herself well
of her task." — Morning Post.

"As a piece of earnest, thoughtful literary work 'In the Golden Days' stands
far above the multitude of novels of the day. Joyce is a beautiful character ;
Mary Dunham not sweeter but almost more beautiful There is dramatic power
and pathos in the tale"' — Scotsman.

In one word we can recommend this novel as at once instructive and entertaining.
It proves extensive study of the human heart as well as of history"—
British Quarterly Review,

Were it only for the deeply interesting study of the life and character of
Algernon Sydney, the book is well worth reading"— C/Hi?-t7i Bells.

A very charming book. Joyce is an exquisite creation, and Hugo "Wharncliffe,
her lover, makes a fine hero, it seems a novel with a high purpose and a noble
meaning.' Yet it is never dull"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.

In this novel the interest is well sustained throughout, and the characters are
well-drawn." — Queen.

This story is interesting and possesses the strength of thorough earnestness."
Graphic.

"It is impossible to read this rare and powerful story without emotion.
Pathetically beautiful as the incidents of the tale are, in all the charm of artistic
Betting and literary power, the main interest lies in the conflict of principle with
temptation, and in the wonderfully tender, yet grand ideal of manhood"— Literary
World.

The author of two remarkable novels gives us a third, in which she breaks
entirely new ground, with an equally vigorous stroke. The story is good, the
style vigorous, pure and attractive. Evidence of extensive reading, assimilated
by a sound judgment and a refined taste, is to be found in this work; but no
pedantry and no dulness"— flie Lady.

As a narrative of human love and human suffering, this novel is one to give
unusual pleasure There are many historical characters fresh and vigorously
drawn, including John Evelyn, the little Duchess of Grafton. Sir William and
i\Iary Denbam, Betterton the actor, and Francis Mansfield. The book is deeply
interesting for its tender and touching recital of the love story and misfortunes of
Hugo and Joyce Wharncliffe"— ^cacZemy.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

MADAME DE Pressed. By E. Frances

Pointer, Author of " My Little Lady," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols.

"A charming story, full of originality. The dialogue is full of life, aud the
characters are strongly and concisely drawn." — Saturday Review.

"A novel of considerable quiet charm, containing much natural dialogue.
There is refined portraiture and graceful description in the hooks'— Athen8SU7n.

ENTANGLED. By Miss Fairfax Byrne, Author

of " A Fair Country Maid." 3 vols.
'Entangled ' is a story of real genius. Miss Byrne shows her full powers in
her marvellously vivid and impressive treatment of strong or delicate situations.
The writer holds us as the ancient mariner held his listener, and for the time we
live only in the lives which are acting or agonising before us.'"— Academy.

ALTHOUGH HE WAS A Lord. By Mrs.

Forrester, Author of " Viva," " Mignon," &c. Second Edition,
3 vols.
"Mrs. Forrester is a lively story-teller. Her book is not wanting in contrasts
of light and shade, nor is it difficult to detect evidence of considerable vigour
and imagination." — Athenaeum.

Mrs. Forrester is a very entertaining writer, and there is really not a dull
page in the whole of these volumes." — Academy.

BETWIXT MY LOVE AND ME. By the Author

OF " A Golden Bar," " Christina North," &c. 2 vols.
"This is emphatically a pleasant book. Charming little bits of description
abound, and it is evidently a trained artist who draws the life-like character-portraits
of a group, every individual of which is worth studying." — Literary World.

Lazarus IN LONDON. By F. W. Robinson,

Author of " Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols.
"The title 'Lazarus in London' does credit to its inventor. The story is-written
iu a forcible style, and the murder upon which the plot depends is not
only contrived with skill, but treated in a manner which is strikingly original." —
Athenaeum.

LESTER'S SECRET. By Mary Cecil Hay,

Author of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.

There is a good deal in this novel that has a certain fascination. On the whole,
Mips Hay has made the public her debtors for a well-sustained story." — Athenaeum.

'• This interesting story is likely to be popular among all who like sentimental
mystery just flavoured with crime." — Graphic.

LOVE AND MIRAGE. By M. Bentham-Edwards,

Author of " Kitty," " Bridget," &c. 2 vols.
A singularly refined and beautiful story, in which we know not whether to
admire most the fair landscape, rich in ideal and real loveliness, or the simple
figures moving before it." — Spectator.

SNOW IN HARVEST. By Ida Ashworth Taylor,

Author of " Venus' Doves," &c. 3 vols.

"A clever aud amusing story." — Athenaeum.

"A graceful and well-written story. It is a distinct improvement upon ' Venus'
Doves.' There is more variety of character, and Miss Taylor's grasp of it is
firmer, while her analysis of moods is closer aud better sustained'" — Academy.

THE SINS OF THE FATHERS. By Henry

Cresswell, Author of "A Modern Greek Heroine," &c. 3 vols.
"A novel very much above the average. Its strength lies in its originally." —
Academy.

PUBLISHED BY Hurst & BLACKETT.

THRO' LOVE AND WAR. By Violet Fane, Author

of " Sophy : or the Adventures of a Savage," &c. 3 vols. .

FAIR KATHERINE. By Harley Dale. 3 vols.
SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART. By John Berwick

Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," " The Tenth Earl,"
&c. 3 vols.

THE BEAUTY OF THE WORLD. A Story of

THIS Generation. By A. J. Duffield, Author of " Needless
Misery," &c. 3 vols.

A FAIRE Dalzell. By Esse Stuart. 3 vols.

"For she was faire, as faire mote ever bee." — Spenser's Faire Queene.

In ' A Faire Dalzell," the merest is steadily maintained, and the progress of
the plot gives rise to some strong situations in the third volume." — Athenaeum.

'A Faire Dalzell' is really a pleasant novel which can be read for enjoyment
alone, without any pressure of the goad of duty." — Academy.

DOROTHY DRAKE. By Frederick H. Moore.

2 vols.

"sir. Moore is an original and painstaking artist. His sketches are drawn
from the life, and he has an undoubted gift of wholesome and not unkindly
satire." — Academy.

There is much faithful description and quiet humour in Mr. Moore's novel. A
good and well-constructed plot is successfully worked out in these two well-written
volumes." — Post.

"Mr. Moore has painted in ' Dorothy Drake ' an admirable picture of the life
and society of a little provincial town." — Globe. i

THE VERGE OF NIGHT. By Percy Greg,

Author of "Ivy: Cousin and Bride," &c. 3 vols.

This novel, which abounds in incidents more or less startling, is one of 
power, pathos, and well-managed passion." — Figaro.

Mr. Percy Greg has so intermingled the political and the domestic action in
his clever novel that they make a unity which enables the reader to follow the
development of character and events with untiring interest." — Scotsman.

There are a number of political portraits which are decidedly clever." —
Athenaeum.

THE Law FORBIDS. By Katharine King,

Author of " The Queen of the Regiment," " Off the Roll," &c. 3 vols.

"There is much interest in Miss King's new story." — Athenaeum.

There are several effective incidents, und there is much admirable character-sketching
in 'The Law Forbids.' " — Academy.

We find in ' The Law Forbids ' that wholesome, breezy freshness which
forms the atmosphere of Miss King's preceding stories. There are some excellent
sketches of life and character." — Spectator.

WHAT'S HIS OFFENCE? By the Author of

The Two Miss Flemings," " Flower o' the Broom," &c. 3 vols.
A good story. It has an interesting plot, and is by no means deficient in such
vital respects as impulse and sympathy. The excitement never flags from beginning
to end.~Daily Telegraph. ^ ^
