"LI B Harry

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
OF ILLINOIS



HfcSth

v./

AND

THE GIRLS THEY LEFT BEHIND THEM.

VOL. I.

AND

THE GIRLS THEY LEFT BEHIND Thei
% $ofeI

ET

JOSEPH HATTON

AUTHOR OF

CLYTIE," "CRUEL LONDON," "THE QUEEN OF BOHEMIA,'
&c, &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

All rights reserved.

PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE,

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

Toi



JOSEPH Owen, M.P.

THESE PAGES

ARE DEDICATED

AS A SLIGHT TRIBUTE OF ADMIRATION

O
r^ AND REGARD.



i

O


m

J

<

ENLISTED BY CUPID.

O'er crackling ice, and depths profound,
With nimble glide the skaters play ;

O'er treacherous Pleasure's flowery ground
They lightly skim and haste away.

Johnson.

VOL. I. B

CHAPTER I.

THE OLDEST AND THE NEWEST FASHION.

But there's nothing half so sweet in life

As love's young dream :
No, there's nothing half so sweet in life

As love's young dream.

Moore.

T"T was years and years ago in an old
-*- Midland town ; though it might have
been to-day, judging from the topic they
were discussing at the Angel Inn, while
the London mail was dashing along; the
Northern road.

b2

Bad times. All the ports of the world
closed against English commerce. Ministers
denounced and defended. The nation without
allies. Everything and everybody going
to the dogs, except those who had already
gone. Such were the themes of the local
politicians who smoked their pipes and
emptied foaming beakers of strong ale at
the principal hotel, waiting to see the
coach come in and hear the news from
town.

It was I said years and years ago.
Before railways. Not before Love. That
is as old as Hate, or how should we keep a
check on villainy ? It was in the good old
days of rural simplicity, mail coaches, port
wine, and tie-wigs ; in the bad old days of
trade riots, civil strife, religious persecutions,
and hanging for robbery. There
were time-serving politicians then as now,
and hard, cruel, bitter bad times untempered

by a well-informed Public
Opinion.

Let it encourage hopefulness in us w r ho
live in the present days of commercial
distress, when we think of those same
hard, bitter times which some of the
veterans who are smoking their last pipes
at the Angel still, remember, if not from
actual experience, through the conversation
of their fathers. "We were fighting the
world. One ally stood by us ; the romantic
King of Sweden. Otherwise the universe
may be said to have been opposed to us. Our
commerce was attacked in a conspiracy
against which we issued retaliatory orders
in council that hurt some of our manufacturers
as much as did the enemy's own
measures. Heavily taxed, with dear bread,
sustaining disasters abroad and disturbances
at home, harassed by trade disputes,
divided counsels, monetary difficulties,

currency complications, afflicted with bad
harvests, nothing but the innate luck and
courage of this bull-dog race held the
country together. Hand labour was
fighting against machinery, agricultural
hirelings were dragging out a miserable
existence on the scantiest fare, landlords
were demanding payments of their rents
in gold, and Napoleon Bonaparte with his
continental allies had sworn to crush us
beyond the possibility of resurrection.

Yet we are here to-day to talk of these
things, standing upon a greater height of
solid power than ever Home herself looked
down from. It is true our industries are
under a cloud, and will be until Governments
are free to look the cause in the
face ; but to-day is summer weather
compared with the hard, bitter times the
people were talking about at the Angel,
in the very earliest days of the wonderful

century, when this veritable history begins.

These things did not, however, at present
greatly concern Susan Hardwick. So
long as they are fed and clothed, neither
war nor bad trade will trouble young
people much; and Love leads an enchanted
existence. Nay, it flourishes most in dark
days. English officers who upheld the
national honour in their gallant deaths at
Isandula wore love trinkets and died with
their ladies' names on their lips, just as
their fathers did in the continental wars,
when Susan Hardwick was toying with the
all-conquering god.

It is an old, old fashion, this Love, a
pleasant pain you cannot avoid if you
would, a strange trouble you would not
put aside if you could. People are afflicted
with it in various ways. With some it
takes the form of melancholy. Others
find in it a transcendent delight. When

it is crossed by disappointment the complaint
has in it the seeds of woes innumerable.
A gentle nature under the blight of
unrequited love may become misanthropical.
But an arrogant and revengeful
spirit is often stirred to desperate deeds
when outdone by successful rivalry for the
heart of the girl it loves.

If you would study this philosophy of
love in a philosophical way you will turn
to dear old Burton's famous work. Should
you be inclined to consider the passion as it
was developed in the histories of a trinity
of fair women who belong to this chronicle
of Chesterfield, with all its attendant
incidents of romance and mystery, of joy
and pain, of broken vows and ruined hopes,
of sorrows unexpected and sudden happiness,
then you will let Burton rest on his
shelf and follow these strange adventures,
for strange indeed they are, the more so

that they are founded in sober truth and
honesty.

The story of Susan Hardwick, only
daughter of William Rutland Hardwick,
Esq., millowner and magistrate, of the Hall,
is not one of the least romantic in the
histories of our county families. What a
tantalising picture of young womanhood it
was, this English daughter of Eve, sitting
in the shadow of a pair of tall elms that
sprung like two sculptured shafts out of
the green turf in front of her proud
father's house on the outskirts of the
town.

She was watching the gambols of a
kitten playing with a ball of cotton that
had fallen from some needlework in her
lap. " The old straight waistcoats of
whalebone," as an art-satirist describes the
corset of a previous period, had fallen into
disuse, and had for a time been succeeded

.by the easy, graceful fashion of low-necked,
baby-waisted dresses and long mittens.
Susan's skirts fell in soft folds about her,
and there was poetry in the very twinkle
of her pretty feet. The kitten playing
with that ball of yellow thread somehow
struck Oliver North as affinities to his own
position, as he paused in descending the
half-a-dozen circular stone steps" that led
from the old Queen Anne house known by
the high-sounding title already mentioned.

Not that Oliver had defined the idea in
his own mind, but he loved Susan, and
could never quite make out whether he had
obtained any return of his passion. That
was Susan's secret.

Is that you ?" she asked presently,
without looking round, for the shadow
of a youthful figure, in square cut coat
and breeches, fell upon the green sward
before her.

Yes," said Oliver, a blond, broad-shouldered,
frank-eyed young fellow. " I
beg your pardon, I came to see Mr.
Hardwick."

And you are disappointed to find only
bis daughter at home ?"

It was this gift of repartee that puzzled
and sometimes depressed Oliver. He was
not skilled in reading the heart ; and
Susan's cleverness jarred upon him.

I had important business with your
father, but I am very glad to see you,
Susan ; you know bow glad."

He stood looking at her, his grey eyes
full of admiration.

What were you thinking of while you
stood looking at me on the steps?" sbe
asked, turning towards bim a sunny,
mischievous face, with dark eyes and red
parted lips.

I never quite know what I am thinking

of when I see you, ray thoughts are in
such a jumble."

Oh, I'm sorry," she said, kicking the
cotton ball with her high-heeled shoe and
relapsing into her former attitude.

"Yes, I think I do know what I had in
my mind ; I thought that was my heart at
jour feet."

And that I and the kitten w T ere playing
with it," she rejoined; "thank you, Mr.
North."

I did not mean it unkindly ; but, when
I am clear about what I think, I have a
habit of letting it out, and I am a little out
of sorts to-day."

] should have thought to find you inspirits,
as your old friend is expected by
the coach to-night from London."

I don't think," said the young man
sitting by Susan's side, but at a respectful
distance, "Philip Scruton was ever a particular

friend of mine. TVe were companions
in a way ; though. I could never
trust him, and he never really liked me.
But what a hero he will be at Chesterfield!' 7

A hero ! a vagabond, Lord Ellerbie
calls him. I heard him telling my father
that he will come to no good."

I don't suppose his foreign education
has much improved him."

"Education! It is quite shocking to
hear what Lord Ellerbie calls it. He says
he has lived with bandits and robbers, that
he has been a spy in the service of Spain,
that he has been in the pay of Pitt ; and,
indeed, the old lord seems very sorry he
has escaped to come back to England."

That is a character to have ! Perhaps
Lord Ellerbie is not quite just. Though I
cannot remember anything good of Philip,
I don't remember anything very bad."

Boys are not particularly good, I

believe, as a rule," said Susan, who had a
deal of worldly wisdom for a girl; " you
never know what they will be until they
have really proved themselves as men."

11 Indeed ! My experience does not
enable me to judge," said Oliver, smiling.

"No!" answered Susan, kicking the
silken ball with her pretty foot.

"When I knew Phil, my father was
alive, and we were well off, as the saying
is. I was at school, and so was Philip ; I
had a pony, and so had he. Since then
my fortunes have gone back and his have
advanced. The man who stood between
him and the title and estates of Ellerbie is
dead. Times are changed. "We shall
have o call him the Honourable Philip
Scruton now, I suppose."

The dishonourable Philip Scruton is
what his uncle calls him," Susan replied,
laughing.

Well," said a bard, firm voice, as a
thin, wiry man walked slowly from the
house, " what is it, North ?"

Susan and Oliver rose as Mr. Hardwick
spoke. The old man had not changed his
habit of dress for years. He still wore the
old tie-wig, buckled shoes, brown stuff
coat, with brass buttons, which had been
the costume of his father. He walked
with a crutch-stick. His face was closely
shaven. It was a keen, cold face, with thin
lips, and square chin. His eyes were shifting,
and looked anxious.

What is it, North ? You may speak
before Susan ; she will have to get accustomed
to bad news."

Susan had gathered up her work and
was going into the house. She paused at
a word from her father.

I fear there is some real danger at the
mill," said Oliver, timidly, evidently not

wishing to speak of it before Miss Hardwick.


"Well? go on; my daughter may hear
what it is."

"Don't mind me, Mr. North' said
Susan, calmly.

The hands say they won't let the new
frames come in, and I find the little machine
of my own which they had allowed to be
used is again broken."

Oliver did not add that upon the pieces
was a notice written in red characters,
telling him his life would be forfeited if
any further attempts were made to reduce
the hand-labour of the mill by any more
new mechanism.

"Ah, I expected your genius for invention
would get me into trouble," said Mr.
Hard wick.

But you encouraged Mr. North in his
work," said Miss Hardwick, looking at her

father, whose eyes fell under her steady
gaze.

11 Yes, yes, I know, his ideas were excellent
; well, well, to cut a long story short,
what have we to fear ? — speak out, man."

We may not use the new machines,
and we must re-employ the old hands, or
the mill is to be burnt as others have
been."

Mr. Hardwick looked at his daughter.
He had a great scheme in his mind which
related to her, or he would not have wished
her to hear Mr. North's message.

11 That means ruin !" he exclaimed, " do
you hear, Susan ? It is time you gave up
kittens and frivolity to learn that you are
now a woman."

If I were a man," she said, " I would
go down to the mill and see if they would
burn it ! Not that it would matter much,
for it has always brought misery to us.

vol. i. c

My mother died through the worries of that
mill. It is on your mind day and night.
I don't see the good of it, if you will have
me speak as if I were a woman, and what
I say is worth hearing. But they shouldn't
burn it, the wretches ! If it is to be burnt,
I would burn it myself 1"

Now, who would have thought a pretty,
gentle maiden, entering upon her first
dream of love, playing in the sun with a
kitten, could have turned upon her father
so sharply ? The old man looked at
Oliver and then at his daughter, who
gathered her trailing dress about her and
went into the house. They did not see
that, when she reached her own room, she
buried her face in her hands and burst
into tears. Mary Kirk saw her, for Mary
had been sitting in the little ante-room
reading a letter which the postman had
brought from Grassmoor Farm only within

the hour. It was an epistle of great
moment to Mary, but she laid it by and
hurried to embrace and comfort her friend.
The clouds were of short duration. Susan
presently looked up between the showers,
and smiled like a spring day.

What is the matter ?" asked Mary,
lovingly twining her white round arms
about the slim figure of her friend.

Only my ill-temper, Mary ; I am the
matter, nobody else ; I am always at the
point of rebellion, and I break down the
moment I give my own signals of revolt."

You always were odd," said Mary,
looking at the other with a wondering
face, " but education does that. I never
was educated except just in reading, writing,
and arithmetic."

"Your good heart is the best education,
Mary, and away in that little village of
yours everything is pure, and sweet, and

c2

Arcadian ; you don't know what it is to
live in a town and be irritated about what
my father calls ways and means, and
political economy."

Oh, but we all have our troubles, and
Grassmoor has plenty, I can tell you, including
highway robberies, and ghosts, and
things."

You only say that to comfort me. I can
tell just as well as if I were at the back of
your thoughts. There, now, don't deny it.
I will wipe my eyes and wash my face, and
then we will have a good talk, here where
we can't be disturbed by Oliver North and
his pleasant messages, or by father and his
financial theories, which all come to the
ground in practice."

Mary Kirk, who did not understand
what her friend meant by financial theories,
sat down upon a low hassock by the
window, and watched the town girl with

admiration and wonder. For Chesterfield
was a great busy town compared with Grass-moor,
where Mary lived in a low-ceiling
rambling old house called the Home Farm,
and walked two miles to church on Sundays.
She was a dove-like girl. Mary ■
she had brown wavy hair, and dark violet-blue
eyes. Her dress was something like
what we now call Dolly Garden, and, estimating
simply the rural character of the
name, she might have been a real Dolly
Garden herself. She was a picture of
health. Her eyes were bright — they
danced with a natural gaiety. Her lips
were red always without artifice, and they
parted on white teeth, just sufficiently
irregular to make you wonder whether
she would have been more beautiful had
they been quite perfect.

Mary Kirk was what nature had made
her. Susan Hardwick was the result of a

combination of nature and art. Just asher
dainty clocked hose were more artistic
than Mary's blue knitted stockings, so
were her manners more refined, her
thoughts sharper, her wit brighter, and
her ambition keener. In good truth,
Mary Kirk had no ambition at the moment
beyond that of having the prettiest
wedding that Grassmoor had ever seen.
The greatest difficulty to the realization of
this wish was not what her neighbours
said, that she could not make up her mind
whether to accept Jacob Marks or Tom
Bertram, but how to tell the latter that
Jacob Marks was her choice.

"When the young town lady had dried
her eyes and washed her face, this was the
subject they fell to discussing. There was
supposed to be an exchange of confidences
between the two, but the exchange was

like English free trade, all on one side.
Mary Kirk told everything, and Susan
Hardwick nothing. Susan patronized
Mary without exactly meaning it, and it
amused and interested her to hear all
about Mary's love affairs.

Jacob Marks was adopted by Theophilus
Short, who keeps that tumble-down mill
and inn on the little river, beyond Grass-moor."


"Well?"

Poor Jacob, his father was Mr. Short's
partner, and died without a will or anything,
and Short said he died in his debt,
and he adopted Jacob out of pity, people
said ; but Jacob is his right hand in managing
the mill."

"Yes, and is he tall, and has he big
shoulders, and can he throw the hammer
and swing the quoit?"

Better than any lad in the village, and
he doesn't drink ; he has saved money.
Oh, everybody likes him."

11 And Mary Kirk loves him," said
Susan, looking into the blushing face of
the village girl, who promptly shut her
eyes and laid her head on Susan's
shoulder.

Susan stroked the girl's hair and smiled
at her pretty confusion, and when Mary
looked up again her face was wet with
tears.

I'm such a silly girl"* she said. "I
don't know what made me cry ; but, you
see, father and mother somehow like Tom
Bertram best, and sometimes I think he
likes me better than Jacob does."

And you have not quite made up your
mind which of the two you mean to
marry ?" said Susan, still stroking Mary's
hair. " That is very awkward !"

Oh ! but I do know," answered Mary.

Tom Bertram is that harum-scarum
young fellow who rode the steeplechase
when Lord Ellerbie's jockey fell ill ?"

"Yes, yes," answered Mary. ''Do you
know Tom Bertram?"

M I have heard of him."

Who told you about him ?"

Lord Ellerbie."

"Do you know his lordship, then ?"

Yes, he visits here now and then."

"Oh!" said Mary, as if a cloud had
fallen upon her.

fe Why do you say Oh, and freeze up in
that way ?"

I don't know ; we all curtsey to Lord
Ellerbie at Grassmoor, and w T hen he comes
into our church, which he does once a year,
though he is a Catholic, we all stand up."

Indeed. I would like to see myself
standing up when Lord Ellerbie or anybody

else came into church !" said Susan,
with a scornful smile.

It was at Brackenfield Towers that the
ghost was seen," said Mary, looking more
and more awe-stricken.

"Well, I am not a ghost," answered
Susan ; " what is the matter with the
child?"

"It seems so strange that you should
talk to his lordship, and your father be
friendly with him and visit like, and that
I should be your guest and friend too, and
that he should talk of Tom Bertram,
because he is so grand with us, you've no
idea ; and Brackenfield Towers is haunted
with a ghost to a certainty, and they say
he hates us all at Grassmoor because we
know and have seen it."

Well, you are a silly child ! You have
not over-estimated yourself, Mary, if you
feel like that. Don't you love me, then,

because Lord Ellerbie comes here? And
don't you want to talk about Tom Bertram
because the ghost's master gossips about
him."

I'm glad it's day-time," Mary answered,
looking round the old wainscoted
room ; " if it were night I should shut my
eyes and bury my head under the bedclothes."


You dear, silly, sweet blossom of
Arcadia !" exclaimed Susan, kissing her,
one day, when I make my return visit to
the Home Farm, we will find out a time
when Lord Ellerbie is away ; and we will
go and exorcise that ghost."

11 It has a dagger in its right hand."

Then we will get Jacob Marks or Tom
Bertram to bring a blunderbuss, which is
more than a match for a dagger," said
Susan, laughing.

But not for a ghost !" said Mary, seriously,

" you don't believe in ghosts ; I
suppose you don't have them in towns ; but
wait until you have seen one."

u Have you seen one ?"

No ; but I know several people who
have, and one Sunday your Vicar of
Chesterfield preached about ghosts at our
church, and he frightened us terribly ; his
text was from Job, and it was 'Fear came
upon me, and trembling, which made all
my bones to shake. Then a spirit passed
before me ; the hair of my flesh stood up ;
an image was before mine eyes.' Father
and mother, too, thought he ought not
to have preached about such things ; weare
frightened enough already on dark
nights."

Does Jacob Marks believe in ghosts ?"

Yes, indeed he does."

I thought so. And Tom Bertram ?"

"No; he says they're rubbish,. and has

offered to fight the best ghost in the
country for a wager."

You are delightful," exclaimed Susan,
it is like reading a romance to have you
here. And now come, put on your things,
and let us take a walk round the marketplace
and see the shops, and have a gossip
at the letter-carrier's. Perhaps we shall seethe
London coach come in ; this is the day
for it, and there is not a bonner sight in
all the county."

CHAPTER II.

A PASSENGER BY THE LONDON MAIL.

The surly drums beat terrible afar,
With all the dreadful music of the war.

Broome.

TJARD times !" said the landlord of
-* ■- the Angel, in a rich jovial voice,
as if hard times were something good to
eat or drink, "hard times! Bless my
heart, I should think so; but they'll be
harder yet, and what's the good of blaming
Government, when ministers is only mortal
like ourselves."

This brief summary of the situation
was addressed to a select party of Chesterfield
men, and other persons, who had
dropped in to smoke and chat, and drink
strong ale, after the business of the day
was over. The Angel had a smoking-room
with a bow window, that looked out
upon the market-place, a large open space,
surrounded with shops and private houses,
where the market folks pitched their
stalls on Saturdays, where the fairs were
held, and, once a year, the town sports,
that included sack-racing, pole-climbing,
quoits, throwing the hammer, smoking,
and women's races for new gowns. On
ordinary days the market-place was unoccupied,
except here and there by piles of
stall fittings, and a travelling caravan or
two : but these were placed well out of
the way of the coaches that used to come
into the town from the east corner, and

leave by the west, changing horses midway
at the Angel.

I tell you the manufacturers of England
are being ruined," said a local millowner,
emphasizing the remark with a
wave of his pipe.

And what about the farmers ?" asked
Mr. George Kirk, of Grassmoor, who had,
five minutes previously, ordered his mare
to be put into his cart, intending to call
at the Hall on his way home, and see if
his daughter wanted anything. He had
driven into Chesterfield with Tom Bertram
during the afternoon on a little business,
and they were just having a glass,
to set them on the way," as he put it.

What about the farmers ?" repeated
the manufacturer. " Oh ! you're always
safe ; we must have beef and bread, and I
should judge Grassmoor is thriving, to look
at you, Mr. Kirk."

Ah ! well," said the farmer, in a pleasant
northern dialect, " that's all right ; we
shan't do so badly, I reckon, so long as
we get a tidy harvest."

"It's cheerful," said the landlord, "to
hear somebody besides myself as doesn't
complain ; at the same time, gentlemen,
don't think I am not sorry for my neighbours
; but what I say is things will be
worse. A man can't sit here day after day
and talk to travellers by this coach and
that, travellers posting and travellers riding,
without picking up information ; and
them as goes to and fro in the world knows
how it wags, let me tell you that, gentlemen."


Ay, ay," remarked several quiet topers,
who approved of the oracular utterances
of the host.

"You needn't go to and fro much to
know things are bad and getting worse,"

VOL. I. D

said the manufacturer ; " all very well to
have whopped those Frenchmen at sea, but
Bony will smash us on land, and what
then ?"

He'll never do it !" said several voices
together ; " never I"

Never," said the cantankerous politician,
who hated the Government and blamed
them for everything, weather, small-pox,
dear bread, and the miserable condition
of the roads, and would like to have
had a great military defeat at their door,
but he's doing it, my friends ! It's as
bad to be stricken down in our trade as on
the field of battle. Good heavens, don't
you read, any of you? Don't you know
our industries are paralysed, our ships
confiscated, every port closed against
us?"

"We'll open them, every dam one of
'em !" exclaimed Tom Bertram, slapping

bis empty tankard on the black shining
mahogany table, ringed with the memorials
of a century of pewter and silver cups.

Bravo, Tom," said Mr. Kirk.

"Open them!" said Tom, standing up,
six feet of broad Anglo-saxon manhood,
ay, and eat 'em !"

A round of cheers and a roar of laughter
greeted his remark.

Oh, indeed," said the political economist,
u and where do you get your opinions
from, sir?"

The " sir" was flung in cuttingly. But
it fell upon Tom's consciousness as harmlessly
as a raindrop on a paving-stone.

From history, master," answered Tom,
in a frank, fearless way, with a sufficient
smack of dialect to show that he was a
North-countryman, " from sort of natural
feeling Englishman ha' gotten in him, and
from belief that we are made of same

d2

mettle as our fathers, and from downright
conviction as there is no nation, nor no
twenty nations, that can smash us."

"Hear, hear," said the listeners, all but
one, and the manufacturer, who, turning
superciliously to Mr. Kirk as if he would
ignore his friend, said: "Any nation! Why,
doesn't the fellow know that our clever
ministers have put us at enmity with all
the world, and what do you think is to
become of a little country like England
with a conspiracy of nations against us
abroad, and a world of discontent at
home ?"

1 'God will defend the right!" said Mr.
Kirk.

Then I wish he'd begin and do it,"
answered the politician.

That's profane," said a severe, hard-looking
man, who had hitherto appeared
to take no interest in the conversation, and

who was the one silent member of the
crowd just referred to, " that's blasphemy,
and I can't listen to it."

"Very well, Mr. Short," said the landlord,
" we know you're a bit religious, and
so I'll fine the last speaker glasses round
and pay it myself."

This restored the good humour of the
company. The person who had objected
to profanity did not refuse a glass of rum
and water, which he declared was more
wholesome in hot weather than beer.

11 You are going on by the local coach, I
suppose ?" said the landlord.

Unless Mr. Kirk will give me a lift,"
answered Theophilus Short.

Of course I will ! Tom, lad, have back
seat put in cart," said the farmer.

By this time the vehicle was standing at
the door at the Angel yard, and the travellers
going to Grassmoor departed.

That Short is a humbug !" said the
politician, "a canting hypocrite, and I'm
glad he's gone ; as for the young man, he
is simply deluded, that's all; but a fine lad,
a fine lad."

Mr. Kirk got down near the Hall, and,
going up to the house, found Mary had
gone out. He left a message with the
housekeeper, merely his own and her
mother's love, and that of the children,
and then away the Grassmoor cart rattled
homewards. Tom and Mr. Short had
some slight bickering on the road. When
they put Short down where he could get
home a near way across the fields, Tom
made a very similar remark about him to
that in which the Chesterfield politician
had summed him up.

I do believe the fellow is a damned
scoundrel, that's a fact!" said Kirk, " but

lie's never been found out, thou sees, lad,
that's it."

Ah ! he will be, let's hope," said Tom.

Meanwhile the grooms at the Angel
had led out into the market-place four
sleek bays with shining coats and polished
hoofs, and at the same moment you heard
a distant horn. Suddenly the precincts of
the tavern were alive with loungers and
lookers-on.

The topers in the smoke-room came to
the window and looked out, the landlord
brought his pipe into the street, and regarded
the proceedings with pride. The
horses champed their bits, and presently
from the eastern corner of the marketplace
came toiling along the mail-coach
from London to Manchester, a picture of
light, and life, and elegance. A whip
flourished harmlessly over the steaming

cattle, a horn blown merrily behind, a flash
of red and gold, and black and silver, and
the coach pulled up in front of the
Angel window; there was a rush of
grooms and stable-helps; and luggage,
horses, passengers almost together poured
into the inn yard, and in less than five
minutes the fresh team was harnessed. It
was a sudden bustle and excitement, which
lasted hardly any longer than the arrival
and departure of the modern railway train
en route, and it had the advantage of being
more picturesque. You knew that it had
come from busy cities, through quiet
country highways, by pleasant homesteads,
over chattering streams bridged by ancient
ways; that children had greeted it from
field and hedgerow ; that it had passed
low lumbering waggons and farmers' gigs ;
that it had halted here and there to have
the horses' mouths washed out and the

passengers regaled with foaming ale ; that
it was redolent of country lanes and grass
lands, of hay and straw, and old-fashioned
flowers. While we are thinking of the sight
the passengers have seen, the whip is on
the box again. "Now, Bill, let go their
heads. So ho ! Beauty ; steady, old lass.
Away you go !" Forward dashes the team,
the guard swings up behind, and Mary
Kirk, standing with Susan Hardwick at the
primitive Post-office door, whence the mail-bags
had just been carried in and out, said
it was indeed a bonny sight to see the fast
coach change horses at the Angel.

"And I wonder if that foreign-looking
person standing by the hotel yard is Mr.
Philip Scruton," said Miss Hardwick ; " let
us ask the Post-office's daughter. She will
not be able to tell us, but we can talk to
her, she is very nice."

It was a quaint little place, the postal

house of those days situated near the Angel
tavern. The business of receiving and distributing
the correspondence of Chesterfield
and the neighbourhood was carried
on in connection with dealings in hay and
straw and stationery. There was a little
room at the back of the post-office's shop,
where Jessie Burns was generally to be
found, helping to keep her father's books,
he having been promoted in life, not on
account of his learning and intelligence,
but out of respect to his local patron, the
Reverend JSTormanby Wingfield, Vicar of
Chesterfield, an appointment by which
there hangs a tale. The vicar and Mac,
as everybody called him, had been soldiers
together, Mac a sergeant in Colonel Wing-field's
regiment, and when the Colonel laid
down the weapons of the flesh and returned
to the practice of those of the spirit, to
which he had been originally educated,

Burns's time was up, and his Colonel bad
sufficient influence to obtain for bim the
post-office in the old midland town where
his ancestral living was situated.

Duncan was a Scotchman, and Jessie
was a sandy-haired Scotch lassie, with a
tendency to Puritanism and fine ribbons,
a union about which Chesterfield was very
censorious. Jessie was a clever girl. She
sang in the church choir, collected subscriptions
for the missions, and was the
neatest, tidiest, smartest lassie in all the
borough, firm on her feet, but sly, the gossips
said, decidedly sly; and she flirted with
the vicar's son uncommonly. There was
the faintest lilt of the pibroch in her voice
and manner, just a piquant suggestion of
the Highlands ; and when she received
Miss Hardwick and Mary Kirk in that
little parlour behind the post-office, that
trinity of fair women I told you of was

now complete. You might have travelled
the world over, and not have seen three
girls half as pretty, each a type, each a
beauty, who had no cause to be jealous of
the other.

I saw the gentleman ; he was on the
coach when it came in," said Jessie. " Yes,
he was, and I do not know Mr. Scruton,
who they say will be the next Laird o'
Ellerbie, but I should think, from what
I've heard, that jon odd-looking person is
him. I heard the vicar say he is worse
than a Jacobite, and he looks very foreign."

You have heard about him, then ?"
said Susan, in her quiet inquiring way.

"Well, only just what the' vicar said to
father, ye ken," answered Jessie, cautiously;
"but you should be the best-informed
about him, Miss Hardwick."

I only know that he was a boy here,
and that he went away to be educated,

that he has never returned since, and is
reported to have had some strange adventures,"
said Susan.

"But ye ken Laird Ellerbie? He was
visiting at the Hall a good deal, and the
vicar says he talks about the young man
with much anger."

Jessie looked mischievously at Miss
Hardwick, crossed her arms upon her
knees, and leaned back in her chair. Mary
Kirk sat tranquilly listening, but thinking
all the time about what she would say in
reply to that letter she had received from
Jacob Marks.

"You are wicked to-day, Jessie," said
Miss Hardwick. " You have got your
scandal cap on."

"Oh, Miss Hardwick, you are unkind
to say that. I know you come to hear
the news, and I don t make the news."

"You are the most truthful girl in

Chesterfield, Jessie, but you have your own
way of emphasising and setting forth a
fact. Do the people talk about Lord
Ellerbie's visits to the Hall P"

"eyes, indeed they do."

And what do the poor creatures say ?
that he is going to be my father's
partner ?"

Susan knew that Chesterfield had the
measure of her fathers purse, and that he
was noted for his pride, his thrift, for his
love of speculation, for his losses, and also
for his troubles with the mill; so she confronted
the opinion of the town straight.

"No, they were not saying that; but
you will be angry if I tell you."

"It is not possible for all Chesterfield
to make me angry, whatever it may say or
think," Susan answered, her eyes flashing
a sparkling denial of the declaration.

Well, then, they say the partner Lord

Ellerbie will be taking is just yourself, Miss
Hardwick."

"Jessie !" exclaimed Susan, "this is disgraceful
!"

"Ye made me tell ye," said Jessie.

"And was that a piece of news you
heard the vicar tell your father," said
Susan, rising, and glancing a command to
Mary to do the same, " or was it the
vicar's martial son who told you, Jessie
Burns, when your father was out."

The millowner's daughter and her friend
took their leave on this, Mary a little confused
at being witness of an unexpected
and unpleasant scene (which appeared to
have humiliated Susan), and Miss Hardwick
evidently both angry and hurt.

"Eh, but that's a spiteful lassie," said
Jessie Burns, smoothing her dainty apron,
and looking at herself in a hand mirror.
I declare but she's fetched the colour into

my cheeks! Eh, George, but I hope ye
nor me may have to suffer for my sharp
tongue, nor my faith and trust in your
over kind words and loving promises !"

CHAPTER III.

THE STRANGER BRINGS TROUBLE IN HIS TRAIN.

The miller plyed a double trade,

A double trade plyed he ;
By day a saint who'd sing a hymn,

At night a rover free.

FT was a different-looking market-place
-■- then, the picturesque old square . that
Philip Scruton looked upon, from that
which modern progress has made it. The
railway " navvy," the pitman of Stately
and Claycross, the Irish labourer, had not
darkened its ways, and called into existence
cheap stores and strange lodging-houses.

VOL. I. E

The reign of stucco, and brick, and blue
slates had not yet wiped out the old
Sessions-house, the Gothic mansion, the
English bay-windows, the clump of thatched
cottages by the West Bars, and the
glints of green country that filled in the
ends of the passages on the lower pavement
of the old resort of local trade and
commerce. The people were dressed
characteristically, each class as became
its station ; and there were French prisoners
of war, on their parole of honour,
lounging under the piazzas, and dreaming
of their native land. Then, as now, the
steeple of the ancient church, rivalling the
tower of Pisa, leaned over the town, as if
listening to the music of the brook that
once ran shimmering and glassy over
smooth pebbles, and which now creeps
along dark and tainted. The steeple is
twisted, as if in recoil at the smudges

which coal and commerce, and an unclean
invasion, have made upon the once dreamy
historic town, never quite lovely in itself,
but looking from a height like a rough
gem in a gorgeous setting of emerald and
gold.

Philip was not sorry to be again in a
safe place, though he scorned a quiet life,
and had no scruples about the character
of the adventures in which he engaged.
He had made, however, one serious mistake
in his reckless acceptance of dangerous
service, and that was in connection
with a secret society of Spain, a semi-religious
Brotherhood which had for its
object the promotion of the temporal
power of the Church, the secular advancement
of its chiefs in the diplomatic world,
and the removal of obstacles, heretical,
spiritual, or otherwise, to the schemes of
the Society. The Brotherhood in numbers

E 2

&

#

\W X

<?
&

S»

was but a small association, but it had
far-reaching influences and agencies ; and
Philip Scruton had reason to congratulate
himself that he had escaped the action of
its continental ramifications ; for he was
under the ban of the sacred Brotherhood.
He had never been true to anybody, not
even to the ministerial agents who had
employed him in the interest of his own
country; it was therefore not surprising
that even the solemn Penal Oath of the
Secret Society of Madrid had failed to hold
him when the Brotherhood was outbidden
by a Woman emissary.

A year or two ago, when Lord Beaconsfield
in the House of Lords referred to the
tremendous power of the secret societies of
Europe, many people laughed at him.
Perhaps they were right from their point
of view, perhaps they were wrong ; this is
not a political novel (and I hold Mr. Gladstone's

intellectual power in reverent
admiration) ; but, since the Premier made
that well-known speech, Nihilism and
Socialism have come prominently to the
fore.

In the troubled times of which I am
writing there were then as now many
strange, not to say bloodthirsty, organizations,
held together by oaths and vows,
and kept secret by signs and ceremonies,
to outrage which was death. Philip
Scruton was the sort of: person to run
grave, prospective risks for present and
immediate advantages. He had done a
thug which might be atoned for by some
great act of sacrifice or penance as a certain
Council of Three might decide ; or
might only be wiped out by the penalty
prescribed in the oath of obedience.
Philip had not waited for the verdict, but
had escaped to England, with this Madrid

trouble, which he no longer feared outside
Spain, hanging over him.

Ah, here they come !" said the foreign-looking
gentleman, taking a pinch of snuff
from a showy box, and looking across the
market-place at a lumbering carriage,
drawn by a pair of what we should nowadays
call cart-horses. A servant sat on
the box, but the vehicle was driven by a
postillion, who jumped up and down in his
seat, and flourished a short whip with the
air of one who was performing a great feat.

Beg pardon, your honour, we came byway
of Grassmoor, his lordship thinking
you might get down there, and if you did
not then we thought we'd ha met you in
the road."

The servant had descended from his seat
as he spoke.

The bit way round made us late."

Why, did not his lordship know that I
should want something to eat, and that the
Angel is the best tavern between here
and the Towers ? / might be excused for
forgetting, but his lordship should have
known. Why, in Heaven's name, should
I want to stay at Grassmoor? They
warned me at starting that not a single
fast coach halts there even to wash the
horses' mouths out, let alone those of the
passengers."

That's true, your honour, and so I
told lordship, and at same time I mentioned,
as it's only a mile or two more, to
drive you from hither to Towers."

"Very well; go then into the Angel
and help them to serve my dinner ; see that
a bottle of their oldest madeira is put on
the sideboard at once — decanters, mind

you ; and if that capon is tough, tell old
Obsequious I'll have his licence confiscated."


The servant saluted and disappeared ;
while the other man stood by the horses'
heads.

Take them out, boy," said Mr. Scruton,
take them out."

Why, yo' cannot going' to wait long,
han yer ?"

He was a rough, uncultivated groom,
the postillion.

Wait ? Yes, an hour or two !"

We'll have it dark," said the lad.

You may have it black as Erebus, if
you like."

Yes, your honour, an' blacker," was the
quick reply. " An' owt Guy Fawkes may
have us, for there's been the devil to play
on the roads lately."

Take out the horses; give them a feed."

By this time the Angel's ostler came
to the traveller's rescue, and the carriage
and horses disappeared in the tavern
yard.

11 The London coaching master seems to
have known what he was talking about,"
said the passenger. " Well, I'm prepared
for either fortune ; and I'm most prepared
for a good dinner and a bottle of wine.
It's a slow old country ; but, by the mass,
it knows how to drink and what to drink !
One slips below the table like a gentleman
under the liquor of an islander. Three
months in London has taught me that. If
it was not for the drink, I'll be hanged but
the old country would be unbearable. Yet
this market-place has much of the look of
the Normans who conquered us, and who
will do it again under the little Emperor.
It is not so clean nor so sleepy as it was.
I can only just remember it. I wonder if

the wenches are as pretty as I somehow
fancy they are."

The foreign-looking gentleman, soliloquising
by the old tavern gateway, was
Philip Scruton, the very last of the Elders
family, and nephew of the earl whom
we have heard of through the feminine
and other gossips in our previous chapter.
Philip's mother had died when he was
born, and his father had been killed in some
disreputable affair in London. Lord Elders
kept the boy at Brackenfield Towers
until he was ten, and had then sent him in
charge of a diplomatic friend to be educated
abroad, in the hope, Philip always
said, that he had then got rid of him for
good. The times were full of trouble, and
Philip had had many strange escapes from
death. His uncle had supplied him liberally
with funds, and the lad had led a life

of debauchery and adventure, breaking
easily away from the small links of restraint
which had, for a time, bound him
to those who had authority over him. A
perfect master of the French language,
continental in manners and appearance, a
Roman Catholic in his profession of faith,
it was hard to believe that he had had any
difficulty in escaping from Paris. But ina
letter written from London, announcing
his visit to the Towers, he said he had been
peculiarly fortunate, by a shrewd intrigue,
in getting out of the Napoleonic clutches.
He hated his uncle as cordially as Lord
Ellerbie hated him, though Lord Ellerbie's
was a weak and shuffling nature. The
Earl had not the courage to be exactly a
villain ; but he was guilty of meanness,,
and would encompass his ends by craft
and trickery, where Philip Scruton would

have achieved his by open rascality, not
hesitating at crime, not even stopping at
murder.

It was not a worthy stock, this aristocratic
strain of Ellerbie. It had come
into rank and title, like too many other
noble families, through the adulteries of
kings and the shameful intrigues of royal
mistresses, and there seemed to be a
blight on it. Old Lord Ellerbie had been
twice married. Both his wives had died
young and childless. Both had increased
his estates. Do not from this imagine
that there had been any foul play ; there
had not. Yet they called Lord Ellerbie
"Blue Beard" at Chesterfield, those who
dared do so ; though the ladies admitted
he had pleasant manners and a most
aristocratic appearance, while his wealth
had become a proverb, and his family residence
a mystery with a ghost in it.

A tall, imposing-looking young man,
Philip Scruton wore a short-waisted, high-collared,
long-tailed blue coat, linked by
tags and buttons over a florid waistcoat
and high stock. He had on a pair of
tight-fitting pantaloons, and long boots of
thin, comply leather. A conical-shaped
hat, with band and buckle, dangling watch
seals, and a gold-mounted cane completed
the costume. Lying among his luggage,
were an ample cloak, a sword, and pistol-holsters.
It was a daring sensual face;
the eyes were close together ; they looked
at you coldly, as if they hardly saw you,
unless you were a pretty woman; and then
they had something of the serpent in their
glazy stare. The eyebrows met, the eyes were
deeply set, the mouth was large, the teeth
white and regular, the nose prominent and
fleshy, the forehead retreated beneath a
shock of black hair which fell luxuriantly

behind the ears. He wore a moustache,
black and silky as his hair, and an imperial,
which fell from his chin upon his stock.
He had a habit of stroking this tuft of
hair and twirling his moustache, and
smiling in a mocking kind of way.
Glanced at superficially, he might have
been regarded as a handsome young man.
He was superstitious, selfish, a false friend,
a schemer, and a drunkard ; and he was
not loyal to his country. Despite title
and wealth, his uncle, Lord Ellerbie, was
not popular in the county ; he was shunned
even by his own class, and the dignity of
the house had no promise of advancement
in the advent of the Honourable
Philip Scruton.

It was dark when the distinguished
passenger from London pulled himself together
and staggered to his carriage. The
Angel madeira was a potent liquor, and

Mr. Scruton bad drunk deeply. Therefore,
an hour after starting for Bracken-bury
Towers, trundling along through
leafy lanes, and jolting over ancient ruts
and boulders, Mr. Scruton was asleep.
The ship-like motion of the carriage only
served to rock him into a sound slumber.
In active contrast was a horseman, who
had been scouring the road and reconnoitering
it from the meadows, always
coming back to the shelter of a clump of
trees, by the half-buried arches of an ancient
water-course, called the Old Bridge,
a dark, lonely spot, which, like many other
similar places in Derbyshire, had its tradition
of battle, ghost, or murder. There
was no truth in the legend, but a foul crime
was supposed to have been committed here,
and the villagers of Grassmoor said, if you
looked, you would find the date engraved
on the half-buried buttresses.

When Lord Ellerbie's postillion arrived
at this notorious point of the road, he
lashed his horses and bade them u come
up," instead of which they came down ;
and, before the servants knew where they
were, a couple of bags were over their
heads, they were tied together, and told ina
hoarse whisper that if they moved they
were dead men. They did not move.
Neither did Mr. Philip Scruton. He was
so fast asleep that the highwayman, having
cut the traces and loosened the horses
(which got up and began to graze by the
road side), approached the carriage with
great caution, evidently expecting a blaze
of firearms to greet him from the window.
But when he opened the door, he ran over
Mr. Scruton's pockets, took his purse, and
was gone before the traveller had at all
realized what had happened.

There had been within the twelvemonths

three highway robberies near this
very spot, and in two instances at quite
an early hour in the evening. In. each
case the work was said to be that of one
man, who rode so well, was so bold and
expeditious, that he was believed to be the
same dashing operator who had appeared
also at intervals on the coaching road beyond
Chesterfield, where the highway
begins to mount up among the wild beauties
of the Peak.

It was not yet half-past ten o'clock
when Mr. Scruton, on one of the carriage
horses, rode into the inn yard, dismounted,
and entered the bar-parlour,
where Mr. Theophilus Short was smoking
his pipe with a couple of guests and a
neighbour, who were at that very moment
talking about highwaymen. There was
nothing particularly novel in the new
arrival's announcement, except his em-vol.

I. F

plastic assurance that he should discover
the thief.

"Was it the work of one man ?" asked
the innkeeper.

"The question is truly a reflection on
myself, but more particularly on Lord
Ellerbie's servants," said Mr. Scruton ;
but I was in possession of two bottles of
the old madeira, and the highwayman, it
seems, covered the two dolts with a pair
of pistols before they knew where they
were."

It was a daring robbery," said Mr.
Short ; " truly our highways are a disgrace
to the King and Government. It can
hardly be that the robber must have
known the condition you were in, sir."

I would be inclined to think he is
some dare-devil who didn't care, and who
would have presented me with an ounce
of lead the moment I showed myself. I

would have done that for him had I not
been dreaming ; but I shall catch the
thief ; it will amuse me to run him down,
the unmannerly, impudent son of darkness
! Let me have a bottle of the best
wine you have in your cellar, and in the
meantime dispatch a fellow along the road
on the horse I've ridden ; let him take some
twine to mend our traces, and send Lord
Ellerbie's carriage home, for I mean to
sleep here to-night."

The innkeeper, in reply, said he was
only a poor man, and had no servants on
the premises at night, except an old woman
and a young man, who had gone to
bed ; but his neighbour, Thomas, would
do what he required ; whereupon Thomas,
who had been sitting open-mouthed, bestirred
himself and went forth. The
other two persons, who appeared to be
cattle-drovers or hawkers, men of no 



count, bade Mr. Short good night, and
went out also.

Are they not staying in the house ?"
Scruton asked.

"They sleep in the barn," said the innkeeper;
" they are poor men, like my self y
and cannot afford better accommodation."

Times are bad with your" said Scrutiny.


"Well, they are not good with anyone ;
but since the coaches took to the new road
which takes off the bit of hill by the bridge,
this inn has decayed ; it's only used by a
few travellers, and what little we make
comes out of the mill. I am a miller, you
see, sir, as well as an innkeeper."

V And, I should judge, a preacher too,
by your manner."

Indeed ; nay, why should you think
so?"

Well, you have that fine nasal tone of

voice and that air of conscious virtue
which belong to English Puritans, who
combine trade and psalm-singing so successfully.
I'm hanged if I don't think the
villain who fingered my purse was one of
them."

"Nay, you dishonour your own judgment
to say so," replied Theophilus Short,
looking his guest steadily in the face.

Nay me no more nays, but fetch
that bottle of wine," said Scruton, unbuttoning
his coat, and taking a pinch of
snuff.

Did you say port wine or madeira ?"
asked the inn-keeper, lighting a lantern
and proceeding to leave the room.

Whichever you like best, for we'll
drink it together."

Mr. Short bowed.

Unless you are too much of a crop-eared
Puritan to drink."

"Good wine is not a sin," said the innkeeper,
disappearing.

No, by the mass it is not," said Scruton
to himself, and for the first time surveying
the room.

It was a handsome place in decay. An
old wainscoted bar, with faded coats of
arms over the fireplace, and a couple of
flint muskets on brackets ; a few pewter
cups and old fashioned jugs below
them ; some tall ale-glasses and spirit-bottles
on a shelf ; an old oak bench by the
fireplace ; two or three high-backed chairs ;
a solid black mahogany table in the middle
of a sanded floor ; two candles in sconces
on the wall, and one upon the table ; a
fusty smell of malt and tobacco smoke.
Such was the general impression made
upon the observer. Not a sound could be
heard, except the distant grating cry of a
corncrake in the meadows.

By all that's unholy," said Scruton, and
he was startled at the sound of his own
voice, " it's a murderous place ! I don't
know that I remember a more lonely-looking
den outside Spain or Germany, but I don't
know much about England, though my memory
of Brackenbury Towers seems to wake
up under the present mouldy influences.
My blessed uncle will have the satisfaction
of replenishing my purse in the first hour
of my arrival. I have a presentiment we
shall quarrel and want each other's blood
in less than four and twenty hours."

"The wine," said the innkeeper at
Scruton's elbow.

"The devil!" said Scruton.

No, your honour. There is no brimstone
about this."

I did not hear you come out of the
cellar," said Scruton, looking curiously at
the landlord.

I have a light tread," replied the innkeeper.
" I am afraid your adventure has
shaken your nerves ; nay, I would not pay
your honour so ill a compliment as to
question your courage."

If you did I might give you a painful
proof of it," said Scruton, pouring out two
glasses of wine.

You have seen many lands, and must
often have had use for your valour and
strength. I would be sorry you should try
them on me."

Then sit down, you old scarecrow," said
Scruton, " and drink."

You are a merry gentleman," replied
the innkeeper, raising the glass to his lips ;
good health !"

"And a short shrift to the unhappy
knight of the road who now carries my
purse."

Why do you say unhappy?"

That is my affair."

11 Truly. I hope I don't vex you by my
conversation."

Vex me ? No ; so long as you know
your place."

That one always knows in the presence
of a gentleman."

There you say well ! What is your
name ?"

Short, Theophilus Short."

Very well, Theophilus Short, your wine
is better than your company ; but we shall
meet again. How far is it to Brackenbury
Towers?"

"Five miles."

"Do you know me?"

It distresses me to say no ; I never saw
you before."

"I am Philip Scruton, Lord Ellerbie's
heir."

"You overwhelm me, Mr. Scruton!

I knew you when you were a boy."

"You honour me by the recollection,"
said Scruton, twirling his imperial. " The
wine is excellent ; another bottle, Short."

Your honour is too good. I brought a
second up with me, thinking to ask you to
drink it with me ; but now that you have
proclaimed your quality, nay, I would not
presume to think of such a liberty."

"It's no liberty, Short. I accept your
hospitality. I begin to like you. Tell
me, is not the village of Grassmoor near
here?"

"About a mile. It lies between this
and your lordships estate. I beg pardon,
I mean your honour's ; though, without
wishing harm to the present earl, I would
be glad to see the heir come to his
own."

Wish him harm ! Confound him !
Wish him harm ! He's no friend of mine,"

said Scruton, at the same time suddenly
checking himself, and adding, "No, no; I
ask his forgiveness ; I did not mean that.
Forget what I said."

I don't remember a word of it," replied
Short.

You are not a preacher, you are a
diplomat, you old rogue. You are a diplomat.
I'll have thee promoted. Hush I
Tell me, old fox, are there any pretty girls
in that same village of Grassmoor ?"

Secret for secret," said Short.

"By all means," answered Philip. "If
you want to tell me I'm drunk, you may
say it, no offence being meant."

"No, your honour, I would not be so
unpolite as to remind you of your happiness
; but about these pretty girls. I can
give you a list of all the bright eyes in the
county ; and Derbyshire has just as many
of them as all the Midlands put together."

Well, well ; go on, old Barebones, old
sly fox I"

Vfhen you've told me how you'll catch
that thief who has your purse."

Oh ! well, it's no secret ; the coaching
master in London made me mark my
money ; I hadn't much to deface, for that
matter, and I let him do it for amusement.
Every guinea the rogue carried off is marked,
and if that does not hang him in the
end, I'm no prophet."

There was a loud knocking at the door.
Mr. Theophilus Short became suddenly
anxious. He looked from his guest to the
door, and from the door to his guest.

Open, in the King's name !" said a loud
voice, and the next moment an officer
entered.

The robberies on the Derbyshire highways
had given the district a special notoriety,
and the Government were resolved

to put them clown. By the time the newcomer
had signified who he was, and had
demanded shelter for a couple of men and
three horses, Mr. Theophilus Short had settled
his course of action.

"Was your money marked like that?"
he asked, showing a guinea to Mr. Scruton,
who had repeated his story to the officer.
"It was; that is one of the pieces."
It is as I feared," said the inn-keeper,
with a deep sigh. " I felt assured disgrace
would fall upon me sooner or later. A
few minutes before you arrived, I gave my
young man, Jacob Marks, a lad I adopted
out of charity as my own, a guinea to pay
the blacksmith's little account. He comes
back and says the man's a-bed, and returns
me the guinea. It struck me the gold was
not the same as that I gave him, and I
meant to have questioned him on it, when
you and some neighbours came in."

"Where is the fellow now?"

Snoring in bed."

"Then we'll have him awakened," said
the officer.

"He that doeth evil let his sin be upon
him ; ay, if he were my own flesh and
blood," said Mr. Short. " I'll go and call
him."

"No, you stay where you are," said the
officer, taking a whistle from his pocket
and blowing a shrill pipe.

A smart, soldierly-looking fellow in
private clothes entered the room.

"Where does the young fellow sleep?"
asked the officer.

"In the attic at the back, up the stairs
there by the clock, along the passage and
up again," said Short, with a scared look,
directing the man.

Young man in bed ; bring him down,"
said the officer, and in a few minutes Mary

Kirk's lover, poor Jacob Marks, a flue-looking
young fellow, was standing in
amazement before the company.

Did your master give you a guinea to
pay the blacksmith ?"

"Mr. Short did."

What did you do with it ?"

"Gave it him back."

"What have you done with the others ?"

u Which others ?"

In the purse ?"

"What purse?"

The officer thought there was a guilty
look in Jacob's startled face.

Oh, come ; you know."

I don't."

But you acknowledge to one guinea ;
where's the others then?"

"What others?"

"Don't ask me questions, sir," said the
officer, angrily.

While this examination was going on,
Mr. Short had busied himself about the
room, and had loudly repeated an order he
pretended Mr. Scruton had given him
Another bottle, and one for His Majesty's
officer ? Yes, your honour," which had
taken him out of the room, not to the
cellar. Had he been watched, he would
have been seen creeping like a shadow to
Jacob's room, and then as nimbly dropping
over an open balcony by the kitchen, and
getting into the cellar that way. He
returned just as the officer, still angrier at
Jacob's answer, was ordering his man to
light a lantern and conduct him to the
young man's bed-room.

Better all come along ; there can't be
too many witnesses in a case of this sort,"
said the officer, and they all tramped up
the stairs into the attic where Jacob, in
his innocence, had been dreaming of a

happy time in which village bells were
ringing, and he was the bridegroom before
the village altar, and Mary Kirk the bride.

Excuse me, gentlemen, I will stay
here. I would give up my father if he
transgressed the law, but I don't think
justice would require that I should see
him hanged."

Jacob looked on as one still in a dream
while they rummaged his room. Presently,
holding up a coat which had lain across a
chair, the officer asked —

11 Is this yours ?"

"Yes," answered Jacob.

Did you wear it last night ?"

"Yes."

11 And is this yours?" asked the officer,
taking a purse from one of the pockets.

"No."

Is it yours?" asked the officer, holding
up the lantern so that the light fell upon it.

VOL. i. G

By St. Paul, it is !" said Mr. Scruton,
and I'll thank you to deliver it up, for I
haven't a guinea to pay my score."

"That may not be at present," said the
officer ; " we hold it for evidence, and we
bind you over to appear in court, identifying
it in due course. Young man, what is
your name ?"

Jacob Marks."

Jacob Marks, I arrest you in the King's
name, for robbery on the King's highway."

I am innocent," said Jacob.

Very likely," said the officer; "but
they'll hang you all the same unless you
make your innocence plainer to the judges
than you have done to me."

CHAPTER IV.

A MATRIMONIAL CONSPIRACY AND A LEGEND.

Sing, muses nine,

The joys of wine,
When George the Third was King.

Three bottle men

Were common then
As green leaves in the spring.

TIRAOKENBUEY TOWERS is an old
-■-^ mansion which, under another name,
still attracts the attention of the curious,
and is not unknown to the antiquarian
societies of England.

It is half hidden among oaks and elms
and chestnut-trees in the valley below the

g2

little village of Grassmoor. In winter time
you can see the grey stone walls and gables y
the old watch-tower, and the lake ; in
spring you only get flashes of the water
through the green branches of the woods - r
and in summer the mere slumbers there,
fringed with bulrushes, and shut out from
view until you come suddenly upon it.

At all times you might, until a few years
ago, hear the roar of the wild animals
which the Ellerbie family kept in a sort of
circus near the stables; and at strange
hours you may still hear the chiming of
bells in the restored family chapel that joins
the west wing of the house. The Ellerbies
had been Roman Catholics for many generations.
They had suffered for the Church,
and the red history of the family had no
doubt done much to earn for Brackenbury
Towers the reputation of being haunted.

Lord Ellerbie, though he still maintained

a kind of ceremonial show of the faith,
was tolerant, as in those times he was compelled
to be, and now and then attended
the services of the Protestant church, which
was a sort of chapel of ease for Grassmoor.
He did more in token of his liberal views :
he subscribed towards some repairs to the
crooked spire of Chesterfield, and he gave
money to all the charities of the market
to wn, irrespective of their religious character.
He made these gifts through Mr. Septimus
Dobbs, a lawyer, who had charge of the
Ellerbie business, and who was noted for
his professions of honesty and his acts of
utter unscrupulousness.

Now there was a legend in the Ellerbie
family which was not altogether pleasant
for the last of the race to reflect upon ;
and this may have led to the old lord's
determination to marry again, though it
had certainly nothing to do with his choice

of the lady whom he destined for the
honour of sharing his latter days.

Jessie Burns, the pretty Scotch scandal-longer
of the post-office at Chesterfield,,
had hit the right nail on the head when
she impudently suggested to Miss Susan
Hardwick that she was the partner the
tottering old lord was looking after ; and,
what is more, William Rutland Hardwick,
Esquire, of the Hall, had made up his
mind to the sacrifice.

The alliance of the two old greybeards
against the belle of Chesterfield had only
been ratified on the day when Oliver
North had made that communication concerning
the mill, which Mr. Hardwick had
resolved to give up as a means of income,
to rely for the future upon the bounty
of Lord Ellerbie. Hardwick was too
poor to fight civil rioters and .
He had none of the

pride of the manufacturers, who stood by
their machines and fought the battle of
Invention at home as sturdily as their
countrymen waged the war of Liberty
abroad. Old Hard wick had only drifted
into trade by the force of circumstances.
He was an aristocrat born and bred. A
county gentleman, he dated his family
origin as far back as the Ellerbies. The
Hall in which he lived, railed off from
Lordsmill Street, had been one of the
smallest of the Hard wick residences which
two centuries previously might have been
found on the maps of four counties. Soon
after the French revolution, when the
industries of England were making marked
progress, Mr. Hardwick had been persuaded
to build a silk-mill in the little park
adjacent to the Hall, which had kept
him in continual financial trouble. If in
the greatest hour of trial he had stood by

Oliver North, the young designer and
manager, whom he had taken into his confidence
for a time, he might have weathered
the storm and become even richer than
his ancestors were; equal in wealth to
Lord Ellerbie himself. But he had neither
the courage of his progenitors, who had
won their lands at the point of the sword,
nor the shrewdness of Lord Ellerbie, who
hitherto had married an estate with each
of his wives.

"But what I want now," said Lord
Ellerbie to Mr. Hardwick, as they sat over
a bottle of port wine in the old lord's
library at Brackenbury Towers, "is a
pleasant companion, a beautiful woman
worthy of a coronet, and "

"Who has blood equal to your own,"
said Mr. Hardwick, smacking his lips and
looking the earl defiantly in the face.

"Well, well," responded his lordship,

with a senile protest in his bleary eyes,
well, well, blood is one thing, money
another."

Blood is everything," said Hardwick,
stretching himself to the full height of the
high-backed chair in which he was sitting,
money is dross."

I know, I know, " said the earl,
fidgeting with his glass, " we will not
argue about it ; let us consider we are
agreed."

You settle Brackenbury Towers, and
ten thousand a year, upon Miss Hardwick ;
her son, should I have the good fortune
to be a grandfather, inherits title and
estates."

Naturally ; yes, yes ; we could not
avoid that if we would. It is the rightful
and legitimate succession ; and I shall
adhere to my promise to you furthermore,
and apart from other things."

That promise you will have put into
writing, duly signed and attested."

Truly, truly. I am a man of honour,
Mr. Hard wick."

"And I a man of business," said Hardwick,
pluming himself on his repartee."

They don't think so down at Chesterfield,"
said the earl, chuckling in his turn.

They ! Who are they, my lord ?" exclaimed
Mr. Hard wick, rising. " They,
who are they, in the beggarly hole which I
honour with my presence ? Who are they,
sir, that have cast reflections upon a
Hardwick ?"

There, there, don't be angry ; I humbly
beg your pardon, Hardwick," said the old
earl, as he filled up his glass, and conveyed
it to his lips with a trembling hand.

"Mr. Septimus Dobbs, I suppose," replied
Hardwick; "he is the only person
who would be guilty of intermeddling in

my affairs ; but I shall repay that knavish
lawyer of yours yet, Lord Ellerbie."

11 He's well enough. I find him faithful,"
murmured the earl, between two
capacious draughts of wine.

Yet you would let him insult your
father-in-law."

No, not at all ; I will reprove him.
When shall the wedding be?"

I will talk to my daughter. I will
advise with Miss Hardwick," said the
prospective father-in-law of the master of
Brackenbury Towers.

"Let it be soon, let it be soon," said the
earl, rising and staggering towards the
door. " Good night, Hardwick."

Good night, sir' responded Mr. Hardwick,
adding, as the earl disappeared, " I
have seen him to bed ; a narrow escape of
seeing him under the table. I have drunk
bottle for bottle with him, nevertheless."

"What, what!" he heard the earl suddenly
exclaim, and then there was a hubbub
of voices in the corridor, and the
butler, with several other servants, followed
the postillion and the staggering lord
back into the library, " robbed, that is not
much ; is he murdered ?"

"No, my lord, it is not as bad as that;
highwayman chap wor better-mannered."

Oh ! very well," said the earl, supporting
himself with his hand on the table, ashe
sat down in his chair.

"It wor all done before you could wink.
Me and Bill with our yes in sacks and
tied wi' a rope, and him, Mester Philip, wi'
his purse whipped out like shelling peas."

Yes, yes, and no shooting ?" asked the
earl.

"Not a wad; and Mester Philip he's
putting' up for the night wi' Mester Short,
.at the Miller and his Mena

Oh ! very well," said the earl ; <c and
was my gentleman sober ?"

"When highwayman chap wor gone 
sober."

Before then, man? Where did you
stop on the road ?"

My gentleman got his dinner at Angel
i Chesterfield."

Yes, yes."

And we lugged him ft carriage as drunk
as a lord."

"I thought so," rejoined the earl,
reaching out his hand in a maudlin way for
his empty glass. " The reprobate ! He
shan't stay here. I'll pay none of his
debts ; I'll make him no more allowances ;
so good night to you all."

Lord Ellerbie once more shuffled out
of the room, and Mr. Hardwick took up
the story.

Did the gentleman make no resistance?"

asked Mr. Hardwick, stretching out his
legs and thrusting his hands into his
breeches pockets.

He didn't show no f eight at all."

And you ?"

ic Me ! why, I was down wi' horses."

And your fellow servant ?"

He came tumbling a top of 'em."

They were thrown, then ?"

"Just as if legs bin shotten from
under 'em."

Very well," responded Hardwick, without
deigning to look at the wondering
group, and already feeling a sense of
ownership of the Towers, "you may get to
bed, except Mr. Pease."

The servants humbly took their leave,
with the exception indicated.

Mr. Pease."

Yes, sir," said the butler, a rubicund,
stolid-looking man.

You may sit down."

By your leave, sir," said Pease.

"You did not appear to be quite at one
with your master, the earl, in his remarks
concerning Mr. Philip Scruton."

I've been in the Ellerbie service man
and boy for five and forty years, Master
Hardwick."

And feel yourself one of the family, I
daresay, quite," said Hardwick; "suppose
we have another bottle and talk it over."

"By your leave, sir," replied Mr. Pease,
solemnly, withdrawing from the room.

It was a shadowy-looking apartment
lighted by clusters of candles in ornamental
metal sconces at intervals in the oak book-selves.
The lights were repeated in an
old-fashioned mirror over the panelled
mantel-piece in long blinking processions.
Books in calf and parchment bindings, in

old leather with gilt lettering, and in
various sizes, were ranged in companies, in
regiments, in battalions, in brigades. They
seemed to be on an everlasting parade, waiting
for the order to advance or retire. They
were like an army presenting arms, always
standing there at the royal salute, trim r
solid, keeping their facings, and with the
dust of a hundred field-days on them, as
if the king and his staff had inspected them
and ridden away without the order to
shoulder arms, stand at ease, and finally
dismiss. The candles winked and blinked
in their sconces, as if they knew all about
it and dared not mention it for the world.
Grim busts of classic heroes looked at each
other from their pedestals between the
ranks where the literary troops had halted,
as it were, at company distance, and seemed
to say "it will be all right when the king
and his cocked hat and feathers return'

and then we too may have permission to
step down.

By your leave, sir, after you," said the
butler. " I hope you will approve of this ;
it is from my own bin. Give you good
health, Master Hardwick."

The aristocratic mill-owner did approve
of it. The wine was a revelation. It
seemed to inspire him, and it also loosened
Mr. Pease's tongue.

You see, sir, since you take an interest
in my opinions, I reckon you would just
like to be knowing why I don't quite agree
with his lordship being again his relation,
Master Philip Scruton ; not close relation,
it be true, but heir to property, and only
heir, which, if he was to die, would leave
lordship without heir, last of all the Elders
lot."

"Well, Mr. Pease," said Hardwick, encouragingly,
and in a patronizing way,

vol. I. H

which was intended to inform the worthy
man he must not presume on his condescension.


11 By your leave," said Pease, as if fully
conscious of the warning, and desirous to
re-assure Mr. Hardwick that he was quite
safe, though in his time he had hob-robbed
with the great.

Certainly, Mr. Pease, you have my
permission, and I find it most instructive
to listen to you."

cf It is all about that legend of the family
as I was thinking on, and depend upon it
the day will come, just as the end of the
world must in time, Lord save us !" said
Pease, crossing himself.

"You are a Papist, then, Mr. Pease?"

By your leave, sir," said Pease,
though it is not incumbent on me to say
by your leave to that, I am a pretty good
Catholic, I hope."

u Yes, quite right ; pardon rne, Mr.
Pease. I did not intend to "

Xo offence," said Pease. " I have it
on Father Busby's authority that the butlers
in the Ellerbie family have been
Catholics for five hundred years, and it
would ill become me to break the charm,
though I don't think I would have strength
enough for martyrdom."

Mr. Pease smiled, and, with a " by your
leave," helped himself to wine.

You were speaking of the legend,
tradition, or what-not connected with the
Ellerbie family," remarked Mr. Hardwick.

It is writ down in one of them old
books," said Pease, glancing round at the
book-shelves.

I would not touch them for the world."

II Xo more would I."

II I will take the affair from your own
lips."

h2

Well, you see, it is a matter that's no-secret,
and lordship himself has more nor
once spoke of it ; but you surely must
know all about it, sir, by your leave ?"

I confess I have heard some fable or
other, but I have paid no attention to it ;
there are traditions and legends in my own
family, Pease, which I really could not
remember at this moment."

You'd not forget this one, I think, if
you was Lord Ellerbie ; because, not to be
disrespectful to lordship, he be pretty old
now, and you are not, and you are of a
more thoughtful habit, I should fancy ;
but, when my lord be a-talking again Master
Philip Scruton getting' murdered and
such like, as if he was of no account, I
feel sorry as he should do it. For why ?
By your leave, this is for why. It be
written in family history of the Ellerbies
that race should die out, and it is all

sowing to a crime as was done again the
Church some way. The last of family was
ordained to come to a bad end, being slain
neither by his own hand or by assassins.
There is many circumstances, Master
Hardwick, which Father Busby calls to
mind as favouring the conclusion that the
Ellerbie days is numbered. It was said in
the history that one sign should be as last
lordship should neglect church, should
deny it ; which my Lord Ellerbie have not
exactly done, but he do border on it, no
doubt by reason of times we live in not
been' comfortable like for Catholics ; and
you see there only stands between him been'
the last of race, this Master Philip Scrutiny,
whose life, they say, is not worth a
year's purchase, by reason of his reprobate
ways and his quarrelling propensities and
the like ; though Father Busby says he is a
good Catholic and strict when opportunity

offers, and all this to my thinking' points to
interest Lord Ellerbie have in Master Scrutiny
living, which be his only chance of
avoiding the fate as awaits last of the
grand old family."

Mr. Pease heaved a deep sigh as he concluded
his story, and Mr. Hardwick looked
at him reflectively.

"But supposing Lord Ellerbie married
again ?" he remarked, presently.

"What's the good of that?" rejoined
Pease, with a sneer; "he's been married
enough already to have burdened the succession
with half a dozen different sets of
claimants."

Mr. Pease summed up the situation with
a loud guffaw.

I will now retire, Mr. Pease' said Mr.
Hardwick, solemnly; whereupon the butler's
hilarity fell to zero.

By your leave," he said, " old Margaret

is waiting to show you to your room. I
wish you a good night, sir."

Mr. Hardwick bowed stiffly, and tried
to walk firmly, and made rather a ridiculous
exit, for the floor was polished. But
Mr. Pease assisted his master's guest upon
his legs with a courtly and gracious "by
your leave," as if slipping on your back
was the most natural way possible to quit
the room, and indeed as if it had been
endorsed by warrant of fashion and custom
from time immemorial.

CHAPTER Y.

THE SHADOW OF THE GALLOWS,

Misfortune does not always wait on vice,

irtu
Hazard.

Nor is success the constant guest of virtue

QTTSAN Warwick visited Grassraoor
^ much sooner than she expected todo
; the reason was Mary Kirk's trouble.

Jacob Marks stood in the direst peril ;
and Mary Kirk, woman-like, had selected
the hour of his degradation to confess her
love for him.

It was in the dead calm summer time,
when Grassmoor looked like a dream of

old English life. A long straggling street
of stone houses, with lichens on the
thatched roofs, responding to the sunshine
with a blaze of gold and brown, and green
and yellow. The smoke of the chimneys
crept out of the square stacks in lazy
columns, broken by overhanging trees.
In front of the open door, which showed
you bright brick floors, white dressers, and
shining tins, were straggling gardens, thick
with old-fashioned flowers. Where they
finished, in an uneven hedge by the roadside,
trickled a rivulet that presently fell
over a few boulders, and made a pool in
which you could see the sky, like patches
of blue among the trees.

Away down in the hollow, a grey
and green spot in the landscape, with a
flashing fane that looked like a golden
butterfly, was Brackenbury Towers. To
the right, as you passed down the village

street, a little distance from the road side,
from which it was entered by a pair of
white gates, was the Home Farm.

On this calm summer day, Grassmoor
was agitated quite out of keeping with the
general appearance of things. Groups of
villagers were standing about engaged in
serious conversation. They now and then
looked towards the farm, and then down
the road to where the dry arches of the old
bridge could be seen, and the branch of
the highway that led to Short's mill and
roadside tavern, known as the Miller
and his Men. They were talking of
Jacob Marks and Mary Kirk. All the
village was occupied with them. In regard
to one of these persons half the
county was full of active interest. Jacob
Marks had been tried and condemned to
death for highway robbery. He had the
reputation, where he was best known, of

being the highwayman who had made
the roads between Derby and Chesterfield
and Chesterfield and Bakewell
notoriously unsafe. Since his arrest
for the affair near the old bridge,
there had not been a single alarming
incident along all the neighbouring
highways. Counsel who had conducted
the case against him fired the popular
imagination with a belief in the almost
ubiquitous character of this young criminal,
and lovers of the romantic made a
hero of him. Those who knew him had
implicit faith in his innocence, and, when
asked what he had to say why sentence of
death should not be passed upon him, there
was something touchingly pathetic in the
calm, solemn way in which he lifted up his

handsome face before the court, and said,

n
Only that I am innocent, my lord !"

It must be admitted that the evidence

was strongly presumptive of bis guilt.
His kind old moral master, the surviving
partner in the firm of Marks and Short,
confessed that he had often suspected the
look. This was dragged out of him in
cross-examination by "the clever young
barrister " who had been retained to defend
the prisoner. Mr. Short was constrained
to say that he often thought his cob very
tired and stiff in a morning, and the inference
was that he had been ridden at night
unknown to his master. Both the Hon.
Philip Scruton and the King's officer told
the story with which the reader is acquainted,
and a further sum of money
had been found buried under the floor in
Jacob's bed-room.

Moreover, justice wanted a victim. It
was necessary that an example should be
nia&e\ There had been too many highway
robberies of late. Somebody must be

hanged. Jacob Marks was unfortunate in
being captured at this period of popular
excitement ; and still more unlucky in
being born in "the good old days when
George the Third was king." If any of
my readers should have the slightest difficulty
in believing that this poor young
fellow was convicted on the evidence which
is before them, they can turn to his case in
the Newgate Calendar. This episode of our
general narrative is no imaginary one. The
tragedy is as true in its earlier scenes as is
the sequel, which belongs to a later period
of the history of the several persons whose
careers make up this present drama of love
and adventure, of life and death.

Jacob Marks, the selected of Mary Kirk's
two lovers, was condemned to die. The
devoted girl and her father had sat in
court and heard the sentence pronounced.
They had brought Mary home utterly

stunned and helpless. She had seen him
and embraced him, but all in a kind of
dream. Her nature was not heroic. She
had not proposed to go and fling herself at
the feet of the King and beg her lover's
life. It had never occurred to her to set
forth and help by her tears to swell the
great names which were being appended to
a petition in his favour. She was a weak,
loving, gentle girl, and she had fallen, as
it were, prone upon her face under the
blow she had received.

Susan Hardwick had come to her from
the Hall ; and on this summer day, with the
scent of roses and hayfields, and the distant
tinkle of sheep-bells, coming in at the open
window, she sat with Mark Kirk's head
upon her shoulder, and her arm round her
waist. The country girl looked wistfully
out over the lovely landscape, but saw it
not; neither did she speak. Miss Hardwick

talked to her; but the chattering
companion who had amused her during
that brief visit to Chesterfield was as dumb
as Susan herself, when, a day or two
previously, her father begged her to understand
that he had other plans for her thana
marriage with a hare-brained inventor.
Mary's sisters and brothers occasionally
peeped in at the open door, wondering at
Mary's stillness, and her mother went in
now and then and cried over her.

Old Kirk had gone to London with a
lawyer, to try to influence the Lord-lieutenant
and other distinguished county menin
favour of a reprieve for the lad whom
his daughter would have married ; though
he owned his choice for her would have
been Tom Bertram. The Earl of Ellerbie
had written to Lord Sidmouth pleading
for Jacob's life as a personal matter ; and
Susan Hardwick begged her village friend

to be reconciled. "For," said she, "the
innocent always triumph in the end." The
criminal records of every country testify
to the strange exceptions that must, as
commendation of judicial wisdom, be taken
to prove the rule.

There was one other person with whom
the reader is already well acquainted who
suffered intense mental agony at the painful
situation which had. cast a gloom over
village and town. Tom Bertram loved
Mary Kirk with an unselfish devotion that
would have been content to see her happy
even with his rival. The disappointment
of her selection might have crushed all
his hopes, have broken his heart, but he
would have bowed to his fate with outward
resignation. He was a strong, brave
man, a frank, blunt young fellow, who
would rarely be suspected of the capacity
to feel much, to love deeply, or be greatly

moved by circumstances of pathetic interest.
There are some tender, sensitive
natures which veil themselves under a
rough manner, a pretence of hardness and
impracticability.

You see, miss," said Tom, " I wanted
to have it from your own lips that she is
no worse."

He had intercepted Miss Hardwick in
the short evening walk she took for reflection
and exercise, while Mrs. Kirk put her
daughter to bed.

"Indeed I think she is a little better'
said the town young lady.

"Sorry to trouble you, but I wouldn't
like to ask anybody else, and I'm going to
Derby to see if anything can be done ;
some of my family live there."

Tom had taken off his hat, and he was
swinging it in an apologetic way as he
talked.

vol. i. I

114 THREE Recruits.

"You are very fond of Mary?" said Miss
Hardwick.

We all are hereabouts."

That young man was your rival ?"

"I couldn't blame a chap for getting
better of me in that ; he never did in any
other way."

You believe in his innocence ?"

I'm sure he is not guilty."

"Would you like to see Mary? It
might do her good."

"No ; it would do her harm."

"Why?"

Bless your heart, miss, she would never
bear to look on me, I'm certain of that.
And I don't think I could stand sight of
her myself."

His voice trembled, and he turned away
his head.

Something must be done to rouse her ;

she may go mad else," said Miss Hardwick,
anxiously.

Nothing will cure her but Jacob
Mark's release. Do you think there is
any way of getting a substitute for him ?"

"Would you take his place?"

Well, it sounds like bragging to say I
would ; but I would, for all that."

I believe you, Tom Bertram ; give me
your hand !"

Nay, it's too big and rough for the
likes of you ; we are not used to fine ladies
at Grassmoor."

You are used to brave and honest
men, and that's better," said Susan ;
there's my hand, then."

Tom Bertram took the little white hand
in his, and pressed it respectfully.

"You love her, that's enough for me,"
he said ; " but I don't think you'd better

i2

mention my name to her. Good night r
miss ; God bless you — and her !"

Tom slipped away as abruptly as he had
appeared, and, as Susan re-entered the
house, she looked wistfully in the direction
of Brackenbury Towers, with which her
future was destined to be strangely
linked.

CHAPTER VI.

A MARTYR TO CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.

What's this world ? Thy school, O misery !
Our only lesson is to learn to suffer,
And he who knows not that was born for nothing.

Young.

fTlHERE is in my possession a bundle of
-*- State papers connected with the
Criminal Trials of England which tells a
curious though sad story of human suffering
and aristocratic influence. Among
these documents are judges' notes, death
warrants, petitions for mercy. The latter
include formal appeals signed by many

persons, and the private letters of princes
and nobles. The result of these interpositions
for culprits are duly set forth. I
notice that the simple, unaffected letters of
heart-broken mothers and wives received
little or no attention, and that even great
lords were occasionally answered with
stiff official curtness. But I also find that
in the cases where prisoners obtained
reprieves some powerful noble or politician
was the chief petitioner.

Among the letters which were treated
with apparent indifference is one Prom
Lord Ellerbie, seeking to obtain a reprieve
for Jacob Marks on the ground of the
young man's . previous good conduct, and
the belief that what he had done was on
a sudden impulse of temptation. Moreover,
his lordship pointed out that his
nephew, Mr. Scruton, solemnly swore that
the person who robbed him appeared to

be much shorter in stature than the
prisoner.

Mr. Kirk had written a private letter,
full of touching references to his daughter,
who had lain insensible for days, ever since
the sentence, aud who would surely die if
the young man was hanged. The simple
farmer hoped the robbery of a few guineas
did not necessitate the sacrifice of two
lives, both perhaps innocent ; one certainly
the most precious and sweet life in thew
T old to him and to all the people in
Grassmoor; the other many believed quite
innocent of the crime for which a conviction
had been obtained.

In this little packet of cruel history there
is a haughty letter from Mr. Hardwick,
referring to his ancient descent, speaking
of imaginary claims he had upon the
Government, and requesting consideration
for the prisoner as a personal matter.

Then there is a long formal petition ; and,
last of all, a private report from the Judge
to the Home Secretary, which is not in
favour of arresting judgment. The whole
of the papers are tied together, and
docketed with the fatal memorandum,
No reprieve''

And so it came to pass that one July
day a mighty crowd possessed the capital
town of Derbyshire to see the Majesty's of
the Law assert its power over innocence
and virtue, mistaken by the Blind Woman
for wickedness and crime. From the districts
around Derby the crowd poured in
all the day before the execution, and all
the night. Coaches and vehicles of all
kinds brought guests from Chesterfield,
which has always shown a morbid kind
of interest in deaths and funerals. Every
point of vantage was occupied in presence
of the scaffold, and the day was quite festive,

though the crowd held its breath fora
moment, and shuddered when the minion
of the law drew the cruel bolt on the victim
of "good Mr. Theophilus Short" and the
foolish, woman with the scales.

To die for truth's sake, a sacrifice to
some grand principle, a saint at the stake,
a philosopher battling with superstition, a
soldier fighting the hallowed battle of
liberty : this is martyrdom which has its
divine compensation ; but to die a felon's
death, to be launched into eternity with the
brand of thief upon your character, to leave
behind you a blackened memory, and yet
to be innocent, is a bitter martyrdom to
error which might well induce the sceptical
to question the justice of Heaven.

Many such victims to ignorance, superstition,
fear, expediency, fraud, and false
witness stand at the bar of Public Opinion
for posthumous justice — many known byname

and reputation ; a far greater number
have gone down to nameless graves.
Among these passed away Jacob Marks.
They hanged him at Derby in presence of
a jeering crowd.

I die innocent," were his last words,
but the sun shone brightly as he said so,
and within an hour the vagabond vendors
of street literature were crying, " The last
dying speech and confession of Jacob
Marks, executed this day on the gallows
tree for highway robbery, with a copy of
verses written upon the melancholy occasion
by his sweetheart, and some words of
warning addressed by the unhappy culprit
to his companions in crime and sorrow,"
the whole one of those popular fictions of
the time of which the presses of Derbyshire
used to be peculiarly prolific.

Now, while the shadow of Tower Hill
falling upon a house may ennoble it, the

grim finger of scorn is directed to the
house which lies under the ban of the
scaffold. Poor Jacob Marks had no relations
to inherit the odium that attached to
his name ; but there was one person who
mourned his fate with unqualified bitterness,
and another in whose despair there
was not one gleam of light.

I shall never be good for naught
again," said Tom Bertram to Miss Hardwick
at the end of this grim nine days'
wonder. " I think soldiering will be about
my mark now."

He was standing respectfully, swinging
his felt hat, near Miss Hardwick, beneath
the elms on the Hall lawn, where first we
saw the proud mill-owner's proud but
lovely daughter. The kitten had grown
into a cat, but it was still playing with a
ball of silk or cotton that had fallen from
some needlework in her lap.

She bad just returned to this occupation
as a rest from her thoughts. There
was a pleasant monotony about the work
which she said soothed and comforted
her.

"In that case you might never see
Mary Kirk again," said Miss Hard wick, in
her incisive manner.

All the better for Mary, poor soul, all
the worse for me. Even the old man,
God bless him, he agrees with me a-thinking'
that if she see'd me she'd only be reminded
of him as is gone, him as they've
murdered."

But if she recovered from the first shock
of these thoughts she might grow to like
you, and who knows what might happen,
Tom?"

Nay, I don't know ; I should feel like
an impostor ; as if I'd slipped into deadman's
shoes, and, though he did get the

best of me with the lass, I loved Jacob ;;
I'd have died for him."

Tom turned his head and pretended
Miss Hardwick had dropped the silk spool,
-which he restored to her basket, the cat
watching this interference with its amusement
with surprise, if not contempt.

Yes ; I believe you made some offer of
the kind to the governor of the prison ?"
said Miss Hardwick, smiling, and quietly
dropping again the ball, which the cat
pretended was a mouse or even a rat,,
darting upon it, and seizing it with feline
rapidity.

"Oh, I don't know what I said, miss,
but I shall never be the same man again —
never ! Of course it is not for the likes of
you, a fine lady, to understand what us
common chaps feel ; you see we've only
got a limited space of folk and things to
fix our hearts and minds on; mine was-just

riveted on Grassmoor, Mary Kirk,
and Jacob, and there I was out of luck,
for Jacob his was fixed on Mary, and,
what was more, hers on him. I used to
wonder if they ever got married whether I
could stand it; and I think I could. I
believe I could have gone on worshipping
the ground she walked on, and only taking
it out of him by beating him now and
again at throwing the hammer, or quoits,
or in a bit of rough steeple-chasing like ;
and, lord, if it would bring him back, poor
chap, he might win everything in future,
and I'm mad with myself now as I ever
headed him once."

Tom paused as if impatient with himself
and his own reflections.

How it is I get a-talking with you like
this I don't know. Seems as if I was just
gabbing to myself when I'm talking to

you. It's a way you've gotten, making a
chap so much at home and equal like, and
yet not equal. I've never talked to my
own mother as I do to you, Miss Hardwick."


You pay me a high compliment, Tom ;
some day you will be telling Mary all
about this visit to me."

Nay, never, Miss Hardwick ! I reckon
I'll be like Billy Nipper's horse as be
bought from Brewery, I'll have to think of
clover I used to get, while I try to make
chopped straw go down. My time has
come and gone, miss. I'm like a racehorse
as is lamed and gotten to be turned
out ; lamed in my mind like, not exactly
my limbs, you know, but kind of unsettled
and daft in my head. Bless you, I cannot
work nor do naught, and so I shall just
tak'KiDg's shillin'and see foreign countries."

"And yet you think Jacob Marks was
innocent ?"

I know he was, as innocent as I am of
the thing."

Wouldn't it be better to devote your
life to proving his innocence than going
out to kill men you have never seen ?"

"What's the good of that when poor
chap's dead ; and as for them foreign
thieves, Miss Hardwick, why, aren't they
ruining the country, and don't that Frenchman
say he'll conquer England just as he's
done the Continent ?"

"Who do you suspect robbed Mr. Scrutiny
?" asked Miss Hardwick.

Well, to be plain, I said Short
himself, but Mr. Kirk, though he hates
Short, said that showed as I'd gone mad ;
a man noted for his religion and fairness,
and, as everybody noticed, how sorry he
was to give his evidence."

What makes you think he did it ?"

"He's so sly; and he always seems to
be watching you when you're not looking
at him ; and he's always catching you up
like ; and he couldn't abide Jacob, although
Jacob always spoke well of him ; and —
well, there, I don't know why I think
he could be a highwayman ; for same
reason, I suppose, as anybody could have
thought Jacob Marks was."

"Murder will out, they say, Mr. Bertram;
we shall see. I don't think great
wrongs go unpunished in this world, but
one never knows ; it is a mystery altogether,
and I expect our duty is to take it
as it is and not murmur; to do what
appears to us to be our duty, and not tolet
our feelings and sentiments interfere
too much with our calm judgment about
what is be$£ not only for ourselves but for
others."

VOL. i. k

Certainly, miss ; that is just about
what I was thinking, though I couldn't
express it like."

"ewe think we are shaping our own
destinies," she went on, as if speaking to
herself, " giving our hands where we love
and shaping our future, forgetting all the
time that it is already planned without us ;
that we are simply a pawn, or a knight, ora
bishop, as the case may be, and that
Fate is the player who moves the pieces."

Then, suddenly looking up, she exclaimed
with animation,

Who knows, Tom Bertram, with your
instinctive feeling about this pious Mr.
Short, but that you may be destined to hold
him in check and win the game ! That
may be one of Fate's problems ; a pawn,
you know, may hold a king in check, with
assistance may even cry checkmate."

It's a game I don't understand," said
Tom.

But if you are going to be a soldier,
that makes a difference. Now if you had
made up your mind to remain, and watch,
and wait, to devote yourself to the work of
running down the traitor, whoever he is,
and washing white the memory of your
friend, with Mary Kirk as the reward,
then there might be some prospect of our
hopes being fulfilled. That would be
helping Fate."

"Ah, Miss Hardwick, I'm too much of
a waster for that. If I was to be loafing
about in that way, I should soon end like
Dicky Newborn, who died in the asylum of
drink. Do you know, miss, I've had that
feeling on me of late as they say leads to
being a drunkard. It seemed as if it were
a comfort like to sit and smoke and drink,

k 2

sitting on a bench by a roadside inn all
day and at night on the settle in the
tap-room; and getting up next morning,
and only wanting beer and perhaps a sup
of gin in it for breakfast. Ko, I am not
made of the stuff you think, miss ; but I'll
sleep on it, I'll give it a thought when J
am by myself, though I reckon to be going
on suspecting and that, and being about,
as it were, with a mission of that kind ]
should just get a fit on me and kill the
chap, and there might be more hanging."

I believe you are right, and I air
wrong. Fate plays its games of chess sc
strangely that it may have intended yoi
for a knight, and there is no knowing
where it may move that other piece which
you are to checkmate."

Mr. Kirk says it's Providence ; thai
Mary was too fond of ribbons, and pul
her affections above her Creator — didn't

humble herself enough like, and keep
Sabbath holy all the time ; and that it's a
punishment — 'whom the Lord loveth He
chastened as the saying goes," said Tom.

Do you think the Lord would go out
of his way to be cruel to that poor, dear,
pretty, simple-hearted girl ?" rejoined Miss
Hardwick, gathering up her work and
rising to her feet.

No, I can't think as He would ; yet
he has, you see, miss. How do you account
for that ?"

I don't believe the Lord had anything
to do with it. I don't think He would be
mixed up in such an affair. God is good
and great, and there is nothing good or
great in killing a boy, and breaking a
girl's heart, because a drunken scoundrel
has been robbed."

Ah, now you've got beyond me, miss,
not to say astonished me, to hear a pretty

loving-like lady as you are, begging your
pardon, talking like that."

"Well, I will not shock you any further'
she said ; " come into the house, and
they shall give you some dinner before you
go ; when you have finished, ask to seeme.
I have something else to say to you
besides good-bye."

The same thought as that which struck
Tom Bertram concerning Mary Kirk might
have occurred to you had you seen her
dark, handsome, tender-looking, thoughtful
face, and her graceful feminine figure ;
such a contrast to the gleams of masculine
intellect which occasionally illumined her
conversation and tinged her actions ! She
was a curious compound of the best qualities
of heart and head, with somewhat
erratic views of duty and independence of
character, and opinion about the rights of
blood, which ill accorded with her liberal

ideas on secular and religious questions.
Her father possessed a much stronger influence
over her than she would have been
willing to admit on being questioned upon
the subject. Her mother, when she
died, begged her never to thwart her
father, always to remember that the performance
of duty which involves sacrifices
is a higher attribute and a nobler than
what the world calls love between the
sexes. Mrs. Hardwick had died when
Susan was at the impressionable age of
sixteen, and the girl had been brought up
in a peculiar school of scepticism, keeping
up appearances, and resentment at the
necessity of a continual and persistent
economy.

After a little time, there was a knock at
Susan's door. She had been sitting at
her bed-room window, looking out upon
the mounting elms (which were dropping

the first brown leaves of autumn on the
green sward), and listening to the distant
hum of the silk factory in the meadows beyond.
She would not have sat so quietly
if she could have heard what was going
on at the mill, where mutiny and resistance
were discussing plans of action.

Tell him to wait in the library."

Tom had not long to wait.

One day, at a bazaar in the Chesterfield
May-fair, Mary Kirk bought this bracelet,
and^gave it to me as a keepsake. It is of
no value ; they called it gold, but it is
good honest brass, and will perhaps wear
the better for that. I have had it beaten
out, until I think it will fit you. It is not
the sort of thing a man might select to
wear ; but it belonged to her and to me —
wear it for her sake and mine. I have had
her name and yours engraved upon it."

He took it with a trembling hand.

tl That's the nearest we shall ever get to
each other, to be written down together,
and it's like your kind heart to do that
much."

Let that bracelet be a talisman to you,
a talisman of hope and courage. If you
are good and brave and true, you may yet
live to avenge your friend, and console
Mary Kirk with the honest love of a husband."


11 God bless you !" exclaimed Tom. " I
know you mean it. Good-bye. If I stop
any longer I shall make a fool of myself.
Good-bye !"

He had kissed her hand through his
blinding tears, and was gone before she
she could say another word.

CHAPTER VII.

SHADOWS TALL ON OLIVER AND SUSAN.

Everyone is as God made him, and oftentimes a
great deal worse.

Cervantes.

TTTHILE Miss Hardwick was talking to
* Mary Kirk's despairing lover, lier
father had been discussing her future, and
other important matters, with Oliver
North.

It was in the young inventor's own room
at the mill, where Mr. Hardwick had chosen
to have his encounter with Oliver. A
small room, with a bow-window of diamond-shaped
glass and leaden frame, it was scattered

about with designs of various kinds,
and bits of mechanical models. There
was a chair near the window, while sitting
in which you could see a number of
old-fashioned cottage-gardens, with fruit-trees
of pippins and pears, and beyond a
fringe of poplar-trees, through which came
the music of a distant brook.

Oliver looked picturesque in the velvet
coat which he wore about the factory, and
there was a dreamy expression in his long
and somewhat ascetic face, as he turned
to meet the sophisms and politic arguments
of Mr. Hardwick, about the trade
troubles which had come to a head at the
mill.

"I do not care about the future," said
Mr. Hardwick, in his sharp, incisive
fashion, clipping his words as they fell
sharply from his thin lips, " except so far
as my daughter is concerned, and my

honour. It is the present, sir, in which
we live."

Mr. Hardwick walked about the room,
taking a pinch of snuff now and then, and
emphasizing his words with his crutch-stick.
Oliver North sat still and looked at
him, occasionally pushing his long brown
hair away from his forehead, but with little
other action. He was not exactly like a
rock, against which the more excitable
man dashed himself, but there was a
certain amount of obstructiveness and
immovability about him and his manner,
which Mr. Hardwick found hard to
bear.

I tell you, sir, they may tear the mill
down, if they like, and the sooner the
better, the ungrateful vagabonds, the
miserable canaille!"

"Why don't you say that to their
faces?"

Because I don't choose to have a brick
flung at my head ; and because I am independent
of them. Yes, sir, you may express
your disbelief in what I say by
shrugging your shoulders. I repeat it,
sir, because I can do without them and the
mill too; because, sir, at last I see my way
to live without the taint of trade and the
disgusting and damnable worry of it. I
will do without it, too."

I am sure I can have no objection to
that, sir."

I am not so sure, I am not so sure,"
said Mr. Hardwick ; "you have somehow
obtained such a hold upon the mill and
the Hall too that I feel quite doubtful
whether you may not have the audacity to
feel dissatisfied with my plans, even to
oppose them. You are one of those young
men who by degrees, slowly and unperceived,
as it were, make their way to high

positions and to places of power, and whatnot,
and what not."

Mr. Hardwick felt that " what not" was
rather a weak finish to what he had intended
to be a comprehensive sketch of
North's ambition, and it fretted him to seethe
young man smile.

"When I know what your plans are I
will tell you whether you over-estimate my
audacity or not."

"Very well, sir; then I will play my ace
first ; you shall see my hand at once ; we
will have no more subterfuge about it. My
daughter is going to marry Lord Ellerbie."

Oliver turned pale, half rose from his
seat, then sank back into the chair and
said never a word.

"It will be a commingling of ancient
blood and lineage, a joining of family
names and honours, which will meet with
the approval of all who belong to the

higher classes of society," went on Mr.
Hardwick, glibly, now that he had played
his ace, as he called it. "My daughter
will marry a title, and she will have wealth
enough to administer to those proper tastes
which belong to noble birth and aristocratic
ambition."

Stop a moment," said Oliver ; " don't
talk, sit down, do anything, but don't
talk."

The young fellow waved his hand, and
sighed as if he was in pain.

"For God's sake, when you have stabbed
a man to the heart don't turn the knife
round and round," he said, clutching the
chair; "give me time to breathe a moment."

Then he got up and suddenly walked to
and fro.

Cf Did she tell you to come and say this ?"

Yes."

I'll not believe it."

I thought as much."

I'll not believe it !"

Do you wish to insult me ?"

Yes ! If you were not her father I'd
wish to kill you, you heartless hypocrite P
exclaimed Oliver, drawing himself up to
his full height and contemplating the old
man.

Good morning, Mr. North," said the
mill-owner, turning away.

Oliver went to the door and locked it.

No, sir ; we'll have this out now, once
for all. I have seen it coming, long since;
let it come. Sit down ; deliver out your
judgment and sentence ; let us have it all,
and have done with it."

By all means, if you engage that there
shall be no violence, no pot-house brawling,
sir; I am not accustomed to that kind of argument.
The class from which you sprung
too often mistakes violence for logic."

The class from which I sprung, Mr.
Hardwick, does not sell its women ; the
class from which I sprang has only one
stain on its poor plain escutcheon, that it
lets itself be ruled by beggars on horseback,
and roues in tie-wigs."

"In preference to inventors, who want
to turn them into mere machine-minders,
and who rob them of their honest labour,"
answered Hard wick venomously, having
overcome his fear of an assault.

Well, well ; it is only ignorance from
which they are suffering anyway, not greed
and lust and educated vice. But we will
bandy no more compliments. You are the
master here ; go on. I will be as calm as
I can."

He sat down again in his chair,
and resumed his former passive attitude.
Hardwick walked about in a
fidgety nervous way, turning his head

VOL. I. L

quickly to see the effect of bis words,
pursing up his lips and showing other
signs of his mental trouble, and the weak
arrogance of his nature.

The day is fixed for my daughter's
marriage," he began again.

Go on to the next bu sines," said Oliver,
calmly; but, before the mill-owner could
reply, there was a tramp of feet outside
the door and a loud rude knocking.

Come in," said Oliver.

The door was locked. A rough hand
shook it. Oliver opened it. A dozen men
entered, half of them persons employed in
the mill, the other half men who had been
discharged, partly through depressed trade,
partly owing to North's inventions having
increased production with decreased hands.

Well?" was all Mr. North said.

"We're a deputation," said Mike Busby,
a notorious agitator and loafer.

Yes?"

We want our rights."

"You should address yourselves to Mr.
Hard wick," said Oliver.

"No, no, not to me," said the mill-owner,
turning to the men, " this young man has
become my master, just as he has become
yours, but I am quite willing to discharge
him, if it is your wish."

You coward !" exclaimed North.

Damn it, lad, he always was a coward !"
rejoined one of the discharged mill-hands,
11 and will be to the end ; but that is not
what's matter. You've 'able him to keep
mill on at profit, with new-fangled machines
and things, and ween come to
smash 'em all. That's long and short of
it."

u Have you ? And do you think that
will do any good ? Do you think the
brains which have made one set of

l 2

machines can't model and make another ? ,r

Maybe," replied the man, " but it takes
time, and ween just made up our minds to
wipe 'em out ; and we want you just quietly
to give up drawings and things here
first."

The only drawings you will get here,"
said Oliver North, opening a desk and
taking out a pair of pistols, " are these y
and the first among you that moves is a
dead man !''

Desperate men as they were, they
shrank back before the heroic young
fellow.

Now listen," he said. " I'm willing to
talk this thing out with you, and just at
this moment I'd as lief you smashed everything
in the place as not ; but I'll not be
bullied, and on principle I'll defend my
property to the death."

Hear, hear," said the man, who had

been the chief spokesman, " he's a right
pluck* d un ; let's hear him."

"Ay, ay," said another, "put thy
pistols away, lad ; thought one of courses,
after all. Let's hear what's gotten to
say."

Yon have heard Mr. Hardwick say he
is willing to discharge me."

"Ay, ay."

Well, I discharge myself."

"It isn't thee we object to; it's thy
cursed inventing things."

Listen !"

Well, put thy pistols down."

He flung them aside carelessly.

11 The object for which I have been
working in the present no longer exists.
Next to that, I have been thinking
of a far-distant future, when your sons
and grandsons will read, with shame
and surprise, of the obstacles which

you laid in the way of mechanical progress.
The only prospect for the greatness
of this country lies in the perfection
of such machines as these I have projected,
and the time will come when the workingmen
of England, in their happy cottages,
all through these Midland counties, wilt
bless the memories of the men you now
curse and persecute. But I've done with
it. I am no longer Mr. Hardwick's foreman.
These things which I would not
allow you to take from me by force have
been made in his time and are rightly his ;.
if he doesn't care to defend them, I am
content to have done so when I had a
lawful share in them. But I tell you
that it is no good smashing the models
and drawings without you kill me, for one
day I will build a mill that will work by
itself."

A loud laugh greeted this threat.

11 A mill that shall be wound up like an
eight-day clock, and the only hands will be
labourers to gather up the product."

Thought daft," said Mike Busby, " we
donna care about what tha will do, it's
what tha has done. Till tha chuck out
new machines and take back men you've
turned off ?"

Ask Mr. Hardwick ; I am now among
the discharged."

11 Yes, I will, certainly," said Mr. Hardwick.


Then we'll mak' our apologies for this
intrusion, and wish you a good day."

And so the affair might have ended,
had the business rested with the Chesterfield
hands only ; but at night there arrived
in the town, from Nottingham and Derby,
leaders of an organisation of lawless men,
that a few years later issued its mandates
under the nom de guerre of Captain Rudd,

and carried terror and destruction far and
near throughout the Northern and Midland
counties. When the old town, with its
red-tiled roofs, its thatched houses, and
its strange, uncanny-looking steeple was
fast asleep, mysterious figures appeared in
the meadows and gardens about Hardwick's
mill. The few watchmen of the
neighbourhood, who gave timely notice of
their whereabouts by crying the hour, were
easily gagged and carried to places of
safety. And it was not until the flames
of the wrecked mill illuminated the windows
of the Hall, and the sound of military
bugles was echoing the " assembly"
through the street, that Mr. Hardwick
and his daughter knew what had happened.
It was too late for troops or water to be of
any service. The rioters dispersed almost
as mysteriously as they came, and, as they
had no enmity against the only other mill

in the town, they had accomplished their
mission. It was now so much the more easy
for Mr. Hardwick to make overtures to his
daughter in favour of Lord Ellerbie, which
he commenced with a fierce persistency the
next day.

And he resigned in the midst of the
trouble T she asked.

He did."

Gave up and went his way, and left
the mill to be burnt without raising a hand
in defence even of his own inventions ?"

"Just so."

11 If anyone else had told me I would not
have believed it. But he shall tell me
himself ; perhaps you do not see the situation
with his eyes, father ?"

"I tell you exactly what happened, and,
further, that we are ruined."

You have warned me to look for that
calamity before," she said ; " indeed our

lives for the past three years have been a
miserable progress to this goal of humiliation."


11 But I show you a new path, a way out
of it, a road to wealth and titles, to rank
and luxury ; a way to revive the glories of
our ancestry," said the old man, his voice
trembling, his hands stretched out towards
her.

To marry Lord Ellerbie," she said,
slowly, not mockingly, but as if calculating
the weight of such a sacrifice.

You wouldn't see me a bankrupt, a
beggar, the butt of this wretched hole, this
town that ought to be at our feet, and that
may be yet, Susan — my child, my hope, my
darling !"

Is that the alternative ? Is there no-other
way out of the difficulty ? Cannot
the mill be rebuilt ? Have we no friends ?

Will Lord Ellerbie help you only as my
husband ?"

On no other condition ! Why should
you hesitate? You have no other prospects
; no other offer, I may say ; that
traitor, North, has not had the audacity to
speak to you of love."

Do not call him names, father ; rely
upon it that will not save you, and you
must not try to force me into this match
with a man whom I could not only never
love, but whom I could not even respect.
Have you spoken on this subject to anyone
except Lord Ellerbie ?"

"Well," said her father, "I referred toit
in my conversation with North."

"What did you say?" she asked, the
blood rushing into her face.

That Lord Ellerbie had made you an
offer."

"No more? Father, deal fairly with
me. Don't let me think that the honour
of our house and the word of a Hardwick
are figures of speech."

I told him you were going to marry
Lord Ellerbie," he said, pausing in his
shuffle about the room, and looking at her
with a truculent air of defiance ; " I told
him that you would be the next Countess
of Ellerbie."

Then you forgot what is due to my
honour and your own, and you did not
speak the truth, " she replied, her *face
livid, her lips colourless, only the next
moment to be flushed red as an angry
sunset.

Susan I" exclaimed old Hardwick, " my
child, my only daughter!"

Yes ; I am your only daughter, but not
your only chattel, father ; sell the chairs
and tables first, and then when you must

sell your flesh and blood speak to me
again !"

She swept out of the room and left the
door swinging behind her.

11 The very sentiment that scoundrel
uttered yesterday," said Hardwick, taking
a capacious pinch of snuff, "almost his
words ; this comes of letting the lower
classes into sufficient intimacy with the
upper to exchange views with each other.
But I once thought there was a fortune in
that invention of his ; it's my own fault. I
ought to have known better."

Then, going to the foot of the stairs up
which Miss Hardwick had disappeared, he
called, " Susan, love ; Susan, my dear ; just
one word."

But her door closed as he spoke, and he
could hear the lock turned. I wonder if
his withered little selfish heart would have
been moved if he could have heard her

sobs, when she sat there all alone, her face
in her hands, as if she would hide the
shame and humiliation even from the
mirror that had so of seen reflected her looks
of joy when she had gone to her room
fresh from a conversation with Oliver
North.

CHAPTER VIII.

cupid's recruits and the king's.

O, how this spring of love resemble
The uncertain glory of an April day ;
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
And, by-and-by, a cloud takes all away.

Shakspeare.

THE unconventional town of Chesterfield
was not given to be much surprised
at anything. It had taken its share
in the business of fighting the French ; it
had seen rioting and sacking of houses ; it
had stared its full at the prisoners of war,
some of whose writing on the glass of an
out-house of the Angel was still to be

seen a few years ago, and some of whose
blood mingles to-day with the harsher
strain of the locality; it had seen the
marching of troops en route for the Continent,
and also on their way against civil
risings at home. It thought nothing of a
drunken fellow rolling about the streets ;
yet when Oliver North came reeling out of
one public-house to go reeling into another
all the town was agog with the news.

The gossips concluded that Oliver was
overcome at losing his position in the mill ;
though a few of them guessed that Lord
Ellerbie had "cut him out with Miss Hardwick."
Jessie Burns said so, but rather in
sorrow than in anger ; and it was noticeable
that Jessie had grown much quieter
than usual lately, for the scandal-mongers
had got hold of Jessie's name now, and
they did not scruple to say ugly things
about her flirtations with Mr. George,

otherwise Ensign Wingfield, who, between
his military education in London and his
numerous vacations spent at the Vicarage,
had managed to spend a good deal of his
time with Jessie.

It was even said that, on one occasion
when Jessie went away on a visit to a distant
relation in the north, during the
previous autumn, a couple very much like
herself and the vicars son stayed together
at a secluded hostelry in one of the
Arcadian dales near Buxton. Indeed, an
angler who was wont to fish the waters of
the busy Wye, as it flashed under Thee
Tor, and rested in pleasant pools now and
then by Miller's Dale, had been heard to
say, over his glass at the Angel, that,
though he would not harm a living creature,
the Mr. and Mrs. Smith who stopped
at the Anglers' Arms, and only walked
out at night, were Mr. "Wingfield and the

VOL. I. M

coy but sharp-tongued little mistress of the
Chesterfield Post Office.

Poor Jessie ! It is not necessary that
we should beat about the bush in a plain,
straightforward story such as this is. It
was all true, the seemingly cruel things
that were said about her. She had been
trying to satisfy her own conscience by
finding flaws in the conduct of others, a
common device of even wiser people than
Jessie ; and she had held her position sofar
by dint of her boldness and her clever,
daring tongue. She loved George "Wing-field
with all her heart, and she had given
herself up to him body and soul. A devil-may-care
young fellow of the period, a
jack-a-dandy, who prided himself upon his
conquests with women, a boy trained for
military service, and on the eve of joining
his regiment in the field, he had only
thought of Jessie Burns as a local prize, a

pleasant pastime. Yet his pretended love,
the hopes he had excited, were her all;
secret treasures, it is true, but one day to
be proclaimed before all the town ; one
day, she was assured, to be authorized at
the altar and announced by the ringing of
the bells that swung high up in the crooked
steeple. For he had always told her that
he would marry her, and he had once even
asked her to fix the day.

And what will I do ?" Jessie was
saying to Mr. George Wingfield, on this
autumn evening, long ago, in a shadowy
corner of one of those passages at the
bottom of the market-place which was cutoff
from the fields by the brook that ran
merrily along through the meadows, " ay,
but I'm a-weary this day!"

The autumn wind came sighing up from
the fields, and the lamplighter was busy
with the few oil-lamps that served in those

m2

days to illumine the darkest points of the
old square, or rather to make the darkness
dimly visible.

Oh, you will do very well, Jessie,"
said the heartless young fellow. " I shall
leave you a good purse, you know ; and
if your father turns you out, why, I have
written to that kind old lady at Miller's
Dale, and you can stay there until I come
home. Don't cry, Jessie, you shall have a
coach and post horses. I will do everything
that a gentleman can."

There's only one thing that a gentleman
can do, George ; but if ye cannot doit,
it is not myself that will upbraid ye"
she answered, lapsing more and more into
the musical dialect of her native hills, "and
it was not for myself that I was sae
troubled, but for my father and your own
father, George ; for who am I that it
should matter what becomes of me ?"

Jessie, you are the best little woman in
the world," said George.

"Nay, I'm just the worst, and I do not
wonder that ye feel ye cannot marry me
now ; ye, an officer of the King's army, and
me, just the daughter of your reverend
father's servant, Sandy Burns. Ay, but
to think of our position in this town o'
Chesterfield, which will hoot me in the
streets when they ken the sort o' girl
they've got among them, and me that held
my head up till they were sae jealous it
made them spiteful''

Jessie was not one of your quiet folk,
who take their troubles silently, and bend
before the cruel wave of Fate without a
word. Chesterfield always said her tongue
would be her ruin ; but they were wrong.
It was the gift of beauty that was Jessie's
ruin ; her bright eyes, her wavy red hair,
ner piquant manner, her graceful carriage,

her melodious voice, her coquettish
ribbons, her well-formed instep. If you
read the literature of the period, the plays
of the time, the ballads of Derbyshire-which
were sold in the market towns, you
will find that to ruin such a girl as this was
not considered a serious matter, more
particularly if the transaction was a
military one. Farquhar " Recruiting
Officer" did not over-colour the openly
practised and accepted immorality of the
army, and a troupe of players had recently
delighted Chesterfield with a representation
of the vulgar and outrageous amours of
Sergeant Kite" and " Captain Plume,"
which poor Jessie had witnessed from the
boxes of the stuffy little theatre. That
which was full of mirth to many was
but a sad business to Jessie Burns.

You shall be taken care of," said
George. "I will put some money in the-bank

for you, and I'll write to your father
when we march, Jessie, and you must
cheer up, and not be down-hearted."

"Ay, laddie, it's nae good your saying
that; I'll jest never cheer up again, and ye
ganging wa to fight, and me all alone,
with nobody to say a kind word to me;
the neighbours say I've got nae heart at
all, but they do not know me. It's jest
too much heart that's my trouble."

"Ton my life, that is true, Jessie ; you're
too good, and there, I don't know what
to say to you ; I never felt as I do now,
Jessie, ashamed of myself."

He might well say so, if there was a
spark of manly feeling in him ; for that
very day he had solemnly engaged himself
to his father's ward, Emily Manners,
without the knowledge of the vicar ; and
standing here, under the stars, he began
to be conscious of a divided sentiment in

regard to the two girls. There was something
flattering to his vanity in Jessie's
tender, self-sacrificing confidence, something
fascinating in her musical voice, and
the quaintness of the northern dialect.
But Emily was a lady, and an heiress to
boot, and Jessie — well, it did not bear
thinking of !

Nae, it is not you that should have
any shame in the matter ; there is only one
person to blame, and that one person must
bear the pain and all that follows ; for it's
sae ordained, and it is written that as you
make your bed just so must ye lie in it.
Ay, it's hard to part wi' ye. But the
clock's striking nine, and my feather will
be wondering where I've gotten to."

Then I'll say good-bye, Jessie. Put
this in your pocket."

He pushed a purse into her hand.

Nay, I'd rather not have it, George ; it

make me feel all the worse, somehow."

You must, my child, you must," he
said ; " how are you going to manage
else?"

Oh, I cinna ken how, but I'll contrive
to ; Heaven will not desert me altogether."

Jessie, I insist," said George, quite in
his customary voice now, for he felt conscious
of something like a good action.

Vary weel, George dear, for your sake,"
she said, and put it into her pocket. " Ay,
if the neighbours and townsfolk did but
ken the sort of person the proud lassie o'
the Post Office is ; but I'll not think about
it now. Kiss me, George ; one kiss, the
last, it may be, ye'll ever gie me ; but ye'll
think of me out there, when the bands are
playing, and I'll pray for you in the battle,
if the prayers of such like as me are any
gude."

Good-bye, Jessie, my poor dear little

lassie, good-bye," he said, stooping to kiss
her, and only then knowing that she had
been talking all the time through blinding
tears, talking as if her eyes were dry as
his, but talking with her poor, brave,
generous little heart breaking.

How was he, a fine young gentleman,
the son of a distinguished father, an officer
in a crack regiment, just going to put on
his gay uniform for the first time, to
understand the awful affliction that had
come upon poor Jessie, who, having fallen
through her unpardonable vanity and her
deep love, was now awakening to that
special misery which was not new when
the poets told the story of " Marguerite,"
and which will never be old this side the
millennium ?

The drunken fellow who reeled in Jessie's
way for a moment as George watched her
going home was Oliver North, whom the

vicars son bad met occasionally in Chesterfield
houses, and also once-in-a-way at
the Angel. Oliver was one of the few
intellectual young men of the town, and
one of the few, not native and to the
manner born, whom the townspeople
looked up to, for they were a clannish and
somewhat jealous community.

"Hollo, North!" exclaimed George,
what's the matter ?"

Nothing," said Oliver, pulling himself
together.

"Where are you going?"

To the Angel," said Oliver, speaking
soberly, though he staggered in his gait.

Come with me to the Horns ; some
of my fellows are having a supper there in
honour of my commission and orders to
march. I fancy it is the vicar's treat. We
march, you know, either tomorrow or at
the end of the week."

I wish I did."

Why, has the sacking of the mill so
upset you ? Surely old Hardwick can get
money enough to build it up again ?"

He can't build me up," said Oliver.

You want holding up, I'm afraid."

Do you think I'm drunk?"

I know you are," said George, bluntly,
for he was brave enough with men, however
cowardly he might be with women.

Stand off !" said Oliver, thrusting him
aside.

"Nonsense, you are all right in your
Jiead, dear friend, but you are drunk in
your legs."

Very well, then !" said Oliver, in a
stupid sort of fashion, " you let my legs
.alone 1"

I will ; but you shall take my arm,"
.said George, seizing Oliver by the shoulder,
confound you, I'm your friend, and I

have been as you are myself, and hope to
be again. Do you want to quarrel ?"

"Yes, I do," said Oliver, shaking himself
free of his companion ; " I do want to
quarrel, that's what I want to do."

With whom ?"

"Anybody, more particularly with myself,"
he said, staggering against a passer-by,
who stopped with one or two others, in
the hope of seeing a row.

Come along, then ; we'll quarrel as we
walk," answered George, putting his strong
right arm round Oliver, and carrying him
along. " I'm your friend, North ; I'll fight
your battles, whatever they are."

"I have no friends," said Oliver, and as
they passed under the light of a lamp his
face could be seen pale and sad, his long hair
straggling over his forehead. His figure
was thin and somewhat delicate, his hands-long,
his manner dejected and worn.

George Wingfield was a striking contrast.
Tall, athletic, straight, strongly
built, he was the picture of a young
English officer. Short, light hair, cut
close to his head, a weak mouth, partially
hidden by a light moustache, a prominent
chin, and a somewhat sensual formation
of the lower part of the face, which was
neutralised by a frank manly look in the
eyes. In the matter of strength he was a
young Hercules, and there was a good deal
of obstinacy in his composition, which was
shown in some measure by the way in
which he struggled with and overcame
Oliver North.

u The fresh air will put you right," he
said, as Oliver for a moment ceased to
resist him; " we'll walk to the Horns, or,
if you like, I'll see you home."

I have no home."

You are in a bad way," said George.

Let me walk by myself."
I won't."
"You shall."

I won't, I tell you."

It was no use Oliver struggling, George
"Wingfield held him as if he were in a
vice.

If you like to put your head under this
pump, and let me pump on it, you shall
walk by yourself."

Very well," said Oliver, who at once
bared his head and submitted to the
sobering process suggested by his friend.

"Do you feel better?"

"Yes; good night!" said Oliver, starting
to run, but falling all his length in the
road.

Oh, you obstinate beggar!" said George
picking him up.

"It's the first time I've been drunk," said
Oliver, " and I am not used to it."

You are ever so much better, though."

How do you know ?"

Because you are ready to acknowledge
what is the matter with you."

"Isn't this the Potters' Field?"

"Yes."

Let us sit down, and rest a minute."

They entered the meadow through a
stone stile. The Horns public-house
was close by, a roadside inn, outside the
borough.

You will be all right in a minute."

fC Leave me now," said Oliver ; " I'm
quite well."

"I won't leave you, and you are not
quite well. There is something more than
drink the matter with you."

11 There is, there is," replied Oliver, bitterly
; " don't ask me what it is, and I shall
tell no lies about it. I'm done for."

It's a woman," said George ; " only a

woman could floor a fellow like you. You
are not used to them."

Well, yes, it is a woman."

Tell me all about it, and relieve your
mind ; I feel devilish bad about a girl myself,
— two or three girls for that matter."

Then you would not understand me if
I told you my case," said Oliver, rising to
his feet, " so come along, I'll go with you
to the Horns or anywhere else. I don't
care. Fate and the devil may toss me
where they please, since the angels will
have nothing of me."

Oliver's misery had been completed a
few hours previously by Susan Hardwick
refusing to see him. He had called at the
Hall to ask her himself whether it was true
what her father had said. Meeting Mr.
Hardwick on the steps, he unfortunately
was in no mood to brook further insults
from the arrogant and selfish old man, and

VOL. I. N

a noisy altercation had ensued, purposely-provoked
by Susans father, because she
was within hearing, and he hoped North
would call him names, which Oliver in his
wrath did, walking straight into the trap
which had been set for him. In the midst
of the altercation, and following up an
almost ferocious epithet which Oliver had
used towards her father, Susan presented
herself, pale and indignant, for, even had
she acknowledged to herself that her father
had deserved Oliver's rough denunciation
of him, her pride and her sense of filial
duty would not let her stand by and hear
him pronounced a cowardly, selfish, lying
old man.

If you have called upon me" she said,
looking straight at Oliver, her lip quivering,
"you may spare us this unseemly
altercation. I refuse to see you."

That was all she had said. Oliver had

looked at her, with his heart in his mouth,
as she turned her back upon him and retired.
And then he had felt that all was
really over. It was to recall this scene
again now that he came to his senses. He
had wandered aimlessly from the Hall to
the Angel, had, indeed, gone straightway
and sought consolation or oblivion in
drink, just as Tom Bertram had feared he
might do himself, as he had told Miss
Hardwick in that conversation about Mary
Kirk and her dead and disgraced lover.
Yet Tom, the rough, uncultivated villager,
had only talked of drink as a danger he
wished to avoid in his trouble ; while Oliver
North, the educated, sensitive, thoughtful
inventor, who had conceived grand mechanical
theories, and had seemed to be on
the eve of realizing them, went straight
down into the gutter, and for the moment
was a mere helpless thing, like

•n2

a rudderless, water-logged ship afc sea.

They were received with a wild burst of
cheering at the Horns ; the young officer
and his friend, Mr. Oliver North.

The recruiting sergeant of the district
was in the chair. He and the company
rose and saluted Ensign Wingfield, and
then the sergeant made a few remarks
about the honour and glory of serving
under officers who were gentlemen, and
what a fine thing it was for the Chesterfield
recruits to know that they might be led to
victory by one of their own townsmen, the
son of a fighting family, and as fine a
young fellow as ever drew a sword or
made a pretty girl's heart ache.

George Wingfield stopped the speaker
at this point, and said, " Comrades, I have
come here to-night to drink to the king,
and to say that I am glad I have got my
commission, because the sergeant who has

enlisted so many of ray young fellow-townsmen
wished me to pay you this visit,
and also because I liked it, and feel it to
be neighbourly. The regiment in which
many of you here will serve, and to which
I have been appointed, is ordered to the
front."

Hurrah !" shouted the men.

We are going out in a good cause.
Though Trafalgar settled Napoleon's navy,
his continental power is unbroken, and he
is going to strike us shopkeepers, as he
calls us, through our pockets."

The company groaned and laughed
ironically.

The British Islands are declared to be
in a state of blockade ; our countrymen
who happen to be in France and other
countries under Bonaparte's control have
been made prisoners ; our merchandise has
been confiscated. The result is dear bread

in England, trade paralysed, half the world
arming against us, and Napoleon dictator
over all the nations."

"Except England, your honour," said
several voices.

It is to except England, to maintain
England's honour, to rescue our countrymen,
and to prove ourselves worthy of our
fathers that we are going out to fight
bandits and traitors," said the young officer
amidst deafening applause, "and hereto
the king, to the regiment, and to the
girls we leave behind us !"

He raised a tankard to ' his lips, and the
entire company stood up and cheered withall
their might, those being most noisy who
had drunk most.

There was one big, handsome fellow,
among half-a-dozen others out of uniform,
sitting near the recruiting sergeant, who

responded to a call for a song, and who
sang an old English ditty, the burden of
which was love and war; but half way
through he broke down, and was saved
from utter discomfiture by aloud repetition
of the chorus by the company. The
vocalist was Tom Bertram, who had not
failed from any weakness of memory, but
on account of the strength of it and its
inopportune exercise. All in a moment it
had occurred to him that, while he was
singing, Mary Kirk was weeping in that
quiet sad house which used to be so sunny
and bright at Grassmoor.

Captain Winged," he said, rising,
u and, gentlemen, I beg your pardons for
breaking down, I hope I'll do better when
it's real work I've gotten before me, and, as
it's my turn to call for a song or a sentiment,
I ask leave to mention Mr. Oliver
Forth."

That man's a born courtier, rough as he
is," said George, " calling me captain. Say
something good to the fellow, Oliver."

"I know him," said Oliver, now pretty
well himself again, and remembering the
many gracious things Susan Hardwick
had said about Tom, as well as his chivalrous
conduct in connection with that
terrible business at Derby, " he is a fine
fellow, but what is he doing here ?"

He's one of the sergeant's latest
recruits ; don't you see the ribbons which
he has pinned upon his shoulder, as no
other fellow's are pinned. Damme, the
fellow's a perfect picture !"

Gentlemen," exclaimed Oliver, standing
up, pale as a ghost, a wild light in his
eyes, " Tom Bertram asks me for a
sentiment, I don't know one, I don't think
I ever was at a convivial meeting in my
life before. But I know a man when I

see him ! Tom Bertram is a man, every
inch of him."

"Bravo; he is, he is," shouted a dozen
voices.

"I'll put him into a sentiment for you,
gentlemen, and give him a new comrade.
May we all be worthy of Tom Bertram's
friendship !' "

Well said !" cried Tom's companions.

"And may the king have a million
better soldiers than Oliver North ! Sergeant,
give me the shilling."

Oliver stepped towards the recruiting
officer.

North, my friend," said George, " think
what you are doing."

"I have thought," said Oliver; and
mumbling something about serving His
Majesty the King, the sergeant deposited
a shilling in Oliver North's open hand, and
then hammering the table for silence, said:

"Ensign Wingfield and comrades, the
sentiment is 'May we all be worthy of
private Bertram's friendship!' And may
His Majesty have a million soldiers as
handsome and plucky as the lads who have
taken the King's shilling in Chesterfield I*

Hurrah !" and "Three cheers for the
new recruit !" cried a score of voices, as
the chairman fastened the colours in the
hat of Oliver North.

RECRUITED BY MARS.

They daily thrust their loves and lives through hazards,
And, fearless, for their countries' peace, march bravely
Through all the doors of death, and know the darkest :
What labour would these men neglect, what danger %
Where honour sits, though seated on a billow
Rising as high as Heaven, would not these soldiers,
Like so many sea-gods, charge up to it ?

Beaumont*

CHAPTER I.

FATHER AND SON AND THE THREE RECRUITS.

The sea of fortune doth not ever flow ;
She draws her favours to the lowest ebb ;
Her tides have equal times to come and go ;
Her loom doth weave the fine and coarsest web :
No joy so great but runneth to an end ;
No hap so hard but may in time amend.

Southwest.

FT1HE Vicar of Chesterfield, the Reverend
normandy Wingfield, was looked
upon as one of the most gentle, amiable,
yet upright and manly parsons in the
county.

He had commenced life in the army, and
after an Indian campaign had taken orders,

and being already a rich man was quickly
advanced to high preferment. The living
of Chesterfield was of no great value, and
he gave away ten times the amount of his
stipend ; but there was a pleasant vicarage
house, and he was fond of his native
county, every inch of which he had explored
and almost knew by heart. The Gentleman's
Magazine contains the heads of a
sermon which he preached on the beauties
of Derbyshire, and the character which the
people ought to maintain for all that is
fine and noble in human nature, that they
might show themselves worthy of the
lovely region in which they had the good
fortune to exist. It would be to study the
subject too curiously to consider — in a
novel, at all events — the influence of
scenery on human character, but Vicar
Wingfield thought Derbyshire men and
women should find an incentive to virtue

and honesty and manliness in the loveliness
of their hills and dales, their musical
brooks, their verdant valleys, and their
noble crags and peaks. In regard to the
moral duties that belonged more particularly
to gentle birth, he insisted upon a very
high standard of conduct, and he found
neither sympathy nor excuse for the social
Crime of which the Kites and Plumes of
the army made a merit.

The vicar had an invalid wife, one only
son, and a ward, Miss Emily Manners, a
charge bequeathed to him by a widowed
officer on the field of battle. Miss Manners
was well endowed with property, and
was of a sweet amiable disposition. She was
not considered to be pretty, but she was
accomplished, and Chesterfield called her
"The Lady of the Vicarage." Unknown
to the vicar, and with a suddenness that
had surprised Miss Manners into an

encouragement of his pretensions, George
Wingfield had proposed for Emily's hand.
The vicar had other views for her, conceiving
it to be a more honourable performance
of his trust that she should not
marry his son, than if her estates and
herself remained in his family. Nor had
he any notion that George and Emily
regarded themselves as anything more to
each other than friends. They had not
been thrown much together. George had
been away for his education and training,
except during the usual vacations, at which
times the vicar had artfully managed that
she should visit his sister who lived at
an old hall up in the Peak. Moreover,
Miss Manners had, it was thought, rather
encouraged the attentions of a certain
Yorkshire baronet, whose pretensions were
favoured by the vicar. George "Wingfield
was, however, a young fellow far more

desirable in appearance than the baronet r
who looked as common as one of his own
grooms. And so, somehow, George, on the
receipt of marching orders, took advantage
of the time and a sudden whim to attack
Miss Manners by storm, and surprise her,
if not into a confession of love, at least
into a sort of understanding that supposing
he continued in the same mind when he
returned he might ask his father's consent
to their marriage.

George Wingfield had been tempted
into this latest complication almost through
the badinage of his friends, who twitted
him with letting a stranger carry off, under
his very nose, " The Lady of the Vicarage,"
an heiress and a most desirable wife. He
had argued that some day he would have
to " settle down " as a respectable married
man, and that at all events Emily Manners
might just as well be his wife as any

VOL. I. O

other; and better." At all events he thought
there would be no harm in putting off the
possibility of the baronet securing her
hand until he had had time for reflection.
The heartlessness of the business did not
occur to him. He was thoroughly selfish
about women. They were in his eyes
simply intended to minister to the pleasures
of young men, and to make old men
comfortable. If he thought at all about
it, that was his view ; but the chances are
lie did not think. His nature at present
was a jumble of inconsistencies, his moral
sense was a blank, his mind was only
exercised in the interest of his personal
pleasure and ambition. A splendid
animal, his appetites might have been
described as Epicurean, had they not
included the robust ambition of military
adventure and the pride of strength of
limb.

The vicar s son had inherited from his
father the youthful prowess and love of
arms that had made him select a soldier's
life, but little it is to be feared of that
virtue which had led to the beating of his
father's sword into a clerical crook and the
living up to the profession which it symbolised.


There was a delicious air of quiet in the
vicars's library at all times, but especially
might this have been observed a day or
two after George's parting with Jessie
Burns, when the Scotch lassie's father
sought audience with his reverence. Mr.
Phoebus Jones, a quiet oldish man, dressed
in a black livery, opened the old oak door
gently and closed it softly behind him.

"What is it, Phoebus?" asked the white-haired,
closely shaven vicar, looking up
from his desk ; "we certainly must find
another name for you."

o 2

So you've said for the last fifteen
years," said Phoebus, in a subdued voice
and with a soft southern accent.

"Yes, you are like Tristan Shandy's
door that he was always going to grease
the hinges of ; but really I must think of a
new name for you."

Thank you."

But what is it ?"

The sergeant wishes to see you, sir."

Burns?"

Yes, sir."

Anything wrong ? He does not often
favour us with a call, Phoebus."

He looks as if something was wrong,
sir.

Tell him to come in."

I will, sir," answers the courteous and
gentle servitor, striking his elbow against
a high-backed chair as he turns to leave
the room, and begging its pardon as if it

were a Human being — "Beg pardon; yes,
sir."

Phoebus !" said the vicar to himself,
11 he's anything but bright. What respectable
clergyman could have allowed him to
be christened such a heathenish and foolish
name."

Beg pardon, sir ; Sergeant Burns,
the letter carrier," said Jones, ushering
in a sandy-haired, freckled man, who,
from appearances, might have been
any age between forty and seventy ; a
reticent, rather stupid-looking fellow, yet
still the father of that chatty, lively girl,
whose tongue had been a sword in Chesterfield,
and whose trouble would secretly
rejoice many of the jealous townsfolk
who cared neither for Northerners nor
Southerners, and who regarded as interlopers
all settlers in the old town that were
not native and to the manner born.

Well, where is lie ?" asked the vicar r
as Phoebus stood with the door ajar.

Eh, but the mats are vera sma' ; I
canna find one sufficient to wipe my feet
on," Burns could be heard saying to himself,
in a coarse, grating voice.

Beg pardon, sir," said Jones, in his
gentle, propitiating manner, as he looked
into the passage leading to the room ; " the
sergeant is wiping his shoes with his
pocket-handkerchief."

Come in, come in," said the vicar, in a
loud tone ; and then, turning to Mr. Jones,
"that will do, Phoebus ; now, why couldn't
you have had a name like Burns ?"

Beg pardon, but that is his surname,,
sir ; my surname is Jones."

"Dear me, yes; why did I never think
of that ?" said the vicar, smiling ; " in
future then we will call you Jones."

u Thank you, sir," said Jones, turning

away, to come in contact with the awkward
burly form of Burns.

"Beg pardon," he said, and the next
moment he closed the door and was gone.

Anything wrong, Burns ?" asked the
vicar. Burns, standing cap in hand, by
the vicar's writing-table, which is placed
in the centre of a bow-window that looks
out upon a well-rolled lawn, bounded by
clipped yew-trees, box-borders, and rosebushes.


Yes, sir."

At the post-office?"

Weel, yes; it is at the post-office, in
the loose."

What is it, then ?"

Burns looked at the vicar, and then at
his cap.

"Have you lost something?"

Something like it."

A robbery ?"

Ay, vicar, a robbery that nothing
can replace, and yet there's a gift with it
too, ye ken."

You are speaking in parables," said
the vicar ; " when you have quite made up
your mind, Burns, to take me into your
confidence, I will listen to you, and help
you if I can ; as I always have done."

Ay, that's it, colonel, I mean vicar ;
ye were always sae kind and gude, that's
why I feel I canna tell ye. I thought it my
duty to come, and so I come, and now I
have come I wish I hanna, and I think I'll
just gang back and keep my trouble to
myself. Only I canna do that, for the
bairn will cry, and Chesterfield folk will
talk."

Sit down, Burns ; tell me what is the
matter. I can see there is something
really wrong. Does it concern me or

you?"

Faith o' us, but me most ; for if I were
a bad mon it would cause me to greet,
and it's just because you're a gude mon
it will gie ye pain. Eh, but I'm vera sorry
I come, I'll gang hame again."

Sit down and speak out," uttered in a
peremptory tone, with more of the colonel
in the manner of it than the vicar, pulls
Burns up, and brings his right hand
promptly to the salute.

Now then, Sergeant Burns," says his
reverence, rising to his feet, " what is
it?"

"It's Jessie, it's Jessie !" burst out from
the trembling lips, and the strong Scotch
soldier wipes the tears from his eyes with
the back of his brown hand.

What of Jessie ?"

She's disgraced herself, and me, and
your reverence, and the town, and all
o' us."

Burns sits down and hides his face in
his cap.

Poor child ! I guess what you mean.
And who is the villain that has brought
this misery about ?"

"Do you think he's a villain ?"

I do, indeed."

Then I'll gang hame ! I said I
wished I hanna come. I've nae right ta
mak ye unhappy."

It is my duty, as a clergyman, Burns,
to share the troubles of my flock ; in your
case there is a closer tie : we fought for
our country side by side, and you carried
me wounded from the field and under
fire."

That was nothing, vicar ; ye hae no
right to mention it. Let me gang hame."

Who is the man — the villain ?"
"Ay, that's it; ye said he was a
villain."

"And I say so again. He's a wretch,

accursed of Heaven "

Nay, nay !" exclaims Burns ; " cinna
say that o' your ain flesh, and blood !"

My own flesh and blood !" says the
vicar, echoing Burns's words, and passing
his white hand over his forehead in a
troubled manner. " You don't mean George,
you don't mean my son?"

"You've said it, you've said it!" exclaimed
Burns. "And I wish it wasna
true'

George ! my only boy ! What have I
done that I should be visited by this
punishment ? It will break his mother's
heart,"

11 1 wish I hanna come," says Burns, ina
sort of wail, like the chorus to some sad
refrain, for there was a deep rich musical
ring in the parson's voice, a lamentation
in the reflection of the effect of Burns's

news on the poor suffering mother in the
chamber above.

It is right that you should come," says
the vicar, speaking as if addressing a
congregation, so solemn and emphatic and
eloquent are his words. ■' I wish you had
had no cause to come, but, having the
cause, you are in the right. Sergeant
Burns, you are a maimed old soldier of
the world ; I a soldier of Christ. This
sorrow binds us, we are brothers in
adversity. You were only an old servant
of mine yesterday ; to-day we are brothers.
Your foolish daughter and my wicked son
have made us relations, Brother Burns ; my
son shall marry your daughter !"

But, sir," stammers Burns.

There is no 'but.' It shall be done,
or George Wingfield is no longer a son of
mine. Good-bye !"

The vicar takes the half-resisting hand
of the sergeant.

He'll nae dort, he'll nae dort," says the
Scotchman, turning towards the door.

Brother ! brother !" says the vicar,
solemnly, " these foolish young people have
made us brothers, without a thought of
us. Will you leave me without a word ?"

I canna speak," says Burns, going,
I canna speak ; your over kind words
just choke me. I'll gang hame, I'll gang
hame."

Thank Heaven it is a sin that can be
repaired," said the vicar by-and-by, speaking
to himself, after sitting for some time
looking out upon the lawn, his thoughts
busy with the immediate reparation which
George should make. " Jessie is a sweet
girl. George is young, she is young, and
both have been foolish and thoughtless.

It is useless and vain to look for ripe corn
in the spring time. It may all be for the
best. I will hope so. Family pride is a
hollow mockery, a hollow vanity. I may
learn to love my daughter Jessie, and even
bless the folly of my son. And yet I fear
I am but cheating myself. It is a bitter
grief!"

George knocked at the door and entered
at the moment.

"We march tomorrow, father, the
orders have just come in' he said,
pausing as suddenly as he had spoken, to
notice how pale and agitated the vicar
appeared to be.

George, George !" exclaimed the vicar,
his hand on his heart.

Why, what's gone wrong, father ?"

Jessie Burns," said the vicar. " George,
before you march you'll marry Sandy
Burns' s daughter."

George sighed aloud, partly in sympathy
with, his father's pain, partly out of relief
that the worst had come to pass and was
over.

"I cannot, father," he said.

You cannot ?"

No, sir."

And why?"

For several reasons."

"Name one."

"You have always told me that men
should marry in their station of life."

"When you wronged Jessie. Burns you
stooped to her level ; you must try to lift
her to yours."

I cannot."

Do not make me angry. Why cannot

you?"

"You have told me men should only
marry where they love."

And do you dare to set that up as a
reason after what has happened ?"

I have another reason," said George,
"a subject which I came in to speak about,
one you will hear of now, I fear, with
displeasure."

"Well?"

"lam grieved to give you pain, but I
hope you will make allowance for youth,
and not think me too undutiful."

"Well, sir?"

"Miss Manners," said George, pulling
himself together for his last plunge into
the troubled waters of paternal displeasure.


"What of her?"

The vicar steadied himself by the aid
of the chair by which he was standing, his
hand resting upon the back.

I am engaged to Emily," said George.

"What?" said the vicar, sinking into his

chair and clasping the arms, as he looked
at his son.

It was yesterday that I spoke to her,
only yesterday, and I am here to tell you
of it, sir, and to say that if I should return
from this war alive I shall ask your consent
to our marriage."

And you shall never have it," said the
vicar, slowly, rising to ring the bell, which
Phoebus answered at once.

Donee let the Sergeant go."

"No, sir."

Send him here to me."

"Yes, sir."

"You must not think of Emily," said
the vicar, as Phoebus went out. "I
cannot believe she has had proper time to
think of what you may have said to her.
Her father left her to my care, herself and
her noble fortune. Had you been worthy
of her I would even then have regretted

VOL. I. p

jour marriage to her. But shall I handover
that sweet innocent girl to a reprobate,
a seducer, a "

The vicar did not complete his string
of epithets ; for Burns was ushered in by
Phoebus.

Sit down, Sergeant," said the vicar,
rising, drawing himself up to his full
height (a figure of clerical dignity, in the
square coat and gaiters of the time), and
turning from Burns to George. ' ' Now you,
son of mine, listen, as I speak to an old
servant, servant no more. Sergeant Burns,
you are not responsible for the sin of this
bad young man, nor for the folly of your
thoughtless daughter. We are bound
together: your daughter is my daughter
now, that young man is your son, if he
behaves as an honourable man should.
Now, sir, answer !"

George looked at the plebeian Scotchman,

who had cleaned his boots when he
was a boy, and who always touched his
hat to him now that he was a man of two-and-twenty.


You don't generally joke on serious
things, father ; but I can't think you are in
earnest," said the handsome young fellow.

"Answer me, will you marry Jessie
Burns ?"

I am engaged to Emily," said George,
the vicar having only succeeded in exciting
the lad's obstinacy when he hoped to touch
his manliness and good feeling.

I promised her dead father to take
charge of her. You respect me ; would
you still do so if I handed her over to
you ? Or have you lost all respect for me,
and would you have me break my sacred
trust to enrich a wicked and profligate
son ? You have chosen the daughter of my
old servant. The surrogate will grant a

p2

special licence, messengers shall be despatched
at once ; name the hour, and I will
marry you at her bedside."

"I am engaged to Emily," doggedly
repeated George.

Do not dare to utter the name of Miss
Manners again to me ! Do the duty that
is before you. I am your father, but I
will take my orders from you. The
regiment shall halt for you — when will you
marry this man's daughter ?"

Burns moved to intervene between
father and son, but was awed into silence
by a glance from the vicar.

"I have said that I cannot marry her,"
said George, in a voice as firm and determined
as his father's.

Whatever might have been the result of
a coaxing and affectionate appeal to George
Wingfield, the dictatorial method, the
formal exercise of authority, the indignant

denunciatory style adopted by the vicar
only roused the fighting qualities of the
lad's nature, and put consideration for
Jessie further aud further in the background.


"You cannot! I say you shall!" exclaimed
the vicar, raising his arm as if to
have this declaration recorded as a command
that must be obeyed.

And I say," began George, as if responding
to a challenge.

Go on, if you dare to speak ; you shall
behave honestly, or quit my roof for ever.
Do you hear?" said the vicar, his blood
fairly up at last, the colour of anger in
his cheeks, his right hand clenched.

I do hear," said George, quietly, but
emphatically. " You are firm and resolved,
are you not, father?"

Yes."

"And I am your son," said the young

man. " I am firm ; you have told me to-quit
your roof. That is not much at the
moment, because I am under higher
orders, the King's; but to quit you in
anger, to be turned out of your heart —
that is hard ; nevertheless, if it must be
it must."

I am glad there is at least a spark of
filial feeling in your nature, though I could
wish the King a better man to fight his
battles. Listen, sir. I can remember you
cooing in your mothers arms ; but, by
our good Lord, I would rather see you
dead at my feet than dishonoured. The
crime you have committed is in my eyes a
sin, only to be atoned by marriage, in
which case, with Heaven's help, the rough
path may be smoothed by love and duty
until it is filled with flowers and sweet
perfumes."

You always were a fine old buck !"'

exclaimed George, lost for the moment in
admiration of his father, and expressing
himself in barrack slang. "I beg your
pardon — a fine noble gentleman."

Burns, go and tell them to pack up
Mr. George's things."

Burns went.

They are packed already, the very few
I require," said George.

"Did you mean to insult me when you
called me that name just now ?" asked the
vicar, when Burns had disappeared.

Insult you, father ! The fellow would
never forget it who dared to insult you in
my presence. JSTo lad was ever more
proud of his father than I am."

Then obey me, George."

I won't be bounced into an affair as if
I were a mere automaton."

But you will marry poor little Jessie.
I baptised the child, she is a member of my

flock, a singer in my choir; be a good man,
George, if not for my sake, for your
mother's ; it will kill her."

George was moved a little at this ; and
the vicar, with tears in his eyes, took the
boy's hand, saying, " Your duty is so
simple, George ; do act the part of a good
son and an honest man. I'll change places,
George, and be humble to you ; I'll go on
my knees to you."

And the vicar, in the bitterness of his
grief, seemed as if he would have done so,
had not his son restrained him.

But a few minutes afterwards they
parted, nevertheless, George Wingfield
obstinate, the vicar firm as at first, and
resolved no longer to consider he had
a son.

You'll shake hands, father, before
I go."

"when you claim the right of an
obedient son and an honourable man, my
hand and my heart are yours. Go and
repent I"

There was a final parade of the regiment
that evening in the market-place. The
strains of the band were hard to bear at
the Vicarage, where the white-haired
minister sat with his patient invalided
wife, trying to comfort her, for George
had said farewell to her, and she as yet
knew nothing of the sad circumstances
under which he and his father had
parted.

The martial music fell upon Jessie
Burns's ear as she pressed her infant to
her heart, and prayed for its father's safe
return, as if he had been ever so faithful
and true. The bay of the trumpet, the
clash of the drums, were wafted by a

westerly breeze to the Hall, where Susan
Hardwick sat, stunned with the news that
Oliver North had enlisted and refused to
be bought off.

A strange visitor had conveyed this
information, no less a person than the
Hon. Philip Scruton, who had waited upon
her father, in a wild humour, to tell him
that, " Begad, sir, Lord Ellerbie is a
miserly wretch, who has refused to
continue my allowance, who refuses to pay
my debts, and who actually avers that he
will sanction my arrest should my creditors
go to such extremes' He had come, he
said, for advice and assistance to Mr.
Hardwick, and he had insisted that Miss
Susan should not leave the room ; " relations
should be on good terms," he said ;,
"and Mr. Oliver North's change of
profession will, of course, make Lord
Ellerbie's courtship all the easier." Susan

had almost staggered out of the room
under the double blow of an insult and
a piece of news that was terrible to her ;
and her father had not seen any fitting
way to resent the savage intrusion of Mr.
Scruton, who was not sober, and whose
manners were offensively familiar. " Tell
your daughter," he said, when he went
away, " if she must be a countess she had
better wait for me; she's a deuced fine girl,
and there will be no parsimony about me
when I come into the estates and the title."
All Chesterfield was in the market-place
to see the troops parade, and especial
interest was manifested in the recruits,
who had also been ordered to muster.
They were a sturdy little group, of which
the sergeant might well feel proud. Tom
Bertram, bronzed and sturdy, was among
the number ; so was Oliver North, pale and
dejected.

Will you recruit an honourable ?"
asked Philip Scruton, walking up to the
sergeant, from whose tall headgear the
colours were flying in a streaming bunch
of ribbons.

I'd enlist the devil himself," was the
answer.

The bailiffs can't take away one of
your company?"

What do you mean ; arrest him ?"

"Yes."

Devil a bit of it."

And I can buy myself off next week ?"

That's so."

Do you know me ?"

"No."

I am the Hon. Philip Scruton, heir to
the Earldom of Ellerbie."

"You'll not be the first high-born
gentleman who's taken the King's shilling
and not bought himself off after, but

purchased his steps and is now in command."


"Give me the shilling," said Scruton,
and the crowd stared mightily to see Lord
Ellerbie's nephew don the ribbons, and
join the muster of young fellows out of
uniform.

Mr. North," he said, " your hand ;
you've lost a pretty girl, but gained a
staunch friend. We can both hate Lord
Ellerbie together now."

Oliver did not reply.

Don't be surly; I don't care whether
we are friends or enemies, for that matter,"
went on the new recruit, and the third
whose fortunes this history will more
especially follow.

Eight about face ; march !" commanded
the sergeant, and the little company
moved off, leaving the ground clear for the
march past of the regiment, colours flying ;

the captain on horseback, Ensign Wing-field
marching on the left of the column.

I shan't say good-bye to-night, Tom,
lad," said Mary Kirk's father, when the
recruits were dismissed to their quarters.
I shall be on the ground first thing in
the morning. She doesna know thought
going yet, and 1 donna think we'll tell her.
Cheer up, my lad ! Things is looking
about as black as they can ; but it's darkest,
they say, before the dawn."

Old Jim Pearson, the blacksmith, of
Beetwell-street, always burnt his fire long
after the neighbouring shops were shut,
and on this night of the last parade he
had a customer for an unusual and curious
job.

Tom Bertram bared his brawny arm
and handed Jim Pearson Mary Kirk's

bracelet, which Susan Hardwick had given
him as a keepsake.

u I want it riveted on just there, round
my wrist, so that it'll never come off, dead
or alive !"

It was a picture worthy of an historical
painter — the young recruit standing in the
light of the smithy fire, while the token of
his love was literally welded with hot
rivets that burnt the flesh once or twice,
though Jim Pearson was as gentle at his
work as if the arm had been a woman's.

CHAPTER II.

ME. SEPTIMUS Dobbs,

I wonder men dare trust themselves with men.

Shakspeare.

T T bad been an unusually hot autumn r
-*- and the guests at the Angel were
sitting out in the tavern yard, drinking and
smoking by the light of a couple of oil
lamps and the glorious autumn moon.

They were a very miscellaneous assembly r
and the talk was loud and noisy. It
chiefly related to the marching of the
regiment which had been quartered so
long in the neighbourhood ; to the local
recruits ; and to the war.

There were a couple of sportsmen, who
had been shooting on the adjacent moors,
among the company, and an angler who
was going to lash the Derwent and the
picturesque Derbyshire Wye. They tried
to give sport and angling a chance in the
general conversation, but to no purpose.

The hero of the night was Philip Scruton,
who sat in a big wooden arm-chair that
had been brought out of the house
especially for him. He sat at the head of
one of the tables, stretching out his long

3 o o

legs in a pair of velvet breeches, his coat
flung back, showing his rich embroidered
vest, a long pipe in his mouth, and the
King's colours in his conically-shaped hat
that lay by his chair.

I tell you, gentlemen, we have been
beaten contemptuously ! Begad, we ran !
The British ran, don't deny it," Mr.
Scruton was saying, as Ensign Wingfield

VOL. I. Q

came lounging in to smoke a last pipe with
his townsmen, and to try to forget his
troubles.

"Who says so?" exclaimed the young
fellow, the devil rampant in his heart, for
he hated himself that night more than he
hated Napoleon.

I say so !" answered Scruton.

Then you lie !" exclaimed Mr. Wing-field.


Hear, hear !" shouted the guests, in a
loud unanimous protest against Mr.
Scruton' s strictures on the troops.

Scruton leaped to his feet and rushed at
the young officer, a tankard in his hand,
which would have come down upon the
Ensign's head, had not Oliver North
caught the falling arm, and twisting
Scruton's wrist with scientific cleverness
hurled him back into his seat.

"I say you lie, too ! We all say it!"

exclaimed Oliver, M and you can't fight all
of us !"

That's true," said the landlord, "and I
will not have brawling here ! Gentlemen,
gentlemen ! The landlord of the Angel
to have to send for the watch, and in
the presence of strangers ! I blush for

1 'J

you !

A roar of laughter greeted this last
declaration of the rubicund host.

So you do !" said Wingfield ; " your
blush is chronic. But I beg your pardon,
sir," continued the Ensign, turning to
Scruton, " I did not see who you were,
though an officer in the King's army
cannot be expected to allow any man to
call his comrades cowards."

George Wingfield, I accept your
apology. Outside our military positions,
I am your superior in rank, birth, and
prospects. In the army, you are above

Q2

me, and, as I am now one of the King's
private soldiers, I cannot call you out ; or,
by St. Mark, I would shoot you !"

"How long has His Majesty the King
been honoured by your enlistment, sir p'*
asked George, taking up a pipe and filling
it with tobacco.

A few hours ; and one day when our
positions in the army are nearer a level
than they are to-day I may refer to this
night's insult."

As you wish ; if you would like me to
sink my rank, and I think I may take that
liberty, considering that you have not yet
passed the doctor and been sworn in, we
will adjourn for ten minutes at once."

I tell you this shall not be !" exclaimed
the landlord. " Have I no authority in
my own house ?"

"Shall I go for the constable?" asked
the politician whose opinions we heard

something of in the opening chapters of
this history.

"JSTo, sir," said Oliver North. "This
neighbourhood has had enough to do with
fetching constables for Mr. Scruton."

"Yes, that's true," said the politician,
sitting down. " I saw poor old Kirk to-day,
and I felt sorry for him."

You did !" exclaimed Oliver.

I did," said th$ usually hard-mouthed
burgess.

Then I begin to have some hopes of
human nature," said North.

Ah ! ah ! ah !" roared Scruton, derisively.
" The beggar is trying to comfort
himself ! Fancy a man trying to find
sympathy in old Drones."

"You are an insolent fellow," said the
politician.

To-night, yes; you won't say so when
I'm Lord Ellerbie."

u I will," said the politician.

Then I'll foreclose that mortgage on
your mill," said Scruton, laughing rudely,.
and I'll set up North and his gin-crack
inventions in opposition."

North rose to his feet ; but it was now
Ensign Wingfield's turn to interfere.

Don't notice the fellow, he is drunk;:
he doesn't know what he says, and, if he
did, it wouldn't matter'* said Wingfield.

Gentlemen all," said the landlord,
laying down his pipe, "I do hope we shall
all consider the honour of the house ;.
there are sportsmen present ; there are
strangers from London waiting for the
North mail ; and the night afore a detachment
of the King's Royal Infantry is going
to leave us, is a night for harmony and
friendship, not for quarrelling."

tc Hear, hear !" said the guests.

Very well, then!" exclaimed Scrotum

it shall not be said that I created discord
without atonement. I am a gentleman,
and hope I shall be remembered as such."

Bravo, hear, hear !" answered the
guests.

"I will ask the honour of our all drinking
a cup together to our better fortunes.
Landlord, let the order be given, and
charged to me."

By all means," said the host aloud,
adding aside, "he'll never pay a penny
of it."

Another diversion was created at this
moment by the entrance from the side-door
of the tavern of Mr. Septimus Dobbs, the
most cantankerous of local lawyers, and
the steward of Lord Ellerbie.

Ah, here's my friend !" exclaimed
Scruton. " Welcome, old Sobersides !"

"Good evening, gentlemen," said Mr.
Dobbs, a cleanly-shaven, taciturn-looking

little man in a drab Quaker-like suit, a
double eye-glass dangling from a gold chain
outside his tightly-buttoned coat, his neck
stiffened by a tall stock, his cheeks colourless,
his lips thin, his eyes restless, his
manner that of a man who is received
civilly because people are afraid of him.

Come here, I tell you, old miser !"
exclaimed Scruton.

Mr. Dobbs made his way to where
Scruton was sitting.

Have you brought me any money ?"
asked the aristocratic recruit in a whisper.

Don't be foolish, Mr. Scruton. Can't
you see that everybody is looking at us."

What do I care !"

You are not in a fit state to discuss
business."

"If you delay answering my question
I'll make a row : I have had one already."

You know what I always say," answered

the lawyer, while the other people began
to talk among themselves.

Yes, every fool knows. It has become
a byword in Chesterfield. Don't criminate
yourself," said Scruton, laughing derisively.
What has that old wretch, your master,
decided?"

Not to pay another penny for you,"
said Dobbs, " since you want the business
put straight and plain before you,"

What ! Won't he pay my debts ?"

"No."

"Not the money I owe in Chesterfield?"

"No."

Let me go like a beggar ?"

Yes ; he says you have elected to be a
soldier, and he hopes you'll like it."

Curse him !"

But he will buy you a commission."

Curse him !"

41 He does not wish his nephew to herd

with canaille, unless bis nephew desires it."

Curse him again ! Tell him his
nephew does desire it. Let him beware !"

Don't say that ! Don't say anything
that may be taken down and given in
evidence against you !"

What do you mean ?"

In reference to what you mean, I say
don't criminate yourself; but always rely
on my friendship, on my sympathy, on my
devotion."

Give me a proof of it."

"I will, my dear Philip, I will. When
you leave here tomorrow you will find two
hundred guineas in your pouch and a
credit note for a similar sum on a London
banker."

"My benefactor! my Croesus! You
are a rich old miser, eh? Are you not?
But this is good of you. Is it your own
money ?"

"Yes,"

11 He thinks I am going away a
beggar ?"

"Yes."

He is a wolf."

Lord Ellerbie is not the man he was
since Mr. Hardwick got into his confidence.
"

Oh! Old Hardwick interferes with you,
does he ?"

Yes, old Hardwick is gradually worming
himself into my place, and "

You think I may be a useful ally ?

You don't know how yet, but you think

■\»i

so r

11 Mr. Philip, you are quite sober now,"
answered Mr. Dobbs, taking a long deep
pinch of snuff, and handing the box to
Scruton.

I begin to see things in a new light.

I hate my uncle, and you don't like
Hardwick."

I hate Hardwick," said Dobbs, coldly,
and without the slightest indication of
passion in his voice.

Now surely you are criminating yourself,"
said Scruton.

I thought we were talking business ?"

Yes, yes."

Let us step aside and walk a little."

They left the yard. The lawyer led the
way into a dark passage, opened a door
with a key, and they were in his office,
which was lighted by the moon, that still
hung in the sky like a great round
lamp.

"It is neither in your interest nor mine,"
said Dobbs, " that your uncle should marry
Hardwick's daughter."

"No ! I would rather marry her myself."

That's out of the question."

"Why?"

For many reasons, this in particular :
it is settled that she marries your uncle ;
that she is to be the Countess of
Ellerbie."

When ?"

In six months from to-day, perhaps
earlier. In the meantime the Earl becomes
Hard wick's business partner, and Hard wick
is a fox."

And in spite of the proverb about fox
not eating fox, you want to dine off
Hard wick."

I want you to buy yourself off from
the army, as you can, secretly ; and let me
know your movements."

Oh ! but I would have liked to have
had a turn with these beggars. I have a
score to settle with Mr. Oliver North and
I have planned some amusement besides."

Don't you think North is sufficiently

trodden on — chucked out of the mill by
Hardwick, ordered out of the Hall by
Hard wick's daughter ?"

Not by the girl herself ?"

Yes."

"Damme, she's a Briton! I shall fall
in love with her next : I like a woman of
spirit."

Do we join forces ?"

We do. Give me some money to pay
regimental expenses at once. But, begad,
my hungry creditors may seize me tomorrow
!"

They cannot. Besides, they think the
Earl will pay them. Did you not tell
them so ?"

Yes, hang them !"

"Very well, you will report yourself
to me ; not here, never here ; the Cock
Tavern in Fleet Street, by Temple Bar.

A letter left there, addressed * Simmons,' I
shall get it."

Sly old fox, how do you know the
Cock'"

I know a good many things."

61 So did young Marks, whom they
hanged. Have a care, Mr. Dobbs," said
Scruton, patting him jocularly on the
shoulder.

"Whom you hanged, Scruton," said
Dobbs, "and who was innocent. Don't
let us ever put our necks in danger, or
justice might make a mistake and hang
you instead of me."

Which means that there may be danger
in our alliance, eh ?"

"Yes."

And that you would hang me as
soon as look at me to save your own
neck?"

Just as old Short hanged his partners
son."

What do you mean ?"

That Short was the thief."

No !"

"Did it never occur to you in that
light?"

No, so help me heaven I"

I was sure of the fool's innocence."

"And yet you instructed counsel, and
was the prosecuting lawyer."

"That is so. I could not alter the
evidence. The moral of which is, — Philip
Scruton, never criminate yourself !"

CHAPTER III.

WHILE THE TROOPS ARE MARCHING.

There is one warning lesson in life which few of us
have not received, and no book that I can call to
memory has noted down with an adequate emphasis.
It is this, " Beware of Parting." The true sadness is
in the when and the how you are to meet again with
the face about to vanish from your view ; from the
passionate farewell to the woman who has your heart
in her keeping, to the cordial good-bye exchanged
with pleasant companions at a watering-place, a
country house, or the close of a festive day's blithe and
careless excursion. A chord stronger or weaker is
snapped asunder at every parting, and Time's busy fingers
are not practised in replacing broken ties. Meet
again you may. "Will it be in the same way ? With
the same sympathies, with the same sentiments ? Will
the souls hurrying on in divers paths unite once more
as if the interval had been a dream ? Rarely, rarely.

Buller LYTTON.

TjIIVE o'clock in the morning, and
already the bugles had echoed

VOL. I. R

r

through the streets of the old town, which
was wide awake.

A bright September morning, with a
great flock of swallows chattering over the
old Sessions House, and gathering together
from all parts of the town, as if
they, too, had been summoned to take
their departure also.

Clank of swords, and tramp of feet, were
responded to from open windows, at which
heads peered out, and from doors flung
wide, with men and women on the steps,
to see the brave fellows start for the
war.

Blue columns of smoke went up to the
sky from the Angel, opposite whose wide
gateway there was already a muster of
some few early risers, military and civilian,
the red coats mingling peacefully and picturesquely
with the more subdued colours
of the ordinary costume of the time.

From every avenue in the market-place
men, women, and children straggled towards
the Angel, and as the morning
wore on they poured into the square in
crowds ; for the King's Own Eoyals —
which the regiment under orders was intended
to reinforce — had made its colours
famous, and the memories of Corunna and
the death of Moore had given to the war
in Spain a new interest.

The recruits were to march out with the
colours more for eclat and enlistment purposes
than on account of immediate
necessity, though it was intended that the
recent levies should go to the front in due
course, their first destination being understood
to be Ireland.

Five o'clock in the morning, and yet
Susan Hard wick was up and dressed, and
Tom Bertram was by her side, under the
tall elms, in front of the Hall. A blacked



bird was singing joyously, right upon the
topmost branch of the tallest tree. The
first leaves of the autumn had begun to
fall. They made a brown and yellow
carpet for the dainty feet of the proud
mill-owner's daughter, and Tom's great
flat boot pressed them down into the grass
until they looked like an embossed decoration
on a green velvet carpet.

How quiet it all was, notwithstanding the
distant hum of voices, the tramp of feet,
the faint challenge of trumpets, and the answering
cries of chanticleer ! Susan could
almost hear her heart beat.

"Tell him," she said, "I will wait for
him in the meadow by the orchard."

Yes, miss."

Tell him no one will see us there."

"Yes, miss."

11 1 cannot ask him to come here ; and I
fear he would not if I did."

I think he would."

He persists in his present course ?"

Do you mean he is bent on going to
the war ?"

Yes, he refuses to be bought off, or to
have anything done for him ?"

11 He does ; I'm sure of that."

And it is all through me !"

Well, you see, Miss Hardwick, I don't
exactly know the rights of it ; he's just a
bit above me like as to education and position,
and it's not likely that he'd tell me
his secrets ; but I heard him say to Mr.
Ensign Wingfield that he didn't think the
reason had been even dreamt on as could
mak' him change his mind. Eh, dear, ita
pity if matches, as they say is made in
heaven, the parties to 'em don't have notice
of it when they're children, so as they
shouldn't go prowling off on a wrong
scent."

Perhaps he will not come to me ; he is
very proud ?" said Susan, not listening to
Tom's philosophical reflections ; " and I
should be deeply grieved if he did not say
good-bye."

Oh ! he shall come somehow ; I'll see
that he comes."

Thank you, Tom ; thank you."
She was quite humble to the young yeoman,
the haughty lady who had turned so
hotly upon Oliver North a day or two
before, and who ere while had played the
queen and patron to Tom.

Don't thank me, Miss Hardwick, it
isn't worth it ; we shall march down the
Vicar's Lane along Lordsmill Street, and
at the bottom, opposite Potter's Field, he
can run up by the tan-yard and meet you in
the meadows, of course he can. The sergeant
will let him do that, and if he won't
the young officer will, for we are only

going to march to Mansfield to-day, where
they hope to pick up some more recruits.
Don't be afraid that he'll go without a
good-bve and some token of remembrance."


And then she was alone. Tom had held
her hand in his for a moment ; he had said
"Don't let Mary forget me altogether;"
and presently Susan was sitting listlessly
on the old garden-chair, where we first
saw her. All was still in the house; the
wrecked mill showed no signs of life, but
the sun was shining brightly.

Presently Susan gathered her long grey
cloak about her and passed out of the Hall
grounds, and, crossing the lane that leads
to the factory, entered the meadows,
through which there was a private path to
the little sparkling river that ran merrily
along through corn-fields and grazing
land, and finally slipped away under the

bridge that crossed it in the London Road
by the Horns.

Great shadows of poplars and elms fell
across her path ; she passed apple-trees full
of fruit ; she went through a yellow cornfield,
the sheathes awaiting the carriers ;
the country was full of a soft, soothing
loveliness, but Susan felt it only as a
rebuke and a satire.

She sat down by the brook and thought
over her past life, and wondered what she
ought to do. She had never before confessed
to herself that she loved Oliver
North, and even now she did not intend
to tell him. She was angry with herself
for speaking to him as she had done, and
she was angry with him for enlisting. It
did not strike her as a brave action in one
whose gifts lay in such a different direction
from that of arms. She felt that it
was the act of pique or despair, that it

was unworthy of Oliver North, and yet it
touched her to the quick; it roused her
feelings as no other act could have done ;
it showed her how utterly empty life was
to him without her.

Susan's was a curiously inconsistent
nature, weak in its strength, strong in its
weakness. She was capable of great sacrifice,
capable of a high and noble devotion ;
and yet there were flaws in her character
which made her conduct a puzzle to even
those who knew her best.

The old crooked spire looked down
from its high place among the clouds,
through a whirling crowd of swallows
which were beating up to head-quarters
like the King's troops for their
long journey ; and saw the flash of colours
and the busy movement of people in the
market-place which made that distant
buzz Susan thought she could just hear

above the music of the brook and the hum
of insect life and the song of birds. Presently
the busy sound did reach her away
in the meadows, and she stood up to listen.
At first it was a murmur that rose and
fell like the wind. Then it was a hum
like bees. It grew louder. It was marked
in bars, marked by the beat of a drum.
The regiment was on the march. She
pressed her hand on her heart. A wave of
music seemed to come over the meadows.
Then, as if the on-coming troops had
turned a corner into some path that led to
her, the melody of " The Manchester
Angel" came pealing through the calm
air, the pathetic sweetness of it bringing
the tears into her eyes as the touching
melody had done, and will again to many
another's, even without the cause which
she had for weeping. On it came,
the music of the band with clash of

cymbals and beat of drum ; on it came
like a condemnation of her, filling the
air, silencing the birds and the river, swelling
through the trees, growing louder and
louder as if all Chesterfield was Hull of
it.

She covered her face with her hands to
shut it out, and she had hardly done so
when the plaint of the lover set so beautifully
for cornet and French horn, for trombone
and clarion, ceased. There was a
short pause, followed by a scream of fife
and a crash of drums, and the regiment
was marching to the sharp, brisk air of
The Girl I left Behind Me," with the
first notes of which Oliver North entered
the meadow where Susan was standing,
attended by the corporal's guard, which,
however, halted in the road by the cottage
of Nannie Dawson, one of the oldest inhabitants,
a crooning dame of eighty odd

years, who was already up, and smoking a
short pipe on her doorstep.

Miss Hardwick," said Oliver, his voice
trembling, "you wished to see me?"

She turned a pale, proud, anxious face
towards him.

He looked into her brown eyes, which
drooped under his gaze.

I want you to forgive me, if you can,"
'she said.

There is nothing to forgive," he answered
; " nothing on my side."

u Oh ! yes, there is. I ought to have
sympathized with you in your trouble ; buta
child cannot well stand by and hear her
father traduced."

"No, no, I was wrong, and I did not
know that you had approved of his plans
for you, the wisdom of which I am bound
to acknowledge."

"Mr. North, you do me an injustice;

but it is too late for explanations, if you
are still bent on the terrible sacrifice you
are making."

"What sacrifice ?"

"Your ambition, your great schemes in J
the interest of labour, your nearly perfected
inventions."

They were only part of a selfish purpose
— a dream of happiness too wild for
these prosaic clays, and so let them fall
with my hopes of that heaven to which,
they were but steps. Oh ! Miss Hardwick
Susan let me call you in these last moments
— it would have been better for us
both that we had never met."

He turned away from her. She followed
his averted face with her tearful eyes.

But will it mend matters, Oliver," she
said, "to put seas and battlefields between
us ? Don't go on this mad expedition ;
whatever happens, it will be better that

you stayed at home. Let men who are
born to carry arms, men who aspire to
military glory, give themselves to their
country in the field; you owe a higher
allegiance to science and to peace."

"What!" he exclaimed, "to have my
inventions trampled on by a brutal mob,
and the one hope that inspired me mocked
and denounced as treason? No, I have
done with it all, Susan ; and you mistake
me too. I am all on fire with the wrongs
of my country, burning to join our gallant
troops who are to rid Europe of a
demon."

"It is not yourself that speaks," said
Susan.

"Is it my pride? Well, it has slumbered
long enough. Is it my despair ? It
will find scope for utterance and for action
soon."

He spoke with a curl of the lip at one

moment, tears in his voice the next — he
hardly knew what he said.

Suddenly seizing her hand, he said,

Susan Hardwick, let us be plain with
each other. "We may never meet again.
You are a woman of sense, and a dutiful
child, and my words now may be dismissed,
an hour hence as those of one who will not
cross your path or your plans any more."

She bent her head over the hand which
he still clasped.

I love you with all my heart and soul,
and, when you think of my many acts of
presumption, I want you to remember
my folly, and forgive me for the sake of
our common nature. A man cannot help
it that he loves ; it is a plague or a blessing,
a curse or a joy, as fate wills it ; but it
comes like the sun, and the poor trusting
fellow never believes in the storm until the
lightning flashes and the tempest is on him."

The martial strains in the streets had
changed again, the brass instruments had
once more taken up their duty. It was
My Lodging is on the Cold Ground " that
had this time been converted into a marchand
it was one of the melodies that Susan
Hardwick had often played on the harpsichord
that stood on four thin legs which
seemed, in the reflection of the polished
floor, to join four other thin legs below the
old drawing-room. Oliver paused to listen.
She looked up at him, and, placing her other
hand upon his, began to speak. Her words
were drowned by the roll of a drum outside
the by-road near old Nannie's cottage.

11 Say it again, I'm dreaming !" he
exclaimed, stooping over her.

I love you, Oliver, I love you !" she
said, as the roll of the signal for departing
was echoed back from the walls of the
distant mill.

"My darling !" he exclaimed taking her
in his arms, "this is the happiest moment
of my life ! But it is a precious joy, too
sweet to last. I have surprised you into
this confession ; that sweet melody, the
thought of parting, in this you forget all
but my sadness ; it is like your kind heart.
Look at me, Susan, and listen to what I
say."

She raised a face, smiling through its
tears, to his ; he kissed it.

You shall have time to reflect ; I will
not snatch you from a life of plenty to one
of poverty, in this thoughtless moment
when pity may be mistaken for love ; but
let me go with the happy memory of your
dear confession in my soul, and this token
of it next my heart, and I will come back to
ask you if I may renew this intercourse
where that cruel drum is breaking it off."

He untied a ribbon on her shoulder as

vol. i. s

he spoke, and put it into the breast pocket
of his civilian coat.

"Must you go?" she murmured.

It is best, it is best I" he said. f ' Goodbye,
Susan, good-bye ! When I come
back "

I am yours !" she said, flinging herself
into his arms.

The corporal stepped through the gate
from old Nannie's cottage. Oliver beckoned
him; Susan had fainted. They carried
her into the little house.

Oh, indeed I" said the worthy descendant
of a noble race, Mr. William Rutland
Hardwick, speaking to himself from the
other side of the hedge and in the shade
of an oak, tl oh, indeed ! Susan is a bigger
fool than I thought her, and he is an
honest man. She inherits that weak
strain in her character from her mother's
side, not from mine. I would not have

believed it, had I not heard and seen it
with my own ears and eyes. She has
actually fainted. Fainted! My strong-minded
daughter Susan, fainted at a
common fellow who is ass enough to
enlist for a soldier ! Damme ! I might rate
at her for a month and she wouldn't even
wince."

He peeped over the hedge, looking in
the direction of Nannie's cottage.

u She will be all right there," he said.
11 I must not run the risk of letting her
imagine for a moment that I have been
eavesdropping ; she would never suspect
me of getting up at cock-crow and walking
in the damp fields on such an errand. Ah !
she does not know how sly as well as brave
a Hardwick can be, when the honour of
his family name and the happiness of his
daughter are at stake."

He picked up his crutch-stick and

S2

commenced to retrace his steps homeward.


ci But I must have that ribbon," he said r
as he crept along by tree and hedge. " I
must have that ribbon !"

CHAPTER IV.

AN ALLIANCE OFFENSIVE AND DEFENSIVE.

Love, Fortune, Death, blind guides by turns,
Teach man their dance with artful skill.
First, from Love's treacherous wiles he learns
To thread the maze, where'er he will.
Then Fortune comes, whose tuneless measure
Bids him whirl and wind at pleasure,
Till in the giddy dance his feet
Lead him, watchful, Death to meet.
Then follow all of mortal breath —
The dance of Fortune, Love, and Death.
Pierre Michael, translated by Louisa Costello.

V T^OU'BE better now, Miss Hardwick,"
•-*- said Nannie Lomas ; u that's right,

walk about a bit ; it'll do you good."
How did I come here ?"
They carried you."

"Who did?"

Mester North and the corporal."

How foolish of me !"

No, it's nobbut natural."

What do you mean ?"

When I was a lass, I should ha done-same
mysen ; I did, however ! I fainted
right away when Dick Lomas went to
f eight, seventy year ago, though I was
only a lass of fifteen."

"Had I fainted?"

"Yes, you'd fainted fast enough."

ci And they carried me in here?"

"Yes."

And what did they do then ?"

Why, North just kissed thee, and called
thee his love, told me to tak' care on thee,,
and put out my filthy pipe, and then off
they went."

Susan sat down by the warm hearthstone
and shivered as if the sun was not

blazing on the window panes and trying to
put out the fire.

Nay, I'm sure it ista cold," said Nannie,
taking a steaming kettle off the hob, and
making tea in a little black pot, " the fire
hanna been out for a twelvemonth. I
always keep it in night and day, summer
and winter."

"No, I'm not cold," said Susan. "What
is the time ?"

Nannie consulted a brass clock, set in a
long thin case, black with age and florid
with carving, that would in the present
day have realised fifty pounds in Bond
Street.

Seven," said the old woman.

I will go home, then."

u Not till you've had some tea, and a bit
of toast."

11 No, I will not have anything."

But you must, miss ; he told me to

tak' care on you, and I will, though he was
impudent about my bit of a pipe, the only
indulgence as I allows myself, just a whiff
after breakfast, dinner, and supper; a
woman at ninety needs some little stimulation."


"Did he leave any message? Did he
say anything else ?"

"No, but he looked enough for a hundred
messages."

Susan watched the strangely nimble old
woman in her flowered print gown and tall
cap as she bustled about the clean house-place
chattering and preparing breakfast,
all traces of the little black pipe gone, and
the cottage the picture of comfort.

A red brick floor, white-washed walls,
decorated with a few tin pans and saucepan
lids, a musket, a sword and bayonet,
a few bags of herbs, an old print of a
battle, the figure of a soldier cut out in

black paper, a pair of bellows and a
warming-pan ; near an inner door that led
to abed-room a spinning-wheel set for work;
a round shining table in the middle of the
room, standing on ever so many twisted legs ;
an arm-chair with a high back, and full of
cushions ; an old oak chest that served fora
seat under a diamond-paned window full
of asters and geraniums ; two chairs with
broad seats and narrow backs ; a fireplace
blackened with tar, and on the mantelshelf
some old jugs, a tobacco-pouch, and
half a dozen peacock's feathers.

There now, Susan Hardwick," said
Nannie, addressing her with the proud
familiarity of the north, "you have that
cup of tea, there's a bit of green in it, it'll
do you good, and me too. I don't often
have such a fine lady as you to sit at my
table !"

Susan pushed the hood of her cloak

back from her well-shaped head, looked up
wonderingly at old Nannie, and sipped the
tea.

That's right, you must bow to the will
of God, whatever He sends, though to see
that mill broken and still is a heartache
sight; yet it's nothing; it's only a small
trouble after all, and Lord Ellerbie, he has
plenty of brass."

The old woman placed on the table some
dainty buttered toast.

And it isn't often as a fine lady prefers
a common soldier with nowt to a lordship
with thousands. There, don't you mind
what I say. I'm not long for this world,
and sometimes very clever learned folk
come to talk wi' me about things I remember.
I heard John Wesley, the great
minister, preach when I was a lass, and
I've always remembered comforting things

he said, and, though I've had trouble,
I've never been what you may call unhappy."


The old woman sat down before the fire,
and smoothed her apron on her knees,
while the sun came streaming in through
the little front garden, and in at the open
door.

My lad Dick, he was my husband, and
I never were blessed with children ; he left
me first to fight the French in Flanders ;
and I can remember, as if it was to-day,
the Pretender and his army entering
Derby. They brought news to Chesterfield,
and, when I heard the drums % and
fifes this morning, it came into my mind,
for the lads was all ready to give them a
welcome : but, rebels, they retreated, and
so we had no battle ; and I remember
my poor Dick, when he came home invalided,

saying how mad he'd a been if we'd
had any fighting while he was away. Eh !
but he was out in them wars for years at a
time, and I never had a line from him, ora
message ; and if it hadn't been for bit
o' brass as my father left me in Derby
bank, I'd a bin starved. I don't think you
can hear what I say."

Oh ! yes, Mrs. Dawson," said Susan,
her thoughts following the music of the
regimental band, which she fancied she still
heard.

My Dick was in the Seven Years' War.
He was wounded in the siege of Quebec,
and killed by them Yankees at Bunker's
Hill. So, you see, he was not much of a
husband to me ; and a woman might as
well be married to a sailor as a soldier,
and neither one on 'em ought to get wed,
for they can have wives, as you may say,
wherever they goes, but a woman nun be

true and faithful, and she doesn't know-half
the time whether she's a wife or a
widow. And what I say to you is, you
may feel your heart painful like at parting,
but it's better you shouldn't encourage
yourself a-thinking of him. There'll be
time enough for that when you're his lordship's
widow."

"Mrs. Dawson," said Susan, rising from
her chair, " you presume on your age and
upon my condescension."

"Well, age is something you may presume
on, Susan Hardwick ! Everybody
knows that them two old men have settled
who your husband is to be, and I'm as good
as a mother to you, in giving you good
advice at the right time."

Give it when it is asked, Nannie."

"Sorry I've offended you. When your
father comes to ask what you did here this
morning, what shall I say ?''

He will not come ; he does not know I
came here."

He'll find out," said Nannie, beginning
to wash up the tea-things.

tl Not unless you tell him."

"Oh, bless you, he'd ferret out the
secret of philosopher's stone, if there was
such a thing."

I didn't know you knew Mr. Hardwick?"


I know everybody," said Nannie,
smiling, her parchment features wrinkling
all over with the effort. " I've had Lord
Ellerbie himself sitting in that old chair ;
Mr. Scruton too ; and your father many a
time. Mr. North was too proud. Folk
as springs from nowt often is prouder
than them as is born lords and ladies.
Ah, you'd be surprised if you kaow'd all I
know."

There was a peculiar arrogance of knowledge

in the old woman's manner that
startled Susan.

"Bless you ! No, I'm not a witch.
There's more power in that bright eye of
yours to mak' folk do what you want than
there is in mine. I've nowt else to do but
find out what's going on."

And I have too much to do to waste
time on the gossip of Chesterfield ; so I
will say good morning, and thank you for
your hospitality. I would give you money
if you would not be too proud to take it."

And I would take it if I didn't know
you are too poor to have any to give away."

Thank you, Mrs. Dawson ! I am justly
punished in being insulted for sitting
down with you. Mr. North ought to have
known better than subject me to this ; I
ought to have known better myself."

Nay, na', Miss Hardwick, don't think
hard of me. It's my way to speak out,

and I couldn't insult you on score of
money when I know you might be Countess
or Ellerbie tomorrow, and will be
afore a year is over."

Never !" said Susan, "and you are an
impudent, meddling old woman."

Nannie chuckled and laughed.

"That's right! Now you'll be better.
I wanted to rouse you out of them dumps
as you were in. That's right ! Come and
see me whenever you feel bad. You'll always
find me the same."

Susan turned her back on the old woman,
and went to the door. Then she
paused, and, suddenly facing her with flashing
eyes, she said,

You can tell my father I have been
here, or not, just as you please. I wish to
share no secret with you."

That's right ! You will feel ever
so much better. Stop ! I shan't tell

him nor nobody unless you ask me."

Susan went home the way she had
come, and found her father sitting down
to breakfast.

You have been walking early this
morning, my dear."

"Yes, father."

u A lovely morning, is it not ?"

It is."

I waited for you, and then thought I
had better begin alone, though I dislike
breakfasting by myself."

"lam glad you did not wait ; I don't
want any breakfast."

My love, how is that ? Not well ?"

"No; I feel tired."

Have a cup of tea ? That will revive

you."

"No, thank you ; I have had a cup."

Before you went out?"

No, at Nannie Dawson's cottage."

VOL. I. t

w Oh. ! I did not know you were
acquainted with Nannie."

I went into her cottage this morning."

"Indeed! Well?"

But Susan did not seem inclined to say
any more.

You will sit down, and pour me out
some coffee, won't you ? It is so lonely
sitting by myself. Ah ! Susan, it is a
weary business, a solitary old age."

Is it ? You have not felt it yet, father,"
said Susan, laying her cloak upon a chair,
and sitting down in her accustomed place
at the head of the table.

No, but I feel it this morning ; and I
cannot help sympathizing with poor
Bllerbie."

Susan filled the cup which Mr. Hardwick
handed to her.

And such a splendid house as Bracken-bury

Towers ! There is no more delightful
place in the county."

Poor Mary Kirk used to say it is
haunted," said Susan.

"With a lively, kind-hearted old man,
that's all. A pleasant young wife would
soon exorcise any other ghost at Bracken-bury
Towers."

That she might herself be haunted."

How that she might be haunted ?
You have a way of speaking in riddles,
Susan."

Haunted with an old man," said Susan,
quietly.

"And a very respectable kind of ghost
to be haunted by, an old man with a title
and a fortune ; sharing the first at once
with the lady, and leaving the last to her
when he's dead ; and he can't live many
years, you know."

t2

"Are there girls to be found who sell
themselves in that way ?"

u Girls ! There is hardly a single woman
in the land who would not at once accept
Lord Ellerbie, his estate, his title, his
money."

It is strange that he does not ask one
of them to be his wife, the, if he is so
lonely'

He is about to ask one of them, the
only one out of all the women in England
whom he desires to make Countess of Elders
and mistress of Brackenbury Towers."

A servant entered.

"Well, well, what is it?" asked Mr.
Hardwick.

Mr. Septimus Dobbs, sir," the servant
answered.

Show him into the library."

"Yes, sir."

What can he want ?" said Mr. Hardwick.

" He is a person I do not like ; I
intend Lord Ellerbie shall dismiss him.
But at present we must be civil to him.
Excuse me, Susan."

Good morning, Mr. Hardwick," said
Mr. Dobbs, hat and cane in his black-gloved
right hand, his double-rimmed
eyeglasses reposing on the stiff frill of his
starched shirt, the buckles on his shoes
shining like the polished floor of Hardwick's
dining-room, which almost reflected
the "stodgy " figure of Dobbs, his bloodless,
shaven face, short hair, and bushy eyebrows.

Good morrow to you, sir," said Hardwick,
pompously. "To what circumstance
am I indebted for this honour, Mr. Dobbs ?"

Business, sir — our mutual welfare''
answered Dobbs. "May I be permitted?"

iC By all means, Mr. Septimus Dobbs ;
take a seat, sir."

The lawyer laid his hat and stick on the
floor by the side of his chair, put on his
eyeglasses, and looked at Mr. Hardwick y
who sat opposite to him, with a palpable
effort to be calm, and not sacrifice one jot
of his dignity.

The mill-owner pursed up his lips,
fidgeted with his watch-seals, intimating
thereby his impatience and his dislike of
Mr. Dobbs, and at the same time his desire
that the lawyer should at once proceed to
the business in hand.

It is not a writ, nor a process of any
kind," said the lawyer, taking a paper from
his breast-pocket, " nothing objectionable.
It is the draft of the agreement between
yourself and Lord Ellerbie concerning the
rebuilding and refitting of the mill."

Then take it to my lawyer, Mr. Dobbs ;
take it to my lawyer, sir!" said Hard wick,
pompously.

1 thought you would like to talk this
and other matters over with me first''

No, sir, I would not like to do anything
of the kind."

"I have been the family lawyer and
steward of the Ellerbies for many
years."

"And always my bitter enemy," said
Mr. Hardwick, getting up, and walking
to and fro with his hands behind his
back.

Enemy no longer, Mr. Hardwick. I
propose a truce, an alliance. I lay down
my arms, I ask terms of the conqueror."

Hardwick paused to look at Dobbs, who
had assumed an attitude of bending
humility. Then the proud mill-owners
mouth relaxed almost into a smile, but he
still walked to and fro.

Our enmity arose out of jealousy ; I
was afraid of you. I felt the shadow of

the man who was to eclipse the lawyer;
the trumpets of the conqueror sounded
in my ear ; and to-day Mr. William
Rutland Hardwick takes his place in
the tents of the defeated Septimus Dobbs ;
if that is the wish of the prospective
father-in-law of Lord Ellerbie "

Dobbs bent his head as if inviting
Hardwick to plant his foot on his neck.

Not at all, Mr. Dobbs," said Hardwick ;
pray resume your seat ; I have no desire
to perpetuate enmity, not at all, sir. I ama
man of peace ; but, as the representative
of one of the oldest families in the county,
I have always claimed my right to the
respect of the town, and precedence on
public occasions."

Which hitherto I have contested with
you. I do so no more. "Your patience is
rewarded. And so shall be your enterprise,
if you will listen to me."

41 Well, well, what can I do for you?"
said Mr. Hardwick, tossing his head,
straightening himself, and playing haughtily
with his watch-seals, which served him
equally well as a safety-valve when he was
angry, as they did when his vanity was
more than usually active.

f< Hold Lord Ellerbie in these hands;
you shall hold mec

'Well, that is a surrender, certainly;
but explain."

"Lord Ellerbie has hitherto taken my
advice in all matters relating to the
management of his property. If you and
I don't fight, he will continue to do so.
If you and I are friends, I can carry out
your wishes without the trouble to you of
intrigues and the delays of other legal
opinions. I can push on the marriage
which you desire; I will enlarge the
settlements ; in short, I will be your

friend, as well as my lord's legal adviser."


"Well, well, that is fairly spoken, Mr.
Dobbs, and it is a complete acknowledgment
of our respective positions."

You want a proof of my sincerity ?
Read that P

Mr. Hardwick bent his head over the
paper which the lawyer handed him, while
Mr. Dobbs compressed his half-moon
shaped mouth, lowered his bushy eyebrows,
and took a long pinch of snuff.

•'That is generous, truly; I will
acknowledge that it is more liberal than I
could have expected."

"I drew it, I made the additions; the
only interest I have in it is to please you
and retain my honoured appointment as the
legal man of the Ellerbies ; that is all — a
mere matter of pride."

u An honourable pride, Mr. Dobbs, a

sentiment of which yon have no reason
to be ashamed."

Thank you, Mr. Harclwick ; it is an
old saying of mine, ' Never criminate yourself.'
But I am not obeying the injunction ;
I am placing myself unreservedly in your
hands ; I stand here at your mercy."

And I extend to you the hand of amity
and peace," said Hardwick.

Dobbs took the small white hand in his
cold flabby paw, and thus ratified the
alliance.

Blow our chief hopes, Mr. Hardwick,
lie in the marriage of your daughter to
Lord Ellerbie."

That is one of the conditions the Earl
makes, touching this new advance and
partnership?" answered Mr. Harclwick.

"It is. One of the obstacles was removed
this morning. Philip Scruton
marched out of the town at daybreak as a

recruit. He can't come back because of
his debts."

But how was he an obstruction ?"

He swore to the Earl that he would
carry off any girl he proposed to marry, or
shoot his lordship at the altar."

The scoundrel !" exclaimed Mr. Hardwick.


You may well say so. Now it was my
business to get Mr. Scruton out of the
way. I have done it ; and, please the
heavenly justice, we shall never see him
again."

You are a seat man!" said Mr. Hardwick,
admiringly.

The next obstacle was the misunderstanding
between you and myself. We
have just wiped that out."

For ever !" said Hard wick ; " but, my
friend, there is another impediment."

"Indeed! What is it?"

Mr. Septimus Dobbs, when be entered
the Hall that morning, little thought his
hand was going to be so considerably
strengthened, as he deemed it, by the disclosures
which Mr. Hardwick made to him
concerning Mr, Oliver North's parting with
his daughter.

11 I saw it all. I was an eye-witness, sir,
to this folly of my child, to that audacity
of a young man whom I had literally raised
from the gutter ! But understand, Mr.
Dobbs, if I thought it was not for my
daughter's happiness, if it were not for
the name she bears, and from the promptings
of a father's heart, I would not thwart
her affections, however misplaced. She is
too young to know her own mind ; this
imaginary love is but pity, and a silly girl's
admiration for what people call genius. It
is all a mistake, and she will thank me one
day, thank me on her knees, for rescuing

her from poverty and a disgraceful mesalliance.


"I am sure of it," said Dobbs. "Your
conduct, Mr. Hard wick, is worthy of your
race, and the alliance of the house of Hardwick
with that of Ellerbie is one of which
the entire nation will approve."

"Mr. Dobbs, you flatter my judgment
when you endorse it by your practical
wisdom and sound sense."

And you are quite right, Mr. Hardwick,"
continued Dobbs, not noticing this
last remark of the mill-owner. " We must
have that ribbon; I catch your shrewd
view of its value. It can be used as evidence
of his death."

That was not exactly what I meant."

"No; what then?"

"Well, I thought that "

Suppose it were necessary to convince
her of the news that he had been killed

fighting gallantly for his country, his last
words, if accompanied by the ribbon she
gave him at parting, would convince her,
and knock down the last barrier in our
march of marital and territorial conquest."


You are quite eloquent, Mr. Dobbs."

The situation inspires me ! Rely on
it, Mr. Harclwick, it was your good angel
that sent me here this morning. I will
get that ribbon for you. It shall be
brought to her by the comrade at whose
side he fell ; and his last words shall be his
own personal counsel to her to obey the
wishes of her father."

You are a wonderful man, Mr. Dobbs !
Did you know that these were almost the
last words of my dear wife, who died in the
Countess's arms — I mean in Miss Hardwick's
arms ?"

"I did not," answered Dobbs; "but

heaven itself seems to have directed ray
steps to you this morning."

Do you think so ?"

I do indeed ; the Lord often uses
strange instruments for his purpose, as I
told a congregation at Brampton Chapel
only last Sunday."

I did not know that you were a
preacher."

I hold forth occasionally," said Dobbs,
taking a copious pinch of snuff, and handing
his box with friendly affability to his
new ally. "I believe I make enemies by
so doing ; there are those who scoff at me,
and all the more when they remember that
I am the solicitor to a Roman Catholic
family. But look what I have done, Mr.
Hardwick! I have converted a once
bigoted Catholic earl into a liberal tolerant
gentleman, who subscribes to every public
charity, regardless of sect or creed, who

even gives money towards building a Wesleyan
Chapel, and heads the fund for keeping
up the comical steeple on our Chesterfield
Church."

Yes, yes, it is wonderful."

11 Mr. Scruton would not do it if he came
into the title and estates. He is an awful
Catholic; he would roast all Protestants
alive !"

Would he indeed ?"

"If he could. Of course there is no
chance of Rome ever having supremacy in
England again ; but Scruton is a Romanist
from the crown of his head to the sole of
his foot,"

He is a very dissipated person, I
believe."

"Yes; but he counts his beads, and
intrigues for the Pope."

"Isn't it odd, then, that he should join
our Protestant army ?"

vol. i. u

"Why, bless you, Mr. Hardwick, the
army is full of Catholics, and Scruton is
one of those men who love fighting for its
own sake."

Mr. Dobbs, I am very glad you came
to see me. May I offer you a glass of
wine r

"No, thank you; too early to drink,
must keep clear head, have much to think
of, more than I expected ; but it will all be
easier now that you and I are friends, Mr.
Hardwick."

The mill-owner bowed as Dobbs rose
to depart. The mill-owner honoured
his visitor by opening the door himself
for the lawyer. The mill-owner and
aristocrat shook hands a second time
with the lawyer, and stood on the steps
bare-headed as Mr. Dobbs ascended into
the garden and finally disappeared.

"Truly a remarkable man," said Mr.

William Rutland Hardwick, closing the
door.

"The old fool!" muttered Dobbs, as he
shuffled through the iron gates into Lords-mill
Street, where he encountered many
people returning from their tramp with
the soldiers.

Susan Hardwick, sitting near her bedroom
window, looking in the direction of
the London road, heard the people returning
homewards, the sounds of their
clattering feet being increased by the noise
of some who wore wooden shoes, the clogs
of the north answering to the French sabots.


Though the martial music was by this
time awakening the enthusiasm of slumbering
villages miles away, she fancied she
still heard it, and she nursed the idea, ina
dreamy sort of way, but with a sense of

u2

depression rather than of grief, a feeling of
humiliation and disappointment. The first
shock of sorrow over, she was conscious of
a feeling of mortification. Her pride and
her wilfulness came to the relief of her
sentiment of pity for Oliver North, and
her love for him. She was angry with
herself at one moment for confessing her
love ; the next she felt hurt at North leaving
her when she had laid bare her heart
to him. She never felt until now how
much she wanted the advice of a mother
or a sincere friend. Not that her mother
would have helped her much had she been
alive. She was but a poor creature, with
one idea in her head, and that was full of
her husband, whom she obeyed implicitly
in thought and deed, and of whose family
and ancestors she had a superstitious
admiration.

The mill-owner s only daughter looked

out upon those tall elms that were shedding
their leaves, and saw in the picture a
likeness to herself. Somehow it seemed
as if her hopes were falling in showers
around her, and that she would be left a
wreck for the cruel winds of Fate to blow
upon. A sense of utter loneliness took
possession of her ; and with it a feeling of
it-doesn't-matter, an impatience of misfortune,
a certain recklessness of thought
that challenged the better instincts of her
nature. She was one of those intellectual,
impulsive women who need the good influence
of a wise, loving mother, the example
of a strong, manly, honourable
father ; or, what is still better, the affectionate
guidance of a clever, big-hearted
husband. She thought philosophically,
and felt like a woman ; in mind, she looked
upon men as inferior to women. In her
heart she loved a man passionately, but

she would Have gone on loving him without
disclosing her secret, if circumstances
had not placed her in a situation in which
her heart had got the better of her head.
Hers was a nature full of contradictions.
It was most admirable when under the
influence of her, heart ; but she was continually
agitated with struggles between
her strong common sense and her sentiment
of affection ; between her superstitious
idea of duty and her desire to love
and be loved ; between her pride of birth
and her pride of personal power ; between
her love of pretty dresses and her love of
independence ; and on this morning, worn
with the most agitating incident of her life,
angry with herself, disappointed at waking
up and finding Oliver North gone, after
her startling display of humility irritated
at old Nannie Dawson's familiarity ; and
increasingly conscious of her father's indebtedness

to Lord Ellerbie, she was
stricken with a sense of bewilderment that
bordered on despair.

11 1 will go and see Mary Kirk," she said,
by-and-by.

When she expressed that intention to
her father, Mr. Hardwick promptly agreed
with her wish, making a mental determination
that, while she was in the neighbourhood
of Brackenbury Towers, he would
call upon her with Lord Ellerbie, and
make her pay a visit to that historic
place.

In the meantime, Mr. Septimus Dobbs,
reclining upon his leather chair in his private
office, in the midst of his papers and
parchments, like a spider in the middle of
his web, waiting for victims, decided, like
the human spider he was, that he must
spin a connecting link between Chesterfield
and London. His plans had extended

lately, and his web must be enlarged
according.

It was not necessary that he should
walk out of the town and let the coach
overtake him at Hasland. They knew at
the Angel he had booked a seat by the
mail. It is true, he said it was for one of
Lord Ellerbie's guests ; but he was crooked
and mysterious by nature. He sometimes
even cheated himself, pretending that he
was going to do one thing, and ending in
quite an opposite course. It was as if
that proverb of his, " Don't criminate
yourself," had been ground into his constitution.
" Let not thy left hand know
what thy right hand doeth," was a text
which he chuckled over. In some situation
of legal dishonesty, he would put his
left hand into his pocket, and sign a document
with a grin of pretended secrecy,
backing his right hand against his left at

two to one, as if they were horses running
a race. Nobody knew in Chesterfield that
he had a correspondent in London who
conducted betting transactions for him.
Nobody quite knew why they disliked him,
though Oliver North, who had once, out
of curiosity, been to hear him preach, said
irreverently, to the person who had taken
him to chapel, that the lawyer impressed
the congregation so fearfully with his picture
of the horrors of the lower regions
because he was so much like old Nick
himself that you might have fancied him
suddenly developing wings and a tail, belching
forth fire, seizing half a dozen of his
congregation, and disappearing with them
through the window.

Hi, there ! stop !" shouted a voice in
the darkness of the highway beyond Has-land,
as the flashing lights of the mail-coach
for London fell upon the white road.

All right, Jack," said the guard, in a
re-assuring tone to the driver, " it's our
inside from Chesterfield."

The lights stood still for a minute, the
horses champed their bifcs, the door was
opened, and inside crept the human spider,
to spin a treacherous thread between that
complicated web in the shadow of the
crooked steeple and the great mysterious
city of London.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME,

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.
K

"LI B R.AR.Y

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

M28th
V.2

AND

THE GIRLS THEY LEFT BEHIND THEM.
VOL. n.

AND

THE GIRLS THEY LEFT BEHIND The

BY

JOSEPH HATTON

AUTHOR OF

•'CLYTIE," 'cruel LONDON," "THE QUEEN OF BOHEMIA,"
&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. n.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

All rtghls reserved.

CHAPTER Y.

THE SHADOW UPON MARY KIRK's YOUNG LIFE.

The joys of parents are secret, and so are their
griefs and fears ; they cannot utter the one, nor they
will not utter the other. Children sweeten labour,
but they make misfortune more bitter ; they increase
the cares of life, but they mitigate the remembrance
of death.

Lord Bacon.

TjlARMER KIRK was waiting with his
-^ gig at the corner of the road (near
the spot where Mr. Scruton was robbed)
to meet the coach which was to brmc:: Miss

B 2

Hardwick from Chesterfield on a visit to-the
Home Farm.

It was a delicious September day, the
end of the month. Gleaners were in the
wheat-fields, and children were nutting in
the hedgerows, which were just beginning
to show autumn tints, against which the
periwinkle disported its blue flowers.
Where Mr. Kirk had drawn up his gig,
you could hear the music of the narrow
rivulet, which had its rise in a bubbling
spring at Grassmoor, in the road close to
the Farm. A squirrel hopped from one
tree to another over the farmer's head,
and a fox presently came out of the hedge,
away up the road, and stood looking at
him. The green grass carpeted the sides
of the highway for miles, except here and
there, where some old parishioner sat upon
a heap of stones, earning his humble livelihood.
Presently the sound of a horn

aroused the farmer, and by-and-by a coach
pulled up at the cross-roads, the horses
pawing the earth as if impatient at being
stopped just as they were in the full steady
swing of a business-like canter ; for Grass-moor
itself (which could be seen from the
highway half buried in trees) was only
three miles from Chesterfield.

The merry guard, with a china-aster in
the button-hole of his velvet jacket,
handed Miss Hardwick out of the coach ;
Mr. Kirk carried her box, and both of
them helped her into the gig, receiving for
their gallantry a smile which showed
Susan's white teeth, and lighted up her
dark eyes. The outside passengers looked
the happier for gazing on the pretty young
lady. The coachman saluted with his
whip ; a gay young outsider in a foppish
coat, with the collar high up in his neck,
took off his hat ; and, with a '* so-ho " and

*' Now, my beauties," away went te coach
one way, and away went Mr. Kirk's gig
the other.

And how is Mary ?" asked Susan, when
she had settled herself comfortably at the
farmer's side, and his bay nag was striding
along, and lifting the dust so that it left
a white cloud behind them.

*' Oh, she's a deal better, the lass is ;
though she's quiet and mopish," he
said.

'does she know of all that has
happened ?"

'well, yes, I told her my sen. She
suspected it all along ; she heard the jury
say ' guilty,' and, after I come back from
London, trying to get sentence altered, she
snowed as I'd done no good, else I should
have said so. Days and weeks went od,
and she was just like a ghost going about,

doing nothing, and saying nothing, and
doctor said if we diana mind she'd lose her
senses. I was for telling her all, and
letting her seek comfort in prayers, and
going to church, which does seem a kind
of comfort in trouble, especially to women.
But my poor missus would not hear of it,
and the children was kept from her, for
fear they'd say summit ; and it was a
miserable business altogether."

"Indeed it must have been. Poor
Mary !" said Susan.

So one day, when the missus had gone
to Chesterfield market, and the children
were all in the fields, I says to Mary,

Come here, love ;' she wa' sitting by the
kitchen window, leaning her face on her
hand, and looking out into the garden ;

come here,' I says, ' and sit on my knee.
I want to tell thee summit.' She came,

bless lier heart, and I laid her head on my
shoulder, and I says, ' We aren't doings
right by you, Mary; we are treating you
as if you was a sort of visitor, instead of a
daughter that we love, a daughter and a
friend,' I says, 'that should have no
secrets from one another. Now I want
you to listen to me. You've got a father
and mother that loves you ; you've gotten
brothers and sisters as would think nowt
a trouble to make you happy ; you've got
a comfortable home ; you want for nothing.
Isn't that so ?' I says. * Yes, father,' she
answered; 'And yet,' I says, *you have got
a sorrow as you wonnat let us share wi'
you, and we are not doing right by you,'
I says, * to let you go on keeping it to
yourself, and the doctor says we'll lose you,
if we donna mind ; and that would just
clean break our hearts,' I says ; and so ib
would, Miss Hardwick."

Susan had already forgotten her own
troubles, in her sympathy for Kirk and his
daughter.

' Dear father she says," continued the
farmer, " kissing me, and bursting into
tears, the first I had seen in her eyes since
that cold-blooded juryman said 'guilty,'
dear father,' she says, ' tell me what todo
;' and it were the first time in my life as
I were glad to see a lass cry, let alone my
own child ; so I let her go on a bit, and
then I says, 'Will you try to obey me, love
and dutiful, as a child should obey a
father who'd die for her ?' For so I would.
Miss Hardwick !"

There were tears in old Kirk's eyes ashe
turned his face towards Susan.

So I would," he went on, " and she
says, ' Father, tell me what you wish ; I am
your child ; I will do it.' I didn't tell her
exactly in direct words as the law had

murdered Jacob Marks, but I says, ' Welly
Mary, my dear, it's our duty to be resigned,
whatever God wills, and He lias willed that
Jacob Marks should die ;' she clutched my
arm, but said nothing, ' and the poor lad
has gone to his rest ;' she buried her face
in my neck ; ' and some day we must all
go, and,' I says, * we've got to bear it ; and
I want you to bend to the will of God, and
not forget as that poor dear fellow, heaven
rest him, was not the only person in the
world ; there's me and your mother,' I says
and the children,' I says, ' and Miss Hardwick,'
I says ; ' and we want you to live for
us, and be a comfort and a blessing to us,'
I says ; and she looked up, with her face
all wet, bless her, and she says, ' I will
father, I will ;' and then we Went out together
in the garden, and walked about,
and she asked met write and beg of you to

come and see us, and, as if Providence was
really thinking of us, there comes up,
almost as we was speaking of you, the
letter-carrier, with one from you, a- saying
as you'd come : and she's not bin same lass
since."

You are a good, clever father," said
Susan ; " and what about poor Tom Bertram
?"

I've said nowt about Tom, poor lad ;
eh, but that chap going away has cut me
up almost as much as t other affair ! There
seems a deal of ill-luck in my lass's bit of
love-making. I shall just ask you to tell
her about Tom ; she's sure to feel it a bit,
but not as much as me and my missus has,
for we were very fond of Tom, and he's
just as like to get killed as not ; there's
one thing, if he doesna he'll make them
Frenchmen dance."

*' Yes," said Susan. " I suppose you
know that Mr. North enlisted in the same
regiment."

*' Ah, Tom told me ; him and North
was great friends; but I'm afeared I'm
wounding your feelings a bit now ; you
nun stop me if I am."

"No, don't mind me; tell me what he
said."

He said as folks thowt Mr. North had
gin everything up, because he'd lost his
place, and rioters had smashed his inventions
; but the real truth was a bit of disappointment
in another quarter ; but there,
you never know why young chaps will go
a-soldiering ; it's the music, and the flags,
and liking adventures, and them foreigners
bragging that they can whop us as does
it."

"Yes, I suppose so," said Susan.

By this time they had reached the gate,

'which opened upon the drive to the
Home Farm. A couple of children raced
for the honour of opening it, and they both
swung upon it as it closed with a click after
the gig had passed through.

A solid yet picturesque old house, that
of the Home Farm, built of stone, with
old-fashioned mullions windows and
diamond-panes ; with a garden in front,
half vegetables, half flowers, and at this
time of the year golden with sunflowers,
turning their great brown and yellow faces
to the light ; with a broad flag-stone pavement
from the garden-gate to the front
door, which was wide open, showing a
rubbing stoned hall with an old chest in it,
and a tall oak clock-case in which you
could hear the pendulum swinging ; with a
well half-way down the garden, and a
bucket swinging above it ; and on one side
of the house a farmyard upon which the

Track-door opened, and on the other the
stack-yard, with half a dozen wheat-stacks
and as many hay-stacks, the former new,
the latter partly old.

It was cleaning day. All the work had
Teen done, and "the missus" was expected
home to tea — home from Chesterfield
market, with the forthcoming week's provisions,
and the money for her butter and
cheese. In those days a farmer's wife was
not ashamed to carry her poultry and
utter, her fruit and cheese, to market, and
sell it herself. At the present time a woman
in the position of Mrs. Kirk would bes,
visitor in a silk dress at the local schools,
and, when she deigned to enter a country
tradesman's shop, she would expect the
special homage of all the establishment.
When Mr. Kirk farmed, all his family
engaged in the industry of house and
homestead, just as the colonial farmers do

to-day in Australia and New Zealand, just
as the families of the agriculturists of the
Western States of America do. One of
the reasons why the English farmer is
falling back in the international race is to
be found in the social changes which have
come over our rural districts. '' The
missus " no longer makes her .own cheese
and butter ; she is a fine lady now, bless
her heart ! and plays on the piano ; she
studies fashions instead of cookery books ;
she does crewel work instead of spinning-sheets,
and when she goes to the village
fete an archery meeting, a harvest home,
or what not, she must outvie the parson's
wife in her dress, and even make a millinery
effort to eclipse the stuck-up ladies of the
gentleman-farmer " (the newest thing in
agriculturists), who combines banking with
wheat-growing, or merely farms for amusement.


Heaven forbid that I should thrust
my head into a hornet's nest by saying that
this *' social advance" of the farmer's wife
and family is the sole reason why agriculture
is no longer a profitable business ; it
is one only among others which it is not
my province to discuss; I only despite to
point out that in the old days farming
meant getting up early and taking a hand
at the plough, sowing the seed yourself,
being personally busy in the lambing season,
taking a turn at sheep-shearing, selling
your own wheat in the local market, having
helped to gather and thrash it, while the
good wife and her pretty daughter assisted
to milk the cows, churn the butter, make
the cheese, feed the pigs, manage the
poultry, and keep the house in order.
That was how Farmer Kirk and his wife
viewed their duties, though they owned
the freehold of a hundred acres, farmed

four hundred, and had five thousand
pounds in the bank.

It would have done your heart good to
have seen Mrs. Kirk in her red shawl and
poke bonnet come into the house on this
September day, carrying a heavy basket of
groceries, Margaret the dairymaid carrying
two more ; while the cart and thickened
horse, which Mrs. Kirk had driven
to and from the market, stood outside the
garden-gate, waiting for Margaret to back
the cart into the shed, and take Dobbin out
and put him in the stable, which she would
do as well and cheerfully as any one of the
farm men, who, on this Saturday, were having
their " bit of holiday," granted them
once a fortnight, to enjoy the excitement
of the market for two or three hours,
returning home to '' supper up " the horses
and see all straight for the night, and be
ready half of them for church in the

VOL. II. c

morning, the other half going in the afternoon.


Eh ! but I am glad to see thee !" exclaimed
Mrs. Kirk, putting down her
basket and shaking hands with Susan,
*4t's good for sore eyes to see thy handsome
face in our house. And tha's come
to stop a bit ! Well, that is good of thee !"

Susan was sitting in Mr. Kirk's armchair,
Mary on a stool at her feet. Mary
got up as her mother came in, and helped
to lift the basket into the window-seat.
Mr. Kirk, at an old-fashioned desk, was
poring over the week's accounts.

Nay, Mary lass, I can manage," said
Mrs. Kirk, a little surprised at her daughter's
sudden alacrity, for she had been listless
hitherto, though not so much as during
the time before Kirk had engaged in that
long conversation with her which he had
described to Susan.

"Margaret!" continued the dear old
lady, calling to the girl outside, '^ make
haste with that horse and we'll have tea
laid."

I'll do that, mother," said Mary, bustling
about with a sprightliness that caused
Mrs. Kirk to look inquiringly at her husband,
who had raised his head from his
accounts to nod significantly at his wife.

Tea things from a corner cupboard
were speedily laid on a large oak table,
without a tray or cloth, white cups and
saucers, old blue delf plates and a china
tea-pot. At the dresser Mrs. Kirk, having
taken off her shawl and bonnet, and put
on a clean apron, stood and cut bread and
butter. Margaret presently brought in a
dish of w^atercresses and lettuce. Mary
produced a currant loaf and a jar of
damson jam from the pantry ; and just as
they were all ready to sit down, in came,

cone

after the other, half a dozen rosy
children, who took their places and their
food almost simultaneously, all rather shyly
glancing at the fine lady from Chesterfield,
and all ordered at the close of the
repast to get washed early and be in bed
by nine o'clock. Saturday at the Home
Earn was like the Jews' ceremony of the
Passover; it was a day of cleaning up.
The scouring and mopping that began the
day ended at night with the tubbing of
the children ; and, when everybody went
to bed, all the linen for the next day was
hung round the kitchen-fire, so that there
should be no mistake about the clean
shirts and hose being properly aired for
the next morning.

They slept together in the same room,
Susan and Mary, and on that Saturday
night they sat together in the starlight,
and exchanged a world of confidences.

Mary having '* found her tongue," prattled
of her sorrow and made many vows of
everlasting spinsterhood. The kindness
of her father, her mother's patience with
her, and her sudden awakening to a sense
of her duty to them, were the leading
themes of her discourse, which was of the
most simple, innocent character, interspersed
with tears and an occasional hugging
of Susan, who she declared was the
dearest and best girl in the world.

Susan felt a soothing pleasure in listening
to her friend, who was still the same
fair violet-eyed beauty, the robustness of her
figure somewhat toned down by her trouble.
Still it was a pastoral dairy-maidish kind
of beauty contrasted with the high-bred
physiognomy and the educated grace and
manners of Susan Hardwick. Mary, too,
spoke with a little of the Derbyshire
dialect, the vowels rounded and full, and

there was a certain homeliness in her
smiles and expressions which was characteristic
of the times and the country
Susan's refinements of manner were reflected
in her trained voice and pronunciation
; though there was a certain boldness
of expression, a certain indifference in her
opinions, a certain daring in her views of
life, that were the offspring of a naturally
strong intellect, cultivated by reading,,
stimulated by some years of alliance with
her father in " keeping up appearances"*
and promoted by the peculiarly lonely and
untrammelled mode of her life.

It was a picture of rural happiness and
content the next morning to see the Kirk
family walking across the autumn fields,
and along the grass-grown highway ta
church. They were all in their best
clothes, and, in the distance, they looked
like a variegated ship, flying many colours.

sailing on a calm green sea, for the
meadows they passed through towards
Hasland were grazing lands. But come
close to the family group, and you would
see a bit of honest, healthy, English
humanity, and simple rural pride, that one
regrets to feel is becoming more and morea
picture of past days. In the present it
must be said we are consistent. We dress
our prosaic manners and habits in fitting
costume so far as the lords of creation are
concerned ; though our women are wisely
taking pattern from the past in their
dresses of to-day.

But to our procession on its way to
church. First came Farmer Kirk in his
brown coat and breeches, flowered waistcoat,
ribbed worsted stockings, buckled
shoes, and broad-brimmed hat. On his
arm his buxom wife of three and forty
summers, in her chintz gown with roses on

it, a green quilted petticoat, and poke
bonnet, trimmed with cherry-coloured
ribbons. She was a matured Mary Kirk,
a little stouter, with a ruddier face and
darker hair ; but she did not look half the
three or four and twenty years she was
older than her daughter. Following the
heads of the house came Miss Hardwick
and Mary, the former in a white satin
dress trimmed with lace, a white satin hat
lined with pink, and gay with ostrich
feathers ; the latter in a plain print dress,
flat straw bonnet, satin shoes with high
heels, and a black scarf. Then came six
or eight boys and girls in twos, from Jack
and Tom of fifteen and seventeen, down to
Polly and Jane of five and seven — an
English county family worth looking upon.
They filled, with the farm servants who
had gone on first, two pews in the old
church, two high, solemn apartments,

which shut out everything and everybody
except the parson and the one stained-glass
window at the east end, in which the
apostles were delineated in attitudes well
calculated to inspire wonder, if not veneration.


As they returned home to their early
Sunday dinner, Susan and Mary talked of
many things besides the sermon. They
fell behind the family group some distance,
and at the stile leading from the lane into
the meadows, half a mile or so from the
farm, where you can see Brackenburj^
Towers, lying away in the valley, Susan
said she was tired, and they sat down.

*' Well, there was no ghost in the sermon
this morning," said Susan. "Don't you
remember telling me that the Yicar of
Chesterfield same and preached about
ghosts, as if you were not already frightened
enough."

Mary turned pale. Susan had unwittingly
touched other memories besides
those of the Ellerbie legends.

Somehow there was a fascination for
Susan in the subject of Brackenbury
Towers. She shivered a little at it, but
she liked to hear about the strange old
place, its deep, still lake, and its weird
history.

No," said Mary, ^' it was a more comforting
discourse than is general with
Parson Briton."

"What is the matter?" Susan asked,
taking Mary's hand, *' you have turned
white."

Nothing," said Mary, though she had
in her mind's eye the figure of poor Jacob
Marks standing in the dock at Derby ; the
mention of ghosts had conjured it up;
and, strange to say, at that very moment
Mr. Theophilus Short entered the meadow

on the other side, a Bible in Lis hand, a
devilish humility in his gait ; he was going-home
by a short cut from Chesterfield,
where he had been attending a "love
feast " at his favourite chapel.

Short never hesitated a moment, but
came straight on, bending lowly and climbing
the stile, while his shadow fell upon
the two girls. At sight of him Mary rose
and clung to Susan as if for protection,
and, as he passed them, she fainted. Susan
held her for a moment, and then laid her
against the grassy bank by the stile, while
she ran a little way down the meadow, and,
making a cup of her two hands, brought
some water from a rivulet and sprinkled
her face. The girl soon recovered.

*what is it, my dear child?" asked
Susan, pale herself now with anxiety.

Did you see that man ?" asked Mary,
looking over her shoulder in affright.

"Yes. What of him?"

I see him in my saddest dreams," said
the girl, trembling.

"Who is he?"

"Mr. Short— Theophilus Short," said
the girl, in a whisper.

CHAPTER Y[.

Under SUN AND MOON.

And yet, believe me, good as well as ill,
Woman's at best a contradiction still.

Pope.

rpHE next day a carriage drawn by four
-"- horses, on wliicli were mounted two
postillions, came labouring along the road
and through the Home Farm gateway,
finally pulling up at Mr. Kirk's house.

A servant jumped down from the dickey
of the old family chariot, with imposing
armorial bearings on its yellow panels, and,
letting down the steps, opened the door.

Mr. Hardwick, prim and jaunty, stepped
out first and waited until the Earl (in velvet
suit, bag-wig, ruffles, and buckled shoes)
was also fairly landed, an old buck who
did not even deign to carry a stick, as his
friend Hardwick did.

The visitors considerably fluttered Mrs.
Kirk's household. The farmer was out in
the fields, so were those of the children
who had not gone to a dame's school at
Hasland. Miss Hardwick and Mary Kirk
were at home. Mary was tying up some
bundles of lavender on the kitchen table,
to be put into the linen chest and into the
drawers upstairs. Susan Hardwick was
sitting by the fire sewing. Mrs. Kirk was
busy preparing the household's early
dinner.

**I hope we do not disturb you, Mrs.
Kirk," said Mr. Hardwick, taking off his

hat. *' Susan, my love, I trust you are
quite well."

Mrs. Kirk curtsied to the Earl, who *
bowed most politely, saying, at the same
time,

Ladies, I wish you good morrow."

^* Thank you, father," said Susan, " I am
very well."

Hard wick kissed his daughter.

I trust your good man is well' said
the Earl, addressing Mrs. Kirk.

Yes, thank heaven, my lord, Kirk is
in the enjoyment of good health ; but won-nat
you tak a seat? Come forward into
the best parlour."

^'jSTo, no," said the Earl, quickly interposing
his own person between Mrs. Kirk
and the parlour door; 'nothing could
be more pleasant than this comfortable
kitchen, and I declare, 'pon my honour, I

2 THREE Recruits.

have smelt nothing so sweet as your
lavender."

We called to pay our respects, Mrs.
Kirk, and to ask your permission for Miss
Kirk to accompany my daughter Susan to
Brackenbury Towers," said Mr. Hard wick,
leaving no opening for Susan to decline,
and making it equally difficult for Mrs
Kirk not to consent on behalf of Mary.

I wish the master was in," said Mrs.
Kirk, with a little hesitation in her manner.
I like him to "

My daughter," said Hardwick, breaking
in upon Mrs. Kirk's half-finished remark,
"• has not yet seen the wonders and
the beauties of the ancient hall ; perhaps
Miss Kirk has ?"

He looked at Mary, inviting her answer
rather than her mother's.

I have not been all over Brackenbury,"
said Mary; " but I have seen the chapel.

the picture-gallery, and the grounds."

The old Earl sat in Kirk's arm-chair and
gazed at Susan.

Ah ! then you must come with Susan,"
said Mr. Hard wick. '• I will not keep her
long, Mrs. Kirk ; they shall return to the
farm long before it is dusk. There, my
dears, get on your things ; it is a lovely day."

Mary looked at her mother.

"Yes, love," said Mrs. Kirk, 'rand I
daresay it will do you good," — a remark
which Mr. Hardwick heartily endorsed.

Mary was nothing loth to go. She laid
her lavender aside, and, putting her arm
round Susan, bade her come and get
ready.

Lord EUerbie envied Mary her familiarity
with Susan. An old fellow's love is
often more solicitous of recognition on the
part of the lady whom it favours than a
young man's. Age knows its own short-vol.

II. D

comings, and is full of jealous doubts and
fears. Youth is turbulent and exacting
in its jealous fits. Age is contented with
a smile where youth asks passionate devotion.
Lord Ellerbie was in love with
Susan. It was the unthinking, headlong
desire of an old man, and there was hardly
anything he would not do to win the millowner's
tantalising daughter. If parental
authorities to go for anything in this
traffic of hearts and hands, Hardwick
would settle it, and that quickly.

Lord Ellerbie handed Mary Kirk into
the yellow chariot with quite a gallant air,
reserving, however, his admiring glances
for Susan. He was chatty and affable with
Mary — respectful, almost humble, to Susan.

They drove through lanes which were
as soft as carpets with grass and fallen
leaves. The wheels hardly made a sound,
though the carriage jolted and plunged.

It was a bright, bracing autumn day.

Presently they passed through a pair of
tall wrought-iron gates that were bung
upon stone pillars surrounded with a pair
of griffins that grinned at you over a pair
of shields. Tbe carriage drive was hemmed
in with yew and holly, with box and fir,
and these had a background on one side
of oak and ash and other forest trees ; on
the other was a tall bank, which in the
spring was full of primroses and violets.
By-and-by the bank declined and undulated,
showing here and there glimpses of
the lake that seemed to sleep in a fringe
of bullrushes, which were repeated upside-down
along the margin, making a sort of
frame for the gables and towers and curious
chimneys of Brackenbury.

The carriage swung round by the west
wing and into the moss-grown courtyard,
pulling up opposite the main entrance to

D 2

the Towers. The doors were already
opened, and the housekeeper — a tall
starchy, elderly lady — was waiting to receive
them. An aged priest passed along
the corridor and disappeared.

Mr. Hardwick offered his arm to Mary,
leaving Susan to the Earl.

*' Allow me," said Hardwick, " with Lord
Ellerbie's permission, to lead the way."

The old Earl tendered his arm to Susan
with a grand air, and Miss ■ Hardwick
accepted the homage gracefully. They
walked along corridors dimly lighted by
oriel windows, with quaint bits of furniture
here and there, and old-fashioned
pictures ; through curious old rooms half
furnished and covered with tapestry.

Mr. Hardwick was the showman.

'' This part of Brackenbury Towers," ho
said, pausing in a suite of rooms with
mullions windows that overlooked the

lake, "has not been occupied since Mary
Queen of Scots lived here in the custody
of an illustrious ancestor of Lord Ellerbie.
Observe, my dears, the exquisite tapestry,
some of it embroidered by her own fair
hands. The divine command notwithstanding,
one cannot help envying the
owner of such a palace as this ; combining
as it does the romance of the past with the
English comforts of the present. We shall
shortly come to the more modern apartments
; they will prove equally delightful,
I am sure."

** Your father is quite an enthusiast in
his admiration of Brackenbury," said Lord
Ellerbie to Susan, as they passed out of
the Mary Queen of Scots wing, as they
called that part of the hall they had been
inspecting.

He was always much interested in
-antiquities," said Susan, coldly.

Knows a world of things about pedigrees
and family histories," said the Earl,
making a desperate effort to induce Susan
to talk.

Yes, I believe he does."

'' Your own family is very ancient ?"

eyes."

It is a serious responsibility, the honour
and dignity of ancestry — serious, yet a
happy responsibility, as your father well
puts it ; yes, happy ; don't you think so ?"

A child would ill-become her duty to
question a father's opinion on such a subject
; but I do not estimate so highly the
mere claims of birth as my father does,"^
said Susan, in her most authoritative
manner.

"No, no," said the old lover, quickly;,
'now there I agree with you, Miss Hardwick
; great deeds may ennoble the most
lowly — yes, yes."

And yet there is an indescribable satisfaction
in the clear knowledge of long
descent," said Susan.

Truly, truly, yoni say well, Miss Hardwick,"
answered the Earl. " Will you not
sit a while and look at this battle piece ?
It is supposed to represent the founder of
the Ellerbie family at Agincourt. Yes, he
stands with his mailed foot on the neck of
that powerful knight whose banner he has
captured. Yes, and you will notice that
the victor is not a young man ; on the contrary,
he is elderly, almost old. He was a
faithful painter the artist who depicted
that scene, faithful to history."

Susan had taken a seat, and the Earl was
standing in front of the picture.

'' Your father laughs at my admiration
of this picture; he is cynical, and says I
regard it as flattering to myself, which is
cruel. I don't consider myself old, not at

all ; gad's life, I am young at heart, Miss
Hardwick, and claim the privilege of manhood
to be only as old as it feels, and no
more, and no more." ^

He drew himself up and straightened
his back as he spoke, and was at all events
not an unpicturesque figure as he stood on
the polished floor, his plum-coloured velvet
coat setting off his florid complexion.

*' Ah ! you are laughing at me," he said,
as Susan raised her face to hide a smile.
I know you are. I don't mind, Miss
Hardwick ; you may, you may. I am
your father's partner now ; yes, yes. Did
you not know that we bad made a compact
?"

"I have heard something of it," said
Susan.

Yes, it is so ; on my life I feel quite a
busy man ; we are going to do marvels
with the mill, and there are other schemes

on foot— yes, we bave surprises in store
for the county."

Susan rose, for the echoes of the footsteps
of her friend and father had abbacy
died away. Again the old Earl was by her
side, ready to escort her.

^' It is a supreme pleasure, Miss Hardwick,
to see you in these old halls," he
said, as she leaned lightly on his arm ; " it
makes me feel young again, I do assure
you — yes, not that I am really old, as I tell
your father. Fifty is not old, eh ? Is it ?
Do you, my dear young lady, regard fifty
as antiquated ?"

I have not thought about it," said
Susan.

If you did honour such a subject to
the extent of thinking about it, would you
estimate fifty as a very serious age ?"

ISTo ; one cannot help it if one should
be seventy," said Susan, mentioning, without

knowing it, the Earl's correct age.

That is true ; that is most true, my
dear young lady, an old age endowed with
luxury and wealth, moreover. Gad's life I
that is better than youth with an empty
purse and a fireless hearth, eh ? Do you
not go with me there?"

"It is pleasant to have wealth," said
Susan, thinking, for the moment, of the
many pecuniary troubles of the pretentious
Hall in Lordsmill Street, with its miserable
struggle at keeping up appearances.

I do not always think so ; if one has a
great object in life, yes, yes ; if one has
some one to share it with, yes ; but here
we are in your father s favourite room —
ah ! yes, just in time."

Mr. William Rutland Hard wick was showing
Miss Kirk some of the curious EUerbie
books and manuscripts, while a servant was
placing luncheon upon a small table near

the fire. It was dainty fare of which the
Earl invited them to partake. A dish of
trout from the Other (which in those days
was a clear dancing stream, with the kingfisher
darting to and fro like a winged
ruby), a brace of pheasants from the Elders
covers, a bottle of rare Madeira for
Hardwick, and a bottle of old cowslip wine
and some cherry brandy for the girls.
They sat down, and Hardwick played the
part of host. The wood logs crackled on
the hearth ; the green park stretched away
for miles below the windows ; fat servitors
handed round the wine and then disappeared,
Lord Ellerbie telling the ladies
he always preferred taking breakfast and
luncheon without attendance.

"I am so very happy," whispered Hardwick
to his daughter, while the Earl was
speaking to Mary Kirk. " My dear Susan,
you are a very good girl to love your father

SO raucli ; ab ! I wish your poor dear mother
could see you now."

After luncheon Hardwick asked Miss
Kirk if she had ever seen the Ellerbie
jewels. Mary said no, and Mary was very
meek and humble in her manners generally
; for Lord Ellerbie hitherto had been to
her a sort of local god, next in awful importance
to the Ellerbie ghost, with which,
by the way, she had once or twice expected
to be confronted in the rambling old galleries
of the Queen of Scots' wing. She had
never once dared to mention the subject to
Mr. Kirk, and the strange flash of the
jewels which Lord Ellerbie's privileged
friend spread out upon the library table,
having taken them from a great iron chest
built into the wall, completely took possession
of Mary's sense of wonder. Susan's
eyes also seemed to reflect back the luminous
sparkle of the gems. Lord Ellerbie

invited her to try on the necklet of his
grandmother, in which was set a wonderful
Indian stone as a pendant. Susan politely
declined, and the Earl asked Mary to allow
him to place it on her neck. Mary consented,
and Susan admired the great
flashing stone which was called the Elders


"Yes, Miss Hardwick," said the Earl,
"there is a story or legend attached to it.
A noble fell in love with the daughter of
an Indian prince ; she was much younger
than the noble, and the prince for some
reason banished him to the mountains,
having stripped him of titles and wealth.
For years this noble wandered about the
untrodden wastes. He knew that the
prince was mercenary, and loved gems
above everything. One day the lover
found in the dry bed of a river a great
diamond ; he took it to a priest of his

order who had once been his friend, and
the priest, taking compassion on him,
went to the prince, offering the gem as a
ransom of the banished noble. Never had
been seen so wonderful a stone. The
prince called his Ministers and people
together, and the gem was proved, on
which the prince reinstated the noble, who
was now almost old, and also gave him his
youngest daughter to wife ; and although
there was a disparity in their years they
lived happy together. Gad's life ! it is
many a long day since I told that story''

Mr. Hardwick lifted the gem from
Mary's neck and handed it to Susan, who,
examining it, said it was very beautiful
and interesting, and then laid it in its
velvet case.

Here is a ring which Mary Queen of
Scots wore," said the Earl. " Have I your,
permission, Hardwick, to present it to

your daughter? It has no intrinsic
value, but it is of historic interest, and
'pon my life it has a goodly shape and
setting."

Hardwick bowed his acquiescence, and
looked at Susan.

Thank you, Lord Ellerbie, I will not
deprive you of such an historic treasure,"
said Susan.

Nay, Miss Hardwick, your acceptance
would make it valuable in my eyes, yes,
yes. Well, then, pray let me beg that
you will carry away some other little
memento of your first visit to the Towers ;
these buckles, ah ! yes, gad's life ! you
must."

Hardwick looked appealingly at his
daughter.

'* Thank you, since you insist," said
Susan, allowing the Earl to lay the case
upon the table near her fan.

*sand, Miss Kirk," said the Earl, '^I
hope your mother will honour me by allowing
you to accept this brooch ; it is two
hundred years old."

'* Oh, my lord, you are too kind," said
Mary ; " it is my mother and myself who
will be honoured."

The old Earl bowed, and begged he
might pin the jewel upon her dress. Mary
smiled a ready consent, and old Hardwick
began to hate Mary, and regard her as a
forward minx, who might at the last
moment defeat his ambitious hopes.

Nay, I do profess but it becomes you
mighty well," said the Earl, regarding
Mary's blushing face with undisguised
admiration.

Mr. Hardwick, with the thoughtfulness
of a match-making mother, took Mary
aside to show her a curious picture, and
the Earl, with the astuteness of Mephistopheles

himself, began talking to Susan of
the loveliness of her friend.

I have, of course, seen Miss Kirk
often," he said; *eyes, yes, quite frequently
; but only to-day has my judgment
credited her with being beautiful."

She is as good as she is beautiful," said
Susan.

Of that I am persuaded ; it is no
plebeian face, there is the short upper lip
that denotes blood, and a little experience
would give her the tone of a court. On
my life she will make a fine woman," he
said, turning round to look at her.

Yes," said Susan.

*' There is a sad romance in her life," he
said, " which stimulates sympathy, too,
poor child ; but time is curing her, and a
little trouble is almost a beautifier in some
cases. Bless me ! bless me ! what a sweet
creature she is !"

VOL. II. E

Susan looked round at Mars, who was
standing in a graceful, unstudied attitude.
A thick braid of her golden brown hair had
fallen upon her shoulder. Her head was
half turned, so that the profile of her
soft features could be seen. Part of her
figure was disclosed by her cloak being
unfastened, and falling in a ripple of maroon
cashmere upon the floor. If she had
been posed for her picture, she could not
have looked prettier.

Was it a twinge of jealousy, ever so
slight, that Lord Ellerbie thought he saw
shadow Susan's face for a moment ? If it
was, it went as quickly as it came.

'' She is indeed beautiful !" exclaimed
Susan.

Mary turned round, for Susan had
spoken loudly.

"Yes, you are," said Susan, going up to

her and kissing her ; " it was you we were
talking of."

Oh, Susan, how could you ?" said Mary,
in blushing confusion, and hiding her face
in her friend's neck.

"" You fool ! " hissed Hard wick aside
to Susan, and nobody else heard the remark,
not even Lord Ellerbie, who, if he
had not been so deeply in love with Susan,
would have been amused at the troubled
and anxious face of his friend.

'* We must be true to our word," said
the Earl, putting an end to the little scene.
We promised that the ladies should return
before dusk, and I hear the carriage
yes, yes, I hear it ; it is the coach we
call my lady's coach. I want you to tell
me if you like it. Miss Hardwick, the next
time we meet ; and. Miss Kirk, you will
ask your mother to accept some fruit and

e2

wine which I have ordered to be put up
for you. My lady's coach — yes, it was
made in Paris, and brought over in a
Royal ship ; you will tell me if you like it
Miss Hardwick — yes, yes."

The old Earl hovered about Susan as he
talked, and then he handed her into the
carriage. He kissed her fingers with great
ceremony, and said, " Gad's life ! my dear
young lady, Brackenbury Towers will seem
more lovely than ever after this visit — this
honoured, this treasured visit."

In the deep shadow of their own bedroom
that night, when they could only
hear each other's voices, the two girls
talked themselves to sleep.

*swell, I think him a dear old gentleman,"
said Mary. " I had no idea he was
so nice. I used to be frightened at
him."

*' He is well enough for an old man,"
said Susan.

But he is a lord ; we all curtsey, and
the men take off their hats and stand bareheaded,
when we meet him ; and to think
of his giving me a brooch, and me sitting
at the same table !"

You seem much impressed, Mary."

'eyes, I am. I feel quite proud, though
I know he didn't do it all for me."

jSTo !— for whom, then ?"

"For you — to please you," said Mary;
'why, anybody can see he's over head
and ears in love with you. Mother noticed
it, and said you'd likely be his third
wife."

"Did she? You are more likely to bethe
Countess than I," said Susan.

Me ! — a farmer's daughter with no
ancestors ! — what nonsense ! Why, your
father considers your family as good as

the Earl's, nay nobler ; he told me so ; and
he thinks it would be a great honour for
you to accept the Earl."

Oh ! then you talked about us, did
you?"

"Of course we did ! Only think, if you
were Countess of Ellerbie, having those-jewels,
and my lady's coach, and that 
did he call it?"

"I don't know to what you are referring."


Boo something," said Mary.

"Boudoir?

Yes, that's it, all lined with satin. Your
father said it was fit for any princess, and
so I should think, for I never thought
there was anything half so lovely in the
world."

Then you would marry Lord Ellerbie
if you were me ?"

"I believe I would; that is, if my father

panted me to as much as yours does."
Yet your father was most desirous
that you should look favourably on Tom
Bertram."

Ah ! that is quite different," said Mary,
altering her tone.

No, Mary, not quite different."
Don't talk about me, Susan, talk about
yourself."

I do not want to talk at all."
'* I do," said Mary, who possibly, having
for some months had her tongue lying
dormant, as it were, desired now to makeup
for lost time.

They had called her a chatterton in
those happy days before the fatal trouble
which had fallen upon Jacob Marks, and
now that the affectionate appeals of her
father, and the companionship of Miss
Hardwick, had restored her to familiar
converse with her family, she appeared to

be recovering her former spirits with unexpected
rapidity. She had given quite a
lively narrative to her father and mother
and the family of the day at Brackenbury
Towers. She had rattled on at such a
rate that Mr. and Mrs. Kirk had looked at
her and at each other in surprise. The
children had sat open-mouthed at her
volubility, and her description of the Elders
treasures was to them like a chapter
out of a certain fairy-tale which one of the
boys had won in a lottery at the Chesterfield
May Fair. Mary was getting better
quickly. Mrs. Kirk agreed with her that
nobody could be more pleasant than Lord
Ellerbie; but the children were greatly
disappointed at the declaration of Mary's
belief that there was not any ghost at all
at Brackenbury Towers.

Go to sleep, dear," said Susan
presently.

'•' I don't want to go to sleep," answered
Mary, wide awake. " I shall never forget
those diamonds, Susan. Oh ! that necklace,
it was lovely ! — and your father says
you might have them all tomorrow if you
liked."

If I liked to marry Bluebeard."

Who's Bluebeard ?"

"Who ! Surely you know whom I
mean ; it was you who told me they called
Lord Ellerbie Bluebeard, and that there is
a ghost at the Towers."

Mary shuddered ; the curtain-rings of
the old oak bedstead chattered above their
heads.

'* Don't speak of such things — you
frighten me : I was only a silly child and
didn't know any better."

I was thinking about those other wives
while you were looking at the books," said
Susan, " and wondering whether he kept

that jewel-case sometimes in the room
which nobody was to open. * Sister Ann,
Sister Ann, do you see anyone coming down
the road'"

'' Oh, Susan, don't !— pray don't ! You'll
frighten me out of my wits !" exclaimed
Mary, burying her head under the clothes.

"Very well, then ; good night, I am not
going to talk any more," said Susan.

Not if we talk about Oliver North ?"

*' How do you know I am likely to feel
interested in Oliver North ?"

«'Why, didn't I see him at the Hall
when I was staying with you at Chesterfield?"


Yes, well, what of him ?"

"I don't know."

"Did my father say anything of him?"

'' No."

Do you know that he has gone
away r

** No inhere to?"

To the wars."

*has he? What, to invent something?"


Gone as a recruit, as a common,
soldier."

No ! What did he do that for ?"

Because he is silly."

*ein what way?"

** Just as young men are silly when they
cannot do as they please."

'' What did he want to do ?"

*' He was in love with me."

Yes, I know he was ; what then ?"

*'He had no patience; he quarrelled
with my father and called him names, in
my presence ; and I told him not to come
and see me again."

Quite right ; the idea of calling your
father names ! mine would have knocked
him down ; but yours is a gentleman, and

it wouldn't do for him to act like that,
would it ?"

I don't know, I am sure ; I am very
fond of Mr. North."

'^ Did he call again?"

No, he went off to be a soldier ; just
as any common man might do."

*' Poor fellow ! And didn't you see him
again ?"

Yes ; I sent for him."

'who did you send?"

"Another person as silly as himself who
had been and done the same thing all
about some other girl."

"Who was that?"

*' Tom Bertram."

Mary did not speak again for a little
while.

What had that person done ?"

Enlisted for a soldier."

"Why?"

"Because he was dying of love for Mary
Kirk, and, like that other wise person,
thought that the best way of proving it,
I suppose."

Oh ! Susan, is that so ?"

'' Yes."

Oh ! I am so miserable !"

*' Don't be miserable. It made me
miserable at first, but now it makes me
angry ! To think that men who would
have us believe they are such great
creatures can be so weak. Tom Bertram
is very fond of you !"

Mary was quiet.

'* Are you asleep ?"

]^o ; I wish I was now."

*' Have I made you unhappy ?"

A little. I was wondering what had
become of Tom, and I have been expecting
we should meet him somewhere about the
lanes."

Did you know nothing of this ?"

"No."

"Would you be angry if I gave him
something of yours ?"

"I couldn't be angry at anything you
did."

I gave him that bracelet you gave me,
and I promised not to let you forget
bim."

Poor fellow !" said Mary, and she
pressed Susans hand; *' don't talk about
him any more, it makes me feel ill, and
then I shall dream and see that horrid man
Short! If I scream in my sleep, awake
me, Susan! It will be that fearful man
-we saw on Sunday. And just as I was
trying to forget it all ! Oh, Susan, you
don't know what I have suffered !"

The girl burst into tears, and the two
friends said no more that night. When
the moon came round that way and looked

in through the half-drawn blinds and curtains,
it saw Mary Kirk pillowed on Susan's
arm fast asleep, a picture of innocence and
peace.

What else did the moon see that night ?

It saw two old men sitting late over their
sups, the one needy and ready to sell his
child for gold, the other weak, lascivious,
and ready to buy her. It saw a father sitting
over the first fire of autumn in an old-fashioned
clerical study, thinking of his son
gone to the wars without his blessing, gone
away without a kindly word at parting.
It saw a poor unhappy girl rocking to
sleep a fretful child, and thinking over
plans for leaving her home and carrying
this loved evidence of her shame with
her; for Sandy Burns, her father, was
continually upbraiding her, and virtuous
Chesterfield pointed the finger of

scorn at her whenever she went out
into the market-place or crept into the
shadows of the back streets. It saw Lawyer
Dobbs spinning his villainous web, and
Philip Scruton masquerading as some one
else, and it knew the coward under the
lion's skin just the same as before. It saw
a troop-ship tossing on the ocean with
Oliver North and Tom Bertram and Ensign
Wingfield on board, bound for Lisbon on
foreign service, and it made a long white
track for the ship which climbed the waves
like a living thing. All these and thousands
of other slaves of Passion the moon
with its attendant stars looked down upon.
Fancy might imagine it lingering pitifully
on that lovely Scotch lassie crooning sadly
over her child ; but the moon has no function
of sympathy, or we might pity it for
the' agonies it must witness. Yet it seemed
to dwell upon that ship crowded with brave

hearts going forth on their red mission ;
and there was many a wistful face looking
up at it that night and thinking of the
English homes they might never see again
and of the loved ones on whom they had
perhaps looked their last.

VOL. n.

CHAPTER VII.

CONSPIRATORS IN COUNCIL.

'' London is a safer hiding-place than the Forest, or
the secret cavern. The hunted man rushed into its
mighty crowd and was lost for ever. Truly a great
city is more solitary than the desert, and for refuge
both to the wicked and the good it hath ever shady
corners and places of retreat. Murderer, thief, highwayman,
plotter, the broken-hearted, the dishonoured,
the miser, the misanthrope, the runaway from tyranny
and debt, find ready shelter ; ay, even in the very
bustle of the crowded streets."

TF Nannie Dawson lead lived in Fleet
-*- Street during lier ninety years, instead
of vegetating in that little cottage outside
the great busy world at the back of lordship's
Street in Chesterfield, she might have

bought her tobacco and snuff at the very
same shop as David Garrick; she might have
seen Oliver Goldsmith going into Richardson's
office to read the proofs of Richardson's
novels, which he printed himself at
'No. 76 ; she might have seen Hogarth,
Dr. Johnson, Dr. Young, and Seeker, Archbishop
of Canterbury, also go in and out on
visits to the author of " Clarissa Harlowe ;"
.she might have bought from Cobbett himself
a copy of his Political Register,' even
though she were incapable of understanding
it ; she would have been sure to visit Mrs.
Salmon's waxwork in Fleet Street, and she
would probably have been a young woman
among the persons whom Walpole saw
looking through spy-glasses (halfpenny a
peep) at the new heads on Temple Bar ; for
as late as 1825 a person aged eighty-seven
remembered these very heads being seen
through a telescope from Leicester Fields.

At the period of this present history the
iron poles and spikes whereon had been
exhibited the heads and mangled limbs of
men called traitors still decorated Temple
Bar ; the remains of Salmon's waxwork
were still exhibited in apartments at the
corner of Inner Temple Gate (once a tiojal
Palace, and to-day a barber s shop) ; the
Times newspaper was printed on a hand
press ; John Murray had just brought out
the Quarterly Review , and was negotiating
with Lord Byron for the publication of a
new poem which he was writing, called
"Child Harold." Fleet Street was still a
picturesque thoroughfare, with half-timbered
houses and picturesque gables, bow-windowed
shops and wooden posts that
separated the side walk from the streets.
Out of many windows the old-fashioned
poles still projected, bearing at the end
creaking signs indicative of the businesses

carried on within. Sedan chairs were in
use ; the watermen plied their trade on the
adjacent river, rivalling in speed and cheapness
the lumbering hackney coach of the
streets. At night the dirty thoroughfares
were dimly lighted with oil-lamps, though
a dreamer had already promised to illuminate
the city with gas ; and in the summer
the spluttering oil burners were often not
lighted at all. On winter and summer
nights pedestrians and those who could
afford chairs and coaches had to employ
the assistance of link-boys who ran before
them with torches, and occasionally ran
them into a thieves' ambush, where, having
been robbed, they were glad to escape with
their lives. The times, it is true, had improved
from the days of Pope and Gray, and
the pictures by Hogarth were already beginning
to be strong exaggerations. The
period was nevertheless so rude and unsettled,

yet so picturesque, in comparative
dirt and vagabondism, that it is hard to
feel we live in the same century, and so
close to events which we now look back
upon with wonder and surprise ; though 1
myself remember the Duke of Wellington'
a familiar figure in St. James's Park; I
have seen a newly-elected Member of
Parliament chaired in a fashionable city ; I
saw one of the first railway trains that ran
on the Midland Railway ; I have spoken to
the great George Stephenson ; and only
some dozen or fifteen years ago was introduced
to his friend. Mr. Nicholas Wood. ;
I remember when the watchmen called the
hours of the night ; and so persistently are
old customs maintained in England that at
what is called the New Inn in Wych Street
you may still hear the old cries to this day.
Only recently in this very locality I met an
old man who remembered the Cato Street

Conspiracy and the execution o£ the five
prisoners ; and at the burial of the young*
prince the other day at Chislehurst there
was a veteran present who saw the funeral
of Napoleon I. at St. Helena, and who was
also present at the interment of the exhumed
remains in Paris.

The comparatively young among us
remember the first locomotive, the first
telegram, the first photograph, the first revolver,
while the first penny newspaper is
quite a recent event. And there are men
and women still living who were boys and
girls in London when Mr. Septimus Dobbs
and the Hon. Philip Scruton passed under
Temple Bar while it was still decorated
with its sanguinary poles and spikes ; and
men and women still living in Derbyshire
who were children when the Law hanged
poor Jacob Marks innocently, as London a
few years later executed Eliza Penning for

poisoning a family (none of whom died,
and she suffered most), to which crime one
of the family afterwards confessed on his
deathbed. The poor girl went to the
scaffold in the cap and dress she had made
for her wedding day, just as our Jacob
Marks had gone to his grave almost on the
eve of his marriage with Mary Kirk.

It was on the night of the first frost of
autumn, and only a week or ten days after
the troops marched out of Chesterfield,
that Mr. Septimus Dobbs had arranged to
meet Scruton at the Cock Tavern over
against Temple Bar.

The oil-lamps of Fleet Street flickered
in the biting autumn air seventy odd years
ago. The innumerable signs that swung
above the tradesmen's doors creaked and
wheezed. A few dim lights from the various
shop windows cast mysterious reflections
upon the pavement, upon pedestrians.

sedan chairs, and loiterers " after no good."
A hackney coach now and then rattled
and trembled over the ill-paved street, and
in the falling shadows of the night flashing
lights appeared here and there, the torches
of linen. The picturesque old gables
that disappeared up in the darkness, the
shadowy portals at their base, and the four
and thirty streets, lanes, courts, 'and alleys
(made the darker by the dull lamps at
their entrances) that opened in the street
intensified the mysterious aspect of the
famous thoroughfare at night.

In the Temple Gardens the leaves had
already fallen, and some ol them were
blowing about in Fleet Street while the
watchmen were calling the hour. " Past
ten o'clock and a cloudy night !"

It is not easy to-day, standing in the
white glare of the electric light on the
Embankment close by, to realise the long

muddy reaches of the river washing up to
the arches of Somerset House ; nor in the
midst of the rush of cabs and 'buses, the
flash of gas and the perfect pavement of
the street, to picture the strangely different
characteristics of the same thoroughfare
even at so modern a date as some seventy
years ago.

A tall outre figure coming from the west
passes under Temple Bar and disappears
up a dimly-lighted passage, over which
stands to this day the sign of the Cock.
If you would try to understand the singular
contrast of comfort and discomfort
which contented our fathers, you may
still find examples of the same in the narrow
seats, steel forks, cobwebby ceilings,
sanded floor, and honest homely fare and
dainty punch at the Cock Tavern of to-days
which, denuded of the protecting shadows
of Temple Bar, still hangs on to the fringes

of the past century, a sort of mouldy antique
waiting to be packed away and forgotten
except in books of history and
novels of character.

The Cock Tavern, which its owner closed
for a short time during the plague of 1665,
still exists, and I ate a chop the other day
where Pepys himself had partaken of lobster,
and afterwards drank sack or sherries,
and sang mighty merrily with his wife and
Mrs. Pierce ; where Johnson and Goldsmith
and Boswell have feasted ; and
where, on this first frosty night of the
autumn of this history, that swaggering,
odd-looking figure we have just seen enter
the portals under the golden bird carved
by Gibbons stands within the radiance of
the firelight waiting for the cunning,.
scoundrelly lawyer, who was as crooked in
his ways as the spire that wriggled itself
towards heaven as the landmark of the

once picturesque town of Chesterfield, in
the hundred of Scarsdale.

'' Is a gentleman named Mr. Simmons
here?" asked Philip Scruton, though nobody
would have recognized this gentleman
as the heir to the Ellerbie titles and
estates, whom a few days previously we
had seen marching out of Chesterfield with
the troops destined for active service in
Spain. He had shaved off his luxuriant
imperial ; his moustaches were gone ; all
the sensuality of the man's mouth was exposed,
and the hard lines of his jaw.
He wore a curious dress, half foreign half
English, and he was enveloped in a cloak
which he threw aside as he recognized in a
corner of the room his new ally, Mr.
Septimus Dobbs, who was to be known
here by an alias, while Scruton had no need
to declare himself under any name whatever.

^'I was waiting for you," said Dobbs,

at the same time making room for
Scruton to sit by his side, "and if I hadn't
heard your voice, I shouldn't have known

you."

This was said in a whisper, though.
Dobbs and Scruton were alone at the
extreme end of the room, and away from
observation in the shadows that were
deepened by the firelight and a few candles
that were burning in one or two of the
dark boxes where two or three noisy topers
were discussing the exciting topics of the
day.

Having been served with a bowl of
steaming punch, the lawyer and Mr.
Scruton resumed the confidences of their
previous meeting on the night before the
march of the three recruits.

"And how did you get to London"'
asked Dobbs.

*' By coach."

** Yes, yes; but how did you get out of
-the hands of the Kites and Plumes ?"

''By stratagem."

You are not in a good temper ; take
some more punch, sir."

"It is cold, and I lost some money at
play."

'* So soon ? Why, you could only have
reached London this morning, surely ?"

'' In time to make a new man of myself,
as you see, and try the luck of your
guineas."

"Ah, you are so extravagant!" said
Dobbs ; " but don't let a bit of bad fortune
put you out of humour. Tell me, Mr.
Scruton, how you managed to lay aside
your obligations to the king."

I settled with the sergeant on his own
terms — a few of those bright guineas ; and,
to make North and Tom Bertram believe
I was still going on, they were told that I

was transferred to another recruiting sergeant
at Derby. The think I am in the
45th instead of here. As soon as they
were well out of Mansfield I doffed my
colours, went to the nearest tavern, dined,
and waited for the coach that finally landed
me at the Saracen's Head."

*' Do you like this punch?"

It is fit for the gods."

Will you smoke?"

Mr. Dobbs pushed a pile of tobacco ina
blue saucer towards his friend.

Did Wingfield thoroughly understand
that you were drafted into another regiment
?"

'eyes, he approved of it. He was
mighty glad to have us separated. North
had shown his teeth once or twice, and
the fighting would have begun before we
got to the front if I had continued marching
with that company."

He has a proud stomach, that Mister
North ; I never could endure the fellow'*
said Dobbs.

Proud ! the cur, I'd have beaten him
with a stick as I would a varlet in the
street," said Mr. Scruton, helping himself
liberally to the punch. *' Wingfield told
me he hoped to have the two lads, this
North and that fellow Bertram, drafted
into the Eoyals as efficient without the
usual course of preliminary drill. If he
couldn't do that, they were to go to the
front, one as his servant, the other as the
captain's. They were not going to be
separated, at all events, Wingfield said,
unless a stray bullet or two parted their
company."

Oh, young Wingfield would be able to
have it his own way ; he seemed to be as
much in command as the captain himself.
Plenty of influence, sir ; do what he likes ;

father man of money and position ; Church
and Army allied in that case. Wingfield
will come home a general."

*' Unless he is left behind a dead lieutenant.
That fellow North I didn't think
was so very hot to get on. Bertram was
full of fight ; he'll get shot the very first
opportunity, I should say."

You must be killed too," said Dobbs.

*'0h, indeed; and when?"

*' In a month or two."

Yes ; in what way ?"

"Fighting gallantly in a forlorn hope,
or. something of that kind."

"Where?"

'* In Spain, of course."

Oh, I see that is one of your castles,
eh?"

"I shall not obtain a commission for
you ; you will be killed as a private soldier;
it will be easier, can be done by a

VOL. II. G

newspaper report; have it put in the
Derby Mercury; erect a tablet to your
memory, if you like, in the old chapel at
Brackenbury Towers ; leave all that to me.
You can come to life again when most
convenient. In the meantime, you are
your own master, as somebody else, to do
what you like as somebody else, whenever
you may consider the time opportune."

Dobbs, you are the devil ; sou improve
on evil designs and make the road easy for
their accomplishment."

I am an angel, you mean."

With a tail," said Scruton.

If Lord Ellerbie marries Susan Hardwick
your chance of succession is at an
end. She's no ' waster,' as they say down
there ; Brackenbury Towers won't want
heirs when she's the Countess," said the
coarse-minded conspirator, grinning.

And you think she will be ?"

"I thought she liked that fellow North."

So she does, but she'll marry your
uncle all the same."

Curse him ! whether she does or not
he's lived long enough," said Scruton,
looking fiercely at Dobbs, the liquor he
had drunk rapidly beginning to mount to
his brain.

All heirs think that of the man who
keeps them out ; but it is pardonable in
your case, for you have to live on my
bounty now, the bounty of an inferior,
and yet you are heir to vast estates, and
the present owner turns you adrift and
won't even pay your debts."

'^ Damn him !" said Scruton, hoarsely ;
and then, pausing to look steadily at Dobbs
"and what is your game, Dobbs? You
don't take this interest in me for nothing."

Revenge and money," said Dobbs,

g2

quietly. "You know I hate old Hardwick.
If T didn't owe him a deadly
grudge, he's one of the men I would hang
without a trial if I was a Judge Jeffreys
and he was my prisoner."

*' Yes, and the moneys ? — so much for
revenge, what for thy purse, old miser, eh ?""

'^ I'll explain that in the morning."

"No, now, Septimus ; let us understand
each other, or I'll grow my beard again
and go to Chesterfield."

That would be your ruin ; debtors'
gaols are not always easy to get away
from."

'you would do that, would you ?"

Not I, sir, not I," said Dobbs, quickly ;
but Lord Ellerbie would have it done ;
perhaps Hardwick would arrange it."

*'By St. Paul, I believe you ! Well, what
is our bargain, Croesus ?"

*' You will assign to me, in return for

advances, the mortgages on the Hall, old
Hardwick's place, and the mill, and certain
other properties, should you ever come
into possession."

The lawyer emphasized the last words,
and said them slowly.

'* Should 1 ever come into possession ?"
repeated Scruton, scornfully ; '' who says
should I ?"

Not so loud, ray lord," said Dobbs,
'' not so loud ; let me call you my lord —
it is like a foretaste of the good time, your
lordship. Hi ! waiter !"

Your honour," answered the waiter
from the other end of the room.

'more punch; and I want you to call a
linkman and a coach."

Yes, your honour."

What are you going to do with a
coach ?" asked Scruton.

Go to my inn."

But not yet ; now listen, Fortunatus I
listen to me, old Money Bags ; attend now
d'ye hear, Satan ?" said Scruton, with a
drunken familiarity.

"I hear, my lord," said Dobbs ; " your
humble servant hears."

Oh, you sly old fox ! Well, no matter.
It shall be done. Will you go to mass
with me in the morning ?"

Mass ! — yes, your lordship, if you wish
it, though I am a Protestant, as you know"'

"Ah! ah! ah!" roared Scruton, "you
are the devil, I believe."

Hush, hush, not so loud ; here's the
punch."

Scruton helped himself to more punch
while Dobbs paid the score.

Then Scruton with considerable difficulty
filled another pipe, but instead of
smoking it he laid it down.

The plan is worthy of a diplomatist —

the devil is a diplomatist," he said ; " but
bow shall we justify it ? When the succession
is anxious in Russia, the Czar dies
conveniently."

Russia will be the King's ally, depend
upon it, soon," said Dobbs.

Oh, you prophet ! you judge !" scornfully
exclaimed Scruton, taking the bowl
into his two hands and drinking wildly.

After a little while, when Scruton was
more helpless in his legs than in his head,
by reason of his deep potations, Dobbs
and the waiter helped him to the hackney
coach which was standing in the
shadow of Temple Bar ; and half an hour
afterwards he was fast asleep at a lodging
which the waiter had recommended ; for
Mr. Dobbs was careful not to take him to
his inn.

The Hon. Philip Scruton slept more
soundly than Mr. Septimus Dobbs, who

lay tossing about on the tall four-poster
at the Lowborn Inn that night. It was an
unusual thing for him not to fall asleep
almost as soon as his head rested on the
pillow ; but to-night he was troubled.

*' I have so many strings to my bow,"
he said to himself, *' that it is an anxious
question which I shall pull, and when.
That ribbon must fall into no hands but
mine. It may be useful, it may not; it
may be desirable that she shall accept
Lord Ellerbie ; she will hardly do so unless
she thinks North is dead. Scruton is as
fickle as water ; the announcement of the
marriage as a coming event may be necessary
to spur him on ; but the danger is
that the marriage may take place. "Well, let
me see how I stand in that case. To be
equal to either fortune, Septimus, is to
make a safe book on the great race of life."

Every phase of the trouble to come, of

which at the moment he seemed to be the
central figure, presented itself to him.

If Scruton is beaten," he muttered, ashe
gradually fell into a dreamy sleep, " I
lose on Revenge, but I win on Hardwick,
blind and aged. Scruton first at the post,
I win a fortune and trample on the Hardwick
colours. I hedge Scruton with Susan ;
and it rests with me to nobble Hardwick,
or pocket my feelings with my plunder."

Past twelve and a frosty morning !"
cried the watch. Dobbs hugged himself
with the consciousness of a double safety
and comfort as he thought of the dangers
of. the London streets and the frosty
air that was nipping and piercing the
constable.

CHAPTER VIII.

A STRANGER, YET A BROTHER.

Secret as the grave our Brotherhood,
Compact of oath and bloody vows.
Dark as night, our vengeance still
Is swift and sure as the gleam
Of God's artillery.

XT was not many days after the meeting
-^ of Dobbs and Scruton at the Cock
that a learned private discussion took place
between a stranger priest and a layman,
after an early dinner at an alehouse on the
Uxbridge road. The two gentlemen had
met during a morning ride in Hyde Park,

and had made each other's acquaintance
through some slight service of courtesy on
the part of the priest (who was a foreigner
and not dressed up to his order), which the
layman had answered by an invitation to
extend the ride. In these days there were
only a few detached houses north of the
Uxbridge road, and what is now called
Melbourne Grove and Haddington were
green fields.

The landlord, honoured by distinguished
guests and an order for the best he could
provide, put the horses into the stable,
showed the priest and layman to his best
room ; and, to their surprise, after they had
dined off a capon, produced a fine bottle of
madeira and a dish of walnuts, over which
the newly-acquainted guests chatted together
freely.

Since you converse so well in our
language, and profess so little sympathy



with your native country, you are either
acting to-day the part of a spy, or you are
the most engaging and frank of English
gentlemen," said the priest.

You speak with the courage of a
cosmopolitan and the observation of a
travelled Jesuit," said the layman, holding
his glass up to the light, that came into the
room broken by diamond panes set in a
leaden framework.

Before I acknowledge your compliment,
let me ask you how you discovered
my sacred calling, since my occupation
was peculiarly secular when I warned you
of the puddle into which you were riding
so thoughtlessly, and yet so full of thought,
it seemed to me."

Instinct and travel ; the music of your
voice, your broken English, your cropped
hair, and your smug expression of face,"
said the layman, laughing.

We bandy compliments like old
friends," answered the priest. " When
your countrymen have helped mine to
drive the French out of Spain, I hope I
may one day show my appreciation of
your wit and this excellent repast."

The layman bowed. The priest made a
sion as he put his glass to his lips. The
layman responded with another, the priest
with another, and then both looked at each
other and simultaneously extended the
right hand.

** Where did they elect you ?" asked the
priest.

In Madrid," said the layman.

*' And what have you done for the Pope ?
What for the temporal powers of the
Church ? What for the Brotherhood ?"

Little or nothing."

'' That is bad."

*' I was thinking how I might advance

our interests greatly in this country when
I met you."

*' Ah ! an interposition, a miracle perhaps.
You have a plan to advance Holy
Church ?"

"Not exactly a plan. You are a man
of the world ?"

I wear this mask of coat and pantaloons
because I am a man of the world, a
diplomatist."

Behind the mask you are a priest ?"

Yes."

And besides that you are a Jesuit and
a brother of the "

Your oath binds you not to name the
society; it is enough that we understand
each other."

'' Blood for blood, an eye for an eye,"
said the layman.

"If the cause be thereby advanced," answered
the priest.

"It is on record against me that I have
not done all I should for the cause," said
Scruton. ^' See how frank I am with you."

"With whom above all men should you
be frank, unless with a brother ?"

"Yet I knew one who used to live in
fear of meeting a brother," said Scruton.

He had disobeyed ?"

Grievously ; yet was he always trying
to atone. I saw him the day he marched
for Spain a common soldier."

"An Englishman?"

"Yes, and not without great merit and
also a man of family."

"Indeed. Say you so. You then had
met him in Madrid— eh ?"

"Yes; he fled before the Council of
Three — fled to England — came to London,
the true city of refuge."

"There is no refuge for a perjured
brother," said the priest.

Should this one return from the wars
alive, escaping the Council and the French,
he will no doubt submit himself and ask
for reinstatement, and, if he do, I shall
back his petition."

"Nay, the, I would hold that should
help him, if his insubordination be not
beyond forgiveness."

Let it be here understood that the present
writer, the mere historian of these adventures,
has no quarrel with any church or
sect, and that he has no purpose to raise
controversies or cast reflections upon his
Woman Catholic neighbours in this narrative
; though it will be seen, and he desires
to acknowledge it in this place, that he
founds this brief chapter upon Pascal' s^
Provincial Letters. He is willing to have
this phase of his romance considered pure
fiction or otherwise as the reader may
choose, always provided that the author

is acquitted of any intention to use theology
or controversy except in the mere
interest, dramatic and otherwise, of his
story of those three recruits and that
young officer of the King's who marched
out of Chesterfield market-place, leaving
behind them three girls whose fortunes
and misfortunes are to form the staple
interest of this narrative.

With this explanation we will now return
to the gentlemen who are sitting
over their wine in the alehouse overlooking
the meadows beyond Hyde Parkin
the very earliest days of this busy
century.

"Is it lawful to kill your enemy?" asks
the layman, cracking a nut.

'sin a duel?" responds the father, answering
the question by an inquiry on his
own account.

*' No, by deliberate assassination, treacle

II. H

seriously ? " continues the other, looking
up.

"Learn from Escobar," says the priest,
steadily fixing the questioner with a steady
eye. " He provides special cases by special
circumstances. For example, he who
has received a blow is reputed without
honour until he lias killed his enemy ?"

Is it right and lawful to kill beforehand
one who intends to give us a blow,
one who stabs us in our succession to
property, to rank, to honour ?"

"Some of the learned fathers of the
Church say the life of our neighbour is
more precious than our honour ; besides,
that it is cruelty to kill a man merely to
avoid a blow. But others say it is lawful
and even right when it cannot otherwise
be avoided, for without that the honour of
the innocent would be continually exposed
to the malice of the insolent."

There is a certain maD, who, being
wealthy and old, alters with the Church ;
he is of the faith, yet not ; he compromises
with the times ; he gives to Protestant
churches ; he even helps to build them ; he
maintains one priest where he might keep
a hundred ; he endows one chapel where
he might endow twenty ; he has one heir,
who waits patiently to succeed him — an
heir true to the Church, a member of that
noble band of whom you and I are
brothers. He is old, yet doth he go on
living ; aud 'tis even his intention to marry
a Protestant lady that he may have heirs
to baffle the one patient existing heir, whom
he treats vilely, committing him to debt
and poverty."

He hath one claim upon the heir, their
mutual faith."

If that heir came into the estates the
Church would inherit too ; he would transit



f er much to the society in Spain ; lie would
promote the work of temporal power herein
this God-forsaken land," continues the
layman.

But," says the priest, as if he had not
heard him, " Caravel has laid it down
that even a priest may kill a calumniator,
a Jesuit, or Jansenist, and there are those
which maintain that a son may even sacrifice
a father, even as Jacob would have
slain his son, if sufficient cause be found in
the interest of heavenly things."

The heir in question," rejoins the layman,
with a grim smile, " is not the contumacious
rich man's son, but only a
distant relation."

In either case the argument holds
good ; and, since we are only discussing
suppositious instances, the controversial
point is not affected," answers the priest

cracking a nut and smiling significantly at
his host.

There is, let us suppose, a tradition of
this suppositious family that the last of the
race shall die by his own hand or be killed
by an assassin ; and, to appease the saint
who laid it on the house, each bridegroom
when he marries doth a penance at the
tomb of the heretic lord who brought the
curse upon the family. If for Holy Church,
the reputation of the saint, the restoration
of money to the Pope, and the furtherance
of that order founded in Madrid, the heir
slew him as he knelt, and thus anticipated
the higher justice ; would that be lawful ?"

"It could assuredly be justified," says
the priest, "if it were carried out with
sufficient subtilty and skill to be accepted
as suicide by the civil law, and as saintly
vengeance by the local flock."

"Ah," says the layman, '* it is a pity that
unfortunate heir is not now alive to step
between that old enemy and his plans."

'not alive!"

"No," answers the layman, " he is dead
within this very week."

''''Dei 'plena sunt omnia'' exclaims the
priest, crossing himself.

*' Apropos of what ?" asks the layman.

He has been saved what might after-all
have been a crime."

How ?"

England is not Spain ; they might have
found him out and hanged him," says the
priest, with just a spice of malice in the
tone of his voice.

"Do you think so?" asks the layman,,
sarcastically. »

"Yes, sir," says the priest, rising, and
with a lowering expression of injured pride
on his face ; " and when you confess that

murder to the Church, let rae advise you
to be not less niggardly of your confidence
than you are of your hospitality to the
strange brother you met in your great
lonely city, and who is content not to ask
you whom you are, except his brother in
that secret bond which does not permit
him to question your motives, though it
does not disguise from him the breach of
our great rule of mutual trust and faith.
Sir and brother, I take my leave ! "We
shall meet again !"

He drew himself up and made the threefold
sign of the secret order implying his
office, its title to obedience, and the character
of the oath that binds more particularly
the lay brother.

The Hon. Philip Scruton, for he was the
layman of this strange dialogue, rose, acknowledged
the sign by its triple countersign,
and bowed profoundly, yet not without

a certain tremor of anxiety, as his
mysterious and angered guest left the
room.

Chapter IX.

FOLLOWS THE ADVENTURER OF WINGFIELD,

To me," CuthuUin replies, " pleasant is the noise of
arms ! Pleasant as the thunder of heaven before the
shower of spring ! But gather all the shining tribes,
that 1 may view the sons of war ! Let them move
along the heath bright as the sunshine before a storm ;
when the west wind collects the clouds, and the oaks
of Morven echo along the shore."

OSSIAN.

TTTITH summer days, the scene of this
^ romance of common lives and great
must shift from the busy metropolis and
the quiet streets and lanes and homesteads
of Derbyshire to the red fields of war :

from the Other to the Zadora; from
Brackenbury Towers to Murcia on the
Rajas ; from the little town in the hundred
of Scarsdale to the still more historic town
of Vitoria in Spain ; from the fortunes of
the Hardwicks, the Kirks, and the Energies
to those of Wingfield, North, and
Bertram, whose destinies are mixed up not
only with the girls they left behind them,
but with certain old men whose shadows
had fallen upon their lives and loves.

It is the night before the battle of
Vitoria, June 20, 1813. Mr. Septimus
Dobbs is at home, busy with his various
webs. Mr. Scrutoa has been duly reported
dead. His obituary has appeared
in the county newspaper. Lord EUerbie
has gone into mourning for him, and those
who are not his creditors in Chesterfield
have tried to think of all his good qualities,
the chief of which was that he could drink

as bard as anybody. Mr. Hardwick bad
spent a great deal of time at Brackenbury^
aud Lord Ellerbie occasionally visited tbo
Hall. The Kirks bad gathered in their
harvest, sold their wheat, planted more,
aud were looking forward to the next crops.
salary bad almost recovered ber good spirits,
tbougb Theophilus Short gave ber a fright
now and then. Hardwick was jealous of
Ellerbie's frequent calls at the Home Farm,
and in all kinds of ingenious ways tried to
influence Susan's views by binding that
the Ellerbie title and estates would go to
Mary Kirk if sbe did not make up ber
mind to become the Countess. No news
of Oliver North bad reached Susan except
through a letter wbicb Mrs. Wingfield, the
vicar's wife, bad received from ber son, in
wbicb a gallant but reckless act of bravery
lead been recounted in bis favour. Two
years bad passed since the young fellows

marched out of the town. Oliver North
had written to Susan, but his letters had
been carefully intercepted by her high-minded
and aristocratic father. She had
half suspected this, and had more than
once interrogated the letter-carrier ; but
Mr. Hardwick had made his arrangements
with Mr. Burns, the postmaster. This
had been all the easier now that Jessie,
the poor little postmistress, was no longer
at his elbow to keep him straight, and
give out the letters to the carrier herself.
Jessie Burns, unable to face her neighbours,
and borne down by the reproaches
of her father, had disappeared with her
child one dark autumn night, and they
had searched for her in vain.

Such was the situation when the Muse
of this particular history transports us, for
the brief space occupied by this chapter,
to Spain.

Hot work tomorrow," said a brother
officer, parting with Lieutenant Wingfield
on the night before the battle of Victoria,
in the glorious summer of 1813.

Wingfield had been promoted for gallant
conduct while leading a forlorn hope
at Albert.

I suppose so," said "Wingfield, who was
lying on the grass outside his tent, and
thinking of home ; hoping his father would
be glad when he read his wilful son's name
in the despatches that had gone to England
; wondering what had become of Jessie
Burns ; and giving way to a sentiment of
affection for her that had often strangely
moved him in spite of his many flirtations
with the beauties of Spain.

The sun was setting upon pickets and
sentries, flashing here and there on burnished
steel, upon tents and camp fires.
The hum of voices, the strains of martial

inusic, the scream of Highland bagpipes,
billed the air. The camp pulsated with expectation
of battle. As a rule, young Wing-field
would have been in the thick of any
wild rejoicing or other hot-headed business
that might be in progress. On this occasion
he was, as he confessed to himself, suffering
from " a fit of the blues." It was not
fear ; it was no sensation really connected
with the coming combat ; but a deep and
sudden feeling of regret that whatever he
might do or suffer would find no true and
hearty response in the hearts of the only
people, after all, whom he loved in the
world. If his mother had been kept in
ignorance of the way in which he had
parted from his father, she would, it is
true, watch the career of his regiment
with a proud though fearful heart; but
neither his father, nor the girl he had
wronged, would feel that broad open pride

in him which was the kind of incentive to
brave deeds that seemed to influence other
men. Emily Manners, when she knew all,
must despise him ; Jessie Burns in her
trouble might curse the hour he met her.

He shut his eyes and pictured to himself
the "Vicarage, with Phoebus, the low-voiced,
soft-footed servitor attending upon the
fine old parson. He heard the chimes of
the parish church mingling with the
drowsy sounds of Sunday mornings. He
saw himself sitting in that little back parlour
of the postmaster's house, and he
recalled the music of the Wye in Miller's
Dale. These reminiscences were full
of pleasant incidents, but the pictures
were blurred with the last ugly touches.
*ray, laddie, I'll just never cheer up
again," he heard Jessie saying; "you
ganging away to fight, and me with nae-body
to say a kind word to me." Once or

twice before these things had occurred to
him in solitary hours on the march, on
picket duty, on the battle-field, but never
to humble his pride as they did on this summer
night. It might be, he thought, that
he was a cup too low ; for at this moment
he felt that he would give the world if he
had the carpet of the magician that would
transport him, simultaneous with the
thought, wherever its owner wished. *' If
I had it," he said to himself, " I would
go straight away and apologise to Emily
Manners, and beg that fine old man, my
father, to join Jessie's hand and mine : I
could hug Sandy Burns himself at the
thought of it !"

As he made this last remark almost
aloud he rose to his feet. " Hang it,
George," he said, 'you are confoundedly
hipped ! "What's the matter, old man ?"

He went into a vine-covered cottage or

barn where most of his company were
stationed, and found many of them, officers
and men, taking parting drinks at a temporary
canteen which had been run up
near the enclosure. Tom Bertram was
there, Sergeant Bertram now, with his
left arm in a sling, " which I mean to
chuck away, lads, in the morning ; you
don't catch me going about like a lame
duck after to-night ; look at that !" He
removed the sling and stretched out his
arm, with a grimace as he spoke, turning
pale with the pain when he vainly struggled
to put it back again.

Ah, don't be a fool, Tom," said Oliver
North, coming to his aid ; " what is the
good of torturing yourself ? The Colonel
will let you go to the front fast enough, if
you will."

"Will! By Jove, Fm going, lad, if I
have to crawl there; I'm going to let those

VOL. II. I

frog-eating Franchises have it tomorrow !"

*but you cannot bring your piece to
the shoulder, sergeant," said Lieutenant
Wingfield, who had entered at the moment.


Tom Bertram saluted his officer, snatched
a musket from a pile near the doorway, and
presented arms, suffering intense agony all
the time.

*' There, sir !" he said, " is that good
enough ?"

The lieutenant patted the brave fellow
on the shoulder.

Don't let them order me to the rear,
sir," said Tom, appealingly. " I'm good
enough for half a dozen of 'em tomorrow,
if I only get my chance."

You'll have it, sergeant," said the lieutenant,
passing on. " Where is North ?"

** Inside yonder, sir ; I'll show you," said
Tom, saluting again, and striding out

across a sort of garden to a shed where a
number of soldiers were occupying themselves
in various ways by the light of a fire
and two or three pieces of candle. One
was poring over an old copy of a Madrid
Gazette, trying to see if he had learnt enough
Spanish to make head or tail of it. Two
others were gravely playing at Beggar my
Neighbour. Several non-commissioned
officers were writing letters. They had one
pen and a small bottle of ink between them,
and they were taking turns at the pen,
writing letters home, or scrawling messages
which they hoped to have forwarded
to England if they fell.

In a corner of the room, with his flint
musket and his coat lying behind him, sat
Oliver North in his shirt-sleeves, sketching
diagrams with a piece of rough charcoal on
the table made out of a door propped upon
extemporary tresses. Oliver's face was

i2

illuminated by a lamp he had contrived
with the lid of a tin box, filled with fat
and oil, in which floated a bit of woollen
from a French epaulette.

Necessity is indeed the mother of invention,"
said Wingfield.

Private North did not hear him. He
was designing curious disks that intersected
each other in a mad sort of way —
some flat, some horizontal, some looking
like small cart-wheels that had been laid
aside for want of axle-trees, some like
children's hoops spinning away over them,
some like grindstones, some like artillery
wheels, some joined together with straps,
some with flanges, some without, some
open with spokes, some like Roman
chariot wheels — a medley of circles within
circles, that looked like the mere accidental
scrawls of a person whose mind was occupied
with other things ; and yet on close

observation there appeared to be a sort of
method in the curious shapes.

"Private North! Attention!" said
Lieutenant Wingfield, sharply, but with a
smile.

North sprang to his feet and stood erect.

Stand at ease !" said Wingfield, now
laughing outright.

Oh ! it's you, is it ?" said North, rubbing
his eyes.

Are you drawing a plan of tomorrow's
fight?"

"No, sir, not tomorrow's," North answered,
looking down at his work.

Some other battle, the skirmish in
which you fought like a Briton, and yet
declare you would like to have run away
from."

No, another affair, a battle I commenced
at Chesterfield."

'' He's wandering," said Wingfield aside

to Bertram ; *' has lie had a crack on the
head?"

No, he's got one of his inventing fits
on, poor devil 1"

'* Oh, I see ! Why don't you invent a
new gun or a mortar, or something of that
kind, Oliver?"

I want to save men, not to kill them,"
said North.

That's a pretty sentiment for a soldier""
said Wingfield.

Yes; but there is one man I want to kill,
and one only, and he is those silly Frenchmen's
great Emperor ! Poor dupes, look at
them after the fighting is over, writhing,
groaning, their eyes bursting, lying pell-mell
among our own dead and dying, all their
enmity gone, a Highlander sharing his last
drop of eau de vie with a French guardsman,
a Spaniard binding up the wounds of
a fellow who an hour before had burned to

thrust him through. All ! Lieutenant, ita
pitiful bad business."

^' Treason !" exclaimed Wingfield, " flat
treason! And yet they say you drove
your bayonet clean through the cuirassier
who tried to lop Tom Bertram's arm off."

He did," said Tom ; " upon my soul he
did, and the frog-eater screamed blue
murder."

"Yes," said Oliver, thoughtfully, "but
it is unsatisfactory kind of work. If it
was not for the hope that I may get back
to England and make a spinning model I
have in my mind, I think I should have
joined a forlorn hope long ago and got my
head blown off."

I thought I was hipped and queer tonight,"
said Wingfield, '' but you have a fit
of the spleen bitter enough for a whole regiment
; so I'll go to my own quarters and
try to find more cheerful friends there. I

wanted to shake hands with you both tonight
for Auld Lang Syne ; it may be the
last time we shall meet, it is to be a battle
of giants tomorrow, in which the numbers
will run up to a hundred and thirty or forty
thousand men. Good night, lads, and God
be with you, as my dear old father the
Vicar would say."

Wingfield shook hands with the two
men and strode out of the enclosure upon
the open plain, where the shadowy hills
could just be seen in the distance and the
twinkling lights of the little town of
Vitoria, a name destined to live long in
the annals of military warfare.

*^ You are a queer, good-hearted, rum
sort of a chap, Oliver," said Tom Bertram.


*' I don't think much of myself, Tom."

'but the regiment does ; they say you'll
be decorated for that affair at Neruda ; why

they donna at least mak' a sergeant of thee
I cannot mak' out."

"If they'd let me go to the rear and
back to England," said Oliver, " that would
satisfy me."

'' What ! and leave your comrades, me
and the lieutenant !"

I should feel sorry at that."

*' Is it Miss Hard wick you want to get
back to ?"

She is one attraction : the other is a
model I want making."

"What ! the spinning contrivance?"

"Yes."

Well, ifc seems to me the rummest go
out ! I could think of nowt else but fighting
if I were paid for it, and you think of
nowt but inventing all the time Eh, but
it beats cock-fighting, a chap making pictures
of factory wheels and things night
afore a battle."

'^ I had never intended to draw another
design or make another pattern when I
enlisted, Tom ; but since that parting with
her at the last moment I've been torn by
one hope ; to fit up that old broken mill
with new machinery that will revolutionize
the trade."

Oliver pushed his hair back, and first
looked at his charcoal designs, and then at
Tom, with flashing eyes as if he were
talking of the capture of the entire French
army.

*' Well, well, lad, thou knows best. For
my part, I've only one ambition — to do my
duty to the King and keep up the owt
character of Derbyshire for being in front
when there's fighting to be done."

No other ambition ?"

/'No."'

'' Not to escape the misfortunes of the

war, go home a hero, and marry Mary
Kirk?"

'' Eh, lad, Durst not dream of that ! As
for a hero, I am going to do what I can ;
but marry Mary Kirk, there's no such luck
as that."

*^ Don't despair, Tom! You said Miss
Hardwick promised she would not forget

you!"

eyes, she did."

'* Susan will not break her word."

"Eh, but she's a bonnie lady."

She will keep her word, you'll see.
There's one thing, Tom, I envy you."

'' What's that, lad ?"

Your keepsake."

What 1 the bit of bracelet Miss Hard,
wick gave me, because it was given to herby
Mary Kirk? Eh, but it shows her
to be good-hearted, thinking of me like
that."

I don't mean I would deprive you of
it, Tom ; but I lost the ribbon my Susan
let me take away, with the other things
that were stolen when we embarked at
Portsmouth. It was hardly worth robbing
one for the trifles they looted, and to them
the least valuable of the little bundle was
a priceless treasure to me."

'* Ah ! lad, I'm very sorry for thee ; this
bit of metal's been a comfort to me. I
made owt Pearson the blacksmith rivet it
tight round my arm."

He turned up his sleeve as he spoke, and
showed the trinket clasping his arm above
the wrist.

"And she gave it to you! It will be a
charm that will see you safe through the
war, Tom, I prophesy."

Wouldn't have been much use that day
at Neruda, if thy arm hadn't been wiry as
thy eye is quick," said Tom. "I'd have

been dead as a herring; but for thee."
It's all a lottery, Tom, I fear."
Then yonder Frenchmen you peppered
drew a blank, I suppose. Well, let's hope
a good many on 'em will have same sort of
luck tomorrow."

It was but a brief respite oF rest the
troops had that night. Long before daybreak
Tom Bertram roused his comrade,
who was sleeping as soundly, with his
knapsack for a pillow, as if he had been
lying in his comfortable chamber at Chesterfield.
Oliver rubbed his eyes and
hurriedly completed his very simple toilet.
Drums were beating, bugles sounding.
There was not yet a grey streak in the
sky. It was a bright starlight summer

morning.

Unease the colours, gentlemen !" Oliver
heard Lieutenant Wingfield say, as he fell
in under the eye of his sergeant, Bertram

•wTio had flung aside his sling. " Examine
your flints !"

Oliver pulled himself together, looked to
his musket, and presently moved off with
the regiment, marching in companies, to
take up ground for the first operation of
the coming day.

Morning broke in mist and rain, through
which the allied armies moved from their
encampment near the Bays, like ghostly
battalions. Oliver had once seen something
like this, one night while on piquet
duty as a sentinel, when he had given the
alarm only to discover that the supposed
advancing hosts were trees and shrubs.
But this ghostly-looking army of the 21st
of June went forward with crash of drums
and blare of trumpets, with bands playing
martial airs ; and, when the mist began to
lift, the stirring picture gradually developed.
At last the atmosphere cleared, as

if a curtain had been raised, and out
blazed the summer sun — the same sun that
was flashing in the windows of the Home
Farm, upon the lake at Brackenbury, upon
Nannie's cottage, upon the tiled roofs of
the little Derbyshire town where the smoke
was going up in tall blue columns to the
blue sky. Many a mother was to become
a widow, many a parent made childless,
before that same sun sank at night bloodred
on the field of Victoria.

When the bayonets of the moving hosts
and the grey trappings of their chiefs
flashed back the bright beams of the sun,
the hills of Puebla showed puffs of smoke,
and a rattle of musketry told that the
fight had begun. It was a glorious sight
to see the troops advancing over the plain
below towards the enemy. Silken standards
of every hue waved above the lines
of British scarlet, the blue coats of the

Portuguese, and the brown of the Spanish ^
which seemed to act as a foil to the other
colours — seventy thousand armed men on
foot and on horse, passing along as if in
review order, so steady were the lines, so
elastic the tread of the infantry, so stately
the advance of the mounted men and
artillery. The plain

With arms is covered o'er,
The vale an iron harvest seems to yield,
Of thick-sprung lances in a waving field.
The polished steel gleams terribly from afar,
And every moment nearer shows the war,"

On the heights beyond the French
watched the splendid show, themselves
completing the picture, their line of blue
and green and flashing brass and steel
filling in the distance with colours that
might have been a mocking miasma of
those on the plain. Around Vitoria civilians,
townspeople, camp-followers, a picturesque

mob had collected, spectators of
the bloody fight.

Presently all eyes were turned in the
direction of the hills about La Peubla,
where those warning puffs of smoke had
first been seen. A body of Highlanders
were ordered up to support the Spanish,
who had opened the hot day's work by an
attack on the French position. Left and
riofht the Battle of Yitoria had commenced.


Oliver North did not see this panorama
of glory. He tramped on with his regiment
amidst the cries of neighing steeds ;
the inspiriting strains of " Rule Britannia ;"
the whistling of the fifes that told them
they should return

Safe back again
To the girls they left behind them ;"

the drone of bagpipes that screamed an

VOL. II. K

equally flattering tale to the kilted Highlanders;
the clatter of accoutrements, the
shouts of command, the lumbering of
artillery, the calls of bugles and of drums.

Oliver, my lad, we shall be in the thick
of it in a minute," said Tom Bertram, ashe
passed his friend in a wheeling movement,
" look to thyself, and God be with
thee."

Halt !" rang clear and shrill along the
line the next moment, followed by the
order, '* With ball-cartridge prime and
load!"

Now, lads," said the commander
"steady! It is not Spain alone we are
fighting for, but our hearths and homes.
Think that these French murderers are at
your own doors, and fire low."

The officer reined up his steed as if he
was directing a royal salute, though the

action was becoming general, other regiments
having already moved off at double
quick, and received the v^ord to charge.

"Present — Fire !" he exclaimed, and a
flash of flame blazed out along the whole
line, the front ranks kneeling to load while
those behind kept up the hail of bullets
that tore into the enemy.

And this was all Oliver remembered of
the action ; for it seemed to him that after
that there was neither system nor design
in anything that was done, though the
awful game was being played by the great
Lord Wellington and the French General
as carefully as if the men were ivory pieces
and Yitoria a chess-board. Blinded with
smoke and dirt, Oliver found himself
hurried into the desperate conflict with the
enemy, now surging this way, now that,
now going forward, now back, over the

k2

dead and the dying, a mad wild rage in his
heart, his teeth set, his bayonet and musket
reeking with blood.

'* Oliver ! The colours, lad, the colours!"
shouted Tom Bertram.

North only heard his own name, but
he saw Bertram down, and a French
soldier defending a standard, around which
the whole battle-field seemed to be surging,
though it was but one incident of the conflict.
Over leaped forward in time to
drive his bayonet through the devoted
Frenchman, but not before Tom Bertram
had rolled over, biting the dust, from a blow
of the trooper's sword. North seized the
colours, and, catching the Frenchman's
weapon as he fell, dropped his musket, and
the next moment was carried away from
the spot by a desperate charge of the
enemy. It was but for a moment that the
British staggered under the weight that

came thundering against them. " At 'em,
lads, like hell !" shouted young Wingfield,
flying forward bareheaded, the blood trickling
from his forehead, and a hoarse shout
of triumph and admiration rising above the
din as North, defending the captured
colours, cut down at one blow a hardy
officer who, with a cry of Vive Empereur !
had made a dash for the eagle.

The raw soldier who deprecated war,
and spent the night before the battle
thinking over the invention of a new system
of spinning, lived a charmed life in
the awful conflict of the day, and was conspicuous
in the eyes of more than one
officer for his successful daring.

It was soon after the charge in which
Oliver saw Wingfield for a moment leading
his company (having succeeded to its
command by the fall of his superior officer)
that the fight seemed to slacken for a moment

as if to give the troops time to cheer ;
for the enemy was falling back all along
the line, followed, after that long, loud,
ringing cheer, pell-mell with the bayonet ;
but many a time did the victorious regiments
reel under the charge of cavalry ;
and it was in one of these gallant efforts
of gallant troops to retrieve disaster or
make retreat safe that Oliver was carried
insensible to the rear, whither the captured
standard had preceded him.

As the sun went down on a victory
which it was said no battle since John
Sobieski drove the Mahometan host from
before the walls of Vienna had equalled,
Oliver North found himself recovering
from a kind of wild dream, lying upon the
floor of a house, among many others who
were groaning under the hands of a doctor,
as the surgeon passed from one to
the other examining their wounds.

'* You won't hurt," said the leech,
feeling Oliver North's head, which ached
keenly ; " give him some brandy."

An assistant handed Oliver a metal cup,
from which he drank, and then sank back
again, weak with pain and loss of blood,
sickened at the sight which met his gaze.
Realizing that his day's work had been no
dream, he began to ponder over the fate
of Wingfield and Bertram. Both must
have fallen, he thought. Tom could hardly
have risen again after the blow of the
French standard-bearer, or, if he had, it
could only be to meet death under the
advancing feet of men and horses rushing
back to the charge. Oliver was harder hit
than the surgeon in his rapid rounds imagined.
Later in the night, while the
cavalry of the victorious allies were pursuing
the enemy amidst blood and dust,
along ground strewn with dead and dying.

encumbered with horses and weapons,
blocked with abandoned guns, he was
raving of home and boyish days.

When the news reached Chesterfield,
the chronicles reported that Oliver North
was killed while gallantly capturing a
French eagle ; that Tom Bertram, seriously
wounded, was recommended for promotion
from the ranks ; and that Lieutenant
George Wingfield's conspicuous bravery
had been specially mentioned in the 
despatches.

A few months later, it was reported that
North had been wounded, but not killed.
Susan had made inquiries, and elicited this
from the authorities. Still later, however,
they had no record either of his removal
from hospital or his death. The name of
Tom Bertram, however, turned up again
in the chronicles of the wounded and missing.
Minus an eye, he was being nursed

by Sisters of Mercy, one of whom had
written a letter for him to Farmer Kirk,
in which he stated that Oliver North was
killed. This bitter news had been endorsed
in due course by the arrival of a
packet addressed to Miss Hardwick from
a " pore " returned " solder," who said he
had received it from a Spanish nun,
who desired him to send it to her
address, and gave him money to pay the
postage from Dover, where he had just
arrived. The packet contained the ribbon
Oliver took from her dress on the day of
his departure. " I was to rite he sent It
with His Dying love."

DISCHARGED BY FATE.

Fate steals along with silent tread,
Found oftener in what least we dread ;
Frowns in the storm with angry brow,
But in the sunshine strikes the blow.

COWPER.

CHAPTER I.

When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat ;
Yet fool'd with hope, men favour the deceit ;
Trust on, and think tomorrow will repay :
To-morrow's falser than the former day ;
Lies worse ; and while it says we shall be blest
"With some new joys, cuts off what we possess'd.
Strange cozenage ! None would live past years again ;
Yet all hope pleasure in what yet remain ;
And from the dregs of life think to receive
What the first sprightly running could not give.

Dryden.

A SUNNY spring morning. The old
-^-^ market-place of Chesterfield looks
as bright as a new guinea. Here and

there flags flutter in the breeze. Groups
of idlers and gossips give unwonted life to
the ends of streets and the openings of
courts and passages.

In the Angel Yard, under an awning,
tables are spread for all comers. Unlimited
beef and beer gladden the general
heart. In the centre of the market-place
an ox is being roasted, and at night there
is to be a grand display of fireworks.

Chesterfield, Grassmoor, and Bracken-bury
are this day to celebrate a wedding.

The rejoicing after Waterloo, and the
peace festivities that followed them, are to
be outdone on this occasion of local gaiety.

It is five years since the three recruits
marched out of this same market-place,
and three years since two of them and
their commissioned comrade, George Wing-field,
discussed love and war on the fatal
eve of Vitoria.

The judicious landlord of the Angel is
dispensing morning drams to early guests
in the old-fashioned bar, assisted by Susan
Jane, the pretty serving-maid, who has a
pleasant word, and a witty one, too, for one
and all. The windows and doors are wide
open, for the weather is unusually warm,
and the proverb, " Happy is the bride that
the sun shines on," never had a finer chance
of being completely tested.

''Do I think a wedding is a thing ta
thank Heaven for ?" asks Susan Jane (it
always has been the custom to recognize
all the Christian names in the North) ^
repeating the question of Dick Holmes, a
local grocer ; " that depends."

What's it depend on ?"

"Many things," says Jane, depositing
his tankard of old ale upon the shining
mahogany table.

'you can't all of you be countesses,
'cos we aren't all earls."

*' And we can't all have oxen roasted,"
chimes in another early toper, a young
tradesman who had just inherited his
father s business, " and ride to church in a
carriage and four."

"You haven't much opinion of yourselves
if you think lasses only wed you
because of your bit of money," says Susan
Jane, jingling the glasses and pewter cups,
on the shelf above the bar, while the landlord
sits smiling complacently in his armchair
near the till.

"Nay, we are but nine-pins among you,"
says Dick Holmes ; " you bowl us down
just as you like. Fancy owt skin-flint
Hard wick's daughter nabbing a title and
ten thousand a year ! They tell me Lord
Ellerbie has settled that amount on her
during her lifetime, and when he's gone

she'll come into everything unless there's
children, and then the eldest lad, of course,
will get the estates."

'well," says the pretty serving-maid,
tossing her coquettish head-dress, " I
wouldn't have Lord Ellerbie if he were a
prince and his hair was hung with diamonds."


'' His wig, Susan Jane, his wig," interposed
the young tradesman, amid a roar
of laughter.

Well, then, his wig ! " says the
girl.

'await till you're asked, Susan Jane,"
says the landlord. "Lord Ellerbie, my
child, is a very fine old man."

If you mean his clothes are fine, I daresay
; but, oh lord, did anybody ever see such
shanks as he's gotten, and he totters like
trembling grass in the fields; eh, but he
gie's me the withers to think on him."

VOL. II. L

"Envy, envy, Susan Jane," says the
landlord.

Nay, master, I none envy Miss Hardwick,
and, if truth was known, she'd be
glad enough to run away from the lot on
'em. She's none so proud of this day's
doings, I'll be bound."

"Why not, Susan Jane?" asks Dick
Holmes.

She's sold herself for her father's sake,"
answers the girl.

You mustn't say that, my child," observes
the host. "Hush! What's that?
Why, here's the London coach coming in.
Heavens, how early it is ! A good fifteen
minutes, I'll swear, before its time."

There is the usual bustle of changing
horses ; but the passengers are few and the
luggage scanty; two reasons why the
coach has come in before its time. One
passenger is a gaunt, travel-stained man,

with a light beard and moustache and long
straggling brown hair. He has a military
gait and manner, and carries a knapsack,
with straps and accessories that indicate a
habit of journeying on foot. He walks
straight into the bar, flings his luggage
down by the door, and sits upon the settle
or bench in the snug ingle-nook. There
is a fire burning in spite of the warm
sunshine, and the stranger rubs his hands
before it.

Yet we don't think it cold," says the
landlord, looking at him.

"No, no, I've been ill, and the air was
keen sitting on the top of the coach,"
says the traveller.

Will you take something to warm
you ?" asks Susan Jane.

'' Thank you, I will."

Some hot ale with ginger in it?"

** No ; I have promised myself ever so

l2

long ago that when I arrived here I would
have a bottle of madeira. The Angel,
the J tell me, is celebrated for its madeira."^

Yes, truly," answers the landlord, with
avidity, seeing in the stranger a better
customer than he had at first expected.
I will get the wine for you myself."

Five years of comfort and indolence had
told on the landlord since we saw him last.
He is fat, and short of breath, and he puffs
and blows as he returns with the wine,
which he opens ceremoniously.

*^ Two glasses, please," says the stranger ;
allow me."

He pours out one for himself, and one
for the host.

Your health, sir, and welcome to the
Angel !" says the landlord.

'■'' And yours," says the stranger. " Won't
you 'sit?"

'* Thank you," says the host.

Holmes and the other regard the
stranger, curiously. Since Waterloo and
the peace they have been in the habit of
seeing odd people going to and fro. This
new-comer makes a strange interesting
appearance.

*' Capital wine," he says, smacking his
lips and stretching his legs.

*' Yes, I flatter myself it is," replies the
host. " Let me recommend a biscuit
and a bit of old cheese. Susan Jane, the
cheese."

The maid moves a small table towards
the old " settle," as they called the seat in
the ingle-nook, and the landlord asks permission
for Holmes and the tradesman to
join them."

*' Very old ?" asks the stranger, referring
to the wine.

So much so that I was advised to re-bottle
it five years ago ; the corks were

going. I put it into fresh bottles the very
year them three recruits marched off for
the Peninsula."

The latter remark is addressed to
Holmes and the tradesman.

Who were they ?" asks the stranger.

Well, sir," answers the landlord, '* they
were a rum lot altogether — though, mind
you, brave young chaps as Derbyshire ever
turned out food for powder."

'eyes?"

'' Well, one was heir to a title and no
end of money, the Hon. Philip Scruton."

*' Indeed ! And was he a private soldier,
then?"

'exactly; just a common recruit. I
saw him march with the colours in his hat,
a regular brick !"

Did he distinguish himself?"

He did so ! And he extinguished

himself at the same time — at least, them
French devils did it for him," says the
host, sipping his wine, while his two
friends insist upon '' sticking to" their old
ale.

"Killed ?" inquires the stranger.

*' Dead as mutton; got peppered almost
in his first engagement — a bit of a skirmish,
an affair of outposts, as they say."

'poor fellow!"

"Well, I don't know as anybody
grieved after him, except his creditors ;
they hoped he'd pay them when he came
into his money."

Ay !" says Dick Holmes, '' Lord Elders
ought to pay them."

"Perhaps he did," answers the host,
*' but it can't be denied as he cautioned
every tradesman in Chesterfield not to trust
him. A dead man pays all debts. He

owed me a score, but I wiped it out. I
don't hold with making rows, and when a
man's fought for his country, he's made
amends for a good many drawbacks."

*' That's true," says the stranger.

But he was a scamp, that Scruton, I've
always heard," says Holmes — '*a sort of
mongrel, half Spanish, half French, and
only quarter English. I know my father
used to say he was a spy, a Jacobin, and
the devil knows what."

^' Well, well," says the host, ^' he's gone,
and it's not for us to be harsh on him.
He's gotten a flourishing epitaph and a
tablet in the old church, and another in the
Ellerbie chapel at Brackenbury, and there
let him rest."

'' Who were the other two ?" asks the
stranger,

'' The other recruits ? Why, one was
Tom Bertram, a fine young fellow, as used

to come here and have his glass and go
into the French like a Briton, lean tell you."

** How did he get on?"

Went right through the entire concern
— Yitoria, Toulouse, Quatre Bras,
"Waterloo : he's been in Paris getting on
for two years, but we shall have him home
again soon Sergeant-major Bertram ; and
they say he picked up a nice penny at
Yitoria, looted out of the Frenchman's
army chest, though he were left for dead
on the field."

And the other ?"

"Mr. Oliver North, a sort of superior
mechanic and inventor ; a clever chap with
his head and his hands, a gentleman in
his way, and no more cut out for a soldier
than I am."

Was he so fat?" asks Dick Holmes.

**No, the opposite; he was spare, as you
may say, not accustomed to sports of any

kind — never played bowls, never flung a
quoit or a hammer, or rode a horse in his
life, I'll be bound."

'odd he should enlist?"

** Well, sir, he was an odd sort of a fellow,
but, mind you, we ought never to judge
by appearances. He fought like the very
devil. He was wounded ; he was missing;
he captured a standard. They put him inlist
of killed ; he came to life again. There
never was such a hare-brained, reckless,
fighting fellow. When it had been all settled
as he were dead, they found him, it
appears, being nursed in Spain by two
Sisters of Mercy as does that kind of thing
out there ; and then, just as he's ordered
home, comes the news of Napoleon's escape
from Elba, and the young chap is hurried
into the thick of it again, to be killed in the
Pyrenees."

"Killed, was he?"

*' First report was 'missing,' second
dead ;' and only t'other day there was an
old soldier here as see him die."

"And how did he die?" asks the-stranger.


Oh ! like a soldier and a gentleman"'
replies the host.

*' That's a comfort, anyhow," says the-stranger
to himself.

At this moment, shambling into the bar,
came Mr. Septimus Dobbs, whose entrance
was somewhat undignified, for he stumbled
over the stranger's knapsack, and fell into
the room, literally upon his nose.

A shout of laughter greeted this unwonted
performance.

Mr. Dobbs rose, took out his handkerchief,
wiped his face, and brushed his
clothes.

*' Laugh, my friends," he said, in his-harsh,
grating voice; "laugh away: but

somebody shall grin on the other side of
his face for this."

He took up the knapsack.

Whose is this? Whose offensive travelling
bag is this? I don't want you to
criminate yourselves all at once, but who
owns this knapsack ?"

We don't know, Mr. Dobbs," said the
landlord.

''A cautious answer, quite worthy of
mine host of the Angel," rejoined Dobbs,
examining the luggage.

That is mine, sir," said the stranger,
half reclining upon the seat by the fire,
and yawning. 'ras you have picked it
up, put it under my head. I'm going
to have forty winks before I change my
linen."

*' You're mighty cool," said Dobbs.

Not now ; I'm quite warm and comfortable.
Give me the pillow."

The host took the knapsack from Dobbs
and placed it on the seat.

Your name, sir ! You have injured
my pantaloons, barked my shin, hurt my
nose, and most likely given me a black
eye : either you or mine host must pay for
your criminal carelessness. D'ye hear,
sir ?"

"Yes, Beelzebub."

'' Why, he knows him !" exclaimed Dick
Holmes, laughing.

''I haven't criminated myself, I hope?"
said the stranger, slowly, and as if half
asleep.

Yes, you have ; and you don't tread
on my corns for nothing," Dobbs answered,
"I'll have your name and address, sir, depend
upon it."

*' You'll have my boot, if you interfere
any further with my forty winks," the
stranger replied. '' I'll kick you from hereto

the chapel at Brampton, where you insult
your Maker, and where you frighten
weak women with your ugly mug and
jour profane interpretations of the Testament."


"Mr. Dobbs, he does know you," remarked
the host, smiling, while the guests
burst into a fit of laughter.

*' Very well," said Dobbs ; " good morning
; we'll see about this."

'rare you going? Don't go, sir," said
the host.

Good day ; you shall hear from me
again."

As he stalked out of the bar to take his
liquor elsewhere, the stranger said,

Really, Mr. Landlord, I'm tired out ; I
shall stay here to-night. I'm going to
have a nap first !"

The bell ringers of the old parish church
began to raise the bells, trying one after

the other in preparation for a peal, which
was the signal for the men in the bar
and the inn yard to clear out into the
market-place, for they knew the marriage
ceremony was over and the wedding procession
would soon be coming away, en
route for the Catholic chapel at Bracken -
bury Towers, where the marriage ceremony
of Lord Ellerbie's own church would
be performed, following that of the Protestant
rites under the crooked steeple of
Chesterfield.

Yes, sir, by all means," said the host ;
you shall not be disturbed."

The stranger closed his eyes, and the
landlord shut down the window.

*' I never forgot a face yet," said the
landlord to himself, as he looked hard and
closely at his new guest, *' and I seem to
know this one."

The stranger opened his eyes in a dreamy

kind of way, closed them again, and presently
was fast asleep.

** He is tired," said the landlord, walking
softly to his own chair. "He's walked a long
way as well as ridden, to judge by his boots ;
he knows Dobbs well, that's certain ; it's a
curious world. Ah ! there go the bells."

Out clashed the metal tongues, one after
the other, beating the sunny air with their
merry blows, starting musical waves upon
the wind. Flags and banners seemed to
have a new decorative motive. They fluttered
from flag-poles, they rippled from
chamber windows. Crowds of people
swayed to and fro in the churchyard,
trampling on the dead, using points of
vantage on tombs and gravestones, and
blocking up every pathway. In St. Mary's
Gate horses were prancing, postilions decorated
with wedding favours were cracking
their whips.

WEDDED, NOT MATED. 161

Susan Hardwick had met her father
"with a calm face that morning when he
came to conduct her to the carriage, and
as they had driven to church he had
thanked her again and again for being so
dutiful and good.

Mary Kirk had bantered her on the
realization of her own prophecy three
years before, when they had visited
Brackenbury Towers together.

"Your ladyship," Mary had called her,
as she kissed her and admired her lovely
satin dress, when the marriage toilette
was completed, " you look like an angel,
only lovelier."

"Ah ! Mary, if you could read my heart !"

I can, my dearest friend, I can !"

What do you read ?"

"Oh! I don't know — kindness and
goodness, and the intention not to let it
make any difference to me or anybody

VOL. II. M

when you are a Countess, except that you
will be kinder still if possible."

'* Ah ! Mary," she sighed.

Well, dear, what is it ?"

Nothing, nothing."

Cheer up, your ladyship, cheer up."

Don't say that, Mary ; that is what my
father says ; he means it — you only say it
in fun to rally me and to cheer me, to
make me forget my husband that is to be
in my title that will be."

Nay, Susan, believe me, I think Lord
Ellerbie most kind, and you are envied by
all the ladies in the county, hated by half
the mothers."

He is kind — yes, he is kind," she said,
and then, bursting into tears, she exclaimed,
looking upwards, " Oh, mother !
look down upon me and bless me : for I
am to-day sacrificing myself to your dying
command and to my father's need."

*' Susan, don't go on like that !" Mary
land exclaimed, in terror. " People will
see you've been crying, and that will make
the envious glad."

I am better now," she said.

I should hope so ! Lord bless me ! To
think of a girl crying when tomorrow
she'll have a fortune, a family set of diamonds,
a coach that was made in Paris, a
maid, a ' boodor,' and be entitled to go to
Court and have people bobbing before her
and saying, ' Yes, your ladyship ; Yes,
countess ; By your leave, my lady.' "

The rural damsel curtsied and smiled,
and bent her pretty head, catching glimpses
of herself all the time in a mirror, until
Susan herself was fain to smile and kiss
her.

"That's better," said Mary; "now we
.shall get along."

Steer was bridesmaid more efficient

M 2

than Mary Kirk; never did admiring crowds
of wedding guests gaze on brighter eyes or
upon a more bewitching figure. She shared
"with Susan the glory of the day in so far
as attractiveness and interest were concerned.


There were six bridesmaids. Mary was
the prettiest of them all. It would have
driven Tom Bertram mad with admiration
of her could he have seen her as she was
now, a woman, all the budding youthful
charms he remembered, in full bloom.
Her soft violet eyes, her parted lips, her
ample bust, her fair yet rosy coraplexioUy
her rich sunny-brown hair ; Mary Kirk
was a type of perfect English beauty.
She, as did her five companions, wore a
walking-dress of thick white muslin made
low in front, with a soft crape or sarcenet
tucker, the sleeves short and looped up on
the top of the arm ; a light blue sarcenet

cloak, ornamented with deep white lace ;
Tvhite satin shoes, and a white chip hat
trimmed with lilies and forget-me-nots.

The bride wore a robe and train of white
satin, embroidered all round with a Running
border of gimp, in which here and
there were deftly set pearls and diamonds,
the body of the robe made low, and a lace
tucker drawn over the bosom. From a
wreath of orange-blossoms there fell over
Susan's delicate figure an ample veil of
costly lace, and you could not fail to notice
how shapely her feet and ankles were
despite her pointed satin shoes. No woman
had a more graceful carriage than
Susan. She looked every inch a countess
as she stood by the altar in the old
church, with its tall pews, its coloured
glass, and its great flashing chandeliers.
It was a gay procession as it came streaming
out of the church to the pealing of the

organ and the ringing of the bells. Old
Ellerbie, in his satin coat and silk stockings,
his jewelled shoes and his orders,
looked proud of his bride, who leaned upon
his arm —-nymph and satyr. Mr. William
Hardwick posed and strutted in his plum-coloured
velvet and gold lace ; and whenever
the crowd cheered he took all the
honour to himself, and bowed with condescending
affability.

The old fox I" exclaimed Grannie Dawson,
standing on a gravestone and looking
at the show through her spectacles, "he's
got his innings at last."

How the bells clashed ! They seemed
to shake the stupid old steeple. It looked
as tottery as Lord Ellerbie and as crooked
as his father-in-law.

Presently the first carriage got away
then the second, and the third, and so on

until St. Mary's Gate echoed with the
clatter of the horses' hoofs.

"As if once wasn't enough to tie such an
ugly knot," said Nannie Dawson. '^ Eh,
but they've got her fast enough ; she's a
proud un, too; and old Ellerbie's fond
enough now, and will be for a week ; but
he breaks all their hearts, 'cos there's no
children, the old fool! Well, I told her
as I should see her married to him, and I
have."

You would have thought the bells had
gone mad if you have heard them ring —
mad with a wild joy. If poor Tom Bertram,
who loved Mary Kirk with a first
devoted passion, had just been married to
that dear girl, the bells could not have
been more jubilant. The reason for this
extra vigour on the part of the human
machines that pulled the ropes was not

sentimental. It lay in the prosaic fact
that they usually rang the bells on beer.
To-day they had been supplied with rum
punch, blazing hot. They were so many
Quasimodos at work in consequence, and
they shouted and screamed with laughter
as they pulled the ropes.

What a ringing it was ! Peal upon
peal, " triple bob majors," and all kinds of
tintinnabulary commotion was going on
up in that strange belfry, shaking that
strange steeple, with its defiant figure of
chanticleer away up in the sky as if it
crowed defiance to the sun.

Susan Jane had returned to her duties
in the Angel bar by this time, and the host
had gone out to superintend the roasting
of the ox, the fire for which was sending
up a long column of smoke like an aerial
wreath.

The stranger in the ingle-nook opened

WEDDED, NOT MATED. 169

his eyes, stretched his legs, and rose to his
feet.

Ah !" he said, " joy bells. What's the
occasion? My return? No, that's too
vain a thought. ]^o one can have dreamt
of it yet, since, according to the report
they give me, I was killed nearly three
years ago."

Would you like to see your room, sir ?"
asked the maid.

^* What's the merry-making, pretty one ?"
he asked.

*^ A wedding, sir," she said.

''I give them joy," he answered;
*the bells shall soon ring for another
wedding."

'^ Yours, sir?" she said, looking archly
up into his face.

"Yes, mine," he said, chucking her
under the chin.

"I wish you joy, sir," said the girl.

The stranger was Oliver North. He
smiled at the little waiting-maid, and as
she called the boots to carry his luggage
to No. 14, he looked into the fire thoughtfully,
listening to the bells and discounting
his dearest hopes.

CHAPTER 11.

MAY AND DECEMBER.

Oh, no, we never mention him, his name is never

heard ;
My lips are now forbid to speak that once familiar

word ;
From sport to sport they hurry me, to banish my

regret ;

And when they vnn a smile from me, they think that

I forget."

Thomas Haynes Bailey.

Spring seemed to smile upon that
^ wedding procession. But it brought
no joy to the fair young bride. She sat
with her hand in her husband's as their
coach trundled over the road to Bracken-bury
Towers.

Here and there along the route flags
were still flying, though they had left the
town far behind them. The country was
green and beautiful. The alder trees in
the hedges were putting forth pendulous
welcomes to the spring. It was but the
end of March, and yet the trees were bursting
into bronzed buds of leafy promise.
The stormy month was going out like the
lamb. It was a day on which nature
seemed to whisper hope.

As the carriages wound along the road,
looking in the distance like a party-coloured
ribbon flashing among the budding
hedgerows, ploughmen paused to gaze, and
flocks of rooks, earning their living in the
newly-turned furrows, set up noisy cries.
The lark was singing aloft at the very gates
of heaven. A blue sky covered the busy
landscape.

Lady Ellerbie sat with her hand in her

husband's. The sky might have been dull
as lead, the fair Derbyshire hills and dales
a wilderness, for aught she cared. Indeed,
she would have preferred gloom and
storm; for the sunshine only seemed a
reproach to her, the voices of birds mocking
voices, the hopeful lesson of the new
buds a rebuke. She had promised to love,
honour, and obey a man whom she did not
even respect. Her hand had not given
away her heart in that solemn surrendering
of herself to a master. The veriest
slave in a Tambour market of old was not
more a purchase than she was. Lord
Ellerbie had bought her ; bought her and
paid for her.

"You must try to like me very much,"
said the Earl, as the carriage went slowly
up hill. " Yes, yes, I shall do all I can to
make you happy''

"Thank you, sir," she answered, her

band, though he pressed it, lying cold and
immovable in his.

"Not 'sir,' my dear, not ^sir,'" he said.

** I beg your pardon, what then ?"

'^ Eichard— call me Eichard."

Always ?"

Yes, certainly ; why not ? — I shall call
you Susan."

*' You are very good, I like to be called
Susan."

Very well. Gad's life ! you need only
tell me what you like to be sure I shall not
forget it ; your wish shall be a command,
only take the trouble to express it."

Thank you."

He raised her hand to his lips. She let
him. She did not move a finger. She
spoke in a calm, monotonous tone.

'you must try to forget that I am ever
so much older than you, won't you — eh ?
You will, eh?"

'' Yes ; I will try."

That's well said ; and if you try, you
will succeed. I am sure you will, I have
such a surprise for you.'

*eyes?"

'* You know the cage in the little
menagerie at Brackenbury, the one you
said ought to be filled with parrots ?"

The cage near the wolf ?"

*eyes. Ah! you do remember it, then?
That's good of you. Well, there are a
score of parrots in it, if there is one."

*' Indeed ?"

And the day your father brought you
to see the grounds, you thought the Dutch
flower-beds and the maze would make a
winter-garden ?"

"Did I?"

"Tes, and it is a winter-garden; and
the little room where the Queen of Scots
used to do embroidery has been furnished ;

your father said you had expressed an
opinion that it should be."

'did he?"

Yes, when you were talking about the
Towers at home. Well, it is the delight-fullest
room now. Yes, yes, I feel sure you
will say so."

"Oh, Lord Ellerbie," said Susan, suddenly,
'* don't think me ungrateful; you
are very kind."

My dearest, I love you," said the old
man, his voice trembling. "I love you as
I never loved before."

Susan shrank from him.

*' I am an old man, they say. Don t
believe it. My heart is young, and, bless
me ! the proverb that says it is better to
be an old man's darling than a young man's
slave is full of wisdom."

Lady Ellerbie resumed her former calm,
firm manner.

How long a time will this second
ceremony occupy ?"

"An hour, not more. Father Busby is
the priest, a kindly, good man. Yes, I hope
you will be great friends with him ; he is
learned in many things."

"And then we return to the Hall ?"

To breakfast, yes ; I hope they will
cut their speeches short. You will go back
in your father's company. Does that please
you?"

"No."

Gad's life ! that's well said. He would
have had you wait ; but Dobbs, my steward,
will accompany me. That will give you
an opportunity to rest yourself a little
after the morning's excitement, and have a
talk with pretty Mary Kirk, eh ? that
pleases you ?"

"Yes."

VOL. II. N

I knew it would, that is why T arranged
it so."

It was kind of you."

"Nay, I will not take too much credit
for it. You know the ancient custom of
our house ? No. Ah ! it will interest you
anon to read about the grand old men and
women of the past, the great ladies whom
you succeed as Countess of EUerbie, and
all of whom you outshine."

Would I were worthy the succession."

Worthy ! There has never been so
lovely a Countess of EUerbie as you,
Susan."

"It was an ancient custom you spoke
of?"

*' Yes, a religious exercise, a tribute to
the past. An EUerbie bridegroom goes
straight from the altar to meditate and
pray at the tomb of an ancestor — a sort of
penance. But your father told you of it?"

Yes, I had forgotten it. And so the
moment we are really man and wife you
leave me ?"

Though she was glad of it, she could not
resist the opportunity to be sarcastic,
which surely boded ill for the poor old
man's future peace.

'' Are you sorry? Say you are sorry!"
said the Earl, quickly, and patting her
gloved and motionless hand.

"Will you be long?"

"An hour, not more — time for you to
reach home and talk to Mary Kirk and
dress for breakfast."

"I do not dress for breakfast."

'' I have a great mind, gad's life I have,
not to leave you, but Father Busby would
have a fit, I believe, if I neglected one iota
of the ancient custom."

"Nay, my lord, I would not have you
do so."

n2

Not ' my lord ' — Richard, my dearest
Eichard."

Eichard," she said.

"Ah! it is like uncorkiug a bottle of
red-seal madeira, the sound of Eichard in
your sweet mouth."

*' The simile is not flattering."

*' Gad's life ! your father says that wine
is distilled gold."

*' Then it must be good indeed. I withdraw
my objection to the simile."

How hard she tried to conquer the cold
aching sensation that clung about her
heart !

Tut, tut, don't do anything of the kind.
Late me soundly if you have a mind to, I
shall not complain." He kissed her glove*

The summit of the hill was reached.
The carriage jolted on again, and Susan
settled herself down in her corner, plainly
intimating that she wished that there

should be no more talking. Lord EUerbie
subsided accordingly.

A panorama of hedges and trees and
meadows seemed to be passing the Windows.
Here and there lambs were playing
in shady corners of green fields. Once
upon a time how gratefully Susan would
have taken in all the lovely scene.

When she was passing the Home Farm,
and the towers of Brackenbury rose up
among the trees down in the valley, her
mind wandered back to that day when she
sought refuge for her troubled thoughts
among the Kirk family after that passionate
parting with Oliver North, and her
confession of the sweet secret of her heart.

^' You are crying," said Lord Ellerbie, as
the carriage left the highway and entered
the road leading to Brackenbury.

Forgive me," she answered, looking
him in the face for the first time during
the morning.

It was an appealing, sorrowful, almost
a tender look, and she returned the pressure
of his hand. It was a sort of solemn
comfort to her soon afterwards to know
that she had done so, to feel that she had
spoken kindly to him.

CHAPTER III.

THE UNBIDDEN GUEST.

So boldly he entered the Nether hall.
Among tradesmen and kinsmen, and brothers and all.
Then spake the bride's father, his hand on his sword
(For the poor craven bridegroom said never a word),
come ye in peace, or come ye in war,
Or to dance at our bridal, young Lord Lochinvar ?"

Scott.

A Adjoining the unused and semi-ruins
vous apartments once occupied by
Mary Queen of Scots at Brackenbury
Towers was the mysterious old chapel or
mausoleum of the Ellerbies, containing the
tomb at whose crumbling: shrine the male

members of the race had been accustomed,
time out of mind, to offer up special prayers
on their wedding morn for the extension
of the family line. The object of this
solemn communing with heaven in presence
of the dead was more particularly
directed to the indefinite adjournment of
the fulfilment of the tradition that the last
of the race should come to a violent ending.


Some shrewd Churchman of the olden
days had probably invented this so-called
'ordination of Providence" and Fate to terrify
one of the ancient heads of the family
into matrimony. Intrigue against the freedom
of some woman-hating bachelor of the
house had conjured up the legend, and at
the same time established the virtues of
the tomb at which tradition claimed homage,
though beneath the curious eflSgy
thereon were supposed to lie the remains

of a heretic lord, who had died under the
ban of the Church.

It was the ghost of this poor anathematized
knight which was supposed to
haunt Brackenbury Towers by night and
day, the unhappy spirit being unable to
rest under the trouble the Church had
laid upon it. Probably the apparent
truth of the fable was maintained in the
district through mortal means ; for modern
spiritualism itself had no more complete
arrangements for ghostly manifestations
than those connected with the chapel of
the Ellerbie tomb. Under the stained
glass window that dimly lighted it, let
into the wall, was a slab with a brass
figure of a man in armour, with a long
sword, and at his feet a helmet and a half-obliterated
inscription, upon which the
other day one of the learned societies of
London held a long discussion, but without

making head or tale of its meaning.
Those who carved the letters knew well
enough what it meant, and so did Philip
Scruton. They were the key to the vault
and passage beneath, the former being a
cell some few feet wide, and ample enough
for a person to move about in, and the
latter communicating with an old tower
or temple, which had long been used as a
boathouse on the reed-margined lake.

While the bells of Chesterfield Church
were shaking the crooked steeple and
stirring the hopeful imagination of the
returned soldier. Captain Oliver North, a
man dressed as a Jew pedlar emerged
from this ancient hiding-place, and surveyed
the little chapel in the centre of
which was the tomb of the baleful knight,
sculptured in complete armour, but with
hands and feet broken off and head much
mutilated. With the entrance of the mysterious

visitor there came into the place,,
not the odour of sanctity, but a mouldy
kind of exhalation from the vault, as if
the chapel had been closed for many a long
year, as no doubt it had.

'* Thank the saints for a little fresh air,"
muttered the man, as he stood erect and
surveyed the scene with a critical eye.
He examined the door which led to the
larger edifice, where the second ceremony
of marriage was to be performed. There
was a grim, stern, determined expression
on his swarthy face.

While he stood contemplating the tomb,
footsteps were heard in the distance, and
he retired to his hiding-place, closing behind
him the heavy stone door, supposed
to be the memorial of a dead knight,
which swung into its place without a
sound. It was a work of notable skill,
this strange doorway. It seemed to have

been hung as deftly as that of a modern
iron safe, and it moved in a similarly silent
fashion of ponderosity.

A priest and a servant entered through
the ordinary doorway, which opened into
a sort of small ante-room leading to the
other chapel. The servant carried a 
which at the priest's direction he
placed by the side of the tomb. This
done, the servant, imitating the priest,
crossed himself, and they left as silently as
they came.

Soon afterwards the memorial brass,
with its undeciphered inscription, moved
again, and the man in hiding came cautiously
forth. Looking first at the pine-diet,
then at the vaulted passage, and
finally at the tomb, he took up the article
of furniture and placed it so that any
person kneeling in it should have his or
her back to the secret passage.

''No, no, Father Busby," he whispered
to himself, " we must place it where it will
be most convenient. Besides, I want to
keep my door on the jar, so that I shall
hear my sanctimonious Blue Beard como
and try once more to cheat his patient and
natural heir."

He disappeared again, and it was fully
an hour afterwards before the subdued
strains of the small organ could be heard
and the voices of the choir in the second
marriage service of the day.

And now the last notes of a triumphal
march are heard echoing away in the distance
as the door is opened, and Father
Busby enters, preceding Lord Ellerbie in
his wedding garments. The priest, in
solemn terms, repeats the tradition of the
house and the time-honoured custom of the
practice of special meditation and prayer
on the occasion of the sacrament of matrimony.

His reverence crossed himself
twice when lie observed that the pne-dieu
had been moved.

'wait for me, good father, in the
chapel," said the Earl, who, though this
was his third ceremonial visit to the tomb
of the baleful knight, felt on this occasion
a strange chill of dread take possession of
him.

I will," said Father Busby.

"My steward Dobbs will accompany me
to the Hall when this solemn hour has
sped."

They do not wait for your Grace ?"

"I ordered it so that the Countess
may have some privacy and rest before
we enter together the apartment where
our good Hardwick has had the feast
spread that w^ are to partake of in his
house before we come to Brackenbury
lowers."

You are always thoughtful for others,"
said the priest, as he left the chapel of the
tomb.

In the meantime the gay cavalcade was
flashing through lanes and highways on
its return to Chesterfield, presently to
clatter along Ludsmill Street and pull up
at the Hall, the residence of the now more
than ever haughty Hardwick, who had
even lost so much of his discretion as to
give Septimus Dobbs serious cause to lookout
for an opportunity of humiliating him.

A select number of guests had been
invited to the wedding-breakfast, which
was spread in the dining-room. The
guests were received in the spacious
hall which opened upon the drawing and
morning-rooms and library. This suite of
apartments, newly decorated and furnished,
had been thrown open, and wine and
coffee and strong waters were being

handed about to the guests as the came
in to refresh themselves after the excitement
of the morning, and fortify them for
the repast that was to come. These were
Mr. Hardwick's orders to his butler and
his servants. His notion was to be wildly
lavish, to literally drown the day in wine
and make the envious town of Chesterfield
drunk with alcoholic joy.

"Your ladyship is sad," he said to
Susan, when they were alone in her boudoir,
where he had found her shortly after
the return from Brackenbury.

She had begged to be left to herself fora
few moments. Even Mary Kirk had
been excluded. But her father had been
on the watch so long now to fortify the
dear child against any undue exhibition of
feeling, that he insisted upon going into
the room. Besides, he had to consult her
upon some little matters of detail concerning

certain questions of precedence in regard
to the pairing of the guests for breakfast.
At all events, that was his excuse to Mary
Kirk, who had promised Susan she should
not be disturbed.

I wish you would not call me your
ladyship, father," said Susan, wearily.

She was sitting upon a couch, her arms
hanging listlessly by her side, her veil
pushed away from her face, which was
almost as pale as her dress.

'' But you are your ladyship, my darling,
and I want you to remember that
you are a countess. I want you, my
dear, to realise fully what your marriage
gives you. — a title, wealth, power," said
Hardwick, pursing up his lips and taking
her hand.

Yes, dear, I know," she replied, ^' and
pleasure to you, father; this marriage is
proof of my love for my mother, my

VOL. II. o

generation for her word and her memory,
my devotion to you."

"My dear, but consider this marriage is
an example of "

Filial duty," said Susan, interrupting
him, and speaking with a sudden and unlooked
for vigour. " It tells you that you
have a dutiful daughter, who has preferred
your happiness to her own. You have
had trouble enough, father, I grant you,
even to feeling the very pinch of poverty —
nay, don't deny it."

T do not, I do not ; but it is very hard
to be reminded of it in this way, and at
this time," he said, whimpering.

*' I will not remind you of it again," she
said, rising to her feet and responding to
his embrace.

That's right ; then be cheerful, love, be
cheerful ; in half an hour s time your husband
will be here to take you in to breakfast,

and seat you at his right hand. I
will now go and join our guests. I could
not resist coming to cheer you."

Be cheerful !" she said, as she resumed
her seat. " I wish I could if only for your
sake."

Then, looking upwards, and raising her
hands in an attitude of prayer, she exclaimed,


Oh ! Oliver, if your sweet spirit looks
down upon me in this supreme hour of
misery, forgive me ! I could not see my
father ruined, a dependent on this selfish
lord, a thing to be trodden on even by his
steward, mocked at by his creditors, to die
wretchedly, perhaps by his own hand. But,
oh ! great heavens ! the weight of woe I
carry is hard to bear."

*' Susan ! Susan !" exclaimed Mary Kirk,
rushing in, '' hide yourself ! I thought
it was his ghost. It isn't; he was

o2

on the stair following me before I saw
him. I ran that moment ; he knew
where I was coming. Oh ! dear, I shall
faint !"

With this hurried and seemingly inconsequential
statement, Mary Kirk flung herself
into Susan's arms, and Oliver North
walked into the room. He had shaved
himself, and was dressed as nearly like his
former state as possible ; but that he looked
at least ten years older, and was bronzed
with hard weather, he was but little
changed.

^' Oliver !" gasped Susan, putting Mary
Kirk aside, " Oliver North !" She did not
scream. She stood transfixed, looking at
him, her hands raised,%her figure rigid.

Yes. Oliver North !" he said, his lip
quivering.

Oliver !" she said again. '* Oliver
North !"

"You repeat my name as if it was a
half-forgotten memory," he said. " Ob,
my God ! To meet you thus. When they
told me I wouldn't believe it. I came to
see for myself. Oh, Susan ! And I have
been praying for this meeting again continually."


"They told me you were dead !" she said,
still gazing in a vacant, dreamy way into
his face, her form fixed and rigid as a
statue. " Oliver ! Oliver North !"

Mary Kirk sat with her face in her
hands.

'* They told you ! What did your heart
tell you ?"

*' Yes, speak like That," sh said, moving
for the first time since he had entered the
room, " speak bitterly ; my heart — my heart
told me you lived !"

"And yet," he said, "you "

Had not strength of love and hope and

faith to uphold the secret promptings of
my poor fickle nature. They told me you
were dead, and I saw you in my dreams —
dead — dead !"

"Would I had been, ere I should see
you thus !" he cried.

Oh ! Oliver, if you could know what
music there would have been for me in
your dear voice but a few short hours ago
you would pity me now !"

She staggered ; he moved towards her.

"Nay, do not touch me. I am not
worthy to be the object even of a scandal
associated with your name, poor wretch
that I am ! Go, sir, leave me to my fate."

She clung to a chair for support. Mary
Kirk came to her aid.

"Yes, yes, Mr. North, leave us. You
have come too late. It is not her fault.
If you were alive, why didn't you let her
know ?"

I did. Yes, by heaven, I did !" he exclaimed,
as if the fact that he had written
to her continually had only that moment
dawned upon him.

"How?" asked Mary.

"It is not three months since I sent her
my last letter, and I told her I was then
on my way home."

Well, you've made a nice bungle of it
some way. I don't pretend to understand
it," said Mary, *' but you've been" dead in
Chesterfield this two years and more."

Susan looked vaguely from Forth to
Mary, and from Mary to North.

"As long as that?" Oliver asked, with
a puzzled air. " Are we all dreaming, or
am I the only one who thinks this is reality,
while it is only delirium ?"

**No, we are not dreaming," said Mary,
putting her arm round Susan's waist —
nothing of the kind. We had your message

when you died, your love, and all
that, and there was your comrade here
who saw you do it. There, go away, Mr.
North, it's no good playing tricks on us."

*' Tricks !" said North. He hardly knew
what he said.

I thought you were your own ghost,
but I see you're not ; this lady is now the
Countess of Ellerbie, and you had better
go away. Perhaps you meant to surprise
ber, and you have ; but I don't see that
there is anything to be proud of about it.
Come, Susan ; come, my lady ; come to
your room."

Susan suffered herself to be led away.
She left the room with the quiet submissiveness
of a child. She looked blankly
at North as she passed him. He stood
gazing after her as she went, and then at
the open doorway where she had disappeared.


*' Great heavens !" he said, presently,
raising his hand threateningly aloft, " weare
the victims of some black conspiracy.
No, Oliver, you shall not go tamely away
and leave her to her fate without a word
or a blow !"

He rushed downstairs. The first
person he saw was old Hardwick. He
was in the midst of a group of gentlemen
in the morning-room. There
was a rustle of silks and a pleasant
chatter of women's voices in the rooms
beyond. Oliver took in at a glance the
changed aspect of the place — its pretentiousness,
its ostentation of wealth — and it
was as if by a stroke of inspiration that the
method of the conspiracy which had robbed
him of Susan seemed to be made plain to
him. They had intercepted his letters,
and had given her some cunning proofs of
his death.

What ! what !" exclaimed Mr. William
Rutland Hardwick — "whom do I see?
Gentlemen, excuse me."

The group which had surrounded Hardwick
broke up and made way for him.

Sir," he said, addressing North, '' I did
not invite you to come here."

"No, you did not' replied North, "and
yet you did not seem so much surprised to
see me as your daughter did."

What ! what 1" said Hardwick, stammering
; " you have not dared to "

She thought I was dead ; you knew I
was not."

This is not the place nor the time for
an attack of this kind," said Hardwick.
Turning round to his friends, '* Gentlemen,
you will not see me insulted, I am
sure, and on this day above all others ?"

Several men stepped towards North in a
threatening manner.

Gentlemen, pardon me. I am an officer
in His Majesty's army, and shall know
bow to resent any interference between
this old man and myself. I have been
sick and a prisoner, and reported dead.
My name is Oliver North, and I have
great reason to ask for an explanation of
this day's business."

The self-possessed and gentlemanlike way
in which North delivered himself impressed
the company ; and Hardwick now pulled
himself together for a diplomatic triumph
seeing that it was not likely anyone would
attempt to thrust North into the street.

'' Sir," he said, '' what is done cannot be
undone ; if you are here as a wedding
guest, if you are here to rejoice with us in
the happiness of my daughter, you are
welcome."

'* Her happiness !" exclaimed Oliver.
Gentlemen, that is an appeal which

would have waked me had I been dead,
and I will pledge it as a toast if you will
join me."

He snatched up a glass. His manner
was strangely defiant. He felt that same
stirring of the pulse, that leaping of the
blood, which had thrilled him in the height
of battle. There was a magnetic influence
in his manner.

Gentlemen, fill your glasses," he said,
and some of the ladies in the adjoining
room came to the door to see what was the
occasion of so much sudden hilarity. " I
pledge you to the happiness of the bride !"

'rand bridegroom! Finish the toast,"
exclaimed old Hardwick.

And confusion to the man who has
bought her of a huckstering father," continued
North, after pausing a moment during
the dead silence that followed Hardwick's
interruption.

A rush was made towards Oliver as he
dashed the empty glass upon the ground ;
but, before it was really necessary to defend
himself, Hard wick's friends fell back
at sight of the raised arm of Father Busby,
who stood in the doorway.

Gentlemen," he said, in a hushed,
solemn voice, 'restrain your ill blood,
whatever may be the occasion of it. I
bring you sad tidings." He went to the
doorway of the next room, where several
ladies had crowded to see and hear.
Pardon me, ladies. It is to spare your
feelings that I close the door."

When he had shut it, he turned towards-the
men, who, hurried from one exciting
incident to another, were sorely bewildered
— a condition which was quickly
changed to one of horror and amazement.

Mr. Hardwick, calm yourself. Gentlemen,
prepare yourselves for the saddest

news at a moment like this which your
minds can conceive. Lord Ellerbie is
dead !"

Dead !" they exclaimed, as in one voice.

*' Dead !" repeated the priest.

CHAPTER IV.

THE MYSTERY OF BRACKENEURY TOWERS.

And the ghostly light burnt clear,
By the shivering willow's bed.

By the dank and lonely mere
And the sedges crimson red.

rpHEY held the inquest on the body of
-*- the late Lord Ellerbie in the library
of Brackenbury Towers, where the old man
and Hardwick had sat over many a bottle
of wine, and where the amorous Earl had
displayed his glistening treasures to Susan
and Mary.

The silent remains of the master of the
house lay in the blue bed-room, and there

the jurymen lead surveyed the corpse.
The twelve good men and true walked up
the solid oaken stairs with a fearsome
tread. They kept together as if for
mutual protection. They saw a mysterious
something in every corner, heard a
ghostly whisper in every rustle of curtain
and tapestry. For it had gone forth that
the legend of the strange old family had
been fulfilled, and that the last of the race
had gone out of the world, a victim to
some spectral executioner.

Even the Coroner himself looked upon
the calm pale face, and its ghastly mark
beneath the chin, with a sense of awe he
had never felt before. He was a staunch
Protestant. The praying priest by the
bedside, the lighted candles and the tall
silver cross, had in them, to his mind
something uncanny, not to say devilish.

Father Busby was the principal witness

at the inquest. He described Lord
Ellerbie's entrance into the ancient chapel
of the knight for contemplation and prayer.
Soon afterwards the Father, waiting for
him in the adjoining chapel, heard his
lordship lock the outer door. He thought
nothing of it at the time, except perhaps
it may have crossed his mind that the Earl
was more devoutly inclined than usual.
After a little while, however, Father Busby
knocked at the door. There was no
answer. Presently he knocked again.
Then an instinct of fear came over him,
and he made a loud demonstration,
rattling the latch and making other sounds
to attract the Earl's attention. Still there
was no answer. He summoned assistance.
The butler and several servants came.
They took counsel together, and with the
aid of the woodman burst open the door.
They were horrified to find the Earl lying

VOL. U. P

on his face, by the tomb where he had been
kneeling. At first they thought he was ina
fit. On raising him up they found that
his throat had been cut and he was quite
dead. Beneath him, all wet with blood,
was a clasp-knife of ordinary make, but
exceedingly sharp.

There was a good deal of informality
about the manner in which the inquest was
conducted. The evidence was taken down,
but much was said that was not evidence.
The Coroner seemed to permit any and all
kinds of explanations to be offered touching
the deceased's violent ending. The butler
said he had always felt no good could come
of this marriage, so far as the Earl was
concerned, though a more lovely countess
never bore the name of Ellerbie. *' But
ever sin IVe bin in this family, man and
boy," he said, " IVe always had a sort of
inkling our lordship would be last, and it

has Diver been doubted, as I can mak out,
from time immemorial what would be
sending of family ; and since you ask me
about Honourable Mester Scruton, I
always advised lordship to be kind to him
and have him about the place, seeing ashe
was rightful successor and most like to
carry on family name ; though Mester Scrutiny
was a hare-brained sort of vagabond as
seemed not cut out for being a marrying
man, as they say. When news came as he
was killed in the war, I said to myself as
old family was doomed."

The Coroner asked him how he accounted
for Lord Ellerbie's death.

'' It isn't for me to pry into decrees of
Heaven or Holy Church's explanations,
but seems to me as lordship in fit of
sorrow or under some awful impulse took
his own life. Don't ask me to account
for that knife, cos I never seed it before,

p2

gentlemen, and it's a mystery to me ; where
lordship got it I cannot say."

The woodman or forester who had
helped to break an entrance into the fatal
chapel, said the people of Grassmoor and
other parts believed there was a ghost
at Brackenbury, He had never thought
so until the night before the wedding. He
was returning to his cottage in the woods,
not far from the lake, and he saw a light
flash near the old Temple, or boathouse.
At first he thought it was a 
; and then it occurred to him it might
be poachers after the deer. '' I turned to
find out what it was, and I saw somebody
or summit in the boathouse, and a streak
of light as if they had a lantern. I just
clipped my stick tight," he said, 'rand
thinks I, ' Well, I've heard of ghosts being
about, but never see one,' so I says to
myself, ' if it's a ghost I'd like to see 'um,

and if it ista ghost I'd like to see 'um all
same.' And when I gets close to spot light
goes out. I bangs straight in i' the dark,
and I says, ' Come out of that I says, and
there was nobody there ! A bat flew again
me, but that was all, and I expect I was as
close on seen' a ghost as a man could well
be without exactly seen' one."

Then Father Busby remembered the
incident of the pale-dieu being moved, and
he came forward and related the circumstances,
whereupon all the Catholics in the
room crossed themselves, and the others
looked at each other as much as to say,
^' Nobody but a ghost could do that," for
in the neighbourhood of Grassmoor and
Chesterfield they were willing to credit
even the simplest possible events to spiritual
agency. When I was a boy ghosts
without heads were supposed to be common
in the meadows on dark nights,

spectres with illuminated faces peered out
of dark corners at cross-roads, and unseen
hands would unbolt doors and fling windows
open. There were several so-called
haunted houses within a radius of twenty
miles round Brackenbury Towers, but na
ghost had such romantic and characteristic
quarters as that which Tom Bertram,.
in Mary Kirk's girlish days, had undertaken
to meet single-handed and try conclusions
with. Father Busby said he had
no theory to offer in regard to the removal
of the prie-dieu. He knew that nobody
could possibly have entered the chapel
and the incident had at that time affected
him curiously ; it had excited a sense of
apprehension which he was at the time at
a loss to explain, and indeed he had sought
relief from it in prayer. Was there any
other possible access to the Mausoleum
Chapel, where the Earl was found? None.

Could anyone have entered and left unseen
by him ? No; and that idea, Father Busby
pointed out, was untenable, because the
door was locked and bolted from within.

Sitting by the Coroner's table was a
stranger, a closely-shaven, keen-looking
man, who whispered to the King's official,
whereupon the Coroner put several questions
upon this point, touching the possibility
of any person being concealed in the
chapel, with the result that Father Busby
gave a history of it, and showed conclusively
that no access or egress could be
obtained except through the door communicating
with the larger chapel. The
Coroner thereupon thought it best the jury
should examine the place themselves, and
when they were there the stranger, who
was the eminent detective, or Bow-street
runner, "Dick Spelter," from London,
asked the Coroner's permission to sound

the walls and floor with his stick, which he
did without any apparent satisfaction to
himself or to the jury. A dead, solid reply
came from wall and flooring, and even
from the tomb itself.

When they returned to the library, Mr.
Septimus Dobbs was there. He had been
so much overcome by the death of his
dear, kind, noble employer that he had
scarcely held up his head since the calamity.
Mr. dobbs spoke of it as a calamity,
and a terrible affair, and even hinted under
his breath that he hoped the jury would
not bring in a verdict oi felo de se, the bare
idea of being buried at night at four crossroads,
with a stake through you, being bad
enough if you happened to be a commoner,
but for an earl, a member of the aristocracy,
a nobleman, it could not even bethought
of. Suicide might be committed
when a person was in a state of temporary

insanity, and that would be the verdict he
should give ; but of course it was for the
jury to come to their own conclusion. Mr.
Dobbs did not make these remarks openly,
nor in giving his evidence did he dwell
much upon the strange things which the
late Earl had said of late in regard to his
affairs. But the Coroner was clever enough
to see that Mr. Dobbs was keeping something
back, and Mr. Dobbs was glad to
find the King's representative so keenly
observant.

Yes," said Dobbs, ^' I had noticed a
great change in Lord Ellerbie's manner of
late ; though he had achieved, as he said,
the first wish of his heart in obtaining the
consent of Miss Hardwick to become the
Countess of Ellerbie, he felt a strange fear
at times'' In what way ? " Well, he said
he had sudden fits of despondency; and I
asked him only a week ago if he allowed

that foolish tradition of the family to
influence him. But I perceive that I hurt
the feelings of Father Busbj and others
present when I say foolish, and I beg leave
to withdraw the remark. I am a practical
man, and don't believe in that kind of
things ; however, the late Earl did. Can
I mention any specific words the deceased
said as indicating a fit of despondency?
Yes, I can. The very day when he gave
me some final instructions in regard to his
will and the settlements on Lady Ellerbie,
he suddenly looked up at me and said,
Dobbs, my dear old friend, I hope I may
never be tempted to take my own life.' It
shocked me to hear such a remark, but I
pretended to treat it lightly, and said I
hoped not, nor anybody else's. He sighed
heavily, and said, ' Ah ! Dobbs, my dear
old friend, I am not the man I was'"

The jurymen laid their heads considerably
together upon this significant bit of
evidence, and the Coroner was observed
to take a special note. Having done so,
he intimated that he would adjourn for
luncheon, as they might have to sit late in
the day.

During the interval Mr. Dobbs made
the acquaintance of Mr. Spelter, who,
though a discreet officer, was easily prevailed
upon by the steward and family
lawyer of the Ellerbies to explain the
nature of his business in Derbyshire.

Truth is," said Spelter, in his quick
but fragmentary manner, '' came down —
special affair — coaching road hereabouts a
year or two ago notorious for robberies —
young fellow hanged — gang intimidated by
gallows — moved their quarters for a time
started business again lately."

'' All ! a gang, you say ?" observed
Dobbs.

'' Yes, they say a gang — Bow Street
says gang — Home Office is understood to
say gang — you don't say gang, eb, Mr.
Dobbs?"

^' I don't say anything at present," answered
Dobbs.

'just so — well, that brings me down in
the country — but I am here to-day on pleasure
— that's, holiday-making — not employed
in this case — not at all — just looked in out
of curiosity — chance of stepping into a
good thing sometimes in this way — gave
my card to Coroner — asked his permission
anti if I can be of any service — why,
there you are, you see."

Mr. Spelter, a dapper little man, with
eager eyes and a keen manner generally,
smiled, bowed, and waited for Dobbs to
reply.

Well," said Dobbs, in his harsh, hard
voice, " well, and what are your conclusions?"


*' As to what ?"

'* This very sad affair at Bracken-bury."


Your idea is suicide?"

Never mind my idea."

'but that's it — suicide while of unsound
mind — not himself at the time — family
would prefer that? — or found dead, perhaps
— it would not have been case for
doctor to give certificate apoplexy? — excitement
been too much for him — breaking in
the door and all that disturbance — no
couldn't have been managed, eh ?"

I do not understand you, Mr. Spelter."

*' No ! — very sorry — no offence," said
Spelter, stroking his chin, the conclusion
of a clean-cut jaw.

'not at all, sir, but you seemed to infer

that there was some desire to influence the

And isn't there ? — don't you wish to
make out your own verdict ?"

No."

Don't care to suppress inquiry ?"

No ; we are straight, upright, fearless
men in this neighbourhood, you will
find, Mr. Spelter, and we have but one
object in this inquiry — to arrive at the
truth."

*ris that so indeed? — glad of it — shall
kill two birds with one stone — obtain permission
to take this affair up."

You have formed a theory touching the
Earl's death?"

Just so — easier business than the other
when will is read — papers examined
motive of third parties cleared up — soon
;spot him."

Whom will you soon spot ?"

'• The murderer," said Spelter, stroking
his chin.

'' Murderer !" exclaimed Dobbs. " Why,
heaven preserve us ! you don't think my
dear friend was murdered ?"

Yes, clear as daylight — plain to me as
if I had seen it done."

** My dear sir, you chill my blood, and
fire me with a desire for vengeance — no,
that is too harsh a word, justice I should
say. As the steward and legal adviser of
the late Lord Ellerbie, let me retain your
valuable services. I give you full power
to take whatever steps you think right to
clear up the mystery ; pray draw upon me
for your charges, and in good truth consider
me your banker. I will send a letter immediately
to the London police authorities
and to the Government, saying that I beg
them to place the matter in your hands."

Thank you kindly — you honour me — I

shall report our interview to my chief —
hold myself bound to you, sir — pleasant to
meet such a gentleman — confidence great
thing in our business — say nothing about
me — oh ! no, we never mentioned him —
don't you see, sir — his name is never heard
call on you privately whenever you
wish."

To-morrow at Chesterfield ; Gluman-
gate, by the Sessions House; my offices
are well known; and fifty guineas may
quicken your perceptive faculties still
further ?"

"Not a doubt of it — plain spectacles for
some — give me gold-rimmed glasses — uncommon
quick sights gold framers sometimes
— queer profession mine, sir — get our
wits sharpened — come in contact with high
and low — cunning ones of all kinds — clever
is the word all through, from cracksman
to judge that hangs him — from lawyer for

the prisoner to learned counsel who takes
his life away — but there, Crowner's Court
is assembling ao^ain — found dead with
wound in neck, but how came by it no
evidence to show — eh, Mr. Dobbs ? — you'll
see ; but you and I will astonish them !"

Not to-day ?"

*^ No, not to-day, sir — must have time —
like a case that takes time — work it up —
come to it by degrees — play it like a salmon
that's my way."

Mr. Dobbs did not like the detective
officer. His manner was cold-blooded. In
the jerky style of delivering his remarks,
Dobbs thought he saw an attempt to hide his
real thoughts. Dobbs was so honest and
straightforward himself that it irritated him
to have to suspect the fairness of another.
Spelter assumed a familiar manner towards
him that was extremely puzzling. It
was as if the man suspected him of know-vol.

II. Q

ing more about Lord Ellerbie's death than
lie admitted. Spelter's manner was indeed
very mysterious. The fellow spoke of
the Earl's murderer as if he inferred that
he (Dobbs) had believed in the calamity
being a murder from the first.

*' By the way, Mr. Dobbs, one question,"
said Spelter, returning to the little room
where he had left the lawyer — '* we speak
in confidence — close as confessor to priest
tell me one thing — what man or gentleman
hereabouts will benefit most by the
death of the deceased ?"

Dobbs paused a moment, then rose suddenly
and laid his arm on Spelter's, as if
he were about to make a startling declaration.
But just as suddenly his purpose
seemed to give way.

*' No, no," he said ; *' the idea is too
shocking."

Don't mind that — I can bear it."

*' But, after all," said Dobbs, as if taking
counsel with himself, " duty is the first
consideration. Close the door, sir."

Spelter closed the door.

The Countess had a lover ; he went to
the wars ; he was believed to be dead ; on
the day of her marriage he returned "

'' Captain Oliver l^orth," said the detective,
interrupting him — " turned up at
wedding — slanged the bride — wanted to
fight the guests — heard of him at the
Miller and his Men — Short told me — he'll
benefit, will he ?"

Dobbs could hardly conceal his annoyance
at the cool, not to say flippant, way
in which Spelter picked up his words and
carried off his idea.

Well," said the lawyer, '' he may and
he may not — that remains to be seen ; he
may marry the widow, and then "

'' I see — yes — thank you — I hear the

q2

crier — Coroner taking his seat — shall call
on you tomorrow — your servant to command,
Mr. Dobbs."

The lawyer sat and pondered over Spelter
and how he should capture him ; for
Dobbs fancied there was mischief in Spelter's
plans. Spelter knew less than he
pretended. Dobbs did not know that it
was Spelter s first aim in taking up new
business to make his employer think ha
knew all about it.

CHAPTER y.

MR. SPELTER MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OP
MR. SHORT.

2nd Clown. — But is this the law ?

est Clown. — Ay, marry isn't ; crowner's quest law.

Hamlet.

'' T Have but few more observations to
-*- make," the Coroner was saying to
the jury when Mr. Dobbs returned into
court, " but they will, T trust, commend
them to your careful consideration. Dismiss
from your minds all those superstitious
stories which you have heard out of
doors having reference to legends and

traditions as to the last of the house of
Ellerbie, except in so far as you may conclude
that they preyed upon the mind of
the deceased so as to unhinge it and bring
the deceased into a condition of weakness
both of mind, and body which rendered
him irresponsible for his actions. It has
been present in the thoughts of some of
you, no doubt, the question whether the
deceased met his death at the hands of an
assassin, although such an explanation of
the sad affair has not in any way presented
itself in evidence, though I did request
the chief constable of the district to bestir
himself with a view to take up that ground
in evidence, and it was for that reason
you heard what the woodman had to say.
You will, I imagine, fail, as I have done
to see anything in the story he told us
about the light in the boathouse the night
before the deceased was found dead.

There is no evidence of any stranger
having been seen about the place, and
Father Busby has told you that no person
could have entered the chapel of the tomb
without his seeing him ; you have his evidence
of the locking of the door from
within, and of the necessity of breaking in
the door to get into the chapel where the
deceased was found inHhe manner already
described. Then you have the evidence of
Mr. Septimus Dobbs, the steward and
trusted legal adviser of the deceased, who
tells you that the Earl had been despondent,
troubled in his mind, and evidently
bordering on a condition which might be
described as temporary aberration of intellect,
for he had expressed a hope that
ho might not be tempted to take his own
life ; and it seems to me that, unless you
are content with what I will designate to
you as an open verdict of 'Found dead

the cause of death being a wound in the
necks how obtained there is no evidence to
show, the only other verdict you could find
would be ' Suicide while in an unsound
state of mind.' But it is for you to determine
; my desire in presenting these
points and possibilities to you is only to
assist you in arriving at what I have no
doubt, gentlemen, will be a wise and sound
decision."

The jurymen laid their heads together,
and finally the foreman declared that they
found that the deceased had come to his
death through a wound in the neck, but
how obtained there was no evidence to
show.

They went over the business again at
the Miller and his Men that evening ; for
many persons had assembled there during
the day, coming and going between Brandenburg
Towers and Grassmoor and Chesterfield.

Since the execution or Jacob
Marks, the old inn had fallen more and
more out of public recognition. Old Short
bad never l3een a popular man ; but since
Jacob's death he had become positively
odious to many, because it eras thought he
was unnecessarily severe in his evidence
against the lad at his trial. It was no
good for Short to say he was on his oath,
and must therefore speak the truth, except
when he discussed the matter with the
particular sect of religionists with whom
he worshipped once a week, some miles
away at Brampton, near Chesterfield.
There he was safe. He was known among
his co-religionists as a severe but goodman,
who would sacrifice his right hand
for the truth. Of late years he had given
more attention to his mill than to the inn,
and he was often away for several days
together, attending, as he gave out, the

distant markets of York and Wakefield
and Lincoln, dealing in corn and accumulating
money, it was believed, for charitable
purposes.

The old inn had not been so busy for
many years as it was on this evening of
the inquest at Brackenbury. The bar was
lighted up with quite an array of candles.
Mine host of the Angel at Chesterfield, inconsideration
of a certain special dozen of
old port which had lain in mouldy state in
the old inn cellar for a dozen years, had
sent Susan Jane to assist Short's housekeeper
in the bar while the pressure of
custom lasted, and two of his stable hands
to help Short's men in the yard.

*' Do I stay here all night ? No, I don't
stay here all night, Mr. Impudence," said
Susan sane to Dick Holmes, who had comedown
by a local coach to hear the news.
'*I go home in the master's gig. Why, I

would t stay all night in this haunted
ramshackle place for a guinea."

Good deal of mischief in a guinea,"
chimed in Mr. Spelter — "known poor fellow
hanged for a guinea — taken hot in his
hand — only a guinea, and it swung him."

Hush — sh," said Susan Jane.

"What for? — fact — knew a case where
a guinea was marked and "

Can't you be quiet about your guinea ?"
said Holmes, catching hold of Spelter's
arm ; '' don't you see Short looking at
you ?"

"What of that? It has nothing to do
with Short — there was a young fellow
once, and he had a guinea in his possession
— it was "

Sh, will you !" shouted Susan Jane
above the din of the general noise of
custom.

*' Don't mind me, miss," said Short, stepping

forward. *' If the gentleman wishes
to open an old wound and bring back sad
memories — nay, if he would insult me, I
know how to bear it."

'^Mjdear sir," said Spelter, "you surprise
me — nothing further from my
thoughts — anyone who knows me would
tell you — the last man to hurt another's
feelings."

Susan Jane's admirer from Chesterfield
dragged Spelter aside and whispered in his
ear, whereupon Spelter fairly rushed upon
Short, took him by the hand, apologized,
condoled with him, and declared Short
should tell him the sad story at bedtime,
for he meant to stay there all night, and
Short should see whether he had not a
heart that could feel for another's woe.

Then, as the business slackened, and the
guests began to drive off, or started to
walk home in twos and threes, Mr. Spelter,

^vho had insisted upon giving Susan Jane a
guinea, because she was the image of a
young lady to whom he had once been engaged
to be married, found himself agreeably
occupied in the best corner of the bar
with a capital bottle of wine and the gossip
of Susan Jane.

*' Know him, not I ! I didn't know him,"
she said, in reference to Oliver North. *' I
didn't know him when he came to the
Angel first, and I didn't know him when
he went out."

'* How do you mean, miss ?" asked
Spelter.

Well, you see, he came in one fellow
and went out another."

Did he— how ?"

He came in with a beard and moustache
like a billy-goat, and he went out with a
face as clean as a woman's."

Really, now ; you surprise me."

Oh ! you're easily surprised ! He'd
been travelling, I suppose ; one of them
as is going about now-a-days ; they've been
prisoners, left for dead after battles, or
been sick, and they come straggling back,
looking like I don't know what ; and that's
how he came."

*' Indeed — comes dirty and bearded like
the bard, as they say — goes clean and not
bearded like the bard," said Spelter,
smiling.

*' Yes, and it was as good as a play to
hear him say, 'What's them bells ringing
for?' and me saying, *A wedding,' and
him saying, ' I wish 'em joy, and they shall
ring for my wedding,' and me a-saying, ' I
wishes you joy,' — and him not a-knowing
and me not a-knowing as it was Miss
chadwick as he was engaged to all the
-.time."

So it was ! — known many plays not half

as good — but lie goes off soon after — eli,
does he not ?"

'' He comes down looking a regular
gentleman, striding out a bit military like,
and I didn't know bim, I only snowed as
that was bim when be come in after the
row at the Hall and the awful news. But
when be was going out be says to me, ' It
seems to be a very grand wedding this,'
and I says, * I should think it was, you
don't get one like it every day,' and be
says, ^ Wbo's is it ?' And I answers, ' Wby,
don't you know? T should bave thought
as everybody snowed. Wby, old stuck-up
Hardwick's pretty wench to Lord Elders
'Wbatl' be shouted, and be staggered
back again the door-post of the
bar. ' What !' be says, ' Miss Hard wick T
Yes,' I says. ' Susan Hardwick?' be says.
eyes, Susan no more,' I says, 'Countess
of Ellerbie now ;' and I never seed a man

faint, but he nearly did for a minute,
and I offered him some brandy. But he
pulled hissed together like, and said, ' Neo,
thank you,' and then out he walked, and I
couldn't help looking after him from the
bar window. I seed him go across the
market-place as if he was mad, pushing
folks aside, and they letting him as if he
had bought all the town and paid for it."

Yes."

It was about an hour when he comes
back, and then I'd found out as it was
same fellow as had come in with a beard by
the coach."

By this time Susan Jane was called forby
mine host of the Angel, who had come
to drive her home and pick up the last
item of news at the present centre of
information, the Miller and his Men.

"No," thought Spelter, as he sat over
''a night-cap," waiting for Short to join

him ; " don't see that there would be time
must get from Chesterfield to Bracken-bury
and back — right clever if he did —
fine bold thing — no ; should say not possible
— must try it myself — somebody must
have seen him — no, no, Mr. Dobbs — wrong
scent — that woodman was right — woodman
saw him — my gentleman with the lantern
that's the owner of the knife — left knife
behind for a purpose — too cool a hand to
drop it — Spelter, this business makes your
fortune — mustn't forget the other, though."

Of a truth, sir," said Short, in his
dry, sanctimonious way, and with a
Puritanical twang which he had cultivated
for many years, *' and I feel disinclined to
sit up any longer ; I am much fatigued by
reason of the unusual bustle of the
day."

** One glass. Some people like their
night-caps on their heads — give it me

VOL. II. R

here," said Spelter, laying his hand on his
waistcoat.

It is comforting, and I won't say nay
to one glass," said Short. '' Betsy, one
more, and then thou canst go to bed."

The housekeeper, a slovenly-looking
person, made another glass of grog and
departed.

Your health," said Spelter — " sorry
hurt your feelings — did not mean it — not
heard of your trouble — pardon me — what
was it? — have seen deal trouble my time."

'' This world is full of trouble but I'll

not weary ye with mine." ,

You cannot weary me."

*^ril e'en not put you to the test tonight,"
said Short, firmly, " some other
time, mayhap."

Well, Tm not the man pry into others'
affairs — change the subject — seems strange
queer place this Brackenbury Towers ?"

*' Were you there ?"

I was — fond antiquarian places — being
in neighbourhood — travelling for pleasure
went over — heard of sad affair too —
found them holding inquest — odd sort of
business inquest — met a Mr. Dobbs — very
civil."

"Yes, an upright, able lawyer, Mr.
Dobbs."

'' Indeed — when funeral over mean to
go over the place — chapel, where sad affair
occurred, very interesting — you know it ?"

'' Oh, ses, I am well acquainted with
Brackenbury Towers."

Ghosts, they say, about — do you believe
in ghosts ?"

Short looked nervously round as if one
might be at his elbow.

You do ! — thought you did."

*'No, sir, I do not."

'* Don't? Why, you have turned pale —

k2

curtain there at the back moved — wind, I
think."

Spelter pretended to look anxiously towards
a faded curtain that was drawn over
the window.

"Turned pale," said Short. '' I never
turned pale in my life."

'' Beg pardon — thought you seemed little
nervous — not surprising — queer old place
this — almost as ancient as Brackenbury —
any secret passages about ? — trap doors —
openings in the wainscot ?"

'^'No, sir, not that I am aware of," said
Short.

Plenty at Brackenbury, eh ? — private
staircases, underground roads — where does
the passage from the boat-house lead to ?"

*' Never heard of it."

*' Oh ! thought you knew the place ?"

*' Yes, I do ; perhaps not* so well as you
do."

•' I know nothing of it."

It occurred to me you might, being an
antiquarian," said Short, looking into his
glass of liquor.

No — mean to, though — never in this
neighbourhood before — they tell me there
are many robberies on the roads hereabouts
— highwaymen of unusual impudence."


The disbanding of our troops has increased
crime in all directions," replied
Short ; " great wars relieve the nation of
scoundrels and thieves, peace brings back
a fresh supply, and the new ones have
been so accustomed to rob and murder
that they prefer to live by the road instead
of by honest labour."

"Well put — habit is second nature —
every road in Europe infested with bandits
some lonely places on these Derbyshire
highways — like travelling in the desert one

mile — through Rocky Mountains next —
wonder not more robberies — that's my
only surprise."

Were you ever stopped on the road?"

*' Once — daring fellow on fine black
horse — mask on — capital rider — pistol to
my head — hand on my horse's rein — alarming
situation — handed him purse at once
raised his hat — rode off — he one way,,
me t'other."

'shocking!" said Short, ^'and how
alarming ; you didn't show fight ?"

'' Not I — showed clean pair of heels, as
they say — you have had similar adventures,
no doubt ?"

*' No, thank heaven ; but 1 do not travel
by night, except in the coach."

'coaches have been robbed often —
between Chesterfield and Stonehenge, am
told ; but you are lucky — well, suppose we
sny good night, unless you feel in the

humour to tell me the story of that marked
guinea."

Spelter dropped his voice, and looked
straight at the host.

Not to-night," said Short, lowering his
eyes.

*' Seems a sad story."

It is."

'' Oh, by the Lord!" suddenly exclaimed
Spelter, '' what's that ?— A boy half
dressed, with the face of a corpse, looked
out between the curtains."

Spelter clung to Short in well-acted
alarm ; Short uttered a cry of terror, and
trembled so that the glasses shook on the
table.

^' Ah ! ah !" laughed Spelter. '' I thought
you were not afraid of ghosts ! Goodnight!"


*When Spelter went to bed he drew a chest
of drawers across the door of his chamber,

and put a brace of pistols under his pillow.
*' Two birds with one stone — only one
bird in sight at present — tough old bird —
put salt on his tail with that ghost — had
him there," he said, instead of his prayers.

CHAPTER YI.

A DAY AT THE HOME FAU^Sl^ AND A LETTER
From PARIS.

Green fields of England ! wheresoe'er
Across this watery waste we fare,
Your image at our hearts we bear,
Green fields of England, everywhere.

Arthur Hugh Clough.

APRIL surely used to be a gayer,
brighter, and more primrose month
when Mary Kirk was a girl than it is now.
It was true of March once upon a time
the saying that it came in like a lion, but
went out like a lamb. Now-a-days it seems
not only to come in like a lion but to continue

in like a whole menagerie of wild
beasts almost up to the very month of
leafy June. The weather has changed
with our fashions ; but we are going back
again to antique plates of beauty for our
women's dresses. If we could revive the
dear old springs at the same time, what a
pleasant resuscitation that would be !

The sun is shining out amidst clouds
that now and then pause to shower down
fatness upon the earth on this April day of
our history. Odc moment it rains, the next
it is bright with dancing sunbeams. The
earth seems to rejoice in the sun and the
showers and the wind. That bank past
which you drove to BrackeDbury Towers
is yellow with primroses which, for their
pretty star-like heads to rest upon, have a
soft background of tender mosses.

In Farmer Kirk's fields there are lambs
frisking in shady corners. The wheat is

singeing the brown fallow ridges with delicate
blades of green. Young chickens are
busy in the poultry-yard taking their first
lesson in caution, for there are hawks
hovering over the adjacent plantation. The
cuckoo's call is heard, and the lark is moving
to and fro in the meadows. The first of the
Swallows have come, and they are building
under the eaves of the waggon sheds and
stables. Garden seeds are being planted,
and a fresh smell of newly-turned earth
comes in through the open window of
Kirk's bright clean house-place, where the
family is at dinner an hour after noon.

Old Kirk has been doing '' a bit of
shooting." His operations have been
against jays and weasels and other
pernicious things, and his bag lies near his-gun
by the window. The poor jays with
their beautiful plumage, it is a pity they
are at enmity with the gamekeeper and

the farmer. Mary's father looked a fine,
hale, hearty yeoman in his velvet shooting
coat, with its innumerable pockets, and
his florid waistcoat. He was sitting at
the head of his table carving " the roast
beef of old England," and listening, like
the rest, to Mary's account of the installation
of the new Countess of Ellerbie at
Brackenbury Towers. Mrs. Kirk, in her
flowery gown and great coarse apron, was
drawing Mary out touching all manner of
little details, which the children swallowed
with their thick wedges of Yorkshire
pudding. Old Kirk probably did not
appreciate the picture ; but from the chair
in which he sat looking across his well-filled
table he could see out at the open
door a patch of garden, with budding
cauliflowers and flowering currants, an old
well with its bucket swinging and dripping
from recent use, and over a low hedge

a stretch of meadows that ended faraway
in clumps of forest trees, through
which Brackenbury Towers flashed its
gilded vanes and glittering windows. Yet
it must have had an unconsciously soothing
effect on the most savage breast such a
scene of rural peace, especially when for a
foreground there was a happy family, and
Mary Kirk, round and rosy and red-lipped,
the eldest of it, sitting by her ruddy
buxom mother.

Well, well, if it ista wonderful I'd like
to know what is !" says Mrs. Kirk, cutting
into a stiff folly-polly pudding. " She's a
right plucked un, is that Miss Hardwicky
I mean my lady ; your father said as she'd
never go and live there, but minna she, I
said you'll see !"

And why should she not, mother ?"
asks Mary ; " it is her own ?"

'surely," says Mrs. Kirk; 'the very*

thing I said to Kirk — didn't I, farmer?"
*you did, mother, that's true," says
Kirk, " and I have nowt to say again it.
I'm sorry for poor owt man as died, or
made away with hissed, or what not ; but
for choice I'd rather have Countess for a
neighbour than him. I can't say I care
much for her father."

'' No, he goes about as if he'd a poker
down his back and plums in his mouth,"
says Mrs. Kirk. *' I'm sure it tak's me all
my time to mak' out what he's talking
about ; and the way he * Missus Kirk's' a
body, and ' thank-you-I'll-not-take-a-seat-
Mistress-Kirk,' it's enough to give one a
surfeit!"

He is pompous indeed," says Mary,
*but that is not the worst, he's deceitful;
he knew that Mr. North was alive all the
time, and I think Susan — I must call her
Susan, I can't call her my lady — believes

he kept the poor fellow's letters back."

Nowt been heard of him since rumpus
at wedding feast ?" asks the farmer,
watching the liquid beads dancing on the
top of a horn of ale he is pouring from a
brown stone jug.

No ; he seems to have left when
Father Busbj told them the Earl was dead ;
he went back to the Angel, and hired a
horse to take him as far as Derby, on the
way to London, it is supposed."

A foolish young man !" says Mrs.
Kirk, " the very time that he ought to
have stopped : why, seems to me as
matters could have been better ordered
for him — a lovely widow and a lovely
jointure all ready to his hands."

Yes, you would have thought so," says
Mary with a sigh; 'but he's a very
sentimental, odd sort of a man; he had
rated at her so, and sone on at her father

to such an extent, that I expect he had
not courage enough to stay ; but we shall
hear of him again, never fear."

Trust him," says Mrs. Kirk, '' if he i&
not quite daft ! And now, children, off
you go; Jack and Joey, get your faces
washed, and go with Hannah to school;
and, Dick, them turkeys have been and
laid abroad somewhere, down in Stoney-hollow,
I should wonder; go and see
lad."

The children bustled out, and Mary,
standing upon a stool, reached from the
mantelshelf a leaden tobacco box and
handed her father his pipe. The farmer
filled it, and beckoned Mary to sit by
him on the stool, which she did, laying her
head on his knee and looking into the
fire ; while Mrs. Kirk cleared away the
dinner things, at the same time taking her
share in the conversation.

** Three weeks to-day siu they buried
old lord," says the farmer. " Well, I
donoat know, but somehow seems to meas
he met with foul play as he never
counted on, but it's not for me to argufy
with jury ; I donna think I'd care to
live at great house, Mary."

Oh, I don't know, father ; it's nice
enough, and there's no fear when you have
plenty of servants ; besides, Mr. Hardwick
is going to have that old ghost place — the
knight's chapel — pulled down to the ground
and sown with salt, he says, though what
he expects to come up I don't know''

Well," says Farmer Kirk, laughing,
'' there's one thing sure — he wonnat get
the crop they say King George has just
raised at Kew."

"What is that, father?"

Hush, we donna speak loud about the
poor owt King, but he's been gardening,

VOL. II. S

they say, a bit at Kew, near palace there
as he's so fond on ; he went out and sowed
a beefsteak, they say, and he's gotten a
fine crop of snails."

Farmer Kirk took his pipe out of his
mouth to laugh at the latest story about
the poor King, and Mrs. Kirk, while she
was folding up the tablecloth ready to put
it into the press that stood handy in the
spacious pantry, paused to laugh also.

*' Well, I am not sorry," says the farmer,
*' that they be going to pull that old cutthroat
place down ; it's been nowt but a
harbinger for beggars as long as I can
remember."

*eh! but that Mester Hardwick's a
busy-body," Mrs. Kirk remarks.

But Susan is glad to have it removed
herself," Mary says ; " for I was there
when Mr. Dobbs called to remonstrate

sith her. ' I appeal from your father to
you, Countess,' said the nasty, odious
man. I hate him ! He gives me the
shudders almost as bad as that vile Short.
You should have heard the Countess say
that her father's will was hers. Just like
her — you know that, mother. Before anybody
she stands up for her father as if she
loved and respected him ever so much, and
I know when they are gone she gives him
to understand how little she values his
word or his opinion."

But he is her father, my dear, same as
farmer is yours," says Mrs. Kirk, in a mild
tone of rebuke.

No, mother ; my father wouldn't force
me into marrying a man I didn't care for ;
my father couldn't tell a lie if he tried, and
old Hardwick couldn't tell the truth, except
by accident."

s2

Bless thee !" says old Kirk, patting her
head and laughing, '' thought thy mother's
own lass."

*' Why, farmer? What's thou say that
for?" asks Mrs. Kirk.

That's just how thou used to talk
when thou wert Mary's age, and dang
me ! but it used to do me good to hear
thee."

'' And doesn't it do thee good now ?"

Sometimes, sometimes," answers Kirk,
puffing away at his pipe, and winking at
Mary, as much as to say, 'Tm only plaguing
her a bit."

Sometimes ! Well, I'm sure !" says Mrs.
Kirk. '* One gets owt and slighted at same
time, that's way with men. Never thee get
married, Mary ; a lass never knows what
she's gotten to put up with until she's
bound lessen to a mester for life."

I'll never marry," says Mary, " until I

meet with as good a man as the man you
married, mother."

'eh, well!" answers Mrs. Kirk, nodding
aside to Mary (as much as to say, " I'm
only teasing him — I'm not in earnest),
*' you needna wait long nor go far,
then."

Oh, she needna, eh ?" says the farmer.
*' Well, that's comforting to hear after five
and twenty years of married life."

Ah ! go thy ways ; tha knows I am but
i' fun, thou silly owt man."

The farmer pretends to be very angry,
and he pinches Mary's arm to prompt
her to join in the gentle conspiracy.
Just as Mrs. Kirk is becoming a little
anxious, the doorway is darkened by the
letter-carrier, who is a rare visitor at the
Home Farm, and none the less welcome,
though a letter in those days used to be
received with as much trepidation as a

telegram excited in the first days of the
electric post.

It was a fat, strange-looking packet,
and had come over sea and land ; and
there were four shillings and twopence to
pay ; but old Kirk paid the money with
cheerful alacrity, for he recognized the
handwriting. The letter was from Tom
Bertram. The young fellow had only
written three times, or, at all events, only
three epistles had arrived at the Home
Farm during all the time he had been
away. His mother, a bed-ridden old woman,
who lived in the village of Grassmoor
with her son-in-law, a small farmer who
had married Tom's only sister, had received
one letter ; but Tom had requested Mr.
Kirk to read the others to the old woman.
Tom had always been a favourite of
Farmer Kirk, by whom he had indeed been
treated more like a son than a friend ; and.

apart from the young fellow's devotion to
Mary, Tom lead quite a filial regard for the
stalwart Derbyshire yeoman.

Mary's manner changed a good deal in
presence of this letter from Tom. Her
gaiety went. She seemed anxious. She
would have left the room if the farmer had
allowed her.

Nay, come and read lad's letter, Mary,"
says the farmer, " there will be nowt in it
to worry thee, lass ; come, we'll all sit down
and read it."

There'll be no more work done to-day,
seems to me," says Mrs. Kirk ; " hanna the
letter best be left till nightfall r"

No, nowt o' t' sort," says the farmer ;
we nun read him now ; nay, missus, come
and sit thee down, I'll read it mysen. Shut
door, Mary, lass."

Mary closed the door.

'rand put window down ; we'll just get

round lieartli, like, and see what Tom's
gotten to say for listen. Let's have
another jug of ale, mother."

Mrs. Kirk filled the jug and poured out
a hornfull, holding up the jug so that the
amber liquor fell in a splashing column
into the horn.

There, thank you, missus ; now smooth
thy apron and sit thee down. Mary, lass,
give me my spectacles."

Mary had anticipated this request. The
farmer put on his tortoiseshell rimmed
glasses, laid aside his pipe, pushed the
tobacco-box from him, opened the letter,
smoothed it out on the table, and began to
read. Mary sat with her back to him,
looting into the fire, and Mrs. Kirk brought
out a half-finished stocking from a corner
cupboard and began to knit. A sheep-dog
that had been lying out in the back
kitchen stalked in and lay down by the

fire. The old clock on the stairs could be
heard solemnly beating time as the farmer
commenced to read.

Dear friend," he went on, " I hope this
will find yon well, though I be writing it
with one eye, and one hand, for that
matter ; but I've gotten another hand,
which it is a great comfort to have when
so many poor fellows have lost their all."

"What does he mean?" asks Mrs. Kirk.

*' Stop a bit and we'll come to it," answers
the farmer, continuing to read.
*rit's surprising how much you can see
with one eye — sixty thousand troops, as
would done your heart good, our own
British soldiers, some fresh from Canada,
a-marching on plains of Saint Denis here
outside of Paris, reviewed by Duke of
Wellington and Kings and Generals without
end ; only thing as I complain of me
being looker-on and not with my regiment

through this one eye business,
though I told 'em I could see as well as
ever I could with two, but IVe got to be
discharged, and am coming home through
it, with a pension, however, and some loot
in gold as I got in Spain, which our Captain
let me stick to on account of a bit of
hot work as I did now and then ; so it's
like as I'll come and settle down and do a
bit of farming', which will seem sort of quiet
after going about f eighth' and marching' as I
have sin that morning you come and said
good-bye, and often I've looked back to that
time and thought of all of you at Home
Farm and Grassmoor, which it has been a
great comfort to me often and many's the
time."

''Ah !" says Mrs. Kirk, turning her head
to hide a tear that was trickling down her
cheek.

Mary gazed steadily into the fire. She

T\'as looking back, and, happily for Ler, a
mist had come over those early days of
her trouble. Time had rounded the sharp
corners of it, and Jacob Marks had become
a shadowy memory, like a half-forgotten
dream.

'' There was troops of all branches of
service," continued Farmer Kirk, turning
over a new sheet and readjusting his spectacles,
"and they went through sham
battle which was sort of like Salamanca,
showing movements and how it was won,
and it were grandest sight as ever I see,
for there was no wounded and dead after,
no cries and screams for water, and no
wolf in human shape coming plundering
you and perhaps stabbing you as you laid
helpless out on the field when victory is
lost and won, which is the awful business
of fighting, dear friend, and I've seen as
much as most with that eye as have gone,

and this as, thank God, I've left to me, else
I wouldn't be writing this letter as it is so
long, because I've nowt else to do, though
don't take that as left-handed, one-eyed
compliment."

The farmer looked round to remark that
Tom was the same light-hearted chap as
ever, and that he (Farmer Kirk) would
rather have some fellows with only one eye
than he would others with six, though why
he should put his admiration for Tom into
such an impossible comparison did not at
the moment appear particularly clear either
to Mary or her mother.

"Paris is a gay town; you can have no
idea by Chesterfield what a big city is like,
and especially foreign, and you'd think it
quite rum to hear me a-parley-vooing,
through being nursed so long about this
eye and a bit of a sprain I got in my ankle
on road here when we was pursuing of the

French after Waterloo, for once or twice
they turned, as even worms they say will,
though I never see them do it in my experience
of either farming' or fishing' ; but
them Frenchmen they be good uns to
f eight, whatever folk may think, and women
is kindness itself. I never want to
raise arm again' them any more, for I
would wish better friends, the women,
as I said afore, being beautiful as they is
good."

He seems mainly smitten with the
women," says Mrs. Kirk, taking advantage
of a pause in the reading at this point.
Well, I should hardly have thought as
Tom would been man to see anything in
foreigners. I've always heard that they
were such sluts."

The farmer looked round at Mary, who
had moved her chair the better to hear
what her mother was saying.

*' Ah, a petticoat's a petticoat all the
world over," says Kirk, "and a kind action
is just as kind whether it's done by a
foreigner or English. Don't you hear as
they nursed him, and the like ?"

Go on, farmer," says Mrs. Kirk ; " get
letter finished."

'^ I should wonder," the farmer continued,
reading the letter, "as Captain
Oliver North doesna get home afore meas
it turns out he wasna killed after all.'
Seems as he wor not long in hospital after
Vitoria, where he done wonders of
courage, and he's most astonishing' chap as
I ever knew or shall know, and he's given
command of company as was sent to Pyrenees,
and he was sent to carry dispatches
through dangerous country and with no
escort as I hear, and he never arrived, and
nowt was heard of him, except as French
had took him and shot him for a spy; it

was a long time afore I writ to tell you as
lie was dead, hoping as I should hear
summit different ; they struck his name
out, our Captain tells me, at Horse Guards,
and giv his commission to somebody else,
considering as he was dead through not
reporting of himself ; and other day he
comes in here a-marchin' with other
prisoners as had been took and kep away
in one of them outlandish French prisons
as ought to have come in before now, and
I sees him quite accidental in the street, and
shouldn't have snowed him if he hadn't a-
snowed me, though I had a patch on my eye
and a beard on my chin, and was a-limping
a bit myself ; and he that spare and scarecrow
like as you'd never a suspected him,
and that ragged a old crow a-moultin' was
nothing to him ; he seemed a good deal
dazed like, and a bit wandering, and no
wonder, shut up nigh on two year with

poor food and hard stones to sleep on, as
he'd rather hav been shot, he said ; and it
was a dav or two afore he seemed at all
natural like, though he sit down and writ
a long letter to her, you know who I mean,
and he said as that had been his only comfort
a-writing to her in prison, as he smiled
happy like when he said, ' Money's a good
thing, Tom, sometimes, as I happened to
have a few guineas when they took me,
cuss 'em, forty on 'em to one, and I given
all to get letters sent to her, so as she
would know I wasn't dead, and while there's
life there's hope, Tom he said, 'and I
always snowed as we should wop the
enemy, leastwise you chaps would as where
not in prison, and that I'd be free again
some day.' Poor chap, and he says, * Ah !
Tom, I never had an idea what them
French prisoners suffered in Chesterfield
away from all they hold dear till I was a

captive myself;' and I tell sou what he
says, just like the dear chap, ^if they have
struck me out, as your Captain tells me, if
they have erased my name from army
list after having promoted me, why, I've
had enough of what they calls glory, and
they won't find me a-begging' to be put on
again'"

'' He was whole, at all events," says Mary,
speaking for the first time; "he had both
eyes."

*' But he doesn't seem to have made much
"use of 'em," remarks Mrs. Kirk.

''No," says the farmer, 'rit's as I said
before, one eye well used, and with a
good heart, is better than six."

That wasn't what you said before,
farmer," says Mrs. Kirk ; " but it comes to
same thing, though head's got more to do
with it than heart, I should say," a remark
which, it must be confessed, did not ap-vol.

II. T

pear to contribute multi to the elucidation
of the other.

There's one thing," resumed the
farmer, re-adjusting his spectacles, "Oliver
North needn't want no more to do with
armjj he's been and invented that thing
right out as he was puzzling at, and he
means to fight that battle, he says, yet;
you'd hardly believe as he was a-making
designs and things on a board with a bit
of charcoal one night by a lamp when we
was all a-getting ready for fighting' next
day, some a-writing letters home, some a-
praying, some a-drinkin', and some a-
fettling up their weapons ; but he's a
regular rum un is North, true as steel,
however; and this I fancy may be last
letter as I shall write sou afore you sees
me ; for a good number of us convalescent
and able-bodied is being drafted for old
England, nigh upon thirty thousand they

fiajs is going home, leaving about same
contingent here army of occupation, and
so heaven bless you and keep you well, as
it leaves me at present, till I see you again,
and give my duty to Mary, your kind good
daughter, with what words as may seem
best to you, and likewise to Mistress Kirk,
and a son's love to my old mother, which
you will read this letter to her, and I wish
I was a better scholar than I am, though
she will not miss it, and maybe if you read
this to Mrs. Kirk and family likewise they
will not think it so bad for One eye if they
don't mak' out as it's too long by half, but
if I said all as I've gotten to say I might
sit here for twelve month instead of best
dart of three days as it's took me ois and

OD.

"Your true friend and neighbour,
Tom Bertram, Sergeant-major."
*' And a right-down good letter too !'^

T 2

exclaims the farmer, as lie folds it up.
''My father sent me to school till I wa
twelve year old, and it would puzzle me,
1 know, to beat it, though I reckon myself
hard to conquer at accounts and a neat
letter once in a way. What does thou
say, Mary ?"

A very interesting letter, father," Mary
answers ; " quite as good as the one you
read in the newspaper from a General."

'' I see nowt to complain of except about
them foreign women ; but he'll get over that
I daresay, in time," observes Mrs. Kirk.

]say, missus, that's not worth a thowt -
what we've got to think about will be bit
of farming' as he wants to do, and there was
no lad as framed better to mak' a downright
good farmer than Tom."

Well, I donna know as that's any business
of ours, farmer ; we've gotten our own
lads to look after," responds Mrs. Kirk,

*' I shall make it my business, mother,"
says Farmer Kirk, in a tone of authority
which he rarely assumed, but which none
ventured to gainsay when he did assume
it.

'' Well, thou knows best," Mrs. Kirk
answers.

*' There's a farm down in the hollow,
between Gravel Pits and Brackenbury, as
would just suit a beginner; owt Saunders
told me as he wor thinking of giving up
and going to live on his bit of money with
his son and daughter at Chesterfield ; it
belongs to Countess of Ellerbie, rent ista
much, and Tom's just man for it."

One eve is not against a farmer, then ?"
Mary suggests.

No, Mary, lass, nor again' a man ; and
when t'other's lost defending his country it
makes that as is left as good as six."

Old Kirk would adhere to his comparison

of one and six, as an obstinate man
clings to an argument or statement which
he thinks his hearers regard as untenable,
and which he knows himself to be faulty.

'* It doesna add to his appearance," says
Mrs. Kirk.

Oh, if that's all, I believe there is such
a thing as a glass eye to be had, and I
have heard so far as appearances go as
they are even better than real thing itself,"
says the farmer.

^' A glass eye is very well for a stuffed
owl," says Mary, looking up at a knowing
specimen of that species of the feathered
tribe which stood on the mantel-shelf
balancing itself on one leg.

Oh," says the farmer, a little chagrined
at the remark, " then mayhap you wonnat
care to see Tom again ?"

Yes, indeed I shall ; though he did not
bid me good-bye !" says Mary.

'^ Ah, lass, that was because — well,
there, we'll say nowt about it ; rm only
right glad, Mary, you've got over them
days, bless your heart, and I hope there's
many a happy year in store for thee, lass,
and him too, and him too !"

Old Kirk looked at his daughter as he
repeated the last remark, and she smiled,
a little sadly, and then ran into his arms
and kissed him,

"Well, there's one thing, missus," he
says to his wife ; " we wonnat let lad come
home without a bit of merrymaking like ;
he went in the dumps, the chap did, he
shall come cheerily ; he's a honour to
Derbyshire, and Grassmoor Church shall
bang its three owt bells in token of welcome
home, anyhow ; I'll just go round
and see that owt mother of his and speak
to bell-ringing chaps about it."

Well, lass, what does thou think about

it?" Mrs. Kirk asks, when the farmer has
gone and the door is open once more to
the April sun and shower.

I don't know, mother," says Mary.

The lad's honest enough, and he's
gotten a good heart ; he's of the sort as is
not hard to manage, too; and mayhap
them foreign wenches was kind to him, as
what woman wouldn't be to a soldier
wounded in battle ?" Mrs. Kirk replies.

That is the time for kindness," says
Mary ; '' men are poor helpless mortals in
sickness."

I have heard as a man after soldiering
a year or two settles down well ; it's like
what sowing his wild oats is to an aristocrat,"
says Mrs. Kirk, '' and the Countess,
I've understood, had a high opinion of
Tom."

She gave him a keepsake when he
went away," says Mary.

Did she now ?" rejoins Mrs. Kirk. " I
never heard that before."

Oh, yes, she did."

'really? Well, I always liked her;
she was born a lady, and would have been
one to the end, whether it was with a title
or not ; and, after all, it is better than if
he'd lost a leg, or had come home with a
wooden arm and a hook."

Yes, mother."

They might have called him Hooky
Bertram then."

'' They wouldn't have dared, mother ;
there was no young fellow in all the country
braver, or that could ride better, or
who flung the hammer further, or who was
more respected," says Mary, quickly.

''No, maybe not; he was rather masterful
at times, and even farmer didn't like
him going horse-racing."

"That was only once, mother," says Mary.

"Well, well; there's no need to be in
any hurry about it," Mrs. Kirk replies.

The farmer's wife had promised him anytime
this two years that, if Tom returned
a good, honest, true man, she would not
thwart the young people if Mary should
happen to encourage him to propose for
her. Mrs. Kirk had one principal object
in life, and that was to please her husband ;
and, no other competitor for Mary's hand
being in the way, she was already beginning
to move in Tom's favour, and she was
sufficiently a woman to know that a few
words apparently directed against Tom
were better than praise just now.

*' Hurry what, mother?"

'' Oh, nothing, my dear. Tom Bertram's
well enough, but there's no knowing what
sort of connexions he may have formed in
them foreign lands."

I don't see that his connexions anywhere

make any difference to me, mother""
ISTo ; well there, don't be angry with
me for not goinor mad about him like
your father ; for my part, I think a lass
should look higher than just a young
fellow in the village."

*' If that is what you mean, mother, you
ought to know — nobody better — that Tom
Bertram is nothings to me more than a
friend ; he never was, and never will be."

Very well, love, don't get cross with
your mother ; that sort of temper is not
likely to be a comfort to your husband,
whoever he may be."

*' I shall never have one, mother."
Maybe not ; but I've known lasses, as
said that over and over again, live to brothers
of families, and happy enough
too, if there is any real happiness to begot
out of such responsibilities."

CHAPTER Iii.

MISCHIEF AFOOT.

Outlaw. — Vengeance and the needs of our Treasury-alike
demand you pause and render up your store,
mayhap your liberty.

Traveller. — Nay, I am a soldier, and will not brook
such rough commandment.

Outlaw. — Then have at thee, soldier !

Traveller. — Unmask thy villain's face, and give me
leave to see the knave who thus dare challenge knight
upon the King's highway.

Outlaw. — Tear off the mask thyself an thou canst.

Traveller. — Nay, that will I be sure, St. George
Befriending me. Defend thyself !

fTIHE Miller and his Men had once more

^ put on its customary air of quiet and

picturesque decay. The Bow Street run-der

disappeared the day after his ghost
trick, put so successfully upon Short, who
had been greatly discomfited at his guest's
conduct, and not the less chagrined at his
own. For although Short was physically
brave and mentally cunning, he was, like
Falstaff, a " coward on instinct," or, to be
more correct, he was a living example of
Hamlet's axiom, that conscience doth
make cowards of us all. He would not
have scrupled to take a man's life if he
thought it necessary to his own safety,
and he would even have done the deed for
profit ; yet there were times when the very
thought of Jacob Marks would almost
raise his grey, short-cropped hair. Spelter
had struck the right note when he had
conjured up that imaginary apparition of
a young man pale and half dressed. Short
had seen the ghost of Jacob more than
once in his dreams and on dark stormy

nights, when the wind came screaming by
the low arches of the sunken bridge with
its legend of murder, and rattled the old
casements and windows of the inn. He
had long since taken the swinging sign
-down because it creaked and groaned and
-sighed so in the night that it seemed to
recall to him the gallows at Derby where
the innocent victim of his treachery had
ended his brief life in the black shadow of
a false charge.

For more than two years after Jacob
Marks fell under the withering hand of •
perjury and the sword of the blind woman
who is governed by the blind law, the
North Midland roads had been tolerably
free from the highway robber. There had
been outrages by footpads, burglaries, and
seven murder in those wild parts of the
Derbyshire highways, the solitude and
darkness of which lent themselves to foul

and evil deeds. But from Derby to Chesterfield,
and between the latter town and
the wilds of Millers Dale, the roads, coaching
and byway, had been fairly free from
the operations of the mounted and well-equipped
knights of the road, who were
still, however, adding a spice of danger
even to travelling by coach on many of
the great thoroughfares of England.

The chief actors in the often romantic and
sometimes brutally vulgar and murderous
robberies on the King's highway were frequently
known to each other, and had their
headquarters in London, and their posts of
guard and succour in lonely country places.
'' Mr. Pious Short," as his enemies and detractors
called him, was suspected of the
craft as a sly practitioner on his own individual
account, but they could never "get
at " him. They had thrown out baits and
feelers ; they had put up their horses in

his stables; the had toasted him in his
best wine ; but Short had never criminated
himself, as Dobbs would put it, either byword
or deed. Neither the Home Office,
nor Bow Street, neither the military nor
the constables, detectives, runners, nor
mounted patrols, had ever got so far as a
suspicion, until Spelter, engaged in the
prosecution of a highway thief, had received
some revelations, which cast reflections
upon the inn-keeper and miller of
that lonely bit of road which the coaches
had left to the encroachment of grass and
hedgerows, the encampment of gipsies,
and the stray carts that found their way
to Short's wayside inn. As for the
mill, it was rarely at work now-a-days,
except when there was a freshet on the
gradually dwindling stream, that could not
always be dammed into sufficient power to
turn the moss-grown wheel. Spelter had

therefore obtained leave to explore the
Derbyshire country, and, quick at seizing
a scent, sometimes a wrong one, but
equally impulsive rightly or wrongly, he
had made up his active mind that Short
was the sly thief and bold robber the penitent
"Knight of the Spur" had more than
hinted at ; for that unfortunate adventurer
had been a guest at the inn during Jacob's
arrest, and a spectator at his trial and
condemnation.

Spelter's information had been, to his
mind, sufficiently endorsed by that subterfuge
of the ghost in the curtains. He had,
therefore, gone away the next day, openly
hiring a cart from Short to drive him to a
point on the road where a local coach ran
to Sheffield, a town he said he had a desire
to see. Short had driven the stranger
himself, and Spelter talked of nothing but
antiquities and castles, and made himself

VOL. II. u

out to be quite an enthusiast in the matter
of strange histories, legends, and ghosts.
Short had given him some moral advice and
topographical assistance, and had talked
generally in the manner of an unsophisticated
countryman, which had in nowise
influenced Spelter's opinion ; while Spelter
had contrived to remove from Short's mind
:all suspicion as to the possible character of
Spelter.

It would not have surprised the Bow
Street runner if Short, despite his sanctimonious
professions, had suddenly turned
upon him and presented a pistol at his
head ; for Spelter had once had a remarkable
experience of the doings of a supposed
Quaker, who had for more than
twenty years been a notorious " receiver "
of stolen watches, rings, jewels, snuff
boxes, and plate. Short reminded Spelter
of that drab-coated gentleman; though

Short was a very different person from the
Quaker, whose most active propensity in
crime was a miserly greed, a mad desire to
accumulate money, while Short, having the
miserly craze in only a small degree, was a
sensualist of the worst type. Short was
not a companionable ruffian ; he was a quiet,
morbid, sensual wretch, who took his pleasures
as he took his crime, singly, alone,
hugging himself on his devilish secrecy.
When he was supposed to be visiting the
corn-markets of Lincoln, and Wakefield,
and York, or doing business at more distant
places, he would be indulging his
worst propensities in London, in the worst
haunts of vice, and in the gayest — one
night in some filthy hovel of filthy hags,
the next at one of those " midnight masks "
which were features of many of the public
assemblies of the time, and special attractions
of dens of iniquity. Gaming in those

u2

days was a pastime of general indulgence.
Basset, ombre, tic-tac, crimp, quadrille,
were among the different methods of
mutual plunder indulged in at the various
gaming houses, which were of every
degree. Short plunged into these dissipations
and into every gross bestial madness
of the time that the demoralization of a
long war had helped to promote and
foster.

But Short would have no ally, no permanent
companion, no friend in his sensual
fooling and infamous doings, except such
casual ally as the time and place afforded*
No one knew him, nor where he lived ; he
had a fresh resting-place, a different lodging,
every time he visited London ; and
when he had run his brutal course he
would by devious routes return to the
Miller and his Men and the chapel at
Brampton, a demure hypocrite, chuckling

to himself on bis successful deceit. The
only man he feared at all was Dobbs, who
possibly, from the action of some secret
spring of sympathy, knew that Short wore
a mask. It was in a roundabout way,
through the instrumentality of Short, that
Lawyer Dobbs had been entrusted with the
prosecution of Jacob Marks, in consequence
of which Dobbs had seen Short under trying
circumstances, and had a shrewd suspicion
that Short knew more about the
robbery of Scruton than appeared. Possibly,
if it had been the fortune of poor
Jacob Marks to have had Dobbs on his
side to instruct counsel for his defence,
Short might have cut a sorry figure and
Jacob have lived to marry Mary Kirk ; but
that was not to be, and so Jacob was
forced into that great army of martyrs
whose judicial murders are the awful
exceptions to the rule of British justice.

Now Dobbs was somewhat puzzled concerning
the death of Lord Ellerbie ; for he
had neither seen nor heard of Scruton for
months, and the deed was the more enshrouded
in mystery to him because he
had practically the reason of an accessory
before the act to believe in the theory of
murder, and yet the evidence pointed most
unmistakably to suicide. Spelter had told
him that there was a secret passage from
the boat-house to the chapel, and that the
Somebody whom the woodman saw by the
lake was the murderer. If this were so,
Dobbs had no reason to doubt who had
done the awful work ; and, if he was
correct in his surmise, it would not belong
before he heard from Scruton. Therefore
it did not answer his purpose that anymore
stir should be made about the affair,
and he was very angry when Mr. 
informed him that he meant to have

the old chapel razed to the earth. Such a
proceeding must reveal the secret passage
if there was one, and that would assuredly
lead to fresh inquiry, and the danger in that
event Jay in Spelter's suggestion that the
crime would be a troublesome affair for
those who most benefited by it. At present
the widow was best served by the Earl's
death ; but on her behalf it might also be
argued she was the greatest loser, since the
murder had deprived her of the love and
protection of a husband. Moreover, not the
shadow of suspicion could, by the most
ingenious malice, be directed in that
quarter. Dobbs had done his best to prejudice
Spelter against Oliver North, and
that hare-brained person had done his utmost
to justify doubt by leaving Chesterfield
almost as quickly and mysteriously ashe
had come.

The lawyer concluded, a day or two after

that on which the Kirks had last heard
from Toe Bertram, to call on Short and
sound him on recent occurrences. Scruton
knew Short well enough, possibly, to have
trusted him if his aid had been necessary
in any way to help a secret coming and
going to Brackenbury Towers. Spelter
had also told him that he had stayed a
night at the inn. Dobbs had bought
Spelter ; at least he believed so. He had
engaged Spelter's services to clear up the
mystery, and Spelter had accepted such
heavy preliminary fees from Dobbs that
the lawyer regarded him as his own instrument,
his tool, to be used as he willed.
The lawyer had particularly requested
Spelter not to take any action touching his
idea of having the mysterious chapel at
Brackenbury partly or wholly pulled down
without his (Dobbs's) consent and approval
; yet before Spelter withdrew from

the neighbourhood openly to return to it
privately lie had ensured the placing of an
anonymous letter on the Countess of
Ellerbie's dressing-table, and another on
Hardwick's desk, and he had sent two
others to London to a college-ue who would
despatch them thence in the regular mails,
each of which missives urged the Countess
and Hardwick to remove that superstitious
temple of crime and murder and ghostly
stories for ever from their otherwise unexceptionable
estate. One letter contained
a prediction that danger, perhaps death,
to both father and daughter were involved
in delay. Hardwick had not mentioned
these letters to Dobbs, for secrecy was
asked for by the writer, " a trusted servant
of His Majesty the King," who undertook
to make himself known to Hardwick when
the good work should be completed. The
notion of removing what was a perpetual

source of fear and wonder commended itself
to Susan. She longed to shut out every
recollection of its horrors, and the idea
impressed itself upon Hardwick because
he was not a good man, and therefore nota
brave one, and because he was a proud
man, and the bait of " a trusted servant of
the King" caught his vanity and inspired
a vague hope of some royal recognition of
the work, especially as he had resolved to
convert the modern chapel adjoining the
mausoleum of the baleful knight into a
Protestant church.

In this latter scheme Hardwick was represent
thwarted by his daughter, into
whose imagination the impressive and
beautiful ceremonials of the Church of
Some on that eventful day of her
marriage had sunk deep ; while Father
Busby's earnest and authoritative words
of consolation had touched her heart

and influenced her mind more than any
spiritual ministration she had ever experienced
; for Susan had hitherto been somewhat
of a sceptic in religious matters. In
her bewilderment and sorrow — a wife and
a widow in the same hour, discovering in
that same hour the utter perfidy of her
father, and meeting the man she loved and
had mourned as dead — Susan had in imagination
clung for support to the cross which
Father Busby had raised before her eyes.

Never had priest found man or woman
in a frame of mind more favourable
for the promises and hopes of the
Romish Church to work upon. There was
something truthful and good and self-denying,
too, in the Father's manner and
words, and he had knelt down by Susan's
side and prayed for her with a fervid
eloquence touching her forlorn state, the
agony of her heart torn by so many contending

emotions, and asking for help and
guidance in that high and novel position in
which she now found herself, wherein
wealth and high station brought with
them new duties, new responsibilities, and
a new stewardship which had its account
with God and His saints.

Hardwick had met with an unexpected
check when Susan informed him that at
present it was her intention to maintain
Father Busbj and his ministrations — and
even possibly to extend their operations,
the which she considered, apart from other
influences, a duty she owed to her dead
lord. In face of this triumph of his eloquence
and prayer. Father Busby had
raised no objection to the Countess's decision
in regard to the ancient chapel and
tomb, only asking that a memorial might
be set up on the spot recording the history
of it, and dedicated to the memory of the

last of the Ellerbies, a wish that met with
prompt approval from the Countess.

It was in the twilight when Dobbs called
at the Miller and his Men. The house was
partially closed. The mill was silent, and
had been for many weeks. The dam was
low, and a green film was upon the face of
the water. A narrow, gurgling stream
flowed under the wheel and slipped away
through the meadows, as if it crept as
long as it was on Short's domain, and leapt
with joy when it left his boundaries behind
; for by-and-by it chattered merrily
over stones and sang lullaby strains to
forget-me-nots and water-daisies.

"JS^obody at home?" said Dobbs, after
banging at the door for some time and
being admitted by the slipshod woman wha
had charge of the house.

ISTo, sir. What is your bidding ?" she
asked. " We have little or no custom now,.

though we have liquor for them who calls."

'well, well, where is the master?"
Dobbs asked.

''He is gone to York this very day; he
nun travel far afield that makes an honest
living in these times, I reckon," said the
dame.

Yes, that's true ; and when comes he
back again ?"

Eh, dear, that's more than I can tell ye;
not in a fortnight, maybe, or three weeks."

Ha ! So ! And are ye left here by
yourself in this lonesome place ?"

I am not always by mysen ; there's my
son, who takes care of the mill."

But the mill's doing nothing, I see ?"

*' No, the lad's at work in the fields at
"Grrassmoor just at present."

Oh, well, then you shall give me a mug
of old ale, and I'll hope to be luckier next
time I call, and ye'll tell the master I was
Were."

'' That I will," she answered, shambling
into the cellar to draw the ale.

As queer cut-throat a place as the
devil himself could wish to see," said Dobbs
to himself, looking round the murky bar
with its few red cinders smouldering in the
grate, and its years of dirt on the panes of
the old window ; " and the place has a
fusty smell," he added, taking a long, reflective
pinch of snuff ; " hard to realise the
days when it was a flourishing coaching
house. Progress has gone beyond it, just
as Protestantism has left road-side crosses
behind it ; Short is clever enough to apply
this loneliness to his own purpose, shouldn't
wonder ; sly old fox, Short, not the man to
criminate himself — Short thinks twice before
he speaks once. Well, life's a game in
which you should let nobody see your
hand. Short plays his own game; so do
I, so do I."

Dobbs chuckled, took another pinch of

snuff, quaffed the ale the woman brought
him, untied his horse at the door, and cantered
quietly back again to Chesterfield.

Short was all the time sitting on a corn-bin
in his stable, with the door fastened
from within. His black sturdy cob had
ten times more mettle in her composition
than anybody dreamed of when Short rode
her soberly to Chesterfield market or drove
her in his cart. " Daisy," as he called there,
appeared to be as mild as her name
would seem to imply on occasion, and had
a trick of stumbling now and then in answer
to a peculiar jerk of the rein. If
Daisy " had been humanly endowed, and
had entered into a conspiracy with her
master, she could not have been more
docile to the highwayman's purposes ; for
not the freshest and best bred bit of horseflesh
in England could out-manoeuvre or
out-gallop " Daisy" when she was on active
service.

While Dobbs was taking his ale in the
Miller and his Men bar, ^' Daisy " was
taking hers in the stable. She had her
head in a bucket, and the liquor was old
ale. Daisy knew what it meant as well as
if Short had said, " Now, my beauty, it's
business to-night ; not done much lately,
too dangerous; but we want guineas, Daisy,
not marked ones this time ; and they are
coming, I believe, our way before it's
dark." Daisy drinks and pricks up her ears.

Yes," says Short, in a whisper, " same
horse that stopped ten minutes since ; it's
going now, pulled up to let his rider drink
fi erst customer we've had for a week. All
right, my hearty, mop it up."

Daisy finishes the liquor and lifts her
head up to be harnessed. Short strokes
her neck and feels her hocks. She grips
his shoulder with her teeth, and he feels the
hot breath from her nostrils on his cheek.

VOL. II. X

Short is a new man. He stands erect,
straight as a willow. His hand is cool
and his pulse steady. He moves about
with the nimbleness of youth. He puts
the bit into Daisy's mouth, and fondles
her ears the while ; he fixes the girth and
adjusts crupper and martingale with scrupulous
precision.

'^ Sh, steady, Daisy," he whispers ; " ita
long ride to-night ; our work's close at
hand, but we'll not draw rein till we get
to Derby, when it's done ; a good feed and
clean straw at Derby, and in such time
after the work is done that we can step
into the best inn on our way to York and
prove an alibi if necessary ; sh !"

He took from the pocket of his brown
yeoman's coat a pair of steel-barrelled pistols
and put them into the holsters in front
of the saddle.

'• Not yet, my beauty," he whispered,

*' and you must e'en be cool and wary ;
it's a soldier we tackle this time, and it's a
grudge we owe, Daisy, as well as the gold
we want. Dost thou remember Mr. Thomas
Bertram ? Well, he had the audacity to
tell me to my teeth that it was I who
robbed Philip Scruton — I, Daisy ! — I who
gave my evidence in the court ! Sh ; soho,
my lassie."

The highwayman laid his head against
the horse's neck.

That fool Kirk has received a private
message from the guard of the London
mail that Bertram will mayhap come to
Grassmoor by the end of the week ; but Mr.
Sergeant-major Bertram tipped the guard,
and ordered him to have horse ready saddled
at Angel when Wednesday's coach arrived,
so that he could give Grassmoor and
Farmer a surprise. Sh ! Gossiping chap,
our friend the merry guard ; he's given us

x2

many a piece of valuable information, eli ?
And we've been good to him, Daisy ; many
is the guinea he's had from us. If Tom-bertram
had not listed for a soldier when
he did, just through old Kirk's silly wench
not liking him as well as Marks, he'd have
been a trouble to us, Daisy, a sore trouble.
Oughtn't be a bad night's work to settle
him altogether ; he's sure to be a bother
coming home here for good, damn him ! —
sure to be meddling going on with him
and Kirk, who scowls at me whenever I
meet him, and his silly wench goes off
into a faint at sight of me, curse her,
and all of them ! Sh ! So ho, my beauty I
In five minutes we'll start ; no moon tonight
; wind's been against the coach today,
be a bit late ; we'll nick him not far
from the bridge, the old place ; don't
move if there's any firing till I give you
the office, and then away you go short cut

over the meadows for the high-road. The
French have put one eye out, they tell me,
it's a pity he should be odd-eyed ! Sh 1
now, my dear, steady !"

He took from his pocket a velvet mask
with a black lace fringe to fall over the
mouth. He tied it on. Over it he put
his usual hat, and he wore his customary
dress, with the exception of a pair of
jack-boots. A cloak was rolled up and
crossed in front of the saddle.

*' Sh, now, steady, time's up !'' he said,
going to the stable door and undoing the
bolts with a firm, cool hand. Daisy turned
and followed him.

He opened the door, put out his
head and listened ; then pushed back the
door wide and went into the yard. Daisy
still followed him, and did so as gently asa
pet lamb might have done.

The twilight had changed into darkness,

pitclij darkness, which increased in density
every moment.

'' Come," he whispered, leading the way
over the soft muddy part of the yard,
and through a gate into a meadow by the
mill.

Daisy was by his side.

*' That's right I" he said. " Now !"

The next moment he had vaulted into
the saddle, and Daisy was making a well-known
circuit — the same " short cut " she
had made when returning from the encounter
with Lord Ellerbie's postillions
and the drunken heir. There were two
bits of watercourse in the route, and Daisy
walked steadily down the middle of the
stream for some distance to avoid leaving
behind her anything like a trail that might
be attractive or useful to any inquiring
mind such as that which belonged to
persons of the Spelter class.

Far away in the distance lights shone
here and there in cottage windows,
twinkling like stars, but no other glimmer
appeared right or left or in front
of them. Startled birds at roost flew out
of the hedges as they passed ; and a sheep
bleated here and there as Daisy brushed
by the sleeping flocks.

Meanwhile the coach had pulled up at
the Angel yard, and a stranger in the
King's uniform had paid his fee and
mounted the horse that had been standing
ready for him, and had cantered through
the market-place with its blinking candles
in its bow windowed shops ; into Yicar's
Lane, and past the old house where the
military parson had parted with his wilful
son ; down St. Mary's Gate, where that
marriage procession had excited the
cynical criticism of Nannie Lomas ; past
the Hall in Lordsmill Street, which was

dark and had all its blinds down, for
Hardwick's daughter was a Countess now,
and lived at Brackenbury Towers with her
father ; along the street where he had
marched with the colours in his hat alongside
of Oliver North and the Honourable
Philip Scruton, with that bracelet of Mary
Kirk's riveted upon his arm; past the
Horns public-house where Oliver North
had stood up and asked for the King's
shilling ; and, breaking into a lively trot
beyond Hasland Hill, towards the spot
where he was expected by as dangerous a
foe as any he had met in Spain or on the
plains of Waterloo.

Sh !" says Short, leaning his head
forward over Daisy's neck, while she stands
motionless as a statue in a bend of the
road. " He's coming !"

END OE THE SECOND VOLUME.

J

AND

THE GIRLS THEY LEFT BEHIND THEM.

VOL. HI.

AND

THE GIRLS THEY LEFT BEHIND THEM

BY

JOSEPH HATTON

AUTHOR OF

"CLYTIE," " CRUEL LONDON," " THE QUEEN OF BOHEMIA,'

&c, &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. in.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

All rights reserved.

PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE,

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

v.3

BOOK III.

(continued.)
DISCHARGED BY FATE.

Fate steals along with silent tread,
Found oftener in what least we dread ,
Frowns in the storm with angry brow,
But in the sunshine strikes the blow.

Cowper.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VIII.

MASKED AND UNMASKED.

Tremble, thou wretch,
That hast within thee undivulged crimes,
Un whipped of justice.

King Lear.

npOM BERTRAM let the Angel's best
-*- hack have her head, and the nag
ambled steadily along, while his riders
thoughts travelled to the Home Farm, and
the girl he had left behind him, and then

b 2

back again to the old days of Grassmoor
and Chesterfield.

It had occurred to him once or twice
that it would perhaps have been better to-have
arrived in the village a little earlier.
The good folks might be gone to bed. The
coach was later than he expected, the night
was very dark, though it was not more
than half-past nine. Judging from his
memories of the past, Farmer Kirk would
be about taking his " night-cap " and smoking
his pipe, while Mrs. Kirk sat close by
the candle reading the family Bible. All
the children would be long since abed, and
there would be a light in Mary's room.
His poor old mother was always in her
chamber in the little Grassmoor farmhouse
of his sister, and so there was no good
speculating about her. Indeed, there is
no purpose to serve in confessing that his
thoughts were all centred in the Home

Farm, its clean, cosy house-place, its trim
garden, its pleasant meadows, its fine-hearted
master, its prim and, to him, rather
starchy mistress, and its dove-eyed goddess,
whose face had haunted him since, like
Modus in the play, he had first noticed the
brightness of woman's eye.

Tom had no other explanation to give of
his coming home at all than was to be
found in the magic of that ever-present
memory. At night by the camp fire, at
morning in the battle, at noon flushed with
victory, at evening in hospital, at all hours,
under all circumstances, Tom Bertram had
seen in his mind's eye the girl he worshipped
; and the band on his arm had nerved
him to acts of heroism in the fight, and to
patience and endurance under his wounds.
No Bed-Cross Knight, with his lady's glove
in his casque, had ever found more stimulus
to doughty deeds in a love-token

than had Tom in the memory of Mary
Kirk, and the one little word of hope that
Susan Hardwick had whispered in his ear
at parting. Yet she had not returned his
love; she had preferred another to him.
It was a strange mad constancy that which
held Tom Bertram's heart; and nothing
would shake it. Had Mary Kirk been
married to another, her devoted, unsophisticated
lover would have nursed his
own blighted hopes and her children possibly
at the same time, spending his life in
the village, and coming at last to be called
Daddy, everybody's friend, but more especially
the friend of Farmer Kirk's grandchildren.


It was only when he feared that the
sight of him would keep her wounds of
sorrow open ; only when he knew that his
voice would perpetually remind her of the

true lover she had lost ; only when powerless
to save Jacob Marks, and useless asa
consoler ; that Tom had resolved to cutaway
the village ties which bound him,
and join the army of the King.

Has she got over her sorrow ?' ; he
thought ; " young hearts donna go on
pining for ever. How will she receive me ?
Is there anybody else in the way ? No
other, if Farmer Kirk has any influence.
I'm a maimed man ; though my heart's as
good as ever ; ay, and my arm."

It was a proud thought this last one.
Tom little knew how soon it was to be tested.

His thoughts ran quickly ahead now, ashe
began to recognize even in the darkness
certain land-marks on the road. He saw
old familiar things in his fancy as he had
seen them a thousand times hundreds of
miles away. They were realities now. He

reflected that in half an hour he would be
riding through the long straggling village
of Grassmoor. There would be flickering
lights in the windows. He would hear the
ripple of the road-side stream as it fed the
water cress and mosses. He would get down
to open the farmer's gate. He would knock
at the farmer's door. The dogs would bark,
and the farmer would come to the door
himself and open it, a pipe in his hand !
Tom's heart began to beat wildly as he
thought of the light in the chamber window
over the door. The nag broke into a
gallop as if it had a sudden inspiration of
sympathy with its rider.

Pall up, or you are a dead man !"
just as suddenly rang out in a hard firm
voice from the middle of the road.

Taken aback for a moment, the challenge,
however, acted on Tom's nerves like
the word *of command. Quick as thought

he was alive to the clanger of the
situation.

"Why, damn it, man!" he exclaimed,
shaking his sword loose in its scabbard,
you don't want to rob a poor soldier
who's been fighting for his country ?"

It was useless to try to use his pistols,
for they were not primed, and he felt that
he was covered by the enemy. But,
reining his horse about quickly, he drew
his sword almost noiselessly.

Stand, or this moment's your last !"

Oh, stand be blowed !" said Tom. " I
haven't seen real fighting to be dumped by
a damned footpad !" and he charged the
foe pell-mell.

Daisy was too quick for the lumbering
nag from the Angel. She wheeled beautifully,
leaving Tom to go plunging halfway
up the bank by the road-side. But
the Angel horse was sturdy and not without

pluck, and Tom gathered it upon its
legs and was once more combating the foe r
his sword swinging above his head, when
bang went the enemy's guns one after the
other. One of the bullets hit its mark,
but the light of the flash showed the figure
and attitude of the foe, and happily on the
side of Tom's one active eye. Tom almost
sprang out of the saddle as he fairly lifted
his horse to the charge, and struck down
the highwayman with one of those tremendous
blows which had so often in the
Peninsula demonstrated the value of that
superior muscular strength which has
carried the British soldier to the very
height of his most ambitious hopes.

Riderless in a struggle for the first time,
Daisy stood motionless. Then, finding
her master did not remount, she trembled
in every limb. Tom slipped from his
saddle, and was no sooner out of it than

his horse turned and started off for Chesterfield
as fast as four legs could carry
him, his shoes striking fire as he went, and
crashing along the road with a noise that
awakened the echoes for miles round.
Away he went helter-skelter. It was
lucky the toll-gate had been left open.
Clatter of hoof and rattle of rein and
crupper, right along the level road, down
Hasland Hill, past the Horns, up Lords-mill
Street (people hurried to their doors),
round Beetwell Street, straight for the
Angel yard, running over a drunken man
in the market-place, catching the rein in a
pile of tresses and stalls and rattling them
over the place ; the runaway horse never
stopped until it stood, reeking with foam
and blood, at the stable door, for it had
been shot in the fleshy part of the neck.

There was a great hubbub at the Angel.
The grooms rushed out; so likewise did the-guests

smoking their evening pipes, the
landlord puffing and blowing, Susan Jane's
ribbons flying. In less than no time
there were " mounting in hot haste "
and loading of pistols, and half a dozen
men on horseback, including Dick Holmes
and a stranger from London, who had been
entertaining the company with a fund of
racy stories and anecdotes. The stranger
had represented himself to be a bagman.
He was attired soberly, and seemed to
know all about woollen goods and cloths ;
for between ourselves Mr. Spelter had commenced
his career in a hosier and clothiers
shop, and knew a great deal about the
trade. Before the Chesterfield heroes
knew where they were, he had taken
charge of the expedition.

A sower — a officer I made him out
to be," says the groom; "ross booked for
Derby, ordered by guard of Nimrod Coach,

paid Miss Susan Jane fifteen bright guineas
deposit for 'loss ; guard tipped me wink,
said he wonnat going' quite as far as Derby,
traps not half as fur — going' to surprise his
friends, disbanded soldier."

"Dang rue, I shouldn't wonder if it be
Tom Bertram, who was expected at the
end of the week ! " says the landlord.

Hold the lantern up," says Spelter - t
is that local mud ?"

How dost mean?" says the groom.

Why, where is there mud like that —
what part of road ?"

That mud's dust," says the groom —
that mud's sweat, Mester Londoner, and
'loss is wounded in the neck badly, see
thee !"

Fetch Jerry Bray the Vet," says the
landlord to a bystander, who hurried off
for the surgeon.

"If you want to know where 'loss turned

and come home, she's not been away long
enough to get further than dead arches
this side o' Grassmoor," says the groom.

Was the rider armed ?" Spelter asks.

"He wor; he'd a sword, at all events."

Pistols ?"

I donna know."

Sword no good against long, steel-barrelled
pistols — we shall find your customer
dead in the road — but we may perhaps
understand the private mark of the
villain who's killed him — come, friends — I
know the way."

You !" they exclaim.

Yes, every inch of it — experienced
bagman knows every highway in England."


"True," they say; "well, lead on,
mester !"

And the little troop started off at a trot,
presently moving into a gallop, to the

renewed consternation of the little town,
whose wondering inhabitants were by this
time mostly at their doors and windows.

Meanwhile Tom Bertram, finding his man
evidently dying, tried to mount Daisy with
a view to seeking assistance. But Daisy
would not be mounted. She slewed round
and round; she reared; she backed; she
plunged ; to stand still again the moment
Tom desisted.

It was too dark to see what sort of
injury the highwayman had sustained, but
feeling at the vagabond's head, Tom was
satisfied that he had wielded his military
sword with powerful effect, and he thanked
his good fortune for it, seeing that his own
life had been in mortal jeopardy.

He shouted " Hill! Hi ! Murder! Hill!"
as loudly as he could, in the hope of attracting
the attention of other wayfarers,
at the same time gripping his sword incase

of further attack j but not a creature
responded; and the few cottage lights away
in the distance were gradually disappearing.

Then he made another attack on Daisy,
and in the midst of a struggle, in which
the gallant little mare had all but succumbed,
Tom felt a sudden giddiness come
over him, a deadly sense of sickness which
was not new to him, since he had been
twice seriously wounded in the field. He
put his left hand in his breast, and staggered
towards the roadside bank, where
the avenging army from Chesterfield found
him lying senseless.

It astonished the bagman's companions,
when they arrived at the scene of the
encounter, to find their self-elected chief
provided with a dark lantern and bandages.

Always carry them," he said — " never
know what may happen — travellers' companions
these — and this."

He took out a small flask and poured a
strong dose of brandy into Tom Bertram's
mouth, while he unbuttoned his jacket and
took off his belt.

The honest man first," he said —
though I've really most interest in the
other — wounded in the breast — not much
more than a scratch — force of bullet broken
by accoutrements — but bleeding awfully —
give me your handkerchief — yes, that's it,
Dick Holmes — strap it with belt round
shoulders — good — never knew fellow named
Dick who was a fool — capital — you shall
marry Susan Jane some day — fine girl,
Susan Jane — now, then, lift him upon
quietest horse there is — one sit behind —
hold him up — another lead — take him to
nearest house."

"To Farmer Kirk's," said several voices
at once.

VOL. III. c

That ain't nearest, " said Spelter,
quickly.

'* Not much in it as to distance, and
will get best attention there," said Dick
Holmes, who, being in love himself, had a
fellow-feeling for Tom, whose particular
weakness in regard to the Kirk family was
a matter of notoriety.

All right — take charge, Dick — you are
promoted to Captain — see the soldier safe
inside Kirk's house — one of you other gentlemen
ride on with all speed to the Home
Parm and prepare them for hospital work
that's it — there you are, you see !"

Away went the young tradesman whom
we have previously met, clattering off to
Kirk's, Dick Holmes and another following
with Tom, whom the rider held partly in
his arms, administering now and then a
dose from the bagman's flask, which presently
began to have the desired effect of

rousing Tom out of the stupor which loss
of blood had brought on.

Now, then," said the supposed bagman,
turning to the other object in the road,
and flashing his light on Daisy.

"Why, that's owt Short's mare!" exclaimed
one of the remaining members of
Spelter's escort.

And, by heaven, that's Short himsen !"
he said, as Spelter removed the mask and
discovered the highwayman's pale face,
with its eyes half opened, its mouth
rigid.

I'd have bet ten guineas on it !" exclaimed
Spelter, " and I'd have stood fifty
if he'd been as little hurt as the soldier."

The two men from Chesterfield, who
knew Short well, stood as still as Daisy
herself.

Dead as mutton — wish he was as
wholesome — soldier has a strong arm and

ca

good sword — cut him clean through the
neck — worthy of Life-guardsman Shaw —
in the dark, too — better die like this than
have Jack Ketch slinging his weapon at
you — we'll carry him home, gentlemen —
the canting scoundrel !"

Daisy lowered her head as they began
to raise her master. She made no resistance
when Spelter laid his hand upon therein
close by her mouth. She stood as
quiet as a lamb while they lifted the lifeless
body on her back.

Knew I should have him," said Spelter,
as the cortege moved off — " hard lines topick
him up like this — just my luck — in at
the death, it's true — but I had arranged a
proper exit for him — confound that long
sword !"

Who the devil are you, then ?" asked
the man who was walking by Spelter's side
and leading Daisy.

"You will pity me when I tell you," he
replied.

You are not a bagman, then ?"

Do I look like one ?"

Yes."

Thank you — compliment to my disguise
— and my acting — think I must goon
the stage."

Perhaps you are also one of the chaps
as wears masks and does business on highway,"
rejoined the other.

No," was the answer ; " I wear a mask,
but not Short's kind — he wore a mask I
could never stomach — successful mask, too
religion — a mask and a cloak too, that
do anything behind 'em when they are
worn cleverly — no, I'm an honest man !"

Who are you, then ? You shan't
budge another inch till you tell us," said
the questioner, laying his hand on Daisy's
bridle ; " a whipper-snapper like you !

Let's have no more on it, out with it \ ,T

I will, you ought to know — no right
to trespass longer on your good nature
have you ever heard of a Bow Street
runner ?"

Yes, course we have ; do you think were
fools ?"

Of Dick Spelter?"

King of Bow Street runners !" exclaimed
the interrogator.

"You flatter me."

46 You are not him ?"

I am," said Spelter.

The devil I" remarked the other man,
speaking for the first time during the
whole proceeding.

CHAPTER IX.

A HERO IN GLOVER.

None without hope e'er loved the brightest fair,
But Love can hope where Reason would despair''

Littleton.

T

OM BERTRAM had a night of strange
rest, so quiet was it, so calm. He
was himself now and then, but when he was
most himself he seemed most at sea. When
he was most himself he concluded most
emphatically in his own wandering mind
that he was in the temporary hospital outside
Paris, being nursed by those soft-footed
Sisters of Mercy to whom he may be said
to have owed his life.

From that time the past was like a
dream. His leaving Paris, his journey by
sea, his arrival at Dover, his conversation
with the guard of the London coach, his
little purchases in the metropolis, his
starting homewards, his ride out of Chesterfield.
It was all a dream, leading up to
a skirmish with the enemy, to a surprise
of pickets, an ambush, a fight, and a
wound.

But in the morning all these mists
were cleared away. The doctor had been,
and pronounced Tom's hurt of no serious
account. Loss of blood had been and was
Tom's chief trouble. He would soon get
over that. He was to be kept quiet.

Tom put his hand into Farmer Kirk's,
and the two strong men wept like children.

You monnat talk much, my lad," said
Kirk.

It's all straight, eh ?" Tom replied,

"I am not dreaming, eh? It's you,
farmer ?"

Ah, lad, it's me, true enough."

Thank God!" said Tom; " av, thank
God ! for He's been merciful to me."

He's good to them as deserves it,
Tom ; but you monnat get excited, lad."

"It would have been hard, after all, to
come home and be shot down like a door in

o

sight of Grassmoor !" said Tom.

Ah, lad, it would ; but here's missus,
thou must keep quiet."

Yes, don't say too much," said Mrs.
Kirk ; "sit up, lad, and take this."

Tom sat up. The farmer packed the
pillows behind him. Mrs. Kirk handed
him a basin of mutton broth.

"Eh, Mrs. Kirk, it's right good of you
to be taking care on me like this," said
Tom.

It would be right mean if we didn't

help thee, lad ; don't fret on that score ;
it's a pleasure to us."

Thank you. Does my owt mother
know ?"

Ay, all village knows, all country will
by end of week ; there, now, lie down and
donna think about it. And, farmer, if
you must stay in the room, sit down by
fire and say nowt."

Tom and the farmer obeyed the head-nurse.
The under-nurse was on the stairs
outside.

Well, mother," she whispered, " how
is he now?"

"Ever so much better; he'll soon be
well if thy father will only stop talking to
him."

Has he asked after me ?"

Not as I know on."

Oh !" said Mary, following her mother
into the house-place.

He asked about his mother."

Don't you think he would like to
see me r

"Maybe; but farmer agrees with me
he'd better not just yet !"

Oh ! How does he look, mother ?''

Worn, and tired, and ill."

Poor fellow ! And his eye, mother ?"

Disfigured, certainly, but not much."

Not much ? Is there a patch on it?"

u No, it doesn't look much different to
the other, only sight is gone."

Really P

He says if he'd had two eyes, he'd a
been a dead man this day."

Why, mother ?"

Because his siffht would have wandered
; he got that murdering villain
away from blind side, and he can see
such a lot and look so hard, only havoc

! that is a good thing, is it not,
mother ?"

Ah, it is, lass ; misfortunes are good
things sometimes."

Does he look much older ?"

A year or two."

His hair isn't grey?"

Grey, no ! It's as brown and glossy as
ever, as far as I can mak' out."

"I'm glad of that. Poor fellow, what a
deal of trouble he has had P

"He has so!" said Mrs. Kirk; "but
Heaven selected him."

Yes ? What for ?"

"To minister justice."

Yes ?"

He'd never have been found out if God
hadn't tore mask off, and smote him with
the sword of Tom Bertram!" said Mrs.
Kirk, pausing in her work and looking at
Mary.

That man Short, you mean !" said
Mary, shuddering, and looking round as if
she feared he might be at her elbow.

Devil, not man, Mary!" said her
mother; "but the justice of heaven has
found him, late in the day, perhaps ;
earthly justice would never have done

it.

How awful it all is !" said Mary, laying
her head upon her mother's shoulder.

A week later, in the afternoon, Tom was
dressed and sitting by the fire downstairs.
In a day or two he would be able to go
out and see his mother. He had been
allowed to talk of Mary, and she had sent
him a bunch of fresh flowers every morning.
She had seen him, though he had not seen
her. Her mother had allowed her to lookin
upon him while he slept. The doctor,
who knew the situation fully, had positively

forbidden that he should see Miss Kirk
under a week.

At last the happy hour came. Mrs.
Kirk had contrived that no one should
witness the meeting. Mary was by his side
before he could rise from his chair to receive
her.

No, you must sit still, Tom," she said,
taking his hand; cc sit quite still while I
talk to you."

"You might as well ask wind to be still
when it's blowing big guns," said Tom,
standing up. "Mary! oh, Mary!"

Tom 1" said the girl, her heart beating
wildly.

How she came the next moment to be
sobbing in his arms she can never make
out to this day ; but her nerves had been
so tried, she used to say in after-years,
when speaking of the incident, that she
quite lost her head : what with the death

of Lord Ellerbie, the return of Mr. North,
the justice of heaven on Short, and the
justification of poor Jacob Marks, a young
girl might well be excused for giving way
to her feelings under these trying circumstances,
when they were capped by meeting
Tom Bertram again. For if ever girl had
a true and devoted lover, Mary Kirk had
in Tom Bertram.

They were sitting by the fire talking, the
farmer, Mrs. Kirk, Tom, and Mary, in the
twilight, when my lady's coach that had
been made in Paris pulled up in the road
outside the garden, and, before anyone
could go out to receive her, the Countess
of Ellerbie was in the room.

u A truly happy family !" said Susan ;
"glad to see you all; don't get up one of
you ; yes, Tom Bertram may."

Tom stood forward, looking a little
sheepishly at the splendid woman who

addressed him; for Susan was radiant,
though in deep mourning, her eyes as
bright as the diamonds that fastened her
cloak.

Since Tom had last seen her she had become
a woman. She had changed even
more than Mary had. Born to command,
Susan carried her new dignity with an
easy aristocratic grace. She would have
looked a lady had you dressed her in rags.
A Countess, she looked the picture of a
Queen.

"Let me see the man who is as
valiant in peace as in war, and whose
heart has never wavered in his devotion I'*
said the Countess. " Give me your hand,
Tom !"

The bashful hero put out his hand,
Susan laid hers in his great palm.

Squeeze it, Tom ! You did when we
parted."

God bless you !" said Tom, pressing
her hand ; " and you said she should not
forget me. Mr. North said you would
keep your word."

Never mind Mr. North," answered the
Countess. " What did you do with the
keepsake I gave you ?"

Ay, Mary," said Tom, turning to the
blushing girl by his side, " it was that as
saved me. Oliver North said it was talisman
against fire and sword."

"What do you mean, Tom ?" asked Mary.

Why, this !" he said, turning up the
sleeve of his right arm.

The bracelet I gave to Susan !" said
Mary, looking at the Countess.

The bracelet I gave to Tom," said the
Countess. " Come and kiss me, Mary !
Tom may kiss my hand."

Mary was in the Countess's arms the
next moment, and while Susan fondled her,

VOL. III. D

and stroked her wavy hair, she turned to
Tom, trying all the time to appear calm
and collected, and asked, " What did North
say?"

I told him you said Mary should not
forget me, and he said, ' Then depend on
it she won't — Miss Hardwick will keep her
word"

Yes, and something else you said?"

About this bracelet? He said he envied
me the token, and he called it a talisman,
and so it has been, or else I'd never have
been here to see this happy and blessed
day."

A little thing comforts one sometimes,
Tom," said Susan ; " it is a satisfaction to
know that one has kept small promises if
one has broken great ones ! Ah ! well,
I must be content to see other people
happy. There, let us all sit down and talk ;
I have come to tea, Mrs. Kirk."

What a tea-party it was ! Never, surely,
had the world seen a countess so condescending
and so sweet !

d2

THE RECKONING.

If you ever listen to David's harp you shall hear
as many hearse-like airs as carols ; and the pencil of
the Holy Spirit hath laboured more in describing the
affliction of Job than the felicities of Solomon. Prosperity
is not without many fears and disasters ; and
Adversity is not without comforts and hopes. We see
in needlework and embroideries, it is more pleasing to
have a lively work upon a sad and solemn ground than
to have dark and melancholy work upon a lightsome
ground : Judge therefore of the pleasures of the heart
by the pleasures of the eye, Certainly virtue is like
precious odours, most fragrant when they are crushed;
for Prosperity doth best discover Vice, but Adversity
doth best discover Virtue." — Lord Bacon.

CHAPTER I.

THE Returned Prodigal.

Gayer insects fluttering by-ne'er
droop the wing o'er those that die,
And lovelier things have mercy shown
To every failing but their own,
And every woe a tear may claim,
Except an erring sister's shame.

Byron.

II 1-AJOR GEORGE WINGFIELD, 
leased from duty with the army of
occupation in France, having in his pocket
a considerable sum for arrears of pay and
a long leave, sat in the dull wainscoted
coffee-room of an hotel in the neighbourhood

of Piccadilly, where the Dover coach
had deposited him. Hard service had
seasoned the boyish beauty of the face
which had looked love into the eyes of
Jessie Burns and defiance into those of his
father. It had not worn him as it had
Oliver North. He looked strong and full
of health, his fair complexion reddened by
exposure to the weather and the heat of
the sun, his broad chest more expansive
than ever, his limbs clean cut and firmly
knit. He wore his moustache, which
drooped luxuriantly over his full red lips.
A man now, George was not altered except
to this extent : A picture of robust
youth when he drew his sword to march
with his company that autumn morning in
the old Derbyshire market-place, he was
now that same picture finished, developed
into manhood.
> Wearing loose undress uniform, people

turned to look at him in the London
streets ; for lie bad been in town some
weeks, baying important financial business
to settle with the War Office, and other
duties belonging to the close of a long and
important military service.

At Dover he had sat down and composed
a long and serious letter to his father,
asking to be received at the Vicarage as of
old with open arms, begging his father tolet
bygones be bygones. " I deeply regret
and deplore the past, sir," he wrote, "and
would atone to the full, if I knew how. I
trust that my honest endeavours to carry
the family name unsullied through the
dangers of a great war have in a measure
removed from your mind the recollection
of the folly of my youth : this has been a
source of continual reproach to me when
I have looked back, and I should have
suffered beyond endurance, had I not felt

that in your heart you could not hold mein
continual abhorrence, and had I not
also been equally assured of my mother's
prayers." Then he referred to the pleasant
days of his boyhood, to his father s
great charges in respect of his education,
thanking the Yicar for all this and for his
noble example of courage and rectitude,
and concluded by saying, " If one regret
more than having parted from you in
anger has troubled me, it has been that I
did not obey your command and marry as
sou wished. That poor loving girl has
been always in my mind, and I never considered
that I esteemed her sufficient to
make her my wife until I was far beyond
reach of her. I trust, sir, you have been
a father to her, as you declared you would
be, and that it is well with her, for great
was her trouble, and sore her need. God
forgive me for it ! Touching what passed

between myself and Miss Manners, I leave
that to be ordered as you may think best
for her happiness and your own honour."

It was an honest, manly letter, the work
of one who had been tried ; who had been
face to face with death many a time ; who
had looked on scenes of slaughter and
misery ; who had witnessed acts of heroism
in men as well as in women ; who had seen
wonders of devotion and self-sacrifice
among the daughters of Spain and France;
and who had learnt higher and nobler
lessons from war than most men who had
fought their way from Madrid to Yitoria,
from Yitoria to Waterloo, from Waterloo
to Paris. George's was a sociable nature,
and when he left home the lad did not
know how home memories would cling to
him, how his heart would go back to the
vicarage, to his father and mother, and to
that unsophisticated, unthinking girl, with

her musical Scotch accent and her soft
winning ways. He thought himself a
"devil of a fellow," a sort of Captain
Plume, a lady-killer, a lad of mettle, a
soldier who was going forth to make conquest
of hearts, as well as of forts and
fields, a Don Juan and a Hector in one ;
instead of which he had gradually discovered
that he was just an average
honest, thoughtless, brave young Englishman,
with, on the whole, more than an
average sense of his moral and religious
responsibilities ; and, what is more, that,
instead of his having made a conquest of
the pretty little lassie at the Post Office
under the shadow of the crooked spire, she
had made a conquest of him. He had lain
many a night thinking of her, and almost
cursing himself that-he had not married
her.

Sandy Burns, the bare mention of

whom as a sort of relation had turned his
stomach in that last interview with his
father, had long since ceased to be regarded
except with the respect due to the
father of the girl he really loved. George
was changed indeed, and yet he might have
argued that he had not changed at all ;
that he was a raw, inexperienced, selfish
youth at Chesterfield, since which time the
innate good in him had come out, had
developed, had grown with his manhood,
to the necessary annihilation of those
vicious qualities which he had in his
greenness imagined worthy and manly.

As he had neared the white cliffs of
Albion, his longing to see Jessie again had
taken hold of him with increasing power.
I am coming back, my own little Jessie ;
I told you I should' he had written before
embarking at Calais, " and you will find
me, though now a Major — mark you, a

Major, Jessie — still the same old affectionate
George."

He had asked his father to address his
reply to the hotel at which he should stay
in London, and the Vicar did so, but not
until he had taken time to consider well
what he should say, and his wife had agreed
with him that the truth and the whole truth
was the best at all times. So the Yicar
had written as follows : —

"My dear Son, — For so you are, George,
and always have been, notwithstanding
the grief I did suffer under, long and sore,
and thy mother likewise, from thy sin and
disobedience. That said, give me leave to
confess thy letter hath given me and thy
worthy mother great joy, and it is a comfort
to me to feel that as a soldier you
have done credit to the country that bred
you, and to the name you bear.

<; You have done more than carry your
sword with honour, my son — you have
conquered yourself. Patiiur qui vinci : But
he becomes strong, and the truth will not
be able to cast him down, for even as we
sow shall we reap. Prepare, then, to receive
ill news with that which is good.
As for me and thy mother, we stretch our
arms out to thee, and our free and full
forgiveness goes to thee with this letter*
Thy fathers house is thy due resting-place,,
and the fatted calf shall be killed.

Yet must the news hereof which thy
mother thicket with me proper for thee
to know be of sadness, since your letter
speaks of Jessie Burns, the mother of your
child. God is good, and she may yet live ;
but 'tis four years and some weeks since
sight of her or report of her has gladdened
Sandy or myself. Sore beset with
the women of this town, who could not

forgive her the sin thou hadst put upon
her, she fled the virtuous furies, a plague
upon them, and has been lost to us as if
she had died. I fear me Sandy Burns
was hard upon her — in truth, I know he
was, and he has not prospered ; from sickness
to drink and to the loss of his employment
brought him to the humble position
of our gardener here at the Vicarage,
but this day he is transferred to a friend's
employment in the Peak, whither he goeth
by the coach, as thy mother advised it
were best he be not in the way when we
welcome thee home.

Replying to thy inquiries as touching
Miss Manners, she, with my full consent,
married the Yorkshire baronet who, for a
time, was much concerned at the prospect
of being cast off by her. He is a good
husband, she a true and happy wife, and
they do live on his estate in the East

Ending of the great county of the North,
and are like to have numerous successors
to their wealth. So may heaven prosper
them in their love and estates ! In which
prayer it rejoiceth us to know thou wilt
concur.

In this letter there mingles, as in life,
good and ill, joy and sorrow. Bear both
as thou hast borne thine honour in the
battle-field, and come home with all speed
to a father's heart and to a mother's arms.
And know, my son, that thy mother hath
recovered much of her former health, and
doth now share the exercise and delight of
the household duties. Be cheered. They
have brought your letter addressed to
Jessie to the Vicarage. She was most
unfortunate, and, though happiness in
marriage is found among equals of birth
and station, it had pleased thee, George, to
make her thy equal, and it may be with-vol.

III. E

in the possibility of things that the report
in the Gazettes and journals of your return
may induce her, if she be living and in
honour as I truly think if in life, to disclose
her retreat and condition, and as
Horace hath it —

Deus haec foretaste benign,
Reduced in seem vice.'

a From your affectionate father and with
his blessing.

Normandy WlNGFlELD."

It was a heavy blow to George this terrible
news concerning Jessie. He sat without
moving for half-an-hour with his
fathers letter in his hand, and then he
read it again and again. The brave little
heart, he thought, how it had gone forth
from the cruel place. He could understand
how Jessie, in her fearless way, had
turned her back on the canting hypocritical

town ! What names he called it in his
silent agony and passion, sitting there in
the unsympathetic coffee-room of the old
tavern, forgetting for the moment that he
had been more cruel than the town of his
nativity ! But the sting of his father's
letter came home to him presently. Not
all the honey which enshrouded it had
any sweetness for him. And his child !
With what strange sensations of fear and
dread, of love and longing, he read that
passage of his father's narrative, the story
of the wrong he had done the girl he had
professed to love only to seek her ruin ;
and to whom he found his fondest hopes
and desires clinging when seas and battlefields
rolled and jarred between him and
the pretty stranger whom Fortune had
lodged within his influence and power.

There was madness in the thought that
his child might be living in poverty and

e 2

UNIVERSITY OF

ii i iiuniQ I IRRARY

wretchedness, its mother enduring 
privations. But there was a
faint gleam of hope in this madness,
which, however, only glimmered for a
moment, to fall dead at the suggestion that
Jessie no longer lived. He sat and
thought of every conceivable thing she
might have done, and his mind wandered
to Miller s Dale, the wayside inn, and the
kindly landlady there. Thither he had
advised her to go if she should not be well
treated at home. The only thought that
gave him one drop of comfort and patience
was the remembrance that he had forced a
sum of money upon her at parting. Yet
surely in the search the Yicar would have
instituted, the little fishing-station on the
Derbyshire Wye had not escaped notice.
Then again it might. The vales of Derbyshire
were terra incognito to half Chesterfield,
and few persons came and went in

that shady retreat whither Jessie, supposed
to be on a visit to relations faraway,
had accompanied her lover one
never-to-be-forgotten happy summer. What
would he have given now to recall it, to
blot it out, and to have left Jessie in her
innocence at home, or have been ruled by
his father and made her the Vicar's daughter
! How generous, how noble, he thought
now was his father's conduct compared
with his own. A man proud of his blood,
a soldier once high in command, and now,
as he had said, a soldier of Christ, he had
deigned to stoop even so low as to call
Sandy Burns brother; yet had he, his
degenerate son, thought it a fine thing
to leave the poor pretty unselfish girl and
plume his hat for other conquests, for fresh
fields and pastures new !

George's love burned fiercer now for the
check it encountered, and his debasement,

in his own estimation filled him with a
passionate sorrow, a mad affliction of remorse.
He buckled on his sword and
went out. "Walking is a relief to an overwrought
mind, and it helps a man to think.
"When a certain great author encountered
his first great trouble in life, he started off
and walked twenty miles without stopping.
George Wingfield felt a similar impulse.
He gratified it. At the same time he
resolved all manner of schemes for the
discovery of Jessie Burns. Alive and
still true to him, he would marry her.
Dead, he would raise a monument to her.
He hoped that she would find in her child
an incentive to live, an inducement to obtain
employment, and also a comfort, he
thought. Perhaps she had fallen into benevolent
hands. Some kindly-disposed
lady had taken compassion on her. Oh !

if she were only alive and well under some
hospitable roof, how he would reward her
for her sufferings, how grateful he would
be to her new friends ! That curmudgeon,
her contemptible father, it was wise in the
Yicar to send him away ! The idea that
she might have found an asylum in the
Derbyshire valley near Buxton was dissipated
on reflection ; but, while he was
walking and thinking, he turned into the
office of the Chief of Police, and consulted
that astute official, who, after a short inquiry
connected with the detective department
of the force, offered to send a
messenger down into the country, where
he would at the present moment have the
advice of perhaps the most capable officer
in the service, who was engaged in another
matter on the spot.

The suspicious death, or the murder, of

Lord Ellerbie on the day of his marriage
was news to George Wingfield, who had
heard nothing of Oliver North for a longtime,
except that he had been struck out
of the Army List, and the fact of Susan
Hard wick's marriage now convinced him
that his brave comrade was indeed dead.
This for the moment put aside his own
trouble. After all, death was more dreadful
than his own living sorrow. Though
George had seen the grim monster in every
shape, once outside the sweep of his darts
he rejoiced in life. He was strong, full-blooded,
of genial instincts, and he only
scorned death when he was fighting his
country's enemies. He eagerly engaged
the services of the police, and the messenger
was ordered to proceed to Chesterfield
by the next coach, take counsel with
Mr. Spelter, make every inquiry as to
Miss Burns's disappearance, and report to

London, meanwhile extending bis personal
inquiries to the neighbourhood of Millers
Dale and Buxton.

Conscious that he had taken the promptest
and most available means of instituting
a search for Jessie and her child, Major
Wingfield walked with a more hopeful and
elastic tread, though Oliver North and Susan
Hardwick ran gloomily in his thoughts.
The suspicious death of Lord Ellerbie !
Had Scruton succeeded, then? He had
not thought to ask the question. If that
swash buckling knave was now the Earl, so
much more reason, he thought, for him to
hate Chesterfield, and resolve not to live
there when he found Jessie. He knew
nothing of the duly reported death of
Scruton, the epitaphs at Brackenbury and
Chesterfield. No such good news as that
entered into his hopes ; for in his own experience,
though death has the credit of

being no respecter of persons, he had seen
the best fellows fall first. In all the early
battles of the Peninsula the young and
brave and good comrades, it seemed to him,
were invariably selected for the list of
killed. It would be quite within his view
that Scruton should be alive and North
dead, that he himself, for that matter,
should come home with only a few
scratches and a scalp wound or two, while
Tom Bertram should have long weary
spells in hospitals, and lose an eye. "But
give me the chance to atone," he said to
himself, " and I will atone !"

He had scarcely given a thought about
whither his steps were carrying him since
he had retained the services of the police,
though he had already excited some attention
among the belles and exquisite of
the Park. His absent manner, his long,
swinging stride, his stalwart figure and

bronzed face, and his generally unstudied,
yet fine soldierly gait made him quite a
figure in the Park ; though he was in competition
with the Persian Ambassador of
the time, who used to ride a white Arabian
steed, gaily caparisoned, but not more
showily arrayed than himself. History
repeats itself. One year it is the Ambassador,
with a fair Circassian in his train,
who excites the nation of England to a
wild pitch of curiosity ; the century wanes r
and the Shah himself dazzles us with his
gems, and fires feminine curiosity, not to
say masculine envy, with his trinity of
veiled and therefore beautiful wives. Both
the one and the other went home utterly
stupefied with what they had seen, the last
visitor more bewildered than the other ; for
in his notes on the streets of modern London,
the Shah explains that the police
officers, who administer and control the

traffic, are selected for their handsome
figures from the upper classes, and that to
insult one of them the penalty is death.

The past and the present are curiously
linked in all departments of life. To-day
in artistic circles the ladies are dressing
very much after the fashion of the latter
days of the eighteenth century, which was
the mode adopted by Susan Hardwick,
Mary Kirk, and Jessie Burns at the commencement
of this present history; but
they were necessarily behind the metropolis,
and happily so, for London had left
off the short, starless waist of Susan
Hardwick in our first picture of that tantalising
beauty under the elms by her
father's door, and had revived that system
of tight lacing which obtains in the present
day, to the utter destruction of health and
beauty.

The Park when Major Wingfield promenaded

there, with his long stride and
his thoughtful face, was a picture of
strange outre dresses, male and female,
grotesque poke bonnets, tall strange hats,,
wasp waists, and sandalled shoes ; for men,
short blue coats, tight trousers, narrow-brimmed
tall hats, cocked over the nose,
but not so as to hide an oiled love-lock on-the
left temple. Our women show an inclination
to follow the changes which began
in 1760, when Paris adopted the semi-classic
robes of Greece, which, by imitation
and adaptation, became in England
the short-waisted, low-necked, short-sleeve
clinging gown of an English lady
of fashion in the first days of the present
century, and which governed country belles
and county ladies long after the mode had
merged in the metropolis into tight lacing
and other extremes. Fashions were
slow to change in the country districts of

our fathers, and Hard wick, Kirk, Mrs.
Kirk, the Vicar, and their families with
slight modifications clung to the habits of
dress and manner which obtained in the
days of Goldsmith and Dr. Johnson, with
the exception of that " baby-waist " gown
of Miss Hardwick, which was a slight
advance on the time, attributable to Susan's
occasional studies of The Lady Monthly
Museum of the period.

The country for many years was as little
influenced by the vagaries of fashion in
London as it was by the wicked stucco
reign of Nash in the matter of street and
domestic architecture ; and so if you would
fully realise the days in which this history
moves, with the dresses of the period and
the bricks and mortar of the time, you
must fill your mind with reminiscences of
the snug picturesque houses of the eighteenth
century which modern architects are

reviving at Kensington, Hampstead, and
in other directions ; you must think of the
old village greens and their fringes of ivy-coloured
houses, with diamond windowpanes
; you must picture the market-places
of Nottingham, Derby, and Chesterfield
with their stone piazzas, their bow-widowed
shops, and their canvas-covered stalls ;
you must picture Derbyshire before railway
trains, when Buxton was in its infancy,
when the roadside inns in the Peak were
plain, comfortable-looking houses, often
built of local stone quarried in the neighbourhood
; when a drive through the hills
and dales of the famous Midland county
was free from the everlasting reek of the
limekiln, the meadow-blasting hand of the
miner, and the screech of the locomotive ;
and yet for all this change you have only
to look back from seventy to eighty years.
In the matter of dress, you could hardly

have any more picturesque guide than The
Mad Dog illustrations of Caldecott, issued
in the present year of grace ; nor could you
have a better example of the educational
and art progress of these days than in a
comparison of the children's literature of
now and then as exemplified in the toy-books
of 1879 and those of 1800. And
yet, strange to say, we have tolerated all
these years the ghastliest change from the
picturesque to the ugly, in the matter of
architecture, that ever afflicted a nation.
It was said of a great emperor that he
found Rome a city of stone and left it a
city of marble, in reference to which it has
been said of Nash that he found London a
city of brick and left it a city of stucco.
Happily an old English revival has set iD,
and if you would try to realize the rural
and provincial England of these districts
where local building-stone was not abundant

you have only in fancy to put Calder
men and women into Shaw's houses,
reducing the ornamentation of the latter
and toning down the colours with age, to
find yourself at home a hundred years and
more ago ; while thinking of the scenes in
which this present history passes you will
scatter here and there the stone-built
houses of the Peak with the red-tiled and
the thatched buildings of Chesterfield, the
low straggling homesteads of Grassmoor,
and the lichen-covered walls of Bracken-bury.
As for the justification of the
romance of our history, and what may be
called its improbabilities, the real story of
the times gives ample warrant, the records
of old families equally startling revelations,
and the Newgate Calender even
sadder episodes than that of the Miller
and his Men here set forth.
For which personal and explanatory aside,

VOL. III. f

the author tenders his apologies, and forthwith
follows Major George Wingfield to his
hotel, where, after some necessary refreshment,
the returned warrior retires to his
own apartment to re-read his father's
letter and chafe against the unexpected
obstacle to the realization of his hopes.
He was glad to learn that at all events he
had not blighted the career of Miss Manners.
It was some little consolation to.
know that she was settled, if not happy-for
George doubted whether that undersized,
common little Yorkshire baronet
could suffice for the happiness of any
woman, much less a refined, delicate-minded
woman such as the Yicar's ward.
But George made no allowance for the
pleasant fulfilment of duty which belonged
to the station in life of her Yorkshire ladyship.
Miss Manners had always been
accustomed to take a leading part in the

parochial work of the Chesterfield Vicarage
; she would all the more appreciate the
extended and higher influences appertaining
to the lady who presided over the
domestic administration of large estates
with fat livings in her husband's gift and
wide miscellaneous patronage in her own.
George flung himself upon a sofa and
thought and thought; picturing in his mind
all his career from his boyish days upwards,
his battles at school, his contests at
college, his hair-breadth escapes in Spain,
his almost miraculous salvation at Waterloo
; and amidst all the scenes as he came
and went he saw a fair smiling face, with
white teeth and firm rosy cheeks, and reddish
wavy hair. If Fate had ordained that
he should be punished by the fanning of
his passion at this time, and the augmentation
of Jessie's attractions, the returned
soldier could not have suffered more than

f2

he did. The responsibility of paternity,
too, made strange claims upon his
fancy. He wondered that he had never
before thought of this additional link between
Jessie and himself, for, though he
had insisted upon her taking his purse for
the reason acknowledged between them,
he had never, until his father's letter was
before him, realised that he might have a
child also to greet him on his return. "Was
it a girl or boy ? With all the right and
proper impulses that could possibly govern
a man under the circumstances, it seemed
to him peculiarly hard that Providence
should delay even a moment the opportunity
of atonement.

It was fitting, however, that a man who
had left the pretty devoted girl so heartlessly
as George Wingfleld had left Jessie
should smart for his perfidy, and it was
quite in keeping with the practical unsympathetic

character of the police mind that
it should invent for him the cruellest possibilities.
He was presently aroused from
his reflection by a visit from an officer who
had called, with his chief's compliments, to
inform him that on a certain Friday four
years previously the bodies of a young
woman and a female child were found
floating in the Thames near London Bridge.
The remains had never been identified, and
they had been buried at the cost of the
Poor Law Union of the parish in which
they were discovered. From the evidence
of certain articles found on the bodies, it
was believed that the mother had come upto
London from some country district,
possibly to conceal her shame and trouble,
which in the end, coupled with poverty,
had been too much for her, and she had
sought peace in the river.

George's heart sickened as the officer

told his story, and suggested that his chief
feared these were the persons for whom
he was in search. For some minutes he
could not speak. His hands trembled ashe
buried his face in them, trying in vain
to control his emotions. He recovered
with an effort, and cross-examined the
officer.

"Were no inquiries made after the
woman and her child ?"

"Yes, many."

Did anyone inspect the remains?"

They were almost beyond the possibility
of identification."

George shuddered, and standing up
leaned his head against the mantelshelf.

Her clothing ?"

It was laid out for inspection, with the
trinkets found on the body."

And yet she was not identified ?"

"No."

Did anyone come up from Chesterfield
?"

He asked this question with eagerness,
his voice trembling, as he feared for the
answer.

I cannot tell."

The colour of her hair ?"

"A reddish brown."

What effect would the water have on
dark red hair ?"

"It is hard to say."

George pressed his hand on his heart
and paced the room.

Have you a record of the people who
saw her?"

Yes, I should say so."

And her clothes — are they preserved ?"

Oh, yes."

Her trinkets ?"

Yes, sir."

"Can I see them?"

"No doubt of ifc."

"Now?"

I should say so."

At once?"

If you will come along with me."

If I will !" said George, rushing to the
bell and ringing it furiously ; " a hackney
coach will take us more quickly than we
can walk?"

"I think not, sir."

"Come, then, we will go immediately."

A servant entered the room in haste.

This gentleman will return," said the
Major ; " serve him with whatever he may
desire at my expense."

The officer bowed.

"Forgive the hastiness of my poor
effort at hospitality," said George; "you
will have time to forget this little incident
over a bottle by-and-by. God knows
what may become of me !"

CHAPTER II.

LITTLE GEORGE, MAJOR GEORGE, AND
KING GEORGE.

In fine, this same London is a strange, incongruous
chaos of the most astounding riches and prodigious
poverty — of feverish ambition and apathetic despair —
of the highest charity and the darkest crime ; the great
focus of human emotion—the scene of countless struggles,
failures, and successes, where the very best and
the very worst types of civilised society are found to
prevail— where there are more houses and more houseless,
more feasting and more starvation, more philanthropy
and more bitter stony-heartiness, than in any
other spot in the world.

Mathew's World of London.

THE trinkets were not Jessie's, nor was
the wearing apparel anything like
that which she had worn. Indeed, George

Wingfield had come away from the awful
ordeal of the police lumber-room convinced
that the poor creatures who had been found
in the river were not the darlings he had
longed to find. But it was a sorry sight,
the clothing of the unknown victims who
had sought violent relief from the perfidy
of man and the uncharitableness of woman I
The place altogether was the most melancholy
apartment it had ever been his lot to
enter ; yet he had seen war in all its hideous
shapes ; siege of fort and town, sack
of cottage and palace, the dying and the
dead prone among their household gods.
The police store-room was full of reminiscences
of death and crime, the repository
of the murderer's knife, the suicide's pistol,
the burglar's tools, relics of undiscovered
crimes, and ghastly proofs of deeds for
which men and women had been hanged ;

some, too, with the additional horror of
being drawn and quartered.

It was from among this blood-curdling
collection of things that the bundle, ticketed
and dated, was brought out for George
to see if the clothes belonged to Jessie
Burns. No room of the dead in any
Spanish house over which the French
armies had swept in victory and in retreat
had ever affected him so much as the sight
of that bundle and the child's frock and
little shoes when the officer spread them
out before him. Even while he was convinced
that the sad relics did not morally
put upon him the crime of murder, he
went away haunted with that frock and
shoes. Some other poor woman had suffered
as Jessie may have suffered for aught
he knew. Some other unfortunate child
had gone down under the dark waters as

his may have gone for aught he knew. The
responsibility of that little life preyed on
him bitterly.

But he would hope for the best, and he
would leave no stone unturned to find the
fugitives.

Having sought out a solicitor, whom the
police had recommended as a reliable
person, he had delivered to him a complete
description of Jessie, instructing him to
offer a reward for her discovery, and to put
himself in communication with the police
in the affair, and report to him as long ashe
remained in town, and after that to the
Vicarage at Chesterfield. He had resolved,
the moment his business with the Minister
of "War and the Commander-in-chief was
settled, to go home and begin his inquiry
himself at the fountain head.

In the height of his troubles he did not
forget the cheering news about his mother.

She was no longer an invalid confined to
her room. She would be downstairs to
receive him. It was in his thoughts that
he would take her a present from London ;
and, as he was passing a silk-merchant's
shop the day following his visit to the
police chamber of horrors, he remembered
that in the days when his mother was an
active woman her favourite gown was a
black silk, as stiff as a board, a splendid
material that rustled like a ship's sails in a
gale of wind.

She shall have the stiffest and best
that money can buy," thought George, ashe
entered the shop, through a pair of
queer folding doors and down a step.

An old-fashioned London tradesman, the
shopkeeper, in tie-wig and square-cut
brown coat, Mr. Goodenough, silk-merchant,
received the officer with a courtly
old-world bow, and waited upon him with.

the dignity of a bishop. Indeed George
almost hesitated to trouble so quiet and
gentlemanlike a person to show him his
wares.

I will leave it to your judgment," said
George, " to select the very best and
thickest silk you have among your merchandise."


The London tradesman bowed, and proceeded
to lay before his customer what he
pledged himself to be the very finest piece
of silk in the market.

While George stood by the counter, a
little child, a boy, with a wooden sword in
his belt, came toddling into the shop from
a doorway at the back, and stood wrapped
in silent admiration of the young Major's
uniform.

George turning round, and seeing the
little fellow, was suddenly conscious of a
new interest in children. This little one

had large wondering eyes and curly hair,
and was a sturdy, well-built infant.

"Well," he said, looking down at the
child, "what is your name, eh?"

Dorge," said the boy.

George, if you please, General," interposed
Mr. Goodenough, silk-merchant, from
the counter.

Dorge, geese, Deneral," said the child.

"I am not a General," said the Major,
but I am a George, and so you and I
must be friends."

u It is an honest, worthy name, an I
may make so bold," said the merchant.

Yes," said the Major, smiling, "it should
foe a good name in England, when we share
it with the King, eh, little George ?"

God save His Majesty !" said the tradesman,
sorrowfully.

"Amen!" responded George. Turning
again to the child, " are you George

the First, or are there several of you?"

The only one," said Mr. Goodenough,
who had become quite talkative, from
the moment the child had put in an appearance.


George the First, eh?"

"Iss, geese, Deneral," said the boy,
looking round for approval at the old
gentleman, who was tying up a parcel of
silk.

Well, you are a fine little fellow," said
the officer, "your eyes are as blue as a
Spanish sky. Can you draw your
sword ?"

The child looked at the weapon that
hung by the Major's side and shook his
head.

Oh, don't mind mine ; it is an old one.
Now then ! Heads up, draw swords !"

The frank boyishness of the officer's
manner captivated the child at once. He

lifted up his curly head and drew his
sword.

"Well done ! Very smart! You are a
dragoon, eh?"

11 Iss, geese, Deneral," said the child,
looking round at Mr. Goodenough.

Good boy !" said the merchant, smiling.

"How old are you, little one?" asked
the Major.

The boy shook his head.

Say four and a half, George," prompted
the merchant.

"Four half, geese, Deneral," said the
boy.

The age of my child," thought George,
and he sighed, as he sat down upon a
bale of goods and contemplated the bright
cheerful little face.

Come closer, then, and let us talk ; I
like you, " said the officer, struggling a
little with his feelings as he thought

VOL. III. G

of that frock and the two little empty
shoes he had seen the day before.

The child walked up to the officer and
laid its chubby hand in the great one that
was held out to him.

Who curls your hair?"

Mamma."

"Why, it would do for gold lace. Shall
I have a lock of it ?"

"No, geese, Deneral," said the boy,
putting his little hands upon his head.

"Very well, then it shall give me a kiss,
will it ?"

Iss, geese, Deneral," answered the
little one again, looking round for the
approving nod of the merchant.

Good boy!" said the tradesman.

The Major lifted the child up to his
lips, and, kissing it, set it down upon his
knee.

A very fine little fellow, wonderful

eyes !" said George, in an aside to the
mercer, while the little one was playing
with the tassel of his sword.

Yes, truly," said the mercer.

Your grandchild, I suppose ?"

No, Major, not any relation."

Indeed ?"

But we are as fond of the child as if
it were our own. My good wife had only
one, and we lost it in its infancy. We
often think Providence sent us this other
one to be a comfort to us in our old age.
Very good of your honour to notice it."

No, no, good of the little fellow not to be
afraid of me. You adopted him, then ?"

"In a manner, sir, though the child is
not our own."

"Ah!" said the officer, patting the curly
head and showing an inclination to hear
little Dorge's history.

It was in this way. About four years

g2

ago, a young woman came with a child in
her arms. ' Can you give me anything todo?'
she said. ' I am an honest woman,
anxious to work, and his father is at the
wars "Well, the sight of a child, especially
if in any kind of trouble, is always too
much for my good wife, who happened to
be in the shop at the time ; and she
answers, ' Young woman, you look ill ; and
what sort of work do you want ?' ' I am not
well she says, ' and I can sew or keep
house, or do accounts.' ' You can read
and write, then ?' my wife asks, and she
says, 'Yes, madam, I have been well
brought up, and am willing to do anything,
but my child is against me getting housework,'
she says ; and by this time my goodwife,
bless her ! she had got the infant in
her arms, and it was cooing up at her in
its white gown and cap, and I saw the old
lady had lost her heart to the child, and I

was not willing to thwart her, while my own
heart was touched by the sweet face of the
mother — an innocent, open, lovely, suffering
face as you might have looked for in a
Madonna on the walls of a picture-gallery.
So Mrs. Goodenough replies, ' Well, this is
the best place you could have come to in
all London so far as the dear little child is
concerned, though I don't know that we
can really do anything for you.' ' If you
can says the young woman, speaking a
little outlandish, but still soft and musical
in her northern tongue, and with her innocent
face streaming with tears, 'you
would never regret it.' My good dame,
still nursing and fondling the child, replies,
and very properly, that London is beset
w T with traps to ensnare the unwary, and how
is she to know the young woman is honest
and worthy ? c Look into my face,' she
answers, straightway, ' and into the baby's,

and you shall hear my story from first to
last.' ' What have you been doing for a
living ?' asks my wife. f Little or nothing
as yet,' she says. ' I had a trifle of money
when I came to town, and I did get a little
needlework at my lodgings, but I've had
no more, and my money's all gone, and
what shall I do ?— what shall I do ?' With
that my good wife she takes her into the
house, and they have a long confab, and
from that day to this mother and child
have lived with us and proved a blessing,
which is quite in keeping with the saying
that in a stranger you may be entertaining
an angel unawares."

Very true," said the Major, "it is not
the rule, though, that a kind action receives
such prompt reward."

No, truly ; yet Providence has its own
good way of ordering things. I shall send
the parcel, then, to the hotel ?"

Yes, and thank you," said the Major,
lifting the child upon the counter.

Say thank yoa, sir," said the mercer.

Tank you, geese, Deneral," said the
child, its great blue eyes fixed on the
Major's.

Hold out your hand," said the Major.

The child put forward its right arm, and
opened its little fat fingers.

There's a guinea for you. Tell your
mother and this good gentleman's wife that
one of King George's officers gave it you,
because you were not afraid of him, and
because your name is George."

"Iss, geese, Deneral."

King George, God save him ! He's
the First, do you see ?"

u Iss, geese, Deneral."

"Major George, a forlorn soldier! He's
the Second, do you see ?"

"Iss, geese, Deneral."

And little George with the curly hair
and blue eyes ! He's the Third, do you
understand ? And it's the Third that gets
the guinea, is it not ?"

"Iss, geese, Deneral."

"And what is written on the guinea?
George III., you see. Well, good-bye !
If I don't go, your grandfather, that Providence
sent you, will think I am a child
myself. But Mr. Goodenough must let
me come and see you again."

"You honour us very much," replied
the merchant.

Then let it be au revoir, not good-bye,"
said George.

As he was leaving the shop, his attention
was arrested by a clear, ringing voice calling
6I George ! Where are you, George ?"

It seemed a strangely familiar voice.
It thrilled him. It set his heart beating
wildly.

Ob, I beg pardon, I thought there was
nobody here but yourself, sir," said the
voice, now in the shop itself.

The Major turned round.

Merciful heaven !" he gasped. " Jessie,
Jessie I"

He flung back his cloak, and opened his
arms.

George'* she exclaimed, running
straight into them, to the consternation of
the merchant and his wife, who now appeared
upon the scene, and to the evident
delight of the child, which dropped its
guinea to clasp its little hands and shout,
li mamma ! mamma ! and good gentleman I"

Oh, George !" said Jessie, smiling
through her tears, " my dear, dear George !
You'll never leave me again, will ye ?"

Never !" he said, and he meant it, "if
you can forgive me what is past."

Forgive ye !" said the generous woman.

I Have nothing to forgive ye ! Nay, I
was most to blame myself ; and I'd never
have pined one bit about it if they had not
persecuted me down therein that cruel town.
I was forced to leave it, and there was
none of them, I grieve to say it, George,
worse than my own father."

"My poor lassie, you've had a hard
time."

Nay, do not say so ; I soon found a
new father in yonder good gentleman,
and more than a mother in the mistress
here ; and little George, bless him 1 I always
told him his bonnie father would ride
him on his knee some day. Eh, but,
George, it sometimes made me sick to think
ye might forget me, after all I"

And I think I was in the mind to do
so, Jessie, when I went away ; but the
farther I travelled from you, the more my
heart seemed to go out after you, Jessie,

and though I was never much given to
praying, I have prayed many a night,
Jessie, that you might be the first woman
I should meet again in dear Old England'

The merchant and his wife were talking
together at the back of the shop, the good
tradesman telling his amiable partner how
the officer had come in about some silk
and how they had fallen to talking of the
child.

And now, sir," said the Major, taking
the little one in his arms, " I told you I
was no general, though I am your namesake,
you sweet little rascal ! And you
must not call me General any more, but
Father /"

George's voice trembled with emotion ashe
uttered the sacred name ; but he quickly
overcame any outward show of excessive
sensibility.

A plague on me," he exclaimed, "for a.

conceited father, but I believe if I were
to confess the truth I thought you were
something like I might have been myself
as a lad when I praised your good looks."

The happy fellow roared with laughter
at this, and kissed the boy passionately,
and the lookers-on knew that he had hard
matter to prevent his apparent merriment
changing into a passion of tears, which ina
soldier and a strong valiant young fellow
of George's build would have been too
painful an exhibition ; therefore Good-enough
and his wife laughed, and so did
Jessie.

"Iss, geese, Deneral !" George went
on, fondly, imitating the boy's lisp and
manner, " you handsome curly-headed little
villain !"

Then he stood the boy upon the shop
counter and went back a few steps to look
at him.

Heads up !" he said, and little George
lifted up his head and smiled. "Draw

swords !"

The child drew his wooden sabre, and
George took him into his arms again, and
then handed him over to his mother, down
whose cheeks happy tears of joy were
flowing, her lips and eyes smiling all the
time, like the sun and sky during an April
shower.

Here a customer entered the shop, and
Mrs. Gooclenough, in a matronly cap and
gown, beckoned Jessie to go into the
house, which Jessie did, followed by George.

Sit down, sir, pray," said Mrs. Good-enough,
"and make yourself at home here.
I will leave you, that you may talk together
; you will have much to say to each
other."

Nay, madam, do not let me drive you
away," said George—" you to whom I owe

so much gratitude for your care of my wife
and child."

Your wife I" said the old lady, somewhat
reproachfully.

In the sight of heave ri, yes !" said
George, " and in the sight of man too, as
soon as may be !"

Ah ! then," answered Mrs.Goodenough,
Jessie, it seems, was right to trust you.
I know all, sir, but I never looked to this
fulfilment of her hopes."

Then you did me wrong," said George.

Truly, so it would appear, and I crave
your forgiveness ; and do not think me
unkind when I say your return promises
to put an end to almost the happiest period
of my life. It will be a day of suffering
and sorrow that sees me separated from
that dear child and his mother."

Madam, your kindness to them is a
debt I owe you which I can never repay.

My wife shall not live far from you, and
you shall be as free to come and go as
your love for these dear ones shall desire."

The old lady disappeared, and George
sat with his arm round Jessie, her head
upon his shoulder, and the boy on his
knee.

Why, Jessie, you are prettier than ever,
and, though I never thought you could, of
course, you have improved altogether."

How, George ?" she asked, not disguising
the pleasure his compliments gave her.

In the first place, your eyes are brighter
and your lips sweeter than when I first
knew them, and yet they are six or seven
years older."

Absence makes the heart grow fonder,
George, that's the reason."

11 And you have given up that Scotch
accent."

Not quite."

"Well, there's only just enough left to
swear by, and just enough to give new
music to your voice."

"Well, and what else ?"

Will you forgive me ?" he began, hesitating
over his next remark.

Anything in the world, George. I am
yours ; you can do or say nothing I will
y> not forgive ; I am yours, as I have ever
been, body and soul, from the first."

My darling !" exclaimed George.

Tell me, then."

"Why, you are more like a lady than
you used to be."

Ah, then I am happy ; for do you know,
George, I have been trying to improve
myself — trying to make myself worthier
of you. The moment we read of your
promotion I said to myself a Captain's
wife must be a lady, and when we read
that you were a Major I began to despair ;

but I strove my hardest. Though she was
rather hard on me, I thought of the graces
of Miss Hard wick of the Hall, of my
lady of the Vicarage, as we used to call
Miss Manners ; and I also listened to the
way Mrs. Goodenough pronounced the
words I said awkwardly. I read good
books, and Mrs. Goodenough let me go to
the clergyman's night school, and I have
sung in his choir as I used to sing in
that other choir, at home. Several times
I have been to call on the parson's wife
with little George ; we have all been to the
theatre to see the fine comedies played ;
and in everything I have done, George, I
have had one thought — to make myself
worthy to be the wife of a soldier and a
gentleman."

My dearest Jessie, I do not deserve so
good a wife ! And you never doubted me ?"

Never !"

VOL. III. H

Then it has all been God's goodness tome,
this preservation of you and your love.
Jessie, I am not the George you used to
know. You have made a man of me.
Let me explain to you how happy I am ;
you cannot understand unless I tell you
what happened yesterday."

Then he told her the story of that child's
frock and the little empty shoes ; and Jessie
shared his sorrow over the unfortunate
woman. Yet she did not realize how the
thought of these dumb witnesses of man's
perfidy intensified George's joy at discovering
her ; for she had never once thought
of suicide, confident in the truth of her
love and his, sensible of her own usefulness
as an industrious woman, conscious of her
general rectitude, except in regard to her
extravagant and unreasoning love for
George Wingfield. " Thus bad begins
and worse remains behind " may be the

appropriate motto to fix upon such conduct
as Jessie's ; but, if the exception
proves the rule, let hers be set down as
the exception, an example of the all-conquering
power of woman's love.

A few days after this meeting at the
London merchant's, the sexton of the
Chesterfield parish church waited upon
the Yicar, desiring his attendance to marry
a couple by special licence. The sexton
interested his reverence in the candidates
for the holy ceremony by saying that they
expressly wished the Vicar to marry them,
and that indeed they had come a long distance
for that purpose. His reverence
explained that the time was a little inopportune,
as he was expecting his son,
Major Wingfield, to arrive during the day,
posting from London. Nevertheless, since
they desired it, he would receive them at
the altar.

h 2

It was a fresh April day, the sun pouring
into the western windows of the old
church, and almost lighting up the great
chandeliers. When the Vicar entered the
vestry, a gentleman was standing there
awaiting his arrival. It was his son.

Father !" said George.

My son I" exclaimed the Vicar. " Let
me embrace thee I"

After the first shock of surprise was
over, George said,

"When we parted I had disobeyed a
command that was as generous as it was
noble. I am here to fulfil it, ere I cross
your threshold again."

"How, George?"

I have found Jessie Burns, not only
living in honour and repute, as you hoped
and believed, but worthy by her education
and graces of manner to be a gentleman's
wife, and, by reason of her devotion

and love, far too good to be mine."

"You amaze me !"

Will you marry us ?"

What 1 said I would do five years ago,
that will I do now," said the Vicar.

"Nay, then, father, I will not present
her formally to you until you have made
her my wife."

When the Vicar in his robes appeared at
the altar, there knelt by the rails a sweet
tearful young woman, attired in a modest,
unpretentious way. George raised her upas
the Vicar repeated the words, " Dearly
beloved, we are gathered here in the sight
of God."

It was a fair and goodly sight that met the
Vicars eye. A beautiful face half hidden
behind a gauzy veil ; a figure of graceful
mould, and rich in gentle curves ; dressed
in a pale grey silken gown, with short waist
and lace pilloried (a present from Mrs.

Goodenough) ; high-heeled satin shoes and
white silk daintily-clocked stockings ; a
white Leghorn hat, tied under the chin
with grey silk ribbon, and a bunch of
lilacs in front of the bow ; another nosegay
on the left shoulder of her dress ; from her
right arm, suspended by a white silk cord
and silver rings, a grey silk bag ; the dress
made rather short, the rich lace frills of the
petticoat peeping out from above the curving
instep of her pretty foot.

Two strangers, who rose from a seat
near the altar as the Vicar entered, had no
eyes except for this pretty creature, for
whom they entertained even more than a
parental love and admiration. They were
an elderly couple, and the Yicar glanced at
them as they reverently opened their prayer
books to follow and take part in the cheerful
service.

The ceremony was gone through with

unusual impressiveness. At the close
George presented the bride to the Yicar,
who kissed her, and called her his child. In
the vestry, Mr. and Mrs. Goodenough came
to sign the register, and to be introduced
to George's father as the guardian angels
who had watched over his wife and child.
The Yicar was as full of joy as the young
people. A messenger was sent to the
Vicarage to prepare the way for the good
news, while George and Jessie and the
Goodenoughs returned to the Angel, where
they had left the boy in charge of Mrs.
Goodenough's servant, for the house and
shop in London had been entrusted for a
fortnight to the management of Mr. Good-enough's
brother, that the dear old couple
might witness the completion of Jessie's
happiness, a matter on which George had insisted.
They had posted from London, with
Major Wingfield, Jessie, and little George.

There was joy in the ancient Vicarage
house of Chesterfield.

"And all through you, mother!" said
George. "If I had not thought of you,
dear, at the right moment, and gone into
that good merchant's house to buy you this
silk gown, I might perhaps never have had
the happiness to present to you this devoted
daughter and grandson, and these
good friends."

Jessie was a good deal abashed at first,
but she held herself through the trying
ordeal with exceeding grace and dignity.
And, as I said before, there was joy in the
Vicarage house of Chesterfield.

CHAPTER III.

THE SEQUEL TO A CERTAIN MEETING OVER
AGAINST TEMPLE BAR.

"It "would be believed," said the philosopher, bending
low before the young Prince, who had been much
overcome at the story the King's poet had chaunted so
touchingly, " were it writ in the books of history, and
none would cavil ; but set forth in fable or the poet's
song, though the slave doth build upon the sacred
ground of historic lore, the mind, vain of its wit,
doth itself invent doubts and questions ; yet for this
same romance will I relate unto thee, O Prince, the
following more surprising and yet more wonderful
thing that did truly happen when Four did reign in

India."

From the Persian.

S

IX months have elapsed since the progress
of our history received the most

common-place of all history's landmarks
and halting-places, the red and black dates
of marriages and deaths. The bells that
played a muffled peal for Lord Ellerbie,
and rang joyously for George Wingfield,
as soon as the ringers discovered him, have
been called into requisition for Mary Kirk.
Though she was married in the pretty little
church at Grassmoor, she insisted upon
having the bells rung at Chesterfield ; and
rung they were, right merrily. Sergeant-major
Bertram had hunted up Captain
North, and found him surrounded with
mechanical designs and models at Derby,
where he possessed full powers over a
mill, on the river outside the town, which
was being fitted with his machinery as fast
as he could get it made. But for the relief
of this occupation, Oliver had declared
he should have gone mad. Coming to Grass-moor,
however, to be best man to Bertram,

he had found another and a more delightful
relief in the smiles of the Countess of
Ellerbie, who, albeit she filled her high
station with a dignity and impressiveness
that had excited the admiration of the
county, still maintained a familiar association
with those she had known previous
to her elevation. This pleasant ostentation
became her even better than her
coronet, behind which her father, Mr.
Hardwick, assumed grand and pretentious
airs. "We shall pick up, from the conversation
of certain well-known persons, during
the course of this and folio wing chapters,,
the leading incidents which have transpired
during the interval already mentioned,.
and at the same time gather up some scattered
threads of our history, which at length
begins to enter the fourth quarter of its
moon.

It is the 25th of September, on which

day, authorised by Royal Charter granted
in the reign of Charles I., is held the
annual pleasure fair of Chesterfield — September
25th, 1819, the year which saw the
birth of the best and greatest monarch
that ever reigned in England, the year
before the death of one of our most weak,
misguided, and unhappy kings ; and, to
come down from the sublime to the ridiculous,
the year in which Chesterfield was
so much exercised about the continued
crookedness of the church steeple that a
great meeting was held, to consider
whether the spire should be pulled
down. The decision not to give it an
additional twist that should land it, leaden
chanticleer and all, in the churchyard,
seems to have inspired confidence, for soon
afterwards they removed the old bells that
had interpreted the local joy and sorrow
for many a mouldy year, and raised in

their place a new peal of ten, heavier and
more dangerous to the spire's balance than
the former machinery.

Sixty years ago, so near to us to-day,
and yet so far off ! In this little typical
English borough, the second town of
Derbyshire, sixty years ago they had no
lucifer matches, no gas, no railways, no
umbrellas, no policemen, no decent pavements.
London itself was little better off,
but London had within its intense organism
the spirit of progress ; London moved
onwards hour by hour, day by day, while
the somnolent Derbyshire town stood still
nay, if it moved at all, went backwards ; so
that to all intents and purposes, except that
the oldest inhabitant still remembers the
time, September 25th, 1819 might just as
well have been half a century earlier, sofar
as the manners and customs of the
people were concerned. The hiring and

pleasure fairs of Chesterfield, Derby, Nottingham,
Sheffield, Lincoln, at the period
of our story were so many Barley fairs
in their way ; just as mad and merry, just
as strange, and noisy, and old-fashioned.
They maintained, however, a certain amount
of local credit and decency on account of the
attendance of the upper as well as the
middle classes of the district, and also
because of the valuable merchandise of
Yorkshire cloths, cheese, and other stores
in addition to cattle and stock, which were
brought to the market. Onions also, as in
the old fairs of Normandy, were a great
feature at this ancient fair of the autumn.

The September Fair in the old marketplace
is at its height of noise and bustle.
Ballad-singers are chanting their ditties
of love and war. The Tom Thumb of the
period is ringing his bell out of the third
story window of his little house. The play-actors

are dancing a measure on the platform
outside Richardson's Temple of the
Drama. Learned pigs are telling the fortunes
of Stephen and Chloe. Here is the
juggler, with his flying daggers and his
wondrous golden balls, plying his business
on a small square of carpet to admiring
crowds. The Blondin of sixty years ago
is giving a tantalising example, in front
of the Royal Circus, of the daring feats that
await the happy throng that is paying its
pennies and its twopences at the canvas
doorway. There are shows without end,
with vast frontage of painted canvas, on
which surely are depicted far more than the
seven wonders of the world — two-headed
sheep, fat ladies, giants with tall men walking
under their arms, lions in the grip of
boa-constrictors, battle-scenes in which the
French are struggling gallantly, but vainly,
in spite of their superior numbers, against

British dragoons ; they are all attended
with music of every description, if cymbals,
drums, speaking-trumpets, trombones,
harps, and brass bands, all playing against
each other, can by any stretch of terms or
imagination be called music.

There are avenues of canvased stalls,
semi-tents, canvas huts, crowded with
every conceivable article of commerce ;
from broad cloth to ribbons; from ribbons
to brooches ; from brooches to wooden
trumpets ; from higgins and sieves to
flint and tinder-box ; from clocks to mousetraps
; together with all kinds of cutlery,
both useful and ornamental, razors, knives,
daggers, gingerbread in bags, gingerbread
in squares, gingerbread thin, thick, watery,
wedge, gingerbread in every shape, toffy in
long sticks, raisins, nuts, apples, pears,
wafers, sealing wax, dolls. Never were
seen such red-cheeked, square-headed,

square-toed dolls, dressed and undressed.
Remedies for every ailment flesh is heir to
are offered to the wondering crowd — pills
that are magical, drops that make the old
young again and the young more beautiful
than Venus or Apollo. "What a hum and
buzz it is ! — children shouting, women
laughing, gongs beating, trumpets sounding
; and here and there, above all, the garrulous
chatter of " Cheap Jack," whose
rough witticisms are sharper than his
carving knives, and whose anecdotes are
more amusing than the droll and merry
songs which he throws in, with a new
candlestick, a toasting-fork, and a broom
that will sweep cobwebs out of your mind
as well as your cellar, and half a dozen
other useful articles " for the low sum of
neither ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five,
four, nor three, but two and six — half a
crown buys the lot again, buy it who may,

VOL. III. i

for I couldn't sell them at the price unless
I stole them, and the robbery is my own
affair if it is ever found out, and the gainer
is the lucky person who has the wit to
know a bargain when he sees it. Whatnot
take the lot at two and six ! Well,
come, I shall make the lot complete with
a gimlet that would let daylight into the
darkest prospect in life, and a hammer
with which you may drive nails into your
own coffin, if you let this chance of furnishing
your house for half a crown slip
by like good fortune for ever — but you
shall not, for I am simply here to amuse
myself to-day. September twenty-five is
my birthday ; I always clear out my carton
this one day in the year, whether I lose
ten pounds or ten hundred, and I live on
the losses till September comes again.
Now, here you are, going at — what do you
think ? Hush ! don't let anyone hear — two

shillings ; that's your time of day ; sold
again and got the money !"

The tradesmen round the market-place
are standing in their doorways, while their
wives and families are at the fair. In the
principal avenues of stalls opposite the
Sessions House, and near the Angel,
Nannie Lomas has a small canvas store,
where she sells herbs and toffy and stockings
which she has knitted herself; and she
has many patrons, especially for the herbs,
which she declares have helped to keep
her alive and make her the strongest and
healthiest of all the old women in Chesterfield.
Many of the smaller shopkeepers
of the town have also stalls in the market,
the cloth and woollen dealers especially
competing in the fair with the travelling
merchants from other districts.

Among the distinguished visitors whose
coaches and carriages drove into Chester



field during the earlier part of the day
were the Countess of Ellerbie and Mr.
William Chadwick. Mr. Sergeant-major
Bertram, who had taken that little farm in
the valley near Grassmoor, rode into the
town by the side of his father-in-law's car,
in which Mrs. Kirk and her daughter,
Tom's pretty wife, sat with honest Farmer
Kirk.

They all met in the fair, and made
purchases ; and the Countess called at the
Vicarage, where she had already met Major
and Mrs. Major Wingfield, who had comedown
from London on a short visit.
George could not forgive Chesterfield for
its cruel treatment of his wife in the days
of her trouble, and moreover he liked her
to be near her friends — the London silk-merchant
and Mrs. Goodenough. The
Countess had insisted on Mrs. Bertram
accompanying her to the Vicarage, and

the two women were delighted with little
George. Probably the Countess knew at
what hour Captain North would be at the
Vicarage ; for he had told her he should
call and see his comrade. They found him
there, and he knew, when he looked into
Susan's eyes, that she had not come only
to see the two Mrs. Wingfields. Oliver,
though he had settled clown to his great
work at Derby (where he was perfecting
that last idea which he conceived the night
before Vitoria), came to Chesterfield and
the Home Farm and its neighbouring
homestead of Tom Bertram nearly every
week; and he never returned without
spending some happy hours with his old
love, the Countess of Ellerbie. For her sake
he had forgiven old Hardwick his treachery,
and that high and mighty pretender to
family pride and honour generally contrived
to keep out of North's way as much

as possible. Susan had a hand in this,,
and she found it less difficult to forgive
him than North did, not simply because he
was her father, but from the change which
his perfidy had brought in her fortune.
She found a wonderful comfort in having,
for the first time in her life, as much
money as she could desire ; in possessing
an assured position of precedence and
wealth ; and she would not deny, when
communing with herself, that a title is a
pleasant distinction, and that there is a
peculiar fascination about diamonds, and
an especial delight in being mistress of a
grand old house and a fine estate. Not
that these things would have weighed with
her against the love of Oliver North. Nor
would she have accepted them at the price
of the awful death of her infatuated husband
of an hour. His miserable end had
preyed upon her mind for months; but

Cupid or the devil often in her misery
suggested to her that good fortune had
struck the blow in the interest of Oliver
North. It was these promptings of her
woman's heart that made her seek consolation
in the chapel of Father Busby;
for there were pangs of remorse in her
sense of the daily growth of her old
love for Oliver North. Father Busby
was a shrewd man as well as a discreet
priest. He encouraged the Countess to
feel that the hand of Providence had not
been absent from the events which had
saved her from the embraces of a man who
had literally bought her from her father,
and in whose love there was not the divine
spirit which should burn on the altar of
holy matrimony. Nevertheless, let it not
be thought that Father Busby was only a
time-serving priest. He had conceived a
sincere respect and fatherly affection for

the young Countess. He recognized in
her conduct a deep sense of duty, and a
devotion to the possible wishes and desires
of her dead lord, which showed her to be a
high-minded woman, and one quite worthy
of rank and riches.

It was late in the afternoon, when the
Countess and the Kirks and the visitors
from the outlying districts of Chesterfield
had gone home, that a swaggering, ragged,
and yet distinguished-looking man came
along the principal avenue of the fair,
walking with a showy cane and waving
people out of his path. A curious figure,
a sort of aristocratic gipsy ; a tall man
with black hair, well-marked eyebrows, and
a dark, sallow face slightly pitted with the
small-pox, which had sharpened his features
and given his face an eager, bird-osprey
look which might have suggested the
countenance of Mephistopheles. He wore

a moustache and imperial. His attire was
travel-stained. He carried a sword, andover
his foreign-like garb he wore a cloak
that was tattered and torn.

"By mi Teddy!" exclaimed Nannie
Lomas, "here's a gentleman as fine as a
peacock, and yet as ragged as a badger
after a baiting !"

Ah !" said Dick Holmes, who had been
drinking at the Angel, " he looks like a
gipsy king on the loose."

"Well, old hag, and what do you sell?"
asked the stranger, standing before Nannie
Lomas's modest store with an insolent air,
as he observed the adjacent stall-keepers
staring at him.

Nothing that's useful to you," replied
Nannie ; " they sell thread and needles
farther on."

Oh, don't you love me because I make
my own ribbons ?" he rejoined, laughing.

"Ribbons! I reckon sort o' ribbons
you want is a halter," said Nannie.

"Indeed, say you so? Well, it's some
hundreds of years since you stood at the
altar, and the poor man didn't long survive,
eh?" rejoined the stranger, passing
on, the crowd that began following him
laughing at his retort.

Ah, you cowards !" exclaimed Nannie,
why don't you leather him ? You would if
you'd a ha'porth o' courage among lot on
ye!

"Well, and what have you to sell since
you lost your beauty ?" asked the impudent
stranger, pausing before another respectable
dame's store, as if his object was to
foment a broil.

u Why, my son, if he was such a scarecrow
as you!" screamed the dame, one
Sally Warner, locally famous for her sharp
tongue and fresh fish.

Ho ! ho ! Ah ! ah !" roared the crowd.
Well done, missus !"

You've no need for a scarecrow now,"
answered the ragged gentleman, nothing
abashed; "your harvest has been gathered."


Good ! ah, ha !" laughed Dick Holmes,
coming on the scene, "one to the vagabond
! At him again, missus !"

"Nay y let him be, he's on's way to th*
rag-shop, donna stop him."

11 That's one for his nob," remarked one
of the crowd, amidst another laugh, as the
stranger walked on up the avenue, pausing,
however, at another stall, presided over by
a dark, attractive girl, who looked out at
her customer from a framework of drapery
consisting of yellow and red handkerchiefs,
mittens, comforters, chintz, and laces of
all kinds.

"What will this cost me, little 

?" he asked, raising a handkerchief
upon the end of his stick, and waving it
like a flag.

A broken head, if you insult my
daughter!" answered a rough-looking fellow,
confronting him.

Hurrah !" shouted the crowd. " Billy
Nipper's walking up to him ! Billy's the
weight for him !"

A broken head !" said the stranger,
mocking his new antagonist ; " and who'll
give it me ?"

Why, me !"

You ! What ! Have you forgotten the
cudgelling I gave you at Grassmoor ?"

You !"

Yes ! It may be six years ago ; but I
told you, you should not forget it as long
as you lived !"

Billy stepped back, and the crowd
listened. Several local tradesmen had

pushed their way into the ring of people
that hemmed the stranger in, he towering
above them, with his slouch hat and his
dark, uncanny face.

You cudgelled me !" said Billy.

Yes, don't you know me, now I am so
well dressed ?"

Know thee ! why, who art thou ?"

Billy paused, and looked round at his
neighbours to make sure that the mysterious
stranger, ghost, goblin, or reality,
could take no sudden and undue advantage
of him.

Look at me ! How's my little child,
your daughter's sister ?"

Curse you !" said Billy Nipper, turning
pale ; "you are not Scruton ?"

You are a liar, I am !" answered the
villain.

Billy, with an oath, raised his stick and
rushed at him; but Philip Scruton disarmed

him with ease, and tossed the poor villager's
weapon among the crowd.

Scruton !" said Dick Holmes; " why,
he was killed long ago !"

Was he !" rejoined the returned heir.

"Why, I've read thy epitaph on thy
tombstone !"

11 Then you've read a lie. But there !
It is not good manners to come to the fair
and buy nothing; I must patronise the
old town."

He strode up to a dealer in clothes, who
turned upon him promptly.

If you are Scruton, you scamp, pay
for what you've had already."

"How?"

"Pay the creditors you ran away
from."

I'll pay you with my cane' Scruton
answered.

Hear the villain !" exclaimed Billy

dipper, who had recovered his stick and
with it some of his courage ; " will you
hear him insulting everybody ? Let's
chuck him out o' the fair !"

Billy's sudden display of valour was
infectious. A dozen bystanders, following
his lead, rushed at Scruton, who stepped
aside, flung back his cloak, and drew his
sword.

Stand off ! I'll make the man who
advances as ragged as my doublet !"

The assailants fell back before the
glittering steel as Mr. Septimus Dobbs
(who had just left the Angel, and had
walked up to see what the commotion
might mean) appeared in the rear of:
Scruton.

"Are you all cowards?" screamed Sally
Warner, seizing a wooden mallet and
flinging it with all her might at Scruton,
who, ducking his head, allowed the awkward

missile to land in the bosom of Mr.
Septimus Dobbs, who felt the breath
suddenly knocked out of his miserable
body.

The crowd went into fits of laughter as
Dobbs was seen to go down under the
fishmonger's mallet, and Scruton, sheathing
his sword, joined in the merriment.

While the lookers-on were laughing,
Dobbs scrambled upon his feet, rubbed
his chest, felt at his legs, and finally, discovering
that no bones were broken, picked
up the mallet and began to bluster.

Whose property is this ?" he asked.
I won't ask who flung it, because I don't
want any person to criminate himself or
herself, as the case may be."

It's my property, and I banged it at
the head of that villain Scruton," shouted
Sally Warner ; "an' you can mak' the
most on it, criminate or no !"

"Well done, Sally!" exclaimed Dick
Holmes, amidst a loud cheer.

"What!" said Dobbs, starting back and
dropping the mallet, "who did you say? Mr.
Scruton — the Honourable Philip Scruton ?"

"Yes," said Scruton; "very much at
your service, Mr. Dobbs ; and I wish I
was so fortunate as to have you at mine,
for I seem likely to want some one to defend
me from my old friends."

The crowd had grown into quite considerable
numbers by this time, several of
the minor shopkeepers of the town having
put in an appearance.

At your service !" exclaimed Dobbs,
taking off his hat, and bending low ; u it
would be an honour. Defend you from
your friends ! What offence could they
offer?"

They seem troubled about some old
debts," said Scruton.

VOL. III. K

Yes," said Billy Nipper ; " lie not only
robbed us of our money and worse, but lie
has given it out as lie's dead, and now becomes
back and insults us."

Oh, no, no !" said Dobbs, reprovingly,
to the speaker and the crowd generally ;
"you don't know what you are saying;
you don't know to whom you are talking."
And then, turning to Scruton, he said,
Your Grace must forgive them. I am
sure they are as glad to see you as I am."

The crowd began to talk among themselves,
seeing this display of humility on
the part of Dobbs, who, as a rule, was an
overbearing man, and not likely to bend
where thrift did not follow fawning.

"We all thought you dead," went on
Dobbs ; " we mourned you dead, and
grieved over our loss."

And I had been dead but for this good
sword !" said Scruton, patting the handle

of his weapon ; " I was captured by bandits
and held at first for ransom, and then for
other reasons — reasons of State."

Bandits !" exclaimed several of the
crowd, who were now all eyes and ears.

"Forced to live in caves and rocky
passes, in ruins and catacombs, literally
in tombs, a prisoner, a slave," said Scruton,
-addressing himself to Dobbs, but speaking
loudly that all might hear.

The Lord preserve us !" exclaimed
Dobbs.

Not a penny would my unnatural uncle
part with. But the day came when I could
strike a blow for freedom. I did it, and
here I am."

"A plucky devil after all!" said Dick
Holmes. " I always heard he was."

Fought my way to a Spanish port, was
protected, treated well, got over to England
in a trading ship, and have walked

k2

from Dover to Chesterfield. Walked !'
Think of it, Master Dobbs ! Walked ! For
I couldn't afford to ride. And because I
am a little merry at getting back again,
because it is Fair day, and I feel like wearing
the cap and bells — gad's life ! they seton
me like curs on a stranger dog."

The crowd began to feel a little sorry
for Scrutou, and ashamed of their inhospitality.


But you will forgive them, your Grace,"
said Dobbs.

Your Grace !" repeated Scruton, u what
do you mean ?"

Gentlemen, neighbours, townsmen, and
friends," shouted Dobbs, "welcome the lost
heir! The new Earl of Ellerbie will pay
you all he owes, and with interest. Three
cheers for the Right Honourable the Earl
of Ellerbie, and master of Brackenbury
Towers f

Dobbs raised his hat, and the crowd
shouted " Hurrah P

What is the meaning of this ?" asked
Scruton, looking round with real or well-acted
amazement. " It is true I am Lord
Ellerbie's heir, but that is nothing new to
you. I have no reason to respect him, nor
have you ; for it would seem, from your
grievance about my old debts, that he did
not pay them — let me pack off to fight for
King and country, and never paid a stiver
not even, it seems, when he thought me
dead'

Hush ! gentlemen," said Dobbs, raising
his finger impressively, "he does not know
what has happened."

What has happened, then ? " asked
.Scruton.

My lord, my lord !" said Dobbs, "your
uncle died nearly a year ago. Brackenbury
Towers is waiting: for its rightful owner.

Chesterfield welcomes home again the lost
heir. Again I ask you, neighbours, to
give the returned exile, the gallant Elders
three cheers I"

The crowd cheered lustily. Scruton
bowed his head sorrowfully for a minute,
and then, waving his hand for silence,,
said,

A year ago ! You have done your
funeral honours, then, to my uncle ; and I
cannot expect you to weep afresh."

Dick Holmes and some of the other
lookers-on sniggered at this remark, detecting
in Scruton's tone and manner the
cynicism which the new lord felt.

I am necessarily a little shocked, as we
all must be at the first news of a friend or
relative's death, even if he has not behaved
exactly well to us. But I do not expect
you to humour this little natural weakness

in me. I thank you for your reception of
the returned exile ; and I invite you one
and all to what good cheer the Angel may
afford. Come, gentlemen, tenants I may
perhaps rightly say, for the Ellerbie property
represents a big rent-roll in Chesterfield
! Mr. Dobbs will preside over your
wants. Come, and let us drink to our
better friendship ! I will show you how
the Lords of Ellerbie used to treat their
friends in the good old merry days of our
fathers."

Scruton thereupon took the arm of
Lawyer Dobbs. The crowd cheered and
made way for them, forming in procession
in the rear, and marching in a body to
the Angel.

Pausing under the piazzas, and on the
threshold of the well-known hostelry,
Scruton turned round and said,

Mr. Septimus Dobbs, you are my
lawyer and steward, as you were my late
revered uncle's; order what you think I require,
in my present condition, and of what
tradesmen you choose ; but first set the
Angel taps running till all these dear
friends I see around me have drunk their
fill"

Hurrah ! hurrah!" shouted the crowd,
pressing into the Angel yard, where they
were presently regaled to their hearts'
content, and to the increasing confusion of
the fair.

On no 25th of September, past or
present, were so many drunken men and
women seen and heard reeling and howling
about the streets. It was absurd for
the parish constables to attempt to grapple
with the novel situation ; and so they quietly
looked on.

In the meantime, Dobbs and Scruton,

closely tiled and carefully ensconced in
the lawyer's dining-room, held a council of
war.

CHAPTER IY.

THE PLOT THICKENS : AND IT SURPRISES
LAWYER DOBBS.

It will have blood ; they say, blood will have blood :

Stones have been known to move, and trees to speak j

Augurs and understood relations have

By magot-pies, and coughs, and rooks, brought forth

The secretes man of blood.

Shakspeare*

FT1HE&E was a calm severity in the
-*- general appearance of Mr. Dobbs's
dining-room ; and yet in the aspect of the
apartment there was a kind of mystery, a
sort of perpetual wink of self-consciousness,
a suggestion in both chairs and

tables and oaken cabinets of " we are not
so simple as we look ; mind you don't
criminate yourself, or it will be the worse
for you."

The apartment was positively grim in
its simplicity ; yet Dobbs brought out from
a spirit-case a bottle of brandy that was
as old and as delightful as if some privileged
prince had invoked the liquor.
Scruton smacked his lips at it.

That is the drink to keep a man up to
his work," he said.

And so your lordship's steward thought
when he placed it before you," said Dobbs.
Now observe, Dobbs, drop the lordship
for the present ; let us talk as equals, for
our alliance is cemented by deeds that
bind us more strongly than mere stewardship."


Referring to the papers you signed in
London, in which you were generous

enough, to assign to me certain properties,
including the mortgages on Hardwick's
mill and the Hall ?" asked Dobbs, helping
himself.

"Referring to our partnership generally,
our alliance against Fate, our forced drafts
on Fortune."

Yes, " answered Dobbs, offering his
snuff-box to Scruton, of which Scruton took
no notice, and upon which Dobbs took a
deep reflective pinch.

"Now tell me all about the — the death
of Lord Ellerbie, the murder, or whatever
it was called."

Tell you ? For what purpose ?"

For my information."

"Are you serious?"

Yes, I know nothing."

Know nothing ?"

From the time the affair was discovered,
no."

"Up to the death of the old Earl you
are posted ?"

"Yes."

Nay, then 'twere best you tell me what
has happened to you since."

Did it surprise you that I made no
sign t

Yes and no. I had not given you credit
for so much patience and discretion."

You were right as to patience, wrong
as to discretion ; no professional spy, no
missionary of a secret society, could out-match
me in discretion."

Say you so ?"

Ay ! you do not know me, Dobbs."

"tis not my own fault; you leave my
knowledge dependent on my own speculations."


You thought that story of my arrival
at Dover and my walk here a lie?"

"Not exactly a lie."

"It was true; I came here from Spain,
in a merchant-ship to Dover, thence on
foot and with the aid of such lifts by the
way as I could get ; and they were not
many, for the knaves iu charge of cart
and carriage would not trust me too near
their vile persons."

You surprise me."

I was laid up with small-pox in
Madrid."

"You carry the ravages of the disorder
in your face."

"Do I, you old fox? — yet you have not
inquired how it fared with me, penniless
as you must know I have been."

Nay, my lord, 'twas not my fault ; I
did both write to London and go to London
in quest of you."

Is that a truth ?"

It is, most assuredly."

"Then I forgive you, Monsieur Reynard."

A truce to calling names, and waste of
time ; how came you at Madrid ?"

Know, then, my reverend friend, that
there be affairs of moment in this life
when 'tis advisable to be in two places atone
time. Six months ago I was in Spain,
partly in my own interest, partly by command
of an Order to which I belong,
partly that I might return and leave public
trace of my return to England, and to
Chesterfield, to hear how it has fared with
thee, good, patient Dobbs, like a general
who is anxious to hear the result of the
operations of a stout ally in a united campaign,
and to reap the reward of courage,
discretion, and skill."

You are more vague in what you impart
than is your wont."

"Am I so? Then let me drink; this
goodly liquor will clear my brain."

While Scruton filled his glass, Dobbs

stirred the fire and furtively emptied his
tumbler into the ashes. He meant to keep
cool, and yet to appear free and open in his
remarks and conduct. Refilling his glass,
he pledged his guest ostentatiously.

Now," said Scruton ; " your report I
It is all a blank to me since — well, no
matter ; go on from the time they found
Lord Ellerbie saying his last prayer by the
side of his dumb ancestor, the knight in

effigy."

They held an inquest; verdict, ' Found
dead'"

Not murder?"

"No."

Not suicide?"

"No; they left it an open question."

To be revived, eh ?"

By the action of the higher authorities,
yes ; and the matter is in the hands of
the Home Office."

Ah, what have they done ?"

w Offered a reward for further evidence,
and in case the death be murder a reward
of one hundred pounds for such information
as shall lead to the conviction of the
assassin, and a free pardon to any confederate
who gives up the real perpetrator
of the deed."

Yes ?" said Scruton, a little impatiently,
as Dobbs hesitated and looked at
him in the face for the first time. " Yes,
don't criminate yourself, Dobbs, or I may
confess and hang you, as you hanged my
indiscreet young acquaintance Marks."

The lawyer rose to his feet as if he had
been stung. Scruton burst out into a
fit of laughter. Dobbs went to the door
and locked it, though he knew his servants
were all in bed. He drew a screen across
the door. He pulled the curtains tightly
over the closed shutters.

VOL. III. L

There are jests and jests," he said,
coming back to the table, which had been
drawn up to the hearth.

Forgive me, Dobbs ; I couldn't help it,
you looked so devilish solemn ; the brandy
tempted me, and I did sin ; I am penitent."

"To this offer of the Government I
added a reward of three hundred pounds
on behalf of the family," said Dobbs.

"A wise judge, a discreet ally! Go on,
good Dobbs, thou art a jewel!" said Scruton.

But for the officiousness of that pompous
fool Hardwick these notifications would
not have been issued. The superstitious
had already put the affair down to the
fulfilment of the family legend that the
last of the Ellerbies should "

Yes, yes, go on, you interest me now.
Well ?" said Scruton.

And the people in general, the authorities,
too, had attributed the death to a

sudden impulse of suicide, brought on by a
morbid condition of mind, or what not.
But Hardwick must persuade the Countess
to have the old chapel razed to the earth,
and thereupon is discovered a secret passage
leading from the boat-house by the
lake into the chapel."

The devil ["

Which might not have been of great
importance but for the evidence of the
forester, brought forward by the cou stable,
that he saw a man with a dark lantern in
the boat-house the night before the affair —
the suicide, or what not — and that he
rushed in when the light went out and
found no one there."

Whew ! A bold forester that !"

"A ghost, of course, was the proper
conclusion to that story, for ghosts have
always been popular at Brackenbury. But
when Hardwick discloses this hitherto

l2

unknown passage between the lake and
the chapel, 'a murder!' exclaims the whole
township — the entire county, in fact."

That meddling old woman Hardwick
was never fit to live! Curse me, if I
believe he can be the father of that magnificent
high and mighty wench Susan of
Brackenbury, Countess of Ellerbie, by
George ! Damme, Dobbs, shall I marry
her, break her heart, and wipe my feet on
that impostor Hardwick, eh ?"

Dobbs consulted his snuff-box.

"Eh — what do you say to that?"

Mr. Oliver North is the gentleman to
whom you should propound that question. "

Why, has he turned up ? — is he to there
?"

He appeared the day of the marriage,
an hour or so after the poor old bridegroom
was found dead."

"Yes, well?"

"Presented himself at the wedding-feast,
frightened the bride, threatened her
father, would have drawn upon the guests,
but was interrupted by Father Busby's
appearance and announcement of Lord
Ellerbie's death."

"Hold! let me think!" exclaimed Solution,
getting up, walking to the other end
of the room, and sitting down again.
"Your story is stronger than your brandy;
I could drink a hogshead dry and not be
drunk to-night. Go on, Dobbs."

Shortly afterwards North disappeared.
Some seven or eight weeks later he reappeared,
and since then he has become
the accepted suitor for the hand of his
former sweetheart, your uncle's widow."

Wonder upon wonders !" exclaimed
Scruton. "I am just in time, then, the
good saints be thanked !"

"And I am cashiered this very day!

Truly 'twould seem as if Providence had
brought you here at this juncture. Only
this day, of all others in the year, one
Charles Mercer, a pettifogging, litigious,
designing villain, doth give me notice by
the Countess's authority, written by Hardwick,
signed by his daughter, to hand over
my trust and my deeds to him, and I am
forbidden to cross the threshold of Bracken-bury
Towers again."

Thou shalt be revenged, Dobbs — thou
shalt be revenged !"

Ay, trust me ! I am not of a vindictive
mould, but I do hate Hardwick —
that I will confess."

No, there is no malice in thee, Dobbs,' 7
said Scruton, his moustache rising a little
with the cynical smile that moved his lips,
not one iota of it ; thou art full of the
milk of human kindness."

"lamas heaven made me," answered
Dobbs ; " and I vow that "

"You wouldn't harm a fly. True, Reynard,
thy nature is gentle, tby soul a blank
sheet whereon Nature has written Purity ;
but at last the viper has stung thee,
Dobbs. The serpent thou hast warmed in
thy bosom has turned on thee ; and thou
wilt have the thing under thy heel ; and so
thou shalt, and so thou shalt — we'll shake
hands on that !"

Scruton put out his hand. Dobbs
gripped it.

"But 'tis strange," went on Scruton,
from a half-bantering tone of theeinsr
and thing to one of nervous earnestness,
"you have not placed North's neck
in jeopardy."

How ?"

What did they discover by the side of
the body?"

Nothing in particular."

Not a knife ?"

Truly, yes, a knife."

"■ What has become of it ?"

11 The coroner or the constable hath it."

"Good! How did you ask should
North's neck be put into jeopardy ? He
returns on the day of the murder, he disappears,
he comes back, he is the accepted
suitor of the Countess ?"

Yes," said Dobbs ; " do not think all
this has escaped me ; as the steward and
legal adviser of the Ellerbies, I laid these
facts privately before the Bow Street
runner who has the matter in hand ; but
on testing the theory by practice, trying
the distance on horseback from Bracken-bury
to Chesterfield, we found that the
space could not be covered in time for a
man who had killed Lord Ellerbie to put
in an appearance at the Hall."

Eh ? "What ? Was that all that stood
in the way of his arrest ?"

I verily believe so. The girl at the
Angel saw him leave the hotel, and the
next evidence is his presence at the Hall
when the death is announced by Father
Busby. He could not have been in
Chesterfield and at Brackenbury at one
and the same time."

A trick P exclaimed Scruton ; " a staled
ev i ce — m y ow r n subterfuge, every man's
that hath adventures, the first principle of
a great operation in the world of intrigue
and crime; 'tis the first thought of the
cracksman, an alibi, the triumph of swift
horsemanship, the trump card in the science
of disguises and doubles. North killed
Lord Ellerbie P

Dobbs poked the fire, took snuff, and
then swallowed his glass of brandy at a
gulp.

What evidence have you besides this
theorising ?"

The knife ! His own knife ! I'll swear
to it !"

"You will !" exclaimed Dobbs.

"Ay, and prove it! And, what is
more, bring forward at a pinch the man
who was his double. Nay, more! — Put
thy cursed liquor aside for a moment !"

Scruton rose from his seat, again passed
his hand over his brow, stroked his chin,
and, stopping suddenly before Dobbs, without
sitting down, said,

"Begad, I have it! His confederate
shall confess, his double shall round upon
him, and get the reward and the pardon.
A free pardon and three hundred pounds,
did you not say ?"

Yes, that is the sum, a free pardon the
temptation."

"Now pass the bottle, my good friend,

and confess yourself dull-pated," said Scrutiny,
sitting down and re-filling his glass.

"You grasp the case with skill," said
Dobbs.

"Get me a warrant for Oliver North's
arrest."

"When?"

To-morrow, as soon as there is a magistrate
stirring."

11 Before you have examined the knife
you say is his ?" asked Dobbs.

No, no ; that is a point to you ; you area
sly boots, Dobbs ; I recall my charge that
thou art dull-witted."

I do not presume to match myself with
one who has seen so much of this wicked
world," said Dobbs, smiling in a ghastly
kind of way.

Well, then, you comprehend now what
my plan is ; we'll hang Oliver North ! I
told him I would be even with him — so I

will. And that the fair Susan may not be
disappointed again, and may still be mistress
of the estates of Brackenbury, she
shall still have a lord of Ellerbie for her
husband. Curse me, but the bare idea of
it fires my blood, and makes me chide the
tardy time ! To-morrow, Dobbs, tomorrow,
let us take possession ; tomorrow,
before the}?- have got news of our return ;
tomorrow, while North is hot in his
love-making, and Hardwick pluming himself
on your discomfiture. Shall it be so,
Dobbs— shall it be so ?"

It shall, by God !" exclaimed Dobbs,
losing his self-control for the first time
under the magnetic influence of Scruton's
sanguine picture, his own malicious hatred
of Hardwick, the brandy which he had
drunk, and the undoubted surprise of the
new phase which the Ellerbie affair had
developed.

"swell said!" was Scruton's response,
mv able lieutenant, well said ! Are we
true to each other?"

To death !" answered Dobbs.

"Then give reins to your wishes ; you
shall realize them all ; ask me what you
will. Consider the Hall and the factory
your own. Foreclose the mortgages at
once. The Potter's Fields you wanted,
they are your own. The Hasland property,
it is yours. The market-house and West
End estate, your own. These new deeds,
prepare them when you will, and let them
be companions to those I signed in London.
Am I generous ?"

Most generous !" exclaimed Dobbs. " I
will deserve your liberality."

You have deserved it !"

u I am honoured by your confidence and
good opinion. Now, my lord, pray you
pause for a moment. Let us consider*

The story of your long absence. Is this
how it was? You enlisted, you marched,
you were taken by bandits in Spain, you
knew nothing of the report of your death ;
having quarrelled with your uncle, you
had no reason to communicate with him ;
you were an exile, a wanderer on the earth,
in short ; finally, you escaped, you got a
ship, you were poor, you came home."

"My history to the letter."

Is it not odd to be taken by bandits
when we were fighting for Spain ?"

Not at all."

But not being ransomed, would they
not kill you, or give you your liberty r"

They made a slave of me. I was always
a cosmopolitan, always a traveller. I have
lived in all climes. The truth is, I became
a bandit, against my will, it is true ; but
they discovered my talents — I spoke their
language, I liked their roving life. I

remained with them ; I wanted change ; I
longed to see England ; I got to Madrid,
was stricken with small-pox ; at last I am
here ! Put upon my oath, I will frankly
admit that, if my country is ungrateful
enough to do it, they may hand me over to
the Spanish Government as a bandit, an
outlaw, but I don't think they will do
that."

"No, not they," answered Dobbs ; "and
the knife?"

I can swear I saw it in North's possession
when we marched together, two
recruits in His Majesty's service."

11 Yes," said Dobbs. " I will make a
note of this while you rest ; you must be
tired. Shall I show you to your chamber?"

"No, show me to your larder, and while
you write I'll eat."

Dobbs took up a candle ; they went together
to the larder, and Scruton, cutting

a slice of venison, brought it on a plate to
the dining-room, while Dobbs carried other
things, and placed on the board a bottle
of wine.

I thought it best that the servants-should
retire," said Dobbs.

By the saints, you have the head of a
Solomon!" said Scruton, "and the larder
of a monk !"

While Scruton ate a hearty supper, during
which the clock struck an hour after
midnight and the watchman in Glueman-
gate proclaimed the time "and a cloudy
morning," Dobbs was busy writing upon
large sheets of paper.

Beg pardon, Dobbs ; did you order mea
new wardrobe ?"

"I commanded the Ellerbie tradesmen
to bring here by six o'clock in the morning
such outfit of clothes and jewellery as they
might think would be required by an ill-treated

heir, who had been knocked about
in the world penniless, and who had come
afoot ragged and hungry to find that his
cruel and unnatural uncle was dead, and
that fortune no longer barred him from
his estates and his title."

Most excellent Dobbs ! you improve.
You have been hiding your talents from
me all these years, your accomplishments
of wisdom and eloquence."

The occasion makes the man," said
Dobbs.

t: And now some tobacco !" said Scruton,
his supper finished, " to soothe my nerves,
and then I will not speak again until you
command me."

Dobbs went to an old cabinet which
looked demure enough for a hidden library
of homilies and the Fathers bound in
solemn cloth ; but it contained a shelf of
pipes and tobacco. Scruton selected there-vol.

in. M

from a long clay calumet, and, filling the
spacious bowl with the dark, strong weed
of the time, took a spill from an ecclesiast
ornament that stood on the
tall oak fireplace, lighted his pipe, and.
stretching his legs into the firelight that
flashed on the brass fender, leaned his
back against the table, and thought out the
programme of the next day's dangerous
work.

CHAPTER V. -

SUNSHINE AND SHADOW.

"Misfortunes," answered the Arab, "should always
be expected. If the eye of hostility could learn reverence
or pity, excellence like yours had been exempt
from injury. But the angels of affliction spread their
toils alike for the virtuous and the wicked, for the
mighty and the mean. Do not be disconsolate
I will fix your ransom''

Tassels.

|~T was Tom Bertram who had brought
-*- Oliver North back to Susan's feet,
and Oliver had been nothing loath to find
a welcome in the Countess's eyes. Tom
had thus returned Susan's good service to

him, and Mrs. Bertram insisted upon saying
that everything had happened for the
best in Oliver's case, since he would now
have for his wife a Countess with lands
and jewels and wealth ; whereas, on the
other hand, it was well known her father
was but a poor man, though he had managed
to keep up appearances. Tom would
tell his wife that Oliver had a sufficient
fortune in his mechanical inventions, and
that-one day he would show them wonders,
which was not without a good basis ;
for Oliver had been promptly taken into
partnership by a manufacturer at Derby,
on the mere strength of a few designs and
roughly-constructed models.

Susan had felt compelled to justify herself
so far as it was possible in Oliver's
eyes, and he had stared aghast at the
ribbon which that false letter had enclosed
in token of his death ; while the fraudulent

soldier, who had been introduced to Susan
by her father, also excited his ire and indignation
beyond all bounds. It was plain
to both of them that they had been the
victims of a cruelly elaborate conspiracy,
and that her father had a guilty knowledge
of it. He must have known of the
robbery which had been committed while
Oliver was embarking for Spain. Susan
herself acknowledged that he must, and
yet she found excuses for him in his
family pride, his want of means, his terror
of poverty, and possibly some secret financial
hold the late Lord Ellerbie had oval
him.

Moreover, Susan felt that she too needed
an apologist, and, in trying to see extenuating
circumstances connected with
her father's base and indefensible conduct,
she suggested generous excuses for herself.
"When Oliver knew all her story, what

could he do but forgive her, since she in
those old past days forgave him when he
deserted her and left her fainting in Nannie
Lomas's cottage ? Besides, what could
he do when he found her humble — when,
countess though she was, proud as he had
known her even when he loved her most,
she was now gentle and submissive as any
village maiden ? He was only too happy
to take her into his arms, she glad to be
there.

What a happy time it was after all ! To
be to Susan what he had never been before,
except for those few moments when the
drums were beating and the intensity of
the situation had forced from her proud
lips the declaration of her love. It was
too sweet, too real to be a dream ; for
dreams soon come to an end ■ while here
was Oliver for hours together with Susan
in a palace, not only her suitor, but her

accepted suitor, and not only her accepted
suitor, but engaged to be married to her,
and only waiting for the day to be fixed.
After all his troubles, his anxieties, his
hopes, his fears, his disappointments, to
be sitting by her side at last, her hand in
his, his arm round her waist ! To be telling
her of his adventures, to have had adventures
worth telling, and hopes worth
cherishing ! The military authorities had
reinstated Oliver in his commission, and
had allowed him to retire and sell out, for
the spirit of invention still held him, the
old object of his early days still possessed
his thoughts, during those moments
when Susan was not wholly there. Already
one of his most cherished schemes
in regard to the weaving of silk was in a
fair way for execution, the development
of those designs and patterns which had
been wiped out only for a time in the old

mill by the Hall. But Oliver's dream
went far beyond these plans. He was
laying in the lines of an automatic mill
which should practically work by itself.
It was more like a fairy tale than a serious
proposition as he told it to Susan ; and it
was a secret joy to her to feel that, asher
husband, his ideas need not be crippled
for want of money ; that he might make
experiments of the most expensive character
without regard to mere financial considerations.
She had only one fear, the
turbulent character of the times, the opposition
which improved machinery was meeting
with all through the North of England.
Oliver told her all this would cease ; that
a few reckless men would first sacrifice
themselves on the old blood-stained altar of
ignorance and superstition ; that the blessings
of peace would intervene to intensify
and enlarge the claims of commerce to

such an extent as to give every man in
England plenty of work ; that in due
course the jealousy excited by new inventions
would die out, and the man who
augmented Great Britain's power of production
by breathing the breath of life,
as it were, into the dream of the scientist
and the mechanist, would be hailed with
the plaudits of the entire nation.

Susan fairly hung upon his words, and
admiration was mingled with her love.
She was happy. The craving of her
strong yet ill-balanced nature was satisfied
in this man. She had found her master,
and she had given him the right in her
own estimation to be her superior. He
had been true to her ; she had been false
to him. So she argued in her own mind,
and in taking her with another's name,
though it was written under a coronet, he
had placed her under an obligation. She

liked this sense of inferiority. Even
while excusing herself she exaggerated
what she called her sin against true love,
comparing in fancy his everlasting devotion
to her memory in the event of the
report of her death instead of his. He
would, she felt sure, have lived a sort of
poetic widowhood for her sake. How
much more should she have gone into
perpetual mourning for him ? She said all
this to herself, and rejoiced in this hero-worship
for which her soul had craved, a
hero-worship lifted into the highest ideal
of perfect manhood by her love — a tender
secret in those days when first Oliver
likened his heart to the silken ball with
which her kitten was playing in the first
chapter of this romance — which now gave
itself up to adoration. " Here is a man,"
she said, " whom success not only does
not spoil, but only contributes to his

modest faith in the destiny that awaits him
as a benefactor to his race, for he said, ' I
will make a machine that shall be man's
slave, and the day will come when they
who follow me shall give to England
Aladdin's lamp and ring !' Here is a
man," she went on saying to herself, "who
steps entirely ont of his walk in life, and
teaches veteran soldiers how to fight, outdoes
Valour herself, and is content to come
home and have his sword beaten into an
instrument of peace, content to give up
the glory of trumpet and banner for the
calm, undemonstrative, and at present unappreciated
victories of science ; and whose
love for me was so great that he could
lay aside the ambition of his life and seek
oblivion in the uniform of a private
soldier. But Fame found him even there ;
and good Fortune gives him to me." It
was in this wise that Susan depreciated

herself before the idol of lier heart. It had
been her lot to discover in her own father
how weak and mean man can be ; and in
her secret comparison of Oliver North with
every man she had ever met her lover
seemed a demi-god. It was refreshing to
have some one to lean upon. She, who
had looked down all her life upon others, at
last had found some one she could look upto,
a man who could guide and protect hera
companion who interested her, the perfection
of her young life's dream, the
realization of half-formed instincts which
had stirred her heart and soul in those
early days when she nursed her love as a
tender secret, hardly to be acknowledged
even to herself ; when the vanity of youth
and the consciousness of her own beauty
prompted her to feel that she was a prize
worth winning, and sometimes that Oliver's
love, though unspoken except in the language

of the je, was a presumption.
How all this was changed now in the
woman's passion for the man she really
loved when a girl, who had come back to
her when most he seemed to have left her
for ever !

The time had at last arrived when Oliver
was anxious that Susan should name the
day, and that the very earliest, for their
marriage. On the night of the September
Fair, sitting by the fire at Tom Bertram's
and talking the future over by the light
of Mary's experience, he had come to the
conclusion that not another day should
pass without this all-important matter
being settled. There was undoubtedly an
outward show of respect due to the dead,
and it was right that Susan should give up
a certain time to widow's weeds ; but " the
living must also not be forgotten," as Mary
remarked, and Oliver thought she was a

very sensible as well as delightful little
woman.

So it happened that on the 26th of
September, in the yellow drawing-room at
Brackenbury overlooking the terrace,
Oliver North was im usually persistent in
his wooing, and he had entered upon the
subject of their speedy marriage at this
time with a sort of prophetic sense of some
threatened danger.

Ah ! if you only knew how my heart
longs for that happy day !" he said.

"Not more than mine ; but let me whisper
the confession in your ear," she answered,
and not attempting to hide the
blush that mantled her cheek.

My darling !" he exclaimed, " then let
it be no longer delayed."

If a young widow should fix her second
wedding-day ere her first lord has been
buried only a little more than six short

months, it would scandalize all the county,"
she said, now trying to play the woman's
part that has deference for her sex and regard
to the judgment of society, though all
the time her heart only prompted her to
say, " Oliver, take me when you will, I am
thine, and it is for thee to command !"

But do we owe anything to society, to
the county?" was Oliver's reply. "Have
we not waited long enough at others'
bidding? Has not custom, not to say
villainy, postponed our happiness too long
already ?"

Think, Oliver dear, I am not only your
own loving and unworthy Susan, but a
Countess, with the dignity of generations
of noble ladies to maintain."

If you only knew how at this moment
I fear to lose you, how the past starts up
before me, with its lonely watches by the
soldier s camp fire, its weary marches in

foreign lands, its longing to hear again the
sound of your dear voice !"

My dear Oliver !" she says, as he looks
into her eloquent eyes, that speak in fervent
gaze her deep-seated love.

"I sometimes dream," he went on, "that
seas again roll on between us ; how another
has snatched you from me ; and in a
passion of mad sorrow I find you at last
only in time to hear the bells ring out a
wild endorsement of its truth — they have
given you to another !"

She takes his hand and kisses it, her hot
tears falling the while.

"And so they did, Oliver; but not
my heart! That could not happen even
in a dream. You do right to rebuke
me."

"Nay, my dearest, I would not have you
think I would rebuke you."

Can I ever forget your noble, manly

words, your look of suffering pride in that
day when I had sunk so low !"

He raises her head between his two
hands and kisses her.

Susan," he says, " I would not have
you weep for all the world ! Let us wait
for years rather than you should think
there is a rebuke m my impatience. Weare
young, the world is bright and gay
about us ; do but say you forgive me that
I brought tears into your eyes, and bid me
wait until doomsday."

"My own dear, generous Oliver!" she
says. " That was Father Busby whose
shadow fell upon the terrace this moment ;
he is coming this way ; he is bound up in
my interest and happiness ; he shall decide
for us ; let us go and meet him."

As they leave the room by way of the
terrace, there enters by the door a servant,
followed by Lawyer Dobbs.

VOL. III. N

"You should have waited, sir, in the
library," says the servant.

My business is too urgent for that."
Well, Mr. Hardwick is walking in
the grounds. Since you are following me
about like my shadow, sir, you had better
come this way ; I daresay he is feeding
the animals."

I would like to feed them with his
carcase," mumbled Dobbs.
u Beg your pardon, sir ?"
Oh, nothing ; lead me to him."
They have hardly disappeared by the
right, down the terrace steps, when Oliver
and Susan return by the left, and with
them Father Busby. He is speaking upon
the momentous question of their marriage,
as they walk into the room, Susan on one
side of him, Oliver on the other.

My dear children," he is saying, ts the

circumstances that surround you are so
entirely exceptional that I think the
position may be treated exceptionally, and
I see no reason for delay."

Father Busby," says Oliver, " I am
almost inclined to embrace you and your
Faith too, for that answer ; I do approve
of your principles in this question most
heartily."

"And you have no strong objection to
those of our religion, have you, Oliver?"
asks Susan, her eyes bent upon the
ground.

Nay, I could be a Mahometan for your
sake, Susan."

Forgive him, Father ! Soldiers were
ever profane, except on the eve of battle,"
says Susan.

And they worship trinkets, ribbons,
and locks of hair," answers Oliver.

n2

Captain North is merry, and little
blame to him, Countess," says the Father,
but whom have we here ; and in angry
altercation ?"

"My father and Lawyer Dobbs," exclaims
Susan, as the two enter the room, Dobbs
taking off his hat and bending low as he
enters.

My dear," says Mr. Hardwick, " here
is Mr. Dobbs, who has no longer any business
with yourself or with me, who has
been directed to hand over his papers to
Mr. Mercer, who has no right whatever to
address us in person, who was ordered to
direct any communication that he might
have to make upon our affairs to our new
solicitor ; he comes here declaring that he
will do nothing of the kind, and insisting
upon our withdrawing these orders, declaring
he will stay here until we do, and
uttering all kinds of threats. I must

invoke your personal authority in the
business "

Hard wick is quite out of breath with
passion and indignation at the affront
which he and the Countess sustained in
the unbidden presence of his arch-enemy
and former ally, Septimus Dobbs.

Pardon me a moment," says Susan to
Oliver and Father Busby, who stand aside
and converse together.

I did not desire to trespass upon you,
Countess, especially at so interesting a
moment," says Dobbs, glancing in the
direction of North and Father Busby.

ic Then pray withdraw your presence
from us," says the Countess, " and address
yourself to the solicitor and agent my
father has appointed. It is not my wish
that this change should be a serious money
loss to you, and I shall ask you to name
-a sum which you think will be a fair

compensation for the loss of this business."


It is not a question of money, it is a
question of position, reputation, dignity,"
answers Dobbs ; " which cannot be estimated
in money."

JSTo, truly," says the Countess.

This is a fight that must be fought
with kindred weapons. Your father has
brought about my discomfiture from
motives of malice and revenge. He shall
be answered like by like. I could tell you
a story that would tame you both !"

Sir, leave this place !" exclaims Hardwick,
and, as he speaks, sounds of many
voices are heard in the grounds.

Do you order me to go ?"

Yes."

And who are you ?"

The master of this house," says Hardwick.


Dobbs lays his hat ostentatiously upon
the floor and takes a seat, at which Oliver
North steps forward, but pauses to hear
the Countess say,

At least, sir, I am mistress here, and I
order you to go !"

What is the meaning of it?" suddenly
exclaims Father Busby ; " there is a crowd
of men rushing over the lawn and coming
this way."

They are coming to see me turned
out," says Dobbs, with a mocking laugh,
and an insulting gesture towards the
Countess.

w Then, by heavens ! they shall not
be disappointed," exclaims Oliver North,
seizing him by the collar of his coat,
literally carrying him across the room,
and pitching him into the arms of some
score of men who are hurrying up the
terrace, headed by a leader, who, pausing

at the entrance of the open windows to
wave a halt with his hand, steps inside the
room, Dobbs crawling in after him.

Forgive this sudden and uninvited intrusion!"
says the foremost man, raising
his hat with the grace of a gentleman and
bowing to the Countess.

It was a startling surprise for all of
them, this appearance of Scruton ; for, despite
the change in him, they all recognized
him on the instant. He was dressed
almost, as it appeared, in the same clothes
as those he wore when last they had seen
him; and he had fortified himself with
wine almost to madness, which helped the
identity.

I see you know me !" he says, advancing,
" Philip Scruton, Earl of Ellerbie,
proprietor of this house. Pray don't be
disturbed ; you are heartily welcome here,
though I did not invite you."

Then, turning specially to the priest, he
bows his head.

Father, your blessing !"

The priest turns away.

You will give it me anon," says Scrutiny;
"but be seated, Countess, and you,
Mr. North — Captain North, I believe — and
you, Mr. Hardwick, be seated; don't let
me break up your domestic harmony."

There is a bitter irony in his tone and
manner. Susan fears him. She nestles
close to the side of Oliver North, and well
she may ; for Scruton looks like the devil
himself. His eyes are bloodshot, his face
sallow, his thin lips and cruel mouth look
the wickeder for his coal-black moustache
and thin straggling imperial.

At the beckoning of his finger a constable
comes forward from the crowd on the
terrace and goes up to North.

I am sorry to arrest you, Mr. North,

but it is my duty; here is my warrant."

Arrest me !" exclaims North.

Arrest you !" gasps Susan, clinging to
his arm, and looking appealingly at Father
Busby.

By this time the butler and most of the
Countess's servants have entered the room.

"Hear my orders," says Scruton, addressing
them ; " hear the orders of your
master, Lord Ellerbie f '

They stare at him and at everybody in
dumb amazement.

The rooms of the Countess and her
venerable father remain at their entire
disposal ; the carriages, horses, all that I
possess at Brackenbury will remain at present
to the use and under the command of
the Countess. Go, give meat and drink
to those tenants and friends you see
yonder, who are here to join you in
welcoming your lost lord home again !"

Not one of them moves, at which the
crowd grows impatient and presses into
the room, two other constables coming
forward as Scruton beckons them.

"What is the meaning of this ?" says
Susan, at last, summoning all her courage,
Oliver North being now surrounded, and
appearing for the moment paralysed with
astonishment. " Of what is that innocent,
honest, brave gentleman and my future
husband charged ?"

Of the murder of the late Lord
Ellerbie !" answers Scruton, raising his
voice, a malicious smile on his lips as
Susan staggers fainting into the arms of
her lover.

Ruffian !" exclaims North, thrusting
aside the constables and holding up his
fainting charge, who is at once attended by
her women, "you shall live to repent this
day and die miserably as you have lived !"

Officers, see to your prisoner !" says
Scruton, turning his back upon him to
consult with Dobbs, who shuffles up to his
new master, and then going to the crowd
leads off "three cheers for the returned
exile, and welcome home again to the Earl
of Ellerbie !"

CHAPTER VI.

Sergeant-major TOM BERTRAM IS VERY BUST.

Go wan. — Beg thy pardon, thou popinjay ! Dost
think, an thou dearest silken hose and angles a
sword of Spain on thy skimpy thigh, I'll beg thy
pardon ?

Sir Richard. — Marry, knave, an thou dost not fall
straightway on thy knees, I'll run that same rapier
through thy misbegotten carcase.

rTIHERE could be no question about the
-■- rights of the returned heir. Scruton
was undoubtedly Lord Ellerbie.

And the very last this time !" said Mrs.
Kirk.

That remains to be seen," said the
farmer.

Well, if he doesn't get killed or drownded,
or something, there's no justice this
side the grave," said the dame.

We've seen it overtake a villain when
least expected," said Kirk ; " bide your
time, missus."

Ah, but the devil takes care on his
own," she answered.

For a time, maybe," answered the
farmer ; " but he gets tired of waiting for
'em, and drags 'em down at last."

"Well, well, it would seem as if the
honest and true have a hard time of it.
To think of another innocent, brave, good
young fellow being in danger of his neck
on a false charge I"

I wonnat believe he's in danger !"

"You said so when poor Jacob Marks
was took up."

I did, I did. But it would be safe
to hurt a hair of Captain North's head.
There'd be a riot ; blame me, if I dormant
think there would be a revolution."

"Oh, I donna know," said Mrs. Kirk.
Folk have a way of knocking under to
things when law and constables and soldiers
is again' a man."

Tom Bertram and Mary came into the
Home Farm while the two old people were
talking. The young couple were on their
way to Brackenbury. They had only just
heard the startling news of Scruton's return
and Oliver North's arrest. North
had been taken in a carriage to the House
of Correction or gaol at Chesterfield. Tom
was overwhelmed with anxiety, and would
not even " cheer up " under Mary Kirk's
liveliest sallies concerning the advantages
a man possessed who, having only one
eye, could concentrate his entire vision

upon any given subject. Mary argued
that it was no good for everybody to be
down in the dumps " — they must go and
see what was to be done. Thank goodness,
she did not despair, and she was used
to troubles and difficulties and surprises !

Mary found Susan utterly broken down,
but nevertheless directing, though like one
in a dream, the business of her removal
and her father s to the Hall. Old Hardwick
had actually counselled her remaining
at the Towers, for a time, at least, and
she had not spoken to him since. He had
said to the butler that it was kind of his
lordship to give orders for the Countess's
commands to be obeyed. He had even
sought a private interview with the new
lord " to talk matters over," and had listened
with patience to Scruton when he
said the best thing his daughter could do
would be to accept him as her husband.

He had gone further — he had intimated
that time might favour the new lord's suit.

By the saints, old man !" Scruton had
said, pushing the bottle over to Hardwick
(Dobbs had gone to Chesterfield with the
prisoner), u if you could bring that about,
there is nothing she could ask cf me that
she should not have !"

Hardwick had not gone so far as even to
glance a hint at such a mad proposal to
Susan; but he had said he thought it
would be wise that they should not leave
Brackenbury at least for a few days.

For which remark I shall never forgive
you !" said Susan ; whereupon the old
time-serving scoundrel had whimpered and
pretended to cry, muttering all the time
that he only lived for her welfare, for her
happiness.

Neither his snivelling nor his professions
of love moved her.

VOL. III. o

"I will never forgive you!" she repeated.


And she never ought !" said Mary-kirk,
who was present, and who burned to
give Mr. Hardwick a piece of her mind.

Messengers had been sent to get the
Hall in order, and by sunset a waggon
from Tom Bertram's farm and two hackney
coaches from Chesterfield were drawn up
before the western entrance of Bracken-bury
Towers, the waggon packed with
trunks, the coaches for the Countess, her
maid, and Mary, and another vehicle for
Mr. Hardwick ; for Susan had declined to
use either horses or carriages belonging
to Brackenbury Towers, and she left the
place with no more than she had brought
there. Hardwick was in sore distress at
this. Even Mary Kirk did not approve
of Susan leaving behind the family jewels,
the famous Ellerbie diamonds ; but Susan

was resolute, she would not touch a stone
•of them.

They are her own," whimpered Hardwick
to Mrs. Tom Bertram ; " she is still
the Countess, and Brackenbury is settled
upon her; she is demented; my daughter is
mad !"

When Susan and Mary had left the
Countess's apartments, and gone downstairs
to take their places in the hackney
coach, old Hardwick had run through the
rooms and scrambled together all the
jewellery he could lay his hands on, thrusting
it into one of his own trunks, where he
had also concealed several bottles of the
green seal madeira, and many articles of
no value whatever, just as people at a fire
will save hair-brushes, hand-glasses, trifling
ornaments, anything that comes first to
hand, while leaving behind them valuable
treasures.

o2

As Mary and Susan were passing through
the great hall, they were confronted by
Scruton.

One word," he said, " in his interest,
not in mine."

Susan would have hurried past him, but
Mary held her back.

Hear what he has to say," said Mary ;
he may be going to confess his villainy
and release his victim."

Thank you, my pert mistress," said
Scruton, " not so fast nor so malicious.
But if this is to be farewell to Bracken-bury,
the host should be allowed a parting
word."

Let me go, Mary," said Susan ; " his
presence is an insult."

I can save Captain North," said the
villain ; "it rests with you."

There ! Listen, my dear friend," said
Mary, " for his sake, for Oliver's sake."

"Go on, sir," said Susan.

u I would speak with you alone !" answered
Scruton.

You waste your time, then, and ours,"
said Susan.

I won't listen ; speak," said Mary.

Scruton looked round, and closed an
adjacent door.

It is a bold thing I have to say, and
you may resent it now ; but you will, perhaps,
think it over afterwards and discuss
it with your friend, who seems to have
judgment."

If it concerns Captain North's interest,"
said Mary, " the Countess will attend ; goon,
Mr. Scruton."

Not Mr. Scruton now, pretty one, Lord
Ellerbie, mistress," said the vagabond.

"Don't 'pretty one' me," said Mary;
my husband may cudgel you else, if you
were fifty times Lord Ellerbie."

Say you so ?" lie replied, trying ta
smile pleasantly, but only distorting his
already Satanic features.

Susan had sunk upon a chair by Mary's
side, her face in her hands ; and Tom
Bertram might have been seen twice to
look in upon them impatiently, for the
wagon was loaded, and the horses were
pawing the earth.

Believe me, I feel for the Countess," he
said, " falling from such a height ; but it is
not my wish that her position should be lowered.
On the contrary, an Ellerbie was her
choice. He gave her wealth, a title, all
that women desire, except a husband near
her own age, a gallant of whom she could
feel proud. Let the past be forgotten.
Let me be the Ellerbie of her choice !"

Gradually raising her head as he spoke,
Susan sprang to her feet.

Oh I" she exclaimed, " I am fallen indeed

! Is there no one to protect me from
this shame, this insult ?"

Why, surely !" said Tom Bertram, who
had been gradually convinced, as he stood
in the shadow of the porch, that things
were becoming unpleasant both for his
wife and the Countess, "there's me! What
is it?"

Tom !" cried Susan, rushing to him.

Don't be afraid !" said Tom.

Take me away !"

That I will," said Bertram.

Scruton rushed between Susan and Tom,
cutting off the women from their protector.

Now, sir, beg my pardon P shouted
the Earl.

"For what?" asked Tom, shifting his
position so that he got the enemy on his
light side.

"For this intrusion."

"Let me put the ladies into the coach

and so I will, if it please you to think
IVe done anything wrong," said Tom.
That's fair, your lordship."

Tom was so humble that Scruton, thrown
off his guard, allowed him, as the ladies
were now by Tom's side again, to conduct
them out of the hall.

"You won't go back, Tom, dear Tom!"
said Mary, as Tom handed them into the
carriage and pulled down the steps.

Don't you be afraid, little one," he said,
closing the window, and telling the coachman
to drive on.

Then, picking up an ash stick lying by
his wagon, he directed his man to drive on
too, saying he would overtake him.

"Now, sir!" he* said, rushing back
through the porch and into the hall, where
Scruton was still standing alone, fuming
and fretting, in a rage with himself, and

half maddened with drink, " what am I to
beg your pardon for ?"

Because I choose to wish it, peasant !"
said Scruton, with studied insolence.

Shall you call your lackeys if I don't ?"

"No."

Shall you if I do ? For they'd come if
you did ; they don't mind who they serve,
it seems !"

"What do you mean, you impertinent
cur?" said Scruton,* his hand upon his
sword.

That if you will undertake we be not
disturbed, I will tell you something I heard
in Paris ; but I don't want to be detained
here — I've gotten to see after my wagon."

You are a cool knave," answered Scrutiny.
" My servants will not come unless
I call them."

They said in my regiment, quartered

in Paris, that you are a cheat, a liar, and a
coward !"

Scruton whipped out his sword, and his
hand trembled as the sturdy yeoman faced
him.

I don't know if you are a cheat, I never
played, with you ; I know you are a coward,
for I heard you insult a lady : and I know
you are a liar, for you said I should beg
your pardon !"

Damn you !" exclaimed Scruton, making
an ugly and cowardly pass at Tom,
which the young fellow had been fully
prepared for all the time, and which he
parried vigorously with his stick, that
came down the next moment with such
force upon Scruton's pate that the new
Earl dropped prone upon his family oak.

Well done, Tom !" said the sergeant to
himself, as he contemplated the prostrate
foe ; "as pretty a bit of sword practice as

man could desire, thanks to the activity of
one eye and the strength of Mary's bracelet."


Tom picked up the sword.

You misbegotten sinner !" he said,
apostrophising the vanquished foe, " if you
were in Spain or some other civilised
county, I think I could have the heart to
stick it through your gizzard !"

Instead of doing so, he laid out the lappet
of Scruton's coat and pinned it to the
oaken floor. Then he took from his
pocket a piece of chalk and wrote, in a
big round hand : —

Here lyes A coward who drawer on a
Unarmed Man and if he is Lord Ellerbie I
am his Tenant And this is how I gives him
Notice to quit. Tom Bertram, late Sergeant-major
in His Majesty s Royal"

Scruton sighed and began to move as-tom
finished.

There, I've done it !" said the yeoman,
"been and ruined myself, I suppose, and
Mary too ; well, dang me, I cannot help it !
A man as has fought for his country and
is down for medals and things is not going
to be put upon by a damned fascinating
villain like that, earl or no earl !"

Tom marched down the long avenue and
into the high-road with an elastic tread.
He almost fancied he could hear the
band of his old regiment playing " Rule
Britannia."

"The foreign-looking whelp!" he said,
4C the spider-legged ill-favoured devil, to
come his outlandish airs on me ! And to
try to set his ugly self up in Captain
North's place, and that poor fellow by this
time in that there hole of a prison on the
Nipper ! I'll tell you what, my fine
Frenchy earl, with your dancing-pumps
and your fancy sword, if anything happens

to Oliver North, look out ! I've had the
settling of one villain, against my will,
that was ; but I'll button you up, Mester
Scruton, as sure as I am Grassmoor born
and bred !"

He strode on, talking to himself and
flourishing his stick. Presently he stopped,
as if to hold a council of war.

But look here, Tom, you monnat goon
talking like that I" he said. " You are
forgetting that blessed little wife of your ;
you don't go and get course into trouble,
else that'll she do ? That's the worst of
being married, it cripples you when fighting
and such-like comes in ; but there, I
munnat forget Mary, bless her ; I wouldn't
give her a minute's trouble for — there, I
donna know what ! But, dang it, I'm
glad I whipped that bragging, foreign-looking'
catamaran !"

Tom called on his way at the Home

Farm, and told Kirk what he had done.

"Don't tell the missus, lad!" said Kirk.
I'm sorry thou did it ; that is, I'm sorry
it had to be done !"

"Ah, that's it !" said Tom, "it had to be
done, father-in-law."

And as it had to be done, son-in-law,
I'm glad thou didst it well !"

What do you think he'll do about it?"

u It's hard to say. Nowt, if he isn't a
born fool."

"Well, it ista a thing to brag about,
eh ?" said Tom, laughing aloud ; " maybe
he'll keep it to himsen."

"But you'll have to leave farm," said
Kirk ; " it's a right down good thing I've
gotten my own freehold. There's missus
coming."

I wonnat stay," said Tom, hurrying
off ; "I shall be sure to let it out if I
stop."

He strode out for Chesterfield, turnips
out of his way to take a look at the Miller
and his Men, for he was in a strange kind
of humour. The old place was half pulled
down, and the labourers were just leaving
work for the day.

Owner's going to build a new mill on
spot," said the foreman, "and Bow Street
runner chap's been here, and we've found
among other things marked guineas hidden
under floor of Short's bed-room — them
guineas as poor Marks was hanged for
stealing."

You donna say so !" exclaimed Tom.
"Well, well! And yet that same fellow,
a Heart he is now, as was robbed and
swore again Marks is now on another
innocent man to get him hanged."

Ay, we've heard about Captain North, "
said the foreman.

Well, you'd never stand harm being

done to him, eh, would any on us, after
this business of them guineas, and this
Mister Lawyer Dobbs at work in it
again r

No, I think there would be a row,"
said the foreman, and the men standing
round said, " Ay, there would."

Did you ever see a thieving son of a
gun drummed out of a regiment ?" Tom
asked.

u No."

Well, it's a sight ! You just tak' him
he's done summit, mind you, as bad asa
chap like Dobbs would — and you first
strip off his stripes and buttons and things,
and you just kick him out while band plays
'Rogue's March.' I'd like to treat Mr.
Dobbs to the ugly march, and kick him
out of Chesterfield and the county that
way."

"Ay," the men said, "so would we."

"Well, shall we do it, lads, one day?"
Tom asked.

Ay," they said.

"And will you let me be captain of
Kicking-out Army r"

u Ay, lad !" they shouted, laughing merrily
; " but donna delay it long."

No, I wonnat," said Tom. " Goodnight,
lads !" And on he marched, apostrophising
himself again. " Tom, lad," he
said, " thou nun mind thy eye. Thou
wilt surely get into trouble if thou doesna
mind."

When he arrived at Chesterfield, he
found the town in a commotion. There
were crowds in the streets. Quite a multitude
were round the old Hall. He made
a surveillance, and, finding all well there,
he went on to the Angel. The greatest
indignation was expressed there at the
arrest of North. Susan Jane was in high

VOL. III. p

feather, for her evidence, it was held, was
enough to exculpate him on the spot.
Dick Holmes had not left the Angel all
day. His business, people were saying,
would go to the dogs. And so it might,
he said. He wanted to be married, and
Susan Jane had been forced, under threats
of bankruptcy, suicide, and every horror
under the sun, to vow that she would
marry Dick the day Oliver North married
the Countess of Ellerbie — a vow which
stimulated Dick's faith in Oliver's innocence,
and his hope of a speedy manifestation
thereof.

Tom found that, though there were two
sides touching the question of the rights
and wrongs of Olivers arrest, the side that
was against him was a poor little shabby
minority of tradesmen, who were content
to be bought, body and soul, by the reigning

power at Brackenbury. There was a
strong feeling growing up against Scruton
and Dobbs, and, when the report of Scrutiny's
appearance in the fair began to be
discussed in detail, many cried shame on
those who had consented to drink the
liquor of the man who had insulted them.
The story of Billy Nipper and his sister
was told : and one man said Nannie Lomas
was ready to take her oath that Dobbs
knew the fellow was coming; that Dobbin?
and Scruton had arranged it all, so that
the vagabond might seem to have been
badly treated by the late Earl, and make a
sensation of it, so as to get sympathy, and
folks to go up to Brackenbury with him.

"Ah! you wait," Nannie had said ;
*" you'll see summit yet as will open your
eyes along of Mester Dobbs and his new
mester ! It wasn't wise getting North

p2 ■

locked lip ; but folks never is wise when
they lets their feelings get better of their
judgment."

Those were the words which it was reported
Nannie had used.

"And she knows!" said Dick Holmes.
M If ever there was a witch she's one, and
it's a good thing for her as she diana live
when my owt grandfather were alive ;
they'd have had her in the river Nipper
swimming' for it !"

Tom went down to the House of Correction,
miserably situated on that same river T
in the lower part of the town. The gaoler
would not let Tom see North, because he
said a gentleman from London was with
him, and under no circumstances were they
to be disturbed.

A gentleman from London," said Tom ;
"but I'm his old friend."

Ay, it doesna matter," said the gaoler.

"But I come from the Countess of
Ellerbie."

"Nay, that's a whacker !"

u What do you mean ?"

"Why, she's only just gone."

Has she been here?"

11 1 should think she has."

How long since r"

"Why, she's only just gone, crowd after
her cheering like mad."

A}', I thought there weren't many folk
about here."

"No, not now; they've followed ladyship's
carriage I tell thee, shouting themselves
hoarse, saying, ' Never mind,' ' Cheer
up,' ' He'll get off,' ' Wen have that there
Dobbs in his place,' and such like things,
and constable's been here afraid as there
will be a riot ; wen have to get powers
from Sheffield if there is."

Ah ! I reckon so. And who's chap

from London as is with Captain North. ?' r

"Well, I donna know as there's any
secret about it ; he's pretty well known by
this time in Chesterfield, a-coming and
going in a sort of erratic way, Mr. Spelter,
the famous Bow Street Runner."

Oh !" said Tom, his face lighting up
with a pleased expression — " oh ! Mester
Spelter, that's all right, I can sleep in comfort
then ; Spelter, oh ! ah ! well ! Then
I'll come and see Captain in the morning r
eh?"

Yes," said the gaoler ; " he'll go bes ore-magistrate
tomorrow."

"Mester Dick Spelter, eh ? Oh! well,;
that's good news, I'm sure. So good night,.
Mester, good night !"

His stick under his arm, his hands in his
pockets, Tom now took a short cut for
Lordsmill Street and the Hall, where Mary
was anxiously awaiting him.

"Nannie Lomas is again' both Dobbs
and new lordship," he said, talking to himself
as he strode along ; " and if Spelter's
having a confab with Oliver, Spelter's on
Oliver's side. I'm glad I had a run round ;
I've picked up nowt but good news. Eh,
but I should like to tell her about my fine
gentleman skewered to floor and ticketed
with my notice to quit. But I suppose I
monnat just yet ; I nun be sly about it for
present, till I see what comes on it."

CHAPTER VII.

Shelter AT WORK.

Foul deeds will rise,
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.

Shakspeare.

Philip Scrutiny, Earl of Ellerbie,
concluded to say nothing about the
reverse he had sustained in his encounter
with Tom Bertram, Sergeant-Ma j or ; but
to take his revenge when opportunity
offered.

Moreover, Philip Scruton, Earl of Elders
was too much engaged from the moment
he came to his senses until night

(one might truly say until the close of his
career) to afford any time to think about
his daring assailant. For the first person*
Philip Scruton, Earl of Ellerbie, saw when
he scrambled to his feet was that clerical
brother of the strange Order who had first
crossed his tortuous path in London, shortly
after the meeting with Dobbs at the
Cock Tavern in Fleet Street ; and whom
he had once encountered since that time
in Madrid, whither the chiefs had summoned
him to answer for certain shortcomings,
not to say disregard of vows and contempt
of warnings.

The secret societies of Europe counted
among their powerful associations no more
formidable combination, political and religious,
than that into which Philip Scruton
had been sworn ; and none adhered more
closely to the fulfilment of its sanguinary
ritual of punishment in the event of disloyalty.

Philip Scruton bad had reason to
know how far-reaching was its power;
$and conciliation as well as policy had
entered into his plans when he left England
for the Continent the day following the
murder of his uncle — left secretly and disguised,
to return openly, as we have already
witnessed. Though he believed he
had made his peace, the Council of Three
had despatched the mysterious brother
aforesaid in his wake, with instructions
that were not uttered, but conveyed in a
penal sign, coupled with that of caution.
This officer of the order had himself, beyond
his duty and his office, a personal
enmity towards Scruton. " We shall meet
again," he had said to the derelict brother
at the close of Scruton's interrogations on
that long past day near Hyde Park. " We
meet again I" was the priest's salutation in
Madrid when Scruton knelt before the

Council of Three, confessed his breaches,
and promised amendment. " For the third
time, Brother of the Third Grade," he
said, as he contemplated the new Earl
tearing his coat from the ignominious stab
of his own sword, " we meet again !"

Scruton passed his hand over his face
and stared at his visitor, the last person in
the world whom he had expected to see.
The foreigner was attired now in semi-clerical
garb, and looked the part he was
playing — that of a Romish priest.

"Here lyes A coward who drawer on a
Unarmed Man and if he is Lord Ellerbie 1
am his Tenant And this is how 1 gives him
Notice to quit. Tom Bertram, late Sergeant-major
in His Majesty's Royal" said the
priest, tracing the writing on the floor with,
his long black cane.

The cursed knave ! it was he who-took
me at a disadvantage," said Scruton,

rubbing Lis feet upon the offensive chalk
marks.

Indeed !" said the brother from Madrid.

But why are you here ?" he asked.

"To see Father Busby' answered the
priest.

1 thought we were outside his pale,"
said Scruton.

The orthodox Church only recognizes
us on special occasions. I come on
an exceptional mission. Will you conduct
me ?"

May I know the nature of your
mission ?•"

"You may not."

Scruton bowed and led the way. In the
library he called a servant.

"A visitor for Father Busby," said
Scruton.

"This way, your reverence," answered
the servant ; and in due course the Spaniard

was closeted with the faithful chaplain of
the Ellerbies.

1 neither recognize jour order, nor its
mission, since both are under the ban of
Holy Church ; but, setting aside your
Order, and leaving the sin of disobedience
to His Holiness, I may respond to your
other claim ; and since, individually, the
members of your Brotherhood are not
excommunicate, I give you welcome !" said
Father Busby, after some preliminary
overtures of friendship and priestly brotherhood.


It is of the Earl who has just seized,
as it were, title and estates I would ask
you."

11 He has done ill in the violence of his
possession ; but he is the rightful heirs
said Father Busby.

Though His Holiness doth put us outside
the light of his benign countenance

we feel no less our duty to our Mother
Church ; would it not have been better for
thee and her that the holy crusade should
have been fought with the aid of our new
sister in the Faith than with this heir who
cometh and goeth so violently ?"

I gather no hope of righteous advancement
for the Church under the auspices of
Lord Bllerbie. The widow of his uncle is
a meet instrument for good, and I had
hoped God Himself had given her to the
Cause ; . for a more devoted recruit never
joined our sacred banner''

The Spaniard disappeared from Brandenburg
almost as mysteriously as he came ;
but Dick Spelter was not surprised to see
him soon afterwards at his modest retreat
by the Horns tavern.

The highwayman who disclosed to you

the character of Short confessed at my
instigation," said the foreigner.

And many thanks for the same — remember
you coming into prison to confess
him," said Spelter.

Your mission to the Miller and his
Men brought you in timely connection
with Brackenbury ?"

It did — unlucky with Short — too late
with Short — a little fogged with Bracken-bury,"
said Spelter.

No, you are not."

Oh, well, come, if you know better
than me, out with it — you gents do get
hold of things somehow — if w T e in the
thief-taking profession only had your confessional
privileges !"

You would never convict a prisoner,"
said the Spaniard, quickly. " There are
black sheep in all professions, Mr. Spelter,

but not in all the history of the Church
has priest ever yielded up the secret of the
confessional."

"Dick Spelter is an ignorant fool — he
begs your pardon — there !"

Why do you halt in this business of
Brackenbury ?"

Why do I halt ? Well, that's a leading
question — what do you mean?"

The priest made no reply.

A man can't run an affair like this
down all in a minute — must communicate
with superiors sometimes — extraordinary
business this — create sensation all through
country — Spelter must make no mistake."

Spelter shall not," said the priest.

Thanks again — very good of you to
watch over Spelter."

If the officer, whose fame has even
reached Spain and Germany, trifles with
his reputation, it is fitting that the friend,

who pointed bim the way to a higher distinction
than that he has yet won, should
come to his aid."

"Oh! you are an oddity — but I like
oddities — I like you — a man who pulls me
up the moment I see him — sets me thinking
— makes me feel I'm in superior company
— that man has my respect — pardon
me, but you must be in the profession, eh ?
now come, reverend sir — eh ?"

I am on my way to London, thence to
the Continent. I heard you were here — "

Yes, and very good of you to look me
up — feel honoured — should like to return
the compliment when I cross the Channel."

And I find you," went on the priest,
not noticing Spelter's remark, " hesitating
when you should strike, pausing on the
threshold of success when you should go
boldly in. Shall I call on the Duke of York
and explain to his Grace the new outrage

VOL. III. Q

which has been committed in Derbyshire
by the arrest of an innocent man on a
charge as false as that which hanged one
Jacob Marks, casting shame and scandal
on the administration of justice in this part
of the kingdom ?"

You know His Royal Highness?"

"I know all your masters, royal and
ministerial," said the priest.

One of us," touching himself on the
breast, " only of a higher grade — felt sure
of it when you come into Cheesemonger
Lane — says I, ' Spelter, he's a — ' well,
never mind, it ain't a word you might like,
though not intended disrespectful — don't
be impatient — the arrest of Oliver North
ain't my affair — nothing to do with it —
told Lawyer Dobbs it was wrong."

Then tell Lawyer Dobbs what is right,"
said the priest, " and good day, Mr.
Spelter!"

I have the honour to wish you a pleasant
journey," said Spelter, opening the
door.

Comes and goes just like them high-handed
ones — spy, should think he was —
no more a priest, I essay, than I am — a
Government spy — clever chaps, them foreign
gentlemen — such an advantage speaking
another language too — the gift of
tongues — well, Spelter, you take the tip
when it's given you straight — tell Lawyer
Dobbs what is right, so I will — bounce
him, Spelter, my boy — bounce him ; you've
had a good deal of his coin — bounce him I"

Sure can't be overheard ?" said Spelter,
sitting by the fire in Dobbs's office.
Certain."

11 Close all the doors."
Dobbs closed them.
"Lock 'em!*

Q 2

Dobbs locked them.

Not a soul within a room and a passage
of us?"

"Not a soul," said Dobbs.

"Things look ugly. You should not
have permitted that arrest."

** No, I felt it was wrong."

V Will bring things to a crisis."

"Yes?"

You've paid me a good deal of money
during the business."

You have earned it, Spelter."

Perhaps ; but my reputation's at stake
now — must consider reputation — man in
the play, you know, awful way about his
reputation. You are nervous, Mr. Dobbs —
don't look well."

I am not well," said Dobbs.

"Do you remember me telling you it
was a murder, at first ? Do you remember
I said I'd find the two men ?"

"Two men!" repeated Dobbs. " Did
you say two ?"

"Always said two — don't you call to
mind I said we must first find the motive
first consider who benefited most?"

North would benefit if he married the
widow," said Dobbs.

11 You really look very ill," said Spelter;
take a little of something — brandy's a
good thing."

"No, no, not now — business first,"
said Dobbs.

Sure we cant be overheard — mysterious
business going on — Government spy
at my place an hour ago — strange messages
to me from London — don't want you to
criminate yourself, as you would say, sir
but "

"What do you mean?" asked Dobbs,
rising, and trying to assume an indignant
tone and manner.

*' To be as pleasant as I've always been —
but plainer-spoken — more to the purpose — -
don't be foolish, Dobbs — you've paid me
well, and I'm not ungrateful."

Dobbs could not fail to notice the
unaccustomed tone of familiarity which
Spelter assumed towards him. Coupled
with the detective's persistent caution about
probable listeners, it filled Dobbs with terror;
for he had only just packed up the
Scruton deeds and securities in his strong
box, and he had not forgotten how plainly
Scruton had given him to understand that
they were confederates.

Well, Mr. Spelter," said Dobbs, " we
have been good friends, and I have tried
to do my best in fulfilling the duties and
responsibilities that have lain in my way ;
and with Heaven's blessing I hope to
continue to do so."

Don't preach," said Spelter, quickly —

it makes me uncomfortable — not, like the
devil in the play, on account of fear — just
the opposite — what I want you to consider
is this — and me being, as it were, partly
in your service, since you have generously
paid many of my expenses, you being
steward, lawyer, and family adviser of the
Ellerbies in one — I feel it is right to let
you know where we stand."

Yes, truly, and I am the more beholden
to you, Mr. Spelter," said Dobbs.

Try a little brandy now," said Spelter,
and I will join you — know you do keep it
handy — or wouldn't ask you — also know
it's old as Methuselah or shouldn't touch
it — no smuggled liquor for me — as I was
saying "

Dobbs, turning to a small cupboard behind
his chair, produced a bottle and wineglasses,
and they both sipped the liquor
unaltered.

"It is fine, no doubt about it," said
Spelter. " Well, you see, Mr. Dobbs, as I
was saying, I have now my reputation to
consider — my reputation demands that I
clear up this Brackenbury business straight
—can do it without your aid— with your
aid can do it in such a way as will be more
satisfactory to you."

I am sure I can rely on your friendship,"
said Dobbs.

"Now the business stands thus — am
making sacrifice to friendship in showing
you my hand — hope you'll appreciate it —
new observe."

Spelter raised his left hand, spreading
out fingers and thumb. "No. 1 — Your
clandestine meetings with Scruton in
London and the sham announcements of
his death." (Spelter pressed his thumb.)
No. 2— The robbery of Oliver North not
only of a ribbon, but a knife — keep your

mind on the knife." (Spelter pressed down
his first finger, and Dobbs sat speechless.)
"No. 3 — Canton's purchase of a masquerading
costume and his leaving London a
week before the murder of Lord Ellerbie."
(The second finger down.) " No. 4 — The
secret passage and the murder !" (Dobbs
watched Spelter put down the third
finger with a certain fascination of fear.)
No. 5 — That sneaking clerk of yours who
engrossed the deeds of consideration from
Scruton to yourself."

"What!" exclaimed Dobbs, his lip quivering.


Don't get excited — attend, and judge
the situation as if you were counsel engaged
for Septimus Dobbs — as if Lawyer
Dobbs was your client — as if Mr. Dobbs
had criminated himself in some way — say
he is in trouble, and you were engaged to
get him out."

I am attending' Dobbs replied, his
mouth becoming suddenly dry, his tongue
parched, and his hands deadly cold.

The prosecution, say, runs over its
case, enumerates its witnesses — waiter
from the Cock Tavern — sly person that
waiter — supposed old soldier who robbed
North — Mr. Hardwick, who has confessed
to his desire for that ribbon, and your
undertaking to get it for him — old soldier
should not have taken knife as well — mistake
for Dobbs to let Scruton get hold of
knife — Nannie Lomas, who is a witch,
that's certain — newspaper man who produces
your written account of Scruton's
death — footmarks in the secret passage
and by the lake that fit Scruton's boots
your ungrateful clerk, who has from
time to time given me access to your
papers "

Dobbs started, all trembling, to his feet.

Sit down — be calm — you are not Dobbs
just now, remember, but his counsel — and
lastly a witness who has some mysterious-dower
over the case in general, and information
more curious than that of Nannie
Lomas herself — he is a Spanish priest
and the daring conclusion of the whole
now listen, Dobbs' s counsel — take note,,
most learned counsel of the accused — the
charge is that Scruton murdered his uncle,
and that Septimus Dobbs was accessory
before and after the fact !"

As he concluded, Spelter fixed his keen
little eyes upon Dobbs and rose solemnly
from his chair, the lawyer falling back and
staring blankly at the detective.

"Strong case, eh, counsel for Dobbs?
what is Dobbs to do ? — Scruton being in
custody "

In custody !" gasped Dobbs, both hands
clinging to the arms of the chair in which
he was sitting.

tl I said in custody — the principal in
this horrible murder being in custody "

It was North we arrested," said Dobbs,
turning livid with anxiety.

North you arrested — yes, that was another
of the mistakes of Dobbs — make a
note of it, Dobbs's counsel."

I did not," gasped Dobbs.

Dobbs did not arrest North, it is true,"
said Spelter, persisting in addressing the
shrinking wretch as if he were his own
counsel ; " but he allowed the malice of
Scruton to go so far — just as he permitted
North's knife to fall into Scruton's hands
Scruton reckless person — guard of a
local coach remembers night oP murder
dropping man dressed like a Jew pedlar
near Hasland — same height as Scruton—

two servants at Brackenbury now remember
him coming to the Hall — the costumier
who clothed him is already in Chesterfield
no doubt whatever who killed Lord
Ellerbie — and the coward who did it is
coward enough to implicate his pal — consider
that, my learned friend."

"Whom should you charge with being his
pal, as you call him ?" asked Dobbs, slowly,
his eyes wandering in a vain effort to fix
them calmly on Spelter's face.

Septimus Dobbs," said Spelter.

Dobbs's head sank upon his breast. His
fingers worked nervously.

What should I do if I were in Dobbs's
place ?" said the detective, as if he had
been asked the question. " I should say,
Dick Spelter, you are a friend to me, and
I thank you — as long as your reputation
was not at stake you kept things quiet —
and when your reputation and honour come-into

play you give me the office — what I
should do if I was Mister Dobbs is this,
knowing what a scoundrel I have to deal
with in Scruton, whose character is of the
very worst as is — I should not wait till
poor kind-hearted Spelter is obliged to
arrest me on the capital charge, and, when
arrested, might not be allowed to turn
King's evidence, because Spelter has
enough evidence to hang you both "

Dobbs groaned, and began to apostrophise
his Maker.

What should I do if I was Dobbs is to
take bull by horns — not delay a second —
taking up the Government offer of Reward
and Free Pardon, not being the actual
murderer — I, Septimus Dobbs, should confess
to Spelter, and claim the Reward and
the Free Pardon."

But you said Scruton was in custody ?"
said Dobbs, in a hoarse whisper.

Practically."

In fact you said ?"

Brackenbury is in charge of two of
my men — so far as I am concerned lie is in
custody, though he does not know it — my
men wait the signal to save your neck, and
thus honourably earn all the money you
have paid me — T am ready to arrest him on
your confession."

Oh ! my God ! oh ! my offended Maker,
what shall I do ?" exclaimed Dobbs. " Give
me time, Spelter ; time to think, my dear
friend !"

"Take a little more brandy," said Spelter,
keeping down his own exultation ; for,
though his case was strong against Dobbs,
he had invented some of the keenest of
the blows he had struck in his imaginary
brief.

It might be objected against Spelter's
action that, as a police officer, he had no

right to lead Dobbs into a trap; indeed,
that he committed a breach of police law
in doing so ; but Spelter had not obtained
his great reputation by over-scrupulously
in such matters ; and officers in his
position were allowed a wider latitude of
discretion seventy years ago than now ;
and crime was of a more daring and
romantic character than it is now, in sofar
as regards offences that were committed
against the person.

How easily a poor devil may be hanged
when he is innocent you already know""
said Spelter, while Dobbs was thinking out
the points which had gone so straight home
to him. " Scruton presumed on that —
but Scruton has lived a good deal abroad,
and that's against him in many ways — only
discovered four and twenty hours ago last
piece of evidence against Short — Scruton's
marked guineas — buried with other criminating

things beneath his bed-room floor —
if Short hadn't been killed I should have
hanged him."

Oh ! Mr. Spelter, my dear friend,
what shall I do ?" said Dobbs, utterly
broken down and bewildered ; " you must
give me time."

Ten minutes," was Spelter's reply —
ten minutes — you'll never see the casein
a clearer light if you think about it
for a week."

I will go into the next room," said
Dobbs, struggling to his feet.

"No, don't do that — better think it out
here — do you want anything ? — here is the
placard announcing the Edward and Free
Pardon — you have no wife — no children —
no ties — you can travel — change your
name — have known three different men
who have done it — one confessed before
question could be raised as to privilege of

vol. in. n

being allowed to turn King's evidence —
other two allowed to do so because evidence
difficult without them; knew two men
who might have been living now in clover,
who offered to turn King's evidence when
it was too late — we didn't want their confession
— they were two fools, and they
were hanged accordingly."

Oh, what an awful position to be
in, Mr. Spelter ! How can I say that
that miserable man committed the deed?
If I died this minute, I could not!
He is a bad, wicked, dangerous man, no
doubt."

"Ten minutes up," said Spelter, looking
at his watch and rising to his feet.

Well, and what are you going to do ?"
asked Dobbs.

Arrest you !"

"Merciful Saviour!" exclaimed Dobbs,
trembling in every limb.

If I do so without your confession you
must appeal to a higher authority than
mine to turn King's evidence — if you give
yourself up to me — prompted by the
weight of your sin, say, being a religious
man ; and I can say that on your own
information I charge Scruton and yourself
why, then the Free Pardon is settled —
you won't want the reward — Spelter can
claim that — when all is over your life and



liberty are secure — decide ! — time's up —
'pon my soul it is !"

"Life is sweet!" gasped Dobbs.

u While there's life there's hope !" said
Spelter.

And time for repentance ! Time to
make your peace with your Maker. Time
to live a new life and atone !"

Just so — Dobbs's counsel gives good
advice."

r2

"Mr. Spelter," said Dobbs, rising, and
steadying himself against the table.

"Excuse me, I'll take it down," said
Spelter, laying his hand upon a sheet of
paper and dipping a pen into the ink.

I have a statement to make to you in
your capacity as a constable in the service
of the law and of His Majesty the King,"
went on Dobbs. " I have reason to believe
that Philip Scruton, now Lord Ellerbie,
murdered his uncle. I am anxious to clear
my conscience of a load of iniquity in connection
therewith, and I am led to make
this confession by the remorse I feel at
the arrest and peril of Oliver North ; but
more particularly by the King's gracious
offer of a Free Pardon to any person implicated
in the crime, and not being the
actual perpetrator thereof."

Well put — Dobbs's counsel knows his
business — excuse me — want a witness to

your signature — forgive me taking a
liberty."

Spelter went to the door, unlocked it,
and called "Mrs. Briton," Dobbs's housekeeper.


"Not her — not Briton!" exclaimed
Dobbs.

As you please," said Spelter, whistling
a low, peculiar whistle, which was promptly
answered by the man who had been sent
clown to Chesterfield to inquire into the
Jessie Burns business, and whom Spelter
had kept in the neighbourhood.

Friend of mine from London," said
Spelter — "brought him so that we shouldn't
be disturbed — Mathers, just witness Mr.
Dobbs's signature."

Dobbs, after reading it, appended a
much firmer signature to the statement
written down by Spelter than might have
been expected.

Upon which Spelter "charged" him in the-usual
form ; and at sight of a pair of handcuffs
which Mathers somewhat prematurely
produced, Dobbs fell down in a fit, foamed
at the mouth, gnashed his teeth, glared
hideously, writhed, clutched his cravat,,
tore his vest, and presently lay still as
death.

i( You will remain with him," said Spelter
; " he'll come round — shall not lock him
up till tomorrow — will send a doctor and
a constable — Mathers, you were in luck
when they sent you down here — give-him
some brandy when he revives — he
is your prisoner. Have you your barkers
with you ?"

"Yes, sir," answered Mathers.

You'll, not need them — he'll be gentle
as a lamb — set to praying, no doubt — be
kind to him — he's done us a service — not

the sort that dies game, but a villain, mark
you — a cafes-paw scoundrel, Mathers — I'll
return to you soon — the constable shall
bring the doctor."

CHAPTER VIII.

JUSTICE OPENS HER EYES AT LAST.

And strange tales there be locked in the heart of
every town, that he who bringeth the keys of Patience
and Inquiry may unlock — Romances of Love and War,
tragedies of Assize, that do comprehend both rich and
poor, the titled and the commoner.

Local History.

TTPON the information of Mr. Spelter,
^ it was deemed advisable that a file
of soldiers should be sent for from
Sheffield. There was ample excuse for
the movement of troops in the Midlands ;
for civic strife and sedition were rife in

many districts, and the constabulary organizations
were of the feeblest character.
The local magistracy feared that riotous
demonstrations might be made against Mr.
Dobbs ; and even a rescue of Oliver North
attempted, so strong a feeling was growing
up in his favour and against the persons
who had brought about his arrest.
The discovery of the marked guineas stolen
from Scruton, and for which poor Marks
had innocently suffered, re-opened that
dreadful story, and the populace mixed it
up with the present attempt to strain the
law against another young fellow whose
pluck and distinction had made him
popular.

The troops came into Chesterfield during
the night, and when the Scarsdale
town woke up in the morning they were
in charge of the House of Correction ; they
guarded the office of the county magistrate,

before whom Oliver North was charged; they
were in possession of Brackenbury Towers ;
they were posted in front of Dobbs's house
in Glean Gate; and the chief persons
of the town said the magistracy had done
right in claiming this timely provision
against a breach of the peace.

The little office of the county magistrate
was surrounded with a crowd that became
intensely excited when a carriage drove up
containing Lord Ellerbie, who, as he
stepped out, guarded by two constables,
was greeted with groans and hisses. Mr.
Septimus Dobbs was similarly received.
The populace did not know at that time of
the change which had taken place in their
» relationship to the case which was exciting
so much local feeling. It was soon, however,
buzzed about that Dobbs was in
trouble; and when a messenger, coming

out of the magistrate's office, told the
crowd that Scruton himself was in custody,.
a cheer was set up that compelled the
magistrate to pause in some sympathetic
observations he was making to Captain
North. But, if the crowd was surprised
by the scraps of intelligence that filtered
cut of the court through messengers
and others, the chief astonishment was
reserved for Scruton himself. He had
affected to treat his arrest with contempt.
He had even threatened the officers
with condign punishment ; but when
Septimus Dobbs stood forward, pale and
haggard, to declare his confederacy, and
to offer his depositions as King's evidence,
the murderer's face fell, and the next moment
he looked as if he would leap upon
Dobbs and strangle him. Dobbs shrank
back, inwardly offering up thanks that h&

was a prisoner under the protection of the
Court.

The magistrate was occupied the whole
of the day in taking evidence ; and at the
close considered he had heard sufficient to
commit Philip Scruton, Earl of Ellerbie,
and to hold Dobbs in custody pending the
trial. The magistrate was anxious to rid
the town of the responsibility of two
such notable prisoners. By the advice of
his clerk he concluded to commit them on
the evidence of three witnesses, so that they
might forthwith be conveyed to Derby.

Oliver North was discharged and bound
over to give evidence against the prisoners.
Upwards of two thousand people escorted
him to the Hall in Lordsmill Street, where
he was received by Susan, who fell into
his arms, sobbing with joy. Mary Bertram
was there, and her husband. At

eight tar-barrels were rolled about the
town ; a band of music paraded the streets ;
and a torchlight procession followed the
prisoners on the road to Derby, singing*
some mad kind of ditty which Tom Bertram
had set to what he called u The
Rogues March."

The next day all the leading townspeople
called upon Oliver North at his lodgings
to sympathise with him and congratulate
him upon the quick proof of his innocence.
Prominent among these were the Vicar and
Mrs. Wingfield, Major George Wingfield,
and Mrs. Major Wingfield. Besides these
friends, there came Mr. and Mrs. Kirk,
Father Busby, and a crowd of far more
distinguished persons, with whom, however,
this particular history is not con .
cornet.

On the way to the gaol at Derby,.

when the vigilance of the constables was
relaxed, Scruton, ironed as he was, suddenly
flung himself upon whig fellow-prisoner
Dobbs, striking him in the face with his
manacled hands.

As the officers dragged him from his
prostrate and bleeding victim, Scruton
uttered a fierce threat against his life.
"I'll kill you! you cur, before I die!" he
hissed in the ear of his terrified confederate.


The murderous resolve cost him his own
life.

It seemed as if he entered the gaol with
that one motive of revenge fixed in his
mind. From the first moment that he set
foot within the prison he began to scheme,
not an escape, but a means of obtaining
access to Dobbs's cell. The prison was
new, and indeed hardly finished in parts.

Scruton lead not been in the place a month
before he had obtained a plan of the prison
from a gaol-bircWhose friendship he had
made during the exercising and other
regulations which brought the prisoners
into each other's company. He had learnt
from the chaplain the number and position
of Dobbs's cell, and it troubled him sorely
and excited his passion of revenge to know
that the lawyer was receiving more considerate
treatment than himself ; that he
had long interviews daily with the persons
who were getting up the case for the
prosecution.

Scruton was committed to the March
Assizes, so that he had a good deal of
time on his hands, and he obtained some
privileges and consideration not only on
account of his rank, but by reason of his
peculiarly mild behaviour since his incarceration.

Once a week lie had a visit
from the lawyer whom he was instructing
for his defence ; and the solicitor went
away always telling the officer he was
certain to prove the innocence of his client.
The lawyer in question was attended by
a clerk who used to fee the turnkeys and
others very liberally, on behalf of the
prisoner, which was not forgotten by them
in their views of gaol discipline as it
affected Lord Ellerbie. The result was
that on Christmas Eve, when the officers
of the gaol were more than usually indulgent
both to themselves and the
prisoners under their charge, Scruton was
creeping along the corridor beneath which
Dobbs's cell was situated, a fac-simile key
in one hand, his leg-irons in the other, and
in his heart a palpitating, burning desire
to beat Dobbs to death, when suddenly he
came to a barrier which seemed like a door

that yielded to pressure. This was the summit
of an unfinished flight of steps, intended
as a double communication to the upper corridor
or third story cell, above which Scruton
had been confined, and which had only been
recently commenced. The barrier, instead
of being a door, was made of some loose
planks, upon which was printed a notice —
Dangerous ! No Road !" But it was
dark, and Scruton had had no intimation
of a second flight of stairs. An opening
had been made for the steps, and meanwhile
in their place a ladder was left for
the convenience of masons working in the
adjacent right wing of the prison, which in
the daytime generally resounded with the
clink of the bricklayer's trowel.

All was still enough on this Christmas-eve.
There was a distant sound of bells,
it is true. Upon some minds the music
would have made a tender and sentimental

VOL. III. s

impression ; but they did not touch Philip
Scruton, for whom, however, it must be
said that he had no particular memories of
Christmas and its associations, his life
having been chiefly spent in foreign lands,
and never in the society of good women and
worthy men.

Curse it ! where am I?" he muttered.
This must be the west end flight of steps
marked on the plan, and the fool forgot to
put in the door."

He pressed against the barrier with his
shoulder. His legs were still partially
shackled, which made his movements difficult
; though he had no doubt about his
physical capacity to do all he wished
when he was inside the cell where Dobbs
had been trying to persuade himself and
his keepers of the sincerity of his penitence
by singing a Christmas hymn. He
little thought how near to him was his

mortal foe, a bar of iron in his hand, a
bitter, bloody resolve of murder in his
heart.

It yields," muttered Scruton — " a door
they don't lock, that's the reason it is not
marked, I suppose. There is a light in
the corridor below, always. Once there, I
am right."

He pressed against the barrier.

Ah! I see a glimmer of the lamp," he
muttered.

It was a lantern hung over some building
debris which the workmen bad left near
the ladder by a passage leading to the nightmare's
room.

Yes, that's the light!" he said, re-assured,
and the place as still as Septimus Dobbs
will be before these cursed bells have done
ringing. So open, curse you !" he said, ina
hoarse whisper, " open, damn you !" He
pressed his whole weight against the yielding

plank, and away went the barrier,
Scruton with it, headlong to the pavement
of the first floor. Struck by timbers as he
fell, he uttered but one stifled groan ; and
when the warders .on guard rushed to the
spot they found the mangled body of Scrutiny,
the face crushed out of all shape, a
hideous spectacle of death.

The general verdict of Chesterfield and
the county was that he had cheated the
scaffold ; while the people of Grassmoor T
the peasants around Brackenbury, and the
old servants of the late Earl, said he had
fulfilled the awful destiny of his house;
and the Yicar of Chesterfield, " improving
the occasion" in a sermon, showed that even
from a worldly point of view justice had
overtaken the criminal at a peculiarly fitting
moment, for he had been allowed to taste
the sweets of power and gold only to have
the longed-for and ill-gotten gains snatched

from him at the moment of his guilty
enjoyment of them.

It was a solemn service that of the old
parish church, and the people were rejoiced
to see the Countess of Ellerbie
enter the sacred precincts, walk up the
old aisle, and, leaning on Major "Wingfield's
arm, take her place in the Vicar's pew.
Captain North followed with old Mrs.
"Wingfield, and Mrs. Wingfield the younger
was escorted by a London visitor, an old
gentleman in a brown velvet suit with a
tie-wig, the good old style of their grandfathers.
Mrs. Goodenough, a Quaker-like
old lady, leading a pretty little boy, followed.
Mr. Hardwick was not present.
He had become a devout Catholic, and
could only worship at Brackenbury Towers.
Perhaps this had influenced Susan, as much
as Oliver's arguments, in her return to the
old church, where on this very day, when

the Vicar preached from the text, " Vengeance
is Mine, saith the Lord," he read
"for the first time of asking" the banns of
marriage between Oliver North and Susan,
Countess of Ellerbie.

CHAPTER IX.

SUMMER COMES AGAIN.

Conquer we shall, but we must first contend ;
'Tis not the fight that crowns us, but the end.

Herrick.

[3IIT the Countess gave Brackenbury
towers to Father Busby and ibis
Church, with the gardens and lake ; and
to this day the monastery in the valley
below Grassmoor is a place of religious
rest and peace ; an institution at first
somewhat resented by the people, who
had no liking for what they called " a hotbed
of priests in the neighbourhood," butin

due course the meekness and charity of
the brotherhood won their way to local sympathy,
and the monastery of Brackenbury,
with its legends, its solemn services, and
its shrine, is now a sort of sleeping mystery
among the Derbyshire oaks which
only strangers and tourists seem to trouble
about.

It was generally felt that the gift was
a strange one on the part of the Countess
; but she was herself a strange person,
and, moreover, old Hardwick had
thrown in his lot with Brackenbury, and
was permitted to occupy the old Earl's
suite of rooms, and to have the library all
to himself. It had cost her many a pang,
but Susan had never spoken to the old
man since he had crowned the edifice of
his conspiracies against her with the proposition
that she should become Scruton's
wife.

Not alone in the monastery of Bracken-bury
are the tourists of Derbyshire interested.
They hunt among the gravestones
of the little churchyard of Grassmoor for
the memorial of Jacob Marks, whose martyred
remains were removed by Government
authority from the gaol at Derby to
be interred at Grassmoor with solemn
Christian burial. Fresh flowers used to
be continually laid upon the piled-up mound
of earth which the simple headstone marks.
The village of Grassmoor regarded it as a
great boon to have the poor youth at rest
among the family dead, side by side with
the villagers whom he knew. It was a
sort of recompense to them for an awful
miscarriage of justice, and also for a libel
on the honour and honesty of the village.
Farmer Kirk regarded the grave and headstone
with a melancholy kind of triumph ;
for while the epitaph set forth the virtues

of Jacob Marks it blasted for all time the
memory of the lad's cruel betrayer. Once
a year Mary and Tom made a point of
dressing in their best, with a bit of added
crape, and going to the Grassmoor churchyard
as on a pilgrimage, and they recalled
the past on that sad festival of their
friend's death. In the interval everybody
seemed to put flowers on the grave, the
Kirk children and the Bertram children,
and the young and old of the little Derbyshire
village, a grassy spot now being
rapidly changed, I fear, into a busy scene
of coal-getting and iron-smelting ; yet still
possessing old-time .glimpses of undulating
meadow-lands,old-fashionedflower-gardens,
dreamy bits of coppice, and English lanes
ragged with trailing hedgerows and moss-grown
foot-paths.

Five years after the Vicar published the
banns of marriage between Oliver North

and Susan, Countess of Ellerbie, one summer
day there sat under the group of elms
in front of the old Hall of the Hard-wicks,
the residence of Captain Oliver
North, a notable party of old friends
gathered together at the christening of
Susan's third son. It was her own wish
that they should drink tea on the lawn.
There were Mrs. Bertram, and her 
Tom, a sturdy little yeoman ; ,
now a prosperous farmer
at Stoney Hollow, with his own freehold, a
birthday present to Mary from the owner
thereof ; Mr. and Mrs. Kirk, white-haired
both, but apple-checked and ruddy with
health; all the Wingfields, little George,
the admiration of everybody, and Jessie
his mother, as lovely and charming a little
lady as the county could produce. Oliver
ISorth, while his face beamed with love
and happiness over all, was listening, not

to the voices of the company, with its
united story of love and trouble mingling in
the reminiscences of his own life, but to the
distant music of the mill, wafted from the
adjacent meadows on the summer breeze,
which was singing to him its song of triumph
; for not only on the Derwent near
Derby had he won that battle he talked of
on the eve of Yitoria, but here in Chesterfield,
where they had broken his models and
driven him forth with curses and groans a
dozen years before.

The tea and sugar for that little party
on the lawn was supplied from the well-known
store of Richard Holmes, whose
business had flourished immensely from
the day he married Susan Jane. It would
be to inquire too curiously to trace the
sugar to so bitter a source as the plantation
of Septimus Dobbs ; but that arrant
scoundrel had found his way to Jamaica as

the partner of a sugar-planter, a widow
whose husband had been his client.

It is not in history that the wicked
have always been punished in this world ;
nor is it possible for the novelist, even
taking some pardonable liberties with the
concerns of the persons whose lives he
narrates, to control the destinies of all his
subjects. Lawyer Dobbs was the sort of
man to fight his way through difficulties,
dangers, and crimes of all kinds and
degrees, crawling where he could not
walk, creeping where he could not climb,
fawning where he could not bully, cringing
where he could not strike, praying
when he wished to impress men rather
than God, and in short trimming his sails
to suit every breeze, and ballasting his
hollow heart to suit every sea. Perhaps
that Jamaica widow was a very wicked,
bad woman, and God sent her Dobbs for a

husband. The wretch must have had his
use, or he would not have come into the
world. There is no knowing what frightful
deeds the Jamaica widow had been
guilty of to have Dobbs for a punishment.


On that summer night, when the old
friends had all gone home, Oliver and
Susan wandered arm in arm through the
Hall garden, past the now silent mill, and
among the hay, to that spot where first
she confessed her love when the bands
were playing the wild promise, " We will
return safe back again to the girls we
leave behind us." And Oliver (who had
already changed the aspect of manufactures
in the Midlands and in the north), as
they walked home again through the
sweet-smelling meadows, told his wife a
fairy-tale of invention which is coming
true.

One day, Susan," be said, " our dear
little chap whom you would call Oliver will
walk in these meadows with a friend.
He will hear that mill, all dark as it
is, humming its busy music. While he is
talking of his good and beautiful mother,
he will tell his friend how she encouraged
his father to persevere in his work of invention.
Then he will open the door and
strike a light ; and he will show his guest
a mill going by itself, a mill at work alone
in the darkness, untended, the revolving
machines depositing their yarn, and at a
later day even their woven goods ready to
be gathered and packed the next morning.
Even that will not be more wonderful than
the carrying of merchandise to Liverpool ina
steam-coach and despatching it over the
sea in a ship without sails ; and that is of
our time. The untended mill, the dreamy
power at work all alone in the night, sing

ing its song in chorus with the brook and
the breezes of heaven : that is the legacy
we leave to our son !"

He paused to kiss her wondering Tace.

I cannot look so far into the future,"
she said ; " would that the present could
last for ever 1"

My darling !" he exclaimed, as he
pressed her to his heart.

There is no invention' she said, " so
beautiful as Love !"

THE END.

LONDON: Printed BY DUNCAN macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

MESSRS. HURST AM) BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

Royal WINDSOR. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Volumes I. and II. Demy 8vo. sos.

CONTEXTS OF VOLS. I. AND II.— Castle Hill, Norman Keep, First King's House,

Lion Heart. Kingless "Windsor, Windsor "Won, Geoffrey Plantagenet, Windsor

Lost, The Fallen Deputy, The Queen Mother. Maud de Braose, The Barons'

War. Second King's House, Edward of Carnarvon, Pert de Gaston, Isabel

de France, Edward of Windsor, Crecv, Patron Saints. St. George, Society of

St. George, Lady Salisbury, David King of Scots, Third King's House, Ballad

"Windsor, The Fair Countess, Richard of Bordeaux, Court Parties. Royal Favourites,

Rehearsing for Windsor, In the Great Hall, Simon de Burley, Kadcote

Bridge, A Feast of Death, Geoffrey Chaucer, At Winchester Tower, St. George's

Chapel, The Little Queen, At Windsor, Duchess Philippine, The Windsor Plot,

Bolingbroke, Court of Chivalry, Wager of Battle, Captive Little Queen, A New

Year's Plot, Night of the Kings, Dona Juan, Constance of York, The Norman

Tower, The Legal Heir, Prince Hal, The Devil's Tower, In Captivity Captive,

Attempt at Rescue, Agincourt, Kaiser Sigismund, The Witch Queen, Sweet

Kate, The Maid of Honour, Lady Jane, Henry of Windsor, Richard of York,

Two Duchesses, York and Lancaster, Union of the Roses.

' Royal Windsor ' follows in the same lines as ' Her Majesty's Tower,' and aims

at weaving a series of popular sketches of striking events which centre round

Windsor Castle. Mr. Dixon makes everything vivid and picturesque. Those who

liked ' Her Majesty's Tower ' will find these volumes equally pleasant reading"—

Athenaeum.

"A truly fine and interesting book. It is a valuable contribution to English
history; worthy of Mr. Dixon's fame, worthy of its grand subject"— Morning Post.
Mr. Dixon has supplied us with a highly entertaining book. 'Royal Windsor '
is eminently a popular work, bristling with anecdotes and amusing sketches of
historical characters. It is carefully written, and is exceedingly pleasant reading.
The story is brightly told ; not a dull page can be found. Mr. Dixon is to be congratulated
on having put so much information into so agreeable a shape." — Examines
volumes will find favour with the widest circle of readers. From the first
days of Norman Windsor to the Plantagenet period Mr. Dixon tells the story of this
famous castle in his own picturesque, bright, and vigorous way"— Daily Telegraph.

Mr. Hepworth Dixon has found a congenial subject in 'Royal Windsor.' Under
the sanction of the Queen, he has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of most
searching and complete investigation of the Royal House and every other part of
Windsor Castle, in and out, above ground and below ground"— Daily Xeics.

VOLS. III. and IV. of ROYAL WINDSOR. By

W. Hepworth Dixon. Demy 8vo. sos. Completing the Work.

CONTENTS OF VOLS. III. AND IV.— St. George's Hall, The Tudor Tower, A
Windsor Comedy, The Secret Room, Treaties of Windsor, The Private Stair,
Disgracing a Knight, In a King's House, The Maidens Tower, Black Days,
The Virgin Bride, Elegy on Windsor, Fair Geraldine, Course of Song, Windsor
Gospeller, Windsor Martyrs, A Royal Reference, Hatchment Down, The
People's Friend, St. George's Enemy, Lady Elizabeth's Grace, Queen Mary,
Grand Master of St. George, Deanery and Dean, Sister Temperance, Elizabeth's
Lovers, Dudley Constable, The Schoolmaster, Peace, Proclaimed,
Shakespeare's Windsor, The Two Shakespeare, The Merry Wives, Good Queen
Bess, House of Stuart, The Little Park, The Queen's Court, The Kings
Knights, Spurious Peace, King Christian, A Catholic Dean, Apostasy, Expulsion,
Forest Rights, Book of Sports. Windsor Cross, In the Forest, Windsor
Seized, Under the Keep, At Bay, Feudal Church, Parleying, Roundheads,
Cavalier Prisoners, Head-Quarters, The New Model, Last Days of Royalty,
Saints in Council, Changing Sides, Earshot Lodge, At Length, Cutting Down,
Windsor Uncrowned, A "Merry" Caesar, Windsor Catholic, The Catastrophe,
Domestic Life, Home.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WORKS— Continued

DIARY OF A TOUR IN SWEDEN, NORWAY,

AND RUSSIA, IN 1827. By The Marchioness of Westminster.
1 vol. Demy 8vo. 15s.

A bright and lively record So pleasantly are the letters written which Lady
Westminster sent home, so lull are they of the enthusiasm and good humour
which enabled her to appreciate the sunny, and endure the cloudy, side of her
wanderings, that her book is most agreeable; and it has this special merit, that it
brings clearly before us a number of the great people of former days, royal and
imperial personages, whose intimate acquaintance the traveller's rank enabled her
to make." — Athenaeum.

A very agreeable and instructive volume"— Saturday Review.

"We recommend Lady Westminster's diary to all classes of readers as a
highly instructive book of interesting travel, replete with graphic sketches of
social life and scenery, and abounding in many entertaining anecdotes. It is
written throughout with excellent taste and good sense"— Court Journal.

HOLIDAYS IN EASTERN FRANCE; Sketches

of Travel in Champagne, Franche-Comte, the Jura, the Valley of
the Doubs, &c. By M. Bentham-Edwards, Author of " A Winter
with the Swallows," &c. 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
Miss Edwards passed her holidays last summer in visiting a singularly interesting
and beautiful country. Her present volume, written in the same pleasant style
as that which described her wanderings in Western France, is so much the more
to be recommended that its contents are fresher and more novel." — Saturday Review.
Readers of this work will find plenty of fresh information about some of the
most delightful parts of France. The descriptions of scenery are as graphic as the
sketches of character are lifelike." — Globe.

The tourist could not have a pleasant companion than this pretty book, and
its well laid out itineraries." — Graphic.

THE YOUTH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH. Edited,

from the French of L. Wiesener, by Charlotte M. Yonge, Author
of " The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
M. Wiesener is to be complimented on the completeness, accuracy, and research
shown in this work. He has drawn largely on the French Archives, the
Public Record Office, and British Museum, for information contained in original
documents, to some of which notice is directed for the first time. M. Wiesener's
work is well worth translating, for it is most interesting as showing the education
and circumstances which tended to form the character of that extraordinary
queen. Miss Yonge appears to have successfully accomplished the task which she
has undertaken." — Athenaeum.

An excellent and interesting book. M. Wiesener has worked conscientiously
and carefully from original sources." — Academy.

RORAIMA AND BRITISH GUIANA, with a

Glance at Bermuda, the West Indies, and the Spanish Main. By
J. W. Boddam-Whetham. 8vo. With Map and Illustrations. I5s.

"The author has succeeded in producing an interesting and readable book of
travels. His remarks on every-day life in the tropics, his notes on the geography
and natural history of the countries he visited, and, above all, his vivid descriptions
of scenery, combine to form a record of adventure which in attractiveness it
will not be easy to surpass." — Athenaeum.

Mr. Whether writes with vigour, and describes the life in the forests and on
the rivers and prairies of South America with a picturesqueness and freshness of
interest not inferior to that of the late Mr. Watertown's immortal wanderings. Mr.
Whether travelled in portions of Guiana little known, meeting with many adventures,
seeing many strange sights, and taking notes which have furnished matter
for a book of fascinating interest." — Daily News.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WORKS— Continued.

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 1860 to 1863. By the Late
Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Simpson.
2 vols. 8vo. sos.
Among other persons whose conversations are given in these volumes are:— Prince
Napoleon; the Due de Broglie; the Marquises Chambre, Lasteyrie, Pallas
Vogue" ; Marshal Random ; Counts Arrivabene, Circourt, Corneille, Kern
Montalembert, Re'musat, Zamoyski ; Generals Changarnier, Fe'ne'lon,
Trochus; Lords Cowley and Clyde; Sir W. Erie; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont,
Chamber, Chevalier, Cousin, Dayton, Drouyn de Lhuys, Duchatel, Du-fare,
Demon, Duvergier de Lausanne, Guizot, Haldimand, Hotze, Lamartine,
Lome'nie, Auvergne, Sanguinis, Maury, Marochetti, Mason, Me'rimde, Moil,
Dillon Barrot, Pellets, Pietro, Renal, St. Hilaire, Slide, Thiers, De Witt ;
Mesdames Circourt, Cornu, Moil, &c.
"Mr. Senior's 'Conversations with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,' &c, published about a
year and a half ago, were the most interesting volumes of the series which had
.appeared up to that time, and these new 'Conversations ' are hardly, if at all, less
welcome and important A large part of this delightful book is made up of studies
by various critics, from divers points of view, of the character of Louis Napoleon,
and of more or less vivid and accurate explanations of his tortuous policy. The
work contains a few extremely interesting reports of conversations with M. Thiers.
There are some valuable reminiscences of Lamartine, and among men of a somewhat
later day, of Prince Napoleon, Drouyn de Lhuys, Montalembert, Victor
Cousin, Renal, and the Chevaliers." — Athenaeum.

CONVERSATIONS with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M.
Simpson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

Among other persons whose conversations are recorded in these volumes are :

King Leopold; the Due de Broglie; Lord Cowley; Counts Arrivabene, corneille,
Daru, Flahault, Kergolay, Montalembert; Generals Lamoriciere and
Chrzanowski; Sir Henry Ellis; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Blanchard,
Buffet, Auguste Chevalier, Victor Cousin, De Witt, Duchatel, Ducpetiaux,
Demon, Dastard, Duvergier de Lausanne, Leon Faucher, Frere-Orban, Grim-blot,
Guizot, Lafitte, Baume, Lamartine, Sanguinis, Mallac, Main, Merime'e,
Magnet, Jules Moil, Monticello, Dillon-Barrot, Quetelet, Re'musat, Roger'
Rivet, Rossini, Horace Say, Thiers, Trouve'-Chauvel, Villain, Wolowski;
Mesdames Circourt, Cornu, History, &c.
"This new series of Mr. Senior's 'Conversations' has been for some years past
known in manuscript to his more intimate friends, and it has always been felt that
no former series would prove more valuable or important Mr. Senior had a social
position which gave him admission into the best literary and political circles of
Paris. He was a cultivated and sensible man, who knew how to take full advantage
of such an opening. And above all, he had by long practice so trained his
memory as to enable it to recall all the substance, and often the words, of the long
conversations which he was always holding. These conversations he wrote down
with a surprising accuracy, and then handed the manuscript to his friends, that
they might correct or modify his report of what they had said. This book thus
contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation, and
afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question. The book
is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a page without some
memorable statement by some memorable man. Politics and society and literature
the three great interests that make up life — are all discussed in turn, and there is
no discussion which is unproductive of weighty thought or striking fact" — Athenaeum.
"The present selection of Mr. Senior's Journals, edited with remarkable skill
and judgment by Mrs. Simpson, is extraordinarily full and interesting. Although
the unreserved and original communications of Thiers are especially fascinating,
the book would be abundantly interesting if it consisted only of the reports of
conversations with Guizot, Montalembert, Cousin, Lamartine, and other persons of
celebrity and eminence'' — Saturday Review.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WORKS— Continued.

HISTORY OF TWO QUEENS: CATHARINE

OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN. By W. Hepworth Dixon.
Second Edition. Vols. 1 & 2. Demy 8vo. sos.

"In two handsome volumes Mr. Dixon here gives us the first instalment of a
new historical work on a most attractive subject. The book is in many respects a
favourable specimen of Mr. Dixon's powers. It is the most painstaking and

elaborate that he has yet written On the whole, we may say that the book

is one which will sustain the reputation of its author as a writer of great power
and versatility, that it gives a new aspect to many an old subject, and presents ina
very striking light some of the most recent discoveries in English history." —
Athenaeum.

In these volumes the author exhibits in a signal manner his special powers-and
finest endowments. It is obvious that the historian has been at especial pains
to justify his reputation, to strengthen his hold upon the learned, and also to
extend his sway over the many who prize an attractive style and interesting narrative
more highly than laborious research and philosophic insight." — Morning Post.

The thanks of all students of English history are due to Mr. Hepworth Dixon
for his clever and original work, 'History of two Queens.' The book is a valuable-contribution
to English history. The author has consulted a number of original
sources of information — in particular the archives at Simancas, Alcala, and Venice.
Mr. Dixon is a skilful writer. His style, singularly vivid, graphic, and dramatic —
is alive with human and artistic interest. Some of the incidental descriptions-reach
a very high level of picturesque power." — Daily News.

VOLS. III. & IV. of the HISTORY OF TWO

QUEENS : CATHARINE OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN.

By W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Price sos.

Completing the "Work.
These concluding volumes of Mr. Dixon's ' History of two Queens ' will be perused
with keen interest by thousands of readers. "Whilst no less valuable to the
student, they will be far more enthralling to the general reader than the earlier
half of the history. Every page of what may be termed Anne Boleyn's story affords
a happy illustration of the author's vivid and picturesque style. The work should
be found in every library." — Post.

Mr. Dixon has pre-eminently the art of interesting his readers. He has produced
a narrative of considerable value, conceived in a spirit of fairness, and
written with power and picturesque effect." — Daily News.

HISTORY OF WILLIAM PENN, Founder of

Pennsylvania. By W. Hepworth Dixon. A New Library Edition.
1 vol. demy 8vo, with Portrait. 12s.

Mr. Dixon's ' William Penn ' is, perhaps, the best of his books. He has now revised
and issued it with the addition of much fresh matter. It is now offered in a
sumptuous volume, matching with Mr. Dixon's recent books, to a new generation of
readers, who will thank Mr. Dixon for his interesting and instructive memoir of
one of the worthies of England." — Examiner.

FREE RUSSIA. By W. Hepworth Dixon. Third

Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Coloured Illustrations. sos.
"Mr. Dixon's book will be certain not only to interest but to please its readers-and
it deserves to do so. It contains a great deal that is worthy of attention, and
is likely to produce a very useful effect"— Saturday Review.

THE Swimmers. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Third Edition. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"A lively, interesting, and altogether novel book on Switzerland. It is full of
valuable information on social, political, and ecclesiastical questions, and, like all
Mr. Dixon books, is eminently readable"— Daily News.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW "WORKS— Continued.

MEMOIRS OF Georgians, LADY Chatterton

; With some Passages from her Diary. By E. Engage
During. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
Among other persons mentioned in this work are Lords Vanstone, Brougham,
Macaulay, Lytton, Houghton; Messrs. Wilberforce, Wordsworth, Hallam,
Rogers, Moore, Sydney Smith, Landor, Lockhart, Fonblanque, Warburton,
Harness, Chantry; Count Montalenibert, Dr. Ullathorne, Dr. Newman,
Joanna Baillie, Lady Gifford, Lady Cork, Mrs. Somerville, Mrs. Norton, &c.
"Lady Chatterton's Diary gives a sketch of society during a well known but
ever-interesting period Mr. During may be congratulated on having furnished a
graceful epilogue to the story of an interesting life." — Athenaeum,

"In this work we have the pleasant picture of a literary artist and an amiable
lady, and some interesting anecdotes which give value to the volume." — John Bull.

A LEGACY : Being the Life and Remains of John

Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet. Written and Edited by the
Author of " John Halifax." 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait. 21s.

This is, in many respects, a remarkable book. It records the life, work, aspirations,
and death of a schoolmaster and poet, of lowly birth but high-strung and
ambitious soul. His writings brim with vivid thought, keen analysis of feeling,
touches of poetic sentiment, and trenchant criticism of men and books, expressed
in scholarly language." — Guardian.

'mrs. Craik has related a beautiful and pathetic story— a story of faith and
courage and untiring energy on the part of a young and gifted man, who might
under other circumstances have won a place in literature. The story is one worth
reading"— Pall Mall Gazette.

"In these volumes a well-known novelist presents us with a history so touching,
so marvellous, and so simple, as no invention could produce. Few more pathetic
or more instructive volumes have fallen in our way." — Morning Post.

LONDONIANA. By Edward Walford, Mea.,

Author of " The County Families," &c. 2 volumes crown 8vo. 21s.

"A highly interesting and entertaining book. It bristles with anecdotes and
amusing sketches. The style is vivid, graphic, and dramatic, and the descriptions
are given with a terseness and vigour that rivet the attention of the reader. The
historian, the antiquarian, and the lover of romance will combine in pronouncing
'Londoniana' one of the most readable books of the day." — Court Journal.

"There is variety and amusement in Mr. Walford's volumes." — Pall Mall Gazette.

These volumes are interesting and entertaining." — John Bull.

THE THEATRE Francis IN THE REIGN

OF LOUIS XV. By Alexander Baillie Cochrane, M.P. 1 vol.
demy 8vo. 15s.

A most valuable contribution to dramatic literature. All members of the profession
should read it." — Morning Post.

In this handsome volume Mr. Cochrane gives us a new work on a most attractive
subject, which will be perused with keen interest by thousands of readers. It is
written in a style singularly vivid, dramatic, and interesting. The variety of scenes
described in this pleasant volume, the historical personages and dramatic artists
crowded on the canvas, and the truthful account of the French stage, form an intellectual
treat of the highest order. 'The Theatre Francis ' will take its place
among the best standard works of the day, and find its way into every well-selected
library, fully sustaining the reputation of its skilful author." — Court Journal.

HISTORIC CHATEAUX: Blois, Fontainebleau,

Vincennes. By Alexander Baillie Cochrane, M.P. lvol.Svo. 15s.
"A very interesting volumes"' — Times.

"A lively and agreeable book, full of action and colour." — Athenaeum.
"This book is bright, pleasant reading." — British Quarterly Review.
A well executed book by a polished and vigorous writer." — The World.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WORKS— Continued.

VOLS. I. & II. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS-permission
TO THE QUEEN. Sixth Edition. 8vo. sos.
From the Times:— "All the civilized world— English, Continental, and Ames
an interest in the Tower of London. The Tower is the stage-upon
which has been enacted some of the grandest dramas and saddest tragedies
in our national annals. If, in imagination, we take our stand on those time-worn
walls, and let century after century flit past us, we shall see in duo succession the
majority of the most famous men and lovely women of England in the olden time.
We shall see them jesting, jousting, love-making, plotting, and then anon, perhaps,
commending their souls to God in the presence of a hideous masked figure,
bearing an axe in his hands. It is such pictures as these that Mr. Dixon, with
considerable skill as an historical limner, has set before us in these volumes. Mr.
Dixon dashes off the scenes of Tower history with great spirit. His descriptions
are given with such terseness and vigour that we should spoil them by any attempt
at condensation. In conclusion, we may congratulate the author on this work. Both
volumes are decidedly attractive, and throw much light on our national history."

VOLS. III. & IV. of HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Completing the Work. Third
Edition. Demy 8vo. sos.

ROUND THE WORLD IN SIX MONTHS. By

Lieut-Colonel E. S. Bridges, Grenadier Guards. 1. vol 8vo. 15s.

The author may be congratulated on his success, for his pages are light and
pleasant. The volume will be found both amusing and useful"— Athenaeum.

Colonel Bridges' book has the merit of being lively and readable. His advice
to future travellers as well as his estimate of expenses may be found serviceable."
Pall Mall Gazette.

"A thoroughly interesting and amusing book, as full of solid matter as pleasant
anecdote. We have not met a truer picture of American, Japanese, Chinese,
Indian, Egyptian, or Maltese scenery and surroundings." — Court Journal.

A YOUNG SQUIRE OF THE SEVENTEENTH

CENTURY, from the Papers of Christopher Jefferson, of Bellingham

House, Cambridgeshire. Edited by John Cord Jeffrey

"A Book about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

Two volumes of very attractive matter : — letters which illustrate agriculture,

commerce, war, love, and social manners, accounts of passing public events, and

details which are not to be found in the Gazettes, and which come with singular

freshness from private letters." — Athenaeum.

Two agreeable and important volumes. They deserve to be placed on library
shelves with Pepys, Evelyn, and Hereby. "notes and Queries.

THE SEA OF MOUNTAINS : An Account of

Lord Dufferin's Tour through British Columbia in 1876. By

Molyneux St. John. 2 vols, crown 8vo. "With Portrait of Lord

Dufferin. 21s.

"Mr. St. John has given us in these pages a record of all that was seen and done

in a very successful visit. His book is instructive, and it should be interesting to

the general reader." — Times.

Mr. St. John is a shrewd and lively writer. The reader will find ample variety
in his book, which is well worth perusal"— Pall Mall Gazette.

These volumes are amusing, interesting, and even valuable. They give us a
very clear idea of the great quarrel between British Columbia and the Dominion
of Canada; and they contain a full report of Lord Dufferin's great speech at".
Victoria. Then there are some graphic sketches of social life and scenery, and'
some entertaining stories*— Spectator.

MESSES. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WORKS— Continued.

CELEBRITIES I HAVE KNOWN. By Lord

William Pitt Lennox. Second Series. 2 volumes demy 8vo. sos.

Among other persons mentioned in the Second Series of this work are — The
Princess Charlotte and Prince Leopold ; the Dukes of Wellington and Beaufort;
the Earls of Durham and Carlisle; Lords Byron, Clyde, Adolphus Fits
and Cockburn; Sirs Walter Scott, G. Wombwell, A. Barnard, John
Elle, Sidney, Harry, and C. F. Smith ; Count Doorway ; Dr. Dodd ; Messrs.
Thomas Moore, Theodore Hook, Leigh Hunt, Jordan, James, Horace, and
Albert Smith, Bentley. Tattersall, Hudson, Ude, George Coleman, The Kemble,
G. F. Cooke, Charles Young. Edmund and Charles Kean, Yates, Harley ; Miss
Foote; Mrs. Nisbet; Mesdames Catalani,Grassini, Rachel, &c.
"This new series of Lord William Lennox's reminiscences is fully as entertaining
as the preceding one. Lord William makes good use of an excellent memory,
and he writes easily and pleasantly." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"One of the best books of the season. Pleasant anecdotes, exciting episodes, smart
sayings, witticisms, and repartees are to be found on every page"— Court Journal.

COACHING ; With Anecdotes of the Road. By

Lord William Pitt Lennox, Author of " Celebrities I have
Known," &c. Dedicated to His Grace the Duke of Beaufort,
Keg., President, and the Members of the Coaching
Club. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

Lord William's book is genial, discursive, and gossipy. We are indebted to the
author's personal recollections for some lively stories, and pleasant sketches of
some of the more famous dragoman. Nor does Lord William by any means limit
himself to the English roads, and English coaches. Bianconi's Irish cars, the continental
diligences, with anecdotes of His Grace of Wellington, when Lord William
was acting as his aide-de-camp during the occupation of Paris, with many other
matters more or less germane to his subject, are all brought in more or less
naturally. Altogether his volume, with the variety of its contents, will be found
pleasant reading"— Pall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo, with Portrait. 24s.
This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. We need scarcely state that all the portions of Moche
diary which refer to his intercourse with Beethoven, Hummel, Weber, Czerny,
Sporting, Rossini, Auber, Hale"vy, Schumann, Cherubini, Spohr, Mendelssohn, F.
David, Chopin, J B. Cramer. Clement, John Field, Habeneck, Hauptmann, Kalk-
brenner, Kiesewetter, C. Klingemann, Laplace, Dragonetti, Sontag, Persian,
Malian, Paganini, Rachel, Ronzi de Begnis, De Heriot, Ernst, Donzelli, Cinti-,
Moreau, Heard, Bochsa, Reporte, Charles Kemble, Paton (Mrs. Wood),
Schrcider-Devrient, Mrs. Siddons, Sir H. Bishop, Sir G. Smart, Staudigl, Thalers,
Berlioz, Veluti, C. Young, Bale, Abraham, and many other artists of note in their
time, will recall a flood of recollections. It was a delicate task for Madame 
to select from the diaries in reference to living persons, but her extracts have
been judiciously made. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future ' and its disciples, and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, bernstein,
Dr. von Below, Litolff, &c, whether as composers or executants, are in a
liberal spirit He recognizes cheerfully the talents of our native artists, Sir Stern-dale
Bennett, Mr. Macfarren, Madame Arabella Goddard, Mr. John Barnett, Mr.
Hullah, Mrs. Shaw, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The celebrities with whom Moscheles
came in contact, include Sir Walter Scott, Sir Robert Peel, the late Duke of Cambridge,
the Bunsen, Louis Philippe, Napoleon the Third, Humboldt, Henry Heine,
Thomas More, Count Nesselrode, the Duchess of Orleans, Prof. Wolf, &c. Indeed,
the two volumes are full of amusing anecdotes"— Athenaeum.

MESSES. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW "WORKS— Continued.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to, 5s. bound.

"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature." — Athenaeum.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
anil fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice ; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly And even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

This touching and most comforting work is dedicated to The Queen, who took
a gracious interest in its first appearance, when printed for private circulation, and
found comfort in its pages, and has now commanded its publication, that the
world in general may profit by it. A more practical and heart-stirring appeal to
the afflicted we have never examined" — Standard.

A M AN OF OTHER DAYS : Recollections of the

Marquis de Beauregard. Edited, from the French, by Charlotte
M. Yonge, Author of " The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
M. Costa de Beauregard lived long enough to see the last years of the Monarchy,
the Revolution, and the early promise of General Bonaparte. The opening chapters
of the work introduce us to Paris society at the time when it was perhaps the
most brilliant; and it is amusing to accompany our hero to Mme. Geoffrey's salon,
where Marmontel, Rochefoucauld, Greuze, Diderot, and many others, discourse
literature, art, and philosophy"— Saturday Review.

OUR BISHOPS AND DEANS. By the Rev. F.

Arnold, B. A., late of Christ Church, Oxford. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.
This work is good in conception and cleverly executed, and as thoroughly
honest and earnest as it is interesting and able." — John Bull.

LIFE of the RT. HON. SPENCER PERCEVAL ;

Including His Correspondence. By His Grandson, Spencer Walpole.
2 vols. 8vo. With Portrait. sos.
"This biography will take rank, as a faithful reflection of the statesman and
his period, as also for its philosophic, logical, and dramatic completeness." — Post.

MY YOUTH, BY" SEA AND LAND, from 1809 to

1816. By Charles Loftus, formerly of the Royal Navy,

late of the Coldstream Guards. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"Major Loftus played the part allotted to him with honour arid ability, and he

relates the story of his sea life with spirit and vigour. Some of his sea stories areas

laughable as anything in 'Peter Simple,' while many of his adventures on

shore remind us of Charles Lever in his freshest days. During his sea life

Major Loftus became acquainted with many distinguished persons. Besides the

Duke of "Wellington, the Prince Regent, and "William IV., he was brought into

personal relation with the allied Sovereigns, the Due D'Angouleme, Lord William

Bentinck, and Sir Hudson Lowe. A more genial, pleasant, wholesome book we

have not often read." — Standard.

ACROSS CENTRAL AMERICA. By J. W. 

ham. Svo. With Illustrations. 15s.
"Mr. Boddiim-Whetham writes easily and agreeably"— Pall Mall Gazette.
"A bright and lively account of interesting travel'" — Globe.



MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
PUBLICATIONS— Continued

HISTORY OF ENGLISH HUMOUR. By the

Rev. A. G. Estrange, Author of " The Life of the Rev. W.

Harness," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
This work contains a large and varied amount of information. It is impossible
to give any idea of the wealth of anecdote and epigram in its pages, and for anything
like a proper appreciation of its value we must refer our readers to the book
itself." — John Bull.

MY YEAR IN AN INDIAN FORT. By Mrs.

Guthrie. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.
"Written with intelligence and ability." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"A pleasantly written book. Those who know India, and those who do not, may
read the work with pleasure and profit." — Standard.

RECOLLECTIONS of COLONEL DE Bonneville.

Edited from the French by Charlotte M. Yonge,

Author of the "Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"This work discloses a variety of details of interest connected with Napoleon's

escape from Elba, the Hundred Days, the Bourbon Restoration, and the Revolution

of July, 1830."— The Times.

THROUGH FRANCE AND BELGIUM, BY

RIVER AND CANAL, IN THE STEAM YACHT » YTENE."
By W. J. C. Mons, R.V.Y.C. 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.

MY LIFE, from 1815 to 1849. By Charles Loftus,

formerly of the Royal Navy, late of the Coldstream Guards.
Author of " My Youth by Sea and Land." 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"A thoroughly interesting and readable book" — Standard.

A BOOK ABOUT THE TABLE. By J. C.

Jefferson. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.
"This book is readable and amusing from first to last." — Morning Post.

Costs ESPANOLAS ; or, Every-day Life in

Spain. By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury, Author of " Turkish
Harems and Circassian Homes." Second Edition. 1 vol. 8vo. 15s.

PEARLS OF THE PACIFIC. By J. W. Boddam-

Whether 1 vol. Demy 8vo, with 8 Illustrations. 15s.

The literary merits of this work are of a very high order"— A then-sum.

TURKISH HAREMS & CIRCASSIAN HOMES.

By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. 8vo. Second Edition. 15s.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.
A biography of the beautiful and unhappy Queen, more satisfactory than any we
have yet met with." — Daily News.

RECOLLECTIONS OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE

AND ENGLAND. By Lady Clementina Davies. 2nd Edition. 2 v.
Two charming volumes, full of the most interesting matter." — Post.

THE EXILES AT ST. GERMAINS. By the

Author of " The Lady Shakerley." 1 vol. 7s. 6d. bound.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

A SYLVAN QUEEN. By the Author of " Rachel's

Secret," &c. 3 vols.

LILY OF THE VALLEY. By Mrs. Randolph,

Author of " Gentianella," &c. 3 vols.

YOUNG Lord PENRITH. By John Berwick

Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," &c. 3 vols.
"Throughout this novel there is an abundance of well-written passages, in
which force and brightness prevail, whilst the descriptions of scenery are as vividly
interesting as every other detail is exciting." — Messenger.

IN THE SWEET SPRING-TIME. By Mrs. Mac-quoit,

Author of " Patty," &c. 3 vols.

"A most interesting story of domestic life, written in Mrs. Macquoid's best
style. It abounds with dramatic situations, and is not wanting in pathos and
humour. It is a delightful and refreshing book, in every way deserving of popularity,
and worthy of its author's reputation"— Morning Post.

A bright and pleasant tale. There are few living novelists who know better
how to tell a love-story than Mrs. Macquoid. The quiet grace and tenderness of
her style seem to lend themselves most readily to such a theme, and she has exceptional
skill in depicting and analysing the finer and subtler shades of character
and emotion." — Scotsman.

THE GREATEST HEIRESS IN ENGLAND. By

Mrs. Oliphant, Author of " Chronicles of Carlingford," &c. Second
Edition. 3 vols.

'The Greatest Heiress in England' should add to Mrs. Oliphant's reputation.
It is noticeably good among the great number of her good novels. The story runs
along pleasantly, and maintains the reader's interest throughout." — Athenaeum.

11 This book is a delightful one— fresh, interesting, wholesome, and well written.
It deserves to take rank among the best works of the author." — Examiner.

There is a great deal of Mrs. Oliphant's best humour and cleverness in this
novel. Her great store of observation and power of amusing description are
largely displayed"— Daily News.

FRIEND AND LOVER. By Iza Duffus Hard?,

Author of " Grlencairn," &c. 3 vols.

A powerful story, well worth reading. The plot is ingenious, original, and yet
perfectly natural. Miss Hardy's sketches of character are truthful, vivid and
graphic. It is decidedly one of the best written books of the season"— Post.

The best novel Miss Hardy has written." — John Bull.

A remarkable, powerful, and fascinating book"— Sunday Times.

LITTLE MISS PRIMROSE. By the Author of

St. Slave's," " The Last of her Line," &c. 3 vols.

"The graceful tone and quality of the work of the author of 'St. Slave's' are well
known to novel readers. 'Little Miss Primrose ' is a very good example of her
manner." — Academy.

The author has succeeded in this charming tale in maintaining her popularity.
She has drawn, in the heroine, a delightful character, of exceptional grace and
elegance." — Morning Post.

THROUGH THE STORM. By Charles Question,

Author of " So Young, my Lord, and True." 3 vols.

There is more than the average of exciting incident in this decidedly interesting
tale." — Athenaeum.

There certainly is in this story not a little that both interests and pleases the
reader"— Saturday Review.



PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE. By the Author of "John-halifax,

Gentleman." Second Edition. 3 vols.

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The Times.

There is much tenderness and good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and
wholesome." — A thence.

'Young Mrs. Jardine' is a book that all should read. Whilst it is quite the
equal of any of its predecessors in elevation of thought and style, it is, perhaps,
their superior in interest of plot and dramatic intensity." — Morning Post.

SIR JOHN. By the Author of " Anne Dysart." 3 v.

' Sir John ' has abundant interest without any straining after the sensational."
Athenaeum.

•' • Sir John ' is pleasantly written. The author shows a grasp of character anti
power of expression of no mean order'' — Examiner.

RECORDS OF A STORMY LIFE. By the Author

of " Recommended to Mercy," &c. 3 vols.
This book shows decided skill in the delineation of character, and it contains*
scenes of no little force and pathos." — The Times.

This story has merit, and is decidedly interesting." — Morning Post.

Godwin ORDEAL. By Mrs. J. K. Spender,

Author of "Parted Lives," &c. 3 vols.
M Novel readers owe Mrs. Spender a debt of gratitude for her book. The interest
undoubtedly centres intheheroineherself,whoisa charming creation "—Ath<>'>;eum.
'• This story is pleasantly written, intelligent and earnest"— Pail Mall Gazette.

FALSE HEARTS AND TRUE. By Mrs. Alexander

Fraser, Author of "A Fatal Passion," &c. 3 vols.
This work is well calculated to enhance the reputation of Mrs. Fraser as one of
our most accomplished novelists. Few readers will fail to be charmed with the-easy,
pleasant style of the author." — Post.

THE HONOURABLE ELLA. By the Earl of

Desart, Author of "Coverdale." Second Edition. 3 vols.
Lord Desart's humour, vivacity, and witty comparisons make his pages sparkle,.
and give the reader many a pleasant laugh." — Athenaeum.

ROSE Mere YN. By Anne Beale, Author of « Fay

Arlington," &c. 3 vols.

••A good novel. The story steadily develops in interest to the close, and Rose,.
the heroine, is charming"— Spectator.

Macedon Heroine. By Mrs. Leith Adams,

Author of " Winston," &c. 3 vols.

' Macedon Heroine ' is a carefully written book — thoughtful, pleasant, and high
toned. The plot of the story is well worked out"— Athenaeum.

ORANGE LILY. By the Author of " Queene." 2 v.

"This story is told with both pathos and humour." — Athenaeum.
This is a really charming story, one which, by simple power of description and.
vivid presentment of character, arrests and holds fast the attention. :, —Spect a tor.

DORCAS. By Georgians M. Craik. 3 vols.

Miss Craik's new novel is clever. Her women are all pleasantly fresh and.
real." — Athenaeum.



Published annually, in One Vol., royal 8vo, with the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. 60?.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE FOETT-NINTH EDITION FOE 1880 IS NOW EEADT.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
over stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject." — Spectator.

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day." — Post.

The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject"— Standard.



OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS,

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR J. GILBERT, MILLAIS, HUNT, LEECH, FOSTER,
Pointer, TENNIEL, Sands, HUGHES, Tambourine, &C.

Each in a Single Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.
1. SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
Nature and Human Nature' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous
productions, and is well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain
in its present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type, and good paper, the lesser but attractive merits of
being well illustrated and elegantly bound." — Post.

2. JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman; and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and
written with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass
freely from hand to hand as a gift book in many households." — Examiner.

3. THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.
"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting-information,
this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms ia
its reverent and serious spirit" — Quarterly Review.

4. NATHALIE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her
which are as individual as they are elegant." — Athenaeum.

5. A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY IHE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well-written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a
young lady may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

6. ADAM Gramme. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its admirable pictures
of Scottish life and scenery. The author sets before us the essential attributes of
Christian virtue, with a delicacy, power, and truth which can hardly be surpassed-post.

7. SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND MODERN
INSTANCES.

"The reputation of this book will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's Novels
Its remarkable originality and happy descriptions of American life still continue the
subject of universal admiration." — Messenger.

8. CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has treated a special subject with so much geniality, that
bis recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously opposed
to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination." — Athenaeum.

9. A LIFE FOR A Life.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"In 'A Life for a Life ' the author is fortunate in a good subject, and has produced a
work of strong effect"— A theseus.



10. THE OLD COURT SUBURB. By LEIGH HUNT.

A delightful book, that will be welcome to all readers, and most welcome to those
who have a love for the best kinds of reading"— Examiner.

11. MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming. "athenaeum.

12. THE OLD JUDGE. By SAM SLICK.

"The publications included in this Library have all been of good quality; many give
information while they entertain, and of that class the book before us is a specimen.
The manner in which the Cheap Editions forming the series is produced, deserves
especial mention. The paper and print are unexceptionable ; there is a steel engraving
in each volume, and the outsides of them will satisfy the purchaser who likes to see
books in handsome uniform"— Examiner.

13. DARIEN. By ELIOT WARBURTON.

"This last production of the author of 'The Crescent and the Cross 'has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands"— Globe.

14. FAMILY ROMANCE.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book." — Standard.

15. THE LAIRD OF NORLAW. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"The 'Laird of Norlaw' fully sustains the author's high reputation." — Sunday Times.

16. THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is interesting, and full of opportune instruction"— Times.

17. NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

' Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made ' John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

18. FREER'S LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET.

"Nothing can be more interesting than Miss Freer's story of the life of Jeanne
D'Albret, and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Post.

19. THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."
"If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between 'John Halifax 'and
The Cantons.' " — Standard.

20. THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM.

BY PETER BURKE, SERGEANT AT LAW.
A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm." — Illustrated News.

21. ADELE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting." — Athenaeum.

22. STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author." — Saturday Review.

23. GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

We commend ' Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel. The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting"— Athenaeum,



24. A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY J. C. Jefferson.
A delightful book." — Athenaeum. " A book to be read and re-read; fit for the study
as well as the drawing-room table and the circulating library." — Lancet.

25. NO CHURCH.

We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book"— Athenaeum.

26. MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive"—
Athenceum. " A charming tale charmingly told"— Standard.

27. LOST AND SAVED. By HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest It is a vigorous novel." — Times.
"A novel of rare excellence. It is Mrs. Norton's best prose work"— Examiner.

28. LES Miserable. By VICTOR HUGO.

AUTHORISED COPYRIGHT ENGLISH TRANSLATION.
"The merits of 'Les Miserable' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius." — Quarterly Review.

29. BARBARA'S HISTORY. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as ' Barbara a
History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very graceful
and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and sentiments
expressed with an exquisite elocution. It is a book which the world will like." — Times.

30. LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. Irving's Life ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

31. ST. Slave's.

This charming novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as
well as experience and knowledge of the world ' — Athenceum.

32, SAM SLICK'S AMERICAN HUMOUR.

"Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize"— Post.

33. CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A more charming story has rarely been written Even if tried by the standard of
the Archbishop of York, we should expect that even he would pronounce 'Christiana
Mistake' a novel without a fault"— Times.

34. ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last"— Athenaeum.

35. AGNES. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenceum.
A story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." Post.

36. A NOBLE LIFE.
BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks
out of a generous heart the purest truths of life'— Examiner.



37. NEW AMERICA. By HEPWORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well"— Times.
We recommend every one who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting book." — Saturday Review.

38. ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
Interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

39. THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's 'reputation as a writer of the
purest and noblest kind of domestic stories. — Athenaeum.

40. ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole
work sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

41. DAVID ELGINBROD. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

The work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of readers." — Times.

42. A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very good novel ; a thoughtful, well-written book, showing a tender, sympathy
with human nature, and permeated by a pure and noble spirit." — Examiner.

43. HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a
wide circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

44. SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.

45. THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"The author of 'John Halifax 'has written many fascinating stories, but we can
call to mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful
sketches in this work." — United Service Magazine.

46. A ROSE IN JUNE. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its
own with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' " — Times.

47. MY LITTLE LADY. By E. F. Pointer.

There is a great deal of fascination about this book The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions
of scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader." — Times.

48. Phoebe, JUNIOR. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on
growing to the end. Phoebe is excellently drawn" — Times.

49. LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the
most popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.
"This book is well written, and of thrilling interest"— Academy,



U

**'

3 0112 046431919
